

ies4=. • s-cnmiiK season. ise-&.
ITHBT milBU i sns
I
PALACE E^P’OPaiTT^E,
THE LARGEST DRAPERY ESTABLISHMENT
AND THE
Choicest Assortment of G-oods
IN THE
HORDERN
SONS
PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET, ONLY.
IZSOT7'IZDZ]Z^S-3
3 arc now Showing a Most Magnificent STOCK of GOODS in every one of onr thirty-six departments, comprising all the
LATEST NOVELTIES and the MOST APPROVED FASHIONS from London and Paris, in
es Dresses, Silks, French and English Millinery, Parachutes and Sunshades, Gloves, Ribbons, Laces,
Nets, Weils, and the innumerable accessories to fashionable attire.
splendid Assortment of English-made FURNITURE, Electro-plated Goods, Carpets, Bedsteads and Bedding, Chinaware and
Glassware, not equalled in Sydney for Price or Quality.
Onr SHOW CASES are filled with the choicest products of the leading manufacturing centres, and are alone worth a visit.
OUR OOTLIT ADDRESS-
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
Palae© Emporium, Hajmarket, Sidney.
The Bulletin
NEW SERIES


CITY BOOT PALACE of
outh Wales
JOH
EXTENSIVE SHIPMENTS OF SUMMER GOODS.
JOHN HUNTER has much pleasure in informing his numerous patrons that, having received (direct from the manufacture 1
of England and the Continent of Europe) several very large shipments of superior-made Boots and Shoes, embracing the
novelties for Ladies’, Gent.’s, and Children’s wear, will sell them at prices never before heard of in New South Wales. The enorui° l
increase of trade, consequent upon the Low Prices charged for first-class goods, has necessitated an additional staff of
and those who favour him with their custom will he sure of receiving thorough satisfaction.
Orders from the country, accompanied by a P. 0.0. or stamps, receive prompt attention.
The City Boot Palace is crowded from morning until night, proving beyond dispute its increasing popularity.
G
IBBS, BRIGHT & GO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agencies :
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OP CANTON—Head Office : HONGKONG
J. C. Goatling and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement ,
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal, and Vertical Engines,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c„ &c. _ .
Crossley Brothers (Limited), Manchester —The celebrated Otto Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, M'Lachlan and-Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &e., &c.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters,
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Prancisco—Quicksilver.
Pels and Company, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c.
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victonar-Jams, Jellies, Piekles, Sauces, &e. , r ,
De Wendel and Company, Hayange, Prance—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Piates, Iron and
Steel Fencing Wire, &c. , . , ~
Thos. Perry and Son, Biiston—Fire-resisting Safes. Drybrough and C 0.., Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse. Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine.
Dubos Preres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablis, Sautemes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES. „ v
New South Wales,— Scott and Mullaly, T. Allsop, P. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.,
Jindera Mill Co.
Victoria.— James Pryand Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia.— w. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hmeks.
INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
MEIN RATH AND CO.,
96 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
San Francisco Palace of Art,
The patrons of the SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART, so well known throughout
(he Australian colonies, are informed that, in addition to the same high-class portrait
work for which it has been noted,
Copies and Enlargements to Life Size, by new and improved pro-
cesses, from any photograph or negative, are now taken.
Opals, Autotype, Transfer, or Albuminized Paper, in Crayon or Coloured.
The same stall of Artists, who have rendered the work of this establishment famous,
are employed, and all negatives (15,000 in number) taken during; the past four years, carefully
preserved, from which copies may be had on application by sending name and address.
W. T. BENNETT, Manager.
P. R. liARKIN
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends,, that he has .just completed
extensive addition.', to his
Wholesale and Retail Bottle Department
Which is now replete with a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines and Spirits,
selected by the proprietor during his recent visit to Europe. He can therefore confidently
the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, as per the following list, hopes to merit a share of 1 ® 1,
patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
PORT WINE.
40-year old, Gilbey’s
Celebrated Four Diamond
Quality—No. 1 (very superior old)
No. ***** grape
No. ****
No. *** *
No. ** ”
No. *
Draught Port Wine, per Imperial quart
Per P ot f i
ti'
" D
•’6
•• r
■" 3
r {
i j
6
L
3
SHERRY. 5
40-year old, Gilbey’s ••• $ j
Very Finest Amontillado (very dry) ... 6!
Fine Amontillado -'it
Celebrated Four Diamond Sherry ... •" \ i
Com mon Sherry ••• (
Draught Sherry Wine, per Imperial quart j 3 !
BRITISH WINES. f
James Hcddle’s Ginger Wine •" \ 1
Orange Wine
IRISH WHISKY. I
Jameson’s *** .<* 4 !
Old Dublin Whisky (***) bottled by Burke 4 !
lunahan’s unrivalled L L •" 4 ;
Thorne’s Old Irish Whisky 4 j
Jameson’s asOdao® f)
Dunville’s i
Kinahan’s Draught, per Imperial quart 5 1
Jameson’s „ „ y
Flasks * 2s6dah d
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Walker’s 7-year old, in bulk
Thistle Blend
Royal Blend
Lome Highland
Kilmarnock
Gloulivet ...
Glenlivet Whisky, per Imperial quart
Masks
4s
and
red add
; (id and
. GIN.
Blue Bell or Yellow Seal Geneva
Celebrated Key Brand, very large size, <? aCU
bottle containing more than a quart •;(
Flasks Key Gin isa»°
return® J/
allowed for. 83P" Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at the
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge.
P. R. LARKIN’S CASE OF ASSORTED WINES AND SPIKITS.-On receipt of £3, the fo ll0 ’*
genuine articles will be forwarded in Square Bottles, securely packed in a case
5 Quarts KEY GIN, 1 Quart WHISKY, 1 Quart SUPERIOR PORT WM?
2 Quarts PALE BRANDY, 5 Quarts WEST INDIA RUM, I Quart SUPERIOR '
TOTAL—IS QUARTS.
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, ab/pr
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make P« sC
Orders payable at the Ilaymarket Post Office.
Kindly Note the Address— ~ J M
P. R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Merchant & Imp ol ' c
George and Gipps Sts., Haymarket, Sydney-


THE BULLETIN
Vol. I.—No. 38.—New Series
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1884.
Frioe—6d.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 18[?]4
Freedom and Its Friends.
THE CIRCULATION OF “THE BULLETIN"
IS NOW MORE THAN DOUBLE THAT OF
ANY OTHER WEEKLY NEWSPAPER IN
N.S.W.—THAT OF ONE VERY OLD ESTAB-
LISHED PAPER, WHICH EXCEEDS “THE
BULLETIN'S’’ BY ABOUT ONE-FIFTH
ALONE EXCEPTED. THE CIRCULATION
OF “THE BULLETIN” IS THE SECOND
GREATEST AMONG THE WEEKLIES OF
AUSTRALASIA.
The Bulletin.
The S M. Herald, as the organ of wealth,
is in high jubilation over the lecture by Ur.
G iff ex, to which reference has before been
made in these columns. The feat performed
by this lecturer was to “prove” from sta-
tistics that the artizan in Great Britain is
greatly better off than he was a score of
years ago, and the inferences which his com-
mentator invite people to accept are no
less sweeping than that it is untrue that the
rich are becoming richer and the poor
poorer. In short, that the tendency of
modern times is not to increasingly concen-
trate wealth in the hands of the few. Ur.
Giffen’s little juggle with figures can have
so feeble an effect when brought in conllict
• with universal observation and experience,
and more particularly with the logical de-
monstrations of the profoundest thinkers
and most impartially careful observers of
the age, that it would scarcely be worthy of
notice had not the organs of monopoly been
so much enraptured to find that anything
can be said on their side that they have
trumpeted the lecture as though it con-
tained a new gospel. The comments of
such organs are, however, sometimes so
diverting as to furnish suitable matter for the
entertainment of reasonable people. Accord-
ing to the sense of the arguments now used,
it would seem that people are expected to
believe that perfection has been attained in
the adjustment of social arrangements.
They are free to admit that those who pro-
pounded a similar theory a score or so of
years ago were mistaken. But, consequent
on changes then denounced as bitterly as
they now denounced further propositions
for change, everything has been put to
rights, and it is sheer wickedness to pretend
the contrary. Thus the S.M. Hereld blinks
with a sort of approval on trades-unionism,
which it adduces as one of the influences
which has wrought improvement in the con-
dition of the artizan class. And the same
authority is quite apologetic for the abolition
of the Corn laws which cheapened food for
the millions. “ Legislation ” the Herald re-
gards as another of the causes of the alleged
improvement in the artizans’ condition —
that is to say, past legislation. Future legisla-
tion is, of course, a matter to be deprecated,
since perfection lias been attained; or, at any
rate, future legislation which would be satis-
factory to those abominable persons—advo-
cates for change. That is to say, future
legislation which would accomplish anything
at all except retrogression.
• . •
All this amounts to little more than
fin unintentional confessions that the
hetrodoxy of yesterday is the orthodoxy
of to-day. Forty years ago, trades-
unionism, one of the influences now
alleged to have improved the condition of
the mechanical class, was not merely de-
nounced in the most furious way by all
respectable people and writers —was not
merely scoffed at as visionary, and preached
®t as contrary to the dispensations of
1 rovidence—but was referred to in precisely
the same vein and spirit as more recent
Projects of social reform and re-adjustment
are scouted to-day by sucb papers as the
S.M. Herald. And the agitators for the
repeal of the Corn laws were assailed with
the same virulence of misrepresentation
and abhorrence, and were held up to
detestation in precisely the same style,
and for precisely the same sort of as-
pirations and principles as are to-day
social reformers —whose very designa-
tions, Socialists and Communists, have
been made terms of reproach and
cbloquy. Forty years ago, trades-union did
not merely expose its participants to obloquy
and denunciations. It was not simply “ bad
form ” and infamous. It was absolutely on
the same footing with conspiracy to de-
fraud. It was illegal for operatives to com-
bine, and constituted a criminal offence.
And, as regards the Corn laws, although it
was not actually a statutable offence to
MB. JAMES MIRAMS. M.P.,
President of the Victorian Tariff Commission.
agitate for their abolition, it was regarded
as equally outrageous. So outrageous, in
fact, that it was universally held among the
fortunate classes that it should be specially
legislated against, and made a criminal pro-
ceeding. We are not writing at random.
Here is what John Mobley records in his
“ Life of Richard Cobden ” :
“In England, it is certain that the amazin g
vigour and resolution of the (anti-Corn - law)
League were regarded with intense disfavour by
great and important classes. The League was
thoroughly out of fashion. It was regarded as
violent, extreme, and not respectable. A year
before it had usually been described as a self-
sh and contemptible faction. By the end
of 1842, things had become more serious. The
notorious pamphleteer of the Quarterly Ke-
vxew now denounced the League as the foulest
and jnost dangerous combination of modern times
The Times spoke of Cobden, Bright, and thei
allies as ‘capering mercenaries who go frisking
about the country;’ as authors of incendiary clap-
trap ; as peripatetic orators puffing themselves
into easy popularity by second-hand arguments.
They were constantly accused of retarding their
own cause, and frightening away respectable
people, by their violence. Violence, ts usual,
meant nothing more than that they knew their
own minds and pressed their convictions as if
they were in earnest. . . . There were loud
threats of criminal proceedings against the ob-
noxious confederacy.”
Now, this is obviously identical with the
sort of language now employed with refer-
ence to the Social Reformers of to-day. The
terms “Socialistic” and “Communistic”
were not current in 1842, or they would cer-
tainly have been availed of in the vocabu-
lary of abuse.
The abolition of the Corn law 9 was ef-
fected, and the evils fortold as certain to fol-
low the change did not follow. The landed
proprietors suffered in their pockets, cer-
tainly, but the nation benefited. And Cob-
den and Bright, from being scouted a 9 in-
cendiaries, are now among the patron saints
even of people who apply to their successors
in the work of jirogressive social reforms
all the the terms of abuse, denunciation
and scorn, once heaped upon them. The S.
M. Herald for example, justifies their
work. In a queer, contradictory fashion, it
is true, but still it justifies them. “The
Free-trade legislation (the abolition of the
Corn laws) was,” said the Herald, only last
week, “obviously no interference between
classes, but only the removal of an interfer-
ence; it set things free, and left them to
take their course, and the result has been an
enormous gain to all but a section of rurst
landlords.” As a matter of fao‘, this ex-
cuse, or extenuation, er .justification is not
valid. the essential fact, and tries to
veil the denial by a representation minimis-
ing the extent to which social arrange-
ments were affected by the abolition in
the Corn laws. “It was no interference be-
tween classes,” quoth the 8. M. Hcrald, but,
as a matter of fact, it was not merely “a
section of rural landlords” who were
affected Every landlord in England who
o wned arable land was concerned The entire
body of English landlords resisted the
| ohange. It was, at the time, especially
I denounced as an interference between
classes. And such it undoubtedly was. The
j great populous manufacturing centres,
i led by the great mill-owners, and ulti-
mately supported by the people as a body,
wentstraight at the pockets of landlordism.
That the success of the abolition party was
merely “the removal of an interference’’
was true, although such an explanation
would have been vehemently denied by
the landlord party at the time. Ami
that plea is precisely the plea which
is advanced by the Social reformers of to-
day. The whole spirit of Henry Geohge’s
work, of Mill on ” Unearned Increment,’’
and of Alfred Wallace on “Nationalization
of Laud,” breathes the same argument. The
existing social arrangements, they say, are
artificial and unnatural, 'they are main-
tained by forcible or fraudulent inter-
ferences with the order of nature. It is
unnatural, they assert, that but about one
million of the people of Great Britain should
live in that country on suffrance, liable to
be ejected from the British Isles altogether
unless they paid some landlord or other, in
some fashion, for leave to tread on British
soil. They say that only interferences with
natural law could have created a condition
of affairs which renders it possible for almost
the entire British people to be condemned
—legally condemned, remember—as tres-
passers, if they refused to pay rent, or tribute
in[some indirect form, to the comparative
handful who own the country.
• • «
“It is to new laws,” quoth the Herald
‘ that the Socialist party trust most to pro-
mote the good of the people.” This is a half
truth. It is rather to the abrogation of old
laws which Social reformers look—the ab-
rogation of laws which have been demon*
strated to create or foster “interferences”
between classes. Laws framed specially to
perpetuate the ; divisions of classes —to
maintain the rich in tjieir wealth fol*
generation after generation. ‘ Laws for
the proper protection of property,” these
are euphemistically termed. The Herald
announces further that the reformers’
greatest abhorrence seems to be freedom?
and that they look upon laissez-faire as the
root of all evil. Look upon “let-a-be” as
the root of all evil. Certainly, the reform*
ing party look upon existing conditions as
infamous, and condemned by their results-*
such results as are disclosed in the ‘ Bitter
Cry of Outcast London,” and they would
be false indeed to their convictions did they
not regard laissez-faire as impossible. But
they do not look upon it as the root of the
evil. The root is not traceable in laissez-
faire, There was ample activity in the self-
ishness which arranged affairs so that all
the advantage should be secured to the few
Laissez-faire —to let things continue as they
are—why, even the S. M. Herald dare not
advocate that in a straightforward way. Is
the “bitter cry” not only of outcast Lon-
don, but of the outcast majority of man-
kind to rise to Heaven for ever, and to ap-
peal to the Albightv’s ear against the
injustice of human laws and selfishness for
ever, and in vain ?
* * m
Fortunately, the S.M. Hebalp commits
itself to an illustration of what jt pjeapt


Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above Is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
|y PURE RUM,
Extra Strong-,
Bs. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Department,
MARKET STREET
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
QO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
e<fL_
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
p rxr
colonial’ wine department,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
Thb most Wholesome of all Beverages.
C. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. ftd. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street. Sydney.
The ELD RE D’G E
Ifl
Correspondence Solicited
WITIJ RESPONSIBLE PARTIES
> 3?OR THE LEADING
SEWING MACHINE OF THE.WORLD,
Full particulars, catalogue and prices
jnailed on application.
U.S.A
SEWING MACHINE CO.
ÜBLIC NOTICE
J. TURNER ROBINSON k CO.'S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
riz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
08, TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD 8HO?
T7INEST CIGARETTES. FINEST CIGARETTES
. ABE
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR,
Manufactured by W. S. KIMBALL and CO.,
Rochester, U.S.A.
EVERY’
MAN
SHOULD
BEAD
Dr. Marston’s New
Describing how sufferer- from
Nervous and Physical Debility,
Mental Decay and all disorders
resulting from Excesses, Indis-
cretions or Overwork, are per-
manently Cured
Without Stomach Medicines.
WBAE, NKRVOrs, *NB IMPOTENT
HEX RESTORED TO
VIGOR, HEALTH A MANHOOD
Consultation with Physician
and Book FRIEE. Address—
Marston Remedy Co.,
72 ELIZABETH ST., STDHE7.
Notice is hereby given that a special
MEETING of the Metropolitan Licensing'
Court will he holden at the Central Police Office,
Sydney, on-TUESDAY, the 29th January next, for
thepurpose of hearing applications for Renewals
of Publicans’ and other Licenses, and for the con-
sideration of any other business that may be
legally brought before the said Court.
C. DELOHERY,
Clerk of Petty Sessions,
Central Poliee Office,
15th January, 1884,
when accusing Social reformers of hating
liberty. “ Faotory legislation,” says the
Herald, “has undoubtedly been a restraint
on individual liberty, and it has checked the
cupidity of both classes alike. It has pre-
vented women and children from selling
their labour to an undue extent, and has
prevented employers from buying it. Both
were only too willing to trade, and there
has been a social gain in limiting that
trade.” “Both were only too willing to
trade!” Good heavens! On even terms!
The employer was only too willing to
buy flesh and blood cheap—true. And
flesh and blood was willing to sell
itself cheap! not true. What alterna-
tive had flesh and blood in the mat-
ter ? Were parents anxious to see their
little ones to a drudgery worse than that
exacted from Negro slaves! Were the in-
fants whom these Molochs, the factories,
devoured, willing to be devoured '! Well,
yes; willing, lest a worse thing should befal
them. Willing to accept anything rather
than starve. This choice is often grimly
alluded to by the B.M. Herald as the “ free-
dom of contract.” And it is freedom of
this kind which the Social reformer de-
nounces—no other. A villainous burlesque
of Freedom. Freedom of contract presup-
poses equality of conditions. That is not
freedom which places one body of bargainers
under the tremendous pressure of a social
system which leaves him the option of ac-
cepting any offer made to him, or being
plunged—instantly plunged—into the fright-
ful sufferings of absolute want. It is this
travesty of Freedom which Social reformers
detest and assail. Freedom itself true
Freedom—is what it labours and braves
obloquy and misrepresentation to secure
for the down-trodden majority of groaning
humanity.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Two “Medioal Gentlemen.”
The Chinese are ingenious in everything—even in
their punishmonts. Sometimes a notorious offen-
der is deprived of life by being deprived of sleep.
Guards are told off to keep him on the move by
means of pins, nails, thorns, and spear-points,
when he shows a disposition to lie down. By this
and kindred means he is sometimes kept alive for
eight or nine days, until exhausted nature comes
to his relief, and death puts an end to his torments.
Thero is a family resemblance between this refine-
ment of barbarism and that suggested by two
“ medioal gentlemen ” who, the Australasian
Medical Gazette informs us, attended the late
Hoggings at Woolloomooloo “ from professional
reasons.” These worthies consider that the pun-
ishment was got over too quickly, and that the
administering of twenty-ilve lashes in less than
three minutes did not inflict sufficient pain on the
culprits. To avoid in future such a leaning to-
wards mawkish sensibility, they propose that there
should be an interval of thirty seconds between
each stroke, so that the correction “ would be un-
utterably more severe, without causing any more
injury to the man Hogged, and with less shock to
the nervous system.” But their suggestion does
not end here. They complain that “ the lashes are
administered too much on one spot,” and should
be more impartially distributed, so that no portion
of the dorsal region could reasonably complain of
being neglected. Even this does not exhaust their
ingenuity. Half the number of stripes should be
apportioned to the buttocks, “so that for the
next fortnight or so the men flogged would be
in such a state as to prefer standing to sitting.”
They compare the leniency of the larrikins’ whip-
ping, where blood was drawn in one case only, and
that but slightly, with the severity of naval and
military punishments, where “it generally ran
pretty freely.” Pretty freely it did run, indeed !
We have seen it running in and out of a man’s
boots as he stood at the triangles, while the young
“sawbones” who had just blundered through his
course at Edinburgh or Dublin felt the wretohed
fellow’s pulse to see if the extreme limit of
endurance had been reached, or whether another
dozen or so could be safely worked in. Let us see
what would result now, and what would have re-
sulted in times happily gone by, from the adoption
of these “ medical gentlemen’s " views. A larrikin
sentenced to 50 stripes—allowing for five minutes
spent in getting ready that portion of his frame
whose flaying would induce him to prefer
“standing to sitting’’—would spend just half an
hour at the halberds. Soldiers who had to undergo
500, and occasionally Boo, would have had to remain
there from four and a half to seven hours ! It is
when we remember this that we feel a burning
desire to know more of tHe two “ medical gentle-
men” who recommend the half-minute interval,
and the more equal distribution “over the dorsal
and other regions.” And, now that the Army and
Navy have been mentioned, we shall give a little
of our experience of Army medical officers. We
know dozens of surgeons, both staff an<f regimen-
tal. There were some humane men amongst them,
but they were generally looked upon as milk-sops.
It may, of course, be said that the profession of
a surgeon is the one of all others best calculated
to blunt all the finer feelings and harden men
to suffering—in others. Still, making due allow-
ance for this, it was notorious that if “ professional
advice ” could have preserved the life of the Army
“cat,” that animal would be now as vigorous and
biting as in the worst days of the Crimea. The
last soldier flogged in England died in the regi-
mental hospital a couple of days afterwards. The
“doctor’s ” certificate assigned the death to some
obscure disease with a nice Latin name, but said
nothing about the punishment. We know what
English juries are—how they sometimes get their
backs up and ask all sorts of ill-bred questions.
So, in spite <'■' > he “ medical gentleman’s ” opinion,
they, in th„ . .. undering fashion, bracketed the
whipping and the death as cause and effect. Mr.
Gladstone was of the same way of thinking, and
so the “ cat ” was thrown into the well, where the
“picket,” the “pitch cap,” and the other devices
used by the men who surrendered at York Town,
or ordered a disastrous retreat in Holland, lay
buried. Brutality and cowardice do not always
run in couples, but there are some close family
ties between them. In the service, we have often
noticed that the kind of gentlemen to whom those
belong who are anxious for “ thirty seconds’ in-
terval between each stroke,” were equally anxious
for a few thousand yards’ interval between them-
selves and the place where, the fire being hottest,
they were most required. Plenty of humane men
in N.S. Wales and Yiotoria consider—they have a
perfect right to their opinion—that lawless bru-
tality must be met by legal brutality. But, so far,
we have not come across any to whisper such a
refinement of cruelty as the two “ medical gentle-
men” who, “from professional reasons,” stood
beside the triangles at Woolloomooloo to hear the
howls of the larrikins and regret that they were
not deeper and more protracted.
+
Those Essays.
Earl Rosebery has given a cheque of 50 guineas
for two prize English essays to be written by
graduates and under-graduates of the Sydney
University. The subjects are “.The Future (cap.
F) of the Australian Colonies,” aud “The Growth
of the Australian Colonies, and their present Rela-
tion to the Mother Country.” It is bad form to
inspect the mouth of a horse which reaches you ns
a gift, but, in this case, we fancy we could see a
better way of turning this 50-guinea cheque to
advantage than by extracting sundry reams of
callow gush from a number of young gentlemen
whose intellectual outfit by present University
training consists in a memory stuffed with bald
grammatical and mathematical formulae. Had it
been a treatise, now, on the classification of
irregular verbs, or an inquiry into the com-
missariat arrangement of Xerxes, or any other
subject of high discussion, we might ex-
pect a little eloquence. But an essay in the
barbarous English tongue, and on so common-
place a subject as the dusty world we live in—it's
asking rather much. Why, if encouragement is
given to the practice of English prose, and the
study of contemporary history, we shall soon be
without a man capable of giving the date of the
First Punic War, or the allocation of Troy, or
some other matter of grave import. Worse still,
we shall lose our annual treat of Latin verse,
whilst the B.A.'s will have their heads turned with
vanity and be competing with the reporters
in the occult and lucrative art of describing how
a horse “attached to a spring cart” bolted,
etc. We claim no small credit from mem-
bers of the craft in calling early attention
to this insidious attempt to get more spoons
into our paste-pot. Already we have received
more than one bundle of neatly-ruled foolscap,
covered with excruciatingly funny things about
the University, and only that the grammar is so un-
mistakably academic in its independence of all
known rules, and the point of the jokes are ex-
plained by algebraic equations requiring special
type, there is no knowing but some of it might
have escaped the waste-basket in the temporary
absence of tho editor. For what the public, how-
ever, have escaped, through our vigilance, we
expect no reward. But we don’t want to know
what Mr. Gerund x. Pluck (Act 20) thinks of
problems that gravel Gladstone and Lord Derby.
Hallucinations.
Public opinion in Melbourne has set itself to put
down prostitution and intemperance. The me-
thods adopted are particularly simple. It is always
so when the light of a great genius shines upon a
course. Every other town of civilization can now
take heart of grace. It will be only necessary to
choke off Herbert Spencer, to throw a brick at
Henry George, to bury the axioms of Stuart
Mill, to burn the memory of Mat.thus, and to
come out and study tho process by which wise
Melbourne has cleansed souls and scattered the
clouds from brains—when wise Melbourne has ac-
complished these things. Then every town will
be happy, and will go to bed and rise up in an
atmosphere charged with the steaming odours of
sanctity. Many distinguished persons have visited
the antipodes lately, and we have reason for bo-
lieving that under the pretext of making a tour
they came here purposely to learn the Melbourne
way of suppressing the two deadliest of tho world’s
evils. On the question of prostitution, Melbourne
is all there. It sees its way in a twinkle. It used
to be a vexing subject long ago. Economists and
humanitarians grew grey over it, and had to leave
it much as it was. But they didn’t try the Mel-
bou me way. The “superior vigour of the Southern
colony” had not tackled it. It has tackled it
now. It is rooting the evil out. Soon we shall be
wondering what it was the thinkers from tho middle
ages forward were puzzled about; but in justice to
these old men we ought to remember that “the
superior vigour of the Southern colony ” was not
in an active state at that time. Do you want to
supprets prostitution? Very well. Here’s the
Melbourne way: Hunt the girls and women out of
their abodes; when they go elsewhere, hunt them
out again ; aot consistently, and keep on hunting
them; and it stands to reason you will get rid of
them, or kill them, very soon; and do the same
with their successors, and keep getting rid of
them or killing them all the time. Drabbled skirts
are on the streets there, now. They have been
hunted from front street to back street, from
parlour to kitchen, from cellar to garret. They
have no roof now to shelter them. The sky,
following tho usual practice with persecuted un
fortunates, has just taken these days to open it
floodgates. The drabbled creatures fly from
streets to gardens and open roadways, and still the
hunt is kept up. It is said that now comes the
time when other measures are to be brought to
bear. Any reason, except a Melbourne one, would
think the other measure should have been taken
first. Taken now, what measures can result in
anything but failure? The dirty pool has been
stj rred. The mud has been set swimming on the top.
5V ho is so blind as not to see that there exists no
agency to keep it from sinking again to the
bottom? Misery has been added to misery.
Fright and terror and outrage and shame have
been superimposed on weakness and misfortune.
That’s all. And, in combating tho demon of
drink, Melbourne is just as biiiiiant as in the
matter of prostitution. Booth and his apostles
are at a premium there now. TVere’s nothing
keeps down intemperance like a bit of blue rib-
bon. Mount it, and get on a platform, and be
always ready to describe minutely how you used
to murder and thieve when you were a sot. The
moral level attained by the community in that
way will be very high. Some people may think
'that this is the way to make a community of
arrant humbugs, of canting, ranting, posturing
showmen. But why mind these people ? We saw
a rat in a cage once. A brutal fellow poked a red
hot poker into the cage. The rat only saw the
poker and worried it. The problem of life has
thrust prostitution and drunkenness into the cage
of Melbourne existence. Melbourne worries the
two with red-hot pokers. But the brutal problem
is there, laughing all the time.
The call of a benevolent asylum is generally
potent to loosen the purse-strings of the well-to-
do. The Coppin Amateur Dramatic Club gave an
entertainment recently for the Melbourne institu-
tion. It was given in the institution, and 187 of the
aged people were present. 107 visitors rolled up,
carrying their cheque-books with them, and
prepared to respond generously to the charitable
appeal. The club worked with energy, and when
they had wiped away the porspiration, sat down
to count the contents of the collection boxes. But
the contents came to only £2 11s. 3d., with a bad
sixpence. And these visitors had gone up to that
institution with expressions of the deepest sym-
pathy for the poor old men and women who had
gone to the wall in the battle of life !
The Rates op Subscription to The Bulletin
arc —For one year, 245.: half-year, 12s. (id.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—ln advance.
The Advertising Kates are ss. per inch;
special positions in the papor 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows ;—On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
Mr. James Mirams.
Mx rams is a paradox, in so far as he is at once a
great and small man. This is explained as indi-
cating that w bile his smallness relates to his physi-
cal stature, his greatness is shown in his moral and
intellectual height. It has been said that Nature
originally intended Mirains for Tom Thumb. But
Mr. Stratton anticipated the revelation; so that,
thus thwarted, Nature left Mirams half way, and
so neglected him that he grew to be too big for a
show dwarf, and too small for a society man.
Determined, however, to make a name despite his
disabilities of stature, Mlrams studied politics,
and building societies, and the theory of paper
money, and the temperance cause, and the land
question. On all of these matters he became an
authority; not because his views were necessarily
sound, but because they were eccentric. Mirams
is shrewd: Mira i s is wise in his knowledge of
human nature. Knowing that all that was
needed was to take up a startling position, in
direct variance to any maintained by other
men, he set forth advanced views, with the
result that he secured attention. The dodge
is as old as Ezekiel and the prophets, but is always
successful. And so we find Mirams at once laughed
at and applauded, and a pow er in the House of
which he is a member. Mirams represents the
savoury constituency of Collingwood. His views,
therefore, may be supposed to be of the radical
order. When the great Berry led the country by
the nose with alternate “burning questions,”
little Mirams was his faithful henchman. Armed
with his leviathan umbrella, he accompanied his
chief upon all his stump excursions, and was ever
ready to back that gentleman’s utterances with
an echo. Little did Mirams then dream that the
great man he worshipped was as fickle as a woman
and as treacherous as a Solomon Islander. Little
did it enter into the pigmy’s honest thought that
Berry could and would throw him over, as soon as
it was convenient. Yet so it was. Ministry after
Ministry was formed by the great guerilla chief,
but Mirams entered not into their composition.
He mourned, did Mirams, and murmured, but still
held fast to his faith. At last, however, the scales
fell from his eyes. Mr. Graham Berry shuttled
out of the Liberal camp. No more did he utter
those vehement revolutionary orat ions which at
one time had stirred the blood of the great com-
munity. He compromised—was silent—discarded
burning questions, and finally' took office as a
coalition Minister with Jemmy Service. This
was a blow, indeed, to Mirams. But he
rallied, and now sits on the cross-benches, whence
he hurls, at every chance, such bitter jibes at his
old chief as make that honest gentleman squirm
again. Still, there would appear to be a certain
reserved force in Mirams when satirising his old
friend. Once or twice he has gone beyond the
borderland, and has begun to tell tales, when he
has been speedily checked by the offer, on Mr.
Berry’s part, to turn informer also. Thus, you
see, Mirams has been imprudent, and has
done and said things in the secret past which
were in the interest of Liberalism, but which will
not bear the light of an altered sun of political
opinion. Mirams, therefore, is prudent. He lives
in hopes. He a waits his time. We shall yet see—oh,
Heavens! the sight I—the little man’s small body
clad in a Windsor uniform, and his short legs
encased in breeches and silk stockings. Whether
this ideal picture be realised in the immediate
or remote future, “may we be there to see.”
Mirams is a shining light among total abtainers.
He is great at tea-and-toast parties. To see him
in the chair at a meeting of the Grand United
Junction Ebenezer Temperance Association is a
treat, indeed. Patriarchal he looks, as (his small
legs hidden beneath the table) his voluminous
beard and phrenological brow are seen in all their
perfection by the disciples of the Pump, then and
there assembled. His speeches, on these occasions,
are models of temperance oratory; nor does he
fail to enlarge upon the political aspect of the
question, and to hold forth hopes, that by perse-
verance the adherants of the Pump policy may
force the hands of the Government of the future
to handicap public-houses, and abandon the re-
venue from spirits and the like. And yet Mirams,
as chairman of the Tariff Commission, and taking
upon himself to deliver the views of his brother
commissioners, recommends that local distilleries
should be so welter-weighted that they would
have to close up, to the great advantage and pro-
tit of the importer of foreign liquors, unless, in-
deed, he expected to slay these also, bye and
bye. Of such is the wisdom and the mora-
lity of Mirams the Abstainer. Tak« him for
all in all, however, Mirams is a clever little man.
He hath his ambitions, and he falls into the error
of endeavouring to make his conscience run in
harness with them. Of course, t.is was never
done; and it is likely that the little man has come
to the conclusion that it never will be done.
Meanwhile, he plays a waiting game. Patience and
dullness, as we know, will accomplish more than
genius, without it. But when, to the faculty of
patience, there is allied much talent, great energy,
and a keen perception into the ways of men, we
may believe that he who owns these qualities,
should, sooner or later, come to the front. Mean-
while, they who judge of merit by the stature of
him who claims it, may remember that Fuller
tells us that “ often the cockpit is empty in those
whom Nature hath built exceeding high,” and
that Herbert, in his “ Jacula Prudentum," states
that “ a dwarf on a giant’s shoulders sees further
of the two.” Figure to yourself, therefore,
Mlrams mounted on the shoulders of the giant
Party, and conceive his triumph.


DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
“Love one another,” we are told,
Said Jesus in the days of old.
Our modern Christians think this funny,
For they love one another’s money.
The Rev. Mr. Hurdall has advocated at
the English Congregationalist Union “the aboli-
tion of sermons.” Waking up the people at the
conclusion of the service has worn out three
sextons in eight months.
The Rev. John Osborne intends to estab-
lish Sunday evening lectures to oppose freethought
and "emphasize the ethics of Jesus Christ.” It only
remains now for Pastor Allen to start out to
strengthen the precepts of the Almighty. Worms!
Mr. Irving gave the Rev. Beecher a box in
the theatre while he did the “Merchant of Venice,”
and the Rev. Beecher gave Mr. IrviDg a pew in the
church while he did the “ Nazarene. We haven’t
a good phrase for this, but we’ll slip in “recipro-
cated resonance,” and leave you to squeeze out
the meaning.
Street organ-grinders in the old country
make £lO a week, and send their families to the
seaside in the watering season. We give this item
for the information of those broadminded clerics
who would laydown the gown if they saw any-
thing else they could do. Organ-grinding is light
and is fairly honest, and their skill with the plate
should be an extra advantage.
At the time of the Luther celebration in
Rome, the monk that shook the world (and a wife)
was described by the Moniteur de Rome as “the
venomous Intransigeant of the 16tb century.”
Spiteful enough that, but true. All orthodox
authority, all "right thinking” people (lovely
lying phrase) of the period, must have held Luther
in exactly the same regard as the same classes of
to-day hold Bradlaugh.
The D.T. advocates a general exodus to
Europe of all clergymen, in order that they may
get an expansion of ideas. We believe the average
young man who clothes his throat with the white
band would certainly get an expansion of ideas by
Tlatort An
|M'/VW
J’MrfnT-jtofi Luncheon oh jjoaß.l) THt
ANCHORED, Bj JOST
oJJ : pMUi-QuT
travel. There should be a Gallivanting Fund
raised to supply purses of sovereigns, and a special
Beet built to keep them circumnavigating the
globe from the day of ordination to the day of
tneir death. They would expand then.
The recent exposure of the Russian priest,
has caused a grave feeling of disgust
throughout Europe. Seraphin, it appears, suc-
cessfully floated a new religious sect, every mem-
oer of which was required to sacrifice his or her
to the superior. These human sacrifices were
then disposed of by the wily Seraphin’s brother-
• gentleman in the hairdressing trade. And now
tne question arises as to whether the mysterious
joints to be met with in many of the small Euro-
pe?ll towns may not be the “ offerings ” of some
other fanatical sect.
The Rev. J. F. Horsley, of Victoria, got
nungeif °h the Wesleyan superannuation list, as
vn if I*' 1 *' r? was wor hed out iu the Looard’s vine-
ohT* , , then went over and sat down in the
cnitors chair of the Melbourne War Cry and
ned away for another allowance. The Confer-
became angry. The Salvationists don’t alto-
be,ieve what the Wesleyans believe, and
aws bo °J e rence said he should slide off the list or
uae off the chair. But that’s where they were
„ H ° r Bley spread out his pants and showed
sniJ?* V, cover both the list and the chair. His
pintual trousers are of the nankeen pattern and
enia P i OC , 8 flap over a great area. The Confer-
tha to ■ ed and bowed, and the evangelist shoves
e Wesleyan screw into the right pocket and the
nanny screw into the left.
vl h^? ev - D ’ Jones Hamer preached a Har-
VB,Lr,? nks . gi X in g in his Collins-street Church.
fruit, and flowers decorated the organ
athepup lt . The preacher said that every little
eu and plant owed its origin, not to any help or
infbi, u i?°P jt by man, but to the direct
WavfufS Almighty God. The origin is a good
intin to "°’ and the Rev. Hamer’s statistics of
?, ev I er came under a critical Registrar-
twJ e £~.‘ But we have statistics of the influence
vmi those cabbages and potatoes which
BtaH«S®. ln the pulpit and on the organ. And the
hard ™ 8 P OlDt two ways. First to the influence of
pay. That made them. And
vian fa-/u • e Jufluence of a remnant of antedilu-
thoiuyif. 11 la can ’t be seen or coherently
organ on ’ That fetched them to the pulpit and
The possibility of a “future state” has
been satisfactorily decided—in the negative. The
Melbourne freethinkers had an evening out, last
week, at their hall in Swanston-street, and one of
the philosophers made a communication which
has set this vexed question at rest for ever. It’s
like this: the Melbourne gentleman arranged with
two other gentlemen to form a syndicate (of
three), the chief condition of membership being
that such of the parties as died first was to return
to his brother members and post them up in any
noteworthy events that might happen beyond the
grave. Well, the Melbourne gentleman begs to
state that both of his colleagues (anxious, no
doubt, to satisfy their pardonable curiosity) have
“defuncted;” but, as he has seen or heard nothing
of them since they broke up the syndicate, he has
much pleasure in informing us that there can be
no future state worth mentioning. It will be ap-
parent to the most superficial observer that the
Melbourne gentleman’s views are correct..
We had assigned a more modern origin to
the Blue Ribbon movement, based on the neces-
sities of the Blue Ribbon men who could raise no
more from the Jews on old clothes. Interpreted
under the light of the following passage, however,
and remembering we are under a new dispensation,
we may take the badge as a symbol of the coming
of the New Jerusalem, and every wearer as a
man who has taken the pledge—back. The com-
mand was (b.c. 3765):—“ Speak to the children of
Israel, and thou shalt tell them to make to them-
selves fringes in the corners of their garments,
putting in them ribands of blue, that when they
shall see them they may remember all the com-
mandments of the Lord and not follow their own
thoughts and eyes going astray after divers things. ’
This cribbing of an ancient rite, and ascribing it to
the modern revivers of it, forcibly suggests that
Booth and Co. found the Jews swimming, and ran
away with their clothes. A literal rendering of
the words “ going astray after divers things ”
suggests this exegesis. For the prophecies must
be fulfilled.
According to Dean Mahony—and if he
doesn’t know, we don’t—when a Catholic marries
a Protestant the ceremony cannot take place in a
church, nor can a priest wear any of the “ sacred ”
vestments. The Catholic must do all he or she
can to convert the other side, by kindness. (We’ve
known the handle of a hoe to be a useful auxiliary
sometimes, when the stock of kindness has run
out.) But the severity of these rules is mild
compared with what you risk by getting spliced
by a clergyman of another Church, or, worse still,
by a Registrar. Then your sin is too big for a
common priest to tackle with any chance of
success—major excommunication is the punish-
ment for it—so you have to cutaway to the bishop
to confess. This “major excommunication” is a
caution. While under it, you are cut off from a
lot of things—among others, from your whack of
blessings “ that are so constantly granted in answer
to public prayers.” The “ blessings” derived from
public prayers are very good in their way, but
they sometimes miss their mark and are annexed
by those who have no right to them at all. A Hot-
tentot sometimes meets a bit of a crooked stick in
the woods, stands it up against a tree, and asks it
to do something for him with as much sincerity
as the Queen when she goes in state to St. Paul’s
to pray for rain. As a rule, a vagrant lion stops
the Hottentot's mouth, while Her Majesty's sup-
plications are usually followed by a long drought
or else sufficient rain to change the country into a
swamp. Still, we would not advise any lriends of
ours to chance a “ major excommunication.” The
bishop might have gone away leaving no power of
attorney to deal with it during his absence
Anxious to confess, with nobody near to hear you!
We can imagine no more unpleasant position, and
can only suggest that in such a case four our five
priests might bo empowered to grant absolution—
a bit a piece.
o • *
A country trouble is about the parson who
has £lOOO a year coming to him from home, and is
the “Colarado beetle” of mean men. Care for
No. 1 has been raised by him into a fine art. He
loves the poor—at a distance ; and thinks that
faultless gloves and true religion should always
run together. Eheu.... Mr. Shaw’s indemnity for
the Madagascar outrage is to be paid in hymn-
books “Ouida” has contradicted the report
church. Then she’s not mad Mr. W. I.
Ramsay, publisher of the London Free-
thought, was released from Holloway prison,
where he had served a sentence for blasphemy, in
December. About 300 persons had assembled out-
side to welcome him, and warm greetings were
exchanged between the newly-liberated prisoner
and Mr. Bradlaugh, Mrs. Besant, Dr. Aveling,Rev.
W. Sharman, and others.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“Bushman”: Bosh. You first say there
is no such word, and then that the word is very
popular and much used by certain people. The
English language is constantly receiving addi-
tions...” B.L. Zeebub Devilish g00d..." T.E.D.”:
Welcome “Senius” : Declined “E.N.8.”:
This is what our artist says:—“Let E.N.B. lie
down flat upon his back, and get Miller to stand
upon his bread-basket, in the position above re-
ferred to, and E.N.B. will jolly soon be able to de-
cide for himself; and don’t come bothering about
a busy man during business hours.” “H.F.M.”
(Brisbane) : Letter, &c., reoeived “D. Robert-
son”: “The Parable of Nature” is an excellent
paper, but not in our line. It is preserved from
the waste-basket, so please send stamps for its re-
turn— “Sponging the Slate”: The spirit truly is
willing, but the writing is weak. Sponge it agaiD,
and try afresh—“Martharon”: You have put it
together very nicely—in pretty penmanship,too;
but though it is one of those adventures that seem
absorbingly interesting to the Venus and Adonis
concerned, and their own friends, it would not to
the general public seem so dreadfully absorbing
as to warrant our giving it nearly a col umn. Won’t
you,try something in briefer sty le ? D 0... “ Maude”:
A letter has been posted to you ..“C.A.M.”: Sjrry
we missed it, but item is rather too aged now.
That garnest of all little horses, Sardonyx,
will now give handicap races a gentle rest. His
whole record shows that although he has been
sent out in 40 races, he has been out of a situa-
tion in only 18 events, having finished first in 6,
second in 13, and third in 3. Huxley’s performances
on the game horse proves him to be one of the
best horsemon in Australia—despite the tipsters.
Paddy Pigott, the well-known jockey, is
nearly in form once more, and, in addition to
riding, intends shortly to open a training estab-
lishment here. Paddy has now been over twelve
years on the colonial turf, and amongst his other
famous wins are the Victorian treble of Maribyr-
nong, Derby, and Cup, in Chester’s year, the
Sydney Gold Cup witti A.T., and two Wagga Cups.
From his well-known care and ability as a horse-
man we predict a big success for his new venture.
On Monday evening we dropped in to see
the opening show of the Miller-Foley-Victor com-
bination. Miller and Victor went through some
statuesque posing; several pretty rough bouts
with the gloves took place between “ Professor
General Jackson," better known as “Foley’s
Black,” Lee, and another gentleman whose name
we did noltcatch. Miller and Foley showed some
very tame work with the foils and single-sticks,
and gave about the sickest set-to it has been our
lot to witness for some time past. The best things
of the evening were Victor’s Parisian smile and
three Queensberry’s between Lee and an amateur,
who went in for some right down slogging. The
amateur got on to Lee when and where he liked,
and proved what we always thought of him—a
really clever boxer; but he is treading on very
ticklish ground, and, as advice is cheap, we don’t
mind giving him one little word of it. Dontl
Victor performed some really clever tricks with
a couple of fifty-sixers, and the show closed after a
one act farce by Miller and Victor, termed a
Graeco-Homan wrestling match.
The coming time will be characterised by
extreme width of views. A hint of this was given
in an occurrence at the Intercolonial cricket
match the other day. One of the New South
Wales team heard by telegram of a family be-
reavement. He could not get home in time to
assist in the obsequies, so his friends prevailed
upon him to play on. And the members of both
teams “showed their respect for and sympathy
with him by wearing a band of crape on the left
arm.” This act was as graceful as the conduct of
the bereaved cricketer was sensible. Why should
he give up playing because one of his relatives
was dead ? It is bad enough to lose a friend, but
no reason for also losing the game. We like to see
things taken in this sportsmanlike spirit. People
die every day, but a ball must be knocked about
the field whoever dies. It must have been a quaint,
yet graceful, sight to see the gay bowlers putting
in round-handers with their elbows in mourning.
We hope to see the time when cricket will be
played in every cemetery. Tt is a noble game. So
is pitch-and-toss; though, unhappily, falling into
desuetude in consequence of the pernioious cus-
tom of “ ringing in the gray.”
After a careful study of the straight tips
given by our sporting- (?) dailies, we candidly con-
fess that we are losing: all faith in El Mahdi’a
claims to be considered the champion False Pro-
phet.
Jokes sometimes recoil on those who
make them. A pretty colonial girl wrote, for fun,
she said, to her English friends, that she was to be
marned—just to see how they’d take it. Her
waggish cousins at home at once wrote back their
congratulations, aud said they were sending a
suitable present. In due time it arrived—a costly
berceaunette and a stock of delicate lingerie, with
a message “they hoped it would be in time.”
A priest was visiting a homestead some
distance outside of Townsville, with a view to
arranging for an occasional service. The female
partner in the ranche is of the emotional school of
religionists, but the male boss is an ardent disciple
of the Believe-Nothingists.” While the priest
was discussing theology and a quart of tea with
the former, the latter was making frantic efforts
to dislodge some cockroaches from a crevice in a
chest of drawers. The wife called out from the
next room to ask her lord to “ do come and hear
Father Mulclattery’s beautiful ideas on the Com-
munion of Saints.” The exquisite reply that was
wafted to the holy man’s divine ears, tuned to the
eternal Azrafelian melodics, was “Oh, hang the
Communion of Saints I will you bring me the
kerosene oil?” ! ! I
The Lismore magistrates are getting their
names up. The other day Messrs. Stocks, Barrie,
and Larkin. J.’s P., refused to hear a case for the
recovery of a debt, on the ground that the plain-
tiff had “signed a document highly disrespectful
to the Bench.” “The Bench,” said the chairman,
Stocks, to the unfortunate plaintiff, “ have come
to the conclusion not to hear any more cases in
which you are interested.” Like Dogberry and
Verges, they evidently consider the plaintiff’s con-
duct “ flat burglary,” and, we suppose, are of the
opinion that his proceedings are “ most tolerable,
and not to be endured.” We have no knowledge
or these gentlemen, personally ; but we under-
stand they were appointed to the Commission of
the Peace on the recommendation of the
Grattan of our Assembly, Andrew Lynch.
Esq., M.P. We suppose Mr. Cohen will do
something in this matter, if only to heavily
fetter the person who had the audacity to sign a
document highly disrespectful to the Bench. In
the meanwhile, chaos reigns at Lismore, and the
dog and goat cases are exclusively monopolising
the attention of their warships. i au *
A lady writes to complain that when wait-
ing for the tram, she is continually “ charged af ’•
by butcher s carts and being “nearly killed hvthn
!&«•£, and, furthermore,
with, the butcher boys give cheek. Fancv I
Butchers are supposed, of course, to have cheek
but certainly not, to give it. We heartily symnal
tbisei with our fair correspondent, but imfh we
don t see what we can do for her. Bill Mernman
is the man to see to this. He is supreme over th«
traffic, and on listening to the lady’s piteoSsltorv
would, no doubt, avenge her. Why It is recorded
that a pretty girl once went to William and com-
plained that she had left her new sunshade in a
cab, and it was as much as they could do to pre-
vent him calling out the military. W e lost W
la ’ the P£ berd u y ’ and went up to the Tran-
confident that some virtuous cabmnn
had brought it back, and was waiting with a blue
tie and a deprecatory cough to say he couldn’t
think of taking any reward. He hadn’t arrived
when we got there, but Mr. Merriman openimr a
huge press, disclosed to view the noble arm
cripples under his command—myriads of ghostlv
clamps all brought back by conscientious licensed
drivers, who had no use for them. We didn’t tie
any silk ones, but there were cotton ones and
gingham ones, and dungaree ones. Some wouldn’t
open, and others, when you opened them, wouldn’t
shut again. Some half opened and stopped and
the more you struggled with them the more fixed
they became. A good many, too, when opened
displayed quite a chevaux-de-frise of frame at the
tO P- The parasols were in a similar predicament
and aU the hand-bags were desperately wounded
“Does anybody ever come for any of these noble
umbrellas?” we asked. “ When it wu™?
times/’ replied William, with deadly sign iflSt
Then he added, ‘ I declare it’s raining now. Which
one have you lost. Letme recommend that a-reen
cotton fellow with the broken handle ” Of course
he was only joking. Bill’s duty as Registrar it
watch incessantly over these umbrellas I tmd
fend them, if necessary, with his blood. ’ d
“Rough on Rats.”—Clears out rats, mion
roaches, flies, ants, bed-bugs, beetles in
skunks, jack-rabbits, gophers.
Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents. MoBe *»


F
OR THE GUIDANCE OP OTHERS.
Glenmore-road,
Padding-ton,
„ , ' 14th January, 1884.
Messrs. Elliott Brothers.
Gentlemen,—Some few weeks ago, I was so
severely affected with indisposition as to render
my rising each morning a matter of difficulty and
Fain, on account of severe pains in my back ; and
was just beginning to realise that I would have
to absent myself from my work for a time, when
a friend recommended me to try Hamburg Tea,
mentioning at the same time the beneiit he him-
self had received. At the time I used it, I really
was not fit for my work, and yet in the course of
three or four days I was myself again, and have
not suffered since. I write this conscientiously,
for the guidance of others, and you are at liberty
to make what, use you please of it.
Pours faithfully,
JNO. KELLY.
EMIL FRESE’S HAMBURG TEA.
RELIABuE, SIMPLE, EFFECTUAL.
This well-known Tea has proved itself to be a
most certain and efficacious Remedy for such
diseases as Sudden and Severe Colds, Coughs,
Fevers and Ague, Asthma. Phthisis, Headache,
Bowels, Kidney and Liver Complaints, the Piles,
Congestion, &c., caused by an impure state or a
superfluity of blood. Its use removes Scrofula,
Cutaneous Eruptions, Pimples on the Face,
Blotches, Boils, Rheumatic Pain?, and Pains in the
Bones and Joints. It is a preventative against
Contagion, and destroys inhaled Miasmatic and
Contagious Vapours. It purifies the Blood,
cleanses the Stomach and Bowels, and gives to the
whole system a healthy, easy tone. It opens the
bowels in a very mild and certain way. It works
on the system generally, causing little or no dis-
comfort. It will prevent almost any disease if
used at least once a month. It restores the appe-
tite, it removes the distress caused by eating
hearty food or overloading the stomach, and will
be found effectual as a Family Remedy where a
simple purgative only is needed.
NO FAMILY SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT.
Full directions in English, French, Spanish, and
Qerman with every package. Sold by all chemists,
storekeepers, and medicine dealers throughout
the colonies, at ONE SHILLING a packet.
Wholesale Depot for New South WaIes—ELLIOTT
BROTHERS, Sydney.
John T. Molnn*s and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, 26 O’Connelli-
street, Sydney. Agents for the purchase
of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies, Harvest-
ing Machinery, Agricultural Implements, &c. No
commission charged for buying. JSg'" Agents for
the sale or purchase on commission of Pure-bred
Stock.*
Tue Diamond Dyes are the best dyes made.
Have you tried them? If not, then you should do
so. They are the best, and, at the same time, the
cheapest dyes in this market. Why ? Because
they are true to colour every time, and can ai ways
be depended on to produce the desired effect. One
package will dye from three to four times more
than any other dyes sold. All dealers sell them, or
will get them for you. Insist on having them, and
take no others. All sold at one price; 6d. only-
Wholesale by Elliott Bros., Sydney and Brisbane,*
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The death of Mrs. Ross-of-Bladensberg
reminds us her title was the only one of the kind
held in England. The afiix “of Bladensberg,” was
conferred on the widow of a General ltoss for his
gallant fighting at that place in America, in 1812.
The Marquis of Normanby has been
“done” in water, in oil, and in sundry other
things, and now Mr. J. Minton Connell is about to
execute a portrait of him in ivory. Can no one do
the noble Marquis in china? Some Victorians
Would like to see him in China.
Lord Rosebery thinks Mareus Clarke “ a
great genius.” That’s one for Marcus. But his
Lordship has remembered that Marcus left a wife
and family, and Mrs. Clarke is able to speak kindly
of his Lordship's interest in her and them. That s
ever so many lor his Lordship.
Wesleyan Conference decision.—The Rev.
George Woolnougli received permission to rest
for another year. This is the first time we
heard writing for a newspaper described as rest-
ing. There is no rest for some people. Wool-
nough is on the B.M. Herald staff.
The announcement that Lord Rosebery
intends to have tho eldest son of the late Marcus
Clarke entered at the Charterhouse Schools, and
the astounding statement, that his Lordship will
give an order for 500 copies of “ His Natural Life,’
to be distributed among his friends at home, has
provoked a lively curiosity as to what such an ar-
dent admirer of colonial genius is likely to do for
George Darrell. This little matter is, we believe,
still under his noble consideration, as also Sladen's
exact position in the peerage.
Mr. u. M. Davies, M L.A., of Victoria, saw
the Pons comet at Buninyong, and is very elo-
quent ever since. He saw it a little north of
Venus, and complains that its head was a little out
of centre and its tail hardly anywhere. It is all
very well for Mr. Davies to show off his critical
ability at Buninyong, and speak disparagingly of
the head and tail of Pons. These things have two
sides. Now, we looked at Mr. Davies a little north
of Buninyong one time, and we kept our opinion
of his head and tail to ourselves. He would have
punched us if we telegraphed it about.
Mr. Benjamin Douglas, the representative
working-man of Victoria, was sent for by Lord
Rosebery ** I was sent for,” said Mr. Douglas to
his guests at the Trades Hall, “and I went. I
didn’t know what his Lordship wanted with me,
but I went.” Thereupon some caustic critics ask
the representative working-man whether he
would have left his work, tidied liimsclf up, and
gone with such graceful wlllingne = s, if it had been
his Lordship's valet who sent for him. The caustic
critics have certainly a hold of something, but
is it fair to twitch tho working-man toy this one
little tuft of humbug, when nil around him the
growth of sycophancy is as thick as a Northern
scrub ?
Among the hundreds of individuals who
still rejoice in the belief that the “ Claimant is the
right, man, you know,” how many are there pos-
sessing any knowledge of the real facts of the
Ticbborne case? The surest way of exposing
their ignorance is to ask them how many years
elapsed between Roger Tichborne’s departure
from England and the fat impostor’s first appear-
ance as a baronet. Somewhere about five and
twenty years is the usual surmise—twelve is nearer
the mark. In twelve years he had forgotten his
own name, his mother’s name, his birth-place
everything, in fact, if his ridiculous story is to be
believed. Stay, he did recollect one thing about
Roger, for after making the acquaintance of the
family washerwoman, ho “recollected” tho pat-
tern of Roger’s shirts.
Miss Mary Anderson is a beautiful woman,
either on the stage or off it; and they say she is
very good. The combination is unusual. A native
of California, she first went on the stage for love
of it, but meeting with great success, she remained
on it, and since 1879 has hardly known what it is to
play in a theatre not crammed. Notwithstanding
that Miss Anderson is celebrated for her splendid
face and figure, she is as superior to the first stage
beauties of the Kato Vaughan and Connie Gilchrist
stamp as William Miller is to a dude. She is a
refined actress, with a keen perception of true art
which enables her to wed naturalness and artifice
fitly together in the way so essential to stage effect.
Miss Mary Anderson, as Pauline, in the “Lady of
Lyons,” act v., scene 2.
On her appearance in London, among the bouquets
on the first night a beautiful basket of lilies was
handed up with a card bearing in bold handwriting
“With best wishes from Lillie Langtry;” and a
night or two afterwards the Prince of Wales sent
to ask when Miss Anderson would find it con-
venient to be introduced to him. Her reply was
unexpected. Hitherto, no scandal had tainted her
name, and as she feared an introduction to His
lioyal Highness could have no other effect than
creating one, she must decline the honour. Albert
Edward went off his appetite for two meals on
getting this little jar. But, a few days after, Miss
Anderson was invited by the Princess of Wales to
a garden party. And it may be whispered, almost
inaudibly, that she has reached the charming age
of 24.
Samuel Kershaw, who, until the other day
resided at a Melbourne coffee tavern, was of a
thoroughly original and independent turn of
mind, judging from the evidence forthcoming
when he was “inquested.’ Samuel, it appears,
had sojourned in the Southern hemisphere for
some six years, leaving England on the very day
that Mrs. K. gave birth to her first “infant
Samuel.” Furthermore, he took his departure
from Albion’s shores without evincing the slight-
est deiire to “ see the baby,” “for which conduct"
(said the witness) “no reason could be assigued.” '
Now, although some married men may be disposed i
to doubt the accuracy of the witness’ naive asser- ;
tion, still the fact remains that Korsham’s conduct
on that interesting occasion was just a little pro- i
nounced—not to say eccentric—and, in a measure,
E repares us for the business-like manner in which
e arranged his decease. Previous to retiring to
rest, Samuel took fifteen grains of opium and
fifteen grains of chloral ; then he swallowed a
“package” of arsenic; and to make “assurance
doubly sure,” he held in reserve a large quantity
of strychnine. From the fact that his body was
discovered in a sitting posture, the assumption is
that he must have been just feeling round for the
strychnine to “ make sure,” when the somewhat
hurried arrival of Grim Death prevented him from
carrying out his purpose.
“ Morality was impossible without the
Bible. In that book, it is said, there were mis-
takes. Suppose there were, did this vitiate its
whole tenor and life ? Johnson believed in ghosts,
and Luther in a material oevil, but were they,
therefore, without intellect? . . . Freethinkers
claimed to be scientific and progressive. The man
in the moon know as much science as they.”
Those ai’e the sentiments of the Rev. John Osborne,
expressed by him in the York-street Wesleyan
C lurch before he joined the staff of the Rum. There
is a ring of simple truth about them that earries
conviction even to indurated hearts like ours.
But, although contemplating a change from the
sacerdotal to the literary profession, he was
anxious not to relinquish the former altogether.
He had nineteen reasons for desiring not to give
up preaching entirely. We only arrived when he
was giving the nineteenth; but, if the preceding
ones were equally strong, he certainly made out a
good case. The one we heai’d was that the D.T,
screw was not enough to keep him and
those depending on him, so ho elected, during
his spare time, to continue hostilities against
Satan. This was bad news for the latter, who has
had to put up with a good deal of misrepresenta- :
tion lately, and naturally looked for a little slack- :
ness in vituperation when he heard the Rev. John
was going on the press. But enough of this flip-
pancy-let us return to the quotation given on I
top. Seems a little “mixed,” doesn't it? Let’s
see. “No morality without the Bible.” Appears.!
to us, then, that there is precious little morality ;
in the world, considering that four-fifths of the j
inhabitants never heard of the Bible. And it also !
appears to us that the old Greeks, who never
heard of it. gave to tho world types of man and
womanhood quite as high as those given by the |
A ROMANCE OF “DE-SEAT.”
A stilly night,
A shadow there
From shimin’ring light
Of damsel fair.
old Jews who produced it. And a number of
other things appears to us— inter alia, that there
are tales told in it so delightfully immoral, not to
put too fine a point on it, that you would never
think of reading them to your wife and daughters.
We know, of course, that it is the secret of Eng-
land’s greatness, but that did not prevent the
gracious lady who said so from sending out big
ships and big guns to make the Chinese cat opium,
nor did it keep her sainted grandfather from sup-
plying the North American Indians with scalping-
knives to teach loyalty to Yankee women and
children. We might say a lot more on this matter,
but enough has been said to suggest that, the half-
million nr so of people who read the D.T. have a
treat in store for them.
Lieut.-General Sheridan, commanding the
United States Army, is brusque and bow-legged,
but quiet and unostentatious in manner. The fun
is, that though he is very ordinary, his wife thinks
him the handsomest man in the country. It's a
mistake few married men would quarrel with
their wives about. The wives very seldom make
it. Mrs. Phil. Sheridan is a petite, red-haired,
spunky little woman, and so fond of her Phil, that
when his portrait was painted by a celebrated
artist, who, she considered, did not do him justice,
she drove down to the room where it was and
obliterated the face with a paint brush. When
Phil, discovered what she had done, he never said
an\thing. It was not because the Lieut.-General
commanding the United States Army was afraid.
No, but he didn’t see any use altering the dear
little woman’s opinion about his good looks.
Mr. Bosisto, the Eucalyptus Oil man of
Victoria, is a very good letter-writer. He is good
at other thingp, but it is's a friendly correspondent
he excels. There is something Chesterfisidian in
his style and turn of thought. He is now in India,
and we are all glad to hear from him. He «ays he
sweats so much that “if I put my hand in my
poeket it sticks." There is a naive elegance about
this “it sticks.” But then he apprises us that
there were catamarans about him, and that the
people were pestering him to buy something.
Possibly, that helped his hand to “ stick.” It used
to do one time, even in winter. But he says: “ The
other day, on going to my room, there was a
queecha, a kind of nasty-looking iguano, on the
wall. I watched him for a time, wondering who
oriwhat he was. He swallowed a moth which
lodged beside him, and I went to bed wondering
whether he intended to try and swallow me.”
Great, Jupiter! Wish he had!
In 1883, the eldest son of Prinoe Frederick
Of f’ilra, the young Count Alfred, then studying
at the Bonn University, ran away from homo be-
cause his family would not allow him to marry a
young girl, well brought up, and whose parents
were comfortably off, but of comparatively low
birth. For a whole year the Prince of Palm re-
mained ignora't of his son’s whereabouts, and
was only informed last September that he was
work*ng as a navvy on the Illinois railway, a few
miles from Chicago. He had been recognised by
another navvy of the name of Schneider, who
had served in Germany in the same regiment of
Hussars as the young Prince. Schneider wrote to
the Prince to inform him that the Count and him-
self occupied the same lodging at Chicago. The
Prince immediately sent the manager of his estate
to bring back the prodigal son, who refused to
return unless he was allowed to marry the lady
for whose sake ha had left home and country.
The Prince’s consent to the match has been
granted.
Another fashionable London actor has
been figuring in the Divorce Court—this time,
though, in the somewhat unprofessional role or'
“ petitioner.” The injured one is Arthur Dacre, a
first-rate jeune premier and a pretty fellow (so the
ladies say), but, apparently, rather a melodramatic
kind of husband. It came out during the trial
that the elegant Arthur had been studying the
character of Mr. Mantalini, and by way of working
on the feelings of his unappreciative spouse,
threatened to make a “ dem’d, moist, unpleasant
body” of liimse’f, during one of their domestic
storms. After inflicting a delicate scratch on his
swan-like neck with a broken tumbler, Arthur
(who is a qualified medical man, by the bye) pro-
duced a lancet, and announced his intention of
opening a vein in his wrist and bleedin<.vto death.
Instead of opening the vein, though, which might
have really earned him considerable inconveni-
ence, the prudent young medical actor restricted
himself to a “ slight scratch,” and a little sticking-
plaster on his wrist and neck soon restored to him
his blushing beauty. However, he certainly did
go just a little further than our old friend, Manta-
lini, and it may be that these harrowing details
will even increase the already numerous feminine
admirer of the popular stage lover.
“A splendid legend—splendid lie ” is told
about Daniel Home, the erst famous Spiritualist
impostor. A few years ago he visited Rome, and
became a convert to the Faith. His Holiness the
Pope was so pleased to have “ plucked from the
burning” such a dangerous infidel, that he
granted him several personal interviews at the
Vatican. But even Popes are not entirely above
Heart that doth jog
With love’s wild freaks,
A savage dog,
And seatless “breeks! ”
that human fading, curiosity, and it was at one of
these audiences that, by dear old Pio Nono’s gra-
ciously, but imprudently, expressing a desire to
| see a “manifestation,” the conversion of months
! was all undone in a moment, and the fold lost a
sheep. It happened thus: No sooner had his Holi-
ness settled back in his chair, calmly iucredulous
that any spirits would be bold enough to manifest
in his presence, than a cushion from under his
holy feet suddenly got uo on end, and after dancing
a distinct polka twice round the room, frisked up
I to Daniel Home and tapped him on the nose. Pio
was speechless with astonishment, the attendants
muttered many a prayer, ana Cardinal Antonelli
was, in the hush that fell upon all, distinctly hoard
to pronounce the word “ devil.” Daniel was the
first to speak; he assured his Emin '"ce it was not
his Satanic Majesty who had unkindly dealt him
this blow, but the spirit of his first wife. At this,
the cushion rose once more and gave Mr. Home
three blows which staggered him. The Pope
looked grave, the Cardinal darkly frowned, the
attendants prayed harder than before, but Daniel
entreated them not to be alarmed. Such little
occurrences had often happened to him in earth
life before—it was just like his wife, he said. He
was solemnly advised to abjure such things, and
on his declining, was told that the Holy Church
could receive him not. So Daniel relapsed. This
is believed to bo the best lie ever told about Homo
—putting aside, of course, his own little efforts.
It is with pain and anguish wringing the
brow that we note the continued persecution of
the Rev. Mr. Alfred Graves, late Church of Eng-
land minister at Elmore, Victoria. Alfred, it
seems, is now committed on a number of so-called
charges, and we have no doubt that he, whilst
enduring temporary incarceration finds relief in
praying for his oppressors. Alfred has been be-
fore the public a good deal. In connection with
Elmore, it seems that Mr. Graves’ zeal (of which
he seems to have a superabundance) attracted the
notice of his bishop, and tor some time Alfred
sought somewhere the seclusion which a private
boai’ding-house grants, and nothing further was
heard of him. Suddenly the public is informed by
the newspapers that the rev. gentleman possesses
an inordinate love of oysters. He is in Geelong
this time, and goes in for nothing less than a
barrel a pop. He also developes a love for hosiery,
and legal complications are the result; the law, it
seems, possessing but little sympathy with clergy-
men of the Church of England who eat oysters by
the barrel and are inordinately fopd of hosiery.
The oyster inau, it would appear, got angry about
something, and though Alfred says, similarly t<
the sock-man (in the words of the burlesque) : -
“ True, my hosier, true, I owes yer,
But I cannot pay yer, h'aujimrdhui,”
he would not be pacified, and some little troubie
was the result. Dressed in the glossiest of black
clerical garments, the stillest of chokers, and
weeping copiously into a tent-fly of virgin white-
ness, the rev. gentleman pulled through trium-
phantly, and wept himself away from the Court
on the arm of a brother-clergyman, to the great
admiration of the by-standcrs. But—as Billy
Sweatman used to say—“the villain still pursued
him.” Just as the Elmore people were preparing
to welcome him back with hymns and banners,
10, and behold, trouble again ensues; bis enemies
being resolved on his destruction. Then all the
“ a.G.” monograms were picked out of the smok-
ing-caps and slippers, the triumphal arches were
taken down, and patchwork quilts were made of
the banners. The little anthem—commencing
Our minister is free again,
Once in our church he’s seated;
His enemies all strove in vain,
And them he has defeated 1—
was never sung, and it is rumoured that when
popular grief had, in a manner, subsided, a re-
action of feeling set in, and Alfred Graves’ boots
were burned in effigy. The rev. gentleman is
now, to all appearanee, more persecuted than
ever. He turned out to be as fond of
boating as he was of oysters, and the demon
once more pursued him. All this is rather
a bother to us. We have been looking forward,
during the last year, to hearing Alfred G. hold
forth, and to being rendered better and chaster by
the rev. gentleman’s ministrations. Tf he pulls
through this, however, our mite will be ready to-
wards installing him in a tin church, and buying
him a pair of celluloid cults, that he may “ shcot,”
while pronouncing the benediction of us hardened
sinners, with his fingers locked over the time-pay-
ment Bible, We are getting tired of the Salvation
naan, who boasts of stealing flat-irons, and then
implores the spotless listener to “ mend his hevil
ways.”
• ■ •
A gay young organist in a Melbourne
suburb has got into trouble for playing at church
a march from a popular opera bouffe. Although
he played very slowly and solemnly, seven deacons
recognised the air at once.... A Melbourne paper
refers to the renowned poet and painter of the
fleshly school as Daniel Gabriel Rosetti. This is
very rough on a man who’s dead Extracts from
the home papers are circulated in Melbourne,
eulogising the “h’gh personal character ” of Mr.
Richard Speight, the chairman of the Victorian
railway commissioners. We are sure the extracts
speak the truth. But, will not the contrast be-
tween Mr. Speight and those who appointed him
be damaging to the Ministry ? Perhaps.
• •
Mr. Oscar Wilde is said, on good authority,
to be aUmt to be married On 2Gth November,
Sir Henry Parkes was elected a member of the
Empire Club, at homo, the Crown Prince of
Portugal being admitted the same day. ..By the
Soudan massacre is left a widow the lady once
known as Nita Gaetano, a famous singer at con-
certs, and a composer of vocal and piano music of
great ability. Commander Lynedoch Moncricff
was her husband, who was slain at Suakim ...
On <lit that widower Abbey and widow Nilsson are
about to marry.... Ellen Terry’s breakfast is hard-
boiled egg, and bread dipped in sherry wine. A
hint for ladies who aspire to be angular and undu-
lating Without reflecting at all on any gay
Governors in New Holland, we may say that the
President of the United States gives a good many
balls. His sister acts as hostess, he being a
widower. He dances himself, and delights the
damsels by noticing them freeiy. The President’s
entertainments cost him a great deal more than
his salary —“Alice, Grand Duchess of He se,
Princess of Great Britain and Ireland; Biographi-
cal Sketches from her Life and Letters,” is the
title of a little book about to be published at
Darmstadt. To judge from the title, this should
be a highly exciting volume, and we rejoice to
learn that there is a possibility of an English
edition being issued shortly. There's nothing like
Royal literature for real excitement... .America
has been exporting lawyers to London. Some
time ago, Benjamin went to London, and now ex-
Mayor Oakey Hall, of New York, brilliant writer,
orator, and gentleman, has followed.


That indigestion or stomach gas at night
preventing rest and sleep, will disappear by using
Hop hitters. Head.
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
Ask for Hockings’ High-class Wines, all
8BS»&'?8SS«£?‘ ,k D 0 ot ‘‘ w '«- Sa “" ,11 "»
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
rjre shall be glad to home this index posted up by
1 secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .l
RACING.
Goulbum T.C February 1, 3.
Rraidwood Races February 6. 8.
Burrowa February 7, 7.
Newcastle February 9.
Cootamundra February 13,14.
Tasmanian R.C. Summer February 18,14,15.
Murrumburrah J.C February 14,15.
Cooma Races. February 20, 21.
Gundagai J.C February 38, 29.
Orange J.C March 5, 6.
Turnut March 5, 6.
V R.C. Autumn March 1,6, 8.
Wanganui (N.Z.) J.C. Autumn March 6, 7.
Wollongong March 17.
Gundaroo March 17.
Wellington Annual March 17,18.
Albury March, 17,18.
Condo bolin March 26, 27.
Hawkesbury R.C. Autumn April 3. 5.
Balonne (Q.) Races April 8, 9.
A.J.O' Autumn April 12,14,16,19.
Wilcannia J.C —Aprii 23, 24, 25.
Hay May 15,1«.
Mudgee R.C June 4, 5.
AQUATICS
Clifford v. Pearce— • February 2.
R. 4th Class Race February 9.
S. Dingy Club ja<ef Feb. 9.
* N.S.W April 5.
Intercolonial Eight• nr Race, Victoria v.
Balmain Rowing Club Regatta March 23.
ATHLETICS.
Franks v. Murphy February 9,11.16.
Bourke Sheffield Handicap May 25.
CYCLING.
Suburban B.C. Meeting , May 10
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
In South Australia, a man named Andrew
Fry waged £5 that he could dig three tons of pota-
toes In a day. Fry finished his task a few minutes
inside the 12 hours.
In England, Mr. and Mrs. Smith, on a
sociable, recently covered 10 miles in 41min, 40 l-sth
sec, and beat the best on record.
Dan O’Leary and Frank Hart are backed
to walk two unknowns (probably Harriman and
Ross) for an alleged £4OO, at San Francisco.
At San Francisco, in a cricket match be-
tween the Australian and World elevens of the
Occident and Merion Cricket Clubs, the Australian
team won by 59 to 37.
John L. Sullivan received £285 for pitching
five innings’ against the St. Louis Baseball Club.
After this, can we wonder the champion slogger
refuses Miller’s offer to visit Australia ?
Vanderbilt refused to rent Madison Square
Gardens (N.Y.), for a six days’ walking match, for
a less sum than £2OOO. This ought io prove a
settler to the proposed Rowell-Fitzgerald contest.
“ Young Dutchy ” has turned up in
’Frisco, where he is billed as “Professor Young
Dutchy, the Australian Light-weight Champion.’’
He is trying to arrange a prize fight with Ned
Price.
At the New York (U.S.) Athletic Club
grounds, M. W. Ford, an amateur, cover 10 ft. 5}4
in. in a standing wide jump, and made a record.
The previous best was made by J. J. Tickle, Eng-
land—lo ft. 5 in.
G. M. Robinson, the ’Frisco heavy-weight,
who is credited with trouncing Slade with the
gloves, recently elevated a 51 dumb-bell 80
times, and beat the previous best, which was 58
times. Our D’Harcourt can put up the 70tt>. bell
some 25 times.
Frank Homan ran a man, stated to be F.
Raymond, at Boston, 400 yards, on November n.
Homan won in43see., the fastest time on record,
if correct. “Raymond” turned out to be F.
Davis, of 'Frisco, the fastest quarter-mile runner
in America, if not the world.
Haulan and Lee recently appeared as a
draw in the baseball field, ’Frisco; but the show
was a frost. The ’Fiisco Newsletter says:
Hanlan’s efforts were more in the burlesque line
than anything el«e, and we cannot commend his
taste in taking part in such a humbug.”
A New York paper says O’Learv has issued
a challenge in ’Frisco to walk any man for £2OO a
side and the championship of the world. The
championship business is refreshing, considering
Edwards walked the Vankee’s hair off in Australia,
lhe same paper says he returned laden with Aus-
tralian gold Walker!
Henry W. Kirby, considered the best ama-
teur sculler in America, has been expelled by the
National Association from rowing as an amateur
for ever, on account of some crooked business
sheeted home to him. It is stated that Kirby will
■}? i- tbe ranks of the professionals next year.
Delicate compliment to the professional.
Bombala folks had anything but agree-
able weather for their race meeting on Thursday
last. Lady Pitsford appropriated the Maiden.
riate; lantawanglo boat Dove by a bare head for
the Jockey Club Handicap; Lady Pitsford made a
second win of the Trial Stakes; Tantawanglo ditto
or the Flying Handicap, and Yurammie made an
easy win of tne Forced Handicap.
A glove fight came off recently at Laun-
ceston, Tasmania, between “ Professor ” West and
Dinney Hennebery, a local bruiser, for a £lO
trophy and gate money. Heneberry took a strong
lead lor the first two rounds, but the “ Professor ”
was all there in the third, and knocked his man
out of time. Launceston has the Queensberry
craze, and several more matches are on the tapis.
The owner of the yacht Daphne has every
reason to be proud of his crew, for they showed
extraordinary skill and pluck in the manner in
which they handled her on Saturday week; for,
despite the fact there were only four working
nands on board, including the owner and man in
charge, they set and took in sails, in a style which
won lor them deserved applause from the specta-
tors on the Admiral.
,■\ Davis is stated to be the coming wing
shot of America. He recently grassed 98 out of
pigeons at 30 yards rise, most of the birds
neing remarkably strong flyers. His 48th bird fell
out of bounds. Had this bird fallen within bounds,
wmswould have tied the best on record made by
“ Rpgardus in 1880. Bogardus on one occa-
,loo hirds in succession, but the birds
were remarkably tame.
A somewhat notable circumstance in con-
Wlth the last event of the English flat-
racing season was the fact that Sir F. Johnstone’s
numWh!?< 7*, igh< l d , out for h y c - w ood, and her
£°i s £ ed - Subsequently it was discovered
tnat she had been entered as a five-year-old instead
amf £“ ree *year-old, consequently she did not run,
hart n T^„ n ,V m , b ?r as takeri down aft er the horses
naa actually left the paddock.
m!,V ane Robinson, aged 84 years, England
is knSn 0 rt O ?i D^ he champion drunk. ‘ Jan©
«f th * e i. Salvat f^. Armv as the “champion
drunkPnn™! .the world,” has be-n convicted for
times ann 6BB m Berkshire more than two hundred
to thrV£ ™ recently sentenced in Leeds (Eng.)
turban£e m ' w h V ra P r, ? , '\“ inont tor creating a dis-
don c believp even America, can
etch up a beet on record to boat this.
The Our Boys Cricket Club and the man-
ager of the Junior Cup contests have been at
loggerheads in consequence of the former making
their Cup matches secondary to other matters.
Until Mr. Ironsides took the juniors up they were
never heard of, and it hardly seems the thing for
them now to throw dillieulties in his way. The
clubs should keep in mind that if these Cup
matches come to an untimely end, the Juniors
will, without doubt, drift back into the obscurity
from which the energetic manager has tempora-
rily raised them.
Our readers may recollect an account wc
fave of a foot race in America, between “Little
lume,” an Indian lad, and George Irvine, in
which Irvine knocked his opponent down and
kicked him. Another 5 mile race came oil on Nov.
8, between the pair, which resulted in another
win for the “native,” in 27 mir. 22 see. In this
case a quantity of broken glass was found mixed
with tne sawdust on the track, the supposition
being that it was intended to cut the feet of the
Indian, who, in the previous race, ran in his bare
feet, but this time he ran in mocassins.
The Mudgee Independent a faff would
seem to have been in heavy training for Anni-
versary Day, judging from the issue of 12th Janu-
ary. Under the heading of “ Sporting,” we find
“Trickett has ordered a new shell from Donnelly
and Sullernai). Clifford has been doing his utmost
of get on a match with Niel O'Donnell. Mr. A. T.
Smart has purchased Coir from Mr. de Mester.
Perhaps Trickett and hlias will accomodate Ross
and Hanlan in a double-scull race.” And the
Mudgee Mrs. Partington winds up by saying the
sporting fraternity of Victoria must be in a sad
state of depravity, as Suwarrow went begging at
200 guineas. Of course, the italics are ours.
Considering the counter attractions, the
Sydney Turf Club cannot growl at the attendance
at the Summer meeting on Saturday last. Here’s
Luck defeated Hypatia by three-quarters of a
mile for the Flying Handicap, Coolabah third; and
War Eagle won the Hurdle Kace, Councillor, a
short length away, second, Flamborough third.
Chesterton fell and hurt Kilduff, his rider. Lord
Exeter, after a great struggle up the straight,
landed the January Stakes by a short head from
Liberte, Bolero third ; Here’s Luck made a second
and unexpected win of the Anniversary Handi-
The boy stood on the stockyard fence.
When all but him had fled;
The flames that lit his father’s barn
Shone just above bis head.
One little bunch of crackers, he
To a puppy’s tail had tied ;
The dog iu anguish sought the barn,
And ’midst its ruins died.
Another bunch was in his hand,
And two more in his hat;
And as the sparks flew red and high
They fell upon that brat.
Then came a burst of rattling souud-
Theboy! where was he gone?
Ask of the winds that far and near
Strewed bits of meat and bone,
And string and marbles, many a toy,
And buttons, nails, and yarn—
The relics of that dreadful boy
Who burned his father’s barn !
cap, the unlucky Sardonyx second, Empress
third ; Prima Donna heat Allandor by a short head
for the Selling Plate, The Witch third ; and Raven
appropriated the Ladies’ bracelet from Strath-
more, Minorca third. The starting all through
was the worst we ever saw on a course.
Now that William Elliott, the English
sculler, has returned to the land of his birth and
commenced issuing challenges, it is to be hoped
that ho will meet with sufficient success to permit
of him squaring up some of the little debts which
slipped his memory when he departed for the
States. After the advent of Hanlan had put an
extinguisher on Billy’s aquatic pretensions, he
tried the old game-malting a book. An inability
to grapple with figures, however, combined with
the possession of a head-piece which is enough to
frignten any youthful backer off a race-course,
militated against th<* “pitman’s” success in his
new walk of life. At Midland and Southern race
meetings, the ex-Champion Sculler of the World—
as he advertised himself—was a terrible frost; but
in the neighbourhood of the Tyne, certain indivi-
duals were confiding enough to lay out their little
bits with the fallen idol. William, however, abused
their confidence, and levanted in very bad odour.
Other sporting celebrities have similarly distin-
guished themselves.
The untimely death of Earl Grosvenor,
the eldest son of the Duke of Westminster, will,
in all probability, terminate the Duke’s racing
career, and the English turf will lose one of its
most influential and munificent patrons. When
“the richest man in the world” so unexpectedly
joined the; ranks of the turfites, some seven
years back, it was generally understood that he
was forming a stud more for his eldest son’s
amusement than his own: and although, as time
went on, papa evinced quite as lively an interest
in racing matters as “the boy,” it is not likely that
the “black and yellow” of the Grosvenors will
long figure on the racecourse after this family
bereavement. It will be remembered that the
Duke of Westminster paid what is reputed to be
the highest price ever paid for a thoroughbred
horse when he secured Doncaster at a figure of
fifteen thousand guineas, for stud purposes. The
deal was not a bad one,; for Doncaster’s son, Bend’
Or, seemred for the Duke his first Derby in ISBO,
defeating such an equine wonder as Robert the
Devil. Two years later, tfUotover bore the “ black
and yellow ” to the fore for the great Epsom
event; and, altogether, the Duke’s racing career,
even allowing for the large amount of capital ex-
pended, has been very successful.
A correspondent has asked us to give an
outline of the Queensberry rules for boxiDg com-
petitions. The rules in question specify a fair
stand-up boxing match, in a 21-foot ring; no
wrestling allowed; rounds of three minutes dura-
tion and one minute time; if either man fall, he
must get up unassisted; ten seconds allowed to do
so, the other man, meanwhile, to return to his
corner, and when the fallen man is on his legs, the
round to be resumed until the three minutes have
expired, and if one man fails to coino to the
scratch in the ten seconds allowed, it shall be in
the power of the referee to give his award in
favour of the other man ; a man hanging on the
ropes in a helpless state shall be considered down;
no seconds to be allowed into the ring during the
rounds; should the contest be stopped, referee to
nauiotimo and place to ttnish the contest, unless
backers of both men agree to draw the stakes.
The gloves to be fair-sized boxing gloves. A man
on one knee is considered down, and if struck is en-
titled to the stakes.
It is stated of Walton, the Yankee “Plun-
ger,” that at the Doncaster (Eng.) race meeting he
went up to Fred. Archer and 6aid to him:—“ I’ve
got a £lOO to put on a horse for you, Archer.
Which shall it be ?” A rcher named the horse, the
first favourite, at 2 to 1 ; Walton backed the
animal, and it won. Again he asked Archer what
he would like to back with the £3OO, now supposed
to be his, and the jockey advised him to wait, as
the next race was very uncertain. A good thing,
at 0 to 4, followed, and Walton laid £3OO to £2OO for
Archer what he laid for himself is another
matter. There were other races in the course of
the day; but before the last race Archer had a
“ monkey ”—£soo in hand. This he advised Walton
to lump on to a certain animal which he rode, and
he was beaten a short bead! Walton defends him-
self by saying that he does not pay jockeys to lose
races, and, therefore, that what he does is not ille-
gitimate; but, no doubt, Lord Falmouth, the Duke
of Portland, Lord Hastings, or any other of
Archer’s employers would not have the same
opinion if this sort of thing were carried on to any
great extent.}
Am English paper tells rather a good s*orj
of Gladiateur, the winner of the Two Thousand
Guineas, Derby and Leger, beiDg taken for a har-
ness horse. One day Jack Abel was driving
through the streets of Newmarket when he met
Tom Jennings. •' Hullo, Tom, ’ he called out,
“ have you got any of your big-boned ugly brutes
that are too slow for racing that you want to sell
for twenty or thirty pounds apiece?” Tom
thought for a moment, and then, with a mischiev-
ous twinkle in his eye, said, “ Yes, two or three.
Come round and look at ’em.” In the course of
time, John Abel arrived at Phantom Cottage, and
was £liown into a box in which there was a big-
boned angular-looking- horse. ‘‘You can't want
much for that ’un, Tom,” he said. •* I shan’t stand
more than twenty for that,” and he raised his
stick in order to make him move over. “For
God's sake, don't hit him or be will kick us ail out
of the box,” said Tom, iu an alarmed manner.
“ Oh, you ugly brute, I'll teach you manners when
I get you,” replied Jack, apostrophising the horse,
and then turning to the boy, who was looking on
the whole proceeding’ as though he were thunder-
struck, "What’s his name, boy?” “Gladiateur,
sir.” Jack Abel bolted out ot the box, and made
the best time to the railway station that was ever
accomplished by a man of his years.
The National Regatta of 1834 passed off
with its customary success. His Excellency paid a
duty visit to thellsgship, and the courteous caterer
—but we think we have seen this somewhere be-
fore. As we anticipated, the 24-foot race for the
Mayor’s Cup proved a frr>st. The Victor won,
with the Lottie close up; and the Carlotta,-.jogged
along hopelessly some miles to the rear. The Mer-
c initio Rowing Club swept the board tor the ama-
teur rowing races, by winning the Junior Sculls,
Senior Fours, Maiden Fours, i aidley Sculls,
Junior Fours and Junior Double Scuds, the re-
spective crews being:-Mr. R. \V. Roll, Messrs.
Seale, dickering, Brett, and Martin; Messrs. Grace,
Warre, Taylor, and Brindley; and Messrs. Donald-
son and Seale. The Latona won the Canvas Dingy
race; The Ouida won the 16ft. Dingy race; Mr. P.
O. Williams carried olf the 19ft. Dingy race, with
the Desdemona; the St. Crispin, sailed by Fletcher,
defeated the Rosetta, with her owner at the pick-
handle ; the Sirocco won the handicap for yachts
ten tons and upwards; Beach and Trickett finished
m the order named for the Champion race, but
owing to a foul, the umpire decided the pair
should race a (rain on Saturday next; Dr. Milford's
little flyer, the Sao. showed her heels to the other
competitors in the Under Ten Tons Handicap; the
Maritana came in first for the Half Deck race,
Buttercup second; Young' Victor won the Hit.
Dingy race; and Me senger defeated Pearce in the
All Comers’ Light Skirt’ Handicap,
The Cleveland (U.S ) Herald says
“Slugger Sullivan is making a prolonged frolic
of his Western tour. He gets into har-room
tights wherever ho goes. In Dayton, Ohio, his
whole company of sluggers Indulged in an up-
roarious spree. While in a gambling house, Sulli-
van offended a man, who drew a revolver, but
was too slow, for, before ho could carryout his
threat, Sullivan knocked him through the swing-
ing doors i"to the street. In an lowa railroad
station, Sullivan and his wife were the first to leave
the waiting-room when the train came in. The
champion closed the door and held it. Half-dozen
gentlemen and ladies on the inside made frantic
efforts to open the door as their train prepared to
start, but Sullivan playfully held it as long as he
could and reach the train himself, and then let go,
throwing the tugging citizens on their backs.
Before they could recover themselves, the train
and bully were gone. Sullivan’s treasurer says he
is nothing more than an overgrown boy; that h®
spends £lO a day, and would get the combination
into trouble if he were not watched.” By the way,
Sullivan holds a very easy lease of his title of
“champion;” ho has only fought one bona fide,
battle in the ring, and steadily refuses to make a
match with bare knuckles, although K. K. Fox
offers to back Paddy Kyan against kim for £5OO,
London Prize Bing rules; and a deposit has been
put up on behalf of Pendergast for a similar en-
counter. Sullivan ought certainly accept one of
these, or drop the title of “ Champion*”
The noble art is certainly coming into
favour again amongst English sportsmen, al-
though, as in America, glove contests have taken
the place of fights under the old rules of the
London prize ring. Within the week ended De-
cember a, two affairs came off in London, of which
says “Pendragon,” of the Keferee, “both were
the best of their kind, within my not altogether
limited experience.” This coming from “ Pen.,”
who, although perhaps the greatest growler, is
one of the best judges of pugilistic matters in
England, would seem a guarantee that the bouts
were something out of tho common. The first was
a competition between eight picked men, limit
10st. 41b., the man who obtained tho greatest num-
ber of points to be declared the winner. After
some clever boxing, the men were weeded out,
till Qhook, a full-blooded African, and Picton faced
each other in tho final bout, which was so even
that tho judges could not give any decision, and a
fourth round was ordered. This was a most slash-
ing affair, and after some really brilliant work the
bout was given in favour of Picton, who is barely
eighteen years of age. The second was a continu-
ation of the Goode-Roberts affair, which ended on
tho previous occasion in a draw, in consequence of
the lights being put out, and ot which we gave an
account in last issue. Tho fight in this instanco
was carried out in a most orderly manner, and
Goode, as in the first instance, took the lead from
the start and knocked Roberts out after eighty-
two minutes of desperate lighting. An incident
which took place when the finish was close to hand
is worthy of mention. Tho seconds of Roberts
clamoured for brandy to keep their man from
tainting, but none wps to bo got. With character-
istic impulsiveness, old Goode, who was seconding
his son, rushed across the ring, saying lie could not
allow so bravo a lad to go without while he had
any, and held out his bottle to his son’s opponent.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
W. Bruce, playing for the Melbourne
Cricket Club against Hotham, scored 338 not out
•I' '-?! 1 ' 8, 9- M * Ll °yd has offered a bracelet valued
at 100 guineas, to be raced for at the next Wagga
meeting, by horses nominated by ladies... At
Orange, Turner defeated Paskins in 150 yards’ spin
for a flver 5 and James Robinson defeated P.
Williams for a tenner; 125 yards. ...During a recent;
gale at Hobart several boats and second-class yachts
were sunk at their moorings... .Abe Hicken has
returned from Calcutta, and is now giving boxing-
lessons in Melbourne....Adelong Crossing Paces,
rriday last. Canary won the Maiden Plate, Tali
Boy the Adelong Crossing Handicap, and Dick
carried off the Forced Handicap.... The Inter-
colonial Bowling Match between Victoria and New
Zealand, played at Wellington, N.Z., was won by
tho latter, who gained three out of four rinks
scoring 99 to their opponents 90.. ..At the Beliim-
bopina (Ke npsey) Races, Mr. Port Macquarie
Naylor pretty well swept the board with Bende-
meer and Levi. He won the Maiden Plato, Hack
Race,Christmas Box Handicap, Ladies’ Mile.Bellim-
bopina Handicap, the Shorts, and Forced Handicap
..Mr W. Buckingham, late captain of the Geelong
(Vic.) Bicycle dub, intends to reside permanently
in Sydney R. Barlow, the English jock, has gone
to New Zealand under engagement to train and
ride for a N.Z. sportsman... .At Gillenbah (Nar-
randera) races, in tho hurdle race, Connolly, who
rode Glenlyon, came a cropper at the first hurdle,
but ho remounted and won the event. During tho
same race an accident occurred to a man named
Baldwin, who joined the field on horseback, and
his animal falling with him, ho sustained some
severe injuries. A young man named Gibson, who
endeavoured ito drag him out of the way of the
horses, was knocked down and a good deal hurt
...So the backers of Old Gold have once more
found their investment bad money. Here’s Luck
again for tho tipsters.... In the handicap swim-
ming match on the Yarra, last Saturday, A. Bcnnio
did the mile in 25% minutes, the fastest time re-
corded on that river. Twelve started. B. Jackson
an unknown man, coming in first. Jackson was
allowed 10J4 minutes start, and went the distance
in 37M minutes The Carthonas, 294 for first,
innings, and the Marriekville three wickets for 53,
is the result of last Saturday’s play for the Sted-
man Cup, Kelly got 122. Marriekville bowling
and fielding were not reckoned of high order
The Oriental and Our Boys finish lixed for next
Saturday. The Orientals having only 73 to get and
win. the commonest of luck ought to obtain them
with wickets to spare.
* * *
At a show in England, an amusing set-to
took place between A. Munro (the black) and
Hayday, the former using blackened gloves and
the latter whitened ones... White, the English
sprinter, is now in America... .The first number of
the American Aquatic Magazine appeared on
Jan. 1,1884. It is a sixty-page monthly, devoted
to yachting, rowing and canoeing... .Ramsey and
Eden, two English roller-skating champions, re-
cently raced ten miles for a fiver aside. Eden won
£our; yards in 4<imin. 13sec....At the Olympic
. 4,, £N.Y.) field sports, J. Masterson ran 75 yards
in i 1-osec , ana beat the previous test At Hale-
sowen (Eng.), Benjamin and Ernest Smith, farmers
Irankley, were each fined £3 for using a gun on
their own farms for the purpose of killing game
without the requisite certificates. Defendants
stated that they did not kill any game, but ad-
niitte-1 pursuing it, and contended that they had
been unjustly proceeded against. The magistrate
stated that the farmers had no right to kill game
on their own lands without certificates. Britons
never shall be slaves! —ln an exhibition matoh
between the well-known billiardists, iMitcbell and
Reale. the former put together a break of 354 (84
and 76 spots)...Charles Weightman, who appeared
in Sydney some years ago, in a subaqueous enter-
tainment, in which he appeared as the “ Manlish ”
or ‘ Natator,” at latest wan carrying out with
success some swimming entertainments at the
Crystal Elaths, ’Frisco (TI.S.). Charley wont to
Frisco with Kohler’s waxworks over a year ago.
Ira Paine, the American shot, is to appear before
the Czar of Russia this month.


>• THE POOR PLAtER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession .l
A party signing “Scalfax,” writing to the
Otago Witness, from Melbourne, resembles a
certain legendary personage, from the fact of his
knowing all about it. He says: “In my next
letter I shall be able to teU you the story of the
making of Wilson Barrett, the creator of ‘ The
Silver King,’ * Romany Rye,’ * Lights o’ London,’
&c. Should space permit, I may also relate a
romantic episode in the life of Miss Genevieve
Ward, who U shortly to appear at the Theatre
Royal as Stephanie de Mohrlvart, in ‘ Forget-Me-
Not.’ The circumstanoes are known to very few
of Miss Ward’s admirers.” We are glad to hear
that Mr. Wilson Barrett is the “creator of the
‘Lights o’ London;”’ and should pant for the
romantio episode, if we hadn’t had it “slung” at
us from half-a-dozen quarters twice a week ever
since Genevieve’s arrival. We have even seen it
iu the Carcoar Chronicle and the Cowra. Free
Press. It is a splendid legend .. Hart s Happy
Hours open at Newcastle, Tuesday... Mr. Wilson,
with the “ Sunny South,” opened on Saturday.
Crowded house.. .Geo. A, Sala coming to Austra-
lia to lecture. No truth in the rumour of his
coming to secure the editor of the Billabong
Gazette for an English lecturing tour.. Miller,
Foley, and Viotor gave an exhibition of posturing,
boxing, and fencing, in the Academy of Music,
Monday.. .Professor Rice is mmd-readiDg in Cook-
town,
■ • •
Captain Henry Mapleson, husband of the
popular prima donna, Madame Marie Roze, was
recently gazetted major in the 4th Lancashire
Artillery Corps. Major Henry Mapleson bids lair
IX
to be a major-general now before his father, the
redoubtable Lieut.-Colonel J. H. Mapleson, whom
a wicked New York paragraphist once described as
being accustomed to the smell of powder—that is,
of violet powder Kobbd thus places the great
opera singers now in New York Nilsson, Patti,
Gerster, Sembrich. Nilsson’s premier place is thus
justified “Patti’s voice is like a superb music-
box, as perhaps many a one has said before. It is
perfect in time, tune, and brilliancy, and she can
rattle off a cadenza with unexampled rapidity ;
but the little diva, though she has a pretty knack
at money-making, has no more soul than that
modern atrocity, a Weber singing doll.” After
Dion Boucicault’s scathing criticisms upon Mrs.
Langtry, it must be rather difficult for the veteran
author-actor to square his conscience over his
latest theatrical venture. Mrs. Maddick, another
of the professional-beauty sisterhood, is about to
emulate the Lily by making a dramatic tour of
the States, under Boucioault’s management, and
seeing that Mrs. Langtry can concede a good many
points to “ the MaddTck ’’—either as actress or P.B.
—it is difficult to believe that Boucicault’s protigi
will prove a good spec. The jealousy of the New
York ladies towards the Jersey Lily, however, may
inspire them to discover superlative oharms in her
latest rival, and the astute Dion, who bears the
reputation of being an accomplished student of
the feminine heart, has perhaps reckoned upon a
little bit of feeling ” being instrumental in secur-
ing a good reception for his fashionable novice.
Im. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE Of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMBHIPS.
Offices: 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamer* for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane to Bundaberg, Gladstone, and
Fort Mackay, every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
Buninyong .. 3000 Geelong .. 600
Barrsbool .. .. 1000 Keilawarra.. .. 900
Burwah .. .. 1000 Konoowarra .. 1600
Cheviot .. .. 1600 Leura 1600
Derwent .. .. 600 Moreton .. .. 600
Edina .. .. 400 Rodondo .. .. 1200
fflabo . 3000 YouYangS.. .. 700
Balmain .. .. 600
WM. HOWARD SMITH'& SONS (Limited),
42 Kang Street, Sydney.
W. H. ARIELL & CO.’S
AGENCIES.
Swallow & Ariell’s prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 12 kinds—Canterbury, Normanby,
and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour, Treacle and
Golden Syrup, in all size tins, casks, and bottles....
Excelsior Mills.— Superior Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b. bags.
..Dillon, Burrows & Co.’s Drize assorted Confec-
tionery...A. M. Hunt & Co.’s prize Baking Pow-
ders, in and Ub tins. .R. Whittington and Co’s
grime York Hams, Currants, Figs, Paper Bags, and
eneral Provisions...,Victoria Lion Preserving
Company’s superior assorted Jams.. Scandinavian
Condensed Milk—Gold Medal Brand,
343 & 345 KENT-STREET, near King-st., Sydney.
F
IRST-CLASS HOTEL FOR SALE
For SALE, the LEASE of the WILCANNIA
HOTEL (better known as Felgate’s Hotel), situated
at Wilcannia, on the River Darling. New South
Wales, together with all the STOCK, FURNITURE,
and FITTINGS. The main portion of the hotel is
a 3-story stone building, erected in 1879. Ail the
buildings are in thorough repair, and well found
in every repuisite ; this being the best and only 2-
story hotel in th® town, it commands a very largo
business. The hotel contains 80 rooms, ineluding
billiard-room, bathrooms, &c., &c.; also good celler-
age, first-class stable accommodation, loose boxes,
saleyards, &c.
For full particulars apply to
FREW, WRIGHT, and CO., Willcannia
D. and J. FOWLER, Adelaide
C. and J. LUSH, FJinders-lane, Melbourne
0. J. BUCK LAND, Exchange, Sydney.
Tlxe XSeliafble Bug-g-iss!
NO SECOND CHEAP HOUSE.
22 and 24 CLARENCE STREET, ONLY,
FOB GOOD GOODS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS & WAGGONETTES,
BACKBOARD WAGGONS, AND EVERY STYLE OF BUGGY.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Clarence-street.
JAIIESB(IA:RT I IN& COMFY
: 389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Royal Hotel).
FOR
Bicycles,
from
£8 to £25.
OUR STOCK FOR 1684,
comprises
THE SPECIAL CLUB,
THE AUSTRALIAN CLUB,
THE UNIVERSAL CLUB
MACHINES,
All ridden by the best riders of
the day, and the
BEST MACHINES IN THE
TRADE.
6
FOR
Tricycles,
*rom
£4 to £2B.
We claim broadly, that our Z
TRICYCLES
are
THE BESTJN THE TRADE,
and shall be pleased to forward
Testimonials for the
CHEYLESMORE & IMPERIAL
CLUB TRICYCLES
to intending purchasers.
Our Juvenile Tricycle,
that always gives satisfaction.
CALL AND INSPECT OUR NEW SHIPMENT FOR 1884.
TRAGEDIAN, COMEDIAN, BURLESQUE
„ „ Xl _ ACTOR, &c.
_ Oneof the most versatile artistes on the stage.”
OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY, EVERY EVENING.
_ SPECiAL ENGAGEMENT.
, For future arrangements, Managers are
politely requested to address as above.
N.B.—Amateurs “coached,” and pupils prepared
for the stage in all its branohes.
O
PER
HOUSE.
W. J. Wilson.
Signor E. Majeroni.
Monty Browne.
Joe Brown.
Lessee
Sub-lessee and Director
Business Manager
Treasurer
Under the Patronage of Lord Augustus Loftus,
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING,
and every evening until further notice.
MAJERONI’S Commencing with JEALOUSY
their JEALOUSY
ELEGANT PLAY JEALOUSY
in Four Acts JEALOUSY
and Six Tableaux, JEALOUSY
supported by their JEALOUSY
Specially Selected JEALOUSY
COMPANY JEALOUSY
Box Plan now open at Huenerbein’s, 411, George-st.
Prices Dress Circle, 55.; Stalls, 3s. • Pit 2s
Tickets at Robertson’s, next Theatre. Carriages
8X IU.iO.
MAJERONI’S
MAJERONI’S
MAJERONI’S
MAJERONI’S
MAJERONI’S
MAJERONI’S
MAJERONI’S
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Wimjambon, Garner, & Mbsgroyb.
POSITIVELY THE LAST FIVE NIGHTS.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING.
THE GRAND CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME
of
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK,
Prices of Admission :
DRESS CIRCLE, 55.; STALLS, 35.; FAMILY
CIRCLE, 2s.
MRS. C. B. FOSTER’S MRS. C. B. FOSTER’S
GRAND CONCERT, S
MASONIC HALL, YORK STREET
i TUESDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 5,’1884,
kindly assisted by
Mrs, John Spencer,
Miss May Wilshire,
Mr. T. J. Hallewell,
Pianist .. .. Mr. C. Booster* Baker '
Tickets at Elvy’s and Paling’s. '
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, CUDAL.
To Travelling Companies, Lecturers, &o.
fSioo.W'l Ajplr K“°°’ eoe “ r)r ' T ”™>
H. HURLEY TORR,
Hon. Secretary,
School of Arts, Cudal.
SECOND EDITION. PRICE, Is. 6d.
Maid f Wife, and Mother:
A BOOK FOR WOMANKIND.
™ a^ers of a medical nature
highly interesting to the sex. Post free, in
secure cover, for Is. 6d., money order or N.S W
stamps. To be had only from the publisher, " '
MRS. BEARCROFT,
Box 740 G.P.0., Sydney.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 39 th January, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at ©very Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
W™- a well educated YOUTH, asAp-
BujLti^Office. t 0 ZUiCO ' erifi:raving - Apply at
G. CHIARINI’S
ROYAL ITALIAN DIB
AND
MENAGERIE.
v>
y
NOW OPEN EVERY NIGHT AT 7 O’CLOCK,
AT BELMORE PARK.
THE FASHIONABLE RESORT.
THE STUPENDOUS ATTRACTION!
Now augmented by the arrival of the
WORLD-FAMED FAUST TROUPE.
10 CELEBRATED PERFORMERS,
Ladies and Gentlemen
fresh from the leading Circuses and Hippodrome*
of Europe, who will appear for the first time
in Australia, in conjunction with
Chiarini’s already recognised
GREAT COMPANY,
in their
GRAND and WONDROUS ENTERTAINMENT,
which would alone be worth the price of
admission to behold.
Thanet Advertiser, July 28th.—Faust Family,
ten in number, give a display of statuary. This is
done by the' family appearing in white tights and
wigs, and by their forming in groups so as to re-
present historical and other subjects of the art.
Everything in this is certainly very cleverly
executed, and the applause which nightly greets
the “statues” shows how much this portion of
the programme is enjoyed.
Kent Echo.— The Brothers Faust.—These clever
artists went through a variety of laughable antics,
performed seme remarkable trick playing, and
showed several acrobatic feats, including somer-
sault throwing, all the while keeping the music
going; and when they concluded, they received
the well-merited plaudits of the large audience.
/ /
Follow the Crowd and Carriages.
Go where the Fashion, the Beauty, and the Elii
of every city that this Great Show visits
congregate nightly,
where they behold a grand consolidated aggre-
gation of
•The best Bare-back Riders !
The best Equilibrists !
The best Posturers I
The best Vaulters I The best Athletes !
The best Tumblers ! The best Reapers !
The best Pantomimists !
The best Female Riders I and
The best Trick Horses and Ponies !
ever brought to the Continent of Asia,
The most beautiful female artistes that have ever
charmed an arenic audience.
CONSTANT CHANGES OF PROGRAMME I
Seating Accommodation for 5000 Spectators.
SPLENDID AND UNRIVALLED HORSES
Educated by Signor Chiarini.
Also, the Wild Beast Show in connection.
ROYAL BENGAL TIGERS !
ROYAL AFRICAN LIONS!
BLACK TIGERS from the Jungles of Central
India !
TWO ELEPHANTS FROM CEYLON !
Monkeys, Apes, Baboons, &c., from Borneo, Java,
and Sumatra.
MONSTER LIVING ANACONDAS. FROM
BRAZIL.
EDUCATED ZEBRA FROM AFRICA.
TWO WHITE SACRED BULLS,
From the Sacred City of the Hindoo, Benares,
India.
LILIP UTIAN PONIES, &c.
WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS,
AFTERNOON PERFORMANCES.
Doors open at 2 o’clock. Performance to con
mence at 3 o’clock.
PLAN OF THE SEATS CAN BE SEEN AT TH
CIRCUS TICKET OFFICE FROM 10 P.M DAILI
PRICES OF ADMISSION :
Boxes, containing six chairs ... £1 10s.
Dress Circle chairs g g-
Stalls (oarpeted seats) Os!
Pit 2s.
Children under 10 years of age, half price to
parts of the Pavilion.
L. MAYA,
Secretary.
N.B.—All business communications connected
with the administration_o£ the Circus, address to
Lorenzo Maya, Chiarini’s Circus.


<Tbe German Army, standing in single file,
and allowing each man three feetjof space, wou Id
line the coast irom Cape York to Cape Howe.
The further calculation suggested, of how long it
would take to pass a copy of The Bulletin
from Von Moltke’s hand at Cape Howe to Bis-
marck's tent in Cape York, cannot be made in
arithmetic, but must be judged by moral con-
siderations. The first old warrior would probably
fold up the paper after reading it, and post it home
to Fatherland.
For the last two months upwards of sixty
hands have been constantly employed at I). J.
Munk’s Australian Vinegar Works, meeting the
increased output of the establishment. The
whole of the Sydney and N.S.W. trade generally
has now virtually been completely won by the
Australian Vinegar Works without any great
financial assistance, showing that once more
industry and good management are the sole basis
of manufacturing success.
Itch ! Itch S Itch !
Scratch ! Scratch ! Scratch !
Every species of Itching Humors, Baker's,
Barber’s, Grocer’s, and Washerwoman’s Itch, Itch-
ing Piles, and delicate irritations peculiar to both
sexes, instantly relieved by a a warm bath with
Cuticura Soap and a single application of Cuti-
Cuba, the great Skin Cure. This, repeated daily,
with two of three doses of the Cuticuba Resol-
vent, the new blood purifier, to keep the blood
cool, the bowels open, and the liver and kidneys
active, will speedily and permanently cure Itch-
ing Tortures of the Skin and Scalp that have
defied the best medical skill and ail known
remedies.
Os. Oil.
fid. ssi. fid. per pair.
The Oriental Gold Company
(Only Australian place of business, 474 G-rorge-
street, opposite the Central Entrance to the
has solved the problem of the season, and pro-
vides EXQUISITE GIFTS from ss. to £5:
Articles of dainty design and enduring beauty,
which will give delight at the first glance, and
„ will last a lifetime.
ORIENTAL GOLD is the very latest discovery
of the alchemist's laboratory. There have been
good and useful imitations of sterling gold before
it; but all have been thrown into the shade by
this triumph of modern science. Articles or
i »nental Gold cannot, after years of wear, be dis-
tinguished from the costliest wares of the gold-
smith. So noble is this metal, that no tawdry
goods of old and inferior designs are manufac-
tured of it. The discoverers have not condescended
to apply it to base uses.
THE VERY LATEST DESIGNS INf JEWELLERY
AND BIJOUTERIE
are regularly worked up in Oriental Gold simul-
taneously with their production in sterling metal,
and, placed side by side, the one article cannot b©
told from the other.
THE PRICE OF ARTICLES OF ORIENTAL
GOLD IS BUT A TRIFLE
when compared with identical models of sterling
metal.
the Foods are mounted with the NEW
DIAMONDS, another masterpiece of the chemists
of the nineteenth century—artificial stones which
ecjual the noblest brilliants in lire and glitter, and
rival them in hardness.
The Artist-designers of Paris have, with eager
appreciation, adopted Oriental Gold as worthy to
receive their happiest conceptions. The most
graceful Parisian models are impressed upon a
portion of our stock, which is replenished with
novelties by every mail.
CALL AND INSPECT—EXACTLY OPPOSITE
THE MARKETS;
or, if a resident of the country, write and ask a
friend to do so. Visitors are always made welcome,
ana not pestered to buy, because we know that no
one has ever yet viewed our Roods without beintr
astonished and delighted with their variety, ele-
gance, and surpassing and novel beauty—and such
impression, spread among acquaintances, do u«
Rood all the time
Here are a few lines for customers* guidance
At ss. each.
Neat Scarf Pin.
Pretty Dress Ring:.
Set or Shirt Studs.
Natty Brooch.
Pair of Jewelled Ear-ringr*.
n Elegant Pencil Case.
At 7». Gti. each.
Handsome Brilliant Kin*.
Beautiful Charm.
Elegant Locket.
Necklet, with Clasp.
Fashionable Hair-pin.
Pair of Cuff-pins.
At 10s. each.
Grand Albert.
Ladies’ Albert.
Brooch and Ear-ring'S.
Ladies’ ©em Ring.
Lovely Bracelet.
Collarette.
At 15s. each.
Choice Locket and Necklet.
Exquisite Jewelled Bracelet.
Brooch, Set with Brilliants.
Magnificent Jewelled Scarf-pin.
Solitaire Brilliant Collar Stud.
Superb French Ear-pendants.
Charming Parisian Bangles.
At eiu-li.
Ladies’ Suite—Necklet, Locket, and Brooch.
Ladies’ Tasselled Slide Albert.
Gentlemen’s Aesthetic Fob Chain, with Steel
Pendant.
Exquisite Charms, of lovely and novel Designs.
Ladies’ Bar Brooches, beautifully Chased.
At £J2 2s. each.
Gentleman's Watch, Hunting, or Open Face,
with Crystal Glass, in Oriental Gold Cases,
highly finished Works, with Oriental Gold
Albert Chain,
(Stem-winder—ss. extra.)
Lady’s very handsome Hunting or Open Face
(with Crystal Glass) Watch, in Oriental
Gold Cases, full jewelled, and splendid
Timekeeper.
(With a most handsome Oriental Gold Albert,
with slides and assels, 15s. additional.)
At £3 each.
Gent’s Watch, Hunting-, or Open Face, with
Crystal Glass, in sterling- Silver Cases—a
reliable, sound watch, perfect Timekeeper,
- specially rated, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain.
(Stem-winder—ss. extra.)
Lady’s Sterling Silver Watch, in Hunting (or
Open Face, with Crystal Glass) Cases,
beautifully Engraved, highly finished, full
.iewelled works, perfect Timekeeper, with
sterling Silver or Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, with slides and tassels.
At £4 each.
Sterling Silver Chronograph, double dials, for
marking 5-10ths of a second, patent fly-
back hand, patent keyless works, 18 carat
Gold winder, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain.
English Patent Lever, Hunting (or open face,
with Crystal Glass), capped and full
jewelled, examined and rated, in sterling
Silver Cases.
(With Oriental gold chain—los. extra.)
Geit’s Silver Hunting Waltham Patent
Lever Watch, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, and beautiful Compass, or other
charm.
At £5.
A Combination Parcel, comprising any selec-
tion from the above which customers may
make, to value.
We want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST, ON APPROVAL.
Specially Observe.— lt the articles do not
answer expectation on receipt, re-pack them at
once and send them back. If this is done within
two dars, or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will return the
money for the articles not kept. Every watch
sold by us will be rated and accompanied by a
written warrantry for two years. Remittances to
be made payable to the Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-st„ Sydney, op. Markets
SUNDRY SHOWS.
theatre Royal —“ Christmas Pantomime ”.. p. 8.
opera Hoxise—“ Jealousy ” ib.
Chiarxni’s Roya) Italian Circus ib.
Chiarini's is worth a visit, if only for the
clowns. There are three of these, each possessing:
characteristics of his own. In one thing they all
scree— their savage vindictiveness towards the
letter H. The presence of this inoffensive conson-
ant appears to arouse the worst passions of their
nature. They scruff him in when ne would rather
stav away and run him out when he puts forward
a claim to be present. No. 1 “ basked to be saved
from the hugly”—something or another. We
forget precisely what he said, but know it was
something insuiting and referred to the unsym-
pathetic ringmaster. No. 2 admitted that the
estrangement between himself and the young lady
to whom he appeared much attached, arose from
his observing her devour “ ’arf a plate of ’am.”
No. 3 was Holloway. We were more taken up
with what he did than what he said. And he did
the most absurd things—things that, if you had a
laugh secreted anywhere in your system, would
be sure to find it out and bring it to the surface.
The jokes, of course, belonged to the hoariest an-
tiquity-long before the splitting up of the Aryan
family—with the exception of some political ones,
which were understood by all, and apparently
enjoyed. * * *
r "“lmagine,” said Livingstone, talking of
the lion, “ the biggest Newfoundland dog you ever
saw.” We tried to imagine this as we stood before
the cage of felix leo, at Chiarini’s; but surely the
traveller must have been poking mild fun at us.
Why. a blow of leo's tail would brain the “biggest
Newfoundland,” &c. To our youthful mind, the
greatest hero of all was that French Zouave, who
—even before rifles, and when the flint-lock pieces
might “fetch ” a house at 20 yards, but not a door
—used to moon about Algeria o’ nights, and wait
till the brute got within jumping distance—2o feet
or so—wait till the tuft at the end of the lion’s tail
began to waggle preparatory to the fatal spring,
and then plant a bullet over his left eye, with the
certainty of Reid’s having to go up for re-election.
As we stood before the circus cage our admiration
for this long-defunet Zouave was intensified.
* * •
Joseph an* 1 Stuart Walhalla are described
as “classic artists of the Pancratic school,” and
Mr. Garnett as a “boneless man.” We don’t know
what “ Pancratic ” is. and we don’t want to. Wbat
we do know is that they are three of the cleverest
acrobats we have seen, and we nave seen everyone
worth seeing from the Arctic Circle to Patagonia.
• * *
Over Madam Fouente (nie Nellie Reid) the
horsey men of the audience usually get enthusi-
astic. We are not surprised. But the riding on
the whole was a little disappointing, and could be
equalled at many less pretentious places. The
animal, who lent his back for the “ daring acts of
equestrianism,” had a consumptive gallop that
must have taken years to master. The obj urgations
of the saturnine ring-master or the promises of
an extra feed of oats were alike futile in inducing
him to quicken his pace. We may be wrong, but
it struck us that from his back John Lucas could
perform anything we saw done—if hoops large
enough could be procured.
* * * *
We were late for the Majeroni s, and found
our seat taken. The fact was, a friend said early
in the morning—" Bulletin, my boy, it’s a public
holiday. Let’s go down the harbour and see the
Sydney larrikin, whose sensitive hide you would
preserve from the ‘cat.’” We took the trip and
the rain kept us late, but we saw and heard
enough to know that the Sydney rough is a being
mi generis. “Ah,” said our guide, “’tain’t near
what it was afore you tackled it. There was fun
then.” “But,” we observed, diffidently, “there
was ‘fun,’ as you call it, to-day.” “Bah,” here-
marked (that “bah” crushed us) “if you’d been
here a few years agol ” Well, this is what we did
see. We saw boys of 14 or 16, with villainous faces,
chewing tobacco and squirting the juice over
women. We heard their nameless ribaldry, when
sitting beside young females, who were strangers
to them and apparently modest, but who were
obliged to keep their seats in public conveyances
by land and water. We saw the frightened looks
on the strange girls’ faces at the coarse horse-play
and ready obscenity of the lads. What seemed
oddest of all to us was that the presence of staid,
middle-aged people in large numbers appeared to
have no repressive influence on this infantile
blackguardism. We 'aw all this and a lot more,
and. as the lads were sober and comfortably
dressed, we felt that the roots of ruffianism were
firmly fixed in the soil, and would require a strong
wrench to be dislodged. There was but one thing
more we wished to see—the parents who bred such
abortions. Could we only get a glimpse of these—
or as many of them as alcohol and vice have left
above ground—we would be content.
• • •
We didn’t mind, ourselves—we lost our
seats, as we deserved. Others lost theirs as well
and didn’t take it half so philosophically. One
lady in particular—a dark, passie, firm-mouthed
one—gave the box-keeper a bit of her mind; and,
if the remaining bits are of the same pattern, her
husband must be a man possessed of a good deal
of insight into female human nature, although he
had not appropriated the divided skirts.
• • •
We had been bottling up all our fun for
the Majeronis. Then, we said, we’ll sparkle. The
circus, opera, pantomime, even Zulu himself
never gave us a fair chanee. Just wait till the
Majeronis open, and see how we’ll prance in. Well,
they’ve come—we’ve seen them—and there s nary
a sparkle in us. Let us be frank. There are some
things you can’t laugh at. (You see we don’t
mind ending a sentence with a preposition. We’ve
known them to end with a kick before now, and
felt at the time, and for some tine after, that
’twas wrong.) When you saw Montgomery as
Hamlet, Creswick as Virginius, or heard Miss
Dai'gon in the “Bridge of Sighs,” you could not
laugh, or, if you could, nothing short of Glades-
ville or a C.M.G.-ship would meet your case.
Again, a thing may be so intrinsically absurd that
mockery cannot reach it. It is beyond ridicule.
This was the case with the Fenian attack on
Canada. “Twain” started for the “front” on
the Yankee side of the St. Laurence to burlesque
the “invasion,” but when he heard on the road
that a United States’ policeman had driven in a
cab through the ranks of the “invaders” and
collared the commander-in-chief, he turned back
and preserved a morose silence. He felt that any-
thing he could write would fall so far short of the
colossal absurdity of the reality that he decided to
say nothing. And now you guess the reason why
the Majeronis have taken the cork out of the jar
of mirth we had prepared for you.
• • •
So there is nothing for it but to curb our
mercurial nature and settle down for once into
criticism as respectably dull as any of our con-
temporaries, or as that of a country paper when
giving its views on the legitimate drama as illus-
trated by an amateur performance of “ Box and
Cox ” for the benefit of the local hospital.
• • •
“Jealousy” will never become popular.
We mean the play, of course—the thing itself is
popular enough, in the sense of being wide-spread.
u robably everyone born of woman has had a taste
of it at one time or another. But, when you
make one of a crowd who go to hear a great orator
or actor, and when you notice your neighbours
smile when they should sigh, and become suddenly
interested in the ceiling when they should be in-
fatuated with the stage, the very natural conclu-
sion is that there’s a screw loose somewhere. The
looBb screw may be in the piece or the actors or the
audience, but there it is, all the same. Carlo, Mar-
quis of St. Elia, has been brought up as a scholar,
and knows about as much of the usages of society,
or the amount of rascality thore’sin the world, as
a country J.F. of international law—or auy other
law, for the matter of that. But he was young,
rich, and good-looking, and the number of good-
looking young women a person possessing those
credentials sees in a day has often been remarked.
They seem, somehow, to come his way. He saw
Diana (Signora Majeroni), and loved. We don’t
wonder at it, for, as she appeared in the piece,
there is probably no man under TO-except a Jew
money-lender—who wouldn’t do the same. They
were married, and she, with the delightful naugh-
tiness of her sex, at once started on a round of
flirtation. And just here is the proper place to
remark that, if the highest society acts and speaks
as represented, then the French Revolution didn’t
come a bit too soon. We never understood before
why democratic tenets spread so rapidly, but we
do now.
* • *
Well, Carlo was learned and gawky, while
to “Ernest, Count de Rivera,” as to “Bailey,
junior,” every phase of rascality was small print.
That Diana would be “ mashed ” on Ernest, and
that he would send her love-letter', goes without
saying. Carlo, like all sensible men, goes carefully
through his wife’s letters, and (we have not space
for details) challenges the Count, shoots him, tells
Diana what he’s done, and insists—in order that his
own good name and his mother’s happiness should
not be wrecked—that they should live together as
if nothing had happened. There was one unim-
portant stipulation—that they should have separ-
ate apartments. So the play unfolds, showing
how jealousy arose, increased, culminated, de-
clined, and at last ended in forgiveness. Whether
the fault lies with the composer, or translator, or
both, the dialogue is commonplace throughout,
and it requires real talent to secure it from insi-
pidity. The fine voice and fine bearing of Mr.
Glover as General Alphonse de Luca created an
impression more than favourable. The moral
code followed by Duke Riario (Mr. Douglas) was
that of Rouehefoucauld, with a dash or Balzac.
There is a doctor, too (Mr. Brooke), who gives some
useful physiological hints—among others that
every movement of the limbs is attended with
danger, and may result in death. We once knew a
man who thought the same way, so he went to bed
and died from inauition. There are other char-
acters—properly filled, too—which call for no
special mention. The fact is the whole piece is
held together by the Majeronis—their hate, love,
and reconciliation. Their acting is fine—intense.
Why, then, was the representation, so far as its
reception by the audience, a mere mcces d’estimei
We shall certainly know the reason, and shall tell
you. by and bye We would tell you now, but
have to cut away and look at talent of another
kind—Larry Foley, Miller, and Victor.
As the pantomi me draws to a close, many
of the dresses, paraphernalia, anil accessories show
certain signs or rough nsage. This is very notice-
able with Fe-tt, Fo Fum (so the bills put it), the
Giant’shead. In the tale, it will be remembered,
that on Jack alone devolves the duty of flattening
it out and chopping it off. But in the pantomime
a number of volunteers—always ready, like larri-
kins, when there is an opening for an unprovoked
assault—lend a hand with palings, domestic
utensils, and other weapons of a more or less
murderous nature. The result is very depressing.
The lines about the mouth are becoming hard and
cynical, while that organ itself is gradually assum-
ing an aspect of unpitying ferocity which we did
not observe in it during the first week or two. The
eyes are unmistakeably shunted, the hair shows
signs of premature decay, and complete baldndsfe
oannot much longer be deferred. Many of the
more prominent bumps, too—especially at the
back, where the assaults have been most deter-
mined—have given place to depressions of a really
serious nature, which cannot but interfere with
his capacity to pursue a consistent course of
thought or action, and must ultimately lead to dis-
arrangement ot the whole system. We have no
desire to cavil with the managers. They know
their own business best. But, in the interests of
humanity, we suggest that, before it is too late,
the unfortunate Fe-fi, Fo Fum be served out with
a cast-iron “nut”; or, if that be impracticable,
that Liveliboi, his flunkey—who appears to enter-
tain the most rancorous feelings towards his
master—be requested to attack him lower down
on the same side, a change which, we venture to
say, will be equally effective in bringing the Giant
to reason, while preserving his head from entire
annihilation.
• * •
So much has been said of the Stewarts,
Liddiards, and legs, that Mr. Henry Taylor has been
almost overlooked. This is not fair. His part—
that of Jaek’s mother, a ’’lone widow ”—m less
capable hands might be made simply stupid. In
his, it is funny-genuinely funny. He dances and
sings, makes faces and tumbles as if a world
where he could not make faces and subject the
tenderest parts of his frame to severe contusions
would possess little attraction for him. From a
mediocre part ho extracts all the humour—such
as it is—and by means (extravagant, bizarre, if
you will) of legitimate tomfoolery makes the
young smile and the old demonstrative. The af-
fection for us, as her natural guardian, of the little,
dark-haired, seven-year-old we took with us, on
Saturday night, has sensibly diminished since she
witnessed the vagaries of the “ lone w idow.”
• • •
Oh, and while we think of it—there were
no sausages in the harlequinade I We often
thought the ordinary harlequinade could be im-
proved upon, if only by leaving out Harlequin,
Columbine, Clown, Policeman, and Pantaloon.
This would clear the ground for further omissions.
Even the fish, goose, leg-of-mutton, and chemist’s
shop with abnormal window might be jettisoned,
but we drew the line at sausages. And now they
are gone. Eheu !
** * *
A good many things pleased us in “ Luore-
zia,” and a few did not. The way the gondola or
schooner was shoved along, showed that the ma-
chinery department was in proper hands, and that
the artist “bossing” it could haul a turret-ship
with equal ease. Then our attention became
riveted on a young lady in front of us, whose
dress behind was so decolleUe, that we thought she
had put it on wrong. So all at once flashed upon
us (we never quite understood it before) the truth
of the Irish servant’s answer, when asked where
his mistress was: “She’s gone up stairs to sthrip
fur dinner.” The voice and style of Signora
Fabris were very noticeable and very u‘ce. Yes,
it is just here—in style we mean—that these foreign
artistes show to such advantage. We have as good
raw material—occasionally better. But we haven’t
their government-subsidised institutions, so our
people have to pick up their trade how they can,
and as it is distressingly easy to start on the wrong
tack and desperately hard to try back and get on
the right one, it's no wonder so many of our loved
ones become sticks for the Olympians to "guy.”
* * *
But to return. “Lucrezia” is one of those
works that betray a company’s weakness and its
strength. And here, again, it is that foreign dra-
matic and lyrical combinations are, as a rule, so
superior to English. The latter concentrate all
their powers on the leading characters, and give
the subordinate ones to the best material they can
find—generally poor stuff. The former are not
content unless all the parts are adequately repre-
sented. And, now, can’t you see why, when Verdi
trolled out his views, and the squeaky chirrup of
his henchman took up the running, the “gods”
were so “sarcastical,” and an air of hopeless
melancholy settled on the faces of the bald-headed
people in the crowd? It was the Lord Mayor’s
show and the wheel-barrow. We, ourselves, have
been placed in many unpleasant positions in our
struggle against an unsympathising world, but
nothing short of iIIUO a week, and benefits on
Tuesdays and Fridays, would tempt us, if we were
(we forget his name), to that lyrical tete-a-tete with
Yerdi before a full house.
* • •
Turner aud Miss Montague were satisfac-
tory—especially Annis. In the former’s singing
there’s a good deal of uncertainty, sometimes,
you stay and listen quite satisfied. At others, you
feel that the transition from the higher chest
notes to the falsetto, is not as smooth as you could
I wish.
A short, stout, florid person came into our
office to-day, save us a familiar punch in the
diaphragm with a flat as hard as a door knob, and
said, while we were prancing round for wind,
“Zulu Thompson’s off to-day, ’gwinotothe Cape,
and then to England. Must ’a made a first-rate
job o’ that ’ere dioramer fake—* gift ’ biz cleverly
worked, I tell you ? ” He then left, but we noticed
that his thumb was close to his nose most of the
time he was addressing us. “ Are you sure he
wont call into He—Helena, St. Helena, on his way?"
we remarked haughtily, for his familiarity and
fist had a little upset us. Mate, U a rien dit.
*♦ * *
And don’t let’s forget to tell you that
Arthur Vivian, the Missus, and Payne, opened the
other night at Mimni—where, in thunder’s Mimni ?
—and had a great reception ; and so, too, had
Florence House, who played Patience in New-
castle last Monday. Mrs. Inglis was the Lady
Jane, and it will be quite sufficient for
us to state that Mrs. Inglis' talents were
completely lost in endeavouring to pourtray
such an insignificant character in such poorly
written and feebly scored opera!!! Some one
ought to write Mrs. I. an opera all to hersdf;
something she could do justice to—something
large, massive, and concrete. We knew a man
who wrote this sort of thing to perfection, once.
However, he died of a kick from a horse; and
the horse died of a broken leg. Hut no
frivolity. Well, the Auckland papers are
full of Pomeroy. So was Sydney, once. But
Louise is younger now. Miss P. has drawn, in
this trip, more money, so a paper says, than any
star that has ever visited New Zealand. The same
paper says " Miss Pomeroy’s emotion on the
stage is the real thing, and she dries her eyes
when off the stage, and goes away sobbingly to
change her dre3B.” We expect Arthur—we mean
Arthur Pomeroy—is a bit cleverer than we thought
he was. And, it seems Jennie Lee has had a bad
season in Adelaide, her last venture being “ Kind
to a Fault," and “ The Field of the Cloth of Gold,"
“localised by Mr. F. H. Linklater." So F<-ed.
Harvio has cropped upjagain ! His locals, how-
ever, seem to nave been dismal stuff, and the
burlesque—the best of Robert Brough’s, and the
best, from a literary point |of view, of all bur-
lesques—was a fiasco. Funny, too, they didn’t
like the adaptation from Mullock and Anchovy,
which was so popular here, either. Tommy Hud-
son, however, after having been burnt out at the
Academy of Music, is doing splendid biz. at
Garner’s Theatre. The Federal Minstrels have
now succeeded the gifted dramatist and “Jo,” at
the Theatre Royal.
** * *
The Melbourne Herald has been doing
very well lately, over what it is pleased to term
“ exposures.” When our little contemporary went
to the trouble of collecting positive evidence
about certain of the bogus sweeps, it gained a
cheap notoriety, and saved a good many imbeciles
their golden pound ; but some of its patronising
“warnings” and “exposures” are getting just a
little too much for our gravity. Under the head-
ing of “How the Unwary are Gulled,” the Herald
has once more come to the rescue of Melbourn-
ians, by pointing out to them that a gentleman
recently exhibited in a Bourke-street skittle alley,
as a “ Wild Patagonian Cannibal, who, in his time,
has eaten fourteen missionaries," is nothing less
than a “fraud.” The philanthropic journal then
goes on to state that 3340 “ gullible persons have
thrown away their sixpence admission money,”
but in making this last assertion, from its beauti-
ful elevation of superiority, the Herald is surely
somewhat rough on the public-even though a Mel-
bourne public. The man who pays his modest six-
pence to enjoy a nearty laugh at the expense of a
larrikin “ cannibal ’’ —“ fretting at his fetters, and
foaming at his keepers, in all his native wildness"—
would be, in nine cases out of ten, far too wise
to be taken in with one of the Herald's
catching "headings.” Were Ihe people who paid
their money to hear Moncure Conway talk, so
“gullible” as to accept him as "the grandest
intellect in the Southern Hemisphere ?” But the
most amusing part of the cannibal incident comes
when the almighty Herald tells its Melbourne
proUp&s that the visit of “our representative”
has resulted in the choslng of the “ show.” The
proprietors of the “cannibal,” it appears, “ad-
mitted everything, and at first seemed to think it
was rather a good joke, until told that there was
such a thing as obtaining money by false pre-
tences, punishable by imprisonment”; then they
realised that “the game was ail up now.” We
trust, therefore, that this energetic journal will
be satisfied with demolishing the wild Patagonian,
and will stay its stern hand for a while. We
admit to rather a weakness for spotted ladies,
living skeletons, seven-legged sheep, and prairie
Indians, and should be truly grieved if the Mel-
bourne Herald were to send forth representa-
tives over the whole surface of the globe, exposing
those hitherto unsuspected frauds, and denying
them to the “gullible” public for ever. The
question arises now as to what would be the exact
term of imprisonment required to meet the case
of some of our " hactors, who plav their roles
with far less fidelidy to.nature than did the “ can-
nibal,” from all accounts.
*• • •
The last nights of “ Rip Van Winkle ” are
announced at the Melbourne Opera House. It has
run very smoothly, and to uniformly good attend-
ances. A week ago, a successful experiment was
made with the electric light for the purpose of
illuminating the Rhine Fay. But the fairies will
want to go in for a short study on the great sub-
ject of complexion, if they desire to look as young
as under common gas.
• • •
In the other Melbourne houses, things are
going on as when last noticed. “ Impulse ” is
dosing its fourth week, and bids fair to rival “ The
Silver King.” The success of these two dramas
should encourage playwrights to put pieces with
some substance in them on the boards.
• • •
Professor Anderson is very enjoyable. He
can read your thoughts now—that is, when you
have any. He hasn’t much material to work on
in this part of his entertainment, but he manages
well. And whenj he has told a baldheaded man
that he is thinking of an oyster-supper, he cuts a
living lady to pieces and hands round the frag-
ments. There is great diversity in the entertain-
ment, and Louise Maude is a clever assistant.


PEPPER AND SALT.
The world knows little of Its greatest men*
This is the stark-naked truth. Look here. When
Mortimer Franklyn was on the Agk, he was told
to write a paragraph. The editor tore it up.
Mortimer then wrote a loader: waste paper
(basket. He wrote another: pipe-lights. Then
Mortimer paused He bought a cigarette and sat
•down to think. It was hard work. All work is
hard to which wo are unaccustomed. But the
heroic typo of man docs not readily yield to diffi-
culties. Mortimer thought. And the result was,
that he wrote a letter, and signed it “ Amerieus,”
and it was published. Ha, hal it was published.
And Mortimer went to the highways, and into the
byeways, and to the market places, and to the
resort of the money-changers, and to other haunts
of sordid man. And he said to everybody—'“ Have
you read my letter in the Age?”— and everybody
said “No;” whereat Mortimer button-holed
everybody, and read bis letter to him. And every,
body satd “d—*n him.” Which was not legiti-
mate criticism—was it?
• e e
As our readers are aware, our experience
•of the penalties attaching to speaking out plainly
on publio matters has been bitter enough; and we
are not disposed to rush madly into difficulties
without counting the cost. It is for this reason
that we state distinctly that we cull the following
from the first local column of the Narrarki
Northern Arocs. Any person feeling aggrieved
by its re-publication, must give us the credit for
wishing to give the matter the widest possible
circulation, as the fact brought to light by our
wide-awake contemporary is of equal importance
to all. We give the extract, and cast the onus of
further enquiry on tho original publishers. For
ourselves, we disclaim all responsibility. He says:
—“ A a dray in front of O’Connor
and Bailey’s yesterday."
* * *
Emulating the example of our old patriar-
chal “pal,” Watson, Alfred has a long article
announcing the 15th anniver ary of the Jernle.
Embodied in this fiery, yet placid sketch, is a
poem—the kind of thing a man wou'd write who
really had a soul above (say) furniture polish.
Here, now, is a stanza that is eminently pleasing:—
“ The band of trusty liegemen
Of pencil and of pen,
And those fair hands that wield them, too,
To aid us now aul then
To fill those bulky pages,
Hath (sic) wrought both well and hard;
And every soldier in our ranks
Has earned our gratitude and thanks
Artist and scribe and bard!”
We think, on this auspicious occasion, we should
be wanting in ordinary Journ xlistie courtesy did
wejnot address a few congratulatory verses to one
who has done so much for the literature of a
young and bounding country: -
Ttaou’t seen, sweet Alf., the sun of gold
On the unseen meridian tremble:
And, oft dids’t thou the moon behold—
Well, by those orbs, we don’t dhsemblel
Truth’s mantle’s hero—of virgin white—
In haste wo now prooeed to don it;
Believe that we're in earnest quite,
And here is—well—our thumb upon it.
We love, dear All'., thy stanzas sweet.
Whoso melody’s as soft as wax is:
To con them’s an elysium treat,
So droll their motif and syntax is!
When, with our little ones at rest,
We love out loud thy verse to stammer,
Those cherubs fair applaud with zest
Each new departure from toe grammar!
Sing on, sing on, that Sapph ic stuff
That so adorns thy “ bulky pages;”
The world, p’haps, might grow dull enough
To love thy lays in future ages!
Give thy bards “gratitude and thanks,”
It will afford them endless joy,
And let them all twang, “ in the ranks,”
The lyre—and munch the saveloy!
Hang it up, now, over the ham bone.
• • *
A new breed of fowls has been introduced
nto Parramatta by an enterprising poulterer.
This is an advance in the right direction, for it was
felt by all of us attached to poultry and eggs that
things eould not continue for ever in the old
groove. We have no desire to be severe on the
ordinary domestic fowls which this new breed
promises to entirely supersede. They performed
their work according to their lights, and made the
most of the circumstances in which it had pleased
Providence to place them. Of course, they had
many drawbacks, or else the Wyandottes (the new
breed) would never have obtained a footing
amongst us. Their elementary notions on incu-
bation, their capacity for keeping up all through
the night a running tiro of gossip on the events of
the day, together with the phenomenal scragginess
and toughness they develop towards the turn of
life when philoprogenitiveness was on the decline
and they found themselves journeying by easy
stages towards the guillotine of a Wynyard-square
hash-house, were some of their more objection-
able traits. On the important subject of incuba-
tion, they never got beyond the A. 8.0. Indeed,
they were born optimists, and, whether sitting on
one of their own eggs, on a triangular junk of
chalk, or on a bladder of lard, they looked to the
future with tho same simple confidence. One in-
stance— vn extreme one, it is true—is on record
of a Parramatta brahmapootra having roosted
contentedly on the bald head of an elderly person
she saw stretched in the Domain, with a sort of
hazy hope that something might come of it. She
knew not that the owner was a local preacher
attending a Sunday-school picnic. But it is in the
laying branch that the new breed promises some-
thing abnormal. Their power in this department
was evoked by an ingenious stratagem. At Wagga
a poultry-breeder had a nest mude with a trap-
door or false bottom. Wheu an egg was laid it
passed through into a basket below, aud the aston-
ished fowl was stopped in her first cackle by dis-
covering that she had done nothing to be proud of.
This induced further efforts, until the basket was
full, and the lion reduced to a bund,'© of feathers.
It was a cruel trick, but tho result has been, that
the mother’s peculiarities descended to .tho off-
spring by the well-known law of heredity, so that
now a bogus nest is no longer necessary. A
crush of matter prevents our alluding to some
other characteristics of the now breed, but we
may again return to the subject.
• • •
Up near the Border. Magistrate :
“Guilty. 55., 4s. lOd. costs.” Prisoner: “Got no
money, your worship.” M.: “ Got a horse ?” P.:
“ No, your worship.” M.: “ >'o property of any
kind?” P.: “No.” M. (in desperation, looking
round the Court): “Will no ono pay tho tine for
this man?” Silence; and no response. Magistrate
looks round and sees his groom. M.: “John, you’ll
pay this poor silly fellow’s fine, won’t you ?”
John: “ Your worship-I—M.: “Thats right;
that’s right. Nine and tenpence. I’ll take it out
of your wages. The prisoner can go.” “ Close the
Coort.”
* * *
Old Mr. John Walters, of Blackall (Q.),
had quite a lively time of it the other day, and it
happened thusly. The old gentleman is accus-
tomed to drive into town in a gig drawn by a
patriarchal steed who knows every inch of the
road, and whose morals are of the most unblem-
ished character. On the day in question, this
PLEASURES OE THE CHASE.
SKIPPER OF THE STEAMER (to Engineer): “Now then, Bill, throw her wide open, and
come up and see the fun; I’ve got another one right under my bows, and I tell
you it’s worth 10 years in gaol to see how skeered the fellers are!”
model moke was in a hotel yard in company with
some others, amongst which was a police charger
that would get up from a meal of quail upon toast
and Quoug Tart’s scones, and run seven miles to
get one fair kick at an Archbishop, and who would
buck himself out of his skin to throw tho angel
Gabriel. Itappearsthe Walters’and the constabu-
lary horses were much alike, but here the resem-
blance ended. However, Mr. Walters’ man unfor-
tunately put the harness upon the polico horse,
and strapped him in the shafts. Mr. Walters did
not observe the change beyond noticing
that the old horse seemed very fresh this
particular morning, and shaking up tho reins,
urged him on the homeward journey. Then the
fun began. Tin-owing back his head, and giving
vent to a fiendish laugh, he darted off at the rate
of all-day-before-breakfast; and as a matter of
course, old Mr. Walters and the gig followed, and
hit up against every stump and fence within a
radius of 500 yards from the proper road. Some-
times tbc sbandridan would be away up in the
clouds, and its occupant could have enjoyed a
bird’s eye view of half Queensland if he hadn’t
been otherwise engaged endeavouring to hold on
to the truck with both hands, and to stick to his
hat with the other, and next instant the concern
would be plunged into a yawning abyss as deep as |
“THAT PARRAMATTA BRAHMAPOOTRA.”
one of the sections of Dante’s “ Inferno.” Finally,
tho runaway stopped short, and old Mr. Walter's
and the gig shot over his head, and came down
keel upwards just in front of him. Hastily re-
versing his poles, the charger started to work with
his heels on tho gig; and in ten seconds there was
nothing left of that trap—not even tho maker's
name. Mr. Walters owns another man now, and
the trooper is endeavouring to insure his life be-
fore be ventures to do a trial canter on his frisky
little bit of horse flesh.
• • •
The Salvation Harmy appears to be
languishing, and a glance at the War Cry loads us
to tho conclusion that Major Sutherland is nothing
but a rather dull dog aft*r all. He is, however,
determined to mako a splash on Anniversary Day,
for he announces what he c ills a “ Fete (sic) Cham-
ps 1 ’ 6 (sic) (whatever that may be), and the advt.
also states that “ Soldiers will form lines, and lire
a grand leu de-joie” (sic). Then “At s—combined
attack on Commissary Bton s, comprising ham,
jam, and eandwiehes. Tickets, Is. 6d.” There is
something, to our mind, highly expressive in this
latter announcement. Tho price charged is also
expressive. As, a matter of fact, the principal
characteristics of the Harmy may bo fairly set
down as biff drum, rant, tambourine, roars,
triangle, ham, jam, and sandwiches. Without the
money derived from the sale of goods, and the
receipts from like entertainments, the Sydne v
Army would long ere this have been as dead as
Pharoah. Major Sutherland is a capital man of
business. He tells the “little soldiers” that
he has “a new 6tock of flageolets at
3s. each,” and we have no doubt they will go off
briskly. The Hallelujah bonnets are, we believe,
sold out; and business must be increasing, because
he wants “a saved young man for office.” In
Melbourne, things are far brighter than they arc
here. They celebrated their anniversary at the
Exhibition recently, and Major Barker announced
that tho Harmy there had property in the city to
the value of £7000! It seems that the ceremony
was most imposing, for, “after singing, the Rev. A.
Dowie engaged in prayer, and the Converted
Policeman also spoke at ssme length,” the result
being that “ at night the penitent form was a scene
of tears and groans.” At Balmain, a man got up
to “testify,” and he said: “Brother and tister,
three weeks ago me and the devil had a fal -
out, and we ain't made it up yet,” and
be was much applauded. Not s?, however,
an irreverent scoffer, who pretended to guy tho
whole proceedings. Says the paper:—“ The devil
raged, and we tried to cast him out of the man,
but could not, so we cast man and devil out alto-
gether.” Things arc pretty rough iu Newcastle,
too, it seems, for at one of their meetings “ the
devil was there possessing a being called Skeleton
Cullins, tho tool of the publicans.” It is, however,
satisfactory to read that “the converted clown
was with us, and spoke with power.” In a kind of
apologetic whine, in reply to the strictures of her
London critics, Mrs. Booth says:—“We are not
responsible for the ignorance or vulgarity of the
classes whom we seek to benefit.” These are her
own italics. This sentence is “woman” all over.
Of course she’s not; but surely the people that
havo been sent out here are responsible for the
ignorance and vulgarity of which they make
so continual a display. Take Mrs. Sutherland,
for instance. We do not accuse her of vul-
garity, being a lady; but it is not too much
to say that in her harangues she does not
construct one single sentence properly, nor in
one instance does she make use of the aspirates
correctly. Then, look at Captain Canty.’ For an
educated man to look at him is a supplice ; and
Captain Reynolds is equally hopeless. Opinions
differ as to the beneficial results derived from the
proceedings of this sensational sect; but if the
world could learn what an ex-Captain of the Harmy
told us recently, there would be very little doubt
whatever on the subject. It is, of course, an edify-
ing spectacle to see great hulking half-drunken
laboui’ers stagger up the room,] and drawing pipes
from their pockets give them with a leer and a
hiccup to the Captain presiding, and take a vow to
smoke no more. Equally edifying is it to see some
poor half-crazy girl, tho daughter of respectable
parents, worked up to frenzy by the bands and
singing of the Harmy, fling herself on to the “peni-
tent's form,” and there be taken in hand by the
Hallelujah Lasses—a body of young women who
have, for tho chief part, been recruited under very
peculiar circumstances. The lower classes like
onions, and the lower classes like rum; it is not
surprising, therefore, th it many of them should
cotton to a religion that is all rant, tambourine,
roars, and triangle, with the pleasing addition of
bam, jam, and sandwiches.
Since the last number of The Bulletin
fluttered its crimson wings to the breezes, we have
discovered a new poet. A lady, thi3 time, whose
touch of the harp is more “gentle” than ever
Louise’s was. Her chief effort is called “T r j P
Dowii the Coast of New South Wales, from Point
Danger to Cape Howe.” That, we contend, is a
good, honest, straightforward title, with, as Mr.
Sparkler would say, “no bigodd nonsense about
it.” The authoress recited her verses at a Mait-
land concert some time since, being accompanied
on the piano by a younger sister; and, it is stated,
that the young lady’s recitation was received by
the company with no small enthusiasm. Her
powers of versification are considerable; and, it
will be at once seen, that if she has not quite com-
passed the Byronic swing, she has efficiently mas-
tered the shoe-shop stanza. Let us now give some
samples of this poem, which is at once geographi-
cal, botanical, and mineral. Mark how conscien-
tious she's:—
“ Shoal liay is crossed, then Whoman (!) Peak"we
see,
And the Elanie looms in view,
Mount Kibbora, a point, then Crescent Head,
Point Plomer and the Hastings, too. ’
But notice particularly where the fire, long con-
centrated, bursts out in one poetic gush:—
“ For with the Eastern gale the Sugarloaf
Is bad to pass; so’s Treach'ry Head;
But in Port Stephens we are safe enough;
Newcastle next g ives us a bed.”
After this, the poetess seems to havo carelessly
cast off, to a large extent, the shackles of rhyme
and gone in for a kind of bastard blank. For we
read:—
“ By Juggerah Lakes and Broken Bay we run,
With Hawkesbury’s foaming stream,
Then short the trip to Sydney, where you’ll see
such fun
On what most people call the Port.’ [!!!]
One or two more gems are worth setting in
“agate”:—
“ Cape Byron Is seou the Richmond near,
Then Double Duke and Clarence force ” (nit).
The last quotation, just to show that the young
singer is not to be beaten for a rhyme:—
“ Then Jervis Bay and George’s Head we doublo,
Thro’ Sussex Haven, Ulladulla,
To Bateman's Bay, the Clyde, and with some
trouble
We’ll find the blacks a nulla-nulln.'
We are induced to consider this stanza, in point of
metrical construction and poetic skill, almost per*
feet in its way. The manner in which the rhyth-
mical emergency is placidly provided for impresses
us as being beyond all praise. Tho question is
what is there impossible to a young lady who can
piece together verses like these? Hardly any-
thing. Long ago we knew a juvenile person who
could and did write poetry very much in this
style. Often she would lift her head to the
hoavens and sing; and when she wasn't doing that
she was generally getting spanked for putting
pepper in her grandmother's snuff. As may be
imagined, the poem, parts of which we have
quoted, is very popular up North, and tbb
authoress's! family often meet and hold long con-
sultations as to the advisability of “ having it put
in print.” The Vicar on being shown the piece,
said it showed promise, great promise—but he did
not explain what kind of promise. As he spoke
the words, the rev. gentleman was looking ab-
tractedly in the direction of the lock-up.
* * m
TOUCHING,
Inscribed to the Hon. the Minister for
Mines.
“ Mr. Abbott, who, on rising:, was again
loudly cheered, said that the kind manner in
which they had received his name almost over-
whelmed him.”— The Hon. Mr. Abbott at Gun-
nedah.
He looked around the table, and
He tried his husky throat to clear;
He’d not have his emotion seen,
So sobbed and brushed away a tear.
“ I know and love you all,” he said,
“ And recollections I can trace
Of merry pranks in days gone by
Upon this peaceful rustic place!
“ A Minister I am to-day;
But I remember how I tore,
In company with Bill M'Gann,
Poor Susie Porter's pinafore.
“ Oh, when my course at length is run—
When’s paled Existence’s bright star,
Take out my heart and you will find
Engraven on it ‘ Gunnedah !’
“ Where is there clothed in all the earth
A township in a lovlier dress ?
The world I challenge to produce
A more enlightened, polished press!
“ Were riches cast down at my feet,
Or could I choose a Prince's star,
I’d not desert, while life remained,
My heart’s pride, loyal Gunnedah.
“ Farewell, you faithful, noble men,
Electors honest, staunch, and true,
Tho’ far away, my thoughts will be
By day and night alike with you.”
And then he wept himself away,
And, once outside, to Bruce said “ Well,
Thank God that’s over—l say, Smith,
How deuced ‘ high ’ those rustics smell!"
• • •
Anything cool is acceptable tLis weather,
and it is, therefore, with a pleasure that borders on
hysteria, that we quote the following lrorn the
Yoorupean Maid:— “The Duke of Edinburgh
will always remain ‘Princ? Alfred’ with colon-
ists in all the colonies which he visited. It was
by that name they first knew him, and they are
not likely to forget it, or to substitute the Duke
of Edinburgh for the old familiar title. It is re-
corded in the annals of the colonies, and in most
of them his natal day is kept by official sanction as
a public holiday. This is familiarly known as
Prince Alfred’s Day. ’ Exactly so. And this re-
minds us that the conduct of our hei’o stands out
gloriously when placed by the side of another
royal “jook,” who, with three male and extremely
titled friends, spent a night in one of the fiashest
houses that the Aspasias of Melbourne could
afford to raise in honor of their regal guests. A
splendid supper was served at midnight; cham-
pagne flowed ad lib., each guest was crowned with
wreaths, and had scented stuffs poured over his
head, after the old Greek fashion ; professional
singers lent their siivery-tongned aid; in fact, it
was a night that old man Belshazzar or Luoullus
might look hack and lie upon with pride; and
when the noble host took their departure at 11.5 k


fiext morning, the Duke of Edin ,we mean of
Barataria, placed half a sov. in Sarah’s hand and
said: “Enjoy’d shelves splendid, ole girl. Keep
aller change. Gorblessyur.” What the Civil Ser-
vice is bucking mad to-day about, however, is to
know when that holiday-sanctioned natal day is
going to arrive. Up to the present date we’ve
never seen it.
• • •
That reality is often more wonderful than
the wildest fiction, and that imagination and
romance are frequently in the rear of realizations-
are simple truisms now unshakeably established.
In a smaller degree, our Partingtons and Gamps
are eclipsed by the simple unsophisticated people
we meet in the ordinary routine of our existence.
An honest selector, up in North Queensland,
assured us very earnestly, and repeated it for
emphasis, that he “believed the best kind of
mango was one as was ‘injudicious’ to New
Guinea.” There is, or was, a good old farmer on
the Clarence named David Kirk, better known as
Diamond Gut Diamond.
Archbishop of Canterbury: “I play a Colonial Archbishop .” Pope Leo: “I go one better, Benson."
“Davy Kirk,” and we can remember this genial old
agriculturist had a wild, unbridled propensity
for words of five or six syllable®, and used to heave
them in to fill vast vacuums in his dis-
course without the slightest regard whether
they bore any relation to anything which came
before or anything that followed after. Many
years ago, now, he was dining at Itocky Mouth,
and old Davy was scattering chain-shot English
round in a death dealing shower, tho result of an
unusually close application to the study of Web-
ster unabridged and unabridgable. The discussion
turned on theology and Scotland’s early reformers.
Davy wound up his version of the argument with
the following conclusive verdict: “In any orni-
thological mystery of this Mesopotamian dcscrip
tion, where the triangulation of the human intel-
lect has nothing to do w,th it, moreover, it must
be seen that John Knox, however great bis
predestination, was not a subtraction on the ven-
triloquism of the Apostle Paul.” This is abso-
lutely a vcrhati'ii report. After the delivery of
this terrihe peroration, Davy looked round in
triumph, to find his paralysed audience with their
noses In their teacups and their bosoms heaving
convulsively.
• • •
About ten thousand miles from Cairns, a
young Primitive Methodist parson, “ as smooth as
Hebe’s his unrazored lips," was visiting at the
house of a sugar-planter, about as irreverend and
sacriligious an iconoclast as modern scepticism has
produced. Like most young men of this class of
parsons, the one referred to is not distinguished by
educational gifts or the colossal character of his
intellect; and when the planter, in a sardonic spirit
of fun, started a profoundly incomprehensible
dissertation on a new transcendental theory of the
Infinitesimal Calculus, and asked the parson for a
true explanation according to the genuine theo-
pneustic refrangescent process of reasoning, the
youthful preacher of the Go3p«l simply sat and
gazed at him with that awe-struck amazement with
which a Swiss traveller watches the descent of a ter-
rific avalanohe. When he recovered consciousness,
he smiled in a vacant sort of way, and said he felt
tired and would like to retire to rest. When the
planter escorted him to his room, he meekly
asked if he “could have a night-dress?” The
planter said “ Ob, certainly,” and started for
the necessary garment. The planter's mother-
in-law lives in the house, and in mistake his
wife handed him one of the old lady’s night-
dresses, neatly folded up. The error was dis-
covered soon after, but the planter sternly forbade
any alteration in the prog ramme. Then the wife
and the mother-in-law and the governess met in
general consultation, and they were, of course,
overheard by the “ lady assistant ” in tho kitchen.
This enterprising female was acquained with some
secret chink through which she could command
a fair view of the. interior of the parson's room,
and with the enterprise of her particular sect,
posted herself at the available loop-hole to watch
and announce proceedings. The subsequent re-
port of this “ Select Committee ” of one revealed j
that tho reverend youth had duly enclosed his j
sacred-form iu the mother-in-law’s nightdress, 1
which was decorated from top to bottom with a
display of lace, and frills and ruchings, and various
other gorgeous decorations of the milliner’s art,
until it looked like a prize specimen in the needle-
work section of an Industrial Art Exhibition.
Arrayed in this dazzling robe, the Primitive
Apostle looked like a Parisian bride dressed for
the bridal chamber, and he stood for some time
before tho mirror surveying himself in speechless
and overpowering admiration. About this period
all the ladies of the house had retired to the far
end of the garden to open the safety-valves of a
suppressed hilarity, under a pressure of a thou-
sand pounds to a square inch, and the lady assis-
tant was wrestling with cacchinatory convulsions
at the back of the kitchen. After breakfast next
morning, when the Apostle was bidding the
planter good-bye, his last -words were, “ I have no
doubt there is a great future for the sugar Induf-
try, and that you planters will become men sur-
rounded by wealth and luxury. Why, even now,
the very cost of ono of your beautiful night
j dresses would buv a whole suit of clothes fora
: poor clergyman 1” Thus do the meek and lowly
I followers of the Naz Irene become subjects of un-
| hallowed mirth for the ungodly and the unre-
I generate.
• • •
You’ve seen the French in the newspapers
—“ recherche, diner a le ruse,” &e. Well, it is never
nearly right: but it is not to be expeebed that
young men who have for the most part been
schooled at Dubbo and have graduated at Jam-
beroo would have had opportunity of picking up
| any language more foreign than that of the
j cricket field ; but with a writer like Percy Fitz-
gerald, author of “ The Principles of Comedy," it
is different. What do you think, then, of this
passage from his novel, “ Never Forgotten
declare I am grieved,” went on the Major, “at
not being able to see her. She will make a g'enuine
sensation— 1 u asucces cclantante" (sic). Thatisasbad
as the Herald report of tho Frenchman's after-
dinner spoecli was funny. Every night now tho
reporter of that speech may bo seen, after the !
children are washed and the baby put to bed, deep
in Delille’s Grammar, as his editor has threatened
that If he hasn’t got his French polished by the
next Foreign Banquet ho will send the man to do
it who writes “Rounding Bradley’s Hoad, not-
withstanding it was blowing a stiff nor’-eaater, the
word was given to pay her off four points or so
and hoist the balloon-jib.” Then all that would be
left for the crack French reporting man would be
to dilate upon “ the good things provided having
been thoroughly discussed”&c., when in would dart
the boat-editor, and tho linguist would bo crushed
for over. Once we wont to a banquet on board a
French man-of-war, and a very distinguished
journalist “gave pleasuro to all ” by sitting on the
captain’s right. In the course of his speech tho
captain said “Alt Monsieur d mon droit je dois
milleremcrcimentspourla manifrehosvitalier dont i,
nous a si souvent rctu d son magniflque chdtcnu,”
and the paper man applauded loudly. He thought
the commander was proposing the health of Dan
O’Connor.
j M w a s in the railway suburbs. “My
love,” she said resting her hear in the
noidile of his bald head, “ buy me a lavender silk
dress.” “ What do yeu want a new dross for ?” he
growled ;“ you only had one the other dav ”
Ji% cauf ! e ’ she aoswered, “there's a new
fashion just come. She turned hot and red and
breathed quickly. She had nearly said “ Onan-
ist.”
• * 4
Since Mr. John Pliair gave “six months’
Bulletins ” to the Maryborough (Q.) hospita'
things have been lively at that institution and*
the wards are now all tilled to overflowing. Tho
water-cart man is privately subsidised to slightly
injure people with his vehicle, and beetle noison
has a healthy tone in the market. W lieu a man is
being carried there with snake-bitr, the peonfe at
the str. et corners glance envious,v »t hi.,
wish they had half his complaint; and in'
secluded parts of the town you c a n continua'h-
see persons of both sexes “ offering “ at thorn
selves with their pocket-knives. We merely give
this as a news item. Not, of course, to—or if
we err, it is-alway 6 on the side of-—. Jugt


Liver coughs often taken for consumption
are cured almost instantly with Hop Bitters. Find’.
“ Buchu-paiba.” Quiok complete cure,
all annoying Kidney. Bladder and Urinary Diseased*
Druggists. Moses, Moss & Co.. Genera* Agents.
The old saw that “ Love of money is the
root of all evil” must not be regarded as uni-
versal in its applicability. In the case of Wesleyan
ministers, for instance, it doesn’t apply at all; and
at the Wesleyan Methodist Conference held in
Melbourne, the president, Rev. Henry Bath, gave
us some valuable information on this point. In
the course of his inaugural address, the Rev. Bath,
after discussing the spiritual alfairs of their
Church, went on to say, “ Besides others, there
was the financial interest, which was regarded by
some as the chief interest. In this the ministers
had a share, and he would 6ay that those who gave
their lives to the church had a right to claim that
their financial rights should be preserved. [Why,
cert’nly.- Ei>. B.] . . . They sometimes were
accused of a lovo of money, but, in the manner
they loved it, it was a harmless passion.” For the
wealthy layman, then, who may be developing
too pronounced a fondness for the “root of all
evil,” a ready opportunity presonts itself of getting
rid of his temptation without shifting the respon-
sibility of it on to anyone else. He has only to “ go
to Bath ” with his superfluous lucre.
THE HARMLESS PASSION.
Love of money of all evil
Has been often termed the root,
Planted in us by the Devi 1 ,
To bear bitter, sinful fruit:
Tbo most dark of his devices.
The parent of our crimes,
The groundwork of our vices.
Parsons call it, oftentimes.
But of quite a different fashion
Is a p arson’s love of gold—
’Tis with them a “ harmless passion ”
(As we’ve recently been told);
And they merely take temptation
From such sinful men sis you,
When they ask remuneration
For the holy work they do.
So come forward with your “pieces,”
Let your “church subscriptions” flow;
For your money always ceases
To be “evil's root,” you know,
When it passes to the parsons,
Since for them (as we suppose)
Gold those Sacred Gates unfastens,
Which to laymen it would close.
BRIEF MENTION.
More and Moran of “ them bishops ” com-
ing.
Proper toast fdr the teetotallers—A cordial
vote of thanks.
A map at Orrooroo (8.A.) has been
poisoned by eating’ tinned lobster. If we had to
live in a place spelt like that, we should at once
order a tin from the same shop.
“The Vagabond” is applying for an in-
junction to prevent a proposed weekly paper in
Melbourne coming out as The V auabond. J ulian,
as usual, takes high moral grounds.
A Nooze telegram states that the bush-
fires about Newcastle have swept off vermin in
immense quantities. The Salvation Army always
dsay they’d never perish by the sword.
A man by the name of Kelly fell into the
Yarra last Saturday with his horse and dray, The
horso was drowned. The peoplo we asked didn’t
know what became of Kelly. They all regretted
the horse. It was worth £3O.
There is rivalry in everything. Lisbon
claims to have more bailiffs than any other city in
the world. That may be. But we have more men
who look like bailiffs than any other city in the
world.ilAsk any civil servant.
Telegram:—“Several inches of snow fell
at Brandy Creek, Jan. 33.” We may say that
Brandy Creek is not in Queensland, though there
are hosts of journalists up there running news-
papers on rivulets of that name.
Albert Duneen, the youth who attempted
to murder Constable Hodgkinson, at Picton, is
said to be closely connected with a certain Judge.
If this be true, the right hand of the well-
connected still holds a deal of cunning.
The Czar of all the Russias’ new winter
cloak costs £B6oo—no shillings, and n* pence. But
Alick’s own private opinion is that he would feel
a thousand times more comfortable in the late
Mr. Ned Kelly’s suit of plough-share’armour.
Mr. Burrowes’ printing establishment at
Sandhurst was completely gutted by tire on the
30th. We are always sorry to hear that tire lays
hold of a printer while alive. It is cruelly antici-
pating things. Couldn’t it wait till he’d die ?
James F. Thompson, out at Seymour, took
a dose of muriatic acid last week, and laid himself
out to listen for the great Trumpet. Ho made a
very steady, quiet, reliable corpse. He had been
drinking Seymour brandy, and wanted to linish
right off with somettiing of a soothing kind.
William Ness rlied the other day in the
Melbourne Hospital, from injuries sustained by a
mortar-board falling on his head. And the board
was empty. Queer ! We have seen a mortar-
board, with a ton of mortar, fall on the bald crown
of a Wesleyan missionary, and he only smiled.
The other day at Narrabri, a man was
going along the street wheeling a barrow contain-
ing two planks, a docen bricks, und a tool-basket.
“ Where are yer goin’, Obor-li?” shouted an ac-
quaintance, in the language of the country. “To
build the Council Chambers,” was the proud reply.
Hang out the banners. Good old servants
get every reward in N.S.W. Tbomas Holmes, 37
years a teacher in the public service of this
county, is pensioned off at 16s. 3d. per week. Had
Mr. Holmes been a legal magnate and drunk him-
self crooked, he might have retired on thousands.
“ Now, girls,” cried a Woollahra father, as
he came home in the evening, ‘‘smarter up, for I’m
going to take you to the circus.” “Circuses are
wicked, pa,” replied Lucinda; “besidc-s, it's choir
practice night, and .” Chorus: “Oh, it would
be wicked tc go on choir night, father; take us
to-morrow.”
The Pathological Museum at the new
Medical School of the Sydney University, is in
want of mummies or other like subjects. Htre is
a rare chance for some of the Houorables of the
Upper House to retire with dignity from political
life! What a prize Piddingtonsky would be as a
whole specimen of the era of “ dug-outs.”
A Cooktownman named Mace, after being
married two days, cleared out to Port Douglas.
When arrested there for wife desertion, and askea
his tesson for running away, he said to the con-
stable : “ I found out that she had six toes on the
right foot. How cun a man afford to keep a girl
AVith six toes when cauliflower is 7d. a head ?”
It will interest the wreckage of the Spell-
ing-bees, if such there be, to know that when
Barou Maclay mounts an umbrella over a plug
hat, and stalks in high-heeled boots the golden
strandsof New Guinea, his full name is Niaolai,
Niko'aeviteb, Mikloho, Maklay, aud that he won t
publish his book for two years. This is to tecure
patent rights over a new Papuan cignPy—pree,
six yards of red flannel in advance—tor his title
page. Spell, then, in addition to the above, Boss-
Bungalow Bushi-iiazook to the King of Ckarcko-
rooaiajelongboroora.
A Melbourne merchant was entertained at
a social meeting the other evening by the em-
ployes of his firm. In the course of the proceed-
ings, he was presented with a Bible, which took
him, to quote bis own words. “ wholly by surprise.”
We can readily believe it; Bibles don’t usually fly
around during “ social gatherings ’’—not in Sydney,
at any rate.
Another sell! Melbourne people have been
rolling up to see “the ferocious cannibal that ate
fourteen missionaries in Patagonia.” They saw
him in a dark corner covered with old clothes and
chains. But it turns out that ho was only a quay
labourer from the wharves. Thisissad. Not that
he was not a cannibal, but that whatever he was
he had not eaten the missionaries!
Black trackers make good policemen.
Here, now! “A black tracker at Forbes, while
under the influence of drink, struek a young lad
with a piece of road metal, inflicting a serious
wound. The tracker had previously dragged a
man to the watchhouse without any cause.” It is
to be hoped that the Inspector-General has noted
these services, and that already the coloured indi-
vidual is promoted to a sergeantcy.
ELEGIAC.
There was a friend of ours; he’s dead;
Wo had a very great respect
For his commanding intellect;
But, as we said before, he’s dead.
He couldn't take into his head
The theories of lifo he read of,
And so he blew his blessed head off —
And that’s the reason that he’s dead.
The Salvation Harmy has served to illus-
trate startling distinctions in human nature. Ac-
cording to a Melbourne paper, “ it is a known fact
that several people during the last twelve months
were prevented from committing suicide by the
mere marching of the Army through the streets.”
As we read that astonishing statement, the bitter
tears flow freely at the thoughts of the many dear
old friends who have been affected in an exactly
opposite manner by those "marehi s” during the
past year.
AGAIN BLIGHTED,
“ Dillon has resigned,” he cried,
And, !o, his breaih came quick and fast;
“ Full fair now rolls on Fortune’s tide,
My dream is realised at last!”
His hopes were raised, alas, in vain,
So sorrowful and wounded sore
He took his strap and books again,
And bumped them round the town once more.
THE SHOOTING OF CONSTABLE HODGKINSON.
Last Tuesday, a respectable-looking man
fell into the hands of the Philistine police of Mel- |
bourne, and was subsequently hauled up on a 1
charge of eccentricity. He was told not to do it i
again, and then discharged. And perhaps the I
“foorce” didn’t s idly smile when they learnt the j
crank bad just £176, principally in sovereigns,
fastened round his waist in a snakeskiu belt. Once !
in a lifetime, the golden ball, suspended on the
end of the silken cord, swings past us all, but if it
is not clutched then— vit vie Us.
From the Cumberland Independent we
learn that a poet has called on them—a live poet
who has shone in these pages. It must be some
mistake. Our poet is under lock and key in the
upper storey of this palatial edifice, and is calling
on the muses day and night. Oh, no. When we
drop across a poet, wo don't turn him out to
browse around Parramatta. We place him under
a silken canopy witn a pen in one hand and a
bottle in the other. The copy is lowered down to
the printing room with one line, and the bottle to
a handy boy who receives it at the back window
by another. He knows his duty.
They’re gradually growing to be a mighty
particular lot in the land of the alligatoxs. James
Pepsworth, manager of an out-station near Conne-
mara (Q.), has just been committed for trial for
merely correcting one of his black boys. It
appears “ Pepsworth caught the boy leading off a
station horse, ran him back to the stockyard, tied
him to a rail by the wrists, beat him unmercifully
with a stick, and left him, bruised and bleeding,
tied to a rail, under a burning sun, from ‘J p m.
uutil sundown.” Then the boy crawled awav and
died on his own responsibility But the bunyah
bruisers want to shift the blame on Pepsworth.
A writer on “insanity” in the Popular
Science Monthly, and who has himself been
insane, states as one of his delusions “that de-
mons occasionally reanimated human bodies after
death.” Now, it is only a fair thing to suppose
that he has never given the wife five shillin'-s and
helped to bundle the baby into the tram, so as to
have a quiet day to write comic paragraphs; and
as, moreover, it is further probable he has not
been knocked up by tive people asking if the next
house is to be lot, or by thirteen Chinese hawkers
and twiive sewing-machine men we may excuse
his putting down the above as a delusion. If he
has suffered this, he sure he has ’em again.
The Parramatta Fergy talks of the
“vulpine ravages of the Plying Gang,” and says
that—if society is to be preserved— “ there !is no-
thing- short of the utmost severity ot the law that
will be effectual in accomplishing it either end.”
Which end ? The end which sits on kerbstones,
we should suggest. But why the “ flying gang '! ”
If it were possible to be serious with Fergy, we
should respectfully point out to him that to per-
petuate in print such titles as these young black-
guards may choose to give themselves, is to them
a glory which spurs them on to fresh ruffianism.
Fergy might have seen the effect of this mistaken
policy of the press with regard to certain members
of Parliament.
The Herald had a very funny par. the
other day about a web-footed platypus, sent from
Mudgee to Mr. Walter Bradley, for presentation
to the Zoological Garden. The Herald gravely
states that its “ears are internal.” Well, when-
ever did we see a morning newspaper conductor
with ears elsewhere. And “instead of a snout it
has a bill.” Not that only—“ Its feet are webbed,
and have elaws for boring.” This is the first real
platypus that hasn’t been known to bore with his
pen. And now for the most important item. “It
is likely that many visitors will be attracted by
the platypus before it is put into its little pond,
when of course it will burrow, and be only occa-
sionally seen.” Then our little friond is also a
politician. “Now’s the time for disappearing,”
&c.
Mr. Charles Rice, of Melbourne, is not a
man we are disposed to favour. We don’t, in fact
know him. You can look all through the cards in
the soup-plate on our parlour table and we are
certain you will not lind his pasteboard. By trade
a tailor, Mr. R„ it seems, had some words with his
good lady relative to her going out, and upon her
insisting on taking a walk, Mr. Rice hit her over
the head with a billet of wood, and knocked her
down. When down he hit her again, and kicked
her, and en his daughter coming to the rescue he
took a turn at her with the billet, with the result
that she was seriously injured and her mother
kil'ed. Rice is now in custody, and there is a feel-
ing abroad that he will be hanged. This is pos-
sible, of course, but we don’t think he will be
hanged. His case, you will find, will, in the first
instance, be taken up by Dr. Singleton—dear old
patriarch—and then other rev. gentlemen will
become interested in the criminal, and his * peni-
tent frame of mind ” will be talked about, his
“ deep contrition ” will be noised abroad, and then
the evening papers will have little pars., in which
ho will be made to say—“Oh, God, how could I
have killed ray darling wife? it seems like a hor-
rible dream! ” or, “raising his head, wearily, from
his cell table,” he said, in a weak voice—“ Is my
sweet child getting better?” or, “the prisoner
passes the whole of his time in prayer, and says,
when spoken to by the priest (who has been unre-
mitting in his attentions to the unfortunate man)
—• There is no earthly hope. I am prepared to
wing my flight to where the stars shine, and the
moon sheds around her holy glow.” No; we don’t
say that Mr. Charles Rice will be rewarded; but he
will certainly not be hanged. You will see.
Alfred Duneen, Esq., is in a bit of trouble
just now, and serve him right. He was an am-
bitious youth, and tried to settle a constable with
a pea-cartridge revolver. He is only seventeen, it
is true, so probably he did not guage the difficulty
of killing a policeman. He tired six shots or so
into {Constable HodgkinsoQ, but the result was
only to put that officer (he was unknown before)
in an interesting situation, and now he is as well
as may be expected. The constable, after thus
having had his weight increased by several ounces,
was enabled to lucidly give his evidence, and it is
openly stated that he will be on the block shortly
We sincerely hope so. Our business, however, is
to point a moral. That moral is: Never try to kill
a policeman. There is every chance against its
coming off, and really little to be gained by it.
Directlv you knock down one ten-pin—we mean
constable—another is set up in his place, and, per-
haps, one whose molars are ornamented with
auburn curls, and who (being just out) is imbued
with the idea that to bang you over the head with
his truncheon, and afterwards run you in for
assault, is <>ne of the neatest little jokes on record.
Why. in Hongkong, where the policemen, being
Sepoys, are impervious to powder and ball, they
use as many as three a day at one corner, at times,
when the mercantile marine and the navy happen
to differ about something.
We received, the other day, a copy of the
Narrabri Herald, and after a glance at its
leader on local option, immediately gave it in
charge for drunkenness. We understand that the
authorities charged it subsequently with disor-
derly conduct, and with tearing a policeman’s
uniform. One paragraph will convince the reader
that the paper in question had no alternative but
to plead guilty and urge mental aberration in
mitigation of punishment. A sample “We pre-
sume the gentlemen who go in for such ultra
measures as Local Option, which would be in their
estimate of its entirety ensure perfect alcoholic
(sic) I absence to the vulgar public in tbeir vicinity,
would hardly lik6 a measure of the same descriptioa
carried with regard to the buildings erected on
their land, how far from the road [!], ard when
the lights of the establishment should be put out
[! !]; or, as some who possesses wholesale spirit
licenses should be restricted aH to t-e size and
nature of the building in which they carry on
their trade, and in this, the latter ease, would be
just as applicable as the former.”
The paragraph, behold, is— sic,
Our word you mast not doubt it;
There seems to be 11 lot of “ hie,”
Or let’s say “ hock,” about it.
Biz.
Mr. Sharp’s Gaiety Hotel.
Reference was casually made in last week’s
Bulletin to the first-class style in which Mr.
James Sharp, of the Gaiety Hotel, retails draught
and bottled liquors at his hotel. This is a matter
of public interest, when every day comes up the
statement of the retailing of inferior liquors.
And it is creditable to find that not only in this
respect has Mr. Sharp effected a desirable change,
but he has appreciably improved the whole char-
acter and appearance of the hotel. Mr. Sharp
first gave the public a taste of his capabilities as
an hotel manager by the style in which he raised
to a first-class position his house at the corner of
King and Oastlereagh streets And now there is a
further proof in this direction, at the Gaiety
Hotel. Most people know that this is one of the
best properties in Sydney, being very commodious
and lofty, standing in a splendid position. Well,
for years, it haa an indifferent appearance;
but since coming into Mr. James Sharp’s
hands the public have proof of what a
go "A firm system of management will do in
raftering a hotel business; and, as there is nothing
from which the public suffer more than a badly-
managed hostelrie of this description, there must
bs corresponding credit due to Mr. Sharp and his
estimable wife for making their house one of the
best in the city. On Mr. Sharp purchasing the
hotel, he undertook very extensive repairs, and
spent a large sum of money in decorations—which
completely changed the whole features of the place.
Then the public bar was reconstructed in fine style,
and two private bars were added, which have
proved a boon in the neighbourhood. The wall
and ceiling decorations, which were all hand-
painted, surpassed anything of the kind elsewhere
seen in the city. And Mr. Sharp backed up these
improvements by raising the standard of the
quality of his liquors—procuring the very best
that can be retailed at ruling prices. There is no
mistaking the thoroughness of this part of the
business. And, with regard to one item of large
consumption—the Waverley pale ale—no house in
Sydney surpasses the Gaiety in the way it retails
its silver tankards of this splendid brew. It may
be mentioned that the propi letors of the Waverley
Brewery recently presented Mr. Sharp with a
valuable silver trophy in recognition of the success
which attended his retailing their ales. Mr.
Sharp looks to the whole arrangement of his
cellars and bar pumps, and the public are recog-
nising the result. The interior arrangement of
the Gaiety gives every accommodation to families
and others on a visit to Sydney, this part of the
house being under the special supervision of the
amiable hostess. The bed rooms are lo ty and
well furnished and ventilated: and in addition to
several acceptable parlours, there is a fine spacious
balcony. Added to this, is the situation of the
hotel, immediately alongside Hyde Park, and near
the tram station —and it will be at once seen that
Mr. Sharp has not made a bad investment in secur-
ing an hotel which admitted of being made one of
the best hostelries in Sydney.
Good Health in Hot Weather.
It is a very certain fact—and one that ought to be
recognised by every householder in the colony—
that the use of pure Island limejuice is of the
highest benefit to health in this climate, and par-
ticularly at this time of the year. In the South
Sea Islands, the lime trees produce fruit in im-
mense quantities, and from these limes the natural
juice is extracted by the natives and others in the
simplest fashion. The extract is gathered at
the various ports by the trading vessels, and
hence finds its way into the Sydney market.
Messrs. H. S. Bird and Co., Macquarie-plaee,
were among the first to open up a real good
market for this valuable product. They receive
the limejuice in quantities of 4000 to 5000 gallons
at a time, in bottles and casks—disposing of it in
wholesale and retail quantities to the trade and
general public. Householders largely avail
themselves of this opportunity to maintain a
standard of health in their families, obtaining the
limejuice in from 4-gallon kegs to 100-gallon casks,
thus making certain of the purchase of the genu-
ine Island product. The consuming public should
remember that there is a manufactured limejuice
—the product of acids—but there is also the
genuine Island limejuice-tbe simple product of
the fruit—which can be obtained, as stated, at
Bird and Co's. Orders are despatched to any part
of the colony.
City Hotel Improvements.
A complete and very creditable cbaDge has been
made Dy Mr. T. Carter in the hotel premises at the
corner of George and Park streets. For years the
place has been known as the Town Hall Hotel, but
its management was nothing out of the way till
Mr. Carter took it in hand. He started with ex-
tensive alterations, by which the appearance of
the whole place, both inside and outside, has
been completely changed. A spacious verandah
constructed of ornamental ironwork was carried
round the two street fronts, while inside an ex-
tensive and splendidly-lighted bar was made, with
three entrances from the street. Running round
the bar is a first-class counter, and between that
and the wall there is a clear six feet of space. The
liquors are ranged in handsome shelving, and the
beer pumns are the very best procurable. The
walls are ornamented with the brightest silver-
stamped paper, producing an excellent effect.
At the rear of the public bar is a second
one mo e private in its arrangements but.
there is the same tariff of charges with
the one as with the other. This neat little bar is
furnished with tables, &c., where a quiet half-
nour can be passed at any time. The point of the
business is the first-class character of every drop
of wines, brandies, whiskies, ales, Ac. supplied in
bottle or glass—and the immense business done
day by day is proof that the public recognise the
fact, already. One particular line which Mr.
Carter has imported for his own exclusive use is
the Glenshiel whisky, over seven years of age—a
brand that is bound to command a big trade. The
Glenshiel has a beautiful aromn, soft and round,
and is retailed, even in the glass, in really first-
class condition. With this one lin'e'alone, Mr.
Carter is attracting to his house a clas3 of cus-
tomers who have probably for years never paid a
visit to the hotel. Mr. Carter is an enterprising
young fellow who well deserves to succeed.
The stewards of the Canterbury Race
Club, whose first meet was hold the other day, are
resolved to make their annual meet one of the
events of the sporting season in N.B.W. Which
fact here mentioned leans to a vindication of the
catering by T. Cripps at the opening meeting. It
was known, but too late for remedying, that the
accomodation for luncheon was wholly inade-
quate. Yet, notwithstanding this difficulty,
Mr. Cripps, who was charged with the catering,
undertook to meet the demands. The pressure
was probably greater than had ever been experi-
enced under similar circumstances, yet the public
were well served. Some may have experienced a
crush, and been unable to obtain supplies, and
thus originated the unjust statement that the pro-
vender and the liquors supplied by Cripps on the
occasion were not Al. This. Mr. Cripps stoutly
denies on a sworn affirmation, and speci-
fies the liquors supplied ; the lot included
the very best brands of clarets, champagnes,
and other wines, the best brands of whis-
keys and orandies, »nd English ales and por-
ters. The liquors were supplied to Mr. Cripps’
order by Messrs. A. Thompson and Co., wine and
snirit merchants, Pitt-street, whose cellars and
stores have enjoyed for years as high a reputation
for excellence as those of any other house in
Sydney. The best proof of Mr. Cripps’ success on
this occasion is that the stewards now want him to
undertake the contract for seme years to come.
This simple little fact is an answer to all carpip£>
and must be gall to the disappointed catering Ira*
ternity who originated the false report.


Wom an Items
An effort is being made to draw out Miss
Veitch, the Ararat elocutionist. We are not par-
tial to lady elocutionists, as a rule. The sweet,
low voice fetches us better. But Miss Veitch has
A call. And she throws ever so much ability about
the house. A meeting was held last week in the
Melbourne Town Hall to encourage her. A large
number did it. Even George Gordon M'Crae sent
in a smiling letter. There will be a grand enter-
tainment on the 9th February, and Miss Veitch,
the mountain maid, will make the welkin ring
With the passionate voice of tragedy.
Miss Sella Guerin, whose portrait we pub-
lished the other day, was the first young lady to
take the degree of Bachelor of Arts at the Mel-
bourne University. She is a nice girl, and New
Zealand and Tasmania are offering her appoint-
ments at big figures. But she likes Ballarat. And
the Ballarat School of Mines wants her to stay
there and instruct the young ladies in languages.
We’ll be sorry if she puts her heart into school-
teaching. We hope she’ll be dragged at once into
matrimony. What are the men of Ballarat think-
ing of? Miss Bella’s attractions every way are
powerful. And her father is Governor of the
gaol. Ah, if our father-in-law had only been that,
what indulgences we should have enjoyed I
One Captain Samson, in England, took the.
Northern Farmer’s advice, to “go where munny
is.” But he got into sore trouble, for the money
belonged to a ward in chancery, and on marrying
her he was at once jugged for contempt of court.
After four months of seclusion, the unhappy
bridegroom offered to make a most humble sub-
mission and apology to the court—which, seeing
he had the ward safe, and the ward had the money,
he could well afford to do. But His Honor inti-
mated that he considered his “ contempt not yet
purged,” and declined to release him. In England,
as here, “ contempt ” is still punishable by incar-
ceration for such time as the caprice or the diges-
tion of the judge may dictate. And that’s the
reason why if we were single again we would never
marry a rich ward in chancery. For Sir James
would consider it necessary to wait till the Trum-
pet Blast to purge us.
“Locksley”—is that our old friend Tasma?
—writes a couple of columns to the Argus oh
Pretty Tasmanians.” She maintains they are as
nice as ever they were, despite the malicious carp-
mgs of some critics. We believe they are. But,
after all, the canons for judging what is a lovely
woman are very unsettled. It seems to us that
the critic’s age has a great deal to do with the sub-
ject. At 16, he is sure to believe that lovely
woman is round, fat, and fully forty years of age.
At 20, he thins her down, and makes her about 30.
At 30, he comes to feel that her loveliness is
supreme at 20. At 60, he rubs the top of his bald
head, aud feels his heart wrecked at the vision of
sweet, dimpled 16. At 80, the old lad lies back and
with eyes closed, dreams of the perfect loveliness
of darling 14. The critic’s last state may be as bad
as his first, but he is about as good an authority on
the question at the extreme periods as in any of
the intermediate stages.
What a woman can do. She can say “ No,”
and heaven and earth won’t move her from it; or
she can say “ No ” with enough of “ Yes ” in it to
take your breath away. She can sharpen a lead
pencil, if you give her plenty of time and enough
penci’s. She can dance eight hours in a shoe two
S'zes too small, and enjoy every minute of the time.
She is the only sex that can walk a colickv infant
about all night without expressing a desire to
murder it. She can appreciate a Kiss from the
time she’s one year old till she 107. Besides telling
what every woman in the congregation had on.
she can, in some rare instances, give a laint idea of
what the text was. She can look her husband
square in the eye when he says he was “detained
at the office ” without betraying in the least that
she knows him to be a colossal liar. She can look
over a hundred pounds’ worth of satins and velvets,
and then buy a reel of thread and order it to be
ae.ivered four miles away. A woman do anything
—if she wants to. And we love her all the time,
because she is a woman. But when circumstances
ca .*l upon her to climb a tree, wo can only look on
with feelings of respect and sympathy.
don ’t have as much fun as they used
'O. They get worldly wisdom early enough to
spoil all their fun, but not soon enough to do them
any good. What with cheap postage, railway
telegraphs, and all the facilities for tittle-
wuue afforded by the twopenny trams, nothing is
sacred or secret now. No sooner does a girl smile
eSi 5116 y 2 UD S niaQ ’ than everyone tells everyone
Sr?* ?. dowager recklessly expends a tram
aii a -?° aQ d tell some other old “ cup of tea ”
a ) out it, and all the oth< r young men at one©
a e »Xi a iT a J* II 8 hard. In the good, slow, old days,,
mmrLfSM 801 ? 6 . sort ot ' a chance She could be
t w? or^a hlyt hut not too thoroughly, engaged to
cureo young men at once—and tliou marry a Kit rth
innocent in the end. This gave her, every week,
one night at the play, one concert, one party, three
nights on the home sofa, and an off night for a
beauty sleep, or for furnishing Ma with a progress
report. The three young men would all fancy
themselves favoured, until gracefully surprised
hy invitations to a wedding in which they would
not be required to take a prominent part. But
no more. Girls don’t get such chances these days,
once in every four years only does Agonisa now
get a chance to pounce on Adolphus as he floats
esitatingly by, and even then he’ll strain every
effort to wriggle away.
There is a reaction, gentle reader, in
favour of the old-fashioned feminine limb liga-
ture. when we were very young, which means
very many years ago. there was an uprising
against the g*rt * r. At that time it consisted of
a more or less elastic band, worn above or below
the k * ee. As ast*ck * ng supporter, it was
only a partial success. On a not plump 1* g, its
tendency was towards the * nkl *. On a limb of
excentnc architecture, its progress downwards
was sometimes arrested by some unexpected dip,
or angle, or prominence. On a full, symmetrical
girl pedestal, it stopped the circulation. It was
discovered that a tight band was the source of
2JOP&* l ev er, bad teeth, kleptomania and
cacoethes scribendi. So it was, metaphorically,
dropped, and after a prolonged howl for some-
tbmg hygienic, reform introduced the suspender,
which we are given to understand Is an elastic
affair, of which one end fastens to the e *rs * t
and another to the st*ck* ng. This has had a
long enough reign to allow of about three hun-
dred inventors each making a handsome fortune
by devising new and fanciful fastenings in place
of the common button and button-hole at either
end of the affair under notice. Buttons might do
for grandma ; but they don’t suit the modern girl.
But, after a season of popular favour, it is now
found by inquiring savants that the suspender is
the certain cause of dyspepsia, big feet, backache,
heartache, bunions, blushes, and blues. In fact
it is impossible to calculate the dreadful pofsibili-
ties of this apparently innocent article of harness.
»o that—and this brings us to what we wanted to
say ladies are now taking to perfumed, poetic,
pale-tinted pairs of elastic circlets, studded with
| costly jewels.
This is our own translation, and our
paraphrase. The original was written a couple of
thousand years ago, in a jargon which Miss Bella
Guenn win tell you is called Latin. Catallus wrote
Catullus was a sweet poet. He was very fond
ovel - v woman. Lovely woman
“® s keen always .. grand vision for poets. Wine
S, in^ ? h thl i ng ’/ Dd was not bad for kindling a
55®.*? br , ain of genius; but lovely woman could
make it look very small. That’s our experience,
every three months. But Catullus
was not only a sweet poet; he was also wicked. It
adds greatly to a poet s fame if he can be wicked.
Sladen isn t wicked—which is a pity. If Sladen
# r< ? w wicked, then you’d hear genius. What
matter about the lock-up? Surely you don’t mean
that a poet is to dam his flowing soul, and put a
rag over his rolling- eye, merely because you have
an old lock-up ( We hope these remarks have led
you round to take in good part our rhymed para-
phrase. Fou will just sit back, taking care not to
crusn your improver, will play with the little
tress behind your ear, and will say, “How
wicked I Then you will read it again and fasten
it on the waxen tablets of your memory, and will
not forget it while you live. But if it do occur
to you to eave ’alf a brick, heave it at Catul-
lus. He can sit indoors and nurse his head, but
we have to go out with the baby. Now. then
What is lighter than a feather, what is lighter than
a feather ?
is , lighter, if yeur reason isn’t blind;
Ha, the dust! What, then, is lighter than the dust
m windy weather ?
Well, the wind, itself, is lighter, you will find.
Ha, the wind, itself! the wind, itself! A lighter
thing, I ask you for?
Well, woman’s heart is lighter than the wind.
Ha, woman’s heart! A lighter thing I now must
vainly task you for ?
No; one other thing is lighter—’tis her mind.
The plantation of Catalpa trees at Coota-
mundra is progressing splendidly. The tree, which
is native to American soil, is of great size, is
impervious to damp, and has remarkably vigor-
ous growth. Its timber is specially suited for
bridge-building and for railway sleepers. The
Minister for Mines, who recently inspected the
plantation at Cootamundra, intends having the
catalpa extensively planted in other suitable parts
of the colony.
A Hunter’s Hill resident'complains <o us
that at a meeting convened by the Mayor there
to get public baths at the foot of AJexandra-
street, some affluent gentlemen, possessing com-
fortable baths of their own, objected to the erec-
tion of public ones because such would be. with
the aid of a telesoope, within sight of their fami-
lies. It seems to us it is one of those cases where
people who are well off might think a little of
others who are not. Sharks render open bathing
dangerous ; and it is hard if the mass population
of a waterside suburb are to be debarred from
having public baths unless there is some stronger
reason than that above given. Families, we would
gently suggest, need not look through telescopes
unless they feel oompelled to ; and as far as any
panorama of unadorned nature is concerned, we
are assured that the tig urea in the private baths
are not absolutely invisible to any one who hap-
pens to go by at the hour they are occupied. We
den t like selfishness.
The principles of primitive Christianity
approve themselves to every disinterested reaso-
n'll o? ( L are ’. 1 £ facfc ’ asraig-ht be expected, intui-
tive in every bosom. Perpetually obscured and
corrupted by human selfishness, pride, and hypo. <
crisy, those principles nevertheless constantly !
struggle for recognition. Theology—that deadly j
foe of religion—is constantly in need of reforma-
tion. isavonarola was one of the earJier reformers.
The wprld was not quite ripe for him Then, as
the universal sense of mankind revolted against
tne corruptions and hypocrisy of an age which,
while professing Christianity, belied its every pre-
cept, the series of protestors, Huss, Luther, Calvin,
struck a note which found a far-reaching echo.
Then Protestantism itself began to corrupt, and
reformer succeeded reformer. Parties of sectaries
pledged to simpler and more primitive practice
came into existence : Puritans, Quakers, Wes-
leyans. Wesley and w hitfield were consider-
able reformers. But they have been some
time, and the time is about arrived when a new
be expected to reform Wesleyanism.
wnitheld was denounced on exactly the grounds
"Chich Canon Shutt.leworth, a minor canon
or st. iauls is now being abused in England.
Canon Shuttleworth, with a little handful of
Church of England clergy, has taken to preaching
C1 Vi! 8t i an socialism, and among the coiruptiy
orthodox a vel' has been raised, just as if the prin-
ciples of primitive Christianity and the principles of
socialism were not identical. The orthodox accu-
sation against Whitfield has been preserved for us
by fielding, who puts it into the mouth of Parson
Barnabas, in a disputation with the single-
minded Parson Adams, it is worth reproduc-
ifW uow:—“ Sir,” said he, turning to
Adams, this fellow’s writings are levelled
tbe clergy. He would reduce us to
the example ot the primitive ages, forsooth. . . .
He pretends to understand the Scriptures literally,
and would make mankind believe tuat the poverty
and low estate which was recommended to the
Church in i’s infancy, and was only a temporary
aoccrine, adapted to her under persecution, was
to be preserved in her flourishing condition. Sir
the principles of Toland, Woolston, and all the
freethinkers, are not calculated to do half the
mischief, as those professed by this fellow and his
followers. These objections to Whittield would
serve exactly to define the objections against
Canon Shuttleworth and his colleagues, and also
against a Boman Catholic monk, Father Gerard
who just before the last mail left, preached in
London; some of his questions and home-thrusts
at professing Christians, whose daily pratice was
in open contradiction to their creed, were so
direct and pointed as to have seemed almost sai-
they no i b .® en tinged with infinite
pathos. Christian chaiity, the preacher declared
m effect, was no “will-o’-the-wisp,” no beautiful
theory to bo reverenced in the abstract, but a
command to be put into daily pratice. Then came
rhH,P C ' ers quick question ; Do professing
Christians id our day aet up to this commandment
which is not optional- but absolute ? Do they visit
the sick, food the hungry, clothe the naked ? If
they did, ne went on, this world of ours would be
something quite other from what it is~a world of
sorrows and sufferings unheeded and unaided.
This is quite as shocking as was Whitfield: and
Canon Shuttleworth is just as bad. He also is a
tunHte&i? 0 £ retend ? understand the Scrip-
ChrtstS assertsfor example, that when
d .. T ? eIIa11 thou hast, and give it to the
Jifmw rt 13 for a «amel to pass through
infr, e Xf of- 2, needle than tor a rich man to enter
what He ° f Hea Y en ’” He really meant
He wild, and was not. as we ort odox and
re®po9fable people know He was, merely pro-
a conundrum which only a parson could
didn’~t I< rnnnn 80 Yfj and '7 hicb ’ When solved,
anv Prifflfal 11 anything particular. Vou see that
ton re t cnd h f mai i w l'° has the presumption
that these texts mean what they say,
den?if da , rnn , f j the Archbishop of Canterbury, and
m G naf Vi e tion Hor Majesty the Queen 1 It
Standing fn°fo e V b^°^ vI ? u ? to the meanest under-
fact ’ HJ 8 Obvious to ail the meanest
nnf e mAQ^ d i a2 ’*T. eitber that these teachings did
that our Saviour had not
th£ f ® ell^ s °f Her Majesty and
ABhop4ofp 4 of Canterbury, and several Dukes,
nnw L ?n d S'" erBtc \ ne ’ the big mean banker (who is
now in Heaven), and all the Sydney Calico
Anri m nf S o would be a ® e cted by 6ueh opinions.
4aoh difi?Yi?u* no oao will beli v that He would
;;® a °h dl^ lo > al ty» or insubordination, or want of
respeet tor ones betters, ©rla kof deference to
worth J ?,“i ll a eB- So tl . iat settlos it, and puts Whit-
™>r“fl aa(l Savonarola, and Canon Duckworth
court at once 1 ! 6 thC Socialistie crew < out of
The all airs of Messrs. Masou Bros, of
ber Y ANITY Fair of the 9th Decem-
ber with subject for comment, in connection with
mnv'tto 0 ! tU throw infc o a limited liability com-
pany the two concerns—Robert Mason and Co
required ftlSr ~nd°f ’ Bydnej \ Tho capital
required is ±,ioU.UOU, and trora a certificate sicimH
ave a r£f(f n? l t hA^ OUD « antB ap * ,ears that the
average protits or the two Arms for the last three
SwtalT n v U o«»?’l?iS S r r ‘ ,,irmm - “"1 sSSrtthS
callcd*uD C Tdfi rG<luired at Aliou.OOO, £70,000 to be
called up. A discrepancy somewhere.
There are seven kinds of English knights
A man may be a Knight Bachelor, withneitw
d r BB ii^ ds:e ’ n< £ beyond the empty thle
of I lr .: : a ora Knight of the Garter, theThistll
the Bath, St. Patrick, St Michael »n i «<- iuistie,
or the Star of India. The Order of*St* & rfi:c ,’
H* <l** ®any othe7S‘b r a.°th“e
Knight Grand Cross, Knight Commander and
Companion, on y the first two carrying the “ sfr ”
Sir Henry Parkes and Sir John Robertann ou -
tlie second grade ; Charley Hoborts t!2L n
and other eminent Australians third’
The iiboon is blue with scarlet stripe; and fhi
motto, Ampiclum melioris <vvi, which for ihf
benefit of several distinguished Australian* JhY
wear it. we may exDlain mcanj •. uaDS who
better things.*' P meaD3 An omen of
A piece of real good news comes to us
from Europe, and from that particular portion ol
Europe—Russia—whence cheerful intelligence but
seldom issues. Briefly, then, it would appear that
a manufacturer of Tula (the Russian Birming-
ham) has succeeded in turning out an improved
rifle. It is of the repeating kind - so very repeat-
ing, in fact, that it’s warranted to Are thirty-six
shots a minute, with a second or two to spare
Such weapons as this are decidedly calculated to
curtail the length of campaigns, so Russia has
done a little something for civilization at last. Wo
have cabled our congratulations to the Emperor.
THE “ REPEATER.”
£ or a S e «> history’s pages
Reveal that she hasn’t moved fast 1 K
In civilization, the great Russian nation
Has made an advancement at last,
Ey a rifle inventing, contrived for preventing
“ tm ,? ee ? to f 10( > frequent fighting- *
LhI beg?n X it) 0 th ® minute " (when once they
Will make battles few, but exciting.
woum^s’
‘ \ es, say you love another,
rou wish she was your bride
Continue for to love her yet,
kor time will turn the tide.”
bit e of ha R^dflla a thIt C °^n t n{, VOd i 0 digest that little
iSiKte’! 11086 “
“’m££S‘ffi’3SSS5S5£ , ° rai W'
wtS. thfuJ51K,5»r I SS!?J M m."
Isabella?”— swain. Do you see,
Ifc A^iF™ 0 U v ■ U i"° e his miud * that’s flat,'
A him roar aGd shriek and rave
And if ho was upset like that.
Why, who d yo there to get a shave ?
Health ttenewer ” re,
JSSSfibSS?*’ fssg;
Letters.
[FOM THE BULLETIN.]
Ah, Jack, my boy, do you think of me now and
Txr , of those you left behind,
When the Royal Dane set out on the sea, as we
prayed for a favouring wind,
Ana gazed, with our hearts in our throats, o’er the
waves till our eyes with tears were blind ?”
“ Ah, mother, dear, I think a lot, but it’s many a
year since then, y
And I’ve risen fast, and am honoured much, and
sway by speech and pen,
lor now I’m one of the leading lights among
Australian men.”
“ But, Jack, my boy, poor Jinny is gone that used
to live on the hill;
You lo yed her onoe, but her father died, and
Death writes a heavy bill,
And herself and her mother lost the home, for
the landlord had his will.”
“ Ah ’™° t A er \ d u ear > I’m sorry to hear that Jinny
went to the wall,
But „,i’ m A leadi , [ ?* ? Australian now, and I cannot
aII ora to call
A landlord names, whatever he does, or I write
my own downfall.”
“ But, Jack, my boy, the village is bare; there’s
only a few of us now;
Ihe M Graths are dead, the O’Briens are gone—
the*’6 Bno use saying how;
The farms are made into large estates, and
there s no work for the plough.”
“ Ah ’'!\ otl Yr r ’ d£ ;ar, I’m sorry to hear that the fine
old village is bare;
The laws are bad, the Crown is deaf, and I often
rise to swear,
11 leading Australian, and remember I
“ Ah, Jack, my boy, there was a time when the son
of your father’s race
Wo iL'd , not be cowed to speak for his home,
whatever his rank or place;
Would speak his thought, and stand to his
_ speech, and fling the rank in their face,
*«• Ah, Jack, my boy 1”
THE WOOLLOOMOOLOO-WATERLOO AFFAIRS.
“ THE DETECTIVES HAVE THESE MATTERS IN HAND.”
“Ha! a footprint, apparently of a young
girl.”
“Ho! A noise! This is important:
but ” (left buttiDg.)
“Hallo! Now, look here. You mean to say
you weren’t tearing round last night, eh


The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December. 1833.
CONTRACTS FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
J METROPOLITAN DISTRICT,
DARLING HURST GAOL,
THE NAUTICAL SCHOOL-SHIP VERNON.
I»HE RECEPTION HOUSE FOR THE INSANE,
Darlinghurst,
THE SHAFTESBURY REFORMATORY,
THE INDUSTRIAL SCHOOL FOR GIRLS,
BILOELA;
Aud all Government Establishments not otherwise
provided for.
TENDERS will bo received for this section,
separately or together.
Notice Is hereby given that Tenders will be
received at this Office, until noon of Thursday,
the 21st February next, for furnishing the supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be
required during twelve calendar months from
the Ist April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter
specified. „ ..
Printed forms of Tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at this Office, or at the Oilice of the
Comptroller-General of Prisons.
At the foot of every tender there must bo a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the performance of the contract, in the event
of the tender being accepted; and undertaking in
that event that they will severally call at the
Treasury and execute and deliver, within four-
teen days from the usual notification of accept-
ance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
performance, otherwise the tender will not be
taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from
date of notillcation of acceptance, the Govern-
ment reserves the right to advertise the contract
anew, or to accept another Tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed
“ Tender for Supplies, Metropolitan District.”
It Is to bo distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
Tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the Contractor.
N.B.—Accepted Tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice shall be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
Tenderers that their Tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract,
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
ONTRACT FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
PPLIES FOR THE PERMANENT MILITARY
FORCE,
Sydney and Newcastle.
TENDERS will be received at this Office, until
noon of Thursday, the 21st February next, for
furnishing on account of the Public Service the
supplies undermentioned, in such quantities as
may be required during twelve calender months
from the Ist April, 1884, upon the conditions here-
inafter specified.
Printed forms of Tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury, or the Brigade Office.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract in the
event of the tender being accepted, and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of accept-
ance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing sueh
performance, otherwise the tender will not be
taken into consideration.
Should the bond not |be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date of
notification of acceptance, the Government re-
serves the right to advertise the contract anew,
or to accept another tender.
Tenders should bo addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed
“Tender for Provisions for Military Force.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
Tender.
The cost of the necc ssary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the Contractor.
N.B.—Tho accepted Tender will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
Tenderers that their Tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract,
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury. New South Wales.
15th December, 1833.
fIONTRACTS FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE-
HOSPITAL FOR THE INSANE, GLADSVTLLE.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
the 21st February next, for furnishing the supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be re-
quiried, during twelve calendar months, from the
Ist April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter
specified. „ „ .
Printed forms of tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury or at the Hospital.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties agreeing to be responsible
fox the due performance of the contract in the
event of the Tender being accepted, aud under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of ac-
ceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
performance, otherwise tho Tender will not be
taken into consideration.
Should the bond net be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew
or to accept another Tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-
secretary f- r Finance atid Trade, and endorsed
“Tenders for Supplies, Gladesville.”
It is to bo distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
T< The r <'ost of the necessary Duty Stamps mu3t be
borne by the contractor.
N B.—Accepted lenders will be notified in the
Goaernment Gazette, and such notices will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders haae been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales.
15th December, 1883.
CONTRACTS FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
"HOSPITALS FOR THE INSANE, CALLAN
NOTICE is hereby given that Tenders will be
received at this Oilice until noon on THURSDAY,
the 21st February next, for furnishing the supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be re-
quired during twelve calendar months from the
Ist April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter
forms of tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may : e obtained on
application at the Treasury or at the Hospital.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum,; signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract in tho
event of tho tender being accepted, and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call at
the Treasury and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of accept-
ance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
performance, otherwise the tender will not be
taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew
or to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed,
“ Tender for Supplies, Callan Park.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
tender.
The cost!«■! the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
N. B.—Accepted Tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract,
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS
The Treasury, New South Wales,
December 15,1883.
FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
HOSPITAL FOR THE INSANE, NEWCASTLE.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
21st February next, for furnishing the supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be re-
quired during twelve calendar months, from Ist
April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter speci-
fied.
Printed forms of Tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury, or at the Hospital.
At the foot of every Tender there must be a
memorandum signed by the party tendering, and
two appi’oved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the Confract, in the
event of the Tender being accepted; and under-
taking, in that event, that they will execute and
deliver, within fourteen days from the us»al noti-
fication of the acceptance, a bond of Her Majesty
for securing such performance, otherwise the
Tender will not be taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government re-
serves the right to advertise the contract anew or
to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under Secre-
tary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “Tender
for Supplies, Newcastle.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
tender.
The cost of the necessary duty stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
N.B.—Accepted tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
7.5 th December, 1883.
fNONTRACT FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
'THE QUARANTINE ESTABLISHMENT,
LITTLE BAY.
Notice is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
the 21st February next, for furnishing the sup-
plies undermentioned, in such quantities as may
be required during twelve calendar months from
the Ist April, 188-1, upon the conditions hereinafter
specified.
Printed forms of Tender, as well as any further
particulars and information,.may be obtained on
application at the Trcasu ry.
At the foot of every 'Tender there must be a
memorandum signed by the party tendering, and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of iho contract, in the
event of the Tender being accepted; and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of
acceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing
such performance, otherwise the Tender will not
bo taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the ssid term of fourteen days from date of
notification of acceptance, the Government re-
serves the right to advertise the Contract anew or
to accept another Tender.
should be addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed
“ Tender for Supplies, Little Bay. ’
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
Tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the Contractor.
N.B.—The Accepted Tender will be notified in
the Government Gazette, and such notice will
be considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
Tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract,
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury. New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
QUARANTINE STATION, NORTH HEAD.
NOTICE is hereby given that 'TENDERS will be
received at (his Ollice until noon of TH URSDAY,
the 81st February next, for furnishing the supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be re-
quired during twelve calendar months from the
Ist April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter
specified.
Printed forms of tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract, in the
event of the tender being accepted; and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of ac-
ceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
performance, otherwise the tender will not be
taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from the
date of notification of acceptance, the Govern-
ment reserves the right to advertise the contract
anew or to accept another tender.
I enders should be addressed to the Under-Secre-
tary for inaneo and Trade, and endorsed “Ten-
ders for Supplies, North Head.”
It is to be distinctly understood that tho Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
t‘ nder.
Tho cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne bv the contractor.
N.M.—The accepted tender will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract,
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
/CONTRACTS FOR THE TUBLIC SERVICE.
COUNTRY DISTRICTS.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Office until noon of TH URSDAY,
tho 21st February next, for furnishing, on account
of the Public Service, the supplies undermen-
tioned, iu such quantities as may be required
during twelve calendar months, from the Ist
April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter speci-
fied.
Printed forms of tender, as well as aDy further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury, or at the establish-
ments for which the supplies are required.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the coutract in the
event of the tender being accepted, and under-
taking, in that event, that they will severally
execute and deliver, within fourteen days from
the usual notification of acceptance, a bond to
Her Majesty 1 or securing such performance, other-
wise the tender will not be taken into considera-
Sh'ould the bond not bo executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew,
or to accept another tender.
Bonds will only be required where the annual
supply is estimated at £l5O or over.
Separate tenders will be required for the several
services specified. _
Tenders should be addressed to the U nder-oecre-
tary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed Ten-
der for Provisions, &o.”
It is to bo distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
tender. „ , .
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
N.B.—Accepted tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and sueh notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
Gaols at—
Albury
Armidale
Bathurst
Berrima
Gaols at—
Bega
Bingera
Braid wood
Bourke
Campbelltown
Casino
Cooma
Coonabarabran
Coonamble
Deniliquin
Dubbo
Forbes
SERIES 1.
Goulburn
Maitland
Mudgee
SERIES 2.
Glen Innes
Grafton
Grenfell
Gundagai
Gunnedah
Hay
Inverell
Murrurundi
Muswellbreokj
Narrabri
Orange
Port Macquarie
Parramatta
Tamworth
Young
Queanbeyan
Singleton
Tenterfleld
Wagga Wagga
Walgett
Warialda
Wellington
Wentworth
Wilcannia
Windsor
Wollongong
yass.
For particulars of rations, &c., and conditions
of eontraet, see Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
£IONTRACTS FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
HOSPITAL FOR THE INSANE, PARRAMATTA.
Notice is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Ofiice until noon on THURSDAY,
the 31st February next, for furnishing, on account
of the Public Service, the supplies under-men-
tioned, in such quantities as may be required
during eight calendar months from the Ist April,
1881, upon the conditions hereinafter specified.
Printed forms of Tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury or at the Hospital.
At ttie foot of every Tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering, and
two approved sureties, agreeing to bo respon-
sible for the due performance or the contract, in
the event of the Tender being accepted; and
undertaking in that event that they will severally
call at the Treasury and execute and deliver,
within fourteen days from the usual notification
of acceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing
such performance, otherwise the Tender will not
be taken into consideration.
Should the Bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from notifi-
cation of acceptance, the Government reserves
the right to advertise the contract anew, or to
accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed,
“Tender for Supplies, Parramatta ”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the Contractor.
N.B. —Accepted tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract,
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
TEMPORARY HOSPITAL FOR THE INSANE,
COOMA.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERB will be
received at this Office, until noon of THURSDAY,
the 31st February next, for furnishing the Supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be
required during twelve calendar months from the
Ist Apr l, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter
specified.
Printed forms of tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury or at the Hospital.
At the foot of every Tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract, in the
event of the Tender bei r g accepted; and under-
taking in that event that they will execute and
deliver within fourteen days from the usual
notification of acceptance, a bond to Her Majesty
for securing such performance, otherwise the
tender will not be taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from the
date of notification of acceptance, the Govern-
ment reserves the right to advertise the contract
an«?w or to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under
Secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed
“ Tender for Supplies, Coema.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
Tender.
The cost of theneetssary Duty Stamp must, be
borne by the Contractor.
N.B.—Accepted Tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their Tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply, and conditions of con-
tract, see Government Gazette-
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
£IONTRACT FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
H.M.C.S. WOLVERENE.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will be
recesved at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
the 31st of February next, for furnishing the
supplies undermentioned, in such quantities as
may be required during twelve oalendar months,
from the Ist April, 1884, upon the conditions here-
inafter specified.
Printed forms of tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may bo obtained on
application at this Office.
At the foot of every tender there must bo a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to bo responsible
for the due performance of the contract, in the
event of the tender beiDg accepted, and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of
acceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing
such performance, otherwise the tender wiil not
be taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew,
or to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed
“Tenders for Supplies, H.M.C.S. Wolverene.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Gov-
ernment will not necessarily accept the lowest or
any tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
N.B.—The accepted tender will be notified in
the Government Gazette, and such notice will
be considered as an intimation to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of con-
tract, see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
»■» i ii, —.- •
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
£jONTRAOTS FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
PROTESTANT AND ROMAN CATHOLIC
ORPHAN SCHOOLS, PARRAMATTA.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
the 21st February next, for furnishing on account,
of the Public Service, the supplies undermen-
tioned, in such quantities as may be required
during twelve calendar months from the Ist
April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter speci-
fied.
Printed forms of tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury or at the Orphan
Schools.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract, in the
event of the tender being accepted, and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury, and execute and deliver within
fourteen days from the usual notification of
acceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing
such performance, otherwise the tender will not
be taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contra°t anew
or to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed,
“Tenders for Supplies, Orphan Schools.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Gov-
ernment will not necessarily accept the lowest or
any tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
N.B.—Accepted tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of con-
tract, see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
Contracts for supplies for the
GOVERNMENT ASYLUM AT SYDNEY
(HYDE PARK ASYLUM).
TENDERS will be received at this Office, until
12 o’clock on THURSDAY, the 31st February next,
for Furnishing the Supplies undermentioned, in
such quantities as may be required during twelve
callendar months from the Ist April, 1884, upon
the conditions hereinafter specified,
Printed forms of tender may be obtained at the
Treasury, or at the Office of the Manager of the
Government Asylums, where further particulars
and information may be obtained.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract, in the
event of the tender being accepted: and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury, and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of accep-
tance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
performance, otherwise such tender will not be
taken into consideration,
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from the
date of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew,
or to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-Secre-
tary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “ Tender
for Supplies, Government Asylum. Hyde Park.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the Contractor.
N.B.—Accepted Tenders will be notified in the
. Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to the unsuccess-
ful Tenderers that their Tenders have been de-
clined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract,
gee Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury of New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
CONTRACTS FOR SUPPLIES FOR THE
GOVERNMENT ASYLUMS AT GEORGE
AND MACQUARIE STREETS, PARRA-
MATTA.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until
noon of THURSDAY, the 21st February next, for
Furnishing the Supplies undermentioned, in such
quantities as may be required during twelve
calendar months, from the Ist April, 1884, upon
the conditions hereinafter specified.
Printed forms of Tender may be obtained at the
Treasury, or at the Office of the Manager of Go-
vernment Asylums, where further particulars and
information may be obtained.
At the foot of every Tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party Tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract in the
event of tVe Tender being accepted; and under-
taking, in that event, that they will severally call
at the Treasury, and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of ac-
ceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
performance (otherwise such Tender will not bo
taken into consideration).
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew
or to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-Secre-
tary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “ Tender
for Supplies, Government Asylums, Parramatta.’
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
Tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the Contractor.
N,B.—Accepted Tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
Tenderers that their Tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract ~
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE li. DIBBS.


Department of Mines,
Stock Branch,
Sydney, 19th December, 1883.
ETURNS UNDER THE RABBIT NUISANCE,
, DISEASES IN SHEEP. AND PASTURES
AND STOCK PROTECTION ACTS.
Owners of Sheep, Large Stock and Land liable to
contribution and assessment under the Rabbit
Nuisance and Diseases in Sheep Acts are reminded
that their returns must be made to the Clerks of
Petty Sessions; and those under the Pastures and
Stock Protection Acts to the respective Inspectors
of Stock, on or before the Ist January next, 1881.
ALEX. BRUCE,
Chief Inspector of Stock.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
CONTRACTS FOR SUPPLIES FOR THE GO-
VERNMENT ASYLUM AT LIVERPOOL.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until 12
o’clock on THURSDAY, the 21st February next,
for furnishing the supplies undermentioned, in
such quantities as may be required during twelve
calender months, from the Iso April, 1884, upon the
conditions hereinafter specified.
Printed forms of Tender may be obtained at the
Treasury, or at the office of The Manager of the
Government Asylums, where further particulars
and information may be obtained.
At the toot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract in the
event of the tender being accepted, and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury, and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of ac-
ceptance, a bond to Her Majesty lor securing such
performance (otherwise such tender will not be
taken into consideration).
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew
or to accept another tender.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under-Secretary
for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “ Tender for
Supplies, Government Asylum, Liverpool.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
0.8. —Accepted tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For particulars of supply and conditions of con-
tract, see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS
The Treasury, New South Wales.
15th December, 1883.
£IONTRACTS FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
forage for public departments-me-
TROPOLITAN AND PARRAMATTA
DISTRICTS.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will be
reoeived at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
the 31st February next, tor furnishing the supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be re-
quired during twelve calender months from the
Ist April, 1881, upon the conditions hereinafter
specified.
Printed forms of tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract, in the
event of the tender being accepted, and under-
taking in that event that they will call at the
treasury aud severally execute and deliver, with-
in fourteen days from the usual notification of ac-
ceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
perlormanoe, otherwise the tender will not be
tasen into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of 14 davs from date of noti-
fication of acceptance, the Government reserves
the right to advertise the contract anew or to ac-
cept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-Secre-
tary tor Finance and Trade, and endorsed “Tender
lor Forage.”
The tenders for each district will be accepted or
rejected separately.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
The forage to be delivered in bulk, as ordered ;
the net weight only, after deducting the tare, to
be charged. c'
N.B.—Accepted tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
PARTICULARS.
Maize, per bushel of 56 lb.
Or Oats, ditto 40 lb.
Bran, ditto 23 lb.
Hay, Oaten, at per ton of 2240 lb.
Ditto, Lucerne, ditto 2240 lb.
Straw, ditto 22i0 lb.
AS REQUIRED.
Forage.
METROPOLITAN DISTRICT.
All Government Establishments and Services not
otherwise provided for by contract.
PARRAMATTA DISTRICT.
All Government Establishments and Services not
otherwise provided for by contract.
G For T CO E nditi°ns of contract, see Government
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
™ 15th December, 1883.
ONTRACTS FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
FORAGE FOR THE POLICE.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
the 21st February next, for furnishing the supplies
undermentioned, in suoh quantities as may be re-
quired during twelve calender months from the
Ist April, 1881, upon the conditions hereinafter
specified.
n .^ d forms of Tender, as well as any further
f^isM& ft ssss, , s ,r tiS , o o aw^
irtEKffiSupplies Ir©r«!juired. at * h0S “'°“ ,OT
n o^. ds wil i, be required for the following stations,
K™r M Me a tropo A ltan ’ Armidale. Goulburiq
r® 4, Mudgee, Orange, Forbes, Dubbo. Malt-
N« nd n EaB h l an ' l West >< Tamworth, Doniliquin,
Narribri, Albury, and Wagga Wagga. 4
must be signed within fourteen davs
whui,*?: 4 ® of notification of acceptance, failing
which t;he contract will be liable to cancellation "
tJv en f der S BhoUld be addressed to the Under-Secre-
for For a * Dd Trad £- and en< iorsed “Tender
Jff&lfSkoh^lXT tb,n on 6 “ aUo " 10 be
rejected’separatelyf o *’ ““ tlo ° be ao “> ,tea «
meiWw?i distinctly understood that the Govern-
tender U 1 neccssanl y aocept the lowest or any
bomeby th°e f Stemp muBt 4)6
thenoteIBi, 1 B i,* 0 b< T delivered in bulk, as ordered :
charged Bht oHijr ’ after deducting the fare to be
GovFuT.tv C v e nP t r® d tend ers will be notified in the
Gazette, and such notice will be
tenderers t hut-t w n V ma , 4 * o nalso to unsuccessful
tenaerers that their tenders have been declined.
„ , PARTICULARS.
Maize, per bushel of 66 lbs.
Or Oats „ 40 lbs.
gran 20 lbs.
Hay per ton of 2240 lbs.
Straw „ 5840 lb*.
Stations.
Probable JNo. of
Horses to be
Foraged.
Stations.
robable Sfo. of
Horses to be
Feragred.
Metropolitan Dis-
trict :
Depot
Northern District:
Armidale ..
Uralia
Walcha ..
Bendemeer
Bundara ..
Inverell ..
Tenterfleld
Glen Innes
Maclean
Ashford
Grafton
Casino
Lismore
Tweed
Lawrence
Dalmorton
Emmarille
Ulmarra ..
Ballina
Tingha
Wardell ..
Wilson’sD’wnfall
Woodburn
Blick’s ltiver
Stannifer
Chatsworth lal’d
Bon Lomond
Copmanhurst
Brushgrove
Cudgcn ..
Bolivia
Drake
Southern District
Goulburn..
Collector ..
Delegate ..
Dalton
Kiandra ..
Buckley’sCr’sing
Bateman’s Bay..
Tarrago ..
Marulan ..
Bungonia..
Temora ..
Blnda
Gunning ..,
Krawarree
Yass
Bnrrowa ..
MoraDgarell
Binalong ..
Tuena
Taralga
Murruinburrah..
Young
Wombat ..
Maringo ..
Cootamundry ..
Crook well..
Dryburgh.,
Braidwood
Cooma
Micelago ..
Bombala ..
MongarJow
Queanbeyan
Wollongough ..
Araluen
Ginninderra
Cobargo
Major’s Creek
Nelllgen ...
Nimity belle
Moruya
Eden
Bega
Bungendore
Seymour .
Gundaroo
Panbula
Pudman’s Creek
Candelo
Frogmore.. *
Bethungra
Wheeo
Jindabyne
Eurobodalla
Eastern District
Campbelltown
Berrima ..
Camden .
Picton
Parramatta
Ryde
Richmond
Windsor ..
Liverpool .
Penrith
shellharbour
Wollongong
Kiama
Shoalhaven
Milton
Dapto
St. Alban’s
Smithfleld
Wilberforce
Appin
Broughton Creek
Mittagong
Bull!
Mobs Vale
Robertson
Wilton
Kangaroo Valley
Peat's Ferry
Western District:
Bathurst ..
Bartley ..
Wyagdon..
Sofala
Rockley ..
Hill End ..
Hargraves
Oberon
Rylstone ..
Ilford
Mudgee
Trunkey Creek.
Talbragar..
Warren
Mundoora
Orange
Molong
Wellington
Stony Creek
Carcoar ..
Gongolgen
Canowindra
Cobar
Cowra
Forbes
Rydal
Blayney ...
Eugowra ..t
Toogong
Dubbo
Coonable ..
Canonbar..
Lithgow ...
Parkos
Bourko ...
Condobolin
Curringulpah
Burraga ...
Barringun
Goolaaong
25
gffir ..
Brewarina
Grenfell ..
Gulgong ...
Dandaloo...
Western District
continued :
Girrilambone
Capertee ..
Coolah
Wollar ..
Marsden
O’Connell Plains
Quambone
Oudal
Nymagee ..
Curban
Mo’nt Macdonald
WallerawaDg
Louth
Wyndeyer
Timbrebongie
Wanaaring
North-eastern Dis-
trict :
Maitland (East &
West ..,
Wollombl..
Singleton
MuBwellbrook ...
Scone
Port Macquarie
Kempsey ...
Taree
Boat Harbour .
Cessnock..
Newcastle
Gostord
Raym’nd Terrace
Stroud
Dungog ..
Paterson ...
Casilts
Merriwa
Mount Vincent..
Denman ...
Tinonee ...
Nambuccra
Forster (Cape
Hawke)
Howe’s Valley ..
Lawriston (Cam-
den Haven) ..
Gladstone..
Bulah Delah
Broke
Cooranbong
Gresford ..
Branxton ..
Lochinvar
Clarence Town.
Jerry's Plains .
Cundletown
Gloucester
Copeland
Wingham..
Kerrabee
Hawke’s Nesl
(Tea G’rdens)...
Lambton
Wallsend
Minmi
Arakoon
Fern mount
Bungwall Flat..
N o r t h-w e s t e r n
District:
Tam worth
Gunnedah
Barraba ..
Wallabadah
Nundle
Murrurundi
Currabubula
Somerton..
Manila
Black Creek
(Blackville)
Quirindi ..
Moonbi ...
Carroll
South- western Dis-
trict:
Deniliquin
Hay
Wentworth
Moulamein
Moama
Mount Hope
Carathool
JerilCerie
Balranald
Euston
Booligal
Wiicannia
Menindie
Pooncarie
Mathoura
Darlington Point
Gilgunnia..
Mount Gipps
Tocumwal
Hillston ...
LakeCudgelico..
Tibooburra and
Milperinka
MountlJcpe
Maude
Mossgiel
Euabalong
Lake Victoria
(Salt Creek)
Clare
Namoi District:
Narrabri ...
Boggabri...
Wee Waa...
Piliiga
Walgett ...
Goodooga..
Yetman ...
Pulourie ...
Grawin ...
Carinda ...
Angledool
Millie
Moree
Meroo
Warialda ..
Bingera ..
Baradme ...
Coonabarabran...
Tam bar Springs
Mogil Mogil
Boggabilla
Collarendebri .
Mungundie
Murray District:
Albury ...
Corowa ...
Ten-mile Creek.
Kyamba ...
larcutta ..
Wagga Wagga .
Tumberumba .
Mulwala ...
Walbundrie
Tumut
Adelong ...
Gundagai...
Jugiong ...
Narandera
Urana
Reedy Flat
Howlong
Junee
Hanging Rock..
Gerogery...
Bowna
Ournie
For conditions q(
oontract see
Government
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
Giticura
«?V'V
GS
Eczema on Face & Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
FOR EVERY FORM OF
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
JSs'C
tN
*
O; '
Scrofula on neck.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
T\I3FIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
Rheum, Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with loss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura Resot,vest
internally, and Cuticura and Ctttioura Soap
externally.
Bad Blood, Scrofulous, Inherited and Conta-
gious Humors, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patches in the Throat and Mouth, Abscesses,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches, Sores, Scurvy,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Organs,
Dropsy, Erysipelas, Enoemia, Pyaemia, Leucorrhcea,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
One Hundred Testimonials with each pack-
age and Sworn to before the British Consulate
repeat this story : I have been a terrible sufferer
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have been
obliged to shun public places by means of my dis-
figuring humors; have had the best physicians;
have spent hundreds of dollars and got no real
relief until I used the Cuticura Resolvent which
have cured me and loft my skin and blood as pure
as a child's.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
/"'ll JTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri-
tier, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicina,
Jelly tor external use), instantly allays Itchier and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh j
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticiira Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies, are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
For Sale by ull retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout the colonies. Price,
Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes, $1.00;
Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shaving
Soap, 15 cent 3; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO per
bottle. Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston,
U.S.A.
35*
Sewing Machines.
Do not buy, until you carefully examine the
New No. 7.
Among the Ancient Hebrews this Number signified
COMPLETENESS and PERFECTION.
The Ancient Syrians used it to express
FULLNESS AND PERFECT SATISFACTION.
SEVEN is also regarded as a Lucky Number, and he who
buys the AMERICAN No. 7
SURELY GETS A PRIZE.
Recognizing the peculiar fitness of this application, we
have called our new Machine
THE NUMBER SEVEN,
to indicate its Perfect Completeness, and because we believe
it will Fully and Perfectly Satisfy our Patrons.
RETAIL DEPOT :
567 a GEORGE STREET
(BRICKFIELD HILL), SYDNEY.
The SMITH Organs
Have no rival
on the Planet.
Sole Agents:
GRAMPTON
AND
BRUCE.
m
itxsrsjnin
IffHl
Pit
m
# h
>).?
4&/&
l.' x i
i
281
GEORGE ST.,
OPPOSITE
HUNTER ST.
FINEST STOCK OF PIANOS AND ORGANS IN SYDNEY.
McCLEERY’S HOTEL
Corner of KING and CASTLEREAGH STREETS. ?
w private ba"Vp"a®I: EERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
EZeefSlxsin.,
STAR & GARTER HOTEL
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Ab no expense has been spared in the erection of the Hotel nremisp* m rr
visitors and others the best accommodation, cSm bined tJitlfd COuntl T


F
URNITURE SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
ALL HATSTANDS, end
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
tBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
LA WING-ROOM SUITES, in EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
H
Ii 1
D
w
ALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c. f
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
URNITURE.—THE LARGEST STOCK IN
THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, O'Conneli-strefet.
ARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
EDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, ;>r with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Gr»_at variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
IGHT-POUND BEDKO.OM SUITES.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
HEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 30a;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fram 355; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s 6d; Tables, from 7s 6d; Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 30s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 355; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
F
M
B
E
c
1
r
'M
£35
PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound,
strong', and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
o
VERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
o
CCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
c
HIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
E
ASY OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
D
,RA WING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
1 A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d.
c
HAIR BEDSTEADS, forming' CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
T.
lOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
D
■INING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
1 DININ&-ROOM SUITE, comprising 5-FEET
early English sideboard, mahogany
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two Laves: LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
HAMMOCK CHAIR-
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
J
ARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
F
IRAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
F
IRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
B
i EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
> new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
B
BDDING.—ALL descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Oon-
nell-street.
w-
'ASHSTANDS, with marble. 35s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
G
ARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah Chairs,
_ INDIAN LONG-ARIVf LOUNGES, BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
B
ENT WOOD FURNITURE. —A very complete
i Assortment; beet make, latest prices.
SOCIAL.
The oonsecration of their new Hall created
great interest among the Freemasons; it was, we
believe, the most fluttering’ event that has yet
in the history of th-s colony agitated the mystic
brethren. The hall is a nohle building, completely
fitted, in Castlereagh-street. near the corner of
Goulburu-street, and quite gives a high tone to
the locality. The locality wants it. Hundreds of
Masons, from all over this colony and others,
gathered in full regalia, and marched at 2 o’clock
to Christ Church for sermon and service. As
nearly ad wore full evening dress, belltoppers,
white ties and glovts, the procession up George-
street was a sight most unusual. And as the sun
was scorching hot and the march aggravatingly
slow, the perspiring Masons must have been
heartily glad it was unusual. Meantime, at the
hall, visitors—some Masons, some not—crowded in,
until the gallery and main floor were tilled. Below,
ladies sat facing one another in long rows or
chairs, with a few male spectators scattered at in-
tervals among them, and they waited from 2 till
4 o’clock. We don’t disguise the fact; it was dull.
Some good music was given by Messrs. .1. Massey
and C. B. Foßter, Hallewell, Johnson, Peir, and
Gordon. The vocalism was appreciated, but the
softer parts of the piano playing were indistinctly
heard. All the time. Press artists were busily
sketching the scene from various points. Some-
how or other, a vague rumour spread that the
ladies were to be regaled with ice-cream and coffee,
but the idea gradually grew fainter and fainter. So
did the ladies. Soon after four, the procession
returned, and the ceremony of oonsecration went
on, consisting of a Bible reading (being portion of
Solomon’s prayer at the dedication of the Temple),
addresses and responses, marching und hymns,
and sprinkling of corn, wine and oil on the ‘Lodge’
or Ark. All the brethren wore full regalia. Mr.
Farnell’s speech was a capital one: it was interest-
ing, and put clearly the little matter of variance
between the N.S.W. and English lodges. It was
road from manuscript. Masonic applause is pecu-
liar; it consists of one thump on the floor with a
rod, only one. It was nearly six o’clock when the
formalities concluded, and strangers then retired.
Many ladies wore good average costumes, but the
display of millinery on the whole was not'remark-
able. In the evening the Grand Master of N.8.W.,
Mr. J. S. Farnell, gave a banquet at the Oxford
Hotel to Victorian Masons. Grand Master Mr G.
S. Copuin, spoke at some length, and hoped to see
a similarly tine Masonic Hall soon dedicated in
Melbourne. On Thursday, Dr. Tarrant invited a
number of Masons to a harbour trip in the steam
launch Nea. They visited the Vernon, Ryde,
Gladesville, and landed at Circular Quay, at 5 p.m.
That night a grand ball occurred, of which we
give a separate aocount. On Friday evening at the
new hall, the Grand Lodge of N.S.W. gave a ban-
quet, over 100 being present, including Grand
Masters Farnell and Ooppin; and vocalists and the
Young Australian band provided music. On ra-
turday there was a picnic, noarly 200 ladies and
gentlemen starting in the Ajax at 11 a.m. They
went up the Parramatta River, down to Manly,
and, in fact, nearly everywhere, the band playing,
oorks popping, couples dancing merrily. A few
speeches over a Compagnoni luncheon, endless
quailing of champagne, and return to Sydney
about 5 o’clock. All through the festivities of this
great Masonic outbreak, the Grand Secretary, Mr.
Nicholas Weekes, was a most able manager, and it’s
fair to say he provided an almost unparalleled
weekes dissipation.
Sladen-like, wo string together
Words with little you know;
Wrlto them lightly, with a feather.
Not to give offence, you know.
Telling how the Masons merry
Han their opening ball so gay,
Everything was "grand,” and very
Pleasant was the hall so gay.
Pleasure helped the hours to hasten,
And, you bet a dollar on,
Many a maid as well as Mason
Had a little " collar ” on.
And, in corners cool and lonely.
Many a one there bandy is;
Tales were told, to one ear only.
Sweeter far than candy is.
Oft-times in the lancers’ chain,
Lest the dear girl slip, you know,
Charles Adophus presses Jane
With Masonic " grip,” you know.
Tom says that May’s eyes divine
Are lakes that Love goes tishing in,
Mav gives Tom some secret “ sign,”
With much earnest wishing in.
Round the door, for all to see,
Safe from where the “crashers ” are,
With a look of bored ennui.
All the gentle mashers are.
Lightfoot maidens skim the floor,
Light we’d have this jingle be,
Makes us wonder more and more
How men still can single be!
Those who’d Beauty’s charms unravel,
Seek it in all styles to And,
But one type you’d have to travel
Very many miles to find;
Not a lady on the scene
Fairer or more pretty was,
Thau the belle in cream and green
From the Sister city was.
Now, our little say we’ve had.
Poor, we know, the ditty is;
Truth to tell, almost as bad
As Kendall’s own “Black Kitty” is!
Any doubt as to whether the Masons’ ball could bo
a sucoess in midsummer was set at rest on Thurs-
day, for there was a very fine gathering. A
spacious cloakroom was provided for ladies to
upcloud, and the gentlemen popped their para-
phernalia through pigeon-holes and received a
ticket in the style so familiar to those who visit
their “uncle” when times are hard. Light re-
freshments were available ton the first floor, till
the full supper was announced at midnight at the
top of the building. This hour was rather late,
and, consequently, the room atonce became over-
crowded ; but, in spite of the attack which the
crowd made, tout d coup, on the tables, there were
plenty of dainties for all, and a variety and quality
of wines quite unusual at public balls. The
dancers found plenty of room on the floor, which
soon wore into good condition; and. though one
might suppose the two rows of pillars which run
lengthwise down the hall would prove incon-
venient, it was not so: they rendered it easier to
avoid collisions. On every pillar was a large
placard programme, with the air of every dance
against ft, engraved specially by Leigh and (Jo.,
who also did the pocket programmes. These were
liinp and slippery, of special Masonic design, and
rather pretty. A large portion of floor was car-
peted and s<-'t with couches and chairs, as a reserve
to which the notable people were conducted on
their entry. First came the Mayor and Mayoress,
escorted to their places by Mr. P.D.G.M. James
Hunt. Next, the Grand Master of Victoria, the
Hon. G. S. Coppm, was announced, who was ac-
companied by a son and two daughters. Ho was
met by Mr. Farnell, and greeted with Masonic
musical honours. Then the Grand Master of New
South Wales Lodge, the Hon. J. S. Farnell, made
his official entry, being similarly honoured as he
walked through an avenue of rods crossed Over-
head. With him came a family party—Mr. Farnell,
jun., Miss Farnell, Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Martin, &c.
The opening quadrille was about half through
when, at half-past nine, His Excellency Lord
Loftus was announced, and the assembly fell back
on either side —Red Sea fashion—while he
passed through. He was, of course, received by
the two Grand Masters, and followed by Mr. Un-
win and Lieutenant Nathan. The quadrille was
then re-started, and the chief set was led by the
Governor and Mrs. Hardie vis-ti-vis to the Mayor
and Mrs. Hunt, while Mr. Hunt and Miss G. Coppin
faced the Hon. G. Coppin and Miss Farnell. The
governor was then shown about the building, and
spoke a few words of congratulation over the fes-
tive fizz upstairs. Ho was presented to various
high officials, and after an hour’s stay retired to
national music. As the evening advanced, it was
fairly cool. On one side of the hall a series of
double doors, which open (outwards, in case of
aocident) right into the night air, afford good ven-
tilation; and the gallery, which is roomy and low,
is a delightful place. It was constantly occupied,
as were the rooms also for smoking, card playing,
and allaying the pangs of thirst. On the floor,
Mrs. James Hunt looked her very best in a dress
of pale blue ottoman broche, liberally trimmed
witn glistening beading of chenille fringe to match
and light trailing of small blue flowers; long blue
gloves completed a most graceful toilet. Miss
oppin wore cardinal satin bodice and pink-pleated
skirt; and Miss O. Coppin pink veiling and satin,
with flowing hair. The two fair daughters of the
Grand Master, who came in with the Grand Chap-
lain, Mr. ft. V. Gale, wore cognate colours—Miss
Farnell, a full warm blue, and Mrs. Martin a pretty
fresh ereen, both set off tastefully with white lace.
Mrs. Gale, attired in rich chaudron broche and
skirt of deep chesnut brown satin, enjoyed the
scene from the gallery. A little brunette, in a
terracotta figured ottoman, was full of life and
colour; a dark-haired Randwicker was also fond
of colour—a very brilliant cardinal satin. Tall and
fair was Miss Stewart in a neat pink satin and
white lace; and a little queen dancer from Peter-
sham wore pink also, with narrow ruby ribbons
and llowers, and a Grecian coiffure. Mrs. F. J.
Ril«y’s was another warm-hued costume, a hand-
some brocade of two blues, with pale blue satin
skirt trimmed with white lace and pink roses. Miss
Fyfo combined pink llama and broche with a train
and ruff, white lace epaulettes, stringed poarls
in the hair. A remarkable dtess was of rich
blue satin, amply trained and edged with a lace
ruche, the front skirt being of a shade paler blue,
and the whole dress studded with roses. Rich and
pretty was the dress of a lady from a fashionable
open-sea suburb—corded silk of delicate fawn,
trimmed with costly white lace—and it attracted
many a look of admiration towards its generously
proportioned wearer. Mrs. Moulton displayed a
distingue costume of palest heliotrope broche.
and sleeveless, the front skirt a mass or
fine white flounced lace, and the whole dress beau-
tified with a costly trimming of ostrich feathers;
armlets and bracelets of massive gold. A white
dotted net, a good deal distended with a waterfall
back, satin bodice, was nice, and the only one of
its kind. A tall sylphic young lady, decked a
simple white with real ivy leaves and tile-coloured
ribbons. Mrs. Sadler’s toilet was of tasteful white
figured silk, the skirt of small rows of white lace,
and looked prettily piquant. Mrs. Roberts wore
a fine pale blue and white lace; Miss Wallace, who
is a visitor from the Southern capital, a cream
broche and emerald. Mrs. A. Burne was very fair
and graceful in cream broohe; and her sister, Miss
Dangar, wore white set off with bows and flowers
of plum tints, and a large bouquet fixed behind
the left shoulder. A little dark beauty wore the
very ehic-est puffed cream satin, with half-sleeves
and very bouffant draperies, and even some of the
worshipful grand masters could hardly master their
worshipful feelings as the stylish little maid circled
about the floor, in another cream satin which was
handsome, the burgundy velvet lining of the ruff
continued down the front and liiled the square
opening on the bust, narrow rows of burgundy
velvet were round the hem, and were also used as
bows; gloves harmonised, and the hair was taken
on top in fashionable style. One of the choicest
dresses was of thin white satin, the bodice sleeve-
less, and tho square front filled with softest cob-
webby lace, skirt of fine lace, hair dressed in twists
on the crown; and a scarlet hollyhock added to an
interesting ensemble. One lady in orearn striped
satin and gigantic flowers wore behind her left
shoulder what looked like a monster horseshoe
formed of white chrysanthemums The rendez-
vous were n«med after country lodges; and the
whole affair was one that the Masons and their
friends will always look back upon with pleasure.
Few spent a pleasanter holiday, albeit a
quiet one, than those on the magnificent Orient.
The temperate weather, tidiness of the great
steamship itself, lively races, lovely sex, luxurious
lunoh, the patrician smile of Lord Augustus, and
several other things, combined to mako the flag-
ship popular. A large quota of public men came
and went during the day, including His Excellency
the Governor, the Mayor, and several Ministers.
Sir Alfred, and an array of nautical men of all
grades, from the captain of the ship to the juven-
ile commanders of cockleboats and dingies. At
the banquet, in the saloon, the Mayor was chair-
man, the Postmaster-General vice-chairman, and
a number of toasts were honoured. On the
various decks and promenades, chairs were scat-
tered plentifully round, and friendly parties were
formed along the bulwarks; some visited the
saloon or the social music hall, and others walked
to and fro to see and be seen. Almost every con-
ceivable variety of toilet was displayed, from
plain black or pure white, to all the various tints
of compound colours or the merging shades of
the du'dal plaids. The black cashmere costume of
a tall fair lady was, in taste and make, perfectly
neat. More conspicuous was a dress of which the
close-fitting bodice and skirt were |of a woolleny
cream material, and the sleeves, hip band, and hem
of skirt of black velvet. Gayer still was the pink
nun’s veiling, with long box pleats, and liberally
bunched, of a pretty, fair girl. A yet fairer
wearer wore cream veiling, with bunches of plum
and crushed strawberry ribbon, looking very
nice, indeed. A fine dark stone cashmere was
certainly stylish, in redingoto shape, with large
ruched neckband, satin underskirt, and gloves to
match. A slim grace was well suited by a grey
homespun tunic, the lappels turned back with
purple satin, this also composing the underdress.
Several tartans were seen, a large patterned
zephyr of purply-pinlt being nicely made, and
enhanced by a poke hat lined with lightest apricot
lace. A tall girl's china silk dress of the usual
cane-colour was so neat that nothing else can be
said about it; and a brown bolland dress ranks
about the same, only it was edged with a scarlet
roman scroll, and the belt was made of that also.
Two young sisters neat and nice in shepherd’s-
check gingham. Two other sisters wore fiounced-
skirt. loose-bodied dresses of lightest muslin, with
a delicate wave-pattern running through it, and
were really charming. And the remainder of the
nattiest toilets were chiefly white, which is extra-
ordinarily popular. They are all very similar,
some will have gathers and tucks, some not; some
be flounced and bunched, some plain; some em-
broidered. One nest blonde tried a golden belt
and gloves with success; others had coloured bows
on. The girls are all for lawn now, and as nice as
need be.
« • •
Some day, possibly, there will be a decent
promenade in Sydney. At present the only walk-
ing block consists of three tacks—up George-
street, across King-street, and along Pitt-street to
Market-street. A business man who could travel
this routo any fine afternoon at 5 o’clock, without
being bustled otf the kerb and parachuted in the
left eye, at least twenty-five times, would be in-
ordinately smart. This state of things is due to
three causes. Feminine ignorance of the rule of
the road. Feminine disregard of it directly any-
one tells her what it is. Feminine feeling that
men have no business on the sidewalk anyway.
* * *
A new deviation from social routine, in
Oakland (Am.), lately, was a Wish-bone party for
young people. It comprised all sorts of novel and
ingenious games, interspersed with dancing.
There was the very old custom of breaking a hole
in a suspended bag of candy, and a scramble; then
the whole party had their fortunes told by the aid
of real cabbage heads. Young ladies were initi-
ated into the mysteries of Freemasonry—they en-
joyed that. Each young one received half a wish-
bone tied with ribbon, and the colours of the
ribbons decided who should be partners. Snap-
dragon followed supper. Then all siugle folks
passed through a darkened room, precisely at
midnight, while a solemn bell kept tolling, and
were shown with much dread ceremony the face
and form of their future partners on a large
mirror, each apparition fading away in filmy haze
to slow music. The idea was taken from Dumas’s
play of “ Honri III.” Those are the kind of parties
that dwell in children’s memories.
* * *
The Marquis of Normanby, Governor of
Victoria (accompanied by Lieut. Le Patourel),_ ar-
rived in Sydney, at 9 o'clock on Friday morning.
On Saturday, he visited Rand wick Races with
Lord Loftus, whose guest he was during his stay.
The trip over was quite a private one. In connec-
tion with his early departure from the colonies;
and His Excellency returned to Victoria by special
train from Redfern, at 4.30 on Monday afternoon.
** * *
On Friday, the 135th anniversary of Burns’
birthday was celebrated in the Protestant Hall, by
a social re-union, Mr. H. C. L. Anderson, president
of the Burns Club, being chairman. After an
address, recitations, highland songs and dances
were given, and cake and coffee supported the
audience through a long and varied programme.
.... Dr. Sheldon, |of Armidale, presented last week
with over 100 guineas’ worth of solid silverware,
and Mrs. Sheldon with jewellery, by their friends.
The doctor and his wife are homeward bound
Count Strickland, a Maltese, arrived from Queens-
landion Thursday. He called on the Colonial Se-
cretary, and wants to send .outlfrom Malta some
gardeners to show us how to grow oranges and
olives.... Captain M’Clemens, oi Balmain, gave a
capital Cinderella party on the 33rd inst. Ladies
mostly local and lovely—Mrs. De Groen, of
George-street, entertained some 50 guests to their
heart's content last week. A dark young lady
from Castlereagh-street was charming in black
velvet and lace, and white llama skirt. From
Phillip-strcet tripped an enticing blonde in pale
blue. And a Melbourne visitor was graceful in
black velvet and satin. With geniality all round,
the e vening passed pleasantly till separation time...
The members of the family of Mr. Allan Williams,
of “ Qlenore,” Canterbury, celebrated Anniversary
Day pleasantly by a picnic excursion to Tom
Ugly’s Point. Among the merry party was the
“ South Sea Poet ” from the United States, now
visiting his native place again—A bachelors’
party was held in the Masonic Hall, Parramatta,
on the 33rd January, and skipped to Skipper’s
band music till one in the morning A fashion-
able ball was given in Needs’s Rooms on Wednes-
day, tho 33rd, by Mr. Mostyn Connor. Fifty
couples glided round the glassy floor, cooled in the
conservatory, or haunted the supper-room where
Compagnoni's efforts “gave pleasure to all.” In
spite of the season, dancing was en.ioyably kept
up till 3 a.m., and the fair ladies favoured the
colour emblematic of purity more than any other.
A string band furnished dulciferous music....
Captain Barry’s lecture in Parramatta was post-
poned for want of an audience....A beauty con-
test has been suggested in Melbourne. Nomina-
tions of ladies to be accompanied by entrance fees
and good photos , which latter are to be exhibited,
and then every man voting to furnish his full name
and address. Men may be fools, but we don’t be-
lieve thore are three men in Australia foels enough
to walk across the street to vote on a photo —
By the Carthage, which steamed off on Friday, Sir
James (C.J. of New Zealand) and Lady Prender-
gast, who have been a few days here, left for Lon-
don. Mr. Frank Punch also goes home in the boat.
On the 17tb January, a very large ball was
given in Melbourne by the Hon. J. G. Dougharty,
to mark the marriage of his son with Miss
Lindsay... In South Melbourne, Mr. T. B. Guest
celebrated his eldest son's majority by a costly
entertainment. From which we infer there is a
good margin in biscuits....At her residence,
Elizabeth-street, Mrs. Kron gave a birthday party
Thursday, her son having come of age. Guests
were made very welcome. A Moore Park lady in
ruby and cardinal proved attractive, as did her
sister in white. A Hebrew lady, whose name was
that of the much-loved son, was a delightful
songstress, and charming in white and flowers.
Dancing was kept up till well on in the morning,
and we are glad to kron-icle the enjoyment that
took place. ...Tho handsome daughter of a good
Sydney family walked into a fashionable jeweller’s
shop in Hunter-street, the other day. She was
beautifully dressed, and, as the deferential young
man came forward, she asked if her bracelet was
done. It was not. “ Then,” said the lady, “if it’s
not done when I come to-morrow, m wool yer!".„
On the 23rd January, at Melbourne, the famous
fluteplaytr, Mr. John Radeliffe, was married to the
well-known opera singer, Madame Pauline Rita.
A case of du-et again! ... Over 3000 persons visited
tho Zoo on Anniversary Day, and the Balmain
Band played The holiday excursionists return-
ing from the Hawkesbury in the steamer Admiral
enloyed the extraordinary sight of two large
waterspouts which formed at sea a few miles from
tho Heads A most handsome gold medal has
been made for presentation to Miss Mary Bruce,
who gained the Fairfax senior prize at the Uni-
versity. The young lady, who is only 17, passed in
the ten subjects she took up.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Banquet to Mr. W. A. Hutchinson, M.P Feb. 1.
Mayoress’s Reception (Town Hall) February 5.
Grocers’ Annual Picnic (Botany) February 30.
Carthonn C.C. Excursion March 1.
One of the holiday sights of Saturday was
the procession of the Lumpers. The participants
met at Miller’s Point, where streamers of bunting
and numerous banners waving in the breeze
betokened that the people were in accord with the
holiday makers. It was the gala day of the wharf-
lumpers, and they formed into line about 1500
strong, headed by a splendid band. Their hand-
some banner was upheld by four stalwart mem-
bers of the Union, and was followed by the presi-
dent of the society (Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan) sporting
the blue and white of the society and seated in a
buggy. Then came about 300 robust-looking men,
and behind them a gorgeous-looking triumphal
car, on which, under a canopy of flags, stood
Neptune, Amphitrite, Venetian gondoliers, and
seamen of the Armada period, Sir Francis Drake,
and other characters, all in appropriate costume.
Then came about 1300 more stalwart lumpers, who,
like their comrades in front, wore blue rosettes.
Throughout the procession were scattered the
flags of all nations and a number of other banners,
while on the outside of the rank walked the com-
mittee, wearing white and blue rosettes. The
whole formed as unique and pretty a sight, as was
ever seen in the streets of Sydney, ana reflected
great credit upon the designer of the show. As
the men walked along the streets they vocifer-
ously cheered, and were followed by an immense
crowd. At every available door or window were
groups of men, women, or children, who answered
the cheers with waving of handkerchiefs and
flags. The whole scene was redolent of good
feeling and enthusiasm, and indicated that the
participants therein were having real enjoyment.
The enjoyment did not end here for the
lumpers, for they proceeded to Chowder, ac-
companied by about 3000 of their friends,
and celebrated the holiday in a right joyful
manner with sports and pastimes of all descrip-
tions. Only one member of Parliament intruded
himself upon them—the fluent member for West
Sydney—but he soon quitted the scene when he
found that he was not taken notice of. Nothing
else occurred to mar the day’s proceedings, and
the lumpers and their friends returned to their
homes, after a demonstration which reflected the
highest credit upon them individually and collec-
tively. Labor omnia vincit, and it is to be hoped
now that they have demonstrated their vitality
and strength, the wharf lumpers may work in
unity and peaee with their employers, and give us
many another such celebration.
The haudkerchief which is perfumed with
MURRAY & LANMAN’S FLORIDA WATER
yields more enjoyment to its possessor than would
a bouquet of flowers, because the latter fade,
decay, and become offensive, but the Florida
Water remains fresh and delicious, unaffected by
the lapse of time.
Do not waste your money, and risk injur-
ing your hair by purchasing useless washes or oils;
but'buy something that has a record—a remedy
that every body knows is reliable. Hall’s Haib
Renewer will invigorate, strengthen, and beautify
the hair, restore its colour if faded or turned grey,
and render it soft, silken, and lustrous.—Adv.


Plies and bugs, beetles, insects, roaches, ants,
bed-bugs, x-ats. mice, gophers, jack-rabbits, cleared
out by “Rough on Rats.” Moses, Moss & Co,.
Sydney, General Agents.
NEW PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
AAre DiTotxt Open.
LONDON AND PARIS IN SYDNEY.
NEW ENTERPRISE AT
"W. T7T. CATEE’S,
IMPORTER & GENERAL DRAPER,
193 and 195 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PARIS KID GLOviIDEPAETMENT
U naer the management of the celebrated Jlr. lliic iiiiTii f i unn r D . , J .
Kid Gloves fitted to perfection
Kid Gloves fitted in two minutes at the counter
Kid Gloves warranted a perleet fit
Jvid Gloves from 2 to 20 buttons
Kid Gloves of all descriptions in the latest style
Kid 9'? oves » Mousqnetaire style
Kid Gloves, Gauntlet style
Kid Gloves, Sarah Bernhardt style
Silk and Lisle Thread Gloves, Lace Ml
German spoken at the Paris Kid Glove Department. * 9
W. W.
CATER, Importer and General Draper,
193 and 195 PITT-STREET. SYDNEY.
HORDERN’S
OK THE
ZBric3s:±leia. Hill.
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LAGE CURTAINS.
These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
T LACE CURTAINS, 100 PRICES.
Ija Curtaiii S 8 dl T? Can . fo ™arded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charg-e, a Set of Lace
> ou ike the pattern which is represented in this engraving-, cut it out, and we will forward exactly
tne same pattern. See future advertisements lor other patterns.
s
'9r^ t
W
w
LACE CERTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERN'S.
Irish Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Co ere.
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window TTnion. Examine carefully the engraving of our
“LACE CURTAINS.”
Price : 12s. 6d. } 155., 17s. 6d. the pair.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
LACE CURTAINS
668 BRICKFIELD HILL.
LACE CURTAINS
Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
DURABLE
9
CARRIAGES, PHAETONS,
Waggous, Harness,
etc.
Also,
the best trotting and
PLEASURE CARTS,
MACHINERY,
SAFES
(Burglar and Fireproof),
StPERIOR SPRING MAT TRASSES,
mbbsbss
—i*
!/,// //
\A\w;
//n
\\
'/Kl
'///ns
■m&m
l
v\
i '
v« .>■«
\iLiS
jLuJiib
1C w>
V;.
GI-ENERAL AMERICAN IMPORTER, 72
York-str^t
, Sydney.
Sydney, Wednesday.
Dear Belle,—l know you will be awfully
disappointed when I tell you that I didn’t go to
the Masonic Ball last Thursday, and ail because I
couldn’t have a new dress. How could I wear the
same dress three times ? I told Pa T woul-J not,
but he didn’t care a bit. and said I was fearfully
extravagant. I was as cross as you are when
Frank takes The Bulletin with him to read in
oilice hours, before you have had a peep at the
social page. Of course, I have heard a good deal
about the ball, and will tell you all I recollect.
That most hideous of all colours, crushed straw-
berry, is at last on the wane, for 1 hear there was
only one at the ball. There was a splendid helio-
trophe satin with bodice and train of a deeper
shade of plush, set off with white lace. A peacock
satin and brochie with the palest of pink roses at
the throat and in the hair, looked extremely well
Amongst the simple dresses was a white muslin,
tho top skirt being caught up here and there wit .1
white satin rosettes, white shoes and silver flower•«
in the hair. A beautiful white was of China si .
and broche, made with short bodice and long traiD -
which, latter by the way, seemed to mar the enjo -
ment of the wearer, who was constantly pickii,
it up from the floor and throwing it tenderly ove-
her arm. A cream satin, with plastron of pa <
blue which glimmered through handsome crean
maltese lace, was extremely tasteful. The ha
was dressed high and fastened with a large g< i
hairpin. Nearly all the gloves were worn very lot ,
some past the elbow. A cinnamon satin, trimm I
with lace to match, was rather out of the common
The Majeronis opened at the Opera House o
Saturday night, with "Jealousy.” I think Mada. t-
is handsomer than ever, and so graceful. You v i I
remember that she always used to dress well, 1. ~
she fairly excelled herself the other night. Be.
lirst costume was a walking dress of pale lavende r
silk, with parasol, hat, and beautiful plumes to
match; next, a ball dress made with a very loi a
train. The bodice and train were composed of tho
palest pink broe.he, and the skirt of crushed strav -
berry satin studded with large pompons, from
which hung white crystal tassels. The train w s
edged with a shell ruching of the two colouis,
eight inches in width. But the dress which best
became her was her old favourite combination-
deep primrose and black. This, too, was made
with a long train ai d edged with a ruching. Being
Saturday night, and Anniversary Day besides, the
house was packed; but our enjoyment was spoilt
halt the time by the horrid behai iour of some
unmannerly roughs in the pit, who were so noisy
that, three times Signor Majeroni had to stop the
play and appeal to them. I couldn t understand
why they were not turned out, for it is a monstrous
thing that half-a-dozen men should be allowed to
interfere with the comfort of hundreds I am
sure,.dear, if I were a man, I wouldn’t stand it. I
was so sorry for Signor Majeroni, who looked so
dignified when he refused to proceed until the
noise ceased. A splendid photograph of Signora
Majeroni was presented to each iadv in the dress-
circle as a souvenir.
Parasols, if not of black satin, are usually seen
to match the dress. If, however, the dress is of a
very bright colour, a gieat improvement is to
cover the parasol with lace, which gives it a rich
joft appearance. It is also the thing to have a
strap made of the same material as the parasol
and fastened on to one side, and so contrived as to
hold a bouquet of flowers. Fresh flowers are pre-
ferred, but of course artificial ones will do. Gloves
for both walking and evening dresses are worn
longer than ever, consequently sleeves are made
just to the elbow.
It is such a pity the popular concerts did not
answer. I am sure Mr. fluenerbein worked hard
to make them a success, but I hear he was con-
siderably out of pocket by them. HeHly, I don’t
think the Sydney people are truly musical, after
all; they only go to concerts which are under
fashionable patronage, or which are by invitation
l 1 " 0 Madame Kellermann’s, or Herr Kretchmann’s’
I cannot help thinking, however, that had the
popular concerts been held on any other than
attended they WoUld ha ™b£entetter
Last Friday, when all the Public School children
went to the Industrial Exhibition at Parramatta
there was a rumour in Sydney that the building
had caught Are. Ot course, Mr. Reid did not allow
the grass to grow under his feet before he went
up and ascertained that the report was exagge-
T of n l tha i t £ e flre was quite 0 trivial matter.
I was at the Railway station, however, when the
which was to bring the might-have-been-
burnc ones home, was expected in, and it was as
amusing as touching to fee the crowds of anxious
mothers there awaiting their arrival. Notwith-
standing that they had had every assurance of
their safety, seeing ’s believing, you know.
JL 051 ? P™?' 86 y°u. dear, that when next you
come to Sydney and go with me to take a cun of
Quong Tart s delicious tea, you will not be so Pun-
comfortable as of yore, as the energetie little man
ha 9 had four_ rooms knocked into one, which
makes a line big room. It Is situated just opposite
the old room, but on the first floor, and you
can have a good view of all the mashers and
masheresses who pass below; so that the time
spent on drinking tea will not be entirely wasted,
you know.
. one thing more before I finish. If you do
intend to wear beauty spots, do not have them too
as they do not look well. I saw some the
other day worn as large as a pea, which were
horrible. I will tell you, when I see you, where
you can have your face dressed for evening wear;
but, as it’s a secret, I will not put it in black and
white. I did hear that a lady was prevented from
going to the ball the other night as the face-
dresser was so busy that he could not attend to her
until too late.
Ever yours.
MAB.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Christchurch Exhibition well attended. . .
Four more New Caledonians haim landed in
Queensland, and fifteen others are reported as
coming in to Keppel Bay, to carry on the old
propaganda....ln Melbourne, everything may be
had on time-payment now. The price is increased
only 300 per cent. An album selling for ready
money at 6s. 6d., becomes 30s. on the time-pay-
ment system.... Threatened labourers’ strike in
the Southern capital. Wages 7s. a day; want 8s
The output of gold in the Ballarat district, for
1883, was 306,5660 z., and for 1883 only 165,1310 z. De-
ficit for 1883, 41,4350 z. Shares in the Black Horse
mine were out of the market on Monday, went at
19s. on Tuesday, and rose to 345. on Wednesday
At the Melbourne Wesleyan Conference, Mr. E.
Youngman was appointed Chinese missionary for
the whole of Australia. An ambitious, far-reach-
ing young man 1.... Carr-Boyd writes to a Mel-
bourne evening paper, complaining of a descrip-
tion of the Kimberley district, recently published.
In respect to water, grass, and general run of
country, he is loud in its praise. Only a few can
speak of the district at first hand, and C.B. is
among the best of these—They must get the
genuine article down South. John Gabiddy fined
for putting a gill of water into a bottle of J.D.K.Z.
So also four others The old days are gone when
kerosene and Worcester Sauce were labelled
“rum.”....The editor of the Ahgus has been
elected a life-governor of the Homceopathic
Hospital. Next step is a C.M.G.-ship.... Thomas
Gibbs and John Robin were up for larcency, at
the Melbourne City Court, on the 22nd. Solicitor
asked that they should be accommodated witn
seats in the body of the court. But the aristocrats
had to step into the dock, Mr. Call remarking that
he could make no distinctions. Another proof of
the levelling spirit of democracy 1.... It has been
ruled that only those who sleep in Melbourne have
a vote in the election of licensing magistrates for
the city. This is hard on those who have offices
and establishments in town, and sleep in a subur-
ban villa. The ruling is likely to be set aside. .
D’ye hear this, Sandy Stuart? The Adelaide Forest
Department have successfully planted oa ex-
hausted reserves, 875,000 new trees, and are now
putting in 450,000 more... William M’Donald, miner,
of Creswick, killed on Monday George Parker,
17, drowned himself in the Yarra....A girl of 6
named Ross, at Mooroopna, drank enough brandy
to die over it—The Wesleyan Conference of Vic-
toria, have “ resolved ” to have the Bible read in
school hours—enough to make the late J. G.
Francis turn over in his grave.... Baliina opposes
imposition of the sugar duty, and Liverpool the
repeal of that on paper. Both prophecy ruin to
I their industries—The Medicos say tney want no
protection under the Medical Bill. All they want
is to stop the using of their titles by unregistered
men John Russel, contractor, and Campbell,
Government engineer, capsized their boat on Lake
Macquarie, and barely managed to swim the mile
to shore with an oar—An old woman, named
Rogers, killed in a capsize of a cart, at Bungen-
dore. .. The new diversion in Sydney is the thrash-
ing of constables.... No loss of life, after all, in the
Channel collision— Further arrests re the murder
of Elizabeth Phillips.. .Lizzie Murphy, 16, drowned
herself in Lake Wendouree, Ballarat. Seduction...
Diamonds plentiful in Bega An alarming bush
fire, in the Newcastle district, laid waste some
miles of country, and destroyed the poppet-heads
of the A.A. Company’s coal pit, at Hamilton. The
fire communicated with the underground work-
ings, and the miners had to fly for their lives to
the nearest air shaft. Dense volumes of smoke
enveloped Newcastle. The destruction of pro-
perty js very extensive, and includes, it is reported,
Judge Windeyer’s property at Tomago.


Thoroughly satisfied that it
CONQUERS PAIN.
Palace Emporium,
Haymarket, Sydney.
The Editor Bulletin.
Dear Sir,—
I cheerfully add my testimony to the good
eflects deriveable from the use of ST. .JACOBS
OIL as demonstrated in my own household. Some
few weeks ago my wife Buffered severely from
pains in her head. She applied the Oil with excel-
lent results, and has since recommended it to a
friend for a case of swelling in the legs, in which
case the result was equally beneficial. It has been
used by members of my family, and its action has
satisfied my most sanguine expectations. I con-
sider it a most valuable preparation to have by
you for any household accident. I recommend it
confidently to ray friends, and am thoroughly
satisfied “ It Conquers Pain.”
I remain, yours truly,
DAVID CURTIN.
(This testimonial is from a highly respected em-
ploy 3 in the employ of Messrs. A. Hordern and
Sons, and bears the endorsement of that colossal
firm).
£lOO. —A Cash Reward of £lOO will be paid by the
Charles A. Vogeler Company, of Baltimore, Mary-
land, U.S.A., proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by
their accredited local lepresentatives in various
parts of the world, to any person producing proof
to the effect that the testimonials published by
them in regard to St. Jacobs Oil are not strictly
genuine. Price in N S.W., Half-a-Crownabottle.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney,
Wholesale Depot for N.S.W.
It often takes three bobbies to put a man
in “choky,” but up North these matters are re-
versed, and it takes that number to let him out
A few day 8 ago, a certain miner got somewhat
primed sufficiently so to induce a protector of the
peace to “ run him in.” The miner walked
quietly to the police barracks, when realising the
seriousness of his situation, he became slightly
obstrepor* us, and the combined wisdom, in coun-
cil, of three bobbies, was that they should tie the
miner down. “Now, look h<ue, bhoys, let's have
fair play ? ” says the miner. “Av coorse,” replies
Bobby No. 1, attempting to catch hold of him,
when a "stinger” on the nose sent him measur-
ing on the floor. No. 2 then showed to the front,
but was soon relegated to a position alongside No.
1. No. 3 tried the palaver dodge; “Arrah, Pat,
you wouldn’t strike me.” “Certainly not, but
keep your distance.” No. 3 didn’t keep h's pro-
mise, nor did the miner, the result being that the
latter coolly went his way. The matter has been
kept an open secret, as it would scarcely' redound
to the credit of three policemen letting one man
get Scott free.
Mr. DeCourct Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land.
A*ent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pitt-street, Sydney',
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.—AnvT.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs. Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives reliefs
a small bottle often cures. Ask for ‘‘Arnold’*'
and get It; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
Political
Points
The “ black labour ” difficulty in Queens-
land is not. nearly so infamous a thing in the eyes
of Sam Griffith—now that lie is in office. Fact is,
Premier Griffith legalises the employment of the
14 000 Kanakas now in the colonv—but confines
them to the coast plantation. This is a complete
change of front We always did think Griffith
would swear white was black.
The ex-mem hers of the Victorian artillery
corps held an indignation meeting last week, and
denounced llerceJy the Melbourne council of
defence for having taken away their guns. These
ex-members ought to feel truly glad the things
were taken awav from them. Their wives feel
glad, anyhow, it s not a nice thing to be left a
widow while the anti-immigration party are in
power.
Davy Buchanan said the other night, in
the Assembly, that the Validating Hill had led to
“ a very technical dob' te, and that if ever techni-
cality took a form, it must have sprawled into the
world in the shape of A. G. Taylor, the member
for Mudgee.'' The Giraffe replied by observing
that Dawvid had got his seat by a technicality
which deprived .Mr. house of his position as a
member.
Cats as boarders are a great feature in the
schemes of the humanitarians in the West End of
London at the present time. It seems when the
people of the West End go away to the seaside
they lock up their housts and leave their eats to
prowl about the tops ol chimneys. Thereupon a
refuge has been opened for them, and a society
provides a supply ot tresh meat and new milk.
Ah, how much better be a West End eat than a
poor old woman in the East End !
Bobby Byrne says that (here is “ another
ex-convict” appointed to the Queensland Com-
mission of the Pence. Wo never put it like that
heie. We say: “An estimable gentleman who,
through a conspiracy of his scoundrelly neigh-
bours, was falsely charged with shooting a hare in
the year 18 so-and-so, has been made a magistrate
by the Government. The appointment, wo under-
stand, is highly popular in the neighbourhood
where the gentiemun who has been thus honoured,
, Bides; arid we take this opportunity of offering
bim our sinceiest and liearti -st felicitations.
The immigration question in Melbourne
eerns to be undtrgoing a gradual change. Some
time ago the introduction of immigrants by the
State was met by indignation a Vout ranee. Tho
venue is now changed. The working man is not,
afraid of rivals; but, as Mr. Douglas informed
Lord Hoseberv. if the State gave assistance, an
undesirable class of persons would be introduced.
It thus appeals that the working man is occupy-
ing not. an economic, but a high moral ground,
and is standing in the forefront of Victoria, light-
ing (o keep it from being polluted by ti e low pro-
fligates of the old world. This is a heroic attitude
for Hodge to s'rike.
Mr. Player, who brought charges of fa-
vouritism and paitiality against, the \ ictorian
Government printer, h»d the satisfaction of pro-
ducing a Board. This was no small feat lor a
common printer. Consequently bo should not
grumble when ho is asked to pay handsomely for
the luxury. He was culled up by Service, the
other day, and censured. The Board had found
that Mr. Ferres was guilty of nepotism, us had
been the allegation of Player, but that he was not
guilty of other things with which Player had
charged him. Erao, severe censure. It snot just
like the Anderson case, but a New South Wales
judge could not tell the difference.
Colonial Agents-General are determined
to die hard in the matter of despatches. Ihey will
keep forwarding ihem in splendidly got up enve-
lopes. although, when they corno to hand, the
Premier has t > look up some man in tho Ministry
with a very long memory to toll what precisely
they are about. The other day, a desnatch arrived
from Mr. Murray Smith, loaded with newspaper
extracts indicating the opinions of the press on
the preliminary decisions of the Federal Conven-
tion. More than a month ago, these very extracts
had appeared in the Melbourne dailies. Mr. Smith
must forget that there is such a thing as a cable,
and that, everybody is smarter now then when the
first Smith learned the alphabet,
It struck us when reading a description of
an appliance invented by a Mr. Cowling down at
Caahomaino, that it will be a great pity if iw use
be not more exteusivo than the inventor projects.
It, is describing as an apparatus to prevent over-
winding. It has been employed at the Ajax Com-
pany s mine, and its merit is that before the cage
rises to a dangerous height above the surface,
steam is shut off automatically. Now, could not
the apparatus tie applied, somehow, to the bydney
Legislature ! We can t suggest how, for wo were
never mechanical, but we leel that U the inventor
heard wEthone, he'd bo able to tit it on somehow.
According to accounts, it shuts off steam auto-
matically? That’s the very idea. All that is
wanted is a genius to apply it.
Mr Dealiin is the autocrat of the desk in
the Victorian Public Works office. When he sits
back on his cano chair and mops his temples, tho
clerks wandering about the corridor put their leet
in carpet slippers, and glide along noiselessly. In-
stead of stepping down the stairs, they spit, on
their hands, throw a leg across the balustrade, and
slide so as to avoid disturbing the methodic
aenuence of the Ministers thoughts, lor lies
mud when interrupted. Ilut he's madder when
trainsaved. Ihe other 4*y he indited an epigram-
matic letter to the Hotham Town Council. That
council had opened a tree library, and squunderel
viu in celebrating the occasion. Tho orthography
of the Minister's letter was squared up by a clerk,
and the mission went forth demanding a lull ex-
planation. The reply was a nrat one. It was
written in round hand, and read much this way :
Deakin, me boy, shut up. Whatever we guzzled
was tho ratepayers’, and has nothing whatsomever
to do with you.” This was gainsaying the auto-
crat and clerks who didn t, know what the mutter
was'are all willing to swear they heard an ea th-
quako that morning at the office.
“In the delightfully healthy advice to Lord
Hoseberv in The Bulletin leader ol January sth,
♦ here is (writes a North Queensland correspondent)
a, reference to our Governorships becoming
, asvlums for used-up diplomats and needy cadet*
of noble houses.' This reminds me that when
Moston. the * Saered ibis,’ was member of the
Oueensland Assembly, he moved a reduction of
The Governor’s salary by £lOOO and in doing so
said, ‘ there ii far too gr?at a tendancy on the part
of the Imperial Government to regard Colonial
Governorships as asylums for destitute aristo-
cracy. and to appoint men between whom and the
colonists there is no bond of sympathy whatever.
Tnis horrified the aristocrat-worshipping syco-
phants of the House, and Rutledge, the present
Attorney-General and ex-Wesleyan commercial
traveller tor Iscariot, Paul, Peter, and Go., and
who had tried to pose before the working-classes
as a patriot democrat, rose to a 5001 b pressure ot
adulation of the Governor, whom he would
alwavs regard as a noble example for his family I
The happiness and reward of Kutledge was com-
plete, when two dayi afterwards he received as
Invitation to din® at Government House,’’
“ Thank God my property is not worth
£300,” said Mr. Brown, when he read of the Pro-
perty Tax; meantime, what sound is this that
lioats out in heartrending strains from the velvet
carpeted saloons of Potts Point ? Tremolo,
agitato
THE WATL or THE MILLIONAIRE.
Give me to dwell ’midst polarice,
And hunt the walrus and the seal;
Teach me to fancy blubber nice.
And tallow quite a gorgeous meal.
Or in some Indian jungle's shade,
Lodged in the hollow of a treo,
To feast upon gum marmalade,
But spare us, Dibbs, this tyranny.
Ob, Dibbs! oh, Dibbs! ’tis hard to part
With friends we’ve known for many a year;
But “ part ” with cash! -that wrings the heart,
And draws the bitter, scalding teiir.
A broken leg, or sandy blight,
Or smashing up beneath the cars—
We'd hold such penalties as light.
We'd even 'list for bloody wars;
But tax our property! Forbear,
Nor take our little tin away.
Oh, pile it on the poor man's fare,
He’s always been the one to pay!
The Duke of Bedford is a great London
landlord. He is of the bluest blood. No footman
or lady’s maid has been mixed up in his family af-
fairs tor ever so long. His ancestor of 100 years
ago was highly thought of by Edmund Burke,
who said of hun:—“The Duke of Bedford is the
the leviathan of nil the creatures of the Crown.
The grants to the House of Bedford have been so
enormous as not only to outrage economy, but to
stagger credibility. The political merit of the tlrst
Eeusioner of the House of Bedford was that of
eing concerned, as a councillor of State in advis-
ing, and in his person executing, the conditions of
a dishonourable peace with France—by instigating
a tyrant to injustice, to provoke a people to rebel-
lion; by giving his hand to the work and partak-
ing the spoil with a prince who plundered a part
of the national Church of his time and country; by
being a prompt and greedy instrument of a level-
ling tyrant, who oppressed all descriptions of his
people His grants were from the aggregated and
HER GIET.
It was the witching hour of night,
While broadly beam’d the moon,
When ghosts come out “humans ” to fright,
That he br j gan his tune.
And soon within her window shone—
it joy !—a flickering flame!
That sent a thrill through his trombone,
And through his breast the same.
He blows aloud one gruesome note:
A night-capp’d head outpops—
And now he has no Sunday coat,
Alas! she “gave him slops!”
consolidated funds of judgments iniquitously
legal, and from possessions voluntarily surren*
dered by their lawful proprietors with the gibbet
at the door. His merits were by acts in which he
served his master and made hi< fortune, to bring
poverty, wretchedness, and depopulation on his
country.”
Mr. J. L. Purves, barrister-at-law (Melb.),
told the Sandridgo young men belonging to the
Australian Natives’ Association that a confede-
rated Australia, presided over by a Prince of the
House of Hanover (.sic), "as had been the case in
the Canadian Dominion” (also sic), was what he
wanted to see before he died. The young men
cheered It is only charitable, of course, to say
they didn't know wnat they were cheering for.
We shall enlighten them a bit. No Prince of Han-
over or Brunswick ever presided over Canada. A
young man (the Marquis of Lome), who married
one of the Queen's daughters, was shovelled into
the post of Governor-General by Disraeli—from
whom Tom Carlyle wouldn’t take a decoration,
considering him the biggest political humbug of
the age—and he had to leave for home agaiu,
partly driven out by the laughter of sixty mil-
lions of people. For the Canadians could not
always afford to have their great southern Neigh-
bour laughing at them. An old and experienced
statesman is not what Mr. Purves wants. He does
not require a man of mature a#e who bus been !
bred in the best political schools. No. He must
have a young Prince out of the nursery to
direct Australia. And r lie Saudridge young
men—whose mothers or sweethearts ihe Prince’s
female relatives wouldn’t touch with tber fans—
cheered him. If Mr. Purves were a man of auy
political or even social weight, his Sandridge
speech would be a serious "sleeper" on the lino
of federation —so far, at least, as N.S. Wales is
concerned. We can assure him that, however
weil adapted "princes” are for an advanced
society such as that of Victoria, we humble people
of N.S. Wales don't want them. Wo believe tuat
society would be better, happier, and more pro-
sperous; that there would be ess of the terrible
struggle that results in luxury and starvation
being found side by side, and more of that
thoughtfulness for others that makes life agree-
able, if all the princes in the world were in " Han-
over” occupied in making an honest living mixing
mortar, sawing wood, or any other lawiui occu-
pation. We have seen some of them round our
way, know wfrat they are, ip fact, and—we don’t
muoa lifce them,
While some Australian statesmen are ad-
vocating the consolidation of the Empire by tho
creation of Colonial iif»-peerage3, and som« hy
reckless alienation of the public estate, and by
othc means equally short-sighted, are preparing
the way for a condition of society resembling that
against which the struggling classes of Europe are
constantly crying out, it is as well to glance occa-
sionally at the views put forward by > nglish
Radicalism to account for the wide-spreading
misery which is at pre ent causing such a iermont
in that and other countries. Here is one which,
whatever its value, can scarcely be contemned for
Jack of plain speaaing:— ** The statesmen of Eng-
land are beginning to wake up to the awful fact
that the poor of their large cities deserve some
consideration. London is stirred when consider-
ing the wretchedness of St. Giles' and the spread-
ing squalor of which that cancer is the centre.
Parliament has legislated for the bqne.it of the
minority. The nation has been run in the Special
interest of tne wealthy and aristocratic classes
boih at home and abroad. But there is coming a
revulsion which will cause a greater shock than a
thousand dynamite explosions such as occurred
the other day in the Underground Railway tunnel
of London. Tne politics of the poor will set aside
the politics of the rich and bring about reforms,
or else the increasing rottenness of morals, as
found in the St. Giles ot every city, will pave the
way lor the destruction of the country, ft is not
the ra'dd increase of children which the disciples
of Malthus claim to he the superabundant cause of
human misery, but the concentration of wealth iu
tae hands ol a lew persons, and the injury to health
and degradation ot morals from overcrowded and
ill-ventilated tenement, houses. One day, the poli-
tics of the poor will come to the front, andneither
gun norcaunou nor ironclad can put down the my-
ri ids of people who will force remedial legislation.”
And here auother, equally outspoke":—" We have
made emperors, and aings, and princes what they
are, and are keeping them what they are. And,
while engaged in drawing a comparison between
England and America, we must not forget the tar
more important one between Europe and America.
America is larger than Europe—it will soon be
more populous. It is governed now at a far less
cost to its people than any one of the great
Powers of Europe. It is paying off its national
debt. There are ldlo and therefore poverty-
stricken people everywhere. But no one who will
work need die of starvation in America, In Eng-
land, men, and women, and children not only die
of starvation, but l.ve in a state of chronie starva-
tion, while many an English peer—and squire, too
—would turn up bis nose at the salary of the
President of the United States. Europe is borne
down and crushed by the enormous and ruinous
expense of its imperial and royal iamilies, of its
hereditary drone class, of its vast standing armies,
and its enoimous national debts. The millions toil
and sweat and go without the necessaries and
decencies of life that a small idle and non-produc-
ing and squandering class may idle and revel and
waste. Hence come the Nihilism of Russia, the
Socialism and Communism and Anarchism and
Fenianistn of other nations.” Beside questions
like these—involving the right of millions to live
with decency—how strangely read the demands of
Sir Henry Parkes for titular baub|es to please the
childish vanity of successful colonists or obtain for
th°m social recognition in Mayfair drawing-
rooms!
The growing unpopularity of the Hons©
of Lord-* renders it rather important that wo
should really know what sort of people it is com-
posed of. Because it is only self-flattering preju-
dice and large vested interests that keep the insti-
tution in existence: it has been long* known that
no reason that would satisfy the mind of a true
statesman can be advanced in favour of its main-
tenance. Whether the House ot Lords is to con-
tinue as a drag on the nation, will in all likelihood
be one of the chief issues when the present Eng-
lish Parliament is dissolved, even if the agitation
is not precipitated before then. One thing is clear,
that if the naiion thinks the House of Lords has
ceased to be (if it ever was) a necessity, the Lords
have no one to blam* for starting the belief but
themselves. Whatever intellectual importance it
has, attaches not to it as a whole, but to the
rare power of some half-dozen of its members.
It is undeniable that the whole of the real
business is done by less than a dozen men,
out of over live hundred. Except on the
rarest occasions, nine-tenths of the members
never show their faces inside the House. Their
interest in the country is so great that they cheer-
fully delegate everything to anybody, so long as
they themselves are not interrupted in their plea-
suring and profligacy. As statesmen, they are
worse than nobodies, for when they do roll up and
vote, it is to perpetuate some time-sauctionea ini-
quity in which are bound up their Janded or titular
interests. Apart, now, from the few Uards who
use their brains, and who oan be counted on the
f ting-era, we propose to briefly give an idea of somr
of the hereditary legislators of Great Britain.
I There are in the House twenty-six Dukes. Two
! take an active part in the deliberations—the Dukes
of Kichmond and Argyll. It is true the Duke of
Northumberland was in Disraeli’s last cabinet, but
he has since then fallen back into as dim obscurity
as the second richest Duke in ■he kingdom could
aitain. He is a melancholy, dismal old man, quite
oppressed with the sen-e of his own greatness—
a greatness wnich would be enhanced, however, if
he coul i forget that bis family name was not. long
ago Smithson, and was graciously changed to Percy
by tl e sovereign, to suit his aristocratic title. The
Du e of Marloorough i« another whose line is
not straight; and no doubt the fact that he is
infamous as a rojsterer, liar, libertine, and wife-
better is clear proof of his litness to make laws f or
common plebeiau people. The Duke of Beul'ord is
enormously lich, and is as generous as a pawn-
broker. Tne Du.eof Westminster is the richest
Duke in the United Kingdom, and one of the
closest. He is, however, amative to a degree-so
perhaps, somebody gets something cut of him.
Although tne Lords strenuously opposed the
Deceased Wife’s Sister Bill, the Duke did not
he icate to marry—though he is old and she very
young—his own cousin, before even his first wife
hod been decently mourned. She had been pne of
the most striking and voluptuous beauties ot
English society. Viscount Mundevilie is a con-
firmed drunkard, and is, like the Duke of Marl-
borough when Lord Blandford, tabooed In London
society. The Dune of Leeds is a nonentity; the
Earl of Euston has distinguish!d himself by mar-
rying a courtezan named Kate Cross ; and the
Duke of Beaufort is a horsey dandy, who has been
a masher for thirty years past., and this “ protector ’
ot Connie Gilchrist since she turned 14. The Duke
of Portland is a goody goody young man, who were
he hot stupendously wealthy, would be thoroughly
detested by any girl ot spirit, uf 19 Marquises,
Salisbury is tbe only one who is respected for a
fair amount of ability. Tbo House of Lords is
prolific in Earls, of whom there are 118. Granville,
Kimberley, Cairns, Carnarvon, Selborne, ana
DutTerin ’ are the only ones really prominent
beyond their own counties or estates. Lord Hard-
wicke Is an impoverished spendthrilt; Lord Ayles-
f ird is a disgraced man, who benefits England by
living in Texas ; Lord Shrewsbury is the premier
Earl in England, who married Mrs. Mundy, nearly
old enough to be his mother, after living in adul-
trey with her lor years. When not conducting-
orgies at his seat, Ingestre, he lives mostly on his
yacht with the “Countess,” to escape the sneers of
those who know him best. 'J he Earl of Dudley is
as supremely ugly ns he is rich, and noted for ins
sensualism. Perhaps we are prejudiced, but we
don’t think it absolutely necessary these men
should have the privilege of making laws. And
perhaps they will not have it for long. The cry of
outcast London is rising louder and more strong,
and the miserable millions who have been torpid
in their squalor and ignorance are beginning to
know not only their strength, but the kind of men
who have been governing them in the Jgnobie
House of Lords.
* * *
Auckland Harbour Board have just “re-
lieved ” their engineer of his trust, because his
estimate of the Calliope Dock was £40,000 less than
the tenders. How many engineers and architects
would be “relieved” over here under similar cir-
cumstances?— The rumour per cable that Lord
Augustus Loftus was to succeed the Marquis of
Normunby as Governor of Victoria, points to the
fact that the Imperial Government still holds to
its policy of dignified Wmkleism.
* * *
To tbe suggestion that the landlords them-
selves might do something to relievethe sufferings
of their poor London tenants, an English paper
replies:—as well might Adam have tried to dress
up the serpent, in the Garden of Eden with a white
ti , and Btart him off a Methodist local preacher. ’
We don’t quite see the point of this. We’ve met
some very odd animals dressed up as local preach-
ers, and doing a roaring trade, too. . “ London’s
bigger landlords are aristocrats of the first water,
and aristocrats would swallow up the sunshine
and make us pay for the very daylight we use on
their land it' they could do it. This refers to the
“ rookery ” owners in East London, and could not.
be applied to anyone in Australia According to
Sir Thomas Brassey, the French ships have the ad-
vantage over ours in speed and in ordnance, and,
numerically speaking, the French Navy is as strong
as ours.


W. H. PALING,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC, ETC.
/
<: 3
: :
mrm/ri
IPS
Sm'
f
==^-i
-:.r
3-= •;■?:*-'=■•
W
EASY TERMS SYSTEM IS? INSTRUMENT.
OZSO-_^.2?TS,
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY DOW PRICES.
W. H. PALING,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OP NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE&CO
no. HUB, id mm mimts,
397 GEORGE STREET,
56 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, BYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AO ENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
Engineers’ Tools, Pounders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery Coach
uilders Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
EiVCIXES
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing- and lloistiDg-, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed,
PUMPS.
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
boilers.
Vertical and Horizontal.
I nth MACHINERY.
Steam Hammenh^ Borewin S
Saw Benphoa n . , WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
Joiners’ and Mo®t£&g Qtmera
Single. Double and Trinf? v" ant L, A,l !« rican Agricultural Implements.
Coach Builders’ SuNnnfvfiTT C " ntractors ’ Material and Plant.
S to«k« always on hand of FUrDlShiD * 8 ’ VarniBheS ’ and
and Plain Iron’;Solid ftolfed ¥%£&! Ir ° D ; Galvanized ' Corrugated.
WOCP.C, Sheep Shears. Oh, Waeh,p, „< Dam Maktav
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDAEE AND CO
337 Georgs Street, Sydney.
Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering
2j' k ?T organs from iulfUnng their functions. Set
the liver m order by taking- the above remedy, and
SSmSm!*"- ““ wm <“>1“ ‘*
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
true invigorator. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling’ of general lassi-
jj. anc * weakness, or a presentiment of coming
disastor, your liver is unequal to its work. To
obviate aD these sym otoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as * u
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by mag.c.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
PiL Ui. See that each box, by whomsoever sold.
Lab r jiat ?ry nVent ° r ' 8 nam ® and trade mark - The
434 George Street, Sydney.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
Ii
E ?^P;S SHO «T HORN BOURBON.-The
4m^ r i nkof £, he army, navy, the olubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
vn»T™,V&f UStralla; hafl no riva, <‘ the of tone?
you try it the more you like it#
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
mk
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
earthenwa ke,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. 80RIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A -MELV IN and 80NS’
Edinbu gnPale Aie.
PAPERBANGING S!
DADOES, BORDERS, Wlth
FRIEZES to Tuatci;,
NURSERY W.x'Eßg,
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, Ac.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS' & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT
Gemime
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jambs Curtis, 7
"CT nc3.er talker,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B. Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the into
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years-a^o
Manager for over ten (10) years. y ’ auo ’
EURE
KA
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
THE paragon of perfection.
IINER THAN THE FINEST.
The Tobacco of the Age !
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The oi y Tobacco combining- Excellence of Qualitv
with Economy in Price. r
“ T^p£ C A h " PL <F G with the word
Takcvno other. Smokers Bee that you obtain it.
MANUFACTURED BY
’s Titicu Co., Lin.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETB,
An t oh n be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse
.Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every,
body as soon as its merits become known. 7
EUREKA TOBACCO.
* ei aSW.“SS U, » V* £ et of Parliament, to pro-
Übllo a4fainst Bpuriou > and wortUess
ROBERT BUTCHER Sc CO.
(Late William Long!,
I&~ WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
(J H A M P I O N RACE, 1884
LEVIATHAN “ADAMASTOR” COMPANY
IQO 5000 shares of 10s. each.
100 Pi uee—£U2o for Horses, and £1275 for Stars, Ac.
Plan of Astronomical Distribution :
First Horse (winner of
Champion Race).. £5OO
Second Horse .. 250
Third Horse .. .. 125
Starters divide .. 150
Non-starters divide £2OO
First star .. .. 4tti
Second do. .. 300
Third do mo
fourth do 100
a'ionY e .>r B ot ®a°h» ilOO; 12 stars of £lO each
83i 5C4 f 5 each ’ £l35 < 30 sta ™ and towns
‘‘Adamastor’’ begs most respectfully to inform
Hbe?a™unDort’thftt D h 8 A t ha t h ® than^ s thom for the
i,,>;^.vfV. pport that he . bas received, and herewith
submits a programmesimilar to that of last year’s
for a w a ?d°drat e t e p n /?- I, 11 partiea a ™ reouest^to
dlatt > P O. orders, or cheques; if cheoues
exchange must be added, and in all cases nosta™
tees; registered letters only received Anplicl
turn, by letter only, addressed “Adamastor,” t aro
Alburv'N S '& a ’si*% mbe i : a Hotel ’ Uoanlstreet
C* u , ur 3 * vv, P.B,—Results sent to everv sharo
holder. Sydney agency discontinued. every share
INIERCOLONTAL JUVENILE INDTTRTHTat
EXHIBITION, PARRAMATTA, 1883.^
THE OPENING CEREMONY
will be performed by
HIS EXCELLENCY LORD AUGUSTUS LOFTUB
at 3.30 p.in., on
WEDNESDAY, 19th DECEMBER.
ssar 6 ''
T^^ anfi: ?i^ ents * lave been made with Mr C, is 1
thie everdng 1 , ia°. th ® openillir ceremony, 3s. od.; in
CHAS. E. ROWLING,
Hon. Sec.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINQ
CURES ALL PAIN.
U CTKALr, A r^ medy for RHEUMATISM
_ J KAL6IA, HEADACHE. TOOTHAf f r
RAINS, BRUISES, BURNS. SCALD 3, & c Hnd
CRIMPS er COLIC UreB H Dl^? RH ®^
%nd™ainL COLIC > and aII other sterns aches
l.*rice, 2/- W «M Everywhere.
C. E. MOULTON, SOLE PBOPfILrOR
MELBOURNE AND o.DNEY
PAINT
TR
°C Ma«
P
Arthur Guinnos* ol °®. lebr ated firm of
oannot bo ,? nd there fc>re
CATTELL & CO„ Sole Arrata? everywh °« , ‘
TONIC NERVINE
registered.
A SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
tnat spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion. Loss of
Appetite, Live and Kidney Complaints, General
Prostration, &c. By its tonic and sootwAg effects
it at once removes all craving for Alcohol? Bvita
richness in phosphorous and other powerful vital
ising elements it nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4s. 6d. Sold everywhere
Sole Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS
M.P.S Pharmacists, IQ4 and 106 MarketsS’
mTgah Iyde Park ’ Sydney - N.B.—All ImitetloM


1
c °Omt rumfo^
ilsu
sIS
Prepared according 1 to the directions of Prof.
E. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
MPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASEB
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &C.
W No Danger can Attend its Use.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Growing Chil-
dren.
„ , Sandusky, 0., May 21, 1880,
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can pro-
nounce it a very valuable addition. I find it use-
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nervous
depression following overwork and anxiety, as well
as the gastric derangements. Where there is
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull,
heavy head, it is of undoubted value. Fast grow-
ing children require this valuable addition.
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
, Boston, Mass., May .18,1880.
In regard to the Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give it in dyspepsia and in all cases where there
is derangement of the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
O. G. CILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
A. 8. Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
‘ Horsford’s Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
from indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, ana always with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some cases of morbid
urine, ‘ it acts like a charm,’ produciug the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, and is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound.”
Can be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
■ Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, in elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled. It is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive-
stomach. Have prescribed it with marked benefit,
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an,
excellent substitute for Lemon juice, and as such,
will furnish a refreshing'drink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY.
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
44 It Works like a Charm."
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches lire. Iteurea
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick iu the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures CoUe,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dyp-
therla.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers In
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and bare
gained throughou tthe colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best,
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery Is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their linish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under spectall
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America*
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they abb th»
BEST.
American Carriage Emporium,
WYNTARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
HARROW .MOXHAM A CO-
hei* At eufc*
Before the most noble Rosebery left \ le-
toria, Mortimer Franklyn addressed a letter to
him, and published it in the columns of the Would.
We have been much impressed by this epistle,
which, in point of style, is a cut above Junius, and
in respect of argument a great advance upon
Froude. It is also a courteous letter, and it con-
tains a variety ot information concerning Rose-
bery and his wife, which will strike those distin-
guished people as fresh and novel. Mortimer says
thusly: “It is natural that a promiscuous Stream
“So, the Countessh of Rosebery’s left
us, Mishter Isaacs, Sharming woman.
She’s ma cousin, you know, once re-
moved.”
“Your cousin onceshe’s removed—eh,
Abrahams? Pity sho wasn’t your cousin
while she was near.”
of immigration such as arrives fortnightly on
these shores should be as varied in its mental
calibre as it is dissimilar in its physiognomic
types.” Hold on, now, and take breath. Heady?
Well, keep your emotions in hand, Mortimer pro-
ceeds r “Unequal us must be the mental force
which such an olln podrida exercises, it is no
chimera to assume that eacli unit, upon returning
to his or her iireside, recount a? < its little circle
the tryo status of Australian soci y.” Yum, yum!
What d'ye think of that lor high t Hut you've only
tasted tho soup. Now for the entremets. Referring
to the particular benefit derived by these colonies
from the visit* of the ltosebery order, Morty goes
on: “ Of this class, my lord, I accord you only your
Just due, when I say you are a conspicuous unit "
There. Hold on a minute, and take that sentence
to pieces. Done? All aboard, and on wo go.
Mortimer proceeds to say that Rosy is the very
button of fortune’s cap. “Fortune,” crirs Morti-
mer, "gave you a most excellent start, when
she secured for you the amiable lady, who
is now the Countess of Rosebery.” Morty
doesn’t know that she bastes her Primrose with
the broomstick occasionally—although he does
write as though the Countess had been “rounded
up” like a Queensland gin, in the cause of Rose-
bery’s passion. However, let us trot on. Thus
our Franklyn : “In addition to her enormous
wealth, the daughter of Baron Meyer brought you
a name so cryatalised by a country’s stainless
honour and philanthropy us to have become
historic in all languages!” Gebomineyl Whip
that. now. Chrystalised stainless honour in all
languages ! Chrystalised-stainless century —no,
we cannot. It is too much. We can submit to
Carlylese—Emerson delights us much—Ruskin is
like strawborries and cream to us; but Mortimer’s
richness of diction andaltiuencein imagery knocks
us-it does, indeed. And he goes on: " The Coun-
tess will not think me unchivalrous, I trust, when
I atlirm that fortune has reserved tho greatest dis-
tinction of your life to be in connection with
Australian politics." Observe the raison d'etre
here indicated, and be good enough to remember
that there are milestones on the Dover road. Pass
the jug, while we wind up. Morty alludes to
Forbes as a “ weak and vulgar scribbler.” Then
lie says that there are “3,000,000 of intelligent sub-
jects in Australasia, who love their Queen as de-
votedly as any British subjects can, yearning to be
loved in return.” Touching this—" Yearning to
be loved in return.” Humph!
“ ’Twas all very well to dissemble your love,
But why did you kick me down stairs ?"
Yes, Mortimer has distinguished himself by
this letter. Tt is not a common letter,
anyhow. It is picturesque, mind you; full of
lights and shades, and that sort of thing, like a
picture by an old master that has been smoked up
the chimney until you can't make out whether il
represents a Virgin and Child or a cow. Oh, it is a
raro letter. It speaks of the “ quality of the ma-
terial which constitutes your (Rosebery’s) brain;”
it says that "Australians love England, and only
ask England's love in return;” and it winds up
with the following astounding sentence: “Inad-
dition to this, judge the honour which awaits you
at home, and in the pages of future history, ir,
charged with what you have seen in Australia,
you can succeed in convincing tho Imperial Go-
vernment that the Federation of the Australian
colonies is tho first stage of the orystalisation of
the dream of the greatest men in Britain-the
Federation of the British Empire.” There. Is the
jug empty? Exhaustion hath us in her grasp.
Let us take a big drink, and sing the forty-se ond
psalm, as follows: —
MA MERE.
Wo only ask from you, our mother,
The love that is a daughter’s due;
We pray thy aegis o’er us cover,
And don’t put on ollicial screw.
Mark Morty’s weighty words, dear mother,
As writ to Primrose, in his print,
And ask the Grand Old Man, dear mother.
O'er Franklyn’s burning words to squint.
Cut not the apron strings, dear mother,
Still feed us on tho pap of yore;
With kisses still your infant smother,
Maternal blessings on us pour.
Let Mortimer, most noble mother,
The truth reveal concerning us;
Nor Jet old Gladstone snub us, mother,
Or Derby blight us with bis “cuss.”
To federate we’re anxious, mother,
In bonds of sisterhood to join;
Become a nation, dearest mother,
We've got the cheek—we’ve got the coin.
Protect us from the French, dear mother,
Annex the islands light away;
And so preserve us, dearest mother,
From recidiviste and diporU.
The French no claim have, dcarost mother—
In Court their action will rot lie;
No claim! because, oh, dearest mother,
Eh ? Well—ahem !-I can’t say why.
But this I know, oh, dearest mother,
And it behoves that wou shonld know—
The islands all are outs, mother,
For Franklyn, of the World, says so.
Victorian statesmen also, mother,
Whose fame you’ve heard in pcean sung,
Declare the islands ours, mother,
And so that question’s settled—bung!
Then heed our prayer, oh, noble mother,
Relax thy stern and fearful brow;
A corner-man's sweet smile discover,
Our Hill in Eauitv allow.
So shall yon earn, oh, dearest mother,
The gratitude of this fair land;
But, if you don't— now mind me, mother,
Look out for squalls— you understand ?
A number of people in a room agree that
one should go into a neighbouring apartment,
Then the remainder agree among themselves that
the absent one on his return shall do certain
things such as kneeling or sitting in certain p aces,
singing songs previously decided on by those loft
behind, finding articles hidden in out-of-the-
way corners of the room, &c. The absent one re-
turns and is blindfolded Two of tho others meet
their fingers around his neck, and all concentrate
their thoughts on things to be done or to be found.
Tbe blindfolded person then—having had no com-
raunieatlon with those who remained in the room
during his absence—proceeds to attempt precisely
what they, during his retirement, had willed he
should do. When ho has gone through his task,
and his bandage is removed, ho is generally found
in a state of great nervous prostration. This
“ mesmerism,” “thought reading ’’—what you will
—is tho amusement that is arousing spe. ulation in
half the drawing-rooms of England. The accounts
of sue* essl'ul experiments are hall-convincing in
their matter-of-fact minutenees. Any small assetn-
THE MAHDI.
(From a sketch by a German artist, subsequently killed at El Obeid with Hicks Pasha.)
blage of young or old can try it, and let us know
the results. We are dreadful sceptics in these
matters—but “there are more things in heaven
and earth,” &c.
Inrc Chinese Gordon, tho D.T. says that
“He undertook his celebrated work in Egypt
under a firman from the Khedive, in which he was
appointed Governor-General of the Equator.” it
will be remembered that some surprise was caused
by Gordon’s return to England before his mission
was half completed, as his Chinese experience
showed him to be a man that never did tliimrs b
halves. We had too much regard for Gordon to
say what we knew about the matter, but now that
the D.T. has blurted out ihat it was as “Governor-
General of the Equator,” he went to Africa, our
hand is forced and silence is no longer possible.
The fact is the troops—if the rascally Bedouins
can be so designated—with which he was com-
missioned to hold on to the " line,” were of the
very worst materials, and should never have been
sent on such an important service. One night
when they had coiltd up the “slack” for safe
keeping in the guard-house, the whole guard got
drunk, and before morning a band of vagrant
niggers dx-opped in, and made away with the
Equator towards Timbuctoo. Gordon pursued
them, picked up one end of the missing line and
yoked all his forces on to it for a “ tug of war.”
But the cunning niggers had put a hitch of the
other end round the Greenwich meridian and
were half-dead with laughter to see the way poor
Goi-don’s men were wearing themselves out in a
fruitless struggle against the blind forces of
nature. Then the “ Governor-General ” sent some
carrier pigeons to Cairo for camels, but before
they arrived the “line” had disappeared, and he
found himself a disgraced man. This is the true
story of Gordon’s experiences as “ Governoi--
General of the Equa*or.”
There is one drawback to the reports
which distinguished visitors to these colonies carry
to the old country, in the circumstance that their
information must be necessarily limited, and will
not always stand the test of accxxracy. Lord Rose-
bery no doubt has “saturated” himself with much
statistical knowledge of these colonies, and believes
himself competent, by reason of personal expert-
enceand obsei\ thorlnf 6 Bm?
that are peculiar of. the But,
still, his knowledge is not lull enough, lor instance,
Jigger t o t he SLnry status of
Australia, as indicated by the works two
vreat geniuses, Ihit
Lindsay Gordon. This was well enough. But
about this 0 particular subject, he would not
have committed the mistake of omitting the
name of Henmker Heaton. Poor Clarke, and no
less poor Gordon, did much to establish a literal y
reputation for these colonies. But, after all, what
were their achievements to tnose ot Heaton t
They fade Into insignificance beside the literary
efforts -of the Town ake Country man. His
Natural Life is good; and Lindsays poems are
admirable. But has Rosebery ever had Heaton s
“ Australian Dictionary of Dates and Men of the
Time ?” Hal There’s a work for you 1 There’s
a colossal production 1 There s a volume of brain
effort! And in the lace ot the supreme tact of
the existence of this superior accomplishment,
my lord ignores the first genius of these parts—
Henniker Heaton. It is thus that modest merit is
wronged. Too bad, too bad.
, n , . .
T , There is a vacuum in Victorian society,
Rosebery has gone ; so has Mrs. Rosebery we
mean tho Countess. I act is, we re so unused to
countesses, that it doesn t come glib to us when
v® have to reler to them. Well, the Earl ana the
Countess have gone, and \ictorian swelldom
mourneth. While they were there they were a
a great draw. An Lari among Victorian wool-
washers and solt goods elite is about as good a
thing as a bull pup or a patent jimmy to a burglar,
They kinder feast on him.—
.. Th P re have been uods and mnv he c-ofis aa-ain
nSt surlsuch god m this I ween ”
Uut never Bure Buctl god as tDlB ’ l ween ’
Indeed, it is no exaggeration to say that the
wealthy lower orders of Victorians worship a lord,
They hang on to bis skirts. They tread in his foot-
steps. They await him at corners, and dart out on
him “ unawares.” If he go to a theatre, you bet it
is a good night for the treasury. If he attend
church, never so plentiful were the worshippers.
If he #0 to bathe, there is a struggle for his towels
And so my Lord Kosebery and bis wife have had a
warm time of it. 1 hey couldn’t get anywhere with-
out an attendance. Noticeable was the limpet-likc
affection with which a fashionable woman of the
" Jewish persuasion ” clung to the Countess.
Blood is thicker than water; and albeit old—say,
Moses’—daughter, like old Sbylock's Jessica, has
“taken up” with a Christian, the smouches of
Victorian society seem to be proud of her. “ Vot
d’ye think of tha Countesh of Rothbevy, Ikey ?”
said Mr. Nehemiah Marks to Mr. Joel Abrahams.
"Oh, that-! Tho’el p me. Vot a creature! Vot a
lovely creature! Vorth a million of money, Joel!
-a million of money! Oh, vot alovely creature! ’
Well, she isn’t bad-looking—for a Countess—and,
as Mr. Abrahams says, she is worth a million of
money. A million of money! Ah! that's it. No
cosmetic like money. A million of money would
give Sir Henry Parkes the nose Grecian, or the
O’Orsay style to M’Elhone, or a zephyr voice to
Buchanan—anything- otherwise impossible of ac-
complishment. Wouldn’t it ?
A Beautiful Painting.— Mr. G. G. Green,
of Woodbury, New Jersey. U.$,A., is presenting
to druggists and others in this country some very
line pictures in oil of his magnificent house and
grounds and laboratory at that place. Mr. Green
is the proprietor of Boschee's German Syrup and
Green’s August Flower, two very valuable medi-
cines, which are meeting with great favour, the
first as a remedv for Pulmonary complaints, and
the latter for Dyspepsia and disorders of the Liver
These preparations have attained an immense sale
solely on their superior merits and are sold by all
druggists throughout the world. The price is the
same for each. 3s. 6d. per bottle, or sample bottles
for Od. The sample bottles enable sufferers to
prove their value at a trifling cost.*
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers, it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins Is.*


Foster ’s Bugle Brand.
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
s
BASS PALE ALF.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
sold BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
BU o MERCHANTS.
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
Champagne
Heldsieck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsieck & Co., Reims.
BLEND
TRADE
SlqistirQ
/"IOLLIE BLEND WHISKY-This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
I m
170
R.BURGIS
TAILOR. .
117
mm \
-ui uiiriiw
s *
4 '
* ;\S
/R C, A s
tW VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
FOR
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP,Q
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony
"Y^ILCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4lO
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shellerg
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
Ac. Ac. Ac,
hebblewhite i CO.
416 GEORGE STREET.
Extract ofDANDELioN
agaMgra
„ MARSHALL BROTHERS.
MARKET STREET
T H E GU NnA G A I HERALD
“satoral Gazette & Farmers’ Chronicle,”
Tuimßi n^ 0 ! 1 is incorporated the
-IEMORA HERALD & MINING JOURNAL,’
Published every
WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
The popular paper of the district.
W. H. L. BAILEY, Proprietor.
Thffttrioal Job Printing, and box office for
Assembly Wall.
JEWELLERY, JEWELLERY. JEWELLERY.
CASH SALE.
EXTENSIVE ALTERATION TO PREMISES.
LAMB & FAIRFAX, 23 Hunter-street,
be* to inform their customers and the public that
they are now offering their carefully-selected
Stock at a Reduction of 35 per cent.
Five Shillings in the Pound taken off plain marked
previous prices.
N.B.—As Christmas is close at hand, the opportu-
nity should not be missed of purchasing intended
gifts.
TTr. holdsworth,
AUCTIONEER, VALUATOR,
House, Land & Estate Agent
63 ROYAL ARCADE PITT STREET.
GILBEY’S SILVERSTREAM SCHNAPPS.
Gilbey’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TUCKER & CO., Sole Agents,
3V6 George-street, Sydney.
IG,
1. fi CO.’S
BRIAN BORU
w
IS MANUFACTURED FROM THE
EINEST IRISH GRAIN.
It is bonded for several years before being bottled
or racked for export. When well matured by age,
it is carefully bottled under supervision of the
officers of H.M. Customs, and exported in enor-
mous quantities to ail parts of the world.
AUSTRALIAN CONSUMERS will And BRIAN
BORU WHISKY pure, mellow, and wholesome.
The great demand for this OLD IRISH BRAND
in ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, and the COLONIES
is a sufficient guarantee for its quality.
SOLD by all leading Merchants throughout
the Colonies.
JAMES YOUNG,
SYDNEY,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVE IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
YOUNG, KING, & CO.,
DISTILLERS,
BELFAST, IRELAND.
YOUNG, KING, & CO. have never ex-
hibited their WHISKIES, and therefore
cannot boast of Gold Medals, &e.
Young, King, & Co.’s Lammermuir Blend fine old
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Young, King, & Co.’s 33 O.P. WEST INDIA RUM.
Wheeler & Co., world-famed Export Bottlers of
Bass’ Ale and Guinness’ Stout, and manufac-
turers of the celebrated Belfast GINGER ALE.
Sole Agent in Australia for above Brands
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 CHANGE ALLEY, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 33 Elinders-street East;
ADELAIDE: Universal Buildings, Grenfell-street;
And at BRISBANE.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
First Prizes and Exhibition.
9
MR. F. WARE
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILD NGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney*
Hours, 9 till 5.
WM. RUSSELL
DENTIST
Corner of KING and PITT STREETS, Sydney.
Artificial Teeth, from ss. Stopping-, Scaling, and
Extracting- equally moderate. Malformations and
accidental deformities of the jaws, teeth, or palate,
treated. King--st. entrance. All work guaranteed
Rev. Father Wilds’
EXPERIENCE.
The Rev. Z. P. Wilds, well-known city
missionary in New York, and brother
of the late eminent Judge Wilds, of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, writes
as follows:
“78 E. 54 th St., New York, May 16, 1882.
Messrs. J. C. Ayer & Co.. Gentlemen :
Last winter 1 was troubled with a most
uncomfortable itching huinor affecting
more especially my limbs, which itched so
intolerably at night, and burned so intense-
ly, that 1 could scarcely bear any clothing
over them. I was also a sufferer from a
severe catarrh and catarrhal cough; mv
appetite was poor, and my system a good
deal run down. Knowing the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, by observation of
many other cases, and from personal use
in former years, 1 began taking it for the
above-named disorders. My appetite im-
proved almost from the first close. After
a short time the fever and itching were
allayed, and all signs of irritation of the
skin disappeared. My catarrh and cough
were also cured by the same means, and
my general health greatly improved, until
it is now excellent. I feel a hundred per
cent stronger, and I attribute these results
to the use of the Sarsaparilla, which
I recommend with all confidence as the
best blood medicine ever devised. I took
it in small doses three times a day, and
used, in all, less than two bottles. I place
these facts at your service, hoping their
publication may do good.
Yours respectfully, Z. P. Wilds.”
The above instance is but one of the many
constantly coming to our notice, which prove
the perfect adaptability of Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla to the cure of all diseases arising
from impure or impoverished blood, and a
weakened vitality.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cleanses, enriches, and strengthens the blood,
stimulates the action of the stomach and
bowels, and thereby enables the system to
resist and overcome the attacks of all Scrofur
lous Diseases, Eruptions of the Skin, Jthau-
matism, Catarrh, General Debility, and all
disorders resulting from poor or corrupted
blood and a low state of the system.
PREPARED BY
Dr. J.C. Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists; price $l, six bottles
for $5.
AYER’S
CATHARTIC
PILLS.
Best Purgative Medicine
cure Constipation, Indigestion, Headache, and
all Bilious Disorders.
Sold everywhere. Always reliable.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
Or i'HB PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. 2v£a,tuua:ed.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHIBKIIB
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON k CO.'S DUBLIN WHISKEY ‘
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Exy c rt at the Distillery.
Dublin, and consumers may, t. refore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ > hiskey Doctors.’
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and eapsule.
Daly Brothers,
Bole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
Bgr 308 GEORGE STREET,
rok
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINK and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
aa
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGBN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
Of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
l an MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
AFTEB BEFORE MOUSTACHE Uli WHISZEE3. EEFOn- after
Copyrighted.
Boyd' 8 Beard Elixir did this, and |
toill do it on cither bald head or
bare fare, fotcea heavy J/ow*.
tache in from 2 to 4 toeeka and never 4
fail*, 20,000 young men already
wear full beards, having used 1 to
Copyrighted.
3 pkts. No injury, easily applied, sertain in effect. Packet* Is. Gd.
each, 3 for 3 s. Gd.,post paid, sent under cover, free from observation .
[Address, Frank PaiiglM, Sole Agent, Box 730, G.l' 0., Sydney,N,B. iP-
Singer’s Sewing Machines.
TURNER & CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING 00.
TIME PAYMENTS:
2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
W BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Affents for the ONLY GENUINE “ SINGER,"
TURNER & COMPANY,
578 Georgre-street
8 doors past llathurst-stroct
THE ONLY “SINGER.”
Turner and Company,
678 GEORGE STREET
3 doors past Bathurst-street.
A COLOSSAL TRADE!!!
The following Gentlemen are engaged as
CUTTERS in the
LARGEST and Moat EXTENSIVE
Tailoring Establishment
In the Southern Hemisphere.
Some 300 hands are now employed by Messrs.
SUSIHEKFIELB Co., whose chief
place of business is
235 & 237 Pitt-st.,
SYDNEY, with Branches at
NEWCASTLE, DUBBO.WAGGA, and 61 & 53
LEADEN HALL-STREET, LONDON, E.C.
Mr. H. W. CHAPMAN, the well-known City
Cutter.
Mr. W. FROST, Thirty Years’ Sydney expe-
rience.
Mr. C. PROBYN, of Poole’s, Saville Row,
London.
Mr. H. J. TONKIN, of Tonkin, Sons and Co.,
Bristol.
Mr. R. MORRISBY, Eight Years with Summer-
field and Co.
Mr. CHARLES TAUTZ, of Tautz and Co.,
Breeches Makers, Piccadilly.
At Newcastle :
Mr. WALTER RICE,
Australian
Mr. W. SHAW.
best known Cutter in
ill in»o.,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
AND GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
War ran ted f i rst qual i ty
v Charges strictly moderate]
MARSHALL BROTHERS
Surg£» n io6iviarke:tst e.
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
Teeth Stopped, and Exttraeted Painlessly
ZOEDONE,
Pleasant, Refreshing,
Invigorating.
The non-alcoholic beverage acta as a brain and
nerve tonic, and doee not Intoxicate.
ZOEDONE
la reoommended by the Faculty aa a substitute (or
wine, beer, aud spirits, aa it invigorates without
producing any intoxicating effect. In oase o‘r
debility consequent on a long residenco in a hot
climate, it is or great service, aa it acta not only aa
a nerve stimulant, but also aa a permanent tonio
to the system.
•• »* *» 8 ~ 1 ~ ~ 24/.
Price per cast containing 10 dozen H pints ...21/-
KLLIOTT BROTHERS,
72 and 74 Pitt-atreet,
Sydney.
PAINTS.
OILS.
o
WALL
PAPERS
Office: 330 George-street.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT,
tar N.R Pattern* and Price* «»nt.
UMB
LLAS
REiCOVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Hare your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-llned and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted


READ IT ALL.
It may Save your Life.
hop bitters
ABE
The Purest and Best
Medicine erer made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchn, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘ and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
‘and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘and life and health restoring agent on
‘ earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Aged
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘ irregularities of the Bleod, Stomach
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
‘ Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bittors. Don’t
* wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
‘ dreds have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
‘ friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘use Hop Bitters.”
“ Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
‘ drugged, drunken nostrum, hut the
‘ purest and best Medicine ever made,
‘and no person or family should be
‘without it.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. Y.,U. S
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Parts.
GRAHAM,
TiilLOE,
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
MB, late 631, George-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—l respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and fit of our
Trousers, which are cut on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either In sitting, riding
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well; ,
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial wiH suffice to establish their olaim
on your patronage.
I am, Sir, t
Tourobedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGRSTTOW
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS, &c.
PRICE.
2s. 6d.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist &e
43 ERSKINE STREET. 1 ’
hr W T 7 BOTTT. or,H «11
Printed and Published by The Bulletin New*
paper Co. (Limityd), zi Pitt-st., Bydney, N.B.W,
HOW WE WERE ABDUCTED.
Mr. Philip Croft, we observe, has recently-
been committed for trial for abducting one Mar-
garet Cavanagb, under the age of 16—the precise
number of whoso years, however, our esteemed
consemporary the Rum gives as “ 1t5.” It seems
that Margaret was a Hebe inaPitt-street hash-em-
porium, and that the giddy boot-closer (for such
is the Croftian profession) spoke soft things to her
over the fumes of his Scotch broth, and declared
devotion over his duff. Suspicion on part of the
proprietor, we are informed, as to the affectionate
feeling existing between the two, was first aroused
by the spectacle of a “ help ” of steak and kidney
pie which Margaret was bearing towards her lover,
the pic having been, so to spoak, ransacked of
kidneys in order that his meal might be made the
more toothsome, thus reducing tho restaurateur
to tho necessity of “ striking out tho words ‘ kid-
ney’” in the itom on the bill of fare which re-
ferred to the pie in question. On another occa-
sion, too, when the Lothario had asked for “ jam
tart," Maggie was detected in the kitchen adding
another layer of raspberry to h<rr lover’s slab of
pastry from out the restaurant jam-pot. Yet,
strange to say, no one in the establishment com-
pletely dropped as to the actual state of the case.
We don’t know how Mr. Croft will get on, and we
don’t care much; but we are chiefly interested in
this case from the fact that, though we have never
abducted anybody, several attempts have been
made to abduct us. One instance, however, will
suffice to prove our attractiveness. In our pros-
perous times, when agent for a Ghost entertain-
ment with a cement-repaired mirror, we were stay-
ing at a nice hotel in a North-eastern city, calmly
and contentedly waiting for the show to arrive.
It didn’t come so soon as was expected, on account
of tho Ghost, having had a difference with a trades-
man or two in another town; and these irate mer-
chants, it seems, had temporarily “stuck to" the
reflector. This proceeding on their part prevented
the Ghost from walking, in a double sense, and
left us for a month or two enjoying board at £3
a week, and bartering front seat orders for refresh-
ment. The landlord, who had been long pensive,
would at times speak to us depreeatingly of the
resources of his own establishment and loudly in
praise of the rival hostelries, stating that for a
A young gosling went into a tobacoonist’s,
and, laying down halfpence, said,
“ Gimmyoigarette.”
The tobacconist took the money,
and gave In exchange there-
for a cigarette, and the gos-
ling went his ways.
Presently he felt exceeding ill, and he
laid him down, and lifted up his
voice, saying, “I peroeive that
smoking does not agree with me,
I shall leave off where I began.”
And he kept his word. Surely a boy
would have been more persever-
ing.
person of our distinguished appearance the Royal
Hotel, at the other end of the town, would be far
more suitable. Wesmilod on him—we even manu-
factured little jokes for him; but our interest in
the dinner-bell never diminished.
• « t
One day there arrived at our hotel (the
Duek and Musket) a stout, dark lady, with a very
great deal of luggage, a very great deal of hair,
several teeth, and a parasol strapped to an um-
brella It transpired immediately that she was a
rich widow, who was engaged to be married to the
landlord—a bachelor. We met her constantly, and
in a day or two wo perceived that she admired us
very much. After breakfast one morning, when
she had been thero a week, we met her alone in
the sitting-room Everyone in the hotel had gone
out to a school picnic, or a cock-fight, or some-
thing, aud there was no fear of our being inter-
rupted. Being aware of her relations with the
landlord, and not wishing to make things worse
than they were, we were about to retire, when she
paid “1 would like a word with you.” Behold the
door shut, and us both seated on the colonial
sofa. She gazed on us with her largo
black eyes, and said, “Would you take” (we
glanced involuntarily at the bell) “would you
take mo to bo susceptible ?” Too astonished to
answer. “ Well,” she continued, edging up and
placing a plump hand on ours, “lam. True, lam
eßgiged to Mr. Demijohn, but I do not love him.
I love you; and, mark me, I cannot conceal it.
Now,” she went on, .“there would be bloodshed
if ho knew this. You must not stay here.” We
remember in our utter stupor murmuring some-
thing about being pretty comfortable, our only
complaint being the abnormal strength of the
butter. “I am rich, and I love you,” she went on.
Two kisses. “Let us fly together : but first,” she
blushing!/ zAdcd, “ we must be quietly married.”
Such a pair of eyes. These were undoubtedly
genuine ; though grave doubts arose in our mind
concerning the voluminous bangs. No Ghost—no
money uneven heels —and an angry washer-
woman to face ; we consented.
• • •
“ In two hours, then,” said she, embracing
us fondly ; “rooms shall be engaged at the Royal.
Lea »re all to me. Meanwhile, get together such few
accessaries aa you will require until your trunk can
be removed.*;i will await you here.” We went up-
stairs, and were about to put together a collar, a
tooth-brush, and a pair of socks, when we caught
sight on the dressing-table of a bottle of brandy.
t “Thoughtful oroature!” we exclaimed; and with
the aid of our gum-glass immediately proceeded
to drink it. We remember then being awakened,
leaving the hotel with the widow, and arriving
outside the Royal. Then we remember her bid-
ding us enter first, so as to throw off suspicion.
Then we recollect going upstairs to our new quar-
ters, and finding there more refreshment. Another
sleep ensued, and when wo awoke a letter was be-
side us. It was from the other landlord, and
signed “D. Demijohn.” “ Kate didn't work it bad,
did she ?’ ran the letter. “It was less trouble and
looked better than turning you out. Give M‘Fo-
garty a turn now. Ta, ta.” Here endeth the
account of our first abduction.
Dr. Anna Potts is now haranguing the
“gumsuckers” on “ What to eat, and now to eat
it.” But she skips over the greatest trouble of all
down there—viz., “ Where to get it.”
The sale of expired runs took place to-day
in Mr. Arthur Martin's auction rooms,” says a
Brisbane telegram. No quotations are given of
prices, and we are left in the dark as to the market
i rates in living runs.
Here's a hiccup from our Rockhampton
namesake:—“ Where drunkenness is increasing,
crime is diminishing, and where the people are
most sober, they are most criminal.” “ Krish-
mish ” lasts a long while up North.
Caspar Neraka, a well - known Mary-
borough miser, having occasion to do a little jour-
ney, begged a lift in a farmer’s cart in order to
save the shilling for a ride in a covered ’bus. And
on the way he dropped dead from sunstroke. The
moral in this is obvious.
The Herbekton (N.Q.) Advertiser advises
its subscribers in consequence of there being ‘much
disunion in the community,” to “ bury all local
jealousies.” This issue came out after the last
little politico-religious article had filled the lock-up
and the hospital. No allusion was made ia the
article to burying the local rum.
The Shoalhaven News says it is now 18
years old. Typographically speaking, anyhow, it
looks 1800. The ancient W., addressing his sub-
scriber, says that his journal is “ unexcelled by
any of the mushrooms on the South Coast. ’ “It
Is," he exclaims, with becoming modesty, “ the
best and largest." The supporter is also assurod
that "a judicious review will be exercised on all
matters appertaining to civil polity or local gov-
ernment.” It is easy to see the S. N. is 18 years
old, and that the same man who writes it now
wrote it when it was first started—lB years ago !
The News may be the largest and best mushroom
on the South Coast, but it strikes us it would not
be very difficult for another to ketchup to it.
Constant complaints are being made
touching the niggardly manner in which station-
©rv and store articles are doled out to country
telegraph offices by the Sydney authorities, who
seem to labour under the impression that their
rural brethren make mock-turtle soup out of the
sealing-wax and gum-arabio supplied, and sup-
plement their slim salaries by disposing of their
message-forms to the man who runs the local tish-
shop.
We are told that an American company
publishes the Dental Cosmos, which has long
been the acknowledged “ leading exponent of the
thought of advanced dentistry. We believe the
Indian Corn Doctor had intended founding a simi-
lar exponent of the advanced thought of corn
cutting, under the title of Bunion’s Cosmos, but
as he is on a visit to Pentridge, and will be very
busy tor a year or two yet, the publication will be
delayed.
M. O’Rell, in his amusing book “John
Bull et Son Isle,” says, “In France, when a crime
is committed, we ask ‘ Where is the woman ?’ Tn
England we say. * Where is the chapel ?’ ” He
doesn’t specify the crime, and therefore may bo
said to rather overdo it. So far as we arej con-
cerned, however, when wo hear of something in a
basket neatly done up; in a blanket being found
on a door-step, wo are not quite so|general. Wo
merely say, “ who was the deacon ?"
Now that public attention has been
directed to the fact that Sir Moses Montefiore has
lived to be 100 years of age, about seventy very
learned men—very learned, but badly in want of
patches on their boots, and very badly indeed in
want of a glass of rum—have started in to trace
his descent in a direct line from Methuselah. They
expect Moses to make them some little recogni-
tion. We think it will be rum if they succeed.
But that’s just what they think, too.
A lady who has apparently borrowed a
spider's handwriting, sends us something about
two Wollongong young men going to Dapto, or
Dubbo, or somewhere, and calling at a house
where resided some young ladies they knew - (no-
thing even thrilling in this so far). The gentlemen
were, it appears, asked to tea, and after tea begged
one of the young ladies to sing. She commenced,
it seems, as follows :
“A Blank and Co. young man,
A half-holiday concert young man,
Who went across to look for his horse
With that vivacious Dapto gal ” (sic).
“After this,” says our fair correspondent, “they
thought it best to leave, and, after a * good night ’
all round, took their departure.” No wonder!
And then, we suppose, the young lady who thus
satirically sang climbed up the kitchen staircase
and proceeded to clear away the parlour tea-
sink* 8 ’ havin,r Previously washed her hands at the
Somebody signing “Ceb ” has been writing
a lot of ualimaUan in the News, called “Mrs
Green on the Sydney Liedertafel,” with the sole
purpose, apparently, of championing Mr. Ashcroft
Edwards. Here is a sample of the style of Alfred’s
latest litterateur—or, perhaps (who knows ?) it
would be more in keeping 1 to say, his newly
acquired oharwoman :—“ ‘ I intend,’ said Mrs.
Green, ‘being at the next * smoke concert.’ ” * You
forget women are not allowed, Mrs. Green.’ ‘ Non-
sense ; who always sits in the retiring room ;
what’s her name? You won’t tell me? Well,
surely if one lady goes another can. I wonder if
she smokes ? I shouldn’t like that.’ ” Now, we
are perfectly certain that when the boss read this,
his face puckered up into a little smile, and he
liked it. We can see him as we write this, under
our lamps, in the middle of the night, put on the
l ack of the copy in pencil, “ Set this artikul up in
print;” and then, after an hour’s deep cogitation,
add; “ Mem.: Author to be asked if he understands
groming or scrubing.”
“I’m in a most unfortunate position,” he
remarked, as he entered the sanctum and breathed
soft memories of a distillery in the direction of
the editor,” and I’ve just dashed off a few things
here which will make your paper hum.” And he
produced a roll of MS. written on the backs of
tripe-shop bill-heads. “ Hum,” remarked the
editor after a rapid—but masterly—glance over a
few sentences, “ pretty quick, are you ? Dash
off rapidly?” The contributor intimated that
lightning was a fool to him in the matter of
rapidity. “Ihen,” the editor said with a significant
wave, “give us a sample of wbat you can do—now.
Dash off rapidly. Mind the steps. See?” He saw;
and the harrassed man of scissors communed with
himself. “ Confound those bummers,” he mur-
mured; “they seem to think that they have only
to be ‘in an unfortunate position ’ to be entitled
to fill up the paper with their rubbish. Want to
change places, I expect. If I only put in their
stuff I’d very soon been going round, myself, ex-
plaining that I was ‘in a very unfortunate posi-
tion.’ ”
Dean Mahouey is of opinion that when
Roman Catholics consent to marry Protestants
they are merely getting “dispensations to make
themselves miserable.” Yes, he is quite right; for
they forget that the wife is expected to obey the
priest before the husband—to pay the exactions
levied for church mummeries before she satisfies
the demands of hunger and of decency—to send
her children to the school, not where education of
the intellect is the foremost consideration, but
rather the elevation of Romanism above every-
thing else on earth—to toll ignorant boorish
ecclesiastic matters which delicacy keeps even
from her husband’s ear—to entertain no hope of
“absolution” (delivered direct from God with a
strong Irish brogue) on her dying bed—to have no
chance of “extreme unction,” or interment in
“consecrated” mould, and no possibility of
escape from eternal “purgatory” (except by
very heavy fees) unless she submit to all this
abominable intolerance. Yes, the Dean is quite
right. Young couples generally forget all this in
their fervour, and, when they come to discover it,
they find, as he very sensibly observes, that they
have begun “to make themselves miserable.”
Dean Mahoney and his kind might remedy some i
of this misery, if they liked.
A pert young fop interrupted Lord Beres-
ford when he was speaking at Tenby, and said he
couldn t listen to a man who had a head like a
bpiled bulldog. Whereupon Lord Charles looked
him in the eye as he does when he knocks a
man out of time in no time, and when he had
drawn the attention of the whole audience to the
purple face of the impertinent fellow, observed
ffiat perhaps a head like a boiled bulldog was
about the thing when a man had to speak to a
heae like a roasted puppy.
Swiss Commissioner’s Speech.
Extract from a speech delivered at the Amphi-
theatre of the Primary College of La Chnux-de-
fo^ B V.T uesda y> thc 14th day of November, 1876,
nj M. Edouard Favre-Perrel, Swiss Commissioner
and juror to the Philadelphia Exhibition:—
On the Waltham “ Riverside ” Watch.
■ . • • • '“The Waltham Company mako the
entire watch—from the first screw to the case and
dial. It would oven be difficult for them to use
our products, so great is the regularity, so minute
P recl . slon , w ith which their machines work
they arrive at the regulation of the watch—so to
say—without having seen it. When the watch is
given to the adjuster, the foreman delivers to him
the corresponding hair-spring and the watch is
regulated. (Sensation among the audience.) Here
1 wen gentlemen! I asked from the
director of the Waltham Company, a watch of the
fifth grade. A large safe was opened before me;
at random I took a watch out of it and fastened it
to my chain. The director, having asked me to
let him have the watch for two or three days, so
as to observe the motion. I answered, ‘ On the con-
trary, I Persist in wearing it just as it is. to obtain
an exact idea of your manufacture.’ At Paris, I set
my watch by a regulator on the Boulevard, and on
the sixth day I observed that it had varied 33
seconds And this watch is of the fifth American
grade; it cost 75 francs (movement without case).
At my arrival at Locle, I showed the watch to one
pf ° ur first adjusters, who asked permission to
take it down m other words, to take it to
pieces. I, however, wished first to observe it; and
here is the result, which I noted: Hanging, dailv
variation in different posi-
-4 t 0 8 seconds; in the ‘heated room,
the variation was but very slight. Having thus ob-
served it, I handed the watch to the adjuster, who
d(mn ' After the lapse of a few days, he
came to me and said, word tor word: ‘lain com-
S» ov^ helmed: the result is incredible; one
° D6 BUch watch am °fi£ 50,000 of our
“ This watch, gentlemen, I repeat to you. I took
±^ Za / d -°H t , of a heap > as we say. You under-
from this example, that the Waltham watch
may be preferred to the Swiss. I have finished
PS*™* 1 hav ? told you of things such as
f,™ V +i ® een , tbem - It remains for us to profit
from this sad experience, and to improve our
Competent men are not wanting
Anion# us; they must go to work at one©*”
alabaster o*** 0 ***


m
-■
3
it
C
2
Z§£
1
32*
559 & 541 (aftCRSCST
<a V n M TP
TOPPOSITC POST Of/TO;
£07.295 ©6oP.ee ■S'FI*€GT
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Plrc
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, See.
Repairs by London workmen. s
mr c. cowles, tor george street.
N.B.—Second-hand Gun 3 by best makers.
J LAWLER, 608 Georsre-street, Bedding: Manu-
al facturer, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed-
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Harr,
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. Established 1860.
Peapes & Sitaw’s
“ S TAN P ARP" CLP THING.
have now open, for the SUMMER SEASON, THE MOST COMPREHENSIVE ASSORTMENT OF
GENTLEMEN’S READY-MADE CLOTHING to be found in any house in-the city.
s PEAPES & SHAW’S
bT ANDARD CLOTHING
THE BEST VALUE
IN SYDNEY-
" STANDARD” TWEED SUITS,” 325. 6d., 355., 425., 455., 505., 555.
BLUE SERGE SUITS, 355. and 425.
TWEED SAC COATS, (ss. 6d. each, suitable for garden or office.
TWEED SAC COATS, 15s. (id. and 31s.
BLUE SERGE SAC COATS, 18s. 6d„ 31s.
TWEED TROUSERS, lf,s. (id., 13s. 6d„ 16s. 6d.
TROUSERS and VESTS, 255. and 30s.
_ . i
LIGHT SUMMER DUST COATS, THIRTY SHILLINGS.
LIGHT TWEED-OVERCOATS, 435., 505., 555.
SPECIAL” COLOURED HOLLAND SAC COATS, 4s. 6d. EACH.
QjRISTY’S HATS, all new summer shapes.
B OYS’ MAN-O’-WAR SUITS, guernsey and
whistle, complete.
R |LIABLE MACINTOSH CLOTH IN G-.-All
made to our special order.
Rating, cricketing, and lawn-tennis
White'FLANNEL SACS, for cricketing or boat-
ing, 22g 6d
TROUSERS, 13s 6d. per pair.
WHITE and COLOURED LINEN DUCK VESTS,
9s. 6d. each ; 3 for 275.
WHITE and COLOURED DUCK COATS, military
or roll collars, 6s. Gd., 10s. 6d., 12s. Gd , 11s. 6d.,
18s. 6d„ 21s.
DUCK TROUSERS, 12s. Gd. per pair.
CHINA SILK SAC and DUST COATS, 15s. 6d.,
18s. Gd., 21s.
BLACK ALPACA COATS, 108. Gd., 13s. Gd., 15s. 6d.
BLACK CASHMERE and RUSSELL CORD
COATS, 18s. 6d., 21s.
PE APES and SHAW, George-streei.
°PR MERCERY DEPARTMENT is stocked with all the LEADING NOVELTIES for the Summer
Season.
KENT'S COTTON LISLE THREAD and SUMMER MERINO HALF-HOSE, in plain colours or fancy
n stripes, from 12s. per dozen.
KENT’S UNDER SHIRTS, India Gauze, Gosamer, Summer Merino (coloured and white), Balbriggan,
Anglo-Indian, and Spun Silk, with Pants to match.
GENT’S WHITE SHIRTS, O.F. or E. 8., 305., 405., 50s. half-dozen.
FRENCH PRINTED REGATTA and OXFORD SHIRT, collars attached, 305., 405., 425. the half-dozen.
NEW LINEN COLLARS.—The JBeresford, Seymour, Army and Navy, General, Admiral, with patent
So . si^e tabs for holding seai'f in position.
“bARFS in all the Newest Shapes, Colourings, and Designs.—The Masher, Cyprus, Rosebery, Marquis,
Albert, Feur-in-Hand.
UMBRELLAS, 8,10,12,14,16 ribs, Natural Sticks, Nickel Fittings, from 10s. 6d. to 355.
IHE NEW TITANIA UMBRELLA, folds neater and closer than any umbrella, 1 guinea each,
ip NEW COMBINATION BRACE and DRAWERS SUSPENDERS.
*ILR HANDKERCHIEFS, 215., 30s„ 40s. the dozen.
PEAPES & SHAM, George-sftreet.
olff Sz Son’s
be bad from all Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
CHINA & GLASS AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
BROKEN SERVICES MATCHED, and made up complete.
CHINA REPAIRED.
Every description of China or Glass Lent on Hire*
11.I 1 . SMITH,
CHINA IMPORTER AND DEALER,
269 Pitt Street,
Corner of Loyal Arcade, Sydney.
*?.4
1
THE ONLY GENUINE TSNTAG
TOBACCO.
USD & IS
consume, in manufacture, nearly three-
fourths of the whole of the leaf imported
j,-. into N.S. Wales, therefore their Twist and
a 't Tobaccos stand FIRST in the estimation of judges of Tobacco.
a Qkee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thiek twist), Cut R.C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture
CIGARETTES.— CONQUEROR and .EARLY BIRD hold a high position.
Importers of Pipes Oitrars, and all Tobacconists’ Sundries.
SqF- “CONOCDROR” TOBACCO WORKS, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
C. B. HODINI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
tar TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE EIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading- Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
g-uaranteed at 602- GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne ; also Angel© Bor-
■doni, of Brescia, Italy.
SOHO BAZAAR,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior assort
ment of
Brie a Brae, Articles of Vertu,
Terra Cotta, China-ware, &c.,
Tricycles, French and German
Model Bolls, Count Harrach’s
Bohemian Yases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Figures,
and all varieties of
FANCY GOQBS ANB TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
Solb.o Bazaar
352 George Street.
Auction ESooms
AND
FUENITUBE BAZAAR
CORN EXCHANGE BUILDINGS,
*524 GEORGE STREET.
The cheapest place in Sydney to purchase every
description of Household Furniture.
Wtr" HOUSES FURNISHED on the Time-payment
System.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY instalments taken.
ESF" Open—Mondays and Wednesdays* 9 to 9
Saturdays . . . . 9 to 10
Tuesdays and Fridays . . 9 to li
JOHN P. LISTER, Proprietor.
mr THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capita n, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT,
on fixed deposits lor 13 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods ; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Oflices, 4 Park-st.
i. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
pure cmmruY milk.
IJIHE MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Buffer.
This is either manufactured at their own depot
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart; city, daily; suburbs, three times
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
21 HARBOUR STREET.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
£25 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED by ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £132,600
Directors i
The Hon. Sir John B ay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolieston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Seroggie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq
Manaoer :
P. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, Nyngan, and Bourke.
London Branch : 153 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G | Geo. H. Alexander, Esq
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo 1
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
w.
scehii,
’Watchmaker
Jeweller,
and
SJlversnlit,h.
H
AS JUST OPENED HIS NEW PREMISES
544 GEORGE STREET, \
Opposite the TOWN HALL,
With a magnificent stock of Diamond, Roman,
_ and Vienna Jewellery,
GOLD AND SILVER WATCHES & CLOCKS,
Football, Cricketing, and Trophy Speciality.
Note the Address—
nr 644 GEORGE STREET.
11l
mui
TEMPORARY PREMISES :
110 BCing.sfreei,
GUNPLER, THE
CATERER”
GUNSLER THE
CATERER’S”
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER’S ”
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER ”
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
. ...
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
Has decided to open in Syd -
ney, but premises such as be
desires are not now available.
He has therefore opened
temporarily at the above
address.
Name is a household word,
and his desire is to retain the
confidence of his customers,
who may rest assured that
the care and attention which
has made “G-unslcr the
Caterer,” a household word
in the neighbouring colony
will be devoted to any'and
every undertaking he may
enter into.
Staff of Cooks and Pastry-
cooks is the most complete ol
its character in the colonic-,
and their assistance will
enable the proprietor to
supply Shortbread,- Jellies,
and every delicacy in such
style and at such modetate
prices as has never been at-
tempted in this city.
Has a practical knowledge of
every branch of his business,
and consequently can gua-
rantee to every customer
thorough satisfaction, or at
any rate he will ao his bea
to deserve it.
Has much pleasure in offer-
ing to the public, for the
Christmas and New Year
Holidays, a few specialities,
and is confident they will
meet with universal appro v al
Also manufactures every
class of goods incidental to
the Catering business.
Make a special effort for the
supply of the finest brands
of French and English Con-
fectionery, for which he is
sole Agent in Australia.
Was the Special Caterer to
Sir George Ferguson Bowen,
to the Marquis of Normanby,
and V.R. Club.
Is the leading Australian
Caterer.
Has the most complete staff
of thoroughly trained hands,
Is prepared to undertake
Catering Contracts to an 3’
magnitude.
YOUR PIANO
AT
CHARLES HTJENERBEIN’S
178 Pitt Street.
BEST INSTRUMENTS I CHEAPEST PRICES !
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
A CURE GUARANTEE]).
N E PIV
BRAUSi
<i£>we s
Z 6
TREATMENT
Dlt. E. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREAT-
MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness, con-
vulsions, fits, nervous neuralgia, headache, nervous
prostration caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco
wakefulness, mental depression, softening of the
brain resulting in insanity and leading to misery
decay, and death ; premature old age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain or over-indulgence.
Each box contains one month’s treatment, ss.
box, or six boxes for 355. ;• sent by mail prepaid on
receipt of price. We guarantee six boxes to cure
any ease. With each order received for six boxes,
accompanied with 355., the purchaser will receive
the nanufaeturer’s written guarantee to return)
the money if the treatment does not effect a cure
Guarantees issued by all chemists and druggists
Australia.


Q-old T OTxreller37“ !
j&2
iHEGI TERED.i
9 SYDNEY ARCADE & 12 ROYAL ARCADE.
idy&k S I
LATEST FASHIONS
ETCHES, 30s.
•w.
pedal Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually attended to
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.8.-BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
L. E. HENDERSON, Manager.
GKE3»£w2>TID
THE PEOPLE’S CLOTHIER,
Tr OPENING up every day, a Large Stock of Choice and Fashionable MEN S, PQ\™i, a Sc<r ) 'r Sjf
SUITS TROUSERS and VES i S, SAC, FROCK, and PAGET COATS, HARD and SOFT
WHITE and REGATTA SHIRTS, COLLARS, TIES, and HOSIERY. Every article is »
plain figures, and at VERY LOW BRICES. t, o ps.
jpsr* Both shops are thorougly chock full. Come early and inspect the Stock in no
I keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING MEN’S CLOTHING in SYDNEY to cboj*
Be sure you find the right shops, when requiring CLOTHING OF EVERY DESCRIP |
J. J. Ryan, 760 George Street, Haymarfcet!
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, nehr Market Street.
HAWKES AND COMPANY,
TATTERS ALL'S HORSE BAZAAR
and
SALE YARDS,
CORNER of CASTLEREAGH and HUNTEH
STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sales Daily, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Livery; excellent accommodation
and fodder.
All kinds of Vehicles and Horses on Hire, day
or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
carriages.
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
separate.
CARTON'S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 3i5.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
/M
m
iH
HEYDE, TODMAN & CO.,
YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
Schweppes Mineral Waters,
as supplied
her majesty the queen and royal
FAMILY,
Cl AN be obtained of the principal Hotel-keepers,
j Wine Mei chants, and Chemists throughout
the colonies.
soda-water, lemonade, ginger ale,
POTASS, LT.THIA (for gout) SELTZER,
TONIC, MAGNESIA WATERS.
51 BKKNERS-STREET, LONDON:
58 MARGARET-STEfiET, SYDNEY.
SEARL & SOiiS,
NURSERYMEN, SEEDSMEN, BOUQUETISTS
And Artistic Floral Dinner-table Decorators,
Sand 5 GEORG E-STREET MARKETS, SYDNEY:
Also,
BLAIR ATHOL NURSERY, PETERSHAM.
gar* Pelargoniums now in full bloom. Inspection
invited.
AIR-TIGHT SHOW CASE COMPY.,
67 GEORG E STREET WENT.
SHOP,
OFFICE,
AND
Hotel-bar
FITTERS
'Pi!/:
Air-tight
SHOW
CASES'
AT
LONDON
PRICES.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
1 Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
*
■
m
’.l**
>
..SS& •:
Stiff i stasushm 'em
«oxford ■£&.
K
i
32 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
ARTIFICAL TEETH on ttao moat approved Eng-
lish Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Beating, and Extractions skilfully
performed.
aciG-arars
Prize Medal Sa/t
FOR D AIRY and TABLE L T •£.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A.G. CHURCH WOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
■HHHRHMHPI
©JPHO^BI^
V,'; v
UEENSLAND CURE;
Asthma,
dUGHS,
S»RrpAftEo:lOf*l.V Q
..^..^wINGHAM;
ROCKHAMPTON
titiF
BULL-DOG ALE.—IT is not the clearness
or condition aione in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this i rand first in ppblic
estimation. Common hitter crude beers are
made very fine, but no other brand* has the
same mellow vinous character, the fullness on
the palate, and the great i« eeping qualities of the
BULL-DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cau-
tioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred
to as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTELL
& CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents: WOOD
BROTH Bits & CO.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and General Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY”.
Agents for ail kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OF PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customers and the
public generally that he has a large assortment of
Drawing. Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Furniture, all of good cnia.lity and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
W. M. WALLAH
Importer of every description of
iit era ture, Law, M ercan tile &
Fancy Stationery.
Enjrllsti Papers and Magazines recel
every Mall. pf! l
HOVAL ARCADE. m GEORGE ST.. s .
WRIGHT, HEATON 8& S
. (I+IMITEM),
GENERAL CARRIE^
0
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom
and Commission Agents .
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Syd®f
carriers to the government 0? 1
SOOTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
ETTHBRN DISTRICT, N.S.^' 5
Goulburn
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootaraundra
Junee
Wagga Wa gg*
Hanging Boca
Culcairn
Cowabee
Narandera
Hulong
Carratnool
Hay
Western District, N.S.W.
Capertee
Bathurst
Blarney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Novertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northisbn District, N.S.
Morpath
Gunnedah
Narrabri
WaJgett
Brewarrina
I’amworth
Uralia
qo ken slant) branches
Southern and South-Westers t ' l
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Yeultoa
Oambooya
Central Link:
Rockhampton
Fiog'antuhfran
Emerald
Capella
Cotnet
Northern Link:
Townsville
Charters Tower#
Havensvvood J tJl)
Agents in Vietoi'ia and South A^
WI. M'CFLLOCH & CO.,
%3T Agencies in all parts of tb<» *
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer of all Sdsisis
/Eraisd Waters, Gersflals, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vagorims*
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at . :.*■■■-
31 AND 38 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
