

14.
ovideis.
*3
OF
In the Australia
nalaa aain v»sp , l&a
9
'UCE
HORDERN AND
EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET, ONLY.
\y Novelties! Spring Novelties ! The Opening of the Spring Trade,
p* Steamer. The Pick of the Fashions for the present Spring Season .
% a charming variety of the Newest Mantles, the Choicest Millinery, and everything fresh in Laces, Ribbons*
stock of Furniture of all kinds, Carpets, Floorcloths, Linoleums, "Window Blinds, Curtains, Cretonnes,
b and necessary to furnish either a Cottage or a Mansion inexpensively, artistically, and substantially,
and we are this season in a position to give BETTER VALUE THAN EVER !
Our Only Address—
HORDERN AND SONS,
PROVIDERS.
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS.
The Bulletin NEW SERIES


(LIMITED),
REDFERN WORKS, SYDNEY.
KIT UNEQUALLED SAFETY'. SW EXTREME SIMPLICITY. fOT GREAT ECONOMY IN USE OF WATER.
<(W" LEAST POSSIBLE WEAR OF ROPES.
<il
v ft®
N
15
XZSiS
•-S-:
S!i
! f'|
1
:
ra
*
, - .t
H
mm®
m
K «
- 1
Wm
■
E'iT'tSIMPLICITY OP MANIPULATION. SMOOTHNESS AND NOISELESSNESS OP MOTION. $37" FREEDOM
FROM SHOCK CAUSED BY ABRUPT STOPPAGES. Estimates. Diagrams, &c., to be obtained at
HUDSON BROTHERS, Regent-street, Kedfern,
Ssla Agents for
The Otis Hydraulic Elevators.
M±,m A. MARSHALL and C 0. 9
IMPORTEBS and MANUFACTUBERS of
nmm® B£&R, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
83gT“ Brass and Bell Pounding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blaeksmithing,
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
BOULTON’S “PLUSH-OUT," “VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BOM ACCORD WORICS, 8 & 9 laequaric Place, Sydney.
Pull particulars and price on application.
royalSotel
BOTJHKE,
Is the largest and best-appointed Family Hotei in tbe Western district. The Table flDd Liquors
cannot be surpassed, even in the Metropolis, Private Suites for families. First-class Stabling - .
THOE3AS HUGGINS, Proprietor.
TTL SUR9HMERFIELdT& CO.,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
H. L. SUMMEHFiELD & CO.,
THE GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
And at
51 and 53 LEADEN HALL STREET, LONDON. E.C.; 32, 34, and 36 HUNTER
STREET, NEWCASTLE; FITZMAURICE STREET, WAGGA; MACQUARIE
\ STREET, DUBBO.
Our new Illustrated Catalogue of Fashions, with Prices of Men’s and Boys’
Goods; Patterns and Sel£~qaeasurement Forms sent post free, on application.
470 GEOBCrE STREET, opposite Central Fruit Markets.
EXTRAORDINARY SALE
WINTER HOSIERY AND MILLINERY.
lew Stock of Ladies* Clowes, Laces, and Fichus.
The Choicest Stock of Fancy Coeds m Sydney.
Parasols, StafereSias, Bags.
Purses and Fancy Ware.
XXXXXXXjj
XX.
XX
XX
XT
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
MEMO, to you from
HORDERN’S in Pitt-st., Sydney.
xx To Residents in the Country. Goods §
You cannot do better than send down to us o j. #
§ whenever you want something nice and tasty,
II from what you can get in the country stores.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Kg?” Send down to us for our Catalogue, Self-measurement Guid >
You will not be disappointed.
BE CAREFUL OF OUR ADDRESS
Hordern Brothers?
209 and 211 PITT STREET, SYD^E_
xx
XXXXXXXXXXXXX XX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
XXX XX XX X X XXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXA*_
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE &£0
l d 11® ®p
397 OEOBGE STREET,
66 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNE
AND AT T p
jONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON,
SOLE ABENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENBLARD
IMPORTERS OP
Engineers’ Tools, Pounders’ Materials, Ship
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and o
Corf
Implements.
J£NGINJS»'
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
lag and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
t'oxce 'SLAtti
,X'cV'iXX%W.\, ■SEWOIQi
Vertical and 'Horizontal.
MACHINERY.
Punching ana spearing, Shaping, . g>
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam ttauu"
elottiOS
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing,
0 ill lltinmiQ I IDfl W
9D<J
WOO»<WORUIN)S MACHINERY.
Fret
Q e» e]
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines-
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and stea
English and American Agricultural paMj^ Vo1 ’
Kiino-if- Double and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, H<^ r |f. e jierB,' I ’ hre j
Bakes, and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Sheu
m
Railway Contractors’ Material and P1 “’l
Coach Bdildehs’ ■»'
u«« Stort. o» **>* oJ S A» f l, a»djee Iron .
Squatters’ Supplies. iog a nd
Wooipaeka, Sheep Bhears, Oils, Raddle, Wire, Sheep Was -
Builders’ Ironmongery. oarP eff terS ’ T °
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application c®~
BRISCOE, DRYSDARE
337 Georgs Street, Sydney
W. W. CATER, Importer, 193 & l flß
ALL GOODS AT STRICTLY"WHOLESALE PRICES
ott
tb e* *
ml , N p
' FRENCH MILUNEB^MAN^LKS^OOSTgra^S^^SATINS^J.A.'g.’
$0
its
ni<*
Our Introduction of Glove-fitting at the counter as done in Paris, 18a "
lo w both Lady and Gentlemen fitters engaged.
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR FITTING. jj,
THE LARGEST AND BEST STOCK TO SELECT
WHOLESALE PRfCES.
■w. wre -fi-y
ST^*-
193 and 195 PITT
SHEARSBY &
merchant Tailors, Habit, and Bob 0
Trousers from 21s. to 4«ks.
n.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUT T ®
w» Sheaiisby & Co,, Albert House, Temple Co®* '
0(*


THE
BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 75.—New Series.
SATURDAY. OCTOBER 18. 1884.
Frio*—64.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1884.
The S. M. Herald the other clay re-opened
its store of wisdom, and brought out some
pearls of thought having reference to the
Land question. Quoth the Herald
“The great advantages of civilization have all
been connected with, and are presumably partly
in consequence of, the security given to individual
property, of which property in land has formed a
great portion. There may be some disadvantages
connected with allowing tho possession of landed
property, but against these disadvantages has to
be sat the enormous stimulus to industry which
has been associated with it.”
Now, what industry is associated with land-
owning? How many great landed aristo-
crats of the old world, where the Herald’s
principle has been longest in operation, are
industrial pursuits? Who are
the industrial workers of (say) Great Britain,
and who are the drones ? Who are the pro-
ducers, and who are the non-producers?
The producers are the landless, and the land-
owners add nothing [to.the nation’s .wealth.
And who that reads the signs t of the times
can fail to see that this very notion of
individual property in land is shaking to
pieces even what is rightfully property—
that form of capital which, having had its
beginnings in labour, itself but. accumu-
lated labour. From whence springs the
Nihilism of Russia, the Socialism of Ger-
many and of The manifest in-
justice of private preperty in land has led
men to doubt whether all individual pro-
perty is not also unjust. It needs no prophet
to tell that, if capitalists hang on to the
skirts of landlordism, an educated demo-
cracy will send both down together. But
the Herald sees another ghost:—
“Another and perhaps greater difficulty that the
advocates of State ownership have to conquer is,
how fair bargains are to be made with the State
tsnants.”
Well, does not the State conquer %his ob-
jection every day ? Does it not make bar-
gains with the squatters, with the free
selectors, with conditional purchasers, and
with mining lessees? Does it not make a
bargain with every individual subject, as
regards both his property and his liberty ?
Adsording to the Herald, New South Wales
must be a veritable Sodom and Gomorrah,
if is not within it a strong enough
public sense of what is fair and unfair, of
what is just and unjust, as between lessor
and lessee, sufficient to procure an equitable
adjustment of terms. But if the population
of this colony are as great knaves as the
Hurald alleges, under manhood suffrage
there will always be interests diverse enough,
and in numbers powerful enough, to insure
fairly workable laws. Or, take it the other
way round: Three-fourths of the electors
are tenants of the State. Jack and Gill
and Bill have a direct interest in securing
easy terms from the State. Jack looks out
for himself; but it is Gill’s and Bill’s and
Tom’s interest that Jack should not get be-
fore them. And so, from universal selfish-
ness come universal progress and har-
mony. “He makes even the wrath of
man to praise Him,” is a text which
the Herald seems to have forgotten. Even
were it otherwise, it is a curious moral-
ity which can urge a settlement of the
Land question on abasis which robs the next
generation of their patrimony, because we
of this generation might experience a pass-
ing difficulty in getting what rightfully be-
longs to ourselves. Are we to take what is
not rightfully ours, in order that we may
make sure of holding what does? Hear the
Herald again:—
“ Another very important question is that im-
provements would never go on at the same rate on
easehold as they would on freehold property.”
Now, in colonial phraseology, what is this
you are giving us? Why is it so, in the
measure that it is so ? Because, under a pri-
vate ownership of land, every permanent
improvement which a tenant makes, is ab-
solutely confiscated by the land-owner at the
termination of the tenancy. Under a State
trusteeship—we do not even admit a State
ownership—the improvements effected by
the tenant would be his absolute property,
because the result of his labour. If dis-
possessed of his tenancy, these improvements
would have to be settled for, either by the
State or the succeeding tenant. It is ,clear
that the S.M. Herald has not mastered—or,
should we say, mistressed f—the elements of
the modern school of agrarian politics. Yet
it will persist in pretending to explain.
THE HON. ROBERT STOUT, M.H.R., NEW ZEALAND.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Hallelujah Henry.
Sir Henry Parkes’ gracious consent to lay a
stone of the new Salvation Army Barracks in
Sydney seems to have been in keeping with his
equally ready acquiescence in the invitation to
participate in the demonstration of the Local Op-
tionists. In the latter case, the wily knight, while
delivering an ingratiating speech, was under the
necessity of qualifying the effect of his appear-
ance on that platform by admitting that he was
with the Temperance people in the spirit only,
and that when it came to the matter of sacrificing
his personal gratification, he preferred to remain
loyal to the allurement of “ a small bottle.” So,
also, when presenting himself as a candidate for
the suffrages of the Salvation soldiers—for
we presume that is about the meaning of bis
appearance—3ir Henry guarded himself against
inconvenient claims, by informing the hallelu-
jahing throng that he is not a soldier of the
Salvation Army. Now, we don’t think that
Sir Henry is any the worse man because he
“ puts his lips to the bottle when so dispoged.” If
every man were as temperate as he, the local
option question need never be raised. But it is
really much to be regretted that Sir Henry is not
a Salvation soldier. We know no man who needs
more to be “ saved,” and we trust that “ Colonel”
Booth will put the entire corps d'armte under his
command upon an unremitting course of
‘knee-drill” until such time as, by their
prayers, their hoary but unregenerate patron
shall have awakened to the error of Micawberism
in the matter of promissory notes, and the vanity
of Dick Swivellerism in finance generally. Sir
Henry’s tone in addressing the Army was very
characteristic. Himself “unwashed,” he patron-
ised the whole body of saints who stood before
him dripping, as it were, from the waters of salva-
tion. But if, by any mistake, Sir Henry were
lifted up to Paradise, he would probably kindly
consent to make a presentation of a new harp to
any popular angel who happened to be about to be
so distinguished, and would inevitably remark
(lest he should hopelessly compromise any possible
future relations with the devils) that he was not
an angel himself, but that their principles had his
full approval, so long as they didn’t require him
to practise them.
Singular Foresight.
The most stringent inquiry should be made into
the extraordinary increase on the estimated cost
of the works for supplying Sydney with water-
The official scheme was, before its adoption by
Parliament, very hotly criticised by advocates for
a different one originated by Mr. Gipps, C. 8., who
had been an officer in Mr. Moriarty’s department
and was well acquainted with the [merits of the
scheme he proposed to have set aside. Mr. Gipp3’
scheme, known as the Kenny Hill, was supported
by a considerable number of public men of prac_
tieal abilities, which left no room to suppose they
would endorse a merely whimsical project. But the
Kenny Hill scheme was disregarded chietly on ac-
count of the determined preference evinced by
Mr. Moriarty for the Prospect works. The latter
gentleman, as head of the department to which all
such works are entrusted, occupied a position of
vantage. He had the ear of Ministers, and few
gentlemen in responsible office would care to take
the responsibility of over-riding the professional
head of a department, and adopting a rivai pro-
ject denounced by so high and influential an
authority. While theltwo schemes were being de-
bated, the question of cost was fiercely contrasted.
It was claimed that the Kenny Hill scheme would
cost less than the official one. But it did not ap-
pear that it would cost less in an extraordinary
degree. But the basis of contrast was Mr. Mori-
arty's first estimate of £700,000, which it now
appears will have to be more than doubled to
afford a double supply of water to the metropolis.
This is altogether an extraordinary business. It
would appear as though the country had placed
its reliance upon an official who, in making pro-
vision for supplying water to a growing city like
Sydney, had been incapable of looking so farae
two or three years ahead. It appears, in fact, that,
had Mr. Moriarty’b original designs of the year
1880 been carried out, the metropolis would, in
1884, have been just as much iu danger of a water
famine as when, earlier, it depended upon the
Botany dams for its supply.
-»
The Lake Macquarie Dodge.
iTlseems that, after all. the historical picnic, given
by the owners of the land fronting the waters of
Lake Macquarie, is not to be without its reward.
The dwellers in the Far West, the citizens of
Sydney, and the people of the North and South,
are to make up a purse of 10,000 sovereigns for the
“spirited entertainei’3” of members of Parlia-
ment, and other influential persons Already, we
learn, £60,000 has been expended towards
providing the proprietors of Lake Macquarie
with a front door to their estates. Still,
there has been no door opened. The shifting
sands laugh at such a breast-work as 60,000 sove"
reigns supply. Ten thousand more are now to be
thrown to the waves; and it is stated, in a happy-
go-lucky sort of way, that "about” £loo,oooalto-
gether will be required before a navigable entrance
can be hoped for. No information is vouchsafed
as to whose estimate this may be, or why, if it
be an estimate, the £40,000 necessary is not
voted, and the access to the gentlemen's
land provided right away. If the £lOO,OOO wil*
make an entrance the expenditure will probably
increase the value of the proprietors’ land to quite
an equal amount. Why keep their mouths water-
ing so long. Possibly the estimate is by Mr.
Moriarty, who has just won fame by his water-
supply estimate, doubled in requiremenfs and
amount in less than four years. But perhaps we
are making too great fuss about £70,000. In this
case, it is literally “ a drop in the sea.”
The Perfection of Human Wisclo j.
The Suburban Times, published at ltedfero, has
had its little taste of the glorious libel laws of this
colony. It has been awarded a verdict, it is true;
and, so far, it has been lucky. That the remark
for which it was required to stand on its defence
were not beyond the bounds of legitimate and use
ful criticism of a public man, any sensible reader
must have perceived as soon as they were quoted
in Court. They characterised one Jesson, who Is
Mayor of some suburban hamlet or other, as being
in his official capacity dogmatic and churlish, and
his rulings as being held in slight regard by the
aldermen. A further statement was made that
the Mayor and a rate-payer had had a nagging
match in Redfern Police Court, and intimated that
the Mayor on that occasion did not evince “ intelli-
gence enough to discriminate between a court and
a circus.” Now, if any sensible man’s ten-year-old
son came to his father with a complaint of having
been subjected to “ abuse "of equal importanceby
a school-mate, the complainant would probably be
received with a cuff and told not to come
bothering with childish and nonsensical grievances-
Butsuoh is the condition of the law, that this man
Jesscn was actually enabled to solemnly invoke the
Supreme Court of the colony to see his wrongs re-
paired. That dread tribunal has no machinery by
which to sift out such chaff of grievances from
the real kernels of actual wrongs. At the instance
of this Mayor, the highest Court in the land issues
a writ summoning the defendant to leave bis busl-


Thh Rates or Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 245.; half-year, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, os. 6d.—ln advance.
The advertising Rates are 6s. per inch!
special positions In the paper 7s. 6d. per
Inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Disoounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods- as follows :—On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 20 consecutive insertions
16 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 26 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps ©f any Australian
Colony may bo sent, if more convenient.
TOE PBPIM BEAM
BRIAN BORU
I^TOTE.—YOUNG, KING, and CO. (sole proprle*
- 1 -* tors of BRIAN BORU WHISKY), have
NEVER EXHIBITED THEIR WHIBKIEB,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &o.
Brian Boru
Is guaranteed
SEVEN YEARS OLD,
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
BM 8080 WHISKY,
When matured by age, Is
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION
of the
OFFICERS OF H.M. CUSTOMS.
SOLE AGENT,
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
BYDNEY.
T
Coughs and Colds.
IHB Best Chlf§ for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at hed-tlme.
tr puft E RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Separtnest,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
oo TO
O. W. ROBERTS' NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET’
where you can obtain for
Gd._
A GLASS OF WHIBKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment In the world.
C. W. ROBERTS'
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open In
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler.
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
Is sold in this department.
Thi most Wholesome or all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS' SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNBLISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHQ,
Lovely White Wine, Is. §d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2b. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S STAR *** PALE BRANDT",-
6a. 6d. per bottle*
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street f Sydney.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney. 14th October, 1884.
Tenders for public works and snv
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti
Steff SS2KSSSES&K ot wlUoh '
tenderer wiU be announced, if possible, before the
duties of thn Board have terminated. 6
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
with he terms of the notioe are strictly complied
The Government does not bind itself to accent
the lowest or any tender. opi
Nature of Works and Supplies
io wnicn
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Glebe
Erection of House for Traffic
Manager, Newcastle
Erection of Stationmaster’s
House, Newcastle
Dimensioned Stone and Ballast
for Botany Wharf
Tuesday,
21st October,
at 11 o'clock.
F. a. WRIGHT.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 7th October, 1884.
TENDERS FOR TAR-PAVING.
TENDERS are invited for Tar-paving the Foot-
paths at the Orange Public School.
Specifications may be seen, and Forms of Tender
obtained at the office of the Department of Public
Instruction, Sydney, and at the Public School,
Orange, on application to the Teacher.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Tar-paving,
Orangs Public School,” must be lodged with the
Acting Under-Secretary, Department of Public
Instruction, at or before 10o'clock am., on Wed-
nesday, 28th October, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 7th October, 1881.
FRESH TENDERS FOR WATER-CLOSE IS.
FRESH TENDERS are invited for the Erection
of Water-closets at the Fort-street Superior
Public School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Fresh Tender for Water-
closets, Fort-street Superior Public School,” must
be lodged with the Acting Under-Secretary, De-
partment of Public Instruction , at or before 1C
o'clock a.m., on Wednesday, 29th October, jBB4.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
W J. TRICKETT.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 7th October, 1884.
TENDERS FOR CONVERSION OF OLD BUILD-
INGS INTO A TEACHER S RESIDENCE.
TENDERS are invited for the Conversion of the
Old Buildings on the Public School site, at
Pyrmont, into a Teacher’s Residence.
Plans and Specifications maybe seen, and Forms
of Tender obta ned at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Conversion of
Old Buildings into Residence, Pyrmont Public'
School,” must be lodged with the Acting Under-
secretary, Department of Public Instruction, at-
or before 10 o’clock a m., on Wednesday, the 29th'
October, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 9th October, 1884.
TENDERS FOR ERECTION OF GIRLS'
SCHOOL.
TENDERS are invited for the Erection of ft
Brick Building for a Girls’ School, at the
Windsor Public School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Publie In-truction, Sydney, and at the
Public School, Windsor, on application to the
Teacher.
“Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Girls’ School*
Windsor Public School,” must be lodged with the
Acting Under Secretary, Department of Public
Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m., on Mon-
day, the 3rd November, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
YOU are certain to make Money if you buy at-
Kogarah Township on 25th. WATKIN and
WATKLN.
hess and attend to defend himself against a charge
which in the l'ana of it any plain man would have
laughed at as farcical ground of complaint. The
complainant claims £5OO of solid money for the in-
jury” brought: to procure this, even had his griev-
ance been real, necessitated the employment by the
parties of two solicitors and four barristers (one, a
Queen’s besides occupying for a whole
day the time of Mr. Justice Faucktt and a jury
of four. Thus, In addition to the minor Court
officials there, we have seven lawyers occupied at
a cost to somebody, including the community’s
share, of quite as much, probably, as the
claim. The lucky defendant, being awarded
a verdict which practically declared that he
had done nothing that was not right, will have
“costs as between lawyer and client” —that
istosayall the difference between what his lawyers
obarge and what the officers ot the Court allow as
fair and legitimate, to pay, besides having had to
endure the uncertainty and anxiety of mind
■which such proceedings hanging over his head had
occasioned him. "The law is the perfe.tion of
human wisdom." Old and reverential proverb,
originated by a lawyer.
The Hon. Robert Stout.
The distinguished colonist whose portrait appears
In our front page has recently been prominently
before the public of all the Australias, in c mnec-
t,ion with the late political crisis in New Zealand.
Mr. Stout was one of the several leaders invited
successively by the Governor to form au Adminis-
tration, on the d feat of the Atkinson Cabinet.
Although such was the division of parties that Mr.
Stout’s following was insufficient to constitute a
majority, it has sufficed to enable him to divide
power on equal terms with Sir Julias Vogel, the
nominal Premier in the present Vogel-Stout Cabi-
net. Mr. Stout’s career has been in many respects
a Very remarkable one. Either the people of New
Zealand are considerably ahead of those of Aus-
tralia in doctrinal matters, or Mr. Stout has abili-
ties far exceeding the standard of Freethought
leaders. Wnatever may be the reason, the fact
stands out in remarkable relief tnat either his
abilities are so conspicuous as to be regarded as
countervailing what would in Australia generally
operate as disqualifying religious opinions, or
Freethought Is widespread in New Zealand. There
Is probably truth iu both suppositions, as Mr. Bal-
lance, another prominent public leader, is like Mr.
Stout, a pronounced leader of Freethought. Mr.
Stout was born on September 28,1845, In Lerwick,
the capital of the Shotland Islands. That group of
Storm-wracked isles constitutes, with the Orkneyß,
the northernmost county in Scotland. In the year
1858, he quail led as pupil teacher in the parish
school, in which he taught until his departure
in 18(53 for New Zealand, where he landed
in April of the following year, and was speedily
engaged as second master of the Dunedin Gram-
mar School. His natural activity, of mind was
not long in finding vent in contributions to
the press, and his organising faculty made him the
founder of the Otago Schoolmasters’ Association,
now the Educational Institute of Otago, of which
be is, or was lately. President. From the Dunedin
Grammar School Mr. Stout transferred his ser-
vices to the North Dunedin school ; and. in
1867, he set himself to the study of the law,
passing as a barrister in July, 1871, and forth-
with beginning practice in his new profession.
Prior to this, he had become a member of the
Dunedin Athemcum, of the local school commit-
tee, and President of the Manufacturers’ Associa-
tion. Mr. Stout is still a member of a Arm doing
business in Dunedin. Subsequently to Mr. Stout's
qualifying as a barrister, the two branches of the
legal profession were amalgamated, but Mr. Stout
continues to confine his practice to the line he
originally adopted, and was a member of the ttoyal
Commission which drafted the code of Civil Pro-
cedure for the Supreme Court of New Zealand,
and one of the two membofs who constituted the
sub-committee by whom the code was actually
drafted. Mr. Stout was iirst elected to the General
Assembly in 1875, and since that time has taken as
prominent a part in political as in theological
matters. He has been President of the Dunedin
Freethought Lyceum, and in 1878 was Attorney-
General of New Zealand. At the present moment
he is virtually Premier of that colony.
TO CORRESPONDENTS
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed ]
“Viator”: Of course, we cannot say posi-
tively that the chief contributors to the Protes-
tant Standard are notlCatholic priests; but we
think it doubtful, at the least. We like the Stan-
dard for its outspokenness and line irony. Still,
If its most telling articles come from St. Mary’s,
the fact should be honestly admitted “Adolphus
Picard ”: Your poetry is objective—not objection-
able. You speak with evident knowledge and fair
discernment of things passing before your eyes.
Your poem, the “ Bong of the Meat-Tax,” to the
air of “Cheer boys, cheer,” is a manly protest in
favour of foreign bullocks. Your stanza—
“A labouring man must have that to give him
strength,
To keep him up whilst he is hard working,
If he lacks that he has to give up at length,
So you see such cases are very trying.
Can you do without the working man’s labour ?
I’m sure you can’t, nor can he without you,
Then why treat him in such a shameful manner,
You drive him away which you know you
should not do.
Chorus.—All that we want is the meat to be
cheaper, &c.”—
embodies a truth it would be well for the com-
munity to accept at once. He must have some-
thing “to keGp him up,” if ’twas only a wheel-
harrow or an easy seat on a chunk of wood, while
the boss’s back is turned. He generally gets it,
too. Send along a lot more stuff. We’ll take care
the goat doesn’t get it this time, can t afford to
have two a week die on our hands “ Micnael ’ :
.Received “Corowa”: We don’t know who is
the lady butcher of your thriving town. We
know nothing of Harry, or why he shaved; who
Alfred or Mrs. H. fa. We don t care. The only
thing we can be positive about is that you are the
biggest as Oh, we’re too busy to tell the whole
truth this morning “ J.P. > .0.”: Not adapted. .
“ H. J. Kaggarty ’ ’: There are some pretty conceits
In your monody on Kendall, but the metre is
halting, and many of the metaphors clumsy and
knook-kneed. You say “more to follow if ex-
cepted.” Tnis is sad ..." J. 0.” (Urana): Tn® lines
are goon—ihe spelling chaotic. Don t mlievoyou
composed tuem, J.O “ M. Fitzgerald' : The
Minister ims not power to restrict tue areas in any
given district in the way that seems to be expected.
If selectors have made applications iu due form,
and for areas not exceeding the maximum allowed
by the law, no readjustment to cut down tlielr
selections and distribute the areas among later
applicants, would be legal “ W. H. P. Arden
The story orf Cambridge’s having been flattened
out'by a well-directed blow on the nose was cur-
rent in Dublin years ago. There’s a good deal in
what you say about the Victorian Democratic
leader. But, believing in Democracy as we do, we
would have its leaders, not only politically, but
socially clean “Judex”: The controversy (if
such it can be called, where the argument was all
on one side) between Campbell (Argyll) and
(Jeorge has not been forgotten. .. “ J.C.tt.”: Could
not And room this week “A.G.”: The verses
are good; but do you know that the talented
actress to whom they are addressed is a married
woman?—“Oscar”: The joke was bald-headed
when the world was in its infancy “In-
quirer”: Your question of how much powder
put in a bull’s ear would blow his horns
off, we regard as trivial. We would require
to see the bull and the powder. But most of all
we’d like to see you "Thespian”: “Where do
some of our actors and actresses pick up their
French accent?” How do we know? At one
time "Seven Dials” had a monopoly of the true
accent. Tipperary and the New York Bowery also
supplied a good article, while the Haymarket in
Sydney, and liomeo-lane in Melbourne have done
something. The true pronunciation is, we believe,
only to be obtained in Dubbo “Scot.”: Your
humour is entirely too profound for us. Before
receiving your letter we were joyous. Now, we
see nothing ahead of us but gloom “B.”: Yes,
we’ve met Irish landlords, who’ve come here to
avoid stumbling in front of a blunderbuss at home.
Of course they give a queer account of the “Is-
land of Saints.” But then, you see, the world
never did and never will present same appear-
ance to the man surrounding chicken and cham-
pagne, and the fellow with nothing in his little
turn ..“F.M.D.”; Thanks.
The people of Milton are at loggerheads,
and the cause is a divided opinion of the atilities
of some amateurs down there. Going on the score
that Milton amateurs are no better than those of
other towns, we undoubtedly think some of the
Milton people have cause for complaint—especially
those who paid for admission to the show.
The Redeerst Times says that “ a smartly-
dressed young German, named Hans Jansen,” ob-
jected to pay live bob a week towards the support
of a little “ mistake ” of one of his lady acquaint-
ances, and wanted the amount reduced to three.
It seems that Hans couldn t, well afford the larger
amount, living, as hb does, in the immediate
vicinity of University Park! 1 I
There is a place for everything, even
science; and a painful incident in a bush bar
proves that that is not the place for science. A
fair-haired man read out that the average number
of hairs on the human head is 109,140, but that, on
account of its greater coarseness, a red-haired man
has 5J.000 fewer. Half-au-hour afterwards, a 15-
stone Irishman, whose hair was like the spokes of
a newly-painted dray-wheel, was able to give
109,140 to 1 on his own head as against the unfortu-
nate reader.
The Sydney street news-vendors have
much to learn from those of London, where the
public taste for vespernal journalism is whetted
daily by dismal cries of “Orful Slorter!” But if
you are an Arab, and yell “Blood!” and aienot
prepared to prove to the clean-looking old gentle-
man with the pink face and the grey hair who
“ stands up for a principle, sir,” that there is blood,
and plenty of it, in the paper you have just sold
him, then it will go hard with you; for as sure as
fate he has eight or ten thousand a-year and no-
thing in the world to do but give you in charge now
for falsa pretences and drive in to town to-morrow
or next day for the purpose of prosecuting you,
and sending you to prison, not because he cares
about his penny, sir, but because he will not and
cannot countenance the open and daily perpetra-
tion of such fraud, sir. The other day a magistrate
discharged an itinerant news-vendor, wuo had
made a great temporary success by shrieking:
“Suicide of Mr. Brad laugh—head nearly severed
from body!” The young news-merchant had
evidently heard of all the recent cases in which
kind fathers and mothers have been cutting their
children’s throats, and had cleverly adapted the
leading idea of those incidents to his own little
drama—just as George Darrell does when he writes
a play; but he pleaded that he could neither read
nor write, and that he “ had been told and be-
lieved at the time that ‘ Mr. Bradlaugh had finished
hisself.’ ” Then followed a case in which Mr. Glad-
stone was alleged to have been assassinated by Mr.
Parnell; but as the actual occurrence of such an
event would so admirably suit that large majority
of well-dressed opulent old boys who have been
trying all along to prove that Parnell is a ruffian,
and Gladstone a coward and a scoundrel, no magis-
terial notice appea’S to have been taken of it.
However, the knowledge of their liability to pro-
secution has not deterred the newsboys from pro-
fessional ruses—it has only made them a little
more ingenious. Some time ago, as the crowd
left the theatres, they were met with cries from
the news-vendors of “ Dissolution of Parliament,”
an event wbioh at that time was evidently hoped
for by the Tories. The fat gentlemen with the
fatter wives put their heads out of their carriages
and bought. They read, and then descended from
their equipages to call the police and put the boys
in gaol. Rut the boys pointed their dirty fore-
fingers at a small line in plain type, “ Dissolution
of the New Zealand Parliament,” whereupon
Policeman X solemnly pronounced that the pri-
toner had proved an alibi, and that the case wa
dismissed with costs.
Here is the most delicious story we ever
heard. Wo were told it years ago, up North, and
we have just remembered it. As every one knows,'
or should know, the Chinese idea of justice is that
the man who pays the most money gets the most
justice. This exactly dovetails into the idea of
the British lawyer on the same subject. Well, in
the far North, one Ah Sow was charged .with
having feloniously stolen a pig from Ah*Man. As
is usual in such cases, the local Chinese community
subscribed liberally for the defence of their dis-
honest brother,land thus made his cause their own;
had they not done so, the remains of the pig would
have lain heavily upon their mustara-coloured
breasts, and probably have given them indiges-
tion. The Celestial’s representative waited on a
certain well-known lawyer, and said, “ Ah, Missah
, you makes all li Ah Sow?” “Oh, yes,”
gravely replied Mr. , “ I’ll make it all right,
1 believe.” “How much you charge makee all
li ?” “ Well,” responded the attorney of the
Honourable the Supreme Court of Queensland,
“ let me see.” “ You makee all li welly cheap,” in-
terrupted the pig-tailed deputy. “ Let me think,”
continued the legal gentleman, biting his pen and
casting his tyes on to the floor, not in shame, but
in meditation, “There’s £3O for the Judge, and £2O
for the Crown Pio3ecutor, and I really must give
the Inspector ot Police £l5. Now, how much will
that be?” mumbled the land-shark, as, with im-
perturbable gravity, he proceeded thus to figure
it out on his biotting-pad
Judge £3O
Crown Prosecutor .. 20
Police-Inspector. .. 15
£B5
“Ah! that will be £65 for them; and I'll only charge
you—well, say, £10.” “Toomuchee!” ejaculated
the man from the Flowery Land. "Not much,”
answered his guide, counsellor, and friend; “if
you don’t pay, Judge send Ah Sow to prison.”
“ Welly good, ’ at last assented Ah Sin, bowiug his
neck to the goddess of Justice, and undoing his
belt; “you makee all li' with Judge and Clown
Pioscu’ and P lice-boss. Here se'-pi’ pong. You
takee.” Mr. accordingly “took” 75 golden
sovereigns from his waist-belt, but, to
his credit be it remarked, he neither Judge,
Crown Prosecutor, nor police, as he mignt— we
sorrow to say it—at the time easily have done. He
paid two of the jura— at least, so it was alleged;
for Ah Sow was tried twice (the lawyer got £5O for
the second trial), but there was on both occasions
a split in the camp of the twelve good men and
true. And Ah Sow was just about as guilty as any
Mongolian who ever ran his fingers through a
white barbarian’s hep-roost.


“ Did Mr. Jones say anything about that
aaocount ha owes ? ” said a Southern editor to his
• canvasser. “ Yes,” was the reply ; “he said
itl ”
“ THE POOR PLAYEK
(Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Prufo[?].
Mr. J. O. Rainer writes us a gorgeous letter,
with the day of the week in gold relief, in which
he states! that he opens here at Fred. Hiscocks,
Esq.’s (always that!) Academy of Music, on the
17th proximo. We shall be glad to welcome Mr.
Kainer and his Diorama once more, because we
have gone grey since we first admired it, and, with
a cruet-stand under one arm and a papier-machi
t r ayunder the other, we have always been the
first to welcome him with enthusiasm, and to ad-
mit that his Diorama is a constellation of beauty.
Mr. Rainer says: “I am now finishing my Vic-
torian tour, having played Geelong, Ballarat, and
Sandhurst to first-class business. After the Gipps-
A Moral Show.
MRS. GJARLEY: “THIS, LADIES AND GINTLEMEN, IS A FIGGER RIPEISINTING WAN, UPON WHOM ‘GOD HAD SET HIS SALE TO GIVE THE WURRULD ASSURANCE
OF A MAN.’ PLASE TO OBSERVE THE ILLIGDICE OF THE SALE-OUR OWN MAKE.”
“ Mr. O'Conner characterises Sir John Robertson as one on whom ‘God had set his seal to give the world assurance of a man.”—NEWSPAPER REPORT.
t o n q Strict—°ur next field of action—we proceed
and h ey ’ ’ Mr. Rainer writes a charming hand,
has ho caa depend upon our support. Thompson
away 80 Jong, that reaby our electro-plate
t la !r 8 ren ewiug.,.. The Montague-Turners send
cess o* A r ’ w hieh savs they are an enormous suc-
don’t o ° ratJ k®- If they were a success at all, we
anus ’• » w could be otherwise than “ enor-
enin„.•••And, look here: Emma Wangenheimis
again. In the “ Mascotte,” too, with
HoJ r 5 ' ernon, at Goulburn. We don’t advise
lashos? t 0 play Pippo without a capstan-bar
and H Q a<2FO ? B his shoulders. Edwin Lester is in it,
vocaiiai- rry Heston, and several other tremendous
thpa ' There seems to be no nonsense about
\V e rtr. CCeB i ! Grattan Riggs has achieved in Brisbane.
IlvrnJ anow what Grattan has done to Bobby
*«whion— he tortureB him ia tlie following
" Now, may I plaze the pigs,
That oft I’ve drew a fairin',
1 ne’er see Grattan Riggs,
But what I think of Erin.”
.... They siy that Mrs. Langtry’s agent, Keogh, is
brother to the celebrated Scottish tragedian of
that name, who nourished in days of yore at the
Queens. We wonder whether Mrs. Langtry’s
Keogh is like the Keogh of Miss Marian Willis—we
especially wonder if he is like him about the feet.
Jessie Vokesisdead; Mrs. Langtry is going to
take a theatre in London; Patti is getting A!1000 a
night,, and the African opera troupe played
to thirty-one-and-sixpence, two orders, and
John Ferguson at Parramatta. Donald Dinnie,
having previously played to twenty “white’ 5
in the pit, and an old woman with an umbrella and
a poke bonnet, who had gained admission by say-
ing she was one of the editors of the <*.M.Herald.
.....It appears the love-lorn youth who drowned
himself for the sake of Emelie Melville was assist-
ant major-domo at a coffee-stall... .Wybert Reeve
opened with " The Philanthropist,” by George
r orbes, Esq., at the Academy of Music in Adelaide.
He is to be iollowed by the “celebrated young
American actress, Helen Vivian, in “ Leah.” This
you can rely on; but the party's name who “ put
up the stuff” to enable the fair ’Helen to enjoy
herself In tragedy—totally regard less of her per-
sonal safety—yet remains enshror.ded in mystery.
.. Ada Ward, In London, is reported to be
hung in diamonds. This seems to intimate
that she has struck another “Charles the
Wrestler,” and one who is in possession of
the “hoot.”....This reminds us that Oily Deer-
ing has a pub. out Waverley way, and it is
rumoured that, when a brother professional enters,
every hair on his head stands upon end, his face
turns livid, his knees knock together, and his
breath comes in convulsive gasps, as he hoarsely
murmurs, “We’re just out of it!” Ring
the bell, up with the curtain, and let the
perfesh hear of its friends. So! Well, In Adelaide,
the Majeronis have “ got ’em ” in “ Marie An-
toinette,” and big biz. is expected with “ Fddora,”
which is to follow. Wybert Reeve, we see, opens
at the Academy, there, instead of the “ Helen
Vivian” combination, who calculate to shove
along on the strength of ” Leah ” and the ** Woman
of the Stokehole,” and are now up the line where
the rabbits are at Burra. And would you believe
that the L.V. Gazette there says th is about a
virtuoso whom wo are sore with admiriug:—“ Leo-
pold Jordan, the wonderful imitator of London
stars, from Henry Irving to German Reed, has
broken out in Sydney as a—hold your breathi-
dramatic adapter. He recently revolutionised the
mother city with a dramatised version of Ouida’s
* Moths.’ Wybert Reeve staged the thing, and ap-
peared himself as Correze. Fancy that!” This D
flippant to impudenee, and we trust Leopold will
dip his pen in gall and resent it through the medium
of the Shroud.... Tommy Hudson, Ada Maven and
Co. were still at Garner’s, at latest dues Miss
Letty Martin, who played here urder the name of
Miss Howartb, was, though extremely pretty, an
exceedingly mild performer. Asa writer, however,
she is tremendous. Her descrip i m of abouffe-bugle
groan is a terrific performance Ridges circus
—bless it’s old cats!—when last heard of was at
Bingera; and the N.S Rowing Club gave a min-
ritrel entertainment while it was blowing a hurri-
■ jane<«a Saturday. We'd risk anything but a hur-
ricane to sec an amateur minstrel show, but we
draw tbe line at that. We want to live and he
great. Yet, and last 8 tturday Jennie Lee opened
io Maitland. She did fair biz. at Newcastle with
“The Grasshopper,” Sam Howard playing Har-
•wood’R oart of Gyngel 1 ...Let’s see, now—oh! the
■Baldwins are at vVagga, where Miss Augusta Dar-
ken been giving readings; and the Interna-
tional hircu« opened the other day at WilcannU.—
•educated wombat still the attraction. ..And we
mee that Johnny Cowan has been showing at Par-
ramatta with Miss Emily Elliot’s Grand Concert
that may be. Johnny shows
“'by kind permission of F. E. Hiscocks, Esq.”
•tjuhle est ce m gstere?
One Brooks, when charged with bi.amy in
London, pleaded that a weekly newspaper, to
which he had applied, had given a legal opinion to
the effect that his second marriage would only be
null and void and would entail no unpleasant con-
sequences upon him. Brooks, when in tne felon’s
dock, said that he would never take legal advice
from a newspaper again. We now ask Alfred to
tell us in the next issue of the Dow n and Gumtree
how many wives a man may legally have in Aus-
tralia, and what is the best way to cook frogs.
There is a'Judge in Milwaukee whom we
should like to see presiding at a colonial court.
Three Milwaukee lawyers, having put in bills
amounting to $25 000 for services in settling an
estate valued at $32,000, the judge made the fallow-
ing timely remarks: ” You have charged $25,000
for sixty days’ service. These charges are infam-
ous. They are such as men who are scoundrels
and thieves at heart would make. This charge of
$15,000 is out down to $1500; those of $5OOO each to
$5OO. Repeat such a piece ot rapine iu this court
and I will disbar every one of you,”
An exhibition of noses has just been held
in Austria. Eighty persons competed for the
prize offered for the most extraordinary nasal pro-
tuberauoe in form, size, and colour. It was
awarded to a competitor from Vienna, who is the
possessor of what is said to be a gigantic nose of
deep violet blue. ‘ Bottle’’-blue, we suppose.
What a pity Australia didn't know that this show
was coming off! We have plenty of people around
the door of every grog-shop to “uphold the
honour of the colonies” in noses, and scoop the
gate-money. Think of the glory which would
have fallen to our lot had we had on view one of
those big-potato-sized schuapper-like probosces.
the sight of which, with its lovely carmine and
purple dyes, its memories of the setting sun, and
the blood-red moon and its aliigator-skin-like cor-
rugations, would hriug the blush of envy to th©
cheeks of a smoked” Hobart Town trumpeter 1"


Personal
Items
Andy Lynch’s constituents ard going to
f ive their member a purse of sovereigns. What
or? It can’t be for his eloquence. Perhaps,
therefore, itiSa practical way of showing their
sympathy for Mr. Lynch, in view of the present
Sudilen rise of shoe-leather.
At a banquet given to the Prince of Wales
by the Royal Naval Club at Portsmouth, Sir Harry
Keppel, of "shirt-out ” celebrity, spoke of H.lt M.
as being not merely one of the most illustrious
but of the kindest-hearted of Englishmen, a man
universally beloved, and especially popular with
the Navy.
Henry Parkes tried to raise the age for
retiring from the public service from 60 to ft"), at
which latter age a man can hardly be deemed
capable of initialling foolscap, looking supercili-
ously at the public, or parting his hair down the
middle with a ruler. Hut a man at 05 is in his
prime for ruling the destinies of a new nation.
Else, why does not Parkes retire? How much is
he short of 05 ?
Michael Keesham, an Irish Crimean vete-
ran, has died at Canterbury (Eng). At the bat'Je
of the Alma, a ball from the Russi m lines took oil
his arm, severing it from the body near the shoul-
der. With admirable coolness, Keesham picked up
his arm and carried it oil the battle-field. As a
pantomime effect in a sham-flgbt on the Stage,
Michael’s heroism would have been greeted with
roars of laughter.
Society makes itself responsible for the
statement that for years past the Queen has held
very decided opinions on Spiritualism, especially
on the power of certain media to hold intercourse
with the shades of the departed. It is a fact, also,
we are told, that very illustrious personages fre-
quently seek advice upon future events. All the
members of the Royal Family tire said to bo
strongly mediumistic.
HIS DIVISION
Lord Derby states thathewill nol encroach
on the Dutch Papuan claims. Humph I—a verse.
Lord Derby talking to the Dutch—
“ Let there bo no mistake,
You take so much—ice take so much—
Half eaoh—that will be best.’’
“ But what do the Papuans take ?”
- “ Oh, well —they take the rest /”
They’ve let Goff, the giddy railway por-
ter, out after serving only six months of his
sentence. He probably attended devoutly to the
ministrations of the chaplain. As Goif will proba-
bly oe reinstated, if not rewarded, we suppose, in
future, tho Government will arrange tnat their
“ school marms ” will travel under the protection
of a policeman. Stay, though, perhaps the police-
man . The oaso is really so full of difficulties
that—but here comes the girl a third time for the
money for tho washing.
Winans, the American millionaire, rents
fourteen different shootings in Ross-sbire, Scot-
land, at about £20,000 a year, which he has con-
verted into one vast game preserve, extending
over a quarter of a million acies. He has taken
legal proceeding to restrain the crofters, at whose
disposal the land has always hitherto been, from
trespassing or allowing their stock to trespass on
this vast tract of land. The crofters threaten to
raid his deer-forests, and Labouohere, M.P., incites
them to go in and slay all his deer.
Last year the British tax-payers had to
pay about £5OO for the “expenses’’ attendant on
conferring the Garter upon Prince Edward; now
there is to be another £5OO on account of Prince
George. “ What I like in the Garter,” said Lord
Palmerston, “is that there is no nonsense about
merit.” And why human beings should like to
have a wide piece of blue ribbon over their chest,
which is a mark neither of merit, nor intelligence,
nor any other quality, surpasses understanding.
So remarks the brutal Labouchere.
Mr. William Fraser writes to the Times to
Bay that the late Duke of Wellington gave him
permission to say, after his death, that his father
did his utmost privately to save the life of Mar-
shal Ney; and that it wes wholly in consequence
of the absolute refusal of the King of France’s
Ministers to advise him to grant tne Duke’s re-
quest that he, as a matter of duty, abstained from
publicly asking of Louis XVIII. this favour. If
this may be relied upon, it removes the greatest
stain on the Duke of Wellington’s career.
In the Neanderthal Caves, Boyd Dawkins,
the author of “ Cave Hunting,” has come across a
skull in which the eye-sockets are at the back. It
is conjectured by our theatrical critic that he is
one of the men referred to by Shakespeare, as one
“who looked before and alter.” Our own poet
considers it is the osteological verification of the
poetical faculty of looking down the dim vista of
the past. The accountant says it’s a try-on for an
advance. The artist says it’s i deal. The sacked
paragrapher reeled up the street, muttering, “ sh’
like meet Boy’ Dawk’n. Nish shientifle liar.”
Herbert Smart, the flfteon-year-old swain
who jumped into the Yarra and remained there all
for love of Emilie Melville, appears to have been
partly inlluenced in his rash conduct because he
was “ frightened of killing her ” if he went to see
his (air enslaver play the heroine in any more
operas. Herbert was mistaken in his views of
things. At one time and another we’ve beheld
dozens of artists, of both sexes, that we’ve felt
frightened of killing, yet we never suffered them
to kill us. We’ve merely refrained from witness-
ing their murder-provoking performances a second
time.
Spencer Shelly, Esq., is a gentleman who
conceived a mania for forging promissory notes,
and carried out that pastime with much success.
He was, however, eventually arrested, and the
police discovered a trunkful of these documents
in his possession. Mr. Murdoch, who defended Mr.
S., “appealed for a light sentence, owing to the fact
that prisoner had yielded to a sudden temptation,
and was highly connected.”—
But this inane and sickly cry
His Honor didn’r. fetch;
For Shelly, straight was Shellyd out
“ Three stretch.”
The Marquis of Normanby now apparently
imagines tnat he is the Governor of England.
When he arrived at Whitby, the other day, the
public were kept out of the railway station by tbe
police “ because the Markis of Normanby was
coming by the train.” But the average colonial
Governor soon has to find his level in the “big
smoke.” One morning, some years ago, there was
witnessed in one of the parks the spectacle of
that very blue-blooded personage, now defunct,
Viscount Canterbury, ex-Governor of Victoria,
being run into a puddle by an old strawberry-
woman, to whom he had declined or omitted to
give way.
When Buchanan took to writing in the
D.T. on “ Farliamentary Deterioration,” we ima-
gined we were in for some juicy autobiography.
We were not mistaken. Here is a psalm of David,
relative to his own superiority over all others
whom the Lord created to represent anything but
Mudgee: “I can only tick off sixteen as tit for the
office of members. 1 mean qualified by ability,
training, natural powers, and acquired knowledge.
. . . Matters have sunk to such a depth of im-
becility, inert (&c. &c. Buchanissime) that one
feels a sense of degradation as he finds himself
sitting among them.” What do th 97 leelwhen
they see Dave’s fist into Wisdom’s eye ? For our
part, we wouldn’t mind addiDg Dave’s name to the
97 who are quite dispensable. We’re not the men
who “fear to speak of ’93.”
George Darrell, when last heard of in Lon-
don, was hard at work making sketches for the
scene-painter in connexion with the forthcoming
representation of "The Sunny South.” George
had draw-* a Winter scene and a Summer scene—in
the former of which the Australian gum trees
were depicted in a leafless condition, while in the
latter they fairly staggered under their load of
verdure. When remonstrited with by ai “old
man kangaroo,” who pointed out that the Euca-
lyptus an evergreen and not a deciduous tree,
George got angry, and said be didn’t care a
. The British public wanted anc expected to
see green trees in Summer and leafless tiees in
Winter, and he was going to give them what they
liked, and blank the consequences. Will any one,
desirous of upholding the theatrical honour of
Australia, please send Gdorge a ’possum for his
gum trees?
English fashionable intelligence tells us
that "the Duke and Dudhess of Norfolk and the
young Earl have sailed in the Star of the Sea for a
shol-t voyage.” This “young Earl” is the three-
year-old and only child of England’s premier
Duke, and the poor little creature has none of his
senses properly developed, iu spite of an attempt
to keep the unfortunate story dark, the vulgar
public has contrived to learn that the youthful
heir of the Howard’s is altogether a shocking
specimen of humanity, so the further fashionable
intelligence that “there is again some prospect of
improvement in the child's condition ” is not such
glad tidings as it might be. The present Duke of
Norfolk is anything but a genius, but the child
who may succeed him as one of the hereditary
legislators is—not to put too fine a point upon it—
decidedly “off colour.” Yet, after all, one more
imbecile in the House of Peers won't make much
odds.
The nomination of J. G. Blaine for the
Presidency of the United States has had a curious
effect on the price of ostrich-feathers, having, up
to the present, advanced the figure of those ar-
ticles of ornamentation at least 33 per cent., and a
still rising market. And it came about simply
enough, too. In 1876, Colonel Bob Ingersoll, in his
famous speech on the nomination of Blaine, made
use of those memorable words at the Cincinnati
Convention : “ Like an armed warrior, like a
plumed knight, JamesG. Blaine marched down the
halls of the American Congress, and threw his
shining lances full and fair against the brazen
forehead of every defamer of his country and
maligner of his honour.” The Republican paraders
have caught on to Colonel Ingersoll’s happy phrase,
and decided that the outward and visible sign of
BEECHER’S SQUEAMISHNESS.
the “plumed knight” shall distinguish the Blaine
supporters during the present campaign for the
Presidency of the “greatest nation on earth.” -
The “Rev.” Henry Ward Beecher has been
ill from colic, but Mts. Beecher says that the scan-
dals published concerning Governor Cleveland
have upset him. Mrs. Btecher recently said:—
“ The truth of the matter is, worry and anxiety
about this Cleveland soandai have been the maiu
difficulty with Mr. Beecher. It came upon him
like a flash of lightning. He had always regarded
Mr. Cleveland as a clean man, both politically and
morally, and he was completely prostrated when
he heard reports to the contrary.” Mr. Beecher
has now declined to support the Democratic can-
didate. It rather surprises us to And that, so far
from this holy man Beecher beiog the humbug he
looks and has been considered ever since the Til-
ton affair, he is really so pious that the bare idea
of Cleveland having been giddy in his young dayB
gives him a pain in his little turn. Surely a parson
is the only man in the world who could possibly be
stricken with stomach-ache at news of another
man s frivolity.
Of course it sounds slightly blasphemous
to say anything disrespectful of the late Charles
Dickens, but the fact is that his taste in dress was
appalling enough to scare the soul even out of a
BrickfleJd-hill tailor’s dummv. On the first night
of John Hullah’s opera, in 1836. the great novelist,
being called before the curtain as the author of
the libretto, tripped smilingly out dressed in a
swallow-tail banger adorned with so many gilt
buttons that he looked like a walking brass-
foundry with the front door left open Round his
manly “ buzzim ” was a crimson velvet robin-red-
breast sort of waistcoat, over which a gold hobbie-
chain meandered; blaca kerseymere pantaloons,
silk stockings, and pumps adorned his locomotive
apparatus, and his hands were encased in a pair of
canary-coloured kid gloves. Howard Paul relates
that Dickens having called one day at his residence
but left no name, he asked the servant what sort
of looking person was he: to which the critical
slavey replied, “ Well, I should say, sir, as ’ow he
were a respectable sort o’ gasman.”
In an “interview” printed in the Pall
Mall Gazette of 15th Auuust, Sir Thomas
M’llwraith is made to tell a large number ot fairy
tale 3 concerning the Queensland black and black-
labour question, and is represented as having con-
temptuously referred to the Hon. R. B. Sheridan
as “one Sheridan, who is trusted least by those
who know him best.” We can hardly believe that
Sir Thomas can have been thus ungenerous to a
political opponent, who, as a man, is universally
respected in Queensland. It is a matter of noto-
riety that when Mr. Sheridan, who is now 70 years
of age. was nearing the termination of his long
and honourable Civil Service career he had a fierce
quarrel with the ex-Premier in regard to the
black-labour system; it is further alleged that Sir
Thomas did not treat Mr. Sheridan, department-
ally, with too much consideration. The Pall
Mall has printed words which Sir Thomas may
have uttered, but which he would, we are con-
vinced, never have deliberately written down.
We hope to see the other side ofthe “black” ques-
tion given in the Pall Mall by Mr. Sheridan.
One of the most extraordinary men of
modern times lives —where do you think? At
Athens—on the heights of Arica. awaiting the
tidal wave? Well, no; at— of all places—Balmain.
Our hero is a party in the healing line—a “ profes-
sor,” of course—and his name is Green. The Pro-
fessor has issued a trifling little handbill, embel-
lished by a portrait of himself, which represents
him to be about the last kind of man you would
care about meeting on a dark night eager to sell
you a razor. In this publication the Professor
states that he was blind in (sic) one eye for 36 years,
and now he can both read and write with it. The
handbill before us is now somewhat aged, so,
therefore, we suppose by this time the Professor
can play cricket with it and, possibly, utilise it for
killing rats. If we were blind “in ” any of our
eyes, we should go to the Professor immediately.
A man who can effect a cure in 36 years is not to
be sneezed at. We will look out, anyhow, for
some sufferers for the ProLssor to operate upon;
but if we cannot light upon any persons blind
“ in ” the eye, we can almost promise to forward
him a goat with stone in the bladder.
At the public banquet given in London
recently to the Marquis of Normanby, a gentleman
not unconnected with the religious press, enjoyed
himself much and got very “fit” towards the
conclusion of the more formal proceedings. In
fact, at a comparatively early stage, when the
health of the Queen and Royal Family was pro-
posed, he rose in a most leisurely manner and dis-
played between his waistcoat and his continuations
about three yards of that garment to which per-
sons of the male gender ordinarily affix acollai.
At the other side of the table, and seated between
the Under-Secretary for the Colonies and Lord
Somebody was Admiral Bir Harry Keppel, a short
podgy little man, with a band round him, and all
sorts of decorations on his manly breast, which
just at that moment was bursting with discipline.
Sir Harry, especially by reason of the dazzling
whiteness of his anterior etceteras, looked a per-
feet warrior. He glared and frowned horribly for
some time, but at last he could no longer stand the
religious pressman. So he leant over the table and
said: “There is far too much of that white gar-
ment showing, sir. Allow me to remark that I
have before now given orders on board ship that a
man should have five dozen lashes for a less
offence than that against good manners.” “ Yes,
old cock,” slowly hiccuped the representative of
the paper which teaches us all the way to heaven;
"but that wash when (hie) you were swimminsh in
salt watersh; now we’re all swimminsh in beersh
(hie)." The gallant admiral gave a ghastly grin, and
got as blue in the face as a man with a far-ad-
vanced cyanosis.
Lord Lauderdale, hereditary Standard-
bearer of Scotland, who has died from a lightning-
stroke. was in sound health and in his 63rd year.
After being struck, he was carried to a shepherd’s
hut, and Jay there unconscious for two hours ere
he expired. His watch and chain, which had been
struck by the electric fluid, were run into a solid
lump. He was an eccentric, retiring, and inoffen-
sive man; and it is known but to the higher powers
why he alone, out of an order in which there are
so many scoundrels, should have been struck down.
There is no name in English history which has been
covered with more obloquy than that of Lauder-
dale. The Maitlands had a hand in most ofthe dark
deeds in the series of villauies which passed for
government in Scotland. They fought, robbed,
and assassinated by turns. < >ne of them attempted
to have Knox hanged, and afterwards joined in the
successful plot against Rizzio. He subsequently
conspired with Botbweli, and is suspected to have
had a hand in the murder of Darnley. Yet, with the
true instinct of the period, he abandoned a losing
cause, and made timely peace with the Lords, to
meet, eventually, an appropriate end in gaol.
Another Maitland was a poet and a judge, and
forms, perhaps, a unique example of a lawyer
bewailing “agains the iang proces in the Courts
of Justice.” The most distinguished member of
the House was the celebrated Duke of Lauderdale,
the “L” in the notorious Cabal in Charles ll.’s
reign. The general opinion respecting this noble-
man is that ho was one of the most infamous ad-
venturers that ever crossed the Border. Burnet
has borne testimony to the dishonesty and shame-
lessness of his character, the rudeless of his man-
ners, and the uncouthness of his personal appear-
ance.
Colonel Halkett, of our army, is a gentle-
man who is remarkable in many ways; and we
have not the slightest doubt that were it a ques-
tion of the deadly breach that gallant ollicer
would, had he not a prior engagement, hurry
thither as fast as a cab could speed him, and inflict
upon the foe, if not complete desolation, at least a
series of remonstrances, couched in gentlemanly
language, which would emphatically point out the
impropriety of their conduct. Indeed, we con
aider that the chief cause of the almost universal
serenity that exists upon these shores arises from
the fact of a distinct knowledge on the part of a
peace-loving public that their hearths and homes
are watched over (except on special picnic davs)
by the gallant Colonel already alluded to and that
intrepid naval hero, Captain Symonds, of the
“warship” Wolverene. Colonel Halkett, however
not content with a reputation for the manipula’
tion of cutlery (and cannon I, has distinguished
himself in another sphere; the amusing manner in
which he took upon himself to “shut up” the
gifted Galloway at Dan'. O’Connor's Trades’ Union
picnic, having conferred upon him, at the various
long-beer clubs, no inconsiderable notoriety To
Dan., the contemptuous tone adopted by the' gal
lant Colonel must have been especially cheering"
considering that Mr. O’Connor gave the entertain
ment, with the especial object of lubricating (for
disinterested reasons, doubtless) the Gallowav
contingent. In common cases, sceptics might at-
tribute the hilarious conduct of the chivalrous
warrior to rum. But in the Colonel's case, wo are
in a position to authoritatively assure our readers
that Colonel Halkett’s somewhat eccentric inter
ruptions were only attributable to-something in
the ozone.
For some time past, a story has beengoin"-
the rounds of the Melbourne press, to the effect
that the old Adam had proved too much for a cer-
tain venerable and popular dignitary of the
Church of England down there, and, even “as the
ox hath his bow, and the horse his curb, so this
pious old gentleman had his desires,” and would
at wedlock, be nibbling.” This went so far in
fact, that it was at last reported the marriage had
actually taken place at the office of the Registrar-
General. Commenting on this, a reliable Mel-
bourne journal, however, says: “Itis well-known
that Dr. Bromby is the clergyman referred to, aud
we are in a position to give report of his marriage
an emphatic contradiction. Bis engagement with
Miss Theodore Banks has been broken off
and the young lady has been adopted by Dr
Bromby as his daughter.” “Adopted as his
daughter” is, as Touchstone would say, “good
very good, very excellent good—and yet it is not-’
it is but so, so,” because Miss Theodore Banks
happens to have the usual number of natural pa-
rents alive, and residing in comfortable circum-
stances in Swanston-street, at the present day
Papa Banks has, for many years, been the recog-
nised leader of the glorious sarsaparilla cause
across the border, and he is an active member of tt e
Loyal Orange organisation, also. That there was
an engagement between “May ” Banks and “De-
cember ” Bromby is admitted, and, therefore, the
fact of this daughter-adoption business having
taken place, speaks volume for—for—let us see—
what in sulphur does it speak volumes for ? Ob
yes—of course—speaks volumes for the self-deny-
ing character of the venerable Dr. Bromby. We
don’t remember that one of the original Twelve
ever made a similar sacrifice of his feelings, and,
therefore, we see no reason why the worthy old
doc. should not be at once enrolled on the glorious
list of modern martyrs. Music by the band: “ I
know a bank whereon the old thyme grows,” &e.
“George Sand” hated display and was,
in some respects, as plodding as an ox 1 1 the
whole course of her life she never wore out a
dozen pairs of gloves. Her hands were small,
brown, plump, and firm, and ended in polished
fingers and almond-shaped nails. He manual
dexterity was remarkable. She was a clever
pianist, and was to the end of her life fond of
playing German music in the evening. In the
wildest of her frce-love experiments she never
forgot her two children, to whom the heritage
she derived from her grandmother was left in-
tact. Their father gave all his property to his
cook. George Sand s figure was never elegant,
and she had the good sense to understand that
tight lacing would not improve it. Her neck was
short and powerful, and the shoulders were in pro-
portion. This plastic defect, which is common to
persons of genius—take Shakespeare, who wore a
flat collar when ruffs we 4 la mode, Voltaire,
Napoleon, Victor Hugo, and BaPac—is not shown
in her statue. For thirty years George Sand’s
chief aim was to ascertain in what spirits mascu-
line were superior to spirits feminine. To this
end she surrounded herself with the former, and
out of the £44,000 she earned with her pen, she
spent all but £BOO. In her old age she was a dear,
obliging camarade, and a model family woman.
In youth she demanded more of her lovers than
heaven gave them; and when each in turn failed
to satisfy her ideal, she cast him off in sullen
silence. To the end she had fine eyes, which cou-
veyed the impression that there was behind them
a camera-obscura where impressions were stored
up silently, and re-acted upon by some occult
power George Sand was a night bird. She wrote
best when everyone else in her house was asleep.
In company she stared and seemed to mope, sel-
dom talked, and if she ever laughed it was inter-
nally. There was much in her that was akin to
the tranquil patient sDer. Her letters in her old
age are greatly superior to her novels, many of
which teem wth eloquent fustian. She excelled
in describing French scenery, and had a healthy
sympathy with the peasant.
A few weeks ago we published a par.
referring to some of the eccentricities of old mad
John Mytton, of Halston Hall, near Shrewsbury,
England, and we are now in receipt of a letter
from a Narrabri correspondent which tends to
prove the old joker had a keen sense of the ludi-
crous, although many of his friends who were
mixed up in his wild hilarity frequently failed to
see the exact spot where the laugh came in. His
wife, for instance, seldom seemed to enter into the
true spirit of his fun, and it is recorded that, upon
one occasion, having some friends staying on a
visit at the Hall, John wished to take them out
for a drive, but the missus insisted on their going
for a row on the lake Instead. Accordingly, the
obedient husband pulled the party into the middle
of the pool, and then, throwing the oars away, he
jumped overboard, 8 >am ashore, and left the
company to get back the best way they could. On
another occasion, he happentd to be following the
hounds, and, jumping a stiff fence, his charger
carefully landed him in a deep clay pit con-
taining a couple of feet of dirty water. Pre-
sently, a second red-coat came floundering
down beside him, and, by way ’of warning
those behind, commenced yelling out his
“’ware halloo” until the playful old Mytton
rapped him over the head, and roared “Shut up
you blanked fool, and we’ll have the whole con-
demned ditch full in about two seconds.” Shortly
after this, he was badly shook up one night by an
attack of hiccough, and remembering having once
heard that a sudden fright was a certain cure, he
set lire to his shirt, and running out of his room
fell down a couple of fight of stairs, in company
with a whole shoal of boots and a hat-rack, ine
fall cracked his skull, but it cleared the hiccoughs,
and as the old crank explained, that was the prin-
cipal object sought for. With all his fads, how-
ever, Mytton was a genial old soul at heart, ana a
real good friend to the poor. Meeting a young
woman on London Bridge one day, he cut short
the pitiful tale of distress she told by offering hei
£5OO to become his wife at once. This, of oourse,
was jumped at, and the pair lived happily l0 . r "
time, until at last the Debtors’ Prison found ij
home for the eccentrio but really good-hearteu
old squire of Halston Hall At his death all hisoia
friends rallied up and gave him one of the j 0 1”??:
send-offs to the land of shades ever seen about nu
district.
Before leaving England, it struck Sir
Henry that, having pretty web got the measur
of Gladstone and altogether the better of Tern?-.1
son in a well-sustained discussion on the reiati»
merits of the “ Murmurs of the Stream an
“Locksley Hall,” it would be a good thing
fathom the mystery of Mr. Cumberland Stuart
mind-reading. Sir Henry was dissatisfied with in
explanations of the scientists, and determined
add to his literary reputati >n the glory of nay *
solved a problem in psychology. The 1 rol c e t f’ _
was invited to Str Henry's rooms. Huxley, oP®.._
cer, and Morley successively obeyed the coi
tions, and expressed themselves satisfied *
thoughts could be read, the only dissentient pe »
Mr. Heaton; but a conversation with that gent


The Cooktown Independent man com-
plains that, though he is of “ equal ability ” with
ourseives, by a wrong turn of the wheel of for-
tune he is only getting about a million a year lor
editing the Cooktown Independent, while we
are rolling in red-herriogs. This good old gentle-
man is evidently underrating himself. He is our
superior in everything; for, it must be distinctly
understood, we only aspire to modest mediocrity.
Were we cleverer than the Cooktown man, in all
probability he would be sitting amidst the buhl
and marquetrie of our fretworu chamber, and we
should be editing a paper in the Far Nortn, estab-
lished to supply a long-felt want, and boasting the
hearty and unswerving support of several croco-
diles.
The newspaper world enjoys a delirious
ecstasy over the fate of the Greeley Arctic victims.
Were they eaten by the survivors? The shrunk
bodies, the indescribable cold and gloom, the fear-
ful sulferings; all these aiford a Held wherein the
reportorial pen revels, untrammelled by any other
limits than those of imagination. Until the sensa-
tion grows old. and a new one takes its place, the
newspapers will continue to dish up the wild specu-
lations that grow over this unimportant question.
If the survivors of the Greeley party maintained
their own lives by eating their dead comrades,
A PRETTY FACE.
What is more to be desired by a young lady than
a beautiful, dear oomplexion? She may have
wealth, education, and all the accomplishments
which will fit her to be an ornament to society
but if she have a sallow countenance, and her face
be covered with pimples, it will avail but little.
Let her remove the cause of all this disfigurement
by tho use of Emil Frcse’s Hamburg Tea, and our
word for it she will soon find her beauty fully
restored.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
A young lady In one of our pro-
minent institutions of learning, who
was a great favourite, not only
among her classmates but with all
the faculty, was obliged to give up
her studies and return home seriously
ill. Chronic nervous sick headache,
accompanied by impaired digestion,
by which the circulation and nutri-
tion of the brain was impaired,
rendered her very miserable. A
physician was called, who, apparently
not understanding the nature of her
ailment, failed to afford relief A
friend who had been similarly afflic-
ted, and found immediate relief by
using Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea,
recommended the same to her. Sho
made trial of if, and, to her great
joy, found a decide -1 improvement as
the result. After a few days’ use of
this popular remedy, she was fully
restored. •
A marvel of the age. It is impos-
HAMBURG sible to say too much in praise of that
food old standard remedy, Emil
'rese’s Hamburg Tea, and no house-
hold should be without it. It pre-
HAMBURG vents, as well as cures, skin diseases,
gravel, affected liver, headache, nau-
TEA. sea bile, wind, indigestion, constipa-
„.„ DTlD ,i f. lon > fevers, sleeplessness, lassitude,
HAMBURG toul bieath, and every disease
brought on or aggravated by a dis-
TEA. ordered stomach. Once used it is al-
ways used. Try it.
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
r Sold by all Storekeepers and Chemists
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys
noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
to
all
man having betrayed the fact that he had no
thoughts even when he spoke, it was decided that
his case shouldn’t count, and he took a proud note
in his diary that he thanked God he was different
from those scribbling fellows. Sir Henry next
took the chair, and, without any instructions
whatever, straightway became absorbed in a sub-
ject for contemplation selected by himself. Mr.
Cumberland Stuart proceeded to agonise. He
agonised until the perspiration ran down his
back; still no vision mounted to his brain. They
took wine all round; Spencer, and Morley, and
Huxley taking turns to keep the vinegared cloth
moist round the operator's head. Hours passed
away, and they became tired. Sir Henry sat fixed
as a statue. At last Stuart fainted, and had to be
taken away in a cab, after promising to return in
the morning. Huxley, having satisfied himself
that Sir Henry was breathing regularly, left a
small bottle of local-option handy, and the party
left. Next morning they were ushered into the
study. There was the subject as they had left
him, the local-option untouched. Stuart tried
again, and gave up. Sir Henry then got up briskly,
and said Stuart was a fraud. “ Did you fix your
mind on one thing ?” asked Stuart. “ I never wa-
vered. I never do.” “Then,” said Stuart, “you
must have thought so intensely that it absorbed
your whole soul. It was so intense as to elude me.
You should have thought of some smaller object.”
•’Couldn't,” was the reply. “ Why,” said Stuart,
‘‘you must have reflected on the whole past,
present, and future of your life—you must have
tried to think about yourself.” “ And, in Heaven’s
name,” was the astounded reply, “what else can a
man think about ?” Good lie, this.
The late Duke of Wellington was a stand-
ing illustration of the absurdity of a hereditary
peerage system, his whole life long, from his early
manhood to his decease. As Marquis of Douro,
hi 3 career was one chronicle of shame—of low de-
bauchery, mean gambling, and repulsive black-
guardism. He s irved for several years in the old
60th Kifles, and never made a friend. Though his
father would but rarely speak to him. he exerted
his influence to save Douro from being eourt-
martialled out of a service he disgraced. Tra-
velling in the Levant with Green the ship-
builder, it is generally believed that Lord
Douro had the mishap to be treated by a jealous
Turk after the fashion in which purveyors of
material for the Papal choir are accustomed to
deal with their boy stock. This misfortune, how-
ever, was not allowed to interfere with the mar-
riage de covenance arranged for him with Lord
Tweeddale s daughter, Jane Hay (sister of the
Emily who married the great Peel’s vaurien heir—
who, luckily, had not been ). Douro had to be
looked up on the forenoon of his wedding day,
and was found much disguised in beer at the tap
adjoining his favourite racket court. Sobered in
time for the service, he went through the “ to love
and to cherish ” business with puffed, flushed
cheeks and swollen eyelids. When the Iron Duke
died, Douro, on succeeding to the title, turned
over a new leaf. He ceased to be a positively dis-
reputable member of society, and became a pas-
sively respectable one. The Queen took him in
hand He was given the Garter to bim‘ him to
good behaviour; made Lord-Lieutenant of Middle-
sex, and (in one or two Administrations) Master of
the Horse. On one occasion, when Master of the
Horse, he crossed Prince Albert's views. The
Prince had thought of jobbing the necessary royal
horses from Anderson, the livery stableman—he
had reckoned a great saving could thereby bo
effected—so he askeu Wellington if ho would
forego, as Master of the Horse, the privilege of
using the ro>al carriages. Wellington said ho had
enough carriages of his own, so lar as that went,
hut that he could only forego personally the
privilege of the post he temporarily occupied;
officially, he could do nothing. This was about the
best thing the late Duke ever did. And now he
has been and gone and died, and left his straw-
berry leaves, which of late years he had kept out
of the mud, to a nephew who will probably re-
souse them in it.
The Queen did not condescend to receive
Tawhiao. From the first he desired au interview;
but, that was not permitted, and the KiDg ex-
pressed himself very disheartened by the conduct
of those who might, if they chose, have intro-
duced him to Hor Majesty. He justly says that
other dark men, of no rank whatever compara-
tively with his own, have been received by the
Qu’.en, whilst he and his Chiefs, who teally repre-
sent New Zealand in a substantial manner, have
been denied an audierice. That precious institu-
tion. the Colonial Office, presented Tawbiao with
the Queen’s portrait—“her shadow only,” he sor-
row! uliy observed. With regard to his desire to
see the Queen, he says that had they asked for an
audience at an earlier peri, d, it might probably
have been granted them, but they followed out
the Vaori custom of waiting to be invited, and
hence arose the delay. With the Maoris, invita-
tions are always sent and never asked for; and they
waited, day after day, thinking they should be
asked to visit Windsor, but the invitation never
came; and tnen, when they did apply, they were
told it was too lat ;. Tawhiao has been treated at
home in h way wnich is a disgrace to England. He
and his chiefs were shown over Windsor Castle,
they said, and brought back again; they were
taken to Portsmoutn by train, and to Woolwich
and the Tower in open carriages, and back again
to their lodgings; and they would have been con-
jeyed to other places, if they had chosen to spend
their time in sight-seeing. They felt they had
momentous interests at stake, which required
tneir constant vigilance and attention; and these
invitations to see “the lions” rather disgusted
than pleased them, because they looked upon such
repeated sallies abroad as a mere trick to cause
. an( f to shirk the question about the land—
mat, m fact, it was a Dlind on the part of the
Government to tire them out. So at lust they re-
vised to go, and finding they were being other-
i e upglected and ignored, they resolved to put
h ® j to their visit, leaving Major Te Wheoro
to receive the reply to their petition, which
vv „ en forwarded from the Colonial Office to the
in * overDmen t. The Queen’s reason for declin-
to see Tawhiao was that she “needed repose.”
«ut on tho very day after the Maori king left, she
received a deputation of ugly niggers from Abya-
T *? er Majesty inquired for the health of
amg John, and requested that her thanks should
“i® ®. oave yed to His Majesty for the monkey and
lepnant he had sent her. Nor was Her Majesty
Highlanae e<l t 0 make e l )eeches to the Seafortn
r-T* 1 ® “Cleveland Scandal.” whereby the
ch» "® p ublieans hope to kill Mr. Cleveland s
uance m the forthcoming presidental election,
r,; L b ,? come &8 notorious as the “ Blaine bolt.” The
««°n now asked about Cleveland is, not
aether he is competent to govern, not whether
„?? e is national or local, but whether his
omestic relations in Buffalo were all that could
Am5 e - Ired? . Nothing could be more typical of
ri^-f lc ? n life ’ and nothing could show more
v* e ordeal to which a presidential candidate
srnrL 8 ij bl S it ‘ Tbe trouble commenced by an ob-
diftaro paper, which was on the verge of
thoaU tloD ’ Publishing a scandalous story about
SP ji"? vernor ’ charging him with drunkenness and
miKii on * It was copied everywhere. The Re-
•• paean papers commented freely upon it.
vniic t “ ey aB ked the independents, “how will
Thl! ?P p P° rt a notorious drunkard and libertine ? ”
thn t( cai ocratie papers at first kept silence. Then
IWn« W ..,^ OKK -P N » which, though nominally
on«° n crat 18 really Mr. Cleveland’s most venom-
»elf S p P on eut. called on him to defend him-
fpw- P friends of the Governor asked him by
“ w hat shall we say?” His answer
tnwh . ltnt Pfdiately : “ Tell the truth.” The
formes tb - s> s °me years ago, Mr. Cleveland
Here an irregular connection with a woman,
the P M me v WaB Mft ria Halpin. She had two children,
faoiiffht ein,? fourteen years old. Her profligacy,
she (£,l .nown to a few, was not notorious, and
chTirt fff beautiful- She gave birth to a tnird
nitv Mr. Cleveland accepted the pater-
eon a,, . *f; or this she took to drinking, and her
land efii o° ame so outrageous that Mr. Cleve-
of . on Judge Burrows, an old lawyer
arr«nS„ . B u tan< fing in Buffalo, and asked him to
Protegematter. The child was sent to the
'vith if „ nt • r P han A Blyum; the mother was sent,
to < to Niagara. Thence she returned
iQ-law o tbe ofuld- With the aid of her brother-
ilr cieJi an at f°rney she brought a suit against
• Cleveland. A compromise was made; the
mother was sent away; the boy, knowing nothing
of his parentage, was adopted by a respectable
ramily in Buffalo; and the matter would have been
wholly forgotten if Mr. Cleveland had not been
chosen by the Democrats as their candidate
for the presidency. It is not a pleasant
8 5,°jy* as . shocked the religious portion
of the community. The papers have hastened to
attack or defend him. “We hold,” says the de-
mocratio Sun, whose fury at Mr. Cleveland’s
nomination savoured of senility, “ we hold that he
is not fitted to be President.” “It will be well,”
says the Herald, his most loyal supporter, “it
will be well for Mr. Blaine if, when his story comes
oot, it shall contain nothing worse.” The Even-
ing p °st speaks most ably for the independents.
The standard, ’ it says, "by which some Minis-
ters now propose to exclude Mr. Cleveland from
high place would have prevented Washington,
rranklin, Jefferson, Hamilton—not to go any fur-
ther- from taking any prominent part in the foun-
dation of the American Republic. It would have
excluded from office in England nearly every
great statesman or reformer of the last hundred
years, except, perhaps, Romilly, Wilberforce, and
Gladstone. We will not for our part help the
Republican party at this crisis in an attempt to
capture the presidency for a trickster, as Joshua
captured Jericho with the aid of a harlot. Great
as its faults are, it deserves a less ignominious end
than this.
George Augustus Sala, who, as the uni-
verse knows, has been an intimate of many of the
leadmg literary celebrities of the world for years
and years, is coming here to lecture. “ G.A 8.” is
a king among journalists of a certain order, and,
though he has now grown rather short-tempered
and brusque, and is at times evidently troubled
with indigestion, he used to be one of the greatest
of humourists and the most graphic of sketch-
writers. as all who have read-and who has not
read?-his “Conversion of Colonel Quagg” and
•Key _f the Street” must admit. “G.A.S.” has
now in the afternoon of life settled down in a
comfortable position as right-hand man and coun-
sellor-general to the Levys (they call themselves
Lawson ) of the London Daily Telegraph ; and
as the chief object of his Australian tour is to write
fortheD.T. aforesaid, the lecturing being quite a
subordinate concern, it may at once be taken for
granted that if he doesn't please the public, he’ll
very soon “ shut up.” But there’s not the remotest
chance of his being a failure, should he be pro-
perly managed,” as he is, though by no means so
pretty as Archibald Forbes, nor so giddy as the
Rev. Charles Clark, nor yet so funereal as that
MASTER MORIARTY’S LITTLE GAME.
ponderous frost, Moncure Conway—G. A. Sala is,
we were going to say, one of the most delightful
raconteurs of the age. He has se en everything, and
he remembers all that he has seen or read, fie was
the prot«sg6 and friend of Dickens in the palmy
days of “All the Year Round,” which should be
sufficient to invest him with a peculiar interest for
Australians. Further, George Augustus has eaten
everything, and is the Julius Cassar of—we were
going to say gluttons, but we mean gourmets.
We wonder what he'll say about Sydney fried
chops and horse-liver coffee, after lunching at the
Trois Freres and such places? All this reminds us
that G. A. 8. was once in correspondence with this
paper. In June of last year a man facetiously
calling himself “George Augustus Sala” came
along to Sydney with an awful panorama, and we
wrote a chaffing little paragraph atsout him:
" George A. Sala, the genial Bohemian, is down on
his luck in earnest. Last Saturday night he un-
folded a gorgeous panorama of the world at the
Temperance Hall, Pitt-street, for the small sum of
sixpence. Alas! for Sala (observe how the name
reads backwards), but few seemed to hold the
sixpence. Early in the day fourteen men were
employed scratching the paint off the walls and
removing the locks from the doors in order to
accommodate the expected visitors, but the name
of the hall, and the Sunday-closing clause of the
Licensing Hact. most effectually damned the whole
proceedings. Worse than all, however, is the fact
that George now spells Augustus with an ‘H.’”
This was duly shown to the old, original Sala, and
elicited from him the following pleasant little
note :—“ 16 Mecklenburgh-square, W.C. London,
England ” (previously, we had always thought Lon-
don was in Ireland), " Friday, Fourteenth Septem-
ber, 1883. To the Editor of the Sydney Bulletin.
Bir, There has been forwarded to me a printed para-
graph, purporting to have been cut from the issue
of your journal of the Sixteenth June last, stating
that I am ‘ down on my luck in earnest,’ and that
I exhibited a * gorgeous panorama of the world ’
at a Temperance Hall in some place called Pitt-
street. 1 have to state that the assertions made in
the paragraph in question are from beginning to
end simply impudent lies. I was never in Aus-
tralia in my life. Your obedient servant, George
Augustus Sala.” Which certainly looks as if the
genial George Augustus couldn’t take a joke. And
now he is corning to slay us. We have already
taken down the office gun.
This is postively the last par. we shall write
about Tawhaio until that mottled monarch is
planted in his little tomb. He is not now in London,
where he was the lion of lemonade parties and the
joy and glory of the street arab. A representative
i of the Pall Mall Gazette went to interview
I i lu * lately. The spectacle was imposing. He was
clad ‘ in an old frieze coat, reaching down to his
ankles, a comforter round his neck, a very bad
bat, an old pair of shoes and yellow stockings.”
The general impression left by his appearance, in-
deed, was that he was a chimney-sweep in decayed
circumstances. But this did not affect his de-
meanour. He was as calm and dignified as if he
had had nothing on but his shirt. After the first
salutations had passed between him and the inter-
viewer, the monarch relapsed into stately silence
tor ten minutes, which time he occupied in
gloomily endeavouring to take a spot of grease
out of his trousers. He came back to conscious-
ness to say that the things he liked best in Eng-
land were ballet girls and beef. Speaking of the
former he is represented as saying:— '* Kapai!
kapai! the rows of faces lovely as the rising run,
as smooth as the liax leaf, as varying as the leaves
of the forest, as graceful as ihe swaying fern
frond—maidens as lovely as Hinemoa. Their
voices were as the throats of sweet singing birds.”
—a speech which, we should sav, does more credit
to the yellow-cover novel reading of the reporter
than to the probable remarks of Tawhaio. But
the next speech bears internal evidence of being
genuine. The reporter asks his opinion of wives,
to which Tawhaio replies with stolid philosophy:
A man with only one wife to labour for him may
die of hunger. A man with many grows fat.” We
have known many a man with a white skin and
more pretence to religious principles than poor
Tawhaio, grow fat upon very much the same plan.
Talking about growing fat, the Maori monarch is
said to keep restaurant waiters in a continual para-
lysis of surprise by his astounding performances
with the knife and fork of civilisation. It is quite
a common thing for him, after finishing the dinner
of a Gargantua at his own lodgings, to sally out
into the streets and have a second dinner at the
nearest eating-house. He would probably have a
third if his regal revenue would allow of it. He
is always buying things to eat. He is met in the
most fashionable quarters of the city at the most
fashionable hours staiking majestically home fol-
lowed by a porter carrying a sack of mussels, or a
boy staggering under the weight of a basket of
fish. But he lost a good deal in picturesqueness
when he joined the Blue Kibbon Army. Other
dusky potentates who visited England rose supe-
rior to him there. Cetewayo, for instance. It
is said that “when Cetewayo lelt the country be
had added two English words to his native vocabu-
lary—one was ‘good night,’ and the other -fizz,’
and of the two he most used ‘fizz.’” And now he
is dead. Tawbiao, however, if not a fund of
amusement in this respect, is funny enough in
other ways. His notions of the social life around
him are of the most or ginal kind. Take an ex-
amp e:—“ At one of the receptions, at which the
King stood in a corner, in his best frock coat, his
tightest trousers, his shiniest boots, a feather in
his hair, the shark's tooth in his ear, looking dread-
fully bored, a lady stared at him very bard.
‘'Tirohia,” he exclaimed, “he rnoko”— “look at
me, lam tat.ooed ’’ His chief pastime is said to be
in visiting Mr. Whitely, the tailor, “for whom he
seems to have conceived a mysterious liking.” He
is no respecter of persons, is Tawhiao. A duke
might call upon him, but if he wanted to see his
tailor, tho duke would have to call again. Mr.
Saintsbury. atwhose hospitable house the monarch
is living, has taken infinite trouble to teach him
the rudiments of social refinement, but the re-
sults have been of the most disheartening kind.
• « *
“ The next time Wilmott opens his mouth
about separation,” says Shillelah O’Kane, “he
ought to be rammed with a full-grown Chinaman.”
“Trust the people” :s the watchword of the
Cooktown Fowler, and we do trust the people—
to find Fowler out.
what of it ? These cold remains could net have
been put to better use. If Dr. Pavy and Henry
were shot under the rigid law necessary to pre-
serve discipline, and in justice to the others in
such extreme danger, what of it? It was right.
They had better have stayed at home. The-e
Arctic explorations are so utterly foolish, combin-
ing such infinitesimal benefit with such awful
LIEUTENANT GREELEY.
peri), that sympathy is unnecessary with the arm-
chair scientists who start, them and the fanatics
who go in them. Half the Governments of the
world have expended men's lives and large sums
to find passages that will be perfectly useless when
found, or to establish astronomical or other
stations that no one can ever live at when estab-
lished. Let the desolation alone. If the crack-
brained scientists would only sail away themselves
to the silent Arctic seas, and die quietly, we should
be glad. If some of the useless lieutenants of an
ornamental navy that attacks cocoa-nut trees in
the balmy Pacific would seek a glorious but cold
grave, we should be even relieved. This Arctic
exploration, with its inevitable starving and freez-
ing of the explorers, is a useless nuisance: and now
that the people engaging in it are beginning to eat
one another, perhaps it will get unfashionable.
Yet, so lar as we can see, the eating of ono another
was the most sensible thing done. That saved life:
everything else done in connection with the expe-
dition was simply a sacrifice of it.
Sooner or later, all men find their true
level. General Belisario started off as a soldier,
coruscated as a Majah-Giniral, and then eased off,
until at last he settled down to the less exciting,
though far better paying, game of grinding
"Nancy Lee” out of a hurdy-gurdy through the
streets ol' Constantinople, in company with a sore-
eyed, bob-tailed, Madagascar monkey. Dickens
began life as a slush-cook and bottle-washer, and
wound up by becoming the first novelist of the
age. and what has happened In the case of the
ancient mistress of the world, Home, and the
modern mistress, London, is now happening even
in this little land of ours. After years or hopeful
aspirations to become a poet, Allied Bennett, has
found his proper level at last, and is now exercis-
ing bis mighty mind over the more congenial oc-
cupation of raising poultry. No more does he list
to the dulcet tones of his sweet ab original Muso
as she whispers in his little pink ear
“ Fairer than the llowers above thee,”
Mick the Boozer’s gone to rest,
but creeping softly out at the dawn of the 21st
hatching-day, he bends anxiously over the incu-
bating box, and listens for the chickens’ chirrup
or the wo.come "qukquk” of the baby ducks of
Aylesbury. In connection with this, wo aro
pleased to note by sensational pars, in the Noozi;
and Town and Countuy Jkhnil that "Mr. Alfred
Bennett has imported by U.M.B. Australia a trio
of pedigree turkeys, the finest ever sent to Aus-
tralia. They are pure bronze turkeys, a cock and
two hens, only a year old.” " The cock bird,” says
tbeNoozE, “was sired by Chicago the 2nd,” and
was probably darn’d by all the seed stores in
the same district. The hens, we believe, nre got
by Dilficulty out of the Com Bag, and have
already proved themselveß to be sure egg-getters
On the day of landing, the birds were exhibited at
Mr. Bennett's private hennery, and the whole of
the Pitt-street staff graciously allowed to walk,
two abreast, in procession round them. Everyone
wrs delighted, and everything would have passed
without a hitch but for the vulgarity of one lean
and hungry-lookiDg comp., who, as he trotted
past Chicago 3rd, exclaimed, “ By thunder, Jim
we must go fur a leg ov that feller at the next
picnic.” The miserable man was at once brained
on the spot, and the body thrown down a well.
Owing to his spirited enterprise, Mr. A. Bennett is
now admitted to Government House as one of the
family, and strong efforts are being made to have
him elevated to the peerage. Some men are born
great, and some achieve greatness by the aid of a
phenomenal clutch of duck-eggs.


Professional Directory.
CKS' FEDERAL MINSTRELS! an d Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Hiscocks..
HORACE BENT, w ib Hlßcocks’ Federal
Minstrels, at the .Academy of Music,
W.
Sydney
Y A L
riIHEATKE RO
I Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Gar's* h and Musorove
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
Williamson, Garner, and Mv.sgrove’s Royal
Comic Opera Company.
L\ST TWO NIGHTS OF
ESTRELLA ESTRELLA. F.STHELLA
ESTRELLA ESTRELLA KsIRELLA,
The three sets in the opera, by John Hennings,
are certainly the linest pictures ever produced in
Sydney in one work.
The* managers take great pleasure in announcitg
the opening of the
DRAMATIC SEASON
SATURDAY, 18th OCTOBER.
PRICES: Dress Circle, 5s ; Stalls, 35.: Family
Circle, 2s. PIT, ONE SHILLING.'
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
H otel. Box office open from 11 till 4.
O
E R
HOUSE
Lessees
... E. Majeroni and W. J. Wilson.
Under the Management of
RIGNOLD and ALLISON.
Acting Manager Monty Bkownb.
Success Extraordinary has been achieved by
MISS DE GREY,
and her
LONDON COMEDT COMPANY,
in Frank Harvey's great Comedy Drama.
WOMAN AGAINST WOMAN ) LOUI'K
WOMAN AGAINST WOMAN , PEKKO IT.
WOMAN AGAINST WOMAN \ MISS DE UItEY,
Hundreds turned away from the Doors.
Business Manager I for Mias (. Mr. A L. Cunard.
Stage Manager IDo Grey ) Mr. F. T. Lingbam.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Hueuerbeln’s, *ll
George-street.
Gr
AIE T Y
Lessee..
Leasee and Manager
THEATRE
MR John Bennett.
Mr. Wybkrt Reeve.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBBIi 18th,
GRAND RE-OPENING NIGHT.
Engagement of the talented Irish Comedian,
RIGGS. GRATTAN RIGGS. RIGGS.
RIGGS, GRATTAN RIGGS. RIGGS.
First production in Sydney of the new sensational
Society Drama,
GRASP! GRASP! GRASP!
Or, A Mother’s L ve.
Arrangements having been with Mr. Ohns
MacMah n for the appearance of Grattan lligg*’
Powerful Company. New and Beaut'fui Scenery.
Saturday next (Grand Re-opening Night), aud
Every Evening, “ Grasp; or, A Mother s Love."
Box Plan, Nicholson’s. Tickets, Loder’s Hotel.
Business Manager, G. a. C'JLEMAN.
Academy of music
Lessee and Manager—Mr. F. K. Hiscocks.
170 NIGHTS. 170 NIGHTS. 170 NIGHTB.
and positively the last three nights of
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS.
To-morrow, Friday Evening. Grand Compli-
mentary Benefit, te dered to
MR. F. E HISCOCKS.
Special Programme provided.
Box plan at Palings. Carriages at 10.15.
Academy of music.
Lessee... .. Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
The Great Event of the Season.
MONDAY" EVENING, October 20.
Mr. Hiscocks has the honour to announce the
arrival of the great Musical and Mimical Enter-
tainer (a ia M ACCABE).
Mr. FLEMING NORTON,
who will make hts first appearance in Sydney on
MONDAY, OCTOBER 20.
in bis Musical and Mimic d Entertainment, entitled,
PICNIC PORTRAITS,
comprising twenty-five characters and songs,
as given by him at toe
EGYPTIAN HALL, PICCADILLY. LONDON,
over 250 night* at the Crystal a nd Alexandra
Palaces, &c., Ac , and by command before T.R H.
the Prince and Princess »f Wales, family, and
guests, at Sandringham, on the 20. h November.
Business Manager for Mr. Norton,
Mr. F. GUNTHER.
A
CADEMY OF MUSIC.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17ru.
Re-appearance, after yearj of absence, of
RANER’S
Original and Evergreen
PANORAMA
of the
AMERICAN WAR 1
AMERICAN WAR !
AMERICAN WAR !
M
ASONIC HALL, YORK STREET
HEULt AND MADAME VOGRICTS
8 GRAND 8
SOIREES MUBICALES,
commencing
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, and EVERY FOL-
LOWING TUESDAY.
HERR AND MADAME VOGRICH
will be supported by the distinguished Violin's
MONSIEUR DE WILLIMOFP,
and kindly assisted by the excellent artist-amatec
Herr GUMPECHT (Violoncello), Dr. HAN Kit
(Flute), Mr, COOPER (Clarionet).
Subscription for the series of 8 (eight) Concet
4EI 10s.
a f? d S if f kets on MONDAY. Dctol
H - ru, ’» ‘- d c °- “'
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
OPLN DATE, October 27th (Racing at
Holiday Season), four weeks. Share cr let.
Terms on application.
JAMES B. HICKIE,
Lessee.
XOU are certain t© make Money if you buy t
'i <vIKIN, ara k Ta ‘ VUBiUl > 00 WATKIN at
ACARD.-MISS LILY GARTON begs to. inti-
mate to her friends and patrons that it is ner
intention to bold a
MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT,
at the PROTESTANT rtALr,, Castlereagh-street,
on TUESDAY EVENING. November 4. for the
purpose of Introducing a NEW JUVENILE
COMPANY. The programme will consist of a
•-‘f&nd Selection of tongs and Duets, Pinaforte and
Violin Solos. Recitations, SoDgs and DaLces, High-
land Ree's, Hornpipes, &o. Special feature of the
enteitiinment will be that the oldest performer is
but 15 and the youngest 10 years of age, and all are
natives of S dtiby. Miss Lily Garton guarantees
an enj''yab!e evening to her patrons, and hopes to
be accorded a fair share of public support.
150 Oxford-street, October 8,1884.
D
N
1
JN
G
PKOF. WEST’S Peginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &c. Leigh House Academy, 251
Cast I' reagh street, near Bathurst-street. P.S.-
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
snrinv floor, &e. 1.0 decorations required.
S
PECIAL NOTICE-ALTERATION OP AR-
RANGEMENTS at the
LAVENDER BAY
Swimming Baths
(the -nly pure sea-water baths near Sydney)
Open every day for Ladies and Gentlemen from
6 a.m. till dark.
Admission. 3d.; Children, accompanied by adults,
2d ; 100 tickets, 218.; Monthly Tickets, 5s j An-
nual Tickets, from Ist. September, Sls.
rsr- BWI iMING TAUGHT by Mr. i?KEbEitiCK
Cavii.i,. the world-benoWnfed swimmer, who swam
from Prance to Eugland in l 2 hours, 30th AUrnist.
1877-. S'X i egSon®, 21s. The North Shore Ferry
Steamers leave the Circular Quay for the Baths
every quarter-ot-an-h ;ur.
milE FEDERAL A T ONION.—To be Disposed
.JL of by Sub.-eripiion on the Art Un on prin-
ciple. by permission of the Honorable the Attor-
ney-General.
£5OOO WORTH OF PICTURFS,
in 10 000 Shares, of 10s. each.
Ist pr ze, va ued at £5O) 2nd oi'to, d tto £4OO ;
3rd ditto, ditto £3OO ; 4lh ditto, ditto £2OO ; ot
ditto, ditto £lOO. 5 i ria-s valued at £5O each,
£350 : 10 ditto, ditto £25, £250 ; *.» ditto, ditto £3O
£lOO ; 00 ditto, ditto £lO, £hoo ; 400 ditto, ditto £5,
£l3OOO
lh» drawing of the phizes will take place under
the direction of a committee to be elected by the
subscribers, who will receive notice by three
advertisements in the "Herald,” "Daily Tela-
g, aph, ’ and “ Evening News.”
Tne dateof drawing wi 1 be advertised assoonas
two-thirds of the sub'c ibers have been obtained.
When the drawing day has o ca been decided
upon thero will be no turtber postponement
Purchasers will be found for all pictures over
£5 at a oommi-sion of 10 per cent, should the win-
ners consider the prizes over-valued
Winners of prizes who prefer soliinP 7 their pic-
ture! om have the money immediately after the
drawing.
Should this Ait Union be withdrawn at any time,
the money will be returned in 1 fill to the subscri-
bers
Winning PUmW&rs will be advertised in :i 11 lead-
ing papers.
Amongst the pictures is a "View on the
Thames," by Varley, the eminent artist—for 50
years or more in the bouse of tbe late Sir George
Stephen, Knight, Q 0., Iter uty-Lieuti nant of the
county of Buckingham, from whtsesolesurviving
executor it has been puicbasrd. Authenticity of
ttaii picture guaranteed -.<y certificate lrom the
hon. Sir Alfred Stephen, C.B, KCM.G', Lieuten-
ant-Governor.
Send crossed cheque, P O 0., or stamps.
Apply to J. A. PARKER, Secretary,
81 King-street, or Box 006 G.P.O , Sydney.
Secure tickets at once, so that an early dote may
be flx«d for the drawing. All prize-winners will
be wiitten to and the winning numbers forwarded.
r| HE FRESH FOOD AND ICE COMPANY
I (Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 Royal Arcado,
where they iupply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Cotfeb, Cocoa, &c., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
“KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
THE MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & tee Co., Limited v
may be relied upon afl beifig
ALWAYS ffURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
frbb from city contaminations.
Butter.
This is manufactured from cream, extracted
by the urc of cream separators, at their Mittagong
factory.
Deliveries of milk twice doily, Stlhdays excepted,
when only morning dttliVbfy is made. Butter by
special cart; oily, daily; suburbs, three timet
weekly,
Fresh Food & tee Co., Limited,
Head Office.. .. .. ... 31 ttafrbbur-street.
Stables ... m .. Liverpool-street.
Factory ~ Mittagong.
Barry’s Tricopherous!
Guaranteed to make the hair grow on bald heads,
to eradicate sourf and dandruff, and remove all
impurities from the scalp. It positively prevents
the hair from falling out or turning gray, and in
every case it thick, soft, glossy, and
abundflq l ;,
Barry’s Florida Water!
The Original the Best. The only perlume
in the world that has received the endorsement of
a Government. Put up in three sizes.
Solo Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffnung and Co.
MATRIMONIAL.— Parents, the newly-marr
and those about to marry, may obtain mi
valuable information, which may prevent yean
suffering, by simply sending a stamped adores
en\clone for reply to C. U. W., Box 766, G.P
Sydne
ATOU aro -certain to make Money if you buy a
JL Kona 7 ;ah Township on 35tb, WATKIN ana
V ATKIN.
The Federal Consultation Company
Herewith submit their new programme on the
MELBOURNE CUP off 1884
Run first week in November.
Sc.
Capital . . £115,000, in 25,000 Shares of £1 each.
Promoters Jas. McLeod, Esq., Melbourne;
Hy. Ford, Esq . Sydney ; P. Ingram, Esq., Perth :
W. J Erskine, Esq., Adelaide : ,T. F. Mcßain, Esq..
Brisbane ; all genuine names, and men of good
standing. Promoters guarantee to take up first
1000 shares, and have already subscribed £ltoo.
1000 PRIZES GUARANTEED.
Plan of distribution.
Total .. .. £25,000
The Public are respectfully requested to join the
Promoters in the above enterprise, the bona fide
ol which is unquestionable. Money promptly re-
turned should any subscriber wish to withdraw
before the drawing. Drawing held 30th October
next. Conducted publicly in presence of Share-
holders: representatives of Press admitted. Result
posted, and advertised in Town and Country
Journal. Send P 0.0., Notes, Cheques, and 3d.
extra for reply and result (registered if convenient)
Write for Prospectus giviDg fullerparticulars. En-
close self-addressed envelope. Addr< ss all Letters
and make all Orders payable to the Secretary, as
utdir ROBERT RAMSAY, Commission Agent,
405 George-street, Sydney.
Hm. Howard Smith & Sons
(limited)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
OnriCEs: 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Bteamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay
every fortnight.
Fleet op Steamships:
BUNINYONG EDINA KONOOWARRA
BAttKABOOL GABO LEURA
BURWAH BALMAIN MORETON
CHEVIOT GEELONG RODONDO
DERWENT KEILAWARRA YOU YANGS.
WM HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney.
NOTICE.
PERSONS in possession of INFORMATION
likely to be of service to me at my trial, next
month, will oblige by sending address to
W. WKBB,
Herald Office,
Campbelltown.
THE AUSTRALIAN PHOTO.-ENGRAVING GO.,
24 PITT STREET, SVDMEY.
ALL CLASSES OF ILLUSTRATIONS UNDERTAKEN,
pgr" Facsimiles of Handwriting for Circulars. Music Plates prepared.
Hlb COMPANY having epet*(ally enpagdl a number of first-cJaSS experts from Londbb, NbW
1 orkj aDfl tan in addition to a stair locilly trained, is now in a position
10 UNDERTMvE WORK IN ANT QUANTITY, AND OF QUALITY NOT SURPASSED BY
ANY ESTABLISHMENT IN THE WORLD.
T
Book of Specimens Sent Post Free on Application
H Pfpofb raving
'a c.u'T ©rv&fctWfeb <syp® / A \ c.'C
a £ nr\ea.rvf.
j-tL if rnou.n.tec| ty - |sc
car) 6e /et 1 in o|? Jypo
anc| |0 rir?feel -prom any ordi—
nary jc> r i rtij ncj | orc f/ * CL J'] 3ear ~
aye t'T ryemSTe/' vyery
a cutl aac| y 'to
superyecie fo a great"
t KqX tffew
oj? engraxnng . \y& oaip o^er
areaT i ncjacernenty to a££? coßo
ufe cut/ Price
fijfj* > Oa'Tafoeye/ or a.n-y/
'tlyv Ag our
anc| try uy £***£
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody kntWs that Boyd fl New Palace of Art is
over Paling's* 35-Tand 306 GEORCJBj HTRfIETj
Everybody
EVerybOd^
Everybody
EVetybody
Everybody
Everybody
Boyd'
Everybody
Boyd’s
should know that the above Is Boyd’s only Studio.
knoWS the Very Superior Finish Of all Boyd’s work.
knoWs that the best assistance only la employed. All . lr aHg.
should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms al'e the Grandest in Auslia
is invited to inspect the Establishment. ... inf« Mr.
is informed that this Studio is carried on ..or the benefit of the late
a children, by bis executrix,
should remember the address :
New Palace of Art, 351 and 35(3 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manager-
LOCH-DHU V.O.Scotch Whisky.
SHAMROCK V.O. Irish Whisky.
OF all Whiskies imported, these are the Oldest, Purest, and Best. They were awarded GOLD
MEDALS at every Exhibition, viz.,
GOLD MEDALS, CALCUTTA.
GOLD MEDALS, S. and W. AUSTRALIA.
GOLD MEDALS, NEW ZF.AI.AM*-
LOCH-DHU and SHAMROCK WHISKIES
are bottled and shipped in bond under supervision of H.M. Customs. Full contents guaranteed
KIRKER, GREEK A CO. (Limited), Bellsst and Glasgow.
G. H. ADAMS, Agenb «9 FtU-str cet, Sydney.
Melbourne. Brisbane, and Adelaide:
I;
OU are certain to make Mo»ey if you buy at
i_ Fogarah Township on 2ath. W ATKIN and
ATKIN.
OU are rpitain to make Mom? >1
Township on 25th. •'
ATKIK


INVALUABLE tfc? I*VSPEPTICS.
Heath Sksdridge.
Dear Sir?,—l have during the last few -ftseks
advised several patients to try your
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
Tne result has been uniformly favourable. In
dyspeptic cases of long standing they will prove
invaluable.— Zouvs sinoerely,
FBALOIS'CHfEEfrHAM, L. etL. Mid., R.C.P., Edin.
William fl / YMsf Pbwdef makes ligut and
wholesome bread, tea cdkes,-and pastry.*
Hop Bitters does not and destroy,
but restores, cures, and makes ne*t'. Look up.
The excitement consequent updd the sue
cess of the new loan linds vent in the extraordinary
demand made upon recent shipments of newest
designs in decorated china, dinner and teasets, &c ,
at Bray Brothers’, 402 and 404 George street. *
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham-
bers, 90 PifT-sTMHT, Sydney. 63T" Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
Saw Mill Plant. &c. No commission charged for
buying. |OF” Agents for the sale or purchase od
commission of Pure-bred Stock.*
Mb. DsCotrßcr Browne (late Deputy
Chairman df the Mining Board of New South
Waleslj Author of the Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholder!’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 52Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, oar Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, JOF" Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
The Diamond Dyes the boat, .dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn* Stock-
ings, Carpet Bags Ribbons, Feathers, or any fat/rio
or fancy article, easily and per fectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Each package will
colour one to four lbs. of goodo. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at fid.
per package. Send 2d. stamp to Box 181, G.P.0.-
Sydney, and you will receive a Sample Card of
Colours, &c„ &c., by return post.*
When first we tried the Bavarian Hop
Ilitters our income was limited. Through this,
and this alone, we were obliged to gifethem up,
hut not Before we had put five hash-house pro-
prietors through the Insolvent Court. It was for
loss of appetite we were first induced to take
them. When we commenced, one beef-bone
would put us through a week. By the time we
were through the first bottle an old man kangaroo
was scarcely enough. \Y hen we began the second,
the other boarders gave notice to leave in a body.
Unlike the untrustworthy reports of unscrupulous
persons who do not hesitate to concoct men.
dacious affirmations, this statement is a plain fact.*
It lias been our good fortune to inspect, by
courtesy of Mr. T. M. Alcock, of George-street,
Haymarket, a remarkably beautiful suite of dia-
monds—comprising necklace locket and brooch,
bracelet and bangle, together with pendant ear-
rings executed to the order of a well-known
gentleman, and which, for chaste pattern and in-
genious design, surpasses anything of the kind
that we have seen in Sydney. The seventeen links
forming the necklace are marvellously wrought
in 18 car. gold, the links being buttercups, each
with a gem of purest ray glistening on its petals
like dowdrops in the sun. A magnificent star set
with thirty-three diamonds adorns the face of the
locket, while its reverse has a lady’s monogram
elegantly engraved. The brooch, also, is orna-
mented by a star inlaid with twenty-four diamond f
of superb lustre. Thirty-one stones of exceeding j
brilliance surround the bracelet, aud the bangle
has six rare rubies in-set with five large diamonds.
The earrings are double solitaires of peculiar
splendour. All the stones are first-class Brazilian
of extreme purity, having been selected by Mr.
Alcock for superior quality, the whole mounted
with the consummate skill for which he is so well
noted. The refined conception in design and the
artistic taste shown in its fulfilment, still further
enhance the reputation of that clever genius,
whose name—now a household word—stands iu
relation to Sydney and Australia as that of Tiffany
to New York and the United States.*
YOU are certain to make Money if you buy at
Kogarah Township on 25th, W ATKIN and
watkin,
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
sy thirty shillings.
The Autophone!
fWYH?S triumph of musical invention is acknow-
JL ledger on all hands to be the
MOST r'EfIVECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
Most? endurable musical instrument
of modern times.
It is a wonderftff Mttle instrument, which, while
it weighs less than tbrrs® pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL-SIZED TARLOUR ORGAN
and executes its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT,
It has 22 reeds, plays in three keys, and ssll th®
parts of most difficult music.
j To Mr. ff. B. Horton, the inventor, the world
was first indebted for the Organette ; but that was
too expensive to come within the reaoh of all.
After years of persistent effort and intelligent
study, he has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of coat ana crudene-s.
It requires no skill to extract from it any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas, Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, Ac., &c„ &c. A child can
play any of thes« selections with perfect accuracy
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed direction® that»re sent with each
i instrument, and are so plain that “he who runs
i may read.” It Is best adapted to the kind of music
which Suits an organ best, in which chords pre-
dominate ; t*ut it has also wonderlul power in
executing very lively pieces. It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little'card-holder for convenience
in singing. It will be fount) invaluable for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, ana
for Dancing. Every shanty in the bush should be
supplied with one ; and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autophone. It will afford greater and better
entertainment 1 ban four times the price can pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Sole Agents for this marvel-
ous little instrument in the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
or
474 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the colonies. Orders have
come to us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonely
► hepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
| where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the cities—from
everywhere, In fact. And one of the bast argu-
ments we can offer as to the genuineness of the
instrument, is the fact that, in all our corres-
pondence, we have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they will recommend it
to their friends.
It is conceded by a’l educators and moralists
that music is the areat refining influence, and,
especially with children, its effect for good is
boundless. The lore for music which music in
the family engenders, is more potent in forming
dispositions and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, and parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm which renders an other,
wise hard task an easy one.
Tlie price of the Autophone In 3«5.,
and where good music can be procured for such a
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, o
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
be without it. With each Autophone for 80s. we
88nd three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
All orders for music are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it our
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogue of tunes at any time.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Sole Agents for Australia :
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY,
474 George-street, Sydney, 471
Opposite entranoo to Fruit Markets.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
fffVATM ROTAt—“ Bstrella ” p. 8.
QPaiU Uptrfffi— ** Woman Against 'Woman ib.
XlAitf-f TfißAfßif—"Grasp ib.
academy or MusiO—Federai Minstrels,... .. ib,
T#E AffGfE L
iue l “ iomeiiliing, wrong ” behind thescenes,
,i The thing out quickly leaks!.
I ytwhto know .what all this means!”
The prompter shrilly shrieks.
•• where is the little blue-eyed I*W,
* Who plays the Angel bright;
In Crown of gold and white robe clad—
Where is that lad to-night ?
« t r
“ Where is our fair, our peerless boy—
timpugn it whoso dares! , .
Utir pride, arid h‘B poof father’s joy—
Perchance he’s ac me pray’rs.
“ Thou art his brother, thou, small sprite,
With spangles bright of tin;
(Jo, fetch thy brother, quick, this night,
We’re waiting to begin!”
“ I cannot lie, for parson says
He knew a boy full well,
Who was untruthful in his ways,
And that boy went to .
“ I’ll tell you straight, my brother Bill
(He sobbed upon some raa),
Got tight and shook the baker's till,
Po they gave him a ‘ drag.’ ”*
* 11 A drag<”—Three months.
** * *
it Mr; jaiiies M. Rainford gdes d fdw steps
further, ho will die of glory. Besideij feeiiig, a
gorgeous elocutionist, captain of a fire-bfigadej
coacher-in-chief to the Romanys, he is, we see,
‘ Patron”—no less—to “The Commercial Dramatic
Club ” - a histrionic society, culled from the mem-
bers of the Drapers’ Association of N.S.W. We
had learned from a hideous programme, copiously
interlarded with the ads. of a well-known draper,
that a “ complimentary benefit” wouid take place
on Tuesday night, at the Masonic Hall; although,
With a reticence which wotild have done Credit to
tin ouster, the motif of the benefit And to whom it
Was conceded were Vdt-y Cafefully keot a seefet,
The Commercial Dramatic Club, So tile playbill
sot forth, was to be assisted by MiSs Cfeo Stanley.
It does not livdia our memory that we have ever
Seen Miss Stanley perform, either in public Or
m private \ butiVe taafe a distinct glimmering of
Having .Seen that yojiing lady’3 name either as a
member of a, chaste troupe of lafiy performers, or
else as the giddy entertainer who kept the audi-
ence in a roar by reason of her Shakesperian
quips and retorts, while the equestrian director
of the cat-circus was endeavouring, with the aid
of a mop-handle, to induce the principal per-
former to emerge from its partial pianoforte case.
• * •
The programme comprised “ Partners for
Life.” by H. J. Byron, and “A Rough Diamond,”
hy John Baldwin Buckston, both of whom are as
qqad fis Hortiers though probably not so decom-
posed. ‘iPartners.for Life” is $ somewhat flimsy
comedy in three acts, which was jwrittfen fey the
author for Mr. H. J. Montague, who is also de-
ceased, though who is not, in all probability, as
“ high ” at the present time as Homer. “ Partners
for Life ” was first introduced at the Globe
Theatre, in the year of our Lord 1874. Mr. n. J.
Montague, by the way, is entitled to a certain por-
tion of immortal fame—say, since we are writing
of these knights of the tape and scissors—a yard
and three quarters of it-as the person upon whom
was first conferred the word “masher.” At the
Globe, he had one prosperous season and two di-
sastrous ones, his domestic affairs being in as de-
plorable a condition as bis financial position. He
married when things were about at their worst,
Rose Massey, the actress, a woman of extraor-
dinary beauty and of infinite talent, but at that
time Sothern was in the zenith of his fame, and—
well, Montague went to America alone. He died
there, in due course-attrihuting, we believe, his
decease to a persittmt habit the front row of the
stalls had of going out and drinking rum between
the acts, and chewing cloves as a corrective, dur-
mg the performance. As a comedy, “ Partners for
Lite ” is by no means strong, and everything de-
pends upon the squibs with which the dia-
logue abounds being let off briskly, and upon
the groupings of the characters in the various
tableaux being contrived in an artistic manner.
« i 8 too, for the proper representation
ot the piece that the people who enact ladies and
gentlemen should look like ladies and gentlemen;
and, since the piece is written in the English lan-
guage. some knowledge of the orthoepy and
syntax of that tongue may be regarded as par-
ticularly essentiai. Possibly by this notice the
puohc will, be enabled to guage in what degree
this, the latest of Mr. Rainford’s teams, is possessed
or the desiderata we have enumerated, and how
tar they were justified, these t oung persons of the
counter and the thimble, in disporting themselves
Delore even a partially discriminating audience.
* * *
of “Partners for Life” is likd
r aistaff s seal, “ some eightpenny matter,” turn-
ing upon the freak of a ridiculous ass of a bar-
rister, who. on finding the girl he has married is an
neiress, and not penniless as he sup Dosed, in order
not to be accused of mercenary motives, clears out
’ • Proceeds to practise his profession of a
iaK er m , ad the glories of bacheiordom. Then,
on * , ' e 7 meet in the same house, and both
nf e o w V ® rw^ui n ? ed with offers of marriage—a state
mL, a l rs which w conducive to some confusion.
of course, is great bosh, even when well in-
terpreted; but we leave it to our readers to
on? h lae effecfc °f this poor stuff when ground
ot histrionic iDcapables in a series of
Tnm ’ ?!A lln » 8 ’ Pauses, and stumbles. The role of
lroy ! ,he . barrister, was enacted by a
of wh 9 rejoices in the poetic appellation
Innifuo er< and wno contrived to make himself
h he a . barrister as a wombat is like a
» aB uft- The distinguishing feature about him
tinn ar,5 ants ’ w bieh were of grotesque construc-
h?£ and conceded a pair of legs that seemed to
n borrowed for the occasion from the
whnh! C i ry m 5 on °eo and Juliet.” If Mr. Bolger,
a ftfzT^, b h°h f 11 «°i Wed .by the higher powers with
a a v' habit of iookmg nowhere, could not be
c-rtainw a 7 e , he * d us wlt h his glittering eye,” he
i/nu a i!? y fascinated us with his ferocious toot. Mr.
to whUe doubtless a valuable acquisition
excit e g m 0 7n e ; CO r UD v. ter ’ a PP e ars to have allowed the
. D °f bis professional pursuits to have
trinni„ a commercial glamour over his hs-
<iuote C f d oil very. For, in one instance —we
net a Q l rom memory —a lady proposes a car-
dinner ne Lv, as a reasonable relaxation after
forth r ’oo w hen Bolger, the barrister, puts
not “ “ 8 an insinuating amendment, “Why
cannot^n C^amw 2 es On the whole, we
to shine 3 P n ® lder that Mr. Bolger is ever calculated
to stafef ho®°u medy: though we do not go so far as
oa he would Pot be a triumphant success
meat of S +hl r K Pe ' the m-igorating accompaui-
other barrel-organ. Mr. G. Bull, on the
comic S demonstrated the possession of some
m hls delineation of the character of
who enoJ.H ?P, c , entr ‘ c butler: but Mr. Buckle,
genUemnn tad Mr ' H° race Mervyn, a country
secret a PP e a r ed to be suffering from some
the v M 8 l l n i sorro w—boils, probably—which even
riads nf accruing quarterly from his my-
viate. ° r hroad acres appeared powerless to alle-
Camj2° I L„ Billi ] ;er * 8,3 represented by Mr.
Jacket* n^ 8 a dreadful creature in a marine’s
habilitv an i d , a Pair of fireman’s pants—in all pro-
of the aoeiow OW -?u f w m the distinguished patron
enough a The Major’s make-up was, likely
Patron if!,! Practical joke on the part of the
in and for be reminded you, as he came
He watPnnt o^ 8, y spluttered, of nothiDg earthly,
complete ftna aly ,r d; he was grisly, and was the
theatrical B^ ogey 91 ve P reBon tmentof an appalling
Fanny Smith, the heroine, was played! trf
Miss “ Creo ” Stanley, who assisted the company
professionally, for, doubtless, an adequate con-
sideration. Miss Stanley, being' a professional,
takes more than ordinary care to let the amateur
1 push ” see that she can assert herself. This de-
termination on her part—laudable enough, no
doubt—was most undoubtedly the means of cast-
ing chaos into the amateur ranks, since, during
i the whqle time that lady was on the stage, she
asserted herrself to sqch an extent that the poor
dfamdtiC‘ drapers pot tmfrequently had to crouch
against the “ fiats, ’’ and make exits which were not
marked out tor them in the acting copy. Miss
I Creo is a pleasing young person, of bu*otii appear-
ance—which leads one to the conclusion that she
works her daily way, through her “ little nine ”
' -jyith.iron resolution and granite will, determined,
pd fn#h ippral grounds, to give her landlord no
loophole Gi. escape,,either from insolvency or an
early grave. Miss Creo 1 a young lady
who has, doubtless, a future before her. All the
glories of histrionic fame she is prepared toclutch.
She is a lady who stands upon no dramatic Cdte-
mony—who has no histrionic dilHdence. She aims
at the:suprem*sst pianacle of dramatic immortali-
ao a fctifirfy a wohrA.
For the rest, we will objcf?& #! e|l*er@et
ftnl emphatic silence.
** * *
The repertoire of Miss de Grey is not only
extensive, but various. Miss de Grey is, to a large
extent, a lady to be envied. She can play In
almost anything—from the classic to the melo-
dramatic; and whatever she plays in, she has
always the supreme felicity of knowing that she is
Misj de Grey. Guaged from a oritical standpoint,
Miss de Grey, who has enacted so many heroines,
desertes, if not ad exclusive, at least a passing
notiCe at odr haffdS. StiSs de Grey has personal
attractions of a te'ry high order,- and she has the
“dvdntage of being, ir not a popular favodrite, at
ifeast the idol of the glittering military contingent
that defends otft hbarths and homes.
• a *
The latest effort on tfce) fart of Miss de
Grey to enthral the theatre-going public Pas been
Frank Harvey’s great London and provincial
success, a comedy-drama in 5 acts, * Woman
against Woman.”’ Frank Harvey, Esq., has
succeeded in evolving perhaps the worst transla-
tion of the worst Fiench melodrama that has ever
been submitted ,to a tortured public. “ Woman
BgrtinSt Watfldn’’ iS the kind of melodrama against
Wbltih efen “ The World,” Of "Pluck,” or “ Man-
kind ’ stadd out in hold relief as elassic produc-
tions. It, IS iifiprobaole ttnd impossible anti incre-
dible ifl its efery phase; and there is Only one
word to oU.r penSe of the Piefic of the
pi alogue-one word which is, pefhaps, as expresSite
in a language which is notoriously poor in words
a&goy which that tongue possessesabject.”
Byron, jvanted words, and we also complain occa-
snpnally o* a.lrfck„of suitable expressions where-
with to apotheosis? thj “.perfesh ” whom we love.
But such syllables as we numbly possess are dis-
tinctly at the disposal of the noble afm* of players.
i * * *
“ Woman against Woman ” is an ingenious
sequence of dramatic improbabilities. The people
in it are mere shadows, who flit hither and thither
for no apparent reason—coming and going, for in-
stance, in and out of the local penitentiary, with
ap pace apd nplpmb that even excited the merri-
ment of the pititea It i« almost impossible to
express, in the words at odr.disposal, the dreary
nature of Mr. Frank Harvard dialogue/ in which
there was no gleam of fancy, 1 no suggestion eft
thought, Mr. Harv-y is au author who hag'b’een
hitherto restricted, by a community more intelli-
gent than ours, to oonfiaiog the representation of
his “dramatic monsters” to transpontine audi-
ences. who could see, revel, and even wallow in
Mr. Harvey's adapted fantasies for the moderate
price of fourpence, with half a pint of porter
thrown In.
• • •
We are, however, thankful for small
mercies, and perhaps the smallest mercy, we have
ever had occasion to return thanks for is “ Frank
Harvey s great Lond in and Provincial success, a
comedy-drama in five acts, entitled ’Woman
against Woman 1 ” if n man can achieve fame by
a dramatic production of i his cl iss, t.hefe is indeed
hope for us all. There is even Hope for Garden
Hooey. Of the interpretation of the piece—a
piece in which the unfortunate performers are
doomed, involuntarily, to enhance the natural
gloom which rumours of infectious diseases have
oast upon a nervous public—it now behoves us to
speak. Miss de Grey played Louise Perrot, a
young person who is fortunate at first, unfor-
tunate after, and supremely happy in the end.
Miss de Grey HaS eVefv Opportunity, and, of
Bourse, her performance 13 “ jneturestlue;”
• • *
At this let it fes'; We pen tliis phrase as a
guarantee of good taith. We don’t want to be
dismembered by military t sabres. Mr. Morton
Selten played “Fefdidand’ (as it appears in the
programme)—which the performers pronounced
Jerdinoeg, “Verdi uang,” “Ferdinande,” with
Other variations; the usual "Mardarms” and
Moshers being also luxuriantly scattered
through the piece. Mr. Selton did all he could
wnh a hopeless part, and Shored a success when he
pinked the wiokrd Duke in the second act.
We advise this young gentleman, however, when
doing - his stage spooning with Mdlle. Lduise
Perrot, not to put his nose so near her left eye,
tor the services of oculists are expensive in this
country. Mr. Fattison enacted the part of a comic
lawyer, with a Humour which reminded you of a
grass-grown grave-yard i and Mr. Mark Kinghorne
(who is really a clever fellow) moved you to tears
in a part that conjured up, in his every effort
to be funny, visions of a
iamily vault* Something of a success was
made by Miss Florence Cowell, a lady who* if
we mistake not, has dramatically “got it” in a
considerable degree, and who has studied with
advantage the art of facial expression. A Miss
Grace Otway, who played a coy waitiDg-maid’s
part, and who assumes an imposs.ble disguise, evi-
dently possesses some ability, and when she has
been enabled to compass the ioan of a smaller pair
i PJf- has learned to speak less frequently at
the top of a voice that is not altogetner musical, she
may yet, before therworbi is destroyed by fire or
depopulated by ruin, acnieve a success in the pro-
fession she has adopted.
* * *
Tna “ entirely new scenery by Alfred
Clint are stage pictures, the entire novelty of
which we have to take tho word of the manage-
ment for. We certainly considered, however, that
we detected some very old friends, and the paw-
impressions of the scene-shifters on many of the
flaxsi would have militated against realism in the
mind of an lesthetio.
* * *
.> (irey comes Scare]le with
Boabdil, with Harding, Grade Plaisted. and the
e i?n ll i? n -i !o i n ' :>o ? er; libretto, so we understand,
still by that eminent dramatic author, Mr. Walter
Parke. For this, and other small mercies, many
thanks.
•* * *
As we predicted, Signor Carlo Modini, of
the Teatro del Parmesancheeso, has not turned out
a success, and, in consequence, is about to return
w ,!i n l er triumphs in his native somewhere.
Woodheld has been singing the part during the
past week, and is a great improvement on Modini
whom you could scarcely hear, and hardly ever
see. We are to have “The Wages of Sin,” by
Frank Harvey, Esq., purchased by Mr. Arthur
Garner in London, with Dampier as the hero, and
Lily ns one ol the oppressed. We look forward to
the production of this classic play with feelings of
satisfaction, for are w - not to see Charlie
Holloway, Leake, All. Booth man, and other classio
people! w e anticipate from “The Wages of
Sin a treat of supiemo gorgeousness, and if you
see a person of the male sex d'une raise neuliate in
the trout row o* the dross circle, leading the
laughter and suggesting the shudders, it will be
ourselves.
I t Aiid, on the 20th, Fleming Norton appears
uWa'Tf management, at the Gaiety. The
appear£?£i£e/?f this{gentleman will be fraught with
special interest to* several (for more) reasons.
* * * *
The scintillatingly bfifeafti .reason inau-
gurated by D’Orsay Ogden, Esq., Mien Fergus
Ogden, and Mr. Fred. Meredith—“ Specially en-
gaged —came to an abrupt conclusion on last
Saturday, when Mr. D’Orsxy Ogden took a benefit,
the proceeds of which will doubtless keep him in
sausage-rolls and pea-nuts for no inconsiderable
period. Mr. Grattan Riggs succeeds this gifted
combination, in “ Grasp,” next Saturday, a drama
we shall have much pleasure in devoting
our poor !?Wlitie3 to giving, no doubt, an en-
comiastic critique. Mr. Charles M'Mahon informs
us that Mr. Riggs’ sucked has been phenomenal in
the provinces, and, therefore, fo tratee is especially
welcomq. We have a dim suspfcSonf however,
that Mr. (Jrattan Riggs, on his arrifal, will
patronise us. We have repeatedly been patronised
actors whose success has been “phenomenal ?n
the provinces.” By the way, this reminds us that
Charles is a bJoilmr of the glittering James, whose
“Romeo and JulfSt” has come 10 a somewhat
abrupt termination in KerStmrne, They are very
much alike, though James is, ±i feasible—and it is
scarcely possible—the more reaplOMW* of the
(twain.
f #* * #
At Hiseocks takes a “ ben.”
on Friday (1. tß>. for 28 weeks he and his people
have scooped the pod? *3 it was never scooped
before. And now they are »6?b#. Vale,! artists
of the bones and burnt cork. May yo'JiV Sydney
season be the worst you will experience t'S y«Mir
merry march.
** * *
We see that the “ Stray I eaves ” Company
have dissolved partnership, and Miss Ella Carring-
ton is open for engagement with a thump-
ing screw, which we have no doubt she will
get. Mr. C. H. Tayl r, the other principal Stray
Leaf, advertises that he is agent for a lot of plays
—“ Unjustly Sentenced,” " Kidnapped,” and other
dramas with equally catching titles. Mr. '1 aylor
lives at Chelsea, St. Kilda, where he wili treat with
such of those managers who desire to acquire
opulence with more than usual speed. In fifteen
months the “ Leaves ” reorganise, and play through
the tfolttnies prior to going to India, taken ap-
proximately, tho “ Stray Leaves ” is the cleverest
little company or Its kind south of the line, and
has continued, duriDg d ?un of some nine years,
to always make the ghost walk On treasury days. ..
And to make up for you a slip-full of Information,
Dan Barry’s crowd (against whom, he says , “no
company can play twice ”) is in Gulgong, haring
successfully done Mudgee. Dan has, he writes, 2£
dramatic artists. Think of that!
m• * *
Oiir tickertfl for Radcliff’s and Rita’s con-
cert turned up just 21 hours too late. We believe
the artists had a good house} we know they per-
formed well, and we will swell their nud enee on
Thursday (to-night). We are not able to to give
an account of the Sydney Liedertafel’s concert,
because we did not attend. This reason would
not siwnd good on the Shroud.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Mr. Oscar Hughan, the Sheriff’s bailiff, has
got round the editor of the Campbelltown
Herald to print some of his poetry, which, we
may say, has for many years been a drug in the
matrimonial market. The piece is called “The
Old Hands,” and here are a couple of stanzas:—
“ Some in manhood’s earliest pride
Soaling Pleasure’s mountain side,
All — unarmed—havG fainting died.
“ Supplicat’ons, spectral whips,
Prayers from sisters—mothers’ lips,
Fail to stay the dread eclipse.”
; Valuable and startling additions have lately been made to the zoological
at Moore Park.
Moral Philosopher : “ I will
not. 1 cannot, believe that man is
descended from one of these. Pre-
posterous on the face of it.
I’ve been sitting here
two hours and a- half, and
I hain’t seen no alligator.
£hf>h aJ d) be j,&if.*r Carri'fa o*'* 0 *'*
“ I ear, old'fellow, you haven't Shsb
thing as a biscuit about you ?”
/ Shb : "Yen, Henry, ana don't 1 yon mmemhesr,
long years ago, the poetry you wrote about me,
in which you oomparod me to one of these ? Ah„
ms I How you hare changed; . you never pay
me such compliment* now,”
Hero you have Captain Ghent ransacking the wilds of San Francisoo fo>
lions and things for tjie Zoological Gardens of BydDey.
A Visit to the Zoo.
Now, listen, Oscar:—
This stuff does in the dustbin moulder—
It really does, you bailiff-bard;
We’d like to tap you on the shoulder,
And wouldn’t we just tap you hard.
* ■ •
Says the Central Australian In dig-
ging a well at Brindigabba, when at a depth of
about 35 feet, the head of some extinct animal was
discovered. It is described by the gentleman who
saw it as slightly resembling that of a horse (in
shape only); it was about two feet in length from
the top of the head to the tip of the muzzle, and
in the jaws were imbedded teeth of immense size,
in proportion to the length of the head.” Wei),
well, this is sad! There can be no doubt about it
from the description Of the bead. When we last
saw him he was at a station on the Murrumbidgee
preachiDg to the shoarers, and afterwards sitting
with a shining visage that glowed with grace and
grease at the groaning (inevitable!) board of the
pious and charitable squatter. And now to think
that he has come to this! Poor bush-missionary!
Poor horse-head!
• • •
Now here is bituminous eloquence for you \
Here is scorching scorn! It is Thady O’Kane speak-
ing of the Charters Towers Herald:— “For the
last three months that brilliant luminary has cor-
uscated with wit, blinded the eyes of the public
with its brilliant flashes of genius, oppressed them
by the ponderous solidity of its elephantine lead-
ing articles, and comatosed them by the soporific
influence of its narcotic paragraphs. We ask
again, who is the editor, the thaumatuigic (sic)
bloke who does these wonders in the Towers
Herald?” How is this astounding and fiery
fluency to be accounted for ? ;is it to be attributed
to the native genius of the writer, or to the cli-
mate ? Pshaw! Too much insecticide in the rum.
* * *
On Sir H. B. Loch visiting the Echuca
Hospital, lately, he only found one patient. “Are
you the only inmate ?” asked the Governor. “ No,
sir; the place is crowded,” was the reply. “ Then,
where are the others?” was the natural inquiry.
Some's gone to seo the procession; some to the
sports; but most is playing in the cricket match.
It was too far for me,” he continued. Then,
brightening up, “But I’m agoin’ to the piay to-
night, I am; I’m again’ in a barrer.” Then the
Governor walked out in a state of semi-coma,
gasping, “ Well, this is certainly a most remark-
able institution.”
• • •
A cablegram recently informed us that
the “reptilian origin of man is now clearly
proved.” No news, dear friends; no news. We’ve
been convinced that men (and women, mind you)
sprang from reptiles, ever since our mother-in-law
came to live with us. And the way in which some
people retain the characteristics of their ancestors
is mrrvellous—simply marvellous.
Many thousands of people are crawling about —
Many thousands! ay, many a million—
Of whom the observer can say, without doubt,
That their origin must be reptilian.
A snake 25 feet long was brought to Bris-
bane in the ship Menmuir. One night the captain
heard him talking to himself. “ Yes,” he said,
“to-day begins the year 5644, according to old
Moses’s tally, and here have I been, all this time
crawling about on my belly for nothing. I’vs
played the sea-serpent game out, and now I've had
to shorten down to 35 'feet, and start to try my
luck in Australia. Ought io have a show there—l
like the cut of MTlwraitb, Parkes, and Berry. ’
“Hullo, look here,” said the captain, “who are
you, anyway ? What am I to have to keep quiet
about this?” “All the kingdoms of the world,”
replied his strange passenger. The captain
“dropped” to it. Hence, nothing in the Brisbane
papers but “a 25ft. snake was brought in the
Menmuir.”
AN APPEAL TO THE BARDS.
O, for a file, rough as the cobbler’s rasp,
To dessioate the hide rhinoceran
Of such as, floundering in the marshy ways
Of dull Stupidity, begin to rot,
And, watching their own dissolution, shriek
Loud in our ears, “ O men, we sing of Life.”
Lo, overhead, and in the ocean deep,
And round the shining circle of the day,
In opening flower, and breezes whisp'ring round,
In woman’s eye, or childhood’s dimpled cheek,
Dost thou not dwell, O, Beauty, evermore ?
Dost thou not come to him who fitly calls,
Gladdening his waking and his sleeping dreams ?
0, give us rest, ye marrow-withering crew,
Whose raspy quav’rings through some spouting s
length,
Or sooty stove-pipe, or a papered comb,
Leave us sciatic, colicky, and faint—
Knock-kneed, and lull of horrid blasphemy
Hissed with last breath through glisteniDg teet
on edge.
Leave us to hear the carolling of birds,
And music from the lips of singers born;
Drown not the soothing strains from earth, an
man,
And sky, and wave, and ciystal running stream.
Han* up the harp that maddens at your touch;
But hold one handle of this cross-cut saw,
And list how, from its little steely teeth,
With sonorous file, I give you back your song.


A “working young man ” advertises in the
News for a wife, and intimates that “ photos, will
be returned with the greatest confidence.” There
are lots of these “working young men” about
just now. They are demure in manner, staid in
appearance, and carry “ Gadsby’s Hymn-book ” in
one pocket and the “ match-box trick ” in the
other. They may be seen after tea in any of the
Arcades, waiting to keep appointments with the
“ respectable young women of small capital,” for
one of whom this particular advertiser seems to
’Allelujah ’Enry.
Anguish. The respectable young women” are
usually the genuine thing, and are much impressed
the respectable “ working young man’s ”
generosity in the matter of ice-cream and lemon-
a<Je, and are much concerned, when the time for
lament arrives, that the “ young man ” has left
, 18 money at home on the American organ. These
uterviews usually last until ten o’clock, after
, ictl hour the “ respectable young man ” may
g a Beea “ backing in” with the contents of the “ re-
putable young woman’s ” pertemonnaie whioh
she is lamenting the loss of in the course of a
wrangle with an incredulous tram-conductor.
On some occasions, however, the “ respectable
young woman” hardly turns out to be much more
what is pictured in the advertisement than the
girl who jumps through the fiery ring in a circus-
poster. We remember answering, now long ago,
the advt. of a “ young lady of good famerly, and
fond of music, who desired to meet with a gentle-
man with a view to the above. Mechanics not
Objected to. Address Lucinda, Haymarket P. 0.”
One night, when all |the shades had fallen that are
allotted to one revolution of the sun (we’ll pin our
faith to Joshua or die), weenoountered byappoint-
mentthe “ young lady of good famerly” in question
at the historic Punch’s corner. She had said we
should know her by a rose in her bonnet. We
should have known her without that. We should
have known her by the kaleidoscopic character of
her ribbons —by her having the feet of a giantess
and the embonpoint of a plank. She knew us, too*
directly—though, goodness knows, in our borrowed
garb of sables, we must have looked a good deal les3
like a respectable mechanic than a dissipated crow.
Imagine, though, what were our feelings when she
said, on being accosted, “I’d a knowed you
’mongst millions. It must have been my ’art as
told me.” We walked slowly Woolloomooloowards,
and during our stroll she informed us that her
father had been a “ kunnel in the lanshers,” and
that he had died in great agony for his country,
her sainted mother only surviving him a short half
year, an event which, in her own words, caused
“the punshing to relate to the Goverment.”
During this recital she put her lips very close to
our ear, and a vision at once came before us of the
fumes of whisky and a peppermint lozenge
violently struggling for the mastery. Having
tickets for a moral entertainment in aid of a
church for that evening, we proposed to escort her
thither, to which suggestion she blushingly as-
sented; but a few moments later, overcome by
her feelings, fainted clean away on a public-house
door-step. Requesting the landlady’s assistance,
she was hoisted into the bar-parlour, while we
went in search of a cab. On our return we were
delighted to find the “young lady of good
famerly” revived unto maudling loquacity, but
somewhat disagreeably surprised to discover
that we were required to pay for two “three,
stars,” four rums, six beers, and a lemonade—re-
freshment consumed partly by “Lucinda,” and
partly in an “ all-round shout,” she having inti-
mated to the landlady that her “ old man ” would
“ settle.” On being assisted into the vehicle, th e
“ young lady of good famerly,” like the historic
characters you read about in the police reports,
“refused to give her address,” and suggested
more refreshment. On our declining (on religious
grounds) to assent to this request, the young lady
cried in scornful tones, “Give me a milingtery
man I” and followed this up with language which
we should certainly [not have expected from the
daughter of so distinguished a person as a “ kunnel
in the lanshers.” Unaer these circumstances, we
felt justified in stopping the cab, hastily giving


Palace Emporium Musical Conversazione
and Spring' show.
Notwithstanding the counter attraction of the
Liedertafel at the Exhibition Building, and the
fact of the Royal Society’s Conversazione the pre-
ceding night, the Palace Emporium, Haymarket
was thronged with an inquisitive multitude to
witness the magnificent show of Spring goods and
listen to the music provided by the enterprising
firm of A. Hordern and Sons. The invitations
were rather lavishly distributed, and the conse-
quence was a gathering of upwards of 20,000 men,
women, and children; but so complete were the
arrangements that not a single accident occurred
to mar what proved to be a most enjoyable even-
ing. Loud were the exclamations of delight pro-
ceeding from ladies and children, while a corres-
ponding look of gloom ano depression was depicted
on the face of pater-familias meditating on the
probable invasion of his pockets; but we know
the look of pleasure will return when he gazes
with pardonable pride at the neat and pretty ap-
pearance of his family decked out with their light,
gauzy, becoming Summer dresses. The Gipps-
street entrance was surrounded by an immense
crowd, who eagerly tried to gain admission;
and a great many took the opportunity to exa
mine the two large windows by which the
entrance is flanked. These windows are 25 feet
long and about 18 feet high, and were dressed with
a dazzling display of solt goods of all descriptions
Over the entrance is a large transept, on which the
motto of the firm ii engraved, vjz , “ While I live
1 grow.” But the view on entering was one that
is impossible to describe. The great crystal show-
cases, filled with innumerable articles of use and
adornment, the enormous pyramids of drapery,
the ever-changing, astonished, surpiised, and be-
wildered appearance of the guests, and the bursts
of music from the various bands, formed a kaleido-
scopic picture seen but once in a iife-time. To the
right on entering is tne Print Department : this is
essentially the department of this set son of the
year. The stock is entirely new, and comprises
prints, sateens, zephyrs, Galatea stripes, etc , and
the variety of patterns exhibited is something
wonderful; and man’s ingenuity in this depart-
ment must. be sorely taxed to please the ever-
changefui fashion. The value.of the stock in this
department is about £15,000, and fifteen assistants
are constantly attending to our wives and sisters.
Next we approach the Fancy Department, which
contains all the little nicknacks and articles of
adornment used by the sex for purposes of bewitch-
ment-ribbons, laces, including oriental and edel-
weiss rufllings, silk handkerchiefs, fans, Swiss em-
broidries, and innumerable other articles dear to
woman (also to man in another sense). Tbe varie-
ties of different lines are more marked here than
i.i any other department; for instance, lace may
be had at per yard, and from that price it
ranges to £3 3s. per yard. Talking of laces, we
were informed that if all the laces, rufllings, em-
broideries, &0., in this department were joined end
to end there would besufficient to girdle the whole
globe. Just fancy old mother Earth with a ruffling
around her. Some assistant in tnis department
displayed considerable ingenuity in the construc-
tion of a huge, bottle-shaped pyramid of ribbons,
comprising over 100 known colours, shades, ana
tints, and a lot of others not known Here also
may be seen, in endless profusion, what young
ladies generally term “something for the neck,’’
as well as silk gauntlets, gloves, Jersey silk mils,
up to 20 button length, etc. It is this department
we advise all Benedicts to patronise when they
wish to propitiate the good wife, after being af-
fected by a very hot day. We speak feelingly—but
this is wandering. Our guide now leads us to what
is termed the Scotch Department. We naturally
thought everything in this department was sold for
“ sax pence,’’ but, as usual, we erred. This is where
lace curtains, and mosquito nets, towels, bed val-
lance«, etc., are kept, but why it is called a Scotch
Department was not explained. Here may be
procured 800,000 towels, or one for every per.-v. i«~
New South Wales—but as .the “great, unwEshed”
muster very strongly, it is doubtful if the whole
stock would be required to supply the colony; and
if all tbe mosquito net in the Palace Emporium
were joined, a canopy would be made that would
cover the whole of Sydney and suburbs. These
statements read very sensational, but if any of our
readers coubt them, Mr, Hordern will prove their
truth to the satisfaction of tbe most sceptical.
Adjoining the Scotch, is the Manchester Depart-
ment, containing sheetings, calicos, cotton shirt-
ings, etc. This department carries the most valu-
able stock in the establishment, viz , upwards of
£50,000. On, on we go, past glass cases filled with
patent medicines, perfumery, soap, violet powder,
etc., not forgetting homcepaihic remedies. Then
past huge pyramids of haoerdashery, pins, needles,
cottons, tapes, braid, until we are in the midst of
large glass cases filled with toys, dolls, albums,
work-baskets, etc. Here the children muster in
great force, and the exclamations of, Ma, buy me
that doll, or Pa, buy me that tricycle or box of
tools, may be heard on all sides It may
be mentioned that a most magnificent and
varied assortment of fire - screens, in most
elaborate designs, are here to be seen. ' Ve
hurry past huge stacks of cretonnes, but not
until we inspected a special line of high art tapes-
try curtains at 19s. 6d. per pair, and now arrive at
the Bilk Department. Here are tolbe seen immense
piles of the choicest products of Lyono, Marseilles,
and other silk-producing centres, comprising gros-
grain, rhadames, siciliennes, satin merveilleux,
epingle velvets (made on wire pins), surah, &c., m
the newestshades, viz., coqueliquot, nankin, paille,
coraille, mordore, mousse, chouve-souris, and
others. The hurrying crowd force us past the
Dresses; but we were able to obtain a glimpse ot
the new nun’s veilings, cashmeres, llamas, and
other seasonable materials with which this depart-
ment is stocked. Past more glass cases, tastefully
filled with the best electro-plate, cutlery, clocks,
cruets, epergnes, &c., till the massive stairs are
reached, at the foot of which is the Jewellery De-
partment, replete with Waltham watches in an
grades, and a special line of Whitby jet, comprising
bracelets, necklets, brooches, and ornaments of au
descriptions. Ascending to the first floor, the scene
puts one in mind of our late International Exhi-
bition, with its great concourse of people anu
goods from all parts of the world. At the top oi
the stairs is the Millinery Depart inent,which is also a
‘ season ” department, and proiusely supplied witn
tip-top articles. There is half a million straw hats
pertaining to this department, and so great is the
demand for trimmed hats that one hundred hands
are kept constantly employed decorating the plain
straw, and twenty-six saleswomen are coptinuauy
disposing of them. Here, also, are imported
Parisian floral bonnets, manufactured expressly
lor A. H. and Sons; feathers in all colours— tips.
f flumes, aigrettes, sirene plumes (a novelty), amJ*
ovely glass-case full of pure white ostrich P ll ?™?*’
beautifully arranged. Further on are the artmem*
flowers, some of them so delicately wrought as w
almost rival Nature, comprising pot-pi tuts. BP rs
wreaths, but'on-holes, bouquets, etc. it .may p*
mentioned that £2OO worth of hat trimmings
used per day. This department includes
and parachutes in all materials, from 6d. to £lO
underclothing, all from the best of loUßClotns,
baby linen, robes, cloaks, and other inlantin
requisites. At the top of this room is the
and Costume Department, where ready-madec»-
tumes are to be had in all materials, for evening*
morning, walking, dinner and ball dresses,
simply require fitting, which is done without ext
charge. A word is here required for the D° ot
Shoe Department, which has only been in ex®
enee three years, and started with two
now employs 45 assistants, disposes of 15.00 U Pri r
< f boots per week, and is now tbe largest depa
mentin the Palace Emporium. Altogether, tPcc
tablishment comprises 36 distinct departments, e
ploying 650 hands, who attend to the requireine
uf 6000 people every day and 12,000 on
The firm consists of Messrs. Anthony and ®am
Hordern, the latter being the managing .
assisted by Mr. Bumsdeu, nnancial managr e i'. ' *
T. May, general manager; and Mr. J. Haru., "
ccutitant. Well may the firm call themse
“Universal Providers,” fer they can supply '
human being with all requirements from .
moment of birth to the time of death; and 100 .
back a few years and comparing the 0100““*.
with the present, everyone will admit thp“KJ: o ’ g
uHateneB9 of Messrs. Anthony Hordern anu c •*
mot'o: “ While I live I grow/*
the man some silver, and making off, followed by
volleys of curses. We subsequently discovered
that, after breaking one of the cabman's windows
with her umbrella, she desired to be put down in
King-street, and was last seen staggering in the
direction of the Hehaud office, probably with the
view of putting in another advertisement.
* * *
Miss Osburn, of the Hospital, and Nurse
Julia have had a row. It seems that a patient who
died in the quiet and unostentatious manner they
do at the infirmary, asked Julia, as a favour, that
when she laid him out she would put him on a pair
of red and white striped cotton socks he possessed,
and lay a flute, of which he was very fond (but
couldn’t play), beside him. He then bestowed on
Nurse Julia a watch that had been left him by a
sympathetic friend, and, as we have said, expired
without the aid of a military band. No sooner had
Julia closed the poor man’s eyes with a couple of
half-pennies than she, having only feigned to
accept the present to humour him, replaced the
ticker by the side of the musical instrument, and>
pulling the screen around him, left him to his re
pose. Later on, in the silent w itches of the night,
the screen suddenly became agitate-), a wild
pibroch was heard behind it, when down it came
with a crash, disclosing the corpse, with the fiute
in one band and the watch in the other, wildly
brandishing his stockinged feet. Then upreariug
himself on the bed, the dead man threw
the watch into the middle of the floor,
blew confusion into his flute, and then Anally
resumed his place amongst the deceased. At
that moment the whole nursing staff came
rushing in, and it was discovered that at the final
note of the ghostly pibroch 27 other patients had
expired simultaneously. This made Mies Osburn
angry, as she contended that the flute should have
been given up to the hospital authorities, as her
experience teaches her that few corpses can resist
the temptation of performing on a musical instru-
ment, while the tick of a watch will often induce
even the most well-behaved and phlegmatic “ stiff-
un” to come to life again, if on I*: to see what time
it is. Nurse Julia, on the otlCr hand, contends
that to deprive a poor corpse of his flute is exer-
cising undue severity towards a community which
cannot be said to possess riotous tendencies. How-
ever, we hope to see the thing patched up all
right, and it is to show our cordial feeling towards
both these ladies that we give herewith this the
true version (so we are informed) of the misunder-
standing. We refer all sceptics for confirmation
to the performer himself, who reposes peacefully
at Waverley, his grave being distinguished by an
empty jam-tin, an odd boot, and a cross done in
oyster shells.
• • •
THE MONT DE PIETE.
This is a little joke
(We don’t try to be witty);
But many a pawning “bloke”
Calls it the Mount de Pity.
And often those gay “ things ”
Who with their “ greed ” run riot,
That go to put up rings,
Calls it the Mount de Pyet.
And Government galoots,
Who move in good society,
When “spouting” their drees suits,
Call it the Mount de Piety.
The men who “ boss the show ”
(To hear them is a treat),
Any better do not know—
They call it Mount de Pete.
You ask us what is-right—
We answer you with scorn;
We are indiff’rent quite—
We’ve nothing left to pawn.
• • *
Contrary to expectation, the things at the
late Mrs. Payne’s bouse (Como), fetched very poor
prices; but there was a great crowd of “charit-
able” ladies assembled on the occasion to roam
through the house and see the fun. The excite-
ment was very great, and reached its height when
a lady solemnly announced that she had “found
a hair-pin in Marks’s room.” Such a collection of
chattering dames has not been seen in our parish
since the clergyman’s wife increased (for the 13th
time) the population and held a on the day
the white kid glove was taken off the street door-
knocker. Violent hands were laid upon every-
thing that could assume the form of mementoes;
and it is reported that when one old lady (highly
connected) was detected carrying away the dining-
room tongs, and remonstrated with, she excused
herself on the ground that she thought they were
Marks’s tweezers. Mr. M. (who did not put in an
appearance) had left in his room two night-gowns
and a pair of “busted” suspenders. The latter
were divided into equal portions, while we are
certain the night-gowns are now so short of buttons
that when he comes to wear either of them again
he will have to fasten them with a rug-strap and a
skewer. Shortly after the sale, we encountered
the titled lady who washes for us (in order to pro-
vide heiself with diamonds) coming out of a
public-house, and sho triumphantly exhibited to
us the contents of her reticule. She had been
theie, and with pardonable pride displayed—a bed-
knob, a cutting of geranium, and half a bottle of
hair-oil.
* * *
A servant girl of Mr. Melville’s (M.L.A.)
recently poisoned herself at the residence of the
hon. member. Prior to committing what Alfred
would call the “rash act,” the young person had
stolen into the shop, and marked with chalk on a
handsome oak the following:
“ At me the world is scoffin';
To live no more I will I
Just crowd me in this coffin,
And Ben will pay the bill.
“ Ob, when the horses serried
(The first time caught my eye),
I cried ‘lf I’m not buried,
I’ll lay me down aud die.’
“ The hearse so fine, and feathers—
In there, there’s lots of room !
It goes out * in all weathers,’
Let it cart me to the tomb.”
Now, mark I when once you enter
This coffin-shop galore,
One thought in you does centre—
You wish to live no more.
This flogging game is coming to a nice
pitch. It will soon come to be a question whether
some magistrates would be the worse for a touch
up. Hear this : “The Narrabki Argus contains
an account of the flogging of two boys by an
‘unlicensed J.P. flogger.’ Mr. Mosely, J.P. of
Tibbereenah, ordered two boys—Robert Williams
(15) and Thomas M'Cann (13)—to strip themselves,
locked his office door, and then beat them un-
mercifully with a cane. Our authority concludes
as follows:—‘The backs of the boys were then
shown to our representative, and presented the
appearance of having been severely flogged, and
were nothing else but scars, no white spot being
discernablo. The flesh on Williams back was cut
very much in one spot, across the spine.’ ” When
policemen turn censors of literature, and magis-
trates wield the lash, isn’t it about time to consider
the situation ?
* * *
IN LUCK.
“We understand that two ladies of pro-
perty have propoeed for the hand of Mr. A. G.
Taylor."
If this is true we hear of you,
It is but meet, Adolphus;
Two gyrls that hold big bags of gold
On you are sweet, Adolphus.
We understand that for your hand
Each has proposed, Adolphus:
To plant a dart in either heart
You’re not disposed, Adolphus I
We know them both—we’re nothing loth
To help your suit, Adolphus—
For, understand, one weds your hand,
And one your foot, Adolphus!
For one has long (to end this song)
Our washing done, Adolphus;
The other fay stands all the day
And braves the sun, Adolphus.
•
(Oh, may we see you happy be,
In this fair land, Adolphus!)
The other'n lot is gay—she’s got
A peanut-stand, Adolphus!
BRIEF MENTION.
“It is at every picnic ” : Dan O’Connor.
Correct reading of the red post notices:
Trams don’t stop here.
The Wentworth Conservative “ fears
the old country is going to the dogs.” Dingo v.
Jingo.
The difference between a decent man and
a loafer: One drinks and keeps square; the other
drinks and keeps rou ad.
The Cootamundra Herald has an article
on extravagance. Aud yet the Cootamundra pub-
lic allow the Herald to exist.
The Tenterfield Arous has risen from
the tomb. It seems none tne worse, however—
only a bit mouldier, that’s all.
The Rev. Dr. Spooner refuses to remain
any longer in Wentworth. Everybody there is
saved, or saving, we forget which.
The difference between a thief and a de-
faulter is that the defaulter steals enough to hire
lawyers to defend him, and the thief doesn’t.
A New York Presbyterian Minister has
given £BOOO for a trotter. Every member of his
congregation considers he or she has a share in the
animal.
“How do you sell your milk ?” we asked a
dairy man the otuer day. " Threepence a pint if
we send it round; but sixpence if you watch the
cow milked," was the reply.
In England, a man charged with biting off
his wife’s ear explained that he did it to make her
let go his hair. This idea never struck us before.
But great ideas are always simple.
A certain gaol chaplain considers that a
man who is three-parts drunk is " in a state of
intoxication from everybody 8 point of view except
that of a publican or a policeman.”
A. G. Taylor has been buying some land at
Dural. This is better than having to barter a
really extraordinary specimen of the spotted
“goanna ” for one’s tea and sausages.
They are going to move the cemeteries at
Queanbeyan nearer to the race-course. This is in
order that they will not have far 'o take the handi-
capper after some future race-meeting!
The weight of coals exported from New-
castle weekly is something like 37,000 tons. The
Han by sends out six leaders, which brings up the
total tonnage in round numbers to
A few days ago, at Queanbeyan, a navvy,
with the aid of a charge of blasting-powder, at-
tempted to kick the sky, but, owing to opposing
circumstances, only managed to kick the bucket.
The Yass Courier informs us that the
ministrations of the Rev. J. Parker are producing
good fruit in Gunning. The rev. gentleman has
been sending “ monster apples ” to the Courier
office.
The Queanbeyan Amateur Dramatic Club
have printed in bold type on their posters, “ Come
and laugh yourself to death.” This is one way of
attempting to account for the mortality after pre-
vious shows.
Mr. Pillar, of the Cornwall mob, fpleatied
guilty to "felony,” and was quietly given 30years.
»v e have had a glance at the evidence, and it is of
such a character as to make a man wish to “ put a
head” on this Pillar.
The firemen of Sydney are not famed for speed,
As Tuttle has found to his cost;
But, in spite of their slowness, the flames were
sundaed,
And the stock wasn’t-uttle-y lost.
The liourke publicans will have to look to
their laurels. At Chester (Eng.) the police have
found twenty men drunk in one liquor-shop and
“sixty more, mostly Welshmen, all lying under the
church walls, far gone in intoxication.”
A gentleman at Westbrook, Queensland,
intends to go in for mulo-breeding. Quite a
thoughtful proceeding, wden taking into con-
sideration the Get that many Queensland elec-
toiates are to have additional members.
The Redfern Regret says there is not
ont-half enough cellular accommodation in our
gaois It appears, too, that for keeping men in
irons, the vessels coming into port are equally
deficient in their vessicular env-iron-ments.
In the Northern Territory (Queensland)
there are just 430 Europeans, and out of these
about 400 are Civil servants. Christmas Day, of
c >urBe, falls on the first of every month up there,
and is welcomed with all its customary honours.
Disgusted guest to new arrival (a highly
respectable young person who landed in a red
shawl): “Why in thunder em’t you dust my
writing-table?” H.R.Y.P.: “ What’s the blooming
good ? It would be just as bsd again to-morrow.”
We understand that the Shroud, in the
extension of its enterprise, is now in active treaty
for the colonial tight of "The New Lucian, being
a Series of Dialogues of the Dead,” by H. D.
Traill.
“And what the devil have you to sav
about, the alliance of France and Germany?” said
tb3 man who was sperding, to the man was
famishing in the corner. “I didn’t know you was
shoutin’,” said Herr von Famish; “ lantlort, some
bearsh.”
The editor of the Border Post says that
he was “ twice interrupted by attacks of nausea,”,
while penning a leading article. He should have
remembered that office paste is rather too rich a
dish for this weather, especially if it have blue
mould upon it.
The Rtjm reporter who came home from
the races with his jaw triced up, two front teeth
dangling at the end of an inch of gum-line, and
his nose curiously flattened, explained that he had
met a man out at Hand wick wno had made a dis-
tinct impression on him.
A Mr. Barnett called the Cooktown Inde-
pendent a little paper. The Northern Territory
was ablaze for a month after this, and Barnett had
to crawl out of the flames by saying he said
“local” paper. The fire has died out, but the
Independent smoulders -as usual.
A great anti-Semitic festival has heen
held in Berlin. The Jewish World gives the
following translation of the refrain of one of the
songs written for the occasion:—
“ O, yes, let them live the descendants of Shem!
But not in Berlin—in Jerusalem.”
At the meeting of the Congregational Union
in Adelaide, the Rev. C. Manthorpe “ denounced
inanity in the pulpit.” We have heard Manthorpe
preach. Ah, well, but that was years ago; and
what says the poet about “ men rising from step-
Eing-stonea of their dead selves,” See.? net us
ope so. _
The Cooktown Independent—poor old
Fowler!—says that the officers of the black police
“ try to make their stations and tents assume the
appearance of Indian Satrapites.” The editor has
evidently studied his Oriental History from the
label of a Nabob sauce-bottle—through a window,
of course.
A person signing himself “ Vidocq ” is
writing “ Town Gossip ” in the Cumberland In-
dependent, and he talks about this:—” To the
Centennary Chapel ” (sic). And curiously enough,
in a local contemporary of the same date au adver-
tisement appears for a handy young man to drive
a baker’s cart.
The day after the News had appeared with
an exhaustive criticism, a dramatical cricket
hiccuped into the surgery of an oculist, and said,
“ I say, boss, what ’ll it cost me to getagiaes eye ?”
“Three-and-six,” replied the Professor. "Tbree-
and-six! Thunder I” cried the cricket; “ heie, fill
up the hole with putty.”
It has been so hot in Paris lately that the
other day an advocate presented himself at the
Palais de Justice in a black cravat and white
trousers. But the dignity of the Court was equal
to the occasion. “ Sir,” severely said the Presi-
dent, “ the Court invites you to put your trousers
around your neck and your cravat on your legs.”
When Alfred’s Parramatta correspon-
dent, in discussing the last days of that interesting
old gentleman—to whose ashes, peace—said that
the “ universal enemy had taken him from our
midst,” a lot of ignorant people jumped to the
conclusion that the police had got him once more.
But it wasn’t Robert this time. It was Nicholas—
perhaps.
During Gerald Massey’s lecture at Ballarat,
the chairman cleared out. This case of Hookey
Walker occurred because neither he nor some
brother aldermen could bear to hear Christianity
attacked. The indignation of these worthy men
was only appeased when they had drunk Christi-
anity’s health—in a pewter.
Says the holy and rev. Parson Dowie*
of Melbourne, speaking of the Press: “They dip
their pens in vice, live unclean lives, and soak
their brains in beer.” Oh., Lord, we beseech Thee
to have mercy on Dowio, not so much that we
desire his salvation, as tha.t we think this form of
petition likeliest to bring a whole Buva eruption
of burning coals on his head. Amen.
It is now authoritatively stated that ab-
sinthe is a specific for cb olera. Hearing this, one
of Alfred’s special cotruni-sioners went into an
hotel the other day and asked for some, putting
down the 3d. he had just, before given Davies an
1.0.t1.f0r. “It’s sixpence,sir,” said the barman.
“ Then,” replied the S.C„ “ let the grisly phantom
Death swoop down upon me when it will. I’ll
take rum.”
The Menmuir recently brought a boa-con-
strictor from Hongkong to Townsville, where an
enterprising showman has evolved a large amount
of profit by exhibiting it as the sea-serpent. A re-
presentative of the Townsville Standard was
treated to a private view, and, on glancing at it, left
the tent in anguish, muttering mournfully “Ishall
see you again in company with the old familiar
mad dog, the horse-headed iguana, and the wall-
climbing hyena with the scorpion’s tail.”
A pound-keeper near Bega has a dog that
has the interests of its master at heart. The
animal is said to round up cattle on the reserve,
drive them into the streets, and from thence they
are escorted by the authorities to the pound-yard.
We heard this yarn before, only it happened to be
a Gundagai dog. At that place there was a refrac-
tory old cow. with one horn straight as a rush and
the other coiled round a wicked-looking eye. The
first time the dog tried to head her, she quietly
and expeditiously skewered him through with the
straight horn and flattened hii head with the
other.
The Kapunda Herald declines to print
some verses sent in by “A.J.C.,” but seriously
prints four lines, and gives a word of encourage-
ment. As thus:—
“ It was a wet and stormy day,
When the Angastons we went to pliy;
Loo Dredge and Stott went first to bat,
And that was on a very wet mat.”
Why, if we tried to set up such muck as that, the
type would get up, every man Jack of them, and
walk over to the Evening News to see how it’s to
be done.
The Pall Mall has interviewed Mr. Leigh
Smith, tht well-known Arctic explorer, as to bis
opinions with respect to the cannibalism ot the
members wf the Greely expedition. He said it
seemed odd to him that the seven survivorssboiild
be in so terribly weak and prostrate a condition
when they were rescued if they had really been
living on human flesh for - ome time. In his own
expedition no cases ot cannibalism had ever oc-
curred, nor, indeed, in the whole history of Arctic
exploration had there ever previously been any
authenticated instances Personally, were he in
command of an expedition reduced to such a
strait, be should allow his men ,to do as they
wished. There should be t o drawing of lots and
no murder, so long as he could help it; but if the
men liked to eat the bodies of their dead comrades,
why, he should not interfere. “Personally, l
w >uld rather die th an eat human flesh. I should
say that human flesh was us good as any ot'ier,
and not at all unwholesome. It is highly unfair to
judge the actions of men who are starving. Tory
are not responsible for their actions. In suen
cases, the great difficulty is to rouse the men from
their torpor and prevent them lying down to die.
If I caught a man stealing provisions when an
ounce might mean life or death, I would not hesi-
tate to shoot him.” Mr. Smith went on to say
that, in 1881, when his vessel, the Eira, had to l e
abandoned and the beats taken to, he always slept
over the provision store. Dr. Neale, the medical
officer of Mr. Smith’s expedition, said he thought
the Greely expedition “ rather lOjt than gained by
eating their comrades, who must have been in a
state of emaciation and reduced to mere skin and
hone. A man can live ten days without food,
provided that he has a little water. If he had a
sealskin boot he might last for twenty days, and a
supply of two ounces of even shrimps or lichen
would lengthen his life considerably. In extremi-
ties of this sort, life might also be prolonged if
two men sucked each other’s blood. The men, in
such circumstances, watch one another like foxe?,
and, so far as my experience goes, it would be im-
possible for any member of the expedition to have
been ignorant of the fact that the bod'es were
b flng eaten.”


THE BUSINESS CENTRE
of the
ILLAWARRA RAILWAY SUBURBS
KOGARAH TOWNBHIP.
Under 7 (seven) miles from the city.
THE TOWN OF KOGARAH,
surrounding the Railway Station,
adjoining the Church and Public School,
comprising all the Approaches to the Station,
commanding Views over Botany Bay, and the
Ocean,
The BUSINESS CENTRE of
The ILLAWARRA RAILWAY SUBURBS.
On this Estate must be built the Banks, Stores, and
Business Establishments, as Kogarah Station is
the most accessible from Sandringham, Sans
Souci, Burlington, Scarborough, Lady Robin-
son’s Beach, &c, &c.
KOGARAH,
ILLAWARRA RAILWAY LINE,
RIGHT AT THE STATION.
On SATURDAY, 25th OCTOBER, 1884,
at 3 pm.
W ATKIN and WATKIN sell by auction, on the
Estate,
The town of Kogarah.
From the plan it will bo seen that Mr. Binsted
has subdivided this Estate into Allotments suitable
for the business premises which are now, and
which will in the near future, be required to
supply the wants of the large population which
will be located in this district.
Nowhere else along this railway line are such
Business Sites obtainable, whilst the Residence
Sites are equal to the best along the Western line,
and with this advantage, thst here no lanes are
dignified by being called streets, but all the lots
front roans at least 00 feet wide.
Botany Bay and George’s River are within short
distance for boating and fishing; such drives as
those to Sans Souci Womora, &c.,
&c , are not to be found in other suburbs.
It is evident that the railway authorities antici-
pate a large population settling along this route,
and they have provided for its transit—see the
commodious stations and platforms.
The Terms are Liberal, and there can be little
doubt but that before they run out the population
in and around Kogarah will be numbered by thou-
sands, where it is now numbered by tens.
No similar opportunity for safe and profitable
investment has, in the Auctioneers’ opinion, been
offered since the Underwood Estates at Ashfleld
and Homebush.
SPECIAL TRAIN LEAVES REDFERN ON THE
DAY OF SALE.
W. H. BINSTED, Surveyor,
90 Pitt-street.
TORRENS’ TITLE.
TERMS:
No. 1. £lO per Allotment deposit ; balance in
four quarterly payments, with interest at the rate
of 5 per cent.
No. 2. £lO per Allotment deposit ; and eight
quarterly payments, with interest at the rate of 6
per cent.
No. 3. £lO per Allotment deposit ; and sixteen
quarterly payments, interest at 7 per cent.
No. 4. £io per Allotment deposit: balance to re-
main on usual Building Society’s terms, viz., ss.
per week to each £looowing.
Plans ready.
REVOLUTION IN THE POSTAL SYSTEM.
Prodigious efforts are being made by the New
South Wales Governmen to briDg tbe Postal De-
partment up to the requirements of the time.
Once pledged to the introduction of the parcels-
post system, which has proved a national boon in
the United Kingdom and the United States, the
Sydney Minister is expediting the work of making
his department a sate, cheap, and speedy medium
of transit for all descriptions of portable mer-
chandise. This means that goods may now be de-
spatched through the Post Office, and delivered as
quickly as a letter to any address in either colony.
The significance of the thing is that it virtually
brings the most distant resident down to the door-
step of the best and cheapest establishment in the
great free-trade metropolis. The man who has led
the way in encouraging this new and beneficial
system of trade, is, undoubtedly, Mr. T. M. AL-
OOCK, Jeweller and Watchmaker of the Hay-
market, Sydney, Australian'Agent for the world-
renowned Waltham Watches. For the past 15
years Mr. T. M. Alcock has been doing busi-
ness with people who have never been in Sydney,
and who have never seen or entered his shop.
Thorough, straightgoing, honest treatment of
patrons hundreds of miles away has won him a
permanent hold on the entire inland community
of each colony, and he now does a larger parcels-
post business in jewellery and watches t.hm any
other three houses of either city. The Waltham
Watch has given Mr. Alcock a further hold on the
inland public. By personal negotiation with the
Waltham proprietors at their works, Massachu-
setts, Mr. Alcock secured concessions as the Wal-
tham agent which placed t : ese famous watches
before the Australian public at manufacturer’s
prices. These Walthams do not pass through a
dozen hands; they come, specially picked, direct,
with invoices, from the Waltham Works, 10 Mr.
Alcock. The parcels post system completely links
the whole Australian public, as it were, on to the
great Waltham factory. Mr. Alcock forwards
these watches to any address in all Australia, pay-
ing the postage, and taking all the risk of safe
delivery. By these means Walthams have gone
broadcast throughout these co onies. Mr. Alcock
handles every watch before despatching it, and he
alone executes the orders. • f upwards of 10,000
purchasers there is not a single customer who has
complained or expressed disappointment at Mr.
Alcock's treatment of their favours.
Price-list and illustrated catalogue will be for-
warded on application. Address
T. M. ALCOCK.
Waltbam Watch Agent,
Haymarket, Sydney.
YOU are certain to mate Money if you buy at
K< garah Township on 35th. WATKIN and
IV ATKIN.
Cut this out.
BY cutting out this COUPON, a- d sendiDg
it. accompanied ty 1 ost Office Order,
j ou will receive a
SPLENDID ENGLISH LEVER
(by Rotherham, or other well-known makers)
tor £5 5s ; or a strong, serviceable, genuine
Waltham for £3 lOs.
Guaranteed for 5 years!
Note tbe Address :
C . GRANT,
584 George street, Sydney.
Established 1878.
Cut this out.
WANTID an Articled PUPIL for the Photo
tvugiaving Business Pjermum required,
d *'i iy at uhs Office.
YOV aro certain to make Money if you buy at
Kngarah Township on 25th, WATKIN and
V ATKIN
Ths
. _ . «tii/r want*
Curiftcccif^feji
E 3?
T/
Bargains in Music.
GREAT CLEARANCE SALE.
Slightly Soiled and Surplus Music, which has
Deen separated from the general stock in order to
tfect startling reductions.
FOR ONE MONTH ONLY.
Pieces from 2d. each. Grand opportunity for
laying in a stock of good music, at low prices.
Notice to the PUBLIC.— The newest and
choicest music received every mail. Orders sup-
plied to all parts of the colony on receipt of P.O.
orders or postage stamps. Postage 2d. extra each
piece. Choirs and Societies supplied with Anthems,
Glees, and every kind of part music. Brass, Reed,
and String Band Music always on hand.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 GEORGE-STREET.
James Lawson & Sons,
CABINET-MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Corner of William and Boomerang Streets.
FURNITURE for DINING-ROOMS, BEDROOMS,
LIBRARIES, and DRAWING-ROOMS.
HIGH-CLASS FURNITURE, in the Nowest
Designs, at very Moderate Prices.
BRUSSELS CARPETS at 5«. PER YARD,
Including Making and Laying Down.
NEW DESIGNS IN WILTON, BRUSSELS,
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS.
Special Designs for Art Furniture.
FACTORY : KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
-A/brstikLSuECL’s
Fills
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy !
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
Eerience. They overcome the worst form of
liseases of the Liver, Stomach, 1 read and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they L ive not afforded
immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
OXYGEN IS LIFE.
Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne.
THE only Reliable Remedy for Indigestion,
Nervousnsss. Nervous Debility, Liver Com-
plaints, Female Complaints, Lassitude, Loss of
Power, Mental and Physical Depression, Decline,
and all Functional Derangements. Thoroughly
recruits and re-establishes Health. Highly recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty. lE3F - CAUTION.—
The indubitable proof of the great value of Dr
Bright's (the only genuine) Phosphodyne is the
various worthless imitations which are being made
up. Therefore ask for Dr. Bright’s Phosonodyne
and refuse useless and possibly Dangerous Substir
tutes. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROTHERS.
X
//V 7/r
ACCIDENT
INDE Y (UM/TED)
E.W. MOON^ Icinaye r
Macquarie Place \
rrOU are certain to make Money if you buy at
L TOirarah Township on 25th, W ATKIN and
ATE IN.
BRISBANE STREET,
Launceston.
THIS centrally-situated Hctel, having under-
gone considerable alterations and improve-
ments, now offers every eomfo rt and convenience
to visitors and commercial gent iemen.
The Hotel is now under the management of
RfIRS. PYLE,
late of the ORIENTAL HOTEL, Collins-street
East; BEACONSFIELD HOTEL, St. Kilda ; and
Waver ley House, Collins-place, Melbourne.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
cornu aw mb,
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
TO
No. 3 Hunter-street,
SECOND DOOR FROM GEORGK-STREET.
£IO,OO(I.—MELBOURNE CUP.
Shares, 10s. each.j
THE SYDNEY SPORTING CLUB, Sydney,
desires to point out to the public generally
the advantages to be derived from holding shares
in their Consultation or Sweep. Ist. All persons,
whether male or female, holding a share or shares
in the above Club, are always at liberty to inspect
the books of the Club. 2nd. Every opportunity is
offered to each and every shareholder to be at the
drawing, who choose to make application for
admission ticket. And, lastly, from the enormous
number of our prizes, one is almost aure to win
one or other.
Plan of Distribution :
First horse
Second „
Third „
Starters divid e
Non-starters
£3OOO
1000
500
500
250
10 prizes, £lOO
40 „ 25
50 „ 15
100 „ 10
200 5
£lOOO
1000
750
100 J
1000
The above f acts and figures speak for themselves,
and it will be only necessary to add that some of
the best known sporting men of Sydney and Mel-
bourne are m embers of the Club above mentioned.
Our gigantic first prize, £3OOO, by far the largest
offered in any consultation, is a fortune, which will
be secured hy investing 10s.; our second horse,
£lOOO, a nice round sum; our third carries off £500;
and our prizes are far in advance of all competitors
for public support. Our drawing takes p;ace on
the Ist November, if not previously filled, when,
of course, it will take place before. Rusult of
drawing sent at once to every subscriber, and ad-
vertised throughout the colonies. In sending
money, P 0.0., bank cheques, or stamps will do:
if gold be seat, register letter, bend addressed
envelope, unstamped, for reply; also, threepence
for membership fee. Write at once for our pro-
spectus—no charge. Tickets sent by return post.
Address—J. J. ALLEN, Esq., Turf Commission
Agent, Tattersall’s Ruildings, Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.
P.S. We shall, on this occasion, publish the name
of the winner of our first grant* prize of £3OOO,
and also the names of those who win our other
great prizes in this grand Consultation.
£lOOO for ss.
Melbourne Cup, 11184.
The Great “MALABAR” Series of Swcjeps on the
above Event.
No. 2 OF THE SERIES.
SHARES, FIVE SHILLINGS EACH.
THE “Malabar” Club, Sydney, are desirous of
returning their very best thanks to tbeir
numerous patrons for the cordial support in past
events, and trust that with their well-aekno wleaged
strict attention, coupled wlh thorough integrity
to make the “ Malabar ’’ Consultations by far the
most popular of any in the colonies.
First horse ...
Second ditto..
Third ditto' ..
Starters divide
Non-starters..
£lOOO
400
300
200
300
„ , £2OOO
At the request ot a large number or our eub-
cribers w e have arranged to make our Shares but
ss. each, instead of £l, as before, which, of course
to subscribers, is a great advantage, as i i affords
them Four Chances for One Pound of winning
One Thousand Pounds.
We shall send also a single ticket to any address
on receipt of ss„ which will entitle the owner to
his chance of the big prize.
Tickets sent by return post. Prospectus free on
application. Enclose envelope, plainly addressed •
do not stamp it. Result of eaoh drawing sent at
once to every subscriber.
Tickets sent by return post. Address, by letter
only,
G. E. WILSON,
Pastoral Chambers, George-street, Sydney.
Huenerbein’s Warehouses,
411 George-st., and 17s Pitt-st.
Pianos Cost Price for 1 month only,
Prior to REMOVING TO NEW PREMISES.
Cost Price! Cost Price! Cost Price
RARE OPPORTUNITY JUST NOW !
Hueneubein’s Warehouses.
WASTE PAPER Hoop Iron, and Emntv
Office CaBe “ f ° r Bal6 ' APPiy Pubilß^er -
Y°¥®sf. c J e K^l r ?„t. 0 „J?f ke you buy at
V atki
Township on 25tb. WaTKIN and
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gained against the World
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MR. F. WARE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney
MS' Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughing' Gas
.-Ether Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform.
C. COWLES,
GUNMAKER & IMPORTER.
Sole Agent for
W. ft C. SCOTT ft SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS
For Price and Quality are no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE oTREET,
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
Travers Vegetable Compound
COPYRIGHTED.
lEfe
T--<t
Mass? ••
Q
0
»d
a
H
0
N
“THOUSANDS OF LADIES
Can gladly testify that Mrs . Travers' Compound
does all that it claims to do.”
G3*lts purpose is Solely for the legitimate healing of disease
and the relief of pain. It is prompt in action.
LOUISA R. TRAVERS
VEGETABLE COMPOUND
IS A POSITIVE REMEDY
For all those Complaints and Weaknesses so common to
our best Female population.
Price, 10s. 6d. per Package.
(Gr” Ladles, it will under all circumstances, act iu harmony
with the lawn that govern your system.
<£S*That feeling of bearing down, causing pain, weight, and
backache, is always permanently cured by its use.
IT IS A GREAT MEDICAL DISCOVERY
a Blessing to overworked women, audits sales are
unprecedented. 11 removes faintness, flatulency, all craving
for stimulants, and relieves weakness of the stomach. Periods
passed without pain.-g-fl
Physicians Use it and Prescribe it.
£3gTlt revives the drooping spirits, invigorates and har-
monizes tho organic functions, gives elasticity and firmness to
the step, restores the natural lustre to tho eye. and plants on
the pale cheek of woman the fresh roses of life's spring and
early summer time.
ITS MERITS KEEP UP THE SALE.
C-r*For the cure of Kidney Complaints of either sex this
Compound! s unsurpassed. .4^)
Mrs. Travers’* ‘Guide to Health" will be mailed free to any
lady sending stamp. Letters ofinquKv confidentially answered.
Packets Mailed free from observation on receipt of price.
Address, P.O. Box, 907, Svdney.
MRS. TRAVERS’ LIVER PILLS cur* Constipation, Bil-
iousness, and Torpidity of the Liver. Price 2s. 6d.
D R RIDGES
FOOD
for INFANTS and INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper shouldgrta supply,
as every wise mother will certainiy
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
er“ THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
AUow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT
on fixed deposits for 13 months: FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods ; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Ollices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
are certain to make Money if you buy at
OL ICoanivh Tu.wbi»aJi! uu Y> AlhlN and
V AlkiN.


“ German Syrup.”—No other medicine in
the world has ever given such a test of its cura-
tive qualities as Bosehee’s German Syrup. In
three years two million four hundred thousand
small bottles of this medicine were distributed
free of charge by Druggists in the United States of
Amerioa to those afflicted with Consumption,
Asthma, Croup, severe Coughs, Pneumonia, and
other diseases of the throat and lungs, giving the
afflicted undeniable proof that German Syrup will
cure them. The result has been that Druggists in
every town and village in civilized countries are
recommending it to their customers. Go to your
Druggist and ask what they know about it. Sample
Bottles hd. Regular size, 3s. 6d. Three doses wii
relieve any case.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We thdU be glad to have thie index potted up bu
secretaries of racing clubs and tnanaoeri of
sporting events in general*]
RACING.
V.R.C. Spring' November 1, 4,6,8.
Canterbury Park R.C November 9.
Murrumburrah November 1(1.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C November 11.13,14.
Murrumbidgee J.C. (Spring)....November 19, 20, 21.
Narandera T.C November 27, 28.
Victoria Amateur T.C November 27, 28.
Gwydir R.C. (Annual) November.
Victoria Amateur T.C December 26.
Rosehill R.C December 27.
Tattersall’s Club (Annual) January 1.
V.R.C. Summer Meeting. January 1.
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting Feb. 28, Maroh 6, 7.
AQUATICS
NSW. Rowing Association Regatta —October 18.
Canvas Dingy Club Ist. class race October 18.
Matterson v Kemp October 18.
Solomon v. Kemp 18.
Double Bay Regatta November 1.
Hanlan v. Clifford Febuary 7.
Beach v. Clifford February 28.
ATHLETICS
Casino Athletic Club Sports November 10.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
They say that there is a split in one of
Chuckster’s hoofs large enough to allow a person’s
finger to enter.
Malone’s admirers say that Hutchins ca n
get on a match for £lOOO a side If he comes he re,
and probably rake In another.
The Bathurst Geranium Races, under the
«• indefatigable” Dan Mayne, were largely attended
—in fact, Dan was the “ Mayne ” stay of the whole
affair.
Teemer and Hosmer have made a match
to row three miles. Hosmer being allowed a start
of five seconds. The winner is to take two-thirds
of the gate-money.
Some slashing boxing appears to have
taken place for Billy Madden s heavy amateur
championship. Nicolls was the winner; the round-
up was very fast. Relvage being fought quite silly.
The Sandhurst Cycling Club havea3o-mile
road race on the card for the 10th of the month
first prize, a silver tea and coffee service; second
and third, gold lockets. There are 14 entries up to
date.
Collier won the English professional one-
mile swimming championship. Time, 28min.
lfiifctsee* which is the best on record, the previous
best being Sflmin The race was won easily
by lessee.
The pigeon match at Aibury for the Gun
Club trophy was not completed owing to the
scarcity of victims. Messrs. Jackson. Keightley. and
Griffiths tied, and the finish is postponed until the
25th October.
Any amount of ink-slinging between
Donald Dinnie and Miller. We would rather see
them slinging weights, or each other—that is their
line bet them do that, and we will chuck the
black fluid about for them to any extent.
On Saturday last the rowing season was
opened with no less than eight scratch eight-oar
races. We wonder how long It would take to
raise sixteen eight-oar crews in Sydney. No
wonder Victoria has the best of us in eight-oar
races.
One of the Geelong football team appeared
in a new role on Saturday at Flemington in the
Hunt Club Cup. Mr. H. Brush had the mount on
Terror, but he was hardly as successful as when
following the "inflated leather,” as his mount re-
peatedly baulked.
The University v. Carlton cricket match
was resumed on Saturday afternoon. On the
previous day the "’Varsity” boys had been dis-
posed of for 236 runs. The Carltons only put to-
gether 160, and followed up their innings, losing
5 wickets for 72 runs.
Jack Burke, of England, and Hial H.
Stoddart, of Jersey City, N.Y., are matched for
£2OO a side and the Police Gazette Diamond Belt.
From the science Burke has shown, the fight
should be a good one. The affair is to be with
knuckles—ring rules.
The friends of James Malone, the well-
known cross-country ride 1 , will be sorry to learn
that while he was schooling Molrow, one or the
tlon. W. Pearson’s horses, he fell and broke his
shoulder blade. This is the same horse that killed
poor Ashton some time ago.
A special cablegram published in the New
York Herald of 3rd August materially affects
the reputation as an honest and straightforward
jockey of Fred Archer. The English press, while
admitting that the finish referred to was unsatis-
factory, do not endorse the Herald’s remarks.
Mr. W. Glasscock, who has nearly re-
covered from his lato accident, whereby he sus-
tained a dislocation of the ankle, puts in a daily
appearance in the saddle on the training ground
at Flemington, and is no doubt getting his hand in
for next Saturday's Findon Harriers’ Vase race.
A bicycle and tricycle club has been
Started in Singleton. Although only a fortnight
old, the-plub numbers 30 members, and the total
Is increasing daily. Several of the members have
received their bicycles, w dch give every satisfac-
tion, and the affair promises to be a great success.
The first competition for the Challenge
Trophy presented by the proprietors of the St.
Jacobs Oil will come off on Saturday at the range,
Moore Park. The trophy is for intercolonial
teams, and is valued at £lOO. Tasmania, Queens-
land, Victoria, and New South Wales will be re-
presented.
Some of the most remarkable scoring of the
season took place recently at Sheffield Park, when
a team got together by Lord Sheffield made 665
runs for five wickets againßt an eleven captained
bv Mr It. T. Ellis. The score included three cen-
turtes-A. Payne 176, Humphreys 156, and Hug-
gett 124 not out.
In this piece of information, by the mail,
are mentioned the names of two English oarsmen,
who have, without distinguishing themselves very
highly, visited the colonies:—" David Godwin and
George Perkins on the one part, and George Bu-
bear and John Largan on the other, have signed
articles for a double sculling race from Putney to
Mortlake, on October 4, for £lOO a-side.”
Sydney Edwards, of Melbourne, challenges
anyone to feats of skill in wager-boats, and also to
walk a quarter of a mile on tho water. Edwards
wishes it understood that no one is debarred from
competition, and that nothing would give him
greater satisfaction than to find that either Hanlan
or Beach had taken up the gauntlet which he thus
pluckily throws before the aquatio world.
Here he is again, only a few feet longer
than w hen we last saw and heard of him: A snake
measuring 57 feet in length and 8 feet in circum-
ference was shot recently in Travancore. After
its eyes and brains had been dashed out, it still had
strength enough to climb a large tree, but a
bran' n broke under it and it fed to the ground,
Avhere a second shot put an end to its existence.
When Hanlan rowed against Trickett, and
Jolt “ our Ned ” about a-quarter of a mde behind,
someone called out. “ How do you teel V” and
Hanlan answered, “ Lonely.” The English papi rs
to hand by this mail continue to speak of his
defeat by Beach as “incomprehensible.” “The
man,” remarks the Pall Mall, “ has been beaten
by a second-rate rower. What are we to think ?”
Mr. M‘Leod, who’rode Veritas to victory
in the Open Steeplechase on Saturday last at
I lemington, well deserved the success which at-
tended his mount, as he was compelled, owing l to
an accident which befel him at Elsternwick a week
previously, to enlist the assistance of a stick to
enable him to hobble to scale. But it would have
been awkwttrd for him had he happened to come
down.
The first battle between Jem Maco and Joe
Goss wae on Ist Sept. 1863, in England. They fought
nineteen rounds, when Mace delivered a tremend-
ous blow with his fist on Goss’s left jaw which re-
sounded all oyer the ring. Goss fell on his hands
and knees, with hiia head doubled under him, in
absolute insensibility. The fight lasted 2h. 10see.,
and it was one of the hardest batt'es Maoe ever
fought.
Jack Koatlng, who threw Graham, Dinnie’s
mate, at North Shore twice, collar and elbow,
last ;week; then and there challenged Dinnie or
Thomas for £5O. The offer was not accepted.
Keating is now prepa l ed to tackle “ Tonald ” for
£2OO a si«le. collar and elbow, Cornish, and afty other
style Dinnie may choose. As man and money are
on the fjpot, there should be no trouble in fixing
up a m atch.
Remarks “Pendragon ” “It is usual to
assum e that Australia is the most favoured of our
colon’,ies, so lar as home opinion goes; and yet in
Hanl an’B matches with Triekett and Laycock
then j is no evaling the statement that, had Han-
lan neen real English produce, and had the two
Cor astalks been not colonials but out-and-out
for signers, no stronger feeling on his behalf could
ha’ re been shown.”
Forty-fire thousand people paid for admis-
si on to the last Australian v. All-England match.
T he gate-money alone was £1685-rather a nice day
'or the boys. Now, if one of them took £5 for a
week’s play, he would be a pro., but, if he collar
his full whack of the day’s gate-money, he remains
a gentleman amateur: don't you reo the differ-
ence ? Of course you do; they are totally different
things in every way.
The first of the three brothers Studd,
captains at Cambridge, has had a good deal of bad
health since his return from the tour in Australia
with the Hon. lvo Bligh’s team. He had only
recently recovered from an attack of typhoid
fever, with lung trouble supervening, when he
broke his right arm while batting. This was surely
enough, but the arm was set out of shape, and the
injury, it is feared, will be permanent.
Wood has finally won the 20-miles pro-
fessional bicycling championship of England,
Howell second, Lees third, Weston fourth. Howell
led until a couple of hundred yards from home,
when Wood put on a magnificent effort, rushed
through to the front, was never headed, rapidly
increased his lead, and won. amid great sensation,
t>y about ten yards. The time, on the whole, was
exceptionally fast, the distance being run through
in 50min.
A very good and true story is told of an
Irish lady, whose sons were in a taction fight. It
appears they had broken a lot of sticks and were
getting besteh, when the Spartan mother went
into the thick of it with her arms full of new
“ kippeens.” She told, afterwards, how she had
hardly handed them round “When my Johnny
was stretched a corpse, but he got round in a few
minutes, and the bhoys bate the O’Harrigans
clean out of the field.”
Any amount of yabber-yabber about the
Foley-Farnan combat, but things look as it busi-
ness was meant, and F iley's offer to throw in his
champion belt if the match is for £5OO a side or
more, is a very liberal one. For ourselves, we are
like the hodman half-way up a ladder, when a
friend promised him that if he came down ho
would knock the head off him. His reply was,
“Not if you offered me twice as much iuduee-
ment.” But then, tastes differ considerably.
The Ballarat Yacht Club had a grand
opening on the lake, and as it was piping fresh, a
couple of the boats retired crippled; one of the
boats-the Pioafore—having to give up In conse-
quence of carrying away her topping-lift block.
We fancy the correspondent who sent that to the
Australasian had not left off his ninafore, or
else we don’t know what a topping-lift is; prob-
ably it holds the keel in there—here it is only used
to support, or top up, the boom.
We have just inspeoted a boat being built
in the shed and to the order of Mr. Press, of Wool-
loomooloo Bay. She is 24ft, by Bft. 4in. beam, 3ft.
deep,fand!7ft. across'the truck ;Jis to be half-decked,
and will be about the best boar, in Sydney—that is,
let out for hire. The builder is Mr. Robert
Stevens, and he is proving himself an apt pupil
of his old master, Mr. ooe Donnelly. She ougtu to
be very powerful, ami, at the same time, smart;
and as she is built with a good flam, should be a
dry sea boat.
321 for nine wickets, made by the Orientals
D. Wentworths, in Junior Cup match commenced
last Saturday and to be resumed this Saturday, is
the largest soore on record made by a junior team
The Wentworths at the drawing being regarded
by some as the probable cup winners, this perform-
ance of the Orientals, as showing their form,
should undoubtedly make anything coming against
them fearful of results, more especially as their
ranks have been further strengthened by two
grand performers both at the ball and bat.
Our old friend, Joe Donnelly, is as usual
up to his eyes in it. He has now on band two four-
oars for Rockhampton, a shell for Kemp, one for
Beach, another for Clifford, and will most probably
take Hanian’s measure for a couple-so that the
veteran has no idle time this year. We notice that
Joe has quite deserted the sailing craft, and more’s
the pity, for when ho has an order on the stocks
there is always consternation and excitement
among the sailing men: he is looked upon as a
sort of hawk coming down among the pigeons.
The great wrestling match, Delmas v.
Cannon, took place in ’Frisco. Delmas is a French-
man, and Cannon is English; there were between
6000 and 7000 persons present. The first fail was
gained by Caunon in 9min. 29aec. Tne second fall
to Delmas, alter a dosperate struggle lasting three
hours 11 minutes. After four hours more, no fall
being obtained and no seeming chance of one, the
referee declared a draw. The men wrestled all
night up to four in the morning. A match was
then arranged between Delmas and Whistler to
come off on the 2nd September.
Thus “Atlas” in the London World of
August27:—“To the advancement of the bicycling
records there seems to be no end. In the race for
the 20 miles championship (professional), Battesby
rode 10 miles in 28min. 58sec., whilst Wood com-
pleted the full distance in 59rnin. 18>£sec. The im-
provement in machines has undoubtedly a good
deal to do with this; but much lies in the fact that
so many men of nearly equal calibre are found in
the front rank. When they get together in real
earnest—a contingency difficult to guarantee—
they are bound to do something out of the or-
dinary.”
All sailing men will be pleased to hear that
the Deronda has fallen into such good hands as
those of Mr. Ives, of North Shore. All last season
the good boat lay high and dry at Glebe Point, and
now she is coming out as spick-span and handsome
as when Bhe took her first dip in the briny. Mr. Ives
has spared no expense to make his boat as good as
she can be, and has had a new mast thwart put in
her, the old desk removed and replaced by a new
one, and a fresh suit of sails provided: he is deter-
mined to give no chance away. We wish Mr. Ives
success, and hope the old Deronda will carry home
many a trophy to “ Gibraltar.”
There’s a neat little conspiracy on in Eng-
land just now to send out to Australia, under a
bogus came, a well-known sprint runner, who, it
h.tß been arranged is to make his first colonial ap-
pearances among the natives of the back-bloeks.
so, dear friends, wheH you hear of the great match
between the “clever” unknown runner and one
of your local pads, just keep your eyes on the man
who is tunning the show. Ba ford, an English
professional, by the way, was, when the mail left,
being prosecuted for personating an amateur, oue
Adnitt, at Crewe athletic sports. In these days,
they don’t run for narsloy-ieaveo and a Pindaric
ode.
There was a large crowd present at the
picnic tendered to William Beach, sculling cham-
pion of the world. Of course there was the usual
speech-making. A presentation of sovereigns and
an address on satin were handed to the “fastest
propeller of a bi r of wood through the water" by
the Hon. W. J. Trickett. We notice the "Jaynil
Dan ” was there, and we have heard that he only
raises his hat to Hanlan now when they meet, but
that he intends to shake hands with him again if
he wins next time; so, there is something left for
Hanlan to live for—that is, if he succeeds.
Charles Mitchell paid Boston a visit August
13, and after a stay of two days returned with his
friend, Jack Stewart, a well-known Boston sport-
ing man, to the latter’s country residence at New-
castle, N.H Mitchell, in conversation with a
Police NeWS’ representative, stated that he in-
tended to meet all the leading pugilists of the
country this fall and settle the question of supe-
riority. He is taking good care of himself, and
will return to New York early in September, when
he will be prepared to arrange a meeting with
John L. Sullivan, feeling convinced that he can
stay with the champion for four rounds. Ho has
gained considerably in weight, and says he never
felt better.
Things seem very lively just now on the
calm waters of the Nepean, and the bumpkins
round about talk nothing but “ boat.” Matterson
is in flrat-claBS health and rowing well. P. Kemn
has damaged his chance a lot by doing a splendid
trial. Strange, but true, that these trials seem to
take it all out of the man for the race. Solomon
and F. Kemp are doing steady work. This blood-
curdling “ foxing ” seems to be rampant, according
to the Rum and Granny. If these aquatic terrors
only did let the world know what their real powers
were, no doubt it would shake the present sculling
position to its centre. Kemps, keep dark—lay low—
beware! Unprincipled persons were touting you
only as lately as the last Sabbath morn.
The Victorian Amateur Turf Club held
their meeting [on Saturday [last at Caulfield. The
day was cold and showery, still the attendance was
good, and the racing excellent. The Maiden Plate
was won by Norfolk, with Duration and Vasco in
order. First Hurdle Race: Sinking Fund beating
Yatiho by a length, with Tantaliser the same dis-
tance off. Great Foal Stakes was decided by Ring-
master, Oustra and Umbra coming home first in the
order named. The Caulfield Guineas were pocketed
by Sandal, hard held; Gratitude second and
Helene third. Findon Harriers’ Vase: No less
than 30 horses toed the scratch in a pelting shower.
Chiettain (list. 21b.) 1, Abdalla G3st. 131 b.) 3, Dawn
(list. 91b.) 3. No less than seven horses came
down. Toorak Handioap: Precious Stone proved
an easy winner out of a field of 19, Meteor and
Prodigal getting second and third places.
On a Balmain steamer, one night this week,
a foul-mouthed larrikin, pretending to be half-
drunk, made himself very obnoxious to all on
board by the filthy language he was using, saying
that someone was insulting him. Among the pas-
sengers on the boat was a smooth-faced lad, with
about as much down on his upper lip as decorates
a caterpillar's hide; so, when the steamer arrived at
her port of discharge, the pot-valiant hero accused
the soft-looking youth of having insulted him
Now, the latter had been at the far end of the boat,
and took no notice of the rough until he pulled off
his coat preparatory to knocking the chin off his
harmless-looking victim. But, O, Nemesis! he
had fallen on a noted bruiser, who put him through
in one act, the curtain ringing down in less than
half a minute, the desperate slaughterer doing the
dying gladiator, while the victor strolled quietly
home, wiping the blood off his knuckles.
Mr. Harman, Government geologist in
Western Australia, recently reported what he re- I
gards as an instance of suioide by a black snake.
A half-killed snake was attacked bj black ants in
the wounded parts, when “it instantly turned
round and bit itself twice in the neck, with seem-
ing determination.” In less than one minute it
was dead, poisened, Mr. Harman believes, by its
own venom. His men reported this to bo a com-
mon occurrence. Now, what do you think about
the wisdom of the serpent ? Here s our old friend,
having decided on suicide, and not having any
insect-powder handy, gropes about his neck,
wherever that is, until he drops on his jugular,
and then goes for himself bald-headed. But, after
all, it was not so very remarkable, as he was in
constant practice, the men reporting that it was a
common occurrence with him. As he appears to
be done for this time, for heaven’s sake let him
R.I.P.
Edwards, the walker, writing to “ Andra-
gios,” of the Melbourne Sportsman, says:—“On
4th August (Bank holiday) I went to Balham
Grounds to see the noted American amateur
champions (Myers, Fredericks, and Murray) com-
pete. Myers is indeed a fiver. He won tne
quarter-mile handicap in 49M8ec., while Murray
walked four miles, in beautiful style, in 39min.
2R4sec. But, undoubtedly, the greatest wonder
in the pedestrian world is H. Hutchins, the cham-
pion professional sprint, runner. 1 saw him run in
a 130 yards handicap. He was handicapped to give
some of them thirty yards start, and the nearest
man to him had 14 yards The fastest Sheffield
runners, who can do even time, get 7 yards from
him. Those who ought to know say whenever it
is wanted he can do 100 yards in 9sec., and a
quarter-mile in 46sec. Anyhow, in private trials,
he used to give Myers 10 in a quarter and beat him
very easily. His style is simply perfecti n, and he
runs remarkably low on the ground, and with his
legs more in tront of him than any man I have ever
seen. He is an unassuming, gentlemanly fellow,
and I hope by the next mail to be in a position to
tell you that I have succeeded in making arrange-
ments with him to visit Australia, in order to run
Malone and take part in some of the handicaps at
Botany. If so, he will most likely accompany me
vyhen 1 return, after my walk in New York.”
It’s rather a pity that the agents of the
English press in Australia were not a little more
liberal in their cable expenditur« over the Hanlan-
Beach race. Up to August 30, all the English pub-
lic knew was that Hanlan bad been beaten—ac-
cording? to one account, by a length and a half;
and another, by seven lengths. How or why was
not stated, Dor was it likely to be known pending
the arrival of the mail. The British public were
not at all inclined to believe that anyone could
possibly have beaten Hanlan on his merits, and as,
writes our correspondent, it may be found that
Australia claims Beach's victory as a genuine win,
it was, perhaps, after all, rather unreasonable to
expect the cabling of excuses for the champion’s
defeat. “Pendragon” says, among other tnings,
that Hanlan’s defeat by Beach “is exactly the
sort of thing which no one would believe possible
until after it had happened—which no one who
knew anything about boat-racing could very well
believe possible previously. . . . The fceekonk
affair, in which Ross won the race, and a very
heavy money prize, was, until Saturday last, the
one blot on Hanlan’s otherwise untarnished repu-
tation; let us hope that when full particulars have
duly tr welled their fourteen or fifteen thousand
miles we shall not find ourselves enveloped in the
meshes of still another professional sculliog
mystery. . . . For the moment, the affair is
wrapped in impenetrable mystery. . . . Speak-
ing for myself, I have to thank Beach very much
for winning-unless, indeed, it turns out that I
have to thank Hanlan very much foi getting
beaten.” The writer, in reviewing the Ross-
Teemer race, speaks most disrespeottully of Ross’
soulling morality, and insinuates straight out that
the best-informed American sporting papers evi-
dently consider the affair a “job.”
On Saturday afternoon the final heats for
the quarter-mile running, and seven mile walking
handicap came off on Kelly’s new running grounds
at Botany. There was a good attendance, but
there did not appear to be much betting done.
The quarter-mile was for £25 divided into three
prizes of £l(5, £7, and £2. And the winners turned
up in D. Blyth, Sydney, 25 yards, first; T. M.
Malone, Sydney, scratch, second; and H. Thomp-
son, Pennant Hills, third. All the men got away
to a grand start, and at the corner, 100 yards from
home, Malone was last, but as soon as he got into
the straight he went through the lot like a loco-
motive, finishing Icbs than a yard from Blyth,
Thompson being about the same distance behind
him. The other starters were Campbell, Burnes,
Shedden, Lawrence, Collins, and Weekley. Just on
the post, Campbell fell against Collins, from ex-
haustion, both men coming down a cropper. That
Malone could have won but for the turns no one
can doubt, and if the time taken was correct, it
was anything but a slow race. Time 50 sec.
Little Willie Franks won the walking match,
with a start of 650 yards, W. Harris, of s A
7o yds., second, and J. M. O’Connor, N. Zealand,
scratch, third. The other starters were J. Ormes,
who gave up at six miles, W. J. Dunn, who cried
p-.ccavi at four miles, and J. Brother son who went
to the bitter end, but failed to score. The walking
was really good, Ormes and Brotherson doing un-
mistakeable heel and toe. Young Franks’ win
was very popuiar, he getting £3O and a solid gold
medal; £l5 and £5 falling to the next couple. The
official time was 53n«in. 45sec. A private match
for £5O aside over i5O yards was then run off, be-
tween Noud of Grafton, and Clements the darkie.
Noud got the start, and won all the way by about
three yards; more money changing hands than for
both the previous events. Time, 15see. The final
item was the water jump, 23ft. 2in. from bank to
bank. Only two went for it, the prize being £lO
for any man who could clear it. M. Dawson had
two tries but failed to get sufficient footing each
time; Malone did it first try, and offered to go
back a couple of feet for a level £100; no takers.
There was a band on the ground, and in the inter-
vals the youth, fashion, and beauty of the city, who
were present, joined in the giddy waltz, the part-
ners holding their heads high in the air, with the
eyes closed in the charming manner rendered so
familiar on the classic grounds of Clontarf and
Chowder.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A correspondent wishes to know if the Osborne
or the Victoria and Albert is the recognised
Queen’s yacht. If the latter, for how long ?
Can any of our readers oblige with the infor-
mation. ...The pole jump accredited to Keys
was copied from one of our American ex-
changes, but we cannot now recollect which.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Messrs. J. and E. Sheppard, of West Mait-
land. have just turned out a first-class racing’ shell.
It is 29ft. Bin. long, wide, and 6in. deep. The
“ skin ” is ot cedar, l-16th of an inch thick, and the
keel is of clear pine. The whole structure weighs
only 5281 b , with outriggers and sliding-seat com-
plete. The boat ha 9 been built for Mr. 8. Fitz-
gerald, who is in active training for his match with
J. Crimp, which will take place shortly on the
Hunter Hiver—A daily sporting paper is now
being issued in Melbourne. The price is 3d., and
the size of the journal is that of an entr'acte. The
paper is published at 11 a.m ..A cricket match
was played in Maitland between a team of fifteen
from the Half-holiday Association and an eleven
of the Albions. The latter were too strong for
their opponents. They went to the wickets first,
and remained in possession the whole afternoon.
They had totted up nearly 400 runs when the
stumps wore drawn A day’s racing was got up
for ueter at Kiama. He won the Maiden Plate,
Eureka Handicap, and Flying Handicap. .The Eng-
lish papers seem quite Habergasted at Hanlan’s de-
feat, and will admit anything but that Beach did it.
« * *
Mr. W. Long’s filly, Dame Agnes, by Her-
mit-Belle Agnes, won the Champion Nursery a
Kempton Park, London Californi t Chinamen
have taken to bicycle riding. They propose to g<
in style ...James Finney, the champion swimmer,
addresses a challenge from London to the world’s
great natators—During a wrestling match be-
tween two negroes in Fiaquemine, Lt., one threw
the other with such force as to brea c his neck,
killing him instantly... W. G. Grace’s batting
average for his county this season ;s 33 runs per
innings.
The very latest man with a grievance is a
Mr. Nathaniel Cartwright, and in an able letter in
a recent Hebald he trots his trouble out before
the publio. Mr. Nathaniel Cartwright, it appears,
objects to being hanged—as the operation is per-
formed at present. Most people do, before the act;
but it is only fair to our colonial Marwoods to say
that few, if any, have ever lodged an objection
after having enjoyed a direct personal experience
with the business. Mr. Cartwright, however, not
only bucks against hanging on the score of its in-
convenience to the party operated upon, but he
goes one better still and condemns it as illegal.
The friends of the late Mr. W. Shakespeare may
remember that in a little trifle which he dashed off
one day to silence the clamours of the landlady
down stairs, and wbioh is entitled “ The Merchant
of Venice,” Miss Portia, Q.C, maintains that al-
though the cutting away of a pound of one Anto-
nio’s flesh is all fair and square, still the drawing
of the slightest drop of blood is illegal, because it
is not “ so nominated in tbe bond ” that blood shall
be drawn. In like manner our second Daniel, Mr.
Cartwright, points out that although the act of
hanging is O.K. according to our laws,still it is not
in tbo bond that the person turned off should suffer
the least pain, and hence it follows that all who
have been hanged up to the present date, and who
can prove that pain was inflicted on them, have
been illegally scragged, and have ample grounds
for entering an action for substantial damages
against the colony that hanged them. This is a
startling piece of information, indeed. All that
the noble army of those who have “ gone before”
at the end of the official clothes-line have to do
now is to subpoena a few witnesses in this world to
prove the execution was performed, and a few
from the next to certify that on the first appear-
ance in the Eiysian Fields of the gentleman turned
off he complained of the usual “shock to his
sjstem,” &c , and there is positively nothing then
to prevent bis potting tbe State for £50,000 as com-
pensation. Mr. Nathaniel Cartwright’s remedy for
all this trouble is simply pills. Half-a-dozen
“chlorals” taken just before going to bed, and
half-a-dozen more before breakfast on the fatal
morn, will send the patiencoff into a balmy sleep
from which he will, never wake until he finds the
porter at tbe Paradisian gates shaking him up and
excitedly demanding to know where his ticket is,
and what’s the number of his bespoken bedroom.
This is what may be termed “shaDghaing” our
unfortunate fellow-citizens into eternity, and Mr.
Nathaniel Cartwright .deserves the thanks of the
whole community for his timely advice and warn-
ing. Mr. Cartwright thinks “it is strange that no
Judge in England has pointed out what is the law
in such cases, and that, under these circumstances,
the execution of sentences of death is done by a
civilised nation, so-called, with cruelty.” So do
we. But, theD, Judges are proverbially thica-
headed—of course, we mean in England—and, be-
sides, it wouldn’t do for everyone in this world to
know as much as everybody else; for if this were
the case, England’s judicial rulers would know as
much as Mr. Cartwright, We’ll thank thee, Na-
thaniel, to pass the chloral.


OSRteORFS
iKgSKNGEopurE
te only infallible remedy for
/'TERyoifsJjEBILIJYT
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, atid all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustive derangement of the system; regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions In cases at 125., or four quantities is onefor
dSs.; if by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,']
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and tO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from George-street South.
C. B. RHODINI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
lar TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, See. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne ; also Angelo Bor-
doni. of Brescia. Italy.
The Berrygraph!
The Universal Copying Instrument, for
Fourpcnce halfpenny. 4Jd.
Will take 70 Good Copies of any Letter.
Note size, 4s. 6d.; Letter, 65.; Foolscap, 9s. per
quire.
Full particulars,
W. BULLARD, 342 George-street.
■piOß SALE, OR TO LEASE,
MENZIES’ HOTEL,
in the finest position in Melbourne.
Established upwards of 30 years.
Receipts exceed £20,000 per annum.
H. BYRON MOORE, & MCLEOD
Exchange, Melbourne.
MURRUMBURRAH TO YOUNG RAILWAY
CONTRACT.
WANTED strong HORSE-TEAMS, for haul-
ing sleepers, on the above contract. Long
job, and highest wages. Apply on the works to
O’ROURKE & M’SHARRY,
Contractors.
u
DE
s
.comfortable teeth
The use of this valuable mouth wash insure*
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are thiee kinds, distinguished by a
bellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the STellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth ana
turns, decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
tops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
-B e,tve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution— To guard against fraudulent imitations,
n eac ’h Label bears the name, “ Wilcox ana
co., 339 Oxford-street, London."
n
ASTHMA GOUGH, BRONCHITIS.
■*- - L ' : -
.One of these Cigarettes gives Immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis.
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
& good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
Patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—Ho guard, against fraudulent imitations.
««e that each box bears the name of “ Wilcox and
0o„ 338 Oxford-street, Loaion.”
Hahc k
KIM C S C R 0 V £
ROAD
- \
ftfe!* b >5 »l * 2»»>
fefeitsfafe
fe'fefe
■SA -
* C 3
« «i
LL
Vr v >
7 A
US
rfft
TTT
safe
MR
*S S 3
s n
<4*
A*V'?W 4
-\s»', , v V t / »
SfA'A'CS* ■ .t V /
coyr X
STREET
? I I'|'M I' 7SL-^LZJj[
WE ST
(.v #•«/
-. c
T
feiolb
=3 *.
3i it a
fei.‘
£3 fait;
=i
i j ,y:a-/ / /> -'•• ilf
■/W,- y\ S / jfr ' .aV 1 '■
U
* tsss
•SR
sff y /.
S’S
ill
,3S
• \
A 5
QUEER/
t
5C25 7
*<>
ca i o :»=• *
*
n y a «y
«?
tt.fe
?A7,
\
I®
00
Ktt
BUILDIHC LAUD am
V BARK r
fo\ktioi\Siltoi\lHtUOUND
SAT” OCT*' Id? IMA jin
Im Uniliii H lilt
ia3mm ok mm-9 mm #w u
■*9*»jf tfimt
m rrr* M »«» i m*m *»irV> urn* i„ «
t '} 'I *•*»«• n~mH4 4 ym/r »» 0»
: suuaaj.
rwyA cw ctosfff
ALL 7 &C
Messrs. ALLT Si CO.’S lew Win? ani Spirit Stores and Cellars,
CHARLOTTE PLACE,. SYDNEY.
A (rents for—
Messrs. TRUMAN, HANBURY, BUXTON & CO.
Brewers, Rurton-on-Trent :
„ JOHN ROBERTSON & SONS,
Dundee;
Messrs.
A. 0. MIiUKOVV & CO.,
E. & J. BURKE a,
“JLiglit Spars
Cognac;
JDg Tf e, at A e ;
Messrs. MUNZER & SPANN,
Bordeaux, <la refs »
The Due de Montebello Champagne, 8/Ay, Fnim ,
The Cnareme \ meyard Proprietors, Cnareiitp.
London Agents: Messrs. Arthur Allt & Go., Wormwoc d ChamDCis, Wormwood-street, E.C.
9 *


JJI UUNITUBH SHOW ItOOH
H
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
T IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAiRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion : -well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.
VERY ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand.
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smo&ing rooms, &c.
IaEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
JIM and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
E
IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
chairs- The lot for £B. BRADLEY
N RWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEYT, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s
6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.:
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets
3)
V.
jQQf* PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
cfefltl strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Blaek and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Occasional tables, elegantly i
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
finished in
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
V J ust received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
OOonnell-street.
EASY OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, tor
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
T|RA WING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
JLF A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Priees, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-street.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 6 feet long and up to 20 feet.
1 ELF-AD JUSTIN G HAMMOCK CHAIL—
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will ot
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
B
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
FRAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in."
any materials to meet the taste and requirements*
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
RAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
JJ TURE, Handsome and Massive, in o*h ;
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAI
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, aßd
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
F
B
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
B
EDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates-
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell and Spring streets.
WASHSTANDS, with marble, from 255. each*
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah Chairs,
VX INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O'Connell-street.-
ENT WOOD FURNITURE.—A very complex
‘ Assortment; best l make, lowest prices.
B'
SOCIAL
Mrs. F. Warskitt’s exhibition of dancing
last week was a treat to those who appreciate the
poetry of motion. Most of the 130 of her pupils
who were present were children, and the hall was
thronged with their parents and acquaintances
lining three sides of the room and the gallery,
while the little ones, chatty and dressy, clustered
like a hive of buzzing bees on the platform. As a
complete exposition of the art of dancing-in all
its branches—the programme is worth describing
in detail. Mrs. Warskitt played all the music her-
self, assisted by Mr. Herman, violinist. This leav-
ing the pupils to do their duty without any over-
seeing indicated great ooniidenee in the thorough-
ness of their tuition. First item was a Spanish
dance to waltz time by Master Leo Day, and Miss
Ella Lamb, who was announced to have had but
three lessons. Yet no mistake was made by the
two children, notwithstanding the ordeal of hun-
dreds of eyes as they stood alono in mid-floor.
And, while one naturally expects grace in girls, it
is unusual to see such singular gracefulness in a
boy as Leo showed. Master Bowie Wilson, also
very young, next executed a Highland fling in
good style. As a variety, fifty couples then
danced the Parisian quadrilles; and afterwards,
a dozen boys and girls performed an Irish jig with
spirit. There was a good deal of “ the light fan-
tastic toe” in this— a phrase so continually mis-
applied to drawing-room dances. There is not in
them (or, at least, should not be) anything fan-
tastic at all, and it was not to them that Milton
alluded when he coined that since hackneyed
phrase. What followed the jig was certainly the
most striking thing of the evening, namely. Miss
Evaline Lennon’s dancing. Though usually im-
polite to inquire too closely into a young lady’s
age, still the fact that Miss Lennon only toddles,
and scarcely talks as yet with any loquacity, may
be an excuse for publishing the statement that she
is not three years old. With a bigger girl for
partner, this diminutive damsel danced with per-
fect precision of step the waltz, sehottiache, ma-
zurka (in three ways), and the galop. All the class
did the polka; and then four picked girls gave a
treat in their skipping-rope dance—Misses Mary
Harper, Cissy Bowman. Cissy Cleary, and Maggie
Cavanagh. Not one made any mistakes and some
of the steps—the ropes going all the time—were
intricate. A roomful of lancers gave them a brief
rest, and then the same four girls, with Master
Frank Newton, danced a number of exceedingly
pretty steps. Starting very slowly to waltz time,
the music co r stantly changed, sometimes to quick
and lively tunes of the day, then reverting to
sedate melody, but ever at intervals would keep
coming the refrain of “Home, sweet home,’’and all
the while, with a faultless regularity of time, the
live pairs of feet kept pattering away softly, but
sure, in every beat, and all exactly together—the
constant changes being very effective. A sailor’s
hornpipe was done by half-a-dozen young gentle-
men, and a mazurka was general; forty girls and
boys following with the Spanish dance all at once.
Six sets of cotillons then formed, and there was no
Scrambling through them, the stipulated number
of steps being given to every movement, with the
result that the footsteps and the music were
wedded together in perfect unison. The four best
girls then took gentlemen s parts in a special
ootillon with four mites of girl partners dressed in
the richest court robes, one, as Marie Stuart (Miss
Jennie Snarp), being a charming little picture.
Forty girls did a simultaneous Highland Fling,
and four a repetition of a previous fancy step,
but with hoops instead of skipping-ropes. Messrs.
Butler and Duncan then did another Highland
Fling. But the most fasoinating performance,
most difficult, and of a kind least often seen, was the
posing of the quartette—Misses Bowman, Harper,
Gavanagh, aua Cleary—with castanet accompani-
ment. The music was slow and dreamy, and in a
series of beautifully graceful posture?, arms
waving overhead, with clicks of the castanets as
each movement was completed, the four girls gave
an exhibition that fairly delighted the spectators.,
It was quite a novelty in Sydney. While all did
well, the Misses Bowman and Harper certainly
took precedence.
Pretty pair, dark and fair,
Clad in skirts of gauzy whiteness
Fluttering in the air;
Floating out with fairy lightness,
Beaming beauty, youth aud brightness,
All combining there.
Here and there, light as air,
Light as summer breezes blowing
Dry leaves here and there;
Light as flakes are in the snowing,
Light as vows from love’s lips flowing,
So those maidens were.
Grace and care, joining there,
Tiny feet all shoeless glancing
With a fl.iish rare
Little maidens I so entrancing,
You have found the key of dancing,
It is—“ grace and care.”
Repeatedly and warmly the pupils were all ap-
plauded, besides being regaled with a little supper.
Afterwards, guests were invited to join in the
whirl, which was kept up till beyond midnight. It
is very seldom an opportunity occurs of seeing
such a complete and perfect exposition of
dancing.
* ♦ *
The third of those popular social hops,
dubbed by the Dubboites “ Winter Parties,” even-
tuated last week, and was quite successful. The
charity ball of the previous week had a militating
influence, as many of the festive terpsichoreans
who shone in it had not entirely recovered from
the fatigue—and refreshments. But their absence
gave more room for an extended display of many
graceful toilets at the Party. Chief amongst these
was a cream llama skirt worn short, and sur-
mounted by a rich cardinal satin bodice, which
encased the symmetrical form of an exquisite
dancer. A tall and rather spare young lady in
white and blue carried on a cheerful slaughter in
the hearts of men with her deadly smiles; while a
conspicuous figure cireering round in pink was
that of a suburban damsel, who, if not exquisitely
handsome, is superbly massive. Dancing con-
tinued till 2a.m., when *• God save the Queen ” on
the piano announced the close of “ quite a pleasant
party.”
• m
The social at Petersham Town Hall on the
Bth instant, given by members of the Summer Hill
Football Club, was a decided success. Although a
young club, they showed their hospitality in a
most liberal manner. Everyone knows how ab-
sorbing a sport is football, with what vigour and
reality the proceedings are carried on, and the
great demand there is fop Earnest men in the field.
Knowing phis, it must please the softer sex to And
that although, in the field, the youthful foot-
ballers pursue and handle one another with an
ardour that almost threatens the total annihilation
of every player ou both sides, yet they have their
tender m ments. They had some of them on
Wednesday nighc last, and, to all appearances,
enjoyed them. There were nearly forty couples on
the floor, who went through a neatly-printed pro-
gramme of twenty-four dances, which were well
arranged, in addilion to live or six extrss.
There was excellent music, and the ladies’
dresses were particularly brilliant That of a
Summer Hilt resident, cardinal and cream, won
the first place, and another young lady of the
same locality looked attractive in black and gold.
Two young ladies from Redfern street looked
well, one in short-sleeved blue, and the other in a
cardinal dress; as, also, another from Oxford-
street, in a dress with blue body, and blue and
white skirt, who was a graceful dancer. From
Surry Hills, one charmer in white satin, and one
in black silk came, to add ornament to the room.
Two sisters were from Petersham, one in blue, and
the other in a low-necked pink dress with short
sleeves; and it was between this young lady and
one from Ceeil-stroet, Ashfleld, in royal blue and
cream attire, that the question of honours Jay.
Mersrs, Patino and Son did much to increase the
evening’s pleasure by their excellent catering, and
it was four o’clock ere the pleasant reunion ended.
fc' «»
A large party wag given by Mr. and Mrs.
Joseph Davenport an the Sth at Avoca Villa.
Bondi, to mark the happy event of Miss Dolly’s
marriage, which took place at noon in St. Mary’s
Church, Waverley. On returning home, the
wedding breakfast was held in an immense mar-
quee erected on the lawn, a number of friends
being present; and the occasion was rendered par-
ticularly interesting by the fact that the toasts of
“ Bridesmaids ” and “ Ladies ” were responded to
by two of the fair ladies themselves. .Few gentle-
men could have done the duty so well, and none
could have done it half so prettily. .After the
happy couple had driven off to Sandringham, pre-
parations were made for the party. Caterers laid
out a fine supper in marquee, which was so
roomy, cool, and convenient, that all voted it an
infinite improvement on the crowded supper-
room which is often a feature at parties. All
round the rooms were festoons, and large horse-
shoes of flowers suspended from the walls, while
the long verandahs closed in with flags and charac-
terised by just that lack of illumination which is
condusive to sentiment, werethe ideal of comfort.
A string band of De Groen’s gave every satisfac-
tion with their music. The three daughters of the
hostess did their share of the honours with arch
grace, and among the guests and pretty costumes
were.iyouth and beauty that could not escape
notice. Two beauties were very observable, each
of a distinct type. One was a dazzling girl con-
structed on the brunette plan, bewitching in black
with heliotrope wreath and sash, from St. Peters;
the other a sweet-faced blonde, in glistening blue,
from Petersham, with rare wavy hair and the
name of a bird. Lavender satin garbed another
blonde, whose dancing was delicious, and indigo
blue her sister. Two young ladies from Redfern
way wore light pink satins, and wreaths respec-
tively of lily of the valley (indicating her name)
and red currants, whiah looked tempting. A
beautiful waltzer, in ruby velvet kadice and light-
blue skirt, was from Darlington; and a young
lady in old gold and lace from Drummoyue. Two
sisters were the interesting representatives of
Surry Hills, one in white and tartan and one in
black with cardinal fedora. Prom Waverley-
Btreet came a maiden in pink satin and fine white
lace, and Double Bay sent a sparkling partner in
ruby velvet bodice and cream Madras skirt exten-
sively wired. A Waverley married lady was
vivacious in white and blue stripes, and many
others were attractive. As the morning wore on
t ie rooms began to thin, and about 3.30 the special
’bus which had been provided left for town, after
cheers for the host and hostes3, and sundry at-
tempts at a farewell anthem by gentlemen on the
top of the ’bus.
* * *
A fashionable and pretty wedding took
place at St. Mary’s, West Maitland, on Wednesday,
Bth instant —Miss Ellen Gorrick to Mr. James
Capper, both of Maitland. The bride, who is a
pretty, well-known blonde, wore a skirt of plain
peari satin, flounced to the band witn rich lace;
bodice and train of magnificent satin broche,
richly trimmed with pearl-coloured oetrich fea-
thers. She was followed by seven bridesmaids—
the chief one in white satin, cardinal wreath and
sash; three in white satin and pink sash; and the
remaining little dots in white India muslin trimmed
with lace, all looking extremely pretty. A num-
ber of well-dressed guests were present, and the
ceremony was performed by the Rev. Yarrington
and assistants. There was a perfect cram in the
church, which indicates what glory is conveyed to
the mind of the Maitland girls by the fact of one
of them getting married. Mr. Lardelli played the
Wedding March most expressively, and a large and
lively ball was given in the evening at Mr. Wolfe’s,
the bride's home hitherto, she being an orphan.
Sydney for honeymoon, and we wish them wel-
come.
• • •
Last Friday, the Bachelors’ Assemblies at
Ntthsdale closed for the season, and the final one
was in every way a fitting finish to a most success-
ful Beries of dances. These semi-balls were started
to provide a pleasant evening’s dance once a
month, well-conducted, without the cold for-
mality and ceremoniousness in ultra-fashionable
clroles, and without entailing unreasonable ex-
pense. That they have fully carried out the inten-
tion is shown by the applications for membership,
by the presentation made last Friday to their chief
promoter, and by the testimony of scores of pretty
girls who have been among the invited guests this
season. The presentation was made to the hon.
sec., Mr. H. E. Deeper, during the evening by Mr.
J. Alexander, and it consisted of a splendid gold
Waltham keyless watch, duly engraved with the
usual paragraph extolling Mr. Deeper’s virtues,
and a gold chain that was more massive than the
fair ladies who gave it. As to the dancing, the
floor was as glassy as ever, the programme built
of nineteen dances and some five extras, and
Mrs. Bentley’s playing the perfection of time.
Miss Long and Mr. De Groon each took the
stool for a delicious waltz, and were each
thanked in the customary way. Mr. J. F.
Cripps, of Pitt-street, has catered for the assem-
blies through the season, and has given the high-
est satisfaction, not only in the quality of his sup-
plies, but in tue unvarying civility and celerity
with which he has served them. No one could
remember individually all the host of winsome
girls that were present; though, as a vision of
loveliness in the aggregate, it would be almost
impossible to forget them. Indeed, to take special
notice of everyone would be very apt to get the
unwary young man into serious trouble. How-
ever, there were there : a tall and handsome laay
all in black, from Botany street; a pretty, quiet
blue-eyes from Oxford-street; an enchanting blue
broched dancer from York-street; and another
from the river, whose cardinal, covered with lace,
presented to the critic’s puzzled gaze a mad mix-
ture of colours, like fine charcoal strewn over a
crushed fluwer-pot; then a N.S. cream broche was
lovely; two flowing white cashmeres were bell
skirts worn by belle dancers; a fine cream broche
was from Castlereagh-street; a stately married
lady, in black, from the Glebe; a pretty brunette,
in pink, from Cascade-street; and a white deco 1-
letee dress from the mid-city, very alluring. A
lady not long in the colony wore a tasteful ivory
veiling, with jasmioe on the bust and hair; and
last, almost simplest, and near.y best, was a pure
white madras muslin, picked off with slate broche
down the bodice, a r.arrow kilting ut the hem, and
a few bows of it here and there.
* * *
A grand success was achieved at the
Royal eioeiety’s Conversazione on Wednesday last
week, in the University. There was a tremendous
demand for tickets in the “upper circus;” some
wanted to go because they felt a little interest in
science, and some because it was fashionable. To
admit that you had not bpen Invited would be al-
most social ruin. ffutin spite of the restrictions,
large hajl was so crammed that it was difficult
to see anything, and if it hadn’t been for the sup-
porting aid of Baumann’s ices and incomparable
cakes, the ladies would have been comfortless.
New bright costumes never had a show; and even
when there was a cbance to view them, lots of
men had the poor taste to prefer gazing at the
scientific instruments. They prelerred science
to art. His Excellency and Lady Lot'tus were
present, also tue Bishops of Sydney and
Goulburn, a number of “Sirs," officers of H.M.
Navy, judges, honorabits, and doctors by dozens.
Guests were duly received by the committee, and,
besides the great hall, had access to several other
portions of the University. The building was
specially lighted with gas, and, adorned as it was
with a profusion of leafage, shrubbery, and
flowers, looked radiantly beautiful; an 1 while the
organ played, the fashionable throng meandered
round aud enjoyed themselves as much as a very
limited space would let them. Of course, the ex-
hibits were curious, ingenious, clever and useful,
interesting and puzzling, but it’s no use trying to
give a description of them. If we did, our readers
would probably get so absorbed in it that they
would forget to read the rest of the paper this
week; and, besides, we are quite sure that thpse
who went to look at the things understand aU
aboutthem.
Last week, Mr. Dan O’Connor played host
at a harbour pil’nic to a number of gentlemen
whom he invited to an outing in the Annie. Mr.
B. Douglass (president of the Melbourne Trades
Hall Committee) was the chief guest, but there
were a great many other representatives of the
dignity of labour present, as well as Col. Halkett,
Mr. Tom Malone, and others. They visited the
Vernon, and heard the band play; then landed at
Chowder, and had a banquet. Mr. O'Connor him-
self took the chair as host, supported by Mr. Doug-
lass and Sir John Robertson. He proposed the
health of the chief guest, in a speech that was
warm with p aise we come, as a man who bad
been for a quarter century a worthy leader among
the working classes; and Mr. Douglass framed his
reply in manly and modest words. After a few
other speeches, the sea voyage was resumed, and
the company finally returned to the city at dusk.
* * *
The Eureka plain and fancy ball next
Tuesday is expected to be a happy affair. Some
pretty dresses arc on the way, and a number of
good dancers are going. Like the previous balls,
this one occurs at TattersaU’s Rooms, Castlereagh-
street, and the committee are endeavouring to
make it pleasant for their guests.
• • •
Over 200 ladies and gentlemen went out to
the Beach picnic at Botany, mostly in private
vehicles. Austin’s band played for the dancing,
which was the chief pastime, sports outside being
stopped by rain. At dinner, the Mayor was chair-
man, and the Hon. W. J. Trickett proposed the
Champion's health in a pithy speech, afterwards
handing him 100 sovereigns ana a white satin ad-
dress. Mr. Beach took tne sovereigns boldly, but
looked rather frightened at the idea of handling
white satin. Both the Champions made speeches
and they apparently think a great deal of one an-
other. Mrs. Beach and the little Beaches were
also there; long may they wave. After the ladies
and other persons had been toasted, the company
went on dancing till six o’clock. A scarf-pin was
presented to Mr. Morris Greenwall, who came out
from America with Hanlan; and three cheers were
kindly presented to Mr. T. Kelly for looking after
Beach’s muscles. It may be interesting to know
that Mr. Beach dances. He has quite the cham-
pion style.
• • •
Last Friday night saw quite a surplus of
socials in the city and suburbs. Outside a dozen
halls the passer-by might have “ heard the louc
bassoon,” or, to put it less poetically, the bangec
planner, to whose runic run of notes the social
young people turned one another round. In
several cases, the dances were the last of the sea-
son; at the Protestant Hall, however, the Oxford
Socials were having their first. The Oxfords
formed their gathering rather late, but they are
young and vigorous, and will be early in the field
next year. Friday’s affair was a kind of start—
what an active young cricketer called “ a trial
ball.” At first, we thought there were about 200
present, but in calm moments we come to think
we looked at some of the pretty girls four or five
times, and perhaps oounted them too much. It
will be honest to sty there were more than a
hundred present. Dancing opened at 8, on a tasty
little programme of 16 dances, and Mr. E. Needs
and a violinist afforded excellent Imusic. As a
large proportion of the company were from Niths-
dale, they were mutually acquainted, and the lists
soon filled. Without saying all were first-class
dancers, many were; and, without attempting to
classify them, we couldn’t be oblivious that some
were pre-eminent.
We cannot all the best ones choose,
Or be too analytic;
But, if we don’t our judgment use,
We’d be a useless critic.
From girls in pinks, and girls in blues—
A perfect field for mashing !
We’ll try and pick them out by twos,
To stop the dear ones clashing.
A blonde in cream, whose dainty shoes
From Itedtern had been carried;
From Glebe a floating dancer, who’s
In pink, and—heigho I—married;
A Bondi belle should have her dues,
In ballet skirts rotating;
A pretty York-street blonde, whole crews
Of partners agitating;
A white, two blues, both meet our views
Of what is graceful posing;
But here our fit of rhyme we lose,
And fall again to prosing.
The Glebe lady had such a pretty attire, all pink
silk, in long open pleats, w hich half way down the
skirt were held in fine gathers; a very artistic
bunching floating out from the waist-band. The
Bondi lady had one of the best dresses exhibited;
from the ruby velvet bodice fell a long looped
crimson ribbon down her snow-white ballet skirts,
which were of immense circumference. Three
Ashfleld ladies, whose name is a synonym for ele-
gance of motion, were all in white. A Petersham
brunette wore the same hue, if it is a hue. From
Glebe Point, a lady came with an astronomical
name; from Bourke-street, two clever dancing
sisters, in pink veiling and cream respectively;
from Woollahra, an ex-member’s charming little
daughter in blue veiling and satin; from Peter-
sham, a lady in a fine dress of pleated cream, a
pearl string in her hair, and a monster cardinal
rose under her chin; from Crown-street, a pretty
little maiden in pinkbroche; from Hyde Park, a
member s daughter in pale-blue broohe, whom
everyone likes; from Moore Park, two sisters in
white, their tresses livened with cardinal and blue
respectively; from Surry Hills, the small owner
of a charming blue broche—a tall fair girl in blue
—and a married lady exceedingly nice in black,
black beads and lace, and from the bodice and bust
were hanging double loops of white pearls, black
gloves completing a handsome effect. A nice
little girl in cream veiling assumed an attitude
exactly like a boomerang, which is not necessary
in dancing, though people often do it. A very
striking dress was worn by a tall blonde from
Darlinghurst, the skirt of vivid Turkey-red was
partly covered with long tabs from the bodice of
cream surah, which was belted with red. A little
girl in white satin and veiling looked as Well’s
any; an,alderman’s daughter of Surry Hills were
a rich grenat satin; and two sisters were excellent
dancers, one in ruby and blue, and one in pink
with cheeks to match. A Glebe young lady in
biack net was very fair* and her sister even more
so—
A lassie most extremely fair,
Whose cheeks were rosy bright,
With long and light-brown glittering hair,
And eyes that spoke delight;
With golden belt around her waist,
A young and charming maid,
In snowy garb and dainty taste,
And christened Adelaide.
• • •
Everyone who was fortunate enough to be
at the Ladies' Ball at Petersham admitted that it
was a capital affair and another evidence of their
good spirit. Nearly seventy couples were there,
the ladies being most hospitable in their invitations,
and they engaged Shapter’s music for aancing. Mr.
Snudden, a local man, catered refreshments; and
Mr. G. B. Lewis sacrificed his ease to act as M.C.
A few had to leave by the last train, but the
majority stayed till about three o’clock in the
morning. A 3a.m. train upanddowu the line each
way would be a great boon to suburban people—
there are now so very many balls and parties held
from which visitors have to hurry away when only
half through the fun. Upon Mrs. Lewis and Miss
Bone, as joint hon. secs, of the committee, fell
most of the responsibility of the ball, and they
have the reflection that it was a success. About
two-score ladies were concerned, and one item on
the programme was a ladies’ lancers, during
wh'ch tne other sex were supposed to take
a rest or a whiff downstairs They went
upstairs to look on instead, and a young gentle-
man brought obloquy upon his classic name
by introducing the shrill theatre whistle, as used by
the gods in the gallery—which place, judging from
his behaviour, he probably frequents when his
mamma allows him to visit the temple Of the
drama. It is unfortunate that such rudeness
(For continuation of SoeiAi* i»e next page.)


Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hockings and
Co , 143 Pitt-street.*
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
fla»r and floral decorations. 60$ Hunter-street,
Sydney.*
An elastic step, buoyant spirits, and clear
complexion, are amonar the many desirable results
of pure blood. The possessor of healthy blood
has his faculties at command, and enjoys a dear
and quick perception, which is impossible when
the blood is heavy and sluffffish with impurities.
A.YEB'B SjVROApARU,La is the heat hlood purifier
and vitiliser known.
YOU are oertain to make Money if you buy at
Koirarab Township on 25th. WATKIN and
WaTKIN.
"XTon are certain to make Money it' you buy at
1 Koparah Township on 35th. WATKIN and
tv ATKIN.
HORDERNS
ON THE
33rlc3s±ield. Sill.
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS In LAGE CURTAINS.
These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
LACE CURTAINS, 100 PRICES.
residing In the country can have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
Curtains. If you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it ostt, and we will forward exactly
the-same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
s
IS
a
ttKSSaSfißßfil
LACE CURTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covera.
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. &T Examine carefully the engraving of our
‘ LACE CURTAINS.”
Price:, 12s. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d. the pair.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
"j LACE CURTAINS | 668 BRICKFIELD HILL. j LACE CURTAINS |
&T Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
ahouA have been shown to the ladies who gave
hill Of course, there were many fine dancers
nresJJt one™asa lovely lady with a Milesian
PjSfi black and white, and two were the sisters
from Hildaville One beautiful girl, from Nor-
wood Hill, manifested an extreme purify
Tf aMlein her plain white satin; two sisters
from ■ Dar Hngb u r st were admirable, one in
blue and pink, the younger all in white.
The aiiter of an athlete, also in white, with bMI
skirt was lively company. One of the hand-
annip'st toilets was a blue satin, tinged with argent,
oaught up with pink plumes on one side, from
Rnrincrthorp. Two young ladies were both ae-
knowfedged beauties-one.from Sydney, in cream
and pink rosebuds, and one from Stanmore in
white satin, both and fair. From Manly
came a really nice girl all in black, with a very
name - and from Sunnyslde two sisters, in
ggf 22“ white respectively. The ball ended
about 3 o’clock.
* * *
On Saturday afternoon, the members of
her evening class tendered Mrs.i F. Warskitt a
complimentary picnic at Cremorne. A steamer
was chartered for the company of about ,0, and
mft the quay at •£ o'clack. Dancing and other re-
creation was kept up until sunset, stringed music
being provided, but the Italian noblemen who
served it out were rather apt to hurry. However,
as the floor was good, and there was a cold breeze,
and the dancers were nearly all skilful, they
managed to keep pretty level with the disciples of
Ornheus A capital luncheon was catered, and,
after it was disposed of, several touts were given,
Mr Butler being in the chair, and Mr. John Young
?hon sec) in the vice-chair. Mrs. Warakitt'a good
health and success was tne chief toast. The com-
pany was thoroughly jolly, and, as some of the
bfist DUDili were present, the dancinr was a treat.
The teamer landed all at the quay soon after
dark. „ *
On the 9th, the Victoria , Theatre at Mait-
land was prettily decorated for the Philharmonic
concert and fairly tilled. The musical efforts were
ouite a’success, Mrs. Spencer and Mr. Hallewell
being in splendid voice. Miss Cobcroft, though
far from well, rendered her piece “ Heaven aud
Karth” with great feeling. Her simple dress of
white cashmere and white satin ribbon, with a
tastv bunch of flowers at the waist, looked very
elegant. Mrs. Spencer wore a blue satin, richly
trimmed with white edelweiss lace; and Mrs. Lar-
delli a cream embroidered dress and cardinal drap-
in',, Mrs. (Dr.) Power looked splendid in a pale
irreen satin nearly covered with white lace. Two
Sisters from East Maitland looked nice in pink and
white: also a little girl in pink dress with blue
trimmings, the youngest member ot the society.
Signor Lardelli, Miss King, and Mrs. Power accom-
panied. „ * *
The Sydney Owls held their quarterly
hvcinx at the new Masonic flail on the evening of
Wednesday week, when the usual heterogeneous
Drogramme was presented. Mr. Shepherd played
the overture in good style, and Mr. Woodfield sang
•“Aubade” in bad style—or was it the hall, or the
niano? It occurs to us when too late that it
couldn’t be Woodfleld himself who was at fault—
at least, hardly. Two amusing petite morceaux by
Dr Burne and Mr. A. Isaacs made the grave birds
laugh which was somewhat fortunate, as the
vocal pabulum on the whole was not ot a sort to
excite cheerfulness. A tuneful ballad by Mr. Jef-
ferson—which, alas for the contrariness of differ-
ent tastes, was hardly well received stood
alone, and is the only thing we can remem-
ber having wished to encore during the evening.
Between fifty and sixty couples remained to the
■dance, which took place “when the chairs were
.cleared away,” and twinkling feet usurped the
kloor, Many beautiful dresses were to be ob-
served; but of these only hasty mention can be
.•given. Prominent among them, however, was
<me that adorned a regal-looking Jewish lady,
*8 jmposed of cream satin broche elegautly trimmed
with white lace and ostrich feathers, and having
email golden pompons scattered over the skirt. A
well-known and much-admired belle from Pyr-
mout appeared iu snort crimson satin polonaise
trimmed with white lace, over a white muslin
skirt, made bullionn<se; this dress was cut square
at the neck, with elbow sleeves. A lady from
Woolloomooloo wore a becoming dress of white
Indian muslin, panelled and pauniered with an
indistinct yellow shade of satin. A satin dress
of the new elephant’s breath tint, richly trimmed
with white lace, attracted notice; and another
of white figured muslin over blue silk, worn
.by a youthful city lady, w«s much admired.
'The wife of a prominent musical member was at-
'tired in an aesthetically made costume of ivory
■satin and ruuy velvet, with a shoulder-knot of
ruby satin ribbon. A handsome pale-blue silk,
made t res bouffante at the pack, the bodice cut
square aud ornamented with crimson roses, the
whole tastefully trimmed with white lace, adorned
ithe person of a young lady who, we think, called
Dariinghurst her home. A resident of George-
Btreet wore a pretty pink silk, plainly made, but
'very graceful, with an Elizabethan satin frill.
.Near her sat a lady in pure white satin, a lace and
itulle jabot adorned her neck, and a bouquet of
iplnk aud white roses; lndeed.no costume seemed
'to be considered complete without flowers of some
sort—roses, for the most part—placed in knot,
wreath, or cluster on some part of it. One other
•dress—last, out perhaps as beautiful as any—was
•composed of black broche, the bodice V shaped
■back and front, gold trimmed, and ornamented
with clusters of golden flowers; the sleeves were
•out short, and composed of black lace.
• • *
The Balmain Amateur Dramatic Club gave
tits friends a treat on Friday evening, the 10th
liostant. “Partners for lfife ” was the pieco pre-
sented, and very well presented, too and a great
majority of the audience, who doubtless took their
'Seats with the feelings of martyrs, were probably
agreeably disappointed to observe the superior
•find of performance presented for their amuse-
ment. The fact is, this club is going ahead. There
is histrionic talent of no mean order to be seen in
that little amateur gathering every quarter at the
School of Arts, Balmain, aud perhaps no better
evidence is wanted than the successful production
of a piece of which Sydney is about full up just
now. We have seen it before —too much before.
Muggles palls upon us, and Tom Gilroy fails to
draw from us a tear. But on that mimic staae.
under the generous gaze of friendly eyes, the
hackneyed scenes appeared to take fresh life, and
tee old old story to take new habiliments. Was it
itkat the old old story will always be new so long as
•there are hearts to beat and souls to respond to
'tale* of love and youDg folks' ways ? Or, to come
off our stilts, was it because of the feminine
element, in whieh the club is so undoubtedly
strong? A light breaks in on us. We see!
Briefly reviewing the dramatis pergonal, ana
giving place to the dames, Miss Morran was
almost—no, take that out, compositor—she was
• quite perfect as Fanny Smith. We have seen this
■ lady iu the dim previous, and she was good then —
mow she is better; in fact, we like her mor’an more
'every time, in that pretty light dress, with the
uittle spotted thingumiesoverit, she made the most
■of some fifteen feet of Mervyn Grounds-in wnich
tthe first act is located. The second act revealed
'her in an evening dress of ruby ottoman velvet
>and salmon coloured satin, trimmed with crearn-
tttnted Spanish iace. Yet another change, in the
Hast act, in which Miss Morran was attired in an
•elegant walking costume of some new grey mate-
rnal—we didn t know the name ot it, and she didn’t
■know, but we both agreed that it was pretty, so
'We didn't Quarrel. MioS Townley made a graceful
■Emily Mervyn, and proved to be more successful
un her part than is the gooa fortune ot many a fair
dubutante. One of Miss Towojey’s dresses was of
'black satin, beautifully fltUpg, and having a col-
darette of red eatin and cream Miss Jones
ffook the part of Priscilla, and was jettejvperfeot in
ut; but Priscilla is a designing old maid,, with cork-
screw curls and a wrinkled face, and Miss Jones-
well, to be mild, Miss J. isn't of that complexion;
“So it was hard to reconcile us to the disguise.
Amongst the gentlemen there was room for a lot
‘® r <riti°nim and space for a lot of praise. M uggles,
*n the hands-ef Mr. Walker, kept tne place,in a roar,
ted Woo uescrved'y upp.uuded Mr. Walker has
talent and confidence, and these combine to make
his acting natural and easy and gain him favour.
Mr. Frank Smith, in the part of the hero—always
a difficult one for amateurs—evinced an intelli-
gent appreciation of the part. Mr. Duncan Smith,
in the character of Major Billiter, was decidedly
good, though rather boisterous; and Mr. F. Jones,
as Goppinger, did tne little he had to do well. Mr.
A. Perry (as Mr. Horace Mervyn), Mr. A. M‘Cle-
mens (Sir Archibald Drelincourt), and Mr. F.
Pearce (as Mr. Mervyn’s nephew), all combined to
present a “cast” which is not often excelled
among amateurs in these parts. The orchestra
was provided by Mr. Hobson's amateur string
band, which rendered several selections through-
out the evening creditably. The entertainment
was witnessed by a large and fashionable audience,
including most of the jeunesse doree of Balmain, a
large number of whom remained to the dance
which afterwards took place. A pretty notion of
Mr. Perry’s was thescented programme with which
the audience was provided—and many a surprised
and gratified sniff resulted from the proximity of
the perfumed sheet to unsuspecting noses.
• • • •
On Friday evening, the great draper, Mr.
Anthony Hordern, was banqueted in the Em-
porium by his employes, Mr. John Lumsden taking
the chair. There were no intoxicants, Mr. Hordorn
himself being a teetotaller. There were several
toasts, the chief one being “ The Guest of the
evening,” by Mr. C. Doust. Mr. Anthony Hordern
made a most interesting and feeling speech ime-
ply. Reviewing his own early struggles, before
he gained the highway which promises to land him
as the Vanderbilt among drapers, he gave some
sensible advice to his employes, urging that a
draper had a better opening before him than a
bank clerk. He told them plainly he would like to
see a little more talent shown, and it would make
the firm proud to say it had turned outsom9 of the
best men in Australia. And he desired to gain their
respect; without that, even wealth would lose its
advantages. “I go,” said Mr. Hordern, “to and
iro in the world, gazing on its wonders, meeting
its great political and commercial men, but I have
always a feeling you can all understand—a desire
to be among you, and a longing for my native
land.” Long applause followed his neatly-chosen
words. The chairman, amid much laughter, told
his recollections of how in the primitive times
they had worked from 7 in the morning till 8 at
night., unless “ the governor ’ —who used to open
the cases himself—should chance to say to them,
on an occasional wet night, “ Gentlemen, those
who live farthest away may go home a little
earlier.” It was stated at the banquet that neither
Mr. Anthony nor Mr. Samuel Hordern smoked or
drank.
m 9 *
There are to be some very grand balls in
Melbourne shortly; in fact, the time of the Mel-
bourne Cup is getting gayer every year, money is
lavished on show and luxury of all kinds, and
society enters into a perfect carnival of pleasure.
There are sore hearts and heavy bills to pay in
many a household after the Cup week. It is only
the few who can stand the fearful expense which
society entertaining now entails. Among these
Lady Clarke will not suffer much by her ball on
the 30th instant, which is to be ineffably grand. On
the 3rd November, the Hon. Henry (better known
as “Money”) Miller gives a superfine ball. He
need not stint, either. The Owl Club mask ball
will be on the 6th in the Town Hall; and in the
same building on the Bth the Melbourne Club give
a magnificent entertainment to their dancing
friends.
* * *
Pearl Bay was the scene of the annual
picnic of John Sands and Co *s employes, on Satur-
day. Two steamers went down at 9 and 11 a.m,
and games soon started. Sports for prizes included
apprentices’, girls’, journeymen’s, and lady visi-
tors’ races, and dancing was a favourite pastime.
Attendance was large, and a banquet was served
in the pavilion, when S. Carter took the chair, and
proposed the health of the Arm. Mr. Jos. Sands
replied, and other toasts followed. The party
returned to town at dark.
v * *
The Newtown Socials closed the season
with a ball at the Oddfellows’ Hall, Newtown, last
Friday evening. There was a cheerful company,
plenty of room, good music, and a tastefully-laid
supper table, without any crush. Miss Turner
wore rose-pink satin, prettily draped with white
lace; Miss Sugrfen, pale pink, with cream Spanish
lace flounces; two sisters from Forbes-street, pale
blue and cream laoe; Miss Ryan, pale pink broche
andpearls; two sisters from Alice-street, crea •
cashmere and satin; Mrs. Wild man and Mrs. Cock-
baine, rich black lace and pansies; Mrs. Ryan,
from the Glebe, a very handsome black satin,
trimmed elegantly with black Spanish lace;
Miss Cameron, pale-blue skirt and a handsome
over-skirt of ruby velvet; Miss White, creamy
cashmere skirt, paie-blue satin bodioe; two s sters
from Station-street looked very nice, one in quaint
skirt of black cashmere with cardinal satin bodice,
the other pale pink satin; Miss Wayman, pale
salmon satin, with white lace looped with white
roses and green leaves; a married lady from Bent-
street, dark cardinal ottoman cord, prettily
arranged in the front with dark roses. During
the evening, or the early hours of morn, several
gentlemen tried their vocal powers, especially the
“ Doctor,” who was said to be a little “ off colour.”
One gentleman gave “The Parson and the Clerk,”
and a bicyclist from St. Peter’s sang “ New bonnet
for mv mother.” A Balmain amateur sang "Jack’s
come home to-day,” and “ Wait till the clouds roll
by.” The ball closed a little after 4 o'clock, all
having enjoved themselves. The socials have
been well carried out, and will probably be con-
tinued next season.
9*9
The Flower Show in connection with the
Hunter River A. k proved quite a success, the
flowers being lovely, and by half-past three the
two pav lions and lawn were alive with visitors,
all more or less in light summer attire. Two tali
sisters from East Maitland, in lemon-coloured satin
Bkins. broche bodies, ruby velvet capes, and styl-
ish hats to match, looked elegant. A young mar-
ried lady, in blue muslin with dots of white, grace-
fully draped over a pretty figure, looked charming.
A steel ottoman broche and bonnet to match; a
lady from Sydney, in ficelle cashmere trimmed with
be., hat and feathers to correspond, were nice; a
young lady from the East, in ficelle cashmere
trimmed with light figured silk, large leghorn hat,
and cream featpeys, nicely suited her tall, grace-
ful figure and pretty fa,ce. A lady from Campbell's
Hil) wore light-brown tuoked skirt very tull ; a
Duckenfield lady looked splendid in elephant’s
breath and b.opiief to match, as did a married lady
from Koseneaffi, in bauds,pine broche train, ele-
gant dolman, and bhenilie fringe. Another mar-
ried lady, in cream gateem figured top trimmed
witn lace; vnd a lady in light figure,ql grey, and
cream hat, were attractive. Tfiere was a good
band, and as there was also a good wjmd, pretty
boots were an advantage.
u * *
To-day (Thursday) the third annual picnio
of the Produce Merchants’ Protective Association
takes place at the Sir Joseph Banks, Botany. There
will be lots of dancing and fun; and if you don’t
happen to see this till after the special 'buses have
left at ten o’clock, of course you can go out in the
tram any time.
* * *
As a contrast to last year, the Government
Printing Office people had a lovely day on Satur-
day for their picnio. There wss plenty of dancing,
to the music of the Mercantile Band. Football,
cricket, and of ier games of the more girly-girly
sort all had their adherents; there were art-
unions, a trip up Middle Harbour, and a 5 o'clock
tea. That ought to be Gnougb. At the dinner,
Mr. Cullen, the publisher, presided, surrounded by
the var.ous heads of branches; and Messrs. Dibbs,
Gibbes, Rae, Richards, &c., were present. Brief
speeches met the views of the pleasurers, some of
whom attended the set banquet, but the great
majority did the al-fresco style under the trees.
• * *
As a Hfiod of return for the many times
they have been “ agjfed out,” a party of bachelors
moving jn th« “besf set” }n Melbourne, gave a
private ball ojf a very ficff&vchi gjnd jn the Grand
Hotel, a few days ago. The pifl% fa Mel-
bourne were there, and the costumes raviihing
the place redolent with flowers and fragrwice,
and the supper served in the last new style,
i.e., in a special room where little parties of three
or four each had their own tables, and ordered a Id
carte. Except one lancers, all were circular
dances. Lord Castlcrosse, Captain Traill (private
secretary), Lord W. Neville and others were some
of the hosts, and among the guests were Lady
Clarke, in a lovely white satin, with tulle water-
fall and hosts of diamonds; Miss Clarke in white
silk and coffee lace; Misses Fairbairn, Snodgrass,
Halford, Ryan, Jeffries, Mrs. R. Power, Sir W.
Clarke, Dr. Ryan, Captains Thomas and Hughes,
etc. Nearly all the ladies’ bouquets were designed
to match the flowers on the bodice.
** * *
Birmingham and Midland District Club
had a singing social last week, Mr. Yon San-
den being accompanist—There was a Govern-
ment House ball at Noumea on the 24tb Sep-
tember, ;kept up till daylight. The great
feature of Noumean balls is the splendid
music of the convict band, who play in an iron
cage. If any fellow plays out of tuue, be sat once
sentenced to another century's imprisonment....
On the 7th inst., the North Star Lodge of Oddfel-
lows had a concert, supper, and hall iu the Protes-
tant Hall. Ladies aud gentlemen gave some good
songs, and the dancing to Mr. Somers' music was
continued till beyond three in the morning.
The Protestant Hall is a very comfortable
place for these pleasant reunions, but way don’t
they do something to that fearful floor?
On the 7th instrnt, Captain J. Henderson of the
Samuel Plimsoll was picnicked at Botany, a num-
ber of friends going out to wish him success and
to join in various sports. Mr. inspector Johnson
proposed the guest's health.. The fuel merchants
of Darling Harbour held their annual picnic at
Botany. Sports were interrupted by rain, but
there was plenty of dancing and a good dinner,
when the toast of the “ Wo. - i and Coal Merchants
was proposed, most appropriately, by a gentleman
named Burns. Parliament, was illustriously repre-
sented by Messrs. Abigail a n d Mitchell. The
weather was a great drawback; it was a coal-day
and wood rain The aunual nail in aid of the
Hospital at Parkes eventuated on the 2nd October,
and was fairly successful. There were some forty
couples present, a good floor and catering, and Mr.
M. Pearson was M.C. Daylight saw the last couple
out of the door. About £2O cleared. Miss Robin-
son in pink, and Miss Hall in cardinal satin and
black velvet, divided honours for belle—There
was an immense crush on Wednesday at Hordern's
Palace EJmporiuin concept. Three bands played
all over the building, and the goods wore displayed
on view. But the crowd was too great for comfort
.. .There was a tradesman's ball at a few
days ago...,Ladies’society formed in Brisbane to
obtain repeal of the C. D. Act, which is in force
there Smoking has been prohibited in chess-
room of the School of Arts....NextTuesdayafcer-
noon, at 2.30, Archbishop Morau is to open a grand
bazaar at the Haymarket Actdemy, in aid of St.
Peter’s Church On 25th inst., the junior teachers
of Public Schools have a day’s sport down the har-
bour Lady Coitus w.mt to see •’Moths.” Oh I
At Wolumla, ou the 10th Nov , a day's sport
wul windup with a ball at the School of Arts...
Grand juvenile ball by the Mayor of Melbourne, on
16th prox ... There was a ball at Nyngan last Fri-
day, givenby the married and single gentlemen
There are several good concerts coming. Next
Thursday, one will be given by that clever pian-
iite, Mrs. Palmer; on 19th November, Mdme. Kel-
lermann has one in the Protestant Hall; and one
in aid of the Chizlett fund follows in November.
The Girls' friendly Society is designed to aid
those who have not the advantages ot a parental
home. Each lady associat« ot the society has a
pertain number of girls under her care, and when
a girl moves from one locality to another, she is
given to another associate s cg,re. It is intended to
naye a recreation room h acl *4 borpe for girls. A
garden party and bazaar will ba hold at Bishops l
court soon in aid of these particular damsels...;
Miss Edith Brownlow, daughter of Mrs. K. Brown l
low, of Gowrie, Waverley, was married at at.
Michael’s on the Bth inst., to Mr. R. E. Lentball, of
Wollombi (son of the Sydney sub-inspector). Her
sisters, Maude and Mabel, were bridesmaids, and a
number of family friends were present. Mr.
Younger played the Wedding March. Breakfast at
Gowrie. Honeymoon at Windsor .. Last week.
“ Doctor Diamouds ” was banqueted in Melbourne
Town Hall by 400 gentlemen, who all either regard
him with unbounded admiration, or have axes to
grind ...Mayor of Melbourne, Mr. Charles Smith,
presented, on retiring, with a gold chain of thirty-
two links, each bearing the name of a previous
Mayor. New Mayor, G. D. Carter.... Sydney Foot-
ball Club annual picnic at Chowder on Satur-
day. Dancing to German Band, sports, 300 there,
and home again at 6 p.m On Wednesday,
ball at Wollongong by the Harmony Band
Mr. R. H. Gault was married to Miss Roberts,
daughter of the wel'-known jeweller, onSatwrday,
Considerable interest was taken in the wedding?*
and Baumann provided a rieherchi breakfa&t at
Underdid, Double Bay, where the bride’s parents
entertained their guests Grand flower ahow i,u
aid of church funds was held at St. Peter's* on
Friday and Saturday. Lovely women sold flowers
at high prices in a marquee, which was lit up at
night with candles on a swinging frame—a new
Southern Cross It was rather romantic, and when
the young people got tired of the flowers, they
stroiled outside and spooned on the tombstones*.
At a sacred concert in St. Andrew’s school-.
room, on Monday, Miss Moorehouse sang “Restin
the Lord” with excellent effect, and Mrs. Lee’s
•‘Angels ever bright and fair’’ was equally good.
The duet, “ Harps of gold,” by Misses Moorehouse
and Krauss was tasteiully delivered; and after his
song " The Lost Chord,” Mr. Berry had to give an
encore piece. Miss Griffiths presided at the organ,
It is intended next month to give ” PiUrim’s Pro.
gross.” Albury Private Assembly season wound
up on the 6th with a bal mosque,and amid the variety
of dress were observed a masher as Prince Fr-iteu
lini, a Huntsman, a little Gipsy in good spirits, and
a good-looking Chinaman. L’Eufant de France
was especially well represented. Two lively young
ladies were Maids of Ireland, and three were
Scotch Lassies; Lizzie Stofel suited the character
exactly. Columbine, Earl of Leicester, Frank
Darlington (from Youth ”), Paul Pry, and others
were prominent. A return ball is talked 0t.... 44
about thp Mayor’s ball ne*t week.
80CIAL FIXTURES,
Hurstyille Bafl October 16.
Produce Merchants’ Picnio (Botany)....October 18.
Glebe Football Club Bail October 17.
Builders’ Picnic (Botany) October 31.
Eureka Plain and Fancy Ball (Tatter-
sail’s -Hall October 31.
St. Peter’s Bazaar opens (Haymarket)..October 31.
Campbelltowu Assembly October 34.
Glebe Bowling Club Soirde November 6.
Assembly Bali (School ot Arts, Bai-
rn ain) November 7.


When Wolfe’s Schnapps was first given
to the public, maDy discredited the worth ot tne
great cordial. To-day, it stands without a rival
elixir in the catalogue of magnificent tonics aim
stimulants.
Strollers along our principal thoroughfare
were amused last week at the sight of the Mao
. b Lilt! thp
King with his ornamented phiz pressed against tn
'~'gg rp-street. in undisguiseu
window-pane at 404 George-auiect, w
admiration of the splendid show of Bray s china
ware. *
Queen Elizabeth was a mighty sovereign,
virtuous, beautiful, and wise. Queen f llz ?‘ D t he
waß, like most daughters of five, particular in
matter of costume, and wore a deeper run »
higher heeled shoes than anybody at her con*
Queen Elizabeth was aUo remarkable for anoi
tiling—she was the first English lady who eve_
wore stockings—stockings of delicate * n n
factured in France—how embroidered or n
ornamented, tradition tells us not. fas »
cescend; and now, and for long since, tne sei
maid «oes not stockiDgless, any n o*v
Koya! mirtress. The stocking industry I ho
one of the greatest of industries, keeping of
wolf from the door, and the cold from the te *»
thousands and thous nds. Made of light, “ rd _
fabric, or of warm and comforting wool, j t n
ingto the exigencies ot climate a- d ® ff?ngand
not extraordinary that the feminine stock £, hey
the masculine sock are much sought aitei. 0
tell us at Anthony Hordern and pons, ly
Emporium, Haymarket, that they cannot l
I their oust* mors last enough.*
Political
Points
Redactions of rent to the extent of
£540,000 annually have been wrung out, of the
landlords in the Irish land-courts. This Is alto-
gether apart from the indirect work done uy the
Act in the form of arrangements voluntarily made
between landlord and tenant.
The Boers are becoming “fcheekier” than
ever. Sir Hercules Robinson and Mr. Mackenzie,
the British Government resident, were, the other
day, denounced in the Volksraadby Mr. Kruger,
President of the Transvaal Republic, and Mr.
.Toubert, his leading Minister, as “liars and in-
triguers.”
A certain colonel in the North of Ireland
is so enthusiastic an Orangeman that, on the night
before a Nationalist meeting, he ordered every
window in his house to be broken by his own
coachman, “so as Tim Healey’s blackguards
shouldn’t have the satisfaction of breakin’ ’em
next day, begorrahl”
The Londonderry Standard, a loyal
Ministerial paper, says that “ Ireland feels af-
fronted at being governed by a stall among whom
such men as Bolton are held in honour. The Castle
Government must be abolished, and all the ollicials
dismissed. The Castle is nothing but a nest, and a
foul nest, of Tories, and there must be a clean
sweep.”
.England's most deadly foe in the not dis-
tant future will be the German, on whom the
“aristocratic” classes have smiled so long. As
British power can with difficulty be set at nought
in transatlantic countries, German papers discuss
the question as to whether it might not be advan-
tageous to strike a blow at English naval supre-
macy by a coup de main on Heligoland.
This is positively delicious. A young peer
turned up at the House of Lords to vote against
the Franchise Bill, and was unable to bring his un-
familiar face to the recollection of the House. At
last he was compelled to use this one “ plain argu-
ment” to convince the door-keeper: “Do you
think.” asked his lordship, “that I should be such
a fool as to come this to place if I were not a
Peer ?” ✓
Bolton, the disreputable Irish Crown-Soli-
citor, has been suspended, The Dublin Express,
which is edited by “a flaming Orangeman,” the
Dublin correspondent of the Times (whose Irish
news is thus to be taken at a stiff discount), com-
plains that the Government “ have thrown Bolton
to the wolves.” The Parnellite party have pur-
sued Bolton to his official end with a laudable
ferocity.
A comical judicial contretemps has oc-
curred at Warsaw. Two Russian judges accident-
ally ohanged overcoats, and one was horrified on
getting home to find his pockets full of incendiary
documents. The other, JBardowski, was still more
horrified on getting into bed, to find himself
“ wanted ” by the police. He will probably never
have .the opportunity of exchanging overcoats
again, except in Siberia.
Lord Row ton (formerly Mr. Montagu Corry,
secretary to Lord Beaconstleld) has been to see the
Queen twice lately. He is regarded by H.M. as the
depositary of the political ideas of the deceased
Earl. Lord Rowton has been telling his friends
that the Queen will not sanction a creation of
Peers to swamp the Tory majority in the Upper
House; she will prefer to use the prerogative of
dissolution rather than the prerogative of creating
Peers.
A man named Grundy, who was arrested
in 188 a, charged with having assassinated Constable
Cox, in Dublin, and was afterwards released, has
Bworn that Holton, Crown Prosecutor, came to his
cell and offered him £5OO if he would give evidence
against J. Poole, a Fenian head-centre, who was
afterwards executed. In view of Bolton having
sworn during the libel actions that he never en-
tered a cell to induce a prisoner to give evidence,
Mr. O’Brien, M.P., is, it is said, about to endeavour
to institute a proseeution against him for perjury.
Russia is steadily working towards Herat.
Once there, Skobeloff foresaw that Russia would
?osseBB a base for massing an army of 100,000 men
or a descent upon India, and he advocated such
an attack, not to conquer India, but to assist the
people in expelling us fiom the country. Once
expelled, he believed our commerce would shrivel
ud and that we would no longer be in a position
to oppose Russia in Europe. So said Charles Mar-
vin reoently, adding, “ Russia does not want Con-
stantinople to get India, but India to get Constan-
tinople.”
Two hundred and five Peers strangled the
Bill whioh would have enfranchised two millions
of men. Grant that the 205 are the quintessence of
birth and breeding, culture and refinement, wealth,
patriotism, and ability, there is a per contra. The
two million unrepresented householders surely
possess in the aggregate a certain amount of all
these qualities. Take wealth, for instance. Divide
2,000,000 by 205, and the product is 9750 and a frac-
tion, so that in round numbers there are 10,000
capable citizens of the unrepresentative class to
each obstructive Peer.
Lloyd’s Weekly referring to Conservat-
ism in extremis, says acidly that the opposition to
ileform cannot be very vigorous when it is organ-
ised by a disunited party, bolstered up by rowdy-
ism, and advocated by a Press said to be in need of
outdoor relief. It seems that at a recent Tory
meeting a Conservative editor declared that the
real question they were all interested in was
whether Tory papers should be subsidised by in-
stalments or lump sums. Were we a Tory editor,
there should be no "whether” in it-our vote
should be solid for “lump sums,”
The big Democratic party in Great Britain
is going straight for the abolition of the hereditary
legislators of the Lords, despite the cry that that
mythical creature the poor Conservative working
niau, doesn't want to be robbed;of his peer. “The
problem how the Lords are to be abolished is of
easy solution. They cannot present themselves at
the Gil -led Chamber without write, and uone need
in future be sent to them. Should they come
without writs, the police could be instructed to
take charge ol them. Or the House of Commons
could simply revive its resolution of 6th January,
1(149, decreeing their abolition.” This is how the
uitra-nadicals regard the matter.
The announcement that the Boers at Pre-
toria, that is to say, not the filibusters on Che
border, but the leading men at the capital of the
South African Republic-have proclaimed a pro-
tectorate of Zululand, is serious intelligence in-
deed. Taken together with the attack on Montsioa,
*he denunciations of Sir Hercu'es Robinson in the
Volksraad, and the resignation of Mr. Mackenzie,
JJv l question whether South Africa is to be Dutch
jor English is being forced to t he front more rapidly
than was expected. If we had oniy to deal with
the Dutch iu th‘r Transvaal, we could settle the
matter easily enough. Unfortunately the Dutch
iu the Cape colony have to be reckoned with.
The British public don’t share to the full
the “ deep thankfulness ” expressed by the Queen
at the birth of another Royal grandson. Indeed,
it will soon become a serious question as to what
js to be done with the alre.-.dy too numerous family
of the Royals, as there are at the present moment
more pensioners on the list than the nation can
afford to keep. There are the Princes Christian,
Teok, Saxe-Weimar, Leiningen, Gleichen, Batten-
berg, the whole of the Queen’s children, and the
Cambridgos. In addition to these, there is quite
an army of princes and princesses growing up that
will have to be provided for by someone. But,
what is worst of ail, the public have not only to
keep them while alive, but they are also put to the
expense of burying them.
At the great Naionalist demonstration at
Monaghan, Mr. Healy, M.P., said the party was
proceeding by leaps and bounds to victory. Every
day brought them new strength, better spirits, and
more hopeful encouragement; while, on the other
hand, every day thinned and decimated the ranks
of their enemies. Where was George Bolton now ?
Groans.) Where was French ? (Groans.) Where
was Cornwall? (Groans) Where was John Byrne,
and where was Elliott ? (Groans.) Where were all
the rotten magistrates that were persecuting the
people? (A Voice: “They are all in h—l.”) To
use a common phrase, the Irish Party were “ down-
ing” them one by onb—(hear, hear)—and when
they returned at the next election seventy or
eighty members, all he would say was this—that it
would be a very poor look-out for snakes. The
day would soon come when that mischievous in-
stitution, the House of Lords, which had defeated
so many good measures and mutilated so many
more, would be swept off the face of the earth.
Mr T. D. Sullivan said that in a short wi.ile that
measure of justice, the franchise, would carry
terror into tbe strongholds of Toryism in North
and South of Ireland. The enemies of the people
had already taken the alarm, and were striving to
defeat or delay the passing of the Act by the old
plan of setting the people against each other; but
they would not succeed. Many sarcastic allusions
were made in regard to the sudden indisposition
of Mr, Trevelyan just as the villanies of his most
trusted officials had been made public.
At Birmingham, John Bright delivered to
15,000 people a thundering philippic against the
Lords. Fifty years back, he said, the fathers of
those who stood around him were without vote
or voice in tbe Commons—they were in the posi-
tion of the two millions now about to be enfran-
chised in spite of the House of Peers. The Lords
still exhibited the same bitter hatred of Liberal
administration, and of justice and freedom. They,
personally, didn’t look much different from other
BALANCED.
FIRST INEBRIATE: “PLEBRIATH PICK UP MY SHTICK, SHIR?”
SECOND DITTO: “SHAN’T! I’M JUSH ASH BAD ASH YOU ARE, YOU SELFISH BEASHT?"
men, and they were utterly destitute of any claim
to be called more learned. But the families hold-
ing places in the Chamber owned a fifth of the
land of the United Kingdom. They had the ap-
pointment of several thousand teachers of the
people in the highest things, for 500 peers owned
4000 livings in the Church of England. (Shame.)
In their capacities as lord-lieutenants of counties,
they appointed almost all the country magistrates,
and as great land-owners they exercised a power-
ful control over country representation—in some
counties the whole representation was in the
hands of three or four peers. They were taxed
less than the landlords of any European kingdom
or of America. It was once said that the path to
the temple of honour lay through the temple of
virtue; out the peer merely went to the temple of
honour through the tomb of a dead ancestor.
(Laughter). No constituency could punish a lord
—for him there was a political immortality. In
the words of the Psalmist, “They are not in
trouble as other men; neither are they plagued as
other men; therefore,’ he says, “pride com-
passeth them about as a chain ; they speak wick-
edly concerning oppression, they sneak loftily.”
Many of their number were the result, the spawn,
and plunder of the wars, and the corruption of the
dark ages. They risked a revolution in 1832. For
thiity years, from 1815 to 1846, they raised their
rents by law at the cost of periodic famine to
hundreds of thousands of families in this kingdom.
The calamities of Ireland, the sufferings, discon-
tent, and disloyalty of its people, were mainly
owing to the persistent resolution of the Lords for
fifty years, to pass no measure for the relief or
satisfaction of the Irish nation. No additions to
the House of Lords, from whatever class, would
ever make it more Liberal; the sons did as their
fathers had done before them, and there was no
p over under heaven which could change tnem
save their own countrymen. Privilege every-
where begot ignorance, selfishness, and arrogance,
just as the system under which the Commons
existed nurtured a growing sense that liberty and
justice wore necessary for a free people. Had the
Lords ruled unch eked, the people would long ere
now have been enslaved or the peers would have
been eaten up by a revolution which would have
swept away the monarchy itself. He (Mr. Bright)
wished to act on the old lim s of constitutional
advance, and so would, in the first place, go for a
mere limitation of the Lords’ power of veto. But
the Lords would have to be curbed—and curbed
they would be; for, if the forefathers of the
Engl ehukn before him could curb the Crown,
their sons could curb the nobles. (Great cheers.)
Mr. Chamberlain also spoke and got a splendid
ovation.
SWINBURNE ON THE HOUSE OF LORDS.
Clear the way, my lords and lackeys 1 you have
had your day. , , ,
Here you have your answer—England s yea against
your nay; ,
Long enough your House has held you; up, ana
clear the way!
Lust and falsehood, craft and traffic, precedent
and gold, . . , ,
Tongue of courtier, kiss of harlot, promise bought
and sold,
Gave you heritage of empire over thralls of old.
Now that all these things are rotten, all their gold
is rust,
Quenched the pride they lived by, dead the faith
and cold the lust, , , .
Shall their heritage not also turn again to dust ?
By the grace of these they reigxed, who left their
sons their sway*
By the grace of these, what England says her lords
unsay;
Till at last her cry go forth against them—Clear
the way 1
By the grace of trustjin treason knaves have lived
and lied; _ .
By the force of fear and folly fools have fed their
pride;
By the strength of sloth and custom reason stands
defied.
Lest, perchance, your reckoning on some latter
day be worse,
Halt and hearken, lords of land and princes of the
purse,
Ere the tide be full that oomes with blessing and
with curse.
Where we stand, as where you sit, scarce falls a
sprinkling spray; „ A „ „
But the wind that swells, the wave that follows,
none shall stay;
Spread no more of sail for shipwreck—out, and
clear the way!
J udas Iscariot has, in these days of Irish
history, become a mere circumstance. No more
fearful accusation was ever brought against man
than that now formulated by two Informers
against an [lrish official. It will be remembered
that Miles Joyce, exeouted for murder with two
others some time since, asserted his innocence to
the last, and that his declarations on the scaffold
were used by Irish members in the House of Com-
mons as affording no slight presumption in favour
of his innocence. They one and all said that no
Irish Catholic would imperil his soul by false
statements after he had confessed and received
absolution for the last time. The circumstances
attendant on Joyce’s execution were indeed hor-
rible. The wretch wemt to the gallows shouting
impotently in the Irish tongue that he was inno-
cent; he repeated these wild asseverations of his
innocence at the very moment when the rope was
round his throat; and, to add a final horror
to the terrible scene., Marwood s bungling com-
pelled him to hick the unfortunate creature
as he swung in the hast struggle with death. . .
The Dublin United Irishman now publishes a
telegram from its Claremorris correspondent,
stating that Thomas •Casey, approver in the Maam-
strasna murder case, came before, the Archbisnop
of Tuam, and in the presence of the priest and
flock declared t hat, to save his own neck, he at the
instigation of Mr. dolt on, the Irish Crown Solicitor,
swore against : Miles .foyoe and others who were
innocent and ynt wer< s hanged I Anthony PhioDin,
who was also an. informer at the same trial, makes
a statement similar to Casey’s. In the Maam-
strasna affair, i t will bi e recollected, a whole family
were massacrod in cold blood. Whatever view
may be taken of the 1 ale now told by Casey and
his v'ile associ ate, it m ust be admitted that these
wretches have certain! y shown some justification
for the Irish notion ti iat an informer is a baser
criminal than, an assasi fin. It is quite certain, on
their own confessions,. that these two men are
atrocious lian . That Casey is also a dreadful
hypocrite may' be gathei 'ed from this statement of
his: “My object in going' before the Bishwp was to
get pardon. I wanted to go before the Bishop and
before God to get pardon, and I give myself up to
my country.” Was there ever in all the worlds
history so hideous an illui itration of patriotism
being thelastreiugeof asc oundrel ?’ My country
—my country! The Govei cnment have ordered a
thorough enquiry. Bolton ,of course, declares the
story to be ”ail a lie,” and so do the Conservative
papers; but the ugly fact rt 'mains that, though an
informer is good when swe anng away the life of
some poor devil of an Irish! nan, no credance is to
be attached to his statemeij. t as against creatures
such uq Bolton.
Sir Saul, complacently, to Derby: \My
dear Lord, my Government is in no way* desirous
of hurrying yours to a decision on the vital Ques-
tion of the annexation of Polynesia.” Derby, to
»ir Saul, blandly : “ Thank you for nothing, good
knight.” ,
* * *
According to the Paris, the true explana-
tion of the present attitude of Germany towards
France and England respectively is attributable to
the designs of Bismarck upon Holland Mr.
Lalmoliun Ghose, a cultured and eloquent barris-
ter, practising in London, will probably contest
the constituency of Finsbury at next election,
with a view to obtaining the more direct repre-
sentation of the people of India in the House of
Commons A London correspondent of a pro-
vincial paper makes himself responsible for the
statement that an inmate of a well-known private
lunatic asylum is inducing his fellow-patients to
sign a memorial expressing perfect satisfaction
with the House of Lords At last the Conserva-
tive leader, Lord Salisbury, has (in view of a
general election, no doubt) consented to lease a
site for a chapel to the Hatfield Wesleyans. His
lordship's political necessities have at length over-
come his ecclesiastical intolerance, .but the offer
comes too late New name for the English
Upper Chamber: The House of Dis-a-Peers.... An
official circular has been sent to a number of Irish
National School teachers, censuring them for hav-
ing attended a dinner at which the toast ol the
health of the Lord Lieutenant was not drunk, and
threatening them with dismissal if such conduct
were persisted in! ! ttoss-shire is one of the
largest counties in Great Britain. Its population
is 72,483, and, as it has few towns, the number ol
electors is 1729. This makes one elector among
every 42 inhabitants! The Emperors of Ger-
many and Austria kissed when they met in
August. Sometimes there’s a lot in a kiss. Wo al 1
have heard of Judas Iscariot—A Russian paper
“ urges the use of the present crisis to reoover
Ruldja.” This is true Russian morality. ( The
Chinese are embarrassed—let us attack them. ....
At the last sitting of the Academy ol Medicine, it
was pointed out that the annual increase in the
Frenc i population was no more than 2‘43 per cent,
per annum, as compared with 15 per cent, in Eng-
land and 13 per cent, in Russia. France has fallen
from the second to the fourth rank in Europe as
regards the number of her inhabitants— Says the
R.C. Archbishop of Tuam to his Hock:— Those
who go about the country inducing men to enter
secret societies are bloodhounds thirsting tor the
blood of the people—wretches who, with words ot
patriotism on their lips, traffic on your generous
love of country to make mom y by your betrayal.
The cost of the expedition to rescue Gordon is
estimated at £20,000,000, to say nothing of the loss
of life The two French officers arrested at Cob-
lentz as spies were discharged when it was shown
that they had authority from the German War-
office to observe the Autumn army manoeuvres.
Of course they did When the Chinese ambas-
sador leVt Paris His Excellency went to—Berlin....
The Duse of Marlborough has actually sold his
famous ESiphael to the British Government for
£70,000... Err. Parnell has concluded an alliance,
which will be acted on at next election, with the
Ulster Liberals against the Conservative party....
John Kelly, of New York, with his 50,000 Tammany
braves, is the modern Warwick. If not a King-
maker, it would appear to be conceded that he is a
President-maker, which is, perhaps, a much greater
affair. Refined down to a logical point, the agreed
fact is that John Kelly rules the United States.
He can defeat the candidate of either party in the
pivotal State (N.Y.). and if that is not supreme
bower, what else is it?.... It is stated that General
Von Moltke will shortly visit the Channel Tunnel.
“The Hon. P. Gr. King has,” says the local
Joseph, “granted permission to sink a well out-
side the Tamworth cemetery, subject to his being
satisfied with the trustees appointed from each de-
nomination.” We cannot too highly commend
thiH proceeding on the part of the hon. gentleman,
which will not only enable the poor things to have
a little cold water with their whisky this hot
weather, but will enable them to wash their
shrouds and generally spruce themselves up be-
fore attending spelling-bees, pucker parties, and
other harmonious gatherings by moonlight in the
dead-house. We understand that, over the well,
it is the intention to put the following notice
To the Gentle Dead.
This Well having been sunk for the convenience
of‘corpses, it is respectfully requested that all
waste of water be avoided—four skulls-full being
considered a fair and equitable allowance for the
tenant of each single grave. The occupants of
family vaults will, in view of the extra washing
necessary in domestic circles, be allowed 25 per
cent, per skull over and above the allowance
above quoted. Respectable corpses are enjoined
to report all cases of wilful waste, when, upon a
conviction being secured, the informer will have
his (or her) choice between a pair of boxing-gloves
and a box of dominoes.
By order,
David Cohen,
Mayor.
How often when the brow was racked with
care, and the dust and roar of the street were too
much, and there was the haunting suspicion that
the missus was going to have another, how oft
have we turned over our exchanges and yearned
to circulate for a term along river bank and
through forest glade, and forget awhile the glare
of the Btreet and the irrelevant clamours of the
rent-man 1 To wander, so to speak, amid scenes
“ Where every prospect pleases,
And only man is vile.”
Our brow has cooled even at the name of Mount
Hope, and now what do we read ? Why that that
community is in the throes of revolution. A
poundkeeper was to have been elected. The ap-
plicants consisted of two J.P s, a publican, a black-
smith, four shearers, and we read “amongstthe
applicants was Mr. James Dunsmore, of Nymagee,
warehouseman and hawker.” There is a general
feeling that the election shall be fought out on
broad issues. Says the Cobar paper, “If magis-
trates were appointed who knew the character or
the applicants and their motives, there would have
been no resigning, and election would have been
made the first day, according to qualification, ana
not according to spleen and petty spite.” At latest,
dates the conflict was being waged with a ranoout
unparalleled in the annals of municipal strife, anu
there is no poundkeeper yet. And we had d rea “i
of going there to cool an over-taxed brain ana
wander at our own sweet will from morn to dew>
eve from one sylvan pub. to another! Farewen.
Hope told a flattering tale.


Itching Skin Diseases
BP7EMA, or Salt Rheum, with its agonizing
itching and burning, instantly relieved by a
hath with Cdticura Soap and a siDgle ap-
"Sionof Cuticura, the great Skin Cure This
Sealed daily, with two or three doses of Cim-
K] Resolvent, the New Blood Purifier to keep
C u hinnd cool, ihe perspiration pure and unirri-
i the bowels open, the liver and kidneys ac-
t!>t will speedily cure Eczema, Tetter, Ringworm,
tive, will speeauy Head, Band-
rrtS eve.y spates oi Itchlp*. Bcaly, and
pimply Humors of the Scalp and Skin, when the
best pt>y Blclans and all kQOwn remedies faiL
CUTICURA
CTTTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri-
fier Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
Sements, and thus rdinoves the CAUSE,
the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
>ly for external use), instantly allays rtching and
inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp ot Humors,
Sea Sd Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
gies the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
c n M bv all Chemists and Druggists.
*■ r. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
I HAYB been alHicted with a troublesome skin
disease, covering almost completely the upper
part of my body, causing my skin to assume a
copper-colored hue. It could be rubbed off like
dandruff, and at times causing intolerable itching
and the most intense suffering. I have used blood
purifiers, pills, and other advertised remedies, but
experienced no relief until I procured the Cttti-
cura Remedies, which, although used carelessly
and irregularly, cured me, allaying that terrible
itching and restoring my skin to its natural color.
I am willing to make affidavit to the truth of this
statement.
Milan, Mich. S- BUXTON.
REMEDIES
CUTTCURA SOAP, an exquisite Skin Beautiffer
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cotiouba,
is indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes,
Stinhum. and Rough, Chapped, or G-easy Skin.
CUTICURA REMP.DIES arc absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
Price, CmcußA, 50 cents ; Soap, 35 cents ; Re-
solvent, $l.OO, Prepared by
Potter Druß & Chemical Co., Boston, 1T.8.A.
Visit J. J. Ryan s
DU APERY AND CLOTHING ARCADE,
FOR CHOICE
T>vfmerv Millinery, and Underclothing, Men’s, Boys’ and Youths 5
1 ’ Clothing, Hats, Ties, Shirts, &c.
ALL FRESH, choice, fashionable, and cheap, come and see.
J. J. RYAN, Drapery and Clothing Arcade,
760 and 762 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET ONLY.
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
w.
PALING
III
AND CO. (Limited).
m
Vtl?*
The Largest, Most Complete, and Best Selected
Stock of Pianos in Australia.
-A.HEEICAIT OIEBa-^IfcTS,
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.
The Lowest Possible Prices tor Cosh ; or Easy Terms.
J3T ALL THE LATEST MUSIC IN STOCK.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK O NEW 80UTH WALEB,
COMPAGNONI CATERING CO. (Limited)
The Leading and Oldest Catering Establishment in N.B.W. Caterers to the A.J.C., &c., See.
THE Catering and Sole Management undertaken for Balls, Weddings, Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons
and all kinds of demonstrations. „ _ . .
The DINING and REFRESHMENT SALOONB, both for Ladies and Gentlemen, are the finest in
the city. First-class Menu daily. Rooms for Dinner-parties up-stairs.
PRIVATE BAR AND SMOKING LOUNGE. Beef Tea daily, 11 a.m. Coffee in the Bar until 11 p.m.
E. D. TOLLEM&CHE, Licensee and General Manager.
Compagnoni Catering Company, Pitt-street, Sydney.
READ THIS!
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Price.
I Silver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£3 lOs. each,
"Warranted for three yean,
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 Pitt-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER
COOLALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 Greorge-street
(Beneath Paling’s.)
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT!
GENI7B 50, Is. 6d.; 100, 2s. 6d.
LADIES’ 50, 2s. Od.; 100, 3s. Od.
Address, 6d. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 3s. 6d.; 250, 6s. 6d.; 500, 10?.; 1000, IoS.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
fST" Orders executed aud forwarded by return
poet.
TIE hdThl! m„
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
EXTENSION OE PREMISES.
Opening of New Show Rooms.
fas. SOME, LLOYD S 00.
GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITB WTNYARD STREET.
Ladies’ TJnderclothing & Baby-Linen.
A Magnificent NEW STOCK was selected by Mr.
Lloyd In London, Paris, and in Ireland
FIRST GRAND SHOW OF DRESSING GOWNS.
FIRST GRAND BHOWOF TEA. GOWNS.
FIRST GRAND SHOW" OF UNDERCLOTHING.
An endless variety of Dressing Gowns, Tea Gowns, Morning Wraps, Casbmere Robes, Children’s
Washing’ Pelisses and Cashmere Frocks.
TRTSH HAND-MADE UNDERCLOTHING. | LONDON MACHINE-MADE UNDERCLOTHING
jm&H nAnu ua dkawbßS, CHEMISES AND NIGHT-DRESSES.
pr An array beggaring description. Moderate prices. Call and ask for illustrated Catalogue.
WRIGHT, HEATON & GO.
(LIMITED).
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES*
BRANCH OFFICES.
Bocthirn District, M.8.W.;
Goulburn
Vftnn
Bowning
Blnalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rook
Culcairn
Cowabee
Narander
Hulong
Carratnool
Hay
W»BT«RK DIBTBIOT, N.S.W.!
Capertee
Bathurst
Blarney
Orange
■Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertire
Nynfran
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymajjre#
Co bar
Cooaamble
liourke
NORTHRRR district, N.8.W.;
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
Wal*rett
iirowarrlna
Tamvorth
Ural la
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
South*rn and South-Wbbtbbn Lin*:
Brisbane
Roma
D&lby
Yeulba
Cam boon
C*NTRAL lilim:
Rockhampton
Bogantuniraii
Emerald
Capolta
Comet
Northern Lnr»:
TowoflviOe
Charters Towers
•V , t ■',**'
oooomir •ooahuoawh
Agents In Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M'CULLOCH * CO., LIMITED.
fB/T Agencies is all parts of tbs world.
puDjg g/6ng $ jg/so j
GUINNESS'S EXTRA BTOUT.
iflUJ
MAi
BASS PALE ALE,
The BEBT ALE and STOUT in the Market.
BOLD BT ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINBtJ
MERCHANTS.
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
M. A. BROWN & CO ,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
*6O GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Hond-»treet.)
Prom the Strand, London.
55
O.
WAN
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite brand
of Stout selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
jannot be excelled. To be procured every whore.
CATTRLL A CO.. Bole Agents.


IS YOUR BLOOD
Impure and loaded with the poison of Scrofulous
Inherited, or Contagious Humors, causing'Glandu-
lar Swellings, Ulcerous Patches in the throat and
mouth. Erysipelas. Abscesses, Carbuncles, Boils,
Tumors, Cancers, Ulcers, Sores, Loathsome Erup-
tions, Wasting ot the Liver, Kidneys, and Lungs
KbeumaMsm, «out, and Neuralgia? The Cuti-
cuha • Resolvent will surely cleanse and purify
your blood, perspiration and urine of impurities
and poisonous elements, whether inherited or self-
oontracted, no matter how severe or chronic
while the Cuticuba and Cuticcka Boap clear the
Skin and Scald of It3hing, Scaly, and Pimply
Humors, heal Ulcers, Sores, and Wounds, soiten
whiten, and beautify the Skin and restore the
BEAD IT ALL.
It may Save your Life.
hop bitters
ARB
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchu, Band rake, and Dandelion.
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘ and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
‘ and most effective curativo properties
* of all other bitters, being- the greatest
* Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘ and life and health restoring agent on
‘ earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Age
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
* Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
* Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
* Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
* highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
* without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
* symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
‘ wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
* dreds have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
* friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘use Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
‘drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
‘ purest and best Medicine ever made,
‘and no person or family should be
‘without it.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. Y., U. S.
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decssv
and fa.'.ure to perform lire*,
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
instruments. This treatment of
Nervous Itebllltv and
... JrhyslcttlJJecay isunuormly
Fuccessful because based on perfect diagnosis
new and direct methods and absolute thori
oushness. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO., 52 Castlorcagh St., Sydney
m
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST,
Graduate in MEDICINE and SURGERY, Regis-
tered Physician of N.S.W. Specific: FEMALE and
NERVOUS Diseases a speciality, and treated by
the most Modern Methods.
Office Hours—lo a.m. to 4 p.m.; 7to 9 Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday evenings.
Certificate of Registration, Diplomas, and Testi-
monials of Numerous Cures can be seen at office.
Electricity as used by the most eminent Pbvsicians
of France and Germany. Send for Free Treatise
on Vitality, Nervous Debility, &c. (or Diseases of
Women.)
Address —ELTON BOYD, M.D., Australian Medi-
oal and Surgical Infirmary, or B. O. HOLTER-
MANN, Esq., M.P., President P.O. Box 673.
Ladies’ Waiting-room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.
11. 52 Castlereagh-strcet, Sydney. Note.—Office
and Waiting-rooms UP STAIRS. CONSULTA-
TIONS FREE BY MAIL OR IN PERSON.
ou want to
ness
jT
'
For the a
On/y
One
iddm
RNd
l 1 IIuED
M
CD/Z
■jbkj
°'‘'y Ont
m
i
&
duress
o
usfralia
3%
7
T
T«
SOLE IMPORTERS OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
E 3
'iS
SOLE AGENTS FOR, THE]
SMITH ORGAN.
CHAMPION & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
YANKEE DOODLE
OOOD(f
WXA
°'*SON&SO** S
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
i3§2s-sisr
st
~ CO&QUE IoR _
tobacco
Y PO p ULI !! ! This mighty power has built the DIXSON’S great Tobacco Factory. How ? The
ft ndeH+hi H t^^ op ™ declan ”. g o the YANK EE DOODLE and CONQUEROR Tobaccos their own,
rhr« a ° d t e d the r5 upi ? ly r DixB0 ° aDd SoD ® responded—and hence a Tobacco Factory having no equal in
tne Southern Hemisphere, and consuming tLe bulk of all the Imported American Leaf Tobacco.
S 3
:Wvyt
; -v.
3®
&
BUBS
mse.
ICS
.y
I
raw
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSH!
A HONEST REMEDY. Prescribed bv the BEST PHYSICIANS.
THEY WILL POSITIVELY
Nervous Headache in b minutes!!
Bilious Headache in 5 minutes J!
Neuralgia in 5 Minutes!!
Falling Hair and Baldness!!
Dandruff and Diseases of the Scalp !
Promptly Arrest Premature Grayness. Make the Hair grow long
and Glossy. Immediately Soothe the Weary Brain.
CURE
Their Royal Highnesses the PRINCE and PRINCESS of WALES, PRINCE
BISMARCK, and the KING of HOLLAND each use a pair of Dr. Scotty
Electrie Hair Brushes, and a long list of Distinguished Patrons could be pub
iished, and their Testimony added, did space permit.
The Brush Handle is made of a new odorless compilation, resembling ebony: a combination
o !“ a^ e L? a permanent electro-magnetic Current,which acts
immediately upon the Hair Glands and Follicles. This power can always be
tested by a silver compass, which aiwompanies each Brush.
PURE BRISTLES—NOT WIRES. Wire Brushes injure the Scalp,
and cause baldness and irritation.
The Bight Honourable WILLIAM E. GLADSTONE, M.P.,
has written upon the merits of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair
Brushes, and has added them to his Toilet.
Lady A. CHURCHlLL—daughter of the Duke of
Marlborough (hero of Blenheim), and sister of
Lord Bandolph Cbm chill, of Parlia-
mentary celebrity uses t hem regularly
and thinks them unequalled for
the hair.
&& Send for Circular of
Dr. Scott's Electric Flesh
Brushes, Corsets, cC- Belts
for Ladies’ and Gen-
tlemen's use.
“8
Crewkerne, Nov. 12, 188(X
Sir, —My patients have given
me a very satisfactory account
of Dr. Scott’a Electric Hair Brush.
One lady assures me that she gets no
neuralgia in her face if she uses it, anil
others state that by a few minutes’ brush-
ing with the Electric Brush, a nervous headache,
or one arising from overwork or debility, is quickly
removed. The invention is, I think, very valuable.
I am. your obedient servant, G . P . WlLL(jj M D> M R c s E
A Handsome
Unbreakable BRUSH, >
Elegantly Carved & Mounted-
Dec. 23, 1881.
Prom Dr. Lbmpriurk, D.C L., Ac., St. John's College, Oxford.
HUS ss& ;ar.r:r^e'=r -^os;
Youra faithfully,
C. Lbmpribre, D.C.L., &c
These Brushes oan be obtained of all Chemists and Fancy Storekeepers.'or will bo forwarded
direct to any part of N.B.W. or Queensland upon receipt of prices named, with Is. added. Re-
mittances can be made in Cheques, Drafts, P.O. Orders, Stamps, or Currenoy. Cheques can be
crossed Union Bank of Australia, tee that the name of Dr. Ocott is on theßox, without whioh
none are genuine.
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
p.o.box 32i. 54 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY
/yx
4
Satan has received another terrible blow
at the hands of the Harmy. A hitherto ungodly
old lady In England, having found grace under the
banner of Booth, concentrated her efforts to get-
ting illuminated texts hung up in public houses, to
catch the eyes of old soakers, and perchance lead
them to drouth and repentance. She succeeded i
getting 300 publioans to let her hang her texts; ant
on the occasion of testifying at her last “ exper
ence,” the cunning old lady triumphantly relate
how one saved soul had gone into the Swan wit
Three Necks seven times before dinner, “on pur
pose to learn one cf her Scripture texts by heart.
Gloribetetgord.
“Nature is cruel,” said the elder Mill, anc
wo agree with that philosopher. “It is probable,
says another believer in agony, “ that to be born i
as painful as to die,” and again, we say, it must b
as excruciating. All life is a continued torture
from the time when the nurse leaves the first pir
in our little llannel wrap, all through the teething
stage, the thrush, the measles, the small-pox, th
spanking for truancy, and the sickness of our firs
pipe. Our knees are skinned, our heads bumpec
our noses punched, and our liberty to eat jam
truculently curtailed. We have to wear our elde
brother's boots when they get too small for him
and we are bundled off to bed when we want tc
stay up 1 Then we go a-courting, and are crushec
irretrievably bv being chased and hammered by
her big brother, and called by our own father i
beardless boy. On it goes—misery and dark de
spair on every hand, w e are poor, and hungry
and starved, and cheated, a"d sat upon; and at las
we marry a woman who is all gossip, and who
brings us fifteen children. We saye up money
and get defrauded; or else we waste it, and are
sued for debt. Our horses break their knees, our
fowls are stolen, and if we get a bit of a garden
the neighbours' goats are in in the right anc
smother everything. Then consider rheumatism
snd death, aud the awful certainty that we shal
die; and, if not one of the elect—and the odds are
against us, unless we are Scotch—we shall roll in
everlasting torment amongst sulphurous clouds
howling fiends, disfrocked bishops, and lawyers
lor ever and over I (We have been drawn into this
view of life through having just tried to drive a
nail into a dry paling, and our left thumb nail is
Hoogh !—More water, dear 1)
Now that you have asked us plainly
whether we think that the spirited Nooze occa-
sionally aporopriates the Herald's telegraphic
communications, we unhesitatingly answer “No;
wo do not.” The fact of the “ wires ” published by
< ach journal being couched in the same terms is
merely the result of similar but unconscious cere-
bral action on the part of the different correspon-
dents-or, as some scientists would affirm, it may
arise from some peculiar meteorological pheno-
mena connected with the weather. And this re-
minds us of a good tale told of by-gone days,
when a genius named Buckman ran the Herald
of Chicago, and a remnant of the old Bourbons
named M'Closky steered the Nooze of the same
city. Buckman, it appears, had long suspected
that the crafty M'Closky used to crib his telegrams,
hut he could never drop on any actual proof until
one day during the stirring times of the Indian re-
volt he concocted a bogus "wire'’ describing the
destruction by the rebels of a place called Burrha-
burrbanapootbra, and the revolting scenes that
followed. Gloomy accounts of the bravery of the
English troops, and blood-curdling tales of women
outraged, children disembowelled, and houses fired
by the merciless chutnee-punishers, were tnauu-
lactured in a style calculated to cause each hair on
every individual reader's head to stand up straight
and yell, “Sit down in front," and at the tail end
of the “ wire ” was a paragraph which said, “ When
the massacre was complete, Nana Sahib, calling his
officers round him, performed the sacred Ghoori-
yateljah, alter which all present swore tho terrible
oath of extermination, which in the Indian lan-
guage runs as follows: “ Lleh sa erus sa rapsiht
ypoe lliw yksolccam.” Poor Mao. tumbled into
the trap, printed the startling intelligence with
cheerful breezy little variations of his own, and
wound up with the Indian oath, which gave him
away as cheap as dirt, as it is simply a backward
version of “ Macclosky will copy this par. as sure
ash 1.” Mac. was never known to smile after
that, until one night Buckman was found dead in
an oyster saloon, having choked himself with the
thumb part of the claw of a Brobdignagian cray-
fish, and then joy reigned in the M'Closky home
once more.


THE
IGNO
UFlao©.©.
lift
■i m co.’s
FAMOUS
NEVER previously did any piano win such a hold
on the public as the Mignon has done since
its introduction. Our competitors have no doubt
done their level best to rival U3— blazoning forth
their bald imitations with a tremendous nourish
of trumpets. What result hare they to show,
excepting to point to the gradual death of all their
offspring ? The reason is soon found. Inferior
instruments, with showy exteriors, have been
brought forth and attempted to be foisted on the
public. But the right-thinking public will have
none of them. The consequence is that the
Sales of the Slignon Piano
have Trebled.
THE MIGNON PIANO
has found its way into every town almost of all
the colonies—in Victoria and New South Wales,
from north to south ; to the far north of Queens
land ; in New Zealand, from one end to the other
of the islands. In South Australia and Tasmania
THE MIGNON
can be found, and its rffuEe is really a household
word.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the people’s favourite.
' THE MIGNON PIANO
for its size defies all would-be imitations.
THE MIGNON PIANO
f guaranteed to withstand any climate in Australia.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the cheapest, because the best.
THE MIGNON PIANO
can be hadron very easy TIME PAYMENT.
THE MIGNON PIANO
excels all similar pianos for first-class work an
richness of tone.
Catalogue, with full descriptioi
of IHE MIGNON and all other good instruments,
on application.
NICHOLSON - AND GO.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE. 1
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
vr rr*J> 0 bCBt known remedy for RHEUMATISM.
»*V« LGIA > headache, TOOTHACIE,
RAINS, BRUISES, BURNS. SCALD 3, &c- and
ajenimernaUy cures DIARRHOEA, BYSEJ"
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other interna acheE
ind pains.
P|, i«e, 2/- Sold Everywhere,
G. E. MOULTON, sole PROPnroR,
■MELBOTJUIsri!} .A-ISTD o' . DNEY.
PAINT
Marshalls
tonic nervine
„ REOIHTEREO.
SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Nor.
iiiot „ V 2 l ' p 9 „ n<J General Dobillty, and all complaints
Tnn*h S "u g from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia.
Armlet e V, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
* Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
anrt'P^lu^ 8, EoHa °f Vital Power, &«. By its tonic
f„ p effects it at once removes all craving
otho. !? oho « By H* richness in phosphorous and
TOMi^°JSL l sjl7 ,tallBln » elements, MARSHALL’S
the nourishes and gives vigour to
Snlp>-„ 0 aystom - '’ rio e. 40. 6d.. or 365. a case.
Man»«**>. MARSH AL l. BFOTHERS, M.P.B.
H" and consulting Chemists, 104 and
t-street. neAr Hyde Park, Sydney, and
'•CT*. et ’ Circula r-quay. TAKE NO STJBSTI-
AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral.
No other complaints are so insidious in their
attack as those atf ecting the throat and lungs:
none so trifled with by the majority of suffer-
ers. The ordinary cough or cold, resulting
perhaps from a trifling or unconscious ex-
posure, is often but the beginning of a fatal
sickness. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral has
well proven its efficacy in a forty years’ fight
with throat and lung diseases, and should be
taken in all cases without delay.
A Terrible Cough Cured.
“In 18571 took a severe cold, which affected
my lungs. I had a terrible cough, and passed
night after night without sleep. The doctors
gave me up. I tried Ayer’s Cherry' Pec-
toral, which relieved my lungs, induced
sleep, and afforded me the rest necessary
for the recovery of my strength. By the
continued use of the Pectoral a perma-
nent cure was effected. I am now 62 years
old, halo and hearty, and am satisfied your
Cherry Pectoral saved me.
Horace Fairbrother.”
Itoclcingham, Vt., July 15, 1882.
® Croup. A Mother’s Tribute.
“"While in the country last winter my little
boy, three years old, was taken ill with croup;
it seemed as if he would die from strangu-
lation. One of the family suggested the use
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, a bottle of
which was always kept in the house. This
was tried in small and frequent doses, and
to our delight in less than half an hour the
little patient was breathing easily. The dec-
tor said that the Cherry Pectoral had
saved my darling’s life. Can you wonder at
our gratitude ? Sincerely yours,
Mrs. Emma Gednew”
159 West 128th St., New York, May 16, 1882.
“ I have used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
in my family for several years, and do not
hesitate to pronounce it the most effectual
remedy for coughs and colds we have ever
tried. A. J. CRANE.”
Lake Crystal, Minn., March 13,1882.
“ I suffered for eight years from Bronchitis,
and after trying many remedies with no suc-
cess, I was cured by the use of Ayer’s Cher-
ry Pectoral. Joseph Walden.”
Byhalia, Miss., April 5,1882.
“ I cannot say enough in praise of Ay'Eß’s
Cherry Pectoral, believing as I do that
but for its use I should long since have died
from lung troubles. E. Bragdon.”
Palestine, Texas, April 22, 1882.
No case of an affection of the throat or
lungs exists which cannot, be greatly relieved
by the use of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
and it will always cure when the disease is
not already beyond the control of medicine,
ft prepared by <b
Dr.J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
v ' Sold by all Druggists.
HLLIOTT 81103., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
ROWLANDS ODONTO is the best, pur-
est, and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such Row-
lands’ Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and has
lately been much improved. Each box has inside
the lid a certificate of purity from Dr. Redwood,
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c. Soid in three tins : white, rose,
and cream.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair o r golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ ar-
ticles, ot 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations .
Wholesale and Retail Agents, Elliott Bros., E.
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
T. L. Smith's Latest Kove.
OPENING NEW PREMISES, at
418 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the present establishment, 399 George-sh
CLEARANCE SAXE of BOOKS, STATIONERY,
PICTURES, FANCY «OODS, CARDS FOR
ALL SEASONS, E I’C.
Surprising Reduction of 4s. in thciß, to expedite
removal of his enormous stock.
The Sale now progressing is a gratifying
success.
T. L. SMITH, 399 George-st.,
Exactly opposite the Royal Hotel.
f
'
,T SYDNEY
J EITHER FOR
RICE or QUALITY
CEORCE SI
fcOLl lit
BLEND
JMAM
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY—This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
Luuinff fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATtELL & CO., Solo
Agents.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
gr 308 GEORGE STREET.
n '^fSRATEO 1 -
W HOLES ALB
GROCER
and
WINK and
dPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
80LB AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
tar MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-straet,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
fcuatanteed.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
BUY WHOLE
BOTTLES
New south wales—monster consul
TATION on Hawkesbury Handicap, Metro-
politan Stakes, and Melbourne Cup, 1884. Capital.
£5OOO, in 10,000 shares at 10s. each. About 225
prizes—£2soo for horses, and £2500 prize gifts.
Plan of Distribution :—First horse, winner in
each event, £1000; second horse, £500; third horse,
£250: starters, £250; non-starters £500—£2500.
Fi 8t prize gift. £600; second prize gift, £300; third
gift, £150; 10 at £5O, £500; 10 at £25, £250;
20 at £2O, £4OO ; 20 at £lO, £2OO ; 20 at £5, £lOO-
-
Application by letter only, addressed W. Burn-
hard, 110 Elizabeth-street; or Box 832, G.P.0.,
Sydney. Cheques payable to W. Burnhard o
bearer ; if cash, to register letters.
P.S.—Please state for which event. Prospectus
by application.
ESTIMATES OIVEIST FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
CH
§
&
*
E-
K
fe*CO
&
o
a
o
o>
<3
(A
p-o
HUM
*€
§
3
o
>iSS •
*
\
O^A'^
Om
m
&
r
s
3
%
O
T«
S'
1
c&
%
O
1
4T
3
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
T'la.e ZESeliaftole 33u.grg'Ies!
r
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY.
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
IST BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLI-A-M FLEMIUG, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
ufiijir
<3
&
8
O
3
t 36 LITTLE COLLINS S
WEST.
•ft
*
' 'XCAMERAS, "lOtoq.
(W r CARDS,CHEMICALS, t 3 a P
\ qents for vjs»«L
W.J OHNSON fcSONS ~~7 "paper.
NITR.SILVER AND CHLOR.GOLD
Complate Photographic Outfits,
COMPRISING EVERYTHING NECESSARY TO ENABLE
EVEN THE MOST INEXPERIENCED TO PRODUCE
SATISFACTORY PICTURES OF LANDSCAPES. ETC.


MONET AND TIME SATED.
Messrs, thomas henderson and co.,
Agricultural Machinists, of 89, 91, 95 Eliza-
beth-st.reet North, Melbourne, furnish us with
the following combined statements received from
some of their employes, under date 26th January,
1884 Mr. William Downes says : •* With pleasure
1 bear testimony to the efficacy of St. Jacobs Oil
as a household remedy. One application I have
found to totally remove the pain and marks of a
severe bruise, and I believe it to be an invaluable
remedy for sprains. Since experiencing its good
qualities I have recommended it to several friends
for neuralgia, soreness of chest, &c., and in every
instance it has given relief.” Mr. W. A. M’Horg,
accountant, contributes the following statement:
“ I sprained my ankle very badly. I tried the
efficacy of St. Jacobs Oil. My ankle was greatly
swollen and painful, but after the first application
the swelling hadsensioly decreased and the feeling
of stiffness entirely gone out of my leg ; in fact,
a week’s daily application of the Oil effected a
complete cure, and I had not to remain away a
single day from business (A friend of mine, afte
seeing my ankle, prophesied three weeks’ deten-
tion at home.) I believe the Oil to have great
curative power for sprains, and that it possesses
the properties claimed for it.” Mr. ft. W. Johnson,
fitter, sprained his ankle severely. He applied St.
Jacobs Oil with the most beneficial results. In less
than a week it has made a perfect cure, and he
was not absent from work for a single day. He
has also used it for toothache, which it cured
almost at once. He recommends it to all sufferers.
Mr. John MTntyre, carpenter, in our employ,
speaks of its virtue. . . . Having sustained a
severe fall on my back, I was, through the injury,
half paralysed, I tried St. Jacobs Oil, and after
using two bottles I found much relief. My arms,
which I could not raise above my head after the
fall, I can now use freely, and can go about my
work as well as ever. I look upon the Oil as a
most valuable medicine.
A SOLICITOR’S SOLID STATEMENT.
M. E. Benjamin, Esq., of the firm of Messrs.
Hart and Benjamin, solicitors and Commissioners
for Australasian Colonies and New Zealand, make
the following statement Pacific Chambers,
60 Collins-street \V est, Melbourne, 11th December
1883.—Messrs. Elliott Bros.—Dear Sirs, I have
much pleasure in testifying to the remedial effects
of St. Jacobs Oil. I have used it in a case of a
severe sprain, and also for rheumatic pains, and
its application has always been attended by almost,
immediate relief. —I remain, dear sirs, yours truly,
“ M. E. Benjamin.”
Biliousness, drowsiness, jaundice and
Rheumatism, Hop Bitters removes easily. See.
The Handkerchief which is perfumed with
Murray and Lanman's Fi.orida Water yields
more enjoyment to its possessor than would a
bouquet of flowers, because the latter lade, decay,
and become offensive, but the Florida Water re-
mains fresh and delicious, unaffected by the lapse
of time.
Marshall Brothers, American Dentists,
supply Artificial Teeth of first quality at striotiy
moderate charges. The practice of painless Den-
tristry is carried on by the aid of a large stook of
modern apparatus. Teeth painlessly stopped.
Painless extraction by nitrous oxide gas. Dentai
Rooms, 104-6 Market-st., near Hyde Park.*
Headache, Languor and Melancholy gener-
ally spring from a Disordered Stomach, Costive-
ness, or a Torpid Liver. Each may readily be re-
moved by Dr. Jayne's Sanative Pills, a few doses
of which will be found to stimulate the Liver and
Stomach to Healthy action, remove all biliousness,
and produce regular evacuations of the bowels. To
bo had of all druggists and storekeepers, and
wholesale by Elliott Bros., Pitt-street, Sydney.
PEARL CEMENT,
The Gravest American Prize-winning Discovery of the
19t}i century. V;,-
ASTISLZ3 MENDED CANNOT BE SEPA2ATED. '
AmiCAM HOVELTT CO., 203 Pitt St. (Only) Sydney.
SAVE THE PIECES f
Use Pearl Cement, the
greatest American
[Discovery of the 18th
century—never known
to fail—for mending
China, Crockery Glass,
Wood, Ivory, Leather,
&c. Price Is. per bot-
tle. Sold everywhere.
Send to the America
Novelty Co., 203 Pitt St.,
Sydney, for whatever
you may require
whether the article is
iu theCatalogue or no.
They deal in ne arl l
everything,
Toothache Tincture, the
best remedy known for
fiving instant pelier.
'rice Is bottle; pH
by £d2(l. stamp f° r
1 Catalogue*
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO.,
203 Pitt Street. Sydney,
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SVD N EY
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Let the dyspeptio patient take notice of
tho fact th«t after the reception given by the King
of Denmark to the International Medical Congress,
consisting of between on© and two thousand
dootors, all those present adjourned to a grand
midnight supper.
During the late violent and acrimonious
debates in the French Assembly, tho legislators ffi
six days consumed over 2000 quarts of beer, 000
quarts of brandy, and 'more tuan 3000 quarts of
mise llancous ” drinks, all more or less alcoholic.
The consumption of these liquors was assisted by
20001 b. of ice.
The chairman of that great railway com-
pany, the London and North Western, speaks of
the fall of the dividend as “the greatest drop
that has ever occurred ” iu the company s his-
tory. The aristocracy, he says, have become so
impoverished or stingy that they now travel third-
class instead of first.
It is alleged that the English War Office
have under consideration a scheme of aerial war-
fare, which has beeu reported upon favours ly.
Practical experiments upon an extended scale will
be Bhortly proceeded with. Toe inventor is a
German-American, who claims to have discovered
& system which will revolutionise modern wariare.
Humboldt tells a plaintive story of finding
among the Maypurespt the Orinoco a parrot whose
language nobody understood, for he scoke the
tongueof the Atures.ao Indian tribe against whom
war and pestilence had done their worst. All (lay
long this venerable bird sat blinking in the suu-
light, chattering the polysyllables of its vanished
masters, and In its person warning tho savages
around of the fate that might soon overtake them
also.
The negro lives longer in America than in
Senegal, and longer than the whites around him.
The elephant commonly lives a century; the camel
to about the same age as man, the horse seldom
passes forty, the deer thirty, the ox fifteen to
(twenty, sheep, goals, foxes, hares, and rabbits
from seven to ten, and dogs and pigs from ftlteen
to twenty years. The German Btories as to the
•capture of a wild goose or a duck around whose
oeck some Kaiser or Qber-Wald Controliour, at. any
time varying from one hundrtd to two hunon d&n<l
<Qfty years ago, had placed a collar, must be received
wltb Judicious incredulity.
Here Is a good dog-perjury. It is not very
; long since the police made a raid on a score of
loafers and thieves, who, like Bill Sikes, all had
their bull-dogs. The latter, according to a “ well-
informed Journal,” joined the police, and attacked
their owners.
A man in England has just sold his wife
to "an old gentleman ” for a pot of beer, and this
is looked upon as very dreadful. Why, we have
heard of some men wno would give a pot of beer,
and of others who would give a pot of money, to
the uld Gentleman himself, to get rid of their
wives.
There was a new Mazeppa in Nebraska
lately. Wilson, a cattle rancher, becoming jealous
of one Burbank’s acquaintance with his wife, cap-
tured Burbank, stripped him, and bound him on
the back of a wild horse, which he started across
the plains. Burbank became unconscious, remain-
ing in that state until found seven days afterwards
200 miles from home. He could not apeak for many
days.
The son of M. Dussi, a French consul in
Turkey, was recently captured by brigands who
were surrounded by troops under orders not to
attack until the young man should be in safety.
Meanwhile, the brigands had run short of provi-
sions, 98peciallv of wine. M. Dussi, their captive,
suggested that he should be allowed to write to
his father to send a few bottles, which was readily
assented to. M. Dussi accordingly wrote the letter,
but, as none of the band could read, he proposed
that a strong narcotic should be mixed with the
wine, and that a sum of £5OO and a free pardon
snould be promised to the messenger if he assisted
him to escape. The plan was carried out. When
the wine arrived the brigands eagerly partook of
it, and wore soon stupefied by the effects of the
narootlo it contained.
Two English robbers were, in August, in
gaol at Lille. By collusion with confederates out-
side they contrived that a drag loaded with ham-
pers should enter the prison portals, the driver
pretending that part of his load bad been ordered
by the governor. The gaol-birds, who were in
readiness, slipped inside the hampers, expecting to
This pretty afternoon toilet is made either in foulard, percalo or zephyr. The
front is made in three kilted flounces, each trimmed on the edge with ribbon velvet,
three quarters of an inch wide. The bank of the skirt is composed of one long kilting
without the velvet, short basque body finished off with a short puffed paner and
bows of ribbon velvet three inches wide.
be taken out with the drag. But a prisoner whom
they had oribed to tie them in the nampers, so as
to give every appearance of being mere merchan-
dise, turned traitor and let the cat out of the bag.
The warders untied the hampers and pulled oi.t
the ingenious pair. Then two detectives took the
places of the convicts in the hampers, and allowed
themselves to be fastened in. The wagon set out
for its original destination, and when the con-
federate, who was “ wanted for robbery, came to
untie the hampers and liberate his escaped friends,
out leaped the two police officers and secured this
ingenious personage.
The fiat has gone forth at last, and the
doom of the Even’ Ooze is sealed. Its sensational
brevities touctiing the laxity of suburban night-
men have failed to awaken more than a passing I
interest in its columns; its thrilling descriptions j
of tho Mysteries of Life in the Back Slums have
had no other effect than that of compelling the
secretary of the Buggahboogalong School of Arts
to order its removal from the chaste shelves of
that sacred institution, and now even Jamberoo—
Jamberoo that stoned the Salvation Army pro-
phets, and can hold more whisky straight to the
square inch than any other distrietitssize between
Kerguelen’s Land and the North Pole—has set its
bronzed old face against the rag of Alfred. From
high and low the cry down there is death before
dishonour, and dishonour itself before the Ooze,
The climax, however,was reached on Sunday week,
when in a sermon delivered by the undaunted
pastor of the Jamberoo Wesleyan Church on the
Instruction to be derived from newspapers, the
worthy preacher declared he would “ sooner go to
his cupboard and put strychnine in the family salt
than place the Even’ ooze upon his table.” And
when they talk like that in Jamberoo, what in
thunder would they say in Heligoland or pious
Parramatta ?
The account, in Mr. Charles Marvin’s new
book, of the Russian oil-country on the shores of
the Caspian, is more wonderful than aDy fairy-
tale, and most marvellous of all tales of rapid
suooess is the history of Nobel Brothers, the
largest oil-owners in Baku. The book which,
being entitled “The Region of Eternal Fire,’*
might, in default of explanation, he taken to refer
to a place in which Pastor Allen feels an affection-
are interest, plainly shows that the Baku oil will
cutout the American. The oil-bearing region ex-
tends over 14,000 square miles, and fresh dis-
coveries of petroleum are being made every year
—for instance in the “ Naphtha Hill,” discovered
in 1831 in the territory newly annexed by Russia,
there are some 20,000 acres of petroleum land
capable of furnishing 1,000,000 tons of oil annually.
At Baku crude petroleum is worth threepence to
fourpence a ton. In 1883 two flowing wells in less
than a month sent up thirty million gallons of on
aoiece from a depth of seven hundred feet, and
when they were plugged up to keep their contents
for future use they were flowing at the rate of
twenty thousand gallons daily. Nobel Brothers
have fourteen such wells corked up waiting for a
larger market and a better price for petroleum.
Mr. Marvin watched the Droojba fountain of oil
spouting three hundred feet high from a hill eight
miles away, while the roar of the oil could be dis-
tinctly heard two or three miles off.
“A summons has been issued against a
parish priest of Clone, Connaught, for an assault
on the wife of the Rev. J. Tresham Cook, who was
attending the death-bed of a Protestant widow,
whose hueband was a Catholic, her sons being of
the same religion. The woman, named O’Connor,
when dying signed a will, expressing her desire to
die as she nad lived, a Protestant, and asking Mr.
Cook, the rector, to direct the funeral arrange-
ments accordingly. The two sens of Mrs. O’Con-
nor were opposed to this, and while the rector,
with his wife and the dying woman’s two daugh-
ters, were standing round the bed, the R.C. priest
«nd a large number of his followers proceeded to
open the floor and took possession of the house. A
disgraceful scene was then enacted round the
death-bed, and finally, after a stubborn resistance
and amid the yells of the crowd, the rector was
literally thrown out of the houße. The rector re-
turned in the evening with several constables and
read the will to the crowd, and expressed his de-
termination to carry out the wishes of the
deceased.” We can’t understand why a couple of
clergymen should thus publicly stultify them-
selves. We presume that the haggle was more
over the woman’s soul than over her body. In
other words, we conclude that the priest wanted
Mrs. O'Connor’s soul to enter heaven with a green
label on it, while his cleric rl rival wished the spirit
of his parishioner to appear at the gates of Para-
dise smothered in the opposition colour. It is
quite elesr that mere physical force could avail
übither cleigyaian anytbiug, so far as concerned
the securing and safely lodgiag in his own special
department of heaven of Mrs. O’Connor’s ghost.
Why oidn’t this owl of a priest stay at home, and
pray against the Vicar ? And why, we ask, couldn’t
the pair, instead of wiping the streets with each
other’s carcases, have taken a lesson from another
old woman, Mrs. Small, whose husband, Samuel
Small, the “King of the Gipsies,” died the other
day in England? Mrs. Small, when asked under
whose auspices she wished her husband buried, re-
plied that she wasn’t quite sure as to what creed
he had believed in. But she got over the difficulty
in a manner which would have done credit to
King Solomon, if not to Judge Manning. She
ordered the body to be taken first into the Dissent-
ing chap®), and then buried in the Church of Eng-
land g T n nd! For good, sound, practical theology,
commend us to the Queen of the Gipsies.
One of the principal troubles of the Cab-
bage-Garden senators to-day is the Bill for the
Amalgamation of the Legal Professions. Sir Archi-
bald Mich’e, Q.C., was politely “ forced to volun-
teer ” some little evidence touching the casus belli.
Amongst a thousand othereheerful reminiscences.
Sir Archibald put some solicitors in their little
corner by observing, " The practice hitherto has
been to perform an unnecessary and interminable
quantity of writing in the solicitors’ office. In
fact,, I do not hesitate to say that in this way soli-
citors have often grossly abused their privileges.
In one particular instance in which I was engaged,
with the late Justice (then Mr.) Fellows, we had
set out in our briefs the whole of the articles of
association of the Hobson’s Bay Railway Com-
pany, and wo received private notes telling us that
we only need read four of them. What were the
other sections put in for? Why, for costs, of
course.” This is oharmlngly refreshing to those
who dearly love the law; but the next Is even
better. Replying to a question referring to the
enormous coate exacted In the case Thompson v.
the Adelaide Jockey Club, whether he did dot
think those costs extortionate, Sir Archibald pru-
dently replied, “ I would require to knowtho facts
of the case before I gave an answer, I was once
paid 250 guineas for going to Sandhurst to defend
a man on the charge of stealing a bullock. If a
man wishes to pay you 250 guineas for a case, I
don’t see why you should check the generous cur-
rent of his soul I” But the best tale of all was one
told by this lively Q.C., touching the jaynyil Dan’s
immortal hayro, Willyim Charles Wintwortb.
“Many years ago,” observed Sir Archibald, “when
I was a young man practising in New South Wales,
I gave similar evidence to that what I am now
giving, before the Legislative Council in Sydney.
That| was before there was responsible Govern-
ment. Mr. William Charles Wentworth was chair-
man of the Select Committee of the Council, be-
fore whom I gave evidence. The gentleman who
then represented Port Phillip in the Council at
Sydney was a Mr. David Brewster, a barrister, who
has since gone into the Church. The bill was not
passed by the Legislative Council of Sydney. It
went into Committee, and there, I think, was
buried. It was the intention that it should be
shelved, because Mr. Wentworth had a son going
to the Bar—and a son-in-law actually in practice/’
That, of course, accounts for the uuusual amount
of lacteal fluid in the cocoanut of William Charles
Wentworth, and reminds us that we should be
truly thankful that such playful little dodges are
never—at least, hardly ever—practised in these
days of honest, disinterested patriotism.
A Hymn in Humtius.
V EREN UNTO VICE .
“ Ours is an age of progress so we hear
At least ten million times in every year.
Bishops allinn it, Sceptics do so, too,
And both from thence prove their own maxims
true; ,, ,
The dailies howl it, but each page displays
That their advance, is not in wisdom’s ways.
The Evening Scavenger takes up the strain,
And, last, the Echo whines a weak refrain
(How well the name describes the little sheet—
The last to speak, then only to repeat!);
The Town and Country aids the constant cry,
And trots its insects out to testify
That, though they blunder over themes more
grand,
Its scribes can write, of what then understand.
(Here let no one assert that I won Id place
Douglas B. Sladcn in the insect race;
No, he deserves another rank to take,
As some new kind of li2ard, toad, or snake—
He might be called a taught-us, if ’twere true
That he had done what he professed to do.)
Then, when each town with railway lately bleit
Calls forth champagne to greet the Sydney guest,
The man who holds our “dibbs” (ex ;use "the
slang),
With lengthy speech, gives forth the old
harangue:—
‘ Ours is an age of Progress, year by year
Signs of advancement everywhere appear;
To farthest west our engines soon will speed,
And light-made lines shall serve the hamlet’s
need.
If but our Government remains in power,
Prosperity shall come In teeming shower;
I have some figures here which plainly show
Wbat has been done by Stuart, Dibbs, and Co.”
Then quotes a list of figures well arrayed,
To show what lines are planned, and what sur-
veyed ;'
At what expense the railways are maintained,
And what the profits that their use has gained;
While o’er the tale a cheerful glow is thrown,
By hints about another booming loan—
But, while ho speaks of Progress thus, forgets
To show the progress of the country's debts!
Would that the colony could but retreat,
As merchaut traders can, to Phillip-street;
And, in that better than Pactolian stream,
Its assets, from debts justly due, redeem I
Then might we join Financiers to support
Who graduate from an Insolvent Court,
And think him fittest for the Treasurer's post
Who, in his own affairs, had blundered most.
' Ours is the age of Progress very true,
But ’tis an age of Fraud and Humbug, too;
And, if less open sin-is now revealed,
It is because our crimes are more concealed;
And thus we find, by aid of Humbug’s paint,
The greatest sinner seems the greatest saint—
Dark impositions every class degrade,
And course through all the swelling veins of
trade.
There was a time when tricks of trade were less.
And virtue, more than vice, achieved success;
The British merchant was a noble name,
Which men would work unceasingly to claim—
Men, conscience-ruled, in points of honour nice,
Refused to offer up as sacrifice
To Mammon’s god their fair fame and repute.
And honesty for them brought forth rich fruit.
Unknown were then the artr by which, to-day,
Merchants attempt to make their business pay;
Prudence controlled the ventures that were
made,
And risk of loss was ever wisely weighed—
For well, in those good days, our fathers knew
If Prudence falls, so Probity must, too.
But, what a different scene is now disolosed—
What tricks are daily in our prints exposed!
And in the Courts—Insolvent or Supreme-
How oft we see some artful dodger's soheme!
And we shall feel but little of surprise
That such things are, if we but mark who rise
On wings of paper, and for little space
Amongst the traders take a doubtful place.
How oft we see some counterjumper start
As boss of an ” Emporium,” ” Hall.” or “ Mart ”
(The name of “shop ” he will not tolerate,
’Tis infra dig., and almost out of date);
Devoid of capital, he makes a dash,
For “ native brass,” atones for want of cash;
Prepared with all the town in price to vie,
For he can sell for less than others buy.
Sor is the raison d'etre far remote—
is goods have only cost a six months’ note 1
Others may save the discount, his device
Enables him, besides, to save the price.
His trade is large, for sales with him are forced,
And he can s®U at “trifle over cost;”
Whilst, if my muse be right, we safely fix
His cost of purchase at precisely nix.
It may seem strange that credit can be gained
By one who is by such weak means sustained:
How, we may ask, can careful merchants give
The terms by which such hollow frauds can livo?
But, in these days, when trade is overdone,
Such great desire to gain new men is shown.
And verbose bagmen puff their lives so well,
And try so hard their various wares to sell,
Thatthi8 explains how paper men contrive,
While such things are, to live and even thrive.
ISHMAEL.


AMDJf W
ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
STUDY ECONOMY
and
I Have your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
‘Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Renairs neatly exe-
unt*.' |
llE *. bqrthwigk,
lmperter of
- Shcet ’ at *rt Ornamental Glass,
* C °>-0R MERCHANT,
" SiI INTER AND DECORA.TOR,
1 v erer, Beveller, and Embosser.
i f "l ot Paperhangings of the most
* ?t ßs spr.+ ever 6een in the colonies.
Sec t Post free.
Ge oßge street,
Hunter Street.
CO.,
” King-street-
Mercers, k
' Nevßr
0r Winter, large variety, lowest
t8 ’ c UfI a °'li and Btyli sh shapes.
’ lg ht Shirts, Handkerchiefs, &c.
CO. } 96 King-street.
n
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass' Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALE. which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—QATTELL & CO.,
Sole Agents. ' _
A NGLO-AUSTRALIAN INVESTMENT
\ FINANCE and LAND COMPANY
(Limited.)
Offices: HOFFNUNG’S BUILDINGS,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Capital, £500,000, in 50,000 Shares of £lO each.
Subscribed Capital .. •••
Reserve Fund ~ .. • • £soto.
Directors:
Henry Gorman, Esq., J.P., Chairman.
Hon. Fred. A. Wright, M.P., Vice-Chairman.
C. C. Skarratt, Esq. |J. H. Newman, Esq.
W H. Paling, Esq., J.P. I Benjamin James, Jr.,
I Esq.
Deposits received at following- rates :
At oall .. •• Five per cent.
3 months .. •• Five and a half per cent.
” « „ ... s .. Six per cent.
” „ Seven per cent.
INVESTING SHARES :
Shares are now being issued. ■
Full particulars on application to Manager.
DIVIDENDS;
Half-yearly dividends, at the rate of l~k> per
cent, per annum, have been pant since establish-
ment of Company.
ADVANCES:
Loans, repayable by monthly instalments, ad-
vanced for a term of years.
WILLIAM CLARKE,
Manager.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received by
every Mall.
'-OVAL ARCADR. OKOROW ST MS ‘nrnwwv
133 4
and SHAW
Have the pleasure to inform their friends and the public that they
||j»* li ° W op ENiNG for the coming season,
millinery and straw goods,
i., A Lh the newest dress materials,
PARASOLS, of the newest colourings and designs,
Trimmed and Untrimmed, Gilt Ribs, and Newest Handles.
ars -& Imitation LACE GOODS,
and Black, as well as the Various Shades in New Coloured Lace Goods.
GOODS and NOVELTIES in the following departments:—
«#sfr MMINOS
LK; handkerchiefs
LADIES* UNDERCLOTHING
CHILDREN’S UNDERCLOTHING
STAYS and CORSETS
SILKS, SATINS, and MANTLES
EVENING DRESS MATERIALS.
'to. an unusually large assortment of NEW" GOODS for the Season, and we arc
«ure our prices will compare favourably with any house in the trade.
Our Plain Drapery Department
’ '^' ow Gnings, Counterpanes, Calicoes, Blankets, Flannels, Irish Linens, Table Linens, &o #
’^le, Gentlemen’s Departments.
b six e, a ®, Carf s ; all the latest shapes in Linen Collars; Gentlemen’s Glovos, in every make.
■ a colour; Gentlemen’s Umbrellas; Waterproof Clothing; Gentlemen’s White
v ( and Coloured Shirts of every description,
CLOTHING.—We are almostdaily opening out Men’s and Boys’
ut on the most scientitic principle, and of a reliable and durable character.
NG Department.— All the Newest Woollens for the Season. Skilful Cutters and
Moderate Prices.
*
'^ESS
& SHAW, Importers and Manufacturers,
123
324, S2G, »28 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
Palmerston buildings, old broad street, London.
" PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
>A.a:e IjTotxt ©;peEL.
> C CLEERY’S hotel,
Of king and CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
V
„R. McCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
“■“auumtaxbb. 1
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBONThe
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOPFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
Champagne
tfleidsieck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL EiICHAEiSS & Co., London.
fccMe Agents for Beidsiecli & Go.. Reims.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH,
Warranted f irst q u a I ity
Chargesstv\ct\ymoderate
MARSHALL BROTHERS
■qNM nt,st M
TEETH PAINLESSLY STOPPED.
The practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
carried on by the aid of a large and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction by
Nitrous Oxide or Laughing Gas.
Black Swan Hotel,
GREENWELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddqcks. shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magniflcient s.s. Illawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o*clock.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TXn.d.erta,lrer,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
s
i
m
*5
giiiiiiraiiiiii!
Sm|
r u
o
£>
a
'M
'rj
INVALUABLE
Vi
surrEßiNc
T*>o*l
TO
oss
io?
u
Ne
ryou
Sen
€ |ai^ts^E CIAL
for the
Australian Colonies
SB
A.
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
1!
iS
ill
R BUR CIS
uui
ISCSI
!W»i*
Try BURGIS’ £3 BS. Suits, to measure. Trouser
from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, aru
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house foi
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STREET
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for sait-measurim
forwarded to airy uart of tlie eotou?
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
|ar* THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
OlcL 2v£at"a.red.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIE
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish W,hiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.'S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Ex*, crt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, ore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ V" hiskey Doctors.
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED by ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 1878
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £138,000
Directors •
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors *
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq,**
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambonn.
Gosford, Nyngran, Bourke, Manly and Byerock.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
Directors :
Edward Chapman, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G
Geo. F. Siade, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This hank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
W. H. .Ariel! & Co.’s
AC-EMCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 74 Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes? Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 50lb.
and 2001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
J 4, and lib. tins.
R. WHITTINGHAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, <&c.
ANGLO-SCANDINAVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand.
343 and 345 Kent Street,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
PREMIER
New Tobacco Factory.
PREMIER TOBACCO, free from Adulteration
and possessing all the agreeable qualities
of PURE TOBACCO.
Brand Registered to prevent imitation, Manu-
factured by
NQRRIE and MAYER.
Factory and Warehouse,
317 & 319. KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
AFTER CEFORE
MOUSTACHE and WHISEEBS.
Boyd's Beard Elixir did this,and
* Will do it on cither bald bead or
bare fare. Forces heavy Mous-
tache in froms to 4 weeks and never
_ Sails, 20,000 young men already */ .
Copyrighted, toear full beards, having used Ito Copyrighted.
3 pktt. No injury, easily applied, certain in effect. Packets ls. ba.
each , 3 for 3 s. 6 d.,po&t paid, sent under cover, free from observation .
Frank Douglas, Sole Agent, Box 730, 0.P.0., Sydney,N.B.W*
, before after
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OF PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all oK customers and the
public generally that he has a large assortment of
Drawing, Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
Robert butcher & co
(Late William Long),
gar* WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT.
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY'
Country Orders receive prompt att-enti


G-olcL XeTxrellery!
<ZU3GXaTEB.ED.)
t a
•jv>
VWTBM
£523
»BSDC:.,
Nfo£//'
sSKhv
Ss\,Nf
*^BKJ
9 SYDNEY ARCADE & 12 ROYAL ARCADE.
m
issta
v m
LATEST FASHIONS.!
~ : £—- • •
SSISI
wi
issEiifc.
■WATCHES, IF’SSOILvdC 30s. BA.OSS
Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually attendedjfc^
FOR GENERAL DEBILITY AND NERVOUSNESS,
FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION,
FOR FEVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE,
ALL CONVALESCENTS,
At all Druggists and Chemists.
drink it
dbi*k iT!
DRINK 11 !
DRINK 1? !
m
1
mm
China, Glass, Earthenware, & Fancy Goods.
(OPPOSITE WYNYARD STREET.)
STAR AND GARTER HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS Hotel is centrally situated, beinp close to Post and Telegraph Cilice. Theatre, Tramway, &c.
Stfjv rior Aecoinn:- dation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. 1 ir*r-elass Wines and Spirits.
Tim most Comfortable arid Commodious Private Bar in the city. Albert S. Mauders and Co.’s telegrams
supplied. Sporting telejarranm from all parts of the colony posted up.
jacs
AJ.C. CIGAR, DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SAiJ ;
91 King-street.
N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
FEY’S
ASS YOUR GROCER FOR
tY '■
$
I COCOA
§
S. PSY & SON’S, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of tho best ale or porter.—Lancet.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
pb&Kg
SIi.OKN -^;
08. IT,
MID
IKMi
jw&rJSeyVm
a
It is of the utmost, importance that contents of
each bottle should bo carefully compared, as large
quantities are being’ imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will find a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORNE HIG H-
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGQE, SQM, AMD CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
. HIGGII'S
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCH WOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
LREY’S SILVERSTREAM SCHNAPPS.
3UC Gilbey’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TIJCKEB & CO., Sole Agents,
376 George-straet, Sydney.
3
WiMii s§ss,
NSW
FURMITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYMYARO SQUARE,
AND
80 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne and Xao&don.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
MASON :
S»5
Mi
LIMITED,
14 and 1© Spring Sftsraot,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, lor SALE
to the TRADE anti WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
A3SB
E A HTHENWAR E,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents tor
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J.T. GAYEN’S
Scbmnps and. Geneva,
A. MELT ;M and SONS’
Edinbiugn Pale A is.
T. J O Hi E @ and CO.,
65 MA, CQ UARIE-STREBT SOUTH,
Air-tight
SHOW
CASE
AND
ART
CABINET
MAKERS.
General
JOINERS,
SHOP,
AND
OFFICE,
FITTERS.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
USE NOTHING BUT
STANDARD MIXED PAINT.
HAS NO DIET NOE HARD LUMPS IN IT.
RESISTS HEAT AND WATER.
Anyone Can Apply It.
Factory: COWPER WHARF, SYDNEY.
See Evening News advt.
BLAKE’S 9*B*
«0Y
H. P
17 P
STEAM
6BESSBY&?
TT STBE C
SYDNEY. ,
To® A 3
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR
and have in Stock and to
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR&C
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS ( f 3
DEEP-WELL-SINKING P LJ
SEND FOR PRICES AN 0 aljJj
>S T
r&circCR a
K ,; '
0
nV$ P
CATALOGUES FOR wA
OILS.
Office : 330 0
STORES: MII^ 1
Be®r N.B.
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS, fi^’
Manufacturer of aii kinds sf iEratsd Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of *»'B
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 83 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Sola Medal for JF.rated and Mineral Waters; also , another Gold Medal far Liqueurs,
