

tr^
©Trld-exs. TJ’n.iT7‘exsa.l Pxox'-iders.
wls
9
OF
In the Australian Colonies
IjIIONY HORDERN AND SONS,
i A| >ace emporium, haymarket, only.
ha , - -- -- -
W*i*u*.. Novelties! Spring Novelties ! The Opening of the Spring Trade.
Steamer. The Pick of the Fashions for the present Spring Season .
S al a charming variety of the Newest Mantles, the Choicest Millinery, and everything fresh in Laces, Ribbons,
S ’ -iies, Collars, Flowers, Costumes, and Dress Materials, suitable for wear during the Spring months.
stock of Furniture of all kinds, Carpets, Floorcloths, Linoleums, 'Window Blinds, Curtains, Cretonnes,
b requisite and necessary to furnish either a Cottage or a Mansion inexpensively, artistically, and substantially,
and we are this season in a position to give BETTER VALUE THAN EVER !
J|||w Our Only .Address—
yHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket, Only,
PROVIDERS. UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS.
The Bulletin New Series


ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
85P Brass and Bell Pounding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electrie and Pneumatie Bell-fitting
of every description.
BOULTON’S “PLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE,” & "PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Am Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas F/res, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Pull particulars and price on application.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS J
BUY WHOLE
BOTTLES
H. L. SUMMER FI ELD & CO.,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
H. Xj. stjmmerfield & CO.,
THE GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
And at
51 and 53 LEADENHALL STREET, LONDON, E.C.; 32, 34, and 36 HUNTER
STREET, NEWCASTLE; FITZMAURICE STREET, WAGGA; MACQUARIE
STREET, DUBBO.
tSF Our new Illustrated Catalogue of Fashions, with Prices of Men’s and Boys’
Goods; Patterns and Self-measurement Forms sent post free, on application.
J. Car. Harborow,
470 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Fruit Markets.
EXTRAORDINARY SALE
Ol'
WINTER HOSIERY AND MILLINERY .
New Stock of Ladies’ Gloves, Laces, and Fichus.
The Choicest Stock of Fancy Goods in Sydney.
Parasols, Umbrellas, Bags.
Purses and Fancy Ware.
W. W. CATEE, Importer, 193 & 195 Pitt-strect.
ALL GOODS AT STRICTLY WHOLESALE PRICES.
/MATER'S system of importing all goods from the manufacturers, and retailing them at wholesale
V prices, is being thoroughly appreciated, as shown by our largely-increasing tiadt.
FRENCH MILLINERY, MANTLES, COSTUMES, SILKS, SATINS, LACES, GLOVES, AND
DRAPERY OF ALL KINDS, AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
CW" Oiir introduction of Glove-fitting at the counter as done in Paris, isa great suesess We have
ow both Lady and Gentlemen litters engaged.
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR FITTING.
THE LARGEST AND BEST STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
WHOLESALE PRICES
■W- ‘W. CATEE,
193 and 195 PITT STREET.
HO.,
Merchant Tailors, Habit ansi
Robe Makers.
Trousers from 21s. to 4«9s
ALBERT HOUSE, TEMPLE COURT, ELIZABETH STREET.
n.B.—Mr. BHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Farmer and Co.
W. Shears by & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabetli-st.
B. ft. BROWN & GO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
200 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-street.)
From the Strand, London.
(Champagne
Heldsleck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., Loudon.
Sole Atrenta for Heidaieck & Co., Reims.
C. B. HODINI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
tST" TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech aad Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 603 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osboknk ; also Angelo Bor-
donl, of Brescia, Italy.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & 0
■ ik ui mm me
397 GEORGE STREET,
M and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, E
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND
IMPORTERS OF . m
Engineers* Tools, Founders* Materials, Ship
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Ag rlC
Implements.
ENGINES’
Kobey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
ROllaEftS.
'VaTttcai and 'H.oriz.ontai*
MACHINERY. afl( j
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY. ga^,s ,
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. ™r€)
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-p
English and American Agricultural Implements.
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse 11 '
Rakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Sheners,
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Coach Builders’ Sundries.— Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnis jp
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours. ,„„ n iz6d>
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle' and Tee Iron ;
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears. Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing
Machinery.
and
pftß l
nery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements In C&rP en
Locks,
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND
397 Georga Street, Sydney-
co-
WRIGHT, HEATON ft CO.
(LIMITED),
general carriers,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE»
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.;
BRANCH OFFICES.
SOUTHERN
Goulburn
Yass
Bowning
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Jnnee
Western
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromlne
Nevertire
District, N.S.W.:
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rock
Culeairn
Cowabee
Narander
Hulong
Carrathool
Hay
District, N.S.W.:
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northern District, N.8.W.:
Morpeth Brewarrtna
Gunnedah Tamworth
Narrabri Uralla
Walgett
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and Softh-Westbrn Line:
Brisbane Yeulba
Roma Cambooya
Dalby;
Central Line:
Rockhampton Capella
Bogantungan Comet
Emerald
Northern Line:
Townsville Ravenswood Junction
Charters Towara
Agents In Victoria and South Australia:
WB, M'CULLOCH ft CO., LIMITED.
nr Agencies In all parts of the world.
Foster’s Bugfe^
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
mm
srm
K
i
a*
>fe
i%
=r-
I
Tri
~£
m
3J
M
«£
s
wm
'■- - -:
SB
K
SR
tx
% f
The BEST ALE and
SOLD BY ALL
/
0
BTO^ W
MB!B(
Virgoe, Son, &
AGENTS'
m>’
esr THE NEW J
INVESTMENT COMi „ m
Allow Interest as
£loo,os'
Gapital, ,
Branch, Payable on Dema nQ
i. y.
W/a
m
m
m®,
•\v*
BOAR’B HE AD STOP it b
of Stout selected t fee
best of the brewings Co<) P
Arthur Guinness an^ o fee V£
cannot be excelled. . 8
GATTELL & 00« B° le
<<>m


THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 70.—New Series.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1884.
Frio*—6(L
A Brilliant Illustration.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1884.
Mr. Thomas Holt has petitioned the Legis-
lative Assembly against those portions of the
General Post Office Improvement Bill which
propose to resume certain freehold land—his
property—not actually required for the for-
mation of a street. The intention disolosed
in the Bill is that the portion of land in
question shall be resumed, and shall,
after the street is formed, be leased
or sold by the Government subject to
such building covenants and conditions as
may be imposed upon the lessees or pur-
chasers. Against thus dealing with his land,
Mr. Holt protests, be-
cause “the principle
involved is vicious, as
legalising an unneces-
sary, and, therefore, a
wanton, invasion of
the rights of private
property.” He alleges,
also, that “the prin-
ciple involved is dan-
gerous, for, if the Bill
become law, and be
followed as a prece-
dent on the occasion
of future Resumption
Acts, the Government
will be in a position to
make themselves the
largest holders of city
property, and to
traffic therein for all
time.”
* * *
We think that Mr.
Holt has, without in
the least so intending,
done great service to
the community b y
submitting this peti-
tion. We shall see,
however, how the mat-
ter works Out. We
will open the case
with a plain state-
ment of the circum-
stances. In the first
place, the rate of com-
pensation provided
for Mr. Holt is in
keeping with that pro-
vided for Paling.
That is to say, a valu-
tion which has pro-
voked a good deal of
comment in the As-
sembly, on the as-
sumption that it is
altogether above the
market value of the land i esumed. Mr. Holt,
therefore, cannot—and, in fact, does not—
allege that an inadequate price is placed
upon the present value of his land. He is to
get, in fact, more than many people believe
his land to be worth—now. His reason for
objection lies on the surface. When the
land intervening between his block and
facade of the Post Office is cleared and con-
verted into a street, what is at present a
dead wall of his building will become all
frontage, and the best frontage in Sydney—
probably the most valuable street frontage
in Australia. In lieu of having some 117 feet
fronting Pitt-street, with some buildings
intervening between his property and the
Post Office, he would have about as many
yards of frontage to the Post Office, without
anything at aIL intervening. The intended
improvements would, therefore, were he
left in possession of his land, cost the Gov-
ernment something near £loo,ooo—we have
not the exact figures—and would confer on
Mr. Holt s property an increase in value to
perhaps an equal amount. Thus Mr. Holt’s
petition is that he may be permitted to reap
the advantage pertaining to the accident
or design of his having acquired, and now
holding, certain property, which becomes
casually enhanced in value by certain opera-
tions undertaken for the convenience of the
people, and the embellishment of the metro-
polis. The expenditure of the people’s
money will create certain values. Mr. Holt
claims that he shall be permitted to per-
sonally pocket the results of the public ex-
penditure
* * *
On the face of it, this may appear as mon-
strous and unblushing a demand as ever was
made. Mr. Holt has done nothing, has suf-
fered nothing, yet he expects to reap the
profit where the public stand the cost. He
MADAME PAULINE RITA
(Mrs. Rade[?]), Prima Donna.
MR. JOHN RADCLIFE,
The Eminent Flautist and Virtuoso.
has not improved his land, either by outlay
of capital or by personal labour. In fact,
he is not in the colony, nor has been for a
year and more. He, living at the other side
of the world, claims that he is entitled to
the increase value given to certain land by
expenditure of other people’s money. He is
offered the present value of his holding—
based upon a valuation notoriously more
than liberal—but he objects. He demands
the right to have the future value, and chal-
lenges the justice of denying him the right
to stick to his land till that future value
shall have been conferred upon it by the ex-
penditure of other people’s money.
# * *
There appears to be a strange amount of
confusion in people’s minds with respect to
this matter and the issues involved. The
oracle of • Hunter-street alternately curses
and blesses. The S.M. Herald on Saturday
week pronounced Mr. Holt’s position un-
tenable, and on the following Tuesday the
Echo declared with a vehemence quite un-
precedented in that quarter that Mr. Holt
is quite right, and (hat to resume his land
would be downright robbery and a flagrant
attack upon the rights of private property.
In neither instance, however, have the
writers defined the principle upon which
they base their contradictory decisions. The
morning paper characteristically fumbles all
round the question, and eludes the ordeal of
logic by a denial of an essential premiss.
“ The question is not,” quoth the S.M.
Herald, “ one of private rights at all; it is
one of public policy.” The Echo, on the
other hand, insists that it is entirely a ques-
tion of private rights, and denies that there
can be any pretence of public policy in a
disgraceful confiscation of a citizen’s free-
hold which is not required for public pur-
poses. To us it appears that the sages of
Hunter-street are equally wrong in each of
their positions. The matter seems to us dis-
tinctly to involve a question of private pro-
perty—Mr. Holt’s private property—and
also a question of public policy, that is to
say, the public policy of resuming Mr.
Holt's freehold and so retaining for the
community at large the pecuniary benefit
due to the expenditure, in that vicinity, of
the public moneys. In short, the case pre-
sents to our view a remarkable instance of a
class of problems just now exercising many
minds—problems which treat of antagonisms
between the “rights” of private property
in land and the rights of the community as
a whole.
* * *
In place of there being no principle in-
volved, and of the matter being one to be
argued on an assumption of exceptional
expediency, a very significant and essential
principle underlies the affair—viz., the right
of property-own era to appropriate the “un-
earned increment” on their value. We
have already analysed Mr. Holt's claim. It
ia that, when a certain increase of value is
given by a large outlay of public moneys
to land in his possession, he who has con-
tributed nothing, or little (being an absen-
tee and not paying indirect taxes), shall be
permitted, as his right, to pocket the whole
profit. Now, note how exactly the ease
illustrates a principle stated by Joint Stuart
Mill:—
“ Suppose that there is a kind of income which
constantly tends to increase, without any exertion
or sacrifice on the part of the owners—those
owners constituting a class in the community,
whom the natural course of things progressively
enriches, consistently with complete passiveness
on their own part. In such case, it would be no
violation of the principles on which private pro-
perty is grounded, if the State should appropriate
this increase of wealth, or part of it, as it arises.
This would not properly be taking anything from
anybody: it would merely be applying an acces-
sion of wealth, created by circumstances, to the
benefit of society, instead
of allowing it to beoome
an unearned appendage
to the riches of a parti-
cular claes.”*
Surely a principle is
here stated with suffi-
cient definiteness; and,
despite the B.M. Her-
ald, it is a principle
which affects private
rights as well as publio
policy. But the pro-
found confusion which
ravels the ideas of the
Herald's writer does
not stop at this point.
He proceeds to lay
down the law, and
then to limit the ap-
plication of his own
propositions. The in-
tention *f the Govern-
ment, in Holt’s oase,
“is not,” says the
Herald,
“to make a gain, but to
prevent a loss; it is not to
injure any private indivi-
dual, but simply to gather
up for the public the
produce of its own enter-
prise.”
* * *
Is Saul among the
Prophets? Is this the
organ of Capital which
announces thus de-
finitely its conversion
to the principle that
the State has a right
to appropriate “the
unearned increment?”
A miracle! But let
us proceed. There is
goodly matter yet to
come.
“ It may be said,” con-
tinues the Herald, “that
though this rounds well,
the principle, if admitted,
might he applied indefi-
nitely, and that the Gov*
ernmentmightgo buying
up right and lelc.”
Our confused contemporary deprecates such
a conception as not tenable. Public opinion,
Parliament, and common prudence would,
it alleges, check any such terrible tendency.
The appropriation of increased values of
land by the State for the benefit of the com-
munity, which as a whole created that incre-
ment, is consequently, according to theS.M.
Herald, only justifiable when exercised in
individual instances. Very good. Now, let
us turn again to Mill, and learn what he
has to say on this head. The exact contrary
of the Herald’s reasoning!—
“I admit that it would be uDjust to come upon
each Individual estate, and lay hold of the increase
which might be found to have taken place in its
rental ; because there would be no means of dis-
tinguishing, in individual cases, between an in-
crease owing solely to the general circumstances
of society, and one which was the effect of skill
and expenditure on the part of the proprietor.
The only ailmissable mode of proceeding would be by
a general meaeure.”
* “Principles of Political Economy,’’ book v.,
chap, ii., S 5.


The Rates or Subscription to Thb Bulletin
are—For one year, 24s.; half-year, 12a. 6d.:
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
Thb Advertising Rates are 6s. per Inch:
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions
16 per cent.: For 62 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
he made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
THE POPDLAE BEAU
OF
1
WMUStKM
BRIAN BORU
IyrOTE. —YOUNG, KING, and CO. (sole proprle-
tors of BRIAN BORU WHISKY), have
NEVER EXHIBITED THEIR WHISKIES,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &o.
Brian Boru
Is guaranteed
SEVEN YEARS OLD,
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
when matured by age, is
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION
of the
OFFICERS OF H.M. CUSTOMS.
SOLE AGENT,
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY.
Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
vr PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
to. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Dsjirtatit,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
O. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
ea._
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that oannot be surpassed at any*
other establishment in the world.
0. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler.
Quality Superlative.
NONE hut WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
Is sold in this department.
Thi most Wholesome or at.t. Biviraois*.
C. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle*.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINK,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT.
3s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S STAR *** PALE BRANDT,-
6s. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street, Sydney,
And this is precisely the mode of proceeding
which the Herald intimates would not be
admissable. But this trifling incoherency
on the part of our grave and sagacious con-
temporary may be condoned. Although it
is, apparently, considerably befogged as to
whit it really m'eans. ,its heart appears to
be, all things considered', in the right'(econo-
mic) place, for it summarises its ideas thus
“ So long as they ” (resumptions) “ are approved of
by Parliament, and are, therefore, presumably
proper,” (hum!) “and so long as private owners
are fairly compensated, no sound principle or
policy is violated by the Government’s acting on a
sufficiently lame scala to secure for itself the in-
crement of value which its own enterprise creates.
But for the Government such increment would
not accrue ; the power that sows may lawfully
reap! ”
* * *
The Jast sentence of the above quotation
fairly takes our breath away. “Govern-
ment” is but a convertible term for “ the
community.” It is the executive of the
people as a whole. Let us use the alterna-
tive designation and see how the sentence
reads“ No sound principle of polioy is
violated by the community acting on a suf-
ficiently largo soale to secure for itself the
increment of value which its own enterprise
creates. Rut for the community such incre-
ment would not accrue The power that
sown may lawfully reap! ” Now, apply ihis
dictum to the system of Henry" George,
listen! —
“ Consider what renjb is. If does not arise sponta-
neously f rom land. .... U represents a value
createa tty the whole community > .... Rent,
the creation of thp wlurte community, necessarily
belongs to the whole community.",
I,n, fact, “th,e power that sows may law-
fully reap.” The Herald, however, iu
oointnon with Mill, coujpromises in its
Communistic teachings. (Conceive the
Herald advocating Communism—even by
accident!) Its argument is that “ the power
that sows may lawfully reap’’—after com-
pensating somebody. But George shows
that the principle cannot logically rest
there. The land-owner is, he says, enti;lied
to compensation only for what he has
created. In other words, he signifies, that
the laud-owner may lawfully take of the
reaped harvest only as much, as he Ims
sowed. “Let the land-owners have, ifi you
please, all that possession of the land
would give them in the absence of the
rest of the community.” In such case, Mr.
Holt would be entitled, as compensation,
to the value of all the cabbages or other
products his land would grow, if he tilled it
himself!
■ * *
But, leaving such severe logic on one
let us oonsider what are Mr. Holt’s rights.
In equity, he may oertainly elaim either that
he be permitted to pocket his unearned in-
crement or that every other land-owner be
made to yield up these spoils as he is made
to yield them. The Herald says there can
be no justice except in picking special vio
tims; Mill says that to pick individuals is
alone unjust—and common sense endorses
Mill. It is quite clear that to leave Mr. Holt
to pocket £lOO,OBO of value distinctly created
by the expenditure of an equal sum by the
community would bean absurd and grievous
wrong. But in what essential is it less a
wrong that the man who nolds the next
section shall pocket the enhanced value
given to Ms lot by its being more nearly
approximated to the Post Office? And on
what principle should the owner of the land
over the way be left in enjoyment of his
unearned increment, similarly created? If
the principle be, as the Herald alleges, good
in the case of Holt, it is equally good as
regards every rood of oity property—since
all has risen in value, not by the exertions of
the owners, but by reason of the enterprise
and industry of the whole community, right-
back to the Darling ? The applicability of
the principle is not so shiningly clear as in
the case of Holt ; but viewed by the light his
case affords, the general application becomes
obvious enough. That is why wo commenced
by claiming for Mr. Holt the thanks of the
community. His petition has been more
effectual in instilling an aocurate compre-
hension of an important principle of politi-
cal eoonomy into the minds of the people of
this oolony than all the abstract reasonings
of John Stuart Mill, or the generalizations
of Henry George. And we cannot con-
clude without referring to the entertaining
spectacle afforded by Mr. A. G. Taylor,
who, starting at the opposite point from
the S.M. Herald, managed to blunder just
as wonderfully, and who denounced as a
robbery of the community the transaction
which would compel Mr. Holt to com-
pound by accepting—in a big pride—only
a fraction of the unearned profit which,
were the land left in his hands, he would be
able to appropriate from the community.
Mr. Taylor would fain have insisted that—
for the people’s sake—Mr. Holt should be
permitted to retain all the plunder. Be-
tween the solemn blundering of the S.M.
Hbrald, and the floundering charlatanism
of the demagogue, it is difficult to choose
the olimax of absurdity.
The Wentworth Coroner is going to ask
the Government to publish a pamphlet “relating
to the nest means to be adopted in cases of persons
apparently dead by drowniug.” A curious Coroner
this, you will think, who would wish to lessen his
ices. But you don’t see the subtlety of his
scheme. lie wants to write the pamphlet himself,
and his leading maxim will be, of course, “ When
persons are only apparently dead by drowning
make sure of them.” In other words “throw
them in again.” do that be has an eye to business
after all.
PLAIN INGUSH.
Gross Indecency.
The Evening Nelvs has endorsed Sir Henry
ParkeS’ allegation that the S.M. Herald might
have been prosecuted as an indecent publication
during the last general election. The endorse-
ment Was effected by transferring the charge into
the Hbevity ” column of the News without com-
ment. We think there has been some indecency
in the matter. According to our view, it was in-
decent impudence of the Evening News to give
special and significant prominence to the charge
made byjSir Henry Parkes. The poet Pope re-
marked that “ want of decency is want of sense,”
and Sir Henry Parkes and the Evening News
equally oblige by illustrating the accuracy of
Pope's proverb. To level a charge of indecency
against the S.M. Herald is not merely malicious:
it is silly. For it strikes no chord in anybody’s
breast. There was not, we are confident, a listener
to Parkes, or a reader of the News, who hailed
the charge as a palpable hit. We do not believe
there is a man in this community who felt the
electric shock which a verity, aptly discovered
and communicited, conveys to the mind of
people who had previously felt, without formu-
lating, a truth. In short, no one recognised
the charge as either probable or true. What-
ever may be the faults ohargeable against tie
S. M. Herald, indecency is not one of its fail-
ings. But there was indecency in the incident. It
was indecent for the News to employ the mud
prepared by Parkes—especially indecent, we say,
on the part of a journal which almost daily reeks
with sensational headings about “Frightful Im-
morality,” “Revolting Disclosures,” and such
filth, and which carries publication of details of a
disgusting character to a point almost unprece-
dented in journalism. The S. M. Herald comes
scatheless out of this encounter, which is more
than either of its assailants do. For perhaps the
grossest indecency connected with the busines3
was committed by Parkes, when, in his parox-
ysms of mortification, he exposed his naked
soul!
*
The Test of Dignity.
The sweetest reward of long public service is the
consciousness of desert and appreciation com-
bined. To the noblest order of minds a concious-
ness of having deserved well of one’s fellow-men,
even without having gained their recognition, is
sufficient to confer contentment. The world has
seen glorious beings, after struggling life-long
with penury, danger, and often obloquy, mount
with placid submission upon the fagots, and dis-
play, even amidst the flames and the execrations
of the by-standers, an exaltation which endured as
long as life. Base metal,'may shine with a reful-
gence rivalling pure ore, so long as it is lapped
in wool and delicately handled. But once brought to
the crucible, or to the rough handling of careless
use, and its glories fade. So with mean natures.
Let fortune smile upon them, and the rough con-
tact of adversity or depression be averted—they
beam upon the world with genial, or, at least,
pleased, refulgence. But, subject them to any
ordeal; let others be preferred in their stead; let
them bear the penalty of their own faults, or the
incidence of natural alternations—and their affec-
tation of greatness peels and shrivels off: the
mock hero dwindles into a very Caliban, splutter-
ing curses upon all creation. Of this kind has been
the spectacle afforded by Parkes since his return to
Australia. He has writhed in public, and made an
exhibition of political epilepsy, foaming at the
mouth, incompany,as if he thoughtthat venomous
eructations were the most effective form of
human utterance. He volunteers oqe day the in-
formation that he will not accept office again*
and makes formal announcement of abdication in
favour of Sir John Robertson. This refusal of
an offer which has not been made, and this abdica-
tion of a non-existent kingdom, would, without
other matter, be pitiful enough. But when, on
another day, he announces, per contra, his willing-
ness to throw himself into any breach which
might be available, the insincerity of this previous
declaration was painfully exposed—by himself.
Radclift and Rita.
The Radcliffs made a start at the Old Masonic on
Thursday night. We had seen so much about
them in the Melbourne papers, that—considering
the time they have been with us without toeing
the scratch—we were getting a trifle sceptical as
to their perfections. “ These people,” we reasoned,
“ are just like the rest of ’em. They drop in upon
us with their ‘bounding braves of Arizona’ (with
accents singularly like those in the front row of
carriages at Bishop Moran's reception), or their
‘educated wombat,’ and tell us how their perform-
ances bav« ravished all the crowned heads of
Europe.” It was, then, with no great expectation
of hearing anything out of the common that we
took a seat near the door, to be ready for a
dart into the fresh air at the fir»t hitch
in the programme just as the pit commenced to
break the chairs and demand their money bick.
It was a flute, voice, and piano struggle. Radcliff
was to explain the natural history of the flute,
show how. by means of natural selection and the
survival of the fittest, it had developed from an
oaten-reed with one hole and a tone like a screech-
owl into an instrument mostly holes and a tone
like a three-year-old cherub. Most of us have a
prejudice against the flute. With the solitary ex-
ception of the bassoon, and, perhaps, the bag-pipi s
in the hands of a tipsy Scotchman, it has caused
more family unhappiness and divorce suits than any
other instrument with which we are acquainted.
Probably Helen threw over Menelaus because of
his daily scale practice on the flute. There is. of
course, one note on the slide-trombone which for
murderous suggestiveness can hold its own against
even the nose flute of the Egyptians. But to get
baok to Radcliff. He shows you an instrument,
tells you more about it than you ever knew before’
and winds up by playing on it. He is a wonder.
There was no rising in the pit to bombard the per-
formers. Toute au contraire, such clapping of
hands and general abandon have not been heard
or seen in the Masonic for many a day. We were
among the pounders, especially when we heard
the perfected instrument and the voice of Rita
carrying on a sonorous flirtation enough to
make a mile-stone demonstrative. Then we
borrowed from a bald-headed old chap next
to us a sti 'k with a ferule as big as a soup-
plate. and rapped away till the policeman at
the door appeared to be coming our way. The
fact is, we have heard the best Australian players
in their best days, but we never heard the flute
before. And who are these people who have come
amongst us ? Well, Radcliff is the acknowledged
flautist of the world, and, until some months ago,
belonged to the orchest r a of the Royal Italian
Opera, London. His wife, Madame Rita, is a
soprano who has won a foremost place at Charles
Halle's concerts, and in various other places. She
comes with credentials from the best Continental
schools, and possesses a sweet sympathetic voice
of great range and culture. We have space for no
more. The concert is to be repeated, and we have
no doubt of the result.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[ Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munication noticed.]
“J.W.” writes us saying: “Eighteen months
ago I was acquainted with a young lady to whom I
became deeply attached, but my circumstances
made marriage between us impossible. I have
knocked about a good bit sinee that time, to drive
all memory of the affair from my mind. But I
have recently had an unexpected good berth given
to me, and am now in a position such as I never
dreamed to occupy, and I find that no other girl
can be to me what that one was. I have beeu to
the town she lived at (Dubbo), but she is not there,
and all I can learn is that she is living in either
Sydney or Brisbane. I am deeply anxious to fln I
her, and learn if she is yet unmarried. Can you
suggest any means by which I might find her,
beyond advertising in the newspapers of both
places ? I so, I shall feel very grateful.” Perhaps
the girl will turn up on the publication of this.
> ill all the girls who were engaged at Dubbo to a
young man with initials “J.W.” 18 months ago,
and who have now removed to Sydney or Bris-
bane, please write to this office?—“H. Dunne”:
The story is as old as the Pyramids, and has been
told of everybody from Agamemnon to John
Davies “Corowa Looker-on”: We don’t know
who the person was and don’t c re. W hat we do
know is that you will get on better by sticking to
the green-grocery and leaving literature alone
“ Ploughshare”: Like many of our correspondents
who would like to see their “little trifles” in
print, you’ve no idea of what constitutes a
■‘foot” in poetry... “J.E.K.”: “The Nimitybel e
spunger (sie) swore,” &c. Now, dear boy, of what
possible interest is that to us? We should
think the chief occupation of all the people in
Nimitybelle was blaspheming—to get out of it—
“J. A. Miller”: You want to know if certain
widely-advertised sweeps on the aDproachinr
Melbourne Cup will be conducted fairly. Well,
you see, it’s this way. The people who live by
sweeps, have no desirejto work [but a ttrminteL-
tionto live. If it pays them to be honest, they
will be so; but, if they see the least .dvantage in
being dishonest, they will be rogues without the
slightest compunction. And as it nearly always
pays them to cheat, you can guess what your
chances of fair play are “Constant Reader”:
T e man who writes to a newspaper to te'l all
about an Jinsult offered to his intended wife is
a deuced sight worse than the insulter. Are there
no bludgeons or axes in your neighbourhood?
“M.G.H.”: We do not print your conundrum on
The Bulletin. It’s|the 365th we’ve received'on
the same subject “ Constant Reader, No. 2”: You
entirely mistake the object of our paper. We are
not a lion of Bt. Mark’s, into whose mouth all the
gossip and venom of a great city were dropped.
One of our offices, no doubt, is to “go for” hum-
bug, but we have neither time nor desire to “go
for ” all the tiny humbugs that come to the surface
in obscure towns “M. Victor Andr<s”: Call at
French Consulate at once... "KyathiDga”: Your
complaint about the Bourke J.P., who insulted
but would not fight a “common ” stockman is no
doubt, correct. But did you ever hear tell of a
butterfly that didn’t keep a judicious silence about
the time when he was a “grub ?” “ Verendus ”:
Some of the couplets are good enough, but the
“ ’prentice han’ ” is apparent throughout
“Friend”: Everyone, from the boss-editor to the
boy that greases the machine, has had a try at your
letter wiih depressing failure. Write and tell us
wh it your drink is.
Graham Berry, who is showing a disposi-
tion to coquette with the “ Harmy,” promised to
turn up at Balling-ton Booth's first demonstration
and utter a Ministerial “hallelujah,” but he didn’t.
On second thoughts, Graham preferred to have an
important engagement at Ballarat, so James Camp-
bell, the Postmaster-GeneraJ, apologised for the
Secretary’s absence. Perhaps it was just as well
teat Graham was so discreet, because things might
have got a little embarrassing if he had kept his
appointment with the Loard Considering that the
Harmy—to quote the bold Balliagton’s words—is
“ out and out against the drink traffio,” how awk-
ward it would have been it an enthusiastic soldier
had suggested the propriety of Service turning his
attention to lemonade instead of selling whisky.
Graham would have been forced fo make some
sort of promise about “using his influence in the
matter,” or giving “ his attention to the subject,”
as is his wily wont, and the wicked outside world
might have smiled. Things were quite bad enough
as it was. Poor Mr. Campbell had to make him-
sslf pleasant by saying that he “read the War Cry
very closely,” and that didn’t increase public con-
fidence in the coalition Ministry. People will get
thinking that Victorian Ministers subscribe to Mel-
bourne Punch next.
Writes a correspondent“ The London
Health Exhibition is fast developing into a second
Westminster Aquarium. It is now sacred to L-ds
and Phryne and Jezebel, more than to other sec-
tions of society, and its one redeeming feature is
that it is almost the only public place of amuse-
ment to which Albert Victor is in the present
season of mourning allowed to go by his Royal ma.
It has now, for very sufficient reasons, become
known as ‘ The Elesheries.’ One of the most
curious and suggestive sights in London is the
aquarium referred to. There is very little water
in the place beyond that used for mixing wiih
whisky; and the character of the oompany is to be
inferred from the fact that you may go there any
night and see from five to eight hundred womeD,
nearly every one of whom has rouge on her face
and walks about at times alone. And the strangest
part of the proceedings is that bands of the Scots
Guards and other crack regiments are allowed by
the authorities to play at this temple of Aphrodite.
But some queer things take place in London. The
other day, a pretty woman was brought up at a
police court for obtrusively plying the trade of
an unfortunate. The evidence went to show that
she was well-known to the police as an abandonee
and that, on the particular evening in question,
she had, while attired in the costume of a nun,
gone up and down the street winking at and
accosting passers by. In fact, the attention of the
arresting constable had been attracted by the
unique sight of a woman in religious dress talking
to men in a public place. She was sent to gaol for
two months. Just imagine the sensation attendant
on a nun winking—one of those shy. retiring,
good women, who have given up the pleasures of
the world and arrayed themselves in sombre gar-
ments and clumsy boots, and shorn their often
beautiful hair all for the sake of charity, deliber-
ately and of malice aforethought shutting her
dexter eye, puokering up one side of her pale
face, and giving you a pronounced wink in open
daylight! It's altogether too dreadful to even
thiuk of. should this enterprising female find
many imitators, ‘ taking the veil ’ will really stand
in danger of coming to mean something quite
different."


For Absolute and Unreservd Sale!
BY
Batty Road, and Purves,
AT THEIR NEW ROOMS, 88 PITT STREET,
ON
Tuesday, 17th September,
At 11.30 a.m.
HJdSg** The only Site in Sydney eminently suitable for a PALACE HOTEL.
317 Feet Frontage to Bent, Phillip, and Elizabeth Streets.
This splendid property is surrounded by the Union Club, Australian Club, and the magnificent Government Public Biiildings.
See Painting of Australasian Hotel, (proposed to be erected on above site) now exhibited
near General Post Office.
Note.— THE HIGHEST BIDDER WILL BECOME ABSOLUTELY THE PURCHASER.
OR SALE
OR TO LEASE,
MENZIES’ HOTEL,
in the finest position in Melbourne.
Established upwards of 30 years.
Receipts exceed £20,000 per annum.
H. BYRON MOORE, & McLEOD,
' Exohange, Melbourne.
A.J.C. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SALOON,
91 King-street.
B3P N.8.-I ALWAYS BACK THE FTELD.
GOOLALTA WINES.
SITA ER MEDAL BORDEAUX, *
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 Greorgo-street
(Beneath Paling’s.)
COLE'S BOOK AND STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
Thebe are very few houses in Sydney more widely known than that
of Mr. E. R. Cole, which is situated at the corner of King and George
streets, and which has been for the last fifteen years the great centre
of trade in the city. For a considerable period, a portion of the rear
and upper sections of the warehouse, shown in the engraving, was
occupied as offices by various firms, but the business of the house
having assumed great proportions, the whole of the premises have
been absorbed, and now the five floors of the edifice, including the
basement, form a great catacomb, where between 400,000 and 500,000
Books are stored for sale. The great aim of the Proprietor has been
to enable the public to know that the Book they cannot get else-
where they are sure to get at Cole’s. To this end there are about
twenty entirely separate show-rooms for the display of the various
classes of works, and the public are admitted to each and every depart-
ment for purposes of selection. The frequency of the Mail Service
between Sydney and_ England enables Mr. Cole to continually add to
his stock; and to obtain room for extensive shipments, daily ex-
pected, the Proprietor has determined to offer his extensive and
valuable stook, amounting to over £20,000, at oost price. The lines
specially reduced comprise Mechanical Books, Engineering and
Scientific Works, Medical Books, School Books, Scrap Books, Writ-
ing-desks, Ink-stands, Bibles, Prayer-books, Church Services and
Hvmn— books, Easter Cards, Birthday Cards, Books in all de-
Dariments of Literature; Plain, Fancy, and Mercantile Station-
'..-v • Account-books, Letter-books, Letter-presses, etc. This sale
offers opportunities to Schools, Schools of Art, Libraries, and
nrivate buyers to acquire standard works at a cheap rate. It is
ouo Mr. Cole’s intention to include his magnificent stock of Portrait
Albums in this sale. This stock is well-known as the largest ~nd
most varied in Australia, and comprises all the latest and most novel
in Portrait, Easel Portrait, Musical Portrait, Pocket, Gem,
smiare, Automatic, Magnifying, Cabinet, Oblong, and Revolving
portrait Albums There is not a wholesale house in the colonies
which has tne stock of Albums which Mr. Cole has now for retailing
at prices from sixpence to fifteen guineas. There are also lines of
Alliums made to Mr. Cole’s special order, really magnificent speci-
mens of art, on every page of which are shown splendid illuminated
views of the flora and fauna of Australia, sketches of the fernery of
Ivery land under the sun, and historic views of all climes. This line
r, entirely new, and to be found only at Cole’s. Mr. Cole’s stock is
undoubtedly cosmopolitan, for the whole periodical press of England,
Prance Germany, Italy, America, &c., is here in great profusion,
as well as the standard literary works of these countries. In a snort
tune the Christmas Goods will arrive, and the trads this year bids fair
to eclipse everything of the past; and, from the richneess, novelty,
variety and character of the samples, this ought certainly to be the
ease for every renowned house in the world has its choicest goods
culled by[Mr. Cole personally—and who better able to choose than
this gentleman who has had so many years experience of our likes
«ud dislikes? Th<- present sale is not intended for the sole benefit of
the city people; readers in the country should send to Mr. Cole for
a catalogue of the publications on sale at his complete establishment.
Pvery work required in almost every literary branch is obtainable,
and as the postal arrangements are very liberal, every facility is
offered to people residing in any part of Australia to possess a valu-
able library at a remarkably cheap price.


Personal
Items
Mr. Michael Davitt, who was to visit Aus-
tralia in the interest of the Nationalist funds, has
abandoned his intention of leaving’ Ireland—at
least until after the general election.
Concerning “Eyre’s Acquittal,” Miss Helen
Mather’s new novel, a home critic says:—“We
shall confess that Miss Mathor seems to us much
more at home when she relapses into her old ways,
and makes a young woman borrow a corkscrew of
an entire stranger."
“The Duke of Cambridge, on St. Swithin’s
Day, completed the twenty-eighth year of his
term of office as Commander-in-Chief. None of
his predecessors ever held the post for so long a
period.” Nor, it may be added, did anyone like
the Duke of Cambridge ever hold the post before
at all.
James Hawthorne, after more than half
owning that he did pot his brother, leaves a post-
suspendary statement protesting his innocence.
Let’s see—from memory. “Do you know what’s
in that box?" said Wemmick. “What?” I
enquired. “Murderers’ ‘last confessions,’” re-
plied Wemmick; “ lies, Mr. Pip—all lies 1 ”
Thady O’Kane is going to quit the
Northern Miner for the Townsville Hebald,
which he is to run in conjunction with the gifted
M'Manus. Mao’s late splendid theatrical ex-
periences as Dampier’s impresario, etc., will emi-
nently qualify him for the arduous position of
“dramatical cricket ”of a paper—at Townsville.
The Wild River Times is accurate or
nothing. Says it: "Dolly Tester, a chorus singer
of the Comedy Theatre, London, has become
Viscountess Savernake. The lordly bridegroom,
who is heir to the Marquisate of Ailsbury, is now
seventy-three years old. ’ The fate of the compo.
who set-up that seventy-three instead of twenty-
three will never be known.
Tawhiao and suite went recently to the
Egyptian Hall, London, to look at that Nana who
has kicked all the clothes off, and who lies there
laughing at you out of her wicked eyes. His
Majesty’s blushes were most embarrassing, but
these notwithstanding there was some difficulty in
getting him to take his leave. In the best English
he could muster, he was heard to say this was a
nude departure for him, and he wanted to make
the most of it.
It is generally known that it is not the in-
tention of the Government to hang Mr. Adams,
who recently made a target of Miss Moloney— a
lady who, it seems, was Mrs. Adams pro tem.
(giddy people those Prospect folk 1), and didn’t like
it. Adams eleoted to defend himself, and after the
first three questions in cross-examination, Nosey
Bob’s face was observed to brighten. We think
he might have got on better if he’d had Bucnanan.
Mind, we don’t say got otf.
This is how Miss Laun, Patti’s maid, de-
scribes the plighting of the troth of the Diva and
the Marquis: “Wildly the Marquis pressed the
proffered hand to his lips; intoxicated with joy he
clasped Adelina in his arms; then hurried away
speechless." Tnis gives some colour to the rumour
that when the Marquis de Caux was upraided by
the Emperor (whose equerry ho was) for having
formed a misalliance, he whined, “ I don’t remem-
ber nothun about it, yer Majesty; I was drunk
when I done it.”
The Rev. Joseph Parker, the well-known
and well-paid London pulpit tnumper, has an-
nounced his intention of visiting Australia some
time next year. Parker is one of the many divines
who blend godliness with nastiness, so he ought to
prove a big draw in Sydney. A little while ago,
we were telling how Parker, in preaching a
pleasant sermon about the washing of the Sa-
viour’s feet, enquired, “ How many ladies present
would like to wash my feet ?” A light, airy style
like that would be much appreciated out here.
Frederic Clay, the musical composer, who
has been lying for months under a paralytic
stroke, has been treated by an Italian physician,
and now bids fair to recover his speech and the use
of his paralysed arm. Sir William Gull, Jenner,
and a host ot the overpaid London medicos have
all “had a go” at Clay without success, so if the
Italian chooses to set up in London, he ought to be
able to drive a roaring trade with (he English
“nupper suckles.” About 50 per cent of the
members of the House of Peers are paralysed,
more or less.
The very latest is that Mrs. Langtry has
gone into ecstacies over a thirteen-year-old Chinese
boy, the son of a wealthy Celestial merchant. She
has promised to educate h m, and tenderly care
for the youngster for three years. He will be
dressed in full Chinese costume, and will accom-
pany Mrs. L. in all her wanderings. The ’Frisco
News Letter has been at it again, and says that
Mrs. L.’s walk, which in a drawing-room would
become an empress, appears pedestrian-like and
almost ungraceful in its vigour of stride on the
stage. “It is a bad walk, anyway, one foot cross-
ing the other.” Also that “ Langtry does not play
characters—she plays at them.”
King Tawhiao has been fairly fetched by
the poster of Pears’ soap, in which our little inky*
hued brudder is washing himself as white as the
Jersey Lily, and called at Pears’ emporium (which
is French for soap shop) with the idea of purchas-
ing a few cakes ot “our unrivalled.” The
manager presented Tawhiao with enough to wash
all Maoriland “ whiter than snow,” and the ambi-
tious monarch has been in a lather ever since.
This item of information is taken from the London
Referee, which furthermore tells us that ojr dear
old friend has not “ realised the poster.” For the
matter of that, he’s no worse than the three-
headed giants and spotted ladies of country shows.
They seldom realise the poster.
Ole King Cole, of mirthful soul renown,
has evidently left a worthy descendant in the per-
son of Mr. G. D. Cole, of North Creek, as we find
that gentleman advertising in a local rag as fol-
lows:—“In consequence of a pressure of business
at present, 1 will not be able to celebrate my birih-
day with the usual ball; but as soon as my cane is
cut, 1 will then entertain my friends once again.—
G. D. Cole.” Such a modest and friendly cuss as
that deserves half-a-dozen birthdays a year; al-
though, now that wo look at it again, the idba of
having to cut cane before the festivities come off
is rather too suggestive of a Donnybrook shivoo
to be reassuring to the numerous friends of the
entertaining Mr. Cole. Besides, it is a great mis-
take to ever allow business matters to interlere
with pleasure. Therefore, “on with the dance, let
joy be unconflned.”
This knocks Peter Campbell out in the
first round. Oscar Wilde had barely reached
home after his marriage with pretty Miss Lloyd,
than he heaved a sigh like a strangling calf and
observed: “Do you know, dear, that I have grave
doubts as to the validity of our marriage. That
clergyman was intensely ugly, and, above all
things in the world, he wore a foam-white surplice
trimmed with old Valenciennes lace, and looped
up with terra-cotta braiding. Frightful—fright-
ful.” And then tho miserable crank went hop-
ping round the room like an old sore-footed hen
on a hot ash-bed, whilst his more practical bride
borrowed her Pa’s razor to pare down her corns
before she started on her bridal tour. On board
the Channel boat, however, Ojcar was too crum-
pled up to refuse the timely assistance of the
Bteward, even though that gentleman passed him
over a orushed pumpkin basin adorned with a
scorched banana border.
When Stuart Cumberland, the “ thought-
reader,” asked the Prince of Wales to think about
some animal, the Prince thought about an ele-
phant, a rude picture of which Cumbprland drew
at the time. The elephant, as drawn, had no tail.
A Ceylon man now writes to an English paper that
no boy ever carried home his first bee with greater
glee than the Prince carried the tail of the first
elephant he shot. In vain Lord Charles Beres-
ford offered to relieve him of it: the Prince posi-
tively refused to part with it till he reached the
carriage-road where the conveyance awaited him.
Carefully placing the trophy in the bottom of the
carriage, H.R.H. assumed the reins; but the horses,
fidgety by long waiting, disloyally declined to
answer the whip, and, as a matter of fact, jibbed
our future King and all his paraphernalia into the
ditch, from the depths of which a voice was soon
heard to exclaim, “Charlie! Charlie!”—not “ wha
wadna follow thee!’ but—“tor ’s sake take
care of my tail!”
The gratitude of the dead is due to Mr.
Kirby, the undertaker. That gentleman, not con-
tent with constructing a hearse which no corpse,
however haughty, could refuse to admire—a
hearse described by us at some length in a late
issue—has now produced a oolfla on wheels for the
benefit of poor but high-spirited remains who
scorn to be dependent on their friends for a
funeral. The mechanism of the coffin is simple in
the extreme. The purchaser, as soon as he feels
himself sufficiently dead, gets into it and turns a
handle—like the handle ot a coffee-mill—which
propels the wheels, and the funeral is off. On
getting to the grave, the corpse has only to touch
a spring and the coffin turns over like a tip-oart
and empties him. The grave-digger does the rest.
By thus enabling the dead to pay the last rites to
themselves, and so maintain their self-respect and
independence, Mr. Kirby has made his name a
household word in every vault where the English
language is spoken.
Here’s a cheerfully donated “goak” that
would make a Barley burst himself wide open
with “wholesome fun,” and cause Sydney Punch
to lie over on his back in his 12mo. shroud and
kick the roof off his lime-soaked cherry-case with
laughter. It appears the only Alfred and the
jaynil Ban were round at Eastway’s struggling
A CHILD’S OFFERING TO THE “CAWS.”
SMALL BOY: “MA TELLS ME YOU ARE A MISSIONARY TO CHINA, AND ARE GOING
BACK THERE SOON. WELL, HERE IS A CHINESE COIN I FOUND THE OTHER DAY,
AND I THOUGHT, MAYBE, YOU MIGHT BE ABLE TO SPEND IT IN CHINA FOR THE
POOR LITTLE HEATHEN. IT AIN’T NO GOOD HERE, ’COS I TRIED IT.”
with a couple of plates of scalding: soup, a few
days ago, when an embryo Joe Miller observed:
“Hello, Dan! You’d better be careful how you
swallow that broth.” “ An’ fhor whoy ?” asked
the jaynil mimber. “Oh, nothing much,” ex-
plained the other, “but if it goes down too hot
we ll be crumpled up with another torrent of
‘burning eloquence.”' “Oh, be gad,” roared
Dan, “that’s imminse! Mistbur liinnitt, putt that
in y’r ‘ Brivlties,’ an’ Oi’ll take six carpies av’ the
papur meself.” The temptation to amass wealth
was great to Alf., but his'professional jealousy of
the other wit most effectually silenced even the
claims of avarice.
The indefatigable interviewer pounced
upon Mr. W. H. Paling, while in New York, the
other day, and Freund’s Musical and Dramatic
News works up our old friend thu:—“Mr. W. tf.
Paling. A piano prince from New South Wales.
Mr. William Pa ing, the leading dealer in pianos
and organs in Australia, paid this city a flying
visit last week, and left again for Europe in the
Rome on Saturday last. I had the pleasure of
meeting him the day before he sailed. He is a
very remarkable man, full of fire, spirit, and
enterprise; flaely educated, and a delightful con-
versationalist. He expressed himself as delighted
with this country. His business in Sydney com-
prises the sale of nearly ail the known European
makes of pianos and organs to which he has now
added a fine stock of Chickering pianos, which he
came specially to New York to select. Mr. Paling’s
1 pr feiences for the Chickering pianos is certainly
quite a feather in the cap of that firm. Mr. Paling’s
wealth is estimated at nearly half a million pounds
or over two million dollars. He does a business of
a million dollars a year.”
Jack Harrex, one of the sturdy old Leich-
hardt band, was recently knocking round up Nor-
rnanton way, when he struck a carrier’s camp, and
took “ pot luck ” with the company. When the
damper was negotiated, and the “ billy ” dry, the
carrier’s wife promptly divei under the dray, and
then proudly held up a two-month,’ old baby for
Jack’s inspection. Jack was never very well up
in the courtier’s art, but being anxious to say
something complimentary this time, he turned the
youngster round pretty much the same as he
would a native bear, and exclaimed: “ Wal, I’m jig-
gered now, ef it ain’t a pooty little heap o’ cat’s
meat, too. Air y’ goin* t’ rear th’ beggar, Missus ? ”
That night, as the sad wind moaned through the
trees, and the sentinel stars peeped wonderingly
down on the carrier’s camp, a shrill voice woke
the echoes of the lonely glen, and yelled: “All
right, Joe Potter, but wait till y’ arsk a dirty,
bandy-legged, spike-nosed, web-footed Yahoo t
stop fur tea, like yer did t’day, an’ be th’ holy
snakes I’ll scald him.” Solomon was right. It’s
far healthier to tickle a lion’s gullet with the
back of your head than pass offensive remarks on
a woman’s new baby.
A fearful tale comes from the Cloncurry
touching the fate of James White Powell, of the
firm of Kennedy and Powell, and an old Queens-
land pioneer of twenty-five years’ standing. Pow-
ell, it appears, was returning to Carlton Hills
with some stray cattle picked up on the Leichhardt,
and had got to within four miles of his run when
he was rushed by a mob of blacks. His only com-
panion was a black boy, who says the niggers
attacked the doomed man with tomahawks. Pow-
ell 8 revolver wouldn’t go off, and he was thrown
in the fearful struggle that ensued. Getting up,
however, he ran for a clump of trees, but was
promptly speared, and as the boy lied he looked
round and saw the black wretches hacking the
body up into pieoes in front of a large fire, and
preparing for a cannibal feast. As a set-off to this,
however, the Mackinlay Kange blacks recently
found a poor “sundowner” lost in the bush, and
taking him into their camp, cared for him as well
as they could until assistance came. And as a re-
cognition of this kindly service, the astute Govern-
ment promptly sent to the nearest police station a
thousand exra rounds of cartridges. Perhaps it
would pay to let the darkies take to governing,
and the Government to the bush.
Paul Morphy, the greatest of chess-players,
is dead at last. Of him, Moncure Conway writes:—
“It was when the chess clubs of the world were
talking over his wonderful blindfold games that I
met him and played half-a-dozen games with him
at the Brevoort House, New York. I had almost
attained the proud rank (for a youth) of a second-
rank player in the clubs, but asked for a rook as
odds. Out of the six I won but one game, and
have virtually given up chess ever since. Where
was the use of toiling on when, after years of
struggle, here was a man who could give me a
rook and beat me with ease ? I can see now the
smali beardless young man—very much like Edgar
Poe—and the white hand, veined like that of a lady,
softly moving piece after pieoe, with little hesita-
tion, as if he had long foreknown my move and
had patiently awaited it. No surprise was possible
to those quiet eyes. The face of Morphy was
pathetic; one could read in it that he felt ashamod
of his interest in the game, as Montaigne says
Alexander the Great was. Morphy regarded him-
self as victimised by his success, and made a des-
perate effort to free himself. He became a lawyer,
but he could not make a career other than that
which was written in his marvellous brain. I have
heard that he was much depressed of late years,
though he was beloved by all who knew him, and,
indeed, was a loveable man.”
We are just about full up of the Baldwins
now, and don’t believe they can prophecy any
more than Pastor Allen, Peter Campbell, or any of
the rest of our one-horse crowd of prophets. First
time the Professor came here, a telegraph clerk
was cheerfully told that he would soon wax ex-
ceeding rich, but his joy on receiving this informa-
tion was somewhat chilled by an addendum to the
effect that he would be fatally stabbed in a certain
street, at 11 p.m. on the following 29th of April.
That was over seven years ago, but the wily tele-
graphist stayed at home on the fearful night pre-
dicted, and he now weighs 3101 b., and boasts of an
appetite that never knows a day's illness. Up at
Parramatta, a few nights ago, Mrs. Baldwin in-
formed a newspaper party that he would amass a
fortune, but would be murdered in his bed two
years after he retired to live upon his money. Of
course, there is nothing wonderful about the fact
of a pressman—especially a Parramatta pressman
—being murdered; but the idea of one or the fra-
ternity being alive for two whole years after hav-
ing amassed a fortune is just a trifle too thin to
fool the intelligence and experience of such very
very old birds as we are. as one of your gifted
countrymen once remarked, Clara, “it couldn’t be
did, not no how,” for once your average ink-
slinger lays his hand on a pile, you can bet your
boots that his address in three weeks’ time will be
either Gladesvilie or a 6 x 1 lot in the nearest bone-
yard.
The strong predilectio n for rum recently
evinced by Upjohn, the Victorian hangman, is
causing some comment in strangling circles, and
it is generally considered that, unles 8 he tapers off
he -will be superseded in his office by a gentleman
of less bibulous propensities. T here are already
over a dozen applicants. Wh en the vacancy is
filled up, we should not be surprised to see adver.
tised for in the papers, “A competent dramatical
cricket.’ 1 Gately, by the way, who was Upjohn’s
predecessor, was more of an animal than a human
being. His face was a ghastly knot, typical of
every phase of crime. His forehead was narrow
and receding, and his small green eyes were sunk
in positive caverns. His cheek-bones were so
high, that it is no figure of speech to say you could
have hung your hat on either of them; and liis
yawning chasm of a mouth displayed only two or
three broken and blackened fangs. During twelve
years. Gately had only oncejbeen four consecutive
weeks at liberty. When he had, as a rule, been
ornamenting the city with his presence more than
a week the police would send emissaries armed
with Little Bourke-streetgrogto make him drunk
and then the burly giant would lose all remaining
human instincts, and run amuck through the city
bombarded with road-metal by the larrikins, until’
mad with pain and rage, ho would hammer with
his fists against the gaol gates, and apply, with
curses, for admission. In prison, Gately was
treated differently to the other prisoners, being
allowed tea, tobacco, and the privilege of messing
with the old and decrepit prisoners. Had he been
put into the ordinary stone-yard, he would have
been killed in ten minutes. The Adelaide hang-
man (don’t put this amongst the crinolette and
gauntlet-glove items) is a different type of civil
servant. He is a tall, dark, dirty, old gentleman,
who resides in quarters provided for nim inside
the gaol wails, where he sleeps on a stretcher
covered with frowsy rags, and burns a *• fat ” lamp
day and night—even in the summer time. He can
go out and come in as he chooses, but he seldom
avails himself of his promenade privileges, since
his appearance in King William-street drives the
larrikin element to the pitch of frenzy. The S.A.
executioner is moderate in his potations, except
those times immediately preceding or succeeding a
hanging, at which period his head is in the fire-
place 23 hours out of the 24. His favourite author
is Ainsworth, that being due to the fact, probably,
that the name of D. W. B. Sladen is, as yet, to him
unknown.
General Maclver is truly a man with know-
ing. He has killed four men in nine duels, had six
horses shot under him, been wounded in nine
places, tried to elope twice, has served under 14
.lags, and has lectured to 9d. We like Maclver so
much in everything he has done that we hardly
know which to admire him most in. He is superb
when he fights his girl’s brother, but out of con-
sideration for the Seiiorita (or whatever she is)
coutents himself with piercing an orange which
has been hung on a branch over the brother’s
head during the preparations. (It would be inter-
esting to know, by the way, what the General’s
youthful adversary and his seconds were doing
all the time Maclver’s people were fixing up the
William Tell “ prop.”) When entrapped by assas-
sins in Mexico, the General, who knocks over the
miscreants like nine-pins, is a gorgeous picture.
Splendid is he, too, when he pounces upon the
Juarez soldier, and enforces a < hange of clothes.
He is a dream of valour, likewise, when serving
the Argentine republic at Buenos Ayres, his
Foreign Legion mutiny, and drawing his re-
volver, he turns to the seven hundred, and
thunders : “ Battalion, fours by your right,
forward I Quick march 1 ” Immense is this
noble warrior, when, with the brigand’s mus-
kets pointed against his breast, he says: “Gen-
tlemen of the Road, I beg first that you will lower
your weapons; in the second place, I am not a rich
traveller. I have only seven Napoleons. You are
quite welcome to the half; and the remainder, if
you do not object, I shall keep, as I require the
money very particularly just at present for my
own use.” Nobly hestands out, too, when running
the blockade, holding, in case he should be shot,
his “leaded” despatches over the side of the
steamer, at the end of a piece of string. [lll Soul-
stirring, also, is that part of his career, when
attacked, in company with two lriends, by three
hundred Indians, he shouts. “Down men, and give
them a volley with your rifiesl ” Dignified is he,
again, when made Provost-Marshal; and he cuts a
noble figure when subsequently (and with some
appropriateness) he receives the order of Gauda-
loupe. And what picture in history could be more
sublime than when, escaping the knife of the
Spanish assassin, the intrepid General “drew a
small derringer, and shot his assailant between the
shoulders, when he fell mortally wounded.” And
when the lady at ihe ball says. “ . . . There are
people—persons in this room—who seek your life,”
and Maclver replies, “Ah, madame, I do not fear,”
what a great creature it is I And yet to think that
the herb of all this has travelled 16,000 miles only
to be fated to lecture to 9d. Too bad!
A new poet, Mr. A. R. Ropes,gives a spirited
transcript in words of Chopin's “Barcarolle”:—
“ Dear, was it ever yesterday, and were we liviDg
then ?
Bome woman lived, and sweet to her were soDgs
of other men:
Some man there was that set his voice to love-
songs, old or new—
But yet it was not I, my love; O say it was not
you!
“ Dear, will to-morrow ever dawn, and shall we
see its sun ?
Bome woman’s weeping face shall sorrow when
the night is done;
Some man shall curse the golden sky that mocks
his pain above-
But it will not be I; O say, will it be you, my
love ?”
A large crop of poets has just appeared in London,
among them a Mr. Staniland, who has enabled tho
papers to poke much fun at him because he, ac-
cording to the oily style of a hundred years ago or
more, dedicates his book—
“ O Atkinson I whose songs gush from the heart
In graceful melody, accept in part
The debt I owe to thee. Thou did’st infuse
Some of thy fire into my early muse;
Which, embryotic, in the laboured line
With vain ambition emulated thiue.”
The longest of Mr. Staniland’s efforts is a blank
verse poem in two parts, entitled “ The Betraval,”
which has for its subject the temptation and fail
of Judas Iscariot, but throws little light upon that
obsoure transaction. The last lines are :
“ Then, overstrained,
The girdle broke; and that accursed corpse,
Careering through the air, smote on the earth;
And in the plain eviscerated lay.”
This gives us an opportunity of remarking that
anyone who has been in the habit of unreservedly
writing cown Judas Iscariot as a scoundrel with-
out one solitary redeeming fault had better read
Story’s great poem, “A Roman Lawyer in Jerusa-
lem.” But an even stronger plea for the miscreant
suicide has been found by a London firm of print-
sellers, who have just issued a flaming picture
(wherein all the figures have red cloaks and blue
beards) of “The Last Supper.” In this print the
traitor is depicted sitting in front of half a lobster.
We have eaten crayfish ourselves at night, once or
twice, and can strongly recommend it as an in-
centive to crime.
A large section of the London sporting
press appears to live in the musty past of a hun-
dred years ago, and to regard as absolutely sacred
the memories of such worthies as this:—” Mr. John
Mvlton”—how that reminds one of the title-line
on an old print!—“was bom on the 30 th of Sep-
tember, ‘1796, at Halston, ip Shropshire. He was
expelled from Westminster and Harrow. At 19
vears of age ho obtained a cornetcy in the 7th
Hussars, and joined the army of occupation in
France. Fighting being over, he employed his
time in gambling, and when, on obtaining his 31st
year, he came into a fortune of £lO,OOO a year, and
£60,000 cash, a large portion of the latter bad to be
disburse lin paying his debts. At 23 years of age
he married a daughter of Sir Tyrrwhit Jones, but
his wife died within a few years of the marriage,
her death being accelerated by her husband’s neg-
lect and ill-treatment. Many fatories are told of


REMEMBER THIS,
IE YOU ARE SICK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails.
If you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of
HOP HITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any other of the numer-
ous diseases of the stomach or bowels,
it is your own fault if you remain ill,
for
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of all coun-
tries—malarial, epidemic, bilious and in-
termittent fevers—by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, HOP BITTERS
will give you fair skin, rich blood, the
sweetest breath, health, and comfort.
In short, theV cure ALL Diseases of
the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver
Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
£5OO
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in the them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
Will you let them suffer ?
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no siekness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
WeakNemusMen
'A-
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay
and failure to perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will lind a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust hcnlt h
and vigorous manhood in
THE MARSTON BOLUS.
etomach drugging no.-
instruments. This treatment of
liervoiis Debility and
Physical Decay is u n if orm ly
successful because based ou perfect diagnosis,
now and direct methods and absolute thor-
oughness. Full information and Treatise free.
Adaross Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO., S 3 Cuftomgh St., Sf&aay
John Mylton s escapades. Hardly a week passed
without his endangering 1 his life in some mad
frolic. Ho often rode to hounds When he was
drunk, and even when sober he would attempt to
negotiate a fence that was utterly impracticable.
When driving tandem he put his horses at a turn-
pike gate, *to see,’ he said, *if his leader was a
good timber jumper.’ The horse cleared the gate,
and neither he nor his driver was hurt. Another
day he galloped over a rabbit warren to see if his
horse would fall, which it did, rolling over him.
While driving a friend in a dog-cart, his companion
was weak enough to admit that he had never been
upset. ‘ Never upset?' said Mylton. ‘What ad—d
slow fellow you must have been all your life!’
Running the trap up a bank, he immediately
up»et it. He was very fond of practical
jokes, and often dressed as a highwayman to pre-
tend to rob his friends. Once, disguised as a
tramp, he begged at his own house, and was nearly
torn to pieces by his own dogs; but was saved by
a pet bear, who recognised him, and kept the dogs
at bay. It was on this bear that he roae, in full
hunting dress, into the dining-room at one of his
dinner parties. The animal was quiet till his
owner spurred him, when he bit him through the
leg. Physically he «*as a very powerful man, with
a splendid chest and shoulders, and his biceps was
larger than that of Jackson, the great pugilist;
but though often engaged in street rows, he was
never challenged for a duel. His abilities were
good, and his classical acquirements far above the
average. He was a magnificent shot with a gun or
a rifle. He and his brother-in-law were known to
have killed six hundred head of game in one morn-
ing. He would strip to his shirt to follow wild
fowl in the coldest weather, and rode several days
a week to coverts fifty miles from his house. He
was one of the best riders of his time, and kept a
stud of racers. He was very popular on the turf,
as he would often run his horses to please the
country people, even when he knew they had no
chance of winning. Drink was eventually his ruin.
With a daily allowance of from four to six bottles
of port, he took to brandy, and it is said that for
the last twelve years of his life he was never sober.
He died in great misery in the King's Bench Prison,
in the thirty-eighth year of his age.”
Melton Prior, the special correspondent of
the Illustrated London News, said, when inter-
viewed recently“ Of all the detestable oreatures
in South Africa, the so-called Christian Kaffir is
the worst. The savage Kaffir, the raw and un-
adulterated Kaffir, is a good fellow, but put stock-
ings upon the Kaffir woman and she becomes a
prostitute, put breeches upon a Kaffir man and he
becomes a thief and a drunkard. Their original
virtue is not proof against European garments,
and when they take to wearing our clothes they go
to the bad. The Christian Kaffir haunts the town
where he takes airs upon himself and needs the
knobkerrie of the policeman to remind him that
only white folks must walk on the pavement,
while black fellows must keep in the middle of
the road. Another very strong conviction that 1
have formed is that the Boers of the Transvaal
are among the dirtiest creatures in the world.
Neither man nor woman ever takes off a shirt
when once he or she has put it on till it drops to
pieces, and I well remember the expostulations of
ope of the best Boers in the Transvaal when he
saw me commit what he considered the fearful
imprudence of going to sleep in a night-shirt. ‘Why,
you will get cold! Take off your clothes when
you go to sleep! Never heard of such a thing!
You should see the Boers in the Volksraad with
their long greasy hair swarming with lice and their
clothes alive with fleas. They ar6 capital good
shots and good riders, but never a Boer yet would
do a stroke of work that he could make a black
man do for him. They never plough; the black
man ploughs, and if the black man objects he is
persuaded to withdraw his objections by the sham-
bock. The Boer has his Kaffir well in hand, you
may depend upon it. There is no doubt in the
Transvaal as to who is master. Every native is
attached to some farm. Any native found wander-
ing without a master can be locked up or appro-
priated by the first Boer who finds him. A pretty
people they are to pander to, as we have done!
. . . The best soldiers, in my opinion, are the
Montenegrins and the men of Herzegovina. I was
sent out in the early dai s of the insurrection which
re-opened the Eastern Question, and I was amazed
at the stalwart proportions, heroic courage, and
marvellous military aptitude of these mountain-
eers. They are without rivals in any part of the
world. After them come the Turks-not the
pashas, but the privates. Brave, patient, kindly,
hospitable, enduring, they come, I think, second
among the warriors of the world. After the Turks
undoubtedly come the English; but I may say that
I have not seen the German army in the field.”
. . . Mr. Prior also gave his opinion pretty freely
about England’s “little wars’':—“l hardly think
you will say that our Transvaal war did any good.
At least, I hardly see the fun of being jolly well
licked four times running and then giving in,
while the Loyals who trusted us were left to be
ruined by the men who had w hipped us. In Zulu-
land also it was a pretty mess. Battles enough
and bloodshed; but, at the end of it all, everything
was worse than before. In like manner, our fight-
ing among the Basutos came to nothing. It ruined
many Basutos, and cost a good deal of money, but
that was all. In fact, so far as the wars in which
we have been engaged are concerned-and I have
seen them all for the last dozen years, outside Asia
—John Bull had much better have stopped at home
and kept his powder dry, instead of rampaging
about the world killing his neighbours.”
It may interest certain fashionable circles
-principally in England —to learn that Lady
Munro (who was recently murdered behind the
Carlton Brewery (Mel.), but subsequently got
seven days for hilarity in Woolloomooloo) has en-
tered the Ardill-Browne Home, determined to re-
form. The scene of her conversion and of her
yielding to temporary seclusion was an affecting
one. Two members of the Blue Ribbon Gospel
Army commenced a service on a stone heap in
Liverpool-street, at the intersection of a certain
street which is of a decidedly'giddy nature. In
this thoroughfare the people stop inside their
tenements as long as they are sober; but the
moment the 17th pint begins to take effect the
wholo colony is sitting on the kerbstone, with its
feet in the gutter, and its hair on the pavement.
A weird street that, now that we remember it—a
neighbourhood in which when one lady has a dif-
ference with another, the arp uments on either side,
and the local proctor intervening, can be heard as
far down as the Steam Laundry. The ladies in this
street, though uncommonly spruce at night time,
at which period they (probably having archceo-
logical tastes) haunt the vicinity of the Museum
long after that majestic structure is closed to the
public, adopt a somewhat advanced order of “ dis-
serbill ” before Sol has sunk with prismatic tints of
purple and gold on the shimmering horizon (this
comes of reading Myer’s copy in the Herald!)
Print wrappers short of buttons in front, and
showing a regular thundercloud of battered stays,
are much in vogue, while a lady will not unfre-
quently be seen wearing a satin shoe on one foot
and a man’s boot on the other. The shops, too, are
in themselves a study. Demure-looking little
green-grocers’ shops, on a closer inspection, are
observed to retail oysters (always a roystering
kind of refreshment) ; and little grocers pass
the word to lady customers to step upstairs
and “ ’ave a toon on th’ pianner.” The local
dogs, too, are peculiar. They are ill-look-
ing, patchy brutes, with a down-looking as-
pect; but the most curious circumstance in con-
nection with them it that no particular dog seems
to belong to any particular horse, but browse and
sleep upon whatever premises they choose at plea-
sure. Public-houses, here, are frequented by
beetle-browed young men, who converse together
m knots, and surreptitiously exhibit and explain
to one another new trifles of intricate joinery,
calculated to beguile the unsuspecting rustic of
his valuables. Attracted by the voices of the
preachers, a choice selection of these gentlemen
and the damozels who affect their society congre-
gated around the Gospel Army, and it is impossible
to deny that the line of conduct adopted by this
section of the congregation enlivened, to a very
large extent, the proceedings. There can be little
doubt that the Gospel Army were in earnest, or
they would have sung “ God Save the Queen ” at
an i-arly stage of the proceedings, and expedi-
tiously let down the rag. They began by singing
hymns, in which Lady Munro, who carried in her
hand a long glass of beer, joined with much vigour
although we regret to state that the following was
a sample of the lyric sung by her ladyship and her
companions:—
“ If you want to find a rest,
You must drink all of the best;
You must ne’er be a deceiver;
You must fill your little turn
With a bucketful of rum,
And tip up, boys, with a long-sleever.”
It was a matter of regret to us that, during a tirade
on temperance by one of the Blue Ribbon Gospel
gentlemen, the orator and his companion had fre-
quent glasses of beer and spirits pressed upon
them; and on these gentlemen declining refresh-
ment, in several cases they were awarded an alco-
holic shower-bath. Suddenly elbowing her way to
the front, Lady Munro, gracefully wiping off her
lips the few remaining burrs of froth, said, “ Are
you game to give us a feed if I’ll be saved?”
“Come to the Home, and you will find it flowing
with milk and honey,” quoth one of the good
gentlemen. In a moment Lady Munro had clasped
im round the neck and avowed herself a candi-
date for instant salvation and a square meal. On
this, the gentlemen took her between them in a
very professional manner, and commenced leading
the con vert away ’mid a whirlwind of carrots, clay,
pebbles, and a whirlpool of beer, rum, and whisky.
Thrice Lady M. was rescued by her sisters in sin,
and thrice retaken by her captors. At a rough cal-
culation, her ladyship—such was the throng and
the hospitality of it-partook, during the first hun-
dred yards the procession made, something over a
gallon of malt liquor. Lady Munro, however, is
now safely lodged in the Ardillian Home, in which
refuge that lady will be sure, if not to gain much
moral profit for herself, at least to enliven things
considerably for her companions.
• • •
In Western Australia, Mr. Clayton T.
Mason, C.M.1.C.E., is the latest appointed
member of the Legislative Council, he hav-
ing succeeded the late Hon. Mr. Thomas
as Director of Public Works and Commissioner
for Railways. The Hon. Mr. Mason has a brother
in Sydney, Mr. J. Stuart Mason, of the Commercial
Building and Investment Society.
• • *
The English papers are regretting the
untimely decease of Col. H.R.H. Prince Leopold
because he was to have written the life of the
Prince Imperial. It was, all must admit, a grace-
ful thing for one military hero to undertake the
biography of another military hero.... Lord
Northbrook is to get the vacant Garter. When
another falls in, it will be given to Lord Rosebery
or to Lord Dufferin....O’Donovan Rossa’s son is’
in Ireland “for his health,”and the police have
searched his luggage.
Granny’s French correspondent is nothing
Knot “Legitimist.” Were she only that, and did
she content herself with expressing extreme views
with some sort of coherence, one might respect
her devotion,though unable to accept her opinions;
but what, save contempt, can be felt for such
venomous rot” as this. re the recent insult to the
German flag in Paris:—“ Of course it created some
little excitement in Berlin, but the prompt expla-
nations of the French ambassador at the German
capital, and the unmistakableness of the fact that the
outrage was simply the work of an excited mob, ren-
dered it impossible to get up much indignation
over the affair. With the acceptance of the apology
and regret of M. Ferry’s Government, of course
the matter ends. It has simply been another in-
stance of the chivalry and courtesy (!) of the politest
nation in the world, and of the inability of the
Parisian agitator to profit by past experience.
One would have thought the abject apologies they
were compelled to make over the Alphonse affair
would have taught the French nation the value of
moderation a~d restraint, but such doesnotappear
to have been the case.” If the outrage was unmis-
takeably the work of an excited mob, how can it
la id to the charge of the whole French nation ?
Would it be fair to charge the Fourth Estate with
the oetwes of a set of drivelling correspondents ?
And, about that Alphonse affair, wherein did the
abjectness of the apologies consist, save in the
imagination of the snobbish scribe whose one
desire is to make her screed suit the plutocratic
jingoism that is the oreed of the corner of Pitt and
Hunter streets?
An artist-poet in London, writing to a
friend now in Australia, says:—“ I thank you much
for The Bulletin, which I consider a most ex-
cellent paper, and which makes me 1 irgely qualify
the opinion I had formed of Australian flunkeyism.
I had previously seen nothing of the sort from the
Southern colonies, and erroneously based my
opinion on insufficient evidence—by no means an
uncommon occurrence.” Towards the close of
his letter, the writer returns to this subject: “ Mv
wife says I must tell you to send another Bulle-
tin. We think it the best thing, all round, we
have seen; and if you know the journalist that
t a< ? e , r Plain English,’ you tell
him he is a ‘brick,’ which is also plain English, and
the best title in the language—bar none. You are
doing admirable service,” says this correspondent
in another part of his communication, “ especially
in preaching Spence. To my mind, he is more to
the purpose than George. Spence is more thorough
and more completely covers the ground. He not
only shows the end, but the means to it—i,e. uni-
versal suffrage and the ballot—which George e i-
tirely omits in order to wake snakes over a totally
irrelevant subject (interest), while he lacked Lord
Melbourne’s master-policy of let-aloneing. Do
usurers and bond-holders need a Messiah ? if thev
do, as Artemus Ward says, ‘let ’em need.’ I feel
“THE BULLETIN” PRIMER—LESSON IX.
E. is for Ed-it-or. See, he is weeping.
Tears—scald-ing, bri-ny tears—dim his mild,
blue eyes, and fall in-to the paste-pot. Some-
one has been un-kind to him. A sub-serib-er
lias writ-ten him a let-ter, threat-en-ing to
stop the pa-per be-cause the Ed-it-or has
pnnt-ed some-thing that did not please the
sub-scrib-er. The Ed-it-or sees
ru-in star-ing him in the face,
and that is why he weeps. If
the man had mere-ly sued the
Ed-it-or for li-bel, he would
I have paid the dam-a-ges cheer-
ful-ly. He is used to that; but
to have his pa-per stop-ped un-
mans him quite. When
a per-son is un-man-ned
he be-comes a beast, and
drinks whis—ky, or runs
for Par.li-a.ment, or both.
Let us be kind to the Ed-
it-or, and take his pa-per,
and ad-ver -tise in it.
Political
Points
There are none so blind as those who won’t
see. And the S.M. Herald won’t see that the
squatters can and do “pool.” “Very small
minorities,” says our contemporary, “do not
usually rule a country’’—that also shows an
obstinate refusal to accept the teachings of politi-
cal history. “ If," adds the same authority, with
what would be charming;naivet<s, were it not the
most assured disingenuousness “if in any way
T°/ k compactly (subaudi
V* muBt ,J>e by quiet and unseen methods,
/n^ Vo +h eifche F conferences nor local com-
mittees (no, they ain’t such fools), nor special
members.” (Oh!) Just as if the organ of bank-
parlourism didn’t know all about it.
-7^i 8 ?*T c ? 11 u nc 7. Governor Jervois, of New
Zealand, is to be pitied. He cordially dislikes th«
threat Tribune of the people, Sir George Grev and
although it was as plain as a Wellington beautv
thof of Ma j° r Atkinson’s Government’
that the right man to send for was Sir George he
preferred to grant a dissolution and put ’the
colony to a needless expense of £50,000. Then
when the new Parliament was convened, and the
Major resigned, without a struggle, he sent for a
nobody of the name of Ormond, who had the
goixl sense to decline the job. Then s J r Julius
Vogel was sent for, and when his Government was
defeated, after less than a weeks existence fHs
sen t for Clutha Thomson—a nonentity
a J ,e . er And, last of all, when no
escape remained from the ugly dilemma heseni
.Botto See how the old m“n chsckild
when the invitation reached him, was a caution !
with you,” he says, returning to his subject fur-
ther on, “ not a belief, but a conviction, an absolute
conviction, that once get the land communised (that
is, districted in Spence’s plan), parishisedif you like,
with the ballot and universal suffrage, frequently
appealed to, to secure against the undue influence
of a clique or faction—to secure* in short, the
eternal vigilance that the adage tells us is the
price of Liberty, of Justice, of human develop-
ment—let Us once get that, end all the rest not
only will but must follow. There would no longer
be any need for strikes or combinations, or any of
the political machinery now in use to keep the
disjointed social fabric in what fools and knaves
now call order. Demand and supply would then
be naturally equalised, aud all would secure a
share of the general wealth in absolute proportion
to the individual share he contributed in exchange.
And, right here, let me reinforce how all important
this universal suffrage and frequent use of the ballot
is to ensure an equitable result. Let us consider
how restricted franchises act in our miserable
municipal and paiish matters, where, as I see
Dilke mentions in to-day’s p.iper, in some in-
stances, a councillor or alderman has been re-
turned by two votes, one of which was his son, the
candidate in the minority, like * Bird-o’-Freedom
sawin’,’ being unable to get a supporterl Why,
I do not hesitate to say that nationalisation under
the rotten borough and rotten county system
would have been as gross an abomination, and,
perhaps, even more difficult to shake off (as more
would have been interested in maintaining the
iniquity), than our present blasphemy of oligarchic
landlordism.” “Look here!” he goes on, “let the
landlords give up the land with universal suf-
frage, and they are welcome to all the rest
they can stick to. Without thesuffrage, the people
have a sort of nationalisation already in Bengal,
in Egypt, in parts of Russia, China, and Japan; and
what does it amount to ? Why, I saw that in some
cases in Egypt the rent has actually exceeded the
value of the gross produce of the farmer; but this
would have oeen impossible with universal suf-
frage.” “ Why did you say that Spence’s means to
the end,” this enthusiastically democratic artist-
poet asks hisl friend, “ are * archaic T If they are,
the more’s the pity. One Wat Tyler, after all, is
worth just fifteen million ‘ constitutional agitators.’
Why, Joseph Arch, or Hyndman, or Bradiaugh are
sheer pigmies beside Tyler or .Jack Cade. These
poor creatures think themselves heroes if they risk
a fine or six months in quod; but the demagogues
of old time faced the rack and the wheel, the
block and the faggot, with as light a heart as
Ollivier did the Prussians. If the land is ever to be
obtained by the people on such terms as shall
render it worth having (not burthened; with a
‘Jii-years' purchase swindle), it will have to be by
‘urebaie’ moans. But, thank the Lord-and the
Lords—the hour of ‘argument with sticks’ is ap-
proaching. Uniess I much mistake, the Radical
party will soon break away from the ‘ Grand Old
Humbug',’' whose policy is becoming a little thin
wm * re » and Labouchereand others
the fere, and universal suffrage will
6a 1 pr°P er ty qualification, yea, even
“ '®t l i?*7 la ™ maklD * qualification, will go down,
ana before 93 comes round again the enigma
11.I 1 . °°t as to how the House of Peers
8 on,ua°i! l 8d ’ but k° w sucdl » n abomination
thnaioPPo h ave existed, and the woolsack, with
I.nnai°iV u *u °P. ee 'i B rostrum ' the crown, and the
wm! 1 f * thc> back-stairs will be the curios of
»r century museum of antiquities. Amen.”
rj;rf^?/P„ y Q U a Justice a day or two ago. The
Boci abst as not in my line,” continues
our correspondent; “ I am sick of the word; it has
r£P?oi? ore enBl ave mankind than all the anti-
£niru ‘ o'l 1 ; Q <- ty r^u n 108 • There is the Christian
nPio^ol sfc ’ £bristian Communist, Christian
»h? ar P 1 ® t, u an J i 9 hrist ian Atheist, and if the cities of
v,oa?v^« Q £S d B *i? od till now, they also would have
PA d tbcif Chrastian organs. I cannot see that anv-
pb . o ,# that is not good in itself can be bettered by
Christs name tacked to it; and this I do
Know from experience, that nine times out of ten,
ltisoDly a pretext fora lie—an imposition. It is
the common tricK of impostors. Mind you, I am
°ot going against the Sermoniser on the Mount,
put the hackneying of His precepts by such
r .° Ka ® B as theTalmages and Bensons, who
make their thousands and tens of thousands by
preaching the doctrine of ‘Sell all that thou hast,
and pine it to me, or if you don’t, I’ll verylsoon—
"™J. .whenever I see Christ’s name put before
tiling, I begin to suspect the article so
iv^! eded ' j 8 ? ood religion less self-commending
wine? Depend upon it, ‘Lacbryuno
um r u B^ T^ B , as sophisticated as ‘Hamburg Port.’”
, f -bprcls be praised I ” exclaims our ardent
friend, they have thrown out the Franchise Bill,
and of the two horns of the dilemma they have
chosen the worst. Quern Deus vult perdcre, &c.
This action of theirs will help the cause of demo-
?£ ™ sy -,? 10re than anything that has happened since
liwU. You must not, however, think the land ques-
tion will be settled by any amount of reform, seeing
the party we have to deal with. Revolution alone
can do it ; because to buy the landlords out with
interest-bearing State bondswouldonlybeshunt-
lng the question on to a worse line, and the revo-
lution would still have to come to shake off the
burthen of taxation such a debt would impose.
But Ireland is the great fulcrum for the lever at
fb.®.Pf e ® e P t time; once get a right state of things
initiated in Ireland and the rest will follow, like
/TP’PP I’B 1 ’ 8 ! 0 8 ®heep.” “Moreover, he,” referring to one
ot the leading men and democrats of the day, our
correspondent declares, “ credits the English work-
ing man with as much intelligence as a pig—which
is a mistake, because a pig is only satisfied when he
is fattening; on short commons he is mutinous and
growls galore; whereas the British working man
goes to meeting, or joins the Salvation Army, or
give praise to Almighty God for tbo station to
ii l j u l ® as P* eaB efi said Almighty God to have
called him, or to the pub. and damns everything
all round. However, on the whole, thanks to a
host of circumstances, his political education is
improving, as the strenuous efforts of the Tory
party to keep him the pig he has hitherto been,
even at the oost of a few additional acorns, testify.
The Socialists and the Communists, although I ana
sure they are either unspeakably shallow or infin-
itely deep (and insincerej-their forte is making a
collection!—are doing good service in prodding the
beast, and keeping old sores open, and making his
integument sensitive to the new ideas; but it must
be borne in mind that there is a large per-eentage
of energetic common-sense fully alive to the ques-
fions(of the day, which is a daily increasing quan-
Stirring times in Gundagai The Herald
has christened the other paper “the Chameleon,”
and all but spelled it properly. And now news comes
tumbling in heels over head. Fancy this:—" yes-
terday evening, as Messrs. Walker and Co.’s horse
and cart were standing at the front door, the
animal startled at something, bolted off. . . The
horse dashed on up Jones’s Creek, and when near
the pounds, ran tho cart against a stump and over-
turned it, but no damage was done.”


Professional Directory.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel
ties, apply F. E. Hiscocks..
Horace BENT, with Hiseocks' Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
W.
Sydney.
Theatre ro y a l .
Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson. Garnish and Mlsgrovx.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
THIS (Thursday) EVENING.
1 LAST NIGHT BUT ONE
of the latest and Novelty of
MERRY DUCHESS Y ' MERRY
MERRY DUCHESS MERRY DUCHESS
The finest performance of Comic Opera ever given
* in Sydney.
The music is brilliantly sparkling.
The dialogue is crisp, pointed, and witty.
The scenery new and beautiful.
PRICES : Dress Circle, ss: Stalls, 35.: Family
Circle, 2s. PIT, ONE SHILLING.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastwav’s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4. No free list.
o
E R
H
USE
Lessees ... E. Majeroni and W. J. Wilson.
Under the Management of
RIGNOLD and ALLIS ON.
Acting Manager Monty Browne.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY,
MISS DE GREY,
who will be supported by Mrs. Chippendale and
Miss De Grey s
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY,
will repeat their Great Success, the most elegant
of all comedies, Oliver Goldsmith s
SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER
SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER,
pronounced by all patrons to be the Most Charm-
ing Performance ever given in Sydney.
Business Manager I for Miss ) Mr. A. L. Cunard.
Stage Manager (De Grey iMrF. T. Lingnam.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Huenerbein’e, 411
George-street.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee Mr. John Bennett.
LESSEE AND MANAGER :
m| wm YH K 'p H ||2 \K •
CROWDED HOUSES. IMMENSE SUCCESS.
Pinero s Great London Comedy,
IMPRUDENCE IMPRUDENCE.
This and Every Evening,
Mr. Wybert Reeve as “ Baines Durant, supported
by his powerful Company. ,
Box Plan Nicholson’s. Tickets Loder s Hotrl.
Business Manager, G. A. COLEMAN.
Academy of mu si c.
Lessee and Manager—Mr. F E-Hisoocks.
—* 6th MONTH, and 23rd WEEK.
” Unparalleled Success. „
HIBCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and Speciality Union, together with the MAR-
VELLOUS GIRARDS.
Continued Success of the Great American Come-
dian, Mr. FRANK HU&SEY.
Saturday Evening, an entire change of programme
Prices as usual. Box plan at Paling s, where
Pianos for this entertainment are supplied.
ALLSEND ATHLETIC CLUB.
w
THE GREATEST PROGRAMME EVER
ISSUED IN AUSTRALIA.
£2OO MONEY PRIZES. TWO SPLENDID CUPS,
and TROPHIES,
to be competod for on the
Bth and ICth NOVEMBER, 1884,
ON THE GROUND, WALLSEND.
See programmes ; and apply for all particulars
to JOHN SUMMERS,
Secretary,
JJAYMARKET ACADEMY.
Th<s management beg to inform the public that
the Haymarket Academy has been opened for the
PEOPLE’S CONCERT PEOPLE’B CONCERT
PEOPLE’S CONCERT PEOPLE'S CONCERT,
every
MONDAY and SATURDAY Night.
N B.—None but the very best talent engaged,
and the entertainment is conducted so as to please
the people, the success of which has already been
proved by the
CROWDED HOUSES,
the THUNDERING APPLAUSE,
and the
ROARS of LAUGHTER each night.
Tbo programme is full of variety, and com-
pletely changed each night.
Admission. —Back Seats, SIX-PENCE ; Front
Seats, Is.
Doors open, 7. Oohestra, 8 p.m.
W. CARLTON, Manager.
s
UNDAY AFTERNOON.
GRAND PROMENADE CONCE IT.
Sir Joseph Banks Pavilion and Pleasure Ground,
Botany.
Suocess still attends these Concerts.
Thousands of people pass a pleasant afternoon
every Sunday.
The following talented Artists will appear NEXT
SUNDAY in popular Ballads:—
Mr. Percy Shannon
Mr. J. Gordon
Mr. J. Barnett
Signor Gustavo Bellini
Miss Alice Johns
Miss Marion Sanders.
KOPFF and AUSTIIN’S
Renowned String Band will also perform Bolos
and Classical Selections.
Trams leave Bridge-street at 2, 2.20, 2.40, 3, 3.20,
3,40, 4.
’The entertainment will commence at 3 30 and
terminate at 5 punctually. The semi-grand piano-
foite from the establishment of Nicholson and Co.
Tickets obtainable at Botany
E BLACKBURN, Wrestler, a letter for you
# hi i' is ofhce-
WANT Mi an Articled PUPIL for the Photo
r.nti imi H'g Business. Premium required.
Annlv"' it.'g < 'llir-e.
WA <'J K PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
Caitus ior Sale. Apply Publisher, Bulletin
Office.
D
N
N
PROF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite ot
rooms (8), freest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &o. Leigh House Academy, 351
Castlereagh street, near Bathurst-street. P.b.—
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
soring floor, &c. No decorations required.
&U3P-XV
r * ;■* 'f
r f .- i-•
dir
itix
Bargains in Music.
GREAT CLEARANCE SALE.
Slightly Boiled and Surplus Music, which has
been separated from the general stock in order to
only. ,
Pieces from 2d. each. Grand opportunity for
laying in a stock of good music, at low prices.
Notice to the Public.—ilie newest and
choicest music re. eived every mail. Orders sup-
plied to all parts of the colony on receipt of P.O.
orders or postage stamps. Postage 2d., extra each
piece. Choirs and Societies supplied with Anthems,
Glees, and every kind of part music. Brass, Reed,
and String Band Music always on hand.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 GEORGE-STREET.
PECIAL NOTICE -ALTERATION OF AR-
RANGEMENTS at the
LAVENDER BAY
Swimming Baths
(the »mly pure sea-water baths near Sydney.)
Open every day for Ladies and Gentlemen from
ti a.m. till dark.
Admission. 3d.; Children, accompanied by adults,
2d." 100 tickets, 215.; Monthly Tickets, 55., An-
nual Tickets, from Ist September, 2ls.
dr SWIMMING TAUGHT by Mr. Frederick
Cavill. the world-renowned swimmer, who swam
from France to England in 12 hours, 20th August
IST? Six Lessons, 21s. The North Shore Ferry
Steamers leave the Circular Quay for the Baths
every quarter-of-an-hour.
J amesLawson & S ons,
CABINET-MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Comer of William and Boomerang Streets.
NEW DESIGNS IN BEST WILTON PILE
AND BRUSSELS CARPETS.
BRUSSELS CARPETS at ss. PER YARD,
INCLUDING MAKING AND LAYING.
A Reduction of SO per cent, present on
Stock,
INORDER TO MAKE ROOMFOR
NEW SHIPMENTS
NOW LANDI N G.
OXYGEN IS LIFE.
Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne.
THE only Reliable Remedy for Indigestion,
Nervousness, Nervous Debility, Liver Com-
plaints, Female Complaints, Lassitude, Loss of
Power, Mental and Physical Depression, Decline,
and all Functional Derangements. Thoroughly
recruits and re-establishes Health. Highlyrecom-
mended by the Medical Faculty. 83ET” CAUTION.—
The indubitable proof of the great value of Dr
Bright’s (the only genuine) Phosphodyne is the
various worthless imitations which are being made
up. Therefore ask for Dr. Bright’s Phosohodyne
and refuse useless and possibly Dangerous Substi*
tutes. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROTHERS*
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the hVarid
■;rt
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MB. F. WABE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George Sc Market Streets, Sydney
pg~ Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughing Gas,
iEther Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 20,
THE QUEENSCLIPF ESTATE,
MANLY.
JUST BEYOND THE CURL CURL LAGOON,
having large frontages to the Lagoon Beach,
Q UEENSCLIFF-RO AD
PAVILION-ROAD
CROWN-ROAD.
107 CHOICE BUILDING SITES,
with frontages from 50 feet to 123 feet, by depths
of 150 feet to 407 feet.
MAGNIFICENT OCEAN VIEWS.
Within easy walking distance of tho Manly Pier
and the charming Fresh-water Beach, recently
dedicated to public use.
MILLS and PILE have received instructions
from the proprietor to sell by publio auction
on the ground, on SATURDAY, September 20,
at 3 30,
The above
MAGNIFICENT ALLOTMENTS,
beyond all question the finest portion of the
charming marine suburb of Manly, well situate
on the slope of a beautiful hill, covered with
ferns and native flowers, and commanding
such views as are to be seen nowhere else in
this locality.
The terms of sale will be—
-10 per cent, deposit;
Balance in 18 monthly payments.
Title, Torrens’ Act.
The question is now frequently asked, “Where
is Queensciiff?”
Queensciiff comprises the whole of the fine un-
dulating range across the Curl Curl Lagoon, ex-
tending from the ocean to the old Pittwater-road,
which overlooks the whole of the town of Manly
and the lower portion of Sydney Harbour.
It is difficult to imagine any spot so well suited
for the Marine Suburb of a large city as Manly,
possessing a splendid Beacn on the shores of the
Harbour, approachable from the city by smooth
water all the way, while within less than a quarter
of a mile from the steamers’ wharf is the grand
ocean beach nearly a mile in length, fronting
which, about 15U feet back, are numerous fine
houses extending the greater part of the distance.
The most charmiDg spots in Manly for Villa
Sites are the hills to the North, and South Clifton
Heights to the South are being rapidly built over,
and it will be a difficult matter in the course of a
few years to secure a decent sized piece of ground-
Queensciiff bounds Manly to the North, and ex-
tends to the beautifully shelly beach of Fresh-
water, which has been dedicated for public re-
creation.
It is within easy walking distance across the new
foot bridge of the Manly wharf, and commands
LAND and OCEAN VIEWS unequalled near
Sydney, and the villa sites are beyond all question
the finest in the neighbourhood. They vary in
depth from 150 to 460 feet, and those fronting the
Lagoon have water frontages suitable for bathing-
houses.
English estates have special values in conse-
quence of there being good shooting about, and
there should be good shooting in this locality;
there is certainly good fishing out at sea and in
Curl Curl Lagoon. Rabbits and hares may be
abundant, but the auctioneers cannot vouch for
the fact; and as for foxes, there is a whole family
at Manly, but it would be dangerous to attempt
to shoot any one of them.
This superb Estate will be sold on the ground, on
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, September 20,
at 3.30.
Lithcs at the Rooms.
Plans on view.
Conveyances will ply from the steamers wharf
to the ground.
Easy terms.
Torrens’ Title.
MILLS and PILE, Auctioneers,
130 Pitt-streot.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 4th September, 1884.
TENDERS FOR KITCHEN AND WATER-
CLOSET.
TENDERS arc invited for the Erection of a
Kitchen and Water-closet in connection
with the Teacher’s residence at the Peakhurst
Public School, near Hurstville.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Kitchen and
Water-closet, Peakhurst Public School,” must be
lodged with the Acting Under-Secretary, Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock
a.m., on Wednesday, 24th September, 1884.
Ths Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE Of PAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
Offices : 42 KING BTREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Bteamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Maokay
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONG EDINA KONOOWARRA
BARRABOOL GABO LEURA
BURWAH BALMAIN MORETON
CHEVIOT GEELONG RODONDO
DERWENT KEILAWARRA YOU YANGB.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & 80N& (Limited).
42 King Street, Sydney.
NOTICE OE REMOVAL.
COME MO CUTLER,
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
TO
No. 3 Hunter-street,
SECOND DOOR FROM GEORGE-STREET.
debility,
LOSS OF VIGOUR,
Nervous and Heart Diseases
EFFECTUALLY CURED.
Patients really desiring skilful curative treat,
ment, should consult
Doctor W. R. PARKER
whose wonderful skill in treating these complaints,
places him amongst the foremost specialists of the
age; certainly first in Australia. The most con.
fldential relations between the Doctor and his
patients are observed.
CONSULTATION FREE.
69 HUNTER STREET,
Three doors from Macquarie Street-
THIRD EDITION NOW BEADY.
Much Improved.
Maid, wife, and mother,
A Medical Book for Womankind. “Worth
its weight in gold.” Post free, in secure cover, Is.
6d. N.S.W. stamps. To toe had only of the Pub-
lisher, Mrs. BEARCROFT, Box 740, G.P.0., Sydney.
HOW TO LOOK YOUNG and HANDSOME,
and to Live One Hundred Years; applicable
to both Sexes. A really wonderful hook. Post
Free, Is.; intercolonial, Is. 2d. To toe had only of
the Publisher, Mrs. BEARCROFT, Box 740, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
Department of Public Instruction,
\ Sydney, Ist September, 1884.
TENDERS FOR WOODEN BUILDING.
TENDERS are invited for the Erection of a
Wooden Building, for Public School purposes,
at Sandringham.
Specifications may be seen, and Forms of
Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Wooden BuildiDg.
Sandringham Public School,” must be lodged with
the Acting Under-Secretary, Department of Public
Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m., on Mon-
day, the 22nd September, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender. j. TRICKE TT.
YANKEE DOODLE
Kr
o ''Xs6iC& so^ s
V§VD N CJL
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
LOCH-DHU V.O.Scotch Whisky.
SHAMROCK V.O. Irish Whisky.
OF all Whiskies imported, these are the Oldest, Purest, and Best.
MEDALS at every Exhibition, viz.,
They were awarded GOLD
GOLD MEDALS, CALCUTTA.
GOLD MEDALS, S. and
W. AUSTRALIA.
GOLD MEDALS, NEW ZEALAND.
LOCH-DHU and SHAMROCK WHISKIES
are bottled and shipped in bond under supervision of H.M. Customs. Full contents guaranteed.
KIRKER, GREER & CO. (Limited), Belfast and Glasgow.
G. H. ADAMS, Agent, It 9 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Melbourne. Brisbane and Adelaide:


Sour stomach, sick headache, and dizzi-
ness, Hop Bitters cures with a few doses. See.
Fi.ies and bugs, beetles, insects, toaeht s. tt t-i
bed-bugs, rats, mice, gophers, jack-rabbus, elated
out by “Rough on Rats.” Moses, Mosi «s to,.
Sydney, General Agents.
The religious world was roused to its
depths this week by the advent of a new Arch-
bishop. The commercial world has been inter-
ested in the choice dinner services and flower-
stands at Bray Brothers’ China Warehouse, 402 and
404 George-street*
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
V
msßm.
■ '
.THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
ORIENTAL GOLD
Is the latest discovery of Science and the grand est
achievement of the alchemist's art. It looks like
gold, it is as heavy as gold, and It is more enduring.
None but an expert can detect the difference, and
then only by the severest tests. Ornaments made
from this new cotnposition are equal in design and
general appearanoe to those made of the finest
IS-carat gold, and yet we sell them at but a tithe of
the Cost of the genuine goods.
Remember that we do not pretend that Oriental
Gold is anything but a composition of pure metals -
but we do affirm that it is so perfect an imitation
of the sterling gold as to almost defy detection.
Jewellery made of it may be worn anywhere, and
the closest inspection will only strengthen the con-
viction that it is real gold. So perfect is it, and so
large has our trad} become, that jewellers through-
out the colonies are complaining of the dullness
in trade, and are constantly writing to us to secure
our goods for their own customers. Rut as we are
Sole Agents for these colonies, we prefer to deal
directly with the public. All of our Oriental Gold
Jewellery is made to our order, and is stamped
with our trade mark. You can order anything
from a Scarf Pin to a Watch and Chain, and it will
be sent Post Free, and at our risk, oh receipt of
price.
SPECIALLY OBSERVE.
Should you be dissatisfied with your investment
after inspecting the articles, re-pack them at onoe
and send them back to us. If this is done within
two days—or where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured—we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will refund the
money for the articles not retained. Fair dealing
is our motto, and we bind ourselves to give satis-
faction. Examine our catalogue, and send in your
order for what you may require.
N.B —We find that, through an error on the part
of the manufacturers, we are overstocked with
Brooches, and for the purpose of making a rapid
clearance of that line of Goods, wo will send to
any customer (post free, if ata distance) on receipt
of Five Shillings (5s ), a really exquisite Oriental
Gold Brooch, equal in design, finish, and appear-
ance to a Five Guinea Brooch of the sterling metal.
This offer holds good for a few weeks only, and is
made as much for the purpose of advertising our
Oriental Jewellery by sample as for any other
reason ; for the Brooches will keep, and they are
of the latest design. “To see is to want,’ r is a
saying so applicable to our goods, that it pays us,
in tho long run, to forward to any person a sample
Brooch at cost price. Examine our catalogue, and
write to us or call on us for what you may desire.
Remember the Address :
474 George-st., Sydney, op. Markets
PRICE LIST.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, with
double slides and tassels, 15s , 205., and 255. each;
Handsome Jewelled Barrings, 65., 65., 7s. 6d.,
Bs., Bs. 6d., 9s, and 10s a pair; Laaies’ choice
Necklets, from 12s. 6d. to 305.; Ladies’ very
handsome Necklets, set in splendid Alaska Dia-
monds, £2los. to £5 55.; Ladies’ elegant Bangles,
7s. to 168. a pair ; Ladies’ handsome Cloak
Clasps, 15s. to 30s ; Ladies’ very best American
Rolled Gold Chatelaine*, 30s. each ; Ladies’
choice Lockets and Neoklets, 17s. 6d., 20s , 225.
6d., 25s , 275. 6d., 305., 355., and 10s.; Handsome
Gem Rings, 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 10s., 15s , 203., and 30s.
each; Elegant Keepers, Wedding Rings, and
Fancy Rings, from 2s 6d. to Bs. 6d. each; Solid
Gold Wedding and Keeper Rings, 10s. each.
G ent.’s Oriental Gold Watch, In hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £2 2 0
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless .. £2 5 0
Ladies’ Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
handsome Oriental Gold double Albert
with slides and tasseils £2 15 0
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless ... .. £3 0 8
These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movenn-nts are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert ..£4 6 0
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
jewelled, and compensation balanoe,
with Oriental Gold Albert £5 6 0
Rotheram’s oelebrated English Patent
Levers £4 10 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance .. £& 6 0
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £3 a 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance, with
Oriental Gold Albert £4 15 0
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph,
with Oriental Gold Albert £5 5 0
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade £6 6 6
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £lO 10 0
We import our watches direet from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 315 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £lO.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 6s. 6d„
7s. 6d., Bs. 6d, and lUs. each; Gents’ Oriental
Gold Alaska Diamond and Ruby Rings, 7s. 6d.
and Bs. 6d. each; Gents Oriental Gold Rings,
plain half, round buckle, fiat broad buckle, en-
graved, good luck rings, &c., &c., from ss. to
8s 6d. each; Gent’s richly chased engraved and
plain Solitaire and Link Suites, 75., 7s. 6d., tie.,
Bs. 6d., 98 , 10s., and 12s. 6d. per set; Same as
above, only half sots, 35., 45., and ss. per set;
Very latest American Patent Spring Solitaire
Suites, 10s, per set; Gent’s eiegant Seals, real
stones, 7s. 6d., Bs., 95.. 10s., and 12s. 6d. each;
Gent’s elegant Compasses, latest designs, Bs.,
10s., and 12s. 6d. each; Gents' Oriental Gold Al-
berts. handsome patterns, 6s. 6d. and 10s. eaeh;
Gent’s very latest American Rolled Gold Al-
berts, made specially to our order, 17s. 6d., 20a.,
255, and 30s. each.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre ItOYAij—“Merry Duchess” P.B.
Opera House—" She Stoops to Conquer”. .. ib*
Gaiety Theatre—“ Imprudence ” ib.
Academy nr Music—Federal Minstrels lb.
Belmore Park—Woodyear’s Circus ib.
There is a fascination about a circus. This
bas been admitted from time immemorial; from
the days, anyhow, when Tom and Loo Gradgrind
stole away from the custody of their “ hard-fact”
lather, and peeped under Sleary’s tent to catch a
glimpse of the wondrous performance of the
Shakespearean Jester’s dog M rrylegs—poor Cissy'
dupe's father, who (if banishing sculling and rac-
ing from your minds lor a moment!, you will
remember, “missed his tip” until he brot e his
heart, and vanished from the scene, taking his dog
with him. A thousand pleasant and fantastic
memories has a circus! We don’t know why it is
—something in the sawdust, perhaps; but, there is
the fact. The young clamour for it, the old put,
the washerwoman oil and wheeze their way into
it; and the middle-aged “ happening to find them-
selves in the neighbourhood of the noisy tent,”
part their money furtively at the box-office, and,
with an air half contemptuous, half comical, slink
their way in.
• •
But, in the matter of circuses, there is no
affectation about us. And there is, let us tell you,
more particularly no affectation when the circus
tent is pitohed, as is that of Madame Woodyear, in
Belmor ; Park. For even above tho glories of all
that is set forth in the ring, towers one weird and
fascinating picture: the audience. Were Wood-
year’s circus pitched farther north, there, per-
chance, would be much less of a treat for us. For
then the element upon which it softens the heart
and warms the soul to gaze, would most probably
expend its shillings upon local entertainments of a
primitive nature, and half the attraction of the
equine show would be lost for us. At Woodyear’g,
the other night, while the brass band was braying
outside, we sat near to the ring so that we could
smell the saw-dust, and enjoyed ourselves con-
sumedly. Now, look here We will point to our
left, where the people are piled up upon untapes-
tried benches, facing the patricians who, by the ex-
penditure of an extra “ bob,” recline luxuriously on
the carpet of Kidderminster. There is, upon the
seventh step of the undccorated Giants’ Causeway,
a little pale boy, whose tiny hand clasps the be-
? rimed paw of a slouching, half-drunk labourer.
t is easy to see that the man has not come there
for his own pleasure—the major part of which is,
probably, derived from “ biffing ” his boon com-
panions on the head with pewter vessels, in convi-
vial hours, after distracting ratepayers by mys-
teriously manipulating the drains. The little boy
is not interesting from a picturesque standpoint;
he is ugly, dirty—ho has no idea, perhaps, of the
artistic acumen of Barnet, and perhaps has never
even either read the works or seen the plays of
Lewis Scott. But he is a study to us—and a pleas-
ing one—because one can see that half his little
heart is full of love for the drunken navvy, and
half is crammed with silent and ecstatic (always a
difficult word to spell) enjoyment of the scene
before him. Then a little girl near us, deluded
probably by posters (and circus - posters, like
opera-bouffe pages, are invariably delusive), says,
“ Ma, when’s the camel coming in. VJ’ But a more
luscious picture still is the stout, biMd-headed legis-
lator who brings six children (one .eventeen, but
disguised in a nine-inch jacket), > id at first pre-
tends to be bored; but in a little while, fired by the
strains of the musicians before alluded to, taps the
frass impatiently with his feet, and can hardly
eep himself frem yelling for the clown. And
then there is the timid young lady who, from be-
hind a block of hardbake, says to her sweetheart,
“Oh, George, dear, I hope they won’t fire any
guns off!” upon which Georve (who is silently
wondering how in thunder he is going to make up
this gash in his petty oash account) reassures her
by a semi-bearish but alt-loving hug, and the pair
subside forthwith into hand-locked languor. Ob,
a hundred pretty pictures you see at a circus; so
many, indeed, that sometimes the enthusiastic ob-
server of human nature is sorry when the real
business of the evening begins.
The circus in Belmore Park is not Mr.
Woodyear’s, but Madame Woodyear’s. And this
is a pleasing thing. For, we will tell you that
when Mrs. W. was Madlle. de la Rosiere—a splendid
and fearless rider, in Burton’s hippodrome—she
had a dreadful accident. While doing her last act,
the horse shied, and Madlle. was dashed with fear-
ful force against a stanchion, and broke four of
her ribs, besides sustaining Other injuries. When
she recovered she wanted to ride again, but Mr.
Woodyear chose that her connection with horses
should only (our smug little joke) extend as far as
the altar. On the night we arrived there, we con-
sidered Mr. Woodyear’s circus nearly as full of
paradoxes as of people. He calls it an “electric
circus,” while the only thing suggestive of that
novel mode of illumination is an apparatus,
painted red (and believed by all Surry Hills to be a
tire-engine), which modestly secludes itself in an
outside tent. Then, on the programme, we are
promised “ battoute ” leaping, when there is—ex-
cept. possibly, in the language of Joseph-no
“ Battoute ” in either hemisphere. Also, it is set
forth we shall see "Le Perch Eqispoise,” which
only exists in the Parisian vernacular of Christo-
pher. The performance commenced with the afore-
said “Battoute” leaping; with the gratuitous
insult tacked on to it of “by the corps of
athletics ” (sic). Judged critically, the corps of ath-
letics were (or was) satisfactory, though not phe-
nomenal ; but what " got us ” was the performance
of “ Madame Zulu, the Wonderful Cynocephalus.”
This lady appeared in a blue and red satin dress,
and the moment we saw her on horseback she
inspired us with a fervid admiration. She is
talented, graceful, divine 1 Immediately her act
was concluded, we, accompanied by Mr. Wood-
year (for propriety’s sake), paid a visit to the lady’s
dressing-room, where her attendant (or we might
say confidante) was unrobing her. She shook
hands with effusion, and, as the Rum says, “ap-
peared much gratified ” by our attention. Mr.
Woodyear, however, told us curtly (in so many
words—silly phrase, this) that Madame Zulu had
conscientious scruples about supping after the
show, and insisted upon only having one man at a
time “on a string.” Madame Z. is, in fact, the
cleverest monkey-rider ever we saw. Very clever
also is the trapeze balancing of Miss Annie Shields,
who is comely and graceful withal; and a wonder-
ful exhibition is a species of aerial bamboo per-
formance by a Japanese named (if it be possible)
Coomakitch. Mr. Jack Cousins also does an ex-
ceedingly clever “five horse picture ” act; which
means, in the language of Alfred, riding on three
horses, and driving two before him. Miss Eva
Germaine did ajcontortionistact that was peculiar.
She looked through a hoop, crept through a hoop,
doubled herself with a glass ot water through a
hoop—did everything, in short, with a hoop that
one could (or wouldn’t) do, except trundle it.
There was lots more besides, and everything was
sandwiched by clowns, who, it is no figure of
speech to say, were sepulchral.
The internal arrangements of the tent are
luxurious, and the usher tusiness is done to per-
fection. We had five programmes offered to us
while we were gnawing our first apple.
•* * *
Miss de Grey, at the Opera House, is un-
doubtedly an attraction. We speak from ex-
perience, because, on Saturday last, there was a
vast and distinguished assemblage of persons of
every age and of all sexes. This is really gratify-
ing, because it certainly gives testimony to the
growing tendency on the part of the populace to
once more give the classics a show- Tne author—
Dr. Oliver Goldsmith—of “She Stoops to Con-
quer” is dead; but as long as J. P. West, who
plays <Sir Charles Marlow, is alive, we feel recon-
ciled, in a moderate way, to our existence. This
being the case, we feel that we can write .cheer-
fully. Mr. West is a gentleman on whom we have
frequently built our hopes, and calling him an
his.trionie “ brick” has ever been our “mortar.”
His Sir Charles Marlow was a performance sedate
and solemn, powerful and picturesque, solid and
sublime. It is, we don’t mind telling you, apiece
of acting that we would go out every night to see,
directly the hired girl shunts her soldier and we
have not to blacklead the grate in the morning.
•» • m
Taking Miss de Grey from a critical stand-
point, wt must admit, diavance, that she is a pretty
picture. We look at her from the beauty-actress
standpoint. We do this because she is not only
an actress, but a society lady as well; one who has
waltzed with dukes and with princes. Her Mifs
Hardcastle is beautifully pleasant. We don’t care
about saying she was superlatively captivating as
a soubrette, because that s what the Hkrald has
always been saying about Maggie Oliver, whom
we have desperately loved ever since we have
been in knickerbockers. This is not for good
good faith, but as a guarantee for publication.
We were young and innocent when we fell in love
with Maggie. And there was not disenchant-
ment, let us tell you—nor disillusion. Miss de
Grey’s conception of the part of Miss Hardcastle,
though eminently picturesque, and delicate
and intelligent, would possibly, to the hyper-
critical, have been found wanting, but for the
splendid ensemble. It will suffice for us, however,
to state i hat ► iss de Grey is an actress who, if she
have not attained the acm<) of perfection in her
art, has shown us what elegancy of bearing and
delicacy of costume can do to illustrate the plays
that delighted our forefathers.
The company, generally, is excellent; and,
by “ excellent,” we do not mean that it could not
be improved upon. For instance, the Tony Lump-
kin or Mr. Mark Kinghorne is a performance of a
painfully stereotyped order. It would be unfair
to state that h« is not conscientious, for he is
painstaking to a degree; but, although we strug-
gled hard, we were unable to detect in Mr. King-
home’s assumption of the role of Tony Lumpkin
one single gleam of originality. This is a role
which gives marvellous scope for phases of origi-
nal conception ; and we regret, for the sake of a
capable actor, that he has not, in all his long tour
with Miss de Grey, considered it of sufficient im-
portance to put a popular new face upon a pleas-
ing old portrait.
• •
Both the Young Marlow of Mr. Morton
Selton and the Hastings of Mr. Matthew Brodie
were graceful performances; both betraying,
during the progress of the sterling old comedy,
infinite tact and infinite humour. As for the
Mrs. Hardcastle of Mrs. Chippendale, it is no
figure of speech to state that the impersonation
was a quiet, a delicious artistic triumph. Endowed
with the highest histrionic gifts; taught, by ex-
perience, everything that is subtle in her art, this
grand old lady, by reason of her genius, sheds a
glamour upon a company which, though excellent
as a whole, is strengthened beyond compare by the
services of such an artist, as Mrs. Chippendale.
• • •
For the rest, everything was charming;
but though we admired the ceiling decorations
immensely, we might suggest that the manage-
ment might place the sunlight a little further from
the back of the head of the conscientious critic.
• • *
On the whole, wo are slavish admirers of
Miss de Grey’s shows, if only for the reason that
Jim Allison (on duty nightly, and looking lovely)
has something to do with them; and that Monte
Browne (who has renounced the saveloy of the
press for princely position in the profession) is
intimately connected with the entertainment; that
Mr. Litherland Cunard, who used to let Ike
Austin flatten bullets against his skull, nightly
directs Miss de Grey’s affairs; but, more than ali,
because the show exhibits pretty men and hand-
some women, all of whom display a discretion
which, if not always invigorating, is at least never
“pernicious.”
• • •
What breaks us up, however, is that the
author, owing to circumstances over which he has
no control, cannot witness the representation of
his five-act comedy as interpreted by Miss de
Grey and her charming company, and be called
before the curtain, led on by James AUison, Esq.,
C.M.G., at the conclusion of each aot.
We don’t know whether or not Mr George
Forbes is loaded with bullion; but he is most cer-
taiuly covered with glory. His “ new and original
comedy,” “ThePhiiantropist,” ran for “one con-
secutive’* week at the Uaiety. Mr. Forbes has,
however, one misfortune; and this misfortune is,
probably, the cause of his comedy running only
seven days, instead of eight. Being a Judge’s son,
and an amateur who has blossomed into a pro-
fessional. Mr. Forbes is naturally a pet of society.
Well, this is very nice, indeed-charming, in fact;
but, at the same time, it must be remembered that
on the subject of “ parting,” society is apt to be
(what the police frequently are) “reticent,” and
the horny-handed who “pays his ochre” at the
doors is not disposed as a rule to patronise an
author whose sole artistic and literary merit is
that he is a darling of society. To this, we consider,
maybe traced the reason that “The Philantropist”
did not run eight days, instead of seven. But it
must be always remembered that “The Philan-
tropist” was principally written for “mashers.”
This was, in our opinion, unwise on the part of
Mr. George Forbes, for he must know that
mashers have no money to expend cn theatrical
entertainments. They want it all for gaiters.
* » •
It is something for George to have written
a comedy that the public would listen to. We
have written comedies at odd times, and they
nave excited immense laughter on their first pro-
duction. We used to produce them, alter a struggle
with the lining, from the breast pocket of our
fashionable paletot-this style lls. ll)4d.; and he
used to laugh at them. “Ho” was generally a
manager. The trouble used to be that he used not
only to laugh at our comedy, but to laugh at us.
‘ Will it go, my boy?” he used generally to say.
Anything of yours ought to go. You ought to
go yourself!” Then we used to catch his eye and
our manuscript, and go.
• • •
Mr. George Forbes’ comedy, then, which
ran seven days, instead of eight—no trifle, as
runs” go, here—was succeeded by “Jmpru-
dence,” a comedy ** by Mr. Pinero ** —and you may
read his name, not as Pinero, but Pinero (this
reminds us that Alfred would always call Ristori
Histori). Pity to break a phrase like this, which
promised to be epigrammatical; anyway, let’s see
where were we?. Oh! Well, Mr. Pinero never
wrote “Imprudenoe ”at all. He only “ adapted ”
* * *
In “Imprudence,” which is a translation
of a Palais Royale (don’t forget the “ e,” sweet
comp.) farce, Mr. Pinero has exhibited great tact,
and considerable skill. The comedy is just suffi-
ciently risqui to be lively, but not sufficiently so to
shock any proprietress of an umbrella and pattens.
The acting was very even, and Mr. Wybert Reeve
was funny, and made love nicely as Durant. Mr.
Reeve is an actor that we have nearly always ad-
mired and constantly respected. We have known
him for 47 years, and he has, during that time,
always had the same curly locks and always bGen
seventeen.
* * * .
Miss Maggie Knight exhibit* a surprising
degree of art as the giddy Mrs. Blake, and her cos-
tumes are in very tolerable taste. She knows, too
—what so few of our actresses (we mean colonial
actresses)— wa haven’t got any, being all intensely
married in this office, and you know that—but
still at pantomime time one—[A column of de-
sultory matter editorially struck out.— Printer.']
Oily Beering, too, was “ funny—very,” and Edwin
Palmer extremely diverting, though he was cast
tor a part by no means up to his calibre. Ail the
the rest were lively, and the comedy was suc-
ceeded by “The Steeplechase.” But we couldn’t
see it through a circus-tent.
-** * *
At th 9 new Masonic Hall, on Thursday
(to-day, dears) is a concert, at which we shall cer-
tainly scintillate. It is in aid of the new building
for children at the Opthalmic Hospital, and the
Governor and Her Excellency (for whose brilliant
powers of oratory we shall ever be grateful) will
tear themselves away from the familiar hen-coop,
and also sparkle (fancy Hs. I. sparkling 1) on the
festive scene. Tne entertainment has been r got
up by Mrs. C. E. Moulton, whose hub is the author
of ‘‘Pain Paint” and other useful works, and
quite an array of talent will appear. Madame
Marius, Madame King, Mrs. Moulton herself,
the Turners, and Herr Prancik. That will
tell you! Besides “gentlemen amateurs” with-
out number, embellisned with pointed-toed boots
and threepenny button-holes. Mrs. Moulton has
organised the atfair, as she organized the recent
bazaar in aid of the same cause, and that shows—
even if she have not yet solved the dark and san-
gni ary marital mystery surrounding “ Fruit
Pills” (and other comedies)—she has a gentle and
kindly nature. We shall certainly go, and probably
pay. There is no need, dear printer, to italicise
“probably.”
»* * #
And of “The Merry Duchess”— quoi da-
vantagel Well, hardly anything, because, you see,
before our pretty pink cover is being handled by
our many millions of admirers (modesty was al-
ways the forte of this paper; that why we’re so
rich), “ Olivette ” will be in full swing at the
lioyal.
• • *
We will welcome “ Olivette ” on Saturday.
Wo have been that way ourselves.
**-»«•
Oh, and just a line to inform a gasping
world that Luscombe Bearelle is back in Sydney.
Plenty people whose beards are not yet grey will
recollect Luscombe years ago as the phenomenal
young Australian pianist. Well, since those days,
Luscombe has himself produced a very respect-
able beard and several very respectable operas.
' ne of these, “ Estrella,” which had a bit of a run
in London, is now in rehearsal at the Royal—so
that shortly the first performance of an opera by
an Australian composer will be the attraction at
the leading house. And, before we forget it, the
Haymarket Academy is to be re-opened on Satur-
day, with a popular concert.
That many persons, otherwise well-in-
formed, are imperfectly acquainted with the
earlier history of that indispensable article, the
bedstead, so seemingly insignificant, but of such
infinite value to every man, woman, and child in
every community—together with the circumstance
that everyone will be more or less interested in
the curious facts concerning that piece of furni-
ture upon which mankind is wont to stretch and
compose the body to rest and sleep—may be attri-
buted the publication of the following article.
Without claim to novelty or originality, there are
here presented, in condensed form, a few peculiar
facts concerning the bedstead, the widespread in-
fluence and importance of which has met with
silent but universal acknowledgment. In the
first and ruder agis of mankind, it was the prac-
tice to sleep upon the skins of beasts. This custom
prevailed among the Greeks and Romans, aud also
among the Celtic nations and ancient Britons. These
sains, sometimes worn in the day, were spread out
at night on the floors of their apartments, and, till
modern times, this was the custom among the
common people in some parts of Germany. In
process of time, these skins were changed for
loose rushes and heath, and afterwards for straw.
The beds of the Roman gentry were generally
filled with feathers; those of the inns with the soft
down of reeds. The post Spenser, in “ The Faery
Queen,” has it—
“ Moss bestrewed
Must be their bed; their pillow was unsewed.”
While Southey, recounting so delightfully the
wandering of Madoc, tells us of how were
“Spread around the rushes of repose.”
Straw was used in the royal chambers of England,
even so late as the close of the 13th century. For
a long time beds were laid upon the ground;
till at length the custom of raising them on
feet or pedestals which anciently prevailed in the
East, and which wes introduced into Italy, was
adopted in Britain. The ancient Romans had their
chamber-bed whereon they slept, and, in addition
to this, their table-bed, for they always ate lying
or in a recumbent posture—there being usually
three persons to one bed, and the middle place, or
bed, was accounted the most honourable. From
the greatest simplicity the Romans, by degrees,
carried their dining-beds to the most surprising
magnificence. Several noblemen were known to
have beds of solid silver, and Pompey, after his
third triumph, introduced beds of gold.—The bed-
stead of the day is a complex arrangement of
wires and springs, and, in its many and diver-
sified forms, stands, a grand result of me-
chanical ingenuity and a lasting tribute to
scientific invention. There are bedsteads of all
shapes and sizes; of all colours and designs. There
is the hign four-post bedstead of our ancestors,
and the canopied bed of luxurious to-day. There
is the earjy-English bedstead of heavy oak, and
the bed of exquisite taste and latest fashion. Then
there is the superior high-art bedstead of London
make, also the ordinary every-day bed of Aus-
tralian manufacture. There is the four-post half-
tester bed, the folding-iron bed, the chair-bed, and
the bed for invalids, the camp-bed, and the hotel-
bed. There is the massive bed for the heads of
families, and the ciib for the baby; the cot for the
child, and the single-bed for the youth. There is
the bedstead in black and nickel, and the solid
brass bed; the richly-enamelled, and the plain-
painted bed. There is the soft bed, and the bed
that folds in a wardrobe. There are bassinettes,
trimmed and untiimmed, and there are single or
double palliasses. It is not using an extreme
phrase to say that words are inadequate to at-
tempr a description of the bedstead of to-day, in
its multiplicity of varieties, its perfection of de-
tail. It may be a curious matter of inquiry, to
persons who have not considered the subject, to
compare the splendid exhifdt of bedsteads at the
spacious warehouse of Messr-. David Jones and
Co.’s premier furnishing establishment with that
of some of their contemporaries, and of no little
surprise to find the result greatly in favour of the
former. It is needless to speak at length of the
merits of the house whose name is a household
word in our communiry. The latest acquisition in
the line of beautiful chamber outfits will be found
worthy of their fame, and the public may heartily
congratulate themselves upon having reached the
Mecca of their hopes in the high art furnishing
end artistic upholstering as seen at Messrs. David
Jones and Co.'s establishment; especial attention
being directed to the decoration, draping, and
complete furnishing of suites of apartments in
any required style—be it antique or modern—after
Queen Anne, Eastlake, or other pattern. The
notice they gave of having a number of elegant
bed-room suites on hand, meets with a response
that strains their ability to comply with, yet no
one has been disappointed by delay, or dissatisfied
with their purchase. Every European steamer
brings the latest additions in the bedstead line,
and Messrs. David Jones and Company have
them on view as soon as landed. The absurd
pretension of selling below cost is scouted; the
policy of this firm is to present the highest quality
at minimum prices and challenge competition. It
is the invariable lule of the Premier Furnishing
Establishment to be punctual in delivery of
orders, exact in carrying out the instructions of
patrons, and careful in pruning down prices to the
lowest figures compatible with highest quality.
This house is so well-known that advertising is
more a habit than a necessity, for all know that
David Jones and Co., 333 George-street, is one of
the oldest and most reliable furniture and carpet
houses in the trade.*


PEPPER AND SALT.
Some persons have recently distinguished
themselves in the suburbs of Melbourne by goiDg
round with a horse and buggy pretendii g io sell
cheap goods, and robbing houses the owners of
which were not at home. Ibis reminds us of an
ingenious youDg gentleman whoso acquaintance
we had the honour of possessing for a brief period.
It was in Adelaide, and he wanted bp.dly to sail
away to strange lards in a ship, but hadn’t the
necessary wealth. Did he go and v. ork for it like
an honest lidiot, and deny himself his little com-
forts ? Not much. He got half a ton of lime, and
made it up into packets, and then went round the
Pa face
2. Special fitfififie-car, in which his Imperial
Majesty will travel to Warsaw.
1. The "preparations” for his Imp. Majesty’s
reception are indeed elaborate
4. Triumphal arch, showing concealed guillotine,
which will drop at the proper moment.
3. The “ preparations ” en route.
6. M Preparations ” for the banquet.
6. There will be a ball in the evening, of course.
7. “ Chkwhrkshieosky Snikpolisnie-
valoff! Skwielivievskiowski War-
sowvsky, bringybottlywiski sgsh kat-
chiew!” Which, being interpreted, is to
say : “ Don’t I tell you, madame, that
I haven’t any left? Ever since the
Czar's projected visit to this city, there
has been such a run upon explosives
of all kinds that our shelves are empty,
as you see.”
Extensive Preparations.
“ST. PETERSBURG, SEPTEMBER 2.-THE CZAR LEFT HERE AT MIDNIGHT FOR WARSAW, WHERE ELABORATE PREPARATIONS HAVE BEEN MADE FOR HIS
RECEPTION.”— (HERALDd Cablegram.)
suburbs in a spring-cart selling it as baking,
powder. After this stroke of genius, he came to
Sydney, and was much resppcted for a while in
billiard-playing circles. Since then he died in the
Port Phillip quarantine-grounds. Poor fellow! We
suppose his soul is now in New York. It hadn't
sufficient scope here.
* * *
Story from Steiglitz (Vic.) The daughter
of a wealthy farmer of that neighbourhood is
dying of neglect and exposure. Committed an in-
discretion and was turned out of doors. Sits
every night now—rain, hail, or wind—on the step
of a bootmaker’s shop, thinking, probably that
she is waiting for hor now boots to be finished-
Her brain is turned, and she mistakes geese for
ministers of the Gospel—though thisis not a strong
proof of her insanity. Cannot be taken up as a
vagrant, as her mother “sometimes provides her
with food.” Sometimes! When her worthy old
parents die they will afford the reverend Bvng a
capital text for a new lecture: “ The Recognition
of Friends in Hell.”
* * *
“ What is this disease that is coming
among us?” Gush, gentlemen, Gush. Too much
triumph has made us sick. Sick of cricket, sick
of sculling, sick of “our boys;” almost sick of
Beach. We begin to see that there are other
things to live for besides ball-hatting and boat”
pulling. The Rev. A. Parsons, of Penrith, has
given our lingering faith in these latter the coup
de grace by advertising that he would preach a
sermon on the “ Championship of the World.” He
has done it by this time, and, we daresay, drew
comparisons between Satan and Haalan, and did
God Almighty the honour of typifying him as
Beach. Oh, if we were God for only twenty
minutes!
* • *
There is a humourist after our own heart
dwelling in God-forgotten Cooma. In a burlesque
letter addressed to the “new member for Monaro ’
—an ancient gentleman of the name of Ryrie, the
class of squatters, and the creed of watchers of the
cat that jumps—and published in one of the local
papers, he advocates the necessity for blackboards
which, he suggests, should be erected on the main
roads leading in‘o Cooma. For, eays he, “They
are needed by the bold yeoman of Manaro, who,
whenever he meets a friend, has an instinctive in-
clination to go down on one knee and draw dia-
grams of his selection on the ground, and recount
legends connected therewith.” This is very good,
indeed, but the next suggestion is even better.
Says this comical Cooman:—“ln the matter of
funerals I think an improvement could be made.
Your constituents will ride miles to attend a
funeral, if it is not post day or a pound sale on;
and it is necessary for his well-being that funerals
should be frequent. Any dearth in tbisdirection
could be obviated by using the corpses from the
hospitals and asylums in the Metropolitan district.
They could be sent to the police authorities for dis-
tribution as required. One corpse would do if em-
balmed and could be lent around as occasion arose.”
A most excellent plan, and one that, if acted upon,
would probably brlngthe author to an early coffin.
But we think it would be better to allow private
enterprise to supply the corpses. Take this as a
specimen of the advertisements. We should then
See ‘~ BURKE AND GHOUL,
Dealers in the Dead.
Corpses of every class, creed, size, and shape
Kept in Stock,
So that intending Purchasers have only
to specify the kind of Corpse
they want, and
They will be immediately supplied
with
Old or Young,
. Serious or Comic,
Upper or Lower Class
Corpses with promptness and despatch.
B.and G. ilatter themselves they have in their
dead-hous9 specimens of cadavers to suit the
most capricious fancy, or please the most fas-
tidious taste; and, as they buy direct from the
friends of the deceased, they are enabled to sell
at a lower price than any other House in the
trade. Further, as they have a choice crop of
consumptives plodged to them every season,
they can take orders in advance. As Mr. Burke
is a medical man, and does the choosing for the
firm, customers can rely upon beiDg served
with a good article.
Copper-bound Corpses kept on hire for Coun-
try Funerals. A deposit must be made on these
before they can be forwarded. New stock of
Quarantine Corpses just opened. Dead Bar.
gains! Funerals within the reach of all. Buy
early and bury at your pleasure.
What do you think of that as a specimen advertise.
ment? Reads beautifully, doesn’t it ? Our Cooma
friend has anticipated civilization. He has given
the first hint of the groat industry of the future.
We hope the member for Monaro will not lose
sight of it. Perhaps he could not please his Cooma
constituents better than by acting promptly on
this suggestion, and giving them a free funeral—
and volunteering as the corpse! We believe to
would have an enthusiastic following—to the tomh!
• « •
It is not often an effusively loyal public is
treated to a sample of Her Excellency’s e-oquence.
But her ladyship kindly came out of her shell at
the opening of Ardill and Browne's “Fallen
Women’s Refuge,” in such a manner as to satisfy
the most sceptical that blood will tell, even in the
matter of oratory. We are pleased to give her


ladyship’s address in extenso:—" I am delighted
with the work. Such a work is much needed, I feel
sure. This is the best work amongst women in
Sydney, and I hope it will continue to flourish.’
That was all of it. But we’re not greedy. We
don’t shriek for any more.
* * *
The last edition of the Carcoar Mary
reached us in a dissolute-looking condition. It is
“The Tempest.”
PROSPERO MR. A. STUART. CALIBAN SIR. H. PARKES.
Caliban ( loq .): “All the infections that the sun sucks up
From bogs, fen, flats, on Prospero fall, and make him
By inch-meal a disease! His spirits hear me,
And yet I needs must curse. But they’ll nor pinch,
Fright me with urchin shows, pitch me i’ the mire,
Nor lead me, like a firebrand, in the dark
Out of my way, unless he bid them; but
For every trifle are they set upon me,
Sometimes like apes, that moe and chatter at me,
And after, bite me; then like hedge-hogs, which
Lie tumbling in my bare-foot way, and mount
Their pricks at my foot-fall; sometime am 1
All wound with adders, who, with cloven tongues
Ho hiss me into madness: Lo! now! lo!
printed on tea-paper, and the principal item of
interest it contains is a par. about a prize turkey,
which, Mary states, was “cutup with an Ameri-
can axe,” and she was invited to worry it. Hear
her:—“After half an hour or so of this work,
symptoms of apoplexy showing in some of the
party, a messenger was promptly despatched to
the hospital, but our worthy medico being from
home, they merely went torpid for some hours*
and, at a late hour, were gradually recovering
conciousncss. Too much turkey is a bad thing,
and might have led to serious results.” If Mary
gives her subscribers much of this kind of thing,
the wonder is, not that she is printed on tea-paper,
but that she is printed on any paper at all.
4 * *
The Distbess is coming out at Gd., with a
coloured cover, and the portrait of Dr. Moran in
spectacles. As J. G. O’Connor is in it, and as
everything is to be “ treated from an independent
stand-point,” we have no doubt that all the whole-
some fun displayed in the Catholic Times (dead),
Sydney Punch (deceased), and other brilliantly
successful papers with which J. O. has been con-
nected, will be reproduced in the forthcoming
series of the Distress. We look forward with
great Interest to Mr. J. G. O'Connor’s ‘‘new de-
parture,” and we shall cherish it with much love
and devotion—while it lasts.
* * *
Something like the good old style this.
There was an election at Oamuru, N.Z., the other
day. The editor of the local paper was assaulted,
and the Mayor of the town burnt in effigy, and
then Oamuru split itself into two parts and fought
like blazes till dewy eve. The wounded were then
taken off the field in wheelbarrows. One ward of
the hospital is now full of electors with broken
legs. Dulcc propatria delirium tremens.
* * m
We have to chronicle the interesting fact
that Joseph Rhodes, the 74ltth hero who floured
in the Charge of the Six Hundred, has just peace-
fully expired in the workhouse at Coventry. The
750th historic dragoon is in Sydney. We know
that, beoause we have met him several times
(always outside a public-house), when he has ap-
pealed to us, for the love of our country, not to
see a warrior dry. On some occasions, he has evi-
dently deoided to lay aside the sabre for the tram-
mels of trade; for he has offered to sell us boot-
laces, Christmas cards, cotton bobbins, lead pencils,
and note-paper of a consumptive character. He
has expressed his willingness, should he be allowed
the run of the sideboard, to fight his battles over
again any evening for our edification, but, owing
to a pressure of billiards, we have not yet been
able to make an appointment. He is a tall man,
with a blue nose and a swivel eye; but it is only
when ho whispers for a loan of threepence that
you feel there is anything truly terrible about
him.


ANALYTICAL REPORT.
Melbourne.
My examination of a sample of
Bavarian Hop Bitters has elicited
the following among other particulars: It is a
clear, pale fluid of low density (99731) containing
2'2 per cent, of extract, which is all vegetable, the
ash being nominal, less than many potable waters.
.... They have a pleasant light hop flavour,
modified by presence of other herbal bitters. I
have not been able to find any noxious ingredient
or injurious contamination. ... I think they
may fully be expected to answer the purpose for
which they are designed.
SYDNEY GIBBONS, F.C.S., Analyst.
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased .from Hookings and
Co., 143 Pitt-street.*
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
The few choice spirits who constitute what
we may call the medical jury of the country, were
right in their verdict about Wolfe's Schnapps,
and Time, the greatest and highest tribunal, con-
firms the decree.
Youth.—Many young persons from 16 to 20
years of age, are greatly annoyed with roughness
of the face, the skin being covered with unsightly
?imples, blotches, discolour vtions, and flesh worms,
'o all such we advise the use of Bristol’s Sarsa-
parilla and Pills.
Eat and Live. —Marshall’s Tonic Nervine
creates Healthy Appetite, cures Indigestion,
strengthens the nerves and muscular system ;
nourishing and giving new vigour to the entire
human organisation. Proprietors Marshall
Brothers, M.P.8., 104 and 106 Marketr-street, and
6 Pitt-street, Circular-quay, Sydney.
It is understood that the Government are
in treaty for the purchase of that vacant piece of
ground opposite the Union Club. The price
named is £30,000, but the matter is not concluded
at that figure. The site is a key to all the principal
Government buildings, and would be a bet'er in-
vestment than George-street frontage at £l2OO per
foot.*
The removal of the tailoring business of
Messrs. Cochrane and Cutler from the old stand on
George-street, Is worthy more than passing notice.
The requirements of their steadily increasing
business calling for greater accommodation, they
have accordingly secured the building No. 3
Hunter-street, near George-street, where exten-
sive alterations and improvements are in progress,
in order to more advantageously display their
varied stock of suitings, and afford greater facili-
ties for their staff of workmen. The large show
window in front of the new quarters will be uti-
lised to present a marvellous array of high quality
tweeds and goods of best foreign manufacture.
On the ground floor are three spacious rooms en
suite, and these are being handsomely furnished
and decorated—the joiner-work and shelving being
constructed of polished cedar, giving remarkably
fine effect. Immense cases of plate glass, for the
better exhibition of finest goods, range themselves
along the walls, while large mirrors lend a charm-
ing perspective. When the rooms are ready for
occupancy, which will be shortly, for the work is
being rapidly pushed forward, they will challenge
comparison with any establishment of the kind in
Sydney. The several rooms on the upper floors
will be devoted exclusively to the cutting and
manufacture of garments—for the firm—every
department having the attention of the principals.
Notwithstanding the incessant labour connected
with a business of suoh growing importance and
proportions, it is a noticeable and altogether
praiseworthy consideration that both the members
of this house give their personal and undivided
attention and supervision to every detail con-
nected with their trade. The members of this en-
terprising firm are—Mr. B. Cochrane, whose long
experience in the wholesale woollen trade proves
of invaluable service in the selection of each
season’s goods, and whose undoubted ability and
capacity have become so well known, and have
met with well merited appreciation; and Mr. J. H.
Cutler, formerly of Melbourne, and later the head
cutter for Mr. Hugh Savage of this city, is a
gentleman whose undeniable skill and genial
manner has won them hosts of friends and a
largely increased patronage,*
A correspondent is good enough to send us
what he terms “A Ballade of the Dance.” It is a
little thing, doubtless, “ thrown off in an idle
moment.” It is one of those gentle drawing-room
poems which don’t draw, but, like the verse of
Bladen, it is not “ pernicious.” The bard concludes
his piece with an “ Envoy." Here it is :
Prince, trust me with your secret, say—
I, too, have known how sharp leve’s lance is—
Answered the lady Yea or Nay
Between the danoes ?
We have avoided inverted commas on purpose,
because we admit our inability to place them; and
we confess, at the same time, that if the bard
knows what an “ envoi ” is, and the above is a
sample, we do not. What does it mean, anyhew ?
Will these curious little rhymsters always fail
to understand that this style never “takes”
with anyone but Alfred, who is credited by his
enemies with having been occupied for five years
in the construction of an “ Ode to Mildew,” the
idea having originated in his mighty brain by a
qontinuous contemplation of the boots of his
bards. With regard to the “envoi,” however,
which we are unable, even after straining our-
selves, to make any sense of, we beg to suggest an
improvement, as follows: —
“ Oh, don’t ask for my secret, ma’am I”
The Prince said, “ or you’ll surely rue it.
I oan’t oonflde in, worth a
To one whose hub. sells pork and suet.
So vain are your alluring glanoes
Both during and between the dances.”
If Dalton had taught Prince Albert Victor how to
Sling iambics, he might, with much truth, poor
boy, have penn’d this.
* * *
HORROR!
“ Stella.—Letter for you at General Post
Office.—W.L.” Another fond delusion exploded in
Alfred’s paper. We know her well, now. Goloshes,
brown beaver hat, and a reticule. Alas!—
And from the Boulevard des Capucines
Did Stella never pen her scene,
But writ, with a most airy dodge,
Her Paris pars, at Forest Lodge ?
And spoke of Gauls, quite comme Ufaut ,
From out the wilds of Ultimo ?
Upon the wave of fashion swam
From off the heights of Petersham ?
Dread thought I—at this we turn quite pale—
Can Berlin, then, mean Annandale ?
Vienna be—this gives us pain—
Another reading of Balmain ?
Those Stamboul mean- oh, horror! hark I
Perhaps are “ dished up ” near Moore Park!
The New York letters—Certes, they,
No doubt, are penn’d at Waverley!
Let down the curtain; we have come
To think there’s nothing real but—rum.
m * *
They are advertising down in Melbourne
for ladies with handsome faces. The advertise-
ment implies that ladies with handsome faces are
not in great numbers down there. Truth, and not
gallantry, forces us to indignantly repel the dis-
courteous implication. We denounce the adver-
tisement as a wanton insult. There are handsome
faces on all sides down there. Why do they not
advertise for ladies with straight legs ? The impli-
cation from such an advertisement as that we’d
pass by, because—because
• • •
FIVE YEARS!
“The prisoner, William Barratt, asked His
Honor to consider the fact that he had already
been three months in gaol awaiting trial. The Judge
said he would pass the heaviest sentence the law
allowed.”
Five years! Great God, is this enough
For this debased and fiendish rough ?
This grisly brute with crime defiled,
Red with the biood of his poor child!
It lies, the little darling, there,
So fragile, delicate, and fair,
Yet maimed by that assassin’s claw;
He got five years—and that is law.
Eight months the babe; yet it was found
He heat its head upon the ground,
Struck its poor face, until it seems
The infant blood flow'd forth in streams.
And then he whined for “ mercy ’’—one
Who showed a helpless baby none!
“ Three months,” the monster vile did wail,
“ I have already been in jail.”
For maiming that poor helpless thing
He gets five years of pampering!
His limbs not hg the “ cat ” made raw—
If that’s the law, why, d the law.
A member of the Victorian Legislature
drew the attention of the House one night lately
to the very large family he had contributed to the
State. The announcement was received with con-
siderable merriment. Did the merriment spring
from a remembrance of Charles Lamb’s applica-
tion of the old saw—“ One fool makes many ? ” If
it didn’t, whence did it spring ?
• • •
Perdition! The Standard Barry has been
shunted out of the Hobart Reading-room by the
trustees.—
And has it come to this, poor Zachary,
That all your pseudo-Christian quackery
Is counted but as dregs and lees
By Hobart’s unredeem’d trustees ?
How will you this unkind cut parry,
Disconsolate, deserted Barry ?
Don’t try; but just go kiss John Davies—
Windup the Howl, and go to bl—zes!
* * *
“. . . An idea suggested itself tome,”
writes the Sydney correspondent of the Mtjrrum-
burrah Signal— fancy being Sydney correspon-
dent of the Murrumburrah Signal!— “this idea
was to enter a restaurant. I had scarcely seated
myself at one of the least-populated tables, when
my ears were assailed with a most remarkable
jargon of ‘ Beach and roast beef,’ and 4 Hanlan
and stewed tripe.’ ” The novelty of the idea of
finding himself in a restaurant, appears to have
been too much for this poor fellow. He was
evidently dazed by the magnificence of the un-
aooustomed'six penny-worth. The difference be-
tween our editor and the conductor of the Signal
is this ; the Signal man pays for the above kind
of copy with his loot; while we pay for it with our
boot. And, now it’s all over, where, in brimstone,
Murrumburrah ?
Mrs. Charlotte Stephens, “a respectable
widow-woman,” who was charged in the News
with being drunk the other night and lying down
on the grass with “ a young man ” she met “ per-
miscuous,” but who, apparently, had only come
out of limbo that day, is entitled to our sympathy.
Mr. Marsh lined her “ten bob,” and said he “did
not think her being found lying on the ground
with a strange young man, told in her favour.”
What we want to know—and pretty quick, too—is
is this a free country ? “ A young man ” must be
“strange” to a widow at sometime. Our infer-
ence is (and we really are an authority, for so many
widows of our own are wandering about some-
where) that if the widow did get “ tight,” it was in
the exuberance of her delight at meeting the
strange young man, or from her admiration at the
exuberance of that young man’s verbosity. And,
so far as their resting on the grass is concerned,
why we can assure our readers that, when we
attended, about a year ago, the moonlight picnic
of the waitresses of the Coffee Palace (an institu-
tion the Sydney Mail considers evinces, in its
management, “ stout-hearted philanthropy ”) we
and they weren’t widows, either; and “a
vidder,” as Mr. Weller remarks, “ is alius equal to
two single wimmin’.” After this, we shall be
afraid to sit on the grass by moonlight with a
strange young woman; though we must confess
to a predilection that way, and to a penchant for
telling them the while the dramatic story of
Joseph and his brethren.
BRIEF MENTION.
What James Hawthorne died of: A fall
from a scaffold.
“ The police have a clue to the murderer of
Ah Goon.” Ah, pro-on!
It is said—and this is quite original—that
Patti separated from Caux for Diva’s reasons.
“ What can you expect of a man,” thun-
dered Joseph, ‘ who has been all his life in an
indigenous position ? ’
One of our ads. says: “The people want
proof.” The Ritm reporters are not satisfied with
that—they want over-proof.
The Mubrumburrah Signal recently came
out in blue ink to celebrate Beach's victory. That
morning, the paper and its readers looked much of
the same colour.
It is rumoured that, if Bechet is released,
in total opposition to Judge Windeyer’s report,
his Honor will resign and seek “ fresh F ” no,
say “ pastures new.
A little while ago a young heiress ran
away with her father’s footman to Liverpool; but
left him on the following day. She had solved the
mystery of his calves.
The Mudgee Giraffe, when it wonders
whether the coming man will be happier, does not
seem to recognise how much that question de-
pends upon the coming woman.
It’s true, as we prophesied, that the time
would come when an enterprising man could wed
with a clergyman. For has not the gifted and in-
trepid Scantlebury linked himself to an arch-
Deakin ?
“ I hear it’s your birthday to-morrow, old
man,” said an auctioneer to a Rum reporter, “ aDd
I’m thinking of making you a little present. Wtiat
would you like?” “Something to eat in tins,”
was the faint reply.
Mr. Henry Locke Upham, of England,
recently fired a broadside of revolver-balls into
his Pa—a rich country gentleman. The only ex-
planation for this vouchsafed by the English
papers is that Henry Locke was “ training for the
Church.”
Just before going to press we hear there is
excitement in Burrawang. Bill Swan, the pub-
lican, has lost a billiard-ball. We have barely time
to add that the latest telegram from the North Pole
reports cold weather and things quiet. Bears shy;
tallow firm.
Siys “Argus,” in the Parkes and Forbes
Gazette: —“Since my last very little has occurred
worth mentioning.” The only item, by “ Argus,”
that would interest us strongly would be a par.
stating the exact time his funeral would move
from the door of the slab humpy.
The Rookwood Congregational Church is
fettingup aserviceof song called “Only B p lieve.”
his is real ly a sly appeal, as follows: “Only believe,
Ma, I go straight to choir practice, and come home
straight: and I’m not the girl who is working a
pair of slippers for the organist.”
NEVER.
The Rookwood Postmaster’s committed.
The question: is he to be pitied ?
If his pa’s in the Lands,
Why, then, one understands
The poor fellow will never be “ fitted.”
Things are going ahead in a journalistic
point of view, it would seem, at Narandera. The
other day, a local editor selected 40 acres, and he
has been too busy on the estate ever since either
to give a welcoming par. to the coming dentist, or
a valedictory one to the departing pianoforte-
tuner.
The Evenooze, describing that “ very im-
posing spectacle,” the splicing of Miss Linda Fitz-
Stubbs to Henry Prince, said the bridesmaids wei e
so and so, and so and so, all of which were ncatln and
richly attired.” Thus doth Alfred sling the witch-
ery of his style over all he takes in hand to slobber
about.
“HIGHWAY ROBBERY.
“ AN INSURANCE AGENT ‘ STUCK UP.’ ”
George Jeanings says they took his gold,
And shot him through the hat;
Some think this tale he does unfold
is just a trifle— fat.
There is no milk in Clermont (Q.), the cows
having run dry; so, as water is very scarce, the
teamsters now take porter with their rum. And
this reminds us that the J.P.’s there wont sit on
the Bench with Leo Damke, the Mayor, who keeps
a bushman’s pub. there. “ Gott in himmell” cries
Leo, “I vas joost as petter vot dem is.”
A young lady named M'Gragh, residing at
Warrnambool (celebrated for the production of
its literati and potatoes) has got into a little bother
through stealing a cow. When confronted with
the animal she exclaimed, hysterically—“ Did you
heifer!” We haven’t heard the cow’s reply. Per-
haps the police are “ reticent,” as usual.
A lioness at the Zoological Gardens, Mar-
gate (Eng.), is so fervidly fond of her cubs that
she licks them until the flesh shows through the
hair. Some Sydney mothers have the maternal
instinct even more strongly developed. They lick
their cubs until the blood shows through the iieab.
How superior are human beings to the beasts of
the field!
Brisbane Era “ poetry
“ Sure no one thought there lived a man,
Who Hanlan could defeat;
But William Beach, of D»pto fame,
Did give him such a treat.”
And yet they have the “knocker” to state that,
“all things considered, they, who shouldn’t say it,
have every reason t>' be proud of this the second
issue of their paper.”
Caucus of advanced Ministerialists at the
Exchange. Premier: “ The vote of thehon. mem-
ber for the Jumbuck Ranges (who is absent) we
can no longer depend upon, and yet ( musingly) I
got him a claw of the Governor’s palm' at the
races. Let—me—see—there is a P.M. wanted at
Cowville—has he a brother ? ’ An hon. member;
“He has.” Chorus of hon. members ( ind'Ujna/nUy):
“We have all got brothersl” “The matter then
dropped.”
This time, the “ Man with a Grievanoe ”
hails from Carcoar, and the nature of his trouble
is that the rush on the banks in that pushing town
is so great that in order to be enabled to send off
their acoounts to the Sydney head-quarters at
8 p.m., the hard-worked officials up there are com-
pelled to close their doors at 2 p.m. instead of 3, as
is the custom in all other country places. There’s
evidently a capital opening for a lightning-calcu-
lator up at Carcoar.
It is not safe to infer that because a circus-
man is sometimes funny he is, therefore, always
so. A Cobar gentleman made this mistake a short
time ago, and is now in the hospital, “ with only a
slight chance of recovering.” He and several fes-
tive friends threatened to let down the circus-tent
on the man in charge. The man in charge only
waited to bide the Bengal tiger in his hat and tie
the Libyan lion to a tent-peg, before he attended
to the gentleman of Cobar, who now thinks that
the conduct of circus-men outside of the arena is
singularly devoid of humour. Which shows that
there ‘hould always be two parties to a joke—the
man who makes !t and the man who takes it.
Criticising a concert lately, the Melbourne
Argus reporter said of one of the pieces:—“The
trio movement in this march, which belongs to
Chopin’s Sonata, Op. 35, speaks so plainly of the
hope of immortality in the presence of death as to
fix the serious consideration of every hearer.”
There is internal evidence here to show that the
produce reporter had to take the place of the
recognised musical critic on this occasion. The
language is too lofty for anyone but a produce
reporter. Yet there is something in what he says.
There are certain kinds of music that make the
most thoughtless mind think of the future. The
sound of the ice-cream trumpet, and the bang of
the boarding-house piano, for instance. They
make us connect the idea of hell with the players.
" THE POOR PLAYER."
Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession.
Mr. James M'Mahon writes a gorgeous
letter from the Oriental Hotel, Melbourne, where
he is busy with the managerial "push" mounting
his “ Romeo and Juliet.” James comes bithe r
after the run of the piece, he tells us; but, in the
exercise of what that neat and discreet little
gentleman may deem a wise discretion, he care-
fully hides the name of his Romeo, though the
Juliet is to be Miss Fanny Reid, a lady, to quote
the Colonial Prince of Wales, “of surpassing love-
liness.” It is very fortunate for such a big “spec.”
that a decided reaction has taken place, in Aus-
tralia, in favour of the legitimate. A harrowi g
feeling of alarm has, however, crept upon us that
George Rignold is to be the Romeo! If he does—
“ We did know an apothecary .” But if George
won’t be Romeo, he is certain to be Macari in
“ Called Back,” a piece which will be looked for-
ward to with great interest—because it is not
often we have a play, in which a blind man
who missed his road, enters the wrong house by
means of his latchkey, and bursts into a room
where a girl is singing a song, while three men are
drilling a hole through her brother. ...The Mudgee
Giraffe states:—“The ‘South’ Company.—An
advertisement in another column announces that
Mr. .1. A. South’s opera company will play in
Mudgee during the opening week. Mrs. South
will be the ‘prima donna’.” It also adds that
“ something out of the common may reasonably
be expected;” an event which, taking all existing
circumstances into full consideration, wouldn t
astonish us a bit ...There jare plenty of shows in
Queensland, just now; but we should think the
crowd up there should begetting pretty full about
this time of Stanley’s kids and Riggs’ “ Irish Detec-
tive.” There is not the least doubt, however,
about Grattan being a clever actor ...Port
Augusta (S.A.) hss lately been favoured by a
visit from a “Happy Hours” Company (not that
of Hart, the New Zealand landed prince); and, in
connection with the above gorgeous organization,
we have received a communication (enclosing a
clipping from the P. A. Dispatch) in which
he ventilates a grievance. This reminds us
that there is quite an army of pros, stranded
in the different provinces. At most second-
class country hotels, the “boots” is competent
for first heavies, and the sylph who humps
round the ;bash at imeal-times has very
often “been a bright star in her time.”
Tn Melbourne, we are glad to see that Madame la
Comtesse Genevieve Ward is a great go in
“Jane Shore’’—rather a bad blank verse play, by
W. G. Wills. Mr. Wills’ verse reads strangely to
anyone who has perused the splendid version of
the same piece, by Nicholas Rowe, author of the
“ Fair Penitent,” and an exceedingly indifferent
editor of |Shakespeare. Nicholas Rowe, however,
Alfred, is dead: so Mr. Willis need fear no rivalry.
At the Princess’, G. W. Godfrey’s unacknow-
ledged crib from the French, “ The Parvenu,” is
not a go, and is to give way to “ Friends.”—And
we see the Dunnings, at the Opera House, have
been doing “ Formosa;” and we see also that, last
Saturday, they were tendered a “ ben.” by “ up-
wards of 100 ladies and gentlemen,” amongst whom
were the Mathews Brothers, Fleming Norton, A.
Boot’aman, Jessie Grey, Cathcart, Harry Emmett,
and a lot more. And you must know that Edward
Farley is the director of the “ Bijow,” where Miss
Emelie Melville is deing immense biz. with a 6d.
gallery, and little “Tonorle” Caron is conductor.
It’s a case of “ Carmen ” which the people are Car-
men to in crowds, and the Satanic Lyons is the
business manager The Adelaide L.V.G. seems a
bit sick after its fire. It talks about Captain
“Prebus” in “Notre Dame,” and “Miss Mary
Lavingtou” and “Miss Fanny Sorony” in “Fun
on the Bristol.’’....Marian Willis and the Great
Scotch Tragedian at Newcastle.
Abigail the ascetic, Pic ton the pious, et
hoc genus omne , may be interested to know that
in 1(318 guid King Jamie the First issued a procla-
mation that the following should be deemed “ law-
ful games,” viz.:—“ Dancing of men and women,
archery, leaping, vaulting, May games, Whitsun
ales, Morris dances, setting up May poles, and
sports therewith used, and commanded that no
such honest mirth or recreation should be for-
bidden to his subjects upon Sunday or a holy day
after divine service ended.” This looks as if the
“ Lord’s Anointed ” of those days had a leveller
head, and held much more advanced ideas upon
the observance of the Sawbath than the bigots of
the present days of light and learning. Charles 1.
confirmed the above proclamation, but, when the
groaning, craw-thumping Puritans came into
power, Jamie's edict was burnt with much osten-
tatious display by the “Upjohn” of the time,
and it was then sudden death to anyone who
wilfully allowed one of his hens to lay eggs on
the Looard’s Day. In justification of this,
some reverend Ananias ot the period used to
tell the story of a parson named John Grylls
who being asked by a friend how he managed to
keep a wife and seven children on the rather thin
stipend of £9 a year, replied: “Well y’ see, sir, it
happens that wo live hard by the church yard; my
Missus sells ale, and I keep a bear, and after even-
ing service my parishioners, being so kind as to
bring their dogs to church, I bring out my bear
and bait him, and for two hours we are at it —
heave and shove, staff and tail, till we are all very
hot and thirsty, and then westep inito our Joan and
drink stoutly of her nut brown ale; and I protest,
squire (saitb he), we make a very pretty business
or it.” Feasts of dedications of churches are still
kept up in some parts of the North of England on
a very lively scale indeed, and, there is a story told
of a rather free-thinking lot of churchwardens
who being hard up for a “ba’r” upon one oc-
casion, promptly sold the church bible, and hired a
dog-hugger with the proceeds. After all, however,
wo are not quite sure that there wasn’t more real
religion knocking round in the good old rouse-
about days of Jamie than there is in this measley
age of corruption, cant, and contemptible hy-
pocrisy.
The Bishop of Grafton said that to wear
the blue riDbon indicates a lack of moral oourage
We admire not the badge, but it cannot be denied
that there is physical stupefaction brought on bv
excessive drink, in the removal of which a bit of
ritual may be as necessary as it is in removing the
parallel indifference of most men to religion. In
both cases there is a hazy assent to the issues, but
there are not the reminders at hand. The Catholic
and all great Churches, have long known this. ’
We have long observed that it has been
customary for young people of opposite sexes
who entertain for each other more than platonio
regard to walk along arm-in-arm. But it has only
lately come under our editorial notice that when a
young man js married the girl takes his arm, where-
as before he is married he takes the girl’s arm
People who contemplate matrimony should ponder
over these facts, which to every reflective mind
must suggest more than we could write in a month.
We need say no more than that it is quite plain
that bafore marriage he has her, while after mar-
liage she “has” him.
It’s a funny thing. When a young woman
here is suffering mental trouble on account of an
overdose of Baptist picnic, she generally, when
deserted, cuts her own throat; whereas, in France
the picnioeress generally cuts the throat of the picl
nicer. She is then tried and acquitted; becomes
tLdamede comptoir, martiesa head-waiter who is
not particular to a shade (in a cradle), and lives
happily ever after. If the young party who
severed her jugular the other day had only known
how muoh better they do these things in France
it’s a hundred to one she wouldn’t have been*
found living, in this year of our Lord, in Stanley-
street.
On a recent trip of one of the Clarence
River steamers (reports a Northern scribe) are-
quest was made to the captain by several divines
who chanced to be travelling in her, to be allowed
the use of the cabin in which to hold service. This
was granted; but after the service closed, a charit-
able appeal was made by the captain in aid of the
Seamen’s Belief Fund. The black clothed ones
were literally stunned at the request, since it had
nover occurred to them that a “collection would
be taken up at the close of the service ” Murmur-
ing to themselves “ Plate, O thou reasonest ill,”
they passed over to that too cute skipper their
most worn joeys.
Bobby Byrne, commenting on the rapacity
of the “ Devil’s Brigade "—of which, by tho way.
Bobby himself is a very distinguished member—in
connection with the case of the ex-J.P. Mr. Ready
and himself, analyses the bill of costs of tha
plaintiff, and gives the “ profesh ” away by point-
ing out that a lawyer will charge—for proposing
to do anything, for intending to do it, for doing
(or not doing) it, and for sending you in your ac-
count for the same. The total of this little bill
came to exactly £394105. 3d.; but this was reduced
to £206 10s. 7d. (amount paid off), allowing a bill of
only £lB7 19s. Bd. It contained no less than 72 six-
and-eignt-penny items, 32 of which were disal-
lowed. The devil may well be proud of his noblq
army.


Special Exhibition
OF
BEISTEADS.
A
m. —
if
9
ta 1 'in
Mai Witionof Weals
THE BEST AND MOST RELIABLE MAKERS.
DAVID JONES & CO.
will Display in their Showrooms,
363 GEORGE STREET,
during the present week,
A Magnificent Assortment of
FOUR-POST aad HALF-TESTER BEDSTEADS,
in Black and Brass. Block and Nickel, Solid
Brass, and Favourite Colours.
The Goods are of the
Most Improved Construction,
HANDSOMELV DESIGNED.
RICHLY ENAMELLED.
THOROUGHLY STRONG,
and the different parts tit accurately together.
I®” THE PRICES RANGE FROM *2 to *2O,
the value being the best procurable in the colony.
Heads of Families, Hotel Proprietors, and those
about to furnish, should inspect these goods, and
compare the style and prices with those obtain-
able elsewhere.
PRICE LISTS OF BEDDING, CURTAINS, DRA-
PERIES, and Designs for the seme, supplied
on application.
Children’s Cols
in New Shapes and Styles, all sizes.
Bassinettes
in New Designs, Trimmed and Untrimmed.
Tucker’s Camp Bedsteads
Tucker’s Folding Bedsteads
Tucker’s Chair Bedsteads
The Raglan Folding Bedsteads
Patent Universal Chair Bedsteads
Folding Iron Stretchers
Invalid’s Bedsteads
Special
Display
this
Week.
DAVID JONES & CO.,
Bedstead and Beddinp Warehouse,
363 GEORGE STREET.
EXHIBITION OP BEDSTEADS.
A T 363 GEORGE STREET.
D
AVID JONES and COMPANY
W
ILL DISPLAY during the present week
MAGNIFICENT ASSORTMENT OF
F
OUR-POST and HALF-TESTER
B
EDSTEADS.
H
ANDSOME DESIGNS.
R
ICHLY ENAMELLED.
T
F
KOROUGHLY bTRONG.
ROM £2 to £2O each.
B
EST VALUE PROCURABLE.
H
EADS of FAMILIES invited to inspect.
H
OTEL PROPRIETORS invited to inspect.
T
HOSE FURNISHING invited to inspect.
c
HILDREN’S COTS, all sizes.
B
ASSINETTEB, Trimmed and Untrimmed.
T
T
iUCKER'S CAMP BEDSTEADS.
UCKER’S CAMP FOLDING BEDSTEADS.
T
UCKER’S CHAIR BEDSTEADS.
R
AGLAN’S FOLDING CAMP BEDSTEADS.
► ATENT UNIVERSAL CHAIR BEDSTEADS.
F
OLDING IRON STRETCHERS.
"NVALID’S BEDSTEADS.
w
OVE WIRE MATTRESSES.
S
PECIAL EXHIBITION THIS WEEK.
DAVID JONES and CO.,
Carpet and Floorcloth Warehouse,
No. 363 GEORGE STREET.
L^n'
r
4
MANLY
\
s
<2
B&
&
*&
2?
X-'
MS
HS
a
t WiWroitigo lid Dun Tin Lots,
Remarkably Liberal Terms. Torrens’ Title.
Important Clearance Sale off Books and Stationery,
In order to make room for Large Shipments of NEW GOODS, to arrive.
T> has determined to offer his Extensive and Vaiu-
Pj |f VV l»> ■ I Jt\) t "I 1 Pi able Stock amounting to over £20,000, at Cost Price,
For Schools, Schools of Art, and Libraries, this is an opportunity which rarely offers, and their
attention is especially invited. The stock comprises
Books in all departments of Literature
Mechanical Books
Engineering and Scientific Books
Medical Books
School Books
Albums
Illuminated Musical Albums
Scrap Books
Writing Desks
Inkstands
Bibles. Prayer Books
Church Services and Hymn Books
Easter Cards, Birthday Cards
Plain, Fancy, and Mercantile Stationery of all kinds
Account Books
Letter Presses and Letter Books, &c.
The public are reminded that this is the most valuable stock of Scientific Books in the colony.
EIE. COLE,
OF GEORGE AND KING STREETS.
ISOLE IMPORTERS OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
C HAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
n
a
mm
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
SMITH OBGAN.
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
THE LARGEST, CHEAPEST, AND MOST VARIED ASSORTMENT IN AUSTRALIA.
Pmaajmn D pni C respectfully announces that he purposes offering his stock of
bUffAKU rfa uULt PORTRAIT ALBUMS, amounting 1 in value to over £30(J0, at
LONDON WHOLESALE PRICES.
The stock comprises
Southern Hemisphere.
all the latest designs in bindings and illuminations, and is sccor d to none in the
PORTRAIT ALBUMS, bound in Leather, Persian Morocco, Velvet, Russia, &c
Portrait Albums, from 6d. to £1515s. each
Easel Portrait Albums
Musical Portrait Albums
Pocket Portrait Albums
Gem Portrait Albums
Square Portrait Albums
Automatic Portrait Albums
Magnifying Portrait Albums
Cabinet Portrait Albums
Oblong Portrait Albums.
Revolving Portrait Albums.
IS. COLE,
CORNER OF GEORGE AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.


The Referee.
SPOUTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .l
RACING.
Mudgee Tattersall's R.C. September 11.
Canterbury Park R.C September 13.
Northern JC. September 17.
Liverpool J/l-. • • -September 30.
Geranium R.C September 23, 24.
won River 7 September 34, 35.
Sydney Turf'Club
Tflmworth R.«C« •80pt»» 30 t Oct.
Camden and Campbefltown J.C ..... October 3.
Victoria Amateur T.C..... October 11,18.
Wollongong Spring Meeting October 15,16.
V.R.C. Spring November 1, 4,6,8.
Canterbury Park R.C 9.
Murrumburrab R.CV • • November 10.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C November 11,13,14.
Murrumb%ee J.C. <Spring)....Novembar 19. SO, 21.
Narandera T.C November 27,38.
Victoria Amateur T.C November 37, 28.
Gwydir R.C. (Annual) November.
Victoria Amateur T.C December 26.
Rosehill R.C December 27.
Tattersall’s Club (Annual) January 1.
V.R.C. Summer Meeting -January 1.
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting Feb. 28, March 6, 7
AQUATIC.
B.R.C. Regatta September 13.
N.B.R.C. Regatta September 37.
N.S.W. Rowing Association Regatta October 18.
Canvas Dingy Club Ist. class race October 18.
Matterson v. Kemp October 18.
Solomon v. Kemp October 18.
Double Bay Regatta November 1.
Hanlan v. Clifford January
Hanlan v. Beach May
ATHLETICS
Sir Joseph Banks Sheffield Handicap.... September.
Eastern Suburbs A.A.C. Sports Bept. 6.
Casino Athletic Club Sports .... November 10.
CYCLING.
Suburban B.C. Race Meeting September 13.
1. Mr. Hapworth, while taking a walk about
Old Sydney to admire the quaint architecture of
some of the old buildings, suddenly finds, to his
horror, that he is passing a house with a very
startling announcement, indeed, nailed to the gate-
post. He flies panic-stricken from the scene.
2. Pale with terror at having been exposed to
the fell disease, he runs to the nearest physician v
(a Veterinary Surgeon, as it happens, but no matter),
who vaccinates him in several places, and urges'
him to change his clothes and fumigate thoroughly,
and charges him ten bob <
3. With the assistance of Mrs. Hapworth, he fol-
lows out the learned doctor’s advice with regard to
fumigation
4. In a most thorough manner. “ Just like you, you old bald-
headed idiot,” she remarked, as they stood amid the picturesque
ruins of their once eligible residence. Loss fully covered by in-
surance.
Mr. Hapworth, Again.
SPOUTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
From Maroh 24, to July 18 last, Fred Archer
rode in 313 races, and scored no less than 144 wins.
In the last of the three big international
competitions (at Birmingham), Snook, with 32
yards start, beat Myers by a couple of yards in the
'lOOO yards race.
In England, the 50 miles amateur bicycle
championship, run for under the auspices of the
National Cyclist’s Union, was won by F. R. Fry in
2h. 51min. 16 3-saec.
Hopscotob, the winner of the Interna-
tional Two Year Old Plate at Kempton, England,
only cost Mr. Benholm 30gs. last year at the Don-
caster yearling sale.
“Professor” Miller still hankers after a
meeting with Sullivan. At the present rate of
going, whisky will have knocked the American
slogger out before Miller gets a show.
On July 4, a law came into force in New
Jersey (U.S.), making it a misdemeanour to allow
anyone under eighteen years of age to play pool
or other billiards in public-houses of any kind.
The fine for every offence is £6O.
Weston, the pedestrian, has been tetimo-
nialised and dined at a vegetarian restaurant “in
commemoration of his 6000 miles’ walk within 1000
hours on Temperance principles.” Fellows who
go on “ the other ” principles sometimes can’t walk
at all.
George H. Hosmer, the pluoky little sculler
whom Elias Laycock put through when the Bhark
Islander was doing the “ Continong,” states he is a
bit stale, owing to walking matches he went
through during the winter. At latest, he was
likely to be matched against Teemer.
A raatoh is talked of between Mr. Sharland
of Tasmania, and a Mercantile R.C. man known as
“ Hanlan’s double,” owing to the smart trick he
played on a steamer full of aquatic “touts.” Shar-
land talked of giving fifteen seconds start, but
after last Saturday’s performance, it looks more
like evens.
The Park Commissidners of Philadelphia,
U.S., have ordered that rowers may wear, while in
their boats on the Schuylkill, sleeveless shirts,
coming well up on the breast; but the pants and
shirts must completely cover the body. We com-
mend this par. to a certain Sydney rowing club
noted for members who turn out in attire conspi-
cuous by reason of its absence.
The following are the batting averages of
the Australian team in England up to within a few
days of the departure of the mail Alexander s‘l,
Bannerman 20'15, Blackham 18'19, Bonnor 16'14,
Boyle 9-11, Cooper 9'o, Giffen 17'1, M'Donnell 19‘14,
Midwinter 21, Murdock 33'13, Palmer 1617, Scott
18*8, Spofforth 11*9.
Jim Mace intends another visit to the
States, accompanied by James Taylor, a well-
known comic vocalist, etc. They expect to make
a success in the amusement world with “ Frauds
on the Turf, and Scenes on Newmarket Race-
course,” introducing an English sparring booth
and Jim and Pooley Mace.
On July 17, at Notting Hill, England, Lord
de Clifford and Mr. Davenport Handley met in a
pigeon match for the largest stakes ever shot for.
The competitors shot for £lOOO a side, at 100 birds
each, Lord de Clifford standing on the 31 yards
mark, and Mr. Davenport Handley on the 38. Lord
de Clifford shot 71 out of 88 and won the match, as
his opponent only grassed 64 out of 86.
At Blossburg (U.S.), the celebrated bicy-
clist, John S. Prince, met with a severe accident
on July 3. While spurting at a terrific pace, the
wheel collapsed, and Prince was hurled to the
ground with great force, his face being scratched,
his eye blacked, and the handle-bar striking him in
the side, injuring him severely. He is not ex-
pected to be in trim for racing for some time.
It is not likely that Mr. Yankee Duryea’s
munificent offer of 600t)dois., to be rowed for in
America next year by not less than six scullers,
including William Beach, the champion of the
world, will be snapped up by the flower of our
scullers, sweet Wiiliam, of Dapto. refused
to row on the Nepean for a big certainty, so that
it is not likely he will travel very far for such an
uncertainty as a race against five men. No, Mr.
Duryea, we are afraid you will have to advertise
your starch in some other market. But some of
our amateurs might come to terms. What a grand
trophy could be bought for £1300!
The compulsory retirement of Blackham
from behind the sticks in the Middlesex match,
and the miserable show made by Murdoch as his
substitute, sets us thinking what might have been
had anything serious happened to the boss wicket-
keeper during the tour. Murdoch appears to have
lost all forthwith the gloves, and—bend low while
we whisper—some evil-minded people, who think
they know something, say that the only time “ Our
Billy ” stopped the ball was when it hit him.
The darned Yanks and blarsted Britishers
do not seem to have realised just yet that the
aquatic championship of the world will have to be
rowed for on a little stream called the Parramatta
—well, at all events, for the next nine months.
We had scarcely composed our feathers after
reading Mr. Duryea’s advertisement, when Teemer
comes on the scene with an offer to row for £5OO
on the Thames. Stick to the Parramatta. William,
and let not history repeat itself. Trickett went to
England to give away the championship, and Han-
lan came out here and followed suit.
In order to give W. G.' George, the cele-
brated long distance English amateur, an opportu-
nity of making a record for an hour’s run, and, if
possible, doing away with that attributed to Luke
Bennett (Deerfoot), viz., 11 miles 970 yards, the
members of the London Athletic Club offered
three valuable prizes for a handicap at that dis-
tance, to be run at Stamford Bridge, on July 38.
Unfortunately, rain set in and he only succeeded
in covering 11 miles 933 yards 9 inches within an
hour, and, although it falls a few yards short of
Deerfoot’s alleged record, it is far the best form
that has been shown at a distance for many years,
and it is greatly to be regretted that he was ham-
pered by a heavy course.
We have so few enthusiastic yachting men
amongst us, that it seems doubly a pity such a
genuine “water dog” as Mr. J. H. Want should
have a damper thrown on his plucky effort to
bring the Mignonette out to Australian waters.
The facts in connection with the loss of Mr. Want’s
yacht are truly horrible. The crew, consisting of
three men and a boy, were forced to abandon the
Mignonette somewhere south of the Equator, and
took to the dingy. After drifting about for nine-
teen days, the youngster died, and the three men
subsisted on his body till picked up by a vessel on
the twenty-fourth day.
We have received a copy of the conditions
to govern the Junior Cricket Cup to be competed
for during season ‘ 1884-5. The following, found
in rule 3, “Players Exempt,” is a huge goak, and
knocks spots off the rule which it was thought to
improve upon Match-playing members who
shall represent any first eleven of a senior club
during the present or past season, excepting those
members who have taken part In Junior Cup Con-
tests since their establishment.” The italics are
ours. According to this ruling, a man may belong
to the first-class eleven of a senior club, and still
play with the juniors for the cup.
Walton, the American “ plunger,” who
left England after the Derby, leaving a large un-
settled account behind him, has offered ss. in the
pound, which the bookmakers have refused. Wal-
ton won £BO,OOO during his first season, when he
“ touted ” jockeys and other stable servants so aB-
siduously and successfully; but as soon as h
ceased to obtain private and reliable informant
and was left to follow his own judgment helSo’
lapsed ignominiously. He has informed some New
York ‘‘interviewers ” that “ he has done with
English turf.” as “ an American has no
there at all.** He should have said that
“ done ” the English turf. at bQ ha »
The Sydney Rowing Club people are work-
ing like Kanakas to make their regatta on Sat,,-
day next a big boom. The steamer Admiral wo7
leave Circular Quay at a quarter to two D V
have been in a serious mood since ra«a,-Z
Granny’s advice to Sharland, that he shouidt?
future “ use a boat with greater flotation power
forward”), and upon arrival at the Branch theol
who so wish it can disport themselves on the In » 6
tennis ground, which has recently been enlar*«rths.
several of the members, who volunteered for
and shovel duty. The programme will consist A*
maiden double-sculls in skills, senior scullers in
wager boats, junior scullers in wager boats «n 2
scratch eights will bring the card to a conclusion d
The open-boat Sea Breeze has ohaneed
hands, her late owner no doubt thinkinc- it
well to be “off with the old love before taking un
with the new.” The old boat was never a fiver
the best, but as for faithful build and sea-goin,.
qualities, she has no peer in the harbour Bo
best performance was in 1874 —it is hardly fair t
expose the old girl’s age—when she raced the
Kingfisher round a boat off Barrenjeey and baot
or, rather, as far as Barrenjoey, for the old ’Fishei
thought discretion the better part of valour ana
camped in Broken Bay for the night. It« as a lovely
morning when the two boats cleared North Head 7
but when well down the coast, a southerly cami
tearing after them, and by the time the rounding
point was reached it was blowing a “stinking"
southerly buster. The Fisher ran into Broken, as
we stated above; but the Breeze elected to face it,
and duly landed the dollars and her crew, the
latter none the worse for a good wetting.
We were undecided whether to insert this
par. amongst the sporting, society, or denomi-
national drops, so we put the three in a hat, and
the sporting man drew the prize. Well. Mr. and
Mrs. “ Leviathan ” Thompson and family intend
leaving 'Frisco on the 27th instant, and, according
to th« ’Frisco mail time-table, they should arrive
in Sydney on the 24th October. In this age of re-
ceptions, it is not to be supposed such an oppor-
tunity will be allowed to pass, or that Joe’s valu-
able services as an advertising medium will be
overlooked by the State. And now. who will he a
good man to boss the movement ? We have it.
Billy Freeman. It will not be the first time the
symmetrical Kurrajonger has given the Leviathan
a warm reception.
We have received a communication from
Donald Dinnie, from which it would appear the
“ Scut’’ is not just now on over good terms with
the Melbourne Sportsman. Donald states that
the expression, “ What I could have done with
Wilier,” was an Invention of the Sportsman.
What he really did say was: “Had It not been
with the distinct understanding that Miller would,
as soon as recovered, wrestle me a fair mixed
match, I could have claimed the stakes, he being
unable to finish at that time. I allowed the draw,
willing to prove I did not wish to take any advan-
tage of the accident " Dinnie continues: “Ashe
is now ail right, and walking a mile in less than
nine minutes, I consider he is quite able to wrestle
a match. I have a deposit in the Australasian
office awaiting him or any other man.” This ap-
pears to be the best way to settle the matter, and


WONDERS OF THE AGE.
Why is it so many people are never satisfied ?
Their homes are marvels of comfort and luxury,
friends are generous and affectionate ; they are
educated and refined, capable, not only of enjoy-
ing, but of imparting happiness to others: yet
they are dissatisfied, miserable, and, really without
intending to do so, make others miserable. Their
blood is impure, they have taken a heavy oold, or
they are bilious. A few doses of Emil Frese’a
Hamburg Tea would remove all obstructions, and
enable them to enjoy, with renewed zest, the plea-
sures they are now compelled to forego.
FOR THE GUIDANCE OF OTHERS.
Glenmore Road, Paddington,
_ 14th January, 1884.
Gentlemen,—Some few weeks since I was so
severely affected with indigestion as to render my
rising each morning a matter of difficulty and
pain on account of severe pains in the back; and
it had just become necessary for me to take a holi-
day from my work, for the performance of which.
I was by no means fit, when a friend mentioned to.
me the benefit he derived from the use of Ham-
burg Tea. In the hope of getting some relief, I
used it myself, the result being that I was myself
in three or four days, and have not suffered since.
My friends have advised me to write this for the
guidance of others, and you are at liberty to make'
what use you please of tnis.
Fours,
„ John Kelly.
Messrs. Elliott Bros., Sydney.
IS YOUR SKIN
Covered with Itching. Scaly, Pimply, and unsightly'
Humors and torturing disfigurations which cover
you with shame and rob you of rest and strength ?
The Cuticura Resolvent, the new purifier, will
cleanse the system of acrid humors, cool the'
blood, open the bowels and render the perspiration'
pure and unirntating, while the Cuticura andl
Cutiura Soap, the great skin cures and beautf-
tiers, instantly allay Itching, subdue Inflammation,
and clear the skin acid scalp of every evidence of
disease.
We know that there is nothing on earth
equal to Hop Bitters as a family medicine. Look
for.
“ Rough on JtATS.”-*-ClearB out rats, mice,
roaches, flies, ants, bed-bugs, beetles, insects,
skunks, jack-rabbits, gophers. Druggists. Moses,
Moss & Co.. Sydney, General Agents.
While waiting for a Cough to go as it
came, you are often laying the foundation for
some Pulmouary or Bronchial affection. It is
better to get rid of a Cold at once by using that
sure remedy Dr. D. Jayne’s Expectorant, which
will cure all stubborn Coughs, and relieve any
anxiety as to dangerous consequences.
Almost every person has some form of
scrofulous poison latent his veins. When this de-
velops in scrofulous sores, ulcers, or eruptions, or
takes the form of rheumatism, or organic diseases,
the suffering that ensues is terrible beyond de-
scription. Henee the gratitude of those who dis-
cover, as thousands yearly do, that Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla will thoroughly eradicate this from the
system.
The Test of Actual Trial. This is
what proves the merit of a preparation. The pro-
prietor of Green’s August Flower, knowing its
valuable properties, meets this test boldly by pre-
paring sample bottles of this remedy, which are
sold at 6d. This enables doubters to try its virtues
at a trifling expense. August Flower is a panacea
for Dyspepsia and all disorders of the Liver, in-
cluding Biliousness, Indigestion, Sick Headache,
Costiveness, &c., &c. Three doses will relieve any
of the above, and a faithful use will certainly cure.
No medicine in the world has ever given such
proof of its merits. Druggists recommend it with
perfect confidence and physicians prescribe it
regularly. Price for full-sized bottles 3s. fid. Sold,
by all druggists.
oa soon as Miller recovers from the accident and
banauet given him the other day by the Melbourne
sDorts we shall expect to hear he has covered the
deposit planked by his rival.
“Laying against the wires” is the very
latest phase of betting out, but the thing seems to
be such a dead certainty for the books that its
fate is nearly sealed already. During the tussle
between Arab! Bey and John Bull, a certain
metallician is reported to have laid against the
truth of every cablegram that came through to
the daily press with reference to the scrimmage
■with such remarkably good luck that, at the end
of the war, he was able to purchase a first-class
station on the Cloncurry. Now he is laying
against the Franco-Chinese “ wires ” in the hopes
of being shortly in a position to stock the run
with a few thousand pounds worth of “ horns and
trotters.” This is laying odds against the “stiff
>uns” with a vengeance.
Bill England, the British gentleman of
massive physique, who went over to the States
recently for the ostensible purpose of “ knocking
out ” the champion slogger, came off second best
at the hands of much smaller fry. England took
his initial benefit at Harry Hill s Theatre on the
afternoon of June 30. On that occasion George
Hooke accepted an offer of £2O to stand before the
Britisher the usual four rounds. The result of the
encounter was rather disastrous to the beneficia/re,
for Rooke, who is at present bigger and stronger
than ever before during his fistic career, proved
himself a decidedly better man, although England
kept his end up pretty well. The latter was
receiver-general throughout, and at the end of the
lively engagement was rather beery on his pins.
We have not heard of an acceptance of Mr.
George Ellis’ plucky offer to back the Dreamland
against any other 24-footer in the harbour. In
the good old days of open boat sailing, the 24-
footer’s flutter was the race of the day; but of late
years, amateur crews-and limited at that—have
played old Harry with the sport. Races at Balmain
and Anniversary regattas should certainly be for
best and best crews, as |the amateurs |have times
out of number, to show their ability—or, in most
cases, want of it-at the lesser meetings and club
races. It is to be hoped the Balmain committee
will this year see their way clear to place a best
and best 24-foot race on the programme. Should
they do so, it is not altogether off the cards that
Carlotta, Victor, and Dreamland might figure on
the programme. In that case we should have a 24-
foot race worthy of the name.
The Eastern Suburbs Athletic Club were
unfortunate in running counter to the Randwick
meeting on Saturday last, and the attendance on
the Association Ground suffered in consequence.
The vice-president’s handicap of 100, 150, and 200
yards was carried off by T. Richards, who was
fairly “ chucked ” in by the handicappors, and won
all three events; H. M. Evans (100 yards) won the
mile bicycle race; G. L. Macready won the mile
maiden walk; E. Henry (Sydney Grammar School)
won the half-mile schools; D. D. Middleton made
an easy win of the 1000-yards’ challenge cup and
club medal in 2min. 30sec.; H. B. Hughes won the
130-yards’ hurdle handicap; J. Varley appropriated
the quarter-mile maiden; G. H. Hardwick won the
two-mile walk from soratch in 15min. 15sec.; T. W.
Maddocks (100 yards) won the mile handicap; and
F. W. Baylis carried away the 100-yards’ sack race.
Hardwiok broke record in the two-mile walk,
doing the first mile in 7min. 25%5ec., and the whole
distance in 15min. 15sec., as against Mr. Arnold’s
previous best of 7min. 26sec., and 15min. 40 7-10seo.
James Finney, who, by virtue of holding
the Mile Championship of England Cup, the 000
Yards Championship Cup of Scotland, and the 500
Yards Championship Cup of Lancashire, claims the
proud title of “ Champion Swimmer of the World,”
offers to swim G. H. Wade, of Baltimore, or any
one else, one mile, two miles, and five miles, for
£2OO or £4OO, the winner of two out of three to take
the stake, or he will swim anyone for the Mile
Championship of England (open to the world,
there being other places therein than England,
Scotland, and Lancashire, it seems), and a like sum.
He stipulates, however, firstly, if for the Mile Cup,
the course must not be less than a quarter of a
mile in length, in open still water, and in accord-
ance with the rules that govern the cup; secondly,
if for the One, Two, and Five Mile races, it can be
swum for in open still water, river or sea, if not
colder than 50 degrees, if colder than 50 degrees to
be swum for in a bath not less than 35 yards long,
and not lower than 50 degrees or above 7(5 degrees;
thirdly, if in England, he will give or take £lO for
choice of water; out of London, and in America,
he will require £3O for expenses; and to any com-
ing from America he will give the same amount.
Can’t wa raise a phenomenon out here to “do the
trick.”
W. Cummings and N. Cox, the former of
whom holds the mile record—viz., 4min. 16 l-ssec.
—decided their four miles match, for £5O, at the
Moorfleld Ground, Frails worth, England, on July
20. Considerable interest was taken in the affair,
and, despite the blinding rain, quite 1800 persons
assembled to witness the race. The pair had met
previously at this enclosure in a four-miles handi-
cap last April, when, with 130 yards start, Cox won
in a canter, and as he was reported to have vastly
improved upon even that form, whilst Cummings
has been taking matters easily since his return
from America, it was thought the Bristol runner
might be capable of lowering his colours. Both
men appeared in good condition, Cummings in
particular, he having got his weight down to 9st.
61b., and at first he was made favourite. Cox’s
partisans, however, put down their money so
freely that at the start odds of 11 to 10 were laid on
his winning. Directly they were slipped Cox went
off at a rare pace, and led out, but it was soon evi-
dent that Cummings was merely waiting on him,
and directly after the half-distance the redoubt-
able Scotchman dashed past, and going right away,
eventually won by 120 yards. Time—l mile (Cox),
4min. 39sec.; 2 miles (Cox), 9min. 51sec.; 3 miles
(Cummings), 14min. 68sec.; 4 miles (Cummings),
20min. 19J4sec.
At the International amateur pedestrian
meeting in England, on July 19, the 1000 yards,
owing to the presence of Myers and Snook, whs
naturally the event of the day, and the handi-
capper deserved much credit for th>s way he
brought his men together. Myers’ great pace
brought him into third position 250 yards from
home, Snook, who had made the utmost of his
start, having taken the lead at 300 yards, and being
well ahead of T. Cox, Birmingham, who followed
closely in his wake throughout. A terrific race
now ensued, and the last-named was not shaken off
by the American flyer until the last straight was
reached. Myers then tore after Snook, and suc-
ceeded in showing in front 50 yards from the post.
The effort, however, was (oo much even for him,
grand runner as he is, and Snook, running with
great pluck, managed to repass the American and
win by two yards, whilst Cox was close up third.
The shouting tbai greeted the splendid running of
all three was something beyond description. At
half a mile, Myers was a fraction over a second
ahead of the English, and very little behind his
own record; and when the full distance had been
completed, George's time—the best ever made in
England by either amateur or professional—was
left two seconds behind, and he had approached his
own within 11-5 sec.
An American tagle, trapped on one of the
islands opposite Santa Barbara, was sold to a game-
fowl fancier, who put it in his chickcn-park. Sud-
denly one of the fowls flew at the eagle and struck
it upon the wings. The eagle merely looked at
the little chanticleer with a curious, inquisitive
glance. Then another game fowl struck him in
the breast, while the first hit him on the neck.
The eagle now opened his wings with a leisurely
swing, and erected his chest feathers, and his eyes
seemed to blaze. Again one of the fowls rushed
recklessly at the eagle, grasping a bunch of
feathers in its attack. Before it recovered from
its charge the eagle extended one of its talons and
seized the cock by the neck and with a dexterous
swing, laid it fluttering and quivering beneath its
left foot. The second cock now charged upon the
huge stranger, whose wings were half opened and
lazily rising and falliDg. As the cock struck it was
met with a blow from the eagle’s wing, and as it
fell was caught in his talons and laid dying upon
the ground. The victor did not appear to be
excited, aufl after thus disposing of its trouble*
some adversaries, lazily stepped to one side and
seemed to relapse into reflection, every once In a
while looking down indifferently upon the dead
fowls lying at his feet.—The American Eagle must
be a bit “Off Colour,” when they can’t flnd any
better performance than the slaughter of a couple
of chickens to blow about.
A big crowd of “ regulars ” went up to see
the race on Friday last between Messrs. Brett and
Sharland, who were billed to row for a £lOO trophy
and the “amateur championship of Australia/’
Why the ama but, there; it amuses them and
doesn’t hurt Mr. Fittes, so why should we worry
our fat about it ? A smart north-easter and flood-
tide were against the men when they dipped their
sculls at half-past five o’clocr, Sharland. on the
Northern side, getting rather the best of the start.
Brett rowed in splendid form, and at Uhr's Point
had a clear length to the good, Sharland labouring
heavily, and striking 34 to his opponent’s 30, but
still falling to the rear. At the mile, shot in Tmin.
ssec., Brett had increased his lead to six lengths;
and half-a-mile further on, Sharland, evidently
seeing it was all u p. if he followed in the long
’un’s wake, pulled hard on his right, and struck
over to the Southern shore. Brett continued on
the even tenour of his way, and the two men
Sulled on opposite sides of the river. Just before
[en and Chickens was reached, it appeared as if
the boats were nearly level, and a little mild ex-
citement ensued; but it was of short duration, as
Sharland fell away so soon as he opened out the
wind and tide, while Brett, well under the Northern
shore, was rowing in taking form, in water like a
sheet of glass. At Gladesvilie it was seen Brett
still had his commanding lead, and from thence to
the finish it was only a procession, the Sydney man
winning in 24min. 43sec. Sharland pulled a perfect
tiger from first to last stroke, but stood no show
with suoh a speedy opponent as Brett.
Some people with time hanging heavy on
their hands have been controversing in the Mel-
bourne Sportsman about the well-nigh-forgotten
fight between Heenan and Tom King. One gentle-
man thinks it was cruel to accuse the “ Benicia
Boy” of selling the affair, while another Is more
than certain that the American’s backers were
“given away,” and ridicules the notion of Mrs. H.,
expressed at the time—that her husband was
drugged. Now, a lot of old sports think that there
was neither “sell” nor “drugging” about that
sensational mill, but hold the same opinion as the
Lancet did—that Heenan’s muscles—which stood
out in lumps as he stood stripped in the ring—had
been developed at the expense of all vital energy,
and that the man was “ trained to death.” It’s an
open secret that a number of the London roughs
made up their cultured minds that Tom shouldn’t
“be beat;” but nobbling the enemy and breaking
into the ring if things “go crooked,” are two
different lines of tactics entirely. The latter
would probably have b«en adopted if necessary,
but the knock-down blow with which King sum-
marily secured his victory was, so many people
think, quite enough to settle any man who had
trained stale, like poor Heenan. One thing is
certain, viz., that the Englishman, for his own
part, was really anxious to beat the Yank on his
merits, and believes to this day that he did so.
Tom is a rich man now; in fact, he s about the
only prize-fighter, since Gully, who has ever accu-
mulated a “pile.” Like Guiiy, too. old Tom has
made ihis “pieoes” by aid of a betting-book, per-
sonal notoriety, and rugged straightforwardness.
A lot of other bruisers have possessed the two
former ingredients of success, without laying in a
stock of the latter. This oversight has placed
them in the unfortunate position of eternally
wanting to borrow a “quid.” Such is life, dear
friends.
A splendid scullers’ contest was witnessed
on the Charles River, Boston, U. 8., on 28th June,
between James A. Ten Eyck of Peekskill, N.Y.,
and Nicholas Layberger of W. V., by over 2000
people. The contest was three miles, with one
turn, for £2O, and was a game one from beginning
to end. The water was as smooth as glass. The
start was as fine a one as ever was seen, Ten Eyck
gaining a slight lead after the first dozen strokes.
The Virginian was pulling a long and powerful
stroke, sufficient to enable him to hold his antago-
nist at the quarter-mile. Ten Eyck had put clear
water between himself and Layberger, but the
latter woke up to his work and a very determined
and intensely exciting race ensued. Layberger
soon found that his rowlocks were so stiff that the
freedom of action was greatly impeded and his
labour was greatly increased thereby. His arms
began to get sore and swell up. Notwithstanding,
he answered every one of Ten Eyck’s spurts. At
the half-mile the latter was still ahead, but his lead
had been greatly reduced, and at the milldam the
men were bow and bow. Ten Eyck now spurted
while Layberger kept up his steady stroke, and
the result of Ten Eyck’s efforts was to place
him nearly two lengths ahead when the turn was
reached. Here Layberger found his rowlock again
troublesome, and his antagonist was fully two
lengths ahead as they squared away for home.
Layberger made a determined effort to get on
even terms, and, though Ten Eyck spurted, he
gained no further advantage. His frequent spurts
had tired him, and slowly but surely Layberger
began to close up, and when the milldam was
reached the latter was but a length behind.
Keeping well to his work, Layberger went to the
front, and at the stonewall he had the lead by a
length. At two and a half miles the distance
between the two remained the same, but at the
next quarter Ten Eyck began to crawl up upon
his rival. This set the crowd almost wild with
excitement, and they cheered both men to the
echo. On the last quarter Layberger plainly
showed the intense strain to which his arms had
been subjected. Both were terriblv puffed, and
his right had almost given out. Yet he kept up
his plucky work and strained every muscle to pre-
vent Ten Eyck from approaching him. At 100yds.
from the finish, Ten Eyck had shut out clear water.
The weakness of Layberger's right arm caused his
boat to veer toward Ten Eyck’s courje, and it
looked very much as if there would be a foul; but
he escaped this misfortune, and landed a winner
by a short half-length, in 22min. 23sec., after pull-
ing one of the pluokiest races ever recorded.
Now that matches for the amateur rowing
championship, and £lOO trophies, are likely to be-
come as plentiful as blackberries, it seems about
time some rule was laid down to govern such con-
tests; but, judging from the past, we do not think
our Rowing Association has sufficient “go” in it
to take such a big matter in hand. All the Sydney
dailies dubbed the race on Saturday last as for the
“ Championship of Australia.” So far as the morn-
ing papers are concerned, no doubt they copied it
from Brett and Sharland’s advertisements, for
anyone with half an eye can see that the ink-
slingers who indited the paragraphs know not one
end lrom the other of a boat; but the Nooze man
is not quite so easily led astray, and we were cer-
tainly surprised to see him drop into the same
hoie, as he is well aware Fittes of Victoria beat
both Brett and Sharland for the Krug Cup, as
much, if not more, a race for the amateur cham-
pionship than any sculling contest yet rowed in
Australian waters. Brett was decidedly “ off
colour ” when he met the Victoria , and in our
opinion will best him nexttimo they meet; but the
fact still remains, Fittes won, and is without doubt
the amateur champion, if such a title is really held
by any sculler in Australia. To our thinking,
months of training on the Parramatta River, £lOO
trophies, and crowded steamers at five bob a head
smack too much of the professional; and just here
we should like to know what becomes of “ gatr. ?”
£lOO trophy races have only just cropped up here,
aud should be put down with an iron hand—it
would certainly be irony to apply this term to the
N.B.W. Rowing Association—or they may obtain
dimensions large enough to justify action such as
was recently taken by the American National Asso-
ciation of amateur oarsmen. That body has issued
a circular giving timely warning to “doubtfuis”
that a strict watch will be kept upon their move-
ments, and anything savouring of professionalism
will be regarded as lull justification for theiFex-
clusion from participation in amateur events,
without waiting for absolute proof of wrong-
doing, which, for reasons set forth, is often ex-
tremely difficult to secure. Knowing that these
men are not possessed of the means requisite to en-
able them to enjoy a life of ease, the natural infer-
ence is that in some manner, more or less question-
able, they manage during several months of each
year to soppon tuemseives, ip whole or lu part,
out of pecuniary gains made in connection with
the regattas they attend. This is contrary to the
spirit or the amateur definition; and as it has pro-
ven inimical to the interests of amateur oarsman-
ship in America, the officers of the association
have at last determined to protect bona fide ama-
teurs by excluding from the regattas of that body
oarsmen whose practices have made them well-de-
fined objects of suspicion, but against whom posi-
tive proof of transgression of the law may not be
adduced in duo season. To return to the colonies,
we think our Rowing Association, which ought to
be, if it is not, the premier body of Australia,
should at once take the matter in hind. With a
little canvassing, we feel petty sure sufficient
money could be raised for the purchase of a trophy
worthy of its object, on which the names of win-
ners could be engraved for all time, d la the Hen-
ley-on-lhames Grand Challenge Cup for eights,
founded in 1839; and if having his cognomen
handed down to posterity is not sufficient glory
ror any amateur, all we can say is that the sooner
he joins the ranks of the professionals the better
lor the welfare of amateur rowing.
Woman Items
A “gentleman” has been fined 20s. and
costs in England for having called his brother’s
servant “red-headed.”
A celebrated Baptist minister says thal
Church members embrace three times as many
women as men. That is probably correct. There
is not more than 25 per cent, as much fun in em-
bracing men as women.
The clergy of the Northern (F.ng.) Convo-
cation believe in the Ministry of Women. And
why not ? They have not yet gone so far as to
suggest that ladies should preaeh; but that may
come, by and bye. The Church has not been above
taking a leaf out of the book of the Salvation
Army before to-day, and who shall say it will not
do it again ? There has never been a female Pope
though many people profess to believe otherwise
But what a prospect to hold before the ladies who
advocate woman’s rights—a female Archbishop of
Canterbury I
She was wheeling her married sister’s twin
babies. Suddenly she halted for a second, and ap-
peared embarrassed, while a crimson blush
mounted her cheeks. She saw coming her old
beau, iwhom she had not seen for Jthree years, as
h« had been away. Of course, the fellow naturally
supposed his sweetheart married during his
absence, so he began grinning as he drew :near,
touched his hat and passed on, congratulating
himself on the fate he had escaped. It is useless
to attempt to describe how the girl felt. Moral:
Never wheel twins in public.
The “ language of the parasol Opening
the parasol quickly with the point upwards. “Yon
interest me.” Closing in the same manner, “ I am
not favourably impressed by you.” Opening witb
the point downwards, “Acquaintance wovud noi
be disagreeable to me.” Closing similarly, “An
advance would be repelled.” Closed and carried
over the right shoulder, “ Beware of observers.”
Closed over the left shoulders “ We are watched.”
Revolved slowly while open, “ I like you.” Re-
volved rapidly, “ I love you." Used as a cane,
“You may walk with me.” Laid across the lap,
“You may sit by mo.” Carried under the right
arm, “Yes.” Carried under the left arm, “ No.”
Swung point down in front, Kindly salutation.
Moved perpendicularly while held open over the
head, “ Good-bye.” Revolved open behind the
back, “ You may follow me.”
When Webster wrote his definition of the
word “kiss” visions of Mrs. Webster must have
been in his mind. It was a case where knowledge
would have been dangerous to an unmarried man.
He limited himself to saying: “A salute made by
touching with the lips pressed close together and
suddenly parting them.” The old sinner! He
would have been a hazardous man to let loose at
a picnic. An old soldier defined it better by saying
it was “a report at headquarters.” Webster's
popular work fails to distinguish between the
varieties. There is an old maid’s kiss, with its dash
of vinegar; the maiden aunt's kiss, with its ter-
rors. Ornamented with corkscrew curls and gay
coloured ribbons, she sits like a vitalised hat-raca
covered with bombazine, and waits for victims to
come up and get their medicine.
A “masher” several mornings on his road
to town saw what he took to be a wistful face at a
bay window looking longingly into the distance.
He first became curious; then, interested; and,
finally, excited. The lone, lone female should not
Eine in vain, or waste her young life in solitude, if
e could help it. He gradually worked up to a
smile for her, growinv broader and broader, until
it assumed the proportions of a grin. “Ah, me!
’tis sweet to know there is an eye that watches for
our coming, and grows brighter when we come.”
At last he mustered up courage to add a bow to
the smile. She did not show any displeasure. The
other evening he went along smiling so broadly
that he could be seen two streets off. She was at
the window. He raised his hat; and, just as he
did so, she rose, disappeared for an moment, and
then returned with a gentleman in his shirt-sleeves,
to whom she pointed in a significant manner, and
a baby which she held up to him in the most kindly
and expressive way. He now goes down the next
street.
An English lady of good social position,
but limited means, who for several years has been
taking “clients” in need of husbands to watering
places during the season, in ten years has scored
twenty-three successes and nine failures. It ap-
pears that dark girls go off best in spring and
autumn, and blondes at midsummer ; that tho
market is apt to be dull at the beginning of the
season, and to grow brisk towards its close; that
very young fair men like brunettes best, but veer
slowly towards their lighter sisters as the fair men
grow older, and that the converse is as true of
very young dark men; that brunettes almost as
invariably prefer fair men irrespective of age;
and that the predilection of blondes is as com-
monly an opposite one; that blonde girls work
off very ill in raw, cold weather; that to couple
a fair and dark girl in walking, driving, &c.,
is generally, but not always, good policy, since
the intended victim sometimes falls in iove with
each in succession, and ends by taking neither,
and finally, that, while mountains and lakes prove
lively incentives to iiirtation at earlier periods, the
seaside is decidedly stronger in the way of landing
the fish as the leaves turn and the days grow
shorter. Simplicity in dress is, as a rule, an en-
couraging factor in her business, and loquacity or
self-assertion is decidedly otherwise. Melodious
voices, again, tell with more effect than accom-
plishments, and a tendency to free-thought is
uniformly repulsive even to men of the same in-
clination themselves. By the same odd rule, habits
of carelessness and disorder hurt the business,
whatever the ways of possible customers; and to
dwell unduly, in the presence of those customers,
on dress, trinkets, and the faults of others, would
sometimes depress the market two or three points
in a day.
In Mr. Radcliff’s lecture on “ Flutes,” the
other night, he made a few remarks intended to be
particularly interesting to ladies. He not only
stated that the graceful accomplishment of flute-
playing is adopted by many ladies of rank in Eng-
land. but said that his experience had taught him
that it is also conducive to good health, lie in-.
stanced a young girl who was in such a delicate
state of health that her physician had little hope
of her ever being out of the invalid list. Her
consumptive symptoms necessitated a quiet, mono-
tonous,! indoor life, sojit is little wonder that she,
wnen no one was by, used to amuse herself by
coaxing lout the notes from her father’s tlute. Ho
interested did she get in this new play, that
gradually the time she devoted to it each day
grew from minutes to hours. It was some time
before any one knew why it was that the roses re-
turned to the cheeks ana the languid form grew
day by day more robust; but the physician, being
a wise man, watched the improvement quietly,
and was not long in discovering that it was the
llute practice which had expanded and strength-
ened the diseased lungs and given health andl
vigour back to his interesting patient. Mr. Rad-
cliff .went on jto say that the same young lady,
after studying under his tuition for some years,,
became one or' the best amateur iiautists in Eng-
land, and, besides that, she was the acknowledgedi
belle of Brighton, and it takes a great beauty to l
be that. lie didn’t snj/that the ilute-playing hadi
anything to do with her good looks, ne only left,
us to inter that. So now, girls, there’s [a chancei
for you [all; don’t let <Mr. Radcliif have to say im
his next lecture that there is only one lady Uautist.
in Sydney. Come, hurry up! and don’t let the
Melbourne girls get ahead of you.
Is it because of their deceased wife’s sister
license or the extreme affability of their divorce
Jaws that so many of our American countries have
such piquant histories? (asks an English paper).
How pale and colourless are the lives of English
women compared with theirs! Not long ago seven
of these Amerioan cousins were daily trailing
their biting accents and remarkable toilettes
through the British Museum. Out of this seven,
three were divorcees! That chanting Pleiad is now
dispersed, but its memory still lives where once its
catarrhal falsetto was so rampant. Twenty years
ago, for i he small indiscretion of marrying another
w< man, one of these ladies shot her lover dead 1
A long and exciting trial convicted her of murder
and incarcerated her in a lunatic asylum. Two
years ago she was discharged “ cured,” and proved
it by marrying the lawyer who eighteen years
before had defended her before bringing her
tranquil face and meek eyes into the Reading
Room of the British Museum. Another of the
Pleiad was a crack horsewoman and riiie shot, who
has hunted red men on alsali deserts, and never
failed to bring down buck, squaw, or papoose
when once she got them in range. This tall, ele-
gant mondaine—less Diana than Juno-like hunt--
ress has a slender coronet of silver amidi
her raven locks. Where that coronet is was>
once a scalping - knife, and the fatal circlets
was already drawn when a swingeing bul-
let stopped its further course. Some time after
that, the huntress was divorced from her elderly
major-husband to marry his brother, the young
minor ensign whose bullet had been so opportune.
A third was the typical Chicago divorede of oertain
French and English novels, and was known some-
times as Mistress Clarkson L’Etrangere, some-
times as the Groat Unwashed, less because of her
proletarian principles than of the profusion of
faoe powder and the eyebrow paint and grease
with which she decorated her beaux restes. Our
trans-Channel neighbours amuse themselves
largely concerning les chignons indigents of our
country women, but how they would approve the
chignons majestucusemcnt faux de Chicagoennes.
This largely decorated dame cultivates European
capitals, and for a time swings her flaming shawl,
massive bracelets, and nasal accents among the
catalogues of the reading-room. Twice a Pork
Packeress, having been divorced from Pork
Packer No. 1 to marry Pork Packer No. 2, she
leaves both her Pork Paokers in Chicago while she
demonstrates in the grandest library of the world
that the proper study of Chicago womankind is
not books but man, podgy, porcine man.


Jj! URNITURB SHOW ROOM?.
BRADLEY NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Soring street*, Bydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HATBTANDB.
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
end
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS. ’
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, In EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashion : well worthy of
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
W/”ALL CABINETS for Choice China, <&c
VV VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradlev
Newton, and Lamb. 1 '
MARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HANdI
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods!
and very handsome designs, with 7-feei
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Grvat variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
EiIGHT-ROUND BEDROOM
A Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
EDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early Entriisn
Designs).-WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble ton
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE
with swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP'
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.'
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from IoT
6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d •
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s’
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Sideboards'
from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets
£
111. ....
_OQp£ PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
iSOtl strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsomo
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
f'IHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O 3onnell-street.
ASY OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
TARA WING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
U A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BED STEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very bandv and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-street.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
D
l ELF-AD JUSTING HAMMOCK CHAI Li-
Patented.
%
m 3
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
B
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Framework for dining-room furni-
ture, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
B
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
B
EDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rate-s.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Com
nell and Spring streets.
W
G'
LEY,
ABHSTANDS, with marble, from 35a. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
► ENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very eomplot*
I Assortment; best make, lew eat prices.
SOCIAL
The Reception held by Lady Augustus
Loftus at Government House, on Friday last, was
well attended, and the afternoon being: a beauti-
fully tine one (although later on somewhat cool
and breezy), many pretty and light-hued dresses
were to bo seen; several darker toilettes were
also noticeably handsome. Lady Martin wore a
deep claret skirt and long: black redlngoto; Mrs
F Barton royal blue satin and lace; Mrs Purves,
.nilvfi irreen : Miss Constable, an eiegaut smoke
irrey dress; Miss Stephen, black, with violet at
ithroat - Mrs. Hotham, fawn plush skirt and cloth
i.Krtonaise; Miss I)ibbs, a stylish costume in two
Shades of brown; Mrs. S. Burdekin, cream and
Male blue- Mrs. Wilkinson, black satin ; Miss Q.
Kagar, fawn cashmere and broche; Mrs Bouverie,
fdectrio blue satin; Miss E. Robertson, black with
touches of old gold ; Mrs. Gillas, eleotnc blue
rntin • Mrs. Kyngdon, a plain and flowered
brown costume ; Miss Wilkinson, a blue Mary
Anderson dress ; Mrs. G. J. Roberts, black
and white stamped velvet ; Miss Jenny Lee,
dark-browa satin ; Mrs. C. Read, dark-green
ninth- Mies Westmore. pale French grey nun s veil-
ing" and Miss E. B. Smith, dark-brown. A brunette
in rich claret broche looked piquant, and her lately-
married sister, in cream and cardinal, was elegantly
attired: a tall fair lady, wearing black relieved
with scarlet, was admired as she promenaded with
a stalwart dark attendant. A great variety of black
costumes were conspicuous for taste «nd beauty.
A hriaht yellow-green costume looked decidedly
peculiar: those who got into its immediate vicinity
did not remain long near-the ettoot on their com-
plexions was too trying. A tew thin, white dresses
presented a very unseasonable appearance, and
were in had taste. Tea and cake were served dur-
inir the afternoon, and the band stationed on the
lawn played some pretty dance music. The visitors
began to arrive soon after 3 o’clock, taking their
departure about 5 p.m.
« i •
Amongst the numerous social gatherings
that have been lately held, one of the most enjoy-
able was the At Home given by Mrs. and Miss
Pedloy, at their residence, Darlinghurst. There
was plenr.v of good music, and not too much of it,
a novel feature being a part son* bv some of the
fair members of the St. Cecilia choir. The guests
included many well-known persons in the otrojes
of science, art, and literature; as well as celebrities
for wit. wealth, and beauty. In Sydney soe'ety.
The floral decorations were pretty, and made it
almost seem a horticultuial display, as well as an
assemblage for the interchange of social plea-
santries.
St Vincent’s has always been a popular
■hail and well worked: and the gathering on Wed-
nesday last week showed that it had not fallen off
in either respect. About KM) people were present,
from the genial old gentleman who governs the
oolonv to gentlemen who govern cab-horses and
ladies who rule over beer-engines: so, you see, it
was comprehensive. No one oould expect such a
llarge public ball to be absolutely free irom faults,
hiit we will speak of them afterwards; in the
meartUne. it was gay, hearty fairly decorous,
and, above all, well patronised. Our official in-
formation may be summarised by saying that J.
Callaghan catered, the Naval Brigade band played,
Mr T Barnes minded the cloaks, Sale and Bare
Messrs. .Hunt. King, and .Giltloan
marshalled the floor, and a number of stewards
wore red ribbons to indicate tbeir anxiety
to be of use when called. Two honorary
secretaries divided the gratitude and glory
pertaining to such a position between them; Mr.
W H M'Cartby being a gentleman upon whose
smiling features perpetual serenity reigns, while
Mr A J Brady goes about seeking to do good and
gladden the girls. The traffic arrangements were
menu liar enough to deserve special notice; for,
with a view to everybody’s convenience, nobody
«was allowed to enter where they naturally ex-
acted at Castlereagh-street, but the barouches
were sent on a block further. When they got
there Cleveland-street was found carefully dug
ud so they went another block, and then, after
half a-mile of wandering, eventually reached with-
in « few yards of where they passed half an hour
before We believe this ingenious plan of getting
into the building was designed so as to temper any
excessive enthusiasm, and enable people to get
there in a placid state of mind. A great many
people’s enthusiasm was so much tempered that
thev got out and walked. A glance at the
ballroom by about the hour of nine showed that
the ball was already a success; it was full of pro-
menaders, all the seats wera occupied, and all the
girls ‘‘in arms and eager for the fray.” That is
figurative language ; we do not mean that they
were acTuaUy clasped-at least, not at that early
period of the evening; and as to the lray, before
fheir dresses bad adorned the floor two hours, they
were frayed enough. But our experience of
ladies is, t hat they don’t mind a little lace or stuff
torn off the edge of the dress if there’s a double
thickness of cloth put round the waist, All the
same ofddancers were thcre-tbe plungers and the
steeplechase™; and the fellows who use their legs
like mowing machines; and the fellows who bump
you 'gasping against a post, and glare if you don t
.iDoloiriso ; and the earnest, heavy-footed men,
who make six false starts before they catch the
proper bar. We will J ust give them one more dig.
Mffiev have given us so many. This Is to the most
Rampant man of them all
rrhere are men who caper, and jolt, and shove,
who seem to make maiming a labour of love;
There a're men with legs like a sapling stem,
Wlth auanz-crushing feet on the end of them ;
There are n*ven who, having got loose for the night,
Macerate others from sheer delight;—
«.it the being we love in this gorgeous rout
Re man who goes with his elbow out.
There are girls with bruises on white arms bare,
Whose laces having agony lingering there;
There arc jabots, flehus, feathers, and net
Alfrfveu, and ravaged, and torn, upset:
And girls who groan with halt-broken back,
Till you almost hear their corsets crack;-
The man who has knocked these girls about
Is tb“ttend who goes with his elbow out.
There’s a dancing-master standing by
Who is sad of heart, and of tearful eye,
U'eia sad as he thinks of men whose * sense
wi them twist their arm like a dogleg fence;
dancing pupil does he enjoin
To place a girl s hand behind his loin;-
■ The l veteran’s vexed at the awkwar lout
Who lurches round with his elbow out.
exic Ps-rellency arrived soon after 9, but did not
His Shite did. He was accompanied by Sir
fennings, Mr. H. Unwin, and Captain
Toftusta his new red coat. Under the dais, the
leading wt was formed by Sir Patrick and the
Mayoress, nut a-vis to the Mayor and Lady Jen-
rfiwa- aides being taken by Mr. C. E. Pilcher and
Pilcher, vU-a-vix to Mr. D. O’Connor and Miss
O’Connor This Miss O’Connor-we forget her
baptismal name through looking so much at her
face-looked exceedingly charming in
Wank satin and beads, with white roses climbing
. overVer parian shoulders. His Excellency stayed
. some time, he aud his suite being regaled with the
that fl/zes. and after talking with various
' Srminir l/dies round the ball-room, he airily, but
’ f.nnmoTaUv remarked, “ Well, I shall skedaddle,”
and dfd so. His suite didn’t There were too
; SCy attractions around the room. Han-
hm was also there, and, to borrow one u of
■ those matchless sentences of the f NooSE, he
created a favourable Impression. Miss De
, «rev also graced the scene in an old gold
and cream satin, her fine figure being very con-
spicuous: and we knew her at once from her pic-
i Sure on the posters, because on her hair there
, Xamed ithe new moon with its corners tilted
*P, or! M the poet puts it, “ Astarte’s bediamoaed
crescent, distinct with her duplicate horn. A
little quotation like tuat is the least Miss De Urey
deserves, considering what a treat she gave in her
spirited dancing of the Hig'hland Schottische.
And how Colonel Halkett did enjoy it 1 Now for
a few, words about other ladies. To draw admira-
tion in the Exhibition on Wednesday was rather a
distinction, for, honestly speaning, there were
some very pretty women there. We are going
through no list ot toilets* The bill was plain
evening dress, and everyone knows how muon
sameness there is in that. And we are p'aoing no
individuals in order, but simply mention a tew
as they Come whose impress on our memory
still iim ers, enabling us to gem our poor
rpport with a few bright jewels of beauty.
Two sisters from Orange might well be called
pi'etty! their frank, bright faces are not easily ror-
Ifbtten. One wore blue, one white. We don t
even know whether it. s Burke orßourke, daredn t
ask how to spell it, the naaielh s “ spelled ” us so
much already. A petite married lady wore black
Silk and black lace sleeves, hair frizzy in front and
deoked with forget-me-nots behind; and no aitist
would pass her pretty classic face without longing
for a second look. One of the tallest ladies theie
was a semi-blonde, in cream madras muslin, from
Palmer-street. We do not recollect much about
her —whether it was what Byron calls her face,
her grace, her God knows what”—but tbfre was
something charming. Very lovely were a recently
married lady from Glenmore Road, in her ivory
silk bridal dress, and one from Uiley-street in
wuite. The niece of a Judge was handsome and
stylish in her eau de nile corded silk corsage, the
shoulders and skirt covered with white net. We
were carried back from the vagaries of to-day into
a past era of simplicity and graoe by a girl in pink
veiling, plainly but well made; her bodice was
drawn in round pleats into the waistband, and a
few tucks round the skirt completed a peculiarly
neat costume. The wife of a jeweller was hand-
some in white silk broche and net. A laoy all in
blue was like Danae, for, from her hair a shower
of gold was falling on to her neck and bust, ft
took a good deal ot gold to cover the entire area of
charms that was available for this gilding process.
Among the gentlemen pro lent were notioeable the
Hon. E. Barton (Speaker), Judge Faucett, Doctors
Marano, Clune, Cox, Warren, Messrs. G. H. Reid,
T M. Slattery, John Hughes, T. Playfair, T. S.
Clibborn, J. P. Garvan. and a number of officers
from the men-of-war in harbour. When the ball
was over at 4 o'clock, th© on© door open was not
enough for egress, and it was blocked by a crowd
who waited and bawled for particular cabs with
particular numbers on them. We sought other
doors, but tuey were all locked and barred; we
were as secure as criminals. Seeing a number of
officials about, evidently connected with the build-
ing, we asked one gorgeous gentleman, who was
dressed like something between a fireman and a
fool, whether we couldn’t get out by any other
door but the one. It was too much for his dignity,
and growling a contemptuous " No,” he promptly
turned his back. This convinced us of our mistake
in daring to address such a majestic being. We
thought, perhaps, he was paid for doing some-
thing. „ * *
Mrs. Webb, of “Ashgrove,” Aahfleld.
gave a very pleasant party last Saturday night.
About twenty couples kept up the dancing till
nearly midnight. The amiable hostess, assisted by
Miss Eva Thompson and two younger sisters, pro-
vided very good dance music, and several ladies
and gentlemen varied the evening's entertainment
with songs. The extensive grounds were lighted
up with Chinese lanterns, and if the guests did not
enjoy themselves they were hard to please.
* * a
When the Royal Balmain Amateur Min-
strels gave their complimentary performance
on Friday, the Sohools of Arts was crowded be-
fore the overture, there being a good many symp-
toms of “ dress." in view of the dance to follow.
The Minstrels, collectively, give a good perform-
ance, and Messrs. T. Ireland (Bones), and F.
Jones (Tambo), are peculiarly cm fait at
joking. The worst of it is they joke so that
nobody believes them when they speak the tru h.
At the boat-race, for instance. Bones met Hanlan
and pointed out to him that a fair race was impos-
sible on the Parramatta Kiver because ho ‘ could
not got past tho Hen and Chickens without a
fowl;” and then Bones expressly cautioned him
“if you pull William to-day, he'll beach’er,” But
Hanlan thought they were joking. He’s sorry
now, and has to be sorry for about seven months
more yet. A number of songs were given by the
Minstrels, sentimental and comic, ‘‘Norine Mau-
reen ” being a pretty ballad by Mr. G. Ireland,
and “ Only to see her face again,” an effort of Mr.
J. Harman's which did him credit. He has good
voice and enunciation. The great circus scene
introduced an untamed Arab steed, labelled
"Bargo” on one side, and "Sir Modred” on the
other, and some local allusions on matters in
general. Mr. J. A. Herman gave a violin solo, and
Mr. D. Fletcher a cornet solo, and Messrs. W. and
E. Needs danced Highlaud-fling, hornpipe, and
jig, artistically clothed. A screaming farce, “The
Telephone,” concluded the performance, after
which there was a pleasant dance till 1 in the
morning, a special steamer being in waiting for
Sydney visitors.
• ■ •
Petersham Owl Club gave another hoot in
the local Town Hall, on the 3rd inst. The counter
attraction of St. Vincent’s ball took away some of
the expected performers, but altogether the hoot
was fair. Mrs. and Mr. Llewellyn Jones contri-
buted; the latter singing “Anchored” very effec-
tively, while Mrs. Jones played most of the
accompaniments, and also sang “Once Again”
sweetly. Mr. Ward, the coining basso, delighted
his hearers with a song, and for an encore grave
"The Monk.” Mr. Armstrong made some diver-
sion by his capital singing of the “ Muddle Puddle
Junction Porter,” and “ All on account of Eliza,
from “ Billee Taylor ” opera. The president
recited Othello’s speech, and the first half of the
evening concluded with a comedietta, “The
Happy Pair,” by a visiting lady and the King
Parrot. A programme of nine or ten dances fol-
lowed. till 12 o’clock, when the Owls always close.
Some handsome dresses were noticed, pink being
evidently the favourite colour. A Marrickville
fiancie wore pink satin with rows of narrow white
lace on the skirt. Another lady thence looked
well in prune satin and pink roses. From Bondi
came the wearer of pale pink striped satin,
trimmed with white spotted tulle, flowers to
match, and dainty butterflies resting about her.
A young lady from Stanmore was charming in
pink satin bodice and black skirt; and Mrs. L.
Jones looked charming in rich white silk with
long train.
* * *
West Dapto had a ball for the R. C. Church.
This is not very amusing: but some of the people
were. One man appeared with rattles on his boots,
and others danced sueh antics as could only ba
compared to the joyful jigs of a South Coast
editor, when he accomplishes a whole paragraph
of decent spelling. The ball was held in the old
school-house, which the ladies rejuvenated almost
as skilfully as they did themselves. The Dapto
young gentlemen don’t always ask their partners
"for the pleasure ’’—they are bashful. The popu-
lar way is to bail a girl up gradually, saying " soo ”
all the time, and then, if she doesn’t kick, approach
her gently from behind, and capture her in a
corner. As a rule, she goes away quietly. Dapto
is a fine dairy district, and most of the girls have
been brought up by hand.
* * *
Gundagai had a pleasant dance in the
Assembly Hall, to wind up the assembly season.
When night fell, it was seen that pretty flatterers
had gathered from near and far, to glide in their
tray plumage over the nice, smooth floor, to the
tunes of pi-mo and violin. When half through the
programme, Mr. Bibo, a gentle and systematic
M.C., notified the readiness of refreshments, and
all moved to another room, and, before resuming,
a lew pithy speeches were made. It was chiefly a
fancy dress affair, but the evening dress worn by
a tall and pretty brunette, daughter of the leading
boniface of Gundagai, was a beautiful cardinal
with deep cream lace trimming; aud she timed
the music excellently. Her younger sister, Miss
Alice, was a sweet Nancy Lee; Highland Lassies
were represented by Mrs, Walton and Mias Isaacs;
Miss Mactaen was a Chinese lady, with hair plaited
over her head, and wearing l a loose blue gown nna
short black skirt; Miss Leary oarried off the
honours, as Snow, in white attire and cap trimmed
with down. A lady from the Public School wore
a valuable straw satin, and appeared as Kuth, in
“The Piiates”; the lady danced well, though her
short skirts disclosed what might be delica^teiy
called a “ poor understanding. Bunthorne,
Patch, a Bicyclist, Knight Templar, &c., com-
pleted the male characters, and 5 a.m. brought the
programme to a close.
* * *
A warm, bright, breezy afternoon brought
a fairnumberof spectators to the Eastern Suburbs
Amateur Athletic Club’s gathering last Saturday,
though in the shade of the stand the wind turned
cold before the day was out. The little Vernon
band played some tuneful music on the lawn; and
as there was room to promenade, moat or tne
ladies present took advantage of it, and livenea
the scene with their faces, graces, and new Spring
dresses. All the sports were fairly contested.
Hardwick’s walking being specially good, and the
iaiants’ tricycle race a merry farce. Some dozen
or more youngsters presented themselves at the
post with machines, from the Cheylesmore to the
wooden toy, and after a close examination ot their
“points,” and their “trikes,” the committee
strewed them around the oourse. When theputoi
went off, peals of laughter greeted the efforts ot
the tiny cyolists in the struggle, and the com-
mittee-men had to immediately pounce on the
winners and take their names ; tor if they had
once got mixed up, no one but their mothers would
ever have been able to sort out the blessed babes
again. As before stated, there were new Spring
dresses to be seen, and very nice some of them
looked as they fretted and fluttered round their
fair wearers in the merry wind. If there be such
a title as “ belle of the lawn,” it could certainly be
claimed by a lad / who, believing that ‘ loveliness
needs not the foreign aid of ornament, had at-
tired herself in white lawn, fitting glovelike to the
shape. There was no waistband, and white gloves
met the closefltting sleeves below the elbow. A
black velvet collar and black princess bonnet com-
pleted a toilet that was irreproachably elegant,
and yet so very simple. Of the light drosses, there
were a few other whites, a lavender, and a fools-
cap grey, with loose flowing skirts, and a sum-
mery appearance; a nice butter-coloured saieen
trimmed with spotted brown, worn by a petite
Jewess; a bright girl’s light-blue dress, with
shoulder cape and trimming of broad claiet
bands; and a number of the new print zephyrs in
simole patterns. One young lady wore a stu-
diously (esthetic arrangement; the dress of brown
cashmere was clinging in front, the tablier of
broche silk being smooth without even a wrinkle,
and over the bodice, whioh followed the undula-
tioos of a willowy form with considerable exact-
ness, were drawn two cross-folds of fine ecru
gauze, leaving the throat open low down. It was
a very tender toilet, and the lady was a little limp,
so as to be in keeping. As betore stated, the wind
grew cold, and velvets, therefore, were not out of
niace. A brown velvet Mary Anderson costume,
worn with a light blue bonnet and blue flowers,
was the handsomest thing of its kind at the sports
There was a fashionable crush at St. J ohn’s,
Darlinghurst, oa Wednesday, 3rd September, to
see Mr. Harry Prince (of Prince. Ogg, and Co.) and .
only son of the late Mr. Henry Prince, of Craigend,
married to Mis* Linda, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Robert Fitzstubbs, of Fairlight, Manly. Long be-
fore the hour appointed (half-past two), people
poured into the church, which was soon crammed
in every part whence any view could be obtained,
and many gentle creatures had to be content with
a tleetinjr view outside as the bridal party passed.
“ Pa,” exolaimed the fair bride, as they tripped
from oarriage to church door, “ why don t you
hold up my train?” The idea of aman and a father
negleoting his duty at such an important moment
quite excused the soft reminder. And when the
ladies saw what a sweetly pretty dress the tram
in trouble formed part or, they quite sympa-
thised with the bride’s anxiety as to its pro-
per and careful transit to the altar of Hymen.
The dress was white satin and plush, plain basque
body, the sleeves embroidered with pearls, and the
Iront satin of the skirt embroidered with bugles
and pearls; the court train of plush was exceed-
ingly long, and beautifully trimmed with bridal
flowers, so that a great deal of responsibility rested
upon papa. Ih© wedding was on© ot th© prettiest
and most extensive seen in Darlinghurst for a
long time. There were eleven bridesmaids, all
attired in dresses of French style; the principal
one, Miss Fulvia Fitzstubbs, wore cream lace pet-
ticoat with delicate green satin peaked body and
train, the shoulders and neck above the satin body
being filled in with finely-gathered cream net and
lace—feather en suite in her hair. Six maids wore
a similar style of costume, but combined with the
green was a delicat« apricot pink satin, and their
feathers were also en suite. Four little fairies wore
large uuupo Uuuer aainty cream lace dresses, and
lily of the valley wreaths. The ten were named—
Minnie Day, Eva Church, Irene Elkington, Amy
Moses, Bessie Pitt, Madeline Fitzstubbs Clarice
Fitzstubbs, Vivian Fitzstubbs, Kosina Pinhey, and
Vera Woods, several being relatives of the bride.
Her mother, Mrs. Fitzstubbs, wore a splendid black
brocade, with white lace shawl, and cream lace
bonnet. Mrs. Harry Woods, bride’s sister, wore a
stylish short dress of peacock blue broche, and hat
to match. Mrs. Doyl© mud Mrs. Aoslow, sisters of
the bridegroom, wore handsome dresses of cream
nun’s veiling suitable to the oocasioo, and bonnets
to match. Mrs. J. Hardie, the Mayoress, displayed
a beau tif ul dress of brow n satin and old gold broche
—her daughter, Mrs. Alderson, looking well in a
pretty fawn satin robe and bonnet. Mrs. C. J. Ro-
berts wore a combination of fawn broche bodice
and drapery over violet skirt. Mrs. Kiss was in
black brocade, and Miss Kiss in a pale pink surah
silk covered with India muslin embroidery and
lace, pretty cream hat and leathers. Mrs. Elking-
ton’s electric-blue satin, made with accordion skirt,
and bonnet matching, were exceedingly pretty.
Mrs. Jamieson showed a handsome fawn brocade,
and Mrs. Day a lovely dress of myrtle-green
brocade shot with pink and terracotta, one of the
fashionable things in new colours; pale pink bon-
net, with pink flowers, lace, and feathers. Mrs.
(Dr.) Baohs wore olive green and brown broche, a
very boooming dress. These are only a few of the
notable costumes; space compels us to omit num-
bers of handsome ones which dotted the church in
all directions. The officiating c ergymen were the
Rev A. . Pain of St John's, Rev. E. Cranswick,
and Rev. R. S. Willis of Manly. The floral decora-
tions of the church, by Searl and Sons, were some
of the finest over seen on such an occasion in
Sydney. All around were lovely groupings of
Slants and flowers, comprising choioe varieties of
racoenas, palms, adiantums, and ferns. Along
the communion rails was a bank of plants and
ferns for a back-ground, on which were worked
designs in violets, hyacinths, roses, snowflakes,
and camellias, and the front was a sloping bed of
green moss; the pulpit and desk, even the floor,
were a mass of rich flowers in graceful designs,
and the bridal and other bouquets were of the
choicest kind. Hyacinths predominated every-
where—those sweet-scented flowers with so much
meaning in them. As Gerald Massey says, of mar-
lied HF Sunshine and shower enrich its lot,
And ripen its harvest golden.”
The fairest careers have not all sunny weather,
and so it was meet that the “sorrow” of white,
and the ‘constancy” of blue should merge in the
hyacintbine beauty that spread around the sacred
altar. Carriages bore the bridal coterie and guests
to “Ealing,’ Edgecliff Road, Woollahra, the resi-
dence of Mr. and Mrs. William Day, where the
wedding breakfast was served by Compagnoni in
splendid style. The menu, a white card, with
panels folding over a blue silk tablet, was a most
artistic affair, and the feast fit for the occasion.
Under the exhilarating influence of beauty and
gold-top, speeohes were made, and then the bride
and bridegroom departed lor Sandringham, and
will continue their honeymoon by an intercolonial
tour. At night, a ball was held in the “Ealing*
ball-room, some eighty or ninety guests being
present, who danced merrily for some hours.
Even downstairs, the domestics were not forgot-
ten, and they, too, had a party of their own. The
wedding cake was a seven-decker, standing alto-
gether nearly five feet high—such is seldom seen.
(For continuation of SoeiAi* see next page,;


Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms taotefully decorated with
nasr and floral decorations. flOf Hunter-street.
Wydner.* ’
Skinnt Men— “Wells’ Health Renewer” re-
stores health and vigour, cures Dyspepsia
Impotence, Debility Moses, Moss & Co., Sydney.
General Agents.
In our paper of to-day, we have adver-
tised "For Bale or to Lease” the well known
Menzies Hotel, in Melbourne, which has been
established about 30 years, and the receipts
exceed £20,000 per annum.*
Where are our Financiers? Many have
gone the way of all uncertain things; but Bray
Brothers, 402 and 404 George-street, keep right
along, selling those beautiful cups and saucers and
dessert sets that have attracted so much attention
of late.*
Sydney is at last to be delivered from the
miseries of imperfect hotel accommodation. It is
now proposed that a building, on the lines of those
wonderful edilices known t> travellers througu
New York and San Francisco, shall be built on the
vacant ground opposite the Union Club. A plan,
designed by Messrs. Backhouse and Lough, is now
on view near the General Post Office.*
Six hours for a man, seven for a woman,
eight for a ohild, and nine for a pig. These arc
the quantities of “ Nature’s sweet restorer,” sleep
assigned by some one or other as necessary for the
well-being of certain conditions of »nimallife. We
have heard of people who can sleep standing,
riding, walking, and, perhaps, jumping. We can-
not do either. We require a fair average of the
above periods of regular uninterrupted intercourse
with the drowsy god, and, we also stipulate for ac-
companying conditions under which we arise re-
invigorated and fit tor either a hard day’s work or
a picn.c at Clontarf or Manly. We have been in
beds, ana could have sworn we were reclining on
canvas bags loosely stuffed with cricket-balls, and
we have been in beds whose very appearance
lulled the tired soul to rest to a tune of luxurious
comfort. We wont have any other but these
latter, so we always go to Anthony and
bons Palace Emporium, Haymarket, for every-
thing in the bedding line.* *
Sinoe Dr. Moofiloilae blushingly admitted
to taking* a “tflass of wine to bis dinner ” —a lay-
man woiild have said with his dinner, by the bye-
clouds of discontent have darkened the temper-
ance horizon, and the blub ribbon barometer is at
* n Particular, is horfor-struck
at finding- the Bishop “ can utter one word that
could give comfort to the publican.*’ But that
»“ t Urn worst. What rankles most deeply in
Booth 8 teetotal breast is the thought that anyone
even a Bishop—should presume to have anything
to say on the “apostle's” own particular subject.
am ° nl J * Blm P |e “an.” says 8., “but I fail to
unaerstand how another, confessing his ignorance
or the real claims of this reform, can undertake to
instruct those who have made it their life study.
Every man to his business.” We can't help think-
ing that Booth was rather a “ simple man ” to in*
t’bat last sally. A few of us have been
inclined to suspect that our long-haired visitor
aoes rega:d his stumping as a “business,” and a
precious paying business, too—but he oughtn’t to
give,.himself away so recklessly. “Divine mis-
ness.*' haS a m ° re ° ily 80und about tha n “busi-
Department of Public Works,
Sydney. Oth September, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Publio Works and Supplies. For full parti-
oulars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
i No tender will be taken into consideration un«
wftti * termB of the notice are strictly complied
The Government does not bind itself to aooept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Supply of Shunt Horses and
Driver, Redfern Station
Erection of Gallery, Court-
house, Wilcannia
Erecting Police Buildings, Ryle-
stone
Construction of Covered Re-
servoir, Petersham Sydney
Water Supply
Bridge over Tycannah Creek, on
road Narribrl to Moree
Erection of a Battery and Store
Room, La Perouse Cable
Station
Ereotmg Smiths and Boilers
Shops, Randwick
Constructing portions of Boiler
Shop, Newcastle
Purchase of Old Boilers, Dredge
Buckets, and Wrought Iron
Scrap, Fitzroy Dock
Purchase of Muntz Metal, Fitz-
roy Dock
Manufacture and Supply of
Main Line Pipes and Valves,
Sydney Water Suppl
Additions to Police 1
Wilcannia
Tank, Fencing, &c., Post
Telegraph Office, Cannonbar
Erection of Lockup, &0., Tum-
berumba
Erection of Brick Wall and an
additional Room, Musclebrook
Court house
Erection of Feucing, Stable,
Stores, &c., Hay Post Office
Pumping Machinery, new Grav-
ing Dock at Cockatoo Island
Manufacture and
Dates to whlcb
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
Tuesday,
10 th September,
at 11 o’olook.
Tuesday,
23rd September,
at 11 o'clock.
Tuesday,
30th September,
at 11 o’clock.
TuesTTay,
7th October,
at 11 o’elootc.
Tuesday,
16th December
at 11 o’clock
luth February.
1886,
at 11 o'clock.
F. A. WRIGHT.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1806. '
INCORPORATED bt ACT of PARLIAMENT, IWJ
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £138,000
Directors:
.sir John Hi
Hon. Honrv Mort, M.
3. Caird, Eg
The
I.L.C.
_ „ Auditors:
Jm. Scroggie, Esq. I Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq*
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Glralambone.
Gosford, Nyngran, Bourke, Manly and Byerock.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 atrant
_ _ . _ Directors ;
Edward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. f*. 61a<i«* Iftoi
Bir Saul Samuel.K.C.M.G I Geo. §. Alexander;Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
mu xt London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan--
D«iT* r f? oy Business on the most favourable terms..
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wooll
and other produce shipped to Englandfor sale.
ALCOCK & CO.'S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
80LE AGENTS:
E
'P
375 Geprge-st., Sydney.
W time payments, if required,.
A plain, fancy, and calico ball, in aid of
the funds of the proposed Cootamundra Hospital,
«as hill in Messrs. Scott and Mullaly’sgrain store,
nn Wednesday evening, 3rd instant, and was a
Irreat success, financially and otherwise. Dancing
roninu need at 9 o’clock, and was kept up until
sunrise, about 170 people were present, who
rriDPed merrily away to the strains of the piano
violin, and cornet. The majority were in evening
dress, but some pretty fancy costumes were worn.
Miss Miller in pink, Mi»s Gibb as Stars and
Stripes I Miss Byrne as Maritana. Miss; Sawyer,
is a Brittany Peasant, looked charming ; and
Mesdames Agassiz, M’Kenzie, Lowe, Primrose, J.
Barnes, aandeman, and Tayior looked very nice in
evening costume. It is difficult to say who was
really the belle, as there were so many pretty
blondes brunettes; but the heroine of Wal-
lace’s favourite opera and a fair young lady in
nink had the nearest claim to the distinction. Of
the gentlemen, Mr. Finch as King Henry V.,
Messrs. Sandeman and Cowe 1 as Sailors, O'Donnell
and Large as Tarantara. Barnard and Matthews as
the Twins, Baker as Japanese Tommy, land B.
Rosen as an Admira),«looked very well. The room
W as tasteiully decorated; a splendid supper was
provided; and a nice round sum of £7O goes to the
credit of the Hospital funds.
• • *
On Friday night, the ball of the season
took place—the one given in the exhibition by the
Union Club. No one would think how that barn-
like behometh of a building could be transformed
W ho did not see it as it was on this grand occasion,
when its vast capacity enabled all to dance in com-
fort on the well-smoothed floor, which had been
prepared with milk and sperm. It is a very fash-
ionable ball, this yearly one given by the baoheiors
of the Club; no indiscriminate invitations are
issued; but to be included in its exclusive list of
guests shows that you are either very aristocratic
or very lucky. Six hundred of these happily-sbu-
ated people were present on Friday, and every-
thing that oould be arranged for their comfort
and the gratification of an ordinary desire for
luxury was done. All the adorning was carried
out by Sale and Dare, and well they did it. A
wealth of mirrors lined the walls of the ball-
room, and before each was a small, flower-laden
table, on which fans, bouquets, or programmes
could be|left. From the upper air, in all direc-
tions, depended green garlands, circlets of leaves
and flowers, rustic cages of garden beauties, and
coloured devices of ali kinds. Banners and shields
were there, little statuettes, gilded brackets, and
coats-of-arms. But the place above all otuers
that the Union Clubbists and their fair women
liked, was the mimic forest, which-like Birnam
Wood—had been brought en masse to the scene of
action. Round the sides and back of the platform
was a circular avenue of thick green foliage, fresh
and cool, and studded with palms and ferns in
delicate green-wire stands; and here, where the
chairs were dotted in sequestered nooks, and the
lamps’ glare was shadowed off fair women's faces,
many a long Ute-%-tete was held among the shelter-
ing leaves, while the dreamy music of the City
Band kept marking rhythmic measures for the
busy feet beyond. At the usual hour came mpper,
which was a sit-down affair, with a most elaborate
menu, provided by theOompagnoni Co., under the
personal care of Mr. E. D. Tollemaehe, mauager. All
its items were luscious, all the serving done with
assiduous care, all the guests satisfied to their must
fastidious scruple. Ti en dancing continued. The
retiring room for ladies was a huge and most luxu-
rious apartment, with suites of furniture, cheval
and toilet glasses in profusion, and richly car-
peted. Indeed, it was one of the features of the
bail that ladies oould go anywhere without fear of
soiling the most delicate dress. The gallery w.is
not used. Only 30 dances were printed, but there
were extras. At three o’clock, the rumble of car-
riages betokened that the ball was ending, and
soon after that hour a great quiet brooded over
the hall so bright with beauty and fashion not long
before. m
On Monday, the annual picnic of the Per
manent Way branoti of the Rai ways was held down
the harbour, and at night a bail in the Exhibition,
which attracted nearly 1000 people. It was most
creditably conducted by Messrs. H. C. Hoyle and
A. G. Neate, treas. and sec,, and Messrs. A. Elin-
cnard and A. Thomas, as M. s C. A brass band
played, but not too well; and a full programme of
24 dances occupied till four. Some of the gay
revellers were In evening dress, some in morning
dress, and some in working dress. And then there
were some, like the butterfly, or the lily of Solo-
mon. Among these gayest of the gay were Nancy
Lee, Red Riding Hood, Jockey, Maritana, Flower
Girl. A “ School Girl ”in blue, wore a short skirt,
affording a liberal view of darker continuations;
while a tall, fair, laughing maid, in all the colours
of the rainbow on her dress, was topped up with a
green satin cap in honour of the arrival of the
archbishop. Another fair one in blue, with an
over-the-garden-wali hat and pink dairies round
her bodice, wore such a very short garment that
it was quite clear she desired to show something
she was proud of. A male jookey, not having Jong
boots, made up by waterproof leggings; and a
sailor s bat indicated he had come out of the
“Noah's Ark." Few ladies would care about such
a tell-tale hat. There was an object onable nigger,
ani a great number (of plump, frosy-oheeked
girls from the country. Four daughters of a
Western Inspector from Bathurst looked charm-
ing. Miss Lynch, in white broche, was one of the
most graceful dancers present, a heliotrope young
Sady seemed to have a weakness for an officer, and
is for her. And the Dgttiest little figure we saw
was in a simply made but pretty nun’s veiling of
blue, with a triangle cut out of it below the
dimpled throat. That was Miss Cain, of Redfern.
Supper tables were well patronised, and immense
blocks of solid ice graced them with good effect.
Mothers aud non-dancers looked on from the sides,
or galleries, and the ball made up in hearty good
humour whatever it lacked in grandeur.
A fine ball was held at Armidaleon the 3rd
jjnst., in aid of the Hospital. There was a very
largo attendance in the grand Town Hall, and, as
gifts “in kind” had freely come in from the resi-
dents, Ihe expenses were minimised, and a large
sum netted. Music was very fair, and catering
excellent, of handsome dresses were
worn by married ladies, Mesdames Brown, Or-
ridge, Peai'CS, Richardson, aud Nivittson, being
among the best; aj}4 mmy of Jche jounger iidies
wore charming fancy messes, such as Gipsy, Kate
Greenaway, Coming thro’ the Rye, Cnnstmas
Apple, Puritan, &<?.• It ended gf 4,
** * *
The Alexandria C.C. held its annual enter-
tainment in St. Matthias’ Hall last week, Hop.
John Macintosh gracing the chair, There was a
varied and pleasing programme, including the aid
of the St. Marks’ bell-ringers, and recitations; and
a large audience, plentifully besprinkled wicu
pretty girls A banquet was lately given at the
Bingera diamond mines by Mr. J. T. Vveajme, sixty
wit down, and the health was given of Mr. Charles
Rogers, pioneer diamond miner of Bingera. After.-
wards there was dancing till 3 a.m On the 3rd
MSt., the officers gave an afternoon dance on the
Kelson, in harbour, when the smooth deck was
Skimmed over by bright girls with their bonnets
<cn, to the smooth music of the ship’s band. Over
* dojeii dances were done before dusk.... Hon.
James Jf'Bain, of Melbourne, gave a conversa-
zione to inaugurate the Caledonian Society.
Nearly 1500 In the Town Hall A complimentary
concert was given to Mrs. Osborne, at the Town
Halt, St. Peters, on Thursday. Little Misses Os-
borne were delicious in their songs It is In-
tended to have a grand banquet and ball at Junee,
to celebrate the opening of the new railway station.
• On the 3rd September, Mr. K, Leckielpresided at a
concert in the Protestant Hall, got up by Glasgow
tolks. The peculiar language spoken in Glasgow
was conspicuous in the melodies given; and there
were some comic jokes, for the benefit of people
not bcotch. Dancing followed for some hours,
bauerbier playing —Wednesday last, Miss Camp-
bell (of Cluues, Petersham) gave a fashionable
call at Nithsdale Rooms, Hyde Park. Dresses and
damsels were fascinating, and dancing was main-
tained till about 3 o’clock. The Compagnoni
.company catered the delicacies, and, at midnight,
about 160 guests sat down to supper served in first-
class style. Too rooms were specially adorned for
the event with much taste, and Herman s band
made good music for merry feet . xiieie was a
light in the Melbourne Club recently, between one
of the best-known doctors, holding an official
position, and an ex-brewer.... The Londoners
Club ot Sydney hold musical evenings ou Satur-
days, and they have been so successful that tho
rooms in Elizabeth-street are far too small. It is
intended to get larger ones, and to have the soirees
on Mondays. The Club's ball occurs next week...
There was an Army and Navy dinner at Brisbane
on Friday night, Colonel French presiding... Bye-
rock railway openiag was celebrated by banquet,
and ball at night, in Wright-Heaton's wool store.
Train back to Sydney next morning. Nobody
wanted to stay long at Byerock Cootamundra
Hospital ball was held last week; good attendance.
.. A most pleasant little reunion was held at Mr.
K. Hill's residence, Allington, Elizabeth Bay, last
Wednesday, when a select party of friends en-
joyed his hospitality till tho morning hours... A
curious thing happened at the Chaisworth ball.
When a number of dancers followed the prevalent
custom of waltzing to all the round dances, the
M.C. stopped the music duriug a Highland schot-
tische, and expressed disapproval of tho dancers
waltzing to it—Last week, at the close of a musi-
cal reunion in the Ashileld School of Arts, a most
Sleasurable party was held on the invitation of
[r. Pope, of Ashfleld; about 140 staying to enjoy
the dancing, and the excellent supper provided by
Compagnoni, till the early hours ... A new hall for
Raymond Terrace School of Arts is to be opened
with a grand ball soon ... Silver rt alin* s are popu-
lar in West Maitland. Banquet anu testimonial are
to be given to Mr. Brunker, M.P., there, on the
17th instant To-day (Thursday) the City Bana
revives. At 3 o’clock, it will form at top of King-
street, and march down through town, playing
airs Last night (Wednesday) the annual ball of
the Wellesley Football Club was to occur in the
Burwood School of Arts....On the 4th instant, a
charming party was given by Mr. W. Cary, at
Gleuwood, Hereford-street, Glebe, on the occasion
of his daughter s marriage. Compagnoni provided
weddiog breakfast for the bridal company earlier
in the day, and at night dancing and music were
kept up lata—Lady Alien gives a large ball to-
night, at Toxteth Park, Glebe. It will be a fashion-
able and illustrious affair in every respecc, nearly
400 of the elite of society being expected.... Last
week a very interesting wedding oeourred at
Watson’s Bay, Lieut.-Colonel Warner Spalding
being the happy bridegroom, and Miss Lavalette
Keele the bride. The dejeuner, in Baumann’s
usual style, was served to a select party of wed-
ding guests at Valetta, the residence of the bride’s
mother, where a party had further fes-
tivities in the evening —Mrs. Merreweather, of
Bondi, gave a nice ball at her residence on the 4th.
Light breezes from the Pacific blew ou fair chetks
of lightsome dancers, light refreshments were
served by Compagnoni, and a most pleasant night
was spent ...Oxford private social is to come off
soon The Suburoan Bicycle Sports this Saturday
atternoon are expeoted to result in one of the
llnest gatherings of the season. Entries are very
numerous ; and the popularity of the wheel races,
and the fact of a ladies’ nomination race for
bracelets, will draw the fair sex to a girl.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“Flying Fox”: Thank you... “ Maud”: Thank
you; nioely done, as usual. . “ Explorer ”: Much
too wordy for us—“Spy'’: Too old.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Manly Wildflower Bhow September 11,12,13
Bachelors' Assembly (Nithsdale) September 13
Petersham Social September 12.
Burwood Private Assembly September 12
Balmain Private Assembly Septemb r 12 -
Vaudeville Quadrille Club Ball (Tat-
tersall’s) September 12.
Suburban B.C. Sports September 13
Complimentary Picnic to Hanlan.... September 16.
Gymnastic Sociable September 18
Londoners’ Club Ball (West’s) September 19
Woollahra Private Assembly (Niths-
dale) : September 19.
Sydney A. 4. Club Sports September 20.
Oxford and Cambridge Dinner (Bau-
mann’s) September 22.
Masonic Ball (Town Hall) September 24.
Annual Railway Ball (new Masonic
Hall) September 26
Midlothian Lodge Social (Masonic
Hah) September 30
[?]
— r, _ Sydney, Wednesday.
Bblle,—l have the greatest pleasure
in being able to tell you that the Rita-Radcliff
entertainment was a complete success The old
Masonic Hall has not been honoured by so largo
ana lashionable an audience since the Ketten days:
but I felt sorry that no one had shown the i hought-
rulness to deoorai e the platform with ferns, etc -r
it looked so dreadfully bar®. But when the enter-
tainment commencpd, we forgot all ab >ut the
shabby platform. Madame Pauline Rita’s fifty-
guinea dress was quite sufficient to feast our eyes
upon; and, before I goon, let me describe it to
T^e material was a rich pale-blue satin,
maae with Court train, and trimmed with sixty
yards of elegant white laco, which was almost
covered with pearls. Fancy each tiny pearl being
sewn on separately by hand! A beautiful pearl
d ‘ e , ol hung ,^ cetul i^J ound the waist, and
Oriental pearls adorned the neck and sleeves. In
ntVi festopneO a magnificent diamond
Star, which twinkled like a star with every move-
ment of the head. Madame has a charmingly
unaffected manner on the stage and a most pleas-
ing presence, and, if I mistake not, will soon be
one of our particular favourites. Her singing
took us all by storm, and in “ Lo! here the gentle
♦ al . mos , t impossible at times to dis-
tinguish the voice from the dulcet notes of the
flute. I have before told you about Mr. Radcliffs
flute-playing, and I need only add tha- so deep
was the impression he made the other night that
°9*b. e surprised if he is compelled to take
the Inhibition Building for his next entertain-
ment. so as to accommodate all the people who
w U want to hear him. To a few of h special
friends Madame Kadoliff presented beautiful white
satin programmes, printed with mauve ink and
bordered with silver trimming.
Amongst the audlenee I noticed many musical
en.paiisant, I may tell you that some
of tho more generous of them, whoso so ms were
acka owledge and appreciate musical
talent in others, volunteered their services at anv
future concerts the Radcliffs may give. It’s “me
to hear of these things, isn’t it ? Mrs. Chari™
w^« e hi 00 a e f V^ ery m S e in a black satin dress, and
wore her hair dressed very high. Mrs. M( ulton
wore heliotrope and white. Two beautiful girls,
with shapely heads and black hair cut very short
wore stylish sleeveless dresses-one, cream otto-
man silk brocaded with pale pink; the other, black
satin covered with black Spanish lace. Mrs
«P^^K 8 * dre i 8 *T a 9 ? oream brocade with pink
satin jabot and trimmings. Madame Kelletmann’s
black velvet, with wbitb lace and flowers. Mrp.
Huenerbeiu looked extremely well in a black silk,
cut V shape, and trimmed with black lace. I for*
got to tell you that Charlie Huenerbein played
some of the accompaniments, and also a solo, in
his ®wn pleasing style. A frosted lyre adorned
with flowers and ribbons, besides many beautiful
bouqu jts, were presented to iuauame iwtdclilf.
Not many people know that we have a little
female Mo/.art here in Sydney. It is little Elsie
Stanley-Hall, and she is one of Madame Keller-
noann's pupils. The little mite is between seven
and eight years of age, and in theory classes she
oompetes with girls of sixteen and thereabouts.
The difficulty is to find pieces tor her to play, pos-
sessing sufficient difficulties without going into
octaves and heavy chords. As is the case with
most geniuses, the drudgery of practising is to her
a flabour of love, and it has often been found
necessary to lock the piano for fear that the inces-
sant practising may Interfere with the little one's
health. Once, when she was playing through
her little sonata, she suddenly stopped, say-
ing, " I imust do this again, for I have
been playing It a semitone too low.” Trans-
position is no trouble to her, as the forego-
ing incident will show, and her musical memory is
something prodigious. Everybody says, “ Isn’t it
a pity she is a girl ?” They seem to think it Im-
possible for a girl to be anything more than an
executant, and certainly women composers are
scarce, but I am inclined to think that it is more
through want of encouragement than because
they are incapable. Men, you know, dear, are so
jealous when we attempt to trespass on their
ground, that it is little wonder that a woman who
is clever and sensitive fears to place the result of
her own brain before their prt judiced eyes. But,
at all events, we shall watch with great interest
the development of little Elsie Hall's talent.
I have often heard of absent-minded men doing
funny things, but this beats all I ever heard. It
was at one of the theatres (I won’t ssy which) and
after the lirst act. When the orchestra (after their
usual refreshment of cold water) took their seats,
they found they couldn’t start, as their conductor
failed to put in an appearance. A minute or two
elapsed, and things began to look sorioue, when the
brilliant idea struck one of the band to go and see
if he (the conductor) had been taken with a fit or
something. And what do you think had happened ?
Why the poor man had gone home to bed undt r
the impression that the play was over! Wasn’t it
cruel to drag him out into tno cold night air agaiD?
The best of the fun was he thought they were
having a joke with him, and couldn’t be persuaded
to rise at first. You may be sure the patience of
the audience was well nigh tired out by the time
the second act commenced, but when they were
acquainted with the cause of the delay, they were
so amused that all their ill-humour vanished like
magic.
What are we going to wear this Summer, you
ask ? Well, really, as yet I have seen nothing
strikingly novel; there still seems to be the same
craze for the fashions of our grandmother's time.
Those long loose shoulder scarfs, for instance, are
now being exhibited in the shop windows. They
are about three yards in length, and are composed
of the richest and finest lace, generally bisouit-
ooloured, and are worn across the shoulders with
the long ends hanging in front. They are to take
the place of pelerines and lace tippets, and are far
more graceful. Nearly all the new hats have
conical crowns, but I never can look at them with-
out thinking of “Old Mother Hubbard.” The
jaunty jockey hat still holds its own, and with a
plentiful bunch of llowers or feathers in front and
little or no trimming elsewhere, it can be rivalled
by none. Some of the new cambrics are very
pretty. I saw two alike in Georg e-street,
yesterday, of a deep blue, peppered with
fine red spots. They were made with baby
bodies and full skirts, and were as simple as
pretty. I don’t think white dresses will be so
much worn this year, as they got so fearfully
common last season; besides that, they are about
the most expensive dresses one can wear. I used
to call mine my “white elephants,” for the laun-
dress s bill used to be something fearful, and it
was no use remonstrating, unless I was prepared
to get them up” myself, for these people are *o
independent. The Langtry style of carrying the
pocket handkerchief is this wav; You attach it u>
the skirt on the left hip, and allow it to show just
a little below the jacket. Of oourse the colour of
it must correspond or contrast well with the dress
and must be of fine silk.
I am sorry I can tell you nothing of the Eastern
Suburbs sports, as I was unable;to attend them. I
was extremely sorry, as the seoretary kindly sent
me a neatly got-up programme along with the in-
vitation. I heard some girls talking of them, how-
ever, and they assured me that, as far as the
dresses were concerned, I lost nothing, as many
looked just as if they had walked out of the Ark.
But they said nothing against the sports, so I sup-
pose they went along all right.
I wn. surprised to see what laudatory notices
the Brisbane papers have been giving Miss Alice
Burvett. Why, one would think they had never
heard Madame Arabella Goddard, Ketten, or even
Madame Mallalieu. How can they expect real
nrst-class artists to visit their town and play for
them, when the critiques are written by men
possessing so little discrimination in matters musi-
It would be just like throwing pearls before
Now, dear, if you don’t hear from me next week,
do not be surprised, for I am going to leave our
dear old dirty, pictuiesque Sydney for awhile. I
grieve to miss the Manly Flower Snow, but I can’t
nelp it, and you must get someone else to tell you
all about it. 80 farewell, dear, and I may—though
i won t absolutely promise—write you a few lines
beloie 1 return home.
Yours, as ever,
MAR.


INDIA CHIPS IN.
“ Campbell Hospital. Sealdah, Calcutta, March 16,
lgB4 ; _Having heard of the healing and curative
powers of ST. JACOBS OIL in cases of sore
throats, pains, &c., and suffering while in this in-
stitution with a sore throat, I obtained the per-
missibn of the medical officers, who attended me
for small-pox, to use it, and have much pleasure in
stating that a single application gave me much
relief, and in three days, using the oil twice daily,
I felt rid of the sore throat. I have no hesitation
in recommending the use of the same to others,
and feel sure they will find the oil give instan-
taneous relief. I would also here mention that
with the sore throat I had a severe pain in the
jaws, which was removed after only two applica-
tions of ST. JACOBS OIL-(Signed) E. A. PEHEIB4,
Head Inspector of Post-offices.’
FURTHER POSITIVE PROOF.
Montague’s Fancy Bazaar, 58 Princess-street,
Dunedin, 9th May, 1884. Messrs. Neill Bros., Dune-
din. Dear Sirs,—l have great pleasure in testify-
ing to the efficacy of St. Jacobs Oil in a severo
case of neuralgia in the face. After trying many
so-called remedies without obtaining reliel,
nothing did me so much good. After two or three
applications the pain entirely disappeared, and am
glad to state I have had no return of the trouble
since. I cheerfully recommend it to others suffer-
ing from the same painful ailment. I remain,
dear sirs, respectively yours, Julia Montague.
HE SUFFERED ACUTELY.
D Benjamin, Esq, the well-known wholesale
Jeweller and Importer, Dowling-street, Dunedin,
writes cheerfully as follows Dowling-street,
Dunedin, 2nd May, 1884. Dear Sir,-Being a firm
non-believer in patent or proprietary medicines,
my testimony may be of some value to you. Last
week I suffered acutely from severe contraction
of the nerves of the neck and shoulder. A friend
laughingly suggested St Jacobs Oil, and Unvested
in a bottle, rubbing it well in at right before re-
tiring. The feeling of warmth and counter-irrita-
tion I experienced almost immediately was very
strong. And I am pleased to state that I awoke
next morning with hardly any trace of pain. A
second and less prolonged application cured me
completely. A bad chilblain on my ear was re-
moved with one rubbing. You may mention my
name as an authority on St. Jacobs Oil.J
I remain, dear Sir, faithfully yours.
D. Benjamin.
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham-
bers, 90 Pitt-street, Sydney. Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
Saw Mill Plant. &o. No commission charged for
buying, p?* Agents for the sale or purobas* od
commission of Pure-bred Rt*«lr.*
Mb. DeCottrcy Browne (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 63 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, ea* Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, Land Titles, Mr. Brownes
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
ings, Carpet Bags Ribbons, Feathers, orany fabric
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Each package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You wiU do
i delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d.
per package. Send 2d. stamp to Box 181, G.P.U..
Sydney, and you will receive a Bample Card 0*
l Colours, &o„ &0., by return post.*
A CURIOUS COUNCIL.
There are notmany people havethe luck to
reside in our suburb; and the probabilities are
that, if many were aware of its contingent advan-
tages, they would drop down (lead with envy. Our
suburb is, so to speak, in its curl papers, as yet. It
is under the hands of the contractors who aie
“ laying it out.” These contractors employ a large
number of navvies who all reside in our suburb.
In a clump of little cottages, whose back-yards all
Btare one another out of countenance; and which
enclosures rear up towards the heavens quite a
forest of clothes-props. What “ life ” there may
exist in our suburb is entirely manufactured by
these delvers. They curse themselves to work,
curse themselves to the pub., curse themselves
home to tea, and retire to rest amidst a volley of
curses. Their conversation consists entirely of
oaths; and every man takes three pounds of solid
food and half a gallon of tea with each meal. The
shops in our suburb have one peculiarity. Every-
one of them sells everything, except the butcher;
and he retails greens and potatoes, and is agent
for a wood and coal yard. There Is one other shop*
now we think of it, though, that is not so “ gene-
ral ”: this is the fashionable milliner’s. But she,
unable to hold aloof from the wild struggle alter
wealth, exhibits in her window penny-whistles'
toffee, and hidden-treasures.
* * *
Early one evening, being temporarily se-
duced from our allegiance to our suburb by a
oirous-poster, we were strollng into town, when
our eyes alighted on a dusky two-storey building
labelled “ Municipal Chambers.” Another rather
dim legend-“ Free Librarary ”—also adorned the
noble fa?ade in question. Always a hungering for
literature of [every description, we crossed over
and walked in. There was a drowsy light burning
in the entrance, but no sign of any one moving;
so we trotted up-stairs to the Free Library. This
was a long room with a wide plank on tressles in
the oentre, and a few shelves fitted to the walls,
upon whioh reposed more literary cripples than a
man would ordinarily see in a life-time. The books
were so dogs-eared that they curled up like stale
fishes, and not a single one could boast of a back
cover or a preface. “Jack Sheppard ” was in very
sorry caae-a proof of his popularity; and “Aurora
Floyd ’’ presented the appearance of having been
just fined for drunkenness. The “ head and front”
of "Paul Clifford” were missing, and “Handy
Andy ” was in a similar predicament. The cleanli-
ness of “ Guy Mannering ” was evidence of its
unpopularity; and, as if that were not sufficient,
an indignant student had written upon the fly-leaf,
« This huke is dam rot."
Besides the splendid collection just noticed,
♦fne chief objects of interest in the apartment were
a portrait of the Virgin Mary holding her hands
up to her head, having presumably just tried on
her halo which the man had brought home, and
an elderly party having his tea at a side-table.
“Good evening, sir,” we said; “ and so this is the
Free Library ? ” He laughed quietly, took a gulp
of tea from a well-worn cup, and said “ Oh, yes—
that’s it.” “Is it much frequented by the
people ?” we enquired, glancing round, and notic-
ing that “ Jaoob Faithful ” lay face down, in com-
pany with a cramp-bone or two, and a hunk of
ibread in one corner of the room, while a cricket-
ibat and a piece of a orange-peel occupied another.
■«<Ta it what?” be asked, chewing his bread and
butter all on one side. “Do many readers come
we®” we said. “That most depends upon the
b tw ”he replied. “ When it’s wet the boys
in and has their pipes, and chews their bit o’
bacca and the like. Oh, yes; fine games they has
* T tel you. They has pitch-and-toss, chec-
kers, and when they gets tired o’ that they plays
♦he Rombard.-uent o’ Alexander. That’s a prime
that is. My favourite." “ How do they
-ph£ it r “ Well, you see them two long forms ?’’
nodded “ Them two long forms is plaoed op-
•«* foMneD(,t tbemihelve9
o’ books. Six boys gets on each of them forms.
One is the Britishers, and one the Alexanders.
Then they pelts one another with the books, and
which ever side knocks the other side off the
form first, wins. It’s a fine game.” “Are you
connected with the noble institution?” we en-
quired. “ Oh, yes,” he said, [pouring himself out
another cup—“ I’m the liberarian.” We then de-
scended the stairs in a state of stoney-dumbness.
Downstairs we found the Council-chamber
—an interior of feeble aspect lit up by a “ sun ” in
the ceiling, and a number of people bustling
about—some carrying papers and placing them at
the fire-place end of the long table; others open-
ing the Counoil-room door, whistling into it,
shutting it again, and then joining knots of rate-
payers who were congregated in front of the
building. In a little while, six or seven men came
stamping in, and took their seats at the table,
while a number of others (ratepayers, apparently)
sate themselves on forms agairst the wall. At a
side-table, to the right of the Mayor’s chair, sat the
Town Clerk —an experienced official, aged about
14, who had his pockets full of apples, and now
and again took a bite out of one under cover of
his blotting-pad. On one occasion, a crack re-
sounding through the Chamber, a ratepayer sang
out, “Sling us a bite, Tommy; ” a request whioh
caused much hilarity, and suffused the counten-
ance of the Town Clerk with maiden-like blushes.
Suddenly a red-faced alderman, in a great coat,
with a wisp of handkerchief tied round his neck
for a shirt-collar, cried, “ Hi, Tommy, where’s the
bloomin’ Mayor?” “I don’t know, Mr. Ginger,”
replied that official. “I see him a-talkin’ to that
there gal o’ Deakins’s, as she were a-fetchin’ of the
beer,” put in Alderman Ropeton, who was in the
hardware line, and the most irrepressible member
of the Council. “ B’lieve he’s in the lock-up,”
cried Alderman Salmon (a rival storekeeper).
“ His butter’s so strong, it’s bound to be doin’,
somebody a injury.” Amidst the laughter which
succeeded this sally, his Worship entered. He was
a tall, pot-bellied gentleman, with a black coat and
a pale face, and his worshipful presence emitted a
very Strong odour of red herrings. “Hullo, Mr.
Mayor, this won’t do,” cried a burly alderman
from the bottom of the table; “bizness fust and
gals arterwards.” “ Mr. Buttocks, I beg jou will
not address the Chair before the formal business
has been disposed of without special permission,”
HIS WORSHIP.
said his Worship. Alderman Buttocks ( rising ):
“Your Worship, I ” (A voice: “Shut up, Cow.
heel,” and laughter.) Alderman Ropeton: “ It’s a
very odd thing that always Council nights,
Deakins’s girl ” (“Chair,” “Order,” and up-
roar.) His Worship: “ I rule Alderman Ropeton
out of order.” Alderman Buttocks: “ It seems a
man can’t open his mouth here.” Alderman Gin-
ger: “Good job you can’t, or you’d swallow some
pf the Council.” Alderman Buttocka; "You
wouldn’t say that outside.” Alderman Ginger:
“No.” Alderman Buttock: “I thought not.”
Alderman Ginger: “I’ll tell you why. I’ve had a
quarrel with Alderman Feathers, the undertaker
there, and-I don’t want to throw any business in
his way.” (“Order,” “Chair,” and laughter and
uproar.
• • •
Alderman Ropeton then rose and moved
that the minutes of the last meeting be read. (Up-
roar.) [His only object was to stick the Town
Clerk, who was newly appointed. This amiable
project, however, was nipped in the bud by Aider-
man Salmon, whose nephew the Town Clerk
was, and who thereupon moved as an amendment
“that they be taken as read,” which was
with one dissentient.] “ Any letters ? enquired
the Mayor of the Town Clerk, who was drawing a
dog’s head on a sheet of foolscap. 9,? e vZ°v*
Worship." His Worship: “ Who from ? Clerk.
“From Mr. John Knowles.” Alderman Buttocks.
“ The night-man, bv Jingo.” Alderman 1 Gathers.
“Yes: Alderman Ropeton’s cousin-by-marriage.
(Loud laughter). Alderman Balmon (contemptu-
ouslv): “ Wheu you read it, Clerk, stand over in
the corner there, or, pah I we might be indicted for
a nuisance.” Alderman Ropeton (angrily). If
you talk about a nuisance, look at home. 111 put
the inspector on lo that there of yours.
There’s mites in it big enough to take the top off a
soap-dish.” (Roars of laughter; cries of Order,
&o ) At this stage of the proceedings, Alderman
Salmon rose deliberately, and, with all eyes upon
him, walked round to where Alderman Ropeton
was seated, chuckling over his triumph, and smote
him over the mouth with the palm of his hand.
Alderman Ropeton being unprepared for this on-
slaught, and having the half-pint ink-stand in his
hand, fell violently backwards in his chair, turned
a half-somersault, and emptied the contents of the
ink-stand on the waistooat of a respected rate-
payer.
This was the scene for a general melee,
during which His Worship sent for a constable,
and then, being of opinion, apparently, that
It was one of the provisions of Magna Charta
for the Town Clerk to protect the Mayor
with the last drop of his life’s blood (as If that
would be any good!) ensconced himself behind tne
table, and requested his subordinate to seize the
ruler and place himself before it. When the row
was at its height—when many a rate-payer, under
pretence of separating certain combatants (they
were generally all of a heap), had given a person-
al ly'obnoxious alderman a sly drive in the ribs—
when Alderman Ropeton had ‘ bunted Alderman
Salmon’s left eye, and Alderman Buttocks had
“ barked ” Alderman Ginger’s proboscis, the myr-
midom of the law suddenly appeared! Horror I
'1 he constable stood in the doorway I Everybody
was on his feet like a flash. “ Gentlemen,’ began
the constable (everybody trembled), don t make
so much noise. They’re a ’avin’ a little concert at
the publickouse next door, and this row disturbs
the ’armony.” Then he left, probaoly to rejoin
the concert!
“Read Mr. Knowles’s letter,” said the
Mayor, with dignity, when the al iermen were all
seated and hostilities were restricted to snortings,
grimaces, and other mild means of defiance- The
Clerk: “ Please, your worship, it’s docketed, ‘Letter
from John Knowles, Esq., nightman ’ (laughter),
complaining at not having received a ticket for the
Mayor 8 municipal meat-tea. (Sensation.) There’s
nothing about the—the contract in it.’ (Reads.)
“To the Mayor and Counsellors of Bumbleville.
Genelmen,—l writes to ax why worn’t me and the
missis sent a stiff for the 2-bob tightener lsst toos-
day was a fortnit. (Alderman Ropeton: ‘AhI
Why not ?’ and uproar.) I had a shirt bild a pur-
pos, and Mrs. K. broke open all the kids’ money-
boxes, so that she could buy a blue sateen with a
red stripe as had took her fancy, a hangin’ in the
draper’s window. Genelmen, this is a slite. You
seem to think that because a party owns a night-
cart, when he’s invited to a evenin’ party he’s a
goin’ to bring it with him.—l am yurs and oetra,
James Knowles.” (Cries of “Shame!” “Serve
him right 1” “Order!” etc.) Alderman Salmon
then moved that the letter be “ received.” Aider-
man Ropeton thereupon rose, and in a grave
manner stated that he had to move an important
i amendment. He had to move that the letter
showed upon the face of it a gross ard criminal
neglect on the part of the Mayor. (Alderman
Salmon:, “ Chair!”) You used to cane ’em once.
(Alderman Salmon: “You’rea liar!” and uproar.
The “I must call Alderman Salmon to
order.” 'IA rate-payer: “Oh, shut up, you old
B ardine," The Mayor; “4 atranger addressing
the [Council! If I knew who he was, I’d have
him expelled instantly. Where’s my orderly ?”)
“ His Worship knows very well where his oiderly
his. He’s grinding coffee in the shop.” (Uproar.)
ALDERMAN [?]PETON.
Alderman Ropeton then continued his speech. He
characterised His Worship’s conduct in keeping a
gentleman of Mr. Knowles 1 8^an^A I J?iiJ? 1 hL+h l 2
out in the cold, as an act only paralleled by the
atrocities of the Spanish Inquisit;
he immeasurably preferred the
man to the smell of a rogue. His Worship here
enquired whether the epithet r °Kue were in-
tended for him. Alderman Ropeton: Never
mind, sir,” Alderman Buttocks : If he called me
a rogue, I’d bust his eyeball.” Alderman Ropeton
then recommended Alderman Buttocks not to
waste the precious moments by useless interrup-
tion, as it would take him all his time that eight
to “blow his veal.” Alderman Buttocks then
rose, but His Worship ruled that Aid. Ropeton
had possession of the chair. Alderman Ropeton
then once more proceeded. He 8^’ aB . a ,f r lI^ e
individual and as a friend, he considered Ins Woi.
ship a member of society of inestimable value
(hear!); but, municipally speaking, he was an ob-
tuse, opiniative, and most intolerable tPro-
longed uproar.) Such an ass did he consider his
Worship, that he was sure, that if the Mayor came
face to iace with another ass in the street, the
other ass would trot clean away and hang himself.
He begged to move . But before the aider-
man could move anything, the Mayor had moved
himself out of the chair, and the chamber and the
meeting broke up in confusion.
* * *
We walked slowly towards the eligible
villa we oocupy in our suburb, marvelling greatly:
and essaying a short out, fell waist-deep into a
mud-hole.


Now is the Time
-rT is at this season, when the diseases of the
_l_ blood and skin are most active, that Distigur-
Humors, Humiliating Eruptions, Itching Tor-
l . lirp9 salt Rheum or Eczema, Psoriasis, Tetter,
Hinfirworm, Baby Humors, Scrofula, Scrofulous
«r,res Abscesses, and Discharging Wounds, and
° eT y species of Itching. Scaly, and Pimply Dis-
®s of the Skin and Scalp, are most speedily and
economically cured by the Cuticcra Remedies.
HUNDREDS of letters in our possession (copies
of which may be had by return mail) are
our authority for the assertion that Skin, Bcalp>
and Blood Humors, whether Scrofulous, Inherited,
or Contagious, may NOW be permanently cured
by Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally, in one
half the time and at one half the expense of any
other season.
To Purify the Blood
HOUGHTON, Esq., lawyei, 28 State St.,
{j Boston, reports a case of Salt Rheum under
hia observation for ton years, which covered the
patient’s body and limbs, and to which all known
methods of treatment had been applied without
benefit, which was completely cured solely by the
l cticuka Kemedies, leaving a clean and healthy
skin. Sworn to before the British Consul.
FH. DRAKE, Esq., Detroit, Mich., suffered
• untold tortures from Salt Rheum, which ap-
peared on bis hands, head, and face, and nearly
destroyed his eyes. After the most careful doc-
toring and a consultation of physicians failed to
relieve him, he used the Cuticcra Remedies, and
was cured, and has remained so to date. Sworn to
before the British Consul.
To Beautify the Skin
The HALF HAS not been told as to the gresv
cura'ive powers of theCuncuKA Remedied
l have paid hundreds of dollars for medicines to
cure diseases of the blood and skin, and never
lound anything yet to equal t'le Cutioura Reme-
• Chas. A. Williams.
Providence, R. I.
YOUR CUTICURA REMEDIES outsell another
medicines I keep for skin diseases. My cus-
tomers and patients say that they have effected a
cure in every instance, where other remedies have
failed.
H. W. Brockway, M.D.
Franklin Falls, N.H.
CUTICURA
CUTICUKA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Imnurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
CUTICURA, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Sold by all Chemists and Druggists.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
CUTICURA SOAP, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from CtjtxourA i
is Indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes,
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, or G-easy Skin.
CUTICURA REMEDIES are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Bkin Beautiflers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
Price, Cuticuba, 60 cents; Soap, 35 cents; Re-
solvent, $l.OO, Prepared by
Potter Drug & Chemical Co. f Boston, U.S.A.
ATRIMONIAL.—Parents, the newly-married
XTJ- and those about to marry, may obtain much
valuable information, which may prevent years of
suffering, by simply sending a stamped addressed
envelope for reply to C. C. W., Box 766, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
M
DEAFNESS I—Descriptive pamphlets of the
positively infallible remedies prescribed by
those eminent aurists, the Senior Surgeons of the
TWO London Royal Ear Infirmaries, forwarded (on
receipt of stamps for reply) by T. B. Hannaford,
Auckland, New Zealand.
W. H. PALING
AND|CO. (Limited).
The Largest, Most Complete, and Best Selected
Stock of Pianos in Australia.
©KOvA-WS,
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ C o.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash ; or Easy Terms.
ALL THE LATEST MUSIC IN STOCK.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANKOF NEW SOOTH WALES,
COMPAGNONI CATERING CO. (Limited).
The Leading and Oldest Catering Establishment in N.S.'W. Caterers to the A.J.C., &c., &c.
THE Catering and Sole Management undertaken for Balls, Weddings, Banquets, Dinners, Lunoheons
and all kinds of demonstrations. , _ . .
The DINING and REFRESHMENT SALOONS, both for Ladies and Gentlemen, are the finest in
the city. First-class Menu daily. Rooms for Dinner-parties up-stairs.
PRIVATE BAR AND SMOKING LOUNGE. Beef Tea daily, 11 a.m. Coffee in the Bar until 11 p.m.
E. D. TOLLEMACHE, Licensee and General Manager.
Compagnoni Catering Company, Pitt-street, Sydney.
READ THIS!
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£3 10s. each,
Warranted for three years,
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 Pitt-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER
GARTON’S HOTEL,
BWANBTON BTREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 346.
SINGER & CO.
N
m
J. PATERSON,
Representative for N.S.W.,
85 MARXIST STREET.
Largest Stock in Sydney. Repairs by Coventry
Workmon. Call and inspect, or write for lists.
SENT POBT FREE FOR Is. STAMPS.
SOCIAL SCIENCE,
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders. Chronic
Disease, Impediments t© Marriage, &c. How
to choose a partner for life, so as to live happy;
How to regain and preserve your health, &c.
Address-R. T. SELBY, M.H., Devonshire-street,
Surry Hills, Sydney.
BICYCLES, TRICYCLES.
EIKST-CLASS, LATEST,
BEST MAKES and STYLES
BALL BEARINGS AND PEDALS.
PRICES UNDER ENGLISH COST.
INSPECTION INVITED, AT
TOZER <Sc. CO.,
229 CLARENCE STREET.
HUDSON BROTHERS,
(LIMITED),
pgr- UNEQUALLED SAFETY. EXTREME SIMPLICITY. Z3T GREAT ECONOMY IN USE OF WATER.
BS" LEAST POSSIBLE WEAR OF ROPES.
REDFERN WORKS, SYDNEY.
hhb; ■anriE
V
i
-
; v
gpF -- ■■■ l ««<
■
• ! :
ml
iltiitss*
'
01“
x. 1
■f
SIMPLICITY OF MANIPULATION. &T SMOOTHNESS AND NOISELESSNESB OF MOTION. FREEDOM
FROM SHOCK CAUBED BY ABRUPT STOPPAGES. Estimates, Diagrams, &c., to be obtained at
HUDSON BROTHERS, Regcnt-street, Redfern,
Sole Agents for
The Otis Hydraulic Elevators.


MURRUMBURRAH TO YOUNG RAILWAY
CONTRACT.
WANTED strong: HORSE-TEAMS, for haul-
ing: sleepers, on the above contract. Long
Job, and highest wages. Apply on the works to
O’ROURKE & M’SHARRY,
Contractors.
£lOOO for ss.
Melbourne Cup, 1884.
The Great “MALABAR” Series of Sweeps on the
above Event.
No. 2 OF THE SERIES.
SHARES, FIVE SHILLINGS EACH.
THE "Malabar” Club, Sydney, aro desirous of
returning their very best thanks to their
numerous patrons for the cordial support in past
At the request of a large number of our »üb-
scribers we have arranged to make our Shares but
Os each, instead of £l, as before, which, of course,
to subscribers, is a great advantage, as it affords
them Four Chances for One Pound of winning
One Thousand P unds.
We shall send also a single ticket to any address
on receipt of 55.. which will entitle the owner to
his chance of the big prize.
Tickets sent by return post. Prospectus free on
application. Enclose envelope, plainly addressed:
do not stamp It. Result of each drawing sent at
once to every subscriber.
Tickets sent by return post. Address, by letter
only,
G. E. WILSON,
Pastoral Chambers, Georgo-street, Sydney.
'SRteOR&’S:
ESSENCE^
,je only infallible remedy for
4»//ERVbI/sJ)EBILIJYr
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustive derangement of the system; regenerating
all the important elements 01 the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 135., or four quantities is one for
3Us.; if by ooach, 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and 10., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from George-street South.
D S7 RIDGE i S
FOOD
for INFANTS and INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
PEARL CEMENT,
The Greatest American Prize-winning Discovery of the
19th century.
ABTICLE3 MENDED CANNOT BE SEPABATED.
AM E R I CAM
NOVELTY CO ONLY
I HAVETRI to ALL
i KINDS JOHN
ISTHEBEST fflg
*
SAVE TEE PIECES!
Use Pcirl Cement, the
greatest American
Discovery of the 19th
century known
to fail—for mending
China,Crockery Glass,
Wood, Ivory, Leather,
&e. Price Is. per bot-
tle. Sold everywhere.
Send to the American
Novelty Co., 203 Pitt St.,
Sydney, for whatever
you may requiro
whether the article is
in theCntalogue or no.
They deal in nearly
everything.
Toothache Tincture, the
best remedy known for
fiving instant relief.
'rice Is bottle 5 Is 6d
by post.
Send 2d. stamp for
272-pnged Catalogue.
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO.,
203 Pitt Street. Sydney,
O>\JHTCASTLEsS%
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
Madame Bayard, 7 Southampton-street, Strand, writes:—
Before going to bed, as much for the sake of health asofbeauty it is onlv f _ October 2,1852.
abstain from using pomade as it sometimes proves injurious to ha\r wh?ch d t 0 seve l ra 1 1 Ijtile things of the toilet; well brush the hair;
look to inside of the hat, and if ladies would but freely use Dr. Scott?K gI L hlle solls lhe ]i »en o£ the bed, and gives a d.rty
rendered smooth nnd glossy, beautiful, soft, and agreeable, whltethe ISSfc Sln ‘”’° rn tair *
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSH.
o
o
V*
%
<9
&
<2
Is
<£
<A
ep
CD
cw
p
p
ct
«
©
£
<2
V
%
<?
a
a
<?
4.
<2
o
*
An Honest Remedy
PRESCRIBED AND USED BY OUR BEST PHYSICIANS.
Which has won its way to Royal favor in England, been cordially indorsed by the
Prince and Princess of Wales, the King of Holland, and Prince Bismark, and
x written upon by the Rt. Hon. W. E. Gladstone, is now brought to the notice
of the Australian Public. It cures by natural means, will always do good,
\ never harm, and is a remedy lasting for many years. It should be used
daily in place of the ordinary Hair Brush. The Brush Handle is made
of a new odorless composition resembling ebony, a combination of
substances Producing a Permanent Electre-magnetie Current which acts im-
mediately upon the Hair Glands and Follicles. This power can always
be tested by a silver compass which accompanies each Brush.
NOT A WIRE BRUSH
But Pure Bristles.
It is Warranted to Cure
Nervous Headache In 5 minutes!
Bilious Headache In 5 minutes!
Neuralgia In 5 minutes! Dandruff
and Diseases of the Scalp! Pre-
vent Falling Hair and Baldness!
Promptly Arrest Premature Cray-
ness ! Make the Hair grow Long
and Glossy! The continued use
of Pills, etc., works Irreparable In*
Jury. Ask any Physician.
[From
Rct. Dr.
Bridgemnn.J
Brooklyn.
"Gentst I
have never before given .
a testimonial, but am
willing to encourage the use
of an honest remedy. lam yvjr .
so pleased with your Hair Brush
that I deem It my duty to write
you recommending it most cordial- ''-vV/4
ly. My hair, about a yearsince.com- ''
menced falling out, and 1 was rapidly be-
coming bald j but since using the Brush a thick
growth of hair has made Its appearance, quite
equal to that which I had previous to Its falling out. I
have tried other remedies, but with no success. After this
remarkable result I purchased one for my wife, who has been
a great sufferer from headache, and she finds it a prompt and
infallible remedy. A. C. Bridgeman.D.D.”
%
Will positively produce
a rapid growth of hair
on bald heads, where the
glands and follicles are
not totally destroyed
PROPRIETORS:
The Pall Mall Electric Association.
Saratoga.
“I chearfuuy testify to the merits
' of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair Brush.
It cures my headaches within a
fewmlnutes. It is an excellent
Hair Brush, well worth the
price, aside from its cura-
tive powers.”
Jaa.lt. Chapman,
Mayor.
ALL DEALERS WILL REFUND THE PRICE
IF NOT AS REPRESENTED
Many thousand similar Testimonials can be s«en at our office.
No. 1 Hair Brush, 5/-
No. 2 Hair Brush, 7/3
No. 3 Hair Brush, 9/6
No. 4 Hair Brush, 11/6
No. 5 Hair Brush, 13/6
A BEAUTIFUL BRUSH, for s years.
We will send by mail, on receipt of the price named, with Is. added, either
size of this beautiful Brush, post paid to any part of N.S.W. or Queensland.
Request your nearest Druggist or Fancy Store to obtain one for you, and be
sure Dr. Scott’s name is on the Box.
MENTION THIS PAPER.
RETURNED IF NOT AS REPRESENTED.
What can*bo lSrerT”™ th ® Brush ’ if not well Batißfied with y° ur bargain, write us, and we shall return the money]
Remittances should be made payable to PALL MALL ELSOTBIO ASSOCIATION, 54 Margaret St., Sydnay. P.O. Box No. 221.
made m Cheques, Drafts, P.O. Orders, Currency, or Stamps. Cheques should be Crossed Union Bank of Australia.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT TO THR TRADE.
Send for a Circular of Dr. Scott’s Electric Flesh Brush, Electric Corsets, and Belts for Ladies and Oents.
Dr. Nicholson P*ice, M.R.C.S., Mount Pleasant, Leeds, writes:— A patient of mine has been using Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair Brush she bavin®
5;.™ d rom neuralgia, and informs me that she has received considerable benefit from it. As I am troubled with nervous headaches I should
be glad if you would send me one. ’ x OUUUIU
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST
Graduate In MEDICINE and Regis
tered Physician of N.S.w. Spei iiic: FEMALE and
NERVOUS Diseases a speciality, and treated by
tho most Modern Methods.
Office Hours—lo a.m. to 4 pm.; Ito 9 Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday evenings.
Certificate of Registration, Diplomas, and Testi-
monials of Numerous Cures can be seen at office.
Electricity as used by the most eminent Physicians
of France and Germany. Send for Free Treatise
on Vitality, Nervous Debility, &c. (or Diseases of
Women.)
Address—ELTON BOYD, M.D., Australian Medi-
cal and Surgioal Infirmary, or B. O. HOLTER-
MANN, Esq., M.P., President. —P.O. Box 673.
Ladies’ waiting-room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen's, No.
11. 62 Castlereagh-street, Sydney. Note.—Office
and Waiting-rooms UP STAIRS. CONSULTA-
TIONS FREE BY MAIL OR IN PERSON.
£IO,OOO.—MELBOURNE CUP.
Shares, 10s. each.;
THE SYDNEY SPORTING CLUB, Sydney,
desires to point out to the public generally
the advantages to be derived from holding shares
in their Consultation or Sweep. Ist. All pc rsons,
whether male or female, holding a share or shares
in the above Club, are always at liberty to inspect
tho books of the Club. 2nd. Every opportunity is
offered to each and every shareholder to be at the
drawing, who choose to make application lor
admission ticket. And, lastly, from the enormous
number of our prizes, one is almost sure to win
one or other.
Plan op Distribution :
The above facts and figures speak for themselves,
and it will be only necessary to add that some of
the best known sporting men of Sydney and Mel-
bourne are members of the Club above mentioned.
Our gigantic first prize, £3OCO, by far the larged
offered in any consultation, is a fortune, which will
be secured by investing 10s.; our second horse,
£lOOO, a nice round sum; our third carries off £500;
and our prizes are far in advance of all competitors
for public support. Our drawing takes place on
the Ist November, if not previously filled, when,
of course, it wfil take place before. Result of
drawing sent at once to every subscriber, and ad-
vertised throughout the colonies. In sending
money, P 0.0., bank cheques, or stamps will do:
if gold be sent, register letter, fend addressed
envelope, unstamped, for reply; also, threepence
for membership fee. Write at once for our pro-
spectus-no charge. Tickets sent by return post.
Address—J. J. ALLEN, Esq., Turf Commission
Agent. Tattersall’B Buildings, Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.
P 8. We shall, on this occasion, publish the name
of the winner of our first gran<> prize of £3OOO,
and also the names of those who win our other
great prizes in this grand Consultation.
SPRINGFIELD
PRINGFIELD
RINGFIELD
INGFIELD
NGFI E L D
GFI E L D
FIELD
IE L D
ELD
L D
D
O
o
£2
PER MONTH.
No Interest.
Suburban Homes.
Business Sites.
75 per oent advanced to assist pur-
chasers to build.
CHARMING VIEWS, CULTIVATED SOIL,
z' Oranges and Vines growing on the Allotments.
The subdivision of this far-famed vineyard and
orangery, formerly known as Ellenger’s Orchard,
enable business men engaged in Sydney to have
>/their residences on this charming property.
Numerous trains to suit business men. Season Ticket, 4s. Per week.
>H3pringfield is situated about a quarter of a mile from Guildford,
r 2 miles from Granville, 3 miles from Parramatta, and 10 miles frt/Ba
Sydney, on the Great Southern Railway.
Plans as above, or from
FITZ. A. BOYD, on the Estate. Springfield, Guildford
ALLOTMENTS 50 TO 320 EEET FRONTAGE.
200 TO 300 EEET DEPTH.
Price, from £2O per Lot.
Plans —BOYD & KING, 96 Pitt Street.
lC.eesh.an,
STAR AND GARTER HOTEL,
No. 104, KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS Hotel is centrally situated, being- close to Post aDd Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway &c
Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and Spirits
Tlu most Comlortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city. Albert S. Mandersand Co.’s telegrams
-urndied. Sporting telegram from all parts of the colony posted up.
TAM 8 EAUi, ]
China, Glass, Earthenware, & Fancy Goods. ,
T,
(OPPOSITE WYNYARD STREET)


THE
IGNO
HPisun.©.
"• '
W 1 ■
11
»' 5 '
to
25^
L .“ r
Ml
' - x .
FAMOUS
PLA.ITO.
NEVER previously did any piano win such a t old
on the public as the Mignon has done sin e
its introduction Our competitors have no doubt
done their level best to rival ua— blazoniug forth
their bald imitations with a tremendous flourish
of trumpets. What result hare they to show,
excepting to point to the gradurl death of all their
offspring? The reason is soon found. Inferior
instruments, with showy exteriors, have been
brought forth and attempted to be foisted on the
public. But the right-thinking public will have
none of them. The consequence is that the
Sales of the Mignon Piano
have Trebled.
THE MIGNON PIANO
has found its way into every town almost of all
the colonies-in Victoria and New South Wales,
from north to south ; to the far north of Queens
land ; in Now Zealand, from one end to the other
of the islands. In South Australia and Tasmania
THE MIGNON
can be found, and its name is really a household
word.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the people’s favourite.
THE MIGNON PIANO
for its size defies all would-be imitations.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is guaranteed to withstand any climate in Australia.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the cheapest, because the best.
THE MIGNON PIANO
can be hadjon very easy TIME PAYMENT.
THE MIGNON PIANO
excels all similar pianos for first-class work and
richness of tone.
!3T* Illustrated Catalogue, with full description
of THE MIGNON and all other good instruments,
on application.
NICHOLSON - AND CO.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE. 7
MOULTONS
pmnS . compI AINT positively cured by MO-CTLTON’S
fuulT TILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and nc
llisappomtments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all B LIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
KPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relievo distress from too
nearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
iut, BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
Mown, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract ef Fruit)
±ney are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price Im. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
Marshalls
TONIC NERVINE
A REGISTERED.
SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEED Y CURE for Ner-
foua snd General Debility, and all complaints
l l aat ®PUng from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
,'J^ tt ’Hche, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
complaints. General Prostration, &e. By its tonic
fn, 4 0 ,°t«int? effects it at once removes all craving
ior Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
&AXTTE1'? 1 ®E ful vitalisins- elements, MARSHALL’S
NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
system. Price, 4s. 6d.. or 25s. a case.
Bole Proprietors, MARSHALL OP OTHERS, MP.8.
Manufacturing and consulting Chemists, 104 and
J 0 Market-street. near Hode Park, Sydney, and
Wtb! 11 *® f> Circular - c l ua y- TAKE NO 8UB8TI-
Rev. Father Wilds’
EXPERIENCE.
The Rev. Z. P. Wilds, well-known city
missionary in New York, and brother
of the late eminent Judge Wilds, of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, writes
as follows:
“78 E. 54 th St., New York, May 16,1882.
Messes. J. C. Ayer & Co., Gentlemen :
Last winter I was troubled with a most
uncomfortable itching humor affecting
more especially my limbs, which itched so
intolerably at night, and burned so intense-
ly, that I could scarcely bear any clothing
over them. I was also a sufferer from a
severe catarrh and catarrhal cough; my
appetite was poor, and my system a good
deal run down. Knowing the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, by observation of
many other cases, and from personal use
in former years, I began taking it for the
above-named disorders. My appetite im-
proved almost from the first dose. After
a short time the fever and itching were
allayed, and all signs of irritation of the
skin disappeared. My catarrh and cough
were also cured by the same means, and
my general health greatly improved, until
it is now excellent. 1 feel a hundred per
cent stronger, and I attribute these results
to the use of the Sarsaparilla, which
I recommend with all confidence as the
best blood medicine ever devised. 1 took
it in small doses three times a day, and
used, in all, less than two bottles. 1 place
these facts at your service, hoping their
publication may do good.
Yours respectfully, Z. P. Wilds.”
The above instance is but one of the many
constantly coming to our notice, which prove
the perfect adaptability of Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla to the cure of all diseases arising
from impure or impoverished blood, and a
weakened vitality.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cleanses, enriches, and strengthens the blood,
stimulates the action of the stomach and
bowels, and thereby enables the system to
resist and overcome the attacks of all Scrofu-
lous Diseases, Eruptions of the Skin, Rheu-
matism, Catarrh, General Debility, and all
disorders resulting from poor or corrupted
blood and a low state of the system.
prepared by
Dr. J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists; price §l, six bottles
for $5.
AYER’S
CATHARTIC
PILLS. ■ i
Best Purgative Medicine
cure Constipation, Indigestion, Headache, and
all Bilious Disorders.
Sold everywhere. Always reliable.
ELLIOTT BEOS., S. HOFFNUNG & 00.,
Wholesale Agents.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strenghtens, and beautifies the hair; it con-
tains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most cool-
ing, healing, and refreshing wash for the face,
hands, and arms, and is perfectly free from any
mineral or metallic admixtures ; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &c.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OP TYRE pro-
duces immediately a perfect change in red or grey
hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a g’..ssy and per-
manent brown or black, whicVi colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents: Elliott Bbos., E.
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
New south wales.—monster consul-
tation on Hawi.esbury Handicap, Metro-
politan Stakes, and Melbourne Cup, 1884. Capital.
£5OOO, in 10,000 shares at 10s. each. About 225
prizes—£2soo for horses, and £2500 prize gifts.
Plan of Distribution :—First horse, winner in
each event, £1000; second horse, £5 r 0; third horse,
£250: starters, £250; non-starters £5OO-£2500.
First prize gift, £600; second prize gift, £300; third
prize gift, £150; 10 at £5O. £500; 10 at £25, £250;
20 at £2O, £4OO ; 20 at £lO, £2OO ; 20 at £5, £lOO-
-
Application by letter only, addressed W. Burn-
hard, 110 Elizabeth-street; or Box 832, G.P.0.,
Sydney. Cheques payable to W. hurnhard or
bearer ; if cash, to register letters.
P-S.—Please state for which event Prospectus
by application.
’S BOOT
' aN^EQUALLED
C^SYDNEY
ff!S
EITHER FOR
kPRICE OR QUALITY
I^4o^
&OLL lit
BLEND
fTRAD^
JMAWiI
Ul
COLLIE BLEND w His tv y.—Thin Is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELI & CO., Bolo>
Agents.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
ear 308 GEORGE STREET.
~/f/.
m
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
(SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
OT" MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO/S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ABSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
jar" Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect tit
guatanteed.
The Federal Consultation Company
Herewith submit their new programme on the
MELBOURNE CUP of 1884
Run first week in November.
Capital. . £25,0(M), in 25,000 Shares of £1 each.
Promoters !—J&s. McLeod, Esq., Melbourne •
Hy. Ford, Esq.. Sydney ; P. Ingram, Esu Perth •
W. J. Erskine, Eeq., Adelaide ; J. F. Me Rain, Esq.'.
Brisbane ; all genuine names, and men of good
Promoters gunrantee to take up first
1000 shares, and have already subscribed £KOO.
1000 PRIZES GUARANTEED.
Plan of distribution.
100 Prizes of £60..
200
25..
300
12..
200
5..
100
£5OOO
5000
3000
1000
400
Total
The Publlo aro respectfully requested to join the
Promoters in the above enterprise, the bona fide
of which is unquestionable. Money promptly re-
turned bhould any subscriber wish to withdraw
before the drawing. Drawing held 30th October
next. Conducted publicly in presonce of Share-
holders; representatives of Press admitted. Result
posted, and advertised in Town and Country
Journal. Send P 0.0., Notes, Cheques, and 3d
extra for reply and result (registered if convenient.)
Write for Prospectus giving fuller particulars. En-
close self-addressed envelope. Addr< ss all Letters
and make all Orders payable to the Secretary, as
under ROBERT RAMSAY, Commission Agent,
405 George-street, Sydney.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOE PRESENTATION PLATE.
I QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
Iff
(/>
8
a
i
*
\
&
'ts
9f>
3
$
<n
-z
%
Q
£
3T
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
gsJAifcorigy«eor»se STrceTj
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
Jl ia.e ZESelisffol© vi.g-g'ies 1
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WIIjXiI.A.]S£ FLEMING, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
Complete Photographic Outfits,
COMPRISING EVERYTHING NECESSARY TO ENABLE
EVEN THE MOST INEXPERIENCED TO PRODUCE
SATISFACTORY PICTURES OF LANDSCAPES. ETC.
Photographic
STOCK
IMPORTERS i
i - •
%
i;
I
■u %
ft
am * r
/
TZ
his
*5?
Well
/V
a Sc
Opt
at e
r 'a| s . Ol ock
CAMERAS
Oto
r CARDS.CH EMI CALS.
t or Kvs.m«k\
b : W.JOHNSON&SONS "Tpaperj
NITR.SILVER AND CHLOR.GOLD
Igei


CUP,
SB4.
LEVIATHAN “AD A INI ASTER” COMPANY.
Capital, £lO,OOO in 20,000 Shares of 10s. each.
ABOUT 350 PRIZES^£S97S FOB STABS; AND £4025 FOB HORSES.
Flan of Astronomical Distribution
First Horse (Winner
Second Horse
Third Horse
of the “ Melbourne Cup
»
£l5OO
750
375
• • •
Eirst Star ... ... ... ... ... £lOOO
Second Star ... ... ... ... ... 500
Third Star ... ... ... ... ... 250
Starters (divide) £600; Non-starters (divide) £BOO.
16 Stars of £lOO each; 10 Stars of £5O eaoh; 17 Stars of £25 each; 20 Stars of £2O each; 130 Towns of £lO each-
Astronomical and Township Prizes:
Mars
Jupiter
Mercury
Neptune
Haturn
Venus
Uranus
Hercules
Fomalhaufc
Centaur
Gi;and Arcturus
Aldebaran
Cygni
Sirius
Rigel
Capella
Orion
Canopus
Table Mountains
Chainelon
Acheron
Hydra
Toucau
An tares
Spica
Procyon
Monoceros
Zaurach
Algoreb £lO
Aloeru 10
Alioth 10
A lk aid 10
Alkatrops 10
Alkes 10
Almach 10
Alnilam 10
Alpbasoa 10
Alp hard 10
Alphirk 10
Alruecalah 10
Alsliaiu 10
Alwaid 10
Apollo ‘0
Aroturua 10
Avided 10
Arneby 10
Azelfafage 10
Baten Kaito 10
Bellatre 10
Benechasch 10
Cornucopia 10
rhaph 10
Cebafra 10
Cerestes 10
Aberfeldy 10
Abdallah 10
Alberton £lO
Albert Park 10
Alexandria 10
A If red town 10
Allan’s Flat 10
Allan’s Ford 10
Alma 10
Alphington 10
Amherst H)
Amphitheatre 10
Anakie 10
Apollo Bay 10
Apsley 10
Ararat 10
Arcadia ' 10
Armstrong 10
Ascot 10
Ascot Vale 10
Athens 10
Avenal 10
Avoca 10
Axedale 10
Baarmutha 10
Bacchus Marsh 10
Bahgallah 10
Baillieston 10
Bairn sdale 10
Bald Hills 10
“ aTIAMASTOR ” in thanking his subscribers for the liberal support that he has received from them for the past four years, begs to bring before their notice his Programme
, tVi« nomine MELBOURNE CUP. At the suggestion of a number of his clients, lie has been induced to lessen the number ot prizes, consequently making them of more value,
the smallest being £lO, as against £3 heretofore. My Head Office, for the future, will be in Albury, New South Wales.
All parties are requested to forward drafts, cheques, or Post Office orders; if cheques, exchange must be added, and in all cases postage fees. Cheques payable to order
ill be returned. A representative Committee will be appointed. Results sent to every shareholder. Application, by Registered Letter only, artciiessea-
imi.
rned. A representative committee will ne appointed, itesuiis sent to every snareuoiuer. Apimuanuu, uj> j
Care of Xj- -A~
EDGCUMBE’S HOTEL, ALBURY N.S.W.
Printed and Published by Tills Bulletin Newspaper Co., (Limited), 84 Pitt-Btreet, Sydney, N.S.W,
One of Granny’s reviewers fixed up the
subjoined sentence, wbieh for involved unintelli-
gibility beats an Echo “ leader”' (and to grasp the
meaning of an Echo “ leader,” and live, has not
been granted unto man): —“ Hard, cold, and clear,
characterises the book; but generally true withal;
an excellent tonic for the dyspeptic nervousness
bred of the countless theories set up by numerous
teachers and prophets, weak-minded, selfish, and
unjust, but so single in Intent and so plausible in
manner as to make many converts or perverts,
and to disestablish muoh wholesome satisfaction
and belief: hardly, howover, the complete vade-
mecum for the strong and tender. A plentiful
crop of suicides is expected to be the result of the
efforts of “back-block” soboolteachers to analyze
this quotation. ( ,
There came a sort of red-sunset glow in
the Council room, and, looking up, the Mayor saw
the nose of the applicant, and begged him to be
seated. To the nose was attached a man who,
whether he had seen better days or not, had cer-
tainly seen some rare old nights. His beard was
long and ragged, and down the middle was a sort
of moist canyon or ancient river bed, and just
below, on the breast of the greeny-black coat,
were splashes of ancient beer—tossil pewters, so to
speak. One of his trousers legs was down under
the site once adorned with the heel of a blucher,
and the other only reached half way below the
knee, which didn’t look so bad, on account of its
junctioning with a half-Wellington, which only
required some repairs to be neatly executed to
conceal the fact that, a man cm do without silk
socks as long as a niece of chaff-bag may be had
for the taking. Everything, in fact, betokened
the born victim of the Muse. The Mayor rose.
“ Your name, I believe, is-er ” “ Oscar Daley
Swinburne,” interrupted the applicant, drawing
out of his trousers pocket a manuscript seventeen
feot long, and brushing back his flowing looks
preparatory to reading an extract. Your appli-
cation, sir,” began the Mayor, “has been con-
sidered, and we find that you furnish no cre-
dentials. However, as you are evidently a man of
intellect, the Council is prepared to hear your
qualifications stated by yourself. In this borough,
the appointment of a pound-keeper is a matter on
which we do not hastily decide.” ‘ I appreciate
your courtesy,” began tne poet, running his finger
down the poem. “ I have said here —
‘ Politeness, most rare,
Oft comes from the Mayor.’
Referring, then, to my qualifications for the post,
I may say that I early addicted myself to the
Muses, and am highly cultured. No department
of knowledge is foreign to me. I have been inti-
mate with the peers of literature-Dickens, Sala,
Qjblin ” “ Excuse me,” interrupted Alderman
Boffin, “but Gibbons was dead before your time.”
“Giblin, I said,” roared the poet; “Giblin, of the
Coonabarabra Waddy. I am an able mathemati-
cian, and can add up a column of figures by smell.
As a penman, I have few equals. My moral char-
acter is beyond reproach, and 1 am genial and
courteous to tho public. Moreover, I apa not
particular about the.salary.” “If you will kindly
retire, Mr. Swinburne,” replied the Mayor, ‘we
will consult, and communicate our deoision by
letter.” It was then carried unanimously that,
inasmuch as the Council at this junoture could not
incur undue expense, the appointment of a pound-
keeper at £3O per annum was inadvisable, and that
Mr. Bwinburne be informed of the fact. The
Mayor was authorised to reimburse tho poet for
his trouble in attending. As the applicant sent
the balmy foam llying from the edge of the
pewter, he asked the messenger to convey his high
sense of the alderman-like manner in which they
conducted business, and to assure them that the
shilling they had sent over reconciled him to a
world he had more than once resolved to quit.
“ The dream of suicide is over,” he said, handing
over the pewter to be refilled.
ZEAL.
POLICEMAN (who has made his wag into the Art Society’s rooms) to nude model: “NOW,
THEN, YOU GET ON YOUR TOGS, AN’ COME ALONG O’ ME! YOU’VE BEEN EXPOSIN’
YOURSELF TO THESE HERE YOUNG MEN LONG ’NOUGH. I’VE BEEN UP ON THE
ROOF A WATCHIN’ YOU THROUGH THE TOP-LIGHT. YOU’RE SAFE TO GET GET[?]LASHES,
ANYHOW!”
A black Chris t has appeared in the Southern
States of America. He says he is the only true and
genuine Messiah, and has a large following of dis-
ciples of his own colour already. And why not?
Though the true Christ is said to have died for all
, men, it is only a few years since His white fol-
lowers could he indueed to admit tnat He meant
to include niggers. Even now they act as though
they thought He committed an oversight in doing
so. So it is only a fair deal that a black Messiah
should arise. We expect he will be persecuted,
too, but not to the extent of crucifixion. Tarring
and feathering will probably be the worst that
will happen to him. And after that he will, in all
likelihoed, be condemned to pass the rest of his
life as a Georgia Minstrel. So he will not have so
much the best of the luck, after all. A Messiah-
ship is not all beer and skittles.
A careful consideration of the question has
brought us to the conclusion that there is more
dry humour about missionaries than about any
other class of people, always excepting under-
takers. Whether this peculiarity is traceable to a
constant mental comparison of the state of the
poor heathen in foreign lands with the state of the
heathen poor at home, while insisting outwardly
on the claims of the former only, is a question to
which none but a missionary could give a satis-
factory reply. Be that as it may, the fact is that
the humour is there. We were never more struck
with the correctness of this observation than we
were the other day, when we read a repo>t in a
South Australian paper of an address delivered by
a Baptist missionary in a South Australian town
This gentleman’s humour was more than dry; it
was arid. It had nothing in it of the dampness
usually associated with the name of the estimable
denomination for which he was an advance agent.
He had just arrived from India, and perhaps it had
been dried out of him. He led otf his address with
some exhilarating statistics, such as that the gospel
had been preached to a population of 300,000,000
Hindoos and Roman Catholics! (Italics and notes
of admirations ours), with the encouraging result
that there were now over 15,000 Christians t here who
might be expected to go back to their idol-worship
any fine morning, unless constant relays of
preachers! were forwarded out to them—in ice, we
suppose. Then he gave some information of a
pleasiDg and instructive character with regard to
the habits of tigers, who, it seems, have Quite a
pious partiality for missionaries in a raw state, and
will wait days for an interview with them. Their
business (the tigers’business, and the missionaries’,
for the matter of that) is g-nerally settled in one
interview. But our Baptist friend was a match for
them. He kept off a whole jungleful one night by
playing on the harmonium! This was his own
statement; and, having heard the harmonium
played in conventicles ere now, we are quite pre-
pared to believe that it was literally true. After
this digression into natural history, the reverend
gentleman came back to his subject again, and
told a story of a Hindoo who had “ heard the mes-
sage” for eighteen years, and was finally converted
This astonishing intelligence was succeeded by a
touching narrative of a lady of the higher class
who had “ taken up her cross and could be seen
riding in her carriage spreadingihe news of salva-
tion to her poorer neighbours.” The humour of
the lecturer here became phenomenally dry, as
well it might. Jesus of Nazareth did not convey
His cross to the top of Calvary in a barouche—but
that may have been because barouches were not
invented in those days, and is no argument why
people should not make use of them in these
SpeakiDg of baptism, the reverend gentleman said
that one man had immersed 1000 persons in one day
—worked them off iu lots of fifty, probably—but
“ he was sorry to say that many who had been
immersed had gone back, and the backsliders were
now great enemif aof the cause.” It is plain that
this relapse into idolatry was the result of baptism
by wholesale. The only way to make certain of
converts never recanting is to take them separately,
and hold them under the water long enough!


COUNTRY MILK.
Food
L M * lK SUPPLIED by the
& Ice Co., Limited,
A T^ eUed upon 88 being
TS PUBE .
free fjot, the country districts, as
m C1 ty contaminations.
Butter*
at tbeif bwn depAt
ra fiair y districts^ 661 butter-makers in the
delf v d y -’ Sundays excepted,
'eekiy Cart: eit\’ rianl Very 18 m ade. Butter by
aauy; suburbs, three times
°°d & ke Co., Limited,
street.
UaS
Study economy
and
aav ® your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
"arasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
r Brickfield Gill, between
\ mverpool and Bathurst Sta,
varasols made to match cos-
tumes. Kenaira neatly ere-
* lEx » BORTHWIGK,
h. I TYI
te « Im P®rter of
Oil, a t e< ’ anrt Ornamental Glass,
, S O ? i»ERCHA M T,
p. T . K. Slum £
}llSa Sji Ve J ER AND decorator,
ei ’> Beveller, and Emb
Beveller, and Embosser.
k of Pai
of the moßt
r ® 8 Sent n„.i „ r Been in the colonies.
6e orge street,
If I Street,
SlB BrjHDCO.,
96 King-street.
Mm, Sit.
equalled I Never
seldom
fo r^ ty or finish.
mter > large variety, lowest
c Btylish shapes.
Kht Shirts, Handkerchiefs, &c.
J 96 King-street.
JT
BULL-DOG ALE.-IT is not the dearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALK
that ureaerves this brand first in public estima-
tion. P Common bitter crude beers are made very
fine, but no other brand has the same mellow
vinous character, the fullness on the Palate,
and the great keeping qualities of the BULL-
DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cautioned
against traders who for the sake of an extra
profit represent the common beers
as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. , c . A Vnon
& CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents. WOOL
BROTHERS & CO,
Anglo - australian i n v e s tm ent
FINANCE and LAND COMPANY
(Limited.)
Offices: HOFFNUNG’S BUILDINGS,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Capital, £500,000, in 50,000 Shares of £lO each.
Subscribed Capital fmnn 70 ’
Reserve Fund - •• ••
• Directors:
Henry Gorman, Esq., J.P.< Chairman.
Hon Fred. A. Wright, M.P., Vice-Chairman,
p P Skareatt, Esq. IJ. H. Newman, Esq.
W H Paling, Esq., J.P. I Benjamin James, Jr.,
| Esq.
Deposits received at following rates
At call .. Five per cent.
„ 3 months .. •• Five and a half per cent.
” a Six per cent.
”i 3 ” Seven per cent.
INVESTING SHARES : -
Shares are now being issued.
Full particulars on application to Manager.
DIVIDENDS: e nar .
Half-yearly dividends, at the rate of 12>t per
cent, per annum, have been paid smee establish-
ment of Company.
ADVANCES: . .
Loans, repayable by monthly instalments, ad-
vanced for a term of years.
WILLIAM CLARKE,
Manager.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
En& 11 sli Papers and Magazines received by
every Hail.
ROYAL ARCADR. GRORGB ST.. 49# SYDNEY^
SEASOIT, 1884.
P EAPES and SHAW
l 0 the pleasure to inform their friends and the public that they
lilißss I ° W Op ENIN6 FOR THE COMING SEASON,
MILLINERY UNO STEM GOOD?,
AIjL tiie NEWEST dress materials,
PARASOLS, of the newest colourings and designs,
Trimmed and Untrimmed, Gi’.tKibs, and Newest Handles,
"•tr n
A1 8o
and Imitation XjiLCIS GOODS,
hite > and Black, as well a* the Various Shades in New Coloured Lace G<
’ GOODS and NOVELTIES in the following departments:—
A^c E g!# T i-s^ff rMMMINOS
t LIC handkerchiefs
LADIES’_UNDERCLOTHmG in
CHILDREN’S UNDERCLOT
STAYS and CORSETS
SILKS, SATTNS, and MANTLES
EVENING DRESS MATERIALS.
0*
llp Wied i
Our Plain Drapery Department
Si. an unusually large assortment of NEW GOODS for the Season, and we are
e °ting s rp re OUr prices will compare favourably with any house in the trade.
Sellings, Counterpanes, Calicoes, Blankets, Flannels, Irish Linens, Table Linens, &c.
m 8 and a
tote, ’ Bli,e > arm !i i rf i S ; all the latest shapes in Linen Collars; Gentlemen’s Gloves, in every make,
SH. colour; Gentlemen’s Umbrellas; Waterproof Clothing ; Gentlemen’s White
v and Coloured Shirts of every description,
CLOTHING—We are almostdaily opening out Men’s and Boys’
° n the most scientiiic principle, and of a reliable and durable character.
G DEPARTMENT.—AII the Newest Woollens for the Season. Skilful Cutters and
Moderate Prices.
Gentlemen’s Departments.
*
•^32S
8z S!EI.A."W\ Importers and Manufacturers,
324, 326, 328 GEORGE STREET, BYIWEY;
123 Palmerston buildings, old broad street, London.
*
PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
■A.re IbTo'w o]per3._
C CLEERY’S HOTEL,
Of KING and CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
R. EicGLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
® Dak UP-STAIRS.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY,
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.- The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
TRADE
LAIRITZ’ rheumatic cure,
PINE WOOL PRODUCTIONS,
extracted from the bark and comb
of the fir tree, consisting of Pine
Wool Wadding, Oil, Extract for
Baths, Needle Lozenges, Toilet
Soap, &c. Also Chest Protectors,
Kneecaps, and Body Belts. A never-
failing remedy for the cure of rheu-
matics, and ail nervous disorders.
Ten prize medals.
MAavlv#
Sole Wholesale Agents,
S. HOFFNUNG- and CO., Sydney.
None genuine without trade mark and signature,
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
Warranted first quality
Charges strictly a/O0£7?/4 te
MARSHALL BROTHERS
SURGEOH D£NTISTS IO6MARKETST E.
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
The practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
carried on by the aid of a large and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction by
anaesthetics.
Black Swan Hofei,
GREEN WELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magniflcient s.s. Ulawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o’clock.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
TTELd-ertsulcer,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
£
y
=SJ
g}
lipiiilll
m
'O
:Q
BLE
t»»« SU
NVALUABLE '4
fterinc ~ 07/O 7 /
-’•i •'/
Qss
iOM
KJ
efi
iw
Ner
you
tiv
s$
Sen
ft®
ECI ALLy
adapted for t
Colonies
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
m
170
m
fWIRY BITRGIS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
I from 16s. 6d. All garments hand- made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STREET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for s*
forwarded to any part of the colony
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
%ar THE PREMIER WHISKEY 18
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. 2v/£sutu.red.
QUALITY UN SURPASSED,
DALY SBOTHEBS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
300 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Expert at the Distillery.
Dublin, and consumers may, t. > ref ore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ hiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and.capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
■m
•U-J
Sole Agent for
W. & c. SCOTT & SONS’ celebrated guns.
For Price and Quality ave no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARA S in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
W. H. Ariell & Co/s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing' a variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Treecle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b.
and 2001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
J 4, Yzi and lib. tins.
R. WHITTING HAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &c.
ANGLO-SCANDINAVIAN MILK —Goid Medal
brand.
343 and 345 Ken! Street,
NEAR KINGSTREET, SYDNEY.
PREMIER
New Tobacco Factory.
PREMIER TOBACCO, free from Adulteration
and possessing all the agreeable qualities
Of PURE TOBACCO.
Brand Registered to prevent imitation. Manu-
factured by
. NORRIE and MAYER.
Factory and Warehouse,
317 & 310. KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
REGINALD TONIS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
AFTEH ORFORE
MOUSTACHE and WHIS2EES.
Boyd*a Beard Elixir did this, and
Will do it on cither bald head or
hare face, Jfotcea heavy Mous-
tache in fromS to 4 toecks and mver
fails, 20,000 young wen already
wear full bcania, having used 1 to
BEFQnS AFTEII
Copyrighted
8 plcti. No injury, easily applied, certain in effect. Packets It.Qd.
each. 3 for 3s. (id., post paid, sent under cover 9 free from observation•
u, Frank Douglas, Solo Agent , Box 730,0.P.0., Sydney t N.S.)V-
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OP PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all oK customers and the
public generally that he has a large assortment of
Drawing, Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
0 O.
Robert butcher &
(Late William Long),
(BUI jr- WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT.
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY'
Country Orders receive prompt attention


G-old. J"eT*rellery !
X
Hk!
(REGISTERED.)
9 SYDNEY ARCADE & 12 ROYAL ARCADE.
Pi!
mmi CAPE ID WATCHES, k
LATEST FASHIONS. 1 !
*
TaTATCTISS, IF:E3O2v£ 30s. 38.A.C&
Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually attended
C ■WHAT IS IT ? J
ASK YOUR OOCTOn
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
X S a branche/o^ U Phntninnmii Cd ° D witb theoriginal staff of Artists specially engaged by
,a - 1J crancnes or Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.B. BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
SALE EXTRAORDINARY, FOR ONE'O
MEN’S, BOYS’, & YOUTHS’ CLOTH# '
NOW ON AT BOTH
J. J. RYAN’S CLOTHING SHU r
PRIOR TO ALTERATIONS TO THE lIAYMARKET SH°P*
1®" Come Early and Secure Good Fashionable Clotliins <(,r ,ji
J. J. RYAN, 760 Street, Hay"» ar
And 466 GEO RUE STREET, Opposite Fruit Markets.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
J. S. FHIT & SON’S, Bristol, London, and Sydney
“ An ordinar y Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the befjt alo or porter.—Lancet.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY
ohm:
OJRMe
i»l
Bl
'•'Bland
VjMEC
It is of tbe utmost importance that contents o
each bottle should be carefully compared, as 1 arg-
on an titles are being- imported into New Soutl
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com
pareLOHNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any o
the other brands, when they will find « dill'erenct
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORN E HIGH
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON , AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
HZGrGrXU’S
Prize Medal Salt
: FOR and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCH WOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
G LBEY’S silverstream schnapps.
Gitbey’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being of tbe highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TUCKER & CO., Sole Agents,
SIR G eorge-st.reet, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION
WALLACH BROTHERS.
MASON BROTHERS.
EXHIBIT*
LIMITED,
14 and 16 Spring 1 Street
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY.
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T G A YEN’S
Scbmnps and Geneva.
A. MELV IN and SONS’
Edinbui gn Pale 6 .e.
T. JONES ansa CO.,
65 MACQUARIE-SiTRKET SOUTH,
Air-tight
SHOW
CASE
AND
ART
CABINET
MAKERS.
%
General
JOINERS,
SHOP,
AND
OFFICE,
FITTERS.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on applh-atlon.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
h lock, Station, and Generaf Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYD.IS PET.
Agents for aJI kinds of Foreign & Colonial i Produce.
V*
BLAKE’S l»**°
STEAM P®’’
H. P. GREGORY*,
17 PST T s
SYDNEY:
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR
and have In Stock and
FIRE PUMPS .
BOILER-FEED PUMP S _ P^ ?
TANK OR LIGHT SER^ L
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & CIIIC
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUM pS
VACUUM PUMPS p[ jtfpB
deep-well-sinkx^ g
r#
SEND FOR PRICES AN^ aI;
CATALOGUES FOR^--
PAINTS.
OILS.
O^pApJl^
ntr 330 Geo'lffo#*'
N.B.
pattort 1 " *
pfl*
r>d
of Vi go'
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer off ali kinds of Crated Haters, Cordials, and Bitters, ai id Proprietor
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, ST] DNET. &*•
to/cutta Exhibition awarded the Only Gob Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters ; also, anothei • Gold Medal for Liqueurs,
V>
