

lee-i.
3JOVELTIES.
IQS4=.
ntlEEl k sins
I
the largest drapery warehouses
(L AND
Most Spacious Show Rooms
IN
THE SOTTETHEESTrT HEMISPHERE.
„ *®* THE LATEST FASHIONS FROM PARIS AMD LONDON BY EVERY MAIL STEAMER.
'HTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
ALACE emporium, haymarket, only.
• i;,v
5 srAis
u.l.
A SINGLE CHAIR AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
Speclxxxexxs c± otax TJsefu.l Clxaxxs,
ONE HUNDRED DIFFERENT STYLES AND PATTERNS,
per THESE CHAIRS ARE EXCELLENT VALUE, AND VERY STRONG ANI) DURABLE.
We are now opening Large Shipments of Goods purchased specially for the wants
of the present season. Ladies will find a most beautiful show of NEW M ANTLES,
NEW COSTUMES, and NEW DRESSES. A Magnificent Display of NOVELTIES
in every department, at prices lower than any other house in Sydney.
We are the only UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS in the Australian colonies.
NOTE OUR ONLY ADDRESS:—
AHTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYHARKET (ONLY.)
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS. UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS.
» *
BENT TOP, WOOD SEAT, 3s.
The BUlletin


GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agencies :
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OP CANTON—Head Office: HONGKONG
J. C. Goatling and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal, and Vortical Engines,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c., &c.
Crossley Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, M‘Lachlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c., &c.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Fels and Company, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c.
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c.
De Wendel and Company, Hayange, Prance—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Steel Fencing Wire, &e. ,
Thos. Perry and Son, Biiston—Fire-resisting Safes. Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh-Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redrutn—Patent Safety Fuse. Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine.
Dubos Preres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablis, Sauternes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
New South Wales.— Scott and Mullaly, T. Allsop, P. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros,,
Jindera Mill Co.
Victoria.— James Fryand Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia.— W. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hineks.
I=#" INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
2v£a,rtiaa. 3Teesl3.a,x3.,
STAR & GARTER HOTEL
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Afl no oxpenae has be©n spared in the erection of the Hotel premises. M. K. guarantees countrv
visitors and others the best accommodation, combined with civility. J
San Francisco Palace of Art,
. LATE
The patrons of the SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART, so well known throughout
the Australian colonies, are informed that, in addition to the same high-class portrait
work for which it has been noted,
Copies and Enlargements to Life Size, by new and improved pro-
cesses, from any photograph or negative, are now taken.
Opals, Autotype, Transfer, or Albuminized Paper, in Crayon or Coloured.
The same staff of Artists, who have rendered the work of this establishment famous,
are employed, and all negatives (15,000 in number) taken during the past four years, carefully
preserved, from which copies may be had on application by sending name and address.
W. T. BENNETT, Manager.
IMPORTER OF WINES &
SPlßl^
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just comP lct
extensive additions to his
d
Wholesale and Retail Bottle Dep
"Which is now replete with a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines and
selected hy.tlie proprietor during his recent visit to Europe. He can therefore coofl^ 01 s |/
the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, as per the following list, hopes to m e
patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him*
POUT WIN®-
40-year old, Gilbey’s ..
Celebrated Four Diamond • • ,jj
ior ol al
Quality—No. 1 (very superior l
No. ***** grape
No. ****
No! *** ”
No. ** „
No. *
Draught Port Wine, per Imp®
SHERRY-
-40-year old, Gilbey’s jif)
Very Finest Amontillado (very
Fine Amontillado Ja
Celebrated Four Diamond Sb crn „ .
Common Sherry '
Draught Sherry Wine, per IfflP 01 ' 19
BRITISH
WIN 15 "'
James Heddle’s Ginger Wine ’ ,
Orange Wine
IRISH WHISN Y '
jr
Jameson’s*** 'I’A a AVS y -‘ '
Old Dublin Whisky (***) bottled r J
Klnahan’s unrivalled L L
Thorne’s Old Irish Whisky ••• ;
Jameson’s ~, A
Dun ville’s ,Jcr
Kinahan’s Draught, per ImP elJ «
Jameson’s „ »
Flasks
SCOTCH ■
Walker’s 7-year old, in bulk
Thistle Blend
Royal Blend
Lome Highland
Kilmarnock
Glenlivet ...
Glenlivet Whisky
Flasks
y
per Imperil 1
r i
gin.
Blue Bell or Yellow Seal Geneve
Celebrated K ev Rrand. very 1 11 _ (J p ” I
Celebrated Key Brand, very 4*,, 1
bottle containing more td iu
Flasks Key. Gin
deli''
"Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best
allowed for. Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers,' an<
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge. 0 J\
P. R. LARKIN’S CASE OP ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS.-On receipt of M
Sfl l
, i yuartßurja*- ~iM
TOTAL-15 QUARTS. fll iA'
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the beS p#
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, P Je^
Orders payable at the Haymarket Post Office. ig
Kindly Note the Address— /<$ (
P. R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Merch^ 11
George and Gipps Sts., Haymarket, $


THE
BULLETIN
Vol. I.—No. 45.—New Series
SATURDAY, MARCH 22, 1884.
Price—6d.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, MARCH 22, 1884.
In the old country, the social fact that most
strikes the philosophical observer is the
mass of want and pauperism and ignorance
that exists side by side of wealth beyond the
dreams of avarice, and princely endowments
for charitable and educational and civilising
purposes. Probably no country in the world
ever possessed such means as England pos-
sesses for the relief of poverty and the teach-
ing of ignorance. Unfortunately, but a
small fractional portion of those endowed
means are devoted to the objects to which
they were originally devoted. The vast
wealth of the Established Church, which
should mainly be expended on the relief of
physical distress, is practically devoted to
the maintenance of an hierarchical class,
whose mission it is to preach a false peace to
the well-to-do and a base content to the
ill-to-do —
“ Prophets who smile Peace, Peace, when it is a
sword;
Sages who shut their eyes when Truth is stern (o
behold;
Preachers who preach the life of what they must
feel to be death.”
And, not content with evasion of duty by
omission to deal righteously with the vast
wealth entrusted to them on behalf of the
poor and the ignorant, the clergy of the
Church of England, as a body, go out of
their way to still further evade their duty
by the commission of the sin of seducing the
rich to give of their abundance to the mul-
tiplying of churches over the land to
give to poverty and ignorance, not the
bread of material benefit, but the carven
stone of a gothic edifice that once a week
for a few hours shall be open for the solemn
farce of the religious worship of such miser-
able sinners as have clothes to wear and at
least a threepenny-bit to put iu the inevit-
able plate. In London, for instance, while
hospital accommodation for the poor is daily
proving less and less equal to keep pace with
the demands made upon it, the Lord Bishop
of Rochester, in whose dioeese is a consider-
able portion of South London, has quite
recently been successful in collecting £42,350
towards the erection of more churches,
although the existing ones are when open
never half full. That sum spent on the phy-
sical necessities of the poor and afflicted
would do Christ’s work among 1 hem—would
help to feed them, to heal them, epentupon
the spiritual requirements of the diocese,
what is it but sending the ruffles when want-
ing the shirt? Not only in London, but all
over England, the cry of the clergy, headed
by their Right Reverend Fathers in God, is
for ‘“church extension a very selfish cry
on their part, when one analyses it, since
what else does it mean but the further en-
richment of their caste: more patronage for
bishops, a greater number of more comfort-
able livings for the Levitical rank and file ?
If proof were wanting of the fact that
Anglican bishops were wearing themselves
out in this holy cause, it would be afforded
by the circumstance that several prelates
were forced to Reviera during the late
season, there to recruit their exhausted
energies after their heroic exertions on
behalf of—their cloth.
• • •
Another British institution seised of im-
mense endowments for educational and
charitable purposes is the City of London
Guilds. There are many Guilds. Their total
income is £750,000 a year. Of that large
total they can dispose at pleasure of some
£550,000. And it is their pleasure to spend
£185,000 thereof on sheer guzzling and gorg-
ing, £325,000 thereof on Guild members and
their friends, and the balance (a poor half-
penny worth of bread to this intolerable
deal of sack) on education and miscellaneous
charities! What the Church of England is
doing in the way of endeavouring to increase
her own prestige at the expense of the work-
ing classes and the outcast poor—what the
City of London Guilds are doing in moro
direct evasion of their duties and responsi-
bilities—is but a type of the invariable opera-
tion of privilege and caste—the result of
such operation being that accursed state of
things against which earnest Liberalism is
called upon to fight with might and main.
The pauper masses in ‘ Christian England,
where they cant of a Saviour’s name” (to
quote the words of an Anglican canon)
THE HON. FRED. WHITAKER, OF NEW ZEALAND.
have long lain stripped and sore wounded,
Priest and Levite (not without suspicion
of their being in league with the rob-
bers who waylaid them) having been
passing and re-passing by these years
and years, doing nothing, offering no-
thing beyond such hypocritical apothegms
as “all is for the best,” “the Lo«d loveth
whom he chasfeneth,” “poverty is an ex-
ceeding blessing if submissively borne ” (by
somebody else). Luckily for the down-
trodden poor, the cry.is now “ Radicalism to
the rescue!” and there are not wanting signs
that a great sooial struggle isaboui to begin,
the throes whereof will rock England to her
foundations. In the old country, the battle
that Radicalism has to wage is one to re-win
rights of which the masses have been de-
liberately and systematically despoiled by
the privileged classes. In this new country,
Radicalism has also got its work to do; not
to re-win manhood’s rights, but to ward off
from them the attacks which threaten them
from many quarters. Although out here
there is—thank Goodness! —no established
Church, yet there is evinced, on the part of
the clergy of nearly all denominations,
a mischievous and dangerous desire to
seduce the well-to-do into the mammon
worship of useless Church building, as
well as a persistent effort to throw
the burden of teaching religious doctrine
upon the shoulders of the Public School
teacher. The Public School system only
demands in the way of attendance some
five hours a day for five days a week, for
some forty weeks in the year —a time only
barely sufficient for necessary secular in-
struction —yet the parson demands that a
portion o i that scant time shall be occupied
by the State-paid teacher in doing his (the
parson’s) work. If a place in the Public
School curriculum be projiosed to be found
for “conduct and morals,” unless the Deity
be dragged into the lesson, the charge o!
godlessness (deliberately meant as a charge
of infamy) is hurled by the parson at the
proposers; and a conservative journal like
the S.M. Herald backs the parson by a
statement of this kind Accepting it—(a
book on moral conduct that dees not drag in
the Deity)— the State flings itself into the
arms of an absolute Secularism; and, permit
ting'that acceptance, the clergy surrender
one of their high privileges and abandon one
of their most sacred duties.”
• • ■
And, not only against clerical intolerance,
and the conservative prejudices that endorse
it, has the local Radical to light, but against
the evident intention of the large land-
owning classes to build up out here some-
thing as closely resembling the mock
British feudalism of to-day as possible. The
large property owners are also casting about
how they can shirk their responsibilities*
They have already quite recently shown
their animus, and their strength, too, in
their opposition to Dibbs’ property-tax pro-
posals. Unless prevented, they will shunt
the main burden of their responsibilities (as
the British large property owners have
succeeded in doing) on to the working
classes.
• • •
It is against such movements as those of
the larger property owners seeking to evade
their responsibilities, and those of the
clerical classes seeking to throw a big share
of their proper work on to the shoulders of
the Public School teachers, and to persuade
the well-to-do into subscribing towards
wholesale church extension—the while there
are no reformatories for the street arabs, no
asylums for outcast women, not sufficient
means of wholesome recreation for the
denizens stewing in the crowded slums of
the metropolis—it is against such move-
ments that Radicalism must exert all its
strength, if the essentially democratic char-
acter of the constitution of this colony is to
be saved from those who are doing their
best to contaminate it by inoculating it with
the debasing principles of Caste, Privilege,
and Monopoly.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
It is rarely the schoolmaster is let out on the dull
heavy-headed world. But ive him a show and he
makes up for his seasons of solitude. There is a
greenness still about the memory of the Mary
borough man who wrote to Minister Archer ex„
plaining why he had broken a regulation by taking
the chair at a political meeting. “ You see, sir,”
he went on, “ it is men like me, gifted with elo-
quence, rising sometimes to the very point of
genius, and commanding by my position the
confidence and homage of the community’
that tho people are justified in expecting
to come to the front on occasions unusu-
ally momentous.” Ho was right, and if his
brother dominies would come only one at a time
the world would last. But tho Victorian Board of
classifiers has brought them all out together. By
law one classifier must be appointed from the
teaching body by the votes of teachers. Mr.
Whyte, of the Training School, wants the ap-
pointment, but so do Mr. Nicholls, of Balla-
rat, and Mr. Hosking, of Sandhurst. The coun-
try teachers want a country man, and the
town teachers want a town man. If the three
go to the poll, Mr. Whyte, the town man
is sure to win. Which of the two countrymen,
then, will retire ? Possibly, you will say, let the
less strongly supported duck under. But which is
he? Out of a total of 900 voters in the country,
Mr. Hosking can give you documentary proof that
899 will vote straight for him, and Mr. Nicholls
can show you 899 ready to vote for him also.
Well, then, try arbitration ? Tried. Failed. Well,
then, choose an umpire. Yes, Mr. Wrixon, M.L.A.,
will do. Tried. Failed. Rev. Fitchett will do.
Tried. Failed. We must go to James Mirams. But
James knows how schoolmasters can manipulate
figures; and when he heard they were on the road
he said, “No, you don’t!” Try Mr. Balfour. “ Ye
needn’t come near me,” said Mr. Balfour ; “ I
couldn’t see through it in less than a century.’
And the schoolmasters stand panting, looking
round for someone willing to be set mad,


F
INEST CIGARETTES. FINEST CIGARETTES
ARE
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR,
Manufactured by W. S. KIMBALL and CO.,
Rochester. U. .A.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, that a Specia
Meeting of the Metropolitan Licensing Court
will be holden at the Central Police Office, George-
street, Sydney, at noon on TUESDAY, the Ist day
of April, 1884, for the purpse of considering appli-
cations for cancellation of licenses, and any other
business that may be legally brought before the
said court.
C. DELOHERY, C.P.S.
Central Police Office,
Sydney, March 15th, 1884.
TRY THE
Victim Furniture Polish!
ONCE TRIED WILL BE USED ALWAYS.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
H
AWKESBURY
AND
SYDNEY
HANDICAP
CUP.
6000, at 10s. each.
First £BOO
Second .. .. 4oi>
Third 200
Starters .. .. 260
Non-starters .. 400
1 £2OO
1 100
2at £5O .. .. 100
20 at £lO .. .. 200
68 at £5 .. .. 340
£2060
£940
Total £3OOO.
WILL SHORTLY CLOSE.
Post Office Orders, payable to “ Lena Amos,”
only. Stamps not accepted. Cheques payable to
No., or self.
Guarantee:—Any bona fide member can have
the names and addresses of the principal winners..
The papers containing 1 this advertisement will bo’
supplied with a full list of all winners—not, how
ever, for publication.
Enclose two stamps, and address—
“LENA AMOS,”
Care of W. Miller,
Box 583, G.P.0., Sydney.
SECOND EDITION. PRICE, Is. od.
Maid, Wife, and Mother:
A BOOK FOR WOMANKIND.
CONTAINING matters or a medical nature
highly interesting to the sex. Post free, in
secure cover, for Is. 6d., money order or N.S.W.
stamps. Te be had only from the publisher,
MRS. BEAItCROFT,
Box 740 G.P.0., Sydney.
Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above Is Rum made hot
and taken at bod-time. 1
W PURE RUM,
Extra Strong:,
«B. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Iptntit,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
■where you can obtain for
Sd.
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
Thb most Wholesome or all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
3s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street. Sydney
BLAKE’S IMPROVED
STEAM PUMPS.
H. P. GREGORY & GO.,
17 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE ABOVE,
and have in Stock and to arrive—
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULATING PUMPS
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING PUMPS
SEND FOR PRICES AND ALL PARTICULARS
CATALOGUES FORWARDED FREE.
ALCOCK& CO.’S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES
SOLE AGENTS:
375 George-st., Sydney.
IST TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED-
A Lower Deep.
as has been the whole course of the pro-
ceedings of our Imperial Government in relation
to the national movement of the Egyptian people*
under the guidance of Aciimet Arabi, thore have
at least been compensations latterly. The English
people, after the first madness of the war fever
had passed away, have allowed justice to entcj
their minds with respect to the character anu
aims of Arabi. After nearly staining the records
of their country by hanging him as a rebel, they
now admit that he was a patriot. But now a new
horror transpires. If we had small moral right to
repress the national rising in Egypt,we’ve positively
none for meddling with the Soudan. That we were
bound by the consequences of our unhappy deal-
ings with Egypt to extricate the garrisons exposed
to the fury of the resultant national rising in the
Soudan, is true. But, beyond that, what were our
duties or our rights ? The enoounter with the
forces of the Mahdi’s lieutenant, Osman Diona,
was incident to the relief of the garrisons. It was
a hard fight, gallantly contested on both sides, and
won by valour supported with modern weapons
against, at least equal valour less formidably
armed. But now we learn that a British Admiral
and a British General have set a price upon a
patriot’s head! A more shocking, a more degrad-
ing, incident has not occurred within our
lifetime. £lOOO for Osman Digna, dead or alive!
What is this but a premium for assassination ?
When a tyrant, the oppressor of a whole people,
the enemy of human liberty, fell by the hand of
his outraged subjects, a shriek went forth against
the deed as an inexpiable crime. Yet we, the
British nation, are made responsible for the offer
of a reward to any man who will be false to his
Country and religion and will assassinate one of the
brave leaders who is struggling in manly warfare
to preserve his country from foreign domination*
English history has not been stained with such a
record since Edward I. put a price on the head
of the Scottish patriot, William Wallace.
We will leave the foregoiog to be on record. Since
it was written, we have had the news that the Gov-
ernment have disapproved of the device c*
General Graham and Admiral Hewett. Dis-
approved ! We should hope so. We were
very near hanging Arabi for trying to res-
cue his country from the unspeakable Turks
and Circassians. The General and the Admiral
would have paid English taxpayers’ money to
have Osman Digna assassinated for defending his
country. Now, w hat do these distinguished officers
deserve for betraying their country by saddling it
with the momentary responsibility of an infamy ?
A grant of money and a peerage, probably.
The Butrowa Bench, on the sth inst., dealt with a
14-year old boy named Burns, who was charged
with saying to one Timothy Gavan, in the public
street, “ I know you are a bloody informer.” It
being Master Burns’ first offence, and the police
giving him a good character, he was let off with a
&s. fine (and 53. 6d. costs of court). This “first
offence” arrangement is getting rather mono-
tonous. In a certain class of cases it may be well
to act bh it, but such an offence as deliberately
oailing a person a bloody informer surely doesn’t
come within the category. We shall next hear of
Judges exercising, leniency to some beginner in
the homicidal line, substituting a brief imprison-
ment for the death penalty, on the ground of its
beiDg the prisoner’s first murder.
♦
“Justice always whirls in equal measure "—ex-
cepting when she doesn’t. At the recent Quarter
Sessions, young Bank-clerk Primrose received a
five-years’ penal servitude sentence for embezzling
£B9 odd: and, at the same Court, Deputy-Registrar-
General Duff, for embezzling £llO7 12s. 6d., was
sentenced to four years in Darlinghurst Gaol. His
Honor thought Duff’s “ good character might
weigh with him in passing sentence.” Only the
other day, however, another learned Judge de-
cided that the greater a man’s social standing
was, and the more inducements he had to avoid
crime and evil courses, the greater in proportion
should be the punishment imposed upon him
whenever he wilfully offended against the laws.
This is precisely the theory of the great Beccaria,
who held that “ Crimes are only to be measured
by the injury done to society.” If this be sound,
it is therefore somewhat hard to see how a young
Bank lad, whose inexperience in the world and
whose facilities to commit crime cause him to
make a single slip, should receive five-years’
penal servitude for embezzling a few pounds,
whilst a Civil servant of thirty-one years’ standing,
and who at the time he committed his crime was
receiving a salary of £6OO per annum, with, as his
Honor remarked, “ considerable emoluments,”
should receive only four years for embezzling
a thousand.
4
An outrage of the Waterloo and Woolloomooloo
stamp occurred in San Francisco in August last,—
one of the perpetrators, Charles Josselyn, was
convicted of the offence. The style adopted to
stamp out such brutalities may be inferred from
the Judge’s remarks, and the sentence he imposed.
On Oct. 36th., Judge Toohey said “ Leniency to
you could only seem as encouragement to other
bad men to emulate your nefarious example.
Therefore, as law has conferred upon me power
to punish crime, I intend to apply such in your
case, and in that of other like offenders, that the
most hardened criminals will shudder at the
thought of affronting any woman-old or young,
rich or poor—within the boundaries of this city and
county. I have carefully considered this matter,
and in neither youth nor character do you show
grounds for extenuation; but in deference to the
respectful recommendation of the jury, 1 will
make your sentence much lighter than it would
be without their mediation. It is the judgment
and sentence of this Court that you be imprisoned
at San Quentin for forty years.”
The Congregationalists oi Sandwich (Eng.)
are in sore distress. Their minister, one Cushing,
a married man with two children, has eloped with
a Miss Bradley and all the coin he could lay hands
on. Selah!
Thus a cheerful Salvation Array ranter to
his brother “ Geordies ”“ Ma brethren, a’ave
come heor the neet te save ye. If yor not saved,
it is not ma iaalt; and if the Lord should think
fit te cut ye off afore next Sunday neet, divvent
eome an’ lay the blyem on me for gannen to hell!”
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[.Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-dc-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“H.W.” (Orange): Thank you very much
for the clipping- you forward from the Orange
Advocate, but it is of no use to us, containing
wh it is known amongst ministers and deacons as
"a double one.” We wonder, by the way, if your
paper inserts pars, like that, what the Orange
Advocate advocates. We should think that the
person of the “compony,” who wishes to ‘ ox-
tend ” his stock, will fall against a boot one day.
Let's hope (for his sake) that the toe will be a soft
one—“ Stalf” (Molong): It was unnecessary for
you to head your communication “ confenden-
tially,” for we can hardly make a line of it out.
You seem to want to know if editors always sign
each “Answer corresponadance.” Of course! We
wonder a man of your perceptive powers hasn’t
discovered that before. Oh, and that reminds us.
Where did you discover the spider who taught
you your handwriting ? The best way, we think,
to remind us when you want the paper, is to send
the money for it. But strike a new tarantula, or
we shall never receive the letter, and some (per-
haps) underserving people will batten on your
wealth “W.F.H.” (office): We stand corrected.
It is J., and not J. B., Howe who is the brother of
B. L. Fargeon. A natural error, though, when
you have got such a big knife-board to edit
“Spluttering Pen” (Gunning): You don’t mean
really to say that “ The latest fashion in Gunning
is to cut chaff for feeding horses with a pair of
rusty shears.” Fancy! You ask us to improve it.
What ? The fashion, or the pair of rusty shears ?
You might let us know at your leisure. In the
meanwhile, remember us kindly to the other
housemaid—“Sequentia” (Sutton Forest): What
was the keeper doing when you got away ? How-
ever, there’s a billet for you down here. Call at
the Hum office, and say we sent you “B.
Hicks”: The sketches you offer as original are
traced from Judy. You want punching. Very
in-JuDY-cious “ExNihilo” (Wellington, N.Z.):
Excellent. Just our sentiments— “ Old Staque”:
Very good, but “prison” doesn’t rhyme with
“driven,” you know — “W. Simpson” (Hobart):
Yes; absurd. Will deal with it... “H.M.”:“The
Fools of Sydney” is not even doggerel: it is
puperell “F.G.A.”: We are very much obliged
to you, indeed, for your communication. But
this has seemed to escape you: No one ever does
“take the trouble to read Sir Alfred Stephen’s
speeches.” Unless they do in the kitchen—when
very hungry; or, say more than usually hungry.
Of course we mean the Soup Kitchen “H.P.”
(Glen Innes): If you found the wretched scrawl as
you say, you should have sent it to the owner, not
to us. What do we care about you and him and
your miserable wages? “Our troubles!”
“Jimmy Fenack”: Well meant, no doubt; but
won’t geo for The Bulletin. Send it to “ her.”
She’ll think it sublime. Anything about “wild
idolatrous love” and “blotting her after life”
(which, by the way, is an admirable simile—under
the circumstances, as it likens a “wild, idolatrous”
lover to a sheet of foolscap) will fetch the average
girl. Of course we understand that “ she ” is not
an average girl. She Dever is, anymore than a
lover’s literary gaspings make an average poem.
And yours is not an average poem, Jimmy, not by
a good deal “ Tenterlield ”: We are very much
obliged for your communication, but we would be
a great deal more obliged if we could read it. Bad
writing, in nine cases out of ten, is only a silly
affectation, and we may inform candidates for
literary fame that indifferent caligraphy is quite
fatal to success in literature, chiefly because par-
tiall 7 illegible scrawls are always thrown to the dog.
Confound you! You’re not all Horace Greeleys I...
“T.M.A.” (Bathurst) : Henry George deals with
the phase of his proposed remedy, very fully in
his work “Progress and Poverty.” We should
advise you to send for the book. A cheap edition
has been published. Send Is. to Cole, George-
street—“D.F.” (Darlington) asks “Was the late
‘Nosey Bob ’ a native of this colony.” A word in
your Jumbo-like ear, D.F. If you think you’re
going to fool us into giving Henniker’s “ Men of
the Times ” a cheap advt., you All your head with
mighty great mistake indeed. Ask us all about
the Flying Pieman, or Mrs. Potiphar, or some
other celebrity not mentioned in the “ex-
tinguished journalist’s ’shaydoovur,’” and then
perhaps we 11 cast the light of our genius on you.
— “J.D.”: Will read for next week “Layeof
the Land of the Maori and Moa”: Received. Moa
next issue “ Battersby’s Pal ” (Charleviile) :
Burns once wrote an address to a certain insect,
and had better have left it unwritten. Coarseness
in Burns, peasant born and bred, was excusable-
spots on tae sun. When you have written a few
things equal to “To Mary in Heaven,” “The
Cottar’s Saturday Night,” ‘Tam o’ Shanter,”
“ Scots Wha Hae,” &c., you will be forgiven for
writing a piece on fleas. Meanwhile, meliora
canamus.
The Bates of Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 34s.; half-year, 13s. 8d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
The Advertising Bates are 5s. per inch;
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 30 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps ©f any Australian
Colony ma be sent, if more convenient.
FACT AND FANCY
FOCUSSED
36,105,774 acres alienated since the founda-
tion of the colony (1,163,520 acres within munici-
palities 370 charges preferred at courts martial
against N.B.W. guuners from establishment of
force to end of 1883. Ooe case of drawing sword
on superior officer (672 days imprisonment with
hard labour). Over a score of cases in which
offender was discharged with ignominy—terribly
high percentage —Gregory, the Horsham (Vic.)
auctioneer, J.P., and wholesale forger, sentenced
to three years and a half imprisonment. Auto-
graph writing by proxy is a dangerous game
Sydney University Annual Commemoration on
the 36th A monthly immigration steam
service between London and Hobart to be
inaugurated on the 25th prox Abbott
has i»Bued a needful edict : sheep inspec-
tors are henceforth to be expected to know some-
thing about sheep. Present inspectors to undergo
a strict exam, before 30th June next—or the sack.
... Wright inspecting the Southern railway lines ..
Suggested that coadjutor be appointed to Arch-
bishop Goold. A Scotchman wanted. Certainly.
And why not a Presbyterian ?.... John Costello, an
old hand at Botanical Gardens (Vic.), fired away at
himself for about half an hour. Bullets missed.
Sat down and dug into his right arm with a razor.
Too drunk to make a job of it New seam of coal
at Mirboo. Best quality yet discovered Dr.
O’Donnell, Sandhurst, fined £9 for letting his ser-
vant sell poison Keast, who visited heaven in a
trance not long ago, and announced his divine
commission at Geelong, has been taken in hand by
his mother. Whore are the mothers of the other
divine commissioners? Jessie Weare, 20 years of
age, was found hanging bv a boat in Yarra. Has a
tale, but tells it badly Li Quee, Chinaman, stole
spirits and tobacco at Sandhurst. Li Quee, Liquor,
Liquid, Liquod. Sacred jug, there’s an inspired
flash! Booth and Glover have washed up in
Exhibition. Wash-dirt yielded 26,773 ribbons, 13,444
pledges, and £lOOO casn. ...Scot's Church want-
ing to secede. Religion still smelling Strongly —
Waterspout swept around Cheviot and Waipara
districts (N.Z.) last month : no thunder, lightning
or wind : terrible effects. Here’s one incident: As
a team of bullocks with a dray were approaching a
bridge over a gully th© deluge came, clearing away
in a second the approaches of the bridge. The lead-
ing bullock fell into the gully, his chain snapping,
and he disappeared under a mass of earth, a “slip ’’
of some thousands of tons, and was carried out to
sea. Talking of waterspouts, about the biggest
one on record destroyed the town of Miskolez,
Hungary, in ’7B, the loss of life being considerable.
Rabbit trapping in style. A party of Americans
recently arrived at Harrow (Vic.) with eleven
horses, eighty ferrets, and a mile and a-half of
netting. They spread the netting, drive bunny
into it, capture him alive and send him to the
Melbourne market, where he’s killed, skinned,
and tinned. In this syndicate the bunny-
ficiaries pool big dividends The St. Kilda
(V.) Ladies’ Benevolent society “ relieved ” 130
cases in fortnight. Outlay for fortnight,
£l9 11s Upjohn is busy with the lash at
Pentridge. Four tied up before breakfast last
week. Gory glory Superintendent Nicholas re-
tiring from Victorian police force. Old Nick will
be succeeded by that gallant]olficer, to wit—to wit—
it’s not settled yet—perhaps, Toohey... Jones, J.P.,
had nothing to do on the Richmond Bench one
day last week. He thanked the police and lawyers.
Now, whatdid Jones mean? Melbourne World
says: “We always look our dog straight in the
face, and he does the same towards us, and wags
his tail with excruciating eloquence for a biscuit
or a bone.” And don’t “we” do the same?... Last
week David Morgan Williams went into a bath in
the Temperance Hotel and died, and M’Naughton,
late Town Clerk of Colliogwood, went into
the St. Kilda bath and died. Time an
anti - bathing party started. Blacking and
brushes would be safer Messrs. Hunter
and party, who recently went inland into
New Guinea prospecting (twenty-five miles on
Morrison’s track), report plenty of rain. Natives
shy,and would not come near them; inter-tribal war
the normal condition of things —At Kensington
?lill works (Melbourne), John Kelly, aged 40, and
Patrick O’Brien, aged 22, were matcned, last week,
for £2O a side to see who could fill in a greater
quantity of earth into drays in six hours. Kelly
won with 58 yards to O’Brien’s 51.... Inspector to
class (New England public school) : “Who was the
mother of Christ?” Boy at head: “Please sir,
the Queen.” I.; “And His father?” Girl at
bottom : “ Please, sir, Cain and Abel.” Tableau!..
Under the heading “Breach of Decency ” a coun-
try paper squeezes in a “ par.” about the annoy-
ance eaused to ladies up its way by young men
bathing in the Hunter. A correspondent objects
to the heading—says it should have been “ Want
of breeches of decency.” There may be some-
thing in it. But the stupid squeamishness of
Australians in tabooing the bathing customs of
Europe and America is a source of infinite amuse-
ment to foreigners A recent visitor to the
Mackay Polynesian Hospital saw a Kanaka lying
nude on the verandah, and die, no one apparently
to look after him. Inside the building, the state
of the patients was something horrible. Men and
women huddled together in the last stage of di-
sease and dirt, no on© paying attention to them
The s.s. Warwick, chartered by the Orient Steam-
ship Company, arrived last week in Sydney with
623 immigrants on board. During the passage from
Plymouth, seven children died, and three were
born. She left Plymouth on the 19th January ...
Plague of small green caterpillars in the Crocodile
Creek district (N.Q.) 147 of ’em to the square foot.
Locusts ate down 400 acres of cane at the Victoria
Plantation, Herbert River ; all hands had to be
paid off No. 1, vol. i. of the Numuekah Guar-
dian and Wunghnu Observer just out. Vic-
toria’s youngest journal. Newsy, but a deuce of a
name. We would suggest, as an abbreviated name,
the Num-Wungh-news. .. .Tom Bridle’s hop vine-
yard on the Tumut River promises a fin© crop this
season. The worst of hops is that at the very last
minute a simoon blast of wind will play old goose-
berry with them. Of no other crop, in fact, can
one so truly say finis coronat hopu.


Woman Items
Riordan kissed Mrs. Pedley, and was fined
£2O at a Melbourne police court. He appealed to
the General Sessions. After carefully weighing
the matter, and taking evidence as to the state of
the )°erf|' e h e Vve<u<K cxVouX \w
l»t
IWiUk
®s'^ii:;!dl l *
The Fire Brigades Make a Night of It again.
that court also held that the thing was
dead cheap at £2O. Twenty pounds and fetch your
mouth seems to us a long price, unless a man
»ri^T ln g mone -V very fast. Little wonder there
are so many insolvents down South.
Glover, the temperance apostle en-
gaged in pushing the “blue ribbon” bus ness in
buu^V stiffly advocates the assistance of
„ the good cause. He says: “ Once upon a
BP iarnh E£ n tleman travelled all over the world in
a £° od organ; when he came back he
who that the best organ he had discovered
stnrL », e organ of a woman’s voice, for it had no
mps. Every married man knows that.
Piih+°J kittle Maid Marian, who was only
’Tisoj-t two inches in height, has died in Paris.
undn!!’<,iR ppoll,tln £ decease, for Marian being
aadtha m! ee J} years of age, was “ still growing,”
ultimo? D i queB A 10 . n as t 0 the dimensions she would
one y attaln < was a peculiarly interesting
Woiiis v^ e a f? inclined to think that her knees
excppd^ ve . knocked under,” if she had lived to
MaHon twelve feet, for as it was they were shaky,
in thp yo , u £ e .? 1 5 mber > was the Amazon Queen
bra Th«yi val °L Babil and Bijou,” at the Alham-
Theatre. She didn’t say anything, but she
used to walk on and look big. She did that well,
too ; but the scene was always spoilt by Bill
Holland, the manager, walking beside her in a
swallow-tailed coat, and bowing his acknowledg-
ments. Rumour said he was there to pick her up
if her legs didn’t hold out.
The elder Weller did not believe in “ wid-
ders.” Nevertheless it is quite certain that many
wise men have married widows and found them
the best of wives. Washington, Jefferson, Frank-
lyn, Howard, Dr. Johnson all married widows,
some of them much older than their husbands,
and enjoyed as much domestic happiness as other
married men of their time. The first Napoleon
married a widow, and as long as he continued
faithful to her his progress was brilliant and suc-
cessful. The decay of his fortune dates from the
day he wickedly deprived her of her husband and
crown and bestowed them on the youthful Aus-
trian Princess.
The Americans are scared at the extremely
decollete dresses worn by their countrywomen
this year. They wonder where they (the ladies)
are going to fix their limit. And now listen. They
sort of complain that it is chiefly married ladies
who adopt this objectionable style of dress, or
rather undress. The question is, would they still
find fault if the majority of offenders were single
women ? But, joking aside, the Americans aren’t
far wrong. Putting indelicacy quite out of the
question, it is surely unwholesome to dispense
with covering for a part of the body which is ac-
customed to be covered, just to suit the occasion.
No doubt it’s hard for a plain-looking girl, with a
pretty neck and chest, to refrain from displaying
them; it gives her no pull over that other girl with
the handsome face, but salt-cellar shoulders, and
we don’t say she should keep them dark, as long as
she doesn’t go too far. We don’t object to the low
necks so strongly as do our American cousins, but
that’s because our Australian girls are modest, and
don’t earry fashion to such a ridiculous extreme;
therefore we have had no cause for feeling the
same disgust as the Americans profess to feel.
There are a few, however, even in Sydney, who
overstep the bounds of modesty, just a leetle; but
they are the exception and not the rule. Now if
our cousins over the river there, would help us to
talk down those monstrosities—crinolines—we
should be all there with them. After all, the low
necks only show natural charms (at least we sup-
pose so), but crinolines are apparently without
Bhn,n r in«m? e am ? wholl J' and utterly
abominable. Now, then, girls I
S. W. Beck has lust written n. book on
glacial period It is about”in nnn
prove?”? IUSr P BosaXwHra wPoTm
whßßi bXS to”ISS?'"
untold acres the multi-hutfnn (rim na of
torianem These fflovefloMhp , th ® Vl ?'
SaSrZS
;
with gloves at a maiden assize is to insinuate that
he can be trusted—there being no risk of tempta-
tion! It is signiflcent that any bribe came to be
known as a pair of gloves; to have given a pair of
gloves did not always actually denote a present of
gloves, but some equally valuable gift tendered in
return for services rendered. Grose quotes from
an old play an incident where an alderman pre-
sents his glove filled with gold pieces as a bribe to
Srocure a commission for his son. The Portuguese
ave a proverb on this head, expressive of a per-
son’s integrity, “Nao traz lavas— He does not wear
gloves.” To the Greek wife of Doge Seivo, of
Venice (1071), we may, in all seeming, attribute the
introduction of perfumed gloves into Europe.
She is strongly condemned by chroniclers tor her
perfumed gloves, and scorned, too, for wearing
silken vests, no less than for using a gold stick to
convey her food to her mouth in place of follow-
ing the ancient usage of employing fingers. The
seat of the manufacture of “chicken-gloves”
was at Limerick, but it was also carried on at
Waterford and Dublin. The gloves were there
made from the skins of unborn calves, either
taken from cows that died (when the skins were
technically known as “ morts ”), or from parturient
pows purposely slaughtered. These latter skins
were oalled in the market “ slinks.” These gloves
were of very fine texture. A pair of them were
included In Ralph Thoresby’s museum—‘A pair of
$ h , eI ,F reputation. The decadence of the
alo °< t k ° WhilXeffl.wSs'ftl'iifciSht
tuo liisn DiurkGt. buch fi proceeding*
though in nowise reprehensible on their part, pro-
tessswenu.ss is
refused to accept, and abandoned the Irish for the
French manufacturers.’
Platers and riveters in some of the Clyde
ship-building yards, have lately, in many instances
been earning £lO a week of days... The Cal-
cutta International Exhibition closed on the 10th
mst A success to score to Joubert, despite the
predictions and wishes of Gkanny A man
charged with stealing a goose, said he “ only took
it for a lark.” He, however, took it for a much
larger bird. He took it for a goose, and the
magistrate fined one goose 20s. for the unlawful
possession of the other.
That furred tongue,bad tasting mouth and
miserable feeling, says you need Hop Bitters.
Read and believe.
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers, it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins Is.*
Don’t Die in the House.— “ Rough on Rats ”
clears out rats, mice, beetles, reaches, bod-butrs,
flies, ants, insects, moles, jack-rabbits, gophers!
Moses, Moss Sc Co., Sydney, General Agents.


Personal
Items
Sir Robert Douglas, Bart., died at Wan-
ganui (N.Z.) Jast month: cancer; formerly a cup-
n . tne “Die-hards.” In his salad days,
Bobby was fast, very.
Lieutenant Colonel Stewart, who is with
Gordon In the Soudan, has been employed for
s . e ,Y® ra * years past in Turkey and Asia Minor.
Although a lieutenant - colonel in the Prinee
Albert s Own Hu«sars, he has not done duty in
that regiment for years past.
The Princess Frederick Charles of Prussia,
wife of the “ Bed Prince,” who shut Bazaine up in
Metz, and mother of Mrs. “ Connaughf,” lias gone
home to her people at Anhaif, on account of her
brutal husband's blackguard conduct. He soaks
In liquor ; prefers a camp trull to a lady ; and
out of harness is as coarse a swash-buckler as was
the “ Boar of Ardennes.”
Some surprise has been expressed because
Lord Lansdowno and his Marchioness walk through
the streets of Ottawa like ordinary ‘‘humans.”
unattended. That’s nothing. We’ve ha<f a guber-
natorial peer here, who literally hawked vege-
tables, and who, with his Countess, personally
Btruck first-class bargains in the drapery and
grocery line. And this was before the poultry era,
too.
Granny’s London correspondent, writ-
ing of the late Marquis of Hertford, says:—“There
was not a good understanding between the late
peer and his predecessor, and consequently the
greater part of the vast estates of the Hertford
family were left to a collateral family.” “Colla-
teral family” is, we suppose, Jeames’ new
euphemism for “bastard” when speaking of the
very haute noblesse.
Old John Daw, the Exeter attorney, the
Jack Daw of reams of brief, for over 30 years the
boss Tory agent for the city of Exeter and the
county of Devon, died full of years iu January, on
the day of the Bxeter Conservatives, grand annual
demonstration. That the old boy knew a thing or
two about bribery and corruption necessarily goes
without saying. He was twice Mayor of bxeter,
which city, by the way, like Chester, is a county of
Itself.
Blanchard Jerrold, editor of Lloyd’s
Weekly, dead; the son of Douglas Jerrold, and
the author of “Imperial Paris,” “London,” a
biography of Napoleon 111., and his fattier s “ Life
and Remains;” named after his father’s chum,
Laman Blanchard. Douglas and Laman once dis-
cussed a scheme for aiding the cause of Greek ;
liberty, while out for a stroll, but a shower came
on, and (as the former remarked) wash ;d all the
Greece out of them.
Gordon Pasha believes in Arabi. This is
What he recently said of him: “ Arabi will, I think,
eventually come back to Egypt. I knew him well
during the eighteen months he was in command
of the Garrison at Massowah. He is a man of
good ability (Egyptians are, as a rule, quite as
capable as Turks and Circassians), and he was un-
questionably honest. He would make a good and
popular Egyptian Minister, and he had, and has, a
majority of the Egyptian people with him.”
After Tel-el-Kebir, Barnum and Gor ’on
Bennett proposed to purchase Arabi for £25,000
down. Bennett's yacht to take him otf quietly;
for the first twelvemonth Arabi to write three-
quarters of a column every week for the New
York Herald on Egyptian politics, and then
Barnum to run him on the platform through tha
States. Arabi to be allowed £lOO9 a year. Count
Xizinier offered a precisely similar sum for “ the
exclusive privilege of exhibiting Arabi in all the
principal cities of Europe during on® year.”
Master Holroyd shunts all the blame of
the in equity trouble on to Attorney Birch, “a
young man who is a new hand comparatively iu
Equity matters in this colony, and appears to wish
to make a display in his (the Master's) chambers
at his (the Master’s) expense.” Acting Primary
Judge Faucett accepts the Master’s explanation
with the somewhat ambiguous reservation, “my
experience of the Master is that he is a particularly
efficient officer in one portion of his duties.” That
“in one portion” is immensely suggestive.
In consideration of “greatliterary merit,”
fcne French Government has conferred upon the
Maharajah of Travancore, G.C.5.1., the dignity of
an Officler de l’lnstruction Publique—a distinction
almost simultaneous with the unanimous election
of his Highness as a Fellow of the Statistical
Society of London. The Maharajah, since his
accession to the thione of Travancore in 1860, has
laboured zealously for the advancement of his
people (some two millions and a half), and has even
taken the step of delivering popular lectures upon
practical subjects.
Mr. George Coppin has given the snivel-
ling, psalm-singing philanthropists of Melbourne
a nasty jar. They made a most pious fuss about
back slums and dens of iniquity -on the platform.
George didn’t. He just made himself responsible
to the tune of £6OOO for the erection of comfort-
able cottages in the lowest slums of Little Bourke
street. And, of course, the pious platform philan-
thropists rolled up to his assistance ? Not a bit of
it. They were all there when words were the gift.
When it came to cash, they cleared over the back
fence. Cant, not cash, is their pass to glory.
About (beating Coppee, author of “ Severo
Torelli,” by five votes) elected to Jules Sandeau’s
vacant chair in the French Academy. About is a
lively cuss. In 72 some strong newspaper articles
aver his signature led to his being imprisoned by
the German authorities, who would have it he was
a German subject, on account of his having been
born in Lorraine. His best known works are
“ Les Manages de Paris,” Les Manages de Pro-
vince,” “Le Fellah,” and “Alsace.” His “La
Question Romaine,” advocating the abolition of
the Pope’s temporal power, is said to have been
Inspired by Napoleon 111. About is a charming
raconteur.
The continued celibacy of the Marquis of
Hartington provides a good deal of gor sip one
way or another. Rumour—wicked rumour—has
it that a certain Duchess stands between the
future Duke of Devonshire and matrimony. Be
that as it may, it is certain that the noble lady—
who, by the bye, is considerably older than the
Marquis, and he is “no chicken”—is just as assidu-
ously shadowed by him now as she has been for
wears past, and their “friendship” appears to be
m tirm as ever. Don’t imagine, though, that this
faded beauty is a widow. Oh, dear, no I Her ducal
husband is very much alive—he’s been a great
traveller. That s more.
One afternoon in January a man, evi-
dently labouring under great excitement and
carrying a parcel under his arm, was spotted by
the detectives on duty approaching Hawarden
Castle. He was speedily taken in.charge, and on
his being interrogated he said he was a working
man from Birmingham, and had made an axe,
which he intended to present to Mr. Gladstone
personally, no matter what the cost. A message
-was sent to Mr. Gladstone, who came out of the
castle and reoeived his admirer on the lawn, where
he was presented with the axe. Tho man returned
to Birmingham the same evening. On the lawn I
The Grand Old Man might at least have recipro-
cated the compliment paid him by axing the fellow
ihside.
Jit would not be legally correct to say that
Bam Nathan emerged from Judge Quinlan’s
court with his character whitewashed. As he
scurried down among the silent crowd with the
dismal smirk about bis mouth, it was apparent
that he was not only not whitewashed, but that
his skin was scraped, and he walked along in a
state of virginal cleanliness. Whitewash covers
niud marks, but scraping reveals original purity.
Ihat. was how it was with Sam, and censors should
take note of it. Sam wants them to do so. When
he issues his next invitations to a banquet com-
memorating his commercial enterprise, ho will
not patronise the distinguished in Parliament, as
heretotore, but will send his pink notes to the
wearers of mitres and ermine. And why not?
Has he not been tried in the lire and come out
scatheless?
Sir Bernard Burke, D.C.L., C. 8., Ulster
King of Arms, Knight At! endant on the Order of
St. Patrick, and Keeper of the State Papers of
Ireland, the author of the “ History of the Orders
of Knighthood,” “The Rise of Great Families,”
Reminiscences Ancestral and Anecdotal,” “ Royal
lamilies,” "The Vicissitudes of Families,” “Peer-
ages, extinct, dormant, or in abeyance,” “Land.-d
Gentry,” and “The Englishwoman’s Bible,” was
born in 1818; educated at Caen College, Normandy;
called to the English bar in 1839 ; apnointed
“Ulster” in ’53, and knighted in ’54. Sir Bernard
is a perfect mine of genealogical and heraldic lore;
a stickler for Dublin’s precedence over Edinburgh
as second city of the realm; a shrewd judge of
wine; an enthusiastic florist; an agreeable guest,
and a hospitable host, in his tabard he somewhat
resembles the king of clubs.
Widow Reardon was fined £3O last week
by the Gundagai bench, for sly grog-selling. Her
crib is at the Five-Mile railway cutting. A day or
two before her conviction William Campbell and
Dugald M’Leunan, railway sub contractors, had
lunch at her place, and also four drinks of spirits
each. Directly after lunch, M’Lennan wont for a
bathe in the Murrumbidgee. Some half hour
later, Campbell also went down to the river. As
soon as he got there he saw a naked body (his
partner’s, as it turned out) floating in the stream
with the face immersed; but ho made no attempt
to get it out of the water, allowing it to remain
there until the police were communica'ed with,
for which stupidity he was properly hauled over
the coals by the coroner. M’Lennan, was an
engineer, who had been 20 years in the Victorian
Railway Department. He was worth (so Campbell
deposed) some £6)00. Moral: Don’t drink four
nob biers of shanty grog and then go and bathe.
Sir George Bowen, in his address, on dis-
tributing the prizes, the other day, at Victoria
College, Hongkong, literally welled over with
Confucian sentiment. Hero are a few funks
(Chinese junks) thereof:—“Your own Confucius,
my Chinese friends, was the ‘Great Master.of
Knowledge.’ ‘II gran maestro di color chie
sanno,’ in the Eastern world, as Dante said of
Aristotle in the Western world You
should all treasure in your hearts what the Master
said when he asked: ‘ls it not pleasant to learn
with never failing application and perseverance ?’
And again when he laid down the rule that: ‘A
youth when at home should be obedient to his
parents, and when abroad respectful to his eiders
He should be earnest and truthful. He should
overflow with love to all, and cultivate the friend-
ship of the good. When he has time and opportu-
nity, after the performance of the primary duties,
he should employ them in polite studies.’ . .
‘Those personsarejonly asses and cows in men’s
clothes who neglect the study of the past and
present:’ Jin pu'Jmao ku chin, maniu mien chin
chit; and ‘learning is far more precious than gold:’
Huang chin yu ehia, shu wu chia.”
James Campbell (or, he was better known
os Jimmy Campbell), at one time town clerk of
Ararat (Vic.), and a better hearted fellow or a more
genial companion could haraly be found—he could
take an all-round hand at whatever was going on-
had a happy style as a raconteur, could sing a good
song, and as an exponent of the character of Bailie
Nicol Jarvie in “ Rob Roy ” there were few pro-
fessionals who could give him much of a start.
He was always ready to do a good turn for a friend,
or, for the matter of that, for anybody on whose
behalf his sympathies had been enlisted. On one
occasion a pious citizen from the neighbouring
Quartzopolis had been toying with the funds of a
Friendly Society, and Anally found himself located
in Ararat gaol for a two years’ stretch, with hard
labour. The latter meant hauling round a hand-
cart loaded with clay and stones and things to
repair the streets, and fix up the public gardens.
A friend of the party in difficulties applied to
Campbell to intercede on his behalf for a better
position; but as the prisoner still had to attend to
the cart, his friend again spoke to Campbell on the
matter. “ Well, there are some people who would
be ungrateful under any circumstanoes,” rejoined
the genial C. “Before I interested myself on his
behalf, he used to have to shove the cart along
from behind, but since then he has been promoted
to apoler. Goon, now! I can’t bear with such
ingratitude.”
Lady Munro ia dead. Like the gentle
Ophelia, she had “too much of water.” Perhaps
the reader will better understand us if wo say
Mother Munro was drowned a few days ago in a
ditch at Launceston, At one time, she was an ex-
ceedingly handsome woman, highly accomplished,
and of an active, brilliant intellect. This was her
character, however, before we chanced to know
her. When we saw her first, she was driving down
Pitt-street in a carriage drawn by a pair of high-
stepping greys. When we saw her last, a mimber
av’ the foorce, with sorrow stamped on his soul
and the map of Ireland ou his face, was vainly en-
deavouring to push her up to the DaUinghurst
station on a borrowe) fruit-truck. The Laun-
ceston Examiner gives her a send - off, and
it runs thusly “ Lady Munro (better known
as Mother Munro) was a sister of the well-
known Lady Mordaunt, who figured in a celebrated
divorce case in England. Mrs. Munro came to
Queensland with a captain, who passed for her hus-
band, and after a few months gave way to habits
of intemperance, going entirely to the bad. It
was stated th t she was not the wife of the cap-
tain, but had left her husband, his brother and
run away with the captain. The deceased woman
went to Sydney, and from there to Melbourne, in
both of which cities she made frequent appear-
ances at the police courts. She had an income of
£203 per annum, which she received quarterly; and
as there is evidenc“ that she was strangled before
the body was thrown into the clayhole, it was pro-
bably to get the money she had received that some
scoundrels carried out the deed.”
William Hammix received a liberal
education at the Sydney Orphanage. He was then
sent to the Catholic College at bale in Gippsland to
prosecute his studies. The curriculum at that
establishment was not confined to the lives of the
saints, so William had to knock about and make
himself generally useful, chopping wood, serving
at mass, humping a 5-ft. candio round the chapel
ou nolidays and shepherding the Bishop s crook
whenever his Lordship dropped in that way to
administer confirmation. We next hear of him
in Rockhampton, dressed as a young woman and
hired out as a lady help, washing up, sewing and
performing the multifarious duties of a domestic
in a well-ordered family. It is just here that we
find the ground giving way under us, so wo will
skip a seductive page in Bill’s career, and look in
upon him once again—this time in the Roc ibamp-
ton watchheuse, for being a prince in disguise.
Dr. Poland was sent for, and, having carefully
studied the case, swore that William belonged to
the same sex as the Prince of Wales. The Jad was
let off with a caution, but why a certificated
surgeon was sent for to testify is one of those
mysteries that will only be cleared up when the
reason is discovered why an Irishman carries his
pipe in his hat. Oh! and Dr. Poland. Do we
know him? G’langouto’ that, now! Who was
in charge of the Bendigo Hospital when De Lacy
Evans was kept for weeks under treatment as a
male lunatic and then transferred to Yarrra Bend,
where he was discovered to be a maiden lady of
unimpeachable character ? De Lacy it will be re-
membered had been twice married to women, and
was heavily handicapped with ». large family
Sandhurst, of course, was in fits over the aflair,
and-if the Rockhampton authorities had searched
the Southern hemisphere they wouldn’t be iikelv
to drop on a scientific man less likely to be “got
at in the matter of sex than Dr. Poland—ever
since Do Lacy Evans taught him how deceitful
appearances were.
R. S. Gregory, stock agent, Collins-street,
Melbourne, was 23 years of age, and led a moral
life. James Craig is a Sandridge ilsh-enticer, and
while pursuing the gentle art a few days ago he
came across a boat, the sole contents of which,
were a coat, and the following letter:—“To tho
Finder, * From R.S.G.’ 5| 3 1 84. Tho tinder of this
letter will know that I am no longer a sojourner
on the face of this horrible earth. It is too much
for me, so I give ii. If there is such a place as
hell, it can’t be worse than this. I hope God and
my family will forgive me for taking my own life
and bringing disgrace on them. It is not my fault,
for lam driven to it—too many land-sharks about.
They say I am m d—well, perhaps I ain. Very
lew men would live—much less go mad —and go
through all I have lately. Good-bye everybody
to-CKy, and try and think well of—lt. &. Gregory/’
Some people think so well of R.S.G., that they
don t believe he has stepped out at all but is only
trying on one of h.s moral little “goaks,” and so
they are turning the sea bottom upwards to find
the man who was scared by land sharks. If he
really is dea'i, however, he ought to be ashamed of
himself, as he actually left his own poetical obi-
tuary notice in the boata'ter him, thereby inciting
others to do the same, and thus take tue bread out
of the mouth of Alf.’s obituary bard. We quote
the verses, and the reader will note the poet had
the rare ability of balancing a line containing!
feet, with one that only totalled 2ft. 6 inches—
Here they go:—
“ I’m not afraid—l do not think I am;
I’ll face my death—at least they shall not stay
me.
And yet I wonder if I shall be calm,
Leaving my life, love, and friends behind me.
“ To-morrow I am nothing; and thereafter
Each day will dry a tear, if any sorrow,
To me ’twill bo the same, their grief or laughter;
Just 23, and to die to-morrow."
Nothing more from the seat of war, at present.
Sandy Brown was a well-known character
in the palmy days of the Pleasant Creek goldfield,
where he kept a grocery store and livery stable*.
Sandy was never charged with being either a
liberal-minded or a large-hearted fellow, but he
was a prominent member of the Presbyterian
Church, and an uncompromising stickler for the
tenets of the Westminster Conle»sion of Faith.
Notwithstanding his extreme piety and bia haid
and fast Sabbatarian proclivities, he was never
above turning an honest penny on the Sabbath
Day, evidently forgetting that section of the Deca-
logue which enjoins on the believer the duty of
allowing his ox and his ass to participate in the
Sabbatic rest. Probably, Sandy did not consider
that the attenuated frames wnich he stabled and
hired out to his customers as coming under the
section of the act referred to, for on Sundays he
usually drove a good trade—better, perhaps, than
on any other day of the week. And he also
had a pardonable habit-which, by the way,
should have secured him the gold medal of
the Humane Society, many years ago—of always
cautioning his customers against reckless or
furious driving. “Don’t drive too fast, now,’’
would be his invariable warning note as the horse
and chariot started from the establishment, and
the charioteer would grab the whip and make the
animated hat-r ck prance up the street. Well,
one day a prominent citizen, who had just “pegged
out,” was abmit to be carried to the local ceme-
tery, when one of the mates of the deceased
called on Sandy to hire a trap for the solemn pro-
cession. The best “moke” in the stable was
selected for the mournful occasion, a sad-looking
sable-hued animal, with a head like a child’s coffin,
a horse that would only move on compulsion.
The hirer was a stalwart “cousin Jack,” who had
previously traded with Sandy, and just as he was
about to urge for the fiery steed, the stereotyped
warning, in “braid Scotch,” “Dinna’drive too
fast,” rang in his ears It was too much for the
“Cousin,” who promptly replied with a burst of
ornate profanity, “Damme, I’ll break his b
neck, or keep up with the funeral.”
Theresa Pauline, Countess Hinckel, died
in January in Silesia, aged 72. She was the
daughter of a Moscow tailor. To obtain her
emancipation she married her father’s cutter,
Francis Villoing, whom she soon abandoned, in
order to begin her career as an adventuress, in
which her arms were force of will, the knowledge
of five languages, great musical talent, and a
strange beauty of a Russian type—dark hair,
enormous and prominent eyes, Kalmuck nose,
large mouth and fleshy lips, and a beautiful body
Her first conquest at Paris was the pianist, Henri
Hertz. She passed as his wife, dazzled Paris by
her luxury and beauty, and went to Court. It
being discovered that her first husband was still
living, she migrated to London, where she ab-
sorbed half a dozen fortunes, and made the
acquaintance of Count Henckel. She went back
to Paris rich enough to buy herself a real title;
and so in 1851, her first husband having died in the
meantime, she married Marquis Fr. Aranjo de
Pa'iva. He received a pension of 12,000 francs a
year in return for his title, and shot himself in
1870. Once more free, Madame de Pa'iva married
her old protector, Henckel, a cousin of Bismarck.
During the Empire Madame de Pa'iva lived in
royal luxury, in the Champs Elysties and at Pont-
chartrain, where she owned the chateau and
domain where Madame de la Vallitire once lived
In the Champs she built herself a mansion
of unheard-of interior splendour, famous for its
onyx staircase. Her wealth was fabulous; so
fabulous that she could afford to order the archi-
chect, Lefuel, to reproduce the palace of the
Tuileries on her Silesian estate, and to have woven
at Lyons a hanging for her Paris salon which cost
800,000 francJ. Her celebrated Wednesday dinners
weie never very gay. The hostess was often
absent-minded and strangely pre-occupied. There
must have been some crime in her life. On sentait
le cadavre. Madame de Paiva had the true Cir-
cassian mania for painting her face: and it was she
who set the fashion of that maquillage which the
ladies of the Empire abused. After the Franco-
German war, Madame de Pa'iva, who was sus-
pected of having been useful to her friends, the
diplomatists, rarely came to Paris ; her French
friends “dropped” her, and she retired to her
fcilesian Tuileries, carrying with her her millions
and her diamonds, that comprised the cream of
many a royal casket-from that of Marie Antoin-
ette, to that of the Empress Eugenie, whose
diamonds, sold in London after the battle of Sedan,
adorned the neck of this painted Jezebel, when
she married her third husband in 1873.
James Boseawen Duff, Esq., late Deputy-
Registrar-General and lay-reader, has, in company
with Pym, the Post-office pilferer, been sent to
gaol; and, therefore, it is but natural to surmise
(both gentlemen being “well-connected”) the
light of society will shine but dimly for a consider-
able period. Mr. Rogers made a most affecting
appeal for Duff, enlarging upon h f s excellent
character (I), and laying great stress upon the fact
that he was “sick.” These self-helping aristocrats
somehow, generally are sick at these peculiar
junctures. The mental strain is more, you see,
than their poor nervous systems can bear. But
the jury seemed unable to reconcile to themselves
the notion that Mr. Duff’s sickness entitled him to
the privilege of stealing £llOO odd of the publio
money, and Uoscawen was convicted and sen-
tenced to four years, without bard labour—a piece
of astounding clemency on the part of a kind-
hearted Judge (!), which will, no doubt, sink deep
into the grateful heart of society 1 The troub'e
?T ow lu ls ’i 10wever ’ that th o church-wardens at the
North Shore will be under the necessity ol' enlist-
ing a new plate humper, and we are sure Bos-
cawen’s services at the lectern will be sorely
missed by the aristocratic congregation. And ail
this reminds us that a curious circumstance in coc-
nection with this martyr’s downfall consists in the
fact that no one seems to have any idea what
he has done with the money. And it is, perhaps, a
significant fact that in every case of a conviction
of one of these “ holy rogues ” the same question
arises, making it ever tho father of a deal of won-
dering surmise on the part of the public. They are
never seen to spend anything; eschew drink and
cigars; wear costumes of tho short-pants-and-
ootton umbrella type; and are “ deeply interested
in all vital subjects even distantly affecting the
welfare of the country.” They don’t speculate:
do not gamble or bet; are not even known to have
a tighf-rope dancer “ under their protection.”
We believe, in many cases, they have the plunder
safe all th® time, and trust to influence and thn
clergy to pull them through without having ta
aisgorge. It is easy enough to spend money in
Sydney, heaven knows! But when you do spend
it, your habits become at once known to a larsn
number of people. Why, it was only the other
day that, having won a considerable stake on »
toot-race, we ordered at the Diner de Paris a half
crown bottle of claret. And didn't the
crane their necks! Commanding, subsequentlv
another—we give the popular pronunciation--’
homlick, a fat foreign gentleman opposite
(probably a prince in his own country), who waa
highly deoorated with salad-dressing, said, under
his breath, to anothor foreign gentleman in an
extreme condition of gravy, r ‘ Saprteti.' mats U £
nourlt blen, ce monsieur, labas!" Pym (who a-nr
twelvemonths) went in for betting, and took thn
money in order to accomplish a “slither-'’ and
from his extreme clumsiness in the matter it
probable that, prior to doing this unimportant
burgle, he had never stolen anything belonging tn
the PoBtmaater-Qeneral of more intrinsic valiin
than Bulletins weekly for himself and a select
circle of friends.
Nubar Pasha is over sixty; a short, cornu
lent, dark-complexioned man, with affinities lY.r
knavish men and knavish ways. When Mehemet
A.li kept a tobacco divan in Macedonia, he and
Nubar s father were engaged together in mercan
tile transactions. Nubar was sent Westtostudv
European languages for commercial purposes
He boarded with a pastor, went to a day-school
and acquired a superficial touch of respectable
Protestantism, which enables him to get on with
good English people. Nubar's good temper and
quick intelligence recommended him who,,
young, to Mehemet Ali. That successful ad
venturer was, when he took the Armenian
In*® his service, old, suspicious, and irritable
Nubar s discretion was never at fault. Ibrahim
was sent on a political tour in the West, and Nubar
was chosen to be his confidential scribe He
watched and quietly waited for advancement, and
was attentive to the French Colonel Seve who
organiaed the Egyptian Army. That person was
able to dispose of military contracts. Nubar came
again to England in 1850, to represent Egypt at the
Hyde Park Crystal Palace. “Pam.” made much
of him. While Ismail was playing his close game
against Abbas Pasha and Said Pwha Nub JZs
engaged on diplomatic missions to Europe u„
Said s removal he became Ismail s rigot-hand man
It was Nubar who obtained from Abdul Aziz the
right to change the order of succession in
Egypt, and who invented the title of Khedive
Having at the Porte only to bribe Turkish officials'
and being provided with ample funds to do so
Nubar met with no obstaoles there; but he had
difficulties with the foreign Embassies. An envov
who stood upon his dignity must have failed The
Armenian used, whenever he called on M. Bourse
the Ambassador of Napoleon 111., to kiss his hand
as he entered and took leave. A person once to
whom he was relating the history of his negotia-
tions, started on hearing to what length of sveo-
phancy he went. “ Que voulez-vous '? ” said
Nubar; Bourrde est un imbecile, et moi io
suls un Oriental.” Nubar taught his master to
make hay while the sun shone. Egvnt is
now bankrupt, but Ismail and the “ practi-
cally English ’’ Nubar are arch-millionaires.
When Ismail s throne tottered, Nubar, without a
mo ? ie iP, t B ,hesitation, turned against him-not
probably, from personal ill-will, but because good
Imth and trickery are words which to him mean
self-interest. There is no better husband
father and relation than Nubar. Last winter the
struggle which he underwent between paternal
love and financial prudence cost him sharp pangs
He had set his heart on marrying his daughter to a
Prince. But the dowry required was enormous
and the excellent papa did not think he could
safely give it, unless he could first succeed In ob-
taining a water concession from the Khedive, to
obtain which he has long manasuvred. He warns
to make a canal from the first Nile Cataract, to ir-
rigate that part of the desert bordering the fertile
Delta. Possibly, now that he has again attained
power, Ills daughter will marry the Prince her
dowry being provided either by the Egyptian
people or by dupes on the Stock Exchange.
When we first saw Dr. Quick, M.L.A. for
Bendigo, he was a boy, driving a whim for 5s a
week. Then he became connected with Maekay’s
paper-the Bendigo A dvertiseb—studied in his
leisure hours, obtained a degree in arts at the Mei-
bourne University, and, subsequently turning his
attention to law, boro off the coveted L.LD. Just
as the French conscript carries a marshal’s baton
in his knapsack, so the colonial gossoon carries the
highest literary and political honours in his ragged
P° o c . k f ete - a during the Berry regime he slid info a
seat for Sandhurst, and has held It ever since. We
have heard him speak, and we have heard Glad-
stone. We prefer Gladstone And yet Quick is
probably the best speaker of the three Bendigo
members. Mackay has a voice like a barrel-organ
when the owner is looking after the hat and the
monkey twisting the handle the wrong wav Bur-
rowes—as decent an old chap as ever flavoured a
barre of rum with a plug of tobacco-bas such
an elementary acquaintance with syntactical
canons that you sometimes wish h e wculd
sit down and give Henderson Africanus or
Fischer the Baunsehiedist a show. Now-a-
dajlB i’ 7 he , n ai i old schoolmate slaps the Dr
on the back with ’“Elio, Jack, oi’ man, ’ow's the
missus? the member draws himself up to his ex-
treme height, and remarks with cold hauteur
i; M Z na '"« la Dr- Quick.” Well, we don’t wondei l
at it. Wo have been there before. Whenever
twasiour luck to meander down Collins or George
streets in a new rig out, wa were sure to meet
some rowsy vagabond who had known us in our
er days, and was acquainted with the details
or every shady transactiou in our career and that
of our immediate progenitors. Oh, and woare
told about the Dr. s being ducked at the Univer-
sity by the budding sawbones-es. We believe this
to be an error. It was another law student who
had to wade through the pond with a mob of
young medicos urging him on with ribald exDre«-
sions punctuated with mud. Of course we re-
member the row that took place a few years ago
when the authorities closed the doors of the Mel-
bourne University, till the rights of the disrmta
between Law and Medicine were discovered
is how it was. A 1 fitter appeared (in the Melbourne
Daily Telbghaph, we think) from ala w student
complaining of the medical boys-that they wofe
doubtful linen, carried black clay pipes about an
inch long in their waistcoat potfkets, smoked to-
bacco ntrong enough to make the bo’s’n of an
American whaler pelt sharks with his Christmas
d i“?. er > dodged up r ?ebt-of-ways whenever
they saw a mail with hooked nose and
superabundant rings standing at his shop
door, and put on a leer of recognition
when young ladies without gloves looked their
way and smiled. On the face of it this was pure
Cf‘umny. It is well-known that medical Students
all the world over are young- men creditable toanv
community. We’ve known hundreds of them in
Pans, London, Edinburgh, Dublin, and Melbourne,
aad “Of course there might be a black sheep here
and there-as a iuie they knew nothing of
skittles, billiards, or poker, seldom visited public-
houses, and then only for “squab,” had no female
acquaintances outside their own familiesand were
™ at «y e to their religious duties They To™
herel what are you runniug into us?l Wei'.
« as y° u appear to know
covered 1 an* o°L, he w !.' lter °f the letter was dis-
covered, and 8. Jury of young- AbcrnGthrs was
t 0 try h l m ’ Q ulck defended him, but
the result was a put-up job from the beginning.
He was found guilty, and sentencsd to “foot it ’’
turough the University pond. He objected, but a
dpzen willing hands were on tne bank to start
kl P}’ he6tru °k for tbe other side, as we
wJi d K coarse , badinage and road metal. He left
5. Medicine trout 3 WOS theemiof tdeLaw
two-and-twenty years ago since
n, s d Z^U dley i S Beerct ” won for Mary Elizabeth
"J * ddo ? her Pj® ce »mong the sensational novelists
LfiP>^r day ’ She was then twenty-five rears old,
Py no means a tyro with pen aud ink, since tor
years pieviously she had been an incessant,
\ olummous contributor of murder and mystery
flpt,on P Gnt) y dreadfuls. Since
•?, I?? than forty-two novels (including
n™™ I ’. now : coming out in the Whitehall
Keview) have been puDlished under her name-
some of thorn, indeed, the matter originally sup-


RINGWORM
T have had a ringworm Humour, got at the bar-
ber’s for six years, which spread all over my ears,
fac<?, and neck, and which itched and irritated me
a great deal. I have used many remedies, by ad-
vice of physicians, without benefit. Your Cuti-
cura Remedies have entirely cured me, taking
every bit of humour off my face and leaving it as
smooth as a dollar. I thank you again for the
help it has been to me.
GEORGE W. BROWN, Mason.
41 Marshall St., Providence, R.I.
Tne Diamond Dyes are the best dyes made
Have you tried them? If not, then you should do
so. They are the best, and, at the same time, the
cheapest dyes in this market. Why ? Because
they are true to colour every time, and can always
be depended on to produce the desired effect. One
package will dye from three to four times more
than any other ayes sold. All dealers sell them, or
will get them for you. Insist on having them, and
take no others. All sold at one price; Cd. only.
Wholesale by Elliott Bros., Sydney and Brisbane *
Mashers.— The best and lightest are made by
Otford, Hatter, 653 George-street, Brickfield Hill.
QTls.e rErSelia/tole LSta.gfg'ies I
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMIira, Merchant & Importer,
22 &2I Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
ill METALLIC MS OB BIBS!
MAKE
ABSOLUTELY THE BEST ROOFING KNOWN.
It is light, ornamental, cheap, and durable. Is used, and very
highly approved of, by the English Government Departments and
by the Royal Engineers.
References given to Sydney architects and builders by whom it has been already used
wtth unqualified approval and success.
AWARDED THE GOLD MEDAL AT THE PARIS EXHIBITION OF 1878.
Before using any other roofing material, oall and inspect the above at
TOZER and CO.,
287 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The SMITH Organs
Have no rival
on the Planet.
Sole Agents
GRAMPTON
AND)
LmSfomll:
fiSKI
H
***m '.iStJ
wwiwagsisSiMiiMii,jijjTj?Tyr'~~Ssi^r«
I !
281
GEORGE ST.,
OPPOSITE;
HUNTER ST.
FINEST STOCK OF PIANOS AND ORGANS IN SYDNEY.
THE SPECIAL CLUB BICYCLE FOR 1884
Has bean further Improved and Lightened in weight.
The SPECIAL CLUB has always stood at the
head of the trade, and as now improved .
is unquestionably the GRANDEST
Machine that has ever been ofFered. .
Our SEMI-RACERS are strong
enough for Road Riding,
and light enough for .
the Track
OUR BICYCLES
T?ke Special Club *
The Australian Club
The Universal do. .
The Boys' Owa . •
s m
If
C'
Ckeyleamore
The Imperial Glnb
The Humber Pattern
&c n &e.
X 4 OUR TRIGYGLES
XFOR 1884 combine all
.« ‘ tl?e improvements tl?at were
_. • ‘ suggested by the experience of
.* ‘ 1883, and as each style of Machine
. - has been further lightened without decrease
of strength, our TRIGYGLES will be even more
; popular in 1884 than they were during 1883. <
Our_C3aeylesmore and Imperial .Club Tricycles.
Piled to the aforesaid penny dreadfuls and dished
fib anefy 7 . yet the thajorlty of thfettl highly Charged
frith dramatic situations, possessed of skilfully
evdlred plots, find revfeab'hg ofl the writer’s part
shrewd ejtpOfiende of the wofld*- rill of them more
Of less senSatiOhfil with the spide of mqfder or
bigamy of arson. In “Henry Dunbar’! there are
ioeries of Intense dramatic power', notably that in
fthitib Mafgarbt Wilmot bursts In iipon the man
efie belifevOS to be her father's mfirderef, only to
arid he is her father; and to realise that it is he who
the aSsassin., “ Vbtefi” ahd “Dead Sea Fruit”
d r e, perhaps, tne be?t types of\ the less sensational
Brandon novel. All Miss BraddOn’s work, or
nearly all, is eminently readable. She has great
invention, almost invariably extraordinary vi-
vacity of style, and, without overdoing it. is
admirable at descriptive scenery. In the selec-
tion of chapter titles as a sort of “index to
contents” she is particularly happy. Her
Method of work is this: having first men-
Clribotated her plot, she accurately skele-
MISS BRADDON.
tonises it, as it were, on a large card, adding
thereto names of characters, their relationships,
chronological mems, &c. &c. Everything being
thus mapped out, she works away so many hours
a day, putting flesh and skin and tint and expres-
sion upon the dry bones; and, on an average, turns
out two novels a year. Mrs. Maxwell (Missßraddon
married Maxwell the publisher—possibly to re-
venge on his the wrongs sustained by her tribe) is
a shrewd business womaai— her lather was a London
solicitor. Sh« loves luxury; is most kindly in her
disposition; has a passion for horses and dogs, and
yet has a frugal mind and a weather eye always
open to the main chance. She isn’t above con-
niving at the publication as new of old work done
by her in her green childhood; and she has had the
Philistine barbarity (not to say brutality) to cut
down the works of Scott, Cooper, and other
eminent writers to a size suitable for a penny issue
(for the million) by her husband's firm. In 1873
she published a drama called “Griselda,” which,
notwithstanding the fact that prior to 1862 she had
had a good deal of theatrical experience, and
despite the dramatic power shown in many of her
novels, proved a decided “frost.” Neither as the
editor of Belgravia has Mrs. Maxwell proved a
success, her conduct of that magazine disclosing
that she does not possess the faculty of literary
discrimination. She can word-paint from nature
herself, but is only a very poor judge of what
others can do in that line. It has been her good
luck to make a pile by hitting the taste of to-day.
When to-day becomes to-morrow, Miss Braddon,
her sensational novels and their success, will in all
probability be forgotten.
* * *
Francis Horace Stubley, squatter, of
South Yarra (Vic.), ex-M.P. (Queensland), who is
insolvent, doesn’t know whether his wife has some
£lOOO worth of jewellery he purchased for her or
not. Judge Noel, to re'resh his memory, has
quartered him upon Mr. Magee—to make gee his
mnemonic powers. Stubley says when he wac
mining in Queensland he made at the rate of £lsi 0
to £3(00 a week, in eight years netting £200,000.
Stutdey is no arithmetician; eight years, or 416
weeks’ takings at the rate of £l5OO a week, is
£624 000—The South Sea Bard lias been artisti-
cally photographed by Tuttle, of 42L George-street.
... The late Professor Badbam did good work for
this colony. Of that there cannot be a reasonable
doubt. But, since during his whole term of ser-
vice he was handsomely paid, the question qf a
pension for his widow should not be entertained
for a moment. It would be setting a very bad
precedent to grant her one Professor Gurney,
now on leave in Europe, to represent Sydney Uni-
versity at the Edinburgh University Tercentary.
Edinburgh University was founded by that wisest
100 l m Christendom, the pedantic, cowardly,
catamitic, evesdropping hound, James VI. of
Scotland and I. of England A. P. Backhotso to
act ns D. G. Judge in the South-West during
Forbes’ absouce. Backhouse was “called” in’76.
Mr. A. G. Taylor terms the Governor “a con-
temptible old fowl ” A. G. evidently looks upon
himself as the boss young Shanghai rooster... An
old man, father of Joe Lee, of Wiloannia, ound
dead, presumably of thirst, in the bush on the
Cobar road, some 17 miles from Wilcaunia; only
motbes on him, a shirt. The Walterus asks:—
But how did the poor old man get so far away
alone, seeing he was a cripple and very frail?.. .
u a n .Looney,|a very ancient Warrnambool identity,
official tintinnabulator to the Arm of Macgregor
for over 30 years, died last week Conrad Frei,
flower and fruit gardener, one of Rockhampton's
old identities,’ died last week The late T.
flolam, ex-Inspector-Gc neral Victorian Schools,
left all his property (£1600) to his wife and ch idren.
Reconciliation seems to have been complete ...
captain T. H. Pearson, according to the Parkes
gazette, Jate of the Bengal staff corps, and for-
merly of the 42nd Highlanders, died last week at
•forties, where ho had resided two years, mainly
employed in organising and drilling the local
volunteer company.... James S. Troy, the Coota-
mandra publican, turned up his toes on the 12th.
froja /wit.'....01d Tim Manoney, of West Mait-
Jand, gone home ; aged 72. Half a century ago he
was the master of the first R..C. Denominational
ocnool started in Maitland; for many years he was
, 0 c J°? k ot Bt> John’s Cathedral; Monsignor
Lynch left him a legacy whiGh ho has had to pass
, Tim was a Oorkonian, else his brogue
be bed him. Mrs. Steer, tut. 83, and 50 years in the
colony, died on Thursday last. She was the first
wmto woman who ever set foot in Goulburn,
was little better than a blackfellow’s camp
e tlme A but she hun E on < and lived to see it
••• Editor Forsyth (Delatite Free Press)
!i e T ll « )3 ' for horse-whipping Editor Curtis (Mans-
Guardian), by Mansfield (Vic.) bench;
and costs paid by the public.... Insolvency:
’fed Percy Field, of Sydney, barrister-at-law.
toi i tes ,£o98 > assets £292. I nsolvency due entirely
in fri ■& mGn ! ; ot non-suit given against insolvent
offprla + v< Wtadeyer. Petitioner alleges that be
Brn!u?iL to the defendant to reserve odlv the
andi.iPossi ble liviDg expenses for himself
H ii J am 'ly. and to pay over, from time to time.
sairn,?/ esidue of bis earnings in satisfaction of
Nun judgment, but that the defendant refused the
expn,\*- threatened petitioner with immediate
and w 'ii ; E - P. airtax KoBB ' L R-C.P., of Sydney,
Wllham Barrett, M. 8., of Melbourne, ad-
q,®d members of the Royal College of Surgeons,
depose JP n ®‘‘ cai ,conductor Goff, foundgullty of in-
fer 6 assau lting Elizabeth ilooper, and sent up
Vniiw 0 y ® arB - Hum! 4th Regiment N.S.W.
Lieu/prfa^?i^ ntrs : tV* a J° r -A'ex. Wilkinson to be
b °i n r^ Co i 0 , noJ - Captain Charles F. Stokes to
Camin? Lieutenant Charles Ranelaud to be
«nt <4in^’i-i t i he! T N j? wcastl ® Cor PS. Second Lieuten-
the J - Homage to be first Lieutenant in
Cantfii?. We Corps. Albert John Gould to be
an!(WUH^ r Lowman to be first Lieutenant,
ant nf Wells Robinson to be Second Lieuten-
Etmiw™ &ia S]eton Corps. Captain John C.
ot T, the Volunteer Artillery, to be
Corns Percy Owen, of the Wollongong
\ olunteer Artillery, to have the brevet rank
of Major. „.Mr. William Came, garotter, sent up
by the Chief Justice for 10 years, and throe several
whippings of %?)lashes each... .A Mrs. Campbell, of
GOulbufn,- hnS Identified the body found some
three weeks back In a paddock at Gunning, per-
fectly naked and partially eaten by birds, as that
of her huSbafld, who had been missing since
Christinas ... W. ft. ft win, chemist, late Mayor of
Blacftall (Q ), found dead in his chair last week
Sirtfnry ean’tleaVe England before May, the month
whereof o tie of His N.S.W. disciples once wrote:—
“ And tfr.e bate fiatise to blesk, my Land,
Old England’s mOofl of May,
When for Australia’s weal was born
Her statesman of to-day.”
... Alexander Lhldlaw, saddler, of Wilcannlfl,gone
where the good ffe|lows go j born at Yatr, Selkirk-
shire, 47 vearS ago; arrived fn Victoria when four
years old ; learned his trade In Melbourne j fol-
lowed it at Hamilton, Belfast, Penola (S.A.j, and
lately at Wilcannia. An active pedestrian and
keen sportsman A compliment to PT.S. Wales (?)
Lord Sydney is to have the late Duke of Mary-
borough’s garter — Archibald Forbes’s “The Lon-
don Press,” appearing in instalments in GKAJfkY,
is a attlj,plagiarism of Hatton's “ Journalistic Lon-
don”— Hatlph'S facts minus Hatton point, and plus
any amountjor Iflfffntitttion that a certain illustri-
ous war correspondent is pdf excellence the press-
man of all time.
v * i
Lady Mordaunt must have had' a feffible
lot of sisters. Every other soiled dove one reads
about as having suicided, or been done to death by
violence, or been sent up for naughtiness, is set
down by the garbage collector as “ a sister of Lady
Mordaunt, whose—etc.” Zola, the founder of
the “realistic” school of novelists, never appears
in a salon , and when he visits one of his colleagues
in naturalism, he talks “shop” about the circula-
tion of his books, and the scurvy thievery of those
American publishers, who translate his novels and
never pay him a cent.. of the Earl of Bad-
nor’s younger sons is a Director in the Insurance
Company in which his lordship informs his tenants
that they must Insure. The motto of the Pleydell-
Bouveries (whose head is Badnor’s earl) Is cara
patria carior libertas (beloved country, still dearer
liberty). Much his lordship cares for liberty appar-
ently — Hubert Herkomer, A.R.A ,is a natural-
ised Englishman, born of poor parents in Bavaria;
aged 35: a musician, a painter, a sculptor, and a
blacksmith; believes in mesmerism ; neither
drinks alcohol nor smokes tobacco The Rajah
Surendra Mohan Tagor, K.C.S 1., is a “Mus.
Doc.” of the University of Philadelphia
Captain Hawley Smart, sporting novelist and
turfite, was born'in Kent In '36. He is a nephew
of that game (rather “ high ” game-y) old " sport,”
the late Sir Joseph Hawley ; also a nephew, by
marriage, of “Thomas Ingoidsby.” Smart saw
some service in the Crimea and in India. “ Breezy
Langton” brought him his first literary fame and
profit. With the money he made by “ A Hace for
a Wife” he paid his losses over that defeat of
Pero Gomez in ’69, which no f’lah could under-
stand. “Bound to Win” is the story of the ’57
Derby (Blink Bonny’s year). Smart lives at Dover
. .Dr. Julius Rosenberg, the Jewish gentleman who
recently ki led Stefan Batthyany in a duel with
pistols, in Hungary, has been condemned to two
years’ impriB"ment, and to pay the costs of the
trial A Civil list pension of £l5O has been
granted to F. J. Furnlvail. the Old English scholar,
founder of the Chaucer and the New Shakesnere
soc'etics .. Gone to his own place, the Baron
Boyer de Sainto Suzanne, Governor-General and
de facto ruler of Monaco. Apoplexy at breakfast.
Suzanne, during the Second Empire, was one of
Tbird Nap’s most dissolute and corrupt Prefects.
Viveur, gambler, peculator, he fattened on the
vices of half the fools of Europe The 1856
edition of “Men of the Time” mixed up Robert
Owen and Bishop Wiiberforce in a most exasper-
ating way for the latter. Under “ Oxford, Bishop
of,” was the following: “A sceptic as regards re-
vealed religion, he is nevertheless an out-and-out
believer in spirit movements!” This matter had
strayed from the notice of Owen.... Lieutenan-
t Lord Chelmsford, G.C.8., retires from the
“active list” in July. The army will feel safer
theD Bradlauvh's brother, who Is severely or-
thodox, has a complete faith in the conversion of
“Iconoclast.” The new Earl of Bantry, who has
just succeeded his father in the title (and was
last heard of in Australia), was at one time
a private in the 2nd Lite Guards At the
time of bis enlistment, Viscount Maidstone served
in the ranks of the Blues; while the Hon. Richard
Westenra, brother of that Orange zealot Lord
Rossmore, was wearing a sergeant’s stripes in the
ranks of the 4th Royallrish Dragoon Guards; and
Lord Melville’s nephew had been recently pro-
moted from the ranks or the 17th Lancers.
Westenra afterwards got a commission in the 9th
Lancers.... Chinese Gordon is said to have paid
“CHINESE” GORDON.
several visiis to Few some years ago, and made
inquiries nf all the officials at the gardens as to
whether they could give him any information
which would enable him to determine the
exact botanical nature of tho Tree of Life!
This is, of course, a thundering lie
Here's an old story of il re aalantuomo re-told :
Shortly after his marriage, he met a peasant-girl
upon the steps of the Palace at Turin. “Do point
out the King to me,” she begged ; “I should like
to see him.” “I am the King,” he said. “Eh!
bah !” said the girl, laughing into his face. “ The
Princess would not hv.ve chosen such an ugly
man.”
Do you know the man we love above all
others on this earth ? Well, we'li tell you. The
demure youth who comes in at our busiest time
with a little trifle in verse, hastily thrown off,
which he thinks will suit UB.
They say that though Chiarini made a pile
at Oootamundra, ho went awav without leaving a
farthing wherpwith to burv his tentman. Scott,
who was killed by an accident. What of that?
Why, if we were to bury all the people wo n»e up
in the course of the year, we should always hare a
hearse at the door. Pooh!
It is a common truism that one of the con-
demnedest hard things to achieve is minding your
own business An editor, however, knows ‘that
the hardest thing is to get other folks to allow him
to mind his own business. Yes.
Samivel Griffith, the Queensland Premier,
declares: “The Welsh who have come to Queens-
land have always been honest men.” Humph!
Sam is a Welshman. Now that Sam has started the
subject, he might a'so tell us what style of char-
acter the Welsh who have stayed at homo bear.
“ Ott'sPloof! T.’ffy'll knocktho Llfghpwdnaffghbq
out of Bam if ever she lays hur hanats on him.”


TO THOSE LADIES AND GENTLE-
MEN who require .
Carpets or Floorcloths, Window Blinds,
Curtains, Linoleums, Beds, Bedding,
or General Furnishing Drapery,
HORDERN’S, in PITT-STREET,
PRESENT THEIR COMPLIMENTS,
and
DESIRE to DRAW ATTENTION
to the
LARGE STOCK of ABOVE-
MENTIONED ARTICLES
in the
PITT-STREET EMPORIUM.
We sell cheap, and consequently not
only command a very large trade, but
have the honour repeatedly year after
year of carrying out the N.S.W. con-
tracts.
Try us.
HORDERN BROTHERS, 311, Pitt-
street.
ONNETS.'BONNETS. BONNETS.
HATS. HATS.
CAPS.
B
LADIES, and YOUNG LADIES,
we beg to draw you attention particu-
larly to
OUR NICE, OUR VERY NICE,
MILLINERY,
JUST IMPORTED from PARIS
ex recent steamers.
MILLINERY both TRIMMED and
UNTRIMMiiD.
Whilst our styles in Millinery
ARE PERFECTLY UNIMPEACHABLE,
yet the
PRICES ARE LOW—WITHIN THE
REACH OF ALL.
N.B.—Orders from the country well
looked after.
HORDERN BROTHERS, 311, Pitt-
street.
O COUNTRY VISITORS ABOUT
TO VISIT SYDNEY
on purpose to see Mr. H ANLAN’S EX-
HIBITIONS.
When you’re down here come into Pitt-
street and PAY US A VISIT.
We always look after Country Orders
well, pack the goods carefully, and
send them quickly.
Send lor our Business Book,
100 pages, free.
HORBERN’S, in PITT-STREET.
REBBMAK.ING, DRESSMAKING,
and
TAILORING.
DRESS, DRESS, DRESS,
and
FASHION, FASHION, FASHION
“ indulged in with moderation is bene-
ficial ” and right, so says the greatest of
modern philosophers—(whilst living
within one’s income). Now nowhere in
the city of Sydney can this dictum be
complied with to your satisfaction so
well as at
HORDERN’S, in Pitt-street.
We are absolutely
UNC H ALLENGEA BLE
in
PRICE and STYLE.
Try us for yourselves.
D
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 18th March, 1884.
mENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP-
I PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Bates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
Additions Police Officer’s Quar-
ters, Dubbo
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Offices, Paddington
Drainage, &c. Boatman’s House,
Newcastle _
Erection of Police Buildings,
Cafcoar
Erection of Court House, In-
verell _
Fencing Recreation Reserve,
fttorloo
Construction of Masonry Dam,
Cataract River
Tuesday,
35th March,
at 11 o’clock.
Additions, &c., Courthouse,
Menindie „ ,
Trying on Gas, &c., Callen Park
Asylum „ _
Erection of Fencing, &c., Pro-
testant Orphan Bchool, Parra-
matta
Erection of Sheds, Closets, &c.,
Hospital for the Insane, Par-
ramatta
Iron Bridge, with Timber Ap-
proaches, over the Lansdowne
F River, at Coopernook
Bridge over the Hunter River
at Denman
Erection of Stationmaster’s
Hmise at Eskbank, G,W. Ra’l-
way
Tuesday,
Ist April,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Cottages, &c., Callan
Park Asylum
Public Wharf, Five Dock, Par-
ramatta River
The Construction and Supply of
the Whole of the Wrought
and Cast Ironwork required
for the Superstructure of a
new Tunnel at liedfern, Great
Southern Railway
Erection of Retaining Wall,
Fence, &c., Pilot Dagwell’s
House, Pilot Station, New-
castle
Tuesday,
Bth April,
at 11 o’clock.
Eraotion of Ladies’ Refreshment
Room, &c., Botanic Gardens
Additions to Court-house, Mer-
riwa
Erection of Engine and Boiler
House, Albury Water Supply
Works
Engine House, &c., Goulburn
Water Supply
Engine, House, &c., Wagga
Wagga Water supply
Alterations, See., Court House,
Brewarrina
Tuesday,
15th April,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Breakwatei',
&0., Northern side of entrance
to Clarence River.
Construction of Timber Over-
shot Dam, Trial Bay Prison
Tuesday,
32nd April
at 11 o’clock.
Lease of Refreshment-room at
Werris Creek Railway Station
Erections of Additions, &c.,
Police Barracks, Wahrett
Tuesday,
29th April,
at 11 o’clock.
Manufacture and Supply Qf
150,000 Tons of Steel Rails.
10th February,
1885,
at 11 o’clock.
f. A. WgWHT,
WHAT TO INVEST IN !
WHY INVEST !
HOW INVEST !
WHEN TO INVEST !
WHERE TO INVEST !
WHAT TO INVEST IN !
LAND! Because so long as the colony advances
land cannot decrease in value.
LAND! Because its acquisition is the first step
towards prosperity and position.
LAND! Because you can build a house and
save the exorbitant price charged for house rent.
LAND! Because by so doing you can leave a
legacy to your children that is always increasing
in value.
LAND! Because, should your inclinations so
lie, you can cultivate Farm or Garden pioduce,
or direct your attention to that most profitable
and pleasing occupation of raising poultry, the
demand for such being ever increasing, and the
pursuit of which will give healthful recreation to
yourself and family.
WHY INVEST!
Because you never know when reverses may
come, and money that is invested in land is always
secure. Because a man who is a landed proprietor
is a better Citizen, a better Husband, and a better
Father.
WHEN TO INVEST !
Now that Land is at a low price, in consequence
of money being tight, large buyers are not inclined
to invest, and thus allow small capitalists to secure
some of the good things of this world. NOW!
Because Land can never be cheaper than it is at
the present time. NOW! Because the rapid
increase in population must create a demand for
new settlements. NOW! Because you are earning
good wages, and a few shillings a week will never
be missed by you. NOW! Because the shillings
invested at present will rapidly grow into pounds.
HOW TO INVEST !
In Land in Small Allotments that have been
laid out by the practical agents whose experience
teaches them where increase in value is likely to
ensue, and whose interest is identical with the
purchasers’ to advance the value of land they are
selling.
WHY INVEST IN SMALL ALLOTMENTS?
Because the property has been chosen by practi-
cal men with a view to its utility. Because the
blocks are laid out on a scientific principle con-
ducive to sanitary comfort and advantageous
position. Because, the roads having been given,
you are saving “ one-fourth ” of the land that
you would have to cut to waste were you to buy
by the acre. Because the payments are so small
that you will never miss them from your weekly
earnings. Because you will induce a feeling of
self-reliance and independence in your children,
and a personal interest in the advancement of
your country.
WHERE TO INVEST !
IN THE CLIVE ESTATE,
RIVERSTONE.
Because the high price brought by city pro-
perty causes purchasers to go further afield.
CLIVE ESTATE,
Situated in the busy and prosperous township
of Riverstone, being only twenty odd miles from
Sydney. This locality is favourhbly known as a
health-giving and invigorating district, its salu-
brious atmosphere being universally recognised,
rendering the settlement the most desirable in the
colony; possessing the advantages of direct city
communication, a thriving and increasing trade,
with the luxury and retirement of country life. The
Railway accomodation is excellent, there being
five passenger trains a day, with extra accomoda-
tion on Wednesday and Saturday, besides numer-
ous goods trains daily, and additional trains will
be run as occasion requires. This Estate offers
facilities superior to any in the market. The
land holds an elevated position, and is beautifully
watered by an extensive creek, guarded with high
banks covered with nutritious verdure, containing
an inexhaustible quantity; of water; in the driest
season the supply of the limped element is prolific,
as clear as the crystal spring of an enchanted glen,
and shedding a balmy influence over the district.
There is neither rock nor guiiy to be found
throughout the entire property, and the remark-
able growth and production on this and the sur-
rounding farms, vineyards, and oran* eries satis-
factorily prove the unmistakable fertility of the
soil. This Estate has been partly cultivated, and
consists of productive, loamy soil, on which nutri-
tious pasturage, and, in fact, all vegetation,
abounds in luxuriant profusion. Two residence;!
erected are at present occupied, and numerous
others are projected. The Railway Station is with-
in a few yards, and the road leading therefrom on
to the property is well metalled, and a substantial
Bridge crosses the Creek, from which a Govern-
ment road leads through a public reserve directly
into the main road of the Estate, 100 feet wide,
and laid out on the latest scientific principles for
the enhancement of the property, rendering it a
model township, which must rapidly rise in archi-
tectural beauty and intrinsic value. The sur-
roundings of the property materially assist the
favourable aspect, being bounded on the west by
the property of Mr. W. Stevenson; on the east by
the Township, Hotels, Stores, and Railway Station?
on the south by extensive Crown reserves, with
old-established vineyards adjoining; on the north
by pasture land, with works in the rear belonging
to Mr. Richards. Vast strides have been made in
the improvement of this district within the past
twelve months, and business and population have
increased, a public school erected, and a great
number of new buildings have been erected; and
numerous residences and stores are rising every
day. To show the hona fldes of the foregoing in-
adequate description of the many advantages
possessed by this property, intending purchasers
are particularly urged to personally inspect the
land, and to buyers of 10 iots and upwards the
return railway fare will be refunded. In conclu-
sion, it would be urged that this is not a specula-
tion, but will prove to investors a provision for
the present and future.
A HOME NOW,
AND
A VALUABLE LEGACY WORTH LEAVING
TO THE WIFE OR CHILDREN.
Until recently, none but [the affluent were able
to become freeholders of their native land, such
luxury being alone for the wealthy classes; but
under the present administration in this glorious
land of New South Wales, deservedly known as
THE GARDEN OF THE WORLD,
there is no excuse for the poorest man paying ex-
travagant rentals, for he is enabled to become the
owner of the land he cultivates and the homestead
that shelters him. Remember, Sixpence a week
for 90 weeks secures a piece of Land that will en-
able you to become the owner of a valuable site
for Business Purposes or Villa Residence, for
Garden Produce or Poultry Raising, and within
the next lew years become valuable beyond the
most sanguine anticipations. This is an invest-
ment without risk—the first steps towards pros-
perity and wealth—and particularly recommeded
to young married couples, either for farming
their homestead, or an purposes, a site for
investment for their children.
Notice.— Only until the 26th inst. will these
Allotments be sold at 465., after which date the
remainder, if any, will be 595. an Allotment,
Further particulars from—
BOYD & KING, Auctioneers,
96, Pitt-street, Sydney.
o
<r
*
*
*
RwUT
w!» jiJ
HLH
S
iiis!
LU
CLIYE3SESTATEI
RIVERSTONE
*3* \S&
Terms 5/- deposit
BAIR MCE 2/f PER MONTH
pfLc )
HE
■TOT
1
*i n h
H Kti.fi.
DEL AWARE
W ,fcn
M
tin
mi
Ay£/vtt/E -
3P ffVpiUlT
i| U !»• u\ icl jJ J ;a
5: f
m ut Id': jin! jff» |ff> Wj ®j « »
&BJmnrlrlKliti
s fij-U W |*h«l4<i|M M '•■w *+!«; *»■ «<W“ , »W« (« j» ««;»>;.«
[ri H Kti tinri{ft rfH-Htlmt
ft OA D
i»i •*! u “|T'<j !"i f
M A R S R E At
l»-w
TT 1111! rTV , H'>T T L 1 L ! UL' LJ L
iwppitfflfw
H
v
H W H
m
it
r oa a
l W. STEPHEN
/■ ■ i/censed Surveyor
fiT*-£vAN CNAMBtKS
CasUereagh SI
ROAL
LV TTON
■■v-Y nr-priV
JL
J i! •
* l*i i ; ’i i*
•IV
" n
ru
HOAR
4S » *
Ji
BpVD and KINC
ft I PE R S TORE
AUCTIONEERS
m 96 PI T T cy STRELT
■ ■
STATION
m
y,.
/
llt
4
’ll
II
m
ALLT&C
IJ;
i
V/*
i
r-
■v
j^gEßEg
Messrs. ALLT & CO.’S Hew Vies as
A Brents for
CHARLOTTE PLACE
ia Spirit Stores
, SYDNEY.
Me ssrs. TRUMAN, HANBURY, BUXTON & CO.,
Brewers, Rurton-on-Trent;
„ JOHN ROBERTSON & SONS,
Dundee;
Messrs. A. C. MEUKOW & CO.,
Cognac;
„ E. &J. BURKE 'i>
“Light Spanning Trent Ae :
Messrs. MUNZER & SPANN,
Tho Due dj Montebello Champagne, 8/Ay, FrancV;
The Onareuto Y meyard Proprietors, Cnarente.
London Agents: Messrs. Arthur Allt & Co., Wormwood Chamoois, Wormwood-street, E.C.


„ Wells Rough on Corns.”— Ask for Wells’
Rough on Corns. Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Moses
Moss & Co., Sydney. General Agents.
lam quite willing to have it known that
Bristol sPills and Sarsaparilla cured me of
h» n nf 18 e i a 8 ai J? timt. when all other medicine
had failed. Alex. E. Beake, Lyttelton, N.Z.
JJIOR THE GUIDANCE
OF OTHERS.
Glenmore-road,
Paddington,
14th January, 1884.
Messrs. Elliott Brothers.
Gentlemen,—Some few weeks ago, I was so
severely affected with indisposition as to render
my rising each morning a matter of difficulty and
?ain, on account of severe pains in my back ; and
was just beginning to realise that I would have
to absent myself from my work for a time, when
a friend recommended me to try Hamburg Tea,
mentioning at the same time the benefit he him-
self had received. At the time I used it, I really
was not fit for my work, and yet in the course of
three or four days I was myself again, and have
not suffered since. I write this conscientiously,
for the guidance of others, and you are at liberty
to make what use you please of it.
Fours faithfully,
JNO. KELLY.
EMIL FRESE’S HAMBURG TEA.
RELIABLE, SIMPLE, EFFECTUAL.
This well-known Tea has proved itself to be a
most certain and efficacious Remedy for such
diseases as Sudden and Severe Colds, Coughs,
Fevers and Ague, Asthma. Phthisis, Headache,
Bowels, Kidney and Liver Complaints, the Piles,
Congestion, &c„ caused by an impure state or a
superfluity of blood. Its use removes Scrofula,
Cutaneous Eruptions, Pimples on the Face,
Blotches, Boils, Rheumatic Pains, and Pains in the
Bones and Joints. It is a preventative against
Contagion, and destroys inhaled Miasmatic and
Contagious Vapours. It purifies the Blood,
cleanses the Stomach and Bowels, and gives to the
whole system a healthy, easy tone. It opens the
bowels in a very mild and certain way. It works
on the system generally, causing little or no dis-
comfort. It will prevent almost any disease if
used at least once a month. It restores the appe-
tite, it removes the distress caused by eating
hearty food or overloading the stomach, and will
be found effectual as a Family Remedy where a
simple purgative only is needed.
NO FAMILY SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT.
Full directions in English, French, Spanish, and
German with every package. Sold by all chemists,
storekeepers, and medicine dealers throughout
the colonies, at ONE SHILLING a packet.
Wholesale Depot for New South WaIes—ELLIOTT
BROTHERS, Sydney.
If your stomach craves for a pleasant
bitter to sharpen the keen edge of appetite, ask
your chemist for Marshall’s Tonic Nervine, the
Great Nerve Tonic. Take no substitute. Whole-
sale at Elliott’s and Prosser’s. Sole Proprietors
Marshall Brothers, M.P.S, Pharmacists, 104
and 10t>, Market-street, Sydney.
o
08. od.
Is. Od. fie. 6(1. per pair
The Oriental Gold Company
°Mt^.^»i Bt^!^ an .P la : < i_ e of business, 474 l-.iorse-
street, opposite the Central Entrance to the
Markets)
l3S!ssfr^ h ?“™“s n^i’ >ro -
*s™ussms afssajrsr-
ORIENTAL GOLD is the verTiatest discovery
of the alchemist’s laboratory. There have been
good and useful imitations of sterling gold before
ihis tw,^,of VC r been , thrown iato th? shade by
of mod eru science. Articles of
riontal Gold cannot, after years of wear hr*
amfth lsh So nnw ‘f® ,?° Bt,,est wares of tLo gold-.
S So nobie is this metal, that no tawdrv
tureclof it°The d < io^ ferior £ eBigna are
THE VERY Ig JEWELLERY
taneousllfwit^thoi 6d up J n Oriental Gold simul-
told from the other.
THE PRICE OF ARTICLES OF ORIENTAL
GOBD 18 BUT A TRIFLE IIiJNJAAj
when compared with identical models of sterling
_ metal.
DIAMONH^o^k 8 are “ ounted with the NEW
■- «"> ■sras?®
The Artist-designers of Paris have, with nn<rer
appreciation, adopted Oriental Gold as worth v^tn
callan'dinsrect-exactly opposite
If ft resident of tho countrv wrifA and o eir n
friend to do so. Visitors are always made welcome
and not pestered to buy, because we know that no
one has ever yet viewed our goods without beirur
fished and delighted with thei7 variety e"e-
gance, and surpassing and novel beauty and'suoh
good ain?e rime 43 amoDfir acquaintance B, do us
Here are a few lines for customers’ guidance :
At Bs. each.
Neat Scarf Pin.
Pretty Dress Kin*.
Set or Shirt Studs.
Natty Brooch.
Pair of Jewelled Ear-rings.
a Elegant Pencil Case.
At Js. 6d. each.
Handsome Brilliant Rinr.
Beautiful Charm.
Elegant Locket.
Necklet, with Clasp.
Fashionable Hair-pin.
Pair of Cuff-pins.
At lOs. each.
Grand Albert.
Ladies’ Albert.
Brooch and Ear-rings.
Ladies’ Gem Ring 1 .
Lovely Bracelet.
Collarette.
At 15s. each.
Choice Locket and Necklet.
Exquisite Jewelled Bracelet.
Brooch, Set with Brilliants.
Magnificent Jewelled Scarf-pin.
Solitaire Brilliant Collar Stud.
Superb French Ear-pendants.
Charming Parisian Bangles.
At £i each.
Hies; Suite—Necklet, Locket, and Brooch.
Ladies Tasselled Slide Albert.
‘‘ Esthetio Fob Chain, with Steel
Ch 'a r ™s. of lovely and novel Designs.
Ladies Bar Brooches, beautifully Chased.
At #52 2s. each.
Gentleman’s Watch, Hunting, or Open Pace,
with Crystal Glass, in Oriental Gold Cases,
highly finished Works, with Oriental Gold
Albert Cham.
(Stem-winder—ss. extra.)
Lady s very handsome Hunting or Open Face
with Crystal Glass) Watch, in Oriental
Gold Cases, full jewelled, and splendid
Timekeeper.
(With a most handsome Oriental Gold Albert,
with slides and assels, 15s. additional.)
At £3 each.
Gent s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face, with
Crystal Glass, in sterling: Silver Cases—a
reliable, sound watch, perfect Timekeeper,
specially rated, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain.
(Stem-winder-ss. extra.)
Lady’s Sterling Silver Watch, in Hunting (or
Open Face, with Crystal Glass) Cases,
beautifully Engraved, highly finished, full
jewelled works, perfect Timekeeper, with
sterling Silver or Oriental Gold Albert
Cham, with slides and tassels.
At £4 each.
Sterling Silver Chronograph, double dials, for
marking 5-10ths of a second, patent fly-
back hand, patent keyless works, 18 carat
Gold winder, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain.
English Patent Lever, Hunting (or open face,
with Crystal Glass), capped and full
jewelled, examined and rated, in sterling
Silver Cases.
(With Oriental gold chain— los. extra.)
Geit’s Silver Hunting Waltham Patent
Lever Watch, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, and beautiful Compass, or other
charm.
At *5.
A Combination Parcel, comprising any selec-
tion from the above which customers may
make, to value.
We want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST, ON APPROVAL.
Specially Observe— If the articles do net
answer expectation on receipt, re-pack them at
once and send them back. If this is done within
two days, or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will return the
money for the articles not kept. Every watch
sold by us will be rated and accompanied by a
written warrantry for two years. Remittances to
be made payable to the Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-st., Sydney, op. Markets
SUNDRY SHOWS.
theatre Royal—“lt’s Never tot) Late ” p
Opera House—“ Fedor a” ib.
The Royal people promise us the “ Silve
Kintr ” on Saturday (22nd). The week intcrvenin
between the departure of “Rip Van Winkle” ant
the advent of the silver potentate has been give
UD to Charles Reade’s “It's Never too Late t
Mend,” with Dampicr as Tom Robinron. We wen
there on Saturday night last, and this is what w
gaW . A capital farm-yard scene in the first act-
scene suggestive cf sky-larks, milkmaids, an
Brattling brooks; of prosperous yoemen and con
tented clod-hoppers. Poultry were pecking at th
ripe corn, pigeons cooing in a cote, and an lnquis
tive wether wandering round the stage-boxes
see that the occupants behaved themselves. Ther
were a couple of men threshing, too, but from th
way they handled the flails, and the determinatio
they evinced to make the job put them over th
(Vinter, it was easy to see their hearts were not i
♦he work, and that shaking for drinks or “ tro
ting ” at an auction was more in their line. Georg
Fielding (Mr. Stoneham) and his brother William
(Mr. Lenton) were there. They quarrel End “stac
their duds” for a “mill,” when Susan Merto
(Mis 3 Towers), George's sweetheart, interrup
them, tells them what a dreadful thing it is fo
brothers to fight, especially within sight of th
village church, and makes them shake hand
This was a bit of a disappointment to the galler
people, who were joyfully noisy at the prospect
a “set-to,” and as noisily obstreperous when the
saw the sponge go up without a round. Why th
proximity ol the church should stop the row it
hard to say, considering that, in our day, mor
bickerings takn place inside those sacred edifice
than outside. George would like to marry Susan
and, when we remember how she looked on Satur
day night, we are not a bit surprised at it. Bu
his farming has not been succesful, and h
money’s gone. Aye, there’s the rub. As societ
is constituted in these days, we declare it to be ou
belief that if an authropoid ape were to land i
England to-morrow with a fair-sized Tambaroor
nugget in his possession he could carry off th
belie of any village from the Tweed to Cornwal
and obtain the blessing of her parents and th
parson on the match.
• • i
Just then Tom Robinson (Mr. Dampier
comes along, and is greeted with £lO worth o
damage to the fixtures. He has been in Californi
has Tom, and—in prison. He prefers California
aßd trios to get George to return with him. H
would have succeeded but for a trifling contre
temps- three policemen. They are silent men
who appear to know their duty, so they simpf
ask no questions but slip a pair of hand-cuffs on
him, address him by a string of aliases, smile wit
him when he smiles, and surpass him in gravit'
when he frowns. We next see him in a mode
prison with Josephs (Miss Lily Dampier), a boy
whose penalty for stealing a handful of potatoe
is some months’ starvation and silence. A view o
the interior and routine of the prison received ap
plause from many in the audience for its fidelity
to nature—its resemblance to the reality. We prefe
aot to follow this subject up. One thing can be seen
at a glance—that the prison is in England. Had ii
been in N.S. Wales, some corner in the yard o
corridor would be taken up by the triangles, where
the angry swish of the “cat” and the yells of the
tortured supply such pleasant music to the offlcia
ear. And this reminds us that the mental aberra
tion that has succeeded in placing Australia in the
van of nations possessing barbarous penal codes
is just as curious in its way as the medieval crazes
that sent myriads to rot in Palestine,'or suggestec
to juvenile fanatics the necessity for being
whipped daily if they would be saved. Crimes
that in most civilised countries would be met with
a ss. fine or a 48-hours’ seclusion from the work
are, in this favoured democracy, punished by the
tortures of the damned—tortures that even tlx
unspeakable” Turk is erasing from his statute
book. Odd, Jsn tit ? Once we asked a soldier,
couple ol hours after he had received 50 lashes for
being drunk on guard, if the punishment was bad
The musket-ball that was round in his moutt
when the first stroke was given was as thin as
wafer when he was taken down. “ Well,” he said
I thought every belt ’ud cut me in two.”
* • *
George Fielding goes to Australia to earn
the £lOOO necessary to enable him to marry Susan
when again we see him, his sheep are rotting with
disease, and he is pretty well full of colonial life
He would be quite full but for the amusing tom-
fooleries of his henchman, Jacky Jacky (Sam
fooie), an aboriginal. Again Tom Robinson turns
up, and this time George shakes hands with him—
he had refused to do so in England, when Tom got
into troubie. Then there is the discovery of golc
byßobmson, and a fight, in which he and George
ably seconded by Jacky and his tribe, put to igno-
minious flight some diggers who had already
round a golden creek and wanted to keep it dark,
the final result is soon told. Tom becomes quite
reformed, Fielding goes home and marries, and
things are brought to a satisfactory conclusion by
a large slice of contentment being placed before
™j e serving ones, and a huge junk of disappoint-
“®“t £ eing served out to the scoundrels. So you
® , Never too Late to Mend” contains a sound
P. 0 ™ 1 ; tpculcating the well-known fact that
honesty is, after all, the best policy, and that evil-
lB nowhBre against righteousness in a long
* ♦ *
,5 e like Dampier, and welike his daughter
ve/r'« nfo 18 „ n< \ w a Food deal past the “only six
anrt ohmi £ e where she remained so long. Father
tai voices and distinct enuncia-
not alwa V s found even among
fl™, -* c almiDg ' a front-rank place They are
wonder^’. too. wifh the public, and-we don’t
from sw & fI H - a x ry Baylor’s Crawley was good
t 0 fl J“sh, .while, as Hawes. Mr. Sefton
Dr?-on how careful a jury should be before finding
fes Fuiity of murder, when they bring the
head n/w 0 £ a , s , led F e , to hear on an official’s
that Mr ’ Poole 8 Jacky, it is enough to say
manat We n Vere m dc i u K whether ’twas a white
ham an,i ,! ’ George and William Fielding (Stone-
of thn Benton) were creditable,and the mounting
De P le ce was mor e than ordinarily excellent.
** * *
dJ/ 1 ® nailery at the Academy was our little
New v n ' e . ni Fht la Bt week, to see the “Great Anglo-
titled2 a *5? PealiB . tic and Sensational Drama, en-
around^th^yBtt^in Clouds’; or, above and
It k a l be world ! written by Lancelot Booth.”
BnnrM £u Presumption that the artist (Mr. L.
with ?L * h o Personates Harry Chater is identical
Sir Edward Chafer (Mr. Costello)
world ® Dgll Bh baronet with £50,000 a year. The
d nf ?P 08e ? hit ? to he a bachelor, but tbeneces-
vaWv°l„£ P lay demand that he should have pri-
Tuki y wadded a farmer’s daughter named Alice
theb e a ™’ B £.f ilton) ’ Harry Chater (Mr. Booth) “
CrimpT Q^ U , S ? n ’ „ Ha . rry has a flunkey named
piece—ft?™' He 18 the real villain of the
we m7,st° ( S?&. hlB master isn’t far behind him-and
aU ourelnn t he author the justice to say that, in
any band?* 3r + ienc ® ot the stage, we don’t remember
Queen wk th i B Grimp couldn’t give a
his comnnm eaB tles, and most of the pawns. In
have Q JameB Carey or Ned Kelly would
their fr?r,„ e a ? eat a loD F way back, and keep
haronetofn U w eB v? uiet Y c 1 80me years before, the
whip ol a bel i on the head from a stock-
round WoC IDB, > and > ev er since, Crimp is lying
EdwariP/achaace of putting a big spoke in Si?
u 8 wheel. And this is how he does it.
TT * • •
th« iayB Pitting it into his master’s
regretted— w baronet s death—however much to be
year for HB?r^ ld n mean a baronetcy and £50,000 a-
6ee what hlsmin? ar ry» of course, pretends not to
there wasn ? ? n u J?s ey , lB dr ivmg at; but, bless you,
hie” a^once^ a hid aiongstde us that didn’t “ tum-
g? up iaah»iin! rEdw ? rd accepts an invitation to
hi® and hr,£ 00D t and asks Harry to accompany
He drugged*?? a lr mnd Crimp was the friend?
of the IJaronef b w>£ e £°v, r?a K t ’ , and * taking advantage
Quickly pe?oh«d hlB back was turned, had him
hotte,|fk£ he .£ 0 h n , a cl oud taking a shortcut
aen the balloon touches ground, Harry
of course becomes as big a man as Sir W. J. Clarke.
But Crimp now begins to show his teeth, and be-
comes as unpleasantly familiar as the Hebrew
financier in whose hands your paper is daily ripen-
ing. He has discovered all about the secret mar-
riage, and communicates the knowledge to Sir
Iflarry, who receives it about as pleasantly as John
M’Klhone the news that there was a lady with a
cowhide waiting for him on the lobby. Crimp ob-
tains the marriage certificate out ot a secret drawer
(a ‘realistic” drama without a secret drawer, a
lost will, or a kidnapped child, is like Jack and the
with no Giant and ne’er a Jack), requires
£30,000 for his share of the plunder and £lO,OOO for
the certificate—obtains a cheque for the lot—hears
that the clergyman and witnesses of the marriage
are all dead, and the church containing the register
burned down—sees his master tears the certificate
into fragments—picks up the latter, and puts them
into his pocket for future use—and starts for New
Zealand.
• • •
You have guessed that when Mrs. Sir
Edward Chater publishes her marriage, the new
baronet denies it and demands proofs. As the
only proof is the palched-up certificate in Crimps’s
pocket, her chance of seeing her che-i-ld righted
would not be taken on “spec.” by any “Dodson
and Fog'g ” Sydney firm that looks through the
papers daily for speculative libel actions. And
now there is an interval of twenty years. When
the curtain again rises, we are in New Zealand
during the Maori war. Von Tempsky appears
with a sword that would bisect an ichthyosaurus.
He gives as his private opinion that although
English, French, Germans, Russians, and others
may be pretty fair at lighting, still, when there’s
any real, hard work to be done—any guns to be
spiked in the face of a withering fire—any rebels
to be upended in the face of desperate odds—the
colonials were the only lads could do it clean.
This sentiment was received with a wild yell of
defiance by the younger portion of the audi-
ence; but we noticed that several elderly
tradesmen (vendors of lollies, apples, oranges,
lemonade, and roast potatoes), who had un-
luckily been born in the neighbourhood of Rad-
cliffe Highway, protested in a manner more vigor-
ous than complimentary. However, we got
a glimple into the Maori and forest-ranger life of
20 years ago. As we were a forest-ranger once
ourselves, it’s pleasant after such a lapse of years
to see the life of our hot youth brought before us
once more. Of course, it’s not like what we re-
member, but that makes it all the more entertain-
ing. As Te Whiti-described in the bill as a
‘Maori rebel chief”—Mr. Beaumont gave us a
treat, both in appearance and language, which will
not be forgotten while we’ve a hair left. His com-
mand of the native tongue was pleasantly accu-
rate. The words pakeha, kopi, waipera, hoea, and
puckaroo came rolling out of him like ribaldry
from Uriah when he found the trick David played
on him. Crimp, having run through all his money,
has taken to selling ammunition to the Maoris.
Even then, he couldn’t keep straight, so Te Whiti
ties him up like one of the Davenport Brothers,
and has just commenced to roast him when Von
Tempsky and his forces, consisting of the two
young Chaters-one the son of the murdered
baronet, and the other of his successor—roll up
and clear the gangway. Crimp is rescued, and a
fierce combat takes place between Te Whiti and
Von Tempsky. You can see by the way thev go to
work that one or both will quickly know whether
Martin Luther is still in Purgatory. It is Von
Tempsky. A shot from the neighbourhood of the
green-room catches him sideways in the anterior
portion of the abdominal viscera, when the gal-
lant Prussian falls, makes a neat little speech, and
dies to a pizzacato accompaniment from the trom-
bone.
* * *
The opinion he had of the fighting quali-
ties of Volunteers andjForest-rangers was not that
of the Maoris, among whom the irregular troops
were known as “ Gammon the sogers.” Justice
could not be much longer delayed. Young Chater
comes in for his own, tha wicked baronet and his
ci-devant valet meet a well-deserved fate, and the
curtain goes down on a scene of happiness enough
to cpnvince any larrikins present that life, even
deprived of the relaxation of jumping on your
mother, or crippling a Chinaman, can be made
fairly tolerable.
** * *
When speaking of “Fedora,” we omitted
one choice little bonne bouche. It is the tete-a-tete
between De Seriex (Glover) and Countess Soukareff
(Miss Novaro), in the fourth act. It is perfect.
The Countess, you remember, has tried everything
-love, liquor, law, 100-for the removal ot ennui.
Her last weakness was Boleslao Lasinski (Mr
Wood), a Russian spy. He, discovering that the
lady he was commissioned to watch was a mere
capricious woman of fashion, bolts, and writes her
a letter, which De Seriex interprets to her. It is
during the interpretation and her ladyship’s hys-
terics that an opportunity is given Glover for a
piece of amusing by-play, of which he makes the
most. As the Baroness Tournis, Miss I'ocy Main-
waring has little to do except dress well and flirt
with anybody coming her way. At the opening of
the piece there is an effective and effectively de-
livered speech made by Cyril the coachman (Mr.
Musgrave). Then he retires, and is heard no more
/ii 1 n ™ mght A not mentioned Dr. Lorek
(Mr. D Orsay Ogden). He, like Cyril, has all his
d , rBt /i c *' j. .like him, his mission
ends with the death ot Vladimir. But the little he
has to do is done so well—he throws into it so much
apparent interest and vraisemblancc-th&t he strikes
you as being a capable and painstaking actor.
Gretch, the police agent (Mr. Douglas), appeared
to us to be more at home in the first than in the
s^ 8 ?31 ient a 9 ts - And this suggests to us what an
odd thing autocracy must be, when such means
are necessary for its support. Fancy a Yankee or
an Al JB.^ ra^ian spy! Think of our Government de-
a secret agent to Europe to take down
what M Elhone will say when he gets there, or re-
l[ < eaton! lll Great e putT ldconvor6ationa ot Henniker
** * *
„T ( l^P evieve Ward opened in “Forget-Me-
Not. a t the Princess Theatre, Melbourne, on
® last (15th.) There is a treat in store for
us by-and-bye, if half what the papers say is true.
toou Tf 6 ar o a fraid half is not true. We know too
well how these young lions paw the air and roar
when a woman strikes their fancy. Mate nous ver-
"V??* critique on “ Maritana,” as per-
formed at the Rockhampton Theatre on the Tth,
appears in the Rockhampton Argus of Bth.
Lome, Boleyn, Lambert, Vernon Reid, Templeton.
mixed up in it. We’ve just been guessing
which meinber of the troupe wrote the notice..
11"’ here s the very latest about Fred.
Maccabe—vocalist, ventriloquist, actor, mime.
aad g r e^a al knock-about man. Just six weeks
d A , bln l?ton turned over his house-
ful of guests at Cnchcl to “Mac.” at so
much a head for amusement. Wales and his
missus were in the mob. Fred, rigged up his lord-
and playea with such effect
that after the first three or four hours there wasn’t
eye in the crowd. It was the ventriloquism
that most astonished the assembled gentry. 'The
Prmce was so taken with it that he paid for a
course of lessons in advance, and the poor Prin-
cess is now turned out of bed three times a night
u an 6 *!, 1 * n ?. p v. eBB *?> n there’s a man in the chimney
all through her Royal Consort’s practising ven-
triloquism in his sleep “Represent *Frou-
J? Ut f on< lu m ,°. r ®>” Baid a wealthy Chicago
pork man to the divine “Sara” on the eve of
her departure from America, “ and I’ll buv ud
every seat in the house.” “Can’t,”saidTally?
I m wound up to go, and go I must. But come
Tiw? arlB and * ll play yer *” He went. “ Frou
* r ou was announced, every seat was paid for bv
hramS 1 !? 11 merchant, and a bouquet of threo roses
bound by a zone of huge diamonds was left in the
green-room for Madame.
SPORTING.
On Tuesday we had the pleasure of a ca
made by Edward Hanlan, the champion sculler. W
are not greatly gone on scullers, as a rule, and wer
not specially glad till we were faee to face, an
then we were very glad, indeed. I-lan lan is a down
right hearty-looking fellow, who looks a ma
straight in the faee when he speaks, with hones
eyes and frank pleasant manners. We didn’t tak
a shabby advantage of his call to “interview ” him
But we had a quiet chat, much more concerned t
gather what sort of man he is, than to pump oui
of him “ impressions ” laboriously manufacture
to meet the demand, or plans and projects whie
it may be important to him to keep to himscli
But. talk about Honlan being “a little wonder 1
Bosh! If you didn’t know who he is, you migh
pass him without notice. But, when you look fo
the secret of his successes, his clothes don’t hid
it. Of medium height, Hanlan looks as if he wer
solid right through. His pantaloons can’t concea
the muscular development of his thighs, and hi
coat-sleeves are straightened with the muscular de
velopment of his arms. Chest, and loins, tell thei
story of power while the sculler is in ordinary attire
After two minutes’ study of Hanlan, one is don
with all lingering fancies about secret propelloi
and magnetic engines. The man is a magnoli
engine himself; a reservoir of nervous energy
No doubt he is, as he has stated since landing, in
fat condition, just now. But so is everybody in
ordinary life; so that comparisons of muscula
development are all the surer under the circum
cumstances. After briefly viewing and convers
ing with Edward Hanlan, we are satisfied that he
has beaten all competitors simply because he wa
able to do it. Physical power of an unusua
kind, directed by an amount of intelligence nol
often combined with great animal strength : add
to this a natural good temper, and a resolute dis-
position, and one doesn't want any mechanism in
a boat. There are probably stronger men amon£
scullers than Hanlan. And there are smarter mci
among them, perhaps. And men with more des
Eerate endurance. And men with even smoother
alance of disposition to make the best of things,
and lose nothing by worry and fret. But when
the man is found who combines these qualities
more aptly than they are combined in Haman, thai
man will beat him.
No doubt Mr. Hunt’s offer of the £lOOO
match has led Hanlan to believe there is plenty
money to be made at the game in the colonies, il
thousands are flying about so plentifully that
Hunt could make money out of the spec, aftei
paying Hanlan the thou, which the Canadian
would win for a certainty—at least, so far a cer-
tainty as any sporting contest can be looked upon.
But we fancy, before Hanlan has seen much more
of the colonies and Dan O’Connor, he will see the
error he has fallen into, and will be only too glad
to accept the Oxford man’s offer, should it still be
open—for no doubt Hanlan’s putting up at another
pub. will alter the arrangements of Mr. Hunt, who
must have counted on hundreds from the attrac-
tion at his house. Shortly after his arrival, Hanlan
was interviewed by a D.T. reporter, who swallowed
all the Canadian’s tit-bits as easily as a wabbegong
would a lump of fat pork—or the Hon. John M.L C.
The “ official ” reception took place on Monday
morning last, when an immense crowd blocked the
streets on the way from the steamer’s wharf to the
OxfordHotel,where some speechifying inthe idiotic
style usual on such occasions was gone through.
Dan O’Connor was “ up to his neck in it,” but the
effect of his oration upon us was rather marred up-
on hearing a bystander giving it on good authorit v
that Dan’i had already entered into a contract with
the Champion for the supply of underdone pork-
chops during the coming training. But, perish
the thought, the “ jaynil Irishman” would get in on
his brother meat merchants in this fashion. Han-
lan came out with a few remarks—of course, could
not find words to express Ms feelings—did not see
that any quantity of dollars could be mentioned
in comparison with such a welcome—(Heaven for-
give you, Ned, for we cannot)—beautifnl harbour
—was not a representative of any country, but
simple Edward Hanlan, getting his living by row-
ing (very simple 1 scooped in £20,000 since 1872)
—considers on principle he should be matched
against Trickett first, as he wrested the champion-
ship from Trickett (very much simplicity in this,
eh, Ned ?), and concluded by saying that he was
open to row any man who came forward. Han-
lan has only brought one boat with him, built by
Ruddock, of Boston, and intends to give an order
in the colony as soon as he has time to look round
the various sheds ; but no doubt the choice will
rest between Donnelly and Sullivan, and Dodd, of
North Shore, so far as Sydney is concerned.
Amongst the races to be run on Saturday
next at Canterbury Park, is that for the Ladies’
Bracelet. The first prize is a magnificent broad
gold bracelet, ornamented with three horse-shoes
set with rubies and brilliants and surmounted by
a large diamend. The second prize is also a gold
bracelet, ornamented with a horse-shoe and whip,
set with rubies and brilliants. The value of these
trophies is 50gs. and 20gs. respectively. They were
designed and manufactured by Evan Jones, of
Hunter-street.


PEPPER AND SALT.
We have just got the first number of the
Gloucester Gazette. This paper is run by a
promising young party named Courtney, at Ray-
mond Terrace, and contains a splendid account of
a pie-concealing match, and a deal of well edited
matter whloh would be a dead secret to every one
who had not read the dailies. There is, also, a
charming prose-poem upon “Washed and Un-
washed Butter,” and a well selected Dieoe (also in
prose) on “ Kicking Cows.” The leaders are both
humorous and lofty: “In politics we will go for
measures irrespective of men . . .” though
there is no other direct foreshadowing of a muslin
frock and silk stocking policy. Tho following,
part of the same artiole, we admire for its out-
spoken frankness:—“lf you wish to give us a
practical shove along, send us your name as a sub-
scriber, and don’t be afraid to enclose a year’s sub-
Party, who lives on
the Nepean, promised
bia wife fisb for supper.
He had the greatest difft
culty in making her believe
that yoo Can catch salt
bream on a book.
Having always made a
practice of bathing in cham-
pagne, the water-scare does
not affect us.
She: “Aren’t you going to
take your umbrella to church,
George ?”
He : “ No; what’s the use,
such dry weather?”
She : “ Yes, but they are going
to pray for rain, you know.”
“ He : Then we are safe 1 without
it.”
Publican : “Tastes a little
queer, does it ? Well you!
# BOe > owing to the scarcity of!
fresh water, I have had to
doctor my whisky with salt
instead of fresh water as
before.’*
Juvenile Chorus : “Why, mamma,
how funny the milk tastes.”
Mamma ; “Well, my dears, owing
to the scarcity of water, the milk-
man nas to furnish us milk in its
natural state. Try and drink it so,
until the weather changes, like good
children.”
Aquarius Trevorius Jones has
repeatedly warned the Sydney-
ites that, unless they give up
the plunge bath, using only the
shower, things will happen the
like of which was never heard.
The drought is especially severe upon
creatures of aquatic habits.
Obsolete.
“ Promised you a watered-silk gown,
did I? Well, you will have to worry
along with silk that has not been
watered, until after the drought.”
Drought Troubles.
scription in advance ” But we note, with surprise,
that though this is the organ of Gloucester, and
there is something about “Chills,” there is not
even a poem on the subject of “Cheese.” We
don’t mind giving an idea for an introduction
Here, now:—
Milking in the morning breeze
Was a dairy-maid of Gloucester:
“ Please explain how you make cheese,”
Smilingly we did aocost her.
“ ’Tis of you, dear, pretty maid
That we long so much to learn!
You will ‘ drop ’ when we have said—
You’re the magnet of our churn."
And so on. The G.G. is 3d. a copy; and the print-
ing bears distinct evidenoo of a really first-class
lawn-mower.
• • •
A THRILLING NARRATIVE.
We don’t mind admitting that at distant
intervals we have, actuated by a spirit of envy for
his splendid attainments, evinced a disposition to
gibe at Mr. J. Henniker Heaton, who is the well-
known author of the “ Dictionary of Dates,” the
chariot of a late Governor, and the portrait of
Lord Sydney. We view now our small and paltry
oonduct with peouliar regret; for, by his splendid
contribution—“ From Sydney to Marseilles in a
French steamer”—which recently ineffably adorned
the columns of Waterloo’s chosen journal, we
find our satire returned upon ourselves; we dis-
cover ourselves withered by the blast of our own
sarcasm I The return of Mr. Heaton was some-
what of a surprise to us, since we had thought him
still scintillating in the salons of the great and
gilded, hissing his cunning counsel into the ear-
holes of bewildered diplomats. We had, indeed,
supposed he was lost to us; and would have
thought, with a tear and a shudder, that he was
dead, had we not at times seen paragraphs about
him, chronicling his wonted triumphal progress.
Mr. J. Henniker Heaton is, however, none the less
welcome. He would have been welcome even had
he but driven round, his old self, to see us, in his
glittering equipage, and gone across with us to the
fish-shop. But, covered as he is now with literary
glory, what in the whole world of welcomes could
surpass the strength of the accuett we now (re-
spectfully) vouchsafe him I We are content to
hide us in our little corner, and gaze at him timidly
from afar off. In his sketch, Mr. Heaton deftly
adopts every style the language affords—he is in
turn discursive, biographical, descriptive, digni-
fied, nautical, and statistical, and he evinces an
elevated sense of the proprieties which would do
credit to an oyster. We say an oyster, because,
although, we have in our time had some pretty
intimate relations with these bivalves, we have
nevei either heard an oyster bring a blush to
the di eek by a calembour risqut, or seen one
at tfg i theatre “ with the wife of a gentle-
man at present in England.” In a breezy
introduction we learn—and we could almost hear
the nr lurmur of the sad sea waves as we read it—
that “We had ‘a full ship,’ so far as regards
c ?.rsfo , for besides minerals, there were 5000 bales
of wool, together with a large quantity of tallow
for the French market.” Hardly have we time to
ponder over this picturesque piece, than the gifted
writer hurries us on to a dramatio description of—
we rapturously quote—“An extremely good-
looking young fellow, who at one time attained
quite a European reputation for the unique
character of a tragedy in which he took part. Dis-
covering his wife in an act of infidelity, he killed
her lover, cut out his liver, fried it, and made his
wife eat it.” Now mark, how delicately, yet with
what fine tact, Mr. H. carries on the conversation:
—“ I asked him how he, so young, so good-looking
so amiable in manner, oould have thought of and
oarried out so exquisite [!!!!] a mode of punish-
ment.” The good-looking young man, however,
merely contented himself saying that he had in-
tended to have killed his wife “ when she had eaten
the liver,” but, “cooling down,” he allowed her
to live on. The captain, he tells us, in trenchant,
graphic terms, is named Bretel (French for braces!)
and is quite a hero. When, at length tired of
war’s alarms, weary of “running blockades and
capturing Mexican vessels; of being attacked in
force by the Mexicans, and getting ‘his coat
riddled with balls,” . . . [We must stop a
moment just to wipe our eyes. En route.] this
gallant officer set about “finding a wife.” How
he did it, is beautifully and pathetically told.
Ecoutez “ He went to his model mother [whoop!]
and told her ... he desired that she should
choose a wife for him—one that sha knew and
whose conduct she had carefully observed. After
much deliberation and planning, the young lady
was nominated. [l] Bretel was introduced, and,
after spending a few evenings together ....
the result was a happy union.” We get no
more about the “model mother,” nor the
pair of braces we mean Bretels but the
author, in language whose loftiness reminds
us of the “flies” [? skies.— Ed. B.] describes
the horrors of a cyclone. The sailors, he states,
we ordered “to lower down the royal gallant [!!]
and top-gallant masts, to fold up the fore and aft
sails;” and shortly after this the waves rose
mountains high, but, as Mr. Heaton deftly has it;
no harm comes, because of "the fine ship rising
triumphant over the majority of them.” Disi
cover us anything in Clark Russell more vivid than
thisl What we admire is the lowering down of the
“royal gallant.” We understand that this passage
was much admired, also, at the Circular Quay!! lAt
Reunion, he proudly and loyally exclaims—” I was
the means of serving our Queen.” At Port Louis
our author goes to lunch with the Governor, and
says—or rather, sings -“I had no sooner left the
ship than an Indian servant came on board with a
parcel for me, which excited no suspicion, as I was
a friend of the captain, and the parcel was secured
in my cabin by my little wife.” There is a sweet
touch now: there is a connubial gem! The parcel
contained some despatches (for the Queen, we
suppose), which the French Government would
allow no one but Henniker to take. Fearlessly—it
is his nature to be fearless—he undertook the
arduous duty, and sailed away home to eternal
glory, armed with the following:—“V.R.: We,
Charles St. John, Esquire, &c. &c., Her Britannic
Majesty’s Consul in the Island of Reunion, request
and require, in the name of Her Majesty, all those
whom it may concern, to allow Henniker HeatoD,
Esq., to pass freely without let or hindrance, ana
to afford him every assistence and protection of
which he may stand in need. Given at the British
Consulate, Reunion, the 29th day of January, 1884.
C. St. John, Her Britannic Majesty’s Consul for
Reunion; a document, by the way, which leads us
to think, somehow, that “we, Charles St. John,
Esquire, etc etc ,” must be rather a good judge of
rum. We once more offer the illustrious author
our heartfelt felicitations, and, when our cat lays,
we wiil give him a testimonial.
This is a nice stale of how-do-you-do-
Miater-Johnson, isn’t it? A religious (and, as a
matter of course, scandalmonging) exchange de-
clares that way up in the Far North, when a strange
half-caste lad comes on to a station, the manager


is generally puzzled whether to run him off as a
dangerous horse-thief, or bust in the head of the
fatted calf and welcome him home as the long-lost
son that used to peep out of his ma’s picaninny
pouoh in childhood’s happy days. When the in-
truder happens to be a girl, however, she gets the
benefit of the doubt immediately.
* * *
The good little boys and girls were waiting
outside Sunday-school on a Sabbath morn, at
Bullocktown, for their kind teachers to come and
impart unto them the touching adventures of
Samuel, the wonderful wisdom of Solomon (with
certain discreet reservations), and all about how
Saul played a kind of Soriptural Aunt Sally with
David, when displeased at that musician’s rendi-
tion, on the harp, of the Dead March in himself.
The scholars had eaten all the quinces, and grapes,
and apples Providence had delivered into their
hands on the way; there had been a boy-and-girl
scuffle about the merits of Farmer Gilboy’s roan
draught-mare; they had taken it in turns to play
fantasias on the bell, until the neighbours were
lashed into fury ; they had ornamented the door
with original designs in chalk, purloined from the
school house; they had set the tank running, and
had broken a window. And yet a little later to
hear those darling children singing—
“ Childhood's years are passing o’er us,
Youthful days will soon be done;
Cares and sorrows lie before us,
Hidden dangers, snares unknown ”
was a sweet, beautiful and soul-softening thing.
And curiously enough, the boy that sings in the
most soft and ethereal way generally takes a tame
rat in his pocket.
• • a
A gentleman, signing himself “Colonial
Scribe,” has been good enough to forward us a
“satire.” It is written on foolscap paper, and is
exactly a yard long. The subject of the satire is
“politics”; and we are bound to say our poet is,
in some circumstances, a trifle more severe than
wc could wish. The wounds he inflicts are, indeed,
in some eases, of so serious a nature as to preclude
the possibility of the infllctor of them being
admitted to bail until a further report from the
doctor shall have been received. It is only the
solid literary merit of this verse, for instance, that
redeems it from absolute cruelty
“ A C.M.G. may be a Government whip,
And swear great things, of course ;
But you don’t intend to do them,
So a lie is the truth, of oourse.”
We can excuse the forcible expletive here for ob-
vious reasons :
“ But, d it, give us good taxation,
Or else you’ll go out:
Stop this pauper emmigration,
Or you’ll get some sour-krout.”
This masterpiece concludes as follows :
“ Burdokin has eclips’d the moon ;
Taylor tight, and round his neck ;
And Sir ’Enry will soon be back ;
Sir John will cry full-moon.”
The member of our family who is nearest the
dresser will kindly hand down the gridiron. Thank
you.
To a Colonial Scribe.
Author of a Satire—[And prohablu of a shoe.—Ed.B.]
We’ve wronged thee no more than the dead,
Then why inflict on us this strain ?
We’ve harmed thee not, thou dunderhead !
We know thee not, thou oakum-brain I
Oh, must we but in silence curse,
While thou, moon-calf, naay’st loudly howl,
Not qualify thee for a hearse,
With one brick on thy jobbernowl ?
No ! Raise thy raven-croak on high, ,
Once more, and bif! will come the rock !
This moment thou should’s surely die
Were not our dust-hole chock-a-block!
* * *
We like a paper that isn’t flippant, that
has an honest affection for its constituents, and
that shows it. Above all, we like a paper that
believes in its constituents; that thinks its black-
smith is the finest blacksmith that ever fought a
“boots;’’ that speaks confidently of the little
barrowful of blood-and-thunder literature at the
School of Arts as “ our library: ” that has a pride
in its score of constituents that pay up, and hope
in the two score that don’t. We are pretty be-
lieving and ingenuous in our way. We believed
in the innocence and guilelessness of childhood
until we heard the language of the marble club in
our lanes, and in the truthfulness and honesty
attached to temperance we were confident, until a
juvenile Templar attached to our machine-oiling
staff abstracted the boots, one morning, of one of
our dramatic critics, leaving him only the choice,
on his visit to the theatre that night, between his
football boots and a pair of snow-shoes. Under
these circumstances, wo own we have become a
trifle sceptical. We never eat meat pies now, and
despite the landlord’s remonstrances, invariably
refuse to take an oyster that is green with passion.
Yet there was a time when wo could have been
persuaded to swallow an octopus. We own our
faults, but will strive to improve. We will take for
example, in our struggle for amendment, the Gun-
nedah Advertiser. We have before us a sample of
its musical criticism, and we require no more than a
perusal of that to be assured that the Advertiser
brims over with the milk of human kindness.
We judge this from the whey the article is written.
It seems that some unbelievers had set forth that
nothing but “ burnt cork,” “ Box and Cox,” and
“ Slocum’s Dog,” would ever get the Gunnedaites
from under their sheets of bark after sundown;
but, says the Advertiser, proudly alluding to the
chaste entertainment that had recently taken place,
The affair of Thursday night has proved to the
contrary, and shown that the Gunnedah publio can
and do appreciate good music when well rendered,
even though it is of a sentimental or sacred cha-
racter.” There are both dignity and pathos in this,
and that they should like “good music when well
rendered ”is a proof of their culture. Good music
when badly rendered would be, of course—we only
anticipate the Gunnedah critic by a week—worse
music. But, to proceed. “ The stage,” writes the
Paper, grandly, “ had been ornamented with cur-
tains,” and “lights suspended in the centre ” shed
(or shod, is It ?) an ample glow upon the performers;
in short, it seems that everything was on a scale of
great preparation and splendour. “Mr. Turner,” we
are told, shortly after eight—we can’t see that what
immediately follows can be termed a very remark-
able feat, though his may be [Chutl— Ed. B.]—
“ took his seat at the orgaD,” and played the prayer
from “ Mose in Egitto” (confidently believed by the
audience to be French for Moses in Egerton) “in
a masterly manner.” The chorus sang it after-
wards, and their voices were “ well-balanced" —
an expression which recalls to our memory, some-
how, the man on the ball at Chiarini’s. Mr. A. G.
Street then gave “ London Bridge,” but, says the
’Tiber, with critioal severity, “ this song is rather
too heavy for him.” Mr. Turner then took part in
a duet, which “ elicited a well-merited round of
applause.” Mr. Turner (after one number) con-
tinues our friend, “substituted the ‘Death of
Nelson,’ for ‘Remember.’ He was encored, and
responded with ‘ Let me Like a Soldier Fall,’ but
he sang it in too high akeyl” [Just ono glass of
iced water before we proceed.] Now, to quote
again:—“The second part was commenced by Mr.
Turner and Mr. Tilley playing a march from
‘Athalie,’ by Mendelssohn, as . . . duet,” and,
to their credit, be it said, they “ were rewarded by
vociferous applause. The part song, ‘ Carnovale,’
was then rendered very pleasingly by the full
company. The song ‘Dream Faces,’ by Miss O
Thompson, was nioely sang” (sic). And subse-
quently “ God Save the Queen,” was “ well given,
and through the novelty of its rendering seemed
to quite take with the audience.” There 1 We
put down our pen, proud to think that we have
done justice to a writer who is, we are assured, no
ordinary man. We should like to know very
much what he does in his spare hours, because—
but they’re not nearly worn out yet.
* * *
A Brisbane paper called the Evangelical
something—states the following interesting cir-
cumstance respecting the Queensland Commission
of the Peace :—“We believe that (referring to a
new J.P.) his occupation when resident in the
colony was sewing up bags of ore, and that of late
he has resided out of the colony altogether while
carrying on his avocation of a tin-miner. Not
; wealth, education or social standing are enjoyed
by this political J.P., who has, we are informed
not one penny of interest of any sort in Queens-
land. Another of this new batch has been twice
oonvioted in the Stanthorpe Police Court within
eighteen months, to say nothing of other charges
which have been withdrawn.” Why, what in
lithrofracteur is all this fuss about ? We consider
that the reference to the magistrate who sewed
up ore is one of ore-dacity. But it is only simu-
lated. These religious papers will indulge in a
little timely pleasantry. We know they are, in
their hearts, proud of these two new J.P.’s. We
have got several we are equally proud of. We
i have the one who, before he was relegated, with
| other shining lights, to the congenial atmosphere
of his little shop, used to say—“ Wharsh sharge ? ’
“ Drunkenness, your Worship ? ” “ Mush (hie) do
'way shish short shingl Make sample. (Consider-
inQ.) Oh (hie), Your discharged wl’ caushonsh
Nesh (hie) cashe.” There was another magistrate
who used—who didn’t know him ?—to post himself
at the pub. opposite the Police Court, and drink
long beers alike with lawyer and client. He was
a stout man, dressed in the very ghost of a black
coat, a paper collar which had invariably suc-
cumbed to the elements, and sorrow-hued pants
which hung despondently over a pair of hob-
nailed bluchers. He had a loud explosive hiccup,
a clammy hand, and eyes whose pristine bright-
ness was invariably hid by the crystal fountain of
emotion. He would take rum, biscuits, beer,
cucumbers, colonial wine, cauliflowers, shandy-
gaff, or jewellery. Any thing but a live snake.
Then, when he was loaded up, he would walk grave-
ly over and take his seat on the bench, where his
untiring efforts—just to keep awake, and then to
turn a hiccup into a cough, were two of the eom-
pletest things ever witnessed since the building of
the Thames Tunnel and the launching of the
Great Eastern. Then there is the gorgeous “ pre-
liminary Judge,” whose place of abode is a bit un-
settled, and whoss banking account, people say,
is likewise in a trifle of a blur. We must not for-
get also that there is the delicious bootmaker, who
would at a licensing meeting announce that bis
decision was made up before the case came on.
And there was—is—JOHN DAVIE 3, J.P. We havo
much to be proud of—much to be thankful for!
* * 3ft
The Newcastle Herald and the News,
are having a row about stealing telegrams; and in
the course of a rather mild article called “ Satan
Reproving Bin ” occurs the following by Hanby:—
“ Since then the Penny Alfred, originally called
the Penny Samuel, after that grandest and most
uncompromising journalist Australia ever saw, has
waxed fat and now would kick.” This is sad stuff;
and has, furthermore, a strong Melbourne smack’
The paper was never called the Penny Samuel,
because the old man died before The Bulletin
was in existence; and every name that has been
given to the News by way of a mild joke, has been
coined by us-mostly, be it said, when we felt
especially dull, or had, by courtesy to attend the
funeral of some tradesman, with whose bones we
had not the slightest sympathy. People are fond
of drawing comparisons between what the paper
was in Sam’s time, and what it is now. We’re not.
But we will admit that the old gentleman was “one
of the most remarkable men in our country. ” But
then Alfred’s that ! I
• • •
At the late Bast Sydney election, a cynio
remarked: “There goes John Davies and John
M'Elhone—honesty and gentlemanliness—hand-in-
hand.”
* * *
Bobby Byrne is really a daring inovation-
ist. [Why not ?] In Brisbane, he recently inter-
viewed Murdoch, a gentleman connected with the
cricketing interest, and here is a sample of the
humorous dialogue that teok place between them:
“‘ I say, Figgy [!!], so help my leggings, but you
are a poet.’ ‘I say, Billy, so help my spectacles,
but you are a cricketer,’ I replied, ironically.
‘ But, I say, boys, what’s your opinion about Bris-
bane?”’ Now, we wonder whether this is the
“ comic” literature of the present day, or is it the
“ wholesome fun” of the future ? But, though we
don’t particularly admire the style, we can still
afford to make every allowance for Little Bobby,
| when it is considered that his interlocutor was a
cricketer. We had an interview with one onoe. I
“How did you like the Orleans Club?” we en-
quired. “ Oh, fine cricket; the * break’ Spoff. got on |
was a sight!” “We suppose,” we continued, “ that
you were much impressed with the art treasures
of the British Museum ?” “Oh,” cried he, “that
mouldy old hole be d dl You should have been
at the bloomin’ Oval, and seen Garrett play nine
pins with the swells’ timbers.” “The magnificent
sight of the vast concourse of people at the Derby
must have much affected you,” said we. “ The
Derby oh, yes: such a lark! Ooming home we
all wore false noses, and Charley hit a cove in the
eye with a pea-shooter.” “ The grandeur of the
Manchester structures—” “Ah, Manchester
There I caught Barlow in the chains, and Bill
lifted the bail—” “Good-bye.” “So long, ole
toucher.” And here is what Charles is supposed to
have said, in to the toast of his health at a
big banquet, presided over by a gentleman of
title: “Gents, — me and the boys desires to
thank you specially the worshipful party
in the cheer for this slap up feed and the
(lost.) Cricket is oncertain like
’orses, and Nap . That’s all; except that me
and the boys is sensitive of the honour.” As may
be expected, this eloquent address was almost as
much applauded as were some of the remarkable
feats of jugglery performed by some of the
“knights of the willow” with their knives. We
know one who called all the waiters “old feller,”
and another who always squared his arms when
fish was on, and shoveiled it in with his knife.
Another objected strongly to his knife and fork
being changed after each course, so at big spreads
was having continual wrestles with the servants.
Still, great improvements have taken place in the
manners of our representatives, and few if any of
them now would shriek with astonishment at the
sight of a salt-spoon.
* * *
Mr. Booth’s valedictory anecdote in the
Melbourne Exhibition was a personal one. Had
Mr. Booth taken to the press he would have been
as engaging a raconteur of incidents in which the
almighty Ego stood to its full height as a certain
other eminent haberdasher of literature. It is a
mercy ho didn’t, for the world is, after all, a small
place, and it would be hard to find a safe retreat.
Mr. Booth says he stood one time under the dome
of St. Paul’s in London. He had in his pocket a
letter from his family begging for money. The
only other thing he possessed was 9id. But he
prayed to God, and the next morning a rich
banker sent him a cheque. This anecdote is an
invaluable legacy to the Melbourne public. It fits
many a man there. Many a man there has only
9>£d., and possesses the same kind of letter. He
can also pray like an organ. All he and such as he
want now is a Cathedral with a dome on it and a
rich banker, and then they’ll be able to tour the
world like Booth.
* * *
Glover, the temperance orator, has ar-
ranged with his wife to call his next boy “ Mel-
bourne.” So he announced when ducking his
good-byes. Now, that’s hardly fair to the young
lad. “Melbourne Glover” is not a euphonious
combination, and, besides, it is not generous to
make the child a placard of his father’s craze. But
then the question can stand over, as Mrs. Glover
may go on editing girls. Hope she will. The only
escape for the boy.
BRIEF MENTION.
A stirring affair—A teaspoon,
A grasping man—A policeman.
A doughmestio man.—The baker.
The prize-ring.—The wedding-ring.
A numbskull.—A Bobby’s “neddy.”
Thing’s that cannot dye.—Bald heads.
Best place for star-gazing.—The theatre.
A “screw” loose —A miser on the “booze.”
The three ages of matrimony—Wooing,
suing, rueing.
Collars and cuffs—What the ordinary
policeman does.
The M‘Elhone may be dubbed our cham-
pion legi-“slater.”
An elevated track.—From the refreshment-
room to the Legislature.
Tooth's brew is popular, we suppose,
because it “ bites all the way down.”
The sea-serpent has been seen again. By a
D. T. reporter. He saw it in his boot.
We did such a silly thing the other day.
We deliberately sat upon a “ Pyn.” The Shroud
may copy this.
Two “whips” now haunt the Assembly—
the “whip” for the Government, and the horse-
“whip” for Jack M'Elhone.
About that poor “Cabbage Garden,”
Sir Jack full much has said;
But don’t his many pranks of late
Suggest a—“ cabbage-head ” ?
Barrister Simpson the other day asserted
that, “after all, law was only common cense”
This explains the reason why so many without
common sense go in for studying the law.
A wary chiel was little Luscombe—
He knew it would unto the “ wust ” come •
So he escaped a jolly lickin’.
And forty “ quid ” he kept his “ kick” in.
Lord Coleridge, it is said, has no idea at
present of writing a book about America and the
Americans. Astonishing, that. Ho was there two
or three weeks.
One of the answers to correspondents in a
recent number of the Shroud runs thus:— 11 ‘ Con-
stant Reader’: You should adopt another name
We have three constant readers.” Fancy!
A cruel man out West has destroyed all
the sacred traditions of our youth. He was found
dead with an “ empty water-bottle ” by his side
The glory of backblock fighting rum is evidently
on the decline.
The Victorian Hairdressers’ Association
had a picnic the other day. “Ample justice was
done to the excellent luncheon provided ’’—and
next morning there was an awful array of muti-
lated chins to be seen in the streets of Melbourne.
RIGHT AND LEFT.
Selectors complain their grass-right they have lost
But they’re like to be doubly bereft, ’
For if this drought lasts, they will find to their cost
They’ll have neither grass-right nor grass left. ’
The outci y against sendinggirls to Noumea
“to be ruined body and soul,” is rather funny. We
knew a poor, demure, unsuspecting creature who
signed to go there a little while since. Her prin-
cipal accomplishment was that she could kick off a
man’s hat.
Mr. Harold Maclean has accorded a lady
permission to be attended twice a month by a
Chinese doctor who is in goal for stealing a horse.
He must have been a silly Chinese doctor. If we
had a lady so “shook” on our skill as that, we
should give up the practice of stealing horses
“ immediate.”
country contemporary naively asks
suitable recreation for ou
f®;?” ® 1 to enable them to bear the constan
fatigue of the crloket field ?” We woiild sugges
own^fvnig nP ° PUlar recreation of—ehruing the:
. H ft( l there. Last Tuesday, h cleHcall
dressed but otherwise respectable looking gentle
mnn B ™°i P i P vi d i a J^ in Mt re et cabby and said, “XT
f the shortest way to get to Ox fore
And tho Jehu, calmly pointing to h
onVv } here I®* sir*” But the reveren
only wilted and passed on.
Hero’s a wrinkle for our brave hotel back
SSlia^.- 111 Bel 9 lam j, the authorities hav
ISf, po L C u on ni » ht duty with cloth bo"t
aa ,Y"ff india-rubber soles. With these boots th
ninnnn aro 80 P e i ,f ®°tly noiseless that they ar
e ii U u footing with the burglars—anc
have plenty of chances to escape with safety.
/ „^®s ev « r . ft sprinkles up Dubbo way
an seldom, now), any man seen wit
® S afc on . c ® * b °t dead and hauled int
u°i UB J?i* After a 'i the wear and tear o
the inhabitants havo gone through lately
they are determined nothing else but the groUn
district 4 whattSver moisture Mils around in thei
The Italian Republio of San Martino ha
3SiislS lly r™?i 4< l ni®n, and a national debt of 1000
ib ? } a , J UBt ; the sort of territory Princ
Leopold ought to rule. When he went abroad, hi
army would be just powerful enough to suppor
J£ e hl ! red man behind to iarrv the bo.
L“ at . “cWf the pieces, and the gillie with the gal
vanic battery and a pocketful of eyeballs.
Says the London Figaro ! —“ It is WhiS
pered that a new Flying Squadfon will be fok-itied
duy in k the Spring. Who will take cohimand?
Vice-Admiral the Duke of Edin
fu earnbat to-day, and with roseate praise,
w * wlBhes t. doubtless, to be dyeing him;
Yet did we writ© like this (tho’ p’hnps it pays'
Our crowd wouldswear that we were guyinghim
The Melbourne Herald observes that th
reign of the new railway commission “ would hav
been inaugurated almost at its commencement by
the presentation of a Butcher’s Bill,” if a certain
broken spring in a carriage had not been dis
covered. There s no need to be in any hurry
J? lenty j ?/A ime inaugurate it almost a
the middle, and if that should not Ho a frood obba
the end 6 * 1 that re KD Can be lnali firutated Almost a
For positively the hist time this season the
> aBt . survivor of the Battle of Trafalgar has jus
r/ffK 110 age °f °?v. He ®njoyed perfect health
UP to tho moment of his death, and the full use o
all his faculties. He remembered all the facts o
thatrouseabout day when England expected ever'
man to earn his wages, and could reel off the
names of all the thirty-three vessels that “ fit ” tho
Britishers. Any other last survivor dying after
this notice will at once be prosecuted.
At a public meeting held in Wagga* the
other day, Mr. J. Dart, when suggesting thht the
school children should join in the demonstration
to celebrate the freeing of the bridge over tho
Batd , that Anything in connection with the
c f*i‘, c i r ®U would meet with hearty response from
all the fathers present—the bachelors included. A
pointed dart, that, and, if all s true that one hears
of Wagga morality, it hit the white. We don’t
white a communit Y in which it would not hit the
Granny’s Brisbane correspondent gives a
new rendering of an old proverb. He (or she)
says even a crushed worm may turn on its tor-
mentor. The crushing must have been badly
done, then. No, sirree, such an asinine remark
would never have developed into a proverb. The
old familiar phrase is ; “ The smallest worm wil
on.” Did Shakespeare make
Clifford in King Henry VI.” say “crushed
worm for smallest worm,” it would cause the
very groundlings to snigger.
There was a row during the Salvation
services at the Orl tho < ther Sunday. An officer
who was ferociously praying, suddenly beheld a
man expectorate. Stepping down, he gave the
signal, and the culprit was instantly surroundhd
by frowsy soldiers. What did you do that fbr ? ’
enquired the irate officer, prior to giving thb
“firing-out” horder. “Well, blow me, if I can
help It, Cap., was the answer; “the moment you
begin to pray, I must begin to spit.” Next moment
he was, with a crushed cadie, under the starrv
canopy. J
We need not say where we clip the follow-
ing odoriferous par. from. None but the culchawed
editor of tho Nooze Brevities could do full justice
to such a captivating subject. VoUa ! “ The
stench in the Central Police Court was a compound
of carbolic acid, ‘mephitic air’ from the market
and eau-do-colomal from the unwashed. Whew I”
You struck it that time, Alfred. “ Oh. do colonial ”
is exactly what the great unwashed are ever
chaunting. Some men deviate into sense oeea-
sioimlly’ but this time you’ve fairly jumped slap
111 Oil top 01 lt»
Smart work, this : Not long ago a Glades-
ville lunatic cleared for Sydney in order to ascer-
tain i £^ dere , was any chance of his being returned
as a lit and proper person for East Sydney, or of
securing a job as chief poet on the Nooze. Unfor-
tunately lor himself and society at large, however
he was captured by Trooper Phillips, of the Hyde
police, and was lodged in the lock-up at Wornsbv
(nine miles from Hyde) before the Gladesviile
Asylum authorities gave the police any informa-
tion. Ho was an unobtrusive sort of crank, how-
ever, and probably wasn’t missed.
The “cat” is a time-honoured, end even
classic weapon, for Horace sang;—
“ Let’s have a rule
Which deals to crimes an equal punishment.
Nor tortures with the horrid lash for faults
Worthy a birchen twig
Every hero of Waterloo should spread that smoDg
F® P ala .V H. Properly quoted next time they
honour the spikes with their presence, the intelli-
gent Jury might thing they were “well-con-
nected, and let them down light accordingly.
A butcher, summoned for throwing filth
°° **>o carria keway, appeared in the Redfern court
coatlees and having his shirt sleeves tucked un ”
Thereupon Stipendary Crane : Pull your sleeps
down. Defendant: l have just come from work,
and do no know that there is any harm in having
them up. His Worship: I say that there is a great
deal of harm. A man with right feeling will have
respect for the Court. Defendant: I have been so
very little n a court that I do not know the rules
His Worship: Of course It mav be right fora man
working outside to move his sleeves up. This is
pure crane r ie with a vengeance-tho very arro-
gance of official pomposity, to long as a man s
costume is not indecent, he is within his rights
whether in his workshop or before the biggest of
T ° kobefom Crane with one’s shirt sleeves
tuckt d lip is to pay lum tho delicate compliment
(in dumb show) of insinuating that you don’t
mean to laugh In your sleeve at him, any way.
Allan Dean lost bis birdcage. He is
a Civil servant, and used to slumber at the
Mountain View Hotel, down at Richmond (Vic)
A splendid view from that hotel. When you look
at the mountain and shut your eyes, you don’t
want to open them any more. Hut Allan had to
open them, or get them opened, in the interests of
his country. He therefore got a bird to sing to
him at sunrise. And he made a case for it and
flxpd it against the wall outside After a while he
thought he’d shift. By this time be loved thl
cage us much as the bird, and he brought out his
hammer and pincers to loose it off the wall; but
the landlord stopped him. The landlord called the
* aa out-house,” and maintained that
it was a fixture of the premises. The court was
appealed to, and tho dicision was that the birdcage
had been so fastened against the side wall as to
become a fixture, and Allan was notified that the
little trouble he had put the court to in searching
£6l»a nj r tPiS plece of wiBdom would stand him,


While the Grand United Order of Odd-
fellows of Victoria were enjoying their annual
excursion down the Bay, one unfortunate “fellow”
so thoroughly identified himself with the character,
and became so uncommonly “ odd,” that he had to
be straight-jacketed.
We have frequently read of “anichtwi’
Burns,” “A night with Dickens,” &c., and even
punished ourselves with sitting some of the nights
out, but we cave in, on learning from a Queens-
land journal, that the “Rev. Mr. will give a
night with Mrs. Hemans.” ....
Gundagai’s loilcly stipendiary stated in
court the other day that persons are not allowed
to drink liquor in unlicensed housesi “Is that
vour Worship’s ruling ?” queried attorney Griffin;
“ft n I prevested having a glass of wine in my own
house r’ “Goon with your case, Mr. Griffin.”
Mr. Booth, at his closing “mission ” meet-
ing at the Melbourne Exhibition, made the
“pleasing and interesting” announcement that
“two brewfcrs had signed the pledge*.” These
gentlemen, presumably, will reconcile their busi-
ness with their consciences by maintaining that it
isn’t bedr they brew at ali.
Mr. Blue-Ribbon Glover, in bis final
address at the Melbourne Exhibition, waxed very
eloquent on the subject of the “showers of kind-
hfeSS poured upon him” In the Vlotorian capital.
St. Patrick's Pay in the Morning-
Going to Botany.
Bfc Patrick s Day m the Evening— Returning from
Botany.
Che Banquet—National dishes only
® National Sports and Pastimes at Botany, u,
honour of St Patrick
«
/ Atarcn / «
ftlu Tim O Beier "Sure, aa f ian't feel Ipike
business thus morning, at alt. at all K
St. Patrick’s Day.
So grateful is Mr. Glover, that “he has just writ'ea
to his wife and said if God were to present her
with a son, he was to be called Melbourne." Tem-
perance apostles are evidently used to strange
things happening when they’re away from home.
First Selector (visiting a newly-settled
neighbour): “Well, Mr. , you must feel very
lonely, here in the bush by yourself, after beiDg
used to towns.” Second Selector (who is of a
literary turn): “ Oh, no. I’ve lots of friends
Macaulay ani Shakspeare. Thackeray, Dickens,
and Bulwer Lytton— and they help me to pass the
time away, you see.” Firsts.: ‘H 11! What a
mob! Did they all come up with you? Where’s
their ground ?’ r
Why is the revision of the Old Testament
proceeding so slowly ? Haven’t you heard ? Well,
the fact is, that in the second chapter of Genesis
the Hebrew word referring to the creation of Eve,
and hitherto given as “rib,” turns out according
to the proper rendering, to be “ tail.” There the
revisers have been etuck for the last year as firmly
as loafers in the Civil service. “ Spine” was pro-
posed as a compromise, but was lost by thecasting
vote of the chairman, so there the matter stands.
In “Answers to Correspondents,” the
Australasian man tells E. A. M’Clelland, of
Dunkeld, all about singular and plural collective
nouDS. He says “ army ” is singular and “ bevy ”
plural, If he stopped there, we wouldn’t mind;
but he gives reasons—about the last thing a sensi-
ble man thinks of doing. “Bevy” is plural
because it would “ almost necessarily be accom-
panied by a plural noun, as' a bevy of maidens.’ ”
Well, now try “an army of ” (wedge in a singu-
lar noun here, and tell us what you think of it.)
ALFRED’S DISASTROUS CONFLAGRATION.
(“ By Telegraph. From our own Correspondent")
The Lyre’s wires really master us,
They say the fires were disastrous,
And to what follows kindly lend your 'ere,
The author’s miscreant and incendiary!
The scoundrel in this horrid case
Caused all a most exciting chase.
With chemicals and lighted wick too
They seize him in flagrante* delicto.
Make short, just, please, that final letter,*
Alf’s myrmidons “ won’t know no better.”
“One more unfortunate”: found dead at
8 a.ra., on the22ndult., beneath a tree justoff main
road; Dews sent to nearest police station, 15 miles
distant,same morning; next dayat dusk coroner and
trooper arrive on soot: a “short” jury, “run in”:
inquest held in the road; verdict “ death through
being lost in the bush ”; inquest over, coroner and
trooper make tracks in the gloaming, leaving
corpse unburied; two scrub-cutters dig hole 2ft.
6in. deep, about 2ft. from the main road, ground
being hard and night dark ; body plaoed in hole
wlthout coffiD, hands and arms projecting up-
wards; a third man had to stand on them to keep
them down from being seen from the top of tha
hole while they covered him in; body about Ift.
from the surface of the ground. God save the
Queen!
Another outcome of judicial moralising!
“ There are circumstances in which a moral man,
to save his reputation, might deviate from the
strict truth.” The Melbourne Daily Telegraph
objects to this fiercely, and would have split the
dictum into meaningless letters had not the even-
ing World come to the Judge’s rescue. Here’s
how bis Honor’s subtleties are lifted up into the
broad light in which practical men of the world
can grasp their significance:—“lf a man with a
sword in his hand, intent upon killing our wife,
should inquire whether she had gone out the back
way (which she had), we should certainly answer
‘No,’ knowing that ‘Yes’ meant her immediate
death.” Now, whether was the Daily Telegraph
or the World the more recently married ? Ven-
ture to say that it is that, and not Judge Higin-
botham’s subtle dictum, which would determine
what a man would say when his wife went out the
back way.
Wonderful, indeed, are the ways of the
detective. The robbery of geld and bank-notes
from the London Chartered Bank at Horsham has
provided the D.’s with a grand opportunity for
displaying the originality of their ideas. of
their grandest ideas was that the stolen treasure—
£soo in gold and a few bundles of notes—would
probably be buried along the bank of the Wim-
mera: simp'y shitted from one bank to another,
you see. They made diligent search at the water’s
side (a good many amateurs did the same, on their
own account, no doubt), but didn’t find the
“stuff;” still, that only speaks the more for their
originality of mind, and shows they can boast of
more advanced ideas than the culprits. They never
thought of anything more artful than keeping the
money in their pockets, very likely. By the bye,
a rumour was set afloat that the treasure had been
discovered “ concealed under a brick ” on the high
road—but it “proved to be unfounded.” 8o we
should imagine.
Now, who was it that told Mr. Speight all
about the people of Ballarat? He is not long
enough in that quarter to pick up much in the
usual way. Perhaps he had had a talk with Bishop
Thornton in the old land, who cadged about the
hat for the poor miners. Or, perhaps he stood
near and saw the moral wreck which Ballarat has
made of the once gallant Majah. At all events, he
won’t take a bite or a sup from the people of that
city. Having business last, week, he notified that
he would go up there. “Now is the time,’ cried
the Major; “come on, my merry men, and we’ll
feed him and fill him as full as a lord.” And
banners were got ready, and tablecloths washed
and ironed, and everybody went about saying
“ Now's the timel” It 8 not plain what the cabal-
istic phrase meant, but when Mr. Speight heard it
he knocked the citizens dumb with amazement.
“What I'll eat and drink will be at my own ex-
pense, and I’ll take nothing from you. Ballarat
can’t understand it.
One of the dominant rules of the Salva-
tion Harmy seems to be the utter prohibition of
the presence of “terbaccer” at their fanatic
howls. A party who essayed “ a chew ” at a late
meeting in the Protestant Hall was violently as-
sailed, and an uproar ensued that rendered the ’all
a very pandemonium. At last the “bobbies”
stepped In, and the holy rioters were quieted.—
Oh I you mustn’t “ chaw terbaccer,”
Else we’ll wipe you on the “smacker,”
Is the howl of the great Harmy of Salvation ;
For the only thing to chew here
Is the bosh we yell to you here,
Or we’ll kick you straight out into cold damna-
tion.
For we “Hallelujah Lasses,”
Ah, we Christianize the masses,
With our drums and tambourines pell-mell;
And, if ourBhrill “Hallelujah”
From “terbaccer’ doesn’t “slew yer,”
Why, you just can hook it straight to h——l!
He’s dead now, but once (when he was alive)
be started a country paper, and one of the para-
graphs of the prospectus ran as follows:—“ It will
be especially our aim to allow the utmost latitude
to our fellow-townsmen with respect to inserting
communications in the paper. Indeed, we shall
court rather than shirk favours of this kind.”
Well, he came out all right; and, in good time for
the next issue, the Mayor came round armed with
an article urging the Government to at once com-
mence the block bridge at Tuigog’s Creek, follow-
ing up with a slight dissertation upon the most
skilful way of stacking lucerne, and concluding
with a passionate and learned essay upon hog-
rearing. “Put that there In the papper,” said hla
Worship. The editor gazed blankly at the huge
MS:, saw before him a sea of trouble in setting and
revising it, when what he considered a (bright
thought struck him. “Sir,” he said, “I grieve
I cannot insert your article. I have only been
four weeks in the distriot, and-bow am I to know
it is true ? As we remarked before, he is dead
now.
Judging from appearances, many a man
could do far worse thau take board and lodgings
for a few years’ stretch in the Bathurst Hospital.
According to a local journal. “ There are 31
patients, and the expenses for the last month
amounted to £175. The place is crowded with
nurses, housemaids, charwomen, laundresses,
cooks, porters, &c.” A more salubrious spot could
not be fouud in the Western district, and the style
of table kept may be imagined from the fact that
during the past month the poor emaciated, dying
Satients put themselves outside of “50 fowls, 73
ozen eggs, 74® of butter, and fruit of all kinds,
including grapes at Is. per 1b.,” in addition to the
coarser, plebeian food, such as Orange-killed beef.
Vale Creek pork, and prize mutton. At least, if
the patients didn’t, who did ? That’s the question
which is just now agitating the breast of Alderman
Paul, who furthermore wants to know, you know,
what in thunder a crowd of semi-corpses want
with olives, Parmesan cheese, and old port wine.
All the patients apparently suffer very much from
consumption—consumption of victuals, we mean.
Swagsmen must keep away from Mel-
bourneandits suburbs. The old civilisation, which
permitted a man to carry his bedding on his back
and to stretch himself where he pleased, has given
place to the regime ef a bluestone lockup and heap
or malodorous straw. James Hayes was seen at
Williamstown with a blanket. “Now,” mused a
bobby, “what for is that man humping that
blanket ? Shtole it, I believe. Hi! me man, come
’Jong; ye have that blanket onlawfully.” “Gar-
out, said James; “I bought it in the shop for-
ninst ye, and am going up country.” The bobby,
finding the statement true, pulled on his white
gloves and let James go his way. In a couple of
hours James got as far as Melbourne. “Where
are ye going with that garment ?” asked another
bobby;“ shtole it, I believe. Come’long.” “Gar-


Mb. DeCourcy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of tho Mining- Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pitt-street, Sydney
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.—AdYt.
Ask for Hookings’ High-class Wines, all
B?ed and reliable. Drink no others. Sampling
nllars. 143 Pit.t-atreet.*
“ Buchu-paiba.” Quick complete cure,
all annoying Kidney, Bladder and Urinary Diseases.
TVmgflrnita. Moses. Moss <te Go.. Genera. Aaenta.
Ayer’s Ague Cure is the only remedy
known which is certain to cure Fever and Ague
permanently, by expelling the malarial poison
which produces the disease. It does this surely,
and leaves no ill effects upon thesystem. Nothing
is so thoroughly depressing and discouraging as
the periodical return of the alternate chills, fever
and sweating, peculiar to this disease.
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commissio 11
Merchants and Pastoral Agents 26 O’Conneli.-
BTREET, Sydney. Agents for the purchase
of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplits, Harvest*
ing Machinery, Agricultural Implements, &c. No
commission charged for buying. EjS’“ Agents for
the sale or purchase on commission of Pure-bred
Stock. 4 '
out,” said James, and he narrated his story. “It
may be true and it may not,” mused the bobby?
“but l want time to inquire- I’ll arrest him for
Insulting behaviour, and be the time that’s over
I’ll know all about it. Cbme 'long, me man.”
“From the whole account,” said Mr. Call, "it
seems to me that it’s the possession of that blanket
that is that man’s crime. However, I line him 55.”
Up Hughenden way there resides a distin-
guished citizen who keeps a shanty where no liquor
is ever wasted. When customers don’t roll up f:st
enough he mops it up himself, 'then he gets
aggressive, and, like most quarrelsome peisons,
occasionally gets shook out bad. So he has to hie
borne for tire consolation denied him abroad.
There are many methods for restoring to good
humour men who return home with tilted noses
and damaged eyes. Our “bung’s” favourite plan
is to chase his wife round trees and wallop her
with a horse-halter. By the time there are wheals
on her shoulders as thick as a walking-stick, his
moroseness is worked off, and he is set up for the
day- Do we pity her ? We smile. We’ve often
wished to be a woman and married to a shanty-
keeper. When he came along with the horse-
As the Government invite designs for a Statue of Her Majesty the Queen, we venture to offer our little idea.
halter would we skip round trees or dodge round
corners ? Not much. But there’s one thing we’d
guarantee The ol’man might pursue us once,
overtake us, and even reduce us to pulp, but—not
rne second time—no. never again. Oh! woman-
woman. You’re a lot to answer for. It is to pro-
iect you we have to run up the gallows and the
triangles, because—you won’t protect yourselves,
will you never change, and by the change, put an
«nd once for all to tne clenched fist, the stick, and
the horse-halter ?
a ra ther peculiar sort of a case
A 8 £. iviD £ trouble just now down Dunedin
nf o * tiuring a recent gale a chimney on the top
rhif w °' s t° r ey house, belonging to a man named
RfrV«r er V was blown down on the roof of a one-
h° U 8 the property of a God-fearing
e L der named Biles, and, crashing through,
innw » V ea P °t furniture, and gave three of the
eses * he appearance of having been ae-
rho y overtaken by an active sawmill. Before
? chimney was perfectly sound. Biles
hls house first, and then had the children
after u 1 f were nearly as good as new,
Brothriu be handed in a bill for £47 10. to
othei Chalker. Brother Chalker, however
couldn’t Bee it, and in a most convincing Spetecb,
which proved his great acquaintance with the
Scriptures, pointed out that he was not liable, as
the damage was done by the tempest raised by
God ; that the w iys of PfoVldence are inscruta-
ble, that the Lora smote his servant Job
with boils and. dungheaps. And that it was fiat
blasphemy to fly in the Creator's face for a paltry
£4C 10s. This made Biles mad—he was about to say
Job me—when a holier spirit seized him, and, catch-
ing Chalker by the hair, he Professor-Millered him
round the yard for half an hour, at the end of
which time the Bible expounder looked like a man
who had called an eight-horse thrashing machine
a condemned liar. And now both the elders have
taken the law on each other —one for damage done
by a chimney, and the other for ’sault and battery,
we therefore see that even Providence occasion-
ally causes trouble in the best regulated families.
The Melbourne press is indulging in some
very angry surprise because Mr. Call, the figure-
head of the blind goddess that rules the City
Court, decided a case last week according to his
lights. An old woman named Robinson had been
out a trifle late one night, and going into a pub.
l^.,F°^ res^men^B ’ ®bc allowed a fellow named
Willis to pay for her glass of ale. Willis accom-
panied her out, and when they came to a lonely
Place a great row ensued. The row lasted while a
policeman ran a quarter of a mile—which, on the
face of it, proves that it must have been going on
for the better part of a fortnight. When he
arrived and got his wind, he found Willis with his
knee on the woman’s chest, and his hands round
her neck choking her. He “ disjined thim and tuk
thim to the lock-up. Charge against Willis,
Assault with intent to rob.” \villis pleaded “The
woman was trying to rob me.” Evidence: The
constable heard her cries a quarter of a mile off;
she was bleeding from the ears and frothing at the
mouth; she had to be doctored wheh she reached
the lock-up; her throat still showed the bruises.
No contra evidence to all this. Mr. Call said, “ I
dismiss the case; there’s nothing to support the
charge.” Hence the surprise. But. looking over
the general administration of justice, it doesn’t
appear that there is any special reason for having
Mr. Call interrogated by the Government. If, on
the evidence tendered, he had given the old woman
three months’ hard labour, the matter might claim
further consideration. But he didn’t. He let her
off. She may oount herself lucky that justice was
blipd, or She blight bo to-day in gaol for her noise
en that night.
The committee of the Melbourne Benevo-
lent Asylum has decided, by a majority of six to
four, to permit card-playing as a recreation in that
institution. This is, indeed, a glorious privilege
for the poor old played-outs and dead-beats of the
sister colony. But why put in the proviso that
they shall only play for recreation ? Did the com-
mittee, in its deliberative wisdom, think that the
impecunious old fossils, who are admitted as
paupers, were possessed of cash, and, if card-
plaving were allowed, would “ready up” packs
and go in for gambling and attendant dissipation ?
But, perhaps the committee acted judiciously in
making the restriction. Somebody says somewhere
that every man is at heart a gambler, only wanting
the opportunity to develop the science. “The
means to do ill deeds make ill deeds done;” and
now thattheantiquated inhabitants of the Asylum
have got the cards, the latent spirit of specula-
tion will again assert itself, and a wild and reckless
course of gambling must be the inevitable result.
They will start with a harmless game of all-fours,
for “love,” and gradually drift into the mysteries
of whist and cribbage; then by a natural transi-
tion to “forty-fives” and euchre, and ultimately
And themselves settled down to a “school of
poker.” And when it comes to poker, there will
be some exciting scenes. “I’ll go a chaw o’
tibaky,” one old veteran will yell out. “ I’ll ‘see ’
you the chaw and go two pipe-fulls better,” cries
the next. “I’ll straddle it,” shrieks a third. “I’ll
see your straddle and ‘raise’it a shirt,” excitedly
says the dealer. “I’ll go a waistcoat and two
feeds,” screams number two, “and it’ll take you
a suit of clothes to ‘call’ me.” And so theee
ancient revellers will have a right good time, only
we reckon some of the less fortunate ones will
have to lie abed at times after gambling away their
clothes.
The N.S.W. “Lords” are playing straight
into the hands of the blow-fly (mixed metaphor,
but ’twill servo). They decline to permit butchers
to open their shops on Sundays until 7 a.m.
J. L. Parsons has accepted the Government
Residentship of the Northern Territory. E. T
succeeds him as S.A. Minister of Education.
Good sign of the progress of non-sectarianism
when the Parsons quit the portfolio of Public
Instruction
Dailey takes upon himself the entire re-
sponsibility of Stone’s thirl y-six witnesses not
having been subpoenaed. He may possibly have
acted within the law, and with the best wishes to
securo justice, but the law vhiob makes the chief
Crown-Prosecutor the judge as to whether the
witnesses a prisoner wishes to call for his defence
are “ material ” or not, is a most unsatisfactory
law.
The purest and best tonic for the over-
strained nervous system is the celebrated Wolfe’S
SCHNaPPs, the most powerful, wholesome, and
successful of modern restoratives;


The Referee.
Answers io correspondents.
“E.N.R.”: Frank Hewitt is stated to have
run ICO yards in 9J4s ec > on the ol(1 Albert Ground.
You can take it ior what it is worth.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Every sculler’s faith —Ho-man, of course.
Donald Dinnie is expected in Melbourne
on the 20th March.
fin connection with the R.S.Y.S., the Sao
defeated the lone ou Saturday last.
At Watson’s sports,
Cootnmundra, on March
Bth, (j. M’Tleroh won the
£lOO grand handicap; and
O. Cooney the Coota-
mandra Handicap.
Certain of the pro-
fessionals bitterly lament
that they refused Mr.
White's offer of “ £lO,OOO
to £5OOO on Martini-
Henry" made the night
before the “Champion.”
The £lO,OOO to £4OOO which
they stood out for was
not considered quite good
enough by the plucky
owner, and no deal was
made. This isn’t the first
big wager which has been
missed by the books.
Shortly before King-
craft's victory in the
Epsom Derby, Lord Dud-
ley strolled into the ring,
and offered £20,000 to
£lO,OOO on Macgregor to
Mr. J, B. Morris— ‘Tubby’
Morris, as he was called—
but without avail. As
everyone knows, Mac-
gregor—the greatest
“pot” that ever started
for the Derby—“ boiled
over” ignomlnlously, and
“Tubby” Morris feel-
ingly deplored his pru-
dence iu not accepting
Lord Diidley’s bet, and
‘standing It out” him-
self. “If I’d lost, ' might
have owed it to him, he
wouldn’t have minded,”
said Tubby.
The Melbourne
Sportsman is responsible
for the following :
“ During the running for
the Bourko Handicap on
Thursday, just as the
horses were rounding the
turn into the straight,
the following amusing
colloquy ensued between
the jockeys on Soldier
Bov, Fryingpan, and
Duenna. At the turn
Fryingpan appeared to
have a bit the best of it,
and Colley, who was on
Soldier Boy, with an eye
to the mai l chance, sang |
but to Power : * Save a
fiver, Ted?’ Ted, how-
ever, thinking he had the
Labe In hand; made no
rbply. A few more
strides and Fryingpan
dropped back, and Soldier
Boy and Duenna got up
level with him again.
O’Brien, who rode Mr.
Wallace’s mare, ex-
claimed: ‘l'll save a fiver,
Rrickey.’ ‘And so will
I.’ chimed in Power.
Collev felt Soldier Roy,
found he was going veiy
strong, and then replied :
‘No; I’m going
now —good morning,
and, shaking his horse
up, he scooped the pool.
Last Saturday after-
noon our intercolonial
eight had a spin with a
M.R.C. crew to whom
they gave some 10 lengths
start, and overlook about
Putney, when they were
of course done with.
Martin makes a scarcely
perceptible feather, and
what little he doesis done
under water, a fault very
likely to get him Into
trouble in a lump. Bourke
is very rough; but alto-
gether the eight made a
very f«ir show, consider-
ing the time they have
been together. Of the
boat being put together
for the Sydney crew, by
W T. Greenland, “Cloan-
thus” says-“ The’eight’
is built on the model of
the boat which was
turned out some years
ago by the same builder
for the Footscray Bowing
Club, and which I under-
stand held an unbeaten
certificate, having been
the thrice winner of the
Clarke Challenge Cup.
The new ship is 56ft. long,
with plenty floor to give
her buoyancy; she looks
of reduced dimensions
both in front of the bow
thwart and behind the
coxswain’s seat so that
there is very little ior-
ward to stop her way, or
aft to make her draw
water. Her mode), so far
as one can judge, looks
all over that of a flyer.
At Condobolin, M'Dermott has engaged a
local hall and is working up a walking trouble.
The latest in rowing circles.—That land’
jobbers are at the bottom of the proposed Nepean
venture.
Nonsense is first favourite for Dunedin
Cup. There’s generally a lot of nonsense about
first favourite. . ...
In Melbourne, it is proposed to get both
intercolonial eights to give, separately, an exhibi-
bition row, on 29th instant.
At Grafton, on Saturday, F. Noud and C.
Donoghue raced 125 yards for a fiver, Donoghue
receiving two yards’ start. Noud won as he liked.
The team of English professional cricketers
uroDose to leave England about September for
theirproposed Australian and New Zealand tour.
Lord Ellesmere has decided to remove his
horst s from Charles Archer’s to M. Dawson a care;
and, from all accounts, Mr. W. A. Long will lollow
The Nereid defeated the buida by a
minute for the S.A.S.C. 16-foot race on Saturday
last- The Ouida lost a lot of ground by fouling a
pleasure boat.
The “books” havenotqulte “cbqwed up”
the Hawkesbury R.C., as tfiey promised to,do.
The secretary received sqme twenty applications
for permission to bet in the paddock:
The Paddingtonians are starting a new
bicycle club, to Be styled the Oriental B.C. One of
its objects is to put down larrikin riding. And
this in the aristocratic suburb of Paddington I
Le Grand, by his second in theNewmarket
Handicap, third in the Australian Cup, and gallant
victory in the Champion Stakes, has proved him-
self a sterling good horse at all distances, and his
owner was not so very wide of the mark in taking
a long shot about him for the treble event. Many
thought, singularly enough, that the horse looked
hardly so blooming in bis coat on Saturday week
' as on the two previous occasions.
k' v - J a 'sU
* ft 0 ' ‘
'A'S l * |lilV
j , ? H
A L
T 9. %
"YfhU
111
-fi f e)ltt r
r SSl ! *'-TT
§omeD oqs j'fbit
an i Old To m.
' <*. i
<\tr y xU J“lck m- u p
Some Drinks.
Bome one suggests that the cricketing i
team, homeward bound, should be dubbed the
“ Federal Australian Fleven.” Wouldn t Cash-
down er Gate-money Eleven” Lit the mark
better ?
On Saturday afternoon the final heat for
the Sydney Amateur Canvas Dingy Sailing Flub
Handicap took place between the Daisy. La Mas-
cotte, aDd lona, resulted in a win for La Mascotte,
Daisy 2nd, and lona 3rd.
Tom Kydd, the best known professional
golfer in Scotland, died on Jan. 16, in the thirty-
fifth year of his age. He was the holder of the
golf championship of 1873, and was one of the
finest drivers who ever played the game.
Mr. Wilson, whose engagement as handi-
capper to the Adelaide Racing Club terminated
last New Year’s Day, has declined a renewal,of it.
cThe St. Patrick’s Day handicaps were framed by
the committee. We don't think this will act,
somehow.
liere i 3 a Solemn Earning. AME Bean, of
Boiirke; drew Martini-HCnry in Miller’s last Sweep
for “a thou.” He’d fingered the thoil,
when King Death drew Dean in hijgiganticsweep;
No man, you see, can draw a £IOCO sweep and live.
It wouldn’t pay the Sweepists;
A Uewll-arrived amateiih bo£er frbm
England, who has shown himself anything but a
“ mug ” with some of out locals; on Friday After-
noon had a friendly bout with Larry Foley, btit he
soon found that though Larry is only &Foabh& can
hit like the kiok of a lull-grown horse
It is to be hoped Mr. “ Jack” Want’s pur-
chase of the yawl Mignonette, 31 tons, which is
being sailed out, will give an impetus to first class
yacht-sailing in the harbour. The Magic and
Mistral have been fairly rotting at their moorings
for many months past, and it seems a pity that
their respective owners should have left it till so
late in the season before putting them in commis-
sion. We sadly want a few more of Mr. Wants
sort amongst our big yacht owners.
At Gympie, on the Ist March, a
named Bishop, the hitherto champion wrestler of
the place, was put through by a young tellow
named Colwell. Upon time being called, the men
shook hands and in the Cornwall and pevenshire
fashion caught where they could After some
two minutes' play, during which Bishop tried to
force the wrestling, Colwell threw him heavily oh
his back, flat as a pancake, evidently much to
Bishop’s surprise and that of his backers. Colwell
won three consecutive falls, and the match.
Mr. W. E. Dakin has named his yearlings
purchased lately as follows The Pencil, by King
of the Ring-itaid of al> Work; Deriflio*. by
Bolton Green—Fie-Fie; Carew, by Slanderer-
Regina; Albanos,by Proto-Martyr—Lady Avanel,
Tee Trawler, by The Hook— Signet (dam of Blolse,
&c.); and Mr. chirnside has named some of hm .-
Frocella, by Grand Flaneur— Ruk; Campanula, by
Maribyrnong-Hilver Bell ; Bmbassy, by Auibaa-
sador-Eugenie (Archie's dam); Rarfcy, by Angler
—Amethyst; Demosthenes, by Tho Hook—Talka-
tive.
At the second Calciitta (India) meeting;
Gudarri won the FOrt William Cun; Remotse woii
the Ballygunge Stakes; Paragraph, dlids AustraJ
lian, woii the AllporbPlate; Somerset, by Maribyr-
nong-Keepsake, won tbfe Mefchanta’ Clip; and
The Barb’s son, Kanakdt, Appropriated the ConSo-
latißn Plate.
The YdsSitea had fine fvpatiier foh tiiei.r
anmial races on lath March. HaVen won the All-
Aged Stakes; Friendship the Stiimfler Handicap;
Sutton the Yass Plains Handicap; Wantthe Shorts’
Handicap; Ned Kelly the Selling StakeS; and
Right Bower euchered his opponents in the
Hurdle Race.
The Warwick- Albert match, commenced
on the Association Ground last Saturday, will he
continued on Saturday next. So far, the Warwi6k£
have been all disposed of in their first innings for
165 (Hiddleaton 28, J. Davis 37, E. Seale 36, J. Rig*
44, M’Donald 10); and the Alberts have scored 76
without the loss of a wicket (H. Moses 86, G. Mur-
doch 36).
In one of the bicy-
cling articles now appear-
ing in a Sydney daily, and
written, so a litte birdie
whispered us, by a gentle-
man who is spo7iesman for
a near relative, mention
was made of the close
5-mile race between the
said relation and Lee,
when Lee fainted, hut
the writer forgot to men-
tion that Lee had picked
up an almost hopeless
handicap, and was racing
into the straight neck
and neck with his oppon-
ent. A very bad case of
defective memory, very.
Orange J.C. races on
13th and 14th Maroh.
First day Kestrel won
the Stewards’ Purse; Ar-
rogant the Public Auc-
tion Stakes; Goldlake the
Champion Stakes ; Zin-
gara the Town Plate; and
Arrogant made a second
victory of the Novel Sel-
ling Pace. Second day:—
The Flying Handicap
was won by Gladiator ;
Gardiner carried off the
Prince of Wales Stakes;
Wheel of Fortune won
the Shorts; Zingara
feated Minorca for the
Orange J.C. Handicap ;
Orphan Boy won the
Bracelet—and also the
last race on the card, the
Forced Handicap.
About 1200 persons
passed the gates at the
TumutTurf Club’s open-
ing day, on 12th March.
Aurialda won the Maiden
Plate; Wild Harry carried
off the Prince of Wales
Stakes; Miss Wye won
the Turf Club Handicap;
Canary had an easy fly
for the Hack Selling
event; Wild Oats appro-
priated the Ladies’ Purse,
and Miss Bylong closed
the day by winning the
Sires’ Produce Stakes.
Much the same attend-
ance put in an appear-
ance on Thursday, the
second day. Aurialda
won the Produce Stakes;
Carissima the Town Plate.
Foxall the Nursery
Handicap. The Hurdle
Race fell to Fireman;
Mcrricumbcne carried off
the Grand Stand Stakes;
and Uncle Ned won the
Forced Handicap.
TheN.S.W. ’Cyclists’
Union has decided not to
hold its first meet of the
season at the Agricul-
tural Society’s grounds;
and very properly, too,
as the track is not any-
thing like good enough
for racing purposes, and
the spectators have to
wade through a desert of
sand to reach the apology
for a lawn. By the way,
some of the would-be
champions are very much
exercised in their minds
as to whether Mr. A. Lee
will adhere to the state-
ment made by him at the
termination of last season
that he and racing had
parted company, but we
can set them at rest by
stating, wo have it on
good authority, that Lee’s
resolution only related to
handicaps, and that he
will 6tart in champion and
scratch races during the
coming season.
Mr. R. Howie has
sold Suwarrow to Mr.
Daniels, of Bellerine.
Says “Augur:” “I am
astonished that some of
our leading breeders did
not secure this son of
Snowden, for he had cre-
dentials of the very first
class, possessing an un-
blemished pedigree, with
the additional recom-
mendation of great per-
formances, having won
the V.R.O. Derby, run
third for the Melbourne
Cup. and on the last day
of the V.H.C. meeting
won the Mares’ Produce
Stakes and Canterbury
Plate, beating »he cham-
pion, First King, in the
latter race. Yet we see
some of our breeders
using wretches that are
not fit to carry Suwar-
row’s blankets to exer-
cise; and they complain
that so many racing men
go to Sydney to purchase
yearlings.”
On Saturday last the Water Nymph,
scratch; FJoetwing, 4min.; and Corophene and
Dagmar. each Bmin., started for a handicap sweep-
race for half-decked boats of over 20-feet
belonging to Berry’s Bay, over a course Irom the
San Francisco mail steamers’ buoy in Lavender
Bay, round the R.S Y.B. buoy at Manly and back
rn Starting noint. The Water Nymph drew away
early in the race, and finished 9min. ahead of the
Fleetwing, the field coming in some minutes later.
We have received a note—not a bank one,
worse luck-from “ Buncum,” who ridicules our
publishing a yarn about Hanlan that has been
going the rounds of the papers. Now, if we make
no mistake—and, of course, we never do— Bun-
cum,” under another nom-de-plumt, a couple of
weeas ago sent us a three sides of foolscap acoount
of cricket match, which we boiled
down to a line and a half for our “ Gleanings. No
doubt “ Buncum ” thought his cricket match
: might well have taken the place of the Hanlan
yarn ; but we don’t. We prefer good retails to
j original drivel.


p
ÜBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON k CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Oa, TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD SHOP
WeakNervousMen
Whose debility, exhausted
p«wm, premature decay
and fuiluro to perform life’s
dalles pronerly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
THEMARSTON BOLUS.
Neither stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Xervoii* .Debility and
Physical Becayisunifonuly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct methods and absolute thor-
oughness. I'ull information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO., 52 Castlcrcagh St., Sydney
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 15th March, 1884.
FRESH TENDERS FOR CLASSROOM AND
REPAIRS.
FRESH TENDERS are Invited for the Erection
of a Classroom, and for Repairs at the
Superior Public School, Balmain.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the offioe of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Svdney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Fresh Tender for Classroom
and Repairs, Balmain Superior Public School,”
must be lodged with the Acting Under-Secretary,
Department of Public Instruction, at or before 10
o’clock a.tn., on Monday, 7th April, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
J. P. ABBOTT.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
Offices : 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Bteamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS. WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay,
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONH
BAHKABOOL
BUKVVAH
CHEVIOT
DEKWENT
EDINA
GABO
BALMAIN
GEELONG
KEILAWAKRA
KONOOWARRA
LBURA
MORETON
RODUiVDO
YOU YANGS.
WM HOWARD BMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney.
s
DE
ASTHMA,IiOUGU, IiRHNCHiriS.
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each box bears the name of “ WUecx and
Co., Oxford-street, London.”
LONDON AND PARIS IN SYDNEY.
NEW ENTERPRISE AT
■W. - W. CATEE’S,
IMPORTER & GENERAL DRAPER,
193 and 195 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PARIS HID GLOVE DEPARTMENT,
Under the management of the celebrated Mr. ALBERTO E. GEISMARDO, from Paris, decorated
with the Gold Legion of Honor, Professional Kid Glove Fitter to the hand, just arrived from Paris b v
the steamer Potosi, formerly in charge of the well-known Kid Glove Department of tho Bon Marchd,
Paris, now Kid Glove Department manager at W. W. CATKR'S, 193 and 195 Pitt-STUEKT.
Every pair of Kid Gloves sold warranted a perfect fit. Tho Paris kid Glove Department is fitted
out in the professional continental manner and stylo. Ladies and gentlemen will find it to their
advantage to have their Kid Gloves fitted to the hands at the PARIS KID GLOVE DEPARTMENT.
Kid Gloves fitted to perfection
Kid Gloves fitted in two minutes at the counter
Kid Gloves warranted a perfect fit
Kid Gloves from 2 to 20 buttons
Kid Gloves of all descriptions in the latest style
Kid Gloves, Mourquetaire style
Kid Gloves, Gauntlet style
Kid Gloves, Barah Bernhardt style
Silk and Lisle Thread Gloves, Lace Mitts
Prices guaranteed the lowest in the city. The largest Kid Glove stock in the colonies. Mr. Alberto E
Geismardo, Kid Glove Department manager. English, French, Spanish, Italian, Flemish, Dutch, and
German spoken at the Paris Kid Glove Department.
W. W. CATER, Importer and General Draper,
193 and 195 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
Giticura
¥
c - <-
Eczoma on Face & Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
FOR EVERY FORM OF
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
'/'V'
as
//y
r, ■ y
li. n Vi
Scrofula on neck.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
Rheum, Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with loss of Hair, are
positively cured bv the Cuticura Resolvent
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap
externally.
Bad Blood, Scrofulous, Inherited and Conta-
gious Humors, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patches in the Throat and Mouth, Abscesses,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches, Sores, Scurvy,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Organs,
Dropsy, Erys’pelas, Enaemia, Pymmia, Leucorrhcea,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
One Hundred Testimonials with each pack-
age and sworn to before the British Consulate
repeat this story : I have been a terrible sufferer
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have been
obliged to shun public places by means of my dis-
figuring humors; have had the best physicians;
have spent hundreds of dollars and got no real
relief until I used the Cuticura Resolvent which
have cured me and left ray skin and blood as pure
as a child's.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
/CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri-
VJ tier, Diuretio and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Imnurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus rem.-.ves the CAUSE.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Core (a Medicina
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching' and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh!
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautiflor
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies, arc absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beauti’flers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
For Bale by all retail chemists and wholesale'
druggists throughout the colonies. Price,
Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes, $l.QOj
Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shaving
Soap, 15 centj; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO per
bottle. Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston,
U.S.A.
The resumed match between the Carthona
and Conservative C.C., for the Junior Cup, resulted
in an easy win for the Carthonas, by an innings
and one run, the scores being: Conservatives, 46
and 84 respectively; Carthonas, 131 in their first
innings. The Osbornes and Croydons at once fol-
lowed on, and five of the Osbornes’ wickets were
disposed of for 58 runs.
For the Sydney Amateur Sailing Club 20-
feet and under half-decked handicap, on Saturday
last, the following boats put in an appearance:
Zephyr (7 mind, lanthe (4 min.), and Wingadee
(scratch). The Wingadee finished only two minutes
ahead of the lanthe, so the litter counted first
place. The Zephyr finished twelve minutes and a
half behind the lanthe.
Young Gough’s finish on Little Sister for
the Autumn Handicap last Saturday week was one
of the best displays at the R.C. meeting. The
patience with which he lay off while Here’s Luck
appeared to be fairly “running away” with the
race, and the rattle with which he landed the filly
in front of Mr. Forrester’s horse at the finish,
were bmdly praised—by losers as well as winners.
An insignificant sectisn of the rough
element, made an attempt to “goose ” Hales as he
returned to scale with Martini on Saturday week,
Put a burst of cheering soon silenced the hostile
demonstration. It was this little proof of the
“insincerity of tho mob,” probably, which pro-
voked from a sarcastic “bookie” the remark: “1
suppose the ‘ Hales hackers ’ are quite disgusted.
He's got beaten!"
Jolm Blauchfleld. a labouring man, played
tho thimble and pea trick at the Flemington races
last week. Collared. 14s. 81. in his pocket. Mr.
G»li “ lectured the prisoner severely on the enor-
mity of his offence, and sentenced him to seven
days’ imprisonment.” Hear, hear! Had ho gone
to the Grand-stand and netted thousands by a
trick not much dissimilar he would have had a
chance fora C M.G.-ship. There, there I
A meeting of representatives of athletic
clubs was held at the 6xford Hotel on Friday night
for the purpose of considering what steps should
be taken towards raising a memorial to the late
Mr. J. E. Raper, when a committee consisting of
Messrs. J. A. Brodie, H. Roberts, C. Tange, J. J.
Allen, E. P. Simpson, 8. Chapman, and F. Burkett
was appointed to invite subscription, and deoide
upon the form the memorial should take.
At Sandhurst (Vic.) our late lively visitor,
M. Victor, again belied his name in a wrestling
match with Thomas of Eaglehawk (Vic) The
ter were £35 a side, the best of three falls—one
in the Graeco-Roman, one in the mixed, and the
third to bo tossed for. Victor won the Graeco-
Thomas the mixed, and the toss for tho final,
which he decided should be ‘ Huggie,” or Cum-
berland and Westmoreland style. Victor had no
show at this stylo, and Thomas threw him at once.
The Victoria Amateur Turf Club were
not favoured with fine weather for their meet on
Saturday last, but the attendance was very good
notwithstanding. Wesbury beat Anagram by a
length and a half for the Selling Race, Leperello
third ; Vanguard made rather an easy win of the
Handicap Hurdle Race, Don Alonzo second, On-
tario third; Matua started at 2 to 1 for the Oak-
leigh Handicap, and won by a length and a-half
from Victress, Duenna third. Bohemian easily
defeated Percival for the Criterion Stakes, Sheela
third; Governor won the Handioap Steeplechase
as he liked from Moonlight, Blackthorn third; and
Camerine finished a length away from Black Dia-
mond for the South Yarra Handicap, Waterloo
third.
At the closing night of the Miller-Foley
combination in Melbourne, Foley and Farnan;had
a little misunderstanding, which resulted in a
lively bit of play between the pair. Foley evi-
dently lost his temper, and in response to a bit of
“ chivvy” from a gentleman in the audience, cried
out that “he or anyone else was quite welcome to
come on the stage and have a try.” Farnan has
flown into the columns of the Melbourne Sports-
man, and states Before we went to spar, he
(Foley) said not to feint and go driving with my
right hand, but have a lively go in. I said I would
not attempt to hit hard, unless he commenced. I
did not do so until he let go. Even then I did not
hit him as hard as I could have done, he closing
me and holding my right arm.” The Cabbage
Garden now wants to go with our own Larry in
right down earnest.
The Prinoe of Wales has entered his horse,
The Scot, in his own royal name, for the Grand
National Steeplechase at Liverpool, and other
races; so it may be presumed that H R.H. will
figure publicly as an owner of racehorses during
the approaching season. Hitherto, an occasional
“ nomination ” has besn the extent of his ostensible
patronage to racing stakes, though he undoubtedly
has had a partial—if not the entire—interest in
many horses entered by his friends. The Prince’s
first “nomination,” if wo remember lightly, was
for the Goodwood Cup of some fifteen years ago,
and the horse thus honoured belonged to Sir John
(then Colonel only) Astley. As “ Wales’ ” brother-
in-law, the Czar of Russia, is likely to have several
nags running in England this year, “the turf”
ought to be well patronised by tuft-hunters. Let
us hope that royalty will “ run straight.”
Professional rowing in England has re-
ceived what should surely prove its quietus, for
the present, at any rate. Wallace Ross, who suc-
cumbed to our own Elias over the Thames Cham-
pionship course, has aotually oonceded to George
Rubear a start of ten seconds, iu a match over tho
same course, and defeated him by six lengths.
This is the more remark able, seeing that Bubear
recently defeated Elliott with great ease, for what
was grandiloquently termed the “Championship
of England,” after EUiott had been brought over
from the States as a “much improved man.”
Elliott’s backer could hardly have been very ’cute,
er he would have contrived to get some sort of
l'ne between Wa'lace ltoss and the burly “pit-
man,” before taking him across the Atlantic
Rowing—as a profession—has sunk very low, in-
deed, at “Home,’' and until it is taken up by men
of better social standing than its present “pro-
fessors,” is likely to remain at about the same
level as pedestriauism. Several of the best expo-
nents of both, in England, are rather closely con-
nected with the criminal classes
We have seen the redoubtable Hanlan, and
we still live. Ned is not half a bad-looking fellow,
yet scarcely the Adonis that photographs and Yan-
kee writers would have us believe. Mr. Hunt had
a room set aside for the Champion at tho Oxford
Hotel, and a drag waited for him at the Circular
Quay; but Hanlau rather upset nutters by laud-
ing somewhere down Erskine-street way, and go-
ing quickly up to Petty'B, where he intends to put
up-so that we guess Boss Hunt rather anticipated
the incubator. Hanlan showed up at the Oxford
on Saturday night, and addressed the crowd from
the balcony to the effect that he had paid all his
own expenses out, and in! ended to have a look
round before binding himself to a match. The
"jaynilDan” was there, of course, aDd indulged
in a flowery oration from which we gleaned that
the man who is not a professional sculler is not fit
to live. We shall, no doubt, soon have an oppor-
tunity of sciiug Hanlan row; but he has been ad-
vertised to such an extent,' and so much will be
expected of him. that the general public will most
likely be disaj po nted in the exhibition, There
can be no doubt that Hanlan’s sculling is more
effective than that of any man cf his day, but we
fancy it would take good judges of rowing to dis-
tinguish anything more finished in style than that
which Trickett used to treat us to in his palmy
days.
Martini-Henry’s collapse in the “ Cham-
pion” was not such a great surprise to many who
noticed how he “blew” after bis victory m the
Leger, on the preceding Saturday, and moreover
his gallop w ith Morpeth on the Tuesday morning
"was anything but satisfactory. The “ early birds ”
were of opinion that Morpeth, with Hales up,
completely pumped out Martini, carrying a far
lighter weight in their trial spin. Morpeth, cei-
tainly, subsequently won the Australian Cup with
tolerable ease; but the time (4miu. 3%5e0.) was not
Quite ns good as Navigator’s time lor laet year.-i
Navigator, as a three-year-old, had only two
pounds in the saddle than Morpeth, as a feur-
year-old; therefore, according to the touts’ esti-
uiatu of the Tuesday morning’s gallop, the “ great
gun ” was not, last week, up to tho form of Navi-
gator at the corresponding time last year—on
paper, at any iate One or two of the “books,”
too, who managed to get a look at Martini in tho
paddock, just before the “Champion” was run,
were strongly impressed with the Idea that he had
gone "off” since winning the l.egtr, and fielded
pretty strongly in consequence. That Martini,
toiling hopelesdy in the rear of Lo Grand and Off
Colour, was the same animal that had led the same
pair such a merry dance only a week before, seems
impossible to believe; more strange still, Le Grand
ran, on (hat occasion, essentially iike a non-stayer,
for after looking like giving the "crack” some
trouble, as the horses came down tho straight, he
dropped away again as though from lack of
stamina. Off Colour, on the other hand, certainly
ran more like a sticker in the Leger than the horse
who subsequently defeated him so cleverly in the
three-mile event. The glorious uncertainty of
the turf was never better exemplified than at the
late V.R.C. meeting.
Yesterday morning’s mail conveyed to us
the intelligence that Mr. John T. MTnnes, the well-
known farming and pastoral reporter for the
Australasian and the Sydney Mail, had for-
saken literature, in which he has at all times
shown so conspicuously, for the more promising
and encouring occupation iu conjunction with
other gentlemen of “ commission merchant and
pastoral agent.” Messrs. John MTnnes and Co.
are now carrying on business at 36, O’Connell-
street, opposite the 8. M. Herald ollice, and the
firm has every prospect of success, lrom the fact
that Mr MTnnes has travelled far and wide, visit-
ing remote parts in all the colonies. His face
must be familiar at every town where a pastoral
show is held, and a more acute judge of a horse,
sneep, or cattle we do not know than the head of
this new firm. The teim commission merchants
and pastoral agents would appear to imply from
the circular before us that the firm will be pre-
pared to transact the following business:—The
purchase of all descriptions of pastoral plant,
squatting supplies, and the various classes oi
engineering appliances, harve-ting machinery,
agricultural implements, mining requisites, &c.
Importers and manufacturers invoices will be
forwarded direct to their constituents, who in no
instance will be charged commission for buying.
The attention of sheep farmers, graziers, and
others ia specially called to the pastoral agency
business, in connection with which the Bile or
F'Urchase on commiss on of pure-bred stock will
orm a prominent feature, No man is moie cap-
able of piloting a new firm like this to success than
Mr. MTnnes, who has our best wishes.— Wagqa
Wagga Advertiser, Feb. 2.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Clarence River Jockey Club racing on 9th
and 10th of July. Added money £6BO, which in-
cludes handicaps of £2OO, £l5O, and £30... Magnet
has been shot The programme of the Murrum-
bidgee Turf Club Autumn meeting to be held on
May 7th and Bth, comprises : Mares’ Produce
Stakes, Selling Plate, Tradesman's Purse, Hurdle
Race, FlyiDg Handicap, Mile Handicap, Maiden
Plate, Autumn Handicap, Prince of Wales Stakes,
Open Handicap. Entries received up till May 5
On March Bth the Candelo-Bombala cricket
match resulted in an easy win for Bombala—
Martin Power, of Brisbane, has issued a challenge
to box (Queensberry rules) any 10at. man in Aus-
tralia for £lOO and the championship of the light
weights Countryman, recently purchased by
Mr. Weekes for 180 guineas, 1* going to India
Sornnus, the sire of Brown and Rose and Salvo,
has been sold by Mr. CUbborn to Mr. Andrew Town
for 000 guineas Mr. A. F. Smart did not pull off
a single event at the late V.R.C. meeting. He was
represented In nine races The Britannia C.C.
defeated the ltedfern Cambridge C.C. by 25 runs,
at Moore Park, on Saturday. Scores: Britannia,
72; Cambridge, 47 The Aielbourne footballers
champagned Mr. Harrison, prior to his departure
on a twelve months’ trip to tho old country—
Joe and Barney Thompson have been made hono-
rary members of the Victoria Club, one of the
leading betting Institutions of England —lt is
reported that Mr. E. Weeks offered £BOO for Mor-
peth, but that the price asked was £1000... At
Maryborough (Q.), “Professor” Bruce, the Tipton
Slasner-but a rery different chicken to the
English pug who flourished under that sobriquet—
has been matched against Tom Byrne for three
Queensberrys. £2O a side Monahan and Benja-
min are matched to walk four miles—Monahan to
receive 240 yards’ start—next Saturday alternoon;
and, on the sth April, Benjamin is to allow Kenny
40 yards start out of a mile Jem Watson, the
trainer and jockey, has returned t.u Adelaide from
India. He sajs Transferred went -wrong after
winning his first race Lizette has been sold to
E. Weekes, the well-known buyer of horses for
India—At Parramatta, on 10th March, the run-off
between Peters and M'Mahon, 100 yards, ended iu
a win for tho latter The Tumut- Adelong ciicket
match lor the Maudelson Cup, played at Adelong,
was won by the locals with 40 runs to the good.
* • •
There are, probably, some 600 trotters in
the States with two minutes twenty-five seconds,
or less, records.. .The lady members of the
Cyclists’ Touring Club, England, have resolved to
go in for trousers covered by a skirt. Lady
Haberton, who was in the chair at tho meetiQg,
championed the cause of the ” divided skirt,” but
the meeting would not have it.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted, up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general.]
RACING.
Canterbury Park R.C March 33.
Bourke J.C May 33, 23.
Condo belln March 36, 27.
Oorowa R.C March 27.
Wahgunyah R.C March 29.
Hawnesbury R.C. Autumn April 3, 6.
Balonne (Q.) Races April 8, 9.
Parkes J.C. Annual April 8, 9.
Clarendon R.C April 14.
A.J.u Autumn April 13,14,16,19
Wiloannia J.C April 23, 34, 35.
Dubbo J.C April 34, 35.
Northern J.C April 30, May 2.
Murrumbidgee J.C May 7, 8.
Great Western Downs (Q.) May 14,15.
Hay. May 15, Ik.
Newcastle J.C May 24.
Richmond J.C May 29.
Mudgee R.U June 4, 5.
Clarence River J.C July 9,10.
Rockhampton J.C July 10, It.
AQUATICS
Balmain Rowing Club Regatta. March 23.
Woolloomooloo Bay Regatta., March 29.
Newcastle h.C. Regatta March 29.
Intercolonial Bight-jar Race, Victoria v.
N.B.W April 5.
Trickett v. Beach April 13.
ATARI TICS.
Carcoar Sheffield Handicap .. A pril 14.
Adelong Sports April 14.
Eastern Suburbs A. A.C. Sports May 17.
Oobar Sheffield Handicap April 17,18,19.
Thistle Club Spurts, Agricultural Society's
Grounds May 24.
Casino £39 Handicap May 24.
Bourke Sheffield Handicap May 25.
CYCLING.
Chapman v. Rolfe April 5.
Suburban B.C. Meeting May 10.


jpiURNITURE BHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEW'ION, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
FURNITURE,
H
ALL FURNITURE, HAT6TANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
pnd
IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
DING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
L _
READING
S ll
M
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion; well worthy of
inspection.
ALT, CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT, just reoeived. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
lURNITURE.—THE LARGEST STOCK IN
THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
IMB, O’Connell-Btreet.
ARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
B’ BnwnrtM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for singie
rooms. Gr».at variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
EIGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-Btreet.
CHEAP FURNITURE—Whatnots, from 20e;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fram 355; Chests Drawers, from Ms; Wash-
stands, from 10s 6d: Tables, from 7s 6d: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 265; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s: Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
Tapestry, Em’
OOK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
oboO strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 86s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
.ABLES, elegantly finished in
ibroidery, Plush, &c. _____
HIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street. .
ASY OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLEp
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d.
HAIR BED STEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
TOILET PAIRS, namely,
with swing GLASS and
marble top, 80s the pair.
EARLY Hii.N'jJjJOn -
EXTENDING DINING TAJgiB, with Patent
screw and two Raves ; EARGE ?iv R r>nr atb!’
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas. _________
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented.
%
BE
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice verm , at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. Hie above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of she body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-Bhore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete. and occupying only four inches m thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
T7VRAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
Jb and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered m
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
TTIRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
Jh TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, ana
LAMB.
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
> new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lame.
EDDING.—AII descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O Gon-
nell-street.
ASHSTANDS, with nsefitke, 25s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
B
W
a:
ARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Chaus
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD'
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connoil-street.
B
ENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment; best make, lois est prices.
SOCIAL
nn Afnndflv the Mayor and Mayoress of
Svd?ey entSne“bout(*»of their friends «nd
V^^jsKSssssessssissiSi
JSA EO to “erioLTbK s£Spea P behind But
there was no real cause for such caution . loyell-
lhrht and most of the cargo was of that
K“&lSS d “b^vJX , AS«'SISSl ,e Band t wS
gentleman The Corporation was
wlm received°wlth wfld
applause, and that celebnty “ounte^a
*° r unexpected callT^“he kindness. and the
general enthusiasm, that it was evudent he wM a
tritiA “ oft* form,” for the moment. His reraarKs
ymf forthe* honour* you 1 h a^re**do ne **3 anlan/’^M*r
ssff
remark that "if they were neglected for one
generation, the world would
was hailed with such uproarous that
onvthlmr further was unnecessary. Mr. R. B
(Smith was loudly called for, but hadLfned thanks
beautiful dream; so Mr. Playfair returned t nan as
wittilv The Press concluded the speeches. Dan-
einir strolling, and a light tea later on were in-
Tdnd in /hn oroceedings before returning at
dusk Mrs Har P die?Tt should be stated, received
lifer guests cordially at the pavilion entrance,
and HisVorship “ spreadhimself with a wni, To
gSf-’ZfftK »•
Circular Quay.
* * *
The first Bachelors’ Assembly, which is
under the patronage of the Mayor of Sydney,
took place at Nitbsdale last Friday evening, when
about 100 ladies and gentlemen attended Pi etty
orotrrammes of 1H dances were speedily filled by
butterfly bachelors, who on this occasion
were ah desirous of indulging in the giddy dance.
The bachelors showed great judgment in their
invites, as the ladles present represented some of
the flower of Sydney beauty. About .) o ciock
the Mavor entered the ball-room, and an extra
auadrille was formed in his honour. Miss King,
armvedina fairv-liko toilette of cream colour
Swiss belt of old gold, was without doubt the
“H* Ko. M wb'Si W ffi e » ’“—S’. “‘fg geim
brocta6 and muslin, looked well. Irom the Parra-
matta River came Miss Hayes, in pink satin and
■nmething else—we are a little hazy after the bnl-
Ernf hfir Pies A pretty blonde wore pale
bfue-wi like blue, it reminds us of heaven.
Miss Godfrey, in cream cashmere, was charming,
while Miss Eastwav wore white. Miss Shortland,
in cream Madras muslin, was nice; and Mis®
Jones of private theatrical tame, wore cardinal
andfiink satin. Miss G. Butler, cream merino
■kirf tucked and edged with cream-lace, brocW
hndv'and back drapery handsomely trimmed with
Inn/ At 1 o’clock all ended, after a pleasant
Lnd enlovableevening, the ladies looking forward
to the next assembly, which takes place next
month. * * *
A fashionable and pretty
mnann nf interest in the Harris-street Baptist
rm?£h nn Tuesday afternoon, when the Reverend
££urch Hntstune took Miss Sarah Bubb for better
or wome The bride, who was escorted and given
a wav "by her grandpapa, looked charming in a
dross of white nun’s veiling, very elabor-
with white satin, bridal blossoms
twFxrlnen suite: and it would have been a very
Siffipult matter to have selected one in particular
frmntheMxpretty damseis who were the chosen
attendants pi the bride, and who, in their turn,
were attended by six rather
anmins which somewhat spoilt the effect, ihe
two these maidens were Miss Minnie and
S^s£i£3i>£ and as?sa
SSaffi&srfß? ssa 4 Aiar sa
*nd lace muctwlr. The ceremony, although
dSubtleM great interest to the happy couple
wZ unusually tedious to the crowd ot witnesses
who nrobably came simply to see the bridal party
and* vmre impatient at Ihe long delay in signing
necessary documents. At au k
completethe bride milled forth amid a Plentiful
Showe? of rice, and, as the last strains of the
‘■Wedding March” died on the organ, Mr. and
Wntstone drove away to the breakfast &t
Albion street, proceeding to the Mountains in the
evening, prior to going North.
• * •
The unmarried ladies of Armidale have
their hands full at present, working up aSpinsters
BaII which being the first of the kind there, is
emisinir almost as much dust as the big Kailwaj
ball last v eTr At their tirst meeting, letters were
read from one or two young ladies, declining to
co-operate in the proposed ball on the plea which
is dubiously regarded —that * it is an indelicate
thing for a lady to invite a gentleman to a ball.”
But these modest prudes must, or should, know
that although it’s ostensibly given by the young
ladies, the old ones are behind the scenes sustain-
ing the chief characters, but don t appear in the
ae? The invitations are numerous, and about ~flo
Quests expected. The secretaryship is in the hands
of two competent young ladies (local), and from
the present aspect of affairs, if this can be any crite
rionl the result must be a good one-which will be
gratifying to those who stood aloof.
• • •
A very pleasant time was spent at Glebe
Heights on the 12th inst., the event beingthe birth-
day of Master and Miss Sullivan, 3 years and 1 year
old respectively. After tea, a well-laden Christ-
mas-tree proved a great surprise to the little ones.
Presents for all the guests were found upon it.
A table well covered with gilts to the hero and
heroine of the day showed that they had not been
forgotten. After the tree came dancing; and as
the little ones departed, bigger ones arrived,
amongst which were two sisters in blue muslin
trimmed with white lace, blue satm waistband*,
and silver ornaments. A pretty bride elect was
there in cream and cardinal. A cousin of the
hostess 1 wore navy satin skirt with old gold and
navy-striped redingote.
• • *
■A most delightful dance was given by
Mrs Dr Bassett, at her residence, Kussell-street,
Bathurst, on Thursday evening, the 6th March.
A great many assembled with the full
of enjoying themselves, which every one did
thoroughly. Miss Scarr, in a delicate pink nun s
veilingftrimmed with brocaded satin and pansies,
looked charming, and was decidedly the belle of
evening. There were several other pretty
dresses? amongst which was that of Miss Macin-
tosh being a (link trimmed with the same coloured
nut; Mbs'Machattie looked very well in light blue,
also miss Lee in black. Home of the ladies
dancing was much admired, Miss Scan carrying
off the palm for waltzing among the ladies, and
among the beaux a fair-haired assistant from the
Waterworks. The party broke up about half-past
two we won’t say with what oonsequences, »s we
know one or two matches were made during the
evening. # #
“ Sock and buskin to the rescue! ’’ An
entertainment was given in the Town Hall, leter-
sham, on the 12th instant, by the members of the
Lytton Club, for the benefit of the Petersham
owls, the object being to defray the cost of a pro-
scenium and various ottmr improvements aesirea
by the latter. From the appearance of the hall
it was evident that much had been done already,
considerable taste having been displayed in the
erection of the proscenium; and by the time tne
nest is feathered to the liking of I the Jolly birds
who are to occupy it, there will be little left to
suggest in the way of improvements. The nro-
ceedingswere initiated by apt speeches from the
ex-Mayor and Mayor-elect, who seemed to be good
friends of the Club, and the first number, “ Thou
art so near,” by Mr. J. Callaghan, set the ball a-
rolling. Mr. Callaghan’s voice sounded with good
effect: he is evidently untroubled with nervous-
ness, the bane of young singers—and were he only
to coax his voice, not strain it, we might expect
to shut our eyes and iiston with delight, in the days
to come, while he warbles to us something a little
bit more rekerky than “Beloved Star. The reci-
tation, “ Papa's Letter.” was given in a good, con-
fident style by Mr. B. Palmer, and the classic II
Bacio” of Arditi was beautifully rendered by Mrs.
Arthur Wood. The two next items on the pro-
gramme were struck out, owing to the absence ef
Signor Giammona and Miss Hastings, the (breach
being admirably filled by Mr. Slocum, who brought
down the house with “ Shamus O Brien. The
first part of the programme finished with The
angel at the window,” sung by Miss Simpson, a
lady whose pleasing performance well merited tne
applause It received. Byron's three-act comedy,
“Old Soldiers,” followed, and was on the whole
creditably rendered, the chief fault being the usual
delay in picking up the cue. Amateurs who may
be all that can be desired in other respects, fre-
Milk-white veiling and silk gauze to match, with sprigs of
cherries embroidered in red and bronze, are employed to
make up this youthful toilette, distinguished by elegant grace-
ful simplicity. A voile kilting wide, above which is a
fulled gauze flounce 4[?]in. deep, trimmed with Valenciennes
lace 4in. wide, completed fly a stuff kilting and gauze flounce
trim the skirt. The apron tunic of gauze is caught; up at the
side with two immense bows of red ribbon velvet 2in. wide,
these also trimming the bind drapery, composed of straight
stuff breadth set on with the edge turned under below, over
which is arianged in ends a piece of gauze [?] yards long and
33[?]in. wide. The peaked bodice is trimmed, as seen, with
gauze embroidery [?]in. wide. Small mocher-of-pearl buttons
close the front, this being completely hidden by the lace ar-
ranged as a jabot The-short sleeves disappear under a lace
caught up on the shoulder by a bow.
ssrssfaS
Thus: —Angelina: I cannot bear it! Oh, Edwin,
can you believe —” (interval of five minutes, to
give the prompter a show). Edwin: Believe that
you have deceived me, Angelina? |Yes, by
heaven,’ ” and no on, hand passibus cequts. If
anv selection may be made, Miss Lovett as Mary
Moss, and Mr. fcfdwin Palmer as Lionel Leveret,
might be mentioned as most 5 ,t „ hon lf Q ]” vcfia
Dirts The fair impersonators of Mrs. Major Mess
and Miss Kate M’Tavish were successful in pleasing
the audience; as were also Mr. Walter rerariau
(Malor Fang), Mr. B. Palmer (Captain M Tavish),
Mr. Goldie Hunt (Corporal Cassidy—and a very
good corporal, too), and Mr. Henry Irving (?) as
p 0 dgar. Of the gentleman wh® took the character
of Gordon Lockhar' , the only thing to be said is
that it didn’t suit him. Nothing could have been
more gratifying than the attendance with which
the Club was lavoured, the hill bsmg crowded
with a stylish throng of visitors fromv-anous
parts. It was difficult in such an aud ence to
descry many faces; but we could see Mr.Kosenerry,
the late member, evidently in gre a t go o d hum o ur,
Mr. and Mrs. Hughes, Mr. and Mrs. loin Kennedy,
Mr. and Mrs. Hyland, Mr. Pearce, Messrs. E. H.
Halloran and J. C. Fisher and their wives, Mr. and
Mrs. Cobitt, and other well-known faces, several
Melbourne belles figured amongst thei audience, in
very becoming attire. A lady from forest Lodge
wore cardinal figured satin trimmed with lace, tne
skirt being fluted and of crushed-strawberry hue.
Black figured satin trimmed with cream lace
enhanced the charms of a Marrickville lady.
A pale blue cashmere dress, with black satin
body and similar trimmings, was answerable
fjr many heart-burnings, we fear; and when we
yearn to do justice to two pretty girls from over
the water, in black figured satin, lace trimmed,
and hair d la Chinoise, words fail us. Many effective
pream costumes adorned fair visitors from the
city and suburbs, and there was
of pretty pale blue "conceptions, with lace and
satin trimmings. Notice must °“ ltte w i gg
the dresses worn by the lady amateurs. Miss
Lovett appeared in a very effective flgured muslin,
having an msthetic flower nestling just below the
shoulder, a wide-awake hat completing the cos-
tume; and this gave place to a maize Madras
muslin dress with scarlet Swiss
M'Cracken wore a costume suitable to the elderly
part undertaken by that lady; and Miss Bridges,
as Kate M'Tavish, deserved her conquestsmblack
satin de Lyon walking costume and a velvet poke
bonnet, having a bewitching pink feather up
forward.” . *
* * *
Mr. Robert Forsyth, the well-known
tanner, was picnicked on Wednesday last, prepara-
tory to his leaving the colony on a triP to Burope.
This kind of festivity is deservedly popular, and
affords affectionate friends an opportunity of
totally deranging your nervous system, so that you
may be able to more effectually enjoy the agonies
of sea-sickness, and think of them
Correy’s Gardens, Botany , was selected as the scene
of the gathering, and thither it r. Forsyth and his
friends repaired at an early heur, dancing being
Indulged in until luncheon time. The proceedings
were enlivem d by a large contingent of the fair
sex, amongst whom some very presentable dresses
were noticeable. One young lrdy, from the city,
who appeared to command the lions B^ia^ 1T
attention, was most tastefully A n Worried
hued nun’s veiling, with a Henri 11. hat adorned
by natural flowers. Two young girls in what
appeared to be white tarletan, sisters probably,
were much admired, as also was a George-street
syren in a showy costume of mauve cashmere.
Those who were not too self-engrossed to respond
to the magic summons of luncheon, sat down to a
comfortable meal under the presidency of Mr.
Abigail, M.L.A., Mr. Andrew Moore having the
vice-chair. The customary toasts were drunk, and
a white elephant was presented to Mr. Forsyth by
the chairman on behalf of the subscribers.
• • •
The Protestant Hall was brilliant with gas
and many coloured dresses on Wednesday night,
on the occasion of the Sydney Owl Club Hyginx,
which passed off delightfully. There was a large
gathering—about 7< '0 —who were lavish in their
applause to the performers. Mr. Caddy, the presi-
dent of the club, has a happy knack of making
things pleasant; and Mr. Clarke, Mr. Huenerbein,
and Mr. Ponder, made Ponder-ous exertions to
make the hoot a success. A good concert always
is enjoyable; it is ever pleasant to hear good
music. Yellowhamtner sang “Thou art so near,
while Signor Vittorini gave, in grand style, “ Alla
Stella Confidente.” Madame Marius trilled “The
Milkmaid,’’ in a pretty voice. A piano duet, by
Mr. M’Quade and Lyre Bird, caused the piano to
sing brilliantly. Perhaps the song “There is
another row down stairs’’ gave most fun. But
one of the gems of the evening was the violin
solo, from “Norma,” by Herr Francik, which was
greatly applauded. After the concert came
dancing, about 300 remaining to indulge in the
dreamy valse, to the music of Mr. Do Groen,
whose playing everyone likes. Now was the time
to admirj the dresses. A Woollabra blonde, in
flowered pink silk polonaise, skirt of nun's veil-
ing, made conquests, while a stately
glorious eyes, wore cream Indian muslin. From
Eiizabeth-street came a little brunette, in Scotch
plaid toilette. A cardinal satin dress was shown
to advantage by Miss Kurts. A Melbourne belle
donned black satin ; the wife of the secretary,
peacock-green satin. We would like to mention
all the dresses, but we were so dazzled by seeing so
many pretty faces, that it was impossible to think
of dress. Two o’clock saw the finish, but before
that time, refreshments provided by the club
were partaken of.
(For continuation of Social, aee next page.)


For sinking spells, fits dizziness, palpita-
tion and low spirits, rely on Hop Bitters. Notice.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garnbr, & Mcsgrovb.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING,
D4MPIER
DAMPIKR,
in
NEVER TOO LATE TO MEND !
Prices of Admission :
DRESS CIRCLE, 65.; STALLS, 35.; FAMILY
CIRCLE, 38.
o
PER
Lessee
Sub-lessee and Director
Business Manager
Treasurer
HOUSE.
W. J. Wilson.
Signor E. Majeroni.
Monty Browne.
Joe Brown.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING,
Grand production in Australia of Sardou’s
greatest work,
FEDORA
FEDORA
FEDORA,
by Signor and Signora
MAJERONI MAJERONI
MAJERONI MAJERONI
Entirely New Soenery, Costumes, Appointments,
Properties, &c.
Box Plan now open at Huenerbein’s, 411 Goorge-st.
Prices Dress Circle, 65.; Stalls, 35.; Pit, 3s.
Tickets at Robertson’s, next Theatre. Carriages
at 10.45.
ME. in ELOVEE,
TRAGEDIAN, COMEDIAN, BURLESQUE
ACTOR, &c.
“ One of the most versatile artistes on the stage.
OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY, EVERY EVENING.
SPECIAL ENGAGEMENT.
For future arrangements, Managers are
politely requested to address as above.
N.B.—Amateurs “ coached,” and pupils prepared
for the stage in all its branches.
COMFORTABLE TEETH
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are three kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. Tnat with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
gums,decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
drops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
ee that each Label bears the name, “ Wilcox ana
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London."
HORDERNS
ON THE
Sriclr±ield. Hill.
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LAGE CURTAINS.
BSP These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
LACE CURTAINS, 100 PRICES.
Ladies residmg in the country can have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
Curtains. If you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it out, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
S
a?
w
KJ
MMME'
Sii£Z&»S* &&»£■»&'& £,»£«
LACE CERTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers.
Mosquito Nets, Striped and Plain Window Union. carefully the engraving of our
11 LACE CURTAIN S*
Price: 12s. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d. the pair.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
LAC E CURTAINS | 668 BRICKFIELD HILL. j LACE
ty Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
In social circles just at present the subject
of titles is often referred fo—partly in connection
With the rumoured appointment of Lord Reay to
the Governorship of Victoria, and partly, perhaps,
a natural outcome of the large amount of talk
that has arisen anent; he titular distinction of the
well-known Baron Maclay. The latter gentleman
has earned for himself a high name in the scientific
world, and his services to the community at large
should render him independent of such considera-
tions as are involved in the possession or non-
possession of atrumoery title. It is a mistake that
is commonlv made—but none the less a mistake —
to imagine that it is easy to pirate a Russian title.
That nation has an official hierarchy comprehend-
ing some 800,000 members, all privileged to style
themselves harine, or lord. But this number,
though seeming large, only forms a small fraction
among the many million subjects of the Czar, and
every Russian knows whether his titled country-
man derives the dignity from a princely or
baronial family. This, however, refers to lords of
the soil: with ephemeral titles conferred through
other sources the true Slav will trouble himself
little. Baron Reay, who has been referred to
above, is the representative of a time-honoured
Scottish peerage, and a descendant of Angus Don
Mackay, leader of the Mackays of Strathnairn,
who was slain on Flodden field. The house of
Reay supported Charles the First and his son with
characteristic loyalty; but, unlike most of the
adherents of that noble pair, the Reays emerged
from the struggle unstripped of their belongings,
and have continued to hold a leading position
among the county families of Great Britain. A
singular circumstance in connection with this
house is the number of representatives who have
died childless, the effect being observed in the
descent of the title by many tortuous windings
from brother to brother and cousin to cousin
down to the present holder—Baron Reay.
• • •
Mr. and Mrs. Shearston gave a social even-
ing at the Club House, 255 Pitt-street, on Tuesday
last, to the ship’s company of H.M.S. Miranda.
The entertainment provided by this popular
couple passed off most enjoyably, their hospitality
being probably all the more acceptable to the blue-
jackets because that it was confined to social en-
joyment and contained none of the Cbadband
element. The indispensable tea having been
attacked in the large saloon on the first floor, the
decks were cleared and harmony was the order of
the night. Mr. Shearston gave the men, in hearty
terms, a welcome back to Sydney. Captain Ack-
land followed with a few well-chosen words,
eulogising the feeling which had assisted to pro-
mote the evening s amusement; and several songs
and recitations succeeded. The efforts of the
vocalists were much appreciated by the Jack-tars,
especially when an opportunity occurred for the
exercise of their stentorian tone 3 in a rattling
chorus. To hear “ Our Jack’s come home to-day ”
framed in a seaman's chorus, was real good for the
blues. Miss Lily Clarke played several selections,
and also officiated as accompanist. Among the
visitors were Mrs. and the Misses Hale, Miss Pen-
nell, the Rev. W, Blunt, Cautain Ackland, Drs.
Barry and Fisher, and Mr. Tucker. The Miranda
is under orders to proceed @n an early cruise
among the islands, so that the welcome is almost a
good-bye.
* * *
Accounts reach us of a garden party given
on the 2nd inst., by the popular Victorian Baronet,
Sir W. J. Clarke, and Lady Clarke, at Rupertswood,
Sunbury. The house and grounds were thronged
by upwards of 500 visitors from town and country.
Rare plants and flowers were lavishly displayed to
increase the beauty of the surroundings, and sweet
■trains of music greeted the ear. The accepted
ladies of fashion were present in all the pageantry
of novel and stylish costumes, conspicuous among
them being the wife of a Toorak millionaire, in a
lovely combination of velvet and satin. Sydney
was represented by a lady from Upper William-
street, attirtd in a skirt of maize tulle with a
brilliant Mazarin silk body. A lovely dress was of
geranium -coloured nun’s veiling decorated with
sprays of white rose and lilies of the valley. Mrs.
Armytage wore a grey tarletan flecked with silver
spots, relieved by a knot of vivid flowers worn at
the breast. Mrs. Mallison was attired in some well-
fitting claret-coloured material, scattered over the
surface of which were tiny groups of raised flowers
on a plain ground. A young lady in cashmere and
silk, displayed under one of the new Henri 11.
hats a face of singular beauty, and bore with
graceful composure the admiring contemplation
of a thousand eyes.
• • •
Mr. W. H. Paling was entertained at Clon-
tarf on Saturday last, the occasion being a compli-
mentary banquet and picnic given to that gentle-
man, previously to his departurejfor Europe, by
Mr. J. P. Starling, of Norwood Hall, Petersham.
About 70 gentlemen, including all the employes of
Mr. Paling, assembled at Lime-street Wharf,
where the steam launch, Mary, was in readiness to
convey the party to the ground. A magnificent
dinner had been prepared in Compagnoni’s best
style; ard after satisfying the appetite, the usual
loyal toasts were drunk, and Mr. Starling
proposed the health of the guest in a dainty
little speech, referring to Mr. Paling's well-known
generous and amiable disposition. Mr. Paling
appropriately responded, and was then presented
by Mr. F. P. Pines, on behalf of the employes, with
a unique and very massive gold quartz albert,
and a case containing four pairs of gold mounted
spectacles. Several other toasts, including “ The
Host,” were honoured, and the party turned their
attention to cricket and other sports until dark,
when all safely returned to town after spending a
most enjoyable day.
* * *
Not a single M.P. was to be seen spreading
his smiles at Botany last Thursday, at the Book-
sellers’ and Stationers’ picnic. There could not have
been any free tickets. Poor M.P.’s, what is the
country coming to? However, the booksellers
seemed quite happy without them. The booksellers
hit out in the way of prizes, as they presented tro-
phies to be competed for to the value of £VO. We did
not think there was so muoh money in the world.
The banquet, by F. Smith, was in his usual liberal
style. Mr. C. E. Fuller in the chair, and as the
speeches were very short, the young ladies had all
the more time for dancing and making conquests
over the susceptible stationers’ hearts, who were
stationary under the gaze of the ladies’ eyes.
A married lady from Hunter’s Hill showed to
advantage in a brown brocaded silk toilette, hat to
match; her young lady friend being charming in
grey cashmere trimmed with satin. Padding-
ton sent a pretty maid in pompadour dress and
princess bonnet. A young lady—closely allied to
the chairman—seemed sweetly enchanting in a
costume of fawn cashmere and Henry 11. hat.
Black broche dress was worn by a lady from
Erskine-street, while a Surry Hills belle seemed
perfection in black velvet, and from Hunter-street
a lady was elegant in grey trimmed with massive
satin. Three visions of loveliness were the Miss
Wisehearts, in pure white. Handsome black
satin suited a l«dy from Camperdown. We can-
not tell all the winners of the prizes as we would
fet mixed; sufficient to say thero were many
appy faces showing winners. Mr. A. C. Wise-
heart was the hon. sec., and he spared no trouble
to make all merry as a marriage bell.
* * *
About 200 sat down to the St. Patrick’s
Day banquet in the Masonic Hall on Monday night
—Mr. J. P. Garvan, M.L.A., in the chair. It was to
Mr. Copeland the most enthusiastic reception was
accorded. The chairman, in proposing “ The day
We celebrate,” made a capital speech
“ Come send round the wine, and leave points of
belief
To simpleton sages and reasoning fools,”
was the key-note, and it would not be easy to find
a more welcome or appropriate one. Messrs. G. R.
Dibbs, Copeland, J. G. O’Ryan, and Sir John
Robertson were among the speakers, and any
reference to the “ Orange ” and “ Green ” sym-
bols—so fraught with evil meaning to the “Ver-
dant Isle”—was studiously avoided. Sports, pic-
‘JficB, and excursions in honour of him who estab-
lished the shamrock as a national symbol, and
evicted the snakes and toads from the country of
Bis adoption, took place, not alone in Sydney and
its vicinity, but throughout the colony. At night,
the Gaiety Theatre was thronged to hear a concert
of Irish music, which was brought to a fitting
close by a spirited rendering of “ God Save Ire-
land,” into which the oompanv threw their united
strength. Sic transit Patrick’s Day, 1884.
** * #
Miss Grade de Lissa created a sensation
on board the Parramatta s.s. on her homeward
trip by her very clever step dancing. The Countess
of Rosebery expressed her approval, and w< s
pleased to say she had seldom seen more graceful
gerformances. The young lady was taught in
ydnev by a Mr. Walscott ...Mr. John Kentwell,
of Castle Hill, attained his eightieth birthday, the
other day, and celebrated the occasion by giving
a party to some 183 of his children and theirs. The
old gentleman has been a resident of Castle Hill
for the last sixty years The Inverellshow and
ball passed off very successfully. At the latter
there were some charming costumes, notably
Miss M’Kenzie’s dress of black lace, pearl necklace
and wreath of wild fuchias; the Misses Wyndham’s
pale blue and pale pink nun's veiling; Miss Horne’s
dress of white satin and lace; and Miss M’Callum’s
pale blue tarletan, and others there were equally
beautiful There was a fair attendance at the
Adelong United C.C. concert, the other night,
which realised about £l2 We understand that
one of the Tasmanian Steam Company’s engineers
will shortly lead to the hymeneal altar a daughter
of a much respected Balmain resident.... There is
much bustle among the Jewish fraternity (this is
not a joke) over the approaching hymeneal festi-
vities which are to take place in their midst. Dr.
Abraham, a new arrival in the colonies, is to cast
in his lot with a dark-eyed daughter of this city,
and report credits a Wynyard-square young lady
with the subjugation of a popular Sydney mer-
chant Concert at Adelong in aid of the local
trundlers. Miss Soares and Mrs. Budd shared first
honours among the vocalists; Miss Carter, Miss
Plummer, Messrs. Bray, Carter, and Channon also
presided at the piano, Messrs. Mack and Maehen
occasionally relieving guard. We learn that the
circus baud was somewhere in the vicinity, which
reconciles us to having been unable to drop in—
There were great festivities at the opening of the
new bridge across the Murrumbidgee recently.
Mr. Mayor tooled his aldermen down to the scene
of action, the procession being swelled by vehicles
of every description, and in any order. As usual,
the fair sex mustered in strong force, and lent
sunshine to the proceedings, as they always do, or
nearly always—let us be exact...“ Ticket-of-Leave
Man,” performed by the Dubbo Garrick Club, on
the sth inst.; moving spirit, Mr. A. L. Burton. The
Masonic Hall was gaily arrayed for the occasion,
and so were the ladies. Misses Riley and Follande
lent graceful aid to the performance, and divided
the nosegays between them Gundagai con-
gratulates itself on an accession of 321 babies last
year. We have as many prattlings in our street,
and yet we don’t congratulate ourselves
Amateur theatricals at Allora (Q.) having a rough
time of it. The noble larrikin there in force
Nearly a thousand pleasure-seekers of all ages
mustered at the Roman Catholic picnic on the
Albion Ground, Maitland, last Tuesday. ...Founda-
tion-stone of the Cowra School of Arts laid with
great iclAt Dr. M’Guire, of Molong, married to
Miss Minnie Fitzpatrick, the other day. White
silft, slippers, and rice in profusion ...The Eureka
plain and fancy dress ball is announced for Thurs-
day, 10th proximo, in Tattersall’s Hall—Mr. H. T.
Edwards, of Bibbenluke, was banqueted at Bom-
bala on the 10th instant, on the eve of his departure
for England Matrimonial troubles rife at Parra-
matta. Married in the morning and deceived in
the evening—quick work Mr. J. B. Gaden, of
the Commercial Bank, was testimonialised by his
fellow-olficers in most agreeable style on the occa-
sion of his departure on a visit to Europe. Mr.
Dibbs’ steam launch conveyed a number or friends
down the harbour, for the purnose of waving a
last farewell to Mr. Gaden as the Sutlej steamed
out to sea. Whether they did so. history recordeth
not, but it is reported that they had a merry time
of it Another bird flown from a M’Mahon’s
Point dove-cot. The wedding took place] last
week, in quiet style.
Sydney, Wednesday.
Dear old BelLe,—l am extremely sorry that
you cannot see your way to get down in time for
the Liedertafel Concert; but never mind, better
luck next time, perhaps. I believe it is to be par-
ticularly good this time; and in order to make up
for the disappointment of those who, by reason of
the Protestant Hall being too small, cannot obtaiu
admission, it has been arranged that each concert
is to be repeated—so the singers will be pretty hard
worked. Talk about the curiosity of woman 1 1
remember at the last concert many ladies, during
the interval, actually stood up, so as to have a
Detter view of each other. You see their curiosity
got the better of their manners. I promised my-
self that I would send you one of Freeman’s
pictures of the members of the Liedertafel, but
really my pocket-money has run so low this month
that I shall have to wait awhile. They are very
expensive these pictures, the smallest being 4s. 6d.
each; and these are really too small to distinguish
the faces well, so I should like to send you one of
the larger ones. Taking them altogether, they’re
not a bad-looking lot of men. I don’t think I ever
told you that Mr. M’Quade, the pianist, was back
in Sydney. We really missed him at the Lieder-
tafel Concerts, so it is to be hoped he will take
part in them again.
I had a nice letter from Miss Lydia Hastings this
week, inviting me to attend her “ voice-buiiaing ”
class, which i believe she holds once a week. 1
certainly mean to go some time, for I am very
curious to know how she sets about it. By the
way, what a boon she would be to you with your
private theatricals! You used to gabble most
distressingly, most of you girls; I really think you
wouid have driven Miss Hastings frantic.
The Williamsons gave their farewell perform-
ance at the Royal on Friday, but the theatre was
not over well filled, I am sorry to say. I think
they were mistaken in not playing “btruckOil”
instead of “Rip Van Winkle” on tneir last night,
for there is no doubt that, as Lizzie Stofel, Maggie
Moore has no rival, but as Gretchen she was just
the least bit disappointing. Rip—soft-hearted,
tipsy Rip—l liked very much; but perhaps 1
should not say so had I seen Jefferson act the part,
but, as I haven't, I declare I like Williamson best.
There were ever so many pretty girls in the circle,
and some beautiful di esses, too. A sweet-facea
maiden wore cream satin and pink rosebuds ;
whilst her schoolfellow, with auburn hair cut short
to the classic head, was equally charming in pink
Indii muslin. A pale blue silk with very low
square-cut bodice adorned another fair beauty,
who wore a handsome gold necklet with pendants
set with torquoise. A lady in pink, who possessed
a glorious head of hair, had the same (pale gold)
dressed very high and adorned with tiny sprays of
maiden-hair ferns. The effect was simply charming.
A winsome little lady, in flowered muslin, trimmed
handsomely with black velvet, looked nice. A
pink nun’s veiling flounced skirt, with short
crimson velvet jacket and pearl ornaments, was
worn by a dark, plump lady. One of the hand-
somest opera cloaks I have seen this season was a
pale fawn-coloured ottoman cord, with brown
feather trimmings ; the owner was attired in a
pale lavender silk dress, with white lace sleeves
and trimmings. It often puzzles me to know why
some people go to theatres at all- For instance,
there was a pair sitting to our left who never
moved a muscle during the whole performance.
They neither laughed at the fun nor wept at the
pathos—Oh ! I could have shaken them both
Really, such people s mould stay at home : it puts
such a damper on one even to look at their glum
faces. Very different was the Dr. who went to
see “Fedora” the other night, who, in the poison
scene, so far forgot that it was only acting that he
called out “ Why, in the name of goodness, don’t
you give her an emetic, you fools ?”
I am just wondering, Belle, dear, how in these
hard times we are going to keep pace with the
very expensive fashions for this coming season.
Finger-cosies (otherwise muffs) are to be adorned
with feather tips, not less than three, whilst boas
and seal-skin jackets will be in strong force.
Already winter goods are being shown in the shop
windows, and some of the hats I like “ quite well,”
as the Americans say when they wish to express
unqualified approval. A fawn silk beaver, some-
thing of the Henri Deux'shape, set round with
large crimson pompons, was stvlish, but the
newest and most becoming shape has abroad brim
which is caught up at either side and slightly
drooped in front and at the back. A very ugly
shape, which I do not think will gain much favour,
is exactly like a man’s tall hat minus a few inches
off the crown. They are decidedly loud, and have
no redeeming quality whatever. Such a pretty
dust cloak I saw yesterday. The material was the
the palest brown bi&ge, but the tippet was com-
posed entirely of deep lace of the same
colour, and from shoulder to shoulder was
taken a deep crimson chenille cord, which was
fastened with bows of the same colour. I was
surprised to see several waistcoat bodies worn this
week on the Block. I had been under the impres-
sion they were things of the past. There can be no
doubt they are very stylish, and on a good figure
there is nothing more becoming. Imagine to your-
self a tall round blonde—how terribly flat most
blondes are I—with a dark green nun’s cloth dress,
very short cutaway jacket, with white pique waist-
coat extending nearly to the waist, buff gloves with
green velvet gauntlets, and the hat—well, that was
disappointing: of course I expected to see one of
those dear little straw jockey hats as an appropriate
finish to such a delicious costume, but nothing of
the sort—it was the very much overdone Henri
Deux, with the usual straps of narrow velvet
round the crown, and plumes in front. Some girls
have sufficient originality to strike out a fashion
for themselves, but It requires a good deal of
fortitude and daring to carry it out. I noticed
one to-day who had veered slightly out of the
usual groove. Her dress was a deep cream nun’s
veiling, made without either frill or flounce, save
a narrow kilting round the edge of the skirt. The
sole trimming was an enormous crimson silk
scarf which was taken round the slight waist and
loosely knotted in front, the deeply fringed ends
reaching nearly to the hem of the skirt. If the
effect was not quite satisfactory, it was, at least,
uncommon.
You will be sorry to hear that the first outing of
the Ashfleld Fishing Club was unfortunate. It
appears that one of the members managed to get
a hook through his finger, which necessitated
the'r returning to town in order to seek a Dr. It
was a great disappointment to them all, as they
had every chance of a good catch, and what was
worse than all, the sufferer had to undergo great
pain before the hook could be extricated. Yours
MAB.


ER SPEECH RESTORED.
H
Clair View, Inverell, December 10,1883.
Messrs. Publishers Bulletin.
Dear Sirs.—l beg to acquaint you of a marvellous
cure following on the use of St. Jacobs Oil, which
has taken place in my own family. lam a poor
man with eight children, and for years have been
a great sufferer from sciatica. My wife was ad-
vised to try St. Jacobs Oil. She procured a bottle,
and I have been using it of late with good re°ults;
but it ia of my eldest daughter, 13 years of age,
that I wish to tell you. She retired one night
about four months ago in her usual good health,
but the next morning she could not speak. Mr
wife took her to Inverell to see Dr. , who said
her throat was ulcerated low down, aud he pre-
scribed cod liver oil and other medicines: and also
advised her to inhale the fumes of Stockholm tar,
saving she might never recover her speech again.
At the expiration of a fortnight, the medicine
having been finished, another visit to the Dr. was
made, who again prescribed for her, but told my
wife Ve had no hope of her ever being able to
sneak again. We began to despair, but the day i
the oil—about three months after she was
taken ill—l persuaded my wife, after we had
retired, to use the oil. She got up and
gave the girl two drops in water, and rubbed
it on her throat. Next morning we were
delighted to find that she could talk as well as ever,
and has been able to do so ever since.
1 remain, Gentlemen, grjtetuUr g^EB.
Political
Points
The house that “Jack” built. The dummy
“ residence.”
Another proof of the superiority of the
pea over the tongrueWright in; Reid out.
There’s just this one difference between
the Czar and verbs. The latter agree with their
subjects; the former doesn’t.
Pious Billy, the Teuton Kaiser, says his
empire is peace. Army nearly on strict war foot-
ing, though. Si via pacem, you know.
Mudgee may well be proud of her legisla-
tive trio—Sir John, David, and tho “Giraffe’ —for
who can make mud gee better than those three.
Mr. Reid declined the ordinary fulsome
and nauseous testimonial. The only testimonial
he aspires to he already has—the respect of all
honourable men.
Minister Abbott should require inspectors
and overseers of tanks and wells to pass an exam,
in elementary hydrodynamics. These function-
aries should at least be seised of the tact that
water won't run up hill.
Despite a good deal of Bray, the S. A. As-
sembly got rid of the resolution in favour of
adopting the Federal Bill of the Convention (which
wasn't a Convention) by a count out. The proper
treatment tho crude proposal merited.
There is a rich party, named Burdekln,
Who in the House is now heard agin:
Ho posed democratic,
But ho’s - well-erratic,
And, perhaps, may go back of his word agin.
A little stir has been caused in Noumea,
latelv. owing to the arrival of an Inspector-iu-
Chiel, who is one grade higher than the present
Governor. Tho stoppage of many works are pre-
dicted, aud it is even stated that the Governor is
not likely to remain long,
There’s a lot of good folks up in Tamworth
Who’d swear one M.P. ain’t a d worth,
And never was one of thoir kidney.
They’d far sooner have their own Gill there
Than swallow the nauseous pill there
That went down the throats of East Sydney.
From a Parliamentary return it appears
that the total area or mineral land in which Gar-
rett is interested, either.by himself or with others,
amounts to 68,893 acrcs-4648 in tho county of
Northumberland, 2500 in Cook, 42,610 in Bt. Vin-
cent, and 19,103 in Cumberland.
“ Everyone that voted for Burdekin, come
and have a drink with mo.”—M’Elhone.
Patriotic, very;
Generous, and more;
Voters' beer and sherry—
Who's to pay the score?
The Toowoomba Chronicle, Speaker
Groom’s own organ, had tho indecency the other
dav in a list showing the position of parties in the
Queensland Assembly, to put down the bpeaker as
« Ministerialist. Every one had assumed, prior to
this statement, that the chair was filled by a
“ Darty ” Speaker, but now they are certified of
the disgraceful fact on what Is as good as his own
ipse dixit.
Thus Andy Lynch to Carcoar Mary,
under date of “ syduey, Friday Blayney-
Murrumburrah railway carried by overwhelming
majority-nine to one. Great excitement before
division. Our friends stood by us nobly The
division took place before one o’clock.” A very
suggestive telegram. Wheels withiu the common-
wea •• stood by us” seems to indicate
Existence of a syndicate.
Queensland’s Sheridan deponeth that
when be bossed the Customs at Maryborough the
material of three iron barges, tho property of
llwraith. M’Eacliaru and Co., arrived there,
under order from the head Customs ofßee to be
admitted duty free, and that he, the vigilant and
scrupulous Sheridan, declined to obey the injunc-
tions of his Brisbane superior, insisted on the
nroper duty being paid-and got it. bo much
virtue as this in tho Griffith lot almost makes up
for the Groom nomination.
The death of Earl Grosvenor—son of the
Duke of Westminster, who was made a duke
because he was the biggest ground landlord in
London—leaves a boy ot lour to the heirship of
estates worth a lahulous sum. Js it fair that for
seventeen or twenty years, according to the age
fixed bv the trustees for majority, this land should
he oeruetually increased in value by the people
ouly that what is now a baby may some day be
richer than Solomon and Sardanapa.us rolled into
.one ? No—a thousand times no.
Johnny Banners alias Lord John Man-
-ners, the sweet singer ot the immortal hackneyed
.couplet,
“ Let laws and learning, arts and science die,
Dut leave us still our old nobility,”
moved in the Commons on the 4th, Jany., as an
amendment ou tho County Fraucbis; Bill, that the
Vncasure is unacceptable necuuse unaccompanied
bv a Bill for seat re-distribution. Had it been so
accompanied, he’d have moved its uuacceptability
because ot its being so accompauiod.
From the Times we learn, “Krupp has
iust taken out a patent lor a fiat-headed projectile.
This novel form m,s been given to it with a vm.v
of Dreventing its glancing off on striking a vessel
ar a great angle ot inclination.” Herr Krupp mis
evidently taken for his model some ot the flat-
heads who voted at the recent East Sydue,-
election. We have seen the tower part ot these
weapons strike a vessel ot an inclination ol 1,5
degrees and never glance off an inch till the thing
was empty- But thou it was a pewter vessel hold-
ing about halt a pint of lloi'go’s pale elixir.
Here are a few turn*© happy statistics
about our great, gloilous free, ami prospers s
England In London no iceb than 300,003 families
are in the habit of regularly paw niog small
articles while some 6 <\oi 0 unclaimed pledges are
sold in that opulent Babylon every year. And,
throughout the countrj, the total pledges re-
ceived in that time run to about 3(0,000,000. Per-
haps Brother Hicks will tako this par. for his text
when ho raves at the next 1 -dge meeting about the
“ secret ol England’s greatness ” The ’greatness,
alas! of the few, through tho degradation,starva-
tion, aud destruction of tho many.”
There is grent e.tct lenient in Nonmeti over
the election of a dew gate lur France. Meetings
have been held tug hi alter night, and very noisy
ones they were, too The urst election took place
on Sunday, 2nd March, .... mo oelou obtaining the
highest number of votes; o i too majority uut
bemg high enough, another pcn w.s to take
place on Sunday, 9th tost, F . . ■■udidates were
in the field—three republicans andL clerical can-
didate. As there was a split auio»gst the repub-
licans there was every probability of the clerical
candidate being elected. A very acrimonious war
had been waged in the papers, winch only tended
lo improve tne condition of the clerical purty.
The boroughs that are likely to be disfran-
chised next year, when the re-distribution of seats
is considered, are Abingdon (914 registered voters),
Andover 866, Bodmin 895, Brecon 878. Buckingham
1097, Caine 993, Cirencester 1138, Cockermouth 1071,
Devizes 966. Dorchester 939, Evesham 835, Eye 988,
Harwich 863, Knaresborough 738, Launceston 868,
Leomiaster 864, Liskeard77o, Ludlow 'Ol2, Lvming-
ton 817, Malmesbury 1108, Marlborough 647, Marlow
939, Midhurst 1136, Northallerton 859, Petersfleld
864, Radnor 917, Richmond 721, Tavistock 937.
Tewkesbury 748, Thirsk 968, West bury 1013, Wood-
stock 1129, Carlow 291, Downpatrick 299, Ennis 303,
Mallow 287. New Ross 238, Portarlington 138,
Youghal 253.
Thus that philosophical Radical, John
Morley, to the men of Birmingham:—“When lam
in moments of despondency, after reading a Con-
servative speech, 1 try to think of the great things
that have been done in my life-time, though I am
no patriarch. I have seen the foreign tyrant ex-
pelled from Italy, a rotten empire perish of its own
corruption in France, Hungary treed, the young
plants of freedom inserted in Bulgaria, the cursed
blot of slavery effaced from the United States,
while in our own country I have seen bread un-
taxed, little children got into the schools, labour
emancipated, and manhood citizenship, freedom,
and enlightenment diffused on every hand. Let
us be sure, then, that the iuture has events as
great as any that the past has brought forth.
Scene, back parlour of the Hound's Head.
First Politician, lighting pipe: “ Right you are. 11l
give him h—l in the House to-night. But look
here. Will you take your oath that you saw
Sharper give Stoanbrolco the thirty quid to use his
influence to get his son the billet? Second 1 oli-
tician (emphatically): “Of course I will. F-P* :
“ Will you, if it's necessary, go into Court and
swear it? ’ S.P. (still more emphatically): “ De-
cidedly I will. Who fears to speak the truth ?
FP. • “ Will you lay me a Aver you did ? S.P. (hesi-
tatingly): “ Well;*; see—l-that is to say—n-no, I d
rather not. Fact is, I never bet ” F.P.: Ahl
Then I’m not on. I’d do it, mind yer, only my
reputation’s a bit at stake at present.
The Lord High Chancellor of England
receives a pension of £5OOO per annum for life,
though he may have only held the office for a
week. The salaries of Judges in the United States
range from £3OO (the salary of county judges) to
£3ooi) (the salary of the Chief Justice of the
Supreme Court of the nation), and no pensions.
Members of the Cabinet in England receive £oooo
per annum, besides a pension of £2OOO, if they have
held the position lor two years. Members of the
Cabinet in the United States receive £l6OO per
annum : no pensions. Under-secretaries in Eng-
land receive £2OOO and £3OOO a year and pensions:
the highest paid oflicial of that elass in the United
States receives £lOOO per annum and no pension.
England pays her ambassadors from £6OOO to
£lO 000 a vear, and Rives them pensions and palaces
besides The highest paid official of this class in
the United States receives £3590 per annum, no
pension, no palace.
lu Broadley’s “How We Defended Arabi
there is an engrav.ng of a scene before the Court
of Inquiry at Cairo, at which the aged scheik,
Hasan El Edwi. chief of the Egyptian Ulemas,
was under examination. The charge against him
was a false one of receiving money, and it broke
down Then the President asked the feeble old
scheik “if he had not dared to sign and seal a
decree declaring His Highness the Khedive Tewflk
Pasha worthy of deposition ? Said Hasan El
Edwi: “ If you will bring me a decree in the sense
vou indicate, I will readily sign and seal it in your
presence even now. If you are Moslems, can you
deny that Tewflk Pasha, having betrayed his
country and gone over to the English, is no longer
worthy to reign over us?" * The blood, says
Broad ley, “ melted beneath Ismail Eyoub s (the
President’s) swarthy cheeks.” Hasan El Edwi,
who is the greatest divine of the Azhar Univer-
sity, was requested to retire to his native village.
THE SORROWS OF THE NOBIITY AND
GENTRY.
(Suggested by Archibald Forbes’ pathetic pictures
K of the reduced English Gentry.)
Pity the sorrows of a noble lord.
Who now to dine oil gold can scarce afford ;
Who keeps ten horses where he kept a score,
And owns two mansions now, instead of four.
Pity the Marchioness, who has replaced
Her fam’ly diamonds with gems of paste ;
Pity her daughters, who in beauty s prime
Deign the same robes to wear a second time.
They have been known sometimes themselves to
Because 8 they keep two ladies maids the less ;
E’en the small Earl, who apes his father s follies,
Has but five pounds a week to spend on lollies.
Tax not the rich, that would be confiscation,
But tax plain folk, the body of the nation ;
They've nought to do with laws, but to obey them,
And nought to do with taxes, but to pay them.
Says Granny, with reference to Baker
Pasha’s recent defeat:—“ This disaster is simply
one more sad confirmation of the hopelessness of
ever converting the peacefully-inclined Egyptian
peasant into a soldier.” On the 18th of October
last, Lieutenant-General Sir Archibald Allison,
speaking of the doings of his Highland Brigade
after it had advanced in one long wave upon the
Egyptian entrenchments at Tel-el-Kebir:— bo
earnest were the Egyptian gunners that they were
actually bayonetted after the redoubt had been
entered from the rear while still working their
pieces The advance of these battalions (Gordon
and Cameron Highlanders) was stoutly opposed
by the Egyptians of the Guard, who fell back sul-
lenly before them, and our men also suffered
heavily from a severe flank Are from an inner line
of wo'iks ...I must do justice to the Egyptian
troops. I never saw men fight more steadily.
Reliring up aline of works which we had taken
in flank, they rallied at every re-entering angle,
at every battery, at every redoubt, and renewed
the light.” Can’t be converted into a soldier, eh I
Grannv? No, not when" pressed ’ to fight to
secure the rivetting of a collar round his own
After all, no one is so badly off in this
world as not to be able to find some one else who
is worse. And before we grumble at paying for
gimcracks to decorate our Mayoral halls, or bingi*
bursting spreads to Ministerial gourmands, let us
glance at the following neat little bill which ex-
alderman Bontem, of Cheapslde, recently declared
had to besquared by the London ratepayers during
the time he held office: —
Luncheon on the Duke of Edinburgh's re-
ceiving the freedom
Luncheon to the Belgian Riflemen £5,7u0
Halt on the visit of the Sultan £31,600
Luncheon to the Duke of Connaught £1,400
Entertainment to the Shah *13,603
Entertainment to the Czar £11,600
Luncheon to the Duke of Albany £1,500
International municipal entertainment.... £il,BoJ
Bauquet and bail to the Prince of Wales on
his return from India £",400
Luncheon to President Grant.. £1.990
Luncheon to toe King of the Hellenes £1,900
International Medical Congress £3,400
Municipal ball in 1882 £*,310
No wonder the London poor felt mad when the
last Mayoral gorge was hinted.
lu Egypt, Great Britain has not yet done
—not even yet commenced to set about doing—
wbat slie went to Egypt to do. Not abuse has
been abolished, while more than one has been
carefully dug around and manured that it may
grow the more luxuriantly. Here, for instance, is
an illustration of the sort of reform backwards
which is now going on in the land of the fellah
under the aegis of the “ moral forces ” of England:
—Colonel Moncrieff, sent to Egypt to look after
the canals, has been appointed Under-Secretary of
Works. Inasmuch as a Frenchmau, who occupied
that post, had to be dismissed to make room for
him, the French consul-general naturally enough
objected. .. n “ arrangement ” became necessary,
and an “arrangement ” was made eminently satis-
factory to everybody except the Egyptian tax-
payer. The arrangement was this: the dismissed
Frenchman to be pensioned, and another french-
man to be appointed to the sinecure post of addi-
tional secretary—to balance Moncrieff's appoint-
ment! We l'orgot to mention,.though, another
“ balancing” arrangement, and that is the dismissal
of 1500 subordinatj Egyptian officiate hf ordwr to
“promote economy,” and enabie th©^Control to
perpetrate jobs in the interest of the friends of
the saviours of Khemi—and cover England with
dishonour.
THE MAN WHO KNOWS "HOW
TO MAKE IT.”
Asa rule we forget the Shilling Plum-
mer. That is either because it comes out so
seldom, or because the übiquitous and
ble John has ceased asking us round to the Coffee
Palace to gnaw with him the friendly (and
Christian) muffin. We can’t remember which just
now, being rather flurried after exchanging cer-
tain amenities with the cold-blooded ruffian next
door on the subject of a dead fowl thrown over
into our yard. “Throw a live one, we cried,
jeering; “yes, do that! But you re not game to!
No I Ah! Now! Come! You’re not game to. But
he wasn’t to be taunted into it. To-night, how-
ever, we’re going to put No. 4 s goat into his tank.
That’s how we’ll get level on him. Ob, you
wouldn’t believe 1 Things are pretty lively down
our way. It was only last Tuesday that w© caught
the barber’s Julius stealing our quinces. He was
caught red-handed with six in his possession. Next
morning we went over and had an elaborate shave
and titivating with thej“ club ’’ brush, which, con-
sidering we did not subscribe the stipulated Id. a
month, was an unprecedented honour. When it
was all over, and we smelt like a soap-shop with a
pork-butcher’s next door, we mentioned the cir-
cumstance of the quinces, and airily suggested
“that would make it right. But the barber
oouldn’t see it- Therefore, in order to avoid a
personal combat, we “planked down, as he
termed it, 6d.; being 3d. for the ordinary manipu-
lation, and 3d. for the use of the “ club brush.
* * •
To return, however, to the Shilling
Plummer. We are very much afraid that John
has his weak point. His weak points, rather; for
when lubricated internally by muffins, he, like
Mr. Venus, becomes more pliable: what his other
weak point is we do not know. But mark 1 Bladen
does. D. W. B. Sladenl For why? Because
Bladen pervades the Plummer. Therefore Bladen
must know John s weak print. We wish we did.
What is it. now, Perennial Plummer—tracts or—
toffee ? We know, anyway, it must be something
Christian. There is no apology for the appearance
of Sladen in the Perlummer. Au contralre. In
an article on the Zig-Zag, he ii Introduced to the
leader in a dfoonnair style. No saying— Weil,
you see, dear reader, he came round to the office
and—the same woman washes for us both, so— —
or _» Note —By some unaocountable error this
diabolical bosh has crept into our columns. We
darkly suspect our foreman, whose brother used
to drive Sladen’s great aunt. Directly we can pay
him the money we owe him, the man shaii he ig-
nominiously dismissed. Our readers oan rest as-
sured tiiat they shall not, in future, be subjected
to a like annoyance.” Nothing like this, even:—
“ To our Readers.— We had business reasons for
printing a sonnet by Sladen. It will be found
under the heading of deaths.”
* * *
No! This, if you please, is the style of the
Pullummer:— “Professor Bladen, of the Sydney
University, describes his impressions of the Zig-
Zag in the following lines: —
“ ’Twas noon when we rode out of Lithgow town
To climb the mountains. Soon the path we tried
Was naked slippery rock, up which to ride
Was well-nigh hopeless without slipping down.
Those italics belong to this office. They are put
merely to point out the delicate imagery and
Eoetic wording of the quotation 1 On “ Bowenfels
e is equally eloquent, in a sonnet which breaks
out in another part of the Plummer. This much
of it will do:—
“ . . Bowenfels begins
Half coaching town decaying for its sins (I),
Half suburb, where the folks whom duties call
To spend their days ’neath Lithgow’s smoky pall
May live to clear the coed dust from their skins
At eve.”
• • •
There! By the way, we wonder whether
the professor gives private lessons. We know a
mule—[Dinner!—Ed. B.]
A Great Business.— The United States of
America is the home of some very large enter-
prises, but none perhaps greater than the business
conducted by Mr. G. G. Green, of Woodbury, New
Jersey, U.S.A. He is the proprietor of the well-
known Boschee’s German Syrup, which is un-
equalled as a remedy for Pulmonary and Bronchial
affections. He manufaaturers also Green’s August
Flower for Dyspepsia and all disorders of the
Liver. These preparations are used throughout
the oivilized world, and thousands testify to their
valuable curative properties. Both these prepara-
tions have reached an immense sale solely on their
merits. Sample bottles of each are sold at fid., or
full-sized bottles at 3s. 6d. Ail druggists keep
them.*
A FEW REMARKS ABOUT MUGS.
This Isn’t a dissertation on crockery. Any
fond mother, intent upon gladdening “baby’s
heart with the presentation of a white china
drinking vessel bearing the inscription “For a
Good Little Boy,” in golden round-hand text, will
suffer the pangs of disappointment if she seeks,
in this article, for hints to guide her in her
momentous purchase. Neither are we treating ot
the “ mugs " of the low comedian—those labon-
ously (studied facial contortions which provoke
shouts of merriment from the youthful, and
awaken in the old ’uns a thousand melancholy
memories of having witnessed the same old busi-
ness, performed in the same old style, by many
another “mugger” for the last century or so.
No, men as “mugs are engaging our attention
at the present moment. You all know what a
“mug” is, or, if you don t, you ought to. lhe
magsman's “mug,” now—the young man from
the country who tells his pathetic story pf mis-
placed confidence in the police court—you all know
him. You discuss his guileless innocence with a
mingled scorn and pity that implies a confidmce in
your own superior acumen, and remark w nut a
greeahornl” So he is—he is a “mug; y
fully examine this particular species, independent
of his rerdancy in the matter of the match-box
trick,” and, maybe, you’ll find him no bigger tool
than you are. He d be far too wide-awake to be
hoodwinked by that little chit of a Bessie Brown,
for instance, and he d laugh at you, as Bessie s
“ mug.” Why, there’s your dashing young friend,
Tom; you couldn’t take him in with any match-
box trick, could you ? There arent many games
that they can give Tom points at. But call in at
the restaurant Tom so constantly derates wit s
his handsome presence, and psk Hebe who brings
her the flowers which Captain Cuff takes away in
his button-hole ? Tom’s an awful mug in that
quarter. Then there s Jones, the great pity man.
he'd be a pretty shy bird for a spi eler P l “ c ?’
certainly—none of his money finds its way'to
the pockets of the bookmakers, and he knows
a leetle too much to fall a victim to Hebe s bland
ishments. Rather! Jones bears the reputation of
being about the keenest man in the trade, and so
he is. Such energy, too; he s down at the office at
nine “sharp,” every morning, takes a Dare
twenty minutes for luncheon, and rushes home
just in time to sit down to his 6.30 dinner- Cer-
tainly, he’s a good deal too tired to enjoy it, but
he enjoys the satisfaction of knowing that he s
had a “splendid day ’’-and that s.everything.
None of Jones’ people stick to it like he, does
things never go on as well at the shop, when
he’s away—therefore he seldom goes away. A
fortnight in the year is about as much holiday as
Jones takes, but he’s getting uncommon warm
—few richer men in Sydney than
acquire half a million, and a ner vpusdisease, and a
tombstone five times as hig as himself (Jones is a
fine man, too) will bear a beautiful inscription,
explaining how he was taken away trom me
cantile pursuits, “ after a long a ?d p ainful ill-
ness, in his 51st year. Why, what a mug
Tnnaa Ifl whPIl VOU CODIO to thiDK over
But a different type of man to these others is your
free-and-easy, happy-go-lucky kind of a fell-ow
your newspaper scribbler, say; 0l^ e .’'P.ho knows
his way about ” in most things, and is far too wise
to wear away his life on the weary wheel of busi-
ness routine. Ah I he enjoys existence m his
modest way—enough money in his pocket to pro-
vide for the pleasures of to-day, and with neer a
troublesome thought for the morrow, which (as
we all know) invariably takes care of itself. He
isn’t burdened with a wife, either, and one day
he’ll fall ill, and supplies fall short, and the drunken
old landlady will be dunning for the r . ent when she
ought to be making beef tea or mixing the medi-
cine, and “happy-go-lucky wfll just about die
for want of proper attention, thinking at the last
—if he isn’t too delirious—what a mug he s
been. And your sober, steady married man, with
a small “screw” and a large fam— —but there,
you’re all “ mugs,” every man Jack of you.
The Hurlyburly of Burly Hurley.
A SOCIETY SCUFFLE.
. . . Mr. Hurley’s face was badly
scratched, and his beard liberally rended, while
Mr. Harris bore the marks of whip and fisticuffs.
A crowd had by this time assembled, and were un-
willing listeners to an outpouring by Mr. Harris
of the foulest and beastliest torrent of obscene
language that has ever disgraced the streets of
Maryborough even in her darkest days.”—Mary-
borough Chronicle.—
You must remember, Mr. Hurley ?
You’ve not forgotten him, we hope I
The man who had a frightful down
Upon the poor old tott’ring Pope.
He damned the Papal chair in terms
So withering and stern,
That it’s a wonder John did not
** Bust up the whole concern.”
He’s a Queensland member now, and, 10,
It seems that he did sneer,
And "put off ” passing gibes upon
A loca 1 auctioneer.
They meet. " Ha, ha I—Did you say that ?”
“ I did 1” “You cur, you lie I”
Then a whip came down on Hurley’s head,
And a fist smote Harris’ eye.
They close. Bif, bang ! oh, each with rage
Does surge and foam and seethe.
A cloud ot hair ; once more apart—
Bang ! go the whips—they meet I
Then John “ gets on ” to Harris’ nose,
And then there is a cry
That Mr. Harris is a gougin’
Out John Hurley’s eye.
“ This is,”—we will a paper quote—
“ A thing to be regretted,’ 1
For both were well-known public men,
Adored, ’tis said, and petted.
Loved by the fair, they sipped the sweets
Of homage to satiety—
You’d think, perhaps this dread fracas
A sad bio w to sooiety ?
Go to ! A little breeze like this
The thing gives quite a tone ;
They do not think it torrid, sirs,
Up in that torrid zone ;
The reason ?—Well, just know, to this
Conclusion we have come—
’Tis that society, up North,
Is too mured, up with rum.
CAUSE AND RESULT.
As daily I go jogging
Through each town and rural journal,
It’s always there—" More flogging ”
Just like a brand internal.
“ it cures indecency," they cry ;
If so, strange that so frequent
This heading, also, I espy,
“ One More Assault Indecent 1
Give men, like brutes, the lash and tether,
And brutes they’ll turn to altogether.
There are in England and Wales 700,000
more females than males, the figures being re-
spectively 13,334,637 and 12,030,903. No fewer than
32,416 girls were wives at 15. 218 had donned
widows’ garbs before they reached 10. At 0a years
of age 315,540 still gloried in the married state,
whOst 180,124 had outlived their partners. 7162
ladies engaged in “medical pursuits” (in which
nurses are included), and 100 in the legal proies-
s on. In art women are almost as powerful,
numerically, as men; in music also; more actresses
than actors. Sixteen ladies are sculptors; and
literature is, as we all know, a favourite profession
with the "sex.” One branch of industry man has
to himself—there are no lady architects.
THE DISTRUSTFUL WORSHIPPER.
When Gladstone, the dispatches say,
Goes privately to church to pray,
He stations a policeman there,
That none may interrupt the prayer
With dynamite, that new invention
To catch a Minister’s attention.
If I were talking, face to face,
With God, in His own holy place,
Upon my bended knees, my back
Exposed to cowardly attack,
My trust in Him were much diminished
If He’d not guard me till I’d finished.
Think what a coldness would ensue
If, Gladstone, He should visit you,
And bring, to guard Him at your board,
An angel with a flaming sword 1
To cold inaction in the lobby
You’d relegate that feathered Bobby.
Without reproach does God expect
To greet the guest and not protect ?
Accept the tribute of his prai6e
And see him murdered as ho prays ?
If this in Him’s accounted civil,
Then what’s the matter with the Devil ?
THE WASP.


H. PALING
AND CO. (Limited),
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC, ETC.
ZV
•"f/N
*
EASY TERMS SYSTEM
FOB.
ANY
INSTRUMENT.
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
l/lr Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE, DRY SO ALE & CO.,
ii, mid, ui mm nun,
397 GEORGE STREET,
56 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Pounders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coach
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
ENGINES
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
V ertical Fixed.,
PUMPS.
Bpeclal Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY.
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Screwing
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws. Genera
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements.
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoes, Land Rollers, Horse
Rakes, Reapers find Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Shellers, Threshing Machines.
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Coach Builders’ Sundries.— Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnishings, Varnishes, and
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours.
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvanized, Corrugated.
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpaeks, Sheep Shears. Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND CO..
387 George Street, Sydney.
Abraham's Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering
other organs from fulfilling their functions. Set
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite la
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorator. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. To
obviate all these symntoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Bet this
organ in order and health returns as if by magic.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Laboiatuy,
484 George Street, Sydney.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’B SHORT HORN BOURBON.—The
drink of tbe army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOPFNUNG ft CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
35
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA
ANB
EARTHENWA ft E,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Sobnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinlravgn Pale ' .e.
PAPERBANGING S!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS,
CEILING CENTRE,
FIGURES, BCE
Imported by
, &0.
Alexander Borthwick,
381 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &o.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
■CTn.d.ertsJs©r,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (10) years; also,
Manager for oyer ten GO) years.
EURE
KA
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
IST THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age !
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The 01 y Tobacco com Dining Excellence of Quality
with Economy In Price.
|3T Each PLUG Is STAMPED with the word
“EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
AT THE EAGLE WORKB,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
An i onn be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits beoome known.
EUREKA TOBACCO,
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
•mitatloßS.
Robert butcher
(Late William Long),
Vlf WINK AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
C O.
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
W. H. ARIELL & CO.’S
„ AGENCIES.
Swallow & Ariell’s prize Blseuits, compris-
ing a variety of 12 kinds—Canterbury, Normanby,
and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour, Treacle and
Golden Syrup, in all size tins, casks, and bottles...
Excelsior Mills.—Superior Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b. bags.
..Dillon, Burrows & Co.’s orize assorted Confec-
tionery... A. M. Hunt & Co.’s prize Baking Pow-
ders, InM, and lib tins.. R. Whittington and Co.’s
prime York Hams, Currants, Figs, Paper Bags,and
General Provisions.... Victoria Lion Preserving
Company’s superior assorted Jams.. Scandinavian
Condensed Milk—Gold Medal Brand,
843 k 345 KENT-STREET, near King-st., Sydney.
GILBEY’S SILVERSTREAM SCHNAPPS.
Gilbey’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TUCKKIt 4: CO., Sole Agents,
3Vtf G eorge-street, Sydney.
Foster ’s Bugle Brand.
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
£
* BASS PALE A T.F.,
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
BOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE ]
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
MOULTON'S
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON'S!
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and %i»
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUBNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and D*3r
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relievo distress from tpo
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFT
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made ®f the Extraet of Fruity
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price 3a. 3«1.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
DC
mas
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite brand
of Stout selected with great caro from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co„ Dublin, and therefore
oannot be excelled. To be procured evorywbor*.
CATtELL A CO., Bole Agent*.
M
TONI
A-RSH ALL'S
N ERVIN
t
HEGIBTETtED.
A SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that sprint? from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia.
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss or
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, &c. By its tonlo
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
for Aloohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour t*>
the whole system. Price, 4s. 6d. Sold everywhere.
Sole Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS,
M.P.8.. Pharmacists, 104 and 100 Market-street, near
Hyde Park, Sydney. N.B.—All imitations Illegal,


Prepared according: to the directions Oi PrOf.
E. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENCED FOR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &C.
BT No Danger can Attend its Us*.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Growing Chil-
dren.
Sandusky, 0., May 21,1880,
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can pro-
nounce it a very valuable addition. I find it use-
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nervous
depression following overwork and anxiety, as well
as the gastrio derangements. Where there is
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull,
heavy head, it is of undoubted value. Fast grow-
ing children require this valuable addition.
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
Boston, Mass., May 18,1880.
In regard to the Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give it in dyspepsia and in all cases where there
is derangement or the liver and kidneys. With
m, patients It k„ s*resd wondertnUft
Nerve Tonic.
A. 8. Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
" Horsford’s Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
from indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, and always with satisfactory results. It is
a jrood nerve tonic, and in some cases of morbid
urine, ‘ it acts like a charm,’ produciug the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, and is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound.”
Can be borne by tbe most Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, in elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled. It is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed it with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for ]Lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing 'drink for tne sick.
A* L* HA-LJu, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
2v£a,g'ic Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
" It Works like a Charm.”
It la not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, bu
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neok or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Threat, and Dyp-
therla.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious siokness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers in
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-RSoxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained tkroughou the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work oonsists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery Is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their finish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special
Instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the le ding carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they arh thi
best.
American Carriage Emporium,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SIDNEY.
barro-nTmoxham & CO.,
ftsle As out!
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Melbourne D.T. has been terribly
shooked and grieved by certain of Mr. Judge
Higlnhotham’s doctrines. The reckless justice, it
seems, recently asserted that “ there are circum-
stances la which an honourable man, to save hia
A NICE POINT.
SHE: “Isay Raggles, your nose has a very peculiar appearance lately; how do you
account for its extreme redness?”
HE: “H’m! Well, the fact is, my dear, that question is at present puzzling wiser
heads than yours. I have just been reading a very learned opinion, to the effect that it
is caused by a large accumulation of moisture in the atmosphere held in a vasicular
state in which the blue rays of the sun are absorbed, while the red and yellow rays
pass. For my own part, I hold that it is caused by the entire absence of moisture; in
short, is one natural consequence of the great drought.”
[it appears that he, wilfully or otherwise, mistook her question to refer to the red
sunsets.]
reputation, might deviate from the strict truth.”
The expression of sentiments such as these
aroused, as was only to bo expected, the indigna-
tion ef the Melbourne piety paper (that pride of
Presbyterians, in particular, and comfort of Chris-
tians, generally); but the D.T.’s indignation to-
THE CAT AND THE MOUSE.
A FABLE.
“Before we proceed further with this business,” observed the mouse, as she turned
under the oat’s oaw, “I would suggest that we give the matter greater consideration.
Your present proposals appear to me to be hurried; and I confess that I am somewhat
taken by surprise.” “If you will only be concise,” returned the cat, fixing his claw on
the mouse’s back, and taking a thoughtful chew at his tail. “Well, then,” began the
mouse,“ I have long thought that in a world so vast as this, replete with every luxury
that heart can wish, and showing in all its adaptations of fruit, and flower, and crevice,
a providential provision for the wants of all, it is worthy consideration whether we,
the animal creation, have not been remiss in observing with regard for each others’
rights that inflexible probity which alone entitles one to the respect of the community,
er even to life itself.” “How, then,” asked the eat, “do you account for those fibres of
hemp, and that flour-duster beard?” “Ease that paw a bit, please,” groaned the
mouse, “and I will explain. There are depredations which are lawful, and -”As
the cat licked his lips and walked away, he purred to the mouse inside, "Go on with
your argument. I’m listening.”
wards Mr. Higinbotham was as nothing compared
with the scorn it leela for a “morning contera-
i porary,” which has been—ns the D.T. sarcastically
Mput# It—“ Improving" on his ideas. This abai>-
(lourj.l “morning contemporary" (the Age) has
sunk*to such a depth of degradation as to say, “it
may be laid down as a safe and unanswerable
generalisation that in civilised society, at any rate,
Ivlng is not only excusable, but it tea necessity
which society could only dispense with at the cost
of its own comfort and existence. It is awful to
reflect upon the mischief which might have been
wrought throughout Victoria by these wicked
arguments ofthe Age, if the D.T hadn’t rushed to
the rescue. The D,T. (as we’ve already remarked)
represents the Presbyterian interest, and conse-
quently has no practical acquaintance with lies,
but on the subject of liars and their inevitable
fate it is particularly well informed. In awe-
inspiring italics it tells us “ all liars shall have their
part in the lake which hurneth with fire and brim-
stone;" and as the article concludes with the re-
mark, “ our contemporary has vindicated finally,
and for ever, its right to the popular nick-name of
•Ananias.’” why ‘our contemporary” seems
booked for a warm place. So, as warmth is gene-
rally understood to keep up “the circulation,” it
is probable that the Agb, hi the future life, will
have just as great au advantage over the D.T. in
that important particular ae what it has in this
present, wicked world.
His Love.
©n high their streams with shim’ring sprays
'The splashing fountains throw,
And pinky sunsets’ lovely rays
O’er all east sheeny glow;
There lovely Nature ever might
With unseen glories teem.
For all without love s halo bright
Were alien to their theme.
’Tis vain the llowers in glory grow,
In vain’s the sparrow’s song,
’Tis vain tho soft sweet breezes blow
The rustlinv leaves among;
The ocean rolls, the fountains spout,
Unheeded and unseen;
Unnoticed, too, fades slowly out
The sunset’s lovely sheen;
And still they linger ’neath the tree,
Where dark’ning shadows fail,
And waning rays of sunset flee
Before night’s shrouding pall.
A quiet eve, a week gone by,
Nigh liandwick’s sea-laved shore,
An amorous pair in ecstasy,
Did Love’s demesnes explore.
They sat beneath a spreading tree
Upon a rustic seat, .
Flowers around them gloriously
Were blooming, gay and sweet;
Tho spai rows twittered in tho tree,
And, 'mid the bran oh lets green,
Told their love tales with birdish glee
Behind their leafy screen.
From Coogee Bay the breezes light
Among the dark leaves sigh,
And rustling ’mid the blossoms bright
There inland gently fly;
There rolls before their heedless eyes
The vast and fickle deep, „ .
Whose foam-fringed bosoms heave and rise—
In mimic furies leap.
Oh, she was lovely, young, and rair,
And sweet, as any rose
That in bright Nature s grandeur there
With richest fragrance grows.
Her lover worthy seemed to share
The raptures of a love,
With warm (caress by honour swear
A changeless heart to prove;
Around her little shapely waist
He passed hia circling arm,
As though that pretty waist unlaced
He’d ever shield from harm.
The lovelight flashes in her eyes.
Deep blushes mount her cheek,
Her burning lips bewitchtngly
With love-lade kisses reek.
With throbbing heart, expectantly,
Bhe wa»t» Love’s message sweet,
And there that ardent youth to Bee
In suopliance at her l eet.
That lover, too, seemed now to ten
Borne fateful issue’s power,
As trem’lously his touos dispel
The silence of the hour.
« ohl Annabel,” he murmur d low,
And with a falt’ring tongue,
As tho’ some tale of awful woe
Were from his pale lips wrung;
As his portentous qu°st he speaks,
The orimson waves subside,
As if her soft and creamy cheeks
Had shamed the hectic tide.
Now downward droop her lovely eyes,
From his fond arm she slips,
And fast the ruby colour dies
Upon her dewy lips.
He lowly faltered. Annabel,
Oh I pain me not like that;
But tell me, Belle, if I look well
£h my new * masker 9 hat ?
RHADAMANTHUS.
True Religion.
Living friendly, feeling friendly,
Acting lairly to all men.
Seeking to do that to others
They may do to me again.
Hating no man. scorning no man,
Wronging none by word or deed,
But forbearing, soothing, serving,
Thus 1 live, and this my creed.
Harsh condemning, fierce condemning,
jg of little Christian use ;
One soft word of kindly peace is
Worth a torrent of abuse.
Calling things bad, calling men bad,
Adds but darkness to their night;
If thou wouldst improve thy brother,
Let thy goodness be his light.
I have felt, and know how bitter.
Human coldness makes the world,
Every bosom round me frozen :
Not an eyo with pity pearled.
Still my heart, with kindness teeming,
Glads when other hearts are glad,
And my eyes a tear-drop flndeth
At the ’sight of others sad.
Ah, bo kind : life hath no secret
For our happiness like this ;
Kindly hearts are seldom sad ones,
Blessings ever bring true bliss.
Lend a helping hand to others,
Bmile th iugh all the world should frown;
Man is man, we all are brothers,
Black, or red, or white, or brown.
Man is man, through all gradations—
Little reeks it where he stands,
How divided into nations.
Scattered over many lands.
Man is man by form and feature,
Man by vice and virtue too,
Man in all one common nature,
Speaks and binds us brothers true.
Ah, Where?
Around Samoas peak,
The stormy petrels shriek,
While surges roar;
And wildiy-piping gules
Repeat in eerie waiis
What I deplore—
A dark-eyed maid,
In ocean laid.
Ay. round that fatal coast,
Still haunted by thy ghost,
Oh, Memory. I
Still doleful lyrics croon
Beneath the ghastly moon,
Still hopeless sigh,
Still long to tty—
Ah, where?
Beyond thy clutch, Despair 1
HECTOR A. STUART.
"Love that came with Rosen.”
O love, that came with roses
And tied at winter-tide,
Where now thr wing rentes
Thou wilt not long abide.
The autumn's breath will chill thee
When leaves begin to full,
Some changeful longings fill thee,
And all thy vows reoad.
O love, that laughed In sun-light
And sadden’d in the shade,
That shrunk iu the wierd wan-light,
The moon-mist shrouded made ;
Where mirth is mad with laughter
Thy smiles thou’it lavish free,
But tears that flow thereafter
Shall win no sigh from thee.
O love, that came with roses
And died when they were blown,
My heart as calm reposes
As the’ it had not known
The touch of cold caresses
That never passion moved,
An I now no pang confesses
'l hat thou inconstant proved.
Manly March, 1884
IDA.


THE
IGNO
iP ! -
n
THE
T= the MOST SUCCESSFUL Instrument ever in-
troduced to Australia. SUPERIOR to all others
of simitar size in Tone, Touch, Durability, and
Finish.
THE
FX-AJiT©
Is Iron-framed, Double Oblique Trichord, and
Seven Octaves in compass, in beautiful Walnut
or Ebonised Case, or Gold Engraved.
THE
Mig:non
Tg the BEST and CHEAPEST Piano in Sydney. No
piano ever had such a sale as the “ MIGNON.”
THE
FI-A-3ST©
ANOTHER BIG SUCCESS!
One of the LARGEST and BEST-CONSTRUCTED
Pianos ever made.
FULL-TONED !
BEAUTIFUL QUALITY !
PERFECTION OF TOUCH !
ALWAYS RECOMMEND 3 ITSELF I
THE
, X=X -A.XT©
Illustrated catalogues of the “MIGNON,”
“WILMER,” and all other good instruments, to
be had on application.
NICHOLSON - AND GO.,
325 Georgc-street,
THE FIRST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR PIANOS
AND ORGANS.
QUONG TART & CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
Tea MercbaU Si Imuorters
38, 29, and 30 SYDNEY ARCADE, and
7 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
All Teas carefully selected at the plantitions by
our own Tea-taster, and quality guarateed.
Intending purchasers should visit our Tea Rooms
and sample for themselves before buying.
The ladies of the city will find our new rooms in
the King-street Arcade a great acquisition—airy,
comfort,Bhle, and commodious, with prompt
ttendante.
,1
J
£
!|S®» ' ~,
" r*i ,sn jftwv > :■' J'r.»i»)**;. •
»,'lp-Sl
,‘IV
m
* BU./=* C,r S* .
TRY BtJRGIS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
from 108. (id. All garments hand made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house lor
h Brood, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STREET,
ryiney. i-amples and diagrams for self-measuring
forwarded to any part of the colony.
U B L_l C
NOTICE.
ii, m, & co.’s
BRIAN BORU
IS MANUFACTURED FROM THE
FINEST IRISH GRAIN.
BRIAN BORU WHTSKYis bonded for severa.
years before being bottled for export.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, when well matured
by age, is carefully bottled under supervision of
the officers of H.M. Customs.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is exported in enorm-
ous quantities to all parts of the world.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY. Australian con-
sumers will find this brand
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY. The great demand
for this old Irish brand in England, Scotland, and
the Colonies is a sufficient guarantee for its
quality.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, sold by leading mer-
chants throughout the colonies.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY comes direct from
distillers.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, manufactured by
YOUNG. KING, and CO., “as a firm” one of the
largest whisky holders in the world,
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is unequalled in this
market for age and purity.
BRTAN BORU WHISKY was never exhibited,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &c.
YOUNG, KING & CO., Distillers. Belfast,
Ireland, sole owners of BRIAN BORU
WHISKY.
JAMES YOUNG, JUN.,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY,
'SOLE REPRESENTATIVE IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
YOUNG, KING, & CO.,
DISTILLERS,
BELFAST, IRELAND.
OFFICES:
SYDNEY : 7 & 9 Change Alley;
MELBOURNE: 25 Flinders-street East;
ADELAIDE: Universal Buildings, Grenfell-street;
And at BRISBANE.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY.
BLEND
MARX
TRADE
A
•sat**:
S^/ST£H^2
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY—This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
A Check to Drunkenness!
That Curse of Nations, which desolates our
homes, fills our gaols, and ends in painful un-
timely Death. A beverage is wanted that stimu-
lates, yet not intoxicates. Its price must be
moderate. The problem is satisfactorily solved
by
DALM AND OERTEL’S SELTZER-WATER,
Patronised and ordered by all leading] doctors.
Highly spoken of by the Press. “Nofamily should
be without it.” We also highly recommend our
Lemonade, Soda-water, Ginger Ale, Tonic. Lithia-
water for G-out —the only remedy. I otass-water
for Rheumatism. Friedrichshaller bitter-water,
and Carlsbad, for centuries known as the best
purgatives. Obtainable at leading Hotels .Grocers,
Chemists, &c., throughout the colonies. For town
and suburbs delivered by our carts.
MINERAL-WATER WORKS,
37 Bourke-street, Redfern.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
on
ft O R N.E
van
.'it
S/e
It is of the utmost importance that contents oi
each bottle should be carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any oi
the other brands, when they will find a ditferene<
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORN E HIGH
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON f AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
AYER’S PILLS.
A largo proportion of tho diseases which
cause human suffering result from derange*
ment of the stomach, bowels, and liver.
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills act directly upon
these organs, and are especially designed to
cure the diseases caused by their derange-
ment, including Constipation, Indiges-
tion, Dyspepsia, Headache, Dysentery,
and a host of other ailments, for all of
which they are a safe, sure, prompt, and
pleasant remedy. The extensive use of these
Pills by eminent physicians in regular prac-
tice, shows unmistakably the estimation in
which they are held by the medical profes-
sion.
These Pills are compounded of vegetable
substances only, and are absolutely free from
calomel or any other injurious ingredient.
A Sufferer from Headache writes:
“Ayer’s Pills are invaluable tome, and
are my constant companion. I have been
a severe sutferer from Headache, and your
Pills are the only thing I could look to
for relief. One dose will quickly move my
bowels and free my head from pain. 'they
are tho most effective and the easiest physic
• *" me to
do so
ho.”
1882.
“I have used Ayer’s Pills In number-
less instances as recommended by you, and
have never known them to fail to accomplish
the desired result. We constantly keep them
on hand at our home, and prize them as a
pleasant, safe, and reliable family medicine.
FOlt DYSPEPSIA they are invaluable. f
T* Uayls*
Mexia, Texas, June 17, 1882.
The Rev. Francis B. Haklowe, writing
from Atlanta. Oa., says: “For some years
past I have been subject to constipation,
from which, in spite of the use of medi-
cines of various kinds, I suffered increasing
inconvenience, until some months ago 1
began taking Ayer’s Pills. They have
entirely corrected the costive habit, and
have vastly improved my general health.
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills correct irregu-
larities of the bowels, stimulate the appe-
tite and digestion, and by their prompt and
thorough action give tone and vigor to the
whole physical economy.
PREPARED BY
Dp. J.C. Ayer&Co., Lowell, MasSr
Sold by all Druggists.
1 have ever tounu. nis a ineasuic w
speak in their praise, and I always
when occasion offers. „ ,
W. L. Page, of W. L. Page & I
Franklin St., Richmond,Va., June 3,
YOUNG,
OLD, AND
MIDDLE-
AGED.
All experience the -wonderful
beneficial effects of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Children with Sore Eyes, Sore
Ears, or any scrofulous or syph-
ilitic taint, may be made healthy and strong
by its use.
Sold by all Druggists ; $l, six bottles for $5.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
u
m
“V.
*
\N«
SjT&sg?
Ww^
S&5
-v-S'
OZQId &3JI,S.ePR&£I
.
V OPPOSITE POST OFFICE
Note the Address:
339 & 341 George.street.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
IM
’CEIEBRttfP.
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
80LE~AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
OT MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’B COFFEE.
after defore IiOUSTACHS ani’frEISEEES.
Copyrighted.
Boyd’s Heard F.lioclrdid this, and
trill do it on cither bald head or
bare face. Forces heavy Moms-
tache in fronts to 4 toceks and never
Jails, 20,000 young men already
wear full beards, having used 1 to
Copyrighted
3 pkts. Ai> injury, eiunl'j applied, tertain in effect. Faekett
each. 3 for 3a. 6 d..post paid, sent under cever-, free from obwrvautm.
ILCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Sliest
■-
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4lO
MANGLEB
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com shelters
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
Ac. Ac. Ao,
HEBBLEWHITE & CO.
416 GEORGE STREET.
A COLOSSAL TEMEH!
The following Gentlemen are engaged as
CUTTERS in the
LARGEST and Most EXTENSIVE
Tailoring Establishment
In the Southern Hemisphere.
Some 300 hands are now employed by Messrs.
SUMMERFIELD & Co., whose chief
place of business is
235 & 237 Pitt-st.,
SYDNEY, with Branches at
NEWCASTLE, DUBBO, WAGGA, and 61 & 63
LEADENHALL-STKEET, LONDON, E.C.
Mr. H. W. CHAPMAN, the well-known City
Cutter. „ _
Mr. W. FROST, Thirty Years’ Sydney expe-
rience. _ , , _ ... T>
Mr. C. PROBYN, of Poole’s, Saville Row,
London. „ „
Mr. H. J. TONKIN, of Tonkin, Sons and Co.,
Bristol. _ ...
Mr. R. MORRISBY, Eight Years with Summer-
field and Co. „ _ , . _
Mr. CHARLES TAUTZ, of Tautz and Co.,
Breeches Makers, Piccadilly.
At Newcastle :
Mr. WALTER RICE, best known Cutter In
Australia.
Mr. W. SHAW.
iiiniwo.,
THE PEOPLE'S TAILORS,
AND GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS.
.'ARTIFICIAL TEETH
; & -Warranted first quality
| X® $ Charges stru: fcly moderate
"marshall brothers
ion DENTISTS 106 MARKET ST E.
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
The practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
carried on by the aid of a large and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction by
anaesthetics.
ZOEDONE,
Pleasant, Refreshing,
Invigorating.
The non-alcoholic beverage acts as a brain and
nerve tome, and does not intoxicate.
ZOEDONE
Is recommended by the Faculty as a substitute for
wine, beer, and spirits, as it invigorates without
producing anv intoxicating effect. In case of
debility consequent on a long residence in a hot
climate, it is or great service, as it acts not only as
a nerve stimulant, but also as a permanent tonic
to the system.
Price per case containing 10 dozen pints ...21/-
„ „ „ 6 „ 1 „ .. 24/-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS,
72 and 74 Pitt-stroet,
Sydney.
PAINTS
OILS.
v<SI
r
V
WALL
PAPERS
Office: 330 George-street.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
Of- N.B. Patterns and Print* ««nt.
HOT WATER BATH:
h/Ui Cr» > .. ' . f,i Sl[ l.i jJu’.i.N
- tS/> \y* '• 141 gxrorl
half HCfL uin y i i v a* :- so* y •


REMEMBER THIS,
IF YOU ARE SICK,
If you are sick, HQP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails.
If you are comparatively well, hut feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any other of the numer-
ous diseases of the stomach or bowels,
it is your own fault if you remain ill,
for
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
for™ of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
HOP BITTERS.';
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will li nd a ‘ ‘Balin
in Gilead ” in the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
ot a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of all coun-
tries—malarial, epidemic, bilious and in-
termittent fevers —by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow «
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
reel miserable generally, HOP BITTERS
will give you lair skin, rich blood, the
sweetest breath, health, and comfort.
In short, they cure ALL Diseases of
the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, -Liver
Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
£5OO
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in the them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
Will you let them suffer ?
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no siekness or suffering or doo*
tors’ bills to pay.
GRAHAM,
-»
531
George St., Sydney.
r
Tailoring- Establishment,
543, late 531, George-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—l respectfully beg- leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and fit of our
Trousers, which are cut on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst tbe
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well a 9
the slight figure, and arc engaged to give to all tbs
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial will suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am, Sir,
Tourobedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
i/ a
MALT BITTERS
THE CUKE FOR INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT WEAK-
NESS, &c.
PRICE 2s. Bd.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist,
„ u w 43 ERSKTNE STREET*.
hv w W. KU*TTT,. and all OhomM*
Printed and Published by The Bulletin New -
paper Co. (Limited), 34 Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
We hold no brief to defend Mrs. Besant
and Mr. Bradlaugh, and we do not say that the
“ Fruits of Philosophy ” is a work we should
~«3comme<d for readiu'g virginibim puer tuque; but
we maintain that it is a work not immoral in its
object, nor one whit more obscene (in the legal
sense), if so much so, as portions of scores of
standard classical works (the Bible included).
That it is “a filthy book” in the opinion of the
*• highest legal and moral authorities of England,”
of the “ proper guardiansof publ'c decency here,”
and of the prim and goody Echo, might go for
something with us were the book really filthy
and obscene (in the true and natural sense of those
words); but when we know that the word “ob-
scene” (as the word “blasphemous”) is often
applied by. the highest and properest and puri-
tauicalest of our constituted authorities and self-
appointed censors with the view of persecuting
the advocates of theories antagonistic to vested
interests and crystallised dogmatisms, we prefer
to think for ourselves and to refrain from joining
with a crowd, though every unit of it be a right
reverend or a right worshipful, to condemn those
whose guilt is not proven in clear and unimpeach-
able fashion. The truth is that thousands of
‘clear-minded, sound-hearted” men and women
still regard the prosecution for obscenity of the
authors of the work in question as having been a
vile and disgraceful persecution on the part of a
clique of bigots.
Thus a recent Victorian telegram:—“A
well-kuown legal manager on Sandhurst named
Fletcher has systematically swindled some dozen
companies which ho managed. Yet his accounts
wei’o regularly audited.” Wo simply take this
item as a text for a brief sermon. “Yet his ac-
counts were regularly audited.” Quite so: and we
dare say each of the companies he managed— to
victimise—had an influential directorate, fact is,
directoral duties are more often shirked than per-
formed ; and, when performed, performed per-
functorily. There are men in Victoria, as in
N.S.W., who are on half a dozen boards—some of
them men with business of their own to attend to.
How can they possibly give the requisite attention
to every company on whoso board they ligure, and
from whose tunds they draw emoluments ? “ One
great pull (says a London review) directorships
have over so many other meaos of livelihood now-
a-days is that they involve no examinations, either
physical or intellectual. But we fancy that if
daily committees were attended by directors, and
if ollicials of companies were kept constantly on
the alert by the presence of one or more of the
board, who entered into all the details of its busi-
ness, fraud and peculations would be far more
rare and difficult than at present they are.” Our
notion is that the Legislature should do a little
bill, making directors a good deal more responsible
than they are now. More responsibility would in-
duce more attention.
The other day a worthy magistrate in the
old country set it forth, as his opinion, that all
usurers ought to be “ pole-axed.” The man who,
in his official capacity, and when presiding over
the deliberations of a court occupied in the hear-
ing of a case in which a Shylock sought his pound
of llesh, could so wholesomely give tongue to such
a noble sentiment, should be immortalised. For
our part, we venerate this magistrate. He is of a
large grasp of intellect. He is capable of arriving
at a truth which his fellow Solons either shirk
or are iucapable of realising. His graphic mode
of expressing his thought was admirable. Pole-
axed! Hal—that is a good word; conveying to the
imagination a most delectable picture. Pole-axed 1
That's the way they convert bullock into beef, and
so would this goodly officer make carrion of the
the usurer. Admirable idea! Noble conception!
Imagine the Levis, and Isaacs, and Benjamins,
and the rest of the great army of blood-suckers—
imagine, we say, these leeches being yarded up
and “pithed,” as they pith cattle at the slaughter-
yards. Our soul tingles as the notion is realized
by our perception. And oh I—fancy the shades of
the poor devils who have been done to death by
the harpies; fancy how they would gather around
in ecstacy, as the money-lenders were pole-axed.
Marcus Clarke would seat his impalpability, poor
fellow, on the rails, and kick up his ghostly heels
when Waxman’s turn came around. We are inti-
mately acquainted with some people who would
pay a premium for the privilege of acting as exe-
cutioner. Aheml
Fow matters are more pathetic in their
inliuence upon the observer than the sincere re-
pentance of the sinner, and his new-born zeal in
the cause of virtue and godliness. A remarkable
illustration of the effect of being born again has
of late been given to the Melbourne public by the
Melbourne Herald. For many years the
Herald has been regarded as a free and easy
journal, of a Bohemian type. But, of late, all this
has been changed. The object of the men who
now run the paper is to purify society, expose
abuses, and generally uplift its readers from the
mire of moral apathy and indifference. To tbo
Herald the Victorian public owes the smash up
of sweep swindlers; to the Herald, people who
live in the suburbs of Melbourne may gratefully
trace the circumstance that the ladies of pleasure
hunted out of the city are now residing among
them; to the Herald Nathan, the furniture man,
owes his prosecution. He says that it a'l came
about because he refused to pay an exorbitant
price for his advertisement; but who would
dream of attributing motives, other than pure a n d
honourable, to such men as Winter, Halfey, Martin,
and so on! Preposterous. Yet there are certain
ill-conditioned people who, while moved by the
moral randan in which the Herald has lately en-
gaged, ask " Wtat about the Clipper and the
Democrat ?” —papers which were enjoyed by the
patrons of the brothel, and which pandered to the
grossest passions of human nature. The Clipper
and the Democrat were owned by a moral news-
paper proprietor, edited by a moral leader-
writer, and illustrated by a moral reporter.
They were about the hottest periodicals that
we have ever come across ; the more so that
their filth was daintily served up by the moral
leader-writer and his contributors. Of course, the
journals were cuppressed, and the atmosphere so
far purified; and they who were engaged in their
publication, and profited by their extensive circu-
lation (for, alas! people will pay for their dirt),
repented of their sins. Still there are, as we have
said, ill-conditioned people who, while perusing
the highly moral articles in the Herald, ask
“What about the Clipper and the Democrat ?’
For ourselves, we see no more pertinence in such
a question than in the voluntary statement by the
old lady in Dickens’ novel: “ There are milestones
on the Dover road.” Ahem!
The Loudon Jeweller.
London, September 1,1883.
“ The progress and success which it is possible
for a commercial enterprise to reach, is shown
very forcibly by a descriptive account which the
Amorican Waltham Watch Company are now
issuing to the English watch trade, and we under-
stand that any jewellers desirous of distributing
these leaflets in their neighbourhood with the
view of promoting business* can have a supply on
application to the oflices of the Company at
Holboru-circuB. The buildings at Waltham, it is
stated, cover an area of 48,374 feet, the frontage
on the street is 754 feet, length of main building
H4t> feet, aggregate length of benches 3’87 miles,
length of shafting 3’93 miles. These figures speak
eloquently of the present position of the enter-
prise, but the success and increasing sale of
the Waltham watch is very substantially proved
by the statement that it took 23 years to make
the first million watches, six years to make the
second million, and it is estimated that the third
million will be produced in about two years. It
would seem from this that every buyer of a
Waltham watch speaks well of it, and induces his
friends also to purchase, and they again do the
same, until the rate of increase becomes so for-
midable that it is difficult to comprehend what
will be the result a few years hence. But progress
like that shown in the leaflet referred to
proves not only the quality of the watch sold, but
also how well the Waltham Company must be
managed: for the best article will not force its
way in the world unless it is assisted by good
business capacity and generalship.
The Echo propounds the idea that the
Tngleside Powder Mills should not bo established
at Narrabeejn, “but upon some locality specially
set apart for factories of ali sorts near enough to
the city and yet apart from any spot of peculiar
beauty,” etc. etc. Has not the Echo brains enough
to perceive that no more unsuitable site could pos-
sibly bo fixed upon for a powder factory than one
in a locality where other factories and their costly
machinery were numerous ?
In England, the average life exceeds that
of France by eleven years, in spite of the climatic
advantages which the “Froggies” enjoy. By the
way, the temperance gushers don’t mention this
little circumstance in their addresses. They ought
to—for, if the average Englishman (as they assert)
takes ten years off his life by his intemperance,
and yet contrives to hold out for eleven years
longer than the abstemious Frenchman, it would
gratify the national pride of their hearers to think
what a lot John Bull must have in hand to start
with.
APPEARANCES ARE DECEITFUL.
I.
FIRST DOMAIN LOAFER (to second do.): “Got a soft thing.
Twig the old gent. No traps about. Sure to catch
here.”
The “Harmy” in Melbourne will require
to start a receiving-office for stolen prpperty if
soldiers ” are going to keep on “ recruiting ” at
the present ratio. They’re not satisfied with re-
penting of past sins, but now they’re repenting of
past robberies (which is of more piesent import-
ance) and wish to return their ill-got gains. Major
Barker announces that the party who robbed a
man of a considerable sum of money near the
Princess’s Theatre has admittad his guilt, and
‘upon suitable evidence of ownership being fur-
nished to the Salvation Army solicitor the proceeds
of the robbery will be returned to the owner.”
Now, all these disclosures speak wonderfully well
for the Harmy from one point of view and remark-
ably badly from another. As regards this par-
ticular sum of money, by the bye, a good many
fellows have applied for it on the off chance of
furnishing “suitable evidence,” but rone of them
have guessed the exact amount, as yet.
One of the chief advantages of belonging
to the Harmy is that one never wants for society—
the true “soldier” is never alone. Such, at any
rate, Is the testimony of Miss Minny Pabst, a
APPEARANCES ARE DECEITFUL,
II.
They caught something.
Hallelujah lass,’’ whose godly cognomen is
The Steam Roller.” Minnie is just now saving
souls down Sandhurst way, and last week she put
in an appearance (most of the “ lasses ” do, sooner
or later) at the Police Court, charging a youthful
Philistine with striking her a blow on the back of
the head, which “might have killed her If she
hadn't had the ‘Hallelujah’ bonnet on.” It was
on being questioned as to whether any one was
standing near at the time of the assault, that the
Steam Roller ” made a statement which proves
conclusively the social advantage incidental to her
profession. She said “There was only me, the
Lord, and the young man.” So the Bench, evi-
dently considering that a young lady rejoicing in
such a body-guard could scarcely need the vulgar
protection ot the law, dismissed the case.
The Ohinemetu Maoris are mad. There
was some mono y due to the tribe from the Govern-
ment on account of land sold. They sent to Tau-
ranga as their commissioners to receive the
balance a European who had acted for them
previously as counsel, a half-caste who had con-
ducted the case for them in the Land Court, and a
native. The Government duly paid the balance,
£lO5O, to the authorised commissioners, but nary
a cent, reached Ohinemetu, for the simple reason
that the European appropriated £4OO for services
rendered, the half-caste annexed £530 for ditto,
and the native cleared with the remaining £l5O.
This puts us in mind of the disposal of the moneys
forwarded to Constantinople some years ago as
England’s subscription to the Broussa Earthquake
Relief Fund. Of many hundreds of pounds col-
lected, only a score or so reached Broussa—only
just enough, in fact, to “ square ” tho local pasha
and prevent his “ splitting ” on the other diverters
of the fund from its original destination.
The Water Police in Melbourne have a
fresh line of duty marked out for them. In addi-
tion to keeping refractory seamen under control,
nosing out contraband goods, and other details of
duty, they have now—according to the Melbourne
evening papers—to keep a sharp look-out for “ sea
monsters.” All on account of a shark that has
been disporting itself between Sandridge and
Williamstown, and which, the veracious scribes
tell us, “ lies on its baok and displays a mouth big
enough to take in a small boat.” We fancy these
chromclers of passing events must be following
the example of the “ monster of the deep ” in the
matter of lying. They leave us in ignorance as to
the size ot the small boat, but that is purely a
matter of detail. But why should the Water
jLpl lc ® bo expected to look out for s°a monsters ?
The Cerberus has been refitted lately with new
boilers and things, and should be able to cope with
a shark. And then the reporters would have an
opportunity, perhaps, of describing the terrible
encounter between two sea monsters.
The Standard Barry is in agony over the
fact that Father Curran, of Dubbo, gave a state
school scholar a taste of his holy whip for waggishly
hailing him with “ Halloa ! old curran’ pudding I >’
Out of this little pious tragedy the Barry organ
raises quite a heap of direful political ghosts, and
demands in the deepest Barry-tono, that the
priest be brought to his knees.” The holy man
who couldn’t swallow peaceably a little Curran’
jam, and the bigot who raises a howl over the
affair, are both pretty well worthy of the same cap
and bells.—
“ What! crack vile jokes upon my name ! ” cries
Curran,
On all such impious brats I cry “ A murrain I ”
Just taste my lash, I'll teach ye not to sneer
On God’s anointed, while I hold sway here.”
Then Barry roars, “Oh, by King Billy’s beard,
Our Orange youth by no priest shall be ‘skeer’d ; ’
You just to Curran jelly will 1 squeeze,
And, d la llavid, bring you to your knees! ”
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as thin
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for “ Arnold's’
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*


SCOTCH WHISKEY!
**“ THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
HivUa.tu.red.
quality unsurpassed.
d aly brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
Sorters of Irish and scotch whiskies
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
George Street, Sidney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
U UiNBUIiI'AbaJKJJ.
In bond f or Expert at the Distillery,
laa not’ >52? consumers may, therefore, rely that it
} ? hen hands °f “Whiskey Doctors.”
to £ itj Bee tbat y° u Sret it, look for the
ara j. m diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &0.
Repairs by London workmen.
tW C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
J LAWLER, 608 George-street, Bedding Manu-
• facturer, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed-
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair,
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. Established 1860.
Peapes & Shaw’s
* STANDARD" CLOTHING.
have now open, for the SUMMER. SEASON, THE MOST COMPREHENSIVE ASSORTMENT OF
GENTLEMEN’S READY-MADE CLOTHING to be found in any house in the city.
Iffes* SHAW’S
4J nDARD clothing
BEST value
SYDNEY.
“STANDARD” TWEED SUITS,” 325. 6d., 355., 425., 455., 505., 555.
BLUE SERGE SUITS, 35and 425.
TWEED SAC COATS, 6s. 6d. each, suitable for garden or office.
'IWEED SAC COATS, 15s. 6d. and 21s.
BLUE SERGE SAC COATS. 18s. 6d„ 21s.
TWEED TROUSERS, Its. 6d., 13s. 6d., 16s. 6d.
TROUSERS and VESTS, 255. and 30s.
LtGHT SUMMER DUST COATS, THIRTY SHILLINGS.
“§Pv£rT WER D OVERCOATS, 425., 505., 555.
PPPAL” COLOURED HOLLAND SAC COATS, 4s. 6d. EACH.
y S HATS, all new summer shapes.
MAN-O’-WAR SUITS, guernsey and
■ELtcomplete.
macintosh cl oth i n g.-ah
BOArpYPtions made to our special order.
JUT? 0, PICKETING, and LAWN-TENNIS
SACS, for cricketing or boat-
NEL TROUSERS, 13s 6d. per pair.
WHITE and COLOURED LINEN DUCK VESTS,
9s. 6d. e'ach ; 3 for 275.
WHITE and COLOURED DUCK COATS, military
or roll collars, 6s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d, Us. 6d.,
18s. 6d., 21s.
DUCK TROUSERS, 12s. 6d. per pair.
CHINA SILK SAC and DUST COATS, 15s. 6d.,
18s. 6d., 2ls.
BLACK A LPACA COATS, 10s. 6d„ 13s. 6d., 15s. Cd.
BLACK CASHMERE and RUSSELL CORD
COATS, 18s. 6d., 21s.
PEAPES and SHAW, George-streec.
DEPARTMENT is Stocked with all the LEADING NOVELTIES for the Summer
son.
COTTON LISLE THREAD and SUMMER MERINO HALF-HOSE, in plain Colours or fancy
from 12s. per dozen.
SHIRTS, India Gauze, Gosamer, Summer Merino (coloured and white), Balbriggan,
"" , with Pants to match.
. or 8.8., 305., 405., 50s. half-dozen.
VtU’MNTED REGATTA and OXFORD SHIRT, collars attached, 305., 405., 435. the half-dozen.
v N COLLARS.—The Beresford, Seymour, Army and Navy, General, Admiral, with patent
tor holding scarf in position.
. A,f all the Newest Shapes, Colourings, and Designs.—The Masher, Cyprus, Rosebery, Marquis,
? our -in-Hand.
8 > 10,12,14,16 ribs, Natural Sticks, Nickel Fittings, from 10s. 6d. to 3os.
ovhfi \rtwX TITANIA UMBRELLA, folds neater and closer than any umbrella, 1 guinea each.
COMBINATION BRACE and DRAWERS SUSPENDERS.
HANDKERCHIEFS, 215., 305., 40s. the dozen.
PEAPES & SHAW, George-street.
TXT”'©lff
ion s
lad from a ll Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
HEW PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
Open.
tocCLEERY’S HOTEL,
Corner of KING- and CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
R„ McCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
HIV ATE BAR UP-STAIRS.
we
sood\
:
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
consume, in manufacture, nearly three-
fourths of the whole of the leaf imported
into N.S. Wales, therefore their Twist and
Nw ccos stand FIRST in the estimation of judges of Tobacco.
c »°o<*le, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thick twist), Cut R.C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture.
'•A.RETTES.— CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold a high position,
fa. Importers of Pipes Oirars, and all Tobacconists’ Sundries.
** “CONQUEROR” TOBACCO WORKS, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
C. B. HODINI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading- Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. Ali work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship. #
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne ; also Angelo Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
SOHO BAZAAR,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior assort
ment of
Brie a Brae, Articles of Vertii,
Terra Cotta, China-ware, Sec.,
Tricycles, Trench and German
Model Bolls, Count Harrach’s
Bohemian Vases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Pigures,
and all varieties of
FANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
Soh.o j3suza,£ur
352 George Street
JOHN G. HARBOROW,
470 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Fruit Markets,
BOOHS IMPORTER
GLOVES
HOSIERY
SUNSHADES
LACES
LADIES’ BOOTS & SHOES
HAND BAGS
FANS
PURSES
and all varieties of FANCY GOODS.
470 George-street.
P. R. HOLDSWORTH,
AUCTIONEEK, VALUATOR,
House, Land & Estate Agent
63 ROYAL ARCADE PITT STREET.
PURE GOUDBTRY MILK.
|J|HE MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being:
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Butter.
This is either manufactured at their own depSt
or obtained from the best butter-makex-s in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
21 HARBOUR STREET.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
..•V,
Ml
■m'
,v*
«
Pm
if to
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by ©very maker
of renown, from
£36 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED by ACT OB’ PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £BOO,OOO
Reserve Pund £133,500
Directors i
The Hon. Sir John H ay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. RoHeston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq
Manager:
P. A. A. Wilaon.
Secretary :
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wat.es :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, Nyngran, and Bourke.
London Branch : 15S Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G
Goo. P. Slade, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander,
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
hank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
5^
w.
KERR,
Watchmaker
Jeweller,
and
Silversmith.
JJAS JUST OPENED HIS NEW PREMISES
544 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the TOWN HALL*
With a magnificent stock of Diamond, Roman,
and Vienna Jewellery,
GOLD AND SILVER WATCHES &,CLOCKS,
Football, Cricketing, and Trophy Speciality.
Note the Address-
er - 644 GEORGE STREET.
GUNBLER, THE
CATERER*’
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER’S”
GUNSLER THE
CATERER’S ”
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER” '
GUNSLER THE
CATERER ”
GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
Has decided to open in Syd-
ney, but premises such as ho
desires are not now available.
He has therefore opened
temporarily at the above
address.
Name is a household word,
and his desire is to retain the
confidence of his customers,
who may rest assured that
the care and attention which
has made “Gunsler the
Caterer,” a household word
in the neighbouring: colony
will be devoted to any and
every undertaking he may
enter into.
Staff of Cooks and Pastry-
cooks is the most complete of
its character in the colonies,
and their assistance will
enable the proprietor to
supply Shortbread, Jellies,
and every delicacy in such
style and at such modetate
prices as has never been at-
tempted in this city.
Has a practical knowledge of
every branch of his business,
and consequently can gua-
rantee to every customer
thorough satisfaction, or at
any rate he will uo his best
to deserve it.
Has much pleasure in offer-
ing to the public, for the
Christmas and New Year
Holidays, a few specialities,
and is coniident they will
meet with universal approval
Also manufactures every
class of goods incidental to
the Catering business.
Make a special effort for the
supply of the finest brands
of French and English Con-
fectionery, for which he is
sole Agent in Australia.
Was the Special Caterer to
Sir George Ferguson Bowen,
to the Marquis of Normanby,
and V.R. Club.
Is the leading Australian
Caterer.
Has the most complete staff
of thoroughly trained hands.
Is prepared to undertake
Catering Contracts to any
magnitude.
tar- THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT,
on fixed deposits for I2months; El VE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods : FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREIIAM, Manager.
ERVOUS DEBILITY.
A CURE GUARANTEED.
>4ERV
BRALOi
TREATMENT
kR. E. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREAT-
MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness, con-
vulsions, fits, nervous neuralgia, headache, nervous
prostration caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco
wakefulness, mental depression, softening of the
brain resulting in insanity and leading to misery
decay, and death; premature old age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain or over-indulgence.
Each box contains one month’s treatment, ss.
box, or six boxes for 255.; sent by mail prepaid on
receipt of price. We guarantee six boxes to cure
any case. With each order received for six boxes,
accompanied with 265., the purchaser will reeeive
the nanufacturer’s written guarantee to refund
the money if the treatment does pot effect a eure
Guarantees issued by all chemists and druggists
Australia,


-AJfelaajaist an GtolcL CT '■
(REGISTERED.)
s 2
‘v
3os.
Speeial Novelties, &e. Country Orders punctually attended^
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OYER PALING’S),
I® OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. B, All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.B.—BOYD (OYER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
L. E. HENDERSON, Manager.
-a. a-xe^.^T3D
9
J.
THE PEOPLE’S CLOTHIER,
Is OPENING un every day, a Large Stock of Choice and 'Fashionable MEN ®*
TROUSERS ancl VES'LS, slfc FROCK, and PAGET COATS. HAKD and i 8
WHITE and REGATTA SHIRTS, COLLARS, TIES, and HOSIERY. Lveiy
plain figures, and at VERY LOW PRICES. sbOP 3 '
82T Both shops are thorougly chock full. Come early and inspect the Stoc g 0 fro
I keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING MEN’S CLOTHING in SYDNEY tc,^,
yin-Vif chmi« when rermirine - CLOTHING OF EVERY U >-
J. J. Ryan, 760 George Street, Haynna
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, near Market Street
r *
KABXES A BID COMPANY,
TATTERS ALL’S HORSE BAZAAR
and
SALE YARDS,
CORNER of CASTLEREAGH and HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sales Daily, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Livery; excellent accommodation
and fodder.
All kinds of Vehicles and Horses on Hire, day
or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
carriages.
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
seoarate.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 315.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TORACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The HON RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
HEYDE, TODBSAN & GO.,
YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
Champagne
Heidsieck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OP ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsieck & Co., Reims.
SEARL & SOMS,
NURSERYMEN, SEEDSMEN, ROUQUETISTS
And Artistic Floral Dinner-table Decorators,
3 and 5 GEORG E-STREET MARKETS, SYDNEY;
Also,
BLAIR ATHOL NURSERY PETERSHAM.
jy pelargoniums now in full .oom. nspeetion
invited.
AIR-TIGHT SHOW CASE COMPY.,
6T GEORGE STREET WEI IT.
SHOP,
OFFICE,
AND
Hotel-bar
FITTERS.
r •
m
Air-tight
SHOW
CASES
AT
LONDON
PRICES.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
■pp
UMBRELLAS
re-cqve RIB-
STUDY ECONOMY
and
H ar e y our Umbr e Ila Fram os
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
511 Geortre Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sta.
Parasols made to match cos-
tume- 1 - an)
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
>
m
\y-
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MR. F. WARE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney.
ZST Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughiogr Gas,
yEther Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform.
HIGGm’S
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY ami TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCHWOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
gszag
m
AND
ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
ANO
vncm
BULL-DOG ALE.—-IT is not the clearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this brand first in publio
estimation. Common bitter crude beers are
made very fine, but no other brand has the
same mellow vinous character, the fullness on
the palate, and the great !• eeping qualities of the
BULL-DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cau-
tioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred
to as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTELL
& CO., Agent 3. Newcastle Agents: WOOD
BROTHERS & CO.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and General Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colohial Produce.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER Ol' PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customers and the
public generally that he has a large assortment of
Drawing, Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
W. M. WALLA^
Importer of every description
Literature, Law, Merectn t
Fancy Stationery-
English Papers and Magazine 9 J
every Mall* g-jD?
ROYAL ARCADE. 498 GEORG® 8
(LIMITED).
GENERAL CARR 1 *
///
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom
and Commission efl S
HEAD OFFICE :
241 Pitt Street, Sy l
so*^
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERN®*® 1 *
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFF*®® 8 ’
W CJ.W'*
SOUTHERN DISTRICT, JM*
Goulburn
Yass
Downing
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Wapf?.a
Hanging tto
Culcairn
Cowatoee
Narandera
ss®*>.
Hay
Web
estern District
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condol)li°
Nyma&e®
Coonambl 0
Bourke
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
Walgett
Brewarrjna
Ttimv r ° rtD
Uralla
QUEENSLAND BRANC fI ®
SOUTHERN AND SOUTH-WES*®*
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Yeulba
Cambooy 8
Central Line
Rockhampton
Bogantungan
Emerald
Capella
Comet
Northern JU** 0
jvenswoo'’
Townsville
Charters Towers
Agents In Victoria » n<i ®° ut
WM, M CULLOCK & C ° - ’
1 Agencies in all parts
oftne
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
XMXJLJBI ALL/ YV JUA.IN JJo 0£ JL/iil VV 10,
Manufacturer of all kinds of Crated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Wig or** 9 9
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. .
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Gold Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs, Bn e
