

CSHXSXSm*£A.S. ±033. -STEVIES, ±SS4=_
Hu«sms,
AT ,A
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS
DURING THIS MONTH, WE ARE MAKING OUR SPECIAL SHOW OF
CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR’S GOODS.
p
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS
PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET, ONLY.
In view of tlie present Summer Season, and the approaching Christmas Holidays, we have made unexampled preparations to moot
the requirements of. our numerous patrons. before was our Mammoth Establishment so replete with New and Eashionable
Goods for personal use, wear, orladornment, as at the present time. During the last six weeks we haye received and opened
2000 CASES OF
Drapery, Furniture, Fancy Goods and Household Requisites,
and we claim to be the only UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS in the Southern Hemisphere.
The Palace Emporium is one of the Sights of Sydney, and visitors should not omit to take a walk through our vast Establishment.
WE HAVE ONLY ONE ADDRESS-
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket, Sydney.
The Bulletin
NEW SHERIES
j'


I •>
■
o:
1 Wales.
o
V
EXTENSIVE SHIPMENTS OF SUMMER GOODS.
JOHN HtTNTER lias much pleasure iu informing his numerous patrons that, having received (direct from the manufacturers
of England and the Continent of Europe) several very large shipments of superior-made Boots and Shoes, embracing the latest
novelties for Ladies’, Gent.’s, and Children’s wear, will sell them at prices never before heard of in New South" Wales. The enormous
increase of trade, consequent upon the Low Prices charged for first-class goods, has necessitated an additional staff of assistants
and those who favour him with their custom will be sure of receiving thorough satisfaction.
Orders from the country, accompanied by a P. 0.0, or stamps, receive prompt attention.
hf City Boot Palace is crowded from morning until night, proving beyond dispute its increasing popularity.
S, BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agencies *
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OE CANTON-Head Office : HONGKONG
J. C. Gostling and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal, and Vertical Engines,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c., &e.
Crossley Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, M'Lachlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c., &c.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Eels and Company, of Patras anu Corfu—Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c.
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c.
De Wendel aijd Company, Hayange, France—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Steel Fencing Wire, &c.
Thos. Perry and Son, Biiston—Fire-resisting Safes. Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh—A ie.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse. Thos. N. ” ' "
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablis, Sauternes
Hunt—Port Wine.
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
New South Wales.— Scott and Mullaly, T. Allsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.,
Jlndera Mill Co.
Victoria.— James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia.— W. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hineks.
INDENTS executed, on the most favourable tehms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
NIEINRATIi AND CO.,
96 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
San Francisco Palace of Art,
The patrons of the SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART, so well known throughout
the Australian colonies, are informed that, in addition to the same high-class portrait
work for which it has been noted,
Copies and Enlargements to Life Size, by new and improved pro-
cesses, from any photograph or negative, are now taken.
Opals, Autotype, Transfer, or Albuminized Paper, in Crayon or Coloured.
The same staff of Artists, who have rendered the work of this establishment famous,
are employed, and all negatives (15,000 in number) taken during the past four years, carefully
preserved, from which copies may be had on application by sending name and address.
W. T. BENNETT, Manager.
E®. R. LARKIN,
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed
extensive additions to his
Wholesale and Retail Bottle Department
Which is now replete with a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines Ld Spirits, personally!
selected by the proprietor during his recent visit to Europe. He can therefore confidently fecinnmeud
the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, as per the following list, hopes to merit asi of their
patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
PALE BRAND Y. Per Bottle.
8 (J
Gilbey’s very old Brandy, gold top .. .. 6 0
Hennessy’s v.O. ((very old) bottled by P. R. L. 6 0
Hennessy’s 3 Star (***) 6 6
Dubois and Co.’s Old *** Palo .. .. g <;
Fine old Pale, bottled by P. R. L. .. 5 (j
Hennessy’s Battle Axe (*) g 0
Martell’s Blue Label (*) 5 0
3s 3d and 2 0
Half-tlasks 10
Hennessy’s Draught Pale Brandy, per Impe-
rial quart .. 6s and 5 0
DARK BRANDY.
Hennessy’s 3 Star (***) 6 6
Martell’s Very Old *** 6 6
Marteil’s Old .. .... .. 5s and 4 0
Martell’s Dark, per Imperial quart .. ..50
Flasks 2s 6d and 2 3
LOWNDE’S W. I. RUM.
DARK.
Quality—Good 2 0
Better 2 6
Still Better 3 0
QuaUty—No. 1, per Imperial quart 6s and 5 0
No. "
Flasks
No. 3,
No. 4,
JAMAICA RUM.
PALE.
3s and
Is 9d and
Very Finest
Red Heart ’ ”
Fine Jamaica, per Imperial quart
Jamaica Rum, in Flasks
2s 6d and
BEERS (BRITISH).
Best Brands of Ales and Porters always on hand.
ALBITRY (N.S.W.) WINES.
Burgundy
Ettamogah, red ..
~ Muscat 1!
Fallon’s Shiraz
quarts 2 6
pints
POIiT WINE.
40-year old, Gilbey’s « 6
Celebrated Four Diamond ’ 1". 4 0
Duality—No. 1 (very superior old) " ” 6 0
No. grape .. .. " ' 5 0
No. **** ' '' 0
No.*** ”
No. **
No. *
Draught Port Wine, per Imperial quart -j
SHERRY.
40-year old, Gilbey’s
Very Finest Amontillado (very dry) ... ."
Fine Amontillado ... . '
Celebrated Four Diamond Sherry ’
Common Sherry
Draught Sherry Wine, per Imperial quart |
BRITISH WINES.
James Heddle’s Ginger Wine
Orange Wine
Jameson’s ***
IRISH WHISKY.
0 6
6 6
6 0
4 0
2 0
2 6
Old Dublin Whisky (***) bottled by Burke
Kinahan s unrivalled L L ... *
Thorne’s Old Irish Whisky ...
Jameson’s s "L, „
Dunville’s... ... Z 8s >< 6dand
Jhnmson’B P er Imperial quart" ...
Flasks ... ’ .” ... 3s 6d and
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Walker’s 7-year old, in bulk
Thistle Blend ...
Royal Blend "kg
Lome Highland ... 48 ana
Kilmarnock
Glenlivet o"~ A ’q
Whisky> per imperial quart
’•* •*• 2s 0d and
2 3
GIN.
< 7 d J? r r- yc^low Seal Geneva 4 0
ColebratedKey Brand, very large size, each
1 «
Charge,
£3, the followiD *
3 Quarts PALE BRANDY, 5 mMA RUM, 1 §uart SUPERIOR SHERRYWI^
Kindly Note the Address—
P. R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Merchant S. Importer,
George and Gipps Sts., Haymarket, Sydney.


THE BULLETIN
Vol. I.—No.34—New Series
SATURDAY, JANUARY 5, 1884.
Price—6d.
THE CIRCULATION OF “THE BULLETIN"
IS NOW MORE THAN DOUBLE THAT OF
ANY OTHER WEEKLY NEWSPAPER IN
N.S.W.—THAT OF ONE VERY OLD ESTAB-
LISHED PAPER, WHICH EXCEEDS “ THE
BULLETINS ” BY ABOUT ONE-FIFTH
ALONE EXCEPTED. THE CIRCULATION
OF “THE BULLETIN” IS THE SECOND
GREATEST AMONG THE WEEKLIES OF
A USTRALASIA.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 5, 1884.
To Lord Rosebery.
maintain here the rank and condition to
which they were born in the old country—a
very small band—and persons who have
attained a local status, due to official posi-
tion, or success in public life, or in money-
making. In addition, a small, but not in
this case altogether insignificant, class may
benotioed—the men who make it the business
of their lives to dangle after persons of pro-
minence, local or imported; men who are
nothing themselves, yet who go everywhere;
are at every Ministerial picnic, at every
banquet, on every complimentary commit-
tee, and who figure magnificently at land-
sale luncheons.
t * •
It is scarcely possible that Lord Rosebery
can have learned to distinguish ami classify
the different sorts of men who have been
Tiib visit of the Earl of Rosebery to New
South Wales has been made an event of, and
considerable stress has been, in various
quarters, both public and private, laid upon
the importance of the impressions which
that nobleman shall carry back to the
mother country. We have till now pre-
served an attitude of observation, as it is
not our humour to jump at the conclusion
that because a man has a title and a fortune
his opinion must necessarily be worth
troubling about. There is just about the
same proportion of confounded fools among
peers os among plebeians, and it might have
happened that Lord Rosebery was one of
the fools. Even the fact that he had for a
short time held a minor office in Mr.
Gladstone’s administration was not con-
clusive to the contrary. Men are chosen
for office for one of two reasons—because
they have inherited influence by the acci-
dent of birth, or because they have
acquired it by their talents. Lord Rose-
bery—an Earl—might be a Minister, and
yet a man of small personal ability. Of Mr.
Rosebery, plebeian and minister, distin-
guished talent might be expected. But
observation of the deportment and utter-
ances of Lord Rosebery since he has been
amongst us has established a conviction
that he possesses abilities equal to his recent
political position. He has sustained the
somewhat trying ordeal of sycophantic
glorification with a bland composure and
dexterous aplomb which prove him capable
of dealing with men ; and his speeches have
been characterised by a discretion and saga-
city that justify the importance which has
been, more from a servile instinct than from
knowledge of his actual qualities, attached
to his visit and to his impressions. A gushing
politician assured us, the other day, that
Lord Rosebery had a great deal to do with
the recent success of our three million loan.
We are not disposed to coincide with this
enthusiastic attribution of providential po-
tency to the Earl. Had we lived in the time
of the Napoleonic scare, we think we should
not have been among those who attributed
to “Bony” every evil which afflicted the
age, from the rising of four-pound loaves
and LuDDites, to the irruption of large
blue flies into butchers’ shops. And, at the
present time, we are not disposed to attri-
bute to the talents and presence of Lord
Rosebery the floating of the loan, the pink-
ness of the sunset skies, or the increased
production of wool. But we do, now that
we have got the measure of the man, agree
that the opinions which he, as one born to
rank and affluence, and elevated to some
political influence, may form here, and
express on his return to England, may have
considerable influence, for good or evil, upon
our affairs, political and financial.
• # <•
Consequently, we regard it as worth while
to make a few remarks for his Lordship’s
special information, and as a corrective to a
good deal of flummery which has been
poured into his ears. The Earl will
readily understand that he has come into
close contact chiefly with two sorts of colo-
nists: gentlemen who have been able to
DAVID SYME, ESQ., PROPRIETOR OF THE AGE, LEADER, &C.
hovering round him. And if the impressions
he will carry away are to be these which he
has framed from reflection upon the opinions
pressed upon him, these impressions are
likely to be as remarkable for their variety
as for their unsoundness. It has been re-
marked of the aborigines of this continent
that they have an extraordinary aptitude
for adjusting the information they give so
as to suit what they conceive will be agree-
able to their questioner. Something of the
same sort attaches to the nature of our
tuft-hunters and toadies. They are greatly
given to embody in their remarks, when
sunning themselves in the gratifying pre-
sence of a distinguished visitor, and glowing
with a derived glory, a preternatural gen-
tility, and an extraordinary fervour of at-
tachment to the old country and to—well>
to anything else likely to be approved by
His Lordship. And, unluckily, this trait is
not entirely confined to the tribe of lick-
spittles and parvenu gentilities. It affects
in a modified degree much superior men.
The proportion of persons likely to have
direct dealings with a nobleman on a visit,
who have from their earliest years, as a
matter of right and of course, been accus-
tomed to rub shoulders with English gentle-
men on terms of easy equality, is not very
large; and of those who have been hail-
fellow-well-met with Peers, the number is
infinitesimally small. There is consequently
a wide-spread, natural, and distinctly proper
desire, even on the part of men of inde-
pendent temper and self-respecting dignity,
to make things pleasant nnq conversation
smooth for a visitor of high rank. Hence
we think that Lord Rosebery is in some
danger of carrying away somewhat lop-sided
ideas about colonial affairs and colonists
dispositions.
* • *
We judge it unlikely, for example, that
anyone has informed him that in the esti-
mation of a considerable proportion of the
colonists, Her Majesty the Queen has been
grossly ill-advised as to the distribution of
the distinctions which it has been the Im-
perial policy to distribute among prominent
public men. “ A considerable proportion of
the colonists” is a vague term. Its vague-
ness insures its correctness. Whether the
proportion constitutes a majority or not, it
is impossible to say with certainty. But the
fact is unchallengeable. It is the view of a
multitude of persons that, iu the first place,
the institution of a special Order of St.
Michael and St. George for the behoof of
colonists is regarded less as an instance of
Royal consideration and favour than as an
affront, signifying that pre-existing Orders
would be disgraced or depreciated by ad-
mitting to them persons so vulgar and in-
considerable as mere oolonials. It is not
probable that Lord Rosebery has been
informed that the dispositions of colonists,
with respeot to this question of distinctions,
are various but definable; that there are
people who are attached to aristocratic
institutions, as to orthodoxy in other matters,
by the force of training and habit, indura-
ted into a sentimental affection; that
there are among these some who dis-
criminate sufficiently to resent the ex-
press reservation from colonial worthies,
of all the historical orders and distinc-
tions, and the special provision of
a new, shabby, and gimcrack order into
which any sort of man may be pitchforked,
that there are others so docile that even a
buffet from a royal hand would delight
them, and who would rather be used
as a royal spittoon than not regally noticed
at all; that, on the other hand, there are
among the colonists people who have
learned to appreciate the civil and social
equality'.which was so long permitted to
prevail here; and who view with repug-
nance any design to transplant hither class
distinctions, and with pleasure theludiorous
miscarriage which has attended such at-
tempts thus far.
* * *
Itfis scaroely likely that anyone has so
violated the supposed convenances as to
apprise the ex-member of Her Majesty’s
Government of the particulars in which the
allotment of honours has nullified the
intention of the distribution. No one,
perhaps, has told him that the most distin-
guished Order of St. Michael and St.
George is, in New South Wales at least, a
thing for men to gibe at, in oonsequence of
pome astounding blunders and many in-
stances of supercilious carelessness in the
distribution of its grades. It may
almost be said that the mischief—or
benefit—thus wrought is irreparable,
and that in future no colonist who
respects himself or values the regard of his
fellow-colonists will consent to be saddled
with the indignity of affiliation .with a dis-
graced and depreciated Order. Had Her
Majesty been advised to select for marks of
distinction our noblest men, democratic
sentiments in these colonies would have re-
ceived a rude shock. Had her Ministers
submitted to her even the names of men
who—whatever their merits and character-
had been elevated to frequent distinction
by the colonists themselves, there would
have been little opportunity for scoffing.
The colonists would then have felt that the
responsibility was their own. But when,
by incomprehensible means, individuals
held not only in light regard, but in abso-
lute contempt and derision, were singled
out for distinction, the honour failed to
elevate the individual, while the individual
abased the entire Order, and—by a natural
connection —all Orders.
• • •
We don’t suppose anybody has whispered
this to Lord Rosebery, but it is useful in-
formation for him. And it will be advan-
tageous for him, also, to oonvey to his late
colleagues, in addition to the advice that
things have been so bungled in this respect
that no one now is bidding for Companion-
ships and Knighthoods except persons who
are devoid of self-respect,—and therefore
the very men to still further depre-
date the unlucky Order—the know-
ledge that it will not be wise to con-
tinue to evince, with respect to the selec-
tion of Governors for these colonies, the
same contemptuous indifferenoe which has


The Bates op Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 345.: half-year, 13s. 6d.:
quarter, 6s. 6d.—ln advance.
The Advertising Had t>;> are 6g. per Inch •
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 tonsecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can lit made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, avd P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
Rumoured that Monsignor Patterson
auxiliary Bishop to the Cardinal Archbishop of
Westminster is be the late Dr. Vaughan's
successor. Patterson is an Oxonian 'vert.
The number of French Cardinals and of
British (English and Irish) are now equal—an
unprecedented iact in the annals of the Panacv
The French Cardinals are: Guibert, Dcsprez"
Caverot, Lavigerie, and De Falloux. The British
Cardinals are: Manning, M'Cabe, bowman,
M Closkey, and Howard (without a diocese).
Coughs and Colds.
THE Beat Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
PU RE RUM,
Extra Strong 1 ,
6S. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
G. W. ROBERTS’
Single Settle Department,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
, C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of at.t. Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLINELISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street , Sydney.
occasionally been evinced during the past
few years. Australian colonists are pretty
strongly tinctured with democratic senti-
ments—even outside Viotoria, that commu-
nity of downright radicals; and when they
see, in two important instances, evidence
that an idea is acted upon by Her Majesty’s
advisers that anything is good enough for
Australians, resentment will take root in
many minds, and find an outlet at some
critical moment when a generally favour-
able disposition is requisite and desirable to
soften some sharp conflict of interests be-
tween the colonies and the mother country.
It will be useful, therefore, that Lord Rose-
iieby should carry baok the information
that there exists considerable discontent
respecting the quality of some of the men
who have been sent out to represent Her
Majesty, as Governors of Australian colonies.
The colonists are neither fools nor children-
They are perfectly competent to take the
measure of any man sent out to them as
Governor —have a keen appreciation of
an able man, and an equally lively per-
ception of a feeble one. The latter
feeling is not usually so definitely and
freely expressed as the former. Panegyrio
of an able Governor is a form of expression
which may be advantageously and unre-
servedly vented,'while criticism of a feeble
or unsuitable man must always be tempered
by a variety of causes and considerations.
Adulation of any sort of man occupying a
position which gives him command of social
prestige, and influence in a variety of ways,
will always flow readily from a multitude of
mean mouths, whether the man be worthy
or not of praise. And a reluctance to hurt
the feelings of a possibly harmless and ami-
able individual will operate to restrain all
but very independent, very determined, or
very conscientious persons who feel that
they [have a duty in the matter. In New
South Wales the impress made within recent
times by one very able man upon public
affairs, and the impulse imparted by him to
neoessary progression when neglected by a
wrangling local Government, is too strongly
borne in mind by the colonists, and too
keenly appreciated, for weaker rule to pass
without criticism and reprobation. There
is work in Australia for the best and most
energetic men the mother country can spare;
an# nothing could more surely tend to lessen
the present appreciation of the value of the
Imperial connection than persistence in the
practice of making the position of Governor
in these colonies a provision for the needy
dependents of Her Majesty’s Ministers, or of
treating these posts as asylums for the ex-
hausted energies, and recruiting-grounds for
the empty purses, of used-up diplomats or
needy cadets of noble houses.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Clontarfists Supreme.
The impunity which followed the ravishers and
murdorers of Elizabeth Phillips has borne its
natural fruit with startling rapidity, and the
savages of Waterloo now contest the eminence of
brutalism with the savages of Woolloomooloo
Wo are no advocates for oapital punishments,’
which, as enforced, in many instances extinguish
lives that have unexhausted value in them. But
there are certainly some wretches that seem to be
—with all reverence for the creative Omniscience
be it said-unflt to live. There are, however, two
ways of looking at the case. Detection and punish-
ment being anything but certain, it is doubtful
whether casual examples, caught by hazard, would
really act as deterrent to future offences. Eliza-
beth Phillips lost her life in consequence of
rambling about the purlieus of the city after
nightfall, in an intoxicated condition. But other
women had similarly wandered, and no ill had
happened to them: and therefore the fale of
Phillips did not prevent Owen from courting a
like destruction. The bestial classes are, like
many others, outgrowing existing arrangements.
They commence to get ahead of the conventional
procedures of the police organization, and have
learned the truth that evidence respecting oertain
obscene offences is impossible of procurement,
provided all concerned unite in keeping their
mouths shut. In the case of Elizabeth Phil-
lips, the conspiracy to suppress all evidence has
thus far proved too line for the police; and the
time-words, dodges, and devices of detectives—a
body of men wto move just as much by rote as
any other—have been played out. Should a simi-
lar result follow the more recent case at AVaterloo
the situation will be grave, indeed. The
evil of it would be well out-compensated if the
escape of offenders acted as a restraint upon
women as to abuse of stimulants and heedlessness
of wanderings. But, unluckily, it seems almost
inevitable that triumphant barbarism, elated by
its repeated immunity, would try still more awful
exploits, and crown its iniquities by treating as
jt has treated outcasts some pure and respectable
girl, belated by the necessities of business or the
operation of chance. As regards the possibility of
obtaining evidence to convict, there would be no
difference. Dead girls tell no tales, any more than
dead hags. If over there was an incident which
demanded the most strenuous exertions of the
authorities, and an entire disregard of means or
expense, the present supplies one. Unless the
career of ruffianism bo absolutely quelled by an
example which will striko i error into the hGarts of
all ruffians, and blast their present idea of pro-
bahle immunity, by evidence that there is no bond
of scoundrelism so strong that the arm of the law
cannot shiver it, and no secrecy so strict that it
cannot be probed and laid bare, there will be but
two alternatives. iDecent women, and presently
decent men, will have to keep indoors after dark
or only move in partios; or vigilanoe committees
and lynch-law will have to take the regulation of
public order out of the impotent hands of regular
authority.
A Twopenny Hurricane.
It is inspiriting to observe that only proper occa-
sion is necessary to prove that the grand old
British spirit is not defunct. Itesidents of suburbs
along the railway line are up in arms with a manly
and vigorous insurrection against the plundering
proposals of a tyrannical Government. The noble
impatience of wrong, the keen appreciation of
constitutional rights, the self-sacrificing devotion
to an abstract principle which stirred our sires to
a determined resistance of ship-money in the time
of Charles 1., the resentment at extraordinary
imposts which armed the hand and steeled the
heart of Wat Tyler, are repeated by the stout
burgesses of Burwood and the heroic citize"s of
Ashfleld and Petersham. Led and inspired by such
doughty and desperate heroes ns Jimmy Inglis,
these worthy scions of a patriotic ancestry rise in
their might, and evince their grand determination
to do and dare to the bitter end in a momentous
question—of tuppence-ha'penny! They threaten
the Government of the country with their direst
displeasure, concert plans for overwhelming the
Minister with persistent deputations, and gene-
rally work themselves into a condition of magnifi-
cent indignation, which would be appalling to
tyrants, were the whole business not so very
like a panic created by tho popping of
a gingerbeer bottle. It is a notable fact that more
fuss has Deen made by suburban residents about
the additional charge of a fraction of one penny
sterling per day for their conveyance, than there
was when, a short time ago, the pretensions of the
Judges threatened to extinguish tho right Of
journalists to expose impostures and to warn the
public against rogues. The plain fact of this
season-ticket matter is that the charges have been
as compared with tho cost of necessaries of life in
this country, absurdly low and inadequate. When
the Eastern suburbs were in course of growth,
much of the land was c wned by speculators and
proprietors who worked tho oracle so that low
fares should be scheduled, and thus high values
obtained for lots of land. The rates should never
have been so low. They wero unfair to the rest of
the community—outside suburban residents. Tho
Minister and the Commissioner have done
what was right, tardily enough, and may stick to
their decision, assured that although there may
ensue a storm in a loyal Indian teapot, and in
other utensils, the people of the country generally
will hail the approach to fair charges, where
ridiculous partiality and actual jobbery has here-
tofore prevailed.
Two Reputations.
If Sir John Robertson knows, or fancies he
knows, anything avainst Captain Armstrong,
lately Resident Magistrate on Lord Howe’s
Island, he had best out with it like a man. He need
not be frightened to speak out the meaning of his
taunts. The privilege ho enjoys as a legislator
protects him in the one case as thoroughly as in the
other. Even that privilege, however, is impotent
to protect from contempt a man who persists in
stabbing tho reputation of another with taunts
and innuendoes. A s a legislative character-
assassin Mr. M'Elhone is much to be preferred to
Sir John Rohertson. The former, at any rate,
although he liko the latter skulks behind bales of
privilege, deals downright blows and shows his
weapon, and where he means his hits to fall.
Sir John, on the contrary, deals out sly
digs which he gives his victim no chance of parry-
ing. As regards Captain Armstrong’s conduct
when Resident Magistrate at Lord Howe’s Island,
there has been full and public inquiry, with the
effect that the Captain stands distinctly acquitted
of aught save such minor indiscretions in distri-
buting stimulants as the best intentioned and
most upright man in the worid might have fallen
into. Considering, in fact, how imperfect is the
performance of appointed duties by every man
tho clean record which tho quite malignant
investigation into Captain Armstrong’s tenure
of practically irresponsible power on the i land
brought to light is quite romarkablo. Foiled,
apparently, by this result, Sir John Robert-
son hints that Captain Armstrong was a
good riddance to the Navy. The Captain
replies by publishing credentials of which
any man might be proud, apparently cover-
ing every day of his career in the
service. What has Sir John now to say?
He has done his best to mortally wound Cap-
tain Armstrong’s character. It is incumbent
upon him now to show that Captain Armstrong’s
testimonials do not avail. Failing this, Sir John
himself stands liable to bo challenged as having
struck a foul blow as well as a cowardly one. Let
him clear himself. Captain Armstrong is very
little to the people of New South Wales generally,
albeit the character of an apparently gallant
officer and straightforward man is a precious
thing anywhere. But Sir John’s own reputation
is of much concern to our peopie. As matters
stand, he has so managed his attacks upon the
Captain that, rightly or wrongly, it is his own
reputation as that of an honourable and manly
individual, which is at present in the worst plight.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[.Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“J.C.F a” (Melbourne): You ask us
this:—" What place is Miss Maggie Moore a native
of? A. bets B. that she is a native of Hobart
Town, Tasmania. B. bets that she is a native of
Dublin, Ireland.” Upon such a topics discretion is
the better part of askinir. When Miss Maggie
Moore is in Australia, she was born in Williams-
town; when in America, she was “raised in
Boston.” Hem! “S.J.E.”: Will look it up
“Nemo": (1) Carlyle was almost the exact con-
verse of an atheist: since, he was a pantheistic
deist with a bias towards objurgatory Calvinism.
(2) The late Dean Baekhaus belonged to the Roman
Catholic Church (item: a good slice of the R.C.
Church belonged to him). N. B.— The Very
Rev. Dean Baekhaus was more than suspected
of a tendency to Mary - Janeism. Ril.P
“Gympie”: The Miner calls Lord Derby a
“haughty peer” because it doesn’t know him.
Let the editor offer Derby half-a-crown
“A.C.” (Jamberoo): Sladenic in its bathos
“ Narramine ”: Thanks “ Jembaicumbene ”:
You mnst surelv be an Irishman to hope
that, as Christmas weather is so hot in this
country, the great annual festival of Australasia
will yet be changed to Good Friday
“J.S.L.”: The story, we believe, was originally
told of a resident of Sandgate, who, in publicly
welcoming Sir Arthur and Miss Kennedy, said to
the lady:—“ sfou should come down to Sandgate
for a swim, Miss Kennedy. We’d like to see more
of you than we’ve yet bin doin’.” “Zara”:
What wo want to know, Zara, is the date of the
day you have fixed for yourself to soar away to
ihe unfathomable vaults of the great unknow-
able “C.M.G.”: Thanks. Next week, if not
this. ..“Goulburu”: The Victorian police authori-
ties are of that there is nothing to show
that the Bungaree Junction Estate distribution is
illegal. We are ignorant of the date when the
“distribution” comes off. With regard to the
“opinion” of the above-mentioned authorities,
we don’t believe it’s worth the foolscap it’s written
on. ..“ Herbert Winchester”: We’re truly glad to
learn that The Bulletin rejoices the heart of
your relative ; item, that the mighty politician
named chews the cud of our articles. You can’t
do better than keep all your English friends regu-
larly supplied with The Bulletin, since there’s no
social tonic like it, though we say so as shouldn’t...
“ A Gospel Army man ”: You write seven sides of
foolscap just to tell us that Parramatta has taken
up the Jerusalemic business of prophet-stoning...
“Asbestos”: The difference between a man that
dyes lamb’s-wool and a draper who advertises
extraordinary bargains all the year round, is that
one is a lamb dyer and the other—well, the balance
is crowded out by the press of advertisements
“Hector A. Stuart”: Good verse. Next issue
“Cockney”: The initials. “A.F.,” attached to the
Herald letters about I’London 1 ’London Revisited,” stand
for “A Frost.” “S.A.G.”: Acrostics are usually
rubbish. Yours are not up to the mark “ Chir-
pie”: So much matter, that we regret we cannot
possibly llnd room “ A.R.P.": Not bad, but very
weak finish “H.L.D.”: Not worth so much
space “ *♦***”; Smooth rhyme, but
who is the J.P. alluded to ? Our readers would be
in the dark.
Colonel Siedicken, of the St. Petersburg
Gendarmerie, was assassinated on the 29th Nov.
last. “No doubt is entertained,” says the Husky
correspondent of tho S.M. Herald, “ that the
crime was committed by Nihilists.” Our venerable
contemporary makes this assertion without one
single particle of evidence to corroborate her
view. She is more careful when her reports
require local corroboration.
French audiences scarcely appreciate plays
that are not, to put it mildly, well spiced: but for
real “naughtiness,” the pie is taken by “Autour
du Mariage ,” just written by a semi-fashionable
Comtesse, who seems to be the French “ Ouida.”
This extremely piquant production professes to
describe the inside story of tho betrothal, mar-
riage and matrimonial experiences of one Paulette,
who is a wonderfully innocent girl. On the stage,
the interesting Paulette is shown in her wedding
dress, in the nuptial chamber, and fitting hor form
to her robes in the sanctum of the fashionable
modiste. Hosts of the many delicate little mat-
ters, feminine and matrimonial, are revealed which
have always been hitherto considered irrevealable.
The actress who plays the ingenuous part of Paul-
ette drosses and undresses on the stage several
times, to the huge delight of the bald-headed old
sinners in the stalls and balcony. In another act,
a group of ladies and gentlemen bathe together as
nearly nude as possible. The ladies throughout
the play wear real diamonds, real stockings, cor-
sets, dress-improvers, pads, and—show them.
Edinburgh is heir presumptive to the
Duchy of Coburg. Every year he and his wife
pass some time there, where they established
friendly relations with the reigning Duke. But
the whole of the fat is at present in the tire, and
this is how it happened. It was Edinburgh’s missus’
birthday, and the wives of two court officials were
significantly omitted from the invitation to the
customary “ hop ’’—one because she had been an
actress, and the other because she had been di-
vorced from her former husband. So the husbands,
as in duty bound, took up the cause of their slighted
ladies, and appealed to the reigning Duke of
Coburg. He pleaded their cause, but Her R. High-
ness of Edinburgh is so dreadfully strict in these
matters (it runs in the family) that he might just
as well whistle jigs to a milestone. Chagrined with
the failure of his efforts, he gaVe orders that none
of the court officials of Coburg should attend the
“blow out.” He was obeyed, and the Czar’s
daughter's “swairy” fell as flat as the front line
of Yankees at Bull’s Run. We regrer, of course,
that H.K.H. should be disappointed, but ourregret
is tempered with admiration at her firm resolution
to keep in their proper places low, forward people,
who at one time had actually to earn their own
living. Once let it get wind that actors, actresses,
and such rubbish can be shot at people’s doors,
and find their way to the drawing-room, and we
shall shortly hear of journalists—even in N.S.W.—
presuming to mix with their betters. The line
must be drawn somewhere.
A cable message to the daily papers tells
us that Sir John Bayley Darvall is dead. The
other day the 8. M. Hewald reprinted a letter,
recently written to the London Times, by “J.8.D.,”
from the tone of which it was quite evident that
the intellect of Sir John Bayley Darvall was in a
moribund condition; and such beingthecase.it
could hardly be expected that his physical decease
could long be postponed. Sir J. B. Darvall has,
for years and years, been one of the antiquated
fossils on the top shelves of that most respectable
and ponderous body, the “Royal Colonial Insti-
tute, 5 ’ where his utterances appear to have
been considered oracular, if we are to judge
by the readiness with which the Times, a
journal that evidently knows as much about
real colonial sentiment as the “Vagabond”
knows about the interior of New Guinea,
gave insertion to his Rip Van Winkleisms.
But Sir John Bayley Darvall was once young, and
when he was younger he lived in Sydney, where
he formed one of the first Ministry under Re-
sponsible Government. He was a dandy of the
first water, the best-dressed man in Sydney, a
clever advocate, more cynical than solid. He was
too much of a man of pleasure to do anything
likely to leave its impress on the land of his
adoption. He seems chiefly to be remembered by
one anecdote we havo often heard as to the man-
ner in which he, while opposing Mr. Henry Parkes
at Maitland, launched out at that virtuous poli-
tician. Daintily tucking up his immaculate short
cuffs, he said that he was about to approach a very
dirty subject, which was his reason for pulling up
his sleeves after the manner of surgeons on the
point of dissecting bodies which were not fresh.
The dirty subject in question, he need hardly tell
them, was tho political character of Mr. Parkes.
Sir Henry, according to the cablegram, attended
Sir J. B, Darvall’s funeral—rather, we presume,
as a mark of respect to a political opponent than
as a token of regard to an old friend.
Mr. David Syme.
Mr. David Syme is the chief proprietor of the
Age. We have no materials at hand from which
to extract an account of his birth, parentage,
country, religious persuasion, or physical peculi-
arities, so that we are obliged to pass silently over
his earlier years, and leave unrecorded the many
trenchant remarks he no doubt made when
the Trinitarian doctrine was first brought under
his notice at Sunday-school, or the economical
theories of Bastiat an Mill attracted his attention.
It is with the David Syme of the Age we have to
deal. There is no denying that under him that
journal has attained a unique position. This is the
more to be surprised at from the fact that it
champions economical views, which, forty years
ago, were supposed to be torn into tatters by a
system of reasoning as inexorable as that of
Euclid s demonstrations. It has been whispered
that David s economical beliefs are diametrically
opposed to those his paper advocates, and it has
been more than whispered that the exceptionally
powerful protectionist articles in his journal were
written by men who think the citadel of freetrado
impregnable. We cannot say. What we can say
is i hat, while covering with ridicule the blind, un-
disciplined efforts of Irish peasants to escape from
an agrarian thraldom which has disappeared from
most European countries, the Age supported,
through good report and evil, the efforts of Mr.
Berry to prevent the passing of the public estate
into a few bands. While admiring* the enterpris-
ing spirit that has secured for bis journal the
premier position in Australia, we cannot ignore
the fact that he has placed his columns at the dis-
posal of those who. if they had the power, would
acclimatise in this young country the political
and religious animosities which have so disfigured
the old.
“Atlas, of the World, is mad with
Parkes for having-, when Premier of N.S.W
ordered three statues of Signor Fontana. “It
might not be an injustice if our colonial Ministers
were ordered simply to ascertain if Great Britain
possesses any native-born sculptors, living and
capable of executing a statue.”
“Professor” Holloway gone where pills are
not taken and where ointment does not work
through and heal. 8.1. P. Ho knew how to ad-
vertise. His pills are considered by hosts of
people about the bestgeneral purgative ever com-
pounded, while his ointment has never been sur-
passed as a simple application for a variety of in-
flammations, and so forth. Holloway succeeded
because, he made more show than men with mueh
superior opportunities, and also because the
science of medicine was in bis earlier days in so
inchoate a condition that mild drugs which might
cure, and couldn’t kill, had a tremendous advan-
tage over the murderous compounds with which
until very recently, it was the habit of regular-
practitioners to drench patients.
The largest crowd that ever gathered
on the Association Ground was there on New
Year's Day. The whole area was a black mass of
beings come to see the Highland Sports. And they
were treated to plenty. Fifty events! It was a
family crowd, of people who came rather to sec
than be seen; and we won’t particularise the
toilets. There were too many to try it; indivi-
duality was sunk in the immense total. They
enjoyed it, or they wouldn’t have stopped, as most
did, to the last. Renfrew, from Newcastle, is a
“terror.” A man who can struggle all day at
nearly everything named sport and continually
“take the pie” must be phenomenal. He is.
Wrestling on the turf was an innovation on pre-
vious years, and caused great interest. In addition
to the prize dancing, a number of exquisitely
trained little dancers (by Mrs. Warskitt) performed
flings, jigs, &e., with beautiful accuracy and grace
of motion. Merry-go-rounds and ail sorts of
diversions carried on a trade, and the entire pro-
gramme was well managed. By the vast atten-
dance, the Highland Society must have netted a
great deal, and possibly each individual kilted
member will now find himself rich enough to buy
a pair of what’s wanted between his skirts and his
stockings.


FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
To treat “ sleeping in the open air ” in this,
weather as a criminal offence (as the Sydney beak
doth statutorily), appears to us a most anomalous
sort of summery procedure—lt weuld appear
that the swearing-in of the Sydney tramway con-
ductors as special constables gives them the enor-
mous addition’l powers of—being able to take
down a fellow’s name Statist Hayter, of Vic-
toria, thus arranges the illegitimate birth-rates of
the undermentioned countries :—Victoria, 3’93 ;
N.S.W., 4*3; England, s‘; and Scotland, 8 7. These
figures go towards disproving Byron’s assertion
that “what man calls gallantry and gods adultery.
Is much more common where the climate’s
sultry.” According to Western Grazier, the
cost of increasing the grazing capabilities of
thirty-five runs in the near vicinity of Wilcannia,
up to end of ’B2, was £1,227,«0 ...Senior public
exams. Sydney Uni., five boys and two girls passed
The New South Wales Loan.
JOHN HULL, (to the Broker): “Hang it! keep back, Sir, with your unspeakable Turks, and your swindling Russians and chousing Chilians.. Surely, 1 can let my own
daughter have a trifle, without consulting you!”
in class 1., seven boys and one girl in class u.,
seventeen boys and six girls in class in. Harry
Ambrose Russell (Syd. Gram. School) took the
University Prize £2O and the John West medal.
Mary Harriet Bruce and Emily Alice Fox
were bracketed together (we trust they won’t
get shelved) for the Fairfax Prize of £2O
Some of the police have joined the Sabbatarians,
and are yelling for a Sabbath all to themselves.
Wc know policemen whose lives have been one
long unbroken Sabbath The inhuman treatment
of the blacks in Western Australia is recoiling
heavily on the white Christians. Measles are reap-
ing down old and young, no less than 1500 per-
sons having, at a late date, been affected with it in
Perth and Fremantle The Maintenance
Act is very handy as a means of cheap
travelling for husbands. Out West, the other
day, an alleged neglectful husband was ar-
rested and brought 500 miles, after which
the wife duly informed the Court that “she
and the old man had squared it” themselves
On dtt that 'tis intended to nominate a black*
fellow (American black) against Alderman Creer
at the next Newcastle Municipal elections. Well,
better a black man with a white heart than a
white fellow who is a bigot—Draco Stephen’s
“ new code” again. A baker's boy at Quoanbeyan
having embezzled the enormouaamount of Is. 9d.,
has just been sentenced to throe years’ imprison-
ment, and a party by the name of Thompson, who
forged a cheque at Wentworth for £5 10s. has been
gently let down by Judge Docker with 10 years..
“ What we want here,” says an Eaglehawk (Vic.)
borough councillor, orating anent the leakage of
the locallake. “is some hydrophobia, which (for
the information of my brother oounclllo s who
may not understand Latin) means pure water."
The navvies on the Ravenswood (Q.) railway
won’t permit the contractors to employ Maltese
labour. They assert the contractors’ statement
that they only sought to employ the Maltese out
of charity to be a colossal 1ib.... Mem. for Good-
chap: Use tarpaulins coated with asbestos paint*
and not with tar One of the “New Songs” of
the Sydney Salvation Harmy winds up with this
touching sentiment: —
“ I on the brink of ruin fell;
Glory to God, I’m out of hell.”
Major Corbridge, in a late War Cry, ta'ks about
“setting up the steam power of the Holy Ghost,"
and reverently adds that “people are always warn-
ing him lest he should bust his boiler."— j
A conclave of “Knights of the Red Cross
of Rome” (no connection of Kidman's jam,
we believe) and Constantino Freemasons to be
shortly opened inMelbouane. Booh! Surgeon-
major Fulton appointed principal medical officer
of Victorian Defence Force H. P. Walter and
T. P. Webb appointed respectively chief clerk
(£1303 par annum), and as sistant (£900) to the
Judges, under new Victorian Judicature Act
Thus the corner of Pitt and Hunter streets :
“Again, to attack the intellectual capacity of a
clergyman is not per xe libellous, because a clergy-
man can perform his duties very well without
much intellectual capacity." The many reverends
on our venerable contemporary’s staff ought,
re this particular point, to know, you know
Mr. C. P. Hodges, Government Interpreter (Vic.),
protests against all Chinese being put down in the
census-returns as pagans. And amongst other
virtuous precepts to be found in their revised
editionof the Meng StimTo Kawn, he quotes the
following:—“ Heaven hear®, though there is not
the faintest souDd.” Poultry raisers might paste
this up over their fowl-house doore and see
how it will act on the Mongolian mind during
these lovely nights so suitable to chicken-thieving.
...Seth Peterson, formerly Deputy Registrar-
General of Quednsland, sentenced to ten “ stretch ”
in 78 fora variety of little games, has been t eleased
from gaol by order of the Executive Council. ThD
would seem to indicate that a certain very high
oflieial shapes the whisper of the Hananaland
tnrone The Belgian Minister of Public Instruc-
tion, enamoured of the educational (State school)
books exhibited by Victoria at Amsterdam, or-
dered a ton or so from Melbourne; and the joke is
that, despite her hot ta iff and her high “protec-
tive" notions, Victoria couldn’t supply a single
copy, and had to send the order on to London!
N. S. W. Volunteers should remember that the
Army Discipline and Regulation Act is in force.
Its provisions (wo are given to mis-understand,
sometimes) do not apply to anybody above the
rank of sergeant Danscy, Health OlHcer, &c. &c.,
loquitur (at the “Waterloo” inquest): “I have
known r, small tap on the top of the bead to
produce fracturoof the base of tho skull." How
the teetotallers will hug this item! With them
it’s always tho tap that preludes damnation
Says the Macleay Deask “Strcnue et Prospere,"
in his Christmas leader: “ It is our nature to glide '
into a slipshod familiarity with our surroundings,” [
With what accuracy coth our dear Christopher i
gauge himself—“ slipshod familiarity ” with his«
“ surroundings”—how true, how truly truel
Thus Nicholas Hawken, in protest against the
pavment of municipal auditors:—‘'All auditors of
municipal councils under the Municipalities’Act
of 1867 are elected by ratepayers, as aldermen are
elected, and the position of auditor is evidently as
much honorary (and as honourable) as that of
aldermen.” We think that the auditors’ position
is both more honourable and less honorary than
the alderman’s. Any fool will do (or rather does
generally do) for an alderman. Some sense, not
to mention some acquaintance with book-keeping,
is required of an auditor—Australasian Agents-
General demand an assurance from the Imperial
Government that the fiscal concession to Spanish
wines shall be extended to colonial ditto, which
demand is perfectly o.k.
• • •
A Bohemian bishop has hanged himself
with a leather strap. As he is said to have been a
good and charitable man, it is to be regretted that
ke thus imitated Judas Iscariot—A few weeks
ago, two soldiers were escorting to Dublin a de-
serter from a cavalry regiment. A passenger in
the train treated all three to his whisky fiask, and
finished it himself. When the cars reached Holy-
head, the escort “ woke up” and found their pri
soner gone. Then they woke the passenger up
with a mild application of the business end of a
bayonet, and he found bis watch and purse
missing. Tho escort are by this on shot-drill
and “skilly.” Of the “passenger," it might bo
safely predicted that, when he again sees
a cavalry deserter en route to join the
colours, he will wait for the next train
An English writer thinks that tne American rail-
way system, by opening up unlimited arable land
will ruin farming in Groat Britain To the com-
plaint of the London letter-carriers that they
worked from forty to sixty houis a week lor 12s.
Mr. Fawcett. Postmaster-General, replied that he
could get 1200 men at an hour’s notice for the same
wages. Fine country for the working man!
In the State of Cincinatti. John M'Donald is the
happy father of two semi-alligators—the upper of
their bodies only being human. They have each a
tail sft long, and spend a considerable part of
their time disporting in the water. John hasthree
oth?r children, but they exhibit noneof thealliga-
tor strain. These human sturians will be exhibited.
... We read of a lecturer, named Devlin, being se-
verely assaulted in an English provincial town,
and, really, after some of our recent experience
with the lecturing fraternity, wo ere not as angry
as we ought to be, you know The London
Economist, referring to tho extent, to which gam-
bling is carried on at the Stock Exchange, eM.i-
mates the fortnightly clearing on that institution
at upwards of two hundred million pounds, and
suggests to the Chancellor of the Exchequer that
no fitter object of taxation could be found than
these Rambling transactions Franklin says
that the Calcutta Exhibition is not under the im-
mediate patronage and control of the Imperial
Government of India, but simply under the direc-
tion of the Government of Bengal. As can be
generally understood, this statement has been gall
and wormword to Sam Cook 1 The Chinese
service is getting gradually stuffed with Britons
and Yankees on the off chance of exchanging
compliments with Jacques Bonhomme. |We were
about going ourselves, but. from what we know
of Jacques, we somehow feel that the white men
he comes across among the Black flags or the
Chinkies will have my little physical ail-
ments they may suffer from complicated by the
introduction of foreig n bodies into their systems ..
At the hearing of a marine insurance case in
London, it was sworn that the cargo of the Denia,
worth £423o—was insured for £43,200. £BO worth
of pigs’ hair (invoiced as bristles) was insured for
£2,458. Clover seed, not on board, was down for
£7OOO. It is when we read facts like these that we
recognise how backward we still are in all that
contributes to national progress. But we are on
the road—we are on the road It is cabled that
King Coffee (notr), of Ashantee, has held l, an ex-
tensive sacrificial massacre,” and had 08 of his
children butchered. This is how Coffee keeps
within bounds the diroensioqg of the local Band-
wick Asylum.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Continental knights usually believe in
duolling, hut it is understood that tho commaader
of a certain foreign man-of-war. now in Australian
waters, declined, the other day, to give his men
the chance of a Christmas trip to Now Caledonia,
where, it was suggested, they should fight it out.
“Modern Society” (Nov. 10) reports that
in spite of all tho press said about her in America,
Mis. Langtry, after she came back to London, was
received very cordially by the highest society,
oho was at a ball given by Lady Rosebery, a tea
Igiveii by another great leador of fashion, and was
driven out on a coach in company with the
Princess of Wales. We publish this item for what
it is worth.
The “Vagabond” has been interviewed
about his doings in N. Guinea. Ho says a certain
othergioat explorer behaved disgracefully, “gave
the women rum,” etc. Julian never did this—he
always Jot the natives chew tho cork, or rub their
gums with tho bottle. Ho doos net think ho will
return to PapOa. Wo are of the same opinion
ourselves. If we wait till the modest *'Vag.”
foots it through the interior, planting a billabong
here and a mountain chain there, the map of New
Guinea will long remain as blank as a policeman’s
memory when the accused accidentally drops a
fiver into bis fist.
The mortal remains of that brave and
noble old man, Frederic Edward MaDing, author
of “Old Now Zealand,” who died in London
recently, of cancer, after a long and terrible illness,
were interred the other day at Auckland, N.Z.
The late Judge Maning bore the fearful ordeal of
his tater days as befitted tho hero he was, and not
long giuee wrote to Maoriland a most manly but
withal pathetic letter, taaing leave for ever of his
old friends, and asking them to pray that his soul
might rest in peace. He was one of the two men
(J. Russell, of Kohukohu, was tho other) who
during the Hoke epoch kept the whole of the
Hok'auga tribes faithful to tho Pakeha.
There are two morals in this. When preach-
ing, Dean Stanley neither swayed his body like a
sailor towards tho end of his 48 hours’ leave, nor
sawed the air like a junior counsel at his first breach
of. promise case, but kept as rigid as a life guards-
man on sentry. One day he asked his wite if she
had noticed the ’ intensity with which the con-
gregation had gazed upon him during the sermon.”
” How could they help it, my dear,” she replied,
“ when one of your gloves was on the top ol your
head tho whole time?” The first moral is not to
carry your gloves In your hat, and the second
(rake out this and paste it in your liible) .to make
sure that it is admiration and not curiosity that
fills people who listen to your sermons or read
your books.
“ with a moan of anguish he pressed his
hand convulsively to his face, and ex-
claiming * * * *, staggered from the
room,” t
“ then led her to the piano.”
“ then giving her his arm, they passed
out upon the park.”
STOCK EXPRESSIONS FROM MODERN LITERATURE.
The colony of Queensland was consider-
ably represented at the second dinner of the Winter
Beason of the Savage Club in Loudon, the literary
and artistic club par excellence of the Empire.
Jsx-Clnef Justice Sir James Cockle, of Queensland,
occupied, by election, tho chair, and had on his
radit hand the present Chief Justice Sir Charles
1 while among those present woro also Mr.
William senior, for several years Chief of tho
Queensland Hansard staff, and now, as ; fnrmerly,
attached to the Daily News: Mr, Maurice Lyons,
a solicitor who qualified in Brisbane: and Judge
u OJ \5 8on > Edwin, an ex-Brisbane Grammar
schoolboy. Judge Lilley is expected to be back in
Australia about February or March.
The Bourke Central Australian (as
quoted by the S. M. Herald), in recording the
death, in the local hospital, of a Dr. J. F. Piers,
states that deceased, during service in the Navy,
earned the much-coveted distinction of the Vic-
jOSB'” the latest published list of men
entitled to wear the V.C., the name of J. F. Piers
does not appear. Pseudo V.C.’s are plentiful. It
seems to us that the S. M. Herald people are will-
ing to credit anybody with any distinction or
diploma he may claim. The leading daily did not
question Dr. Piers’ claim to tho Victoria Cross any
more than it questions tho right of any impudent,
unlettered quack who chooses to dub himself
Doctor, to pose as a University man.
Wheu Ernest Fnvenc started on his over-
trip for tho Queenslander, his personal
outfit consisted of a blue worsted shirt, a toma-
hawk, a water-bag. and a paper collar—the fatter
to enable him to put on ‘‘side” at the reception
at Port Darwin. When Mr. Watson, late Chief
Engineer lor Railways, Victoria, started over the
sameground with Frank Hann,liehad 120 white
shuts ( Aw, one loh ev'wy day, you see”), 27
pairs of boots, 7 tweed suits, 3 dress do. (to attend
receptions among the Flint Ranges on the
v.i. line), a variety of stovepipes, several cases
Johnny Walker and Sons, and a buggy—to say
nothing of 1846 cases of mathematical instruments
and a tooth-brush.
Mrs. Cornwallis West, the “splendid
ereatebaw” who disputed the palm with Mrs.
hangtry in the early days of professional beauty-
uom, has taken up hPr quarters in Washington,
assuming, it is ?aid, the management of the house-
hold of Sir Lionel Sackville West, tho British
minister, and her husband’s relative. Seeing that
hubby is aJso in America, the question naturally
arist s or who is going to take the management of
bus household. Mr. West has, by the way, we see,
been rushing ipto print as a champion of Mrs.
Langtry, but iu a half and half style, which
betrays a secrect satisfaction i i the I/ly’s Ameri-
can discomfiture. A gentleman whose chief lame
consists mi bein, his wife's lmsband is apt to be
fj)itelui towards my of her successful i ivals.
Writiug to ohe European Mail, “An
iu B "VP l " o claims j .he startling iufor- !
mation that 8u» ifemy p&j>]} e a has moved from j
South Audley-street to 21 Upper Baker-street,
where ho is now staying.” This looks as if Sir
Henry did not stay at his former residence when
he lived there. But what we prill to know to-day
is what the vanman who humped the chips along:
said when the great statesman handed him 15d.for
the load, and observed, “ That’s all I hever gave
in Sydney.” We ll call at Hupper Baker-street
some of these days, when the festiro goats are not
picnicing out of the dirt boxes on the sidewalks,
and the milkman isn’t indignantly yelling dowu
the grating to the cook, who has embezzled the
milk-money of the conllding statesman, *• Well,
ye'll get no more till that lot’s paid. Jisttell 'itn
that.”
From a Canadian paper we learn that
though the rain fell in torrents, when Princess
Louiso took her departure from Canada, and the
mud was ankle deep, the royal people, ‘‘escorted
by the entire population,” walked to the steamer
on foot. “ The ladies wore. white satin, with few
exceptions, and braved the elements with
shoulders bare and their feet encased in satin
slippers. Veryil’ew carried umbrellas. There was
not a dry eye in the streets.” Later on, the writer
recounts hovv the princess, determined to share
the shower-bath of her most loyal subjects,
lowered her own umbrella, and bared her royal
bang to the elements. “ It is notsurprising, there-
fore, that the multitude, for the twentieth time,
burst into a flood of tears.” . . . The Queen's
drawing-room, with its array of low-necked con-
sumptives, pales its ineffectual Arcs before this
pulmonary juggernaut of Louise.
Tlie last Court society scandal in Vienna
is of a supremely delicate nature. The court phy-
sicians say that the Crown Princess Steplnmie,
who has just undergone her firet ordeal of mater-
nity, will most likely never entirely recover from
her efforts on that oecasion, owing to a permanent
ailment she has contracted. This ailment, the
medical meu aver, aftor close examination, can
have been caught in no other way that through
the inexcusable omission of certain duties by
Countess Mostiz, mistress of the chamber, when
making her personal preparat ions for the Koyal
accouchement.. And it is felt, by those who know
most of the circumstances, that the disastrous
neglect of duty was not accidental, but purposed.
For the beautiful Stephanie once seriously af-
fronted the Countess, who has in this way sought
a terrible revenge. Countess Nostiz has been
banished from the Court.
Probate was granted last week to the will
of Suetonius Henry Officer, landowner of l’oorak,
Melbourne. Suetonius closed his eyes on £59,000.
His widow and children ho very properly provided
for, and this part of the solemn document wo
have no desire to cite against him. It may be
that the outside world, where so many must have
gone to the wall to enable Mr. Officer to pile up
such a sum, deserved a better remembrance than
the £7750 ho distributed over the field of “ Benevo-
lence.” For no man makes much money without
having l made many moil very poor. But Mr.
Ollicor was not wholly unmindful of the outside
world, wherein he loft this £7750. What wo think,
however, is that he distributed it on altogether
erronneous lines. To charities, in the wav of
schools, orphanages, and hospitals, he bequeathed
£lO5O ; while, to Bible societies, churches, and
theological halls, he devoted£ssoo. Evidently Mr.
Officer was a theorist with regard to human suffer-
ing. Wo don't like going after the dead man, but
wo think that with his iater practical experience
the £5500 would have gone where the £2250 went.
Poor old Christopher Columbus, who has
paid dearly for discovering America during his
life-time, by having his remains worried about on
a good many oceisions sinee Ins decease, is to be
exhumed once more, and the little bit—the very
little bit —that is loft of the intrepid sailor will be
placed in a crystal urn, so that all who visit the
cathedral of St. Domingo may be able to see the
stuff of which great pioneers are made. We par-
ticularly recommend Mr. George Ernest Morrison
to pay a visit to the land of Ad'onso, and to spend
a quiet half hour with the dust of Columbus. It
might have the effect of stimulating him to
another New Guinea expedition. Let us sing a
little song:—
CHRISTOPHER'S DUST.
The gallant Spaniard’s mortal clan
(He was a tiri k in days of yore/
Has oftentimes been moved away
From where it used to bo before, —
So none will be surprised to learn
There’s little left of manes so messed:
They’ve placed the n>t within an urn—
’Tis thought poor Chris, has earned a rest.
That astute and active young Irish-Aus-
tralian, Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, evidently knows
how many beans make five. He lms only been
about 15 months out of his shell in our political
world: but during that period he has contrived
to get and keep a front place in the ranks of de-
mocracy. and to play upon every popular chord
which vibrates in New South Wales-the rights of
labour, native industries, eight hour's principle,
restriction of coloured labour, laud reform, pay-
ment of members, and a federal republic for the
Anglo-Saxon race. His last M captaiuium address
was in opposition to assisted immigration, in which
he laid down the doctrine that, when a community
is prosperous, every class in it should share in that
prosperity. Did it ever strike this aspiring dema-
gogue that the prosperity of a country is increased
oy immigration, and, therefore, that he is only
endeavouring to obstruct the prosperity, of the
class he represents when he goes upon “ the stump”
to denounce the system referred to ? E. W.
O’S. talks of forming an Australasian party, based
upon democratic lines, the banner of which he
will unfurl at, the next election in Sydney or its
suburbs: but when he doe*, it is to be hoped that
he will lay down its principles with more logic
and less fervid oratory than ho uses when de-
nouncing “ our iniquitous system of assisted im-
migration, which is a violation of our free-trade
policy and the laws of supply and demand,” etc.,
etc. This young man requires watching, or ho
may set the Parramatta on fire, and otherwise
play Gehenna with the great resources of N.S.W.
The Age omits no opportunity of endeav-
ourimr to undermine Australian loyalty by
ridiculing the House of Lords. Even our gracious
Sovereign does not escape the sneers of this
Revolutionary journal. Hear it:—"The tem-
porary cast of trie John Brown statue, which the
Queen lias erected on the lawn at Balmoral in
front of the royal apartments, is the subject of
general dismission in artistic circles. Boehm, the
sculptor, admits that it is far better looking than
John Brown ever was, but says Her Majesty came
to the studio weekly to superintend the model-
ling, and insisted on one change or another, until
he thought he was doing the Apollo Belvidere in
kilts.” Thus, because our Sovereign Lady idealised
this humble, haggis-worrying, red-headed fol-
lower, mentally planed down his high cheek bones,
flattened out a corrugation hero and took in a
reef there, the organ of Australian Nihilism makes
a feeble attempt to be funny, callously disregard-
ing the pain it is inflicting on the loyal Antipo-
dean baronets, C.M.G.’s, and prominent citizens,
who, in defence of the Throne, would willingly
sacrifice all their poor relations left behind in the
old country. It is not delicate, it is not well-bred,
it is not even decent! Perish such stuff !
As most people run after anything in
human shape that bears a title, we may as well say
that there are 90) baronets in the United Kingdom.
The or-!er hasn’t even a respectable origin, and
was created under base circumstances. In 1611
James 1., wanting money and not knowing how to
get it, offered to confer the new dignity on 200
gentlemen, on condition they contributed about
£llOO each to his exchequer. Eight years later,
baronets were started in Ireland on the same
terms; and subsequently in Scotland on payment
of the required oawbees. And the Australian
baronetcy-grabbers are paying in hard cash for
their baubles. So there’s nothing heroic in
baronetcies. For the benefit of leading Sydney
tuft-hunters we may observe that a baronet is not
a peer or nobleman, and has no business to be
called a “ lord.” He possesses the lowest possible
grade of hereditary title, and in precedence at
Court ho walks in about the one hundred and fifth
rank. A baronetage by no means ensures the
opening of society s doors to its afflicted owner.
Even after he has boiled enough soap, sold enough
cheese, or accumulated enough sheep to walk
right into the order, a man can generally reckon
on about ten generations being necessary for his
heirs to rub off the "shop,” and mix with the
blue blood of England. Though many baronets
are wealthy, others are pitiable specimens of
pauperism. The gentleman who bears the high-
sounding coguomen of Sir John Buckworth-
Hcrne has no residonce, no income, “ no nothing,”
and bis sin and heir is a day-labourer on a Canada
farm. Sir Henry Dick is accountant in a country
bank. The baronetcies of Steele and Congreve
are awaiting claimants, the sons of each having
gone “Tichborning” years ago and not been
heard of since. The woman married by Sir Capel
Fitzgerald was a love-child, and he never knew
her real name. It is improbable that this little
bar-sinister across the lady’s character would
cause much anxiety to the “noble” baronet, as
Sir Capel himself was not long ago trotted before
a London magistrate for annexing the jewelry of
a fair but frail Anonyma, whose exclusive society
he had been enjoying during a whole week of
uninterrupted giddiness. Men of almost every
profession and branch of trade have been made
baronets, but seldom unless wealthy, A few men
are great, notwithstanding that they have been
made baronets.
Mr. J. W. Hamilton, one of earliest
pioneers of N. Z , and one of the proprietors of the
Lyttelton Times, died suddenly last month, at
his residence in Christchurch, in tho 58th year of
his age. Mr. Hamilton arrived in N.Z. as long ago
as 1813, and with the exception of one short visit
to the mother country, he has lived in the colony
ever since. He was Private Secretary for several
years to the first two Governors (Captain Fitzroy
and Sir George Grey), and in that capacity took an
active part in many of the stirring scenes and
official interviews with the old cannibal Maori
chiefs of that early period. He was the first white
man who travelled overland from the Bluff to
Dunedin, and from Dunedin to Port Lyttelton.
He crossed the great rivers, the Clutha, Mataura,
Waitangi, and othors in the old Maori fashion on
bundles . f calladdys, the light dry stalks of the
ilax plant, tied together, and forming rafts which
could not sink, but were extremely difficult to
navAgate in the dangerous currents of those swift-
llowing rivers. Mr. Hamilton occupied for several
years the post of R.M. at Wanganui, in the North
Island. He was afterwards Collector of Customs
at the Port of Lyttelton. For several years before
his death ho lived in Christchurch, having retired
from official life on a well-earned pension. He was
a good man, a true friend, open-handed and
generous, and a clover musician. His funeral
was attended by a large concourse of citizens,
including the whole of the staff of the Lyttelton
Times Co., and the members of the Christchurch
Cat hedral choir.
A day or two ago, the dailies had a cable-
gram about the celebrated Belt v. Lawes libel
case, decided a year or two ago, which now bids
fair to be re-opened, the defendant's application
for a new trial having been granted, provisionally
on Belt not being content to accept £5OO damages;
and, seeing that the original verdict in his favour
was for £500), the energetic sculptor has surprised
everyone by accepting the compromise instead of
uphukli g his case for the second time. The ran-
cour displayed towards Belt by the “high art”
party (of whom Lawes, in his letter to Vanity
Fair, was merely the mouthpiece) is pretty easily
accounted for. Knowing him to be their inferior
in education, and, for the matter of that, in art
training, they envy him the fame which a bold
natural talent has won for many of his efforts;
but, above all, they envy the business ability
which has enabled Belt to amass a fortune, and
placed him in the position of patron to many of
his “cultured” rivals. Sir Frederick Leighton is
regarded as leader of the clique that found the
smews of war for the campaign carried on against
“ that common fellow, Belt,” and, certainly,
neither money nor influence was spared in their
efforts to kill the professional reputation of this
tkoru in their artistic sides. Lawes, who figured
as defendant in the libel case, is the sou of Sir
John Bennett Lawes, the well-known scientific
farmer, and was, in his day, more celebrated as an
athlete than he over will be as a sculptor. Twenty
years ago, J. B. Lawes was stroke oar of the Cam-
nridge “eight,” winner of the Diamond and
Wingfield sculls, and the champion runner, either
at short or long distances, of the Universities.
* * *
Worth, the man-milliner, is reported as
about to establish a branch business in Australia
Worth makes the woman, the want of him the
dowdy.... A monument to Mr. John Tyerman, tho
late freethought preacher, was uncovered a few
days ago at Waverley, by Mr. Henry Gale.. Mrs
Hassall, of Berkshire Park, sister of Mr. G. Rouse
died at 85 a few days since, and was buried in the
family vault at Windsor, besido her husband, who
died 50 years ago.... Dear Moncure Conway has
announced his intention of writing a history of
Victoria-in about ten volumes. The first volume
will bring events up to September last, and the
other nine will be devoted to the interesting de-
tails of the “finest intellect’s visit.” W J p
Wood, of Virginia, near Miva (N.Q.),' graduate of
Oxford, accomplished linguist (Chinese, Maori.
Modern Greek, etc ), an all-round good fellow and
a magnificent swimmer, suicided the other dav
T <?2r m ß& h opium conjectured. He was a brother
of Mr. 1 heodore Wood, well known in N.Q... The
“Vagabond,” in a recent communication to the
Argus, thus butters Armit and snubs Morrison
by an adroit use of the name of missionary Chal-
mers “ The Rev. James Chalmers, the well-
known traveller and missionary, says that a more
daring, dashiDg, and determined exploring corre-
spondent than Captain Armit is not to be found in
Australia, and that he did very good work Mr
Chalmers has started with an unarmed party'along
Mr. E, G. Mormon’s track, and will endeavour to
restore friendship with the natives, find out the
cause of the trouble that Mr. Morrison’s nartv
experienced, and recover the stores that were
abandoned by Mr. Morrison.” And yet, the dif
ference betwixt Armit and Morrison’s work wa*
nil, which was also the amount of the sum of it
On the 21st December, at Macleay-street, Darliriir
hurst, the widow of tho famous explorer Mainn
Mitchell, passed away. Lady Mitchell was’B3 J
* * *
Kossuth, aged 83, lying sick, probably
unto death, at Turin... Straining at a gnat and swal-
lowing a camel. O’Donovan Rossa, son of the dyna-
miter, has been arrested for larceny, while the old
man is still at large —Oxford University wouldn't
have anything to do with a proposed address of
sympathy to Kaiser Pious Bill on the occasion of
the 400th anniversary of Luther’s birth. Oxford
deserves kudos. ...Mr. Binns, the new British
hangman, made his debut at Wandsworth Gaol in
November, his subject being the Balbnm mur-
derer. Binns, though of the Marwood school,
permits himself trifling departures from the
method of his illustrious predecessor. Marwood
placed the eye of the rope on the left of the
patient’s neck, Binns places it on the right. Binns is
for a very long drop: Marwood was for a shorter
one.. It is said that the Marquess Tseng is a Chinese
ex-Jesuit, who, after having received instruction
at the hands of the Jesuit fathers in Kiang Nan
and being admitted a member of the society,
succeeded in obtaining secularisation. The
Marquess, however, when severing himself from
the Jesuits, did not adjure his faith, and remained
what he had been baptised as-a Roman Catholic.
This oh dit is probably a Jie, Charles Dickens,
jun., grandson of “ Boz,” has elected to follow the
literary career. Wc hope he’ll prove to Dickens
the First a better Third than Napoleon the Little
did to the Great Corsican The body of Blanche
Gray, the New York fat woman, who died Nov. 7
at New York, was sold by her husband to the sur-
geons. She weighed over 6001bs. and was disposed
ot for 2o dollars. This comes to about2d per lb.
The new Lord Gard er is married to a native
Princess of the Delhi family. One of his brothers
is married to another Princess of Delhi- and his
two other brothers are married to natives of India
so that an entire Eurasian family is now num-
bered in the ranks of the British aristocracy-. This
action of the Gardners is in direct antagonism to
the creed “IVe nimium crcde, culori! ’ The en-
gagement o Archibald Forbes to Miss Meigs, of
ivasmngton, is announced in America Henry
Ward Beecher has just totted up £2uO(j by one
lecturing tour— “Phantom Fortune” is Miss
Braddons 41st novel.... Maurice Roliinat, author
of Les Necroses,” has published ninety poems
under the title “Dans ies Braudes. 99 They are
wierdlv original in style, and dedicated to the
memory of George Sand.... Anthony Trollope said
that in all his literary engagements through lire
he was never once late with “copy.” Never!
Edgar Fawcett, whose “ Ambitious Woman” has
been sueh a large success, has peculiar habits of
writing. Instead of seclusion he seeks the busy
hum. In a public cafe, with a small table to him-
self, he works industriously for hours, with brief
intermissions, which he devotes to cigarrettes and
the sipping of the frequently replenished glass
betore bun. He not only appears unahashed bv
the curious glances of strangers, who evidently
mistake him for a reporter grinding out copy on
the fly, as it were, but finds inspiration in the noise
and bustle of convivial groups about him.


Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light ancl
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry,*
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We, shall he glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clitbs and managers of
sporting events in general. 1
RACING.
Bega J.O. Races January 16,11.
Canterbury Park Race Club .January 19.
New England Races Janury 20, 26.
Sydney T.C January 36.
Junee January 26.
Goulburn T.C -•-. .February 1, 2.
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) February 13,14,15.
Coonabarabran. January 24, ~0.
Cooma Races February 20, 21.
Braidwood Races February 6, 8.
V.R.C. Autumn March 1,6, 8.
Wanganui (N.Z.) J.C. Autumn March 6, 7.
Balonne (Q.) Races April 8, 9.
Hawkesbury R.C. (Autumn)
A.J.C. Autumn April 12,14,16,19.
Hay May 15,1*«.
AQUATICS
National Regatta -January 26.
S.A.C. Dingy Club Races ... .January 5 and Feb. 9.
ATHLETICS.
Mudgee Sports ” January 26.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
From the tone of the American press, it
would appear Hanlan has decided upon a visit to
Australia. Young Teemer, who recently stated
he had no intention of tackling the Canadian, at
latest had changed his mind, and issued a decided
challenge to the champion. Hanlan expressed
much surprise, and said it was unfair to send forth
such a defiance in view of the arrangements lately
made by Hanlan, which would prevent him
engaging in a match-race with any American
sculler for some months to come. He said, how-
ever, that he would make a match for £lOOO a side,
to be rowed after he returned from Australia.
The Clipper stated that Hanlan would leave for
’Frisco on November 14 or 15, accompanied by Lee,
remain in California (where he was to row Steven-
son) about three weeks, and start for Sydney
about December 10. He intends making a tour of
the colonies, giving exhibitions on rowing
machines in theatres, halls, &c, and while in Aus-
tralia will be open to row any man for £IOCO a side.
“ and threw himself upon the sofa in au
agony of despair.”
“ She tripped lightly down the stairs.”
“ and tore herself from his embrace.”
STOCK EXPRESSIONS FROM MODERN LITERATURE.
After his engagement ia over, he will return home
via England, arriving in America about August.
* v *
Hanlan has had a new boat built by Rud-
duck specially for his colonial trip. She is called
“Old Friends,” and is fitted with the Campbell
slide, the snell of which is of metal, and, instead of
babbit being used in the grooves, a metal or com-
bination of metals is introduced, which does away
i largely with friction. Another new feature in the
irig of the boat is the moving of the rowlock-pin
■.ten inches, bringing it on a line with the sculler’s
iheel s, and allowing greater power at the finish of
the stroke. This will necessitate the use of longer
isculls, and the champion thinks he will be able to
irow faster than ever with the change of rig.
Rather cheering news to the sculler who may
have the happiness of meeting him here; for it
would be hard to gauge the amount of “ climatic
influence” necessary to bring the Canadian down
to the level of any of our oarsmen. Lee, who has
been pulling double sculls with the champion,
accompanies him to ’Frisco, but no mention is
made of his visiting the Antipodes. Should he do
so, a double scull race would be a big draw, for in
our opinion double sculling is the most showy
style of rowing done. Challenges, and rumours of
challenges, are the order of the day amongst the
second flight of Yankee oarsmen, and Wallace
Ross is matched against Conley for £2OO aside, over
a three mile course. Rowing in England is stag-
nant, the only event amongst the professionals
being a sculling handicap—by time—over a course
from Hermitage Wharf to New Crane, Shadwell.
W. Truman and G. Perkins started in the final
heat, which was won by the former. The finish
was so close that the judge declined to place them,
but Perkins said he did not think he had won, so
the prize was awarded to Truman. Perkins rather
put the amateurs to the blush by voluntarily
resigning the prize. Perish the thought that the
pair privately agreed to divide the plunder to save
further trouble!
* * *
Here’s a par. specially for the “ Army of
the Blue Ribbon.” Sullivan, the American
masher, has signed the pledge, and by so doing
hopes “ to preserve unimpaired for years to come
the wonderful physical powers of the greatest
man of his ‘ profession ’ that the century has pro-
duced.” The Sullivan combination must be
raking in the dollars at a merry rate. About 4000
people of all classes attended a show at Alleghany
■(Pa.), on October 19, when Sullivan and Slade made
a splendid exhibition. The Maori set-to in an
entirely different style to when he was under his
eheap engagement to Mace. The Gipsy must
■“ whip the eat ” at being out of such a big draw.
For real brutality, the old-time British prize fight
could not hold a candle to some of the so-called
“ glove contests ” now so common in the States,
and about which some of the better class of
American journals are beginning to call out. In
a recent hard glove fight in ’Frisco, between two
roughs named Downie and Barry, the first and
second rounds were so tamo that the crowd became
indignant, yelling, “Sham ! fixed ! humbug !” and
a host of other noises. The third round showed
hard, quick blows, and close fighting, Barry’s
long reach making up for Downie’s finer condition
and better skill. The fight in this round became
desperate, indeed brutal. All attempt at fine
defence or straight hitting was thrown aside ; the
men locked their loft arms and punched each
other with the right : the order of the referee to
“ break ” was unheeded, and finally Downie went
down, and Barry hit him before he recovered his
feet. “Foul” was claimed by his secouds and
howled by the mob, but unheeded by the referee.
For the next three rounds both men had to be
held up, pushed and nursed into each other’s arms,
where they vainly tried to hit each other. In the
sixth round both were exhausted, and fell, strug-
gling like two bulldogs on the floor, and the referee
gave a loul against Downie. For whit, no one
could tell. Then pandemonium broke loose, and
free fights were as thick as blackberries, con-
tinuing until the lights were put out. What a
farce for the police to stop a scientific set-to, such
as the recent Sullivan-Mitchell affair, and allow a
human dog-tight such as the above to be carried
out to the bitter end.
• • •
And talking of glove fights, Melbourne
had i-ather a lively set-to the other evening,
between Mick Nathan and Allbrook. The affair
came out of a row on the racecourse on Cup Day,
but the pair managed to bottle their wrath till the
22nd December, when they settled their little
difference and made a lew dollars at one and the
same time, at Newton and Nathan’s Hall, Bourke-
street, which, by the way, the talented pair
have disposed of to “a party of the name of
Parkes,” lately hailing from Temora, the town of
lies and nuggets. Allbrook stands sft. Bin., and
weighted ll}4st. to Nathan’s 9st. 61b. Small gloves
were used, and the police interfered after eight
punishing rounds had been gone through iu
29min. Nathan was very confident he could put
the big ’un through, but he found ont to his cost,
as many a good man has done before him, that it
takes a lot of fighting to bring a two-stone heavier
man down to his weight.
* t •
There is trouble up Rockhampton way
over some of the prizes given at the recent
Gymnasium sports. One swain, a successful
pedestrian, has just declined with thanks a prize
watch, valued at £5, but which he thinks isn’t
worth half the money. We have heard something
very much like this before, but it happened very
much nearer home than Rockhampton. And this
item of Bananaland sport reminds us that a
thousand pounds sweep was successfully floated
at Winton, a town not thought of four years ago;
although a similar effort fell through in Rock-
hampton. Winton is a hotbed for sport, from the
genial Major downwards.
The Yankee sawdust-worriers are again
trying to work up the agony. C. A. Harriman,
who some months since walked 100 miles without
leaving the track, at Truck ee, California, has now
walked 123 miles in North Bloomfield, Cal., under
the same conditions, covering the distance in 25
hours 58 minutes. Of course we shall get a letter
from Williams, stating that he has done better
than this in Australia. But don’t, old inanl we
will take the will for the deed. George Hazel has
returned to New York, and Charles Rowell is also
there by this time ; so Alderman Patrick Fitz-
gerald has issu'd the customary challenge, and our
American friends are therefore likely to be af-
flicted with another six days' "cruelty show. - ’
Whether it will be a profitable venture or not it is
impossible to state; but the game is played out in
England, and, it is to be hoped, in Au stralia.
Edwards is still on the war path in New Zealand,
and articles have been signed at Christchurch for
a six days’ walking match, in which he is to walk
against Henry Huestep, Arthur Hendry, and
James Hendry. The match is for £lOO a side at
New Year. Our own Daniel O’Leary is beginning
to be looked upon in the States as rather a leary
one, judging from a par. in a Yankee exchange.
It says:—“ Daniel O’Leary, the inveterate walker,
is again amongst us, and stirring things up gene-
rally. Next Monfiay morning, at the Mechanics’
Pavilion, the first of O’Leary's ventures will
begin. The report is that he will match himself
and some one else to walk and run some one else
and another, heel-and-toe and go-as-you-please
against gc-as-you-please and heel-and-toe. We
don’t like this quartette contest, and have no love
for matches made against ‘ unknowns.’ The
whole thing savours of sham, and an attempt to
work up interest by fictions published in easily
gulled papers. - ’
• • *
Both American and English peds. have
been breaking records. In America, Myers has
succeeded in upsetting a very old record, which
probably owes its existence to the fact of no first-
class pedestrian having attempted the feat of
beating it. This celebrated amateur athlete, at a
meeting held at the Polo Grounds, for the benefit
ot Jack Goulding, of the American A.C., and 41f
Hadger, of the Manhattan A.G., in October, ran
four separate quarter miles in 3min. 51 4-ssec.,
thus beating the record achieved by C. Westhall
thirty years ago, The first quarter was run in
51 2-ssec.; thirteen minutes after he ran the second
Quarter insssec.; fourteen minutes later he ran
the third quarter in 52 3-5 sec.; and. after another
rest of fourteen minutes, he finished the fourth
and last quarter in 52 4-5 sec. Westhall’s time was
3rain. 52sec. On May, 17,1853, Westhall ran the
distance, and jumped eight hurdles, at Garratt-
lane. Wandsworth, for a bet of £lO, in 3min. 57sec.
In England, W. G. George recently r n ten miles
in 52min. 53sec.. which supersedes all amateur
records for that distance. He is credited with
doing the distance in less than 51min. in a private
trial, which beats “ Deerfoot’s ” record of 51min.
26sec. “ Doerfoot’s’’ record may be all right; but
as Martin, his manager, held the watch, it is not
likely he got th« worst, of it. ceorge runs with
an enormous stride, and covers something like
9 feet every step. On Nov. 1. over 2000 spectators
witnessed the wrestling match, at’Frisco, between
Muldoon and w metier. Muldoon is much tho
bigger man of tho two, and loosed a giant along-
side his adversary. Muldoon gained first fall,
Whistler tho second; and when ten minutes bad
elapsed of the third bout, Muldoon threw his
opponent souse on his shoulder with sufficient
force to dislocate his shoulder. Muldoon claimed
the match, and as Whistler was unable to »how at
the call of time, we think ho fairly earned it; but
the referee could not see it in that light, and pro-
claimed a draw. On November 10, at Lynn, tT.A,
Charles O. Breed (one of the right breed evidently)
fairly put up from the shoulder to arm’s length
above his head a fifty pound dumb-bell sixty times
iu succession with tho right hand alone—a square
push-up each time, without any jumping. G. M.
Robinson, of ’Frisco, had the previous best to hia
credit—sB times in succession. Robinson is the
amateur who is credited with getting all the b»st
of a set-to with Slade, the Maori. Donald Dinnie,
the renowned athlete, arrived at Auckland by the
’Frisco mail boat, and at latest was at Dunedin.
Donald, before leaving the States, had a little
court trouble with a theatrical manager. At
Mott Haven, U.S., W. M. Ford, an amateur, covered
10ft. 5J4 in. In a standing jump, and made a record
beating J. J. Tickle's previous best of 10ft. sin.,
made at Manchester (England) on September 2,
1871.
♦ * *
Melbourne held its annual regatta on the
22nd December, and taking into consideration the
entries in the various eight-oar races, it is not to
be wondered at that Sydney cannot raise a crew
to compete with theCabbags Gardeners, who are
likely to rake iu all the intercolonial races lor
some time to come. No less than seven crows
started for the maiden eights, three for senior
eights, and eight for the maiden fours; wliilo in
Sydney we cannot raise an eigbt-oar race
throughout tho year without tho two crews start
from the same shed, and such a thing as raising a
third eight is out of the question. Shortly after
the last intercolonial we suggested tho Rowing
Association shonld pick a heavy crow and lick
them into shape, but they appear to have gone to
sleep, and we suppose will wake up, as per usual,
a few weeks before the race and pick eight men,
or rather, a couple of men and a half-dozen nine-
stoners to rmv for us, and bo beaten as a matter
of course. The Melbourne crew, H. S. Frai kiln,
E. Lethbridge, W. Burnip, D. Aitken (stroke),
won the Junior Fours. The Grand Challenge Cup
fell 1o T. W. Thompson, W. Kelly, T. Graham,
W. W. Senior (stroke), the Victorian crew; A. W.
Fittcs won tpo Challenge Sculls from Beale, the
present holder, and Wood; J. Mitchell won the
Junior Sculls; and the Melbourne eight, A. R.
Tunbridge, H. P. Douglas, W. Burnip, W. J.
Leverett, F. A nicer So ti, F. G. Hughes, W. H.
Tuckett, R. D. Booth (stroke), won both Krug
Challenge and the Senior Eights.
# * *
On October 11, George M. Hendee bicycled
a mile in 3min. GOsec., and made an American
record. Hendee also holds the States record for
the following distances : Three miles, iitnin. 20)4
sec j four miles, 12min. 30sec.; five miles, IGmin.
26%see. John S. Prince has also been doing some
good wheel work in the States. On November 3
he won the 72 hours’ professional race, at Chicago,
with a score of 889 miles. The English professional
bicyclists recently gave the amateurs a pretty
rough shot. The London National Cyclists Uuion
proposed to take the aifairs of the professionals
in hand, with the view of amongst other things
putting a stop to unfair riding, but the pros,
declined with thanks, as they considered the
amateurs stood far more in need of such super-
vision themselves ! The swimming world is all
agog in England. Willie Beckwith and James
Finney were matched to swim three races of one,
two, and live miles respectively, on December 17,
for £lOO a side each contest, or £6OO in all—by far
the largest amount ever competed for in a swim-
ming race. The much-talked-of match between
Misses Sargeman »nd Johnson, over a mile course,
for £2OO and the “ Ladies’ Championship,” resulted
in a win for Miss Johnson, who is only 15)4 years of
ago, by 52 yards in 36min. Both kept to
the side stroke throughout. A match is on the
tapis between the winner and Agnes Beckwith.
Cairns, who held the amateur swimming cham-
pionship, at 220 yards, is a Liverpool bath attend-
ant, and was smuggled into London as an amateur,
but the swindle oozed out, and Cairns was dis-
qualified. As a consequence, Mr. Blew-Jones
becomes amateur champion at 220 yards, and to
him will also belong the credit of ihe best re-
corded time at the distance, viz., 3min. oJ4sec.
£4OO have been subscribed in England for the
widow of Captain Webb, and the committee have
Bensibly decided that, “ it is better to give bread to
the living than stone to the de»d.” So no portion
of it will go for a monument. Professor Tyndall
assigns Webb’s failure to failing health, and is of
opinion that the swimming of the Niagara rapids
is not an impossibility.
* * *
Some of the English papers are gushing
over young Martin, the lad of 15 who rode
Don Juan to victory in the Cesarewiteh. Ac-
cording to one paper, Marlin is a guileless young-
ster, who still goes to school, and thought more of
a penknife given to him by his uncle than the
thousand pounds given by Mr. J,ambGrt, the
owner of the horse. Considering Martin would
handle the whole of the penknife, and very little
of the thou., this seems only natural, fie ought
now to hamstring a few horses with bis littie pen-
knife, and confess to the freak; and some of the
w< eklies would make him out a veritable George
Washington. When James Smith won the Oesare-
witch, in 187 G, with Rosemary, Mr. Smith’s total
; winnings alone approached £70,000; but it is stated
the Don Juan party won more hard cash than has
been “trousered” over one race for the last 15
years. The Liverpool (Eng.) Autumn Cup resulted
in a win for Boswell, the unlucky Tonans second,
and Springbok third. Boswell's win created more
chagrin than is usually the case when an outsider
wins. Ho started first favourite, but it was with a
hop, skip, and jump that he gainod that position.
Twenty-four hours before the race he was practi-
cally an outsider, a horse that everyone was afraid
to touch until those more immediately connected
With him gave them a lead. With regard to Tonans,
and Mr. Long’s alleged big purchase at the Middle
Park sale, the World says that, “after suddenly
removing his horses in training from Tom Brown’s
stable, at Newmarket, and placing them in charge
of Lord Ellesmere's trainer, Mr. Long disposed of
his interest in the lease of Tonans, to a bookmaker
connected with Brown’s stable. It is now whis-
pered that, instead of purchasing so extensively
of mares and foals at the late Middle Park sale,
for exportation to N.S.W., Mr- Long performed
the part of amicus curicc, by buying iu the greater
portion of those that were knocked down to him I
Suspicion thereof arose at the time, which was
strengthened, if not confirmed, when it transpired
that the solitary bid of five hundred guineas for
Scottish Chief was on behalf of Mr. W. Blcnklron.
At any rate, it is now hinted that Mr. Long's re-
puted purchases are not unlikely to be bi ought to
the hammer again shortly.
• • •
The A.J.C Midsummer meeting, at Rand-
wick, on Boxing Day, mar be numbered among
the big successes of the Club. Weather perfect,
attendance large, and the Earl of Rosebery on the
ground, what more could the greatest grumblor
ask for ? By the way, the Earl, like most Eng-
lishmen, has a good hold on his native heath.
Old Gold was backed heavily for the Summer
Cup, on the strength of a trial at South Creek,
when ho beat Eva and others; and started at 3 to
1, tho same price Morpeth, and Sloth
was much fancied alter his Campbelltown win. A
grand race ensued between Sloth and Coriolanus
up the straight, and many thought the latter had
won, until Mr. Waliord gave his decision in favour
of Sloth. Sardonyx ran a good horse, and would
without doubt have made a better bid for first
place had not the buckle come oil his girth when
some thirty yards from home. The Glencoe
people showed their judgment in saving Glencoe
lor the A.J.C. Handicap, which he won by half a
length from Ascot.
• • •
Tho S.A.J.C. have issued a programme
for May 10.15, and 17. Tho AdelaidoCup isa stako
of £2sno, of which £2OOO goes to tho first horse, £3lO
to the second, r.nd £2OO to the third. The entrance
foe will be 5 sovs.; acceptances 10 sovs., final pay-
ment. All these amounts to go to theclub; but if
there should be any surplus over the £2500, it will
be divided between the second and third horses.
The distance is altered to IJ4 mile and a furlong.
And now for a lot, of miscellaneous items.
£8929 were run through the totalisator at the
Dunedin (N.Z.) Spring meeting. In England, the
big hi hard tournament at the Aquarium resulted
in s'to for W. J. Peall, I’. Taylor runner up.
After Peall’B victory Mitchell offered to conoede
him 750 in 5000, but the offer was declined. In
America, the ocean yacht raee for £2OO, between
the Grade and Fanny, was won by the latter. She
is 72 feet overall. 66 feet, on water-line. 23 feet 9
inches beam, 6 feet 9 inches depth of hold, and
draws 5 feet of water. Ike has gone to Maitland.
Kittleman, the American sprinter, is credited with
running 100 yards at Oregon, U.S , in 9% seconds.
Every sprinter does this at sone period or other
of his life. The owner of an open boat has
written us that it was not on account of the prize
not being a money one that the boats refused to
start at Manly regatta, but because the com-
mittee had refused to start the race from Farm
Cove on a general requisition from the boat
owners. The founder of the Thames Hare and
Hounds has hit upon the idea of handicapping by
weight. M. Wilson is top weight with 301 b., which
ought to prove a steadier over a long run. Says
“ Pendragon”—” Now if Trickettand Laycook had
offered to row double sculis against Hanlan there
would be something injit. Rough this. London
Bell’s Life says Laycock has taken Deebie’s
Hotel, Shark Island, Sydney! Bros. Dywer the
American turfmen, owners of the crack three-
year-old Miss Woodford, won, during 188
£20,000, and their eight years’ turf experience ha a
brought them in some £BO,OOO. The New Zealano
papers recently stated that two Musket fillies were
purchased lor export to England, but it takes
some of the gilt off the gingerbread when we now
hear they are intended for carriage horses. In
England, Goggles is being schooled for hurdle
racing. In America, the trotter H. B. Winship
and running mate, Hiram Brace, covered a mile in
2.10%, and beat the record of 2.11 made by Yellow
Dock and mate.
a • •
The simple-minded portionof the sporting
public, who are never at a loss to impute a motive
or find a reason when things go slightly against
their grain, have now discovered that several of
the members of the projected Australian Eleven,
engaged on the N.S. Wales side in the Intercolonial
match, threw away their wickets in the second
innings, so as not to interfere with the match to
commence on New Year’s Day. And while on the
cricket racket, we would ask what has become of
the bowling and fielding powers for which Aus-
tralian elevens have been so celebrated ? Judged
by recent performances, the fourth team will be
sadly deficient in ibese important departments of
the game. The Demon Bowler will not accom*
pany the English eleven on the war-path. It is
understood that he is at present engaged in the
exhilarating pastime of overlanding jumbucks.


PE R A
HOUSE
I ,o*see Hurt Manager .. .. W. J. Wlkon
Stage Manager tor Mr. Darrell.. Mr. J. H. Rainford
The Lessee respectfully announces th?t arrange-
ments have been perfected for the Inauguration
of a c necial Dramatic Season.
THIS EVENING and every evening until
further notice,
will appear, for the first time in Sydney, since
his highly successful tour round the world, the
celebtated Australian Actor and Author,
MU OHO AGE DARK ELL,
Supported by the most powcrlul company In
Australia.
First Production on the Sydney Stage of the en-
tirely original und wondrausly rucctssful Anglo-
Australian Dratna, in .facts and 8 tableaux, entitled
THE SUNNY SOUTH.
Dress Circle, ss; Stulls, 3s. Pit, Is.
The overture will commence at 0 minutes to 8 ;
curtain to rise at 8 precisely.
box olßce at Huenerbein s. 411 Geo.-st. Tickets
may be obtained also at Millhorpe’s York Hotel.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, A Musqrovb.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING,
and every evening until further notice,
THE GRAND CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME
of
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK,
Prices of Admission :
DRESS CIRCLE, 55.; STALLS, 35.; FAMILY
CIRCLE, 2s.
ACADEMY OF MUSIC-
Lessee - - - W. H. Thompson.
THIS and EVERY EVENING,
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR OF THE
EGYPTIAN WAR.
LAVISH DISTRIBUTION OF CHRISTMAS
AND NEW YEAR’S GIFTS
will take place, at the discretion of the proprietor,
without the slightest element of chanee.
Lecturer, W. H. Thompson. Agent, n. Eastwood.
MISS LOLO DE GLOROIN
Disengaged.
DRAMA, COMEDY, and BURLESQUE.
186 Dowling-street,
woolloomooloo.
TO THEATRICAL managers and
SPECULATORS.
FOR SALE.—RAINKh’S ORIGINAL PANO-
RAMA of tho
AMERICAN WAR,
und tlio New and Beau iful Panorama of the
RUSSO-TTJRKISH AVAR.
Tho above exhibitions, having cleared for the
proprietor a net protit of £30,0X), are for sale, Mr.
Rainer, now being independent, wishes to retire.
If not eiormsod «f within two months, the pano-
rama will proceed to South Africu and India*
where u oic«<<*n in . /o years £7OOO, and where
another splendid success and certain large returns
await it.
BLI:S & PERYMAN, Auctioneers, &c,
33 Collins-Btreet, Melbourne.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, CUDAL.
To Travelling Companies, Lecturers, &e.
TO LET, the above large and well-appointed
Ilall. Sitting accommodation for over 300
people ; splendid piano, scenery, &c. Terms
reasonable. Apply to
11. HURLEY TORR,
Hon. Secretary,
School of Arts, Cudal.
SECOND EDITION. PRICE, Is. 6d.
Maid, Wife, and Mother:
A BOOK FOR WOMANKIND.
CONTAINING matters of a medical nature,
highly interesting to the sex. Post free in
secure cover, for Is. Od., money order or N.S.AV.
stamps. To be had only from the publisher,
MRS. BEARCROFT,
Box 785 G.P.0., Sydney.
ANTED, by literary gentleman,
Y Y ijuiet family. Plain board.
T * * ’ Oitt.i PTH! Office.
Home in
Address
OTIb-e lESelia.'ble ZB-u.g'g'ies!
ss
NO SECOND CHEAr HOUSE.
22 and 24 CLARENCE STREET, ONLY,
FOB GOOD GOODS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS & WAGGONETTES,
BACKBOARD WAGGONS, AND EVERY STYLE OF BUGGY.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Clarence-street.
CHINA & GLASS AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
BROKEN SERVICES MATCHED, and made up complete.
CHINA REPAIRED.
Every description of China or Glass Lent on Hire.
T. SMITH,
CHINA IMPORTER AND DEALER,
260 Pitt Street,
Corner of Royal Arcade, Sydney.
Sewing Machines.
Do not buy, until you carefully examine the
New No. 7.
Among: the Ancient Hebrews this Number signified
COMPLETENESS and PERFECTION.
The Ancient Syrians used it to express
FULLNESS AND PERFECT SATISFACTION.
SEVEN is also regarded as a Lucky Number, and he who
buys tho AMERICAN No. 7
SURELY GETS A PRIZE.
Recognizing the peculiar fitness of this application, we
have called our new Machine
THE NUMBER SEVEN,
to indioate its Perfect Completeness, and because we l elieve
it will Fully and Perfectly Satisfy our Patrons.
RETAIL DEPOT :
567 a GEORGE STREET
(BRICKFIELD HILL). SYDNEY.
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
im
are the largest consumers of American
, Leaf in the colonies, hence the FIRST
" position for quality is assigned to their Twist
and Flat Tobaccos —Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thick
twist), R. C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture, and others.
CIGARETTES.— Their CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold an equal position.
nr D. A S.. Importer* of Pipes of every kind. Clsrars. and all Tobacconist*' Fancy Goods and Sundries
The most
Suitable
For a Lady
or Gentleman
IS A COVENTRY MACHINISTS COMPANY’S
TRICYCLE
For LADIES or GENTLEMEN.
The Ladies' ‘Cheylesmore’
Is the most perfect Tricycle made.
or
BICYCLE
For BOYS, YOUTHS, or ADULTS.
The SPECIAL CLUB
Is the most perfect Bicycle made.
OUR JUVENILE TRICYCLES are superior to any
that have ever before been offered in Australia.
OUR BOY’S' BICYCLES are fitted and finished in best
style, handsome in appearance, and thoroughly reliable.
PRICES OF TRICYCLES
Range from £5 ss. for Juvenile sizes
to 30 guineas for our highest sigles.
PRICES OF BICYCLES
Mange from 8 guineas for Bogs' to
25 guineas for our highest finish.
l\e send, post free, the handsomest Catalogue in the Colony. Write for it.
James MARTIN a C 0
Opposite Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
■m iKTrji
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
Offices : 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE. MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane to Bundaberg, Gladstone, and
Port Mackay, every fortnight.
Buninyong
Barrabool .
Burwah
Cheviot
Derwent .
Edina
Gabo..
♦Balmain .
Fleet of Steamships:
.. 3000 Geelong
.. 1000 Keilawarra ..
.. 1000 Konoowarra
.. 1600 Leura ..
.. 600 Moreton
.. 400 Rodondo
.. 3000 You Vangs ..
.. 600
* To arrive.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
43 King Street, Sydney.
INTERCOLONIAL JUVENILE INDUSTRIAL
EXHIBITION, PARRAMATTA, 1883.
THE OPENING”CEREMONY
will be performed by
HIS EXCELLENCY LORD AUGUSTUS LOFTUB
at 2.30 p.m., on
WEDNESDAY, 19th DECEMBER.
The OPENING CANTATA will be sung by a
Chorus of 600 Public School Children, assisted by
Miss Marie St. Clair, Mr. J. Moon, Mr. F. Brewer,
and Mr. A. H. Gee.
Words of the Cantata by J. Barlow, Esq.
Music by Herr Hugo Alpin.
Conductor—Herr Hugo Alpin.
Special trains to Park Platform on Exhibition
Ground. Excursion rates from all stations. Spe-
cial concession to children.
Arrangements have been made with Mr. C. E.
Jeanneretttorun additional steamers, as well as
trams, to the Park gate, five minutes walk to
Exhibition.
The building will, by the kind permission of Mr.
E. S. Cracltnell, be lighted in the evening with
electric light.
Admission to the opening ceremony, 2s. 6d.; in
the evening, Is.
CHAS. E. ROWLING,
Hon. See.
DISSOLUTION OF PARTNERSHIP.
In consequence of the death of Mr. H.T. Petersen.
ENUINE CLEARANCE SALE of sin immense
\JT and magnificent stock of Gold and Silver
Jewellery, Diamond Goods, Watches, Clocks ;
Sterling Silver, Electroplate, and Optical Goods.
Total value, £30,000.
MORN AND PETERSEN,
Sydney akcade, King-street,
regret to announce that, in consequence of the
death of their Partner, Mr. Petersen, they are
compelled to dispose of the whole of their VALU-
ABLE STOCK, to pay out the interests due to the
Legatees under the wiil of the deoeased partner,
and, to effect a speedy clearance, will SELL AT A
GREAT SACRIFICE, and positively no reasonable
offer for any of the Goods will be refused.
The Stock comprises
GOLD and SILVER JEWELLERY of the most
rechercht description, and WATCHES from the
best and most well-known makers: and, being a
BONA FIDE SALE,
offers an unusual opportunity for procuring
Christmas and New Year’s Gifts.
HORN AND PETERSEN,
Sydney Arcade, King-street.
EORGE GOULET and CO.’S
Extra Quality
DRY CHAMPAGNE
has been selected for the
CORONATION
of
HIS IMPERIAL MAJESTY THE CZAR OF
RUSSIA,
and Festivities at St. Petersburg, and was the
ONLY CHAMPAGNE
served at the
ROYAL BANQUET
given in honour of the
OPENING of the AMSTERDAM EXHIBITION
to
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING OF HOLLAND.
“ 154 Collins-street, East, Melbourne.
“Dear Sir,—Of the sample of George Goulet’s
‘ extra dry ’ Champagne, I cannot speak in
terms too highly. Its qualities are certainly of a
very high oi der. It possesses a charmingbououet,
fruity and pronounced. It is essentially a dry
wine, with attenuation, and free from acidity.
It is full, crisp, and clean on the palate ; and
whilst it exhtlirates, it unquestionably aids aiges-
tion.
“Yours faithfully,
“(Signed) James Geo. Beaney, M.D.
“ To R. H. Blackwell, Esq.”
T
HE “CHAMPION CONSULTATION.’’
All Prizes, No Blanks. .5000 Members, at £1 each’
THE SYDNEY JOCKEY TURF CLUB
Beg to inform the Sporting Public of New South
wales and the adjoining colonies that they have
made a. rangements for holding a £5OOO Consulta-
tion on the CHAMPION RACE, to be run on the
Flemington Course, Melbourne, the Bth day of
March, 1884, when tne foliowing prizes will be dis-
tributed, less 10 per cent, commission
First Horse £lOOO i Starters (divided)...£2oo
Second Horse ... 500 Non-starters( d 0.),.. 600
Third Horse ... 2001
100 prizes, £lO each, £lOOO. Total, equal £.3500,
leaving a margin of £l5OO, which will be invested
by the Club in making a book on the “Autumn
Meeting.” The members of the S.JT.C. being well
intormed, and connected with the principal train-
ers, and performances of their horses, are in a
position to state that the £l5OO will realise a hand-
some profit, the whole of which will be divided
amongst thoto sub;cribers who were unsuccessful
in either drawing a horse or a prize in the £.3500
Distribution. There will be no blanks whatever.
All subscribers are sure to obtain a prize, the
highest being £lOOO. This Consultation being
straight and bona fide in every particular, any sub'
scriber can be present at the drawing. Those
living at a distance can be represented by a Iriend.
The representatives of the Sydney papers will be
invited to be present at the drawing. Add ex-
change to cheques ; two stamps for reply and
result. Address. J &MES WALLACE, Sec. S.J.T.C,.
G P. 0., Sydney, New South Wales ; or Queen-
street, Woollahra, Sydney.
OUR PAPER-WEIGHTS.
Whenever we go out to take a drink,
Which we do pretty frequently, we think,
W r e load our papers down, and make them fast
To stand against the fury of the blast
Which thro’ the window blows. By papers most
Wo mean the things that come to us by post—
Poems, and stories: though, sirs, wi may state,
The stories often 6tay by their own weight.
But should the poems thro’ the window fly,
Some man might pick them up, and read, and die.
The kind of poems these the Alfred prints,
And we do not. We merely state as hints
The paper-weights we use for these —an axe;
A ten-inch bowie-knife, that sticks like wax;
A little tomahawk; a club with spikes—
Each interviewer can have which he likes;
A shot-gun, and a specimen of quartz,
And other rocks of various weights and sorts.
And so we wait, thus armoured and equipped,
Each bard to call round for his manuscript.
We rcav remark, just here, the printer prints
These little facts but in the way of hints.
The next important matter requiring a
a scientifically accurate description is "‘God’s
grace.” In this age wo are no sooner over one
difficulty than we are on to another, and the
hands of science are always kept full, showing us
exactly what each thing is. The Rev. Fr.
M’Kenna, of Fitzroy (Vic.), went a week or so ago
among a mixed company of prize-givers, and
announced that he could always tell children who
had been educated denominationally from those
brought up in the secular system merely by
looking at their faces. In the faces of the former
he at once sees “ God’s grace,” while in the faces
of the latter there isn't a drop of it. We say
‘ a drop” of it, hut are not sure whether it is
liquid or solid, whether it sticks on to a particular
feature, dribbles down any particular channel, or
blends itself with the whole configuration. That's
where we require scientific accuracy. That it is
beautifying should be, in the meantime, a
natural enough assumption. But even out of this
general statement a scandalous difficulty arises.
Surely if denominationalism beautifies the
featurfsof children, the denominational leaders,
who have been all their lives at it, must have
sweet, sweet countenances. Now, it is a plain
matter of fact that tho denominational leaders in
Victoria possess, as a body, countenances that the
average leading families would decline indignantly
to accept as sitting parts. How does “ God’sgrace ’
act on the lace ?
Don’t Die in the House.—" Rough on Rats ”
clears out rats, mice, beetles, roaches, bed-bugs,
flies, ants, insects, moles, jack-rabbits, gophers.
Moses. Moss & Co.. Bydn»y. Genera) Agents.


We see that a complimentary banquet
is to be given by the Oddfellows to “ M. Kidston,
Esq., Grand Sire of Australia.” Surely Mr. Kidston
has good grounds for action against those who
thus advertise him. However, we hope to see
several grand sires of Australasia on the show*
ground next year.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatbe Royal—“ Christmas Pantomime ”.. P-8.
Opyba Hottse—“The Surmy South” io.
Academy of Music—" Zulu 'War” ib.
There are, perhaps, few things more
picturesque than the dress-circle of a crowded
theatre on pantomime night—a circle replete
with dimples, and full of the sounds of old
men’s chuckles and of children’s laughter.
And such a forest of little arms; such
a storm of little voices, now cryiDg at the giant,
now crowing at the clown. To us there is more
pleasure in seeing these sash-hedight urchins, and
hearing their honest little criticism s than in a world
of Muntz nmtal, a myriad of spangles, or a ton ot
tinsel. We took a lady that night, to whom wo
were not married. We say it holdly. She was
just turned of six, and
“ Blue were her eyes as the fairy flax,
Her cheeks like the dawn of day ;
and one of the principal charms about her was her
fearless outspokenness. We —as doubtless our
readers will have noticed—crawl and grovel occa-
sionally to the profession. We, therefore, whis-
pered her in the circle to be discreet in her
remarks—but she wouldn’t. We even bribed her
with one of Defries’s ices—Hamlet now provides
ices, and beauties, too, in the vestibule of the
Royal—to be silent; but she wouldn’t. She said
dreadful things about the new clown. Will Simp-
son ; and detesting Mussy conducting the per-
formance on the O.P. side, crowed at him fran-
tically under the impression that he was the
harlequin. She likewise (to our confusion) called
Mr. George Reid “dada,” and an hon. Minister
as “ unkel;” conpleting our confusion by address-
ing ihe Ambitious Albert(acourtly gentleman.who
sells things gracefully by auction) as “ Gurroo”
—the name, it seems, she has given to a person
whom her parents have subsidised to wheel her
about in a time-payment perambulator. Although
we found our criticism upon—we quote the
classic George—" The grand comic Christmas
pantomime. Jack and the Beanstalk, and See-saw
Margery Daw, or Harlequin Man in the Moon, the
Love Birds of Fairyland and the Giant of Tel-el
Kebir ” the remarks of the little fairy we have
mentioned, we wish it to be distinctly understood
that, though we are conscientious so far as it goes,
our attention was somewhat distracted from the
performance at times ty the frantic efforts a pair
of dimpled knees continually made to clamber
over the dress circle tier, and fall crashing into
the stalls. We say “stalls” advisedly, because
George has abolished the pit. As Clive Newcome
had “a soul above buttons,” so Mr. Musgrove has,
it seems, a spirit superior to the pit. You can’t
pass in now under “two bob.” On the strength
of this, the pit habitude are pensive; and it is
rumoured that when Mr. Musgrove travels home,
after the show, to the Oxford, he wears a
block-tin jersey, for the buckling on of which the
Merry Moss receives an extra stipend.
• * •
And now for the acting. The noble book
(from the title-page of which George modestly
withholds his name!) is elsewhere spoken of; an i
we don’t think, so far as we can remember, that
we have ever-since we noticed Carlyle’s History
of the French Revolution”—lavished more marma-
lade upon any modern production. Of the acting,
well, to tell the truth, there is not very much
acting; but there are plenty of legs, and a very
vast quantity, indeed, of feet. We have seen more
feet on a stage at one time; but we have never
seen so much. It is hardly any figure of speech to
state that when three ladies stood together in the
“first position” there was no room for anybody
else on either side nearer than the scene-dock.
The Giant—who had a big candlestick, and every-
thing else of a Brobdignagian character—was a
perfect Cinderella to some of the ladies of the
ballet. Represented by Mr. Webbe, the Giant was
but a feeble monster. He hardly inspired any
terror, and his voice, when roaring for a sheep
or two, was decidedly more suggestive of a weak
chest than of a descendant of, say, Blunderbore.
* * *
Miss Nellie Stewart was very lively as
Jack, and worked—if we may be allowed the ex-
pression—like a little demon. We like Miss Nellie
in pantomime very much; that is probably partly
because we like to hear her sing within her range,
and partly because you see more of her in panto-
mime than you do in opera bouffe. And you
cannot—we take our cue from the mashers for
this-see too much at any time of Miss Nellie
Stewart. We wish, however, that Miss Nellie had
not introduced the lime-light song her sister used
to sing in “ Sindbad.” Miss Liddiard looked pretty
as Margery, and, like Miss Stewart (we mean Miss
Nellie Stewart!), had a plethora of dresses. But
Miss Liddiard has a great deal to learn; and she
h«8 especially to learn that it does not simply
suffice to look lovely, and to be gorgeous in satin
and stage bullion, in order to score a success in a
burlesque opening. What Miss Liddiard chiefly
lacks, we consider, is a conception of her part.
We have known many ladies in a similar predica-
ment, and we cannot— though we are even now
straining ourselves—recall to our recollection a
single one of these artistes who has been
more than a furious suecess under the same
trifling disabilities. Mr. Harry Taylor was
dr<qi as Jack’s Mother ; and Mr. Simpson
was comparatively droll as Livliboi in the opening
and later on as the Clown iD the Pantomime. Both
these gentlemen are clever to some extent, and we
are glad they have travelled some 16,000 miles to
see us. It would have required some hesitation
on our parts before we would have travelled that
distance to enjoy even their histrionic abilities.
But, then, we don’t like travelling. It disturbs
the children who sleep in the hair trunk. The
prettiest of all the pretty pictures was, perhaps,
Minnie Hope. She enacted the part of the “ Man
in the Moon,” but she didn’t look a bit like a man;
and (let us whisper this) we don’t think she wanted
to. Nothing in pearl silk tights and a twelve-inch
tuDic could look like a man. And how was the
crowd collared—we mean, how was the stand up
collared crowd collared ? It drivelled from start
to finish. Binoculars were blurred, black ties
disordered, and upon a diamond-bedecked shirt-
front stood many a salted tear.
• •
There were a lot more in it, sans doute
(a new brand of tobacco, Alfred): and there was
some superior scenery by Mr. Hennings. And
there was a good deal of singing, also, of a some-
what feeble description, andsome marching which
bordered on the mournful.
• • e
Anyhow, let us say this, and it will draw
like a magnet, The women have ail straight legs.
Last year [“Comparisons ” “ But the pro-
verb ”.—Ed. B.]
* * * *
We don’t mind letting you into a gentle
secret. We (that reminds us) are always doing
something rash; and once more we repeat—which
is verse—the daring feat. Well, we like hors«
opera. That naturally means the circus. St.
Leon’s. It is named after the proprietor, who is
an exceedingly dapper little gentleman, with bril-
liant studs of the purest water; and tho’—this is
droll, if you consider it well—he has only the ordi-
nary number of eyes, he has an eye on everything
Th re are also Mr. Jones, the ring-master: acamel;
GuB St. Leon; a colt with a donkey’s head, the
whole about the size of a Civil servant’s lunch;
Mr. Taylor, a juggler who does everything that
can be done with a plate, exoept either sit down
on it or eat off it: a boa constrictor (too full of
beef to be entertaining (though, it is whispered, in
its softer moments it is musical): Mr. Maudesley,
the fascinating advance-agent: 10 hopses; Mr. W.
St. Leon: a dromedary; " thecourtedflastreasurer,
Mr. Morgan”: Mr. West; Signor Velotti; a lot
more; Joe O’Brien; a dromedary: a brass band,
of an eccentric, and, consequently, interesting
nature; and a camel.
• mm
We were really very much interested in
the camel, esp-daily about his lower lip, which
hung down very low, indeed—evidently having
been depressed by a long course of very long
beers. On entering the tent, we were fortunate
enough to meet the proprietor of the show, and
he told us a lot about camels that surprised us.
“ How many camels do you possess at the present
time, Mr. St. Leon?” we said. “ Only two now, ’
he replied, weeping bitterly. “ Did they die ?” we
enquired, greatly moved. “ No,” said he with a
sob, “ they deserted me.” “ But couldn't you
recapture them ?” we enquired, with much feeling.
“No,” murmured Mr. St. L. in great anguish ;
“itis now impossible. Why (pockethandkerchief),
whenever I, in my travels, come across one of
those camels, I always have to take off my hat,
and” (in a lower tone) “dare not, be bad friends
with any of them.” “Are they, then, so fierce?”
we enquired. “Oh no,” said he in a hoarse (no
joke intended) whisper, dragging us in his emotion
rather uncomfortably near to the cage of the
tiger, who, thank heaven, was wrapped in
slumber, “ they are quite domesticated.” “ Well,
then, don’t you take me?" he asked, wonderingly.
“No.” “Then,” he muttered in great anguish,
“ listen. Fifteen camels and two dromedaries have
left me, basely and wilfully in this colony. They
HEALTH HINTS.
Don’t sit up too late: loss of sleep is
injurious.
If you eat too much, you may be sure
you will have to suffer for it.
A sleepy person should not beawakened
suddenly: the shock is bad for the
nerves.
Be careful not to get overheated: it is
injurious to the constitution.
had the best of board; their dinner-beer, and as
much as twenty-four rainbow posters each per
diem, not to mention sawdust and” (he dropped a
tear attbis juncture) “spangles <1 discretion. In
addition to this, they were taken by persons of
strict moral principles to all rational and instruc-
tive amusements, and three-and-six a week
for their washing was ” (in deep anguish) never
grudged by me. And as for tracts, the WAR Cky,
dates (when in season) the Evening News alter
the company had read it At this point the
esteemed proprietor of the circus broke down
completely.
« • •
The programme was a short one; but
there can be no doubt whatever that the St. Leon
boys are at the top of the tree in their profession.
To quote Mr. Sleary (who will live for ever in
*• Hard Times ” —and all times, for the matter of
that !), they never “miss the tip,” and are acro-
bats, ring-bosses, and clowns, by turns. Gus. tells
us that, he was offered £35 a week to go to America
with Cooper and Bailey—the exact sum that
Guglielmo gets for singing. We believe this, too ;
for Gus., a tiger, and a horse would be a circus all
by themselves.
* * *
You know where the show is, of course.
Then walk up while there is yet time. And If
this be considered an extra inducement, allow us
to tell you that there is a hotel right opposite, and
ice-cream (with a horn) in the immediate vicinity.
* * * *
If anyone is going to get a show this week,
it is Zulu Thompson. We have a certain sym-
pathy with Zulu, because we once lectured our-
selves. We remember the audience well. It
consisted of our aunt and a policeman. After the
lecture our aunt left; but we stayed. So did the
policeman, until we went away together. There
is a moral in this. [Hard to see ! —Ed. B.]
* * *
Mr. Thompson’s pictures are very fine; a
glimpse of those by Gordon being—let us be
original or nothing—alone worth the price of
admission. But what is more gorgeous than either
the gifts or the pictures is the lecturer. He is a
study in black and gold—an effect in white and
diamonds. And bis periods ! How were they
balanced ! You have seen the man at the
circus who balances the basin. Well, that
man is pretty clever on thn balance with
a ewer; but nothing to what Bill is on the suspen-
sion racket with his sentences. He was always an
orator, but now he is a flowing orator. His voice
rises and falls like the bosom of some Lalla Rookh-
ish houri. There is rhythm in his every syllable-
music in every inflexion of his sonorous voice.
When he dwells upon the fearful losses of the
British at Isandula, he keeps his hearers in a
silence born of a spell; when he dilates upon the
victories achieved by the Queen’s troops, storms
of cheering ring through the auditorium. We
wanted to say all this of the Rev. Charles Clark
and of Archibald Forbes once, but we couldn’t
manage it. This was either because we could not
then write as glibly as we do now, or because the
fact dawned upon us during the discourses of these
gentlemen that our little butter-cooler wasn’t
visible to the naked—no, wo mean, the spectacled
gaze. However, ....
• *
The giving away of the presents was of
natural interest to us—though we could hardly
help colouring slightly when our number conjured
towards us a music-stool, a meat safe, two cruets,
a butter-trap, a wine cooler, and a cat-kennel; but
when these articles were supplemented by a Jew’s
harp, a biscuit-box, two opera-glasses, and a flute,
we don’t mind telling you that we felt just the
least bit embarrassed. In a whisper, we may
tell you that the only thinij we didn’t win was the
suite of furniture. An old lady of several cen-
turies got this, and somewhat delayed the pro-
ceedings through having to be helped down from
the gallery, in commas, by the whole of her
family—some nine in number. The ancient dame
was much applauded—and the more especially
when it transpired that she was arguing with the
talented lecturer about the payment of the van,
stating that she had paid her shilling, and did not
belong to a daily paper. There was a capital
house, and everything was lovely, including Mrs.
Zulu T., who was gracefully standing at the stalls
door—on the watch, we suppose, for the special
correspondent of the Cooma paper.
* * * *
We were glad to see it—glad, because we
love good music; are soft on the subject of Verdi;
and have always been (metaphorically) tft the feet
of Mr. and Mrs. Turner—a splendid house. The
wealth and aristocracy of Sydney were gathered
there—and we don’t mind telling you that the
former was represented by a collection of
“ponums” which could hardly be imagined out of
the Pentateuch. At times it is—though a brilliant
sight, possessing, as it does, a peculiar Oriental
colouring—somewhat embarrassing for the critic
(however popular) to face even bejewelled
members of the Seven Tribes. It strikes us, now
we think of it, the more bejewelled they are the
more embarrassing it is to face them. We once —
before we built all round our block—had occasion
to go to the theatre at the command of an editor
whose confidence in us was such that he would
drive after us in a chaise-cart, and watch us inside.
This was, wo think, in Tamatave. By tho way—
a chance —
We could not tell you, as we live,
If it’s Tamatave or Tamative.
(We could not say our soul to save
Whether Tamative or Tamatave) ;
The question now arises, if
It is not re«lly Tamati/
Altho’—a happy thought, by Jove !
It might b e—qul salt— Tamatove.
Indeed—by Jove !—as we're alive—
Out there they may say Tamative—
But this, as everybody knows,
Has naught to do with “ Sundry Shows.”
• • •
It is “Maritana” that concerns us at the
present juncture. “ Maritana”—we believe we
give this to the world for the first time—” Mari-
tana” was composed by Mr. Vincent Wallace—(no
relation to Sandy “of that ilk;” fancy Sandy com-
posing an opera I),—a talented musician who, if we
are to believe the London papers, left his
affairs matrimonial in a complicated con-
dition. The libretto of “ Maritana ” was
written by a gentleman who alwajs made a point
of wearing a collar—we have all our little eccen-
tricities,—and it (we mean the book, not
the collar) was possibly suggested by a
play composed by Victor Hugo, Esq., who
is said to be a Frenchman. Of the interpreters
(with an exception or two) of this opera at the
Gaiety, we can speak in no other terms than those
of unqualified praise. After the surfeit of bogus
singing to which we have been treated, it is as
refreshing as sherbet (what is sherbet?) cooled
with snow, to listen to Annis Montague,
who is a perfect artist. (About the squarest
period we have written since we sang
melodiously about a patent medicine.) And
Charley ! His voice, the night we saw him,
was a dream—a substantial one. But his Don
Ctesar is a by-word—we might almost say a pro-
verb : and there’s a musical pun to be drawn out
of this: and we’d draw it out if it were not New
Year’s Day, and our drag were not waiting outside
to take us to the races.
; * *
The Don Jose of Verdi was, as may be
imagined, something to be talked about, and he
was in such splendid voice that the people over
the way were seated upon the housetops and the
gables, drinking in the melody, and —probably
beer as w*ll. Gordon—who is gorgeous as to
costume now, and extravagant in hair-oil—looked
pretty as the King of Spain, and sang with much
effect; but, perhaps (as we are in a hurry) the
less said about his acting the better. Miss E.
Sherwin was not, in our opinion, Sherwin
to advantage as JLazarillo, being apparently a
complete jiovice at acting. But a pleasing
novelty was invested in her 1 epresentation
of the “boy,” from the fact that her voice is a
pure soprano. (Our little satire.) All the other
people were all right, though we could have
wished that the soldiers in the prison-soene had
presented an appearance of a little more proba-
bility. Leon Caron conducted with consummate
art, and D’Arcy Read staged the piece capitally,
and was always to the fore with the props.
* * *
Next opera, “Lucia,” which Verdi has
been studying for a fortnight with a wrinkled
brow.
* * * •
You shall have it now. A fall of snow-
shoes —we mean, of snow-shows —we hardly know
what we mean; but it is Christmas time, or New
Year's time, or the time when people drink colonial
wine and eat almonds and raisins. We have
drunk colonial wine, and we have also eaten
almonds and raisins And, we do not feel
well. We are husky with the almonds and
bilious with the raisins, and the vintage of the
country has made salad of our inside. And this is
not pleasant. No vintage can be considered
pleasant which makes salad of one’s inside. Salad
in its proper sphere is a very pleasant thing; but
the moment you associate on second thoughts,
though, the topic, though essentially Christmassy,
is unpleasant. To change it, then, you shall hear
about Scantlebury in Brisbane; and you will be
sorry when you do hear that he did not, with his
opera bouffes, break up Chiariani’s circus. And
this, notwithstanding that Prank Towers played
Deadeye in “ Pinafore,” having—poor old Prank!
—nothing to boast of in Rockhampton. Jack,
if we are to believe what we hear (which
we don’t—of course, we never do !) put up
“Maritana,” with a complete chorus of three
hundred—or something; and the “Pirates,” with
the same number of auxiliaries. But as each
young lady spread herself out as muoh as possible,
the thing went oil remarkably well —one of the
ladies’ feetjeomman'ding, in each instance, an im-
perative encore. Lambert is the big favourite up
there; and now all of them —Leaf, Harding, and
Templeton—aro playing in Pantomime. And what
next? A good deal. A delicious little bit of satire
by “ Carados,” first. Here it is:—“ During a chat
with Conquest, I asked, * Have you road any ol
Gaboriau’s novels?’ He answered, ‘Yes, all of
em.’ * Ah, I thought so,’ I remarked, as I left him
to return to my seat.” The only explanation of
this, that we know, is that Conquest is, like an illus-
trious manager wo know, a dramatic author, And,
perhaps, you will be surprised to hear that “ Ours,’
in which Mr. Superintendent James was so great
as “the Sargint,” has been revived at Toole’s
Theatre; and in reference to the reception of “ The
Sailor and His Lass,” at “ Old Drury,” by the press-
men of London, Robert Buchanan says he knows a
critic who “ holds a hat in one hand and a bludgeon
in the other.” What, it seems, has troubled the
author of “The White Rose and Red” most,
is the bludgeon. You shall be told, too, if you
are very very good (an idea dawns upon us that
we have used this expression before), that Mr.
Charles Sugden is playing, with great success, a
part in G. W. Godfrey’s adaptation of Edmund
y ates’s “ Broken to Harness” (“ The Millionaire”)
at the London Court. Charles, it will be remem-
bered, was the gay youth, who, when aoting at the
Prince of Wales’s Theatre, had the misfortune to
“ mash” the Countess of Desart—since divorced by
the "noble Earl,” who has married Miss Bischoffs-
heim, daughter of a Vienna banker worth
millions. Lady D. used to go and see Charles
every night, and after a bit Lord D. began to
entertain suspicions. It was thought in London,
at the time, that the reason he entertained sus-
picions was because the Countess entertained Mr.
Sugden. But they are as feeble in London, some-
times, as we are out here. Eh ? You must posi-
tively learn also—as wo have learned—that Mr.
Sheridan and Louise Davenport have travelled to
Boston to see Irving and Ellen Terry, and have
announced themselves through the columns of
the S. F. Music and Dhama as having been
“verfexVy satisfied." Now if you dare to laugh we
will kill you. And our lively friend, “ the beau-
tiful Miss Lingard,” has appeared in yet another
matinte— a live-act play, “ Agnes of Bavaria,” this
time, by “ Mr. W. Hawley,” whose identity we
suspect to be identical—tautological this—with
that of Captain Hawley Smart, author of “ Breezie
Langton,” a pleasant though rather flippant novel.
It is not, however, put on record how many times
since last mail Luscombe has thrashed an infuri-
ated hub. And what else interests us ?
it it * *
We looked in to see the Clark and
Ryman’s play “Fun in a Palace Car,” at the
Masonic Hall, the other night. What struck us
principally about “ Fun in a Palace Car” was that
there was very little " Palace Car” about it, though
there was some fun. Wo are going to notice
“ Muldoon’s Picnic" next week, when we shall
probably come out in a green cover.
*• * *
And, fancy! we were just forgetting
George Darrell! Although we could hardly do
that—even on a holiday. Well, “The Sunny
South ,J has still a “ sunny shine ” (Quoted from
the Shroud.), and whenever George appears there
is joy in the pit, enthusiasm in the stalls, and
ecstacy in the circle. We wanted to say a lot
about the 4th act; but we don’t like to keep our
friends waiting, as we are going to Coogee in a
van.
THE ART DISPLAY AT SANDS’S.
There can bo no doubt that the public of Sydney
arc beginning to appreciate the enterprise of Mr.
John Sands in continuing his series of art exhibi-
tions for the seasons. The result, of course, is a
mutual benefit. Mr. Sands' enterprise, after
much discouragement, is being well recognized,
while, on his part, the display made in his galleries
is tending day by day to encourage a taste for the
fine arts which must be productive of good to the
community. In this colony, of course, the great
mass of the population is absorbed in active
business, with but little time to make a selection
of art subjects for home embellishment. At the
galleries, however, which Mr. John Sands has
opened at his establishment in George-street, next
the Post Oliice, the >vorks of all the best artists in
the world are brought together—works in oils,
water colours, or the finer highly-prized steel-
plate engravings; and from these a splendid selec-
tion can at all times be made. And for the
first time in these colonies these magnificent
art productions of the English and Continental
schools are procurable by the public at exactly
the London and Continental publishers' prices.
The character and variety, the unrivalled excel-
lence, and the numerous collection as well, of the
productions shown in Mr. Sands’s galleries, point
to the fact of a very heavy investment of capital
in this new line of business; and it is to be pre-
sumed that this is the explanation of the very easy
terms on which the public are now met. And here
one word may be said of the gentlemen who make
the selection in the home publishing galleries, for
Australian tastes and requirements. Few men
could have exhibited better judgment. Without
hardly any exception, the selections have been in
complete harmony with the happiness and sun-
shine of life in Australia; and the best furnished
private galleries in any of the colonies could find
here very valuable additions, indeed, Every faci-
lity is offered for inspection; in fact, Mr. Sands’s
galleries have, for months past, been a fashionable
rendezvous of an afternoon, an inspection of the
collection being a thorough treat. And, as an
indication of present results, it may be mentioned
that over two-thirds of the whole of the artist’s
E roofs of the celebrated picture, “ The Widower,”
ave been taken for Australia (particularly
N S W.), through Mr. Sands’s gallery. With
the close of the year, the Spring Exhibition
of art subjects terminated ; and on the 2nd
of January commenced what Mr. Sands has
long been desirous of carrying out. There has
been a well-founded complaint among colonial
artists that there have been no really practical
means of disposing of their productions to the
general public. There hare been innumerable
exhibitions and art-unions, but the results have
at all times been unsatisfactory, and by no means
certain. Mr. Sands has now arranged to accom-
modate all colonial artists at his new galleries.
The productions in oils and water-colours of the
best colonial artists will form the Summer Exhi-
bition at Mr. Sands’s galleries; and as the visitors’
list for the three months is likely to run up to
near upon 150,000 people, some gratifying results
may be looked for. The collection of colonial
artists' works is likely to be the best yet yet shown
to the public. Over 100 subjects in water colours
and oils have been named for a place in the gal-
lery, and we will not be surprised if the public are
found promptly liberal in their investments. The
galleries will be open from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. each
day during the Summer months, so that ample
facility is offered the public to i ake an inspection
or a purchase by way of encouragement to colonial
art. _____ m


Your Xmas Wine Orders should be
booked early to Insure delivery. Hookings and
00., 143 Pitt-street *
To those interested in mining, the “Mining
Leaseholders’ Guide," by T. F. De Courcy Browne,
will be of great service. It explains all the par-
ticulars in connection with gold and mineral
leases and mineral conditional purchases. A
chapter on the minerals, ores, and gems found in
New South Wales—their appearance and testa-
will be found useful to prospectors and others.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss or Voioe, In-
fluents, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expeotorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the oonge&Led
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for ‘‘Arnold's’
and get it; spurious imitations are sometime
offered.
Despite the fact that the Prince of Wales
to some degree patronised Henry Irving the
tragedian has not the entree to first society.
Neither Irving nor any other actor is ever seen in
a crack club of the West End, or at a State ball or
levee. It is true, as Irving himself said at the
banquet, ‘‘The time has gone by when there is
any need to apologise for the actor’s calling.” Hut
better men than he have found how impenetrable
are the barriers with which the British aristocracy
hedge themselves around. Many people, notwith-
standing his fame, don’t see any greatness ip
Irving. The fact is that, commencing an actors
life at 19, he was for nearly twenty years unheard
of. It was only a few years ago when he took the
notice of Baroness Burdett-Coutts—an estimable,
aged lady, no doubt, but hardly to be supposed a
better judge of acting than any other old
lady—that Irving’s genius was unearthed.
Probably, ii was such a passing lancy as any of
the sex are liable tj ajt anymofnent: bufas tpe
Baroness was rich, in Irving’s case tpp result was
he was a made man. With her patronage, her
Lyceum Theatre, and her cheque-book at his back,
he began those elaborate Shakespearian represen-
tations, with splendid scenery and countless of
cost, which, by the aid of the press, pmde tb o
theatre a gigantic draw, and Irving a “great tra-
gedian.” He is a shrewd man. Bebind the scenes,
there is a small room where is spread every'night
a rcchrrchi supper, for which the critics have a
standing invitation. It is not difficult to write
pleasant things after partaking of it. From the
time Jrv'ing has been backed by the cheque-book
of the Baroness, the papers have spoken well of
him. Before that, he was not spoken of at all.
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers, it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins Is.*
Youth.—Many young persons, from 10 to
-0 years of age, are greately annoyed with rough-
ness of the face, the skin being covered with un-
sightly pimples, blotches, discolouration®, and
flesh worms. To all such, wc advise the use of
Bristol s Sarsaparilla and Pills.
Mr. DeCourcy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Title*
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Busines*
m the Public Department undertaken. Title* •
speciality.— Ad vt.
A Happy New Year.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now that “Eighty-three” is waning,
All its days so nearly gone,
I have found my heart complaining
Of my past year’s goings-on;
For, although things can t be mended,
Yet I feel a sense of shame
When I think the year now ended
Brings no credit to my name.
All its chances have been wasted,
Thrown with idle hand away,
While of wicked joys I’ve tasted
In a reckless, idle wav.
’Stead of walking righteous oourses,
And prescribing for my soul,
I’ve been putting “ quids” on horses
(And preferred it, on the whole).
Far too often I’ve been tempted
To the subtle game of Pool,
Till my pockets have been emptied
(They are empty, as a rule).
But I'm sick of playing “ fifty ”
Which the other fellow wins,
So I’ll alter, and be thrifty
When the glad New Year begins.
Quite regardless of the Joking
Of my careless brother baras,
I intend to give up smoking
And to “ cut ” those awful cards:
No more I’ll go “ deep-sinking ”
In that bad colonial beer—
’Twill bo just as well, I’m thinking,
For it always makes me queer.
I’ll attend at church each Sunday
(Which I haven’t done of late),
And my breakfast, after Monday,
Shall be polished off at eight.
I have loved my bed too dearly,
'Mongst my many little sins,
But I mean to get up early
When the glad New Year begins.
Thus I’ll break off all connection
With the life I’ve lived of yore,
And will strive to be “ perfection ’’
When we come to Eighty-four;
While, that nothing may debar me
Of success in this my plan,
I intend to join the “ Harmy,”
As a “ Captain”—if I can.
Once secure in that position,
It is needless, quite, to say
That my former sad condition
Will be changed in every way:
(I have made this statement solely
On the well established fact
That a “ Captain ” must be holy—
In thought and word, and act.)
Deo. 30.
Our “Waterloo” Heroes.
“ The Gode are dead.”
’Neath the brow where Our Lady of Carmel looks
over the city
A foul deed was done;
But her Lmiyn*iip's eyes am not see, more’s the
pityl
Help rendered she none!
Perchance she was journeying, or sleeping—
Perchance she was sick:
Howe’er 'twas, one long wail of agonised weeping
Touched her not to tho quica.
To the Mother of Him whom we’re taught is
So mighty to save,
The shriek 01 the outcast as naught ij—
On this side the gravel
Ye fools, who still go, as priest-bidden,
Who the battle with sin
Leave to priestcraft, deaf, dumb, and bedridden
Without and within,
Wake up to the Truth, that's so near you—
Trust nor Mother nor Father
In a fa'-away Heaven, but just clear you
By Human means, rather;
And ‘‘got at” tho works of tho slums, fetid, hell-
ish, accurs’d.
By cleansing things here,
And leave to the Future its priest-defined worst—
And the Present will brighten, no fear I
Dec. 88.
J.S.
Hide and Seek.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Tla tho afternoon of a Summer day; all nature
bedecked with verdure gay;
The purple bee, from each blossom so rare, her
sweet ambrosia gleans with care,
And leathered songsters, brightsome and free, trill
forth their notes right merrily;
Two children, ripe forfrolicand freak, are playing
a game of “ Hide and Seek.”
A happy girl with a glowing face, a laughing boy
in an eager chase:
She breathless lies 'neath the hedges green, and
watches him thence, herself unseen,
Now slipping behind a stout old tree, notes every
move with a joyous glee;
But the boy's pursuit |is keen and fast, and the
laughing girl is caught at last.
A maiden sits in a leafy bower, scatt’ring the bloom
of a broken flower;
Here eyes are filled with a tender light—ah I
maiden, wherefore that smile so bright ?
A gallant youth is beside her now, and the colour
mounts to her maiden brow.
The blush of love is on her cheek; they are play-
ing a game of “Hide and Seek.”
The sun is sinking away to rest, her lovely head
droops on his breast;
A young man’s voice says, soft and low, “My
darling love, I love you so,
My heart is throbbing for you alone, my queen,
my empress, my joy, my ownl”
The vow is spoken—ne’er more to part—the youth
has captured the maiden’s heart.
The game is over, the play is done, the maid is
conquered, the youth has won.
True love is holy, its joy is pure; it never faileth,
and can endure.
Thus simply Nature runs her course —no bar
opposes her gentle force;
The hearts of the youthful hear her speak as they
play their games of “ Hide and Seek.”
G.W.R.
THE NEWSLETTER.
131 b. trout (brown) caught last week in
the Esk (Tas.).
Seven women were lying drunk near the
railin'" s on Belmore Park, Sydney, as a tram
passed on Friday morning last. And yet wo send
missionaries to tne heathen 1
Dr. Crowther, M.P. (Tas.), tells a horrible
tale anent cruelty and mismanagement at the
New Norfolk Lunatic Asylym, which ho says con-
tains many people who are perfectly sane.
Dailey, referring to tho Whitton and
Goodchap trouble, says they arc oilicials *oo valu-
able to lose. It strikes us that, while their mutual
disagreement continues, they are a precious deal
too expensive to keep.
A forger at Wentworth has just dropped
in for ten years. The amount was only £5105.;
but the N.B.W. Criminal law now allows of no
judicial discretion in the case of this cifence; ten
years being the fixed term, whether the sum in
question be ono pound or twenty thousand.
At Jerilderie, lately, two constables fired
ten shots each at a goat, and, none of these taking
effect, had to charter a man swift of foot to
entrap and butcher it. Tho residents now respect-
fully require notioe as to when the force intend
again to go goat-shooting, so that they may be
enabled to put up their shutters ana hide in their
little cellars. There is no “kid” about this goat
story.
At Gunnedah the river-water is muddy
and lukewarm. So a German water-carrier dug a
hole in tho marginal sand, sank a cask in it, and
supplied the settlement with cool, clear water.
But a (we’ve given up trying for a name for him)
first washed in it, aud then the sequel wo
cannot allude to. We’ve always stood out against
tho triangles; but, somehow, if there were a pair
at Gunnedah
Salvation Army Ellis first got two wives,
and now he has “two years.” It seems, too, that
John Jones, the engine-driver whose carelessness
caused the late fatal mining accident in Victoria,
had a touch of Harmy mania at the t me. Apropos
of this kind of thing, hero is a sweet gem from a
late War Cry: “Ono was a woman whoso husband
had been saved on Saturday night. She felt the
strivings of tho Holy Spirit, and intended cutting
her throat.” Hallelujah ! Queer “ holy spirit ”
that.
The New Guinea correspondent of the
“S.M. Granny” (writing from Point Moresby
under date of November 30) toils us that 200 men
and boys being away in the Gulf on a trading
expedition, only womon and children, with a few
men here and there, and a chief or two, remain in
that male-desorted quarter—the food, etcetera, of
the grass widows to bo paid for in sago when their
husbands' ship comes home. The above item of
intelligence leads us to suppose that the N.G.
correspondent of the S.M. Granny is having a high
old time, anticipating sago on the margin.
MANAGER (with emotion): “Look here now, Murphy, there’s nothing doing. We
want a sensation. We’ve either got to get up a marriage between you and Maggie, or
close the show—take your choice!”
The Minister of Justice has deolined to
establish either a Circuit Court at Forbes or a
District Court at Parkes; and the angry Westerners
who yearn for the boon of seeing horsehair, silk
bombazine, and ermine in exedsi* declare that the
reason the boon’s denied them is because those
places are off the railway line, and the Judges
don’t like travelling unless in an easy carriage.
Foolish Westerners! Wo wish we lived off the
railway line, in some happy land where luxurious
Judges wouldn’t come with their peculiar views
about contempt of court, privilege, libel, and
standing by one another.
Colonel Browne, erst of the Connaught
Rangers, and a bona fide “Crimean hero,” has
been victimising Ballarat with his valueless
cheques. Browne is not the first chevalier of the
Legion of Honour who has developed into a che-
valier d’industrie, and possibly won’t be the last.
For the Ballarat snobs, who thought they had
hooked a distinguished swell in the one-armed
Ranger, we haven’t the least sympathy. It may
please them, however, to know that they've been
done Browne in company with the snobs of close
upon every large town in this continent—and that
by a fellow whose military title is as straight as
that of Wolseley or our own Abednego.
Lord Rosebery has spoken “admiringly”
(thank goodness!) of the way in which many Vic-
torian towns are laid out, and the Melbourne
Herald, in commenting upon his condescension,
remarks that “such approbation on the part of
our distinguished visitor is gratifying.” So it is,
very gratifying; furthermore, it is reassuring, for,
if the “distinguished visitor” had expressed a
contrary opinion, it would have been necessary to
build those towrs over again. His Lordship
approves of trees in the publio thoroughfares,
and so the Melbourne City Council have decided
to plant some at once in their busiest streets. If
the noble stranger makes anymore little sug-
gestions. they will, doubtless, be adopted. Evi-
dently, Melbourne dearly loves a Lord.
In South Australia, as in other places
further east, there are various official modes of
dealing with official irregularity. One defaulter’s
1.0. U. was recently taken for his deficit. Another
was allowed to retire, the missing money to be
reckoned as retiring allowance! Another (who is
not particularly well-connected) is to be prose-
cuted criminally. In N.S.W., there are several
officials still holding high position whose treat-
ment of Government moneys in their custody has
bean every bit as crooked as that alleged against
Duff, yet in whose cases prosecution was never so
much as hinted at. One offender, it is said, con-
sidered himself hardly used that he wasn’t pro-
moted to an Under-Secretaryship only a year or
two after his little game had been condoned.
Some good hard swearing was got through
in connection with an application for renewal of
license for one of the Melbourne hotels. A former
barman and a senior constable testified to the
drunken habits of the landlady, while a restaurant
keeper stated distinctly that she was frequently—
three times a week-intoxicated, and that she
“Jumped on her sister.” On the other hand
certain witnesses, including an ex-M.L.A.,
declared her to be of most sober habits,, even
refusing 1 “to take a glass of wine when invited.
The Bench, evidently considering that a lady who
“ refusod a glass of wine,” and was championed by
an ex-M.L.A., must be a model of propriety,
granted the license unanimously, and in very
complimentary terms. So much for the sanctity
of an oath.
Henry William Ward feels that the days
of persecution are not yet over. A few days ago
he appeared before the Fitzroy (Vic.) court with a
fraud summons in his hand, and his face betokened
that the iron of tyranny had entered his soul. He
admitted that he owed the £5 3s. for board and
lodging, but averred that ho couldn’t think of
making any reasonable arrangements for paying
it off, as between himself and his wile he only
earned £l4 a week. “I am a professional,” he
said : “ 1 make £4, and my wife makes £lO, weekly,
but I don’t see my way to conveniently meet this
little account.” “You must meet it, Henry,
whispered the Bench, “or go inside for fourteen
days.” Henry, while feeling about for the money,
intimated that he thought it a barefaced mockery
for Fitzroy to call itself part of a free country.
There is a mechanical and industrial ex-
hibition going on in Melbourne at the present
time, and our old friend, Dr. L. L. Smith, as presi-
dent of the Engineers’ Association, is indulging in
those subtle expressions for which he has an
Australasian fame. For instance, after proclaim-
ing the exhibition open, he went on, in reply to
Mr. Munro, to say that “if the trustees had not
done much so far, they had tried to avoid acting
so as to obtain censure.” This sentence admits of
a lot of readings. It implies that “acting so as to
obtain censure” was not alone a possibility to
those trustees, but that they had to tonic them-
selves to resist the temptation to so act. Tonic
themselves? No, we won’t tell the tipple.
Medicines "sealedfrom observation,” of course.
And it also implies that they didn’t do much else
than tonic themselves all tho time. And it also
implies that the trustees were acting for a com-
pany of querulous, carping critics. Take it
altogether, it is one of those sentences that if you
look into your heart and write about will make
you call yourself a fool for the pains.
Dr. Singleton, of Melbourne, is a compas-
sionate man. His bump of benevolence is nearly
the size of the Exhibition dome, and tho stream of
kindliness that works through his system is nearly
as loner as the Yarra. He went to the Melbourne
Gaol the other day; and, as he wandered around
the 510 J cells of that dismal retreat, he saw in the
faces of the haggard inmates that one thing was
wanting to make them happy—they had no copies
ot the Bible. The bump throbbed, the stream
rippled, and he at once put down his name to
supply 5100 Bibles or Testaments annually. But
Governor Magee wouldn’t have them. “ Have
lots of them things,” said the old man, “ and don't
want no more.” Dr. Singleton now appeals to the
Ministry—and, in particular, to Graham Berry—to
to obtain admission for these agencies of reform.
We hope he will succeed. Jt will add to the plea-
sure of colonial life to be able to know that the
embezzling stone-breakers and burglarious white-
washers are each thumbing a Bible presented to
them by command of Graham Berry. It will add
to the pleasure of colonial life, we say, for it will
give Victorians a further excuse for swearing.
A cheer went up at the S®uth Melbourne
Court-house when the Bench told one Nathan
that twelve months' hard labour would about
moet his cose. Notice of appeal was given at
once, so that it is quite on the cards that Samuel
may escape the year’s stone-fracturing. He was
the owner of a furniture warehouse conducted on
the time-payment system. Brothels of every de-
gree of “respectability” were furnished by him,
and he thrived amazingly, living on the proceeds
of prostitution, just the same as the women using
his goods, and, no doubt, attending Synagogue and
attracting the attention of Jehovah by the ardour
of his responses. But we need not travel from
homt to discover people who let their houses,
knowing them to be intended for immoral pur-
poses, and, by doing so, become shareholders in
the traffic of debauchery. There they are—guests
at Government House, orators in Assembly and
City Council, elders of churches, prominent
citizens of respectability as faultless as their shirt-
fronts—all (why mince matters ?) drawing a living
from that prostitution they denounce so fiercely
in public. If we could only get a few of them in
the dock like Sam Nathan, and send a packing-
needle through the bladder of their “respect-
ability!” Wo Jive in hope.
On the 17th instant, in the Supreme Court, j
Sydney, the Chief Justice remarked (Windeyerand
Innes, Justices, concurring—by the bye, the word
“concur” is a good term in such a connection)
that the present rules for the admission of attor-
neys, solicitors, and proctors had been framed to
take the place of others which had been relaxed
to such an extent that persons were admitted who
never ought to have been, and some of these had
been struck off the rolls because they were calculated
to bring the administration of justice into dis-
credit. We should like to know how many attor-
neys there are still on the rolls who in Sir James
Martin’s opinion ought to be off—the balance, in
fact, between the “ some who have been struck off
the rolls because they were calculated to bring the
administration of justice into discredit” and those
“ who never ought to have been admitted.” Had
we made a remark so grossly aspersive of a large
section of Supreme Court officials, and professional
gentlemen (by Act of Parliament), we suppose
we’d have been run in for contempt. Attorney-
dotn wouldn’t have been comforted until the
calumniator had been mulct in many shekels, or
immured in dungeon fast. But now that Lawyer-
dom has been aspersed by its own boss Pundit, it
mustn’t feel surprised if the community exagger-
ate his dictum, and put down some 75 per cent, of
the attorneys, solicitors, and proctors as follows
extremely fortunate in not having been struck off
the rolls, though fully deserving of that considera-
tion.
It is just nine years since the “ Victorian
Humane Society” was founded. It has now de-
veloped into—here we cough gently—the “Royal
Humane Society of Australasia;” and this with-
out troubling the other colonies regarding their
views on the matter. The Melbourne men worked
the oracle in so neat a manner, that they really
deservo to be complimented on their adroitness.
They applied in an off-hand, friendly, informal
style to the Governor of N.S.W. for his patronage.
His Excellency, who bears in certain circles—what
circles, we are unable exactly to say—a reputation
as a diplomat of the first water, appears to have
given his assent in a manner which was childlike
and bland, and to have eaten his thistles with
a delightful composure very similar to that
displayed by the eminent Mr. Bob Smith
when munching the bunch of carrots so
temptingly helu out by Earl Rosebery at the
Honorable Toby Barton’s dinner. Several other
Australian Governors also gave their patronage.
Whereupon the Victorians, having got their little
venture endorsed with the all-round vice-regal
bless'ng, found themselves easily able to arrange
with the British Humane Society that the latter
should only send its medals and other awards
through them, and that it, in a word, should wipe
out all the other Australian Humane Societies,
and recognise the Melbourne one, to use a sheep-
stealing phrase, as the only “real M‘Coy.”
When these facts came out, many N S.W. oilicials
were considerably exercised in mind as to the
manner in which Sydney had been befooled. But
now Mr. “John Wilks,’’ the President of the
“ uoyal Humane Society of Australasia”—humph!
—came forward to hold out a bogus olive branch
in the columns of the S. M. Herald. Johnny
Wilks has the cheek to state that he’s about to ask
the Mayor of Sydney to assist his crowd by calling
a meeting- for the inauguration of a branch in
Sydney. Ye gods! “Sir,” writes Johnny to
Granny, “ may I presume to hope that the hearty
co-operation of New South Waies in this matter
will go far towards spreading and strength-
ening the present general desire for a
federation of the colonies?’ (Booh!) “The
federated colonies of Australasia; head office in
Melbourne; branches in Sydney and other small
towns ” is evidently the programme of the Johnny
Wilks’ party. Here is a splendid bit of bunkum.
Wilks, to the Herald editor:—” I will not further
trespass on your valuable space—(jam!)—save to
ask your powerful ass stance—(marmalade)—and
the hearty co-operation of all of your citizens who
desiie to aldin rewarding the brave—(here Johnny
Wilks scoops in all the inhabitants of New South
with a muck-rake)—and who, whatever differences
of opinion they might have on other intercolonial
matters—” And so on. No, Johnny; the en-
lightened inhabitants of the great and glorious
colony of New South Wales haven’t all 11-inch
ears They don’t all bray, and eat thistles.
They can reward their own braves, and kiss their
own girls. They don’t want your medals, Johnny.
There won’t be any meeting of the Sydney
citizens. The Sydney citizens are big fools enough.
They hand over the control of their beautiful city
to the keepers of whisky-mills, and to persons
whose sense of sestheticism is the result of a life-
long familiarity with the dying words of stuck
pigs, the bellowiDg of moribund bullocks, and the
lovely sights through which the slaughterman
wades at the Glebe Island abattoirs. But all these
patchouli scented people are under the eye of the
Sydney public. Anti, Johnny, you are in Mel-
bourne, far away. Don’t thrown your baits into
Sydney, Johnny, or they’ll break your little
fishing-rod.
Swiss Commissioner’s Speech.
Extract from a speech delivered at the Amphi-
theatre of the Primary College of La Chaux-de-
Fonds, Tuesday, the 14th day of November, 1876,
by M. Edouard Favre-Perrel, Swiss Commissioner
aud juror to the Philadelphia Exhibition:—
On the Waltham “Riverside” Watch.
. • . . “The Waltham Company make the
entire watch—from the first screw to the case and
dial. It would even be difficult for them to use
our products, so great is the regularity, so minute
the precision, with which their machines work.
They arrive at the regulation of the watch—so to
say—without having seen it. When the watch is
given to the adjuster, the foreman delivers to him
the corresponding hair-spring and the watch is
regulated. (Sensation among the audiencp.) Here
is what I have seen, gentiomeo I I asked from the
director of the Waltham Company, a watch of the
fifth grade. A large safe was opened before me;
at random I took a watch out of it and fastened it
to my chain. The director, having asked me to
let him have the watch for two or three days, so
as to observe the motion. I answered, ‘ On the con-
trary, I persist in weariag it just as it is. to obtain
an exact idea of your manufacture.’ At Paris, I set
my watch by a regulator on the Boulevard, and on
the sixth day I observed that it had varied 33
seconds. And this watch is p( the fifth American
grade; it cost 75 francs (movement without case).
At my arrival at Locie, 1 showed the watch to onp
of our first adjusters, who asked permission to
‘take it down’—in other words, to take it to
pieces. I, however, wished first to observe it; and
here is the result, which I noted: Hanging, daily
variation, I>4 seconds; variation in different posi-
tions, from 4 to 8 seconds; in the ‘heated room,’
the variation was but very slight. Having thus ob-
served it, I handed the watch to the adjuster, who
took it down. After the lapse of a few days, he
came to me and said, word for word: ‘I am com-
pletely overwhelmed: the result is incredible; one
would not find one such watch among 50,000 of our
manufacture.’
“ This watch, gentlemen, I repeat to you, I took
at hazard—out of a heap, as we say. You under-
stand, from this example, that the Waltham watch
may be preferred to the Swiss. I have finished,
fentlomen, and I have told you of things such as
have seen them. It remains for us to profit
from this sad experience, and to improve our
manufacture. Competent men are not wanting
among us; they must go to work at onco.”
[A round of aoplause followwd thn apaxkor »■ he
t.rihiina. I


Mothers with sickly, fretful, nursing
children, will cure the child and benefit themselves
by taking Hop Bitters daily. See.
Political
Points
It used to be said of Lord Palmerston
that though at the Home Office he was all abroad,
no man couffi be more at home at the Foreign
Office. Somewhat similarly might not one say of
Sandy Stuart, that his militant Scotch mug suits
the N.S.W, Ministry of War all to peaces ?
London Society, with ultra-Tory pre-
dilections in favour of the good old times of
North, and Loughborough, and Castlereagh,
shrieks out: “ What a farce, liberty, equality, and
fraternity, is in the hands of a godless, illiterate,
and selfish Government,” just as if piety, culture,
and self-sacrifice were the peculiar attributes of a
“ Divine-right” supported oligarchy.
Sir Henry Parkes, in the Nineteenth
Century, recommends (1) that there should be an
Australasian Federal Council, and (3) that the locus
of the said Council should be London. Parkes
should be impeached for treason to all his best and
most Liberal convictions. The Federal Council of
Australasia in session in London would simply
mean the rigimc of the absentee and the shoady
importer.
Next to being a clerk in the Lands Depart-
ment, give us the billet of an Afghan, Egyptian,
or Zulu prince at loggerheads with our subjects,
and supported by dear old obstinate John Bull.
The Khedive is now threatening to resign unless
“Johnny” puts down El Mohdy for him, while
Johnny sulks and swears a little at the mess he is
in through volunteering to become debt-collector
for a flock of Hebraic cormorants.
It is undoubtedly a serious reflection on
the genius, the talent, the patriotism of the soi-
disant independent members of the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment, that of late days the only earnest, consistent
efforts made with an honest view to expose cor-
In the far, far frozen regions of tUe North,
there dwelt a Party who was grievously
persecuted by a fiend who was eternally
asking, “Is this cold enough for you ?”
Soye, sipk, sated, irritated, tho-
roughly disgustpd witji hearing the
of t-repeated pleasantry, the Party dis-
guised himself in everyday clothes
and fled to other scenes. “In Aqs?
tralia,” he soliloquised, “theynever
ask one ‘is it cold enough for you.’ ”
Arrived at Sydney, he was met on the
Circular Quay by a mysterious person,
who inquired, with a humorous twinkle
in his eye, “Weil, is this hot enough for
you?”
It was the fiend in disguise, who had
arrived there first,
There was, it would appear, no
escape from the exasperating form
of the question, and so as
above.
The fiend still lives, and is at large.
THE WEATHER FIEND.
ruption, jobbery, and nepotism, should have been
the efforts of a comparative youngster. It may
be fashionable—indeed, it is so with the Civil Ser-
vice lah-de-dah and his congeners—to sneer at the
“ Giraffe,” yet ’tis impossible to deny that that
long-necked-and long-headed—fellow is poking
his head into no end of holes in which Tite
Barnacleism has too too long enjoyed a boundless
otiurn sine any dignitate.
Service still says he is not responsible for
Speaker Barton’s name having been mentioned in
connection with the Argus report of his blowful
speech on the Convention proceedings. This may
be quite true in a strictly quibbling sense: but,
inasmuch as “the eminent Parliamentary autho-
rity” he referred to was Mr. Speaker Barton, Mr.
Service has merely succeeded by his disingenuous
diplomacy in superimposing upon his character
for commercial canniness the deserved reputation
of being considered a past-master in the art of
evasion. [When the N.S.W. libel law has been
fixed up a bit, we shall be able to make sentences
gke the foregoing a little shorter.]
England refers Tewfik to the Sublime
Pprtp, in his lfttle trouble with the “False”
Prophet, who came upon him so soudanly. This
move would seem to indicate that the British
Jiolder of Egyptian bonds feels he ought to draw
he line somewhere, and that that “somewhere"
•egins at about the latitude whence Hicks made
ps' exit. If England—the Nation, not the jobbers
who pose as sich —w quid only honestly go in for
righteous bottle-holding ’twi*t Turkey and the j
Mqhdy (whosp port is at present a precious sight
sublimer th«n the Sqltan’s) we should rejoice—
more particularly should we rave with delight
were the Mohdy to make a clean sweep of Abdool,
Tewfik and Co.
“It is said—and likely enough there is
truth in the report—that a section of the Egyptian
society yearns for the return of Ismail to the
supreme rule in El Mizr. No doubt the bummers
and the drum ers, the exploiteurs and the epicene
harlotry of Cairo, would prefer the jovial-corrupt
sensual-bestial Ismail to the timid-corrupt, prig-
gish-Anglomaniac Tewfik; but as for the people of
Egypt, wo know what they would prefer—Arabi
restored (guaranteed by the Powers and at peace,
as a Mahommedan potentate should be with El
Mohdy), the bondholder referred for payment to
those who got his money—in a word, Egypt for
the Egyptians. And so far as Britain’s real interest
and true honour are concerned, it wouldn’t be a
bad programme.
The S. M. Herald so very rarely speaks
out straight—so frequently essays to do the trick
by running with the hare and hunting with the
hounds—that we confess we weren’t in the least
degree surprised when we read its words in com-
pliant excuse of those British “ bear ”-ing brokers
who tried to dish the successful floating of the
N.S.W. three million loan. Says the Herald:—
“The brokers render us a service when they take
a loan off our hands, and it would be unreasonable
to expeot them to render that service for no-
thing.” Considering that theibroker, like any other
middleman, is at best but a necessary evil (to put it
the way most favorable to him), there is something
positively indecent in the leading metropolitan
daily patting the foreign “ bear ” on the back, and
maintaining that its only right he should have his
little “loot.”
i “He sows, but he shall not reap.” If there
be kudos of any kind distilling itself from this
annexation rumpus, a big bottle of it should be
given to Sir Thomas MTlwraith. In fact, if people
were just, it ought to be all put in a jar
and left at his lodgings. Sir Thomas has been
staying in a private hotel in Melbourne. The town
is sitting up talking about New Guinea, and point-
ing at the shadows of Service and half a dozen
others astride of a moon-beam sailing to the realm
of glory. Even “ boots,” groping along the lobby,
ana Bridget in the scullery think .the delegates
immortalized. But Sir Thomas is not even a
delegate. He dragged the subject from obscurity,
rolled it in a ball, threw in on the political lawn,
and stripped to kick itto goal. But, presto 1 Other
heels and toes are at work, Sir Thomas is out of
the game, and the kudos is divided among others I
We protest that the only thing in the whole ques-
tion that struck our fancy was Sir Thomas sending
up the police-magistrate to annex New Guinea
with a waJking-stick and a box of crackers, and
we are grieved to find that he is now displaced by
a lot of spouters who will strut all over the annexa-
tion page of Australian history, and shut the
valorous man up in a little private spot with his
“indiscretion” on his knee.
Had the lurid Piddingstonsky been per-
mitted his own way, Dibbs would now be in gaol
again on a charge of conspiring against the dignity
ot the “Lords”—an Australian Guido Fawkes,
indicted by the Usher of the Black Rod for insi-
diously seeking to inoculate the serene atmo-
sphere of the N.S.W. Legislative Council with
miasmatic germs from the seventy-five erysipelas
and small-pox beds he had surreptitiously insinu-
ated (for the accommodation of the Government
supporters during the stonewalling of the Land
Bill) into the Hall sacred to the twin geniuses of
Dull Platitude and Impotent Pomposity. Some
people cannot see that there was any breach of
parliamentary privilege in Dibbs’action; and it is
just this which makes Pid. so mad. He thinks that
such an indecent infringement of the privileges of
the Upoer ’Ouse could only have emanated from
some larrikin who had been accustomed to the
society of Darlinghurst Gaol—a place, Iby the
bye, where sometimes the society is particularly
good—eh, Dibbs? Yet, as Hay put it, the matter
has its serious side. A lot of “disorganised”
Lower House fellows to be snoring on the floor of
a Chamber whose walls are wont to echo to the
strains of Piddingtonskian and Jacobian oratory-
why the very thought suggests, to a small mind like
Jacobs, the idea of isse—excessively lazy—majesty.
The hardened Dibbs the prime offender, Stuart
his abandoned accomplice, and the volatile
Dailey who sought to turn the thing into a jest,
must be impeached. Our Pids, our Jacobs, our A.
Campbells must not be contaminated, nor, if it
can be avoided, laughed at. Fancy the ribald
impertinence of that fellow Dailey saying that he
was sometimes tempted to wish in his own and in
the public’s interest that Pid. would himself use
the Upper Chamber more frequently as a place of
perfect quiet and repose I As for Sir John Hay,
he’s old enough to have learned the wisdom of
turning a blind side to a certain class of occur-
rences. His notes to Stuart about the invasion of
his territory were in bad form, as might have
been expected. What Hay (or the hon.
gentlemen of Her Majesty’s Opposition) should
have done, when he or they twigged the not over
nice-looking mattresses in the sacred hall, was to
have said nothing nothing about it, but to have
quietly and cannily cayenne-peppere i or cow-
itched the beddiig, and awaited the result—MP.’s
fleeing, howling, from a Chamber of Horrors.
• • •
In view of existing Ministerial arrange-
ments, it wouldn’t be amiss to revive an old Par-
liamentary expression, and, instead of calling,the
Government underground-engineer the “ whip,”
to call him the “undertaker.” Parson Jefferis
maintains that the recent Convention has proved
very conclusively that Federation is demanded by
the people of Australasia. He evidently imagines
that he, his brother black-coats, and some score
or so of K.C M.G.-ship-bunting gushers are the
people of Australasia. ‘Tis, in fact, the tailors of
Toojey-gtreet over again,
• • •
Russia has induced the Khan of Khiva to
try and persuade the people of Merv and a lot of
nomadio Turcomans to acknowledge the Czar’sj
suzerainty. If they won't, Russia herself wiir
persuade them Tchaikovski, a Russian renegade
in the Turkish service, is known as Sadyk Pasha.
He says that a nephew of Bismarck, Baron Putt-
kammer, was under his command, and had re-
vealed to him that his uncle B. had set his heart
on an independent Poland with the Prussian
Prince Fredertak Charles as King. Pleasant pro-
spect for Russia!... Press cablegram (dated Lon-
don, December 26): —“ The Sultan of Turkey has
decided to re-appoint Aleko Pasha as Governor of
Roumelia. on the expiration of his present term
of office.” Our metropolitan daily contempo-
raries might have added that Aleko Pasha, when
at home, is known as Prince Alexander Vogorides,
and that he was the first kind Kerristian Governor-
General of Eastern Roumelia (appointed May ’79)
under the Treaty of Barlin, article 17 of which
provided that the Governor-General of Eastern
Roumelia should be named by the Sublime Forte
lor a term of five years. Prince Alexander used
to be a man of the sublimest port when we wero
young. Eheu! fugaces, etc.
BRIEF MENTION.
The M.L.C.’s of N.S.W. object to beds
■being- placed in the Council Chamber. They don’t
like anyone to sleep there but themselves.
The D.T.’s Melbourne sjribe, in his
detailed report of the Intercolonial cricket match,
deposes that Lewis was “ bowled by Garrett with
a snorter.” Until we read that, we’d no idea that
Wiudeyer, J„ was in any way in it.
THE GOOD OLD WAY.
The way to “a merry Christmas,”
And to “a happy New Year,”
Seems to make oneself an isthmus
Between two seas of beer;
Or, more to improve the style yet,
In rum to stand a hot islet.
Thus the Christian honours the day of “Re-
mission
Of Sins” by a souse in liquid perdition.
Here is a slab of the Echo’s notice of
Sydney Liedertafel concert: —“The thin-finger of
dark discontent rose volcano-like as a warning of
the eruption to come. . . Her rays lighted up
the Schiller-like face and animated the soul of the
new conductor. . . As though a band of lovers
simultaneously poured out their wealth of love in
harmony,” &c., &c. Mart de noire vie! The
Melbourne fellow who criticised Ketten never
crawled up as high as the “ thin Anger of dark
discontent.” It reminds us of the Yankee who
commenced an ode to the ocean with “profound
dampness."
The editor of the West Coast Times,
(N.Z.), can Ax up a very neat editorial footnote.
En void “ Arahura Maori School.—To the
Editor.—Sir, In noticing the departure of Mr.
Curtis, late teacher of the Arahura Maori School,
in your issue of Monday last you say:—‘Mr.
Curtis, during his Ave years’ residence here,
earned the esteem of the residents, and the Maoris
particularly regret the departure of Mrs. Curtis,
who endeared herself to them by many acts of
kindness.’ Now, Mr. Editor, we can assure you
the Maoris have no cause to regret the departure
of Mr. and Mrs. Curtis, but on the contrary, are
very pleased that such an event has taken place.—
T am, &c., Ihaia Tainui, for the School Com-
mittee.—[Note—lt is understood that Mr.and Mrs.
Curtis were very particular in inculcating the
practice of that virtue which is next to godliness.
—Ed. W.C. Times.”]
The advantages of a Victorian State School
education are becoming more apparent everyday'.
The late Inspector-General and several of the
reigning teachers have done their best to intro-
duce a high moral tone among the fortunate Vic-
torian youngsters, and now certain members of
a School Board have been indulging in “rough
and tumble,” with the idea, doubtless, of develop-
ing healthy athletic tendencies among their little
charges. On the occasion of the presentation of
prizes to the successful pupils attending the
Brunswick (Melb.) School, a Mr. Fleming—member
of the Board, and J.P.—was desirous of giving
four extra prizes on his own account; but this
arrangement not meeting with the approval of
“ the powers that be,” Mr. Stranger—Chairman of
the Board, and J P.—attempted to curb Mr. Flem-
ing’s unauthorised generosity, and the two gen-
tlemen struggled together on the platform for the
possession of the books. It was a drawn battle,
and the whole matter is to be laid before the
Minister of Education ; but the children have
benefited, inasmuch as they have anew game now
—playing at J.P.’s.
Mrs. Dugdale, of Camberwell, has been
telling the Victorians what a good man is, and
what a good woman is. We bad been under thB
impression that a good man in Victoria was a suc-
cessful politician, no matter how he came to be
successful; or a money-lender, who was also a
churchwarden; or an insolvent, who agitated
strenuously to have the Bible read in State schools.
But it seems we were wrong, Mrs, Dugdale says
that he is a man of large moral courage, “ who
not only thinks honestly, but acts in like manner.”
About the good woman in Victoria we were also
astray. We had thought her a woman who spe-
cially affected church bazaars, who ran her hus-
band into debt to fittingly adorn herself for a
stand of faldals, and who exerted her motherly
influence to make her daughter of 16 marry the
octogenarian paralytic— 1 ' as, my dear, his position
is so good.” Mrs. Dugdale thinks her noble and
true, ‘‘4oo times more so thau man,” and not at
all given to the ways of pious exhibition. We are
glad to have erroneous impressions removed; but,
then, what are we to do with the hosts of men and
women in Victoria we have been calling good sc
long ? We fear that, out of very custom, we’ll
stick to our old standards.
The Tenterfield Star tells a story of
how a lady and a gentleman were driving In a
buggy along one of the roads up there, and the
lady saw a horseshoe lying in the middle of the
way. She got the gentleman to stop the buggy,
and then she alighted and picked the horseshoe
up. This was because it is not lucky to pass a
horseshoe. And, says the Star, emphatically,
“ Mark what followed. The stoppage caused a
delay of two minutes. Just as they started again,
a large limb fell with a terrific crash, right across
the track in front of them. The gentleman looked
at his watch, drove to the spot, again took the
time, and found it exactly two minutes. If they
had not stopped to pick up that horseshoe, they
would have been postponed sine die.” We knew
two incidents just like this. One occurred when
we were young, but we recollect it as if it were
yesterday. A man was driving through a cutting
in a trap. He stopped to pick up a horseshoe
lying in the road. Just then a tremendous rock
| fell from the top of the cutting right in front of
the trap. But the man was not hurt by it. He
broke his neck in falling off the trap when he tried
to pick up the horseshoe. There is great virtue in
horseshoes. Then we remember a man who was
driving into a market-town, when a weasel ran
across the road. Ho considered this an unlucky
omen, and turned back. That very same hour,
the bridge over the river broke down, and
drowned several people who were passing over it
just at the time when he would have been cross-
ing it if he had gone on. So the weasel saved him,
and he lived. Yes, he lived—to be hanged.
“ Listener ” contributes to the Quean-
bey an Gale a paper, on the dangers attendant
upon promiscuous cursing, from which we gladly
make the following quotation in the earnest hope
it may tend to chock the too frequent use of the
big big T) “I fear that if many do not refrain
from such conduct (the use of the big big D.),
some dreadful Providential judgment will over-
take them, oven in this world. It would bo well
for such to relleet upon what happened to three
young men at Amsterdam (wo wonder “Listener ’
didn’t spell this word “Amsterd—”) when Mr.
Fleming was preaching on the Sabbath. Ho re-
proved thorn three times before the congregation,
but they persisted; and then, with an awful pause,
he told them that he was impressed with a divine
message, which was that not one of the three of
them would live the week out. On the Tuesday,
one was going for a voyage, but through a storm
the ship was driven on to tho coast, and he was
plunged into eternity; on the Wednesday, an-
other had a quarrel and fought with swords, and
he was killed; and the other, on Thursday, was
taken seriously ill. He sent for a minister to pray
for his life, which ho said ho had no power to do,
but he prayed for his soul, and soon after the
minister left him he died in agony of despair.”
Joking apart, when tnis is the sort of blasphemous
rubbish—blasphemous to Humanity—that “Lis-
teners ” write, we cease to wonder that, they
(listeners) never hear any good of themselves.
We don’t cotton to the use of the D. When un-
necessarily used, it’s bad form; but occasionally
one can’t do without it,—ea:. gr. “ damned ass ” is
the sole expression that suits “ Listener ” down to
the ground.
Instead of being lowered down the shaft,
a cage containing four men was the other day
drawn up to the poppet-heads of a Victorian mine.
The rest of the story is soon told. It is the old sad
one of tho sacrifice of strong men and the widow-
hood of helpless women through scandalous neg-
ligence. The safety appliances failed when l'ailuie
meant destruction, and the ill-fated miners reached
the bottom only to And deat h instead of their mat* s
awailingthem. But there is one aspect of the ease
—by far the most important, in our opinion—That,
has scarcely been touohed upon by the daily pma
The engine-driver who was directly responsible L r
the affair was a religious enthusiast—one who saw
visions and dreamed dreams: who belonged to tho
Salvation Army, and taw in that organization tho
means of redemption and grace. Fanatics have lei t
their mark on some of the most iinportantpagesin
the world’s history: they shaped the fortunes of
nations. Under them, the inhospitable wastis
of Spain and Northern Africa became gardens, and
Sweden a puissant power. Cromwell’s psalm-
singing Ironsides taught European captains that
a penchant for Scriptural proper names was a help
rather than a hindrance to military nrowess. But
it is different with engine-driving. If the scene of
our daily work lay 500 feet below the ground, and
not in a sumptuc us building on the surface, and
if the choice were given us of being lowered by
a visionary or by an atheist, we would choose the
sceptic. He would be less likely to haul us to the
Poppet-heads—more apt to understand the signals
ot distress, as we hung helplessly over the yawning
pit below. To our mind, the habit of placing the
lives of men in the hands of one who sees, in the
crowd of slatternly women and malodorous hob-
bledehoys usually composing a Salvationist’s choir,
a resemblance to the fair-haired maidens and
epicene neutrals who warble on the slopes of Zion,
should be at once discontinued.
NEW YEAR’S RESOLVES.
“H— U is paved with good intentions."
All those New Year’s resolutions,
Would bring forth, without a doubt,
Grand and mighty revolutions
Were they only carried out.
If ’tis true that “ good intention ”
Paves a certain sultry way,
Then, there’s little need to mention,
’Twas well paved on New Year’s Day.
RETROSPECT.
Eighty-three has had its innings—
Brought it’s losses and its winnings—
Bad results from good beginnings—
Liue all other years.
Brought its varied joys and passions,
Latest styles and Paris fashions,
Gorgeous feasts and scanty rations—
Laughter, song, and tears.
Brought its scandals and disgraces,
Walks to church and rides to races,
Seen the light of friendly faces
Vanish from the earth;
Seen the maiden wed her lover,
And the wife become a mother—
One year’s very like auother—
Marriage, death, and birth.
Eightv-three has had its innings—
Brought its losses and its winnings—
Few good acts, but countless sinnings—
Like all other years;
Brought its usual business troubles,
Vain regrets for backing “doubles,”
Household cares and soeial bubbles—
Laughter, song, and tears.
NEW VERSION OF AN OLD HYMN.
Rosebery’s haunted by a —myth
With ambrosial hair ;
Wheresoever Rosebery godth
—myth, too, must be there.
Rosebery wendeth to the shops,
Still the —myth will come:
(At last ) Rosebery, maddened, gives him slops.
“ Off you 1” Hum 1


CHEAP LAND INVESTMENTS.
It is a pretty generally recognised fact that no
purchase of land can now be made in or about
the suburbs of Sydney at the advantageous terms
of two or three years ago, when the great con-
tinuous land investments flrst commenced. The
result is that as rapid and frequent railway com-
munication bridges the distance of tho estates
beyond tho suburbs, the attention of large and
small investors is attracted in that direction, and
with regard to these lands advantages correspond-
ing to those of the earliest investments in city
and suburban lots are now offering, and are being
rapidly availed of. For the last month, Messrs.
Pinhey and C •., of 81 King-street West, have been
announcing Bales of land in suitable allotments, at
the .Jellore Estate, Shelltop Railway Siding, on the
Great Southern Railway. This is about the most
elevated land on the Southern line, and may be
regarded as the snnitorium of New South Wales.
The change in the air from the dusty metropolis,
and the keen, damp atmosphere of the sea coast,
is|| at once apparent to any traveller by train; so
that an investment in an acreage, large or small,
at Jellore, is not only a sound financial step, but
also a provident act in respect of health. There
are no mosquitos to trouble residents, but delight-
fully cool nights. Splendid timber for every use
is procurable on the ground. Tho climate and
soil are favourable to the cultivation of all English
fruits. A practical English gardener, who re-
cently visited the spot, reports that both soil and
climate are all that can be desired. The estate has
been placed in Messrs Pinhey and Co.’s hands
u nder such advantageous arrangements that they
are enabled to dispose of the land on terms which
give everybody a chance. The land is sold in £3
lots, ss. deposit, and balance ss. per month, with-
out interest. The title is Torrens’, and the trans-
fer is free. Messrs. Pinhey and Co. have similar
advantages to offer in respect of Ascotral Estate,
at Mount Druitt Railway Station, on the Western
lino. The land is at a good elevation, without
rock, scrub, or swamp, and lias been laid out on a
capital plan. Blocks can be purchased at 60s.
each, 10s. down, the balance at Si. per month.
Messrs. Pinhey and Co. will give every infor-
mation on application.
♦
INTERVIEW WITH LORD ROSEBERY.
A REPORTEtt had an interview list week with
the Earl of Rosebery, and some interesting facts
with regard to that distinguished nobleman are
now for publication. The reporter, who was
admitted to Government House under the assump-
tion that he was a poulterer looking for Christmas
supplies, found tho noble Earl sitting on a fence,
smoking a M'Elhonian clay.
“The noble Earl, I presume ?” said the reporter.
“Slightly,” ejaculated his Lordship, instantly
diving for his tobacco-pouch; “ Editor of the
Herald, I suppose ?” at the same time scanning
his boots.
R.: No, my noble Lord—the Howl; that’s what
I represent. I’ve come to learn the real object of
your visit to Australia.
Earl: Well, fact is I've come about this federa-
tion business, and to get a glance at Zulu Thomp-
son's War Scenes, if I can.
R.: Oh, Zulu’s in it. We’d know nothing about
these Avars but for Thompson.
Earl: Ah! Thompson’s a brave fellotv. Many a
night we’ve spent on the tented field. He’s been
in the thick of it, too, and never been shot.
R.: Strange!
Earl: Well, fact is he’s been busy on his Diorama
all tho time. In the hottest fire at Rorke’s Drift
he caught a scene, and actually went out and
asked the Zulus just to keep their position for one
minute, and the thing was done. I saw his sketch
the night after, but have not yet seen it completed
on canvas. ■<.
R.: Oh, it’s simply fetching. In the foreground
you see Zulu Thompson shaking an Armstrong
gun at Cetewayo, who is calling on his legions to
skeddadle, as Thompson is to the fore. Is there
any truth that Zulu is a great swordsman ?
Earl: Thompson is one of tho greatest killers I
know of off tho stage. By tho way, Gladstone
asks Avhether Zulu has done anything with the
Egyptian War.
It.: Welt, rather. He has all the scenes from
artists on the spot.
Earl: I thought he wasn’t at Tel-el-Kebir for
nothing. He was mighty thick with Tewfik
Pasha, and there was no man Arabi more esteemed
than Zulu. I believe he would have been nomi-
nated Khedive'only that he was booked to open in
Sydney and show his diorama all this month. There
was great coolness in England when it vvas known
Zulu was going to show in Sydney first.
R.: Nonsense; but Ido not think Mr. Thompson
meant any slight to Great Britain. He has, I
believe, been forced to decline invitations from
both the Russian and German Emperors.
Earl: You’re right. Perhaps the people here
didn’t knoAv that Zulu and the two Emperors are
very distant now. Decided coolness, in fact,
between th>m, I'm glad, however, that his
intimate relationship with the King of the
Kannible Islands saves our country from being
involved in war with the Malicolo natives. Does
Zulu carry on the gift business as of yore ?
R.: Of course. A coal mine, last night, given to
a poor widow; and a smoothing-iron and a cross-
cut saw to an eAening reporter.
Earl: How ever does he do it? The diamond
studs Gladstone Avears were the result of a pit
ticket; and this coat—on my oa r h—l got in the
gallery Avhen Zulu was exhibiting before the
Queen.
R.: Now, privately, what does her Majesty think
of Zulu’s Avar scenes.
Earl: You didn’t hear that ho refused a C.M.G.-
ship from the Queen ? Fact, though; and it has
since been offered to M’Elhone. What night does
Zulu give away nU next suite of furniture ?
R.: Every night. Just before you came, His
Excellency, Lord Augustus, Avas only two behind
the winner of a 35-guinea suite; however, he Avon
a gridiron.
Earl: Ye>, he showed it me. But, joking apart,
Zulu Thompson’s art and prize distribution is a
genuine thing, and fetched the people in every
town in England and the Cape. So now you know
Avhy IVe come on to Sydney.
R.: The lederation business
Earl: Oh! hang the federation question! I’ve
come hero to iee Zulu Tuompson's diorama of the
two wars, and I shan't leave till I do see it.
R.: Thanks,
' Earl: Au re voir. Shall be at Zulu Thompson's
any night this rveek.
Desperate case of mutiny (spiced with
murder, violence, and sudden death) reported
from Brisbane. Swedish schooner “ Natal”
(Eustrom, skipper) arrived in Moreton Bay last
week. His report is thus:—November 26, skipper
awakened by a blow from a broad axe; the local
“ chips” posing as catechist. At same time, chief
mate attacked, on the side of his nose, by a rebel-
lious A.B. skipper and mate, armed with shot-gun
and revolver respectively, attacked by a crew of
five, armed with hand and marlin spikes. Skipper’s
son, the second mate, cut down by mutineers and
thrown overnoard by a sailor named “ Bill.”
Unarmed mutineers, in order to avoid the captain
ard mate, retire to the hold for four days.
Induced to come out on terms of an amnesty,
“Bill” and “Chips” shot dead by the captain,
whose ex parte story we have given. “The cap-
tain,” sajs the Brisbane correspondent of the
S. M. Herald, “seems to have exercised great
coolness in putting to death the two who were
implicated in killing the second mate, and who had
actually tried to murder the captain and mate.”
Perhaps so, but we should like to hear the other
side of the story. When years ago, at a public
meeting at Exeter, or some other clerical hall, the
chairman announced that the Right Rev. Charles
James, of London, couldn't attend owing to a dog
having bitten i im in the calf of his gaitered leg, a
sarcastic canon of Paul’s (which his name it was
Smith) remarked that he would like to hear the
dog's version of the story. So with us; wo yearn
to hear what the “remnant” of the Natal’s crew
have to say about all this shooting, axeing, and
“ ohucking overboard.”
BIG LAND SALE AT NEWTOWN.
Last Saturday afterday afternoon, and through-
out Monday, a crowd of people visited Bray’
Paddock, at NowtoWn, which is to be submitted
to auction on Saturday week (Jan. 12) by Messrs.
Batt, Rodd and Purves. This is the grandest area
of building sites, either for homes or bu iness,
which is to be found in the suburbs, and it has
been judiciously kept out of the market till the
site of the first railway station on the Illawarra
line was decided on- Bray’s Paddock almost abuts
on the new line of railway, and the station is now
being erected within a few feet of the land, im-
parting to it a value that only the opening of
traffic will ultimately be able to fix. The land is
the property of Mr. G. C. Bray, who has resolved
that this last great subdivision of land at Newtown
shall be on a scale that will make a purchase worth
having, whether for business or for residence.
Fancy, 193 ft. depths, at Newtown, and at this
time of day—yet such is the fact. The land has
been very carefully laid out in appropriate
allotments by that most competent surveyor,
Mr. C. B. Dawson, and comprises 75 building
blocks, with frontages to King-street, better
known as the main Newtown rond, and good
streets, not one of which is less than 66 feet
wide. We aro much mistaken if this liberal
arrangement doesn’t meet with the most sub-
stantial recognition trom investors, of whom
there must be hundreds at Newtown alone. The
land in Bray’s paddoc* can never be encroached
upon by clusters of small houses, as all available |
ground is taken, and the railway line bars ap- j
proaeh from any other direction. The land is tne J
highest part of Newtown, and commands mag-
nificent views of Rand wick, Botary, and Cook’s
River, &c, The property is under Torrens title,
so that the transfer is not costly. The auctioneers
have been able to arrange very easy terms for
purchasers, the conditions of sale being 10 per
cent, down, 15 per cent, in three months, without
interest, and the balance in three equal payments
of one, two. and three years, with only 6 per cent,
interest. Every resident in or about Newtown
must be aware that this is the last estate for sub-
division in that populous suburb, and the oppor-
tunity of making a valuable purchase on the
coming 12th January ought certainly not be lost.
♦
A BIG FURNITURE AND BEDDING FACTORY.
The attention of the thousands who arrive by the
train at the Sydney terminus is at once arrested
by the sight of Mr. H. J. Lyons’ groat furniture
and bedding factory, situated in Regent-street,
nearly opposite the Mortuary Station. The firm
has been established near upon twenty-five years,
“Man named Owen wants too see me? Don’t know any man named Owen. Probably
a creditor. Tell him I’m out and can’t see him.”
with head centra! offices and factory in Bridge-
street; but those premises being entirely inade-
quate to the requirements of the past few years*
Mr. Lyons fixed on those splendidly situated and
commodious premises above referred to. The
Regent-street premises comprise the factories,
and at the same time possess magnificent show-
rooms, where an extensive and growing business
is done with the whole South Sydney population
and the great Railway-travelling pu’ Jic. The
frontage to Regent-street is about 100 feet, and
a similar advantage is secured with regard to
Kensington-street in the rear, the through depth
being not less than 200 feet. Considering that all
this ground space is occnpied by lofty workshops,
stores, and show-rooms, it can be seen that the
accommodation is unusually large; and there is
no doubt the very best use has been made of that
large area. The furniture show-room is about
63 ft. by 40 ft., and in this amply stocked de-
partment every description of furniture is shown
—English, American, Continental, and Colonial—
and for variety- to suit either the citizen, selector,
or capitalist-no better display is to be round any-
where in the city. Adjoiningthis department is the
bedstead and bedding show-rooms; and here some
of the best articles in the line, imported or locally
produced, are on view. Some splendid specimens
of upholstery—done on the premiscs-in.bedding,
couches, settees, etc., are here to be seen; the
material used being the best procurable. Over-
head are several manufacturing departments, the
sewing machine work, in particular, requiring a
large number of expert workers. The steam
machinery branch is of the space of 96 feetJjy
38feet, where a splendid 10 h p. engine driver a
host of the modern appliances for tearing, card-
ing eic At the opposite side of the yard, to which
there is a wide dray-way entrance, are situated
the palliasse factory and storerooms. The factory
has a number of presses on a new principle, which
cannot but greatly facilitate and improve the
work. The area is 40 by 120 feet. The store,
which has several sub-departments, is stocked
with great supplies of iron bedsteads of the newest
patterns, many of the packages being of only
recent arrival. There is a special house for the
storage of feathers, and where the very best deserip
tions are to be found. For some years past Mr.
Lyons’ establishment has been one of the principal
sources of supply of bedding material and
upholstery generally to the large houses of Sydney,
and some of the most important demands in the
upholstery line made by the mail boats and other
steamers have been fulfilled here. Tbp Regent-
street factories, which are under thedirection of a
capable and energetic manager (Mr. Hayes l , give
additional facility for work, so that the largest
orders can.here be promptly executed. The works
at the Bridge-street office were among the first
houses in the city to be connected by teleph one.
Mr. Lyons invites inspection of bis works by the
warehousemen and the furnishing public of
Sydney.
A NEW LAND AGENCY AND STOCK AND
STATION BUSINESS IN SYDNEY.
An announcement has been made in the Sydney
Press, during the lastmonth.of the reconstruction
of a well-known city firm, and the inauguration
by them of a new branch of business. The an-
nouncement has attracted considerable attention,
owing to the well-known energy, experience, and
capability of the individual members of the Arm.
Messrs. H. H. Brown and Co., of the Exchange,
Sydney, who have been conducting for some years
a large land agency business, have taken in two
partners, with the view to developments of busi-
ness, the gentlemen being Mr. Nugent Wade
Brown and Mr. C Bruce Lowe. For a considerable
Eeriod, a large stock and station agency business
as been forced on the firm, and now steps have
been taken to give it tee attention which its grow-
ing importance demands. A branch has been
opened in the splendid buildings of Wright,
Heaton, and Co., Pitt-street. The stock and sta-
tion business will have the valuable attention of
Mr. N. W. Brown and Mr. Bruce Lowe, whose ex-
perience in stock matters specially fits them for
the post. The great rising sugar industry of
Queensland and the North coast will be em-
braced in the new arrangments, and this
will have the supervision of Mr. N. W.
Brown, whose twenty years’ experience in
pastoral and agricultural business in the Nor-
thern colony will render his assistance of the
greatest value to the new firm. All branches of
the stock and agency business, wool and produce
generally, will be carried on, while the old land
agency business will be conducted at the Ex-
change, as before, by Mr. Holmes and Mr. Ollivier.
With regard to the new branches of the business,
auction sales of fat stock will be held twice a
week at Homebush, while sales of dairy cattle,
fat calvep, lambs, &c., will be held at Ellis and Co. s
yards, George-street ltailway Station, and sales ot
horses and well-bred dairy cattle at Wooller's
yards, opposite Tattersall’s. Sales of horses will
be regularly held at the Camperdown yards. The
firm has had a well-earned reputation for the
greatest promptitude and fair dealing in con-
nection with the land agency business, Messrs.
Holmes and Ollivier being about the two most
experienced men in he business in Sydney. The
two new partners, Mr. N. W. Brown and Mr. C.
Bruce Lowe, will bring fresh energy into the firm,
and will actively prosecute the business which
each has taken in hand. Mr. H. H. Brown, the
senior member of the firm, will supervise the
whole arrangements, and will personally conduct
the auction sales, whether of stock or stations, or
of general produce or property. The title of the
newly-constituted firm is Messrs. Brown Brothers
and Co. The old constituents of the Arm may
rely on a continuance of the promptitude of the
past, while new patrons may confidently look for
the best and fairest representation of their
interests to this one of tno most going business
firms in Sydney.
When Jemmy Service arrived at the Syd-
ney Railway Terminus, to attend the Conference,
he was asked, of course, into a carriage direct for
Government House. He hesitated. Then Sandy
Stuart proposed a cab. He still refused. There-
upon Graham Berry whispered him, “If we walk
down, we can call in at Mick Simmons’.” Service
gratefully shook Berry by the hand, and said, “ By
! the bye, Mick asked me to call; and if Ido take a
whiff at his place, I can’t B beat.” At that
l moment a tram came up and ran over Graham
I Berry, completely destroying its front wheels.
It was two days before Graham could take a
somersault in his bath and cut up a fig of “ Can’t
B Beat ” at the same time in 2J4secs.*
Last month, on the Agricultural Show
Ground Patutahi (N.Z.), “Sir Julius Vogel” be-
coming terribly excited kicked Farmer Jones
behind his right ear, with such force and precision
that he (Jones) deceased 15 minutes afterwards.
[Mem. Sir Julius—no offence—is an entire.] This
reminds us that there was once in N.S.Wales—he
still lives and flourishes—a public official who had
Burke and Debrett at his finger ends. Talk to
him of an earl! He could run his genealogy off
: from the time his ancestor came over as drummer
I in fhe army of William the Corn-curer. Venture
a timid remark about a viscount, and he would
quietly put you down with an account of a Ute-a-
Utc he had with a royal duke at a meeting of the
Blunderbore hounds in Hertfordshire. If you re-
marked that you once spoke to Prince George of
Cambridge (on the occasion of H.R.H.’s asking
you to pull a rail out of the fence to let his horse
through), B — (that was his name', was ready
with an account of how ’twas to him that Napo-
leon ill. first confided his intention of raising
Eugenie to the throne. Why he came to N.S.W. isn’t
known to this day. When the subject was mooted
he smiled bitterly, but preserved a studied silence.
It was whispered that his advent among us was
due to a reciprocated attachment for one of the
Royal Family—an attachment rendered undesir-
able for grave State reasons. Well, one day a
friend said to B , “ I hear the Marquis of Lans-
downe is coming to N. S. Wales.” “ Egad!
you don’t say so,” was the reply. * Dear, dear
mel Ah! what might have been; what might
have been! Why, he and my father served in the
same regiment. They were sworn comrades. And
his daughter—poor Lady Gwendoline! Ah me!
the evenings I spp-nt under her window with the
tromb that is to say, the light guitar! But why
resurrect the dead past? Better to have loved
and lost than never to have loved at all.” "But
surely the Marquis i 3 no relation of yours ?” “No
I reflation of mine ?" said B soriowfully; “well,
I considering that my father and be were cousins;
that they married sisters; and that my maternal
grandmother was first cousin once removed to the
' Marquis’ stepfather by a Sootoh marriage, but ”
j Here nis companion was called away, and B
applied for three weeks’ sick leave when he dis-
-1 covered that the Marquis of Lansdowne was a
prize bull.
REGENT HOUSE.
Paperhangings, Paints, Oils, Brushware, &c.
It is as well that the trade of the city and the
great mass of the householders resident in the
suburbs, should know that the business of Regent
House in paints, oils, and glaziers’ materials
generally is being as vigorously pushed as in the
palmiest days of its history. When purchased
from the assignees in Mr. George Murphy’s estate
the new proprietors, Messrs. Kean and Co.,
resolved by liberal expenditure of capital to
retain the great popularity of the house, and
even extend its connection. The stock
now embraces the most extensive probably
to be found in any one house in the colony, and
certainly lower figures do not rule anywhere.
The stock comprises an immense quantity of
choice gold, satin, and other paperhangings,
paints of every description in bulk and in small
packages, great quantities of raw and boiled oils,
a small warehouse of plate and other glass, and a
shipment of paperhangings which, for variety
and value, cannot be excelled anywhere. For the
thousands of people who live on the railway line
Regent House has long been a boon, as here are
obtainable, in handy tins, paints of all descrip-
tions ready for use—each packet being accom-
panied by a book of directions of the simplest and
most practical character. These paints, ready for
use, enable a householder to keep his place in
first-class order all the year round on the expendi-
ture of a few shillings. Another article which
has made Recent House famous, not only with the
trade, but with householders and contractors, is
the wood-preserving oil—one of the best inven-
tions, certainly, of the time. This oil has tremen-
dous permeating force, and is certainly a great
preventive of the operations of the white ant,
which has proved so destructive in some of the
best houses in the suburbs. Regent House is
within 300 yards of the Sydney railway terminus,
and both ’bus and tram stop opposite the door; so
that the public have every facility for reaching
what is universally recognised as the best house
in the colonies in the line indicated.
SALE OF THIRTEEN ACRES OF CITY LANDS.
One of the most important sales of land in the
metropolis that has yet been announced, is that
of the Redfern Estate, which is fixed for Monday
next, 7th January, at Messrs. Richardson and
Wrench's Rooms, Pitt-street. The Redfern Estate,
is virtually situated in the city, being only divided
by Elizabeth-street, and comprises 13 acres of
splendid building land. The estate is bounded by
four wide main streets, Castlereagh-street (along
which the trams run), Cleveland-street, Redfern-
street, and Elizabeth-street, Twelve acres of the
land adjoining, being portion of the Mount Lachlan
estate, has been purchased by the Government fnr
a public park; and this being capital soil, well
watered, a magnificent park, probably the best
in the city, will soon take the place of a grazing-
field. The Redfern Estate for sale has been cut
up into 246 splendid building allotments, of good
depths, with frontages also to Great Ruckingbam-
street. The land has remarkable advantages. It
has a splendid area within the city, fine wide streets,
trams every few minutes, with Redfern Park on
one side, and the magnificent Prince Alfred Park
on the other. The title is Torrens, and the easiest
possible terms of purchase have been arranged
10 per cent, deposit, 16 per cent, in 3 months, and
the balance for 6 years at 6 percent. The sale com-
mences at 11 a.m, punctually, on Monday, at
Messrs. Richardson and Wrench's Rooms.
A correspondent of the Pall. Mall
Gazette, who has been quoted by nearly all the
English and Australian papers, gives the following
recipe for getting thin " Breakfast—A cup of
black tea, white bread (or. better, brown-bread
toast) with abundance of butter, an egg if
required, or a little fat meat, ham. bacon, or fish.
Lunch—A little fat meat, boiled or roasted. After-
noon—A cup of black tea. Dinner—Soup, fish,
fat meat, ham or bacon (no meat without fat),
cabbage, baked fruit (without sugar if dtsired),
salad, fresh fruit, cheese, and bread and butter. A
half-glass of whisky and water will, at dinner, do
no harm ; a f ew glasses of claret or light wine.
After dinner—Cup of black tea.” “This diet, one
would think ” (says the Australasian) “ought to
fatten.” Barring the suggestion that no meat
should bo without fat, the above recipe tallies
pretty close with Banting’s (or rather Dr. W. Har-
vey’s, Banting’s medical adviser). Fact is, all
‘•getting-thin” receipts are too thin unless they
deal straight with the “physical idiosyncracy ” (if
such a term is permissible) of the stout individual
to be treated. The only broad lines to go on, in
the way of checking obesity, are these : Avoid
malt liquor, rise early, refrain from suppers,
eschew vegetables in which saccharine constitu-
ents prevail, and nurse a melancholic fad—take,
for instance, to reading Sladen’s poome, or the
Holy Howl leaders.


The circulation of The Bulletin is eight
times that of any other weekly in Australia.
N.B.—This is a lie, but we don’t see why we should
not lie as handsomely as our neighbours.
E X P EItIENCE.
ICYCLIN G
John Rolfes Esq., Champion Bicyclist of England
and Australia, who at present is open to run
a long distance race with any bicyclist for the
championship of the world, gives his Personal
Experience of the Valuable Properties of St.
Jacobs Oil, as used by him in his Recent Contest
with John Watson, for the Championship of
Australia.
368 Elizabetb-street north,
Melbourne, Victoria,
33rd November, 1883.
To the Editor of Tiie Bulletin.
Dear Sir,—l desire to add my cheerful endorse-
ment to the good effects I have at all times
received from the use of St,. Jacobs Oil when in
active training and racing. During my recent six
days’ contest, held in the Melbourne Exhibition
Building, for £5OO and the championship of the
Australian and adjacent colonies, it was my boon
companion. I continually used it before and
after each day’s performance, and the results
simply astonished me. After riding for eight
consecutive hours each day—viz,, from half-past
3 until half-past 10, my limbs would become sore
and stiff from over-exertion, but after being well
rubbed with the Oil, all muscular pa.n immediately
vanished, and I felt as fresh as ever. As proof
positive, alter the contest was over I rode 100
miles against time before a public audience, and
accomplished it in six hours 11 minutes 45J4
seconds, Another application of St. Jacobs Oil
was made, and it removed all feeling of fatigue,
gnd I felt perfectly tit for another race. Am
positive it aided me to win the match, and I shall
never enter a similar contest without a bicycle
and St. Jacobs Oil.
I strongly advise all “wheelmen” and other
athletes to give it a trial, and feel fully convinced
their experiences will compare favourably with
my own.
I remain, dear sir, yours truly,
JOHN ROLI'E.
WONDERFUL RELIEF.
October 30th, 1883,9 Hunter-street, city.
To the Editor of The Bulletin Dear Sir.—
This is to testify that, having used ST. JACOBS
OiL for a painful affection of the chest. I soon
experienced grateful and permanent relief. Two
applications entirely removed the pain, and I
heartily recommend to any person similarly
afflicted the great German remedy, in the fullest
confidence that it will be equally efficacious.—l
remain, dear sir, yours respectfully. H. Roberts.
Wholesale Depot for New South Wales:
ELLIOTT BROTHERS. Sydney,
Woman Items
Says Alphonse Daudet: “ The needle has
ruined more girls than any novel has done. A
woman who sews is a woman who imagines, and
with women imagination plays the very devil.
She who reads has no time for such reveries.
In either case, as a girl sews she reaps.
“ Veritas,” as we gather from the adver-
tising columns of the wants a respectable
young ladv as cashier. And so do some of us, on I
so badly. ‘[£ls,ooo, if the feet are less than medium
“4”s, is our figure, with a'.pro-rata advance, by
geometrical progression, in the capital sum for
each successive rise in size above medium ‘ i s.|
Amy Eno, the “ Fruit Salt” man’s daugh-
ter, was married in October to Harold Surthin-
bank, an adjutant in the Hussars. Eno’s gigantic
success is only another proof of the advantages
of advertising when you’ve a good or even decent
article to sell. His so-called fruit-salt is not in any
sense the product of fruit. It consists mi rely of
an alkali or two and an acid or two, and differs very
slightly from seidlitz powders and hundreds or
other such preparations.
The S. M, Herald tells us that the word
“obey” has been pretty well blotted out of the
marriage service in America, and that one clever
Murkan parson has tried to get over the trouble
by getting the bride to promise in each case that
she will “ obey in love." Now, in all games “ love ’
means “nix”; ergo, when a woman, a bride (ala
latest American Protestantism), promises in the
marriage service to ‘‘obey in love,” all that she
really means is “ I will obey in nothing.” 1 es.
Under the new law, in England, a Judge
lately stated that if a husband “sloped” with an
ura breila the bond fide property of his wife, he was
liable to be sent up. Should he take her last new
bonnet, we presume nothing short of the scaffold
would meet the case. For—
If they imprison married fellahs
For annexing umberellahs,
You may take our word upon it
Death will hang to the new bonnet.
A New York lady says of Mrs. Langtry
«* Whatever her merits may bo otherwise, she is a
marvel of style and good taste. Her hair is a
revelation to American women, who have so long
sought beauty by false fronts and dirty, fuzzy-
looking frizzes. Mrs. Langtry’s hair is a dark,
glossy brown, worn in a neatly-braided coil, shinv
as satin. It is the cleanest and handsomest head
of hair I ever saw, and she never spoils it with an
ornament. 1 f she has set the American women to
buying English brushes and using them, she has
done a good work, and we can afford to forgive
her for Freddie.” This is a jar for the small-footed
fair ones who wear two-dollar bangs in the land of
the free.
The latest Paris fashion among ladies of
advanced ideas is to wear socks, as being more
cool than the stockings affected by Mrs. Grundy.
Should this craze gain ground, the price of elastic
goods will materially diminish: but muddy cross-
ings will require to be carefully avoided by the
fair sex. The bare idea of a lady raising her dress
a little above the boots will be too dreadful lor
contemplation :
THE LATEST.
This modern style of wearing socks
Must needs demand much lengthened frocks,
For should the balmv breezes blow
(As now and then they do, you know),
’Twould be indeed, just quite too shocking
To see a leg imeased in stocking.
[Certainlv.—Ed. B]
Colonel Mapleson, who engaged Patti for
America, arranged a magnificent reception, which,
however, had a comic ending. Determined to do
the big thing, he hired a tine steamer, with a brass
band, and crowded it with big people. He further
engaged no less than thirteen smaller steamers,
all decked with bunting, which were to steam out
in procession, and toot their little whistles as Patti
came up the bay They all waited. Hour after
hour went tediously by, as the Colonel, the brass
band, the friends, and the thirteen steamers, waited
for Patti to come. Everybody got sleepy aud
cross: the reception committee glared fiercely:
the friends were fatigued, and the brass band
drunk in a beer saloon. At last the Colonel, in a
white heat, took a cab, and driving at breakneck
speed to the office on Broadway, learned that the
Hallic had gone to another pier, and that Patti,
finding her way to a hotel, had been calmly sleeping
for more than six hours, in total oblivion of him-
self and reception, the friends, the brass band,
and the thirteen steamers.
One of Mary Anderson’s first stage lessons
was from the veteran actor, Vandcnbot'. She was
very poor then, but entirely determined towards
the stage, and at first he tried to dissuade her by
demanding £lO for ten lessons, paid in advance.
But a week or two afterwards she came to him,
and said simply: “With many sacrifices I have
raised the money, and now please I want to
begin.” So she recited a piece; and he gruffly
advised her to go back home and try some other
way of earning a living. “I thought you said
your terms were £lO in advance for teaching,” she
said. And he taught her, for her pluck. Miss
Anderson has always been rather what is called
“ cheeky.” On the stage she was easily a queen ;
off, she was nothing but a wild girl, who rolled
her handkerchief over her finger, and shifted
restlessly from o"e chair to another till she had
circumnavigated the whole room. She was frank,
though—honest—no snob—perfectly at her ease
with any one. One evening, wjen Longfellow
was complimenting her acting, she suddenly broke
in with tneodd remark : “ But won’t you give me
a copy of your poems, wuh your name written
in ?” And while her mother, who was in the box,
frowned at such a forward request, Longfellow
replied > ” Of course I will,” and did.
« • *
“ Clara Belle,” who contributes the
“Social Column” 1o that chronicler of small
beer and big pumpkins, the Maitland Mercury,
endorses the remark made by a girl amateur
performer in some local school theatricals that
“ new laid eggs and plenty of confidence will work
wonders.” Clara possibly knows all about it, but
we deprecate her endeavours to lower the tone of
an ultra-moral journal into that of a Holywell-
street “scrofulosity.” —lt seems that Luther’s
wifewasa handsome woman, and that the saint
“cut another fellow out” in her affections.
Writing to his rival, a young doctor, he naively
ways, “If you are anxious to have your Kitha,
come here at once, or she will become the property
of another. You have a prior title to her.”. ..
The latest and rudest new nlav bears the sugges-
tive title, “Lend Me Your Wife.'’ A penniless and
fast young nephew, commanded by his rich uncle
to marry, sends word that he has done so, when he
hes not. Immediately afterwards, bo hear-, witfi
consternation that old nunkeyis travelling down
to see his “wife,” and in his predicament he bor-
rows his friend’s wife to show as a substitute.
When we say that some of the situations are
so interestingly risqui that even French ladies
have to look through their fingers, there’s ’nuf
led.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The Rev. A. Hardie, who used to moderate
at the Assembly for a while, was sent over
to declare the pulpit of the Scots’ Church
vacant. Everyone Knew it was vacant, but that
was no matter. The formal announcement bad
to be made, and the congregation invited to “ call”
a substitute for their old darling heretic. The
exhorter reminded them of the fact that Christ
was the head of their system; and lest they might
not appreciate the impalpable presence at its full
value, he showed how essential Government was
in the political affairs of the country. It must be
gratifying to the Scots’ Church people to know
that Christ’s relation to their system is analagous
to Berry’s when a stock-tax is laid upon the
country.
The Liberal Club at Plymouth (England)
is managed on principles which are far too
goody-goody to meet the requirements of two
High Church clergymen of the town, so these
gentlemen, as members of the Club, have given
notice of motion to rescind a rule which prohibits
cards and billiards on Sunday, as being contrary to
the spirit of liberalism. As we are also told of
another clerical magnate at Plymouth who sanc-
tions Sunday card-playing at the Working Men's
Institute in connection with his church, we cer-
tainly recommend the prompt despatch of the
Melbourne Presbytery to this Englishj seaport
town. There they could bo supplied with the
little Sunday dissipations which such severely
religious individuals are always so capable of
enjoying.
The Melbourne War Cry, though always
possessing literary merit of a very high class, has
not hitherto been remarkable for a strict atten-
tion to veracity. The thrilling ‘‘dispatches ” of
certain officers have, as a matter of fact, been
rather highly coloured, but the following extract
from a recent one displays a conscientiousness
greatly to be commended: “ Last Monday we had
the joy of pointing six dear souls to heaven, and
they professed to accept salvation.” Now, as
those “six dear souls” were knocking about
in Little Bourke-street, Melbourne, it was just as
well to introduce the word “professed” as a
“saving” clause, for the denizens of that un-
savoury' quarter have been known to break their
word before now. They are Chinamen mostly,
and Chinamen require a lot of “ pointing.”
In considering some claims put forward
on behalf of having the Chinese entered up as
believers in God, the Akgds implies that it would
BACHELOR MONEYBAGS (trifling): “And what sort of men do you like best, Miss
Flora?”
FLORA (with spirit): “Hymen, Mr. Moneybags.”
be better worth the Celestial’s while to aim at
truth and faithfulness in his dealings than at
getting himself returned on the census-paper as a
Deist. We think so. But what about getting on
the as of a C.E. or R.C. denomina-
tion ? Is it only the Chinaman who must graduate
to Deism through the severe ethics of truth and
faithfulness in daily pursuits? Or is it that the
cabalism of C.E. or R.C. means still less than the
point of John’s vague ambition? If truth and
faithfulness in daily pursuits be insisted upon in
this country before a man can enter himself up
as a member of a great religious party, the
Government statist will have to indicate the re-
ligious progress of the people by a blank sheet.
As everyone knows, the Rev. Charles
Strong’s application for a certificate, through the
somewhat unholy medium of his solicitors (Messrs.
Malloson, England, and Stewart), was discussed at
a private meeting <>f the Prosbyiery, and the
result of their deliberations was the announce-
ment that they “never entertained an application
for a certificate, except upon the direct request of
the person interested.” Solicitors’ requests are
under many circumstances regarded as being
quite too painlully direct, but in this case perhaps
the Presbytery may lose nothing by their quibble.
The “modern Luther” is evidently up to a thing
or two. Poor Martin wasn’t able to employ
solicitors, was he? The statement that the Pres-
bytery intends to forward a beautifully engrossed
certificate to the “ dear departed,” as a New Year’s
gift, is pretty in conception, but unsubstantial in
fact; magnanimity ig not one of the Presbytery’s
failings.
“ Let brotherly love continue ”
Is a precept you ministers quote ;
Yet it doesn’t appear to be in you,
As soon as ’tis put to the vote,
The hatchet of discard to bury
And to grant brother Strong his certif.
So your brotherly lore seemeth very
Mucb like being purely a myth.
Everyone knows that Mr. James Smith is
a bit of a theologian. His principal pulpit is that
great success, the Victorian Review. Month
after month, James harangues the half-dozen
people who read that “ credit to Australian litera-
ture,” and sometimes he gets into queer corners
of spiritual excitement. In a recent exploration,
he found that some people have souls and some
haven’t, just as some people have warts on the
nose and some haven’t. Of all people in the
world, an amateur theologian is the funniest
when be tries to be serious. But the fun is added
to when a parson proceeds to demolish the ama-
teur. That was attempted the other Sunday in St.
Paul's Pro-Cathedral. The Rev. Peter Campbell
and Thomas Walker have their counterparts in
the Rev. Mr. Byng and James Smith. Everybody
laughs, and no one believes a word they say on the
great themes.
Moody, the Evangelist, is attracting large
audiences to his Temple at the North of London—
as many as 9000 in one day. Moody s present Eng-
lish tour will be of six months’ dura'ion: «nd M?
committee estimate the total expenses at £l4 000,
which amount they will find little difficulty in rais-
ing—for the sum asked is moderate in comparison
with that expended over the first “mission,” when
tour months only of “ hot-rospelling ” swallowed
up nearly £30,000; making it appear as though the
promoters of the 1875 venture were certainly
nothing out of pocket by their good work. It may
be that Moody's campaign will deal a death-blow
at the Salvation Army in London. General Booth,
at any rate, is finding business rather slack since
the advent of his American rival, and a falling off
In home funds is very likely to hasten the “ Gene-
ral’s ” projected visit to Australia. Moody’e ser-
vices are devoid of mosf of the claptrap features
of the “ Harmy’s," the strongest point of resem-
blance between them being “the standing up of
such as are saved.” But though the “Commercial
Traveller for the Kingdom of Heaven ” (as Moody
has been called) takes a very large number of
orders, we fear that, in too many cases, his cus-
tomers refuse the goods when they aro delivered.
Mr. John Taylor, J.P., of Parramatta,
Chairman of the Bench by whom Rev. Mr. Ullman
was fined under the borough by-laws for obstruct-
ing the streets by collecting and addressing a
crowd of 100 persons, said, in announcing the de-
cision of the Court: “I have a most unpleasant
duty to perform. We have no option, under the
Borough by-laws. I have no doubt of the zeal of
the defendant, though I don't agree with the
manner he has adopted of showing it. The Bench
will inflict the mitigated penalty of 10s. fine and
4s. lOd. costs of Court. As for the flue, I shall pay
it myself, to show that I sympathise with the
spirit I believe Mr. Ullmnn to be actuated by.”.. .
The Rev. Mr. Robjohns arrived in Sydney on the
2tth ultimo, as agent in Australia for the B. and
P. Bible Society. Robjohns is a too too suggestive
name.
There are over 200 applicants for the billet
of Mr. Dillon, S.M. M.P.'s, country P.M.’s,
barristers, solicitors, C.M.G.’s Parkes probably
resign Tenterfield (Whereat) to allow Dillon a seat;
hence Dillon holds present office till definitely
informed as to Parkes'intention. This strengthens
the statement that Parkes is trying for Governor-
ship of Tasmania.
Bob Smith and Charley Roberts struggling;
for Upper House.
Distinctly stated Parkes working at home
for Governorship of Tasmania.
In America they combine the church and
the theatre. In Australia they amalgamate the
church with the Ar.-raising- and money-broking
businesses.
An Austrian Bishop has hanged himself to
the Cruciiix in his church. Our stipendiary bard
thus jokes:—
’Gainst Satan he ever waged war to the knife
All honours regarded as dross,
Though every temptation—in life as in death—
He still was attached to the cross.
Those who live by the law break it occa-
sionally. Down South, two solicitors were seconds
for a merchant and a boss-drover, who, instead of
wasting money in fees, went back to the primitive
way of settling a little difficulty—“on the green.”
There was a lady in the case. Strange if things
weren't lively with lawyers and ladies about.
A comic edition of the Bible, price sixpence,
edited by General Booth, is announced I Those
who have heard .omc of the hymns so popular in
the “ Army” may well shudder at the news! But
it is to be hoped that the annou cement is a
hoax; even the most devoted admirer of the
General would surely draw the lino at the comic
Bib'e.
The London Standabd —the Standard of
the Jingoes—seems to be playing it rather low
down. Here is an advertisement which recently'
appeared in its columns:-“Gaiety.—The gentle-
man (or his lii nd) who was unable to speak to the
lady in the tl ird row of stalls Jast evening, can
make an appou.. .ue t by writing to Little Daisy,
2 Vigo-street ” We’re almost afraid to ask—what
next? lest we should be indicted lor abetting im-
morality.
France captured at close of past year
Sontay (Tonquln) with two million dollars trea-
sure. Sontay garrison lost 0000 men. France lost
1000 men (Including 20 officers). Parisian journals
now propose that Fi ance should seize the islands
of Hainan, Formosa, and Chusan, as a "material
guarantee’’ connected with the Tooquinpse war.
As a rule the belligerent nation that first talks of
material guarantees comes out the loser.
THE SEA.
The soft summer breeze, through tho leaf-laden
trees,
Makes music that mournfully mingles
With the dread, distant din of the sorrowful seas,
As they restlessly roll o’er the shingles;
And tho roar of their roll striketh awe to my soul.
For I think as I list to the ocean
How each drop is a dole of that one mighty whole,
And the whole makes me sick with its motion.
The very latest humorous sheet to ha - d
comes from Melbourne. It is entitled “The
Luther Celebration,” and in it all Roman Catholics
are Implored to regard the 10th of November as a
great day of intercession and expiation “for (un-
erring brethren, the Protestants, as their religions
condition deserves sincere compassion.” This is
rough on the editor of the Howl and Pastor Allen,
who surely don’t want compassion from the woman
who sits on the scarlet beast at Rome.
The Mayor of Dover (Eng.) has declined to
pay for the luncheon ordered by the oncers of tlm
Town Council upon election day, and for which
previous mayors have, according to rule, bee-i
responsible. So the caterer has come down on the
unfortunate councillor who selected the menu.
Upon expostulating with the Mayor on his nig-
gardliness, that most worshipful gentleman stated :
“ When I took office I said I would carry out the
duties of the office only ” The Mayor’s reply has
put quite a new complexion upon municipal life.
Hitherto we have thought that a Mayor’s first and
foremost duty was to provide feeds for his plump
brethren.
A few days ago a hungry-looking woman
was hauled up before Stipendiary Dillon, and her
’’ntrepid arrester haviDg kissed old Deuteronomy
as lovingly as if it was his own Jemima Ann just
seating him down to supper, deposed that “ Frum
irfurmashin resaived I surrounded th’ rrish’nur,
and caught hir in th’ act av perambylatin’ fram
house t’ house surlistin’ Chrishmis barxes.” Then
DiMon, looking down as lovingly as an old crow on
a dead horse, observed: "Woman—go lby way.
You have done no more than the Sydney postmen
do.” Then the sinner tiled out, slowly sighing,
and said : “ Musha now, luk at that—an r th’ purty
nose av’ ’im! ”
“Parliament,” says E. L. Zox, of Mel-
bourne, “is never more respected than when it is
in recess.” We admit that this saying is good. But
we believe it is a lie. We have often wished Par-
liament to sit in endless session, so as to use up all
the blather of members who, il they haven’t the
ear of the House, go junketing round the coun-
try, and responding for Parliament at every
gathering from a cockfight to the opening of a
Free Library. Parliament on the loo“-e commands
a far more pronounced contempt, from thought-
ful citizens, than Parliament in session. Thought-
ful citizens can keep away from Parliament in
session, but nothing »hort of a blunderbuss can
save them from Parliament on the loose.
A shocking case of arrested development
in salvation has occurred at Prahran (Melb.).
John Ryan (whose spiritual cognomen, by the bye,
is “Tipperary Jack”) was a “ full corporal” in the
Prahran Harmy ; but in the very moment of
marching a detachment into barracks, John’s
military career was cut short by a warrant. Nine-
teen previous convictions were proved against
John, which, for a man of his strong religious
opinions, certainly appears h good many. When
the “ corporal” was asked if he had anything to
say, he smiled a beatific smile upon the magis-
trate, and " placed trust in the Lord.” And when
ho was sentenced to one little month, he expressed
his intention of doing that bit on his head “for
’B sake.”
We’re afraid the American capital must,
be a rather naughty place, when a lady writes
thus about its top society:—“l confess I was un-
prepared to see so much in Washington drawing-
rooms. Frequently, at hops and receptions, 1 saw
handsome girls at the age w hen they are assumed
to be most modest appearing in almost a nude
condition above the waist. I wondered whether
these girls had mothers, and whether the mothers
were aware of the condition in which their daugh-
ters were exposi ng their charms. At the Jast hop
a young naval officer, who was introduced to and
waltzed with one of the semi-nude young ladies,
was asked by a friend how he enjoyed the waltz
His replv was: ‘Well, the fact is, Miss Plantu-
genet’s dress was cut so infernally low, that I didn’t
think of the waltz at all.’ ”
Up Maryboropgh (Q.) way there is a Chi-
nese named Thomas Ashney. It is 23 years since
he took the oath of naturalisation, and married an
English wife. Since then he has got rich, speaks
English as well as Quong Tart, is held in good re-
pute, and was once Mayor of Gayndah. A few
weeks ago he took his nephew, whose mother was
an Englishwoman, to Sydney on a visit, and, on
h ; 8 return, the Brisbane authorities telegraphed
that the poll-tax of £lO should bo demanded both
for him and his young relative, who was born in
Gayndah. He paid for himself, and squeezed his
nephew through at half-price on account of being
a half-caste. So all the prate about enlightenment,
civilisation, Christianity, <•( hoc genus, etc , simply
amounts to this—that, if the Chinese had a couple
of millions of disciplined cut-throats to fall back
upon, and were able to oxclude Europeans, and
command their own seas, Thomas Ashney would
not have to pay a poll-tax. In fact, civilisation
has come to mean the art of manufacturing ex-
plosive bullets, and using them.
“Maid, Wif«, and Mother ” is the title of
a pamphlet of 64 pages, lately published in Sydney,
and containing quite a number of sensible sug-
gestions and directions for the guidance of women
under various circumstances. Those directions
are conveyed in a plain, chatty style, free from
the technicalities which render professional works
on the subject of little value to non-professional
readers.


The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
£jONTRACTS FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
METROPOLITAN DISTRICT,
DARLINGHURST «AOL,
THE NAUTICAL SCHOOL-SHIP VERNON.
THE RECEPTION HOUSE FOR THE INSANE,
Darlinghurst,
THE SHAFTESBURY REFORMATORY,
THE INDUSTRIAL SCHOOL FOR GIRLS,
BILOELA;
And all Government Establishments nototberwiso
provided for.
TENDERS will be received for this section,
separately or together.
Notice is hereby given that Tenders will be
received at this Office, until noon of Thursdav,
the 2lBt February next, for furnishing the supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be
required during twelve calendar months from
the Ist April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter
specified.
Printed forms of Tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at this Office, or at the Office of the
Comptroller-General of Prisons.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the performance of the contract, in the event
of the tender being accepted; and undertaking in
that event that they will severally call at the
Treasury and execute and deliver, within four-
teen days from the usual notification of accept-
ance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
performance, otherwise the tender will not be
taken into consideration.
Should tho bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from
date of notification of acceptance, the Govern-
ment reserves the right to advertise tho contract
anew, or to accept another Tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed
*• Tender for Supplies, Metropolitan District.”
It is to bo distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
Tender.
The cost or the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by tho Contractor.
N.B. Accepted Tenders will bo notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice shall be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
Tenderers that their Tenders have been declined
For articles of supply and conditions of contract,
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
£JONTRACT FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
SUPPLIES FOR THE PERMANENT MILITARY
FORCE,
Sydney and Newcastle.
TENDERS will be received at this Office, until
noon of Thursday, the 21st February next, for
furnishing on account of the Public Service the
supplies undermentioned, in su< h quantities as
may be required during- twelve calender months
from the Ist April, 1884, upon the conditions here-
inafter specified.
Printed forms of Tender, as well as anv further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury, or the Brigade Office.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract in the
event of the 'tender being accepted, and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of accept-
ance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
performance, otherwise the tender will not be
taken into consideration.
Should the bond not {be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date of
notification of acceptance, the Government re-
serves the right to advertise the contract anew,
or to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed
“Tender for Provisions for Military Force.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
Tender.
The cost of the necr ssary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the Contractor.
N.B.—The accepted Tender will bo notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
Tenderers that their Tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract,
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales.
15th December, 1833.
/CONTRACTS FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE-
HOSPITAL FOR THE INSANE, GLADSVILLE.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
the 21st February next, for furnishing the supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may 06 re-
quiried, during twelve calendar months, from the
Ist April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter
specified.
Printed forms of tender, as well as any fuither
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury or at the Hospital.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memerandum signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties agreeing to be responsible
l'oa the due performance of the contract in the
event of the Tender being accepted, and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of ac-
ceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing auch
performance, otherwise the Tender will not be
taken into consideration.
Should the bond net be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew
or to accept another Tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-
secretary f> r Finance and Trade, and endorsed
“ Tenders for Supplies, Gladesville.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
Tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
N B.—Accepted Tenders will be notified in the
Goaernment Gazette, and such notices will be
considered us an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders huac been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales.
15th December, 1883.
FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
IIOSPITALS FOR THE INSANE, CALLAN
PARK.
NOTICE is hereby given that Tenders will bo
received at this Office until noon on THURSDAY,
the Sist February next, for furnishing the supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be re-
quired during twelve calendar months from the
Ist April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter
S •
Printed forms of tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may r.e obtained on
application at the Treasury or at the Hospital.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum,: signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the duo performance of the contract in the
event of the tender being accepted, and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call at
tbe Treasury and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual uotillcation of accept-
ance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
performance, otherwise the tender will not bo
tiken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew
or to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed,
“Tender for Supplies, Callan Park.”
It is to bo distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
tender.
The cost'fff the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor. 1
N.B.—Accepted Tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will bo
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers th .'t their tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditisns of contract,
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS
The Treasury, New South Wales,
December 15,1883.
FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
HOSPITAL FOR THE INSANE, NEWCASTLE.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDEHS will be
received at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
31st February next, for furnishing the supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be re-
quired during twelve calendar months, from Ist
April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter speci-
fied.
Printed forms of Tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury, or at the Hospital.
At the foot of every '1 onder there must be a
memorandum signed by the party tendering, and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the Contract, in the
event of the Tender being accepted; and under-
taking, in that event, that they will execute and
deliver, within fourteen days from the usual noti-
fication of the acceptance, a bond of Her Majesty
for securing such performance, otherwise the
Tender will not be taken into considerstiou.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government re-
serves the right to advertise the contract anew or
to accept anothe r tender.
fenders should be addressed to tbe Under Secre-
tary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “Tender
for Supplies, Newcastle.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
tender.
The cost of the necessary duty stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
N.B.—Accepted tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
QUARANTINE ESTABLISHMENT,
LITTLE BAY.
Notice Is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
the 21st February next, for furnishing the sup-
plies undermentioned, in such quantities as may
be required during twelve calendar months from
the Ist April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter
specified.
Printed forms of Tender, as well as any further
particulars and in formation,lmay be obtained on
application at the Treasury.
At the foot of every Tender there must be a
memorandum signed by the party tendering, and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract, in the
event of the Tender being accepted; and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of
acceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing
such performance, otherwise the Tender will not
be taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the ssidterm of fourteen days from date of
notification of acceptance, the Government re-
serves the right to advertise the Contract anew or
to accept another Tender.
SaTenders should be addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed
“Tender for Supplies, Little Bay."
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
Tender.
The cost of the necessary' Duty Stamps must be
borne by the Contractor.
N.B.—The Accepted Tender will be notified in
the Government Gazette, and such notice will
be considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
Tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract,
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury. New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
£4ONTRACT FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
QUARANTINE STATION, NORTH HEAD.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS w ill be
received at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
the 21st February next, for furnishing the supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be re-
quired during twelve calendar months from the
Ist April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter
specified.
Printed forms of tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the patty tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract, in the
event of the tender being accepted; and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of ac-
ceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
performance, otherwise the tender will not be
taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from the
date of notification of acceptance, the Govern-
ment reserves the right to advertise the contract
anew or to accept another tender.
'i enders should be addressed to the Under-Secre-
tary for inance and Trade, and endorsed “ Ten-
ders for Supplies, North Head.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
t< nder.
Tfie cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
N.U.—The accepted tender will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract,
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
/CONTRACTS FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
COUNTRY DISTRICTS.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
the 21st February next, for furnishing, on account
of the Public Service, the supplies undermen-
tioned, in such quanti its as may be required
during twelve calendar months, from the Ist
April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter speci-
fied.
Printed forms of tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury, or at the establish-
ments for which the supplies are required.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the coutract in the
event of the tender being accepted, and under-
taking, in that event, that they will severally
execute and deliver, within fourteen days from
the usual notification of acceptance, a bond to
Her Majesty tor securing such performance, other-
wise the tender will not be taken into considera-
tion.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew,
or to accept another tender.
Bonds will only be required where the annual
supply is estimated at £l5O or over.
Separate tenders will be required for the several
services specified.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-Secre-
tary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “Ten-
der for Provisions, &c.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
N.B.—Accepted tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
£<ONTRACTS FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
HOSPITAL FOR THE INSANE, PARRAMATTA.
Notice is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Office until noon on THURSDAY,
the 2lst February next, for furnishing, on account
of the Public Service, the supplies under-men-
tioned, in such quantities as may be required
during eight calendar months from the Ist April,
1884, upon the conditions hereinafter specified.
Printed forms of Tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury or at the Hospital.
At the foot of every Tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering, and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be respon-
sible for the due performance of the contract, in
the event of the Tender being accepted; and
undertaking in that event that they will severally
call at the Treasury and execute and deliver,
within fourteen days from the usual notification
of acceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing
such performance, otherwise the Tender will not
be taken into consideration,
Should the Bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from notifi-
cation of acceptance, the Government reserves
the right to advertise the contract anew, or to
accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed,
“Tender for Supplies, Parramatta.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the Contractor.
N.B.—Accepted tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract,
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
£JONTRACTS FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
TEMPORARY HOSPITAL FOR THE INSANE,
COOMA.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Office, until noon of THURSDAY,
the 21st February next, for furnishing the Supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be
required during twelve calendar mouths from the
Ist Apr 1, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter
specified.
Printed forms of tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, maybe obtained on
application at the Treasury or at the Hospital.
At the foot of every Tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract, in the
event of the Tender bei> g accepted; and under-
taking in that event that they will execute and
deliver within fourteen days from the usual
notification of acceptance, a bond to Her Majesty
for securing such performance, otherwise the
tender will not be taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from the
date of notification of acceptance, the Govern-
ment reserves the right to advertise the contract
anew or to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under
Secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed
“ Tender for Supplies, Cooma.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
Tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamp must be
borne by the Contractor.
N.B.—Accepted Tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers (hat their Tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply, and conditions of con-
tract, see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
£4ONTRACT FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
H.M.C.S. WOLVERENE.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will be
recesved at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
the 21st of February next, for furnishing the
supplies undermentioned, in such quaniities as
may be required during twelve calendar months,
from the Ist April, 1884, upon the conditions here-
inafter specified.
Printed forms of tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained .on
application at this Office.
At the foot of every tender there must bo a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract, in the
event of the tender being accepted, and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of
acceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing
such performance, otherwise the tender will not
be taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew,
or to accept another tender.
Tenders should bo addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed
“Tenders for Supplies, H.M.C.S. Wolverene.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Gov-
ernment will not necessarily accept the lowest or
any tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
N.B.—The accepted tender will be notified in
the Government Gazette, and such notice will
be considered as an intimation to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For articles of supoly and conditions of con-
tract, see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
£4ONTRAOTS FOR THE PUBDIC SERVICE.
PROTESTANT AND ROMAN CATHOLIC
ORPHAN SCHOOLS, PARRAMATTA.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Ollice until noon of THURSDAY,
the 21st February next, for furnishing on account
of the Public Service, the supplies undermen-
tioned, in such quantities as may be required
during twelve calendar months from the Ist
April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter speci-
fied.
Printed forms of tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury or at the Orphan
Schools.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract, in the
event of the tendor being accepted, and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury, and execute and deliver within
fourteen days from the usual notification of
acceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing
such performance, otherwise the tender will not
be taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew
or to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed,
“Tenders for Supplies, Orphan Schools.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Gov-
ernment will not necessarily accept the lowest or
any tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
N.B.—Accepted tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of con-
tract, see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
CONTRACTS FOR SUPPLIES FOR THE
GOVERNMENT ASYLUM AT SYDNEY
(HYDE PARK ASYLUM).
TENDERS will be received at this Office, until
12 o’clock on THURSDAY, the 21st February next,
for Furnishing the Supplies undermentioned, in
such quantities as may be required during twelve
callendar months lrora the Ist April, JBB4, upon
the conditions hereinafter specified,
Printed forms of tender may be obtained at the
Treasury, or at the Office of the Manager of the
Government Asylums, where further particulars
and information may be obtained.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
merr orandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract, in the
event of the tender being accepted; and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury, and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of accep-
tance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
performance, otherwise such tender will not be
taken into consideration,
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from the
date of notification of acceptance, the G overnment
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew,
or to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-Secre-
tary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “ Tender
for Supplies, Government Asylum, Hyde Park.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the Contractor.
N.B.—Accepted Tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as au iutimalion also to the unsuccess-
ful Tenderers that their Tenders have been de-
clined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE 11. DIBBS.
The Treasury of New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
Contracts for supplies for the
GOVERNMENT ASYLUMS AT GEORGE
AND MACQUARIE STREETS, PARRA-
MATTA.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until
noon of THURSDAY, the 21st February next, for
Furnishing the Supplies undermentioned, in such
quantities as may be required during twelve
calendar months, from the Ist April, 1884, upon
the conditions hereinafter specified.
Printed forms of Tender may be obtained at the
Treasury, or at the Office of the Manager of Go-
vernment Asylums, where further particulars and
information may be obtained.
At the foot of every Tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party Tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract in the
event of the Tender being accepted; and under-
taking. in that event, that they will severally call
at the Treasury, and execute and deliver, within,
fourteen days from the usual notification of ac-
ceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing suet*
performance (otherwise such Tender will not bo
taken into consideration).
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew
or to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-Secre-
tary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “ Tender
for Supplies, Government Asylums, Parramatta.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
Tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the Contractor.
N,B.—Accepted Tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
Tenderers that their Tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.


Department of Mines,
• Stock Branch,
Sydney, 19th December, 1883
Returns underthe ra.bbit nuisance,
DISEASES IN SHEEP, AND PASTURES
AND STOCK PROTECTION ACTS.
Owners of Sheep, Large Stock and Land liable to
contribution ana assessment under the Rabbit
Nuisance and Diseases in Sheep Acts are reminded
that their returns must be made to the Clerks of
Petty Sessions; and those under the Pastures and
Stock Protection Acts to the respective Inspectors
of Stock, on or before the Ist January next, 1884.
ALEX. BRUCE,
Chief Inspector of Stock.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
lONTRACTS FOR SUPPLIES FOR THE GO-
VERNMENT ASYLUM AT LIVERPOOL.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until 12
o’cloca on THURSDAY, the 21st February next,
for furnishing the supplies undermentioned, in
such quantities as may be required during twelve
calender months, from the Ist April, 1884, upon the
conditions hereinafter specified.
Printed forms of Tender may be obtained at the
Treasury, or at the office of the Manager of the
Government Asylums, where further particulars
and information may be obtained.
At the loot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to bo responsible
for the due performance of the contract in the
event of the tender being accepted, and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury, and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of ac-
ceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
performance (otherwise such tender will not be
taken into consideration).
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew
or to accept another tender.
Tenders to be addressed to tho Undersecretary
for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “Tender for
Supplies, Government Asylum, Liverpool.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
O.B.—Accepted tenders will be notified in the
Govjcrnmbnt Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For particulars of supply and conditions of con-
tract, see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
c
The Treasury, New South Wales.
15th December, 1883.
ONTRACTS FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
forage for public departments-me-
TROPOLITAN AND PARRAMATTA
DISTRICTS.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
the 21st February next, tor furnishing the supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be re-
quired during twelve calender months from the
Ist April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter
specified.
Printed forms of tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract, in the
event of the tender being accepted, and under-
taking in that event that they will call at the
Treasury and severally execute and deliver, with-
in fourteen days from the usual notification of ac-
ceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
performance, otherwise the tender will not be
t a teen into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of 14 davs from date of noti-
fication of acceptance, the Government reserves
the right to advertise the contract anew or to ac-
cept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-Secre-
tary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “Tender
for Forage.’ -
The tenders for each district will be accepted or
rejected separately.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
The forage to be delivered in bulk, as ordered ;
the net weight only, after deducting the tare, to
be charged.
N.B.—Accepted tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
PARTICULARS.
Maize, per bushel of 56 lb.
Or Oats, ditto 40 lb.
Bran, ditto 20 lb.
Hay, Oaten, at per ton of 2240 lb.
Ditto, Lucerne, ditto 2240 lb.
Straw, ditto 2240 lb.
AS REQUIRED.
Forage.
METROPOLITAN DISTRICT.
All Government Establishments and Services not
otherwise provided for by contract.
PARRAMATTA DISTRICT.
All Government Establishments and Services not
otherwise provided for by contract.
For conditions
Gazette.
of contract, see Government
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
Clsth December, 1883.
ONTRACTS FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICI
FORAGE FOR THE POLICE.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will b
received at this Office until noon of THURSDAY
the 21st February next, for furnishing the supplie
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be re
quired during twelve calender months from th
Ist April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafte
specified.
Printed forms of Tender, as well as any furthe
particulars and information, may be obtained oi
application at the Treasury, at the Office of th
Inspector General of Police, or at the stations fo
which the supplies are required.
Bonds will be required for the following stationf
namely Metropolitan, Armidale, Goulburr
Bathurst. Mudgee, Orange, Forbes, Dubbo. Mait
land (East and West). Tamworth, Deniliquic
Narribri, Albury, and Wagga Wagga.
Bonds must be signed within fourteen day
from date of notification of acceptance, failini
which the contract will be liable to cancellation
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-Secr’e
tary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “Tende
for Forage.” (Not more than one station to be in
eluded in each Tender.)
The tenders for each station will be accepted o
rejected separately.
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern
meat will not necessarily accept the lowest or an'
tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamp must be
borue by the contractor.
The forage to be delivered in bulk, as ordered •
the net weight only, after deducting the fare to be
charged.
N.B.—Accepted tenders will be notified in the
Goveknment Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers tnat their tenders have been declined
PARTICULARS.
Maize, per busnel of 56 lbs.
Or Oats „ 4u lbs.
Bran „ 20Jbs.
Hay per ton of 2240 lbs.
Straw „ 2240 lbs.
Stations.
Probable No. of
Horses to be
Foraged.
Stations.
probable No. of
Horses to be
Feraged.
lor conditions of contract see Government
Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS,
gYDNEY HIGH SCHOOLS.
BOYS’ SCHOOL, CASTLERE AG H-STREET.
Head Master :
JOSEPH COATES, Esq., University of London,
late Head Master of Newington College.
Assistant Masters:
JAMES F. M'MANAMEY, Esq, BA.
ALBERT B. PIDDI.NGTON, Esq., B.A.
Teacher of Modern Languages :
DR. E. THiBAULT.
Teacher of Drawing:
ARTHUR D. RILEY, Esq.
GIRLS’ SCHOOL ELIZABETH-STREET.
Head Mistress:
Miss LUCY WHEATLEY WALKER.
Assistants:
Miss LUCY HIGGS.
Miss MARION O’BRIEN.
Teacher of Modern Languages :
DR. E. THIBAULT.
Teacher of Drawing:
ARTHUR D. RILEY, Esq.
COURSE OF INSTRUCTION.
1. Classics: Latin, Greek.*
2. Mathematics.
3. Modern Languages : French, Gorman.*
4. English Language and Literature, Elocution.
5. History.
6. Physical Science.
7. Drawing: Geometrioal and Perspective.
1. Latin.*
2. Elementary Mathematics.
3. Modern Languages: French, German.*
4. English Language and Literature, Elocution.
5. History.
6. Physical Science.
7. Drawing: Freehand and Perspective.
8. Music.
9. Cookery.
10. Needlework.
* These are optional.
EXAMINATION FOR ADMISSION.
An examination of Candidates for admission
will be held in January and July of each year in
the Schoolrooms. The next examination will
commence at 9 o'clock a.m., on the 14th Januarv
proximo. J ’
The subjects of Examination are:—
Fob Boys.
Beading: To read a passage from some standard
author, pronouncing every word distinctly,
and giving due emphasis and modulation to
each sentence as a whole. To have an ac-
quaintance with the meanings of words
selected from the passage read.
Dictation: To write a passage of about fourteen
lines, dictated from some standard author,
or an ordinary newspaper, with correct spell-
ing and punctuation.
Arithmetic: To solve questions in proportion, vul-
gar and decimal fractions, interest and dis-
count.
Grammar: To parse the more difficult words in
a passage of about six lines. To distinguish
the true subjects, and the true predicates in
sentences. To correct inelegant or ungram-
matical expressions. To exemplify the cor-
rect use of picked words.
Euclid: Book I, definitions, &c., propositions I to
XX inclusive.
Algebra: First four rules.
Latin: Smith’s Principia Latina, Part I, to exer-
cise XV inclusive.
Fob Girls.
Beading: As prescribed for boys.
Dictation: As prescribed for boys.
Arithmetic: To solve questions in proportion, vul-
gar and decimal fractions.
Grammar : As prescribed for boys.
French: Schneider’s First French Course Exer-
cises, I to LX inclusive.
SCHOLARSHIPS.
The ten Candidates (five boys and five girls), not
over fourteen years of age, who gain most marks
and shew the necessary proficiency at each en-
trance Examination, will be awarded Scholarships
entitling them to free education for a year, and,
subject to the Teacher’s favourable annual re-
ports on their proficiency and conduct, for the
two following years.
FEES.
Two Guineas a quarter, payable in advance.
Candidates whose parents are duly certified t<» be
unable to pay the fee may be admitted free, pro-
vided they pass the entrance Examination.
HOURS OF INSTRUCTION.
From 9.15 a.m. to 12.15 p.m.
„ 1.15 p.m. to 3.15 p.m.
When pupds are necessarily absent from School,
a written explanation of the cause of absence,
signed by the parent, must be sent to the Head
Master or to the Head Mistress on the following
day.
VACATIONS.
At Christmas, four weeks; and at Midwinter,
three Aveeks.
Applications for admission, addressed to the
Head Master or to the Head Mistress at the Schools,
will be received up to the 14th January next.
G. MILLER.
Acting Under-Sceretary.
Depirtment of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 28th December, 1883.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 27th December 1883.
TENDERS FOR DEODORISING AND DISIN-
FECTING WATER CLOSETS.
TENDERS are invited for Feodorising and Dis-
infecting Water Closets of Public Schools in
the Sydney Districts.
Specifications may be seen, and Forms of
Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Deodorising and
Disinfecting Water Closets,” must be lodged with
the Acting Under-Secretary, Department of Pub-
lic Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m. on
Monday, the 21st January, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
G. H. REID.
GILBEY’S SILVERSTREAM SCHNAPPS.
Gilbey’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TUCKER & CO., Sole Agents,
376 George-street, Sydney.
P. R. HOLDSWORTH,
AUCTIONEER, VALUATOR,
House, Land & Estate Agent
63 ROYAL ARCADE EXIT STREET.
WHAT CAN ONE GET THAT’S WORTH
GIVING AS A CHRISTMAS GIF l',
WITHOUT EXTRAVAGANT OUTLAY?
The above is a question which a million people
will be asking themselvei this season. One wants
to show affection and flood-will by a handsome
and appropriate gift, which will be tasteful and
useful. It is the most puzzling and tiresome job
to find anything widen answers these require-
ments, and is yet obtainable at a reasonable price.
The Oriental Gold Company
(Only Australian place of business, 474 tieorge-
street, opposite the Central Entrance to the
Markets),
has solved this problem of the season, and pro-
vides EXQUISITE GIFTS from ss. to i>s:
Articles of dainty design and enduring beauty,
which will give delight at the first glance, and
will last a lifetime
ORIENTAL GOLD is the very latest discovery
of the alchemitt's laboratory. Tnere have been
good ana useful imitations of sterling gold before
it; but all have been thrown into the shade by
this triumph of modern science. Articles of
* 'rien+al Gold cannot, after years of wear, be dis-
tinguished irom the costliest wares of the gold-
smith. So noble is this metal, that no tawdry
goods of old and inferior designs are manufac-
tured of it. The discoverers have not condescended
to apply it to base uses.
THE VERY LATEST DESIGNS IN JEWELLERY
AND BIJOUTERIE
are regularly worked up in Oriental Gold simul-
taneously with their production in sterling metal,
and, placed side by side, the one article cannot be
told from the other.
THE PRICE OF ARTICLES OF ORIENTAL
GOLD IS BUT A TRIFLE
when compared with identical models of sterling
metal.
Some of the goods are mounted with the NEW
DIAMONDS, another masterpieed of the chemists
of the nineteenth century—artificial stones which
equal the noblest brilliants in fire and glitter, and
rival them in hardness.
The Artist-designers of Paris have, with eager
appreciation, adopted Oriental Gold as worthy to
receive their happiest conceptions. The most
gi’aceful Parisian models are impressed upon a
portion of our stock, which is replenished with
novelties by every mail.
CALL AND INSPKCT-EXACTLY OPPOSITE
THE MARKETS;
or, if a resident of the country, write and ask a
friend to do so. Visitors are always made welcome,
and not pestered to buy, hecause we know that no
one has ever yet viewed our goods without being
astonished and delighted with their variety, ele-
gance, and surpassing and novel beauty—and such
impression, spread among acquaintances, do us
good all the time
Here are a few lines for customers’ guidance
At ss.
A Neat Scarf Pin.
A Pretty Dress Ring - .
A Set of Shirt Studs.
A Natty Brooch.
A Pair of Jewelled Ear-ring'S.
An Elegant Pencil Case.
At 7s. Gel.
Handsome Brilliant Ring.
Beautiful Charm.
Elegant Locket.
Necklet, with Clasp.
Fashionable Hair-pin.
P«dr of Cuff-pins.
At lOs.
Grand Albert.
Ladies’ Albert.
Brooch and Ear-rings.
Ladies' Gem Ring.
Lovely Bracelet.
Collarette.
At 15s.
Choice Locket and Necklet.
Exquisite Jewelled Bracelet.
Brooch, Set with Brilliants.
Magnificent Jewelled Scarf-pin.
Solitaire Brilliant Collar Stud.
Superb French Ear-pendants.
Charming Parisian Bangles.
At *l.
Ladies’ Suite—Necklet, Locket, and Brooch.
Ladies’ Tasselled Slide Albert.
Gentlemen's Fob Chain, with Steel
Pendant.
Exquisite Charms, of lovely and novel Designs.
Ladies' Bar Brooches, beautifully Chased.
*2 2s.
Gentleman’s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face,
with Crystal Glass, in Oriental Gold Cases,
highly finished Works, with Oriental Gold
Albert Chain.
(Stem-winder—ss. extra.)
Lady’s very handsome Hunting or Open Face
(with Crystal Glass) Watch, in Oriental
Gold Cases, full jewelled, and splendid
Timekeeper.
(With a most handsome Oriental Gold Albert,
with slides and tassels, 15s. additional.)
£3 O ».
Gent’s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face, with
Crystal Glass, in sterling Silver Cases—a
reliable, sound watch, perfect Timekeeper,
specially rated, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain.
(Stem-winder-ss. extra.)
Lady’s Sterling Silver Watch, in Hunting (or
Open Face, with Crystal Glass) Cases,
beautifully Engraved, highly finished, full
jewelled works, perfect Timekeeper, with
sterling Silver or Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, with slides and tassels.
£4 O O.
Sterling Silver Chronograph, double dials, for
marking 5-10ths of a second, patent fly-
back hand, patent keyless works, 18 carat
Gold winder, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain.
English Patent Lever, Hunting (or open face,
with Crystal Glass), Clipped and full
jewelled, examined and rated, in sterling
Silver Cases.
(With Oriental gold chain—los. extra.)
Geit’s Silver Hunting Waltham Patent
Lever Watch, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, and beautiful Compass, or other
charm.
£5 O O.
A Combination Parcel, comprising any selec-
tion from the above which customers may
make, to value.
We want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST, ON APPROVAL.
Specially Obseevf.—lf the articles do net
answer expectation on receipt, re-pack them at
once and send them back. If this is done within
two days, or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will return the
money for the articles not kept. Every watch
sold by us will be rated and accompanied by a
written warrantry for two years. Remittances to
be made payable to the Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-st., Sydney, op. Markets


Tattersall’s Cup-Coriolanus 1, Sardonyx
a, Prima Donna 3.
‘•Dagonet” says it will be a great over-
eight if, among early presentations to the Queen,
there is not seen that of “ Mrs. Bartholomew Bin rs
Sin her husband’s appointment) by Mrs. Sherm
gff.” Sydney Soft-goodsmen, to arms !
¥
URNITURE SHOW ROOM
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring l street*. Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
t> 'id
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latost fMhion ; ’well worthy of
inspection.
ALL “CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Til URNITURE.—THE LARGEST STOCK IN
JD THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB. O’Connell-street.
ARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
B’ RTIrOoM SUITES complete iu various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feel
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for singw
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O'Conneil streets, Sydney.
IGHT-POUND BEDRQjOM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table aDd
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 20s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, f ram 355; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s 6d; Tables, from 7s 6d; Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 255; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
ROSEBERY EASY CHAIR,
HE
o
Upholstered and Finished, complete, 18s.
Patterns of coverings forwarded to select from.
VERMANTEL MIRRORS, handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
HIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
ASY 6 CCASIONAL CHAIRS, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
TT^RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
JLf A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d.
HA IR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
X\INING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
JJ DiNING-ROOM SUIT E, comprising 5-FEET
EARLY ENGLISH SIDEBOARD, MAHOGANY
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two l.aves: LA.RGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
I ELF-AD JUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR-
Patented.
£2
33?
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa , at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
Framework for drawing-roomsuites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
-gTIRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FTTEnI-
JP TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
SEDDIN G.—All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
-atreet.
ASHSTANDS, with marble, 25s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN seats, 20$; Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
KNTWOOD FURNiTURE.-A very complete
Assortment; best make, km eet prices.
B
W
B
SOCIAL.
Lovely weather enticed a large crowd to
Randwick on Boxing Day, including the Earl, the
Mayor, some of the Ministry, and any number of
prominent men and women. The toilet show was
merely fair, nothing more. Tho majority of gay
dressers congregated in the members’ half of the
stand. Among those who promenaded, there
were few specialities visible. Whito would have
been first favourite in the colours, only for tho
fact that it isn't a colour. Even among the horses,
too, White’s were decidedly popular. Forageneral
aspect of summer/ grace, the ">ost noticeable
lidy, we think, was the fair and slender wearer of
a white iawn dress, so airy and iight that over a
coloured foundation which glinted through, it had
the delicate hue of medusa-green, A brightgreen
waist-sash was worn, and a sunflower at the belt.
Seasonable was a nicely-made China silk, lace and
gloves to match, and gold jewellery. A dainty
figure wai garbed in a well-fitted crushed straw-
berry corded silk, and broehe front skirt hung
with pompons. An elderly lady wore a lovely
heliotrope b r oche; and rich was a heavy ottoman
cord, with pattern in green and brown; the skirt
was of shot colours, brown hiving the best of it,
pompon trimmings. Stylish was a black ottoman
with raised velvet flowers on it, stiff enough to
nearly stand alone; and tho black parasol had a
heavy edging of black ostrich feathers. Just as
stylish, too, was a black gros-grain, vandyked
bodice edged with black bead fringe, pompons on
top of shoulders, black knotted cor is and pompons
at,the back. A silk was of bluish tint and yellow
shot together and trimmed with blue diced velvet.
The silk was draped across the right side, and
the skirt was the diced velvet alternating with
long, narrow pleats of the silk. A cream India
muslin, with three tucked flounces, worn by a
nice brunette, was livened with a ruby zone and
neck-bow; and a grey check with a hint of purple,
the skirt circled with black velvet lines, was worn
by a Western young lady who must have been in
the front rana when Nature was dealing beauty
out. Cate-au-iait was the colour of a brown cash-
mere, hung with beads to match, broche front. A
pearl grey satin and broche was worthy of admira-
tion; and a watered moire of bright chaudron
sure to catch the eye when it moved, There were
many of tho crook-handled parasols, and one lady’s
had an immense rose on the handle. A piquant
blonde was pleasing in satin body of royal blue,
and bows of same on the skirt, which was of light
striped blue in large box pleats niched at the
bottom; hat turned up with blue, Under a ficelle
lace parasol, gleamed a sumptuous and stately
costume—redingote of dark green satin, the ski t
of blush pink all fronted with gigantic purple
pansies. From the same part of town came a
young Hebrew lady, musical, in white lawn with
broad embroidered flounces, and cardinal sash. A
pair of charming dresses were of silky texture-
one of mashed strawberry, the other of corn-
flower blue, both trimmed with smoky lace in the
same stylo. And a vision of white was a very
bouffant lawn, made in five tucked flounces, with
fucked shoulder cape, leather-coloured gloves and
belt, all under a perfectly plain white satin sun-
shade. Most ladies wore silk ulsters on the road,
j i case of dust.
» * *
On 21st Dec., the annual ball given by
Messrs. F. H. Neds and Sons took place at Niths-
dale. In the decorations, only green leafage was
used, which left the monopoly of colour to the
dresses of the ladies, who took full advantage of
t ncir privilege—they always do. Among the cha-
racters, a Randwick blonde as Daughter of the
Regiment* in cardinal and black, divided notice
with a Night costume, of black grenadine and
silver stars, as most conspicuous. Two young
Tyrolese Peasants were in correct and picturesque
garb. Lady Campbell, in blue satin, black velvet,
und whito wig, was as pretty as usual. One novel
fancy idea was a navy blue dress, covered with
beetles. Theso beetles attracted a great deal of
attention, a uelioious eveniug dress was worn by
a Waverley Road lady, of delicate pink satin, hung
with grass and water-lilies. The fair daughter of
a Pitt-street auctioneer wore pink tulle skirt and
black bodice, and hair all in a File on top. A pink
satin, very full aud long at the back, with rows of
black lace across the skirt, was peculiarly stylish.
A pure white dress of flowered silk was one of the
prettiest; and black satin with pink lace, on a
William-street brunette with midnight eyes, was in
perfect taste. Bunthorne was capital; two York-
street sisters, blondes, in cream, almost irresistible.
A Wugga lady was charming in white satin, and
strings of pearl in the hair. Three favourite
sisters from Bourke-street had their programmes
soon requested ; one wore blue satin, and two
white, with trimmings respectively of blue and
crushed strawoerry. A pair of white veiling
dresses, worn by sister brunettes, deserved lots of
admiration for their pretty coloured erewelling.
A; white linen dress with tucked flounces and
maroon sash was worn by a tall and handsome
girl who wore bands of ivy leaves flat upon the
head. From Woollahra, a fair blonde and beauti-
ful dancer came all in blue ; and it is hardly
needful to say that the daughter of the house
danced in a style that is pretty well peerless.
Those who did not care for exertion adjourned to
cards aud clouds in the smoke-room upstairs, or to
nuiet nooks where there were no stares, or fre-
quented the supper-room, where they showed a
aood deal of taste. During the night, Mr. E.
Needs danced a hornpipe, and Mr. W. Needs, an
Irish jig, in full oostume. The ball ended soon
after 3 o’clock, and was quite as agreeable as the
thermometer permitted.
• *
Madame Ctiarbonnet-Kellermann’s invita-
tions to the musical matin&e given by herself and
nuoils resulted in a full Protestant Hall on batur-
dav afternoon, 21st December. Most of the
audience were ladies, and the building seemed all
a flutter with rustling fans. Pupils, in white or
cream, occupied a sacred square in front. Many
musicians were present, the majority ot listeners
heina critical. When the numbers were concluded,
urizes were presented by Sir Patrick Jennings, who
made a pithy little speech on tho advantages of
popularising the best music, and raising th« stan-
dard of taste, as Madame Kellermann had done.
The chief honours in class fell to (the wearer of
last year’s silver medal) Miss Edith Brown, of
Clytha, who won the gold medal for piano, and
silver one for theory; and as Sir Patrick pinned
them on, with a few complimentary words, the
young lady was heartily applauded. The silver
medal for piano (also second prize for theory) went
to Miss Rose Samper; and the bronze one to Miss
Minnie Graves. The next prizes fell to Misses
Nellie Mooney, Mabel leely, Adelia Curran
Private pupils: Ist prize, Mdllo. Marie Gouet; 2nd
prize. Miss Ethel Shepherd Smith. Junior prize.
Miss BDnch Montagu, who played very well. A
number of certificates were given, that for reading
at sight being gained by Miss Bella Levey. The
last act was the presentation to Mdme. Kellermann
on behalf of her pupils of a valuable bronze and
ormolu clock of handsome design.
• • *
There was an interesting marriage at
Hawaii recently. It was that of a popular and
wealthy Mani belle, Miss Ruth Holckahiki Aea, to
Mr. Thomas Auchterlonic, a staff writer on the
Saturday Press. The bridesmaids were native
girls. The ceremony was performed by oue of the
bride’s brothers, Mr. E. Aea, and breakfast given
to a party at the house of another brother. The
bridegroom is eldest son of Mrs. D. Aueliterlonie,
of Field of Mars, near Parramatta, and was for
several years a compositor in the Mercury office.
m • •
They are a little primitive still in the Far
North. A band of Palmerston bachelors, who
laboured under so many social obligations as to be
unable to rub them off any other way, hired the
Town Hall, and gave a ball. Of course, the North-
ern belles didn’t require asking twice, and. what’s
more, they willingly provided music, As the wind
blew out many of the lights, it is easy to believe
the night was reasonably cool; and notwithstand-
ing that outside promenading was rendered risky
by scraps of old iron hoops, broken bottles, and
decayed boots, the ball was a boom. And the fact
that it was deemed unnecessary to make the usual
intimation— 11 wheelbarrows may be ordered for
3 a.m.”—shows that the tone of Palmerston society
is improving.
• • •
A reunion of a very pleasant character
took place at Bethany House, Bondi, on Boxing
Day. The occasion was the anniversary of the
arrival, 50 years ago, in N.S.W., of Mr. and Mrs.
Joseph Dickson, sen., both of whmn are over 84
years of age, and who, with their numerous off-
spring, have been residents of Bondi for over a
quarter of a century. There wee over 70 guests,
of whom 41 were descendants—consisting of chil-
dren, grandchildren, and great grandchildren.
The time was passed in various forms-such as
croquet, cricket, &c.,—and a very pleasant feature
of the day’s pleasure consisted in the photograph-
ing of the whole party in a group by Mr. D. Scott,
of Stanmore. About 2 o’clock the comi-any sat
down to a first-class spread, which the fresh sea
air enabled them to do justice to. After tea,
served A la Ruwe, and some music and part sing-
ing by a few of the members of the Metropolitan
Liedertafel who were present, one of the most
pleasant of garden parties came to an end, as do
all things mundane.
m 9 9
On Boxing Day, a large number of ladies
and gentlemen enjoyed a trip round the harbour,
in the new steamer, Warrego, of the Queensland
Steamship Co. Guests were received at the gang-
way, and they included many politicians, judges,
lawyers, doctors, journalists, and public men, the
mercantile marine being especially represented.
At Watson’s Bay, a fine Compagnoni luncheon was
attacked, and subsequently speeches were made in
the cabin. Mr. J. M. Macrossan, M.L.A., as a
Queenslander, was called on to propose the toast
of the Queensland Steamship Co., coupled with
the names of Messrs. Burns and M*llwraith, and
Capt. Phillips, who each responded. Toasts of the
Ladies and the Press followed. The Carraciolo
band provided music during the afternoon, and all
lauded at the Circular Quay soon after five
o’clock.
• • •
On Friday, 21st Dec., a very successful
dinner was given at Fernleigh, Rose Bay, by Mr.
Chris. Bennet, to wish bonvoyauc to Mr. J.Hen-
niker Heaton, who departs for Europe
within the next day or two. Amongst the
company were Sir John Robertson, Sir Patrick
Jennings, the Rev. T. Kemmis, M.A., the Hon. the
Postmaster-General, Mr. C. E. Cracknell; the
Sheriff, Mr. C. Cowper; and Mr. Alfred Bennett.
• • •
A few days ago, a number of guests met
by invitation of Mr. and Mrs. Barber, of Coora-
digbee Station, near Bookham, to celebrate by a
party their eldest daughter’s 21st birthday. As
such opportunities do not occur every day. the
young people of the district “wired in.” Many
pretty dresses were seen; the hostess wearing blac a
silk and cardinal. A brown-tressed girl was charm-
ing in cream and blue with a wreath of forget-me-
nots; and her younger sisters were in pink and
cream. A young and vivacious widow was pretty
in blue and cream; a brunette from a neighbour-
station sweet in white and pink. Cream with loops
of crushed strawberry made a Bowning maid win-
some, and a governess sparkled in pink and white
iaee. All the guests were highly pleased, and
danced till the stars were relieved from their sen-
tinel watch in the sky.
• ■ •
Somehow the audience was cold at the
sixth social evening of the Sydney Liedertafel,
and it was not through lack of merit in the music,
either. There was, however, a little disappoint-
ment at no lady vocalist appearing. In part songs,
Genre’s “Musical Jest” was perhaps best. Tho
vocal quartet, “ Rest, dearest,” was a gem, the low
bass having a splendid voice. Mr. Knight Aston
sang three solos, and was disappointing in each.
Herr Vogrich, as the new conductor, was suc-
cessful, and deservedly so. Mr. Charles Huener-
bein was accompanist, and there is no better.
Nearly everybody dresses well at the Liedertafel
socials, but it is impossible to mention a fourth of
those who deserve description. A pretty plump
girl, with white skin and short black hair, wore a
black grenadine, cut low, and with very short
sleeves, with charming effect. Another black
dress was of silk and rich broche, cut square, and
filled in with white tulle, elbow sleeves, edged with
tulle and tiny bunches of wild flowers. A bright
amber satin, trimmed with black was, at any rate,
striking. A pale blue nun’s veiling and silver
flowers; a crimson satin and cream trimmings; a
cream skirt, with beautiful pale blue plush rcdin-
gote, pearl ornaments, were all pretty; and two
sisters in soft white dresses, gold belts, and gloves
to match, were exceedingly so. A sweet, fan-
blonde looked like a princess in a dress composed
entirely of lace, skirt flounced right up to the
waist, sleeves of same. No colour was worn with
this, and the effect was excellent, and quite out of
the common. A young lady with a wealth of
beautiful auburn hair showed taste in her choice
of colour-the very palest sea-green, in what
appeared to be tine cashmere, flounced to the
waist, with loose half sleeves, set off with soft
white lace. White dresses were numerous.
• • •
As a sequel to the breaking up of the
Modern High School, its Athletic Club gave a
nice concert and hall. Tattersall’s hall was deco-
rated, and nearly full. Of the 16 musical pieces,
th« overture, Auber's “Domino Noir,” was capital,
as were also “ Te L’Rammenta,” a duet by Miss
Ponder and Mrs. Lewis, “ Vashi,” by the latter,
and “ The Wreath” trio by the two ladies and Mr.
Levison. Mdme. Garuhaf sang 11 Dream Faces”
swi etly; there was a quartette by English concer-
tina players; Messrs. M'Mahon with cornet and
Summer at the piano were excellent, and Mr.
Harvey played a waltz on six instruments simul-
taneously—the piano, cornet, beds, triangle, cym-
bals, and drum. About 10 o'clock dancing began
on an original plan, every dance alterna ing with
a song or recitation, which was arranged with a
view to coolness. Supper was provided in the
large off-room, and the whole affair was supervised
by Mr. Weiss, who spared no trouble to make
guests comfortable. A few fancy dresses were
worn, and some pretty evening toilets. MiM
Burvett was charmingly airy in white. A Rand-
wick favourite was dainty in pink veiling; a Red-
fern young lady had the richest dress, of brilliant
ruby plush top and rich cream skirt; a iady from
Paddington combined a black skirt with rich bur-
gundy velvet bodice, and her daughter wore white
and gold. From Wynyard-square was a pretty
blonde in pink and scarlet flowers. As the floor
and music were both good, the ball was an ex-
ceedingly agreeable one.
* * *
About a fortnight ago, the first grand
public ball was held in Noumea, in the new hall,
It had a canvas roof, and one side entirely open to
the garden, which, with a cloudless, stirless night
and full golden moon and fountain playing, made
a delightful scene. The attendance was large, in-
cluding the Governor and English vice-consul,
and many really beautiful dresses were displayed.
There was a splendid band for the music, whioh
was perfect for dancing. The ball took place on
Saturday night, and the last guests went home
under the blazing sun of a summer Sunday morn-
ing, at 6 o clock.
• • •
New Year’s Day saw even a larger crowd
at Uandwick than the week before—more ladies,
and more show. Many wore military collars, and
almost all came garbed in ulsters of all sorts, .lust
as well, lor the dust, when homing, was bad. The
Tattersall’s Club Cup, shown on the stand, was as
handsome as cups are made. We may call it gold
trimmed with silver, on a marble base; the handles
were horses’ heads on each side, the top displaying
the Southern Cross, with silver stais on a gold
sheld, surmounted by crossed whips and jockey
cap, and supported by two silver saddles. White
and cream toilets bore the sway. Miss Young
wore a white, with real flowers, and a scarlet belt
embroidered in gold beads; Mrs. Roberts, a rich
light violet satin in broad pleats, and pompadour
bodice to match. A dark green silk, with large
whito lace collarette, had fern pattern broch<sskirt.
A fine figure was very noticeable all in white,
the body broeWd, skirt flounced with lace edges,
and white parasol with colourless sunflowers
worked on it. A married lady ware very rich
heliotrope corded silk, with bows thereon of
darkest violet, of which colour satin the bodice
was—the hues blending tastefully. A pearl satin
with a flowered pattern was admirable. An all
white lawn had gold belt, golden hat loaded
with golden buttercups. A dark grass green satin
was edged with thick chenille fringe, bunched
behind and ridged on the shoulders, with bright
verdant oak-leaves round the bonnet. A charming
girl sported heliotrope silk, and over it a tailed
bodice of flowered pattern to match, trimming of
pure white lace, and fascinating poke hat. With
Mr. Darrell came a lady in a greeny-blue tartan
zephyr, under a blue flowered parasol; and Miss
Pender wore a long black cashmere tunic trimmed
with beads, over a skirt of lawn veiling with
narrow black lines. Mrs. Michael Kidston, of Mel-
bourne, graced a handsome costume of lilac bro-
cade and lace, bonnet of pearl net and lilac fea-
thers, cream satin parasol. From Elizabeth-street
was a pretty blonde, in the neatest of black
velvet jackets, and underneath a skirt of
cream veiling. Mrs. Ackman wore a delicious
cream ; and a companion Hebrew lady one of the
most elegant dresses on the ground, a lovely dove-
coloured cashmore, corded at back, and lined with
plush pink, Henry 11. hat, exactly matching in
hue. Dots of whites were faultless ; and lots of
silver insects were visible —beetles for brooches,
spiders impaled with pins, shining crabs, and
jewel-winged butterflies. Miss Kurtz wore a con-
spicuous dress of dark red satin, chemisette front,
brilliantly crowelled, and strawberry-speckled
Henry 11. hat to correspond. Mrs. Coleman, from
Wagga, displayed a very rich dark brown satin,
and pompadour top, which looked well: and her
auburn sister tried pale blue. Mrs. Hart wore a
handsome light cornflower-blue silk body and
back draping, while tue skirt was of a faint blue,
flowered, and richly trimmed with rows of white
lace. The daintiest little l'airy was a maid of
sweet twelve, in sailor costume of pure white
flannel, apparently without underskirts, dark
blue collarette and stockings, and sailor hat.
un a very young lady, the style was
exceedingly tasteful. A lichen green satin
and ottoman broclie, decked with chenille
to match, was attractive on a blonde lady.
Several black satins, black ottoman broches,
corded silks, etc., were rich and handsome, though
not requiring description. A simple, tastelul
toilet was light blue zephyr skirt, and black redin-
gote corded behind, of faultless shape, and chemi-
sette front. A blue satin and broche, under a
golden poke bonnet and white lace parasol, was
also very noticeable. But many thought the
sweetest construction on the lawn was a silk and
broche, hung with fringe and pompons, of a
peculiar pink, nearly indescribable, which was
worn also on Boxing Day, and was the acme of
neatness.
** * *
There is no more popular band in Sydney
than the Young Australian. On Christmas Day,
the band, under Mr. J. R. Hardy, gave a free and
most enjoyable concert in the Botanic Gardens.
Programmes, on prettiiy-printed Christmas cards
with gold lettering, contained a line selection of
sacred and secular music... Lovely woman’s last
outbreak is to have “bangs” on the back of
her neck ....On the 20th December Mrs.
Hughes, of Lotaville School, Darlinghurst,
gave her annual party. In the afternoon, presen-
tation of prizes took place, and dancing followed
in the evening till the fairies’ mystic hour. ...Miss
Holmes’s breaking-up fete, at Charlton House,
Paddington, was opened by the German Band,
who, later on, played for the dancers. The con-
cert was good, and pupils’ proficiency was also
exhibited in French and English recitations, fancy
work, &c Short hair is prevalent. To some, it
is becoming. When bunched on top of the head,
it is correct to use a large golden hairpin. Some
use steel, pearl, or silver buckles, but this hair-
pin i 3 the very latest....A pleasant plain and
fancy ball took place at the residence of Mr.
Bayley, Queen-street, Woollahra, on Boxing
w nd. was kept up till 3 a.m. With capital
music and catering, and good dancers, all went
smoothly as a top. Two sisters were in deep
cream, and in black and cardinal, one carrying
the palm of the evening. A trio of the same
name wore blue silk and pearls ; deep pink silk
and cardinal streamers ; and a combination ot
blue and old gold silk—and looked dainty The
pretty Zoo Gardens are looking their best now ;
patronage and improvement seem to stimulate
one another. Many country visitors as well as
the urban regulars have been strolling through
during the holidays, and the music of a band
makes the Zoo a flue lounge of an afternoon....
On Saturday night, the staff, mental and mechani-
cal, of the Sydney Daily Telegraph, had a
festive dinner at Gunsler’s. Though there was a
good deal of toasting, the proceedings were not
dry, and success was drunk to the new issue. On
Monday morning the paper came out in a new
guise—it was written grammatically.... Dr. Ellis
was presented with £127 on Monday night, at the
Protestaut Hall. Large meeting ot his admirers,
and Mr. T. B. Decent, as chairman, did the eulogy
part The Dr. afterwards preached the New
Year in, at St. Matthias’s, Paddington.
The Hon. J. G. Ramsay, Minister of Works in South
Australia, was recently married at Sandhurst, to
Miss Bertha, daughter of Mr. Joel Horwood. For
noneymoon, Melbourne and a colonial tour....
Dr. P. H. Metcalfe, the surgeon ot Norfolk Island,
was married, in November, to Miss Janet, daughter
of Mr F. Nobbs, of Longridge, where the breakfast
was held. The day was generally observed as a
holiday on the island... .Thomas King, M.P.iof the
S. A. Advertiser), Mayor of Glenelg, gave a large
ball to Commodore Erskine and the officers of the
Nelson, last month. The Nelson is now at Hobart,
consequently the millinery trade at once becomes
brisk.


Xd OOZET
! T
WHETHER YOU LIVE IN SYDNEY OR IN THE COUNTRY,
t VIVE »
'(1884! f
YOU CAN T BEAT
( VIVE I
11884! f
DRAPERY EMPORIUM,
172 a, 174, 174 a, 176, 176 a, 178 a, 209, 211, PITT-STEET
EVERYTHING SOLD HERE SEND FOR PATTERNS.
WE SEND GOODS AS FAR AS TENTERFIELD, BOURKE, AND ALBURY.
( VIVE )
11884!)
GIVE US A TRIAL ORDER.
j VIVE I
11884! f
Address: Hordern Brothers,
211 Pitt-street (near King-street), Sydney.
NO CONNECTION WITH OUR COUSINS IN GEORG E-STREET.
T 'Ef
II
ITY »' SYDNEY
et m ;-r^
BV 7T!
JAN
AND
'ttt**on k> m» Fsatt s*'
CASTLEREACh thamwat STREET
fORRE/ys
TITLE
I
CLEVELAND
STREET
*1
<o} -
F A
SRC
»
i 5s
EE
«
«
—B-
-
8
IT
REDFERN
STREET
LATELY PURCHASED 0 Y THE ft T
fir ,
PV9LK PARR
jru !2i Hr Ut
TERMS
10 BK Cut fig pot It
C,« , t ( Monty mtyaHottfosa
Qj/j/Itt map 'ttV; tn Mongo ft ftr Sptm
•oorty 'n+jt H floor Copt fO‘ Ja*v/% ptrnh
:
i iULi!
Ida
ODD
7 r
3H
;
\\ii
to CAL SKETCH
&
Civil CNGiHttißs fi
Licensed
fauaU* Imuue*, under J}£AULayiUj
= Eld Oh (hatnbers
==- PITT SI
~c&kyfatuCljn< ft.
PLAN OF THE REDFERN ESTATE, FOR AUCTION SALE, AT MESSRS. RICHARDSON AND
WRENCH’S ROOMS, MONDAY, 7th JANUARY.
McCLEERY’S HOTEL,
Corner of KING and CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
R. McCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
BT PRIVATE BAR UP-STAIRS.
HORDERNS
ON THE
Ericlctield. Hill.
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LAGE CURTAINS.
I®" These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
LACE CURTAIXS, 100 PRICES.
Ladies residing' in the country can have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
Curtains. If you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it out, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
:◄
Wi
◄
rt
m.
c
m
:%
:<
M
5#
■.4
Miriam
Etfi
LACE CCRTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers.
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. pF” Examine carefully the engraving of our
“LACE CURTAINS.”
Price : 12s. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d. the pair.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
[~LACE CURTAINS | GGB BRICKFIELD HILL. I LACE CURTAINS I
Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
WORLDLY WISDOM,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We have an especial pleasure in noticing
the book of “Jack and the Beanstalk,” the cur-
ent pantomime of the Sydney Theatre Royal, for
reasons to which we would blush to give promi-
nence, but which are principally due, we consider,
to our having unearthed one of the smileless part-
authors. One of these distinguished literati is
“ Frank W. Green, Esq.,” and the other —but the
tortures of Tantalus would not induce us to reveal
even a gm, (very nearly “germ,” isn’t it) of his
initials. On the whole, however, we must sincerely
congratulate tho local Weratus (why not?) upon
the literary triumph of his labours; irrespective,
altogether, of a few pages of undiluted marmalade,
which appear-as the Herald is so fond of stating
—”in another place in this journal.” As we feel
Inclined to associate the localiser of “Jack and
the Beanstalk” with such celebrated writers as
we have, in our intervals of sobriety, blundered
across, wo cannot forget that, in his preface to
“The Revolt of Islam,” Shelley apologises to his
readers for “ the occasional use of an Alexandrine,
where (it being the Spenserian stanza) an Alexan-
drine is not (except in the terminating line of the
Bta«nza) imperatively required. Shelley was, how-
ever, presumably modest; iet us say—as he is dead-
more modest than moral. 'The part-author of the
panto, at the Royal is both or several; but. he
doesn’t—so far as we can see—apologise—even for
this monstre :—
“ Where’s Margery ? I’ll warrant she'll answer
you all. , „
Ah! there she is on the see-saw as usual.
But let us not be hard. Where the adapter of
“ Frank Green, Esq.,” may be said to fail compara-
tively in English, his success in French closely
borders on the phenomenal. Witness:—
“ In vain I try to leave this king of gluttons,
He drags me back, it’s revenous (sic) a nos (sic)
buttons.”
But where we think The Laughless One more
particularly excels is in the patriotic. There is
about these two couplets, now, something which
makes the heart beat faster, and which fires the
blood. Peruse:—
“The Redmonds, too, are gone; they found, I
ween, „
Australia loyal to old England s Queen!
I hope ih more they’ll kindle to a flame,
Burning questions, burning only in the name.”
But after all, where we consider the localiser most
excels is when he tackles something social and
fatherly. The following has been equalled by few
librettists—excelled by none who have survived
the drop:—
“ Give them [The children. Let’s be fair. - ] roast
beef, then fill their little hearts
With technical lore at the School of Arts."
It must not lie forgotten, however, that though
to the hypercritical the eoupl.t we are about to
quote may be said to be l icking- in novelty, few
could question (with j ustice) its superior rhythm :
“ H«re take a tract, called : Have you seen the
Shah? .
The voices of the mountain lambkins bah 1
And here now is one that has also struck us :
“ With the Bookmakers I’ll never bet, my mater !
But put my money on the Totalisator ;”
et puis—
“ Back! baffled cowards, you’re acting like
fantees,
Bring out the battering ram there, if you please.”
Etencore —
“ Thanks ! farewell friends ! and if again we meet
Don’t norice me, excepting in
After these quotations nothing will be wanting,
we take it, to convince the most sceptical as to the
literary splendour of this dazzling production.
But we always were convinced that G. . . .
M. . . . (wo conceal Ms name for obvious
reasons) could do it. And he has done it.
The New Year and other cards at
Wallace’s constitute an Exhibition of the most
{esthetic character. No one who has ever invested
thereat, can number himself with tho«e wha’ hae
wi’ Wallace bled, since the prices are so abnor-
mally moderate as to suggest the inference that
’tis Wallace alone who bleeds*
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes made.
Have you tried them ? If not, then you should do
so. They are the best, and, at the same time, the
cheapest dyes in this market. Wny? Because
they are true to colour every time, and can always
be depended on to produce the desired effect. One
package will dye from three to four times more
than any other dyes sold. All dealers sell them, or
will get them for you. Insist on having them, and
take no others. All sold at one price; od. only.
Wholesale by Elliott Bros., Sydney and Brisbane.*
Mu Cuthbert Lysaght, 21, representing
in Sydney the iron works firm of John Lysaght
(Limited) of London, Bristol, Wolverhampton, and
Sydney, went for a swim at Iron Cove, Parramatta
River. A boy on the bank saw him disappear, and
noticed simultaneously the water become stained
as with blood. A little while afterwards the
horribly mangled corpse of the unfortunate
gentleman was recovered by the searchers. A
shark—possibly the huge brute which some time
since killed a man in the same locality—had seized
and drawn him under. It is a wonder that sharks
do not kill more swimmers, considering that they
are extremely numerous in Australian waters, and
that, whenever they do attack a man, it is impos-
sible to make them relinquish their hold. At St.
Kilda, Melbourne, a few years ago, a man named
HIS LITTLE PRACTICAL JOKE.
Rooney, while bathing in the breakers, was seized
by a ten-foot shark. One Pritchard went to the
rescue on horseback, and succeeded in beating off
the brute, which, however, letting Rooney go,
completely bit through his thigh, and caused
him to bleed to death in a very few minutes. And
now a big shark has attacked a horse and rider at
Manly Beach.
The Very Rev. Dr. Boyd, Apostle of
Christ and Dean of Exeter as well, died worth
£134,00J. The only oneof theoriginal Twelve that
ever held a cent, was Judas, and even he hadn’t
the nous to hold it long.
Wells’ “Rough on Corns.”— Ask for Wells’
“Rough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
| manent cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Moses,
Moss & Co., Sydney. General Agents.
AVben that I wap fresh and hairless,
In the days of youth,
I was happy, gay, and careless,
Always speaking truth.
What a gladsome, sweet, comparelcss
Time that was, forsooth!
When I was a little older,
All my freshness went:
I grew more reserved and colder,
When my youth was spent—
Ma remarked I seldom told her
All I really meant.
When in middle age I landed,
And amassed a pile,
I grew mean and underhanded,
Full of worldly guile—
Telling lies, if biz. demanded,
With a winning smile.
Thus I waxed in wealth exceeding,
As the years progressed—
M>iking sfatements most misleading,
II they suited best;
Rich men bleeding - never heeding
Such as were distressed.
I’ve attained a grand position,
Now that I am old,
leaving made my eirthly mission
One of getting gold;
Still, at times, I feel contrition
For the lies I've told.


Skinny Men —“Wells’ Health Renewer” re-
stores health and vigour, cures Dyspepsia
Impotence, Debility Moses, Moss & Co., Sydney,
General Agents.
The Book of the Season.—Just published,
the “ Mining Lease holders’ Guide ”1(50 pages, being
a handy book of the Laws and Regulations re-
lating to gold and mineral leases, mineral license
holdings, mining upon reserves, roads, fcc., also,
mineral conditional purchases; how to distin-
guish, test and assay minerals, ores and gems,
found in the colony, and calculate their value;
with preface, copious explanatory notes and index,
by T. F. De Courcy Browne, late Deputy Chairman
of the Mining Board of N.B. Wales, author of the
“ Miners’ Handy Book,” &c., &c. Price 2s. 6d., by
post 2s. 10d., in cloth 3s. 6d. J. J. Moore and Co., 564
George-street.*
Mountain Homes.
In a few months more it will be as difficult to
obtain allotments of land on the mountains as it is
now in and about the suburbs of Sydney. Every
person with a little nous or foresight is securing on
the mountains building sites of some description
or another, where he can find in his own
home a change from the care and worry of
business, and, what is of more importance, a
change from the atmosphere of the sea coast. All
the auction sales on the mountains have invariably
run the prices up to a very high figure, but a new
arrangement has now been made by an enter-
prising firm in this city, which bids fair to meet
with far more public patronage than the old
costly plan of a big auction. Messrs. Boyd and
King, 322, George-street, have an estate at Black-
heath, on the mountains, placed in their hands,
and having made a’judicious subdivision, they are
now placing the blocks privately to any pur-
chaser at prices which are bound to attract
buyers, no matter how tight the money market.
The figures are 755. and 955. in full, 10s. deposit,
and the balance at ss. monthly without in-
terest, enabling an average householder to
secure on a small outlay a very accceptable
home in this the most delightful spot in all Aus-
tralia. The land is about the levelest on the
mountains, no gullies or ridges, and commands an
enchanting view of Kanimbla Valley and the
surrounding picturesque country. Cards to view,
and full particulars, may be obtained on applica-
tion to Messrs. Boyd and King, 322 George-street.
In conclusion, it may be mentioned that the return
fare to Blackheath is 03., extending from Saturday
to Monday.*
EVERY' 1
MAM
SHOULD
READ
Dr. Marstoij’s New & Work
Describing how sufferers from
Nervous and Physical Debility,
Mental Docay and all disorders
resulting from Excesses, Indis-
cretions or Overwork, are per-
manently Cured
Without Stomach Medicines.
WEAK, NERVOUS, AND IMPOTENT
MEN RESTORED TO
YIGOB, HEALTH & MANHOOD
Consultation with Physician
andßook FREE. Address—
Marston Remedy Co.,
72 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
T7UNEST cigarettes, finest cigarettes
_tj ark
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR,
Manufactured by W. S. KIMBALL and CO.,
Rochester, U.S.A.
The E L D R E D'G E
NEW YORK
\Correspondence Solicited
■WITH RESPONSIBLE PARTIES
* FOR THE LEADING
SEWING MACHINE OF THE WORLD,
Full particulars, catalogue and prices
.mailed on application..
U.S.A
SEWING MACHINE CO.
tr. tilt Caterer.
..
TEMPORARY PREMISES :
110 King.street, Sydney.
GUNSLER, THE
CATERER”
GUNSLER THE
CATERER’S”
GUNSLER THE
CATERER’S ”
GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
GUNSLER THE
CATERER ”
GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
Has decided to open in Syd-
ney, but premises such as he
desires are not now available.
He has therefore opened
temporarily at the above
address.
Name is a household word,
and his desire is to retain the
confidence of his customers,
who may rest assured that
the care and attention which
has made “Gunsler the
Caterer,” a household word
in the neighbouring colony
will be devoted to any and
every undertaking he may
enter into.
Staff of Cooks and Pastry-
cooks is the most complete of
its character in the colonies,
and their assistance will
enable the proprietor to
supply Shortbread, Jellies,
and every delicacy in such
style and at such modetate
prices as has never been at-
tempted in this city.
Has a practical knowledge of
every branch of his business,
and consequently can gua-
rantee to every customer
thorough satisfaction, or at
any rate he will do his best
to deserve it.
Has much pleasure in offer-
ing to the public, for the
Christmas and New Tear
Holidays, a few specialities,
and is confident they will
meet with universal approval
Also manufactures every
class of goods incidental to
the Catering business.
Make a special | effort for the
supply of the finest brands
of French and English Con-
fectionery, for which he is
sole Agent in Australia.
Was the Special Caterer to
Sir George Ferguson Bowen,
to the Marquis of Normanby,
and V.R. Club.
Is the leading Australian
Caterer.
Has the most complete staff
of thoroughly trained hands.
Is prepared to undertake
Catering Contracts to any
magnitude.
YOUR
PIANO
QHOOSE
AT
CHARLES HUENERBEIN’S
178 Pitt Street.
BEST INSTRUMENTS ! CHEAPEST PRICES !
HAWKES AND COMPANY,
TATTERSALL’S HORSE BAZAAR
and
SALE YARDS,
CORNER of CASTLEREAGH and HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sales Daily, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Livery; excellent acoommodatioa
and fodder.
All kinds of Vehicles and Horses on Hire, day
or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
c&rriasres
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
separate.
A Skeleton in tin Cupboard.
Of course, we did it ourselves, while editing,
writingTsetting-up, printing, and humping round
(all lor 30s. a week and "puckwisits”) the ves-
pernal Mown. Ah! that was a paper, before
Soapy Snodgrass, backed up by an iniquitous law,
bust us up for that scorching leader of ours
proving his partnership with Morgan, the bush-
ranger. “ What did we do ourselves ? ” Why, we
expanded or enlarged our telegrams, by a system
of judicious interpolation, till they filled a whole
column, and were just as trustworthy—especially
on Irish and other matters—as those of the Herald.
For instance, our Melbourne correspondent (3s. 6d.
a column) would wire:—“On dit, Governor's daugti-
ter married.” In the Howl, this would appear
next morning as :
“ FASHIONABLE INTELLIGENCE.
“APPROACHING NUPTIALS IN HIGH LIFE.
“ (From our Special Correspondent.)
“ Among the upper social circles of the Southern
Metropolis quite a flutter of pleasing anticipation
has been caused by the announcement that the
popular Lady Clotilda, only daughter of Viscount
Carterberry, K.G., is about to approach the hy-
meneal altar in company with our wealthy ana
distinguished townsman, Cyril Murphy, Esq.,
eldest son of Sir Lawrence Murphy, K.C.M.G., ol
Hughenden Lodge, Toorak. It is a happy omen
to Victoria’s future when Imr sans mingle among
the untarnished daughters of the old aristocracy,
and bear away brides to shed refinement and
culture round their Australian homes, iho dis-
tinguished couple have our warmest congratula-
tions.” Wg thought this “ good ” for expansion,
but a late London libel action against Judy and
the Sportsman shows that we were mei e amateurs
in the line. The “Central News Company ac-
cused the two papers of saying that its telegrams
were bogus ones, and the evidence disclose some
racy particulars of the manner in which intelli-
gonce is cooked to suit the palate of the British
public. A telegram of 16 words became one of 630
when published; one of 13 reached 710! A skele-
ton” of 30 words was worked up into two columns
of telegraphic “ intelligence.” I rom Montreal
the wiro stud • 44 Plot explode Circassian liemouski
thwarted. Landsdowne’s movements circuitpus.
Halifax dynamiter sent trial.” " Special Cabinet
meeting. Quebec dynamite plot. Bansdowno
discovered arrests probable. Intense excite-
ment. Princess indisposed inflamed eye. Lnder
the skilful hands of the “News Co.” the first ot
these became 344 words, and the second 63J ! Both
“expansions” detailed the movements of the In-
vincibles : the fact that “arrests will be made,
that there was “anxious excitement among the
populace,” and that “Lord and Lady Lansdowne
will become intensely popular.” In cross-exam-
ination it turned out that the statement; regarding
the “Invisibles” was “gag,” sugaested by the
fact that Lord Lansdowne was an Irish landlord ;
“arrests will be made” was worked in because there
were so many detectives at large that thev were
bound to “scruff” somebody, if only to show
they earned their "tucker”; “anxious excite-
ment ” was tacked on because (as the witness said)
“it followed naturally,” and “Lord and Lady
Lansdowne will become intensely popular
(this was some time before they landed, mind you)
because —again the witness explains—“it would
be quite in accordance with the public mind !
All the minut* telegraphic details in*the expan-
sion” regarding the intention to blow up the
Circassian with infernal machines were given
because “ it would have been impossible for any
one to blow up such an immense steamer unless
they were possessed of two or three dynamite
machines!” Th© witness said it was ail a fair
deduction from the words “ Plot explode Circas-
sian Kemouski” contained in the skeleton tele-
gram. Alter, this one scarcely wonders that the
counsel for the defence (Mr. Crump) said that the
“expanded” article was not bona fide, but bogus,
and that the artist who “expanded” it was a
" liar.” And now we are prepared to sign a round
“ robin” to some Australian journals to give us in
future the "skeletons” they get from home, and
let us put flesh on them ourselves or keep them in
our cupboards as we think fit.
Cosmopolitan Courtship.
[FRO THE BULLETIN.]
I admit I’m a fellow with rather a turn
For iuduiging in fleeting llirtations;
And live charming girls, whom I’ve courted in turn,
Have all been of different nations.
To hear each make love in her own mother-tongue
Was novel and piquantly pleasing—
Though all were alike, in so far they wore young,
And took very kindly to squeezing.
A smart little girl, of the Emerald Isle.
Was my first, young, romantic selection.
She favoured my suit, and, for some little while,
Moat undoubtedly thought me perfection;
So directly I begged her to be my fair bride,
And partake of my sunshine and sorrow,
She plumped herself down in a chair at my side,
And said, “Shure, I will, thin, begorra! ”
A braw bonnie lassie, of Scotland’s cold clime,
With cheeks like a rose freshly blooming,
Had made me her captive in quite a short time-
lier manners were so unassuming.
I told her my love in a low, fervent tone,
One eve on the bank of the river,
How all through my life I’d adore her, alone—
She murmured, "Just speak to my mither.”
A French demoiscVe was my next dainty “ mash,”
And we soon waxed uncommonly tender:
While often my arm took the place of her sasli—
Her waist was so waspishly slender.
She vanquished my heart with her stylish French
So thus it fell out that ere long
I asked her to wed me—l couldn’t do less—
And her answer was, “ Oui, certainement! ”
A fair, freckled fraulein then came in my way—
A damsel most plump and attractive;
I ventured a kiss, and she Baid me not nay
(Though her lips were exceedingly active).
Emboldened by silence, far warmer I grew,
And poured forth my eloquent soul:
I asked did she love me, and was that love true ?
She immediately whispered, “ Ja wohl.”
When this passion waned (like the others before),
A fresh girl I fairly got “ lost on
’Twas o’er the blue sea, on a far western shore
(i made her acquaintance in Boston).
A “ daisy” she was, with a sweet, winning grace
Which, surely, I ne’er shall forget:
I said “ Are you mine ? ” Then she laid her dear
face
On my shoulder, replying, “ You bet.”
But, spite of such frequent and certain success
In different lands, with their daughters,
Yet still, for all that, I am forced to confess
That I now live in bachelor’s quarters;
And if people ask “ In this sad singlo state
Do you really intend to remain long ? ”
I feel that I’m fairly content with my fate,
And say, “ Ja, begorra, certainement.
John Graves, a Daylesford (V.) cricketer,
recently slogged a bail 160 yards, from hit to pitch.
Neither Bon. nor Murdoch have ever equalled
that lot. A team of English amateurs, including
Lord Harris and A. N. Hornby, intends visiting
Canada next season. Both Lord Harris and Mr.
Hornby were members of the team which visited
Canada in 1868.
The Earl of Rosebery is a man by the acci-
dent of birth. He happens also to be a lord; and
a good thing it is for the House of Lords that he
happens to swim in their boat. He and a few of
his sort are calculated to save the Peers from con-
tempt—and from mischievous sentiments worse
than contempt. He has culture, and can turn it
to the advantage of the common weal. He has
wealth, and does employ it beneficently. He has
high-toned (we had nearly said high-bred) in-
stincts, and he can deal with men as a man. He is
no Earl of Belmore, preaching a strait economy
“Well, Billy, I haven’t seen you at Sunday-school lately.”
“No, Mr. Jones, Parson needs me to rub down hishoss after ohurch.”
because economy happens temporarily to suit the
fortunes of the House of Belmore. He is no
“strawberry-leaved” Manchester, platforming
around in the hope of working syndicates and
garnering in Queensland or other Australian
sugar for the behoof of a semi-beggared
ducal house Lord Rosebery, as it seems
to us, is an individual capable of holding
his own as a man against snob and bummer,
and this is why we scout the idea of the Corpora-
tion of Sydney offering him an address of wel-
come on the occasion of his going away. He was
known to us as a Liberal politician before he set
his foot here; and if an address of welcome to
him was needed, the proposing of it should not
have been left to the hour of in's departure. The
aldermanic mind must be taught to know that
between paying for foundations first and examin-
ing them afterwards, (and delightfully accepting
the deliverance of a statesman of proved worth
first and welcoming him afterwards) there is just
about the same amount of difference that there is
between an injury which may be forgiven and an
insult which cannot be pardoned. We regret that
the local experiences of a British visitor to Aus-
tralia of the Rosebery stamp should have been so
crossed by the ignorant lickspittle obsequiousness
of the actual and would-be C.M.GVs ot Sydney’s
social jar of tame vipers.
Lord Lome, a young man who at present
holds the pleasant little Government billet of
husband to the Princess Louise, suggests that
instead of the convening of a Federal Council or
Parliament out here, a CouneiAof Envoys should
assemble in London as a preliminary step towards
the Federation of the Empire. In our opinion, as
regards this scheme, ’tis six of one and half-a-
dozen of the other. Both are so bad that’t would
be difficult to tell which was less en rapport with
those principles of republican independence which
are bound to dominate the Australian future. An
embassy almost invariably means a job; hence, a
Council of Envoys would inevitably mean some-
thing pretty well equivalent to a Syndicate of
Jobbers, each one more intent on getting his per-
sonal G C.M.G.-ship or Order of the Footbath than
on furthering the interests of his cabbage garden.
By the way, they don’t seem to think much of Mr.
Lome in Murker, for a leading journal irreve-
rently says:—“ In sending a garter to the auburn-
haired dude who figures as the husband of the
Princess Louise, the Queen has made a mistake.
It should have gone to Mrs. Louise, who is de-
cidedly the ‘grey mare,’ aud who is said to very
greatly surpass her Scotch spouse in the matter of
calf.”
Perhaps one of the most extraordinary
cases ever tried anywhere, and for anything, has
just come off in the Court of Queen’s Bench,
London; and as we know a good deal of the
parties personally, we will just do something airy
anent the matter—something in our own modest
little style, with a possible crack at the end of the
par. Well, then, you must know that the swellest
barber in London is “Truefltt’s,” in Bond-street;
aud “ subscription” being the rule there, that
shop is the resort of most of the metropolitan
mashers; and more particularly the x’esort of
those who—a little colonial phraseology—“ hold it
to a large extent.” In this Truefltt’s, you must
know, was a Miss Dredge, and to this Miss Dredge
one Clinton Winans proposed marriage. Winans
and his brother, we may remark, were of a
family of American millionaires, and they owned—
and own now, we suppose—two of the most
remarkable craft that have ever been constructed:
the big and the little cigar ships. These wonderful
steamers—shaped positively like a cigar, sharp at
both ends—could steam from 18 to 20 miles an
hour; but after a while they tired of these marine
toys (whieh mu&t have cost some £40,000) and they
were left to rust in the West India Dock, and their
luxurious fittings and upholstery to grow rusty
and moth-eaten. After Miss Dredge’s mar-
riage had been arranged, however. Mr. Clin-
ton Winans represented to his fiancee that
should he marry her, his father would most
positively disinherit him; and upon these
representations, Miss Dredge consented (it is
admitted) after much pressure, to live with him;
winch she did for five years, at the expiration of
which period he—but you can, of course, guess-
married another woman. On this —we are speak-
ing of twelve years ago, mind Miss Dredge
brought|am action for breach ot'lpromise, and re-
covered £l5OO damages, in addition to causing Mr.
Winans’ letters to be read in Court. These
epistles—not two consecutive words of which
wore spelled correctly—set London in a roar, and
there was generally great glee over the whole
affair. After the case, Miss Dredge disappears:
but subsequently turns up at Bournemouth, where
she is doing a thriving trade in the hair-dressing
and fancy business line. Her premises, it seemed,
were owned by a Mr. Joy, who, so far as palaces
go, is to Bournemouth, it seems,
(or Dibbs) is to North Shore. Anyhow, he in-
habited a lovely place called Seymour Hall, and
though 65 years of age, appeared, it seemed, quite
capable of “ doing a kill ” with ithe fair sex in
several directions. Mr. Joy. then, gets con-
siderably “gone” on Miss Dredge (she called
herself “ Mrs. Miller” in Bournemouth), and
accordingly proposed, subsequently purchasing
for her jewellery and a trousseau. Later,
however, Mr. J. appeared to exhibit propen-
sities of a rather giddy nature. But hear a
bit of Miss Dredge’s evidence“ On Sunday, June
25, he called; and, as I was in bed, he asked if he
could come up and speak to me from the landing
at my bed-room door. He pat there with my
daughter at the window. The servant went to
church, and he sat smoking his cigar at the land-
ing window. He sent my daughter down stairs,
and then he deliberately walked into my bed-
room. He behaved in a very disgraceful manner,
and I ordered him out of my room. He refused,
and I rang the bell for my daughter; on which he
left. He had previously sent me in some letters
that some ladies had written to him. Amongst
these was one without a signature, in which a lady
threatened him, in the event of his marrying any-
one else. This is the lady he has since married.”
This Miss Urodge deposed in an action for breach
she instituted against Mr. Joy, and recovered
£2350 damages. Mr. J.—though, doubtless, Provi-
dence had, in an anatomical sense, awarded him
the usual number - had not, legally, a leg to stand
upon. He ( ays the paper) ‘‘denied the promis**,
and further alleged that when the promise (if any)
was made, he believed the plaintiff to be a chaste
woman, and a widow; whereas she was a single
woman, with an illegitimate child.” When the
case had proceeded a bit. however, Mr. Joy got
completely broken up. It seems, when arranging
the preliminaries of the marriage, Mr. Joy went
with Miss Dredge to dinner with one of her rela-
tions, a Mr. Miller; and after dinner Mr. M., at
the request of the plaintiff, told the ancient
Lothario what they termed Miss Dredge’s secret.
But nothing can be funnier than this slice from
the report“ After dinner he [Miller] and Mr.
Joy walked, and he told the latter Mrs. Miller had
never been married. He said, ‘I am under a
freat obligation to yon for your communication
am rather pleased than otherwise. (Laughter.)
For in previous marriages the results are un-
pleasant, and beget jarring notes.’ He also told
Mr. Joy that Mrs. Miller had, ever since he had
known her, acted as a lady ; that she was of a very
religious turn of mind. (Laughter.)” This, itseems,
was realy the case; for after the giddy conduct
of the old gentleman (recorded above) Miss Dredge
wrote him a letter, of which the following is a
portion Within one month of marriage is not
the time to indulge in nursery rhymes or scurril-
ous libels. If so you had better get a nurse. . .
It is not usual for a Christian man who is about
making a woman his wife to get her in an inter-
esting condition beforehand. Oh, Henry Joy, I
am ashamed of you 1” And they gave her £2350.
We may conclude, therefore, that there is gloom
mingled with Joy at Bournemouth.
The best periodical for ladies to take
monthly, and from which they will receive the
greatest benefit, is Hop Bitters. Bead.
A great crowd of theatrical men, journal -
ists, and others of a kin, went down New York
Bay to meet Henry Irving and Ellen Terry. As in
the case of Mrs. Langtry, the English steamer
arrived at an unearthly hour of the morning; but
though everything was raw and cheerless. Irving,
says Flaneur, proved himself an agreeable man
of the world, of most charming and cordial
manners. He is remarkable for his poses of body,
and for his over-varying facial expressions. One
moment he cuddles his foot on his knee, then
drops it, and stretching at full length clasps both
hands behind his head; and next minute doubles
up in the awfully unconventional attitude of
embracing both knees with both arms. The
peculiarities are due to a nervousness of tempera-
ment. Miss Terry is also excitable, and never
still. When the steamer came up, she bounded
across the deck like a child, and, drawing herself
up by the halyards, got on her knees on the taffrail.
Bho apparently had no skirts under her dress.
This is an extraordinary detail to state of a lady in
walkingjcostume, but we wish to draw attention to
the factjthat her activity was quite entrancing to
the men who watched her as she hung on the rail,
waving her handkerchief.
All agree that handsome hair is one of
beauty’s indispensable elements. Ayer’s Haisj
Vigor maintains it in freshness, brightness, and
luxuriance.


W. H. PALING,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC, ETC.
EASY TERMS SYSTEM
FOR
ANY
INSTRUMENT.
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
■w. H. I»A.3L H I3^a'C3r,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OP NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.,
IDH, MED, ill HUM BENTS,
397 GEORGE STREET,
56 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coach
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
fENGINES
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and HoistiDg, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed,
©
©r§j
PUMPS.
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY.
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Screwing
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws. Genera
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements.
Sinirle Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoes, Land Rollers, Horse
Rakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Shellers, Threshing Machines.
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Coach Builders’ Sundries.— Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnishings, Varnishes, and
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours.
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvanized, Corrugated.
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears. Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters’ Toois.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDAEE AND CO..
387 Georgs Street, Sydney.
Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering
other organs from fulfilling their functions. Set
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite m
graceful chorus.
ABE/AH AM’S PILLS,
The true invigorator. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. lr
obviate all these symntoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S FILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion ol
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Set hia
organ in order and health returns as if by mag.o.
CAUTION 'TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
bear* the inventor’s name and trade mark, the
Lab natiry, _ , .
434 George Street, Sydney.
SHOUT HORN
WHISKY.
BHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.-The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
mi
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HA RD WARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWA RE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
COgURO.
J.T ciAYEN’S
Bcb r "'oP« ano. uvtiera.
A. MfiJAiN and SONS’
Kdinbmgn Pale £ .e.
PAPEREANGINGS!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to
NURSERI P/ .'ERg.
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &0.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick,
281 GEORGE STREET (Oppoflite Hunter-at.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Faints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
TT n. cLert stiver,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirbv was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
jay* THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age I
DESTINED TO ECLiPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The 01 y Tobacco cjm pining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Prioe.
jy Each PLUG la STAMPED with the word
“EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
IM’i Titan h., Ik
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
An ’ w o be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO, J
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
•mltatiOßS.
aOBERT BUTCHER & CO.
(Late William Long),
tar WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Order* receive prompt attention.
TO STAND THIS SEASON, at Duckenfleld,
near Morpeth.—The Thoroughbred Stallion
HENCHMAN
(late Friday), full brother to Robinson Crusoe, the
sire of Navigator, by Angler, out of Chrysolite,
will serve ten approved mares, besides his owner’s,
at Thirty Guineas per mare.
Also,
CROWN PRINCE,
by Kelp'e, out of Queen’s Head, by Yattendon,
out of Gazelle, will serve ten approved mares,
besides his owner’s,
at Ten Guineas per mare.
Splendid paddocks, and every care taken of
mares sent to the above horses, but no responsi-
bility incurred.
All mares must be paid for before removal.
Season ends on Ist January, 1884. Mares not re-
moved on that d,ate will be charged ten shillings
per week each up to date of removal.
JOHN BALES.
Duckenfleld. September 18t.h. 1883
THE FOLLOWING STALLIONS will Stand
the ensuing Season at RICHMOND, •where
liret-class Paddocks will be provided for Mares,
with every care and attention, but without re-
sponsibility
A fcw half-bred Mares will be taken to Beauclerc
at half-price.
Each Horse will be limited to 15 of the public
mares.
All Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1, 1884.
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
LTDESDALBS.
The following: Imported Pure Clydesdale STAL-
LIONS will STAND at Richmond the coming
Season, when first-class Paddocks will he provided
for Mares, with every care and attention, but
without responsibility
MUIR LAD,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
DAVIE,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
GALLANT SCOTCHMAN,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
Comment on these Horses is unnecessary. They
have proved themselves on all the principal Show
Grounds of the Colony, and their Stock have done
the same, their progeny at six months old selling
at from 50 guineas to 100 guineas each.
All Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1,1884.
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite brand
of Stout selected with great care from tne
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefor®
cannot be excelled. To be procured everywhor*.
CATTBLL St CO.. Bole Asrents.
REGISTERED.
ASATT?, certain, and speedy cure for Nervous
and General Debility, and all complaints that
spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Liver and Kidney Complaints, General
Prostration, &c. By its tonic and soothing effects
it at once removes all craving for Alcohol. By its
richness in phosphorous and other powerful vital-
ising elements it nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4s. 6d. Sold everywhere
So!e Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS.
U P.S.. Pharmacists, 104 and lOC Market-street,
near Hyde Park, Sydney. N.8.-All imitations
ulegaL
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
jT.uralgia, headache, toothac /.b,
RAINS, BRUISES, BURNS. SCALD 3, &c- and
Akeninternally cures DIARRHQS4,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other .utfcrn% aches
Lnd pains.
Price, 2/- Sold Everywhere.
C. E. MOULTON, sole prop- ltor,
MELBOURNE -A.3STD *j’ - DNEY,
PAINT
hall
<t
%
Co
\
vl
%
7*
m
TONIC NERVINE


Rosebery to the Melbourne Scotch Col-
KiL„?<V'T“] Ve(Scot s h) do not claim to be the most
beautiful of races (how Sandy Stewart must have
sniggered when he read that)-, we do not claim to
be the most accomplished; but we do claim this,
that we have had the greatest thirst.for knowledge
°f any nation that is known in the
world. Sweet Edinboro, we smell thee noo!
Prang and Co., of New York, this year
doubled their bonus for best Christmas card de-
v. ° n ? Bet was judged by public vote, the
other by a jury of artists; and Miss Dora Wheeler,
l l ldr ’ 'Y 011 f^ e bist prize in both cases.
fl^L hei ee e l^ aev i ce_an infant J osus rising in a
flood of light, and a ragged woman with two chil-
dren gazing up at the vision—sho received £4to.
Bishop-designate of Sydney Barry hopi s
to be able to assist materially in the work of Aus-
tralian Christianisation—a truism not worth the
cost of cablegramining, since ifs for that work
he s been engaged. We like the nhrasc, though,
Australian Christianisation,” it’s so perfectly
ho£?fi S rl ve^ of A he work that the parson has set
himself to do—the utilisation of the name of Christ
to £ s. d. purposes.—
In the serenely sinful days of old,
Christ spoke with Jewish doctors, we are told;
nut now on earth were he once more enticed,
Our Christian doctors would not speak to Christ,
Governor Loftus, who, at the Rosebery
banquet, was so excessively lauded by the Chief
h * ad A n opportunity afforded him of
°£ h's shell at Parramatta Exhibition.
d i n fc i ia K. e lt- .Nothing more suggestive
of the ideal of the wishy-washy, goody-goody,
isandford-and-Merton bathetic was ever pro-
pounded by anyone in his position. “ Believe me.”
a . rked ’- * rn -Y y° un ? friends, there is no
wirUrni o? , *h in ?? 8 M t £ l - 8 ail /here, we believe, he
winked at the C.M.G. in waiting) than the proud
dufy C ” Q Thl? t if >l Jt :teelina ‘ of having done our
duty. This strikes us as awfully good, coming
from an ex-diplomat whose duty during many
decades was to do nothing. uurmg many
A Great Business. -The United States of
America is the home of some very large enter-
prises, but none perhaps greater than the business
oinducted by Mr. G. G. Green, of Woodbury, New
Jersey, C.S.A. He is the proprietor of tho well-
known Boschee’s German Syrup, which is un-
equalled as a remedy for Pulmonary and Bronchial
affections. He manufacturers also Green’s August
Flower for Dyspepsia and all disorders of the
Liver. These preparations are used throughout
the civilized world, and thousands testify to their I
valuable curative properties. Both these prepara- I
tions have reached an immense sale solely on their i
merits. Sample bottles of each are sold at 6d., or
full-sized bottles at 3s. 6d. All druggists keep
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
, “ H y°u are suffering from poor health
or languishing on a bod of sickness,
take cheer, for
Ifcop Bitters will cure you.
, “ & you are simply ailing, if you feel
weak and dispirited, without clearly
knowing why,
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
~ “ you are a Minister, and have over-
yourself with your pastoral
i duties, or a Mother worn out with care
ana work,
Hop Bitters will lies tore you.
~ ou aro , a rnan of business or
, labourer weakened by the strain of
, Four every-day duties, or a man of let-
ters, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghteu you.
“If you arc suffering from over eatinsr
, or drinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
pation, or tire young and growing too
fast, as is often the case,
Hop Bitters will relieve you,
, „“' If you are in the workshop, on the
< Jj 11 ? 1 ’ at the desk, anywhere, and feel
, f-hat your system needs cleansing, ton-
‘ing’ orBtlnmlatin «'- withoutinttoxicat^
Hop Bitters is wliat you need.
< £,*J/- yOU are oI< ?» and your blood thin
and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
unsteady, and your faculties waning.
Hop Bitters will give you new Life
and Vigour.
11, HOP BITTERS is an Glegant, heal-
, th y- al jd refreshing flavouring for sick-
room drinks ; impure water, etc., ren-
dering them harmless, and sweetening -
the mouth, and cleansing the stomach.”
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
HOP BITTERS
inyfhe stomach?" eolenlnB ' t ' le mo “ th - *“> «*<*»'
graham,
tailoe,
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
643, late 631, George-atreet, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—l respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and fit of our
Trousers, which are cut on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well .
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial will suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am, Sir,
Yourobedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE EOR
biliousness,
JVKboi &C.
PRICE Bd.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLE'WHITE, Chemist Slo
„ . 43 ERSKINE STREET. 1 ® O,
by W. H. SOUL* *ui4 nil Cb ©mists. —“
VARIOUS VERSES.
A. G. Taylor may be called the constitu-
sernb!y and sensatioDal Ouida of the N.S.W. As-
Proposed testimonial to Lands-titlo re-
former Torrens being: coldly received, says a S. M
H - cablegram. Possibly a Jaw.i er-worked move
ofthif Wh ° wrought tbc ' ,J 'ggest reform
SEE the. cun-
ling* Jit-Ue
Boy
He has
found
an dnt-^
H ou6e ffi^
the jToi^fe
d»e£dJ>T?|k|
Then let us hast-
en awuy
P) that we
may rwf
he di 5-
h ?«s
OuicrieS
/ I can-no 1 bed7’ io
bear a child Cry
C<myo a
“THE BULLETIN” PRIMER- LESSON 111.
The Camden Times, for the standing head-
ing over its religious notices, has-
“ Divine Services.
“ The Lord of Sabbath let us praise."
The is that "Sabbath” should be “ Sah-
oaoth, and that “Sabbanth” moans war and
5mT T maffe and a chronic state of free-tight,
i be Loru ot Sabbaoth was the god of the san-
gninary homicidal Jew—a being to be propitiated
Wlta j ~ Bwee t savour of human gore, and a
very different sort of Almighty from the
Deity of the Y.M.C.A. The editor should,
at ieust, bo consistent, and not invite his brother
wlnteehokers to praise Moloch on the day of rest.
Three millions of acres fine sheep oountry,
easy access to sea-board and a large capital—these
are the auspices under which the Carandotta Pas-
toral Company (Queensland) starts. One hundred
nnu titty thousand pounds to to spent on water
fencing, and sheep—with the initial venture m
well-sinkingsuccessful, the Cloncurry copper mine
tor n neighbour, and a railway in the immediate
future r failure can only follow on an almost
tmpossii le continuation of bad luck and bad judg-
ment. Not to the shareholders aione, but to rll
the pioneers of the district, does the formation of
the company hold out promise. Sheep will pro-
bably be substituted for cattle, and the country
in a short time become a second Barcoo.
The fastest train in the world running: to
time-table, is the new Manchester-I.ondon ex-
Uf®? 8, Hti an h°ur. The fastest till lately was the
flying Dutchman, from London to Exeter, on the
Great Western broad gauge line; it still runss3
miles an hour. The next are the Leeds express,
nearly 47 miles an hour; the Irish mail, barely 40;
and the Great Northern mail, which averages 44
miles an hour from London to Edinburgh. The
boss train in America runs between Jersey City
and Philadelphia, not quite 47 miles an hour; and
the second is the Boston-New York mail, which
jje™ along 45 miles an hour. There is lots of
blow about ‘ a mile a minute,” but there is no
train in the world “timed” to run 60 miles an
hour by table. The crack trains of N.«. W. run on
the Parramatta line, and they go just fast enough
to prevent the passengers killing the engineer.
A subscriber writes that, of the eight
Bulletins posted to his brother in a neighbour-
ing colony, within the last two months, but one
arrived. He also makes a tempting offer gf ready
money (in advance) if we guarantee the weekly
delivery of the paper to his/rere. To think that,
out of eight, only on« should have run the block-
ade I Alas ! the oomplaint is far from singular.
I hat our journal tempts the predatory instincts of
post-office officials is no doubt nattering, butitis
a species of flattery we could well do without.
It was said in England that railway accidents
would not cease till a bishop or two were
squashed.” Until some of the paltry thieves
who purloin i apers from the post-office receive
then; reward in the shape of penal servitude, there
is slight chance that this meanest type of petty
Jarcsny will cease. Why the post-officaauthoritie
i! be 80 Vl!f ilant in ensuing the due delivery
°t letters and so remiss regarding- newspapers is
one ot those questions as difficult to solve as-as
perpetual motion.
We were not present, as we should much
hke to have been, when the Reverend the Head
King s School read the subjoined
Save ' 6 Jvoozi: ot last Friday:—" Various causes
have led to this (the prosperity of Parramatta)
and among the greatest should not be forgotten
the work of the Rev. G. F. Macarthur, who in 1868
ft° on e the h h^h U £ 8 School f «nd has at length placed
“L? n 1 1 bl * l3 l' st Pinnacle ot success. MriMac-
arthur has performed heroic work. The
! f ch P ol does not aim at brilliant results, but
the students are inspired with a spirit of truth and
courtesy, beside with being soundly educated.”
Wo guess when Macarthur read that par his hnlv-
indignation boiled up swear-high ; for analyse it
fhnt a d ? eS ifc .£°, for to seem to indicate but
thataschool presided over by a man of heroic
does . ? ot aim at brilliant results, and suc-
ceeds in an A 1 manner in hitting the mark—which
it the students are only “inspired with being
soundly educated,” is not surprising. Mac should
go for that scribe with his most excruciating ferule.
Old Sir Clovelly is indignant with Captain
Armstrong because he sold a pair of garters on
had th^°r^n IS V lnd \J Vo expect the °ld glntieman,
i; be . Cap. given them away, would have fought
shy ot introducing the subject. We have all been
oooc. only It hasn’t lasted so long! The
“ttlme, that reminds us. that we saw Sir John he
was like the Rev. Hopiey Porter, of Asses-Milk-
cum-Worter in the ballad, gathering shells and
E ee l°, n the rocks for a bevy of Watson’s Bay
belles, while one of their little brothers was plav-
sailing bonts with the hon. gentleman's
shoes. Sir John is immensely popular with the
thlur'fiS 8 * th ? Baj P’ an d out of consideration for
lnfrs ’ sel ? c ted a gentleman to manage
r , B . who rejoices in the name of Captain
Talking ot fcir John’s steamers, they are
boats of weird and wondrous aspect. Two out of
three of them have a bad cough, and make a noise
when wrestling with the elements like the spring
of a policeman’s rattle. You can see Sir John anv
morning in a kind of Robinson Crusoe get-mi
watching on the pier the arrival of these gorgeous
ferries and talking to the fishermen. He under-
stands all about their nets and boats, and (“the
influence ot the Evening News in the Arts”) is
ai-nm’i m • ®Ports piscatorial. It is reported by
stiangers visiting Watson a” that Sir John (when
iq disherbt l has been offered small silver coin
pennies, apples, scones, advice, and many other
things; and his enemies say that ho vs
gravely made a point of taking everything but the
advice. However, as Dangle ‘remaS “No
scandal about Queen Elizabeth.” a ’ Ao
Terribly damaging to the system are those
compounds of cheap unrectified spirits sur
H^ g on7 all tuBel oil - which their nefarious venl
an ? ““Powers either insinuate or openTv
declare to be equal to Wolfe’s Schnapps. opfcnly
Our Trouble.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The world is selfish. Even we,
Whose reckless generosity
A household word is: even we.
For, when we hoar of the fell breath
Of plague thit far lands visiteth—
Of battle, murder, sudden death;
Of broken bubbles
That break men’s hearts—or that the gay
Wife of our best friend, but to-day
Has with a coachman run away—
We shrug our shoulders, smile, aud say,
“ Our troubles!"
AVe’re not alone in this. It pays.
So is a very common phase
Of human nature. When belays
His odds aud doubles,
hink you tho bold bookmaker grieves
For the poor wretched clerks turned thieves
That go to gaol to pay him ? Heaves
He sigh ? Ho smiles in both his sleeves,
"Mu troubles!”
The parson is both fair and fat;
A poor man, with a brokon hat
And unshorn cheeks with hunger flat
And sharp with stubbles,
Comes to him, “Sir, my wife is nigh
To death—for food my children cry;
Help us, sir ?” Says he, “ Look on high ;
God will provide ” If not, they die.
His troubles ?
The last of all a gallant band,
Bent to explore an unknown land,
Lies down to die on desert sand
Or dreary scrub-hills;
His widow’s and his orphans’ claims,
Who heeds ? You’d think, at least, for shame’s
Sake Gov’ment would, or its own fame’s:
The members call each other names.
Their troubles.
A poet with a pen of speed,
Who writes (aud blushes) this same screed,
And plays upon a mellow reed
As soft as .Tubal’s
(Yes-this pronunciation’s rare:
Jabal is dead, so he won’t care),
Though he makes music in his hair,
When to achieve a meal that’s square
He’ll to the editor repair,
He will by him be slaughtered there:
His troubles!
[He was. We slew him with a chan:
Our troubles!—Eu. B.]
The Devil Is Dead.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The devil is dead,
There is no hell;
Tho devil is dead,
And all is well.
The church-bells ring
With gladsome sound,
Tho choristers sing—
Tho plate goes round;
The preachers dissert
With voices soft,
Tho singers flirt
In the organ-loft.
With holy cheer
The platemen plod—
Not now for fear,
But love of God
Do tho people plank
Their money down:
In this sacred bank
They get a crown
For their money still.
So, with psalm and hymn
The tureen they till
To the very brim.
The devil is dead—
Dead just a year.
Just a year has sped
Since he lay on bier.
’Tls Sunday. See,
The day they keep ill
The Art Gallery
Is packed with people.
(Just bear in mind
It’s New-year-tim«;
If on your refined
Ear jars the rhyme—
It is small potatoes—
Our muse the slavey,
And our afflatus
Gaunt goose and gravy).
’Tis Sunday. Lo,
The children playing!
To parks men go
Instead of praying.
Tho joy-bGlls ring
From every steeple—
They djince and sing,
The happy people.
But who is he,
Whose visage scornful
And grim to see,
Makes midday mournful ?
A parson—nursing
His wrath, poor elf;
Look how he s cursing l
All to himself.
What is that throEg
Of biack-robtd toings,
Like rooks ucne wrong:
With moulting wings ?
Parsons— their level
Besi they’re prayin’
To have the devil
Alive again.
The devil is dead,
And all is well ;
So Heine said—
And he’s ia hell,
Her Day.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MORNING.
Lo, sho wakes with eyelids red
(Until nine o’clock she’s Jain),
Has her breakfast brought to bed,
Wipes her mouth, and sloeps again.
NOON.
Sallow-faced, with hair like furze,
Shovel-slippers on her feet;
Still the one desire of hers
Merely what she next will cat.
NIGHT.
Rose-cheeked (rouge) and smooth-haired
(wash),
Dainty boots on, high of heel-
Really cannot (pretty bosh!)
Stand the mention of a meal.
MORAL.
Maids who wish to wed (here “ laughter P)
List the moral of this rhyme;
Eat before a; you would after,
Or you’ll have an awful time.
You with maid who is a mister
Of her meals—youth north or south
Dwelling—next time that you kiss her,
Get the measure of her mouth.
Also—blinder than the mo.'o
Is the ordinary lover—
Ere you wed her, have one whole
Day’s experiences of her.
More—if this advice will bring
Joy to you, a little token
(Say, a scarf-pin or a ring)
You might Need we, sir, have spoken ?
Further
[Mardly]—RD. B.]


Foster ’s Bugle Brand.
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
m
MW
u
7$
M
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
Champagne
Heidsieck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL EICHAEDS & Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsieck & Co.. Reims.
BLEND
jMARKj
u
Sj?/ STERNS
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.-This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
Dining’ fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
u
VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.g
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony
w ILCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4lO
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shelters
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Wautdi
Wood,
&C. &C. &G.
HEBBLEWHITE &CO.
416 GEORGE STREET.
DINNER,
ONE BHILLING.
if
»
0° c
*<
ACCOMMODATION
—fo*—
FAMILIES.
SUPPERS AFTER
THEATRES.
BILLIARDS.
PITT STREET,
NEXT TATTERSALL’S.
All Meals One StilHlng.
J. a as®ENFIELD, PiiOPSiHC*
rE WELLERY, JEWELLERY. JEWELLERY.
CASH SALE.
EXTENSIVE ALTERATION TO PREMISES.
LAMB & FAIRFAX, 23 Hunter-street,
beg 1 to inf »m their customers and (he public that
they are now offering their carofully-relectol
Stock at a Reduction of 25 per cent.
Five Shillings in the Pound taken off plain marked
previous pricer.
N.Bj—As Christmas is close at hand, the opportu-
nity-should not be missed of purchasing- intended
REGISTERED DRAND.
POTSTILL AND MALT WHISKY,
m
GUARANTEED FIVE YEARS OLD.
JAMES YOUNG, Sole Agent,
No. 9 CHANGE ALLEY.
WM. RUSSELL,
DENTIST,
Corner of KING and PITT STREETS, Sydney.
Artificial Teeth, from ss. Stopping, Scaling, and
Extracting equally moderate. Malformations and
accidental deiormities of the jaws, teeth, or palate,
treated. King-st. entrance. All work guaranteed.
Schweppe’s Mineral IVa ter s,
as supplied
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND ROYAL
FAMILY,
CAN be obtained of the principal Hotel-keepers,
tne cSes^^ 8 ’ aDd Cbeu,ists throughout
SODA-WATER. LEMONADE, GINGER ATE
POTASS, LITHIA (for gout) SELTZER ’
TONIC, MAGNESIA WATERS. ’
51 BEHNERS-STREET, LONDON;
58 MAIIGARET-STRIET, SYDNEY.
MARSMAtL BfiOTHEfti
£>
avviflWwtlßWfl m »'
The gun i>agai FT Ft? a t
p w?) ral 9? z , e t to . & Farmcrs’ ChronidJ” 0,
which is incorporated thn ’
TLMORA HERALD & MINING JOURNAL”
Published every *
WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
The popular paper of the district.
W. H. L. BAILEY, Proprietor
Theatrical Job Printing and boi office for '
Asscrohly Hall.
UMBRELLAS
I
RE-COVERED,
— ... ~ I
STUDY ECONOMY
and
! Ha veyourUmbrella Frames
I re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J- SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street.
Brickfield Hill, Between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts
Parasols made to match cot
liftTmlrB neatly e*e-
care of Bulletin office? Sydney Marco,”
TATTERSALL’S CUP,
NEW YEAR’S DAY, 1884.
No. 1 CONSULTATION.
E^EK^XtYsK&ESSJT- 1 *» to
SERIES OF CONSULTATIONS
on the above.
No. 1 is now open, and will »+ ,l ..
possible date. ose at the earliest
I must request immediate application sn *v,„+
&BS%J! 0 ‘ am m ‘ y "*'« ‘ “oTo^oMg
Distribution as follows :
First Horse ..
Second Horse . .
Third Horse ..
Starters (divided among)
N on-Starters (divided among)
£lOOO
400
200
200
200
£3OOO
Address—
“JANITOR.”
Care of E. E. Jono?,
International Hotel, Sydney.
Rev. Father Wilds’
EXPERIENCE.
The Rev. Z. P. Wilds, well>known city
missionary in New York, and brother
of the late eminent Judge Wilds, of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, w'rltes
as follows:
“ 78 E. 54th St., New York, May 16,1882.
Messrs. J. C. Ayer & Co.. Gentlemen:
Last winter I was troubled with a most
uncomfortable itching humor affecting
more especially my limbs, which itched so
intolerably at night, and burned so intense-
ly, that I could scarcely bear any clothing
over them. I was also a sufferer from a
severe catarrh and catarrhal cough; my
appetite was poor, and m.y system a good
deal run down. Knowing the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, by observation of
many other cases, and from personal use
in former years, I began talcing it for the
above-named disorders. My appetite im-
proved almost from the first dose. After
a short time the fever and itching were
allayed, and all signs of irritation of the
skin disappeared. My catarrh and cough
were also cured by the same means, and
my general health greatly improved, until
it is now excellent. 1 feel a hundred per
cent stronger, and I attribute these results
to the use of tho Sarsaparilla, which
I recommend with all confidence as the
best blood medicine ever devised. I took
it in small doses three thugs a day, and
used, in all, less than two bottles. I place
these facts at your service, hoping their
publication may do good.
Yours respectfully, Z. P. Wilds.”
The above instance is but one of the many
constantly coming to our notice, which prove
the perfect adaptability of Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla to the cure of all diseases arising
from impure or impoverished blood, and a
weakened vitality.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cleanses, enriches, and strengthens the blood,
stimulates the action of tho stomach and
bowels, and thereby enables the system to
resist and overcome the attacks of all Scrofu-
lous Diseases, Eruptions of the Skin, Jlheu-
matism, Catarrh, General Debility, and all
disorders resulting from poor or corrupted
blood and a low state of the system.
PREPARED BY
Dr.J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists; price §l, six bottles
for $5.
AYER’S
CATHARTIC
PILLS.
Best Purgative Medicine
cure Constipation, Indigestion, Headache, and
all Bilious Disorders.
Sold everywhere. Always reliable.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
HT i'HB PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRTSH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY!
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Ex>' rt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, t. refore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ hiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
B?" 368 GEORGE STREET. 7 {
nv
° iEt ScokW^
WHOLESALE
GROCBR
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
lar MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’B COFFEE.
AFTER OEFOR!
EFOR2 iIOUSTACHS and WHIuESHS. «fo r.; after
Copyrighted.
. r.syd's Pcard r.lirirdid thin,and
| wilt do it or.cither bald head or
bare fare, forces heavy Maun,
tache in from 3 to 4 weeks and ncirr
fails, young men already
wear full beards, having used 1 to
> Copyrighted.
■! t£ ww rv - e T iu “PP‘ icJ > "r‘ain in effect. Packet* Is. Gi.
V iTf;* l *? ««»* under cover, free from observation.
Screes, V raut Ix.urtla., Safest./fas 730( &'*»</
S3v7
TO
*
/
r
-o
o
V
3!
i
*>
a
o>
' r
*$
BULL-DOG ALE.—IT is not the cleari-osa
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this t rand first in publio
estimation. Common bitter crude beers are
made very fine, but no other brand has tho
same mellow vinous character, the fullness on
the palate, and the great 1-eeping qualities of the
BULL-DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cau-
tioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred
to as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTELL
& CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents: WOOD
BROTHERS? Sc CO.
A COLOSSAL TRADE!!!
The following Gentlemen are engaged as
CUTTERS In the
LARGEST and Most EXTENSIVE
Tailoring Establishment
In the Southern Hemisphere.
Some 300 hands are now employed by Messrs.
SUMMEUFIELB & Co., whose chief
place of business is
235 & 237 Pitt-st.,
SYDNEY, with Branches at
NEWCASTLE, DUBBO.WAGGA, and 51 & 53
LEADEN HALL-STREET, LONDON, E.C.
Mr. H. W. CHAPMAN, the well-known City
Cutter.
Mr. W. FROST, Thirty Years’ Sydney expe-
rience.
Mr. C. PitOBYN, of Poole’s, Saviilo Row,
London.
Mr. H. J. TONKIN, of Tonkin, Sons and Co.,
Bristol.
Mr. R. MORRTSBY, Eight Years with Summer-
field and Co.
Mr. CHARLES TAUTZ, of Tautz and Co.,
Breeches Makers, Piccadilly.
Ax Newcastle :
Mr. WALTER RICE, best known Cutter In
Australia.
Mr. W. SHAW.
ILL
THE PEOPLE’J TAILOHS,
AND GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
War ran ted f i rst q u a I i ty
1 Charges strictly moder ate
MARSHALL BROTHERS
Surgeon dentist* io6iviarketst e.
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
Teeth Stopped, and Exttracted Painlessly
ZOEDONE,
Pleasant, Refreshing,
Invigorating.
The noD-aioohobc beverage acts as a brain and
nerve tonjc, and does not intoxicate.
ZOEDONE
Is recommended by the Faculty as a substitute for
wine, beer, nod spirits, as it invigorates without
producing any intoxicating effect. In case of
debility consequent on a lon# residence in a hot
climate, it is of great service, as it arti not onlf 2
toThe system aDt ’ bUt alB ° 88 a permanent tonlo
Price per oase containing 6 dozen U pint;... 13/fl
’* " >’ 6 » 1 84/
ELLIOTT BROTHERS,
72 and 74 Pitt-street,
Sydney.
PAINTS.
OILS.
WALL
PAPERS
Office : 330 George-street.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
• ‘
tST N.tj. Pattern* and Prices sent.


a
IIVHdSOHd a 13
sr
HBk
ja
wi ■
sauojsuoH
/
Prepared according: to the directions of Prof.
E. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
.MPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &C.
No Danger can Attend its Usb.
Nervous Depression front Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Growing Chil-
dren.
Sandusky, 0., May 21, 1880,
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can pro-
nounce it a very valuable addition. I find it use-
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nervous
depression following'overwork and anxiety, as well
as the gastric derangements. Whore there is
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull,
heavy head, it is of undoubted value. Fast grow-
ing children require this valuable addition.
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
Boston, Mass., May 18,1880.
In regard to the Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, aud with the most
remarkable success.
I give it in dyspepsia and in all cases where there
is derangement ot the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
O. G. CILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
A. S. Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
“ Horsforri’B Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
from indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, ana always with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some cases of morbid
urine, * it acts like a charm,’ produciug the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, and is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound.”
Can be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, in elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled. It is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed it with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for Lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing‘drink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
2v£a,gric Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm."
It Is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches Are. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, B>heumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dyp«
tlieria.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers la
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies an d Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughou Ithe colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. J
leather, and the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes arc
used in their i-.nish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special l
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australia!*
climate
And because all who use them say they are thb
BEST.
American Carriage Emporium,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
K ARRON .MOXHAM * CO*
hoi* Agent!
For many years the War Office people
stoutly opposed the popular view that a tailor is
only the ninth part of a man. The tailors who
enlisted had. like other recruits, to be up to the
full standard in height and chest measurement.
The result was that some of the smartest men in
Her Majesty’s land forces were sartorial artists.
Indeed, we remember one regiment—indifferently
known as the “ dirty 50th,” or the “ blind half
hundred ” where discipline was seriously
endangered when Jock M'Farantosh got an extra
nobbier of rum. Jock was the handiest tailor in
the corps. Of course it was ridiculous to see a
needle in the hands of a man that could have
humped a plough or up-ended a tramcar; but bo
was proud of his profession, and the man that
Insulted a tailor in his presence was never fit tor
much beyond a corner bed in an incurable asylum
for the remaind ir of his life. By the number and
character of the cases which went to the regimen-
tal hospital in the morning, the amount of grog
Jock had had the night before could always bo
roughly estimated. When only ten or a dozen
men weie seen limping across the square, with
their noses in slings, and their uniform scarcely
sufficient for conventional requirements, Jock
had only had a pint or so of alcohol and only used
his hands. Hut, when the whole of No. 5 company
was observed trailing in Indian file toward the
iofirmary, with a couple of ambulance waggons
behind to pick up the ‘‘lame ducus,” you could
tell that Jock had been drinking, that he had used
his goose, and that ho was at present tied with a
hawser to a fleld-gun outside the guard-room.
And this brings u« back to the War Office. authori-
ties. By a late circular it has been decided that
tailors two inches helow the regulation height and
two Inches short of the standard chest measure-
ment, may be enlisted. Were Jock M'Fariutosh
alive no v, instead of being coiled cosily under the
daisies ten feet below the earthworks at liangariri
with the dozen Maoris he had brained to keep him
company, this reflection on the profession he loved
would have broken his proud heart.
Before this par. is in type, the Rev. W. H.
Ulmann, M.A., and Mrs. U. will have left for Fng-
land. Why they are going at this juncture does
not appear quite clear, since it is only very lately,
Indeed, that they have got the Gospel Army into
working order; and, by departing now, they will
contrive to cross Mr. Booth—the Apostle of the
Blue ttibbon Army, who Is even now on his way
out, and at whose ‘‘send off” at Kxeter Hall Mr.
Spurgeon presided. The Vanqtiaiid, Mr. Ul-
mann's organ, is now before us, and, though the
sheet in question is a ludicrous journalistic effort,
Mr. TJ. and his good lady appear to be very much
In earnest. According to their representations,
they have subscribed everything to the cause
they have adopted; and we sec no reason to doubt
this, though wo could wish that every item in
their little paper was not such a howl lor money.
OUR CHARITABLE INSTITUTIONS.
“No, Norah, the masther wouldn’t raise me wages, and when I pleaded the many childer, he just says I’m an extravagant rascal not
to send three of them to the Orphanage, like he has done with his.”
Here’s a sample par. “ £64 raised, thank the
Lord I . . £l6O is wanted to purchase return
tickets.” Then, “ promised subscriptions towards
the new hall, Parramatta: Hen. Blake (tho Halle-
lujah saddler), 55.” Believing:, however, in the
sincerity ot' Mr. Ulmann, we are inclined to prefer
his piety to his poetry, a chunk of which is as
follows i—
“ Our foes are in the field, pressing hard on every
side,
Envy, anger, hatred, with self and pride”—&c.
Well, we wish the Gospel Army General and Mrs.
S. J. (presumably Sarah J«ne) Ulmann a pleasant
trip home in the Liguria ; and we trust under the
captaincy of Miss Lizzie Thompson the shadow
of the Army will not grow less during their
absence. We sympathise with Mr. U. very much;
but we are inclined to wi«h what old Chivery did
with regard to young John —“that he. wouldn't
lay out so much money on it.” This wish is sug-
gested by the following intimation in the Van-
guard. “our soul-saving ia Parramatta has
cost £3O more than the receipts.” Parramatta,
we always thought, take a thundering lot
Of converting, by the way, Mr. Ullmann has just
been fined 10s. at earramaita for obstructing the
thoroughfare with his "Army.” That’s aiways
the way. When j oil stop a man who is on tio road
to Gehenna and drive him back and try to round
him up into the stookyard of glory, you are given
many stripes.
The Rev. Robert Topham, M.A., is Vicar
of Etruria (Eng.) Wandering in the Henley
Borough Cemetery, he observed some choice
flowers, and Satan (ever at hand when anything
dirty has to be suggested) whispered him that the
parish children’s fete took place next day, and that
the church was badly in want of pretty flowers for
the occasion. “Of what use,” remarked Robert,
thoughtfully, “are these sweet things in a bone-
yard ? They are for the quick, not for the dead.”
He was quick, and soon had concealed about his
person enough blossoms to fill a furniture-van.
From his hit, boots, and pockets roses and wood-
bine struggled, daifo ils and mignonette lined his
sleeves, while his breadth of beam was suggestively
increased by the violets and pansies with which
he stuffed his nether garment. But the world is
cold and unsympathetic, and Topnam, M.A., had
to appear before his brother “beaks” for leaving
the Henley Borough Cemetery as innocent of
flowers as a Salvation Army Tambour-Major of
h’s. A summons was issued. At first he
could not appear, owing to a bad cold. Then
an officer was sent; but he failed to “draw”
tne Kev. Robert. An Irish servant answered
the bell, and, after some highly personal allusions
to the official’s ensemble, told him that her master
wasn’t at home—he was working in the garden.
When this message was brought back to tho
assembled magistrates, they saw the “constitu-
tPn ” was at s.ake : so they resolved to fetch him
if they had to send a troop of yeomanry. A cab
wa9 prcaured, flllod with energetic policemen, and
a third call was made on the obdurate clergyman.
Me was In bed this time. At last a warraut was
issued; and to get over the necessity for “running
him in” for the night, a special afternoon meet-
ing of magistrates was convened. Then he ap-
peared, when the chairman told him that tne
original offence was slight in comparison w ith the
mountain of lies behind which he had endeavoured
to hide. Had he been a labouring man who’d killed
a rabbit, how he would have been “scruffed”
along! There would have been no afternoon
meeting, and he would have been “chucked”
into a cell like a sack of potatoes. He was repri-
manded and discharged. On the same day a poor
woman was brought before another Bennh 'or
walking off—by mistake-with a small carpet bag
from the railwav station. It belonged to one Ben.
Allen, a medical student, and when the lady
opened it, a couple of toothless skulls and half a
dozen lumbar vertebrre rolled out o i the floor.
She has been raving ever since, and was “ sent up ”
l»y a Bench partly composed of the very men who
jet the parson off for stealing flowers. Give us
English law administered by county magistrates.
The cemeteries in New Zealand, where
hundreds of British soldiers are buried who fell in
action against the Maories during the troubles
from ’OO to ’65, are overgrown with weeds, over-
run with pigs, and scandalously neglected in oveiy
way. For the repair of some of them in the
Waikato, a Jargo sum was voted by Parliament,
but the shrewckpersons to whom it was entrusted
doliberately diverted it—according to a local paper
—to the repair of roads through property in which
some of them had an interest. " What do we care
for dead soldiers’ bonesV” they said; “one live
settler is worth twenty dead England has
been singularly unfortunate in obtaining the
giatitude of colonists she preserved from anni-
hilation. They first whine for protection, then
grow rich over a lavish commissariat expenditure,
and wind up, when the danger is l oyer and their
pockets stuffed with English gold, by abusing the
men who saved their throats from being cut. In.
thatcharming story, “The Virginians,” Thackeray?
tells us how the colonists who induced the British
Government to send the unfortunate Braddock
and his ill-fated expedition to save them from the
French believed that their sole duty consisted in
saving their skins and robbing the expeditionary
force by means of exorbitant prices fof the neces-
saries of life. The French officers who, twenty
vears after, helped the Americans Jo gain their
independence, returned to Francefufiof contempt
for the grasping sordidness of v ehe .people they
had assisted in their hour of need. The British
Government poured 10,000 regular troops into New
Zealand, spent blood and money prodigally, broke
the back-bone of the Maori pdwer, and gave over
to the colonists thousmds of square miles of
fruitful country. Their men were rewarded by
being called cowards and assassins by the people
they had foolishly saved. The graves of the dead
are given over to pigs and weeds. There are still in
the colonies many of those who saved Taranaki, and
subsequently fought in Waikato and at Tauranga.
There is but one hope among them, and that is
that a Maori raid is still possible down the Waikato
Valley. How those fat and prosperous settlers
would alter their tune if they saw native rifle-pits
being thrown up within musket-range ! Again,
at the Cape, the same dreary lesson was rehearsed.
What would have become of the Natal settlers if
Cetshwayo and his Zulus had got among them?
Yet, in a few years we shall be told that the bones
of the men who fell at Isandula, Rorke’s Drift,
and Ulundi are not worth one half-caste Kaffir.
Colonies are like a good many daughters. The
more tenderly you treat them the more likely they
are when grown up, to take a fancy to somebody
else, and even say hard things of those who protec-
ted them when they were helpless.
That venerable philanthropist, Sir Moses
Montcftorc, has just attained his hundredth year.
So runs an item of news from Europe. Sir Moses
is a very remarkable man. It was he to whom
her present Majesty Queen Victoria owes her
position as Queen. When the Duchess of Kent
was in an interesting condition, at Brussels, nobody
thought or cared much about it. Tho Duke of
Kent was one of the youngest of George lll.’s sons.
The Duke of Clarence was heir-apparent, and he
and Adelaide were still a comparatively young
couple. But the old Hebrew had “ monish” in the
business. The Duke of Kent was considerably in
his books for accommodation. And the wary Jew
had thought all round his chances and hi« security.
It was he who pointed out to the Duke of Kent
who, with all respect be it said, was nearly as great
an ass as his brothers, G eorge lll.'s other sons
how near to the throne the unborn child might yet
be. George having practically divorced his wife,
and W.lli im being childless, Sir Moses urge 1 upon
the Duke the imperative necessity of the expected
prince being born on British soil, in order to bo
qua'ified to ascend the throne. And the Duke,
more because he owed old Moses a lot of
money, and couldn’t afford to neglect his
order—we mean advice—than because ho quite
caught the hang of the thing, actually
brought his wife over to England, where
little Vic. was born, and Moses’ “securitish”
looked up considerably. He always was a good-
natured sort, and at different times has given away
very large sums for charitable purposes. His
great fad was the Restoration of the Hebrew Race
j to Palestine, and he bled freely for anything con-
-1 nected with the Jews in Jerusalem. Thus he is
fairly entitled to be called a philanthropist, as the
[ phrase goes now-a-days. This is, of course, very
( different from being a real philanthropist. Sir
Moses is worth a mint of money, and has been
| knighted, and is a hundred years old. No
man could truly be a philanthropist and
fulfil these conditions. We will endeavour to
I illustrate our meaning by a fable. One day
Jupiter, being in a good humour, took it into his
head that morta's were rather interesting insects
after all, and declared that he would supply the
world with enough of subsistence to make every
one comfortable. So he rained down a quantity of
nectar and ambrosia sufficient to give a square
meal and a long-sleevor to every person then
living. But as he happened to have sent his sieve
away for repairs, and lent his watering-pot to old
Aquarius, who, of course, hadn’t returned it, in-
stead of siftiDg d own the ambrosia in particles and
drizzling the nectar in a tine rain, he threw down
the first in chunk», and the latter he poured down
in basketsful. Thus it happened that some men
secured whole heaps of ambrosia, and scooped up
hogsheads of nectar, while others failed to secure
a particle of the one or a '.rop of the other. Now,
somo of the lucky ones were hard customers; and
when they perceived that they were “ in it,” they
made up their minds to look out entirely for
number one. So, when the poor wretches who
had got nothing raised cries tlmt they were hungry
and thirsty, these lucky ones got very indignant,
and denounced such complaints as wicked. And,
as they feared that the hungry crowd might be
impelled by want and necessity to take a share by
force, they called in the augurs, and soothsayers,
and high-priests, who had a lot of influence over
the people generally, and contracted to allow them
a decent whack provided they would declare that
Jupiter had deliberately intended to favour some
and starve others. Tnis the soothsayers and
others readily agreed to do. So they and the
lucky ones got up a cry in reply to the yells
of th? famishing, and declared very solemnly
that such complaints were the blackest impiety,
and a blasphemous flying in tho face of Pro-
vidence. 'there were others among the lucky
ones who ran pretty nearly the same ticket, but
being good-hearted fellows in their way, made out
that Jupiter had me nt them to be his stewards.
These, when th-y started off with their big
plunder, met a lot of very hungry people—famish-
ing men, haggard women, and perishing children.
And when the good-natured luoky ones met the
first of these, they gave each a bite and a sup.
But, by and bye, they saw their store dwindled to
half, and still a regular crowd surrounded them.
“Hang it all!” they said; “ this will never do. If
we give a bite and a sup to each, we shall only
have a bite and a sup left for ourselves! And we
want a regular blow-out.” So they agreed among
themselves that Jupiter must be infinitely pleased
with their generosity in giving away so many bites
and sups, and argued that although there were
infants perishing, and women wailing, and L-,en
breaking down and going mad and bad, for lack of
a decent share, then had done their duty, and
could shut their ears and have a blow- out with an
easy conscience. And the soothsayers, who were
a class much guided by their sensitive noses,
scented, intuitively that there was nothing to be got
by joining in with the “ have-nots,” and they sniffed
considerable pdour of victuals in the quarters of
the generous “have-alls.” do they praised the
“have-alls” very highly for their generosity to
half the starving neople, and made no unpleasant
remarks about the other half, and thus frequently
got bites of amorosia and draughts of nectar
themselves. And the soothsayers and the “ liave-
alls” praised Juniter very much for his sagacity in
Sicking out such good men to be “ have-alls,” and
umbly prayed him to forgive the “have-nots”
for their wicked discontent. And when the “ have-
nots” pretended that it was truly blasphemy to
ascribe such unjust division to Jupiter, and a
mere trick to conceal the fact that the “ have-alls”
had grabbed more than their share, the sooth-
sayers and the “ have-alls” united in shrieking
that the impiety and seoundrelism of the “have-
nots” were perfectly unbearable, and required to
be put down with the strong hand. And both
parties prayed to Jupiter. But he simply smiled,
and remarked that he had implanted an instinct of
self-preservation in every mortal’s breast; and as
the “ have-nots” immensely out-numbered the
“have-alls,” they didn’t need any supernatural
interference. If they let themselves bo fooled by
the tricks of the “ have-alls” and the humbug of
the soothsayers, that was their own look out.
They should know that Jupiter could not possibly
do anything unfair or cruel. Just so; Sir Moses
Montettore is a good-natured old man. But he is
not a groat philanthropist. Had he been that, he
would not now 'oe a knight, worth a cool £5OO UOO,
aud one hundred years of age. He would nave
divided his last sixpence with a cripple eighty
years ago, and have been executed wiih ignominy
as a Communist. All great philanthropists have
been poor, ragged, obie me while they lived, and
either poisoned, hung, shot, or crucified.
The pleasure of bathing is greatly in-
creased by mixing in the bath half or even a
quarter of a bottle of Murray and Lanman's
Florida Water. Instantly, the whole atmo-
sphere of the bath-room is as fragrant as a bloom-
ing flower-garden, the mind becomes buoyant
and the body emerges refreshed and strengthened’


mm
O
SR
o
ism
>
-^iYDMIXs^
SA^/WWtfCfftSTCpflCt.
J P.«<Wpet. WFCEI
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality hare no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST . VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &0.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
J LAWLER, 608 G eorge-street, Bedding Manu-
• facturer, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed-
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair,
Kapok, and Cotton Floek. Established 1860.
Have no rival
on the Planet.
Sole Agents:
CRAMPTON
AND
BRUGE.
*
4
A
y
281
opposite;
FINEST STOCK OF PIANOS AND ORGANS IN SYDNEY.
A CUP OF GOOD COFFEE
IS WHAT YOU WANT, BUT SELDOM GET.
er* THEN ASK YOUR GROCER OR STOREKEEPER FOR
A. G. Churchwooa’s Grown Brand
BLENDED FROM THE FINEST MOCHA, JAMAICA, and CEYLON BERRIES.
STAR & GARTER HOTEL
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
As no expanse haa bean spared in the erection of the Hotel premises, M. K. guarantee country
Tisltoi* and others the bast accommodation, oombined -with civility.
E. -Wolff <2z Son's
To be had fromall Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
Peapes & Shad’s
“ S TANDARDI CLP thing.
Wb have now open, for the SUMMER SEASON, THE MOST COMPREHENSIVE ASSORTMENT OF
GENTLEMEN’S READY-MADE CLOTHING to he found in any house in the city. X
“STANDARD” TWEE!) SUITS.” 325. 6d., 355., 425.. 45s 50s KKb
„ PEAPES & SHAW’S BLUE SERGE SUITS, 355. and &s. ’ ’ 6US ” 56s *
STANDARD CLOTHING TWEED SAC COATS, 6s. 6d. each, suitable for garden or office.
is TWEED SAC COATS, Iss. 6d. and 21s. *
THE BEST VALUE BLUE SERGE SAC COATS, 18 s. 6d., 31s.
IN SYDNEY. TWEED TROUSERS, lOe. 6d., 13s. 6d., 16s. Bd.
' TROUSERS and VESTS, 255. and 80s.
NICHOLLS’ LIGHT SUMMER DUST COATS, THIRTY SHILLINGS.
LIGHT TWEED OVERCOATS, 438., 50b., 655.
SPECIAL” COLOURED HOLLAND SAC COATS, 4s. 6d. EACH.
gg*WTT.’S HATS, all new summer shapes.
B °YS’ MAN-O’ -War SUITS, guernsey a
ll ® L IABL« CL 0 T HIN G.—All
4^^™^’wAV P .»“ISwN-TENmS
SACS, for cricketing or hoat-
TROUSERS, 18s 6d. per pair.
W 9? T Cd E each?3fSS ED LINEN DTTCK VESTS *
isg. m „
PE APES *nd SHAW, G-eorge-streec.
oTl fesS? CERT DEPARTMBNT 18 Btocked with ali the lead lNG NOVELTIES for the Summer
GENT’S COTTON LISLE THREAD and SUMMER MERINO HALF-HOSE, in plain eoloura nr fann-r
Bt npes from 18s. per dozen. _ „ noiours or fancy
UNDER SHI RTS, India Gauze, Gosamer, Summer Merino (coloured and white! p.m-wor,
and Spun Silk, with Pants to match. wmte) - Balbrlgffan,
fig*? B WHITE SHIRTS, O.F. or 8.8., 905., 405., 60s. half-dozen.
FRENCH PRINTED REGATTA and OXFORD SHIRT, collars attached, 80s., 40s 42s th« h.i t
GOLLARS.-The Beresford, Seymour, Army and Navy, GeneralAdmiral“with
So /Sfetabs for holding scarf in position. ’ amlra1 ’ with Patent
* SiS Pour-lmHlnd ShaP ®*’ Colourin * 8 ’ and Desigas.-The Masher, Cyprus, Rosebery, Marquis,
TeWljSMs* 14{ 1« ribs,Natural Sticks,Nick el Fittings, from 10s. 6d. to 86s.
guinea each.
01 LK HANDKERCHIEFS, 81s.,
, 80s., 40s. the dozen,
FEJMPES & SH&Wp George-street.
C. B. RHODINI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will b® faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmansMn.
N^.B.“-Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne ; also Angele Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
SOHO BAZAAR ,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED
will b© found to contain a superior assort
ment of
Brie a Brae, Articles of Vertu,
T*rra Cotta, China-war®, he.,
Tricycles, Erench and German
Model Rolls, Count Harrach’s
Bohemian Vases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Figures,
and all varieties of
EANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
Sola,© Bazaar
362 Geerggs Street-
Haymarket toetiisins Rooms
AND
PURNITURE BAZAAR
CORN EXCHANGE BUILDINGS,
*?2 4 GEORGE STREET.
The cheapest place in Sydney to purchase every
description of Household Furniture.
HOUSES FURNISHED on the Time-payment
System.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY instalments taken.
Open—Mondays and Wednesdays, 9 to 9
Saturdays . . . . 9 to 10
Tuesdays and Fridays . .9 to 6
JOHN P. LISTER, Proprietor.
fST THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT,
on fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS toy-shorter periods ; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £i to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4'Park-st.
±. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
PURE COUNTRY HU.
rjIHE MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Rutter.
This is either manufactured at their own depot
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
21 HARBOUR STREET.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Straat,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by erery maker
of renown, from
4536 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music In Stook.
J. MASSEY & SON*
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BT ACTOI- PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund..,
,£300,000
.£137,500
Dimctobs: _ ,
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G,, Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon.Thilip Gidley King, M.L.G
C. RoHeaton, Esq., C.M.G.
AUDITORS!
Jaa. Scroggie, Esq. 1 Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq.
Manager : | Secretary:
F. A. A. Wilson. | Hector Allen.
Branchbs ns Nsw South Walks :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, Nyngan, and Bourke.
London Branch ; 158 Leadenhall-street.
Directors •
Edward Chapman, Esq. | Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This hank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the moat favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against JVool
and other produce shipped to England'for sale.
KERR,
Watchmaker
Jeweller,
and
Silversmith.
■gJ-AS JUST OPENED HIS NEW PREMISES
544 CEORCE STREET,
Opposite the TOWN HALL,
With a magnificent stock of Diamond, Roman
. and Vienna Jevrellery,
GOLD AND SILVER WATCHES & CLOCKS,
Football, Cricketing, and Trophy Speciality.
Note the Address—
tar* 644 GEORGE STREET.
Pianos! Pianos! Pianos!
FREE TRADE and NO MONOPOLY.
Lire and Lot Lire, these are Our Mottos*.
It is a well-known fact that the Foundations of
Colossal Fortunes have been established upon the
Profits arising' from the SALE OF PIANOS in this
City during the past Twenty Years by those
having little or no knowledge of the Construction
and Details of the Pianoforte. While giving the
Public the benefit of our Mr. Young’s 25 years'
personal practical experience (5 years in John
Broadwood and Sons, London, and 20 in N.S.W.),
we will, at the same time, be satisfied with a fair
percentage on the Co-operative Principle, sharing
the Profits with our Customers. We will sell from
26 per cent, less than the same class of Instrument
can be Purchased at any Music Shop in Sydney,
and we will offer nothing for Sale we cannot
guarantee. American Organs at proportionately
low prices. Also a Large Stock of Kolrn’s Cele-
brated Austrian Furniture, a single article of
which we are selling at Wholesale Prices.
Come and See Our LITTLE BEAUTIES in Wal-
nut and Full Iron Frame, at £26 cash, Eleswhere
£lO more, or under a Liberal Time Payment Sys-
tem.
@sorge E. Young and Co. p
W" 286 PITT STREET,
South of Royal Arcade.
Singer’s Sewing BSachlnss.
TURNER - & CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
2a. 6d. per week— 3s. 6d. per week— Sß. 6d. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
Bar BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “ SINGER,”
TURNER & COMPANY,
363 George-street.
THE ONLY “SINGER.”
Turner and Company,
678 GEORGE STREET.
SEARL & SOUS,
NURSERYMEN, SEEDSMEN, BOUQUETISTS.
And Artistic Floral Dinner-table Decorators,
Sand 6 GEORGE-STREET MARKETS, SYDNEY;
Also,
BLAIR ATHOL NURSERY, PETERSHAM.
KST Pelargoniums now in full bloom. Inspection
invited.
NERyOUS DEBILITY.
A CURE GUARANTEED.
aSKui
53
TR
EATM
kit. E. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREAT-
-3 MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness, con-
vulsions, fits, nervous neuralgia, headache, nervous
prostration caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco,
wakefulness, mental depression, softening- of the
brain resulting in insanity and leading to misery,
decay, and death ; premature old age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain or ever-indulgence.
Each box contains one month’s treatment, ss. a
box, or mx box** for SS«.: »*nt by mail prepaid on
receipt, «f pr'ee. W* gu* rvata# sir b«x«* to etire
a»y o*jw. with each «r**r r*o«ivs4 for- six boxes,
aorompanied *a., the pHrofeumr will receive
the TMWixffletvrar** written g-waranfen to refund
the money if tbe treatment does not effect a enro
Guarantees issued by all chemists and druggists
Australia. '


ISTERED.)
Z 3 '-V!
:rm
W? i
m
w ...s^Xf-V
'*%X 3
WATCHES, PRO COs. IS-A-CEE-
©fig 5 * Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually attended to
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.B.—BOYD (OYER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
L. E. HENDERSON, Manager.
-A. 3DISX=L-A-^
jr
J.
THE PEOPLE’S CLOTHIER, .
a Large Stock of Choice and Fashionable MEN’S, BOYS’, and YplL?
31 S, SAC, FROCK, and PAGET COATS, HARD and SOFT FELT
tTT>mc> nATT ado rnTT?a nnaTunv Every article is mai"
Is OPENING up, every day, a
SUITS, TROUS RRS and VES’t ,
WHITE and REGATTA SHIRTS, COLLARS, TIES, and HOSIERY,
plain figures, and at VERY LOW PRICES.
Both shops are thorougly chock full. Come early and inspect the Stock in both shops*
I keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING MEN’S CLOTHING in SYDNEY to choose »
Be sure you find the right shops, when requiring CLOTHING OF EVERY DESCRIPTIO
J. J. Ryan, 760 George Street, Haymarket;
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, near Market Street.
EAU DE COLOGNE.
4711. 47U.
ESTABLISHED 1793.
Hold Medal, Moscow, 1873.
Prize Medal, Vienna, 1873.
THIS EAU DE COLOGNE, so favourably
known to the Australian public during the
last 35 years, obtained at the last Philadelphia
Exhibition the PRIZE. MEDAL, and FIRST
PRIZE Sydney International Exhibition, for its
superior sweetness, strength, and invigorating
qualities, excelling all other competitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the
ELITE OF EUROPE.
The large and constantly increasing demand for
the genuine 7411 EAU DE COLOG NE, not only in
Europe, but also in North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public arc respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number 4711 changed into 7411, 1147, 4117, &c., &c.
The reai genuine article, which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition, is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue and gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pitt-
street, Sydney. To be had at the principal Per-
fumers, Druggists, and Storekeepers in town and
country.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
|THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
HEYDE, TODIAN & GO.,
YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
iW. H. Ariel/ and Co/s Agencies.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, Canter-
bury, Normanby, and Christmas Family Cakes,
Plum Puddings, Mincemeat, Selt-raising
ASrated Flour, Infant's Food, Treacle and
rSILLS. Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley. . _ „
DILLON & BURROWS’ prize assorted Confec-
J. KITCHEN & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
J F & MCKENZIE & CO.’S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
Tea, in J4ib. and Üb. packets ; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats.
HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, Adelaide
Jams Paper Bags, &c.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OB’ PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customers and the
nub generally that he has a large assoi’tment of
Drawing, Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
AIR-TIGHT SHOW CASE COMPY.,
67 GEORGE STREET WEfJT.
SHOP,
OFFICE,
AND
Hotel-bar
FITTERS.
m:
Air-tight
SHOW
CASES
AT
LONDON
PIIICES.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
i Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
ft'
>
&
*
HOT WATER BATHS
HA' 1 ? r-i" -/S.V AV.;«•>*KJftti, t'STAAI TjHMCiMT
1 5Z 13? I C XTOTrU -V V
HI/CAY Cl >■>•■ Y r;/Ur<'S.o*Y ■
L
32 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
ARTIEICAL TEETH on the most approved Eng-
lish Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed.
THE AUSTRALIAN
DSamonsi Drill Company.
CONTRACTS will he undertaken hy the above
Company to bore any sized holes, vertical or
horizontal, up to
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IF REQUIRED,
to any depth, at a reduction of 25 PER CENT
BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE.
The Company, In all cases, will find their own
fuel and water for drilling purposes, and will make
no charge for loss of diamonds or wear and tear on
plant, and will also provide workmen engineers, &c.
ifST* The new duplex barrel, introduced into the
colony by Mr. J. Coghlan, will be used free of
charge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr. Coglan baa every confidence, from bis prac-
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he will
be able to give general satisfaction, as well as quick
despatch to all orders addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 George-strcet.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, pro. tewi.
ij & «»
J-UPHOi^BIA^
Coughs,
41# ro I’scr VPti ONLY BY . tjJiJ
Thomas Ingham
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat. viz. :
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beauty, Cleanliness
and Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR S&AT is made from the strongest
Known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and alter fifteen years’ constant use, we
can speak positively as to its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will exposure to sun or rain
affect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable'Mechanic Association.
For RE-SEATING it is unrivalled. In every
house, store and office, are chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new a
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
62!p61156«
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USE.
Agents Wanted in Every District.
week can be made by any smart
man or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO..
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
82 CLARENCE STREET.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and General Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
ÜBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 483 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Ob. TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD SH<9?
W. M. WALLACE
Importer of every description of .
Literature, Law, Mercantile
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines
every Jlall. J
ROYAL AROA.DE, 49fi GEORGE ST.. SYP^
WRI6HT,HEATON&Ci
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS’
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom
and Commission Agents.
READ OFFICE :
241 Pitt Street, Sydfl 6
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
OF
Southern
Goulburn
Yass
Bowning
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Western
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromin©
Nevertire
Northern
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
Walgett
District, N.S.W.:
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rock
Culcairn
Cowabee
Narandera
Hulong
Carrathool
Hay
District, N.S.W.:
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
District, N.S.W.:
Brewarrina
Tamwortta
Uralla
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western L«*® !
Brisbane Yeulba
Roma Cambooya
Dalby
Rockhampton
Rogantungan
Emerald
Central Line:
Capeiia
Comet
Northern Line:
Townsville Ravenswood Jun
Charters Towers
Agents in Victoria and South Austral!*'
WM. M'CXJLLOCH & CO., UM&*
'238~ Agencies lii all parts of the world'
9
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
manufacturer off all kinds off jErated Wafers, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of : Vigorine,
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
