

1304=. .A/OTCrMW 1004=.
BINT DOtUEU! k SOME,
PALACE TTTv/TPO!HITTM
YMABKET, ONLY.
the largest drapery warehouses
AND
e Most Spacious Show Rooms
IN
SOTJTHEOIT
THE LATEST FASHIONS FROM PARIS AND LONDON BY EVERY MAIL STEAMER.
tyTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
p ALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET, ONLY.
~ 9
*lv
jfit SINGLE CHAIR A.T WHOLESALE PRICE.
Spociaxcxerxs c± oux TJsefu.l Clxalrs,
» ONE HUNDRED DIFFERENT STYLES AND PATTERNS.
THESE CHAIRS ARE EXCELLENT VALUE, AND VERY STRONG AND DURABLE.
We are now opening Large Shipments of Goods purchased specially for the wants
of the present season. Ladies will find a most beautiful show of NEW MANTLES,
NEW COSTUMES, and NEW DRESSES. A Magnificent Display of NOVELTIES
in every department, at prices lower than any other house in Sydney.
We are the only UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS in the Australian colonies.
NOTE OUR ONLY ADDRESS
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET (ONLY.)
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS. UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS.
\
BENT TOP, WOOD SEAT, 3s
The Bulletin


SPLENDID DISPLAY OF BOOTS AND SHOES.
BO
tfa VINTER
wm
li'.'jiD
1
~
grr
■
"ALACE
JOHN
hunter.
|j‘
t \TY «Q O/ .
PALACf
<
Blanches:—Randie st., Adelaide, S. A.; Launceston, Tasmania; Hunter-st., Newcastle; Auburn-st., Goulburn. Wholesale Stores: 57 York-st., Sydney. Manufactory
BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agencies *
ONION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON-Head Office: HONGKONG
J. C. Gostling and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
Tbe Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal, and Vertical Engines,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c., &c.
Crossley Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, Lachlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c., &e.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Fels and Company, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c.
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c.
De Wendei and Company, Hayange, France—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Steel Fencing Wire, &c.
Thos. Perry and Son, Biiston—Fire-resisting Safes. Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse. Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine.
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablis, Sautemes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
New South Wales.—Scott and Mullaly, T. Allsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.,
Jindera Mill Co.
Victoria.— James Fryand Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia.— W. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hineks.
%ZST INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
Seeslian,
STAR & GARTER HOTEL
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
As no expense has been spared in the erection of the Hotel premises, M. K. guarantees country
visitors and others the best accommodation, combined with civility.
San Francisco Palace of Art,
LATE
BOYD.
The patrons of the SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART, so well known throughout
the Australian colonies, are informed that, in addition to the same high-class portrait
work for whieh it has been noted,
Copies and Enlargements to Life Size, by new and improved pro-
cesses, from any photograph or negative, are now taken.
Opals, Autotype, Transfer, or Albuminized Paper, in Crayon or Coloured.
The same staff of Artists, who have rendered the work of this establishment famous,
are employed, and all negatives (15,000 in number) taken during the past four years, carefully
preserved, from whieh copies may be had on application by sending name and address.
W. T. BENNETT, Manager.
IMPORTER OF WINES &
SPIRIT
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that ho has just comP 1 '
extensive additions to his
Wholesale and Retail Bottle Depart
Which is now replete with a well-assortGd stoek of the Best Brands of Wines and
selected by the proprietor during his recent visit to Europe. He can therefore eo:
the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, as per the following list, hopes to m crit 8
patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him*
PALE BRANDY. Per Bottle.
8 d
Gilbey’s very old Brandy, gold top .. ..66
Mennessy’s v.O. ((very old) bottled by P. R.L. 6 0
Hennessy’s 3 Star (***) 6 6
Dubois and Co.’s Old *** Pale 5 6
Fine Old Pale, bottled by P. R. L 5 6
Hennessy’s Battle Axe (*) 5 0
Martell’s Blue Label (*) 5 0
Flasks 2s 3d and 2 6
Half-flasks 16
Hennessy’s Draught Pale Brandy, per Impe-
rial quart 6s and 5 0
DARK BRANDY.
Hennossy’s 3 Star (***) 6 6
Martell’s Very Old *** .66
Martell’s Old 5s and 4 0
Martc-'U’s Dark, per Imperial quart .. .. 5 0
Flasks 2s 6d and 2 3
LOWNDE’S W. I. RUM.
DARK.
Quality-Good 2 0
Bettor 2 6
Still Better 3 0
Quality—No. 1, per Imperial quart 6s and 5 0
No. 2, „ „ .. ..4 6
No. 3, „ „ .. ..4 0
No. 4, „ „ 3s and 3 6
Flasks Is 9d and 2 6
JAMAICA RUM.
PAPE.
Very Finest - .. ..4 0
Red Heart 4 6
Fine Jamaica, per Imperial quart .. .. 5 0
Jamaica Rum, in Flasks .. .. 2s6dand 2 3
BEERS (BRITISH).
Best Brands of Ales and Porters always on hand.
ALBURY (N.S.W.) WINES.
Burgundy quarts 2 ’ 6
Ettamogah, red „ 26
„ Muscat „ 2 6
„ Reisling „ 2 6
Fallon’s Shiraa ~ 2 6
„ „ pints 1 6
PORT WINE.
40-year old, Gilbey’s ..
Celebrated Four Diamond .• ,A’
Quality—No. 1 (very superior ol«w
No. ***** grape ••
No.**** „
No. *** ~ ... *"
No. ** „ .... "
No.* - ■"
Draught Port Wine, per Imperi ftl qU
sherry.
40-year old, Gilbey’s
Very Finest Amontillado (very a 3
Fine Amontillado A
Celebrated Four Diamond Sherry
Common Sherry ”
Draught Sherry Wine, per I®P er
BRITISH WIN® 8,
James Heddle’s Ginger Wine *|* •'*
Orange Wine
IRISH WHlS^^'
Jameson’s *** . '!■!
Old Dublin Whisky (***) bottled w j
Kinahan’s umivailed L L ... ", Jv
Thorne’s Old Irish Whisky ... ", ™
Jameson’s ", 1 i
«r
Dunville’s
Kinahan’s Draught, per Impel
Jameson’s „ »i
Flasks
SCOTCH
Walker’s 7-year old, in bulk
Thistle Blend
Royal Blend
Lome Highland
Kilmarnock
Glenlivet ...
Glenlivet Whisky
Flasks
GIN.
Blue Bell or Yellow Seal GeneV*K fj
Celebrated Key Brand, veryl
bottle containing more than
Flasks Key Gin
... • ... j
per imperial t
jy
Qll J. V r ,
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality’. c j lll /
allowed for. tST” Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and deh F
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge. m $ /
T. R. LARKIN’S CASE OF ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS.-On receipt of
genuine articles will be
5 Quarts KEY GIN.
% Quarts PALE BRANDY,
TOTAL—IS QUARTS. ’ '
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best
To prevent delay, pl eaS
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance
O' ’ ’ ’
rders payable at the Haymarket Post Office.
Kindly Note the Address—
lift'
/
ivincuy jNote the Address— 0 ///'/
P. R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Mercha^
George and Gipps Sts., Haymarket, Sr


THE BULLETIN.
Vol. I.—No. 47—New Series
SATURDAY, APRIL 5, 1884.
Price—6d.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, APRIL 5, 1884.
Herbert Spencer on Liberal-Toryism.
•* Most of those who now pass as Liberals
are Tories of a new type.” With that seem-
ingly paradoxical
statement Mr. Her-
bert Spencer begins
an article in the cur-
rent number of the
Contemporary Re-
view which cannot
fail to interest deeply
both Liberals and
Conservatives. The
former will be pre-
pared to give respect-
ful attention and con-
sideration to any
serious criticism of
their polioy, however
adverse, proceeding
from such a source;
and the latter will
welcome, with their
wonted eagerness,
any evidence they
can obtain which
tends to prove how
much better and safer
it is to restrict one-
self to the paved and
macadamised paths
of life than venture
to out new roads
through the recently
explored waste.
Moreover, the fault
that Mr. Spencer
finds with the policy
pursued by the Libe-
ral Party of to-day
has already alienated
many who otherwise
would have swelled
their ranks; and if
the policy is much
further developed, it
is to be feared that
there will be many
more deserters,
* * *
So important do we
consider this article
of Mr. Spencer’s,
which is apparently
the first of a series
on the present politi-
cal situation, that we
shall lay a resume of
the arguments it
contains before our
readers. He com-
mences by pointing
out that the Liberal
and Tory parties, at
first, and loDg before
they were called by
these titles, repre-
sented two opposed
types of social organ-
isation, broadly dis-
tinguished as the
militant and the in-
dustrial-types which
are characterised, the
one by the regime of
Status, almost uni-
versal in ancient
days, and the other
by the regime of Con-
tract, which has be-
come general in
modern days; the
former being defina-
ble as the system of
oompuisory co-operation, and the latter as
the system of voluntary co-operation. The
typical structure of the one we see in an
army formed of conscripts, in which the
units in their several grades have to fulfil
cooitnands under pain’of death, and receive
food and clothing, and pay, arbitrarily ap-
portioned ; while the typical structure of
the other we see in a body of producers or
distributors, who severally agree to specified
salaries and wages in return for specified
services, and may, at will, after due notice,
leave the organisation if they do not like it,
» * *
Now, Mr. spencer's first pom plain t against
EDWARD HANLAN, CHAMPION SCULLER OF THE WORLD.
the great majority of the Liberal party at
the present time is that they do not remem-
ber that in one or other way all truly Liberal
changes in the past diminished compulsory
co-operation throughout social life, and in-
creased voluntary co-operation. They have
forgotten that, in one direction or another,
they diminished the range of governmental
authority and increased the area within
which each citizen may act unohecked. They
have lost sight of the truth that in past
times Liberalism habitually stood for indi-
vidual freedom versus State ooercion. “How
is it,” he proceeds to ask, “that Liberalism
bag to a» increasing extent adopted the
policy of dictating the actions of citizens
and by consequence diminishing the r ange
throughout which their actions remain
free?”
* * *
In answering this question, Mr& Sponger
asks and answers another. “What, in the
popular apprehension, and in the apprehen-
sion of those who effected them, were the
changes made by the Liberals in the past ?
They were abolition of grievances suffered
by the people, or by portions of them. This
was the oomraon trait which most impressed
itself on men's minds. They were mitiga-
tions of evil whioh had directly or in-
directly been felt b.V
large classes of citizer g
as causes of misery c r
as hindrances to hap-
piness. And since in
the minds of most, a
rectified evil is equi-
valent to ah achieved
good, these measures
cau be thought of as
so many positive bene-
fits; and the welfare
of the many came to
be conceived alike by
Liberal statesmen and
Liberal voters as the
aim of Liberalism,
The gaining of a popu-
lar good being the ex-
ternal conspicuous
trait common to Libe-
ral measures in earlier
days (then in each case
gained by a relaxation
of restraints), it has
happened that popu-
lar good has come to
be sought by Liberals,
not as an end to be
indirectly gained by
D uch relaxations, but
as the end itself to bo
directly gained. And,
seeking to gain it di-
rectly, they have used
methods intrinsically
opposed to those origi-
nally used.”
.. I* * *
It will be seen that
the charge which Mr.
Spencer brings
against the Liberal
Party is that they
have lost faith in
Liberty, and betaken
themselves to the im-
position on the indivi-
dual of legislative re-
straints. He does not
object that the good
of the public is the
aim of the Liberal
Party, but that they
seek to accomplish
this end by illiberal
means—by interfer-
ences with the per-
sonal liberty of the
subject. This will be
clearer as we proceed
wfh the exposition.
“ may be said,” says
Mr. Spencer, “you
orgetthe fundamen-
tal difference between
the power which, in
the past, established
those restraints that
Liberalism abolished,
and the power which,
n the present, estab-
.isbes the restraints
which yfu call anti-
Libferal, You forget
that the one was an
irresponsible power,
while the other is a re-
sponsible power. You forget that if by th >
recent legislation bf Liberals people are vari-
ously regulated, the body which regu-
lates them is of their own creating,
and has their warrant for its acts.”
Admitting that there is this difference,


p
ÜBL I C
NOTICE.
in, ei, & co.’s
BRIAN BORU
w
IS MANUFACTURED FROM THE
FINEST IRISH GRAIN.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is bonded for severs,
years before being bottled for export.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, when well matured
by age, is carefully bottled under supervision of
the officers of H.M. Customs.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is exported in enorm-
ous quantities to all parts of the world.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY. Australian con-
sumers will find this brand
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY. The great demand
for this old Irish brand in England, Scotland, and
the Colonies is a sufficient guarantee for its
quality.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, sold bj leading mer-
chants throughout tho colonies.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY cofnes direct from
distillers.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, manufactured by
YOUNG, KING, and CO., “as a firm” one of the
largest whisky holders in the world,
BRIAN BORffJ WHISKY is unequalled in this
market for age and purity.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY was never exhibited,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &c.
YOUNG, KING & CO., Distiller*. Belfast,
Ireland, sole owners of BUIAN ROHU
WHISKY.
JAMES YOUNG, JUN.,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVE IN AUSTRALIA
FOB
YOUNG, KING, & CO.,
DISTILLERS,
BELFAST, IRELAND.
OFFICES:
SYDNEY : 7 & 9 Change Alley;
MELBOURNE: 35 Flinders-street East;
ADELAIDE: Universal Buildings, G*>enfell-street;
And at BRISBANE.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY.
Coughs and Colds.
THE Boat Cure for the above Is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
W PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
OS. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Dejartment,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
O. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
Sd.
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of suoh a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
Tha mgst Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VKRDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
la. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
3s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. ftd. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street, Sydney.
and that it is an important difference,
Mr. Spencer contends that the argument
baaed upon is in a large measure irrelevant to
the issue. “ The real issue,” he goes on to
remind his readers, “is whether the lives of
citizens are more interferred with than they
were; not the nature of the agency which
interferes with them. If men use their
liberty in suoh a way as to surrender that
liberty,” he asks, “are they thereafter any
the less slaves ? If people by a plebiscite
elect a man despot over them, do they re-
main free because the despotism was of
their own making ?”
• • ■
Mr. Spencer is probably right in assum-
ing that the principles he applies in his
criticism of the ever-increasing encroach-
ments on individual liberty by the Liberal
party of to-day will greatly astonish and
irritate a majority of the members of that
party; but they will certainly be acoepted
by a minority, and a short experience, for
instance, of Local Option would, we think,
be certain very soon to transform that
minority into a majority. For our part, we
agree with him entirely that the multitu-
dinous restraining acts of reoent Liberal
legislation “are not defensible on the
ground that they proceed from a popularly
chosen body,” because “the authority of a
popularly chosen body is no more to be
regarded as an unlimited authority than
the authority of a monarch; and, as true
Liberalism in the past disputed the assump-
tion of a monarch’s unlimited authority, so
true Liberalism in the present will dispute
the assumption of unlimited parliamentary
authority.” To this point Mr. Spencer
promises to return in another article. That
the world has been, and is, governed over
much was once admitted by every Liberal;
but it is to be feared that recently many
have oome to believe that the world is not
governed half enough. There is undoubt-
edly a tendency to encroach further and
further on the personal freedom of the
oitizen, and it would be well if we could
define the sphere to which legislation ought
to be restricted.
* * •
Let us, however, in the meantime, com-
plete our summary of Mr. Spencer’s im-
peachment of the aggressive Liberals of the
present day. “ The liberty which a oitizen
enjoys,” he reiterates, with added emphasis,
“ is to be measured, not by the nature of the
governmental machinery he lives under,
whether representative or other, but by the
relative paucity of the restraints it imposes
on him; and whether this machinery is or is
not one that he has shared in making, its
actions are not of the kind proper to Liber-
alism if they increase suoh restraints beyond
those whioh are needful for preventing him
from directly or indirectly aggressing on his
fellows—needful, thatis, for maintaining the
liberties of his fellows against his invasions
of them; restraints whieh are, therefore, to
be distinguished as negatively ooeroive, not
positively coercive.” Mr. Spencer, as we
have already indicated, fully expects that
“the Liberal, and still more, the sub-species
Radical, who more than any other in these
latter days seems under the impression that
so long as he has. a good end in view he is
warranted in exercising over men all the
eoeroion he is able, will continue to protest ”
against the view he takes of their actions in
this respect. Nevertheless, he again re-
marks : “Toryism stands for coercion by the
State versus the freedom of the individual;
Toryism remains Toryism, whether it ex-
tends this coercion for selfish or unselfish
reasons. As certainly as the despot is still a
despot, whether his motives for arbitrary
rule are good or bad, so certainly is the Tory
still a Tory, whether he has egoistic or alter-
nistio motives for using the State power to
restrict individual liberty beyond the degree
required for maintaining the liberties of
individuals.” And Mr. Spencer concludes
with the assertion that, “in so far as it has
been extending the system of compulsion,
what is now called Liberalism is a new form
of Toryism.” We may remark that the
motive of Toryism is different from the
motive of Liberalism, and that this differ-
ence is fully recognised and frankly acknow-
ledged by Mr. Spencer ; what he maintains
is that the Liberals of the present day are
resorting to the methods of Toryism in their
efforts to obtain their object.
• • •
Now, although we do not know that the
end justifies the means, any more than we
respeot and condone pious frauds, and do
hold that measure of the most essential
importance, we cannot, at the same time,
help feeling that Mr. Spencer is over-strain-
ing the parallelism he seeks to establish by
pronouncing that moat of the Liberals of
the present day are Tories of a new type,
solely on the ground of the resemblance of
the means by whioh they seek to effect their
purposes., in reference to the liberty of the
subject. Short of this, however, the assault
that Mr. Spencer has begun on the aggres-
sive Libex “aliam of the day is thoroughly
justified, aL'd, we hope, will be successful in
arresting tht* Liberal party in the downward
oourse on r phieh so large a section of its
member's are * bent on hurling it.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
So Help Him, God.
In the case of Gihises v. Kentwell, it was the
opinion of the judge that on one side or other
there had been wilful, deliberate, and corrupt per-
jury, and for all that appears, there the matter
will rest, along with daily occurrences of the same
sort. And yet, translated into Plain English, what
does this mean ? Of two men who walk to church,
e«ch with a sackful of Bibles and psalm-books in his
hand, and another sackful of hypocricy in his
drowsv head, when he is revolving how to “ have”
somebody all the time he mumbles about being a
miserable sinner, who shall deoide which will
slobber the oourt Bible over a lie ? And yet, if
pious mon, and men of some standing may come
before a judge, and swear directly opposite things
over a goat squabble, whose liberty or property is
safe, if the porjury is not sifted to the bitter end ’?
And if a judge is loth to mention on which side the
lying appears to have arisen, what reason is there
that both should not be charged with it. The fact
seems to be, that the form of oath is, itself, the
demoralizing agency. Instead of the plain intima-
tion that false evidence will be followed by im-
mediate and certain penalties of the severest kind,
we substitute the shadowy and inoperative threat
of hell-fire at some distant date. While it is no-
torious that not one man in a hundred is influenced
in the slightest degree in his private dealings, or
in his estimate of the honesty of another, by
knowing how he thinks concerning hell, what
extra safety is there in his mumbling something
or other, over a book he never reads, or scarcely
ever thinks of ? And what faith at all can be
placed in this ancient fetish, when one who is a
thorough unbelievor takes it in his hand ? Plainly
the only safeguard against false swearing is, that
tho temporal and intelligible punishments should
be insisted upon, in every case. That a man’s
liberty, or perhaps life, may be sworn away be-
cause it appears to be nobody’s business to insist
on a prosecution, is monstrous, and affaire have
got to such a stage that it may well be worthy
consideration whether our social purity societies,
reform leagues, and vigilance people, have not
here a more important field for their exertions
than in many others of which we hear so much.
Let your yea be yea, and let the man who makes it
nay, receive his deserts promptly and heavily.
Crime and its Causes.
What are the causes of crime ? The primary ones,
says the S.M. Herald, are natural laziness and the
prosperity which may mark a bad life. Here we
have our venerable contemporary stating unin-
tentionally a profound truth. Without a shadow
of a doubt one of the main causes of crime is the
prosperity which may mark a bad life, though not
precisely in the sense that the Herald means. By
the prosperity which marks a bad life, she does
not mean (as her article on the subject clearly
shows) the prosperity which marks tho life of a
great placeman battening on spoils wrung from a
duped public, or the life of a fat rector, a per-
centage of whose tithes is distrained from dis-
believers in and contemners of the dogma he
preaches and the ordinance for which he slaves; or
the life of the Royal pauper, whose out-door relief is
a pension in five figures; or the life of the wealthy
parent, whose son is taught at a scho.ol which was
endowed for the education of the poor. No,
this is not the prosperity the Herald points
to as a cause of crime, and yet for one man
that the prosperity she does mean leads to
crime, the prosperity she does not mean leads
thousands, and, moreover, gives them a sop to
quieten their consciences withal. Just as many a
highwayman of old justified to himself his “high
toby” operations as being a sort of honourable
war on a small scale, so to-day does many a
criminal salve his conscience with the query—a
difficult one for some of the prosperity folks to
find an answer for—what and how am I worse than
a Minister of State who jobs, or a Bishop who
begs, or a merchant who salts his invoices, or a
grocer who sands his sugar, or a publican who
doctors his grog, or an “ honorable” who success,
fully plots a “ resumption,” or a rich landlord
who grinds the faces of the poor by robbery all
the more vile that it is legal'? Nine-tenths of what
the police records define as crime is done in imita-
tion of what the world calls success, and is itself
called success by the world when by adroit avoid-
ance of the lock-up it leads to a big bank balance.
Misplaced Tenderness.
Thus dogmatically the Sydney Daily Tele-
graph It has always been the Parliamentary
rule to speak very highly and tenderly of those
whose responsibilities are at an end, whoso au-
thority is gone, and who are no longer able to
defend themselves in the place where they are
accused.” Now, this is just one of those fallaoies
which, on account of its being part of a big truth,
it is so hard to fight. It is a sentence (like nil nisi
bonum, etc., and other similar hackneyed obser-
vations) fixed up with a great lot of essentially
false sentiment. Of course it is unmanly and
skunkish to treacherously stab a living man’s
reputation, or wantonly insult a dead man’s
memory. To say it is so, is but to prate the
baldest truism. We wish, however, it were far more
generally regarded as the trueism it verily is that
public interests are paramount to all others
whatsoever—that to them all considerations for
either the reputation of the living or tho
memory of the dead must give way. To
come to the particular: why should Mr. Reid’s
Ministerial action be very lightly and very
tenderly spoken of, if deserving of reprobation,
simply because he has “fallen overboard” and is
no longer able to defend himself in the plaee
where he is accused ? As a matter of fact, a man
out of Parliament has (in the Pi ess) just as good a
chance of defending himself against his accusers
and putting himself right with the public as though
he were in. No more convenient theory for shirk-
ing discussion and investigation of abuses could
possibly be invented than this rotten one which
our morning contemporaries denominate “ chi-
valry,” and which they are for ever dinning into
our ears. By all manner of means, let our Parlia-
ment observe the decencies of debate; before all
things, let them refrain from reckless accusation
and imputation, but let them remember that not
sympathy with the fallen, not tenderness for the
dead, not apprehension lest winged words of
theirs may cause distress to individuals, but earnest
endeavour to promote the interests of the com-
monwealth, even by the exposure (should justice
demand it) of those nearest and dearest to them,
is their plain bounden duty as representatives of
the people. A Minister who is guilty of malfeas-
ance in office, even though he may escape actual
penalty by resignation or dismissal, must expect
to bear the obloquy his conduct deserves, and to
hear it continually bruited forth as a precedent of
warning—not spoken of very tenderly bocause,
forsooth I his responsibilities are ended and his
authority gone.
A Blind Leader.
“The Anglo-American race have territory suffici-
ent to exercise their genius for colonisation for
centuries to come.” So says Mr. B. W. O'Sullivan .
On this point Mr. George makes some remarks in
the third chapter of his “ Social Problems,” which
may bo cited, not only because they express a very
different opinion from that entertained by Mr.
O’Sullivan, but also because the near loss of that
possibility of expansion over virgin soil that has
given scope and freedom to American life, and
relieved social pressure in the most progressive of
European nations, is manifestly a matter that
deeply concerns humanity. “We still talk,” says
Mr. George, “of our vast public domains, and
figures showing millions on millions of acres of
unappropriated public land yet swell grandly in
the reports of our Land Office. But already it is
so difficult to find public land fit for settlement
that the great majority of those wishing to settle
And it cheaper to buy; and rents in California and
the New North-West run from a quarter to over
one-half the crop.” The social pressure which
forces on the American shores the swelling tide
of immigration does not arise, Mr. George
says, from the fact that the land of Europe is all in
use, but that it is all appropriated; and this will
soon be the case, he asserts, in the United States.
“The day is near at hand,” he tells us, “ when it
will be no longer possible for our increasing
population to freely expand over new land; when
we shall need for our own millions the immense
surplus of foodstuffs now exported; when we shall
not only begin to feel that social pressure which
comes when natural resources are ail monopolised,
but when increasing social pressure here will in-
crease social pressure in Europe. How momentous
is this fact we begin to realise when we cast about
for such another outlet as the United States has
furnished.” For this, says Mr. George, we look
in vain; and in surveying the globe for an outlet,
he glances at this vast continent—an island, and
dismisses it m a single sentence;—" The arable land
of Australia would not merely be soon well popu-
lated by anything like the emigration that Europe
is pouring on America, but there the forestalling
of land goes on as rapidly as here.”
♦
Ihere is another sentence of Mr. O’Sullivan's
to which exception may be taken, more especially
by those who share some of his ideas and aspira-
tions regarding what he calls “ The Coming Re-
public.” Putting aside his proposal for the estab-
lishment of an Anglo-American Republic as a
means towards the unification of the Anglo Saxon
race all over the world, which is obviously as pre-
mature as it is immature, and coming to the state-
ment that “ under a Republic people are not only
more virtuous, but more patriotic, because then
every man feels that he has a stake in the land
equal with the highest in it,” we venture to ask—
Can this be accepted without qualification ? As a
matter of fact, there has as yet been no Republic
under which every citizen could, by any possi-
bility, have felt, or can feel, that he had, or has “a
stake in the land equal with the highest in it,” or,
indeed, any stake in the land at all. There is, un-
doubtedly, a very close connection between the
giving to citizens of their rights, and the dis-
charging by citizens of their duties. Rights and
duties are correlative, and only on the ground
that the rights have been granted can the
duties be justly exacted. “A stake in the land” is
a vague phrase, and, certainly, conjoined with
“ equal with the highest in it,” it sounds loud and
empty as the beat of a big drum. It is clear, how-
ever, that the writer does not mean that under
every Republic the equal right of every man,
woman, and child to share the land on which and
from which they live, as they share the air they
breathe, is recognised and maintained. The fact
that equally under Republics and Monarchies the
mass of the people have been alienated from the
soil is too notorious, even momentarily to escape
anyone’s notice. If Mr. O’Sullivan had suggested
that the land being one of the most important
rei publieoz, of public things, the whole people
should hold the land in common under
every real Republic, we, certainly, should not
have disputed the contention; but he has not done
so, and in the absence of his claim, his assertion
that the virtue and patriotism of every man living
under a Republic is greater, because he “feels he
has a stake in the land,” &e., is not established.
Since the cause, “a stake in the land,” is not in
existence, the effects: “greater virtue and patriot-
ism ” cannot exist; or, if they do, they must be
ascribed to some other cause. Undoubtedly, indi-
vidual rights are much more largely accorded to
the citizens of every Republic than they are to the
citizens of any Monarchy, and Republicans, there-
fore, require, and must possess, more virtue and
patriotism, and intelligence, too, than Monarchist?.
Perhaps this is all that Mr. O’Sullivan really
meant, but it was certainly incorrect to ascribe
the superiority of Republicans over Monarchists
to the relation in which the former do not stand
towards the land of their country, any more than
Monarchists do towards the land of their country.
The Chief Justice and a special jury of six tried a
case of slander in the Melbourne Supreme Court
lately. William Evans, a Custom-house officer,
had given evidence against Michael Crawcour
for smuggling goods, and a fine of £lOO was im-
posed. Crawcour met Evans afterwards, and,
juxta Evans, said “You’re one of those pet-
jurors,” or, according to his own version, “you
told lies.” This was the alleged slander. But
whatever about its gravity, the jury, after de-
liberation, returned and asked the Judge “What
amount of damages will carry costs ?” His
Honor replied, “I am not at liberty to
answer.” Then, after some further delibera-
tion, the jury returned with a verdict of
“damages, one farthing.” Thereupon plain-
tiff applied for costs. His Honor replied, “I
reserve my decision on the point.” Now, the case
is only valuable in as much as it clearly illustrates
how, under trial by jury, the purpose of a jury can
be thwarted by a Judge. The evident object of
the jury was to punish the defendant to t*«e ex-
tent of making him pay the costs of the action.
At the same time, they didn’t want to give the
piaintiff anything. But the Judge would give
them no help as to how they could do this, and in
making their best attempt they left His Honor in
the enjoyment of a technicality whereby he can,
if he likes, and when he likes, run counter to the
intentions of the jury.


FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Rich finds of gold in G-undagai district, all
on account of the Bailey .. Tbmobx Star to be
shifted to Junee Junction, and published as the
Southern Cross. ... Local military authorities ap-
nroveof sliding backsights on service rifles.... A
narliamantary return showing cost of public tanks
and wells gives a total of £45,440 for 38 dams, tanks
and wells In 1883 the Attorney-General was
naid £715. and the Crown Solicitor £790 Is. od.,
From the fees charged for letters of Registration,
rphig is a little game that should be stopped.... A
Dunedin tourist recently succeeded in ascending
the Mount Earnslaw glacier nearly 7000 feet, whioh
is considerably more than the height attained last
year by the Rev. Green and his Swiss guides, who
were checked by a snowstorm. The topmost
climbing was through a belt of large birch trees,
and over a thick, soringy carpet of decayed leaves,
fill thev reached the open snow, where the plenti-
ful red lichen made the mountain look as though
smeared with blood. Above, there were miles of
.now and solid ice, from which avalanches con-
tinually rolled into the valleys, but no man s
foot has y et trodden the summit of Earnslaw....
Hanian performs the very
'dangerous feat of catching a
bottle thrown to him by an* en-
thusiastic spectator.
What if this had been a
Ik " Hippodromed"
bottle P
"That's Him!”
There are, it would ap-
- pear, moments in the
experiences of an oars-
man when it it desir-
able to stand up on the
outrigger ami make the
boat wobble from side
to side. We can’t ima-
-B*®** we can,
\thougy-Bnarks I _ y
It sometimes transpires sundenly
during » race that, your boat'wants
varnishing Well, Ed showed oa
how <lus might be done without
much loss of time.
The enthusiasm ;it this
rnomenl knew oo —
Bee daily papers. /
j ——
Mi Hanian walks upon the water
by means of a tin substitute for
faith
We once tried •» similar expe-
riment We started to *walk to
Bau Fraootscoin h pair of police-
rnan’s boot*, made walertight.aml
got as far a* Sydney Heads--
BjPjvTr Hanian performed no
of rum feat.* in the water
-*U, doubtless, of great use
; during a sculling match.
While Hanian was being
interviewed by a 6 h eotjd re*
portei, nur artist had a fine
opportunity for noting the
contrast between brains and
mere muscle.
When it caraa on to blow, a tremendous
sea got up, and, beginning to feel queer—
We started to gt below, when • * «
We awoke to find ourselves still on board
the Press boat, with our feet down in the
coal-hole, having gone to sleep over one of
Dan. O’Connor’s long speeches of congratu-
lation to Hanian. a
Several ways of Hanlan a Subject.
Rear - Admiral Sir Michael Culme Seymour,
Bart, will probably be the first admiral appointed
to the Australian Station. Commodore Erskine's
stay here terminates in October The Gympie
Miner says—“ Gympie was never in a more
flourishing financial condition Parkes at Edin-
burgh said Australian federation “would be im-
possible unless a Parliament were established
similar to that of Canada, the existing Legislatures
being left to legislate each for its own colony.” He
needn’t have gone all the way to Edinburgh to
state such an obvious truism Life passes on the
Government railways were issued asunder:—To
the Lieutenant-Governor, after one year in office:
Chief Justice, after five years; President of the
Beg. Council, after one year; Speaker of the As-
sembly, after one year; Premier of the colony,
after three years ; Secretary for Works, after
three years; any other Minister of the Crowu, after
seven years. Also by the authority of the Gover-
nor in Council to persons who have rendered
services of pre-eminent value to the colony. Life
passes are held by Sir Alf. Stephen, Sir James
Martin, Sir John Hay, Sir G. Wigram Allen,
Edmund Barton, Sir Henry Parkes, Sir John
Robertson, James Byrnes, John Sutherland, John
Lackey, John Rae, Miss Cowper for distinguished
services of the late Sir Charles Cowper—
land trouble at (Jundagai, The population
area, owing to the departmental bungle years ago,
is found to be included in a lease I
Squatter won’t budge, and a big suit in the
Supreme Court is pending. Verily, the lawyers
ought to love you, “ Free-selection Jack ! .. The
two torpedo boats built in England, for the Victo-
riau Government, can do their li knots.... Last
week, two very old women burned to death—one
at Mount Victoria ; the other at Tarlo. In both
instances there must have been considerable
neglect on the part of relatives and neighbours....
Mrs. Biggs was getting on board the Edina, one of
W H Smith and Sons’ boats, at Portarhngton.
One foot got on deck. The other stayed between
the stage and the vessel. Result, amputation of
foot. Further result, claim for £2OOO. Final
result bv jury, £5OO. ...Underground electrical
reticulation of Melbourne being considered. Esti-
mated cost, £os,ooo....Teetotal Glover rampaging
through the provinces. Blue ribbons backsliding
in the capital.... Truant officers suggest separate
schools for “ gutter children. Why not let truant
officers have a lick at tho Act ?... See Yup, a China-
man, sends £3O to the Alfred Hospital. Qualifying
for life-governor. Why not ? All the 5 upper
oircle are at it in Melbourne.... Two lectures a
weok on military subjects will be delivered down
South. Primarily for sodgers, but likely open to
all. Now for entertainment and hair-0i1.... Eighty
residents of Yea took pledge and ribbon. Yea,
yah....Squatter at Werribee scattered phosphor-
ized oats to kill rabbits. Farmers ruined' One
lost 60 pigs and a flock of turkeys—Odonto-
logical society started in Melbourne. Teething |
Out of 60,000 sheep on the Wondobobbie River,
near Dubbo, only about 12,000 have been left by
the late drought, and these are shuffling off every
day. To a commercial, who tried to make a deal
in the woolpack line, a Bogan squatter the other
day replied “ Woolpaeks! I’il be able to run all my
wool this year into three bushel bags.” — A secre-
tary to Melbourne Tramwavs Trust to be appointed
—salary £l5O. Eternal Hope fooling round as usual:
battalions to be blest... Construction and main-
tenance of Yan Yean works to date, £2,639,239:
repaid by consumers, £1,150,551... .Truant officers
complain that they have no status. Thus it is.
Hive a man enough money for beer, and the next
thing he wants is status... .Victorian militia com-
ing in slowly. Plenty of officers ; few men
“J.D.,” writing to the Rum, speaks of Lord Odo
Russell as being an advocate of the Kindergarten
system. Doesn’t he know that ’tis three years
since Odo was created Baron Ampthill ? Perrott,
P.M., was quite in order (as we think) in threaten-
ing to wing with a bullet any ruffian who attacked
hie place with etones, and, if fie 4ih clinch the
menace with a “ by God,” where's the harm ? Are
fellowsto stand being jumped on with equanimity
because thev happen,to be stipendiary beaks?
Can’t see it! P.M. doesn’t stand for passive meek-
ness, dear Giraffe—Criminal history, like any
other, repeats itself. Attorney Ogle, who is doing
a sentence in Melbourne Gaol, has been amusing
himself by altering the entries in the record books
so as to shorten the sentences of fellow convicts
who were prepared to stand Sam. In Sydney, in
1881, the “ prisoner ” clerks who had access to the
registers altered the sentences of some 200 of their
mates, the “consideration” being a gratuity of
£lO or £l2. Some fifteen years ago, the same little
game was perpetrated on a smaller scale at Pent-
ridge Put into a gallon measure half a dozen
light purgative pills, one oupful of oatmeal, one
wineglassful of castor oil. two bottles of porter,
one-half dozen raw eggs, thoroughly mix, and add
water to fill the measure. A wineglass of this
mixture, taken every hour, is said to have a very
exhilarating effect . We learn from Granny that
“a new method of tooth-drawing has been in-
vented by a dentist of Geneva. A small square of
indiarubber, pierced with a central hole, is pushed
over the tooth. The indiarubber gradually con-
tracts, pulls on the root, and the offending tooth is
Anally— enucleated." (Thanks, dearest Granny,
£ or ihe TV its W** Masons^ 6 Farnell,
Grand Master of the s^j^-n^ a 9 s ° ekinfr re-eled
after ®°X. e i o t Pac hing or special fees for
tion> No mowf , ffS^"SS ) ? r^sSBr ß ShoeL..
additional lessons, in tne !;d. per dozen. At this
Fggs °° l w i [J duBtnouB hen ought to be able to
raie » “ tithingduring the season..Glebe
layby;%J, l^® 1 8^S^, «Bupe?ior.”....Sir Henry
KCB., has been appointed to
Brougham Loco , H a key to all their
the Govermursnip oi
troubles.
• •
Tendon police have recently captured
The JLondon police obscene litera-
the chief P U J j r omnn / uj fi naDers a list of a’l
ture. They h*. papers autor^
his habitual t iew several uoblo, reverend,
been told off tointerview
O i^ l Jm , SiSS“^S3:
voS ou.iSU atWas Thj > P£»<gSffBllB
ws,..
The London Daily Telegraph recently had a
sensational par. about a soldier who was struck
blind after uttering a fearful oath I It no w turns
out that Private Harnett, to whom reference was
made, is a quiet, well-behaved lad who had to go
to hospital for a temporary weak eye. He is now
all right again, and never was blind, and never, or
hardly ever, even so much as uses a wee wee D....
Pontefract (Eng.) respectability outraged. The
chairman of the School Board, a married man with
three children and a church warden and Sunday-
school superintendent to boot, has bolted with the
Board-school marm, a sweet thing of 23 summers.
. At Buffalo (America), several railway trucks
run alongside a lake, and one stormy day when tho
breakers ran high, a train of cars was ru n on to
the outside track in order to shelter the other
rails from the storm. From one end to the other,
the spray-washed train of cars became a wall of
ice. Not only the cars, but the spaces between are
frozen solid, and some of the cars are invisible for
it. Some cars caved beneath the weight of ice—
The house of Mrs. Fitzherbert— George the
Fourth’s ill-used mistress—at Brighton, has been
disposed of to the Young Men’s Christian Associa-
tion. Time works wonders, indeed ! Mississippi
in flood last week In Louisiana. Immense damage
done about New Orleans... Before going to the
Soudan, Chinese Gordon left with Prebendary
Barnes tho MS. of an original theological work,
giving him full discretion whether it should be
published or not. Barnes says not Perhaps the
work is rough on Anglicanism.... J MS. ot the
“ Confessions of an English Haohish Eater, bear-
ing evidence of having be«n written in the later
years of De Quincy’s life, was discovered by mere
See upon the backs of plates illustratingr acopy
of Marco Polo, for many years in his possession.
These* new “ Confessions ’’ of the well-known
opium-eater, will shortly be published... Asjndi-
catemean prosecuting diving operations tor the
remains of ships sunk in the sea tight oil Salamis,
in which the Persian sailors missed conquering
Greece. Xerxes, according to Eschylus, had Id),
galleys engaged, the Athenians 180.
Thus an English paper on the Rugby
c-ame “ Letters appear in the papers every now
and then denouncing the Rugby game of football
as an extremely brutal .affair. Indeed, if all that
is said of it be true, well-regulated P
would be less disgusting, and the sooner tho
attention of the police is called to it the better .
There is more truth in the above par. than would
nrmoar at first sight. More injuries of a serious
nature occur in the football season than pan be
found in tho whole history of Boxiaua.


Personal Items
E. S. Wilson, some time an employee on
the Mount Murchison station, Wilcannia, has
dropped in for a legacy of fifty thou.
The members of the new party for the ex-
ploration of New Guinea, dispatched by the Age,
pass 3d through Sydney this week. The leader is
Captain Strachan, who has with him Messrs. W. B.
Walker, journalist, and second i i command,
Charles Stewart, naturalist, William Scott, and St.
Dust de B. Mackay, scientists. Tho party will
probably be reinforced at Cooktown by some
kanakas or blaok-boys.
Sir W. J. Clarke, Bart., informed the Free-
masons that “ho had been a very fortunate man,
not so muoh from ability as from a knowledge of
men, by whioh he could tell an honest man when-
ever he met him.” A modest lit tie speech, truly !
if a “knowledge of men” has had all to do
with Sir William s fortune,” what an accom-
pushed student of the human race Sir William’s
p apa must have been. The baronet did have just
a little something ”to start with, in addition to
his marvellous discerning powers.
A Smoker’s Experience.
The Melbourne D.T. having stated that
the Chief Justice donned the blue ribbon, when
presiding at a Temperance meeting, the Secretary
of the Mission has written to correct the misstate-
ment. Says he—“ I would not have been slow to
have informed you had such been the case (we be-
lieve him), and reyret I had not the pleasure of
doing so.” The severity of those remarks ought
certainly to bring the Chief Justice up to the
soratch. How the poor man must blush.
We lately referred to a yarn to the effect
that General “ Chinese ” Gordon once paid several
visits to the Kew Gardens in order to obtain from
the officials information as to the botanical nature
of the Tree of Life ! This is capped by another
report, which states that a work of a theological
character by him will shortly illuminate the world
The MS. is said to be in charge of one of his old
friends, Prebendary Barnes. If Gordon’s theo-
logical views are anything on a line with his life’s
deeds, they will be worth studying. But then the
chances are the whole thing’s a crimson stoiy.
Joe Hume, the economist, used to tell this
yarn:—“One night when 1 was about five years
old, my mother had been hearing me repeat the
Lord’s Prayer. She added to her other instruc-
tions the information that the next night she
wished me, in addition, to say something of my
own—something that I earnestly desired God to
grant me. You can fancy her amazement when,
from the lips of her kneeling boy, there rose the
Setition, ‘ O, Lord, gie my mither a better temper.
Tak’ her The ‘ dirl ’ that instantly rang
through my Lead rings in it now when I’m speak-
ing of it.”
So Sir Rob ert Peel has re-entered political
life, having se cured a seat for Hartingdon. He is
4 queor fish, a ad one never knows which side of a
question he v ill take. He used to be an out-and-
out Liberal, l >ut he has Jingoistic views on war
questions. Fr< im ’Ol to ’65 he wm Chief Secretary
for Ireland, and a very bad one. His grandfather
was known as “ Parsley,” Peel and his father as
“ Orange” Peel; while he himself (from his quaint,
lively outspokenness) is often spoken of as “Can-
di(e)d Peel.” He and the present Duke of Wel-
lington married sisters-the Ladies Emily and Jane
Hay, daughters of the late Marquis of Tweedale.
Peter Campbell has once more come well
to the front, as a promoter of the “ Fair Thought
Platform.” Undoubtedly this ought to be just the
right “spear” for Peter, for long experience has
taught us that Peter's thoughts—in the words of
the poet—
“ Are fair, and very fair,
Their beauty makes us glad;”
therefore, we’re not surprised to learn that our
old friend was selected to deliver the first lecture
in connection with the new society at the Mel-
bourne Temperance Hall. It was modestly en-
titled “The People’s Theology, Changed aocial
Conditions, an d Politics of the Immediate Future.”
Lord Morley, who refused the Governor-
ship of Victoria, has another claim to celebrity
than his tenure of the Under-Secretaryship for
War. He is the grandson of the t’other Earl of
Morley, of whom Phil. Fudge, Esquire, when
“doing” Paris with his family, wrote as follows
(per favour of Tom Moore) to the Lord Viscount
Castlereagh;—
“ A title for him Uo Grimaldi) ’s easily made;
And by-the-bye, one Christmas time,
If I remember right, he played
Lord Morley in some pantomime;
As Earl of Morley, then, gazette him,
If t’other Earl of Morley’ll let him —
(And why should not the world bo blest
With two such stars for East and West ?)
A Loudon paper, after commenting on
the fact that nine of the English dukes have (at
present) no direct heir, enumerates among the
“remaining twelve who have, happily, a prospect
of handing down the family title to their sons,”
the Duke of Norfolk. It would have been as well
to leave out the word “ happily ” in this The
infant heir apparent to the “premier dukedom of
England” is, we believe, blind, and—to all present
appearances—imbecile. Still we can overlook a
lot of little deficiencies in a duke-presumptive,
you know, and as his noble parents have, like good
Catholics, made pilgrimages to the shrines of cer-
tain saints, all on behalf of their little one. perhaps
they’ll make a smart man of him eventually. Yet
we fancy that the young Duke and bis wife have
met with more sympathy from the publio than
from the saints—up to now, at any rate.
The Earl of Pembroke—who is not par-
ticularly remarkable except as the E. of P.—has
been ill. And, to tell the truth, we’re rather glad
he has been ill, because the circumstance of his
sickness has provided a little London paper
(Modern Society) with a “par.” possessing sin-
gular literary beauty. Pull out your handker-
chiefs and read: “A dark, sorrowing cloud has
overshadowed the little village of Wilton, at the
distressing news of the Earl of Pembroke’s recent
serious illness. Happily, the latest, bulletins are
fauourable, and pronounce the Earl to be out of
danger. So the sunshine is struggling through the
clouds, and we trust, ere long, Wilton will be
bathed in a golden light at the glad tidings that
the Earl is once more restored to health and
vigour.” Nice to be an Earl, and bathe places in a
golden light, isn’t it ?
Says the medico who doctors the Mel-
bourne correspondence for the B.M. Herald
(writing of the Marquis of Normanby):—“ He
may not have dazzled us by the brilliancy of his
intellect or the largeness of his capacity; but he
has won our hearts by his plain Yorkshire honesty."
Now, could anything in the way of intended praise
have been more clumsily put. “ Plain Yorkshire
honesty 1" Great Scott! Why, men have been
called out for a far less insult than imputing
“Yorkshire honesty” (which is plain English for
roguery)! After telling a man that he has but
precious little intellect, and next to no capacity,
you seek to modify your low appreciation of him
by saying “ but you’re two ends of a rogue.” What
adds to the fun of the thing is that poor old Tory
Granny should have been made the medium of
paying a vice-royalty “a Yorkshire compliment 1”
Normanby is a sterling old boy, of mediocre
ability, and looks like a butcher.
We’re having just a little too much of
“Chinese” Gordon, lately—he’s following in the
footsteps of George Washington, and providing
matter for so many anecdotes illustrative of his
virtue that we’re getting sick. Here’s one of the
latest “anecdotes”:— 11 When stationed at Graves-
end, Gordon spends his ™oney mostly on the poor,
teaching street arabs, his house being a school,
almshouse, and hospital in turn. One incident
will illustrate his character. He possessed and
prized a gold medal, bearing an incription, the
gift of the Empress of China. It suddenly dis-
appeared. Years afterwards it was discovered
that Gordon had erased the incription, and had
sold the medal for £lO, which sum he had sent
anonymously to a well-known church dignitary
for the relief of the sufferers during the cotton
famine in Lancashire.” Now, it isn’t often we get
such full and particular details about the raising
of an anonymous subscription—especially “years
afterwards.’’ If this sweet tale had not been about
“Chinese” Gordon we shouldn’t have believed it.
Another life-governor down South. This
time, it is James M’Nab. Thirty years ago the
world was cold and gloomy, and James went into
the Benevolent Asylum there, as a poor, broken
down old man. But there was something of the
elixir vitae within the walls then, and James felt
his veins swell and his brow throb for another
wrestle with Destiny. He didn’t wait to learn
whether he could gamble away the heel of his
pipe over a game of “All Fours.” He passed out
of the gates, went down to Carlton, and the
Divinity that had formerly shaped his ends rough,
howsoever he tried to hew them, now gave him
his way. He prospered, and at the last meeting of
the committee of that institution—what age can
James be now ?—he stepped up to the door and
handed in a contribution of £35. James M Nab
was thereupon appointed a life-governor. It does
not appear how much of this £25 James morally
owed for the protection once afforded him. The
distinction is certainly as much his due as it is the
man's who doles out the bequest of another man.
And in all human probability James will not wear
it long. And in all human certainty the incident
will not be repeated in the century.
Notwithstanding that he is married to a
rich heiress, the Chief Policeman of England is, as
his career has proved, one of the hardest working
men alive. Of course, we allude to Mr. Howard
Vincent. Passing through several boys’ schools,
he commenced travelling on the Continent when
only 13. He went through a military college, and
walked the hospitals in war time. In the Bui-
garian war, he was correspondent for the Tele-
graph. In addition to various newspaper and
diplomatic services, he studied eleven hours a day
at Bt. Petersburg to master the Russian language,
and is now a first class linguist in half a dozen
tongues. He studied at the Bar, and practised for
a short time. After vigorous and special study of
all the chief foreign police systems, he was ap-
pointed Director of Criminal Investigations for
England. There he sits at Scotland Yard, in his
large room, unarmed and in plain dress, sur-
rounded by books of reference and law, maps,
and telephones, telegraphs, and speaking-tubes
that communicate direct with every imaginable
place. A thorough gentleman in demeanour
nothing ever ruffles his outward calm and cour-
teous patience. He is still a young man.
Now we know all about it. According to
Foster’s recently published and extremely inter-
esting book, “Royal Lineage of our Noble and
Gentle Families,” Sir Stafford Northcoto and
Drinks-all-round Tennyson are each fifteenth in
descent from John o’Gaunt, the fourth son of
Edward the Third. Lord Wolseley is sixteenth in
descent from Lionel, Duke of Clarence, who was
the third son of the same Neddy. And, if we re-
member rightly, Foster also declares Mudgee Tay-
lor is the 999th in descent from Edward surnamed
Longshanks; Dan O’Connor is a 31st cousin of
Boyne-Water William; M’Rlhone is a very distant
relative of the saintly Edward the Confessor-
Brudder Beg is only fourteen removes from the
Black Prince: and Tom Bent can trace his pedigree
back even as far as Adam, who, like Tom himself
was a sort of market-gardener. Grandoleman
Gladstone is proved to be the eighteenth in descent
from Edward the First: and this reminds us that
Mr. F. Gladstone, William’s own nephew, is now
on his way, in his official capacity, to Melbourne
Ho is a stock-drover, and is at present engaged
taking “fats’ across from Cooktown. This looks
as if some of Edward the First’s relations are get-
ting rather woolly.
When Dr. Simms told J. P T. Caulfield
that he was destined to be elected to Parliament
the great head and face reader must have been in
possession of a specially lucid interval. The ful-
filment of the prophecy looks to be extremely
natural. Caulfield is a sort of hotel-broker in
Melbourne, without much nous, but amply sup
Elied with brazen audacity. His want of nous got
im horse-whipped last week, and his brazen
audacity has gilded the weals and made the public
eye rest a while on the bag of stale wind. He <iq
mitted in court that he wrote a letter in a Mel-
bourne print, in which he described Dr. Bimms'
handling of his empty skull. This letter was, of
course, represented as emanating from a corres-
pondent, who had nothing to do with the re-
nowned broker. Here’s a bit of it: “ Mr. Caulfield
was described as having the organ of language
largely developed ; one who was fond of good
language and could use it well had
radical proclivities, and was bound to beoomea
brilliant politician; had good tact, which would
enable him to succeed in anything he undertook
.... his aspirations soared into lofty regions
. ... he could not be put down.” And ever
so much more. And part ot what he wrote made
Henneley, his senior partner, horse-whip him.
The truth was that Caulfield had added all the
grandeur to the couple of sentences Dr. Simms
had tendered in exchange for the ticket. Sir
Bryan O’Loghlen said that a man who could make
up and write such a puff about himself was the
most consummate ass in the colony. But that’s
why the doctor shot very near the mark when he
said Caulfield would get into Parliament, He
looks very like it.
William Timmings is making very good
wages out of his capture at Dimboola. Some
months ago he went out there and took a job of
carpentering. Frederick Martin, another fellow
altogether, had run away from his wife and family
and a warrant for his arrest was in the hands of
the “foorce.” Constable Elliott saw William at
Dimboola, and went up to Sergeant Cahill and
said, “Isn’t that Fred?" Sergeant Cahill looked
sharply at the carpenter and said, “Faith, ye’re
an ’im.” And the foorce went on him. William
said his wife was to the fore in Ballarat, and that
, he left there with her consent to look for a job.
“Come an, sonny,” said the foorce, “ye’re a bit
disgoised, but we know what the chimmist can do.
Martin had blue eyes, and yers is black; Martin
was light oomplexioned, and yer dark; Martin was


Flies and bugs, beetles, insects, roaches, an is
fced-bugs, rats, mice, gophers, jack-rabbits, cleared
out by “Rough on Rats.’’ Moses, Mosj a Co,.
Sydney, General Agents.
The SMITH Organs
Have no rival
on the Planet.
Sole Agents:
GRAMPTON
and:
BRUGE.
ftsmt
tSnti&'Jill
fmm
mm
ns
■ j
--
231
GEORGE ST.,
OPPOSITE!
HUNTER ST.
FINEST STOCK OE PIANOS AND ORGANS IN SYDNEY.
UID METALUD SLATES OR HIGHS!
MAK E
ABSOLUTELY THE BEST ROOFING KNOWN.
It is light, ornamental, cheap, and durable. Is used, and very
highly approved of, by the English Government Departments and
by the Royal Engineers.
References given to Sydney architects and builder* hv wham it t, no j
wtth unqualified approval and success. timers by whom it haa been already used
AWARDED THE GOLD MEDAL AT THE PARIS EXHIBITION OF 1878.
Before using any other roofing material, call and inspect the above at
287 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CATER, Importer, 193 & 195 Pitf.strecf.
ALBERTOR GElSMARDO^XSn^pfr^d^oS^wßh^h^G^d^fei 111 ® 1111 f°ti SeNOR
(Professional Glove Fitter to the hand). The Department is flttecl ° n °T7
style, and Ladies and Gentlemen can now haveTheir “ft ™ 'VI® Contll l enta l
done in Paris. This excellent plan of fitting &ffeli^^
THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED STOCK TO SELECT FROM
Prices guaranteed the Lowest in the City.
KID GLOVES of all descriptions in the latest style
KID GLOVES fitted to tho hands without extra
charge
KID GLOVES from 2 to 30 Buttons
KID GLOVES, Mosquetaire stylo, 8 Buttons length,
4s. 6d.
KI1 ? Mosquetaire style, 10 Buttons
length, Suede, 4s. per pair
KID GLOVES, Sarah Bernhardt style, Suede, 4’. 6d.
s per pair
KID GLOVES, best quality made, 6 Buttons, 6s.
per pair
KID GLOVES, second quality, 6 Buttons, 4s. 6d.
per pair
KID GLOVES, best quality made, 4 Buttons, ss.
p© i* pal r
K^I l ) )e? ] paiT E, ’ Becond 4 Buttons, 3s. (id.
KIDgWs, Josephines, 4 Buttons, 3s. 6d per
for Gentlemen, walking, 4s. Od.
KI1) GLOVES for Gentlemen evening l , 4s. (id. and
»s. per pair “ uu
er L< ai> for ladies, Kid Gauntlets, 3s. to 10s.
Km r !'nvs« f P r ladies. Gauntlets, velvet tops
Km mvp9’/ ur »/? pB ' Gauntlets, lined
KID G LOY ES for Misses, in every variety.
CATER, Importer and General Draper.
193 and 195 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY. r f
Giticura
5#
v --t
Eczema on Face & Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
FOR EVERY FORM OF
SKIN AND BLOOD
disease
FROM
it
s^s
m
ZW'
Scrofula on neck.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
Ip\I3FIGURING HUMOUS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
Rheum, Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with loss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap
externally.
Bad Blood, Scrofulous, Inherited and Conta-
gious Humors, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patches in the Throat and Mouth, Abscesses,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches, Sores, Scurvy,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Organs,
Dropsy, Erysipelas, Ememia, Pysemia, Leucorrhcea,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
One Hundred Testimonials with each pack-
age and Rworn to before the British Consulate
repeat this story : I have been a terrible sufferer
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have been
obliged to shun public plaoes by means of my dis-
figuring humors; have had the best physicians;
have spent hundreds of dollars and got no real
relief until I used the Cuticura Resolvent which
have cured me and left my skin and blood as pure
as a child’s.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
fWTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri-
flcr, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all ImDurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medioina
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Fleshl
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies, are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
For Male by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout the colonies. Price,
Cuticura, 50 cents par bex, large boxes, 81.00;
Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shaving
Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO per
bottle. Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston,
U.S.A.
young, and yer up. But chigamisthry can do any-
thing, and we’re bound to be ‘ riz ’ for nabbinv
ye so smartly.” And, although William protested,
the foorce kept on to him. “ Let me send a tele-
gram to my wife,” asked William; and, writing
out a message, he said “send this.” “It’s not
pretty enough,” said the foorce; “we’ll make it
more to the point, and ’ll send it just to
see ” And they omitted the essential parts
so that William's wife didn’t know what it meant
or where it came from. And they brought him
before the Dimboola Bench, and that Bench re-
manded him to Ballarat. And Governor Guerin
(the sweet Academecienne’s father) gave him a
night in the gaol, and sent him up to the court
next, morning. When the Ballarat court saw
William, everybody knew him. They said he
wasn’t Frederick Martin at all, and told him to go
away. William went out smiling, and forthwith
sued Governor Guerin for unlawful detention.
Ho got £2O damages. Then he sued Cahill, and
got £6O. 'then he sued Elliott, and got £2O. And
Judge French, who certified to these amounts last
week, at Horsham, told William there was virgin
soil still in front of him. According to the Judge,
the remand warrant was faulty, and the magistrate
who made the remand, and the magistrate who
issued the warrant, and the other magistrates who
helped them, are all there awaiting development.
And William bowed to his Honor with a smile that
meant immediate development. William’s victims
sav they will get Government to indemnify them.
But that’s nothing to William. He has struck it
heavy, and he’ll work the scam out.
One of the strangest incidents connected
with the London stage recently is the wonderful
success of Minnie Palmer as contrasted with the
MINNIE PALMER.
failure of Little Lotta, who was hissed and hooted
from the stage. Minnie Palmer has always been
regarded by American play-goers as nothing more
than an imitator of San Francisco’s bright little
pet. In her own country Minnie never was
thought of as an equal of Lotta, and can never
hope to be so regarded, for she has followed Lotta’s
patterns too long to be able, at this late day, to
successfully map out a new line of business for
herself. Minnie is about 36 years of age, and of
late years has been growing rather stout for
juvenile parts, but so long as she can take London
and Glasgow by storm she need not retire from
the stage on account of bulk.
Miss Mary Anderson, in spite of her statu-
esque beauty, is not superior to that fashionable
weakness of her sex—jealousy. Rumour says that
“Our Mary” (as the admiring Yanks call her) has
been none too well pleased with the success made
by Amy Roselle as Cynisca in “Pygmalion and
Galatea,”—so, as Mr. Gilbert's play is likely to run
for some time yet, a weaker representative of
Cynisca. and one who will not “ clash ” with Mary
as the Statue, is to replace clever Miss Roselle.
“ Beautiful Mary ” is certainly ill advised in this
MARY ANDERSON.
business, and seems to forget that her own country-
man, Edwin Booth, was specially engaged by his
rival, Irving, to alternate with him the characters
of othello and lago. This, too, on the same boards
from which Amy Roselle is now excluded for being
too good. By the bye, many who “ left homo”
before Amy made her first bow behind,the foot-
lights will yet remember her precocious brother,
Percy Roselle, who, as a boy, used to play the lead-
ing parts in Drury Lane pantomimes.
So the steam yacht, Cushie Doo, is to be
fitted up and victualled for a voyage round the
world by the owner, William Osmond. At least,
so the daily papers tell us, and they ought to
know. When it comes down to the bei rock of
victualling, the diurnal scribe is always in it. In
fact he's a level-headed authority on those matters.
Anyhow, we are both pleased and surprised to
hear that William is about to become a circum-
navigator and plough the raging main. If the
days of freabooting hadn’t been amongst the
things that were, we wouldn't be astonished to
hear that he had hoisted the black flag, cheerfully
decorated with a skull and cross bones, and turned
pirate. Strange things do happen in this world,
and stranger still in the next. So we’ll just have a
retrospect of this and look confidently forward to
a good time in the next. But, revenons d nos mou-
tons, as they say in the Highlands of Tipperary
when out on a sheep-stealing expedition. Well,
Osmond— or, as he was better known as “ Bill the
Smelter,” owing to his occupation—was amongst
the pioneers who tackled quartz-mining on
the Reefs, Pleasant Creek (Vic.), early in the
“ fifties.” He was a shareholder in the first
crushing battery erected on Doctor's Creek,
where he acted in the dual capacity of man-
ager and “ smelter ” for the company. In
those days big prices were paid for crushing,
and as Osmond was always said to be pretty close-
fisted, he made a prisoner of every shilling. Then
he speculated in the undeveloped quartz mines,
and was one of the fortunate shareholders in the
famous North Cross Reef, from which he drew
enormous dividends for upwards of fourteen
years. His interests in other claims on the gold-
field were also yielding good returns, and money
was rolling into his coffers, until it became cur-
rently reported that he was worth half a million in
hard cash. He still lived in a small house near
Doctor’s Creek, and often have we seen him wend-
ing his way across the Big Hili carrying a sheep’s
head, or a shin of beef, or some other toothsome
delicacy wheiewith to replenish his larder. And
for this attention to the details of domestic life,
thoughtless persons used to call him mean names,
and say ungenerous things about him. But the
most remarkable chattel which this semi-million-
aire possessed was a saddle-horse—a gothic-framed
animal, large of bone, though low in flesh, and a
slow pacer, withal; a horse admirably adapted to
lollow in the wsvke of a corpse to the cemetery.
During the time of the notorious “Pleasant
Creek jumps,” there was a lively time in
otawell. The value of the mining property in
dispute was estimated at a quarter of a million
sterling; and, as a natural consequence, the old
Claim-holders bung on tenaciously to the ground
ere it fell into the hands of the jumpers. Some of
the shoreholders who “jumped ” claims were held
in high estimation by the working miners, and had
the “bhoys” round them on all occasions to pre-
vent the jumpers getting possession—whilst the
wealth of the other shareholders was sufficient to
secure the services of a fighting brigade who were
constantly moving round, filled with whisky and
armed with pick-handles and things, ready to
slaughter any person suspected of holding stock
in the “pumps,” or even of expressing sympathy
with the jumpers. Fights were of daily occur-
rence, and occasionally pitched battles took place,
when the local undertakers would be seen hover-
ing round on the outskirts with two-feet rules
measuring up the corpses. And, afterwards, the
battles woull bj fought over again in the local
courts, when the cross-swearing used to be of so
tough a character as to bewilder and mystify the
otherwise clear-headed Mr. Wyatt, P.M., and make
the Recording Angel in Paradise wonder whether
the ninth commandment was not a dead letter in
that section. Bill the Smelter was subpoenaed as a
witness on one of those occasions, and, when giving
his version of the affair, stated that he left Doctor’s
Creek at a certain hour to come to the reefs, and
that it took him two hours to ride that distance.
“What!” queried the opposing counsel; “do you
mean to tell me that the horse you ride can only
travel at the rate of two miles an hour ? Remem-
ber you are on your oath, sir.” “I know that,”
replied the imperturbable William; “ but I
couldn’t get the brute to move along any faster.”
Since then, however, a change came o’er the spirit
of William’s dream. Instead of riding on a horse
with a two-raile-an-hour gait, he sails the ocean
blue in a twelve-knot steam yacht, in which, we
may presume, the victualling department will be
Erovided with something better than steak off the
orns or shin of a builock.
* * v
Says the Pall Mall Gazette of Sir
’Enry “He represents one of the highest types
of the English colonist.” Now, at this rate, when
the M’Elhone shows up on British soil, we shall
expect to see the F.M. Gazette “ gush ” that “ he
represents one of the highest types of the colo-
nial gentleman.” Bah... Andrew J. Sievers gazetted
consular representative of Sweeden and Norway ;
Alexander Brown, consular agent at Newcastle
for the U. States ; and Robert Kerr, M.A. Presby-
terian chaplain Darlinghurst Gaol—Mr. Speaker
Barton, instead of reminding hon. members that
there were certain new rules of procedure which
he began to see the necessity of immediately ap-
plying, should apply them. Quite right, Sir
John, monthly supply hills do give more power to
the Assembly— when the money asked for has not
already been spent Stephen Little, one of the
Cowra’s oldest identities, died last week. ..New
assistant inspectors of schools:—W. Nolan, A.
Lob ban, C. J. Pitt, L. Blumer, H. M'Lelland, 8.A.,
J. A Fletcher, 8.A., J.D. Maclardy, M.A., S.
Wright, B.A Out of thirty-one applications for
the post of Fire Brigades Superintendent the Pre-
mier has picked the following six from which the
Agent-General and Captain Shaw are to make the
final choice:-G. R. w. Archer, Fire Insurance
Assessor for London, who has been engaged at
every large fire in London since 1861; John 8.
Willis, superintendent of Salford fire brigades;
J. W. Matthews, superintendent of fire brigades
Newcastle-on-Tyne; Thomas Wingfield, superin-
tendent of Bristol fire brigades; Thomas Gibbs,
chief superintendent of Brighton fire brigades;
and William Wheeler, superintendent of the Ips-
wich fire brigades Volunteer Naval Artillery:
J. H. A. Lee and K. R. Stuart to be lieutenants,
J. A. Inglis to be paymaster, M. J. Keating, W. H,
Bell, S. A. Newsham. and H. Newsham to be sub-
lieutenants. What the deuce is the paymaster for ?
.. .Dr. Garranhasresigneu his seat on the Board of
Technical Education The D.T.’s London cor-
respondent says idiotically that Hake’s book about
“Chinese ” Gordon “ has had no small share in the
selection of the man for his perilous mission in
the Soudan.” Why, “the man” was the“indis-
pensible he ” for that job—Hake or no Hake
Fourth Regiment Volunteer Infantry, Major
Wilkinson to be Lieutenant-Colonel; Captain C.
F. Stoke to be Major : First Lieutenant Rancland
(Newcastle corps) to be Captain ; Second Lieuten-
ant Burnage to be First Lieutenant.
• • •
Randolph “Woodoock” says neatly that
“the forest laments in order that the Grand Old
Man may perspire.” W. W. Graham, with two
Swiss “ guides,” has scaled the Himalayan Mount
Kabru (24,016 feet) Gordon Pasha, when sum-
moned by Granville and Hartington to London
from the Belgian Court, had to boi row a “ fiver ”
from Leopold 11. to square up with his landlady
and pay his steamboat fare ... Fred, de Lagrange
died over 4,000,000 fr. in debt— At the Bankruptcy
Court in I incoln’s-inn-Fields, the bankruptcy case
of the Earl of Winchilsea and Nottingham
again came on for hearing. The bankrupt was
adjudicated in 1870, and passed his examina-
tion in July of the following year upon a
statement of affairs which disclosed liabili-
ties amounting to £42,165, and assets £l5O
The Archbishop of Canterbury one of the fastest
speakers alive; 250 words a minute Burnaby, of
the “ Blues ” (on leave from Hyde Park Barracks)
was with Baker Pasha in the disaster that befell
the latter's force outside Trinkitat and with him
made his second “ Ride to Khiva ” under the guns
of Souakin Hon. Horatio Nelson a corporal in
the 4th Hussars... John Harris, the Cornish poet,
died in January. He was the son of a miner, and
used ink made from the juice of blackberries when
he was young and poor. In 1864 he wrote the best
poem on the tercentenary of Shakespeare. Six
years ago Lord Beaconsfield secured him a grant
of £2OO from the Royal Bounty Fund, but most of
it was lost by the suspension of the Cornish Bank;
and in 1881 Mr. Gladstone made him a grant of £lOO
from the Civil List Victor Hugo is going to
build himself a house, of which he will be the
architect, and to plant himself a garden, in the
design of which he will reveal himself a second Le
Notre. The old boy must consider himself im-
mortal. He w«s born in 1802.... Thus Society
(London), in its Jeamesiest note : “ Sir Andrew
Barclay Walker has just presented a marble bust
of the late Lord Beaconsfield to the city of Liver-
pool. Sir Andrew is one of nature’s noblemen,
and is always doing good by stealth and blushing
to find it fame.” Surely, surely, it is all Walker I
to call presenting a bust to a city “ doing good by
stealtn.”
The London Jeweller.
London, September 1,1883.
“ The progress and success which it is possible
for a commercial enterprise to reach, is shown
very forcibly by a descriptive account which the
American Waltham Watch Company are now
issuing to the English watch trade, and wo under-
stand that any jewellers desirous of distributing
these leaflets in their neighbourhood with the
view of promoting business* dan have a supply on
application to the offlces of the Company at
Holbom-circus. The buildings at Waltham, it is
stated, cover an area of 48,374 feet, the frontage
on the street is 764 feet, length of main building
646 feet, aggregate length of benches 3'87 miles,
length of shafting 3'93 miles. These figures speak
eloquently of the present position of the enter-
prise, but the success and increasing sale of
the Waltham watch is very substantially proved
by the statement that it took 23 years to make
the first million watches, six years to make the
second million, and it is estimated that the third
million will be produced in about two years. It
would seem from this that every buyer of a
Waltham watch speaks well of it, and induces his
friends also to purchase, and they again do the
same, until the rate of increase becomes so for-
midable that it is difficult to comprehend what
will be the result a few years hence. But progress
like that shown in the leaflet referred to
proves not only the quality of the watch sold, but
also how well the Waltham Company must be
managed: for the best article will not force its
way in the world unless it is assisted by good
business capacity and generalship.


EETING OF CATHOLICS
MAKE ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE
RECEPTION
OF
HIS GRACE ARCHBIBHOP MORAN.
CATHmirttS J UBLI C MEETING of the
da*® LI ) C - 8 , of ,Sydney will be held at an early
Tow’n iTi hI £ h ™ d *i° notice will be given, at the
Rerantinn of « arrangements for the suitable
K nf o P u on His Grace the Archbishop of Sydney.
take B the°Chair^ r ‘ Justlce (by request) will
W.P.COONAN, M.L.A.,
J G I (TRVAN Freeman 8 Journaß > —
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, April 1, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing’ Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kent at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name cf the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Bates to which
Tenders ean be
received a t
this office.
Erection of Cottages, &c., Callan
Park Asylum
Public Wharf, Five Dock, Par-
ramatta River
The Construction and Supply of
the Whole of the Wrought
and Cast Ironwork required
for th® Superstructure of a
new Tunnel at Redfern, Great
Southern Railway
Erection of Retaining Wall,
Fence, &e., Pilot Dagwell’s
House, Pilot Station, New-
castle
Construction of Gallery, Court
House, Forbes
Supply of Uniform Clothing,
Railway Department
Tuesday,
Bth April,
at 11 o'clock.
Erection of Ladies’ Kef reshment
Rooms, &0., Botanio Gardens
Additions to Court-house, Mcr-
ri <va
Erection of Engine and Boiler
House, Albury Water Supply
Works
Engine House, &c., Goulburn
Water Supply
Engine, House, &c., Wagga
Wagga Water Supply
Alterations, &0., Court House,
Brewarrina
Bridge over River near Lunatic
Asylum, Parramatta
Erecting Trucking Yards, Nar-
ramine, G.W. Railway
Supply and Delivery of Sawn
Planking for Re-flooring Gun-
dagai Bridge
Tuesday,
15th April,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Breakwater,
&c.. Northern side of entrance
to Clarence River.
Construction of Timber Over-
shot Dam, Trial Bay Prison
Bridge over Nemur River, road
Moama to Moulamein
Additions to Quarters, Nobby’s
Light-house, Newcastle
Tuesday,
22nd April
at 11 o’clock.
Lease of Refreshment-room at
Werris Creek Railway Station
Erections of Additions, &c.,
Police Barracks, Walgett
Bridge over Leicester Creek,
Lismore
Eerection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Kempsey.
Tuesday,
29th April,
at 11 o’clock.
Pino Laying,
Water Supply
Hunter
River
Tuesday,
13th May,
at 11 o'clock.
Construction of a Line of iiail-
Bungendore to Mlchelago
Tuesday,
27th May,
at 11 o’clock,
Manufacture and Supply of
150,000 Tons of Steel Kails.
10th February,
1886,
at 11 o’clock.
F. A. WRIGHT.
|EAPES and SHAW have just received the
Largest, Choicest, and Cheapest
shipment of
LADIES’ and GENTLEMEN’S GLOVES
ever landed by one firm
in the colony of New South Wales.
They consist of Novelties in Ladies’ Gloves as
follows:
THE POLISH KID GLOVE with VELVET
GAUNTLET CUFF.
New colours as follows:—Dahlia, Roan, Slate,
Ardoise, mid Brown. Navy, Myrtle.
THE LAUNETTE SAC GLOVE, PATENT
CLASPS.
In Blacks, Tans, and evening shades.
MOUSQUETAIRE SUEDE GLOVES, 6,8, and 10
buttons.
In all the leading shades and fashionable
colours.
MOUSQUETAIRE DRESSED KID GLOVES.
In Apricot, Bronze. Terra Cotta, and other
new shades.
A Fresh SHIPMENT of our Celebrated "FLORA”
Kid Gloves.
Our price for four button is 3s 9d per pair.
Our price for six button is 4s 11 per pair.
Every shade of colour, and every pair
guaranteed.
A LARGE VARIETY of LADIES’ and CHILD-
REN’S GLOVES in every shade of colour.
NOVELTIES in LADIES’ SILK MITS, 25 inches
long, every colour.
GENTLEMTN’S GLOVES.
For the Encampment j Siskin Gloves
for Volunteers. ) White Buck-kin Gloves
DENT S GLADSTONE
Assorted Fashionable Shades of Tans and
Browns, two clasps, price, 3s 6d. per pair.
The above are with either black self-braid
points, made expressly for PEAPES and
SHAW, and are unrivalled for quality,
tit, make, or style.
DENT’S CHEVRETTE GLOVES,
Two clasps, all the new colours.
GENT.’S WHITE, FRENCH GREY, and FANCY
TINTED GLOVES,
For Evening Dress Wear, half-a-crown per
pair.
TWO-BUTTON WHITE and FRENCH GREY
EVENING GLOVES,
WHITE and FRENCH GuEY EVENING
GLOVES,
With the new double clasps.
Gent.’B New Driving Gloves, and Warm Winter
Gloves.
PEAPES and SHAW,
George-street.
PEAPES and SHAW,
George-street.
S
YDNEY CUP.
CLOSES 14th INSTANT.
6000, at 10s. each.
First Horse..
Second
Third
Starters
Non-starters
Total
£3OOO.
Post Office Orders, payable to “Lena Amos,”
No or Belf lPS DOt accepted< Cheques payable to
As a guarantee to the public, any bona fide sub-
scriber can have the names and addresses of the
principal winners.
The papers containing this advertisement will be
supplied with a lull list of all winners— not, how-
ever, tor publication.
Enclose two stamps, and address—
“ LENA AMOS ’
Care of W. Miller,
Box 583, G.P.0., Sydney.
THEATREROYAL.— Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Muborov*.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING,
IMMENSE SUCCESS
of
THE SILVER KING
THE SILVER KING.
Prices of Admission :
DRESS CIRCLE, 55.; STALLS, 35.; FAMIIV
CIRCLE, 2s.
QPE R A
Lessee
Sub-lessee and Director
Business Manager
Treasurer ..
use.
H 0
W. J. Wilson.
Signor E. Majeroni.
Monty Browne.
Joe Brown.
LAST NIGHTS
THE MAJERONIS ° THE MAJERONIS.
THIS (Thursday) EVENING,
CAMILLE
CAMILLE.
Properties, SceDery * CoBtumes - Appointments
Box Plan now open at Huenerbein’s, 411 George-st
Prices ;-Dress Circle, 55.; Stalls, 35.; Pit 2a
jackets at Robertson’s, next Theatre. Carriages
TRAGEDIAN, COMEDIAN, BURLESQUE
~ „ . . ACTOR, Sc c.
„yne of the most versatile artistes on the atno-o »
OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY, EVERYEVENING
SPECIAL ENGAGEMENT.
rar- For future arrangements, Managers are
Politely requested to address as above. 8
„ .u Amateurs “coached,” and pupils prepared
for the stage in all its branches. P pared
G 1 £ 2J 2 T ’ , silverstream SCHNAPPS
Gilbey s Old White Jamaica Rum,
can be recommended as being of the hiches
quality, and superior to any imported. K 68
TUCKKK Sc CO., Sole Agents,
George-st.reet. Sydney.
w
HETHEE YOU
in
SYDNEY
or
SUBURBS
LIVE
or
COUNTRY,
you
cannot find
a more
ECONOMICAL ESTABLISHMENT
to
LAY OUT YOUR MONEY IN
than
HORDERNS’
in
PITT-STREET.
Hanlan Challenges the Rowing World,
so do we
CHALLENGE COMPETITION
in the
DRAPERY
and
SOFT GOODS WORLD.
You can get
GOOD and STYLISH THINGS
at
HORDERNS’
in
PITT-STREET.
Not only are the Articles dealt in
GOOD,
of
REALLY STERLING QUALITY,
nothing akin to
Shoody Manufactures
(the importation of which is studiously
avoided).
But as the Pick of the Manufacturers of
Europe and Great i’ritain are open to
HOME BUYERS,
you ret
REALLY, TRUTHFULLY,
and
HONESTLY,
THE VERY" PINK OF FASHION
and
MODE.
What are shown in the establishments
of London, in the Creme de la Creme of
Haut Ton, Regent-street, and also in
the windows of La Belle Paris, are re-
produced, and have their facsimiles in
our importations.
Again,
whereas the
GREAT MANUFACTURERS
olten
(although extremely wealthy as a rule)
are very glad to see
COLONIAL GOLD
in preference to English or Continental
Promissory Notes, Bills,
and paper money,
and as the former, viz ,
THE SOLID,
THE SOLID,
THE SOLID,
is invariably our way of paying,
we are enabled
TO GET THE GOODS
so as to sell to you at
LESS PRICES
;han the drapers residing within five miles
of the factories can sell.
A TRIUMPH CERTAIN
for
SOUTHERN WORLD.
15,000 AGAINST 5.
THE PROOF
(however, after all said and done)
OF THE PUDDING
is
IN THE EATING,
SO COME
TO-DAY,
and
EXAMINE,
PROVE,
and
TRY
for
Y r OUR RESPECTIVE SELY r E
HORDERN BROTHERS.
170 a, 173 a, 174,
174 a, 176, 176 a,
178, 209, and 211,
PITT-STREET,
SYDNEY.
LETTERS
ATTENDED TO
AT ONCE,
whether from the
CITY,
the
SUBURBS,
the
COUNTRY,
or the
ADJOINING COLONIES.
An [?]
They wore seated Iti the bar parlour of a Castle-
reagh-street hotel, and had just swallowed a round
of beer, when the man from Queensland, who
wore a black band around his left arm, began to
talk. “ You seo this emblem of mourning, gentle-
men ?” he said. “ Well, to tell the truth, I don’t
know whether I ought to wear it or not. You seo,
it’s this way. . About three years ago my wife pre-
sented me with a little boy; and I tell you he was
little. He weighed only forty ounces, but there
was more yell inside of him than in any new-chum
kid I ever saw. For the iirst few weeks nobody
around the premises got a wink of sleep. He cried
in the daytime, and he cried at night—week days
and Sundays. Finally, my wife saw a paragraph
in a Sydney paper to the effect that a cele-
brated French physician had discovered a method
whereby crying babes could be made ae
■quiet and peaceiul as sucking doves. The plan
was to fill the cradle with bi'an and put the
youngster away in this, covering up all but its
face with the soft llakey substance. The bran
was said to soothe the nerves in soaae way, and
the child, by absorption, would become strong and
healthy. Well, my wife tried it on our little ’un
and it worked like a charm. The little thing would
go to sleep and never wake up for a fortnight if
nobody disturbed it. One day in summer, when
she had a big day’s washing on hands, the Missus
carried the cradle round to the shady side of the
house, and left the kid there to sleep, as she
thought, in peace. Along iD the afternoon she
went around to take a look at the little
snoozer, when what should she see but a
cow—a strange cow—licking up the last of the
bran in the cradle. The poor woman gave a
shriek, and the cow bolted. When I got home from
the township, and heard what had happened, I
know at once that it was all up with the kid.’,
“Had the cow eaten it?” broke in a chorus of
voices ? “Of course she had,” continued the
Queenslander; “she took the little thing for a
sweet potato, no doubt, and swallowed it before
she discovered the mistake.’ Cows up our way
consider sweet potatoes and bran as the next best
thing to a wedding breakfast. On the following
morning I got the sergeant of police and a
black tracker, and we started out to fin'' that
cow. For two days we hunted high and low,
and then had to give up in despair. About three
weeks ago, my wife was looking out of the front
window, when all at once she threw up her hands
and screamed to me, ‘Josh! Josh! for God’s sake!
there’s the cow that eat our little Ha’penny!’ (We
called him Ha’penny because ho was so small,
gentlemen). So I got on a horse and yarded
the cow. Then I notified the Police Magis-
trate, and he thought we’d better hold an
inquest on the cow ‘just as a matter of form.’
Early the next day he was at my place with the
doctor and a jury all ready picked. We tied the
cow up to a post and the proceedings began. My
wife was the only witness, and while she was being
examined—excuse these tears, gentlemen, but the
memory of that scene will always haunt me—while
she was being examined, as I said a little
brandy and water, please ah, thank you !
was being examined, I’m blamed if that little
rascal of a kid didn’t climb down that cow’s
tail, and slope off into the bush before any
of us could get near him,” and the man from
Queensland wiped his nose on the sleeve of his
coat and started for the door. “ Hold on a minute,
mate,” called out a little man who sat in a corner,
“ have another drink afore you go. Ben’t you
from America?” “No,” said the Queenslander,
as he drained another glass of brandy, “I’m a
native of Australia.” “ Wal, Jewhilikins. I’d a
bet a thousand to one that you came from the
States. At anyrate you’re the all-flredest liar
I’ve met since I shuck hands with Mark Twain up
in Virginia City twenty-two years ago. Give us
your paw.”
The Whitehall Review says “ that as the
number of respectable riders increase it will be-
come necessary to allow them the use of the public
parks, as there is no reason at all why those who
use horses and carriages should usurp the parks,
to the exclusion of ladies and gentlemen who
Jirefer tricycles.” Should the number of tricyc-
ists justify the movement, a separate track might
certainly be laid down, but we fancy it would take
a lady with some nerve to ride a “ trike ” through
a crowd of high-spirited horses.
The controversies which have been taking
place lately anent “mind-reading,” or “thought-
reading,” as it is indiscriminately called, bring to
recollection an incident which happened to us
years ago, in England. It was at a private party
that a well-known artist was, not without some
trouble, prevailed upon to give the company a
specimen of his strange faculty, or “gift,” as he
himself termed it. Tableaux-vivants had formed
a part of the evening’s amusements, so that a stage
was ready to hand; upon this was placed a small
round table, with a few sheets of blank note-paper
and a pencil, and all was ready. The mind-reader,
mesmerist, or whatever you may please to term
him, now ascended the stage and called upon any
person in the company to come up, and to, if he
chose, bring a book or letter with him. The invi-
tation was promptly accepted by a gentleman, who,
with a copy of Shakespeare in his hand, placed him-
self in front of, and about six feet from Mr. T.,
who, taking up one of the sheets of note-paper
and placing it on the back of a small writing-case,
said: "Now kindly select your passage, or think of
one, whichever you please. * The tester seemed at
first about to start with some stock quotation out
of the thousands available, but suddenly he
changed his mind, and opening the book, in a
minute or so declared he was ready, and closed
the volume again. Mr. T. looked earnestly at him
for perhaps a couple of seconds, not longer, and
no particular power or control seemed to be ex-
erted-then wrote rapidly with his pencil, and read
aloud two lines from the third scene of act iv. of
‘ The Comedy of Errors”:—“ Sure these are but
imaginary wiles, and Lapland sorcerers inhabit
here.” The other amazedly confessed this to be
correct, and more tests, from dozens of different
authors, followed in quick succession with other
individuals, both male and female, with books or
without. It was all one to the mind-reader, who,
however, invariably wrote the answers—m some
cases, notably the feminine ones, with but a quick
glance and a scarcely perceptible pause. We confess
we were sceptical. It is our nature, and we were
comparatively speasing, a stranger to many of
the guests, with all of whom the mind-reader was
on terms of the utmost intimacy; and impossible
and inexplicable as it seemed, we suspected collu-
sion of some kind, and we said unto ourselves
“We’ll bowl that fellow out if possible, so here
goes to try him on another tack.” Thinking
thusly, wo stepped on to the stage, and feeling in
our pocket pulled out a letter and unfolded it
Horror! It was a pressing, we may say now at
this distance of time, an extremely pressing, note
from our tailor, which we had only that morning
received, and inadvertently thrust along with the
letter of invitation to where we then stood, and
which letter it had been our intention to pro-
duce. We turned hot and cold, but manfully
stuck to our guns, incredulity proving a strong
ally. The “mind-reader” paused for fully a
minute, and seemed about to speak. “Ha
ha, old man!” we thought triumphantly to our-
selves; “you’re had this time. Can’t come it
over the stranger—orphan, eh ? * No sooner had
the above flashed through our mind, than to work
went that infernal pencil, and turning round, the
“reader” seemed to be about, as usual, to com-
municate the result to the expectant company
But he was merciful as he was gifted, and crossing
over to us, pointed with a smile to his sheet of
paper, whereon Mr. Snip presented his compli-
ments, and something more. Down to the terrible
total it was all there, correct to aT. The plea of
“private letter ” was successfully put in, and our
maiden aunt, who sat serenely fanning herself,
and smiling at what she termed “ childish conjur-
ing,” was spared the shock of a premature dis-
closure, which night possibly have put an end to
all her precious nephew’s hopes or settling Mr
Snip’s little affair through that quarter. I
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was in the S.E. trades, and we were
being rapidly overhauled by a stranger whom the
best judges pronounced, from the cut of her sails,
to be french. And they were right, for at length,
as she foamed past with every possible stitch set
from deck to truck, we could plainly read on her
stern—La v llle de Paris. Our passengers, amongst
was a colonial Governor and suite, were
half-wild with excitement; but the “old man”
had just finished “ rattling-down,” and didn’t seem
to care much about racing. However, when the
tn-colour fluttered aloft, and Jean Crapaud stood
on his taffrail, stretching out to us the end of a
Rood-sized hawser, our old skipper threw prudence
and canvas to the winds at the same time, and in a
few minutes, what with royal and topgallant, top-
mast and lower studding sails and staysails, al-
though the breeze was almost too strong for
kites, we were soon neck and neck, or, rather,
head and head, with The Ville. And now com-
menced perhaps the closest and most desperate
struggle for the lead that ever took place between
two sTnps of their size. The breeze freshened
rapidly, and, apparently endowed with life and
feeling, the huge fabrics seemed fairly at times
to hurl at each other white-crested mes-
sageB of defiance from their respective bows.
Tacks and sheets tautened like bars of iron, whilst
the spray flew in one continuous blinding shower
up on to the bellies of the great courses, and
the lighter spars and stun’sl booms bent like whip-
sticks. So near was the Frenchman at one time
that once or twice our lower stun’sl booms nearly
touched, and then a tremendous uproar was heard
on board of her; still neither captain would start a
ropeyarn, or keep away the thousandth part of a
point, for the racing-spirit was on board both
vessels, and the curious spectacle was to be seen
on our side of a veteran, grey-haired, and usually
dignified and reserved diplomatist, hatless,
drenched witn spray, and holding on by a rope
dancing about and cheering most lustily as-our
vessel s clipper lines beginning to tell - she gradu-
?u 1 i y fhI ew " a fa it? 8 ' t r I J al ? ea( b and then - but not
till then, up went the British Ensign, and a cheer
tnat seemed to take the very wind out of our
adversary s sails, rang through the ship. It was a
xair beat; and, just as we cleared her, away went
her three top g’al’n’t masts, and the race was over.
Seasonable Sonnets.
THE POET’S DESPAIR.
Chilly strikes the evening air—
Nature's garb’s less bright and fair—
Summer’s gone, I do declare;
Winter comes apace;
Ruddy, autumn-tinted leaves
Shiver on imported trees—
How I miss tho sultry breeze
Scorching up my face.
How I miss tho “ skeeters ” dear,
Buzzing gaily in my ear—
Winter must, indeed, be near;
Would it were remote!
As I note the shortening days,
One thought haunts my mind always—
“ How can I the * needful ’ raise
For an overcoat ? ”
Wild the wintry whirlwind blows—
Whistling through my summer clothes—
Fainting blue my cheeks and nose
With its ruthless hand;
(You, perchance, will say—“that’s wrong!
Hands to whirlwinds don’t belong ”
Lin-s there are in poet’s song
You can’t understand.)
Chilly strikes the evening air
On my brow, bemarked with care,
Bummer leaves me, I declare,
In an awiul fix;
Soon we’ll have a lot of rain,
Yet I sit and scheme in vain,
How that ulster to obtain—
“ Thirty two and six 1 ”
A Memory.
It was at the Liedertafel, in the Melbourne
Athenaeum,
That her face of radiant beauty, and the swan-
like neck below it
Struck my fancy, broke my heart up, set me
whistling a Te Deum,
Set me wond'ring if she wondered t*o, and asking
did sue know it—
Did she know she had a heart smashed, broken
into tiny pieces,
Like a jug a tipsy Bridget would, “be accident,
m’m,” smither ?
Did she wonder how my fancy gloated o’er the
pleats and creases
Of the little muslin frilly thing, that ticklingly
played with her ?
Ah, I never got so intimately confidential as to
Learn with any proper measure of exactness if
she fluttered,
As I fluttered, as I flurried, as a gentle nature
has to,
That sees Love spread out like toast-cake, with
the two sides of it buttered.
Ah, for when the songs were ended, she got up
and hitched her wrapper,
And a fellow hove alongside, mostly legs, white
cuffs, and tommy;
And he grabbed her by the elbow, while my teeth
were moist to snap her,
And he lugged her out and gave her to a cabby,
19/’ nommi.
But I mind that Liedertafel, in the Melbourne
Athenneum,
And can speak of it with pleasure, and of all the
pains I suffered;
For, although I whistled vainly, Zingarelli's sweet
Te Deum,
I am better, I believe, than if I won her, for the
fellow
Who did win her, wears his cuffs and tommy
now a brownish yellow,
And he goes about—ha, ha, he does!—most capi-
tally duffered.
Ca[?] Shade.
Beneath a cassia’s shade,
With thee, oh, dark-eyed maid 1
Would I resound
The deep-toned lyre, and sing—
As sea-waves murmuring
Yon ledge around;
The witching joys of love,
And charms which thee above
All maidens raise.
Thy luring ways,
And glowing orbs, I’d sing—
Thy besom white as wing
Of albatross;
Thy carmine lips, replete
With maddening nectar, sweet,
To which as dross
Love deems the loftiest prize
That heroes adorize I
HECTOR A. STUART.


Politics in the pulpits. On a recent Sun-
day a suburban divine preached an eloquent
sermon on the word: “ What went ye out to see?
A Reid shaken by the wind ?” And he made a
good though indirect hit by drawing attention
to the fact that wind-bags and mrney-bags are
frequently found together. Not a hundred miles
from the site of the East Macquarie hustings
another sky-pilot gleefully took forhis text: "Then
two shall be in the field; and one shall be taken
and one left.” This looks as if Parliament doesn’t
hold a monopoly of exactly all the malignant spite
knocking round otir city.
haa Rates of Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 345.; half-year, 13s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—ln advance.
The Advertising Rates are 6s. per Inch;
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods- as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions,
16 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 26 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony ma be sent, if more convenient.
JJ E R SPEECH RESTORED.
Clair View, Inverell, December 10, 1883.
Messrs. Publishers Bulletin.
Dear sirs.—l beg to acquaint you of a marvellous
cure following on the use of St. Jacobs Oil, which
has taken place in my own family. lam a poor
man with eight children, and for years have been
a great sufferer from sciatica. My wife was ad-
vised to try St. Jacobs Oil. She procured a bottle,
and I have been using it of late with good results;
but it is of my eldest daughter, 13 years of age,
that I wish to tell you. She retired one night
about four months ago in her usual good health,
but the next morning she could not speak. My
wife took her to Inverell to see Dr. , who said
her throat was ulcerated low down, aud he pre-
scribed cod liver oil and other medicines; and also
advised her to inhale the fumes of Stockholm tar,
saying she might never recover her speech again.
At the expiration of a fortnight, the medicine
having been finished, another visit to the Dr. was
made, who again prescribed for her, but told my
wife he had no hope of her ever being able to
speak again. We began to despair, but the day I
used the oil—about three months after she was
taken ill—l persuaded my wife, after we had
retired, to use the oil. She got up and
gave the girl two drops in water, and rubbed
it on her throat. Next morning we were
delighted to find that she could talk as well as ever,
and has been able to do so ever since.
1 remain, Gentlemen, gratefully yours,
JAS. R. HATCHER.
Os. Od.
Is. Gd. Ss. Od. per pair
The Oriental Gold Company
(Only Australian place of business, 47-1 Ooorure-
strect, opposite the Central Entrance to the
has solved the problem of the season, and pro-
vides EXQUISITE GIFTS from ss. to £5:
Articles of dainty design and enduring beauty,
which will give delight at the first glance, and
_ TIT _, XTrT , will last a lifetime.
GOLD is the very latest discovery
« sachem ist s laboratory. There have been
ft? w oi?T ful of sterling gold before
a 1 w V °, been thrown into the shade by
«o f m P de /“ science. Articles of
Oriental Gold cannot, after years of wear, be dis-
lr o“ the costliest wares of tke gold-
smith. So noble is this metal, that no tawdrv
lnforior designs are manufac-
tured of it. The discoverers have not condescended
Trm „ to apply it to base uses.
THE VERY LATEST DESIGNS IN JEWELLERY
AND BIJOUTERIE
are regularly worked up in Oriental Gold simul
taneousiy with their production in sterling metal
and, placed side by side, the one article cannot be
_____ told from the other.
THE PRICE OF ARTICLES OF ORIENTAL
GOLD IS BUT A TRIFLE
when compared with identical models of sterling
a , metal,
m a K o? us are moun ted with the NEW
““ “< «<*£*“*
The Artist-designers of Paris have, with eager
appreciation, adopted Oriental Gold as worthy to
S/KiM conceptions. 88 The M
graceful Barman models are impressed unon u
SOTeftiJb/STOym,-,!"" 011 18 r, -' |,lf ’"‘ Shc ' 1
CALL AND PfeftgSAgTLT OPPOSITE
a^o^“VlLa^^VriSe‘w2l^e*
nnn ho« P ester °d f ? bu y. hecause we know that no
one has ever yet viewed our goods without being
and delighted with their variety, el£
gance, and surpassing and novel beauty—anil such
timef* •oau^uSeJ^dKS
Here are a few lines for customers’ guidance
At ss, each.
A Neat Scarf Pin.
i; uvyai i x ill.
A Pretty Dress Ring.
4 fl “t of Shirt Studs.
A Set l. uuu, ocu
A Natty Brooch.
A Eair of Jewelled Ear-rings.
An Elegant Pencil Case.
At 7s. Gd. each.
Handsome Brilliant Ring.
Beautiful Charm.
Elegant Locket.
Necklet, with Clasp.
Fashionable Hair-pin.
Pair of Cuff-pins.
At lOs. each.
Grand Albert.
Ladies’ Albert.
Brooch and Ear-rings.
Ladies’ Gem Ring.
Lovely Bracelet.
Collarette.
At 15s. each.
Choice Locket and Necklet.
Exquisite Jew<" ' “
—— Jewelled Bracelet.
Brooch, Set with Brilliants.
Magnificent Jewelled Scarf-pin.
Solitaire Brilliant Collar Stud.
Superb French Ear-pendants.
Charming Parisian Bangles.
At £1 each.
Ladies’ Suite—Necklet, Locket, and Brooch.
Ladies Tasselled Slide Albert.
Gentlemen’s Aesthetic Fob Chain, with Steel
At £2 2s. each.
Gentleman s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face,
E it k Cr E Bt Pi Glass > in Oriental Gold Cases!
Albert Chain Work8 ’ with orlen tal Gold
(Stem-winder—ss. extra.)
Lady s very handsome Hunting or Open Face
with Crystal Glass) Watch, in Oriental
Gold Cases, full jewelled, and splendid
j imeKeeper.
(With a most handsome Oriental Gold Albert,
with slides and assels, 15s. additional.)
At £3 each.
Gent’s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face, with
Crystal Glass, in sterling Silver Cases—a
reliable, sound watch, perfect Timekeeper,
specially rated, with Oriental Gold Albert
(Stem-winder—ss. extra.)
Lady s Sterling Silver Watch, in Hunting (or
Open Face, with Crystal Glass) Oases,
beautifully Engraved, highly finished, full
jewelled works, perfect Timekeeper, with
sterling Silver or Oriental Gold Albert
Cham, with slides and tassels.
At £4 each.
Sterling Silver Chronograph, double dials, for
marking 5-lOths of a second, patent fly-
back hand, patent keyless works, 18 carat
Gold winder, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain.
English Patent Lever, Hunting (or open face,
with Crystal Glass), capped and full
jewelled, examined and rated, in sterling
Silver Cases.
(With Oriental gold chain—los. extra.)
Geit’s Silver Hunting Waltham Patent
Lever Watch, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, and beautiful Compass, or other
charm.
At £5.
A Combination Parcel, comprising any selec-
tion from the above which customers may
make, to value.
We want to do business with people through!
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST, ON APPROVAL.
Specially Observe.— lf the articles do i
answer expectation on receipt, repack them
once and send them back. If this is done wit
two days, or, where mails are few, by the flrst p
after receipt, and the articles are not injured,
will return the money, deducting only the tr
expended on postage. You can keep any <
article and return the rest, and we will return
money for the articles not kept. Every wa
sold by us will be rated and accompanied b
written warrantry for two years. Memittancei
be made payable to the Oriental Gold Compan;
474 George-st., Sydney, op. Market 9
SUNDRY SHOWS.
THEATRE Royal—“ The Silver King” -P 8
Opera House—“ Camille ’ 1D -
The “ Silver King ” continues to draw
crowded houses at the Theatre Royal, and bids
fair to be the leading theatrical attraction for
some time to come. The plot and narrative of the
niece have been given in a past issue of The 11ul-
Iftin so that of them we need not say anj thing
present; But of the actors and the acting we
lVive a word or two to say that may not prove
to the members of the troupe,
nor unedifying to the public in general. In the
erst place, the cast is a very strong one, comprising
,i. as Messrs. G. S. Titheradg«, Philip
Day George Ireland, W. H. Peake, Harry Leston,
Mfsres Annie Mayor, Pattie Brown, and Florence
Kingsley. Mr. Herbert Flemming is also one of
the players, but he gets killed in the first act, and
It is only fair to let him rest in peace. He died
naturally and looked so dead, that an under-
laker who sat beside us last night sent his
lard in by one of the “ supes,” requesting the job
of “ planting ” him on the morrow.
* * *
Mr. Titheradge, as Wilfred Denver, is the
.A*, Of the nlav In the first act he gets drunk,
and imagines P th y at he has killed Geoffrey Ware
?Mr Flemming). We like him immensely in this
Let because there is a prospect of his being hung
in the not distant future.. But he escapes and goes
over to America, where, in Nevada, he discovers a
lich vein of Silver, and blossoms out as a bonanza
king in no time. At the end of tour years he
comes back with more money than he can count,
and with his hair grown grey through remorse
for his supposed crime, lo one who has
Iver scent much time in the mining dis-
tricts of Nevada, it would seem that a
man would get acclimatized to blood-letting
™v the time he had knocked about amongst that
free-booting population for the matter of three or
four years! And we also want to coach Mr.
Titheradge a little in the matter of his make-up as
The Silver King. He wears the military hat and
top boots usually worn in the mountains ot
Western America. So lar, so good. .But we
noticed that he had hi a trousers stuffed inside of
his boots. This won’t do exactly. He should have
the right trouser leg stuffed in his boot and the
other out. We have seen a good many of these
Uonanza kimrs on their native heath, and
would remind Mr. Titheradge that in order
to be true to nature he should have the handle of
a bowie-knife sticking oujt at the top ot his right
boot. The configuration of a couple of navy re-
volvers under his coat at the back, and a five-
ounce chew of tobacco bulging out his left cheek,
would complete the true make-up of a Nevada
millionaire. These, however, are only minor de-
te s. which Mr. Titheradge will no doubt see to
after reading The Bulletin. As to his acting,
we must say that from first to last it is earnest,
powerful, and impressive, and well deserves the
enthusiastic applause he obtains in every act
througout the piece.
• • *
Mr Philip Day’s Daniel Jaikes is the best
representation of the faithful old servant that we
have ever seen in the colonies. Indeed, so cleverly
does he sustain the part that he fairly divides the
honours with the hero in the title role. When
Taikes laughs the audience laughs, and when the
old man cries hysterically, eithei through joy or
sorrow, handkerchiefs are seen to flutter all over
the house. From the very st&rt, Jaikes has the
sympathies of the spectators by the wool, and he
w rings from them either tears or smiles as the fancy
takes him.
• • •
Elijah Coombe (Mr. A. Redwood), the
marine storekeeper and “fence” for the thieves
Spider and Cripps, was also cleverly acted. It is a
thankless, unpopular part, to begin with; but it
seemed to come so natural to Mr. Redwood, that
not a single cabbage was thrown at him. He sur-
rounded it with an atmosphere ot humour that
made his meanness appear tolerable and even
funny In make-up and manner of speech he
would pass for a Presbyterian elder, or the owner
of a cock-pit. He might, also, pass for the fag end
of a forgotten commandment. The Jait wo heard
of him he was in gaol, with a lair prospect of
being sent up for 99 years, and we hope he got the
sentence witn hard labour.
■ • •
Mr. Leake’s Cripps drew forth many a
robust laugh. In fact the fun seemed to Leake
out of him withoutthe slightest effort. Like every
clever thief, Cripps has a “taking” way about
him, and the spectators involuntarily clutched
their purses when he drew near the footlights.
Should he go out on the street in that costume, he
would be run in on suspicion and get fourteen
years and three floggings on general principles.
E ther that or be elected to the legislature by the
unanimous vote of a large constituency, and
finally he chosen for the Ministry.
* * *
Miss Annie Mayor, as the wife of Wilfred
Denvers, improved the opportunities afforded by
her part for some fine acting of the emotional
style. She peemed forsooth a regular fountain of
emotions that continually bubbled up and ran
over without effort. When she was lift in
poverty and rags, she looked for all the
world like a forlorn hope on a rainy day. Her
husband was supposed to have been burned to
death in the wreck of an oil train ; but when
Jaikes’ uncle Dauiel died and left a fortune at her
disposal, sho immediately blossomed out as a
dashing young widow with a Grecian bend two
sizes two big for the Chinese giantess. She looked
so fascinating, in fact, that, if Denver hadn’t re-
turned when he did, the story of Enoch Arden
might have been an uncomfortable reality to him.
Pattia Brown’s Susy was pert and realistic, but we
like Pattie best in pantomime. In pantomime you
see more of her; and Pattie is one of those natty
little creatures that the more one sees of her the
better he likes her.
** * *
Saturday night 9aw the Majeronis in a new
piece—“ A Living Statue.” It was the Signora’s
benefit night, and her admirers rolled up in force,
some of the more ardent ones humping gigantic
bouquets decked with varigated streamers like a
prize stallion. The play itself is an odd one. There
are nobles, routs and danseuses. The two former
are too often synonymous aud, when young, give
their aristocratic relatives a good deal of uneasi-
ness through their undisguised leaning towards
the corps dc ballet. Even princes—future “De-
fenders of the Faith” aud rulers Dei tjratia -have
been known to be affected with this amiable weak-
ness, and to spend in the green-room many plea-
sant hours snatched from the cares ef state. “ A
Living Statue” is a story of a young noble who,
having discovered, like the old Hebrew monarch,
that “all is vanity,” eschews his former life,
avoids his ci-devant comrades and, as a Struggling
mechanic, settles down to a bit of real courting.
Julia is the girl’s name, but, as she was dead and
buried before the play begins, our knowledge of
her is slender—confined to the occasional hints
dropped hy her lover, Paul, Count of St. Rosa
(Majeroni), when on his way to place immortelles
between her and the sky. She was, probably, a
shop girl—perhaps sold adulterated spirits at a
threepenny bar, or persuaded the customers of a
sixpenny restaurant that the sausages before them
could be relied upon. Anyway, she died young,
and, when it is remembered how few of those
loved hy the Gods ever see 18, the amount of
wickedness bv which we are surrounded painfully
suggests itself. She faded and died, but whether
from intensity of affection or from an incautious
blow-out of tripe aud onions we are unable to say.
But, summer or winter, whether the sun’s rays
were playing hide-and-seek among the statues ou
the Milan Cathedral (the 6tory is au Italian one), or
the cjld wind from the Apennines soughing
through the inhospitable streets, Paul was there
with his wreath to hang on the little woeden
cross above her.
It is on his return from one of these fune-
real trips that a lawyer named David, (Glover),
Introduces him to a crowd of ladies of the ballet.
No : you are wrong. He didn’t go there to forget
his “ Juliar ”in their smiles. Field Marshall Wales
never attended a romp of coryphees with more
unimpasaioned and honourable feelings than those
of Paul when he got among Solange Novaro,
Maggie Ford, Docy Mainwairing, and one or two
others. Under all their raillery he never turned a
hair. The warmest advances failed to thaw the
ice of his nature. And yet, judging by the attrac-
tions thrown at his head on Saturday night, he
might be forgiven for a mild entanglement. He
came because he hoard that the leading danseuse,
Koemi Keller (Signora Majeroni) was the living
image, or, as the jolly wife of one of our highest
officials would say, the “ dead spit” of the defunct
Julia. He was struck with the resemblance, and
hired Koemi by the hour—two hours a day—to let
him gaze at her. He takes her from the ballet,
puts her in a line house, places to h6r credit as
much money as would pay the French indemnity,
and visite her twice a day, an hour at a time, to
take out his money’s worth in contemplation. A
perceptible shudder ran round the gallery at the
evident impropriety of all this. The result might
have been forseen. Such a diurnal study could
only end in love or hate. It took the former
direction, s * far a« Koemi was concerned. Her
reputation was as unstained as snow. This is a
proverbial characteristic of vremieres danseuses
True, she had drunk and flirted with various
Milanese “mashers,” attended masked balls, and
was the life of pic-nics, but her affections had
never been touched till now. And so, by degrees,
she weaned Paul from his lugubrious contempla-
tions, and—married him.
There was a pretty little afterpiece—called
suggestively, "a Kiss.” The bills call it an “ ele-
gant comediette,” but it was a farce, pure and
simple. But three persons took part in it—the
Majeroni’s and Mr. Musgrave. It was pleasant for
many reasons-chiefly, perhaps, through showing
that the representation of grande passion didn’t
destroy their capacity for fun.
• # •
This week sees the last of the Majeronis,
and then the Polks are to give us a repetion of
those mirth-provoking things which packed the
Opera House with demonstrative crowds a few
months ago.
** * *
The Sydney Liedertafel has given two
concerts during the past week, the second being
a repetition. The piece de resistance in the
programme was Felicien David’s “The Desert,”
and the Society’s new conductor, Herr Max
Vogricb, has conferred a positive benefit on
Sydney music lovers, by producing that exquisite
work. The performance was, indeed, unequal, but
it is a matter for surprise that Avith the executive
available, Herr Yogrich accomplished so much.
The inequality was mainly between the choral and
the orchestral performers. The former did their
w«rk in a fashion which could scarcely have been
excelled. The latter, however, were but passable.
That they had been drilled to the utmost of their
capacity was obvious, and equally obvious was it
that their handing had been directed b/ a
mtestro. But the music is disti»ctly difficult,
as the passages and tempo intricate Moreover,
the orchestration abounds in solo effects for many
of the instruments in turn, and to play a solo
effectively it is obviously requisite that the execu-
tant must be a soloist. A sound orchestral player
is rare enough amoung amateurs. An amateur
soloist is a positive anomaly. Some reserve must,
therefore, be understood when we say that, as a
whole, the performance was satisfactory. To
put the case in a nutshell, we think that
taeie was not one among the audience
who was not grateful for the performance,
even although conscious of the more exqui-
site effects which would have been forthcom-
ing from an orchestra of professionals. Who
would not rather hear a splendid work fairly well
rendered than never hear it at all ? The pait-songs
had clearly been subordinated in practice to “ T L e
Desert” and “Nazareth,” Gounod's celebrated
bass solo, admirably recast for chorus and orchestra
by the conductor of the Liedertafel. We have
heard the part-singing better done by the Lieder-
tafei, but we have heard nothing better done by
them, in fact, nothing so well done, as the choral
movements of “ The Desert.”
* * *
If you arc particularly fond of a book no
dramatised version of the story will ever quite
satisfy you. We went to the Academy to see
“Oliver Twist,” but the Fagin, Dodger, Sykes and
Nancy, were not the figures that haunted our
imagination years ago. Bill, if you remember,
murders Nancy in the book. So he does in the
play, but, in deference, no doubt, to the feelings
of the audience, he considerately hauls her off the
tage before he starts. But, when he starts, you
know that he means it. You can tell that by the
noise he makes. And when she crawls on again to
die, you can sec that he has performed the work
according to his lights.
• • •
There are many things proverbially diffi-
cult to be met with—a new hat for the last man at
a popular banquet, an offer of further accommo-
dation from a Hebrew financier, and a lot of other
things which wiil suggest theinselves. But they
are easy compared with the difficulty, or rather
Impossibility, of meeting a “ magsman ” who has
just had a clean shave. All stage buiglars have
stubbly beards at least a week old. Bill Sykes had
one when we saw him on Monday night. Bill did
not come entirely up to our ideal, but, then, very
few people do. And the “Artful,” he fell far
short of it. The artist (Mr Watson) gave a comic
reading to the part. But the “ Dodger,” if we re-
member, was saturnine and introspective. His
humour was too deep for unbecoming levity. He
enjoyed the “greenness” of Oliver and the cun-
ning of Fagin, but it was with a quiet, undemon-
strative enjoyment which found vent in suggestive
contortions and epigrammatic sentences rather
man in the noisy obstr, perousness of Charlie
i Bates.
* >!■ *
Mr. Sam Howard’s Bumble pleased us best.
And he seemed so wrapped up in himself, too—so
sensible of his position, so determined to uphold
it. No assertions of his could stagger the belief
that the blotches on his face were due to raw
spirits. The contending emotions struggling with-
in him, when p or Oliver innocently asked for
more skilly, were laughable in their extravagance.
How Mr. James procures the “togs” in which he
appeared as Noah Claypole we have no desire to
inquire. And, for the matter of that, where Oliver
(Miss Murray) came across the jacket that half
concealed his well-developed torso, will always re-
main a dark mystery. Last time we saw Miss
Diun-ay she was sitting down with a good deal of
emphasis on the stage trap-door, after stepping on
a piece of lemon-rind. On that occasion some
among the auaieuce felt for her, and some for the
trap-door. The performance of the present com-
pany at the Academy, are to end during the week
with a benefit to Sam Howard. Then the plaee is
to be devoted to a season of Christy minstrelsy by
the Hiscock’s combination, after their successful
southern tour.
** * *
The “Sunny South” is drawing crowded
houses in Adelaide, in spite of the hard times. It
is now in its fourth week, and “ Georg© ” has not
yet made ud his mind to change it. With bold
originality, the Adelaide papers speak of its suc-
cess as “ unprecedented.”
Edward Hanlan.
Whose portrait we give in this issue, first saw the
light in Toronto, Canada, on July 12,1865, and at
ah early age took a liking to the water as kindly as
a donkey to his feed or a newspaper man to his
midday frugal. At five years of age, it is stated,
he could paddle a boat in first-class style, and we
will not weary our readers with an account of his
two-inch plank outrigger, which story has been
told often enough to become a rival of the
George Washington little hatchet yarn. At the
early age of seventeen Haitian first showed the
gift that has since won for him the title of cham-
pion sculler of the world, by winning a skilf race
at a public regatta on Lake Toronto, when he de-
feated eight grown-up men, and since then ho has
beaten every man in the world with any preten-
tions to championship form. It is many months
since the champion turned his attention to Aus-
tralia, and after an anxious time of expectation to
our aquatic men, he duly arrived on March 15th,
with the avowed intention of taking away a hand-
ful of Australian dollars, and, so far, he has every
show of carrying out his programme, as he com-
menced well with the Manly show on Saturday
last: and the Nepean race will prove a big thing
for him, although we should not bo surprised if
the syndicate burnt their fingers over the fixture.
The report goes that Hanlan is to receive £l5OO,
win or lose, and his oppo'ent all the stakes—if he
wins, which appears at present to be a very forlorn
hope.- Hanlan is a fine, manly-looking fellow,
standing sft. 894 in. in height, measures 38Jin. round
the chest, 12in. forearm, 14in. biceps, 16in. calf,
and rows about list, in racing trim—measure-
ments that show the cry of his being a small
man is all bosh, and, as for weight, Tom
Sayers, who fought his best battles at 10st. 101 b.,
was more than a match for any man they could
bring before him. The champion has won up-
wards of £20.000 since 1872 by his rowing powers.
His hotel at Toronto, for which he gave £OOOO, he
has leased for five years, and he states it is his in-
tention to keep on rowing for a couple of years
longer, and if at the termination of that period he
has made the pile he anticipates, he will give it
best—that is if it doesn’t turn the tables and give
him best in the meantime.
John Bull, being incredulous about Bar-
num’s white elephant, Barnum’s agent wrote to
the London Daily News, saying:—“l can only
consider it a great pity that, in face of the pro-
nounced opinion of such an exceptional authority
as the Siamese ambassador to Great Britian, who
saw the animal last week, and pronounced it a
genuine sacred white elephant, correspondents
who, presumably, have never been in Siam or
Burmah should, by going into other matters, seek
to discredit Mr. Barnum’s management.” This
probably would have fetched the incredulous
ones, hadn’t it been for the subjoined thunderbolt
from the Siamese embassy:—“J am desired by the
Siamese Minister to state—l. That he has never
seen the elephant in question. 2. That he has
never pronounced it' a genuine sacred white ele-
phant. 3. That he has never expressed any
opinion whatever on the elephant. 4. That the ex-
istence of sacred elephants, white or black, is al-
together unknown in Siam.”
They hadn’t studied the whole of the
Licensing Act. But they knew there vas a clause
in it which prevented publicans trading within
certain hours on Sunday. And they knew there
was a reward for them if they could manage to
convict one of the offence. They therefore went
into old Madden’s at Kew on Sunday a n d asked
him to supply them with a drink. “ Are ye travel-
lers?” asked old Madden. “yes,” responded the
amateurs. They got the drink and brought Mad-
den before the Bench on Wednesday. “ Did ye say
ye were travellers?” asked the Bench. “ Yes,”
replied the amateurs. “Well,” said the Bench,
“lt’s no breach to give a drink to travellers.”
“ But we weren’t travellers,” said the amateurs*
“ The case is dismissed,” said the Bench. And
then old Madden said—“l give information against
both of them for representing themselves as
travellers when they weren’t. There’s a clause
which says ‘Any person falsely representing him-
self as a traveller ’ and so forth.” “Faith, there
is,” said the Bench, “and ye’re in for it my lads.
Ye’re fined £5 a piece.” The amateurs say that
the next time they meddle with an Act they’ll
study it all through.
Mr. J. Davidson, a clerk in the Melbourne
Titles Office, was give - * in charge for indecent
behaviour to ladies in Bourke-street. \ gentle-
man who witnessed the alleged misconduct, and
afterwards swore to it in eourt, banded him over
to the police. The Age of March 14th says- “ The
evidence given in court showed that he had be-
haved in a very indecent manner to several ladies
who were passing.” Davidson was fined, and a re-
port of the matter sent forwarded to his superior
officers. A Board was appointed to draw up a re-
port on that report. Messrs J. Orkney, L. Ellis,
and Panton P.M., constituted this Board. Their
fiuding is reported in the Age of March 15th, and
is stated to be “ that Mr. Davidson is completely
exonerated from the charge laid against hkn.”
The Board also animadverts on the mistaken
officiousness of the gentleman who formulated the
oharge. That was a near squeak for Mr. Davidson.
He is a young man and “ mistaken officiousness ”
was very near nailing his coffin. Boards, boards,
every day, are trying to the public patience, but
if only once in a while they do such work as this
Board has done they will establish a strong claim
to be regarded as part of the constitution. Had
the affair occurred in Sydney, Davidson would
have been accomodated with two floggings before
his innocence was discovered.


PEPPER AND SALT.
The following yarn has been told before
but in such a mutilated form that in justice to the
parties concerned, we now tell the tale as it really
hardened. Riley’s wife found a mouse in the
flour barrel, but being a strong-minded woman,
with a partiality for wearing darned hose in private,
she refrained from rolling round on the floor and
pawing holes in the atmosphere with her heels, as
is the custom with more hysterical ladies. First of
all she told Riley to get the gun, and then she went
herself and untied the dog. Then the three assail-
ants entered the kitchen to attack the unsuspecting
rodent. Riley stood at the door; the dog in the
centre of the room, and Riley’s wife climbed up
on the table and began to jab away at the
flour barrel with a 10ft. clothes prop. A few
punches soon woke the mouse up to a sense of
the danger he was in, and hopping briskly out he
made for his country residence. Just at that in-
stant, the dog went for the mouse, Riley fired and
shot the dog dead, Riley’s wife slipped off the
table with fright, but retained sufficient presence
of mind to catch on to a boiler of scalding suds as
he fell, and by a dexterous movement of her
arms emptied the contents all over herself and the
greater part of the kitchen. Riley lost his head
completely, and thinking he had shot his wife he
rushed out and hung himself up with a rope in
the stable. Riley’s wife is doing pretty well under
the circumstances, but she can scarcely conceal
the fact that the loss of a medium husband and a
first class yard dog, together with the knowledge
that she looks like a half boiled Egyptian mummy
tied up in a wet flour bag, is, to say the least, dis-
heartening to her. When the mouse was last seen
he was shinning along through Cooktown,
earnestly enquiring which was the nearest road to
New Guinea. This is the only true version of the
sad affair.
• • •
THE NEW DOCTRINE.
I have learned some lessons lately,
Beneficial to my soul,
Being, thereby, altered greatly
For the better, on the whole;
I was, formerly, a lover
Of a hundred sinful things,
Until men like Booth and Glover
Took me underneath their wings.
Having gone in strong for “ Missions,”
(Never missing even one),
Oh 1 I now express contrition
For the evil deeds I’ve done;
For the fiery liquors swallowed—
And tho strong tobacco smoked—
And the nights and days unhallowed,
When I laughed and even joked.
I have gained this information
At tho Missions—that it’s hard
To attain to sure salvation,
If wo ever “ touch a card ”;
While the surest recreation
To lead decent folk astray,
Is the mind-intoxication
Of an evening at the “ play.”
Having practised self-restriction,
From these vices (once caressed)
I am stirred with fresh conviction,
And my mind is not at rest;
For it seems half-hearted, rather,
To refrain from these alone,
When I might go even farther
With a “ Mission ” of my own.
Now, since smoking, cards, and drinking,
Bring us nothing but disgrace,
Of another means I’m thinking
To improve the human race;
I have come to the conclusion
That it’s very wrong to eat,
And that Satan’s in collusion
With the men who deal in meat.
Yes, I’m certain that the fashion
Of consuming beef is bad,
That fat pork excites our passion,
And that mutton drives us mad;
While we can’t reach Heaven's gate-o
(When we happen to be dead)
If, on earth, we take potato,
Or devour a bit of bread.
So this doctrine I’m maintaining,
And its truth seems pretty clear—
That, by carefully abstaining
From meat, vegetables, beer,
Wine, bread, and theatre-going,
Smoking, cards (for nuts or love),
You must, very soon, be blowing
Through a trumpet—up above.
* * *
At a meeting of the Sooial Purity Society
in Melbourne, a Rev. Mr. Kirby made certain re-
marks which—as coming from one behind the
scenes, as we may say—must be pronounced to be
particularly satisfactory. Mr. Kirby, it seems, is
in favour of a bill being passed through the Legis-
lature, which shall “ prove a very effective legal
shield round the young girl.” And, furthermore-
ho would like “special clauses against school-
masters, and, indeed for all persons in authority
over young women, including even clergymen. He
believed that, as a body of men, ministers of Christ
were wonderful for their purity, when (this dis-
plays a thorough grasp of the subject, mind you) the
various opportunities they had of conversing with
young women were considered. Their recognised
character was a wonderful proof of their sincerity
and faithfulness.” Everyone will be pleased to
think that this reverend authority has come for-
ward to ut us right on sundry little matters con-
nected w th “the cloth.” Of course, we didn’t
know that ministers were wonderful for their
“ purity,” and we find much food for rejoicing in
this information. Until now, we had always im-
agined that the average parson’s “recognised
character ” with regard to the young person was
somewhat so-so.
• • •
Mr. Booth, the temperance advocate, “re-
quires rest”—and we’re rather glad of it. It ap-
pears, too, that it is proposed to “ inaugurate a
testimonial fund (the inevitable ‘testimonial’—
hless it!) for the purpose of raising such a sum as
will enable him to take the full rest he requires.”
There’s a charming vagueness about that. There
‘are a good many men knocking about who would
appreciate a testimonial of such illimitable dimen-
sions—the “rest they required” would certainly
extend to the end of their natural lives. By the
bye, Mr. B. will require a good deal, apparently,
for a Tasmanian lady has promised the gift of £l5O
towards the fund, just as a nest-egg, and “it is
contemplated that other liberal subscriptions will
readily come in.” So Mr. Booth Is certain of £l5O
—and the rest. [There’s a joke somewhere there.—
Ed. B.]
• • *
A gentleman rejoicing in the not inappro-
priate name of Good has written a most
appealing epistle to a Melbourne paper on behalf
of his sister, who resides at an address which must
be familiar to us all—viz., A Ooroomiah, Persia.”
Six years ago. it appears, did this sister set out for
Ooroomiah, “intending, as God might direct,
voluntarily to undertake the temporal and spi-
ritual education of as many poor little children
growing up in the midst of squalor, ignorance, and
degradation, in that land, as she found practicable'
Speedily some sixty of these ‘ little heathen ' were
under her care, and dependant on her for daily
bread, for daily teaching, and for daily nurturing
for the Lord.” However, Mr. Good goes on to
explain that the funds (those inevitable funds),
which were “at first provided by the sympathy of
friends in England,” are running short, and so he
now “takes pen in hand ” to solicit contributions
towards her “valuable labours of love” in
Ooroomiah. “Nurturing lor the Lord” doesn’t
appear to be sueh a very expensive process
in this fashionable locality, in fact “it
amounts to the small sum of £6 a-year for each
child; so, with a considerable amount of confidence
in the result, Mr. G. continues: —“ I feel it laid upon
my heart to ask God's people in Victoria to enable
me to send by next mail enough to provide for at
least ten of these children for the coming year,
and thus carry cheer to the little ones who have
been rescued from degradation and ignorance, and
to my own sister, whose faith is being severely tried.
I should like very much if ten friends would each
provide for one child.” We can quite believe
the faith of this gentleman’s sister is beiDg
“severely tried,” fora falling off in funds affects
a good many of us in a similar way, and we do
hope that "the friends” will have their annual
subscription ready for the next mail—to Ooroo-
miah. If each were to pay for a few years in
advance, too, it would relieve that uncomfortable
strain on the young lady’s “ faith,” and everything
would go along swimminglyagain. By the bye,if she
should ever be paying a visit to her brother in Aus-
tralia, she will find a fair number of “little heathen”
knocking about here, whoso parents will throw
no obstacles in the way of her providing them
with daily bread, daily teaching, and daily nurtur-
ing for the Lord ’’—they want a lot of the latter.
Still, as it would be a pity to take her away from
Ooroomiah, until everybody is converted—both in
the town itself, and the surrounding suburbs—we
will do our little best towards a good cause by
putting this pathetic appeal into verse, and awak-
ing the lyre with the first few bars of “The Squire
and Maria.’’
OOROOMIAH AND MARIA.
There’s a iady—says “ Maria,”
Living out at Ooroomiah,
And it is her heart’s desire
To bring heathen to the “ fold.”
But, she's very little by her,
So “ ten friends ” we would inspire
To send all she may require—
’Tis but sixty pounds in gold.
Now that we have struck the lyre,
With sueh force that we perspire
Don't exclaim—“ Blow ‘ Ooroomiah ’I ”
And her sixty pounds in gold;
Nor in wantoD, wicked ire,
Fling this paper on the lire—
Oh, just think how you will try her
By not doing as you're told.
Some most hair-erecting sentiments have
been expressed by the Melbourne Herald on the
very select subject of “ civil servants.” Says the
Herald : “ All the wofld over, the civil servant is
usually a noodle, and the higher he is placed the
bigger noodle he generally is.” What a shocking
calumny !— to describe the tight-trousered, tail-
collared , vacant-countenanced gentry as ‘ noodles.’
We protest against it
THE PROTEST.
We’ve an admiration fervent
For the stylish civil servant,
And he's not at all a “noodle,” as a rule;
Such a spiteful designation
Fills us full of indignation—
A “ noodle”—why, he's usually a *
[* There’s a word missing here in the MS. We pre-
sume it is meant to be filled with some word mean-
ing a noble, industrious fellow.— Ed. B.]
* * *
A remarkable diminution of late in the
number of “small cases”—“drunks,” &c.—at the
Melbourne Police Courts, has been satisfactorily
explained by the Herald. After commenting on
the fact that the IJarmy and Messrs. Booth and
Glover had, respectively, been credited with bring-
ing about this improvement (on paper) in the
moral tone of the Melbourne community, the
Herald adds: “The real cause of the falling off
Is owing- to the fact that the police have received
orders from head-quarters not to engage wagt
gonettes to convey their prisonersto the lock-ups,
except in very urgent cases. This is considered
necessary through tne expense incurred by th-s
police invariably using cabs with their prisoners.”
And there’s no doubt that the Herald— which
makes quite a speciality of ferreting out the foibles
of 4 the force is right, and that the profes-
sional ardour of the Melbourne “ Robert ” has been
considerably damped by thess latest instruc-
tions. As a rule, the uniformed protector
of the peace in the “ City of the South ” ig ’aughty
—very ’aught.y—end doesn’t care to descend to the
degradation of “ running in a “ drunk.” He used
to rather enjoy “ riding ’em in,” under the old
regime, and would assist any poor old woman
(who’d indulged in half a glass extra) into a cab,
and take his place beside her, in a manner both
graceful and dignified. Sometimes, too, he’d detect
latent fury in the eye of the deorepid female, and
signal to one of the “brethren” to accompany
them in their drive, for the purpose of rendering
any help that might bo needed. The moral effeot
of these “ picnics ” on the Melbourne citizens was
undeniable, and “Bobby” gloried in his power;
but now that he has no alternative between igno-
miniously walking tho old women through those
streets where he was wont to ride in his pride, or
losing a case, he prefers the latter. So the Mel-
bourne police force is, for tho moment, less expen-
sive than of yore—its “ charges ” are fewer.
A REDUCTION IN CHARGES.
Some time back, each Melbourne “ bobby,”
When he saw a drunken drab,
Bore her off (it was his hobby)
To the lock-up, in a cab;
That the system was expensive
Can’t, one moment, be denied,
Still the captures were extensive—
Robert quite enjoyed the ride.
But a recent regulation
Orders him to walk a “ case ”
Gently, to the nearest “ station ”
(Only fancy, what disgrace!)
So, as might have been expected,
Robert, now, has changed his tack—
“ Drunks ” go free and undetected—
“ Bobby ” always turns his back.
* v *
“ When lovely woman stoops to folly,
And learns, too late, that men betray,” &c ,
She doth no; display that disposition “to
die ” which the poet telleth of, but she brings the
story of her indiscretion to the “ Court,” and re-
ceiveth balm for her bruised feelings in the shape
of bullion.
THE MODERN M.AID.
The poor modern maid,
If by lover betrayed,
Is not much afraid
Of disgrace:
Her plans are soon laid,
And arrangements are made
To bring low lo her aid—
It’s a “ case.”
Her story she’ll tell
Of loving the swell—
Not wisely, but well—
(Sometimes “ fudge.”
With voice like a bell,
On details she’ll dwell,
And explain how she “ fell ”
To the Judge.
And the Judge, as he ought,
Explains to the Court
How girls of that sort
Are consoled.
And defendant is taught
That, when “actions” are brought,
Men must pay for their sport
With their gold.
[N.B.—The amount of level-headed truth in the
last two verses should condone any eccentricities
of rhyme.— Ed. B.]
Mr. Gibbes
Went for dibs:
Was it fibs
On which he relied ?
On the opposite side,
The kiss-hating Kent-
well
Upon Teece, who meant
well,
Fees considerable, spent
well,
And yet didn’t win—
The which was no sin;
For though Constance
Randall
Had given a handle
To lashings of scandal,
Her main yarn was true;
While, ’twixt me and
you
The defence was dis-
graceful.
Of brass his pert face
full,
The Sunday-school Col-
lis
Deposes the moll is
Addicted to follies;
And dapper olerk, D’A-
pice.
Skips on to the tapis,
Although not a rap is
His evidence worth,
Save to bring down
much mirth.
Then, prosaic doth come
up
To wearily sum up
The garrulous Innes,
Declaring that guineas
Will appeaso the irir.
nys,
And provo salve for dls.
honour
A girl brings upon her.
And lastly the jury,
Well sick of the story.
Conceiving defendant
’S case wholly depen.
dent
On scandalous fibs,
Straightway unto Gibbcg
(While nobody wonder-
ed)
Awarded “ three hun-
dred.”
Fearful state of mental activity up in
Newcastle just now. A Baptist preacher and an
itninerant iconoclast have been fighting over
religion, and, like Miiton’s angels, throwing the
rocks at each other. The preacher unconsciously
opened up a thoroughly new theory which, If he
follows it out, will place him at the head— or shall
we rather say the tail ? of a distinct school ef
philosophy. His opponent asked “what was the
use of the rudimentary organs of man; for in-
instancc, the tail or excrescence of the vortebraß ?”
and then added that “ he could prove that there
was still a membrane attached to this tail, which
had been rolled into a bail through disuse.’* What
daes the preacher reply to this ? If he had been
disposed to treat the question with levity he
might have at once cornered the speaker by ask-
ing him to give ocular proof of the truth of
his assertain. But he was too philosophical t«
do this. He admitted with ready cheerfulness
that the membrane referred to did exist in the
human anatomy, and he did not attempt to ex-
A PHOTOGRAPHIC STUDY.
"Now look pleasant, please.”
He looks pleasant.
Which is more than his Ma did after paying for a dozen
of the above happy result.


plain how its functions became obsolete. Perhaps
he had an internal consciousness that in the case
of parsons it was worn down by perpetual sitting
on a rail. But here is where he struck a vein of
original thought“ Of the former ” (rudimen-
tary organs) “ hopes were entertained that they
would in future become of use.” Glorious pro-
spect this I Rudimentary organs will become of
use—that is the nucleus of a tail which, thank
goodness, we possess, will develope, and, in time,
become a valuable auxiliary to other members
in their scramble through tho world. We
think too much of the intelligence of our
readers to trouble them with many illlus-
trations of the value of such an extra mem
ber. One will be sufficient. Take the case of a
Behind the Scenes.—The Manager’s Room.
CALL BOY : “The people are crying out for ‘Land Bill,’ what’s to be done?”
MANAGER: “Hang it! He’s only half dressed, I’ll cut out the time with a breakdown.”
policeman. When tails are in fashion he will not
be driven to the present ungraceful expedient of
putting one hand behind his back. He will he
able to hold both hands honestly open in front of
him, and curl the extra member around the bribe
The larger view of this novel and admirable
theory, is what delights us, however. The con-
clusion to he drawn from tho premiss laid down
by the reverend founder of the new philosophy is,
that instead of men having their origin in apes,
apes have their origin in men. In other
words, we are marching slowly but surely on to
monkeydom. And this dootrine— strange as it
may appear—derives additional strength from the
countenance (or rather countenances) lent to it by
many of those who lecture on the “ Origin of
Man.” The Rev. J. Evans (“a name to resound
for ages?”) has made a discovery which places him
at once upon a pinnacle of famo compared to
which the altitude of a pepper-box is trifling and
unworthy of consideration. A part of this glory
also rests upon the inspired Hanby, who, in criti-
cising the debate, has condensed the whole of the
Newcastle Herald into one sentence:—“Surely
the emptiness of nothing cannot fill the void in the
mind, &c.” This sentence is the most completely
vacant one that has as yet appeared in the English
language. What a head Hanby must have ! The
debate, however, narrowed down at last to a dis-
pute as to the structure of mules. Here of course
both lecturers were at home, and there was no
saying which had the best of it. The debate,
therefore, finished semewhat unsatisfactorily. It
is a pity that personalities should be introduced
into discussions of this kind. But, after all, it
serves the disou tants right for attempting to ap-
proach the ' ! *ct in such a vague manner. They
should have i> on more realistic. The only way to
convince the people of Newcastle of the import-
ance tq the cosmic plan of a Creator is to give His
value in tons.
They do things pretty brisk in California,
as the following pleasant little affair clearly shows:
Juan Nevada, stage robbed, at 5 a.m., of
StJOOO, reward was offered at 7 a.m., robbers shot
dead and all the money reoovered it i pm
coroner’s inquest at 3 p.m., funeral of the thieves
i at 0 p.m., testimonial and banquet to captors at 8,
and the chairman and three guests locked up dead
drunk at midnight. That’s pretty good for San
Juan, Nevada.
BRIEF MENTION.
Parliamentary logic— “ Rat ’’-iocination.
A tax our legislators most abhor —Syn-
tax.
Even a Martini-Henry can sometimes shoot
his bolt too soon.
The man that thoroughly understands the
“ weigh of all flesh.”—The butcher.
Parkes in Edinburgh. “Dae ye no tak’
snuff, Sir Henry ?” “Never.” “Ah ! that’s a pity,
ye’ve gran’ accommodation for it.”
Friend to reporter coming out of the Rum
office: “Busy.en?” Reporter: “Busy? I should
think so—l’ve been writing, like a horse, all day.”
Savage truth, this!
The boss ” of the “ Balmain Braves ” de-
clared the other day that they had Shot the Devil.
Now what we want to know, is. how many of the
“Rraves” are candidates for this little vacancy
below.
Great numbers of Bussian officers, it is
said, are dissatisfied with the parsimomy of their
Government, and have tendered their resignation.
That's welcome news anyhow ; they’ll be able to
do a little good for their country, now- chopping
wood, perhaps.
“What is that about the suicide?” en-
quired a boarder of Joe, while the wreck was
be’ng cleared away far ihe plum duff. “ Oh. that
butcher 1” replied the ex-legislator. “Well, he
laid down in bed, and getting a razor severated his
jocular artillery,”
Surry Hills. Coffin just going out of door
bearing away husband grave. Wife wring-
ing her hands ip background. Lady from over the
way to weeping widow: “Nevermind, dear—dry
up your eyes—your husband’s now a golden syrup
a-singin’ in the sky.”
On Sunday week a ram not having the
fear of God before his eye 3, but a reflection of
himself in a large plate glass mirror outsidfe of It.
and A. Kuris’s shop in George-street, went for
that same with one complex bouud. Result- a
fall in butter, shivered mirrors, and R. and A.
Kurts-ing like mad.
“ What shall a young man do to be shaved ?”
said a grimy-faced but facetious coal-hauler, the
other day, as he entered a William-street barber's
shop. The barber, who had been to a Salvation
Army rehearsal the night before, gazed at the
intruder for a moment, and then laconically re-
remarked: “Go wash and be clean.”
Certain examples of piety are injudiciously
selected. A Dunolly paper, devoting a beautiful
par. to a description of an itinerant “ umbrella
mender, who is in his ninety-fitb year,” tells us
that “the Bible is bis constant companion ” in his
long tramps. Now, from a business point of view
that isn’t a particularly good plea lor the Bible—.
“ ninety-five,” and still mending umbrellas 1
The superlative degree of meanness has
just been reached by a Surry Hills man. It ap-
pears that a lady friend of his happens to be the
proprietress of a city hotel which is at present “ in
the market,” and being informed that a probable
buyer would call on her at a certain date and re-
main for a day in the bar to take stock of Ihe
custom done, the lsdy prudently gave her Surry
Hills friend £2 to enable him to bring customers
rouad and swell the day’s takings. But the mean
cufs spent the cash in another pub. altogether, and
then actually had the front to send down to his
disappointed friend at three next morning to re-
guest her to fly round and bail him out of t&Q


Modern Society (London) says “ toads are
being-imported from Australia.” Our contem-
porary mightadd, “and toad-eaters (of the Wilson,
Cooper stamp).”
J udge Innes says that it makes his heart
bleed to hear of the depravity of the colony. So
it does ours. If we had less depravity, we might
have no Judge Innes.
The uniform of the new Viotorian Militia
is to be drab-coloured. Very good idea this. No-
body will notice the mud on their clothes when
they ere coming home from parade. i
Although there’s been considerable delay
In the appointment of a successor to Archbishop
Vaughan, it will still be a case of Moran-do Moran-
di(e) Morandum(o) ere another appointment is
made.
An alderman was fined for riding into the
Ilarmy at Bathurst the other day. He says his
horse bolted with him. It is supposed the horse
recognised an old stable companion in the man
who played the big drum.
REGULA VITyE.
Ede, bibe, carpe jucundissima,
Cane, salta, tinge prceclarissima,
Tunc quum superest ne unus quidem obolus,
Curre, ut si a tergo sit Diabolus.
Noble instance of humility this. The
Queen of Tahiti is at present travelling through
America incognito. It is a pity she conceals her
rank. We suppose when Mr. M'Elhone goes to
Europe he also will travel incognito. But no!—
he couldn’t.
Says the Evening News “ Among the
novelties Mr. James Allison brings back is Gilbert
and Sullivan’s new opera.” We hope ho will bring
back another managerial novelty—English gram-
mar. Onsecond thought, though, we hope he will
not. If he were to do so, nobody would recognise
him again, and he would run the risk of being mis-
taken for a common person.
A compositor was charged with chicken-
lifting in a Northern town the other day. This
reminds us of the story which used to be popular
among printers of the old school. A comp, is
coming along the road with a billy in one hand
and his composing-stick in the other. A little girl
who sees him runs into the house and cries, “ Hi,
mother ! take the clothes in; here’s a printer
coming!”
Mr. David Buchanan is in favour of placing
a penny tax on each newspaper that passes through
the post. We are not surprised at this. Anything
in the way of disseminating knowledge Dawvid is
bound to be down upon. He never had enough of
it himself to know its importance and value. We
would remind Dawvid that “ it iz the easiest thing
in the world 3 b a fule; a man kan b 1 and not
kno it.”
The British ensign was conspicuous by its
absence at St. Patrick’s concert. Therefore, in
the opinion of the Orange bigot, every person who
was present or had anything to do with it, is an in-
fernal traitor. In the opinion of the 0.b., Loyalty
is a matter of bunting; Patriotism, of scarves,
rosettes, and paraphernalia; Charity, of subscrip-
tion to the “cause;” and Honesty, of not being
found out.
A long time ago someone said, according
to report, “It is not good for a man to be alone.”
We would hate to back that party in a game of
euchre. If he should happen to get both bowers,
the joker, ace, and king, just as likely as not he’d
call on his partner to “assist,” and thus lose two
points out of a certain four. Evidently, the an-
cients didn’t know much about the games that are
popular now-a-days.
At a recent Sunday lecture in Brisbane,
“ God v. the Devil,” Professor Simon innocently
observed, "And now, ladies and .gentlemen, you
who are listening to me to-night are all parents,
or, at least, have children.” That brought down
the house; and the Banana men have been scratch-
ing themselves bald-headed ever since to discover
who in thunder told the Professor all about the
social state of affairs in Queensland.
Prancing upon the tip toes of its hind feet,
the Nooze Ihighfalutes as under:—“The only
means we have of averting the calamity which
now threatens us is the prompt annexation of all
the islands likely to be flooded by the recidivistes."
A far simpler way, dear Alfred, would be to annex
Prance. Obsta principle's, you know. Our Per-
manent Forces, with the allied squadrons of Vic-
toria and Tasmania, should be despatched on this
job instanter.
Avery interesting quadruped has recently
“ dofuncted,” being none other than the horse be-
longing to Mr. Morgan, now awaiting his trial for
tne Panmure murder. The animal is regarded as
an important link in the chain of evidence against
his master (perhaps it died to please him—horses
are so faithful. —Ed. B.), so “steps were taken by
the police to have the animal Identified again for
the trial.” What a pleasing task, with the ther-
mometer at 140*—it's a wonder the witnesses didn’t
follow the example of the gee-gee.
The Prince of Wales, according to a Lon-
don “ society ” paper, “ speaks in the firm, Teu-
tonic gutturals which mark the pronunciation of
the Royal Family.” We've dwelt on that item of
intelligence, and received considerable comfort
therefrom. Since discovering that “one glass
extra” makes us converse after the manner of a
Prince of the Blood Royal, any lingering doubts
we entertained as to the advisability of adopting
Temperance principles are entirely dispelled—con-
scientiously conquered, so to speak.
Curious epitaph cut from the Evening
News:—
“ Pale death could scarcely find another
So good a wife, so fond a mother;
In all her actions she was kind,
And left her loved ones all behind.”
The first two lines are old friends. But the two
last are new and suggestive. The relatives of the
deceased lady must nave had rather a poor idea of
the place to which she was going when they had
these lines chiselled out on her tombstone.
It has been noticed by several early risers
that electric lights on the public streets are very
destructive to insect life. The light attracts the
“ sects,” who flutter around and then rolloverand
die on the spot in tubfulls. It is now suggested
that it might be used in protecting fruits and
vegetables. And we don’t see why some of our
lodging houses couldn’t fit up an Edison burner or
two in their bed-rooms also, and thus prevent
Nature’s sweet restorer from fleeing so often from
the premises. There’s too much humbug about
lodging-house bod-rooms. On second thoughts, we
withdraw the " hum.”
and his “kilt” appear to
have been shocking the modesty of certain Mel-
bournians. A gentleman writes thus to the Mel-
bourne Hkraed: “At the V.ctoria Hall last night,
the strength feats of Donald Dinuie, the Highland
champion, were repeated. The performance con-
cluded by a reel in which the champion also took
part, and concerning which, it is necessary to
point out, that it should not be repeated until a
certain article of dress, indispensible to the modest
performance of it, is provided.” We don’t under-
stand much about reels, really, but, very likely,
most of this immodesty lay in the “ pointing out.”
You may talk to me of Heaven! It is faraway
above,
And l’U never, never see it, till I die;
And it may be, even then, its court of rapture,
court of love,
Will not open unto sinners such as T.
But a court is here, before me, and its gate is open
wide,
And a happy heaven it is to my eye;
And when bailiffs flock around me, and grim
creditoiß deride,
I go to that court of sweet insolvency;
I, I, I,
And the creditors must stand outside and
cry-y-y.
Power, the bushranger, is'about to be re-
leased from Pentridge. *1 philanthropic lady has
offered to take care of him ror the rest of hi 3 life.
Nearly as good to be a bushranger as to be a par-
son. We wonder now if he were an old journalist,
worn out in serving l the cause of freedom and
enlightenment, and were to <sall on that philan-
thropic lady and ask her to take care of him, what
she would do ? But what a vain question. Have
him bound to the meat-safe while they were going
for the constable, of course. With regard to
Power, though, we think it should not have been
left to individual generosity to proviie for him in
his old age. Surely the Government could have
given him a poor J.P.-ship, at least 1 Of course,
not every discharged criminal can expect a
Speakership.
The “Harmy” strikes some very good
ideas now and then. For instance, a well-known
firm in Melbourne has received the following
mysterious epistle:—“Gentlemen,—Whilst in your
employ I appropriated for my own use what was
yours, but through attending the meetings of the
Salvation Army I have seen the error of my ways,
and my conscience tells me to refund what is not
mine, and the Salvation Army teaches all men to
do right, and be honest in all things. Inclosed you
will find the amount in full.—Fours (signed)—
Saved by Jesus.’’ The “amount in full ’’ was £2,
and the firm “are quite unaware who it is has thus
made restoration of the money.” Humph 1 While
remarking that £3 is not too much too lay out in
a high-class advertisement, we must express—with
Mr. Vincent Crummies—our inability to imagine
who it can be “that sends these things to the
papers.”
A few days ago a Sydney drummer was
endeavouring to do a deal with a Bourke publican
when an old lady, who appeared to be a sort of
rheumatic maid ef all work about the place, leaned
over the bar and said, “So yerallthe way frum
Sydney, are ye ? Sbure, thin me sisther’s big boy
is down that way, somewheres. Hiz name’s
M’Fadden wid a tooth out in front an’ a game oye.
Maybe y’ knows him.” “Oh, know him well,”
replied the bagman; “he's the Captain of the
Flying Gang at Parramatta. “ Musha, now, luk
at datl” exclaimed the old lady, “shure an’ it's
meself that alluz sed that bhoy id wurk his way
up in th’ wurld, fur it’s the moighty line hed he
had upon 'im. An’ a rale Captain, too! Oh, th’
howly Vargin be praised, but I must git the missis
t’ wroite over an’ tell his poor mother what a
foine young jintilmin her own son Pathrickisin
Parramatty ”
Here is a pretty little story about the Earl
and Countess of Roseberry“ A day or two before
their wedding took place, Miss Kothschild asked
the young Earl what he would like for a wedding
present from her. ‘Oh,’ he replied, ‘suppose you
give me a box of gloves.’ The box of gloves was
sent enclosed in an elegant inlaid case. On open-
ing the box the Earl discovered an envelope ad-
dressed to him in a well-known hand. He expected
it contained a dainty little note. It did, but not
the sort of note he imagined. The contents of the
envelope was a cheque written out and signed by
Miss Rothschild, in favour of the Earl, for the
modest little sum of £200,000.” This was an
instance in which the Earl-y bird caught the worm
ALL POOLS’ DAY.
The above is an ancient April fool yarn dug out of the sub-cellar of one of the pyra-
mids. A full explanation of the inscription will be found in the Cth chapter of Malachi,
2nd verse.
with a vengGEltlCe. Verily “To him that hath
shall be given unto; and from him that hath not
shall be taken eVeh that which he hath.” Before
dismissing the paragraph, we want to remind Lady
Rosebery that ft similar donation would provide
a winter’s soup fthd potatoes for 100,000 little Earls
and CouDtesses who are now starving in the back
slums of London.
Life can never quite lose its zest so long as
the Melbourne D.T. continues to devote so much
of its space to Sunday-school picnics. For the
modest consideration of one penny—the D.T. is
only a penny, vou know—one can always enjoy
descriptions of “bun-fights,” vigorous in style,
yet irreproachable in moral tone—how few news-
papers can one say as much for! Now, the follow-
ing beautiful passage is extracted from a graphic
account of a Sunday-school picnic in connection
with a church at Cheltenham (Vic.):—“Tho cool-
ness of the day and the animated way in which the
teachers, scholars, and numerous visitors entered
into the various recreations, seemed to whet the
appetite, and ample justice was done to the sup-
plies provided, loud enconiums being pronounced
on the quality of the tea and the catering gene-
rally.” There’s a healthy, homely pathos about
the picture of “teachers and scholars” burying
possible past differences—uniting together and
pronouncing with sweet accord “ ioud enconiums
on the quality of the tea.” One touch of nature
makes all the world akin.
We think the Wagga Star man must be
slightly off his jimboonjee. Listen to this:—“ How
it rains! How gloriously it rains! After months
of heat, without one drop of the dropping tears
from Heaven! Who can say that the earth is not
blessed—yea, more than thrice blessed by the
gentle outpouring of nature’s clouds. Yet here
we are to-day We have cried unto
Nature’s God, and he has given us surcease of
sorrow. For cessation means pain infinite.”
We knew a man with brain so small,
That ’twas infinitesimal;
His intellect bad taken root,
It seemed, within his hob-nailed boot;
But he would pray
Though asked to stop by all, in vain;
He’d yowl until the “lovely rain ”
All went away I
He wouldn’t “clear,” tho’told to “shunt;”
They killed him, then, with something blunt;
But people say that you can see
Almost as big a fool as he
At [He’s dead too.— Ed. B ]
Professor Morris, the late acquisition to
the teaching staff of the Melbourne University,
likes poetry. This is a brave confession for the
professor to make and augurs well for his courage.
If only the professor can manage to grow some
original opinions he may be counted upon as hav-
ing the stuff in him to enable him to stand up for
them. There is possibly no other man in Australia
at the present time who would frankly tell a large
miscellaneous audience that he liked poetry. It
would expose him so to being considered demented-
Tallow and politics are the firm staple in the intel-
lectual market down there. But the professor, in
a lecture delivered there a little while ago, gave
not alone his own but the opinions of others in
regard to the gentle muse. Letting his own
opinion stand until, after acquainting himself
with the vagaries of the Australian nymph, he has
had time to correct it, we will just notice a refer-
ence he made to two writers. He quotes one
writer as saying that poetry adds to his misery,
and another writer as saying that poetry lessens
his grief, and Professor Morris says that these
writers hold opposing views. Now, not so. Not so,
at all. Here’s the run of it, Professor The one
man is solaced by poetry. That's the man that
writes it. The other man iinds his misery increased
by poetry. That’s the man who reads what the
other man writes. Votia.
A BOTANY BAY INCIDENT.
One day a lot of lishermeu
Came with their boat and net,
To put it round th’ unwary flsb,
And get what they could get.
This fam’ly spied the fishermen,
With joy akin to glee;
Quoth they, we’ll tarry on the beach,
And see what we shall see.
As many baskets as they could,
With one assigned to each,
They then collected round about
And boro unto the beach
And straightaway began to fill—
The owner was not there—
The pond'rous baskets they had brought
With mullet fat and rare.
And unto all their friends they gave
Pull many a costly dish.
And now the owner wants to know
Who shook ihe blooming fish.
At a recent meeting of the Victorian bar,
it was decided that a “blacklist” should be kept
of the names of attorneys who are in tho habit of
neglecting to pay fees due to counsel, and that each
honourable member of the bar should refuse to
take business from such practitioners. We didn’t
know that our sister colony was afflicted with any
such evil. Certainly, there are plenty of attorneys
in New South Wales who know how to hold on to
all the money that comes their way, but we had a
better opinion of tho Victorian bar. In America,
this dishonourable method of doing business is
styled “ Guiteauism.” It will be remembered that
Guiteau, who assassinated President Garfield, was
a lawyer. Once, in Chicago, he established himself
as a bad-debt collecter, and got a large number of
claims from leading firms to collect for half their
face value. Being without conscience, and having
a cheek like adamant, Guiteau would worry the
life out of the debtor until he paid over at least
one half of the account. Should the client happen
to meet Guiteau tho Dcxt day, and ask how he
might be getting on with the claim, his answer
would be, “Oh, pretty well.” “Got any of it
yet?” “Yes ; I got my half, but I haven’t got
your’s yet.” And the scamp never would try to
get the balance of the bill.
King Tawhio has, on tho eve of his depar-
ture for England, signed the pledge. Sir George
Grey was mainly instrumental in accomplishing
this good work. He pointed out to the Maori
monarch how grievous were the temptations to
which he would be exposed, in a land where good,
sound beer was only twopence a pint, and where
the outlay of twopence halfpenny would prooure
a man sufficient gin to swim in. Then, after first
signing the pledge himself (sly dog!) he persuaded
Tawhio and his chiefs to follow suit. Considering
that the dusky king is about to visit the brightest
spot on earth, for “drinks” of an inebriating—
without being of a down-right murderous—nature,
it seems hard that he should be thus debarred of
bliss. However, Tawhio is a great catch for the
’totallers—there’s no mistake about that.
a clincher!
They’ve bishops, deans, and waiters,
Numbered now among their band;
Butcher’s boys, and legislators—
Ay, the noblest in the land.
And. at last, it is asserted
(Which is best of everything),
That they’ve actually converted
E’en the mighty Maori king.
Robert Gray, the genial manager of the
bars attached to the Royal in Melbourne, caught a
Tartar the other night. He was hovering around,
as usual, helping to dispel the gloom that gathers
on the faces of playgoers on nights when the stage
is given over to comedy, and had been successful
in making one or two parties smile, when his “ye
alit on a female form, in anadjoining room, sitting
on a table and whiffing a rank cigar. He forgot
the triumph he had achieved. He allowed the
new parties dropping in for a soda and something
to stand sorrowfully in the middle of the floor,
revolviJg their dreary experiences of the comic
stage, and went straight for that damsel. But the
damsel reached for Robert, or, rather, for that part
of Robert’s phosiOgnomy in which he takes a
special pride, namely, his moustache, and after
holding on there for a considerable time, she
sorted out and took by the root as much of it as
would make half-a-dozen good street brooms.
Robert found he was in the presence of the notori-
ous boy-lass, or man-girl, whom Melbourne knows
so well. He’ll know her henceforth. Since that
night, the old playgoer gets very little help from
Robert. He has to bear up against the stage jokes as
best he can, for Robert sits dreamily on the end of
the counter, nursing his upper lip, where the holes,
once the seat of a hirsute palisade, remind you of
an extensive umbrella stand.
Swallow and Ariell have excelled even
themselves in their “Coalition” biscuits. They
are crisp without being dry, and are rendered
tasty by a thin coating of iceing on the flat part of
the biscuit, which is flavoured by either aimond,
lemon, or vanilla. Like everything that is good,
however, the more you have of them the more you
want.
Political
Points
Prickly Pear Destruction Bill introduced.
The prickly pear doomed is not Goodchap and
Whitton.
John Hurley has resigned his seat for
Maryborough (Q.) The Bananaland Legislature
the purer by a Groomite the less.
At Berrima, the Government contractor
supplies kerosene oil at Is. Bd. per gallon, while
the Maitland man gets 3s, 9d. for the same article
The Government should buy what they want for
Maitland at Berrima. Ehl And the same rule
would work in a variety of other ways.
St. Petersburg items are often refreshing
in their innocence. This, for instance: “All persons
suspected merely of Socialism are being arrested
in the city. Their number is very large." What
puzzles us is that anyone should have been left
sufficiently at liberty to dispatch the telegram.
Russia means to abrogate the remainder
of the Treaty of Paris. This treaty, signed March
1856,sought to curb Russian ambition; but as in
March ’7l, its “ Black Sea clauses ” were formally
abrogated, despite the protests of England «nd
Austria, it has virtually been a dead letter since
its revision at the latter date.
Fraud! fraud! Everything’s fraud in these
days. It has just transpired that on the occasion
of the late torchlight procession at Belfast in
honour of Sir Stafford Northcote, his enthusiastic
admirers who carried the torches received half-a-
crown a man for their trouble. We heard some-
thing similar to this on the occasion of a spon-
taneous banquet here.
Wisdom remarked t’other day at Ray-
mond Terrace that he “ considered a strong oppo-
sition as being necessary to good Government,
and while they had a strong and watchful opposi-
tion (which by the by we have not), there would
be no danger of Parliament, descending to the cor-
ruption which characterised the time of the Wal-
poles and Pelhams.’’ Why didn’t Morpeth’s own
say “ which characterised the time of the Wisdoms
and Watsons?”
Not long ago, sub-lieutenant Tyrwhitt was
dismissed the Royal Navy for insubordination and
misconduct, by a court martial. As he happens to
be the son of a Peeress in her own right (Lady Ber-
ners) who has boggins of interest, the Admiralty
reinstated him in the service, appointing him to
the Opal (on the Cape station). Mr. Tyrwhitt has
since left the Opal, and is awaiting promotion at
home. And yet “First Lord” Norbrook would
pose as a bona fide Liberal administrator. Radical
sailors, however, say that the worst jobs are passed
(by) baring.
The Master of the Horse draws £2500 a
year screw, the Lord High Steward £2OOO, the
Keeper of the Privy Purse £2OOO, the Lord Cham-
berlain £2OOO, the Master of the Buckhounds £l5OO,
and the Hereditary Grand Falconer £l2OO. The
first-named has a very little to do for his money,
the second a little more, the third a little more
still, the fourth a little less, while the two last have
nothing whatever to do. Why should not the
Masterships of the Horse and Buckhounds and
the Falconership be put in the same category with
the Hereditary Grand Almonership, the occupant
of which billet does his nothing for nothing ?
For the last month the Czar has been in
such a deplorable state of nervous depression, that
to all intents and purposes he may be regarded as
insane.”— London Paper.
NO wonder!
Dynamite—left and right—
Roadway, railway, palace;
Constant fright, day and night—
Poison in the chalice.
Can’t depend on any friend—
Hedged about by treason ;
Unless things mend Czar must end
By losing all his reason.
This is the “Works” idea of a pleasant
little “ goak.” Tenders for additions to the court-
house at Merriwa were called for on two occasions
last year, but, as the proclamation stated they
were not “necessarily to be accepted,” all the
offers sent in were carefully rejected. Fresh
tenders are now called for the 15h of April, and, in
all probability, a few more aspiring contractors
will be fooled as usual. Meantime, all fat priso-
ners have to be tried in the yard, and when a
witness of the A. G. Taylor style steps into the
box, he pokes his head through the ceiling, and the
Bench sits out on the roof to take his evidence.
And whenever anything spicy is on the pro-
gramme, the Merriwa “foorce” has to take the
locks off the doors and scratch the whitewash off
the walls to make room for the half-dozen visitors
who crowd the court. This looks as if the two
Macs have forgotten that Merriwa is part of their
electorate.
This is put by Labouchere with extreme
neatness:—‘What would Mr. Gladstone have re-
plied, when he was denouncing the Imperial policy
of Lord Beaconsfleld, had one of his audience
risen and said ‘ You will soon find yourself
Prime Minister with an assured majority in the
House of Commons; you will send a fleet to bom-
bard Alexandria; you will send soldiers to destroy
the Egyptian army; you will establish yourself in
Egypt. This you will do because the Egyptians
wished to vote their own Budget. You will an-
: nounce that you remain in Egypt to force a
Khedive upon an unwilling population, and to
establish liberal institutions. After being there
eighteen months you will inform your Khedive
that all Egyptian Ministers or Governors who
venture to object to your orders to them to sur-
render one of their provinces to men whom you
designated as rebels, must at once be removed
from office.’ Would not his answer have been:
*ls thy servant a dog, that he should do this great
thing ?’ ”
When a Presbyterian Professor of The-
ology attempts to adorn his theology with politi-
cal illustrations the effect is funny. Professor
Rentoul (whose little monetary disputes with his
late congregation have been fo much before the
Melbourne public) dropped into politics while de-
livering his inaugural address to the assemblage of
saints who “assisted” at the opening of the
Ormond Theological Hall. Spake the Professor:—
“ When statesmen waver and thinkers are non-
plussed, it is General Gordon who strides into the
thick darkness, Christ’s presence giving him im-
pulse.” What utter rubbish that is I General
Gordon was specially selected for the job by the
“wavering statesmen,” and took sixty thousand
pounds (for purposes cf bribery) to “give him im-
pulse.” And what has the worthy Professor ta
say about Gordon’s method of lightening the
“thick darkness” by giving an unauthorised
assent to the continuance of a slave trade ? And
what will he think if the Quixotic General doesn’t
emerge from the thick darkness after all? It
wouldn’t fit in well with the “ David and Goliath”
episode, but things are uncommonly likely to turn
out that way.
Both the Czar and the Sultan reported to
( be mad. Shouldn’t wonder if both theif
high mightinesses were said to have sui-
cided with scissors or something before many
moons have revolved. In Holy Russia and
“ blasted ” Turkey the report of a ruler s madness


They propose to establish a Chair of Musio
in the Adelaide University. We might take a nint
from this aud do something to encourage the cul-
ture of music over here. At present all the en-
couragement given to performers seems to assume
the form of bricks. What we would suggest
would be that a general examination of young
women who play on the piano be helJ every year,
and prizes given to the most proficient. These
prizes might consist of either a zinc tub, or a
scrubbing brush, according to the fancy of the
committee. The recipents ol the prizes should
also be presented with * certificate, stating that,
having mastered the piano, they were duly quali-
fied to begin practising on that more ditlicult
instrument, the washboard. How uoes it strim,
you, ladies ?
usually the shadow of a comigg deposition by
miirder 1 In 1801 Paul’s madness heralded his
Sgassinatiori by Orloif, who (to give him his due)
tell any lio about it—didn’t say the Lord of
« i the Russians had choked himself with a boot-
v No I There was no use in a mad Czar—so
net of the wav with him! Thus the unveneered
Tartar Orloff with an eye to the practical. In
Mav ”T 6, Sultan Abdool Aziz was deposed, mental
oirrangement being what was the matter. He
wouldn’t give his treasure up! Not so mad, then,
sftvs Buckland. In the June following he cut the
arteries of his arm with a bar of soa no, with a
Viair of scissors-at least, so ’twas solemnly sworn
to against tho weight of Gvidence, but to the
satisfaction of the conspirators, by the Seraglio
medicos, who not only lacked Orlolf’s brutal
evuicism, but had more than probably pouched
the coin of Hussein and Raschid, the Ministers
who had a deep interest in the Sultan Aziz
beooming the Sultan Az was. The successor
of Aziz, his nephew, Murad, kept tol-lollish
until the following August, when his mind
also went astray—indeed, that any fellow can
keep right in such a hell of lust and violence and
rapacity and awful crime as the Ottoman Court, is
nothing short of a miracle. Murad is still alive,
kept in close confinement as a hopeless idiot. The
mind of his successor, his next brother Abdool
Hamid (of whom Beaconsfleld, not having the
fellow's measure, once said, “He is not a tyrant;
he is not dissolute; he is not a bigot, nor corrupt”),
is now said to be “estranged.” Our belief is ne’ll
soon be attacking one of his arteries, for he isn't
“soft,” like Murad; besides, he has five brothers.
His three sons are minors. His brothers are,
therefore, directly interested in his mental de-
rangement assuming a suicidal phase. There is
one thing to be said of the fiffendis of the house
of Medj id—they are worthy to be the princes of
the most corrupt Government in the wodd.
Other Governments have their special evils—one
is weak, another corrupt, another oppressive, and
a fourth sanguinary—but the Ottoman rule com-
bines every evil in its most damnable form: it is
corrupt, feeble, barbarous, capricious, and “cruel
as death and hungry as the grave.” It is only
right its rulers should occasionally drink of the
cup they keep pressed to the lips of their people.
* • •
The Governor visits Norfolk Island next
week. We recommend him to remain there ; ’tis
a quiet place, where poultry thrive marvellously
.The last straw on Jack Robertson’s back—lron
has been found in the Cabbage Garden. That iron
will enter into his soul.
• * •
Excluding Balmoral and Osborne, there
are sixt -en royal establishments—St. James's,
Buckingham, and Kensington, Marlborough and
Clarence Houses, Hampton Court, the Stud House
there, Bushey, the White Lodge and Pembroke
Lodge, Bagshot. Kew, *Vindsor, Frogmore, Cum-
berland Lodge, Claremont. Of these the Sovereign
occupies three, one for about nine days a year, one
for about three days a year, and, very occasion-
ally, she enters a fourth for a few hours. Two are
aristocratic almshouses, a third practically so
British Cabinet said to be “split” on the Egyp-
tian question. Gladstone and Lord Derby against,
others for a temporary British Protectorate
Derby has made the Maltese Cross by ordering
that all the proceedings of the local Council shall
henceforth be in the English tongue. Annexation
to Italy clamoured for by the natives A Jingo
journal says “ the Churchills have always been
known as attached to the Church of England.”
Arabella Churchill (the real creator of the fortunes
of her house) was certainly attached to a brother
of the Head of the Church, and (as Mr. Weller,
sen., would say) the Duke of Berwick was one of
the consequences of tho manoeuvre—Republi-
canism bubbling in Austria. The Government
calls it anarchism and protests against Switzerland
harbouring those whom they have expelled for
preaching its doctrines.... France intendsjtooccupy
the islands of Obusaid and Jerish in the Red Sea.
British Government don’t mean to protest
against Germany stationing warships in the South
Seas, as idiotic Jingos would fain have them do
The appointment of the Duke of Edinburgh to the
command of the Channel Squadron, to form the
subject of an inquiry in the House of Commons.
Good! Gladstone better France has aban-
doned idea of forcing suzerainty over Madagascar.
Graham’s Suakim campaign over; some of his
troops will go to Cairo, the rest to England....
Waddingtou, French Ambassador in London,
doesn’t think France will send recidivistes to New
Caledonia.... Wilfred Powell’s New Guinea trip
postponed.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“Baxted”: Not adapted. “ A ces mots
Vofflcier Francais avoua qu’l avait perdu.” This
story was common before Ctesar “crossed the
Rubicon and entered Gaul at the head of, we for-
get how many thousand men “Viola”: Viola-
sweet name I—you have a beautiful vein of pathos.
It' your “Story of a Little Shoe ” does not make
the dustman weep, when he reads it, nothing wi11...
“Aspirant”: You say you are sorry the rhymes
you sent us are not up to our standard. So are
we. And do we think your verses will ever rise to
fame ? Listen :
We think your rhymes—though none a gem—
May rise—or might,
If you would only publish them
Upon a kite!
“Hibernian”: You are a pretty Hibernian to
ask us such a question. “ Why is St. Patrick the
patron-saint of Ireland?” Why we thought the
unborn dead knew this. Because he discovered
whisky of course....“J.M.” (Bathurst): Let us
tell you this, young poet of the prairies. Before
you will be able to write good poetry it will be
necessary for you to obtain better grammar from
somewhere. We don’t know where you are going
to get it (try at the police-office or anywhere but
the local newspaper offices), but that is your affair.
And after you have got it you have only begun,
You must learn to carve your lines, not rough
them out with a wood-axe. You must not fall
into the error of thinking that clearness of ex-
pression excuses such halting metre as you sent
us. You must be both clear and ooncise. As for
instance:
Were you as simple as a shrimp—
Or in your brain a s irimp hid—
To think because your verses limp
That therefore they are limpid.
“Old Working Bullock”: Right you are. Im-
f>ossible to dish it up without supplying a new
ock, stock and barrel. Still, you have a musical
ear, and, if you could only pick up an idea or two
somewhere, there s no reason why you shouldn’t
write acceptable verse. Try “Index”: No
“ E.P.” (Tanmsngaroo) : Francis Clarke, alias
Christie, alias Gardiner, was released from gaol on
the 20th July, 1874, after serving ten years and five
months of sentences amounting in all to 32 years.
He sailed from Newcastle on the 27th July, 1874,
per barque Charlotte Andrews, for Hongkong, and
ultimately settled, as a keeper of a groggery, in
San Francisco, where he is said to have died.
Woman Items
An English vessel which was becalmed on
September 23nd, off Pitcairn Island, was visited
by a boat-load of the islanders, with whom one of
the passengers, a lady, went ashbre. The people
were delighted to see her, telling her that she was
the first English woman who had visited the
island in twenty-five years. They loaded her with
fruits and flowers, with shells, baskets, relics of
the Bounty, fresh fish, coooanut oil, and a score of
other things which she couldn’t possibly carry,
ond then rowed her back with all her treasures to
the ship.
Once upon a time, the King of Phrygia
did a servioe to the god Bacchus, and for a reward
Bacchus told him he might have anything he liked
to ask for. So King Midas thought he would like
everything he touched to turn to gold. Th? poor
old regal ass thought that would mako him happy.
Well, there are people to-day who still hug that
old idea of greedy Midas—if they could only get
gold, they’d be happy. Great heavens 1 There
was a very fashionable crowd on the Band wick
lawn a few weeks ago. “ There don’t seem to be
many of your friends here to-day, Mrs. Blank,”
said a casual to a lady wholsat alone, unheeded.
“ No,” she replied, with a glittering eye, “ but if
Charlie were Mayor now, our seat would be full of
the friends who were always so ready to take our
hospitality.” Charlie got his gold from Bacchus,
too.
Mrs. Bonanza Mackay is supposed to own
the finest collection of precious stones outside a
royal treasury. One item is a set of sapphire jew-
ellery, comprising diadem, bracelets, necklet, ring
and ear-rings, valued at £69,000. The sapphires
were exhibited in the Paris Exhibition in 1878. The
largest one, a pendant on the necklace, cost £6OOO
of the total. Then she has a complete suite of
pearl jewellery; a set of turquoise ornamants; and
one of diamonds, the parure of which is envied by
the Empress of Russia, who can’t buy it. There
is a wreath of green gemmed fernleaves for the
hair, with diamond dewdrops : an armlet that
winds five times above the elbow, and contains
300 diamonds ; a black pearl the size of a cherry,
FRAGMENT OF A CONVERSATION OVERHEARD AT MANLY LAST SATURDAY
Could give a body."
W IFE: “Oh! Augustus, if you only had arms like that, what a good squeeze you
Auguetus muttered something about a grizly bear or an octopus doing as much. Our
reporter said that Augustus was getting irritated, so he withdrew.
two white ones ditto, and a pair of pink pearls.
She has both an eagle and a peacock, composed of
stones, fit to nestle on the shoulder or bust. The
jewels are kept in a metal box, closed with a secret
spring, and always kept in a bank. Aladdin has to
dear the track when Mrs. Bonanza Mackay steps
out.
A stern ’Frisco parient who has been watch-
ing
“ the purient sidelong leering
Down the low neck’s tangled gearing;
The quiet extra hugs while steering,
And the swop
Of eye closed whisperings and squeezes,
Of pillowed cheeks and fleshly breezes—
In the Hop.”
Says that
“ Had he a daughter, young and pure, too
Who showed that she could thus endure to
Dance—he thinks that he’d be sure to —
Neck and crop—
Kick the man out who’d embrace her,
Or, witn lech’rous arm tight-lace her,
And thus shamf ully disgrace her
In the Hop.
Martha Rushton’s little brother was play-
ing with a gun down at Windsor, Vic. He didn't
know it was loaded. Little brothers whp play with
guns never know they are loaded until they are
unloaded. They may know it the millionth part
of a second before it is quite unloaded, but they
haven’t time to assimilate the knowledge so as to
keep from killing somebody. This gun went off.
and the bullet hit Martha in the head. It didn t
kill her, however, for Martha had a skull. Medical
testimony showed that the ball bit her skull, and
the skull deflected it into her mouth, and Dr. Back-
haus extracted it from one of her tonsils. Now, if
Martha hadn’t had a skull, she would have been
killed dead. In a country where loaded guns are
letstand about, andwhere there are little broth ers,
every sensible girl should have a skull. Then
the ball will be deflected into the mouth, and can
be taken out of one of the tonsils. That is far
more comfortable than to be carried on a shutter
to the graveyard. And if little brothers can be
sure their sisters have skulls, it will take a load of
care off their minds while they play.
Miss Jeffreys-Lewis, the voluptuous Amer-
ican actress, has taken to wearing red hair,
Which has made people say all sorts of funny
things. She has frequently been compared to a
beautiful fury, to a passionate gipsy, and to other
varieties of a violent brunette type. But it is only
now she has blossomed into real red hair that tney
say she has succeeded in looking really improper.
“Una” remarks: "It is rather hard on the pink
variety of the human race that, though the lady
never plays respectability, she never looked
morally shady till she put on red hair I Cleopatra
was red-haired, and so was Elizabeth, the quasi-
virgin queen; and there is a story oxtant that
many of the famous poisoners of tne world were
scarlet blondes.’' Now, this is cruelly hard. Per-
haps, after all, the immorality is only in the dye.
Rut, even if uc-t, why! there are respectable per-
sons occasionally born with red hair. It is a beau-
tiful colour in itself,land the greatest of the fleshiy
artists loved to paint it. Yet people Jare so pre-
judiced that whenever a woman has red hair, she
labours perpetually under the onus of having- to
convince the world that she is better than they are
prepared to find her.
“LADY BOUNTIFUL.”
“ He who giveth to the poor, lendeth to the Lord.”
There is a holy lady—now
Don’t think that wo despise her!—
Who's noted, here below, as a
Great tea-fight organizer.
She’d get up feeds for any church—
Oh, such tremendous stuffings 1
And each incoming parson—well,
She’ll always grease with muffins.
Next day she’ll save the broken moats,
Stuff that could sure no chef use.
And send the tear-leaves— save the rhyme I
A free gift to the Refuge!
A few more dames like this, by Jove!
(Don’t think this is bravado I)
That squalid haven of the poor
Would be an eldoradol
The paunch load of a smug divine!
The starving give what he leaves 1
A banquet for the grasping priest I
And for the poor tho — tea-leaves]
It’s quite time to send a bradawl into this
“ sense of absolute pitch ” bladder that is finding
its way into all the country papers. Even from
Western Australia we can’t pick upon an exchange
but the sime gruesome story appears, sometimes
with an admiring comment from tho musical
“cricket.” You’ve all heard of it, of course—how a
Norwich young lady is so gifted with the sense of
“ absolute pitch” tnat she can turn her back to a
piano, or even go into the next room and tell you
any note you strike. You might thumb the keys
for an hour ; begin with that little-known work,
the “ Maiden’s prayer,” and wind up with “ Yankee
doodle,” annexing a dozen negro melodies en route.
But no matter what note you struck this gifted
maiden would sing out “ that’s F sharp or D fiat,”
and would always be right. Now. had the narra-
tor stopped there, theie would be no means of
contradictmc him, except by going to Norwich or
getting the girl to come to Australia. But, like
most clever persons to whom sufficient rope is
allowed, tho end can be prognosticated to a dead
certainty. And this is how he fixes himself up.
He said that at a public entertainment the Nor-
wich phenomenon remarked that a certain piece
was being played in D. When it was over, a gentle-
man went to the conductor and found that it was
played in D fiat. The lady insisted that she was
right, and a second visit to the conductor
brought out the fact that “ the piano to which the
orchestra was tuned was a semi-tone below con-
cert pitch.” Now, in the first place, just get the
piano half a note flat, and see how quickly the
reeds and brass will go for their hats and strike
for home when you ask them to tune down
to it. Then, again, suppose they were tuned
to it and all played in D flat, their key-note would
be the concert C natural, so that, to be correct,
the girl should have said the piece was in C instead
of D. Thirdly, if the piece were in D, and the
instruments —with the exception of the flat piano
—tuned to concert pitch, they would have to read
in D flat and the young lady should have said the
key was live flats instead of two sharps. The only
way she could possibly be right was by the piano s
playing in E flat and the others In D. But the
conductor said such was not the case. So, let us
hear no more of this “ absolute pitch. Hum
stay. Our indignation at this stupid story must
not be allowed to make us commit ourselves.
There were Rutter, a Melbourne solicitor (a
thorough musician, too, who composed some fine
masses) and young Ernest Huicheson, the infant
Mozart, both of whom came as near to possessing
(if they didn't quite possess) a sense of • absolute
pitch ” as any we ever heard of. It was marvellous.
Having' once heard a concert * C struck they
were set up for the night, and —for that night, at
all evonts-you might rasp tor hours on every-
thing from a gridiron to a Chinese fiddle, then
touch ever so lightly a note on the piano, and from
their lips would come its name before the rever-
beration had ceased. But cutting off their music
for a week or two had, we were led to believe, the
same effect upon their sense of ‘ absolute pitch
as the shaving of Sampson s head had upon his
strength.
• • •
The Abbott has decided that the Hurl-
stone girls' pocket-money is not to come out of the
consolidated revenue. If it had been an Abbess,
now! Bishop Barker s widow has donated £lOOO
to found a bursary at Moore College in memoriam
of the dear departed A French view of the
Garmoyle match. (J’est Finney.... . - the next
American beauty promised to England 1b Julia
Jackson, the daughter of “ Stonewall Jackson...
Mrs. Dixon, of Belleisle, Ayrshire, widow of a
Lanarkshire mine-owner, who died at Cannes in
February, left over a million and a halt.
Council of Melbourne University will exclude
reporters. The dull men are now at ease....“Oi
gev him a tap on the head to quieten him,” said
the bobby. “ Well, and how did he go after that Y'
“He wint quietly after that, yer worship.”....The
publican interest in Victoria represents £10,000,000.
..Service represents the past politics of Victoria
as “pettysquabbling.” Human nature. Nothing
grand but what we ourselves d 0... .Joseph Bosisto,
the great Indian traveller, banqueted in Richmond
Town Hall; 200 there. Service blew, Berry blew,
Joseph blew. Whatabout? Nothing ..Victorian
Zoological Society want a rhinoceros. None ou
the committee. Have sent to India lor one.
VANITY FAIR.
King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella are
represented on their monument in the Spanish
Granada Cathedral as reposing side by side on a
bed. The Queen’s head is represented as deeply
sunk in her pillow, while tho King’s barely presses
his. Tho sculptor explained that she had same
brains, while her “ hub.” had none, and the pose
was, therefore, very natural A Bridgewater
(Eng.) shoemaker has succeeded at the wish of an
asinine local vegetarian in making him a pair of
strictly vegetarian boots, the material whereof is
entirely derived from the vegetable kingdom A
youth went recently to a Fanoy Ball in a complete
suit of mail, and was wild when one of his partners
said she never expected that childron in arms
would have been admitted Husband to wife:
“Don’t you think women are possessed of a
devil?" “Certainly,” she sighed, “after they are
married.”—When a popular actress desires to
break an engagement she doesn’t bluff the
manager now she sprains her ankle
The introduction of knee-breeches for evening
dress is advocated by the Philadelphia tailors.
Beatrice: Well, the dress is very pretty; but, if
you venture into tho street, you’ll be taken up as
a vagrant. Little Spindles: A vagrant!— or—why ?
Beatrice: No visible moans of support, you know.
....Sophie Croizette, the ex-star of the Comddie
Frauvaise, was married civilly in January to M,
Jacques Stern, the banker. This regularisation of
a liaison of long standing puts an end to all hopes
of ever seeing Croizette on the stage again Not
long ago, in England, two couples had their banns
published. When they cams to bo married, it was
discovered that the wrong man and woman had
been coupled. The parson said he cou id not marry
them. The four left the church, consulted to-
gether for live minutes, came back, and told tho
clergyman they had agreed to be married as tho
banns had been published. Which was done ..
In Paris the Louis XV. heel has gone out of
fashion. Low heels d VjLnglaise are now the
correct thing. The man of tho period wears
closely cut cavalry cutlets, short hair, tight
clothes, no watch-chain, no gloves, no jewellery,
unless it bo a single precious stone surrounded
with diamonds as a shirt-stud, varnished boots, a
very tall hat, and a stick with a carved ivory
handle....“ Madame ZdnobieC , third story,
lets out teeth for evening parties and balls I” Thus
a Parisian announcement.. ..Parisian eUgantes
have adopted boots of grey doeskin, which look
very well with the prevailing grey costumes. In
the evening they wear black kid shoes, with a
large fleur-de lys embroidered on tho instep, and
with red heels—A married resident of ,-hoal-
haven left home on Monday week for Sydney on
“ biz.” His wife followed him to the metropolis
and—oh shamel oh sin! oh sorrow! and oh
husbandkind! how can you do such things?—
discovered him at an hotel with a chitre ami, pass-
ing as ft is wife. As the Shoai,havkn Noose
remarks in quite an original vein, “the scene
which followed can be better imagined than
depicted.” A walking dress lately made for the
Princess of Wales is: bodice of dark red cloth, with
all-round basque cut very short, and edged with
narrow fur. The skirt is a plain round one, ol
plaid, with brown and amber lines on dark red
ground, and made short. Tunic draped low on
hips : back drapery in pleated i olds caught up at
one side. A morning costume, suitable for
luncheon, is of lino peacock cloth checked with
brown, the habit-cut bodice having a waistcoat,
lappels, and turnback cuffs of plain peacock cloth.
Vest terminates just above the waist line. Plain
front to skirt, with several narrow horizontal
pleats at each side, and one broad boxpleat behind.
The artistically draped tunic falls in along, low
point on the left side of the skirt
“ Broken, broken,” low she sigh’d,
“ May Heaven forgive your sin 1”
“ Whatl your dear heart!” the masher cried—
“ No fear ! my crinoline I”
....Brindeau, the fop, had a costume for every
kind of game that he shot at. One day, when out
with a shooting party, the Duke of Orleans drew
his attention to a hare, suggesting that ho should
fire. “I cannot, monsignor,” said Brindeau, “I
sm in my partridge t0i1et.”.... An interesting Lon-
don bride this season is Miss Nina Lehmann, whose
beautiful dream face was one of Millais’ earliest
and best successes in painting some years ago. She
takes Doth literature and art (as well as beauty) to
the home of her husband, Sir Guy Campbel 1, as she is
grand-daughter of the famous Chambers brothers,
and daughter of Mr. F. Lehmann, whoso house is a
museum of art treasures.... Tho frontispiece of
tho Queen’s new book is a portrait of Her Majesty,
and in tho course of the volume are portraits of
Princeeses Christian, Louise, and Beatrice; of Lady
Churchill, the late General Grey, John Grant,
and John Brown. The book also contains a
great number of woodcuts. Mudie places 1500
copies in circulation among his subscribers....
Another subscription ball was given in Noumea on
the 19 th March. These balls seem to be a great
success. Although the heat was intonse, all
appeared to enjoy themsalvos As usual, Mrs. A.
was handsomely dressed—White waistcoats are
almost universal now in evening costume among
the London “Johnnies.” 80 men wear black ones.
Miss Mary Anderson attends mass every Sun-
day morning in London, at the Carmelite uhapel,
Kensington. There has been an enormous increase
in the congregation.... Every woman has little
points about her face and figure which she knows
all women observe, but which, she has learned by
experience, men seldom notice. When womei are
chatting together, they refer to any unfortunate
blemish in quite an ordinary way, but they never
mention them to men, for fear of drawing atten-
tion to the defect Tho characteristics of sex
are stroDg in the animal kingdom also. Such a
thing as a “ lady ” bird giving in to her lord has
never been known.. The newest London waltz is
the Liebestraum, composed by quite a young girl...
To stop tho practice of “pairing off,” whicli is
done sometimes by some people in such a way as
to annoy others, all the loose chairs at a recent
London ball were secured t< gether in groups of
four, five, or six. Or, as a disconsolate youth re-
marked to bis pretty partner, they were tied to-
gether in all numbers except twos A remarkably
pretty dress at a ball was of seagreen satin, cut
low, with puffed sleeves, and all edged with a tulle
ruche studded with sea-shells matching the skirt.
Coral flowers and seaweed were also worn. The
fan was the new roundhand screen shape made of
flat green feathers with a spiky edge—the whole
conception being most prettily suggestive of one
of Neptune’s daughters Another idea worthy of
Worth, or Wilde, was this: a very fair girl in all
black tulle, and her bright blonde wavy hair
covered with fronds of maidenhair fern. Simpli-
city at its best... Barn urn’s celebrated “white” ele-
phant wasnotwhite at all, butakindof ashengray.
... The Princess of Wales rides on the “ off ” side of
her horse, owing to the chronic injury to her knee.
William Montgomery, of Piatt City (D.S.), pro-
mised to marry pretty Alice Cowper, but altered
his mind. However, Miss Cowper’s uncle got a
marriage-license and a gun, and attended by a
number of friends waited on William, and offered
him the option of completing the little transaction
with Alice, or occupying a sequestered nook in
the neighbouring cemetery. William took the
girl, and the wedding was performed on the spot,
while forty men, each armed with a shot-gun,
formed the bridal procession. ..The ladies of New
York like to dine at Delmonico’s, not for the per-
fection of its cuisine, but for the unblushing enor-
mity of its incomparable price-list. Your genuine
New Yorker adores expense Worth will not put
scissors on the cheapest labric for a dress under £5O.
Original editions of Burns's poems were lately
sold for £3O and £5l respectively. £l3 was paid lor
an incomplete autograph letter of his to K. Ainslie,
and £4O was given for tho MS. of “Holy Willie’s
Prayer,” The wedding-dress of Princess Yictona
of Hesse is to be made in Dublin, of iinest Irish
poplin. Poplin is made of woollen thread mixed
with silk, which stands wear better than pure
silk, and neither sun nor damp affects it.


The Referee.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC HEMS.
Thirty-five bookmakers registered by the
Hawkesbury R.C. They’re not quite “chawed
up ” this trip.
The Carlotta was out on Saturday under
pleasure rig—or, as the “ jaynil ” would put it, like
an eagle with its wings clipped.
The Newcastle people say they have been
saving a “dark one” for Hanlan. But this is no-
thing new. The grimy citizens are used to supply-
ing “dark ones” by the ton.
Bubear, the English sculler, has in front
of his pub. at Putney a gas lamp, with the words
“George Bubear, champion of England.” Since
his defeat by Ross this lamp post is no doubt for
sale cheap.
The remains of Captain Webb were finally
interred at Oakfleld Cemetery, Suspension Bridge,
A a tfea*t
7? %ffox/n -
, /z>.* 4J '-*/■*. *{£
S/>rc r>V3/iF CSfAj/yr*
fi'f.,' Tak'K
' ' ft),.
4 DXbP 1
Ttff Srs&foPTteou -o- &*%***>* iuP ~ c
Mr
f a ten ft
rj' fP m s
“o/ //■ y& u °* L y
CouL t> MAKr up yaup
M/nd to tvta p. tMp
JhiN 7?/B f
\
■7l. cjo tv/ TAey Imencavj
<¥>osr/e o/ gibbon,
<r A ort/y & e
S/n a ser> ts of /e-nj^eruvce
vc-rS’cej j v Strata.
/*fr GeoTh Sa.yj j4j/ier u\
folding my Jbfan i to Me fee +e
Mty of a Con. olon t'em.foer-
ft-nee doeiety ancj. /effing
hr tea t I fuel flmenea.
Tie houfif iii f/sf cf our n ufon
Me tn hie jv-tth. a rAumfi Cfot
>nacle earthing Jurn/o, <V-
Cra im i njf 'you. ta,ffr file a
foot" r~ <2)00M., / ‘ °
//s/VRy Xt&tff
/s/f 71 osh ONd'Cotf'H' Color 7b
df/YSXXDyoi/SAvsoy * •»
’7 me? hr/7 A a. irary Cofcl
Ce/>t> o 7i in •
’ 7ft y Con.c///,un s >*-«»*
>n.y
9rroct a ytftxi </
r
Some Blue Ribbon Flutterings.
N.Y., on January 10. Mrs. Webb has secured a
?:ood position as bookkeeper in a wholesale bakery
n Boston.
Granny stated last week that at a meet-
ing of the ’Frisoo Olympic Athletic Club, J.
Masterson ran 75 yards in 7 minutes 45 seconds.
This is the slowest of the many slow items Granny
manages to get hold of.
In England, the greyhound Snowflight,
daughter of Bothal Park and CuriOßifcy, the winner
of tne Waterloo Cup in 1882, and the runner up to
Wild Mint for the event last j ear, was disposed of
to Mr. Fawcett for 600 gs.
We were pleased to see Mr. “ Jack ” Want
looking so muoh at home at the tiller of the Sea
Breeze on Saturday last. We understand Mr.
Want, in addition to the purchase of the Mignon-
ette, is having a 32-toDner built.
Z Weiss, on March 8, gave, or rather attempted
to give, a New Zealand biiliardist named M’Kenzle
000 points out of 1000. The local man won, with
127 to spare. Weiss’ principal breaks were 75, 74,
without a spot, and 67 (18 spots).
The fifteen oolts v. a senior eleven com-
menced on Saturday last on tho Association
Grfcket Ground. The eleven were all disposed of
for 168 (H. Moses 20, H. Hiddleston 16; Gregory
18, T. Nunn 37, C. Turner 46), and the colts lost 4
wickets for 4 runs. The game will be continued
next Saturday.
At the Glen Innes Agricultural Show, J.
■ M’Master’s Blair Gowrie, by Yattendon —Lady
I Blair took the blue ribbon for blood stock:
and Fletcher’s horse, ridden by Mrs. Gillies, was
awarded the prize for best ladies’ hack.
The Newcastle R.C. regatta came off on
SaturdayJast, when the black north-easter played
havoc with the racing craft. Maitland won the
maiden fours, the Sydney crew, when leading by
any number of lengths, being swamped by a
steamer s wash.
Count Frederick de Lagrange, in spite of
his large winnings on the turf In France and
England, died over four millions of francs in debt.
The sale of all his property will fail to meet this
enormous demand. Count de Lagrange owed Mr.
Jennings, his Newmarket trainer, £2OOO when he
died.
At Grafton, Williams alias Turner was
disqualified for second prize in connection with
tho Rush Handioap. The second prize was awarded
W. Gulliford, and the third divided between R.
Layton and W. EggiDS, who came in fourth and
fifth, but the first of whom could not be deter-
mined.
The Croydon-Osborne match for the
Junior Cup resulted in a win for the latter club by
yoruns. The scores were: Osbornes, Ist innings, 97
(Mitchelson 18. Williams 20, Cook 17. Cowcher23);
fWfflfiw. 22, Lucas 12); Cioydons Ist,
J 4 (M'Cartby 67, Hall 19); Second, 29; Evers
highest with 10.
In Colorado (U. 8.), Slade, the Maori pugi-
list, was locked up for being drunk and disorderly,
with some 45 other drunks. Towards morning
Slade commenced to suffer a recovery, and he
went for the 45. By the time he was finished with
them, he was the only man in the cage who hadn’t
a damaged peeper.
Lancefield (Vic.) annual races, Thursday
JP^te: Soldier Bey 1, Kingston 2,
Tnrn?Jfi2. e <?* Plate: Brunette 1, Liberty 2,
Hill Talk 3. District Race: Soldier Boy 1, Honey
ui£^ g « orth a* Bancetield Handicap: Liberty 1,
Blink Bonny 2. Handicap Hurdle: Mary West 1,
Andover 2, Deoeivor 8.
The Morpeth Regatta people have offered
a £5O prize for all comers. In 1878 a four-oared
race was left open at this regatta, and the pool was
duly scooped by a crew from the Sydney M.R.C.
•Binco then, the Morpeth Regatta carefully bars
metropolitan oarsmen.
Notwithstanding the alleged weeding out of
the ’orn v ’anded from the Balmain R.C., it seems the
Balmainiacs cannot part with their old love with-
out a struggle. From all accounts their represen-
tatives at the Woolloomooioo regatta were
• manual labour ” men.
Says aU.S. paper:—“John L. Sullivan is a
strong man and a conqueror of men, but, alas! ho
cannot conquer himself. Whisky will knock him 1
out, unless a pistol, ia the hands of an officer of the
tho law or an outraged citizen, docs it more
speedily and effectively.”
Taking one consideration with another,
tho latter day English prize-fighter’s life is not a
hanpy one. After the recent Goodson-England
fight, the principals were eaoh sentenced to two
months’ imprisonment, together with a fine of £lO
and ordered to enter into recognisances to keep
the peace for six months.
At Albury, the crioket match between
Parliamentary and Albury elevens resulted in an
easy win for the yokels, we mean the locals.
Albury scored 226 (C, Dight 77. C. Warden 110) and
the slang slingers made 172 (Target 26, Puxves 48,
M’Quado 25, Smith-not R. 8.-21).
Mr. Kent, the well-known Queensland
breeder, baa christened his promising filly (ihe full
sister of Is» Grand) “ Lady Bell,” and one of hiß
best colts “ Sir Joshua.” And if the cattle are as
good as the worthy pair they are called after,
there s another big time in store for Queensland.
The ensuing athletic season should prove
lively in England, as the Yankees intend set ding
over a quintette of amateurs, consisting of i .E.
Myers, A. Waldron, Harry Fredericks, and T.
Delaney, runners; and FrankP. Murray, champion
walker. From all accounts, George has recove) ed
his old form, apd should pt ovea hard nut to crpc'k
The second heat (half-mile) of the cham-
pionship swimming contest between A. T. Kennv
®P.£, W. MHndoe, came off in the Ship Baths, St.
Kilda, Vic., on Saturday afternoon, and resulted
m a win for Kenny by 6 yards, in 14 minutes 8
seconds. Kenny received the stakes and now
Holds the t tie of champion swimmer of Australia.
In England the celebrated mare Caller Ou
died reoently at a ripe eld age, for she won the
L .*yt er 23 yeara ago, which tells us she was 26 years
old. She made her name on the turf by her sensa-
tional victory in the St. Leger, when starting at 66
to 1 she wore down and beat the Derby winner
Kettledrum by a short head. At the stud Caller
Ou can hardly be said to have neen a succi m
although her son Koysterer won the City ami
Suburban this year in Lord Rosebery’s colours.
Edward Trickett’s friends, at the last
moment, came to the conclusion that it would nfit
be a good thing fer him to show his hands to tbA
Canadian at the Manly show last Saturday. Of
course there is no truth in the rumour that the
management” offered Australian Ned a tender
for bis afternoon's services, which he did not think
good enough. *
The very latest style of evading the
Sweep ” Suppression Act is the issuing of news-
paper coupons, a £lO prize being offered for t,h«
correct naming of the treble. Out of 10,000 who
sent in for the last Victorian Newmarket, Cup, and
Champion, not one guess was right. The nearest
up was Malua, Morpeth, and Commotion. Coupon*
are evidently paying spnos., for some one.
At the recent Wellington Jockey Club
meet, Mr. John Lee’s Zingari was backed at 3 to i
on her to win the double, which she did with th«
groatest ease. This is probably the first time a
horse has started at such odds in this ooloDy. The
same mare won the double a few days before at
Orange. In future, the Wellington handicanner
would do well to keep his weights dark until the
Orange meet la 6Ver, as ftfi this occasion zingari
met some of the horses she had previously beaten
at 0 range at a few pounds advantage on the track
at Wellington. Ana, as a matter of course, scratch-
ing became the order of the day.
The following are the best heats of the
foremost pacers and trotters in the States, re-
spectively, during 1883:—Johnston 2min. lOsec.;
Buffalo Girl, 2min. 12Usec.; Richball, 2min. 12i4sec.,-
Flora Belle, 2min 13%8e0.; Fuller, 2min. 13%sec.;
Jem, 2min. 13*)4sec.; Jay-Eye-See, 2min. Kmsee.;
Pballas, 2min. lSUsec.; Trinket, 2min. ISsec.;
Wilson, 2min. lessee.; St. Julien, 2min.
Majolica, etc., 2min. 17seo.
An American paper says that when Mulj
doon had a sporting gymnasium in New York,
Bauer staggered into the place one night half seek
over. Re had an argument with Muldoon, and
said he could throw him as fast- as he could take
hold. Both men stripped, and Bauer threw Mul-
doon twice, in less time than it takes to relate the
affair. Bauer is the man with whom our William
Miller had such terrific bouts. v *
Mr. W. Oope, the energetic captain of th®
Sydney Rowing Club, was entertained at the club
shed prior to his departure by the City of Sydney
for a twelve months’ pleasure trip to America and
Europe. Mr. P. J. Clark will aot as captain during


p
ÜBLIG NOTICE,
J. TURNER ROBINSON k CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
lata 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET)
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
08. TWO DOORS NORTH 07 OLD BHCJ?
WeakNuisMen
Whose ilcblllty, exhausted
powers, premature decay
and failure to perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vleorons manhood in
TH? WIARSTON BOLUS.
stomach drugging nor
instruments. 1 his treatment of
Nervous Debility and
DhyslcalDecayisuniformly
successful because bnsrd on porfoct diagnosis,
new and direct method* and absolute thor.
otinthiies*. Full information and Treatiso free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDYCO., 62Castlere&gh St., Sydney
Finest cigarettes, finest cigarettes
ARK
VANITY FAIR VANITY FATR
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR,
Manufactured by W. S. KIMBALL and CO.,
Rochester. U. .A.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(limited)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
Offices: 42 KINO STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS. WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay,
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONG
BAttKABOOL
BUIiWAH
CHEVIOT
DERWENT
EDINA
GABO
BALMAIN
GEELONG
KEILAWAKRA
KONOOWARRA
LKITRA
MORETON
RODONDO
YOU YANGB.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (limited),
42 Kins: Street, Sydney.
ARIIFIf.IAL TEFTH
W' i oM.tedfirst q"ality
v Oiar^PSiliictly AiO> l . , <aie
MARSHALL BROI HERS
Surgem iogmarkei s T e.
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
The practice of PAINLESS DENTIBTRY is
o rried on by the aid of a larpre and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction by
anesthetics.
□Tlxe ISoliafble 23u.grg“Ies!
PROCURABLB ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
HT BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 24i Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
THE SPECIAL GLUB BIGYGLE
FOR 1884,
Is ahead of all
Competitors.
\
OUR BICYCLES have the
LARGEST SALE, and give
the Beet Satisfaction, off
any machines made.
Our Prices the Lowest.
W" Our Terms are the
Easiest, and our sys-
tem of business en-
sures perfect satisfac-
tion eyery customer.
Write to us,
OR
Call on us
JaiesMLAJRiTXN' & comp Y. t
W 389 GEORGE STREET) SYDNEY (Opposite Royal Hotel).
Mr. Cope's absence. Mr. “ Pat ” Simpson, another
member of the S.R.C., who proved himself in bis
day a crack runner and prood oarsman, also leaves
us for six months on the “ Continong.
Daniel O’Leary and Charles H. Harriman
are (retting: ready for another six-days' walk in
Ban Pranoisoo. Between Daniel and his crowd and
Harriman and his crowd, the Frisooites are having
a rough time of it, and oertainly deserve to be
Ditied. By the way. our only Edwards isin Frisoo,
and one of the local papers advises himto take
the opportunity of going to New York. We gave
him exactly the same advice some months ago.
Bale (Vio.) T.C. Races, 19th and 20th March
Northern Light won the Maiden Plate; Ned Kelly
appropriatedJthe Handicap Hurdle Race; David
scored a win in the Junior Stakes ; Fryingpan
carried off the Bale Handicap, and Mameluke did
ditto in the Selling Race. The second day’s racing
opened with the Glppsland Derby, which was won
by Ditto; Merri won the Selling Hurdles; Iron-
hand took the Campbell Plate; the Steeplechase
fell to Friendless, and Primus made a win of the
AU-aged Stakes.
The Presbyterian is mad because Sydney
gave Hanhm such an enthusiastic reception, and,
i commenting on the demonstration, predicts
that the number who shall turn out to welcome
Bishop Barry will be much smaller than that
which attended the triumphant entry of the great
oarsman. Very likely. Had Bishop Barry desired
popularity in this world, he should have made
himself a sculler instead of a scholar. The wor d
is weary of the scholarship which is devoted only
to the upholding of creed, and would prefer to
honour the exceptional development of muscle for
the honest acquisition of “greed.”
Charley Marlow, the English jookey, who
died recently in England, was the hero of many a
hard-fought battle in the pigskin. It was Marlow
that rode Flying Dutchman in the Derby and St.
Leger of 1849, Catherine Hayes in the Oaks of
1853. Elthiron in the first City and Suburban of 1801,
K'ng Oole in the Chester Cup of 1838, Bishop of
Romford’s Cob in the Royal Hunt Cup of 1844, Van
Tromp in the Goodwood Cup of 1848, and the Ascot
Gold Cup of 1849, and the Goodwood Stakes on
Chanticleer in 1848. Poor Marlow also rode Flying
Dutchman in the memorable matoh against Vol-
tigenr at York in 1851, when the attendance on
Knavesmire was supposed to have represented an
unequalled crowd, so far as that racecourse is con-
cerned.
Hanlan’s show at Manly on Saturday last
brought together upwards of 8000 people. The
champion rowed in front of Bob Edwards over a
three-mile course; stood up and rocked his boat;
pulled with both sculls on one side of the boat,
rowing with on© and steering with the other;
walked the waters with a pair of iron canoes on
his feet; and carried th© Granny man by storm
with the wonderful feats of oarrying his boat to
the water and getting into it without assistance—
but, considering the boat in question only weighs
39ft., and the Shark Islander performed the same
feat pretty well every day of the many years he
resided on the Island, we can’t see any more
“pints” about Hanlan doing it than any other
man. Young Goatley showed up in the new out-
rigger turned out for him by his father. The
youngster shapes w°ll, and should he not overdo
it before he sets, we ought to hear more of him in
the sweet by and bye.
What a little handling will do with a boat
was further demonstrated at the Woolloomooloo
Bay Regatta, when the Adelphi ran away from the
Viotor and Lottie ; and the old “ Beaky ” finished
some minute and a half ahead of the Sao. So far
as amateur-sailed open-boat races are concerned,
the regatta oommittees might well take into con-
sideration the advisability of restricting to work-
ing sails as the crews are utterly helpless in
anything like a breeze, with racing sails, as wit-
nessed on Saturday when the well-handled Adelphi
finished alone, the crack boats, Victor and Lottie,
being ashamed to show their noses round the
Flagship, so far were they astern of the winner;
and the Victor still further humiliated herself by
running clean out of sight after the termination
of the race. In connection with th© yacht race,
Mr. Stephens did not carry off the prize, but, to
finish with the old Australian so far ahead of the
©rack modern clipper, the Sao, cariles with it more
kudos than a dozen ordinary victories.
We understand Willian Beach has stated
that h© will not pull on the Nepean unless on
equal terms with Hanlan, and it is to be hoped the
Dapto man will keep to his word. Should he score
another victory over Trickett on the 12th April,
in the name or Fortune what interest can attach
to a race between the loser and Hanlan. Those
who ought to know, you know, state that the
Canadian is to receive £l5OO win or lose, and his
opponent, who wilt bs Trickett if Beach is man
enough to stick to his word, will receive all the
stakes, if he wins, and something will be done for
him if he loses—a rather poor look-out it strikes
us. Had our scullers held out for their rights,
Hanlan would have had to pull them on equal
terms, but it seems they have played—or, at least,
one of them has-into the hands of gate-money
hunters and land jobbers. The Parramatta River
is the champion course of Australia, and as long as
Laycock and Beach stick out for a genuine conte: t
for the championship on it, it matters little if our
seoond-ciass men oonsent to a little hippodroming
on the Nepean. Of course Hanlan came out here
to make money, and as he is far and away the
biggest star in his line of business, he is quite justi-
fied in asking Star’s terms, so far as exhibitions are
concerned, but if any pretensions to a champion-
ship struggle attach to the affair, we are certainly
of opinion the men should start on an equality.
Notwithstanding the Manly counter-attrao
tion on Saturday last, the Woolloomooloo Bay
Regatta people had nothing to complain about on
the soore of attendance, as the Hallowe’en was full
to the utmost of her deck capacity, and the people
were packed like sardines on the foreshores of the
Bay. The Sao, with a two-minutes’ handicap, won
the all-yachts, from the Australian, scratch, the
latter finishing 1 min. 57 sec. ahead of her opponent.
The Florrie cam? in first for the over 20 ft. half-
deckers; the Winsradee, scratch, beat the lanthe,
3 min., for the 20 ft. and under half-deckers;
J. Langley aud J. Read won the maiden double-
Beull8: The Bronte, scratch, won the 20 ft. anti up-
wards open-boat handicap; The Adelphi ran away
with the 24 ft. race; Brett had a walk-over for the
senior sculls; the men-o’-warsmen race was won
by a Nelson crew: the Ouidawon the 16ft. dingy
raoe: the young Victar proved the best 14-footer.
The Dawn made an easy win of the canvas dingy
flutter; KtUigrew and Yates had a row over for
youths under 18, double sculls; A. Martin, feather,
defeated C. Messenger, 561 b., for the all-comers'
handicap; and the Vernon boys had a raoe, which
was carried off by the 12-nared cutter. A stiff
north-esster blew during the afternoon, which
made the oourse heavy for the pulling races 1"
light oraf t, which resulted in rows oyer in every
instance except the all-comers’ race, and in that
event two boats out of the four starters filled.
Here is an item that is just now going the
rounds of the colonial press " Two flve-shilling-
pieces were found on the person of a man who
was recently arrested for some offence in London.
The coins wore hollowed out, and in each hollow
there was a mirror, and while they were lying on
the table, at an angle of 45deg., behind a stack of
coin in front of the dealer, he could see every card
held! by his opponents.” In the first place, we
want to toll our brethren that those little contri-
vances are known amongst the betting fraternity
as “American Shiners.’ Their purpose is to
enable the dealer to see the cards ne deals out to
his opponents, but it is not true that “ while lying
at an angle of 45degs, behind a stack of coin
in front of the dealer, he could see every
card held by the other players.” He oould
see th© oards as they came off the pack, but
no “shiner-player” ever attempts to keep
track of more than two hands, and seldom of more
than one. In fact, there are but few intellects
capable of keeping stock of two hands in the run
fcf a deal. The greatest card-reader that ever
lived, a Mr. Harris, who read “ markers ” from
the backs, was able only to remember and pro
/Perly looate the oards in three hands at poker; an d \
'mis early death from brain fever was attributed to
the tttess upon his intellect occasioned by this
sort of effoit. We mention Mr. Harris’ case as a
warning to our brethren, many of whom e>i-
dently write their paragraphs with a “Bhiner”
that is focussed on the Bulletin office.
The Portuguese have a grand idea of
cricket. The Lisbon Journal says“ To-morrow
there was to have come off an interesting game of
cricket between the cricket clubs of Lisbon and
Oporto. The object of the formation of these
societies is the playing of the game of cricket-
match, an active, running, driving, jumping
game, which only can be plaved by a person hav-
ing a good pair of legs, and in a climate where
warmed punch is found insufficient to keep up the
animal heat. Docs the reader know how to play a
game at cricket-match ? Two posts are placed at
a great distance from one another. The player,
close to one of the posts, throws a large ball to-
wards tho other party, who awaits the ball to send
it far with a small stick with which he is armed.
The other players then run to look after the ball,
and while this search is going on, the party who
struck it with the stick runs incessantly from post
to post, marking one for each run. It is plain,
then, that it is to the advantage of the party who
strikes the ball to make it jump very far. Some-
times it tumbles into a thicket, ana the players
t'ke hours before they can get hold of it: and all
this time the player does not cease running from
post to post and marking points. Then those who
find tho ball arrive exhausted at the field of battle,
and the one who has been running falls down hair
dead. At other times the projectile sent with a
vigorous arm cannot be stopped, and breaks tho
legs of the party who awaits it. The arrangements
for the cricket match inolude a sumptuous dinner
in the marquee for fifty persons—an indispensable
accompaniment to every cricket match." Wo
should like Alick Bannerman’s opinion of the
Portuguese.
Mr. Slogger Sullivan has not created a
good impression in ’Frisco, During a sei-to be-
tween Sullivan and Taylor the first round was
rather rapid and the hitting hard while it lasted*
but Moran, the master of ceremonies, perhaps re-
senting the appearance of empty benches, cut it
short at 35see. Round two waa only allowed to
last 30seo. Considerable comment was made at
the shortness of these and tho succeeding round,
which culminated in open expressions of disap-
proval in tho wind-up. Sullivan went at Taylor
rapidly, hitting hard, and everyone appeared
pleased, but at the expiration of less than 30sec.
Moran suddenly called time and waved the men
apart. This apparent Intention to slight the spec-
tators, as unworthy of an ordinary display exhi-
bition, as it was, called forth loud and prolonged
hisses from all parts of the house. Steve Taylor,
his mouth bleeding and one eye darkened, left the
stage in a passton, remarking as he passed the
music-stand: “If any of you fellows want to see
some more, get up in front of Sullivan your-
selves.” It would have been wiser for Sullivan
if he had retired in as good order as Taylor, but in-
stead of leaving the stage, and choosing to believe
that the hisses were intended for him instead of
Moran, he walked to the ropes and said savagely:
“You fellows aint got no right to hiss. I did the
best I dared. Them as hissed are a lot of loafers,
they are: and any man as hissed and dares say so,
I’ll give him a slap in the jaw. I’m sorry I can t
give every gent here the pleasure of seeing me
knock out someone, but there ai"t no one to
knook out, and the polioo won’t allow it. I’m a
frentleman, I am, and them as hissed are a lot of
oafers.” It is needless to say no one showed up
for the proferred slap in the jaw.
Charles G. Breed, of the Lynn (Mass.)
Y.M.C. Association, stands sft. 10 1-5 in., weighs
13st. 2ib., and his physical measurements are: Chest
(natural), 40Min.; waist, 35 14-16 in.; upper arm,
15in.: lower arm, 12 7-16 in.; thigh, 2416 in.: calf,
15 9-16 in. He has the following wonderful record:
July 17, 1882-Put on shoulder from the floor a
barrel of flour, weighing 220®. July 31, 1882—Put
up from shoulder to arm's length a 31b dumbbell
1110 times without rest. Dec. 2, 1882—With right
hand alone lifted a dumb-bell fairly from
the floor 7600 times in lh. 30min. Dec. 7, 1882—Put
up a 101 b. dumb-bell 2150 times in an hour. Dec. 25,
1882—Lifted on neck, while bending over, with
hands on knees, 3201 b. Jan. 29, 1883—Lifted from
the floor with one hand a 1551 b. dumb-bell 1000
times, in 29min. 30sec. April 14, 1878—Lifted from
the floor with one hand a barrel of flour, weighing,
with fixtures, 2201 b., 175 times in ten minutes.
May 23,1883—With Prof. George A. Walker, super-
intendent of the Y.M.C.A. gymnasium at Lynn,
lifted clear of the floor an iron safe weighing
1510®;, according to the city weigher. Nov. 10,
1883—Put up a 50®. dumb-bell from shoulder to
arm’s length above head sixty times in succession,
beating the previously best reoord—fifty-eight
times, by G. M. Robinson, the noted Californian
athlete. Dec. 19, 1883—On a wager with a friend,
who kept the score and expressed himself satisfied
that all was correct, he put up a 3®. dumb-bell
from shoulder to arm’s length six thousand times,
without rest, in exactly an hour, being an average
of 100 times per minute. Breed says that he has
put up with each hand, separately, a dumb-bell
weighing 135®.; put up a 166®. bell with the right
hand, receiving assistance at tho start from the
left hand; put up a 100®. bell twelve times in suc-
cession, and a 75®. bell twenty-five times without
stoppage.
Pir James Ingham,Bow street senior 1 beak”
decided that tne Park Club is a gaming-house,
and fined Jenks, the proprietor, and four of the
members of tho committee £5OO each, and three of
the members charged £lOO eaoh. The decision is
to be appealed against. The police informed Jenks
that a warrant had been obtained against him, and
that it would be served if baccarat were continued
at his club. After consulting his legal advisers,
he notified the police that, being informed that
his club was not an illegal one, baccarat would
still be played. During the nights on which bacca-
rat was played, by a sort of agreement with the
police, 150 members played, but only 59 were sum-
moned, and of these only four members of the com-
mittee were fined, and only three members of the
club who had played, whilst it was stated in Court
that peers, baronets, and other eminent personages
were members of thec'ub. The first baocarat club
in London was the Corinthian, opened fifteen years
ago. This was followed by the opening of the
London and County Club, the Civil and Military
Club, the Arlington Club, the Cavendish Club, and
the Stratford Club. All these were proprietary
baccarat clubs, and died a natural death. They
were succeeded by the New Lotus Club, the Cercle
des Nations, the Argus Club, and the St. Andrew’s
Club, all in full blast when proceedings were com-
menced against the Park Club. The operations of
these baccarat clubs are on a contemptible scale
compared with the gambling at Crockford’s, sixty
years ago. In 182 i there were two “clubs” in
London where Frenoh-hazard was played with a
nightly bank of £lO,OOO, and with stakes of from
10s. to £2CO. A million of money was often
“ turned " in one night at Crockford’s. The net
profits of the season were £150,000; the weekly
expenses £lOOO. Ude presided over the kitchen
for several vears. The waiters always received a
Christmas-box of £lOOO, and £5OO was given to the
Steward. Belore Crockford’s was started there
was very high play at Wattier’s, at Btookes’, and at
White’s.
“Pendragron,” of the Referee, must have
received a big knock over Ross’s defeat of Bubear.
“Pen.” evidently thought England had a chance
of regaing her lost position on the water, through
Bubear, judging from the rather gushing account
of his rowing in the Elliott match. “ Peadragon ”
says:—“Poor old Elliott was scrambling away as
hard as ever, but his stroke was now extremely
short and snatchy, while Bubear was exhibiting
more style than ever. Indeed, now that he had
got his man safe, he seemed determined to show
what style, and style alone, could do. All the way
up Horse Reach, past the Bull's Head, and under
the railway bridge, he could not have been rowing
more than twenty strokes a minute, while Elliott
still kept on at more than thirty. Notwithstand-
ing this, tne half-dozen lengths which separated
them as they first came into sight were in no way
diminished when the prooesslon passed us.
And it was a prooession! First came Bubear,
rowing in tho most leisurely manner, and
reminding everybody of Hanlan. If any-
i thing, he was more Hanlany than Hanlan.”
And further on, “ On the latest show, Ross should
not be able to give Bubear 10 sec. start—that is,
providing he has any intention of winning. Whe-
ther he has or not, no one would care to say just
now. If he goes on with the engagement, he is
either a very bold man or—well, something of quite
another kind. SulHcient now will it be to warn
readers not to be in too much of a hurry to bet on
this match. It would be a magnificent thing for
us to know that we had at last developed a man
capable of utilising to their fullest extent the latest
improvements in rowing machinery. Such a man
is bound to be developed somewhere and at some
time. If Hanlan were always to remain in front,
the entire history of athletios will be set at naught.
Some day he will be beaten, if he only keeps on
long enough—and why not by Bubear, as well as
by any other man ? It would be considerably to
Bubear’s interest were he to beat Ross in the
coming match. If he did, the rowing public might
subscribe a big stake for him to row Ross again
upon even terms, and after that, in the event of
his being successful, to row Hanlan.” The fact of
“Pen." taking a man up seems quite sulficient to
set him down, and vice versa. He made a dead set
at Laycock, and the Shark Islander scooped the
pool.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Mr. G. G. Stead, the well-known New
Zealand sportsman, has advertised the whole
cf his horses in training Sir William Clarke
has given the following names to yearlings
bred at Ruperts-wood : Colt by Bordeaux
from Kate, “ Chablis ” ; colt by Bordeaux,
from Petrea, “ Sauvignon ” filly by Defoe,
from Tern, “Condor”—Martin Power, of
Gympie, has issued a challenge to box any one of
his weight in Australia. Power is a pupil of our
own Larry Foley....Hanian has come to the
colonies just in time for "the last rows of sum-
mer”. ...Coates C.C. scored 82 to Hornsly C.C. 87 oh
Saturday last at Paaramatta, the latter club thus
winning by live runs The Corlo v. University,
second match, resulted in a draw much in favour
of the former club. Hoare put together 59, and
Melly 40.
• ■ •
Lord Norrey’s shed and stables, near Ox-
ford (Eng.), were burnt on January 23, with 14
valuable horse*. Sir Bevys, the winner of the
Derby in 1879, was saved In England, W. Goode
and P. Perry recently fought in the old style lor
£5O, the former winning, after 33 rounds had been
fought, in the short spaoe of 52mln Charles
Beckwith, a younger brother of Willie's, issbes
a challenge to swim any man in the woild,
bar two, a mile, for £lOO or £2OO a side. The two
barred are, of course, his brother and Finney....
The death of James M'Leavy, a native of Alexan-
dria, Scotland, well known in sporting circles as a
long-distance runner, took place in tne Royal In-
firmary, Glasgow, last month. M‘Leavy, who was
for a number of years the ohamplon mile runner
of the world, entered the hospital some months
ago, on his return from America, where his health
broke down.. The ‘‘Gentlemen of Philadelphia ”
is the style of the team who are going to England
in May to teach the old idea how to play orfeket.
The players have been selected from tne Young
Amerioa, Merrion, and Belmont Clubs. No pro-
fessional is included in the team, nor will any pro-
fessional play against! t.


F URNITURE SHOW ROOM 8.
BRADLEY. VKWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Sorinc streets, Sydney.
Hall furniturel hatstands, p'nd
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
Library furniture, centre amfsiDß
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites,"’ Fn Exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c 7
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley!
Newton, and Lamb.
lURNITURE.—THE LARGEST STOCK IN
THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
MB, O’Connell-stre&t.
E
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &o.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
ini ight-pound Bedro.om suites.-tEo
ITI Eoonomio Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 30s*
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
eases, fram 355; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s 6d; Tables, from 7s 6d; Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 255; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
1
£
i)
PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
oWOU strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
VERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
O
CCASIO
Tapestry,
NsfcftTABLES, elegantly
try, Einbroidery, Plush, &c
finished in
f'NHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O Connell-street.
Easy occasional chairs, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
ThRA WING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
JLF A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d.
CM AIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
TOILET PAIRS, namelj
with swing GLASS
marble top, 80s the pair.
DRESSING-TABLE,
and WASHSTAND,
■- ■ — ——- —■ ——patent
screw and two leaves ; LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
INTNG TABLES, with patent extending
sorew, from 5 feet long and up to 30 feet.
D
HAMMOCK CHAIR-
Patented.
afc
This cfaair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice verm, at the will oi
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in it*
construction; works automatically. Mb above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and wift: but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of fhe body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
and LAMB (only).
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
Frame work for drawing-room s uites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
IRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
TURE, Handsome m and Massive, _ in Oak,
F
Will
LAMB.
B
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING. —All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTt)N, and LAMB, oWn
nell-street.
WASHSTANDB, with marble, 35s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah Chairs,
, INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
B" ENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A
Assortment; best make, lowest prices.
SOCIAL
There are three supremely important
events in the worldly career of most people, and
In two of them, at least, the prosence of woman
is absolutely indispenslble. Even in tho third
(Treat crisis, woman, to her infinite eredit be it, is
generally both first and last with the solace of her
saintlike ministrations at the time of need. But
when it is one of the earlier and happier events
that enlists her sympathies and necessitates her
presence, who would venture to describe the pas-
sionate enthusiasm that agitates her gentle breast
as she hastens to the scene of action. Why the
marriage ceremony should bo fraught with such
irresistible fascination to the whole female sex, is a
problem with which no male mind has ever yet
successfully coped: and wondering, blundering
man seeks for the reason in vain. The ladies
themselves, when questioned on the point, give no
satisfactory answer. They only smile sweetly. To
almost every woman, the time spent before tho
church altar in her bridal white, is an hour of
triumph. Even in ordinary circumstances, then,
if ever, joy creeps through her veins. It would
be idle to pretend that wealth and beauty,
splendour and fashion, do not enhance the proud
pleasure of the occasion. There was great interest
in Miss Marie Levey’s wedding, and a great seek-
ing for tickets of admission, for it was expected
to be grand. Outside the residence of the bride’s
parents, in Wynyard Square, a crowd gathered to
catch a glimpse as she passed to the carraigo.
At the Great Synagogue, from the time the doors
opened, a stream of dressy ladies poured in till the
building was full to its utmost nook. Bevies of
girls, with faces aglow in anticipatory pleasure,
trouped up Elizabeth-street from overy direction,
and very pretty and summery some of them
looked. “Ah ! do let us in without ticket®,
please,” was the wistful pleading we heard
at the gates from pouting lips ; and the
dry old doorkeeper must have been ada-
mant if he resisted. When the bridal car-
riages drew up, the Fosbery brigade had work
to keep an avenue open, and one mimber
av the fooroe—who has probably been a “ boy ” in
his day—grimly expostulated as follows: “Now,
will yez shtand back, ladies. Shure yez can see
the purl crame and the paint just as well at a
distnance !” The Synagogue was decorated with
ferns and flowers. Prior to the ceremony, tho
Kev. Wollnski intoned the afternoon service, and
during the playing of an organ voluntary tho
chief parties entered. The bride’s parents, Mr.
and Mrs. Montague Levey, and her married and
single sisters, were of course present. The bride-
groom was Mr. Eugene Aaron Goldring, of
Narrabri. When all were grouped under and
round the canopy and on the steps leading to the
Ark. which contains the scrolls of the law or five
books of Moses, the service whs impressively per-
formed by the liev. A. B. Davis, assisted by the
Revs. Wolinski and Phillipstein. In his remarks,
the Rabbi mado feeling mention that the bride
“ had for many years lent her pure young voice
in song to the praise of God in the Synagogue.’’
It was for this reason the service was choral; for
the choir, we may state, never sing at such cere-
monies except to one or their own number. Mr.
Sydney Moss played tho organ. Psalm cxvii was
chanted, and then the bridal couple having tasted
wine, the glass was crushed on the floor by the
bridegroom—its breaking being symbolical of the
indissoluble nature of the marriage tie—and pieoes
were picked up, according to old custom, by the
party, and kept “ for luck.” Tho bridgroom, by
the way, missed the glass on his first attempt,
being doubtless unused to sole-o performances of
that kind. In the Hallelujah Chorus, Madame
Merz took her solos well. Miss Carrie Moss, Mr.
Adolph Isaac*, and Mr. Morris Menser leading the
contralto, tenor and bass parts in the order named,
and Herr Sussmilch acted as conductor. The
dress worn by the fair and graceful bride was a
peerless specimen of the modiste’s|art: it was rich-
est ivory duchess satin, trimmed with colonial
ostrich feathers and exquisite lace drapery, and
from among the ostrich plumes bunches of myrtle
peeped out between the folds of tho train. The
splendid court train was trimmed with bouquets
of flower’s, and edged with gold lace, feathers and
lace falling also over the folds of satin at the
back. Chatelaine and wreath were of orange-
blossom, and the long tulle veil was fastened with
a magnificent diamond pin, given by the “groom.”
Eight pretty bridesmaids presented themselves,
six being eligible, and no doubt willing, to take
the chief part in any similar ceremony, and two
being rather young to have any immediate hope
of such a delicious possibility. The dresses were
short, of cream surah silk, lace sleeves, and little
maroon birds on the shoulder, stylish hats lined
with maroon velvet and trimmed with cream
feathers. Each maid carried a horseshoe bouquet
of lovely flowers, and wore a gold horseshoe
brooch given by the bridegroom. Their names
were : Misses Bella and Maude Levey (sisters of
the bride), ltowntreo, Goldman, Lillie Goldman,
Amy Thompson, Madeline Cohen, and D na Roberts.
The dress or the bride’s mother was a sumptuous
combination of bright maroon velvet, and melon-
pink satin and lace, long train ; maroon velvet
bonnet and melon-pink feathers Mrs. Goldring
wore a fine brown brochrf with cream bonnet.
The bride’s sisters, Mrs. Victor Cohen and Mrs.
W. N. Pattrick, were attired very similarly
in stylish dresses of slate coloured satin
and dainty pink bonnets; while Mrs. Hart's
figure was shown to advantage by a splen-
did brown velvet, and Mrs. Hyman displayed
a fine dark green velvet trimmed with lace to
matoh. Mrs. A. B. Davis’s dress was black brochd
and golden brown velvet bonnet; she was accom-
panied by Mrs. L. Jacobs in a splendid black bro-
caded velvet robe with an immense train, cream
jockey bonnet with feather trimming, and a
cream collarette—a most effective costume. Mrs.
Harris wore a noticeable heliotrope satin brocade.
Mrs. Goldman wore a magnificent dress of fawn
satin brocade, long train of brown satin, bonnet
with gold lace and berries. Her married daughters
stood near—Mrs. Hyman wearing a beautiful
heliotrope broohd body and train, cream silk
skirt, and cream Gainsboro hat; Mrs. B. G. Cohen,
an elegant c >stume of violet brocade trimmed
with apricot lace, white felt Gainsboro bedecked
with plush and feathers. The bride’s aunt, Mrs.
Davis, exhibited a nice black satin, beaded and
trimmed with lace, and a cream bonnet. Mrs.
Henocksberg was in black satin with bead trim-
ming and a l’emarkably pretty bonnet of rouge
brigue colour, covered with glistening beads. Mrs.
Ackman’s dress was short and very bouffant, the
skirt of black brochd velvet, the body of Satin,
and her claret satin bonnet completed an ex-
quisitely neat toilet. Mrs. Wolinski wore black
satin, with pink satin bows, and a pretty white
lace cap. Mrs. Hardie, the Mayoress, wore a
beautiful bronze broehd satin, honiton lace col-
larette and cuffs, and a pretty feather-trimmed
bonnet. Mrs. C. J. Roberts was in a slate figured
silk, trimmed with black silk and lace, in good
taste; cream bonnet. Mx-s. Fischer wore black
satin, with pansies. Mrs. Kelly’s slate tinted otto-
man silk was stylish; bonnet assisted with scarlet
feathers. Among other exhibition dresses were, a
peacock-blue satin broche with apricot lace trim-
ming and bonnet a black silk body with striped
velvet skirt, drab bat and scarlet feathers, worn
by a youthful lady; a matron in blaok satin skirr,
brocaded velvet dolman, maroon velvet bonnet
and pink feathers; a brunette in pretty navy blue
velvet; an elderly ludy in black brochd trained
dress, with garnet velvet bonnet and cream
feathers; a tall dark lady in black broche, with
drab felt bonnet and cardinal flowers and strings.
A novel and pretty costume on a tall dark lady
was of slate-coloured, striped satin, bonnet en
mite ; and a brunette wore a very bewitching
blaok satin dress striped with scarlet satin on the
Skirt, the bonnet to match. Near by, in a nurse’a
arms, was a sweet little baby, who has probably
seen summer and winter about once, in a dress of
white satin, hat of same, and its tiny bands in silk
(doves. It stared about and laughed, and was al-
together a pretty and most suggestive visitor.
The Wedding March was played as the party left
for breakfast at Wynyard Square, where speeches
were made, and the band played during the after-
noon. A large shipment of rice had been secured,
which was put up in tiny tissue paper parcels, and
freely used as the new-wed couple started for
their honeymoon to Mount Victoria, prior to
taking up their residence in M'Leay-street. The
travelling dress was a beautiful fawn cashmere
trimmed with lace and pale pink bows, bonnet to
match. On the Saturday previous, the At Home,
or, as it is called, the “Sitting for Joy” was held,
and Miss Mario Levey’s dress then was a splendid
soft pink satin, draped with lace in front and
studded with humming birds. Few brides leave
the parental rooftree with such a costly and ela-
borate trousseau; one dress especially, wonder-
fully brocaded in silver and pale blue, with
crystal embroidered tablier, was really splendid.
Tli is brocade, as well as the bridal lace, was made
to order in Paris. And the lists of presents was a
long and expensive one. It is understood a large
ball will follow.
• • •
The Randwiok Debating Society have
adopted the plan of having active lady members,
who will be permitted, and of course expected, to
speak in the debate*. When the gentlemen mem-
bers have enjoyed the inestimable privilege of the
ladies’ presence for about six months without
hearing a word drop from one of their rosebud
mouths, this pleasing expectation will gradually
fade away. It is not a new idea to have lady mem-
bers in a debating society, but it will be quite a
new thing if the society can get the Itandwick
ladies to speak.
* * *
Mr. and Mi s. W. J. Clarke gave a delight-
ful dance at ‘ Osmund,” Woollahra, last Friday.
Among the 70 guests th .re were all sorts of pretty
costumes, pink having the preference, if any had,
and the embellishment of the rooms was unusual-
ly elaborate and handsome. Prof. Sauerbier played
well, as he always does, and the Catering Co. sup-
plied a complete supper table very tastefully, over
which Mr. George Merriman proposed the toast of
the host and hostess, and Mr. Clarke replied in his
quiet genial way. Good dancers were so plentiful
that the floor was always full, and by the time
about 20 items were done, a large ’bus was ready
to start into town with all that were going that
way. Everyone thoroughly appreciated Mrs
Clarke's hospitality.
MR. HARRY RICHARDSON.
Mr. Harry Richardson, the coaching Super-
intendent of the N.B. Wales Railways, has so
much of the good fellow about him that, on his
resolving to make the best of a year’s leave of
absence Dy visiting tho old oountry, over 200
friends, mostly officers long associated with him
in the Railway and Tramway Departments, deter-
mined to give him a handsome send-off. Accord-
ingly, Mr. Richardson was invited to drop in and
just peck a bit with these 200 friends, and found
Mr. Reid, traffic-manager, in the chair, surveying
as handsome a spread as heart could wish.
After tho 201 had entirely destroyed the symmetry
of the turkeys and charlottes-russes, &c„ Mr.
Sutherland proposed Mr. Richardson’s health,
which was drunk with 2000 cheers-three times
three and a tiger by 300 makes just 2000, wo reckon.
It is worth beiDg 18 years in a department to re-
ceive such a compliment, and Mr. Richardson
seems to have been not only making dress-coat
friends at the rate of eleven and a fraction per
year of service, but also innumerable friends in
moleskin,as an address was read signed by employes
in the Railway Department, in which all prosperity
was wished for Mr. and Mrs. Richardson. The
presentation of a pair of field glasses terminated a
social event, marked throughout by hearty good
feeling. Mr. Richardson’s portrait appears in this
page.
• • •
Mrs. William Jennings, of Devon, Rand-
wick, gave an enjoyable Cinderella party on
Tuesday, 25th ult., to mark the ninth birthday of
her sod, Willie. Over seventy responded to the
invitations,the handsom® toilettes present made the
Devon rooms look fairylike, and as usual under
such a hospitable hostess, the evening passed with
gay vivacity. Me st noticeable among the dresses
were those of two young ladies from Darling-
hurst, who wore handsome toilets of pale pink
nun’s veiling, and danced superbly. Miss Woods,
of Manly, wore cream and cardinal. A young bride
from Waverley distriot looked charming in rich
white satin trimmed with scarlet poppies; and
Miss Kiss, beatic, in white India muslin and satin.
Mrs. Patrick was attired in white satin and pearls;
and a young lady from North Shore in pale blue
and cream, enhanced with forget-me-nots. The
hostess wore black ottoman velvet, tastefully re-
lieved with blush roses. Mr. Needs, jun., in a
masterly way acted as M.C. A magic lantern gave
the youngsters broad views of life, while their
elders revelled in the mazy dance till the special
trams appeared and broke th® enjoyment before it
began to wane. Mrs. Bentley’s playing of the
music was a treat for dancers.
THE SUMMER GIRL.
The Summer girl is dressed in white,
And she’s airy as girl can be;
Her waist is windlassed extremely tight,
Though in other aspects she’s prominent, quite,
Oh, her outline’s strange to see 1
The Summer girl has a jaunty air,
And she wangles all the while;
Her raiment’s a marvel of artful care,
She diminishes, here; and expands—say, there!
In a most peculiar style.
The Summer girl has the latest freak
Of fashion; it’s plainly seen
That modern beauty is rath«r unique
Compared with that of the ancient Greek,
Who didn’t wear crinoline.
The Summer girl adorrs the Block,
And she walks on the sunny side;
She knows where the gentle mashers flock,
And she gets there just about four o’clock.
And trips to and fro with the tide.
The Summer girl has a dainty face,
And eyes with a saucy gleam,
And when she puts on her gossamer lace,
And a little pearl cream, and a look of graoe,
It’s a perfect poet’s dream.
Ah! the summer girl has lots of beaux,
And we admire her, too;
From her eyebrows arched, to her tiny toes,
Her hoots, her bang, and her artful clothes,
And the bands on her Henri Deux 1
• m m
The following letter was actually sent on
the 29th February by an Auckland girl to a popular
young cricketer:—“ My dear Tom, —We have
known each other nearly a year, and I feel certain
that you are more kind in your manner to me
than to any other young lady, although I am afraid
your feelings have not yet advanced so far as
marriage, perhaps for want of thought. That
being the case, I take advantage of the year to
suggest the idea to you; in fact to ‘ pop the
question.’ I will always * love, honour, and—well
yes, obey you.’ Oh, do say yes. The penalty in
case of refusal is one of Rattray's, mind, particu-
larly Rattray’s, silk dresses. Yet 1 earnestly beg
you to believe, that much as 1 long to have one, I
would much rather have you, dear.—Your loviDg
Nell.” The favoured youth has since been dis-
tractedly puzzled as to whether the young lady
really wants him, or the dress. It has probably
not yet occurred to him that she wants both, and
a good many other dresses besides the one from
1 Rattray’s.”
* * *
“ La Coterie ” is a compact little body who
emerge from their seclusion periodically, in order
to make a little social splash. First, it was a ball,
a second, and a third, a couple of dinners, and
then a picnic. Their last attempt was a varied
entertainment held in the Town Hall, Newtown,
on Friday evening last. The Papa of “ The
Coterie,” who wears a perpetual air of hiensiance,
and has a habit of training his moustache while
young in the way it should go, presided in the
(For continuation of Social, see next page.)


A cheering’ cordial for the despondent, and the
only stimulant which can be safely introduced
into the sick-room or used for hospital purposes
is the celebrated Wolfe’s Schnapps, the purest
Spirit in'the weald.
"WillKO-ore’s Palace Hotel,
(LATE COFFEE PALACE No. 2), PITT-STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
THE Proprietor of the above establishment, having obtained a Wine and Spirit License, is now
prepared to carry on the business of a FIRST-CLASS HOTEL in conjunction with the well-
known Restaurant previously known as Coffee Palace No. 2. Every accommodation for country
visitors. 100 first-class bedrooms. In close proximity to the mail boats and intercolonial steamers
and tramway terminus. Hot and cold shower and plunge baths. Night porter always in attendance. ,
HY. WILLMORE, Proprietor.
HORDERNS
ON THE
Ericls±Leld. Hill-
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LAGE CURTAINS.
B3T These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
LACE CURTAINS, 100 PRICES.
residing in the country can have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
Curtains. If you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it out, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
& £■» &&&&» &&'&&&&
LACE CERTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers.
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. Examine carefully the engraving’ of our
“LACE CURTAINS.”
Price: 12s. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d. the pair.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
7LACE curtains'! 668 BRICKFIELD HILL. | LACE CURTAINS j
} —J V ■ ■ ■■■ ■ -J
Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
Sbair; and lady visitors assisted, as they always
o, to brighten the flying hou.»s and help along the
programme. Two young ladies opened with the
•‘Fairy Queen” piano duet, well performed, as
was also ischulo#”B '* Grand Waltz ” by two others.
“Sappho at her Loom” and “Waiting” were de-
lightfully sung by young lady vocalists. Perhaps
the gem of the entertainment was the pianoforte
solo “ Alice,” most expressively played by a hand-
some lady. The gentleman who sang “ Sailing ”
had plenty of wind to carry him on merrily,
quite deserving the encore which he didn’t
get, but which, without deserving it, the
comic warbler did. It’s peculiar that any-
thing vocally comic, whether well or badly
rsndered, is generally encored. “The Warrior
Bold,” and “The Picture on the Wall” were well
Bang, if just a trifle shaky on the top note “ The
Midsnipmite ” and “Never More ” were creditably
given, and “Parrhasins” was one of the best
recitations we hare heard from an amateur.
Another recitation, “Harry Before Harfleur,”
was a contrast* the gestures perlectly represent-
ing a corporation labourer shovelling up mud.
Mr. J. T. Craven, a member of “La Coterie,” ac-
companied the singers. About 10 p.m. dancing
commenced, and then some handsome dresses
were observable. One, a black velvet bodice, cut
Bquare, and cream veiling skirt flounced to the
waist and edged with cardinal, was worn by a
young lady who hails from beyond Newtown when
at home, and reigns in beauty whenever she goes
out. Charmingly attractive were two sisters in
White flowered silk. A cream and cardinal satin;
a pale blue satin trimmed with valentia lace; a j
browa velvet and satin; a pale blue bodice and
while Skirt were all nice. The sister of one of the
oldest members wore a very pretty white,
Bpangled grenadine, with small flounces to the
waist, and elbow sleeves edged with silver. The
daughter of a champion fisher wore white, light
material and blue knots on it; a Bent-street lady,
a very handsome ruby velvet bodice and long tabs
over a pink satin plaited skirt. A satin of the new
grey, the front trimmed with small lace flounces
to the waist, looked handsome on a Maitland
young lady. Several ladies wore their hair piled
Up a-top, with various degrees of suocess.
■ ■ •
A most brilliant Masonic Ball was given in
the Town Hall, Melbourne, on Thursday, to mark
the installation of Sir William J. Clarke as D.G.M.
of the E.S. and A. Macons in Victoria. Eight hun-
dred were present, and the regalia fairly blazed
with brilliancy. Sir William and Miss Berry, vis-d-
-vis to Mr. George Baker and Lady Clarke, opened
the ball, to Warnecke’s band of twenty per-
formers. At the midnight supper, Sir William
Clarke proposed “The Queen, and Mr. Baker
proposed “The Grand Master,” just as that gentle-
man was entering on his 63rd birthday. A large
number of N.S.W. Masons and several Sydney
ladies were noticeable. The programme was what
might be designated a mediceval Masonic one, as it
contained four waltzes, and but ten square dances.
Lady Clarke wore a decollete pale pink satin,
draperies of lace and pale pink roses, with dazzling
diamonds; and Miss Clarke, pale blue tulle, cut
low, and waterfall back; no ornaments. Proceeds
go to Melbourne Masonic charities.
** * *
Mrs. Kiss, of Itandwick, gave a party at
her residence, “ Ventnor,” on Friday evening last;
it being partly juvenile, in honour of her youngest
daughter, little Miss Amie. Music and dancing
prevailed as usual; numbers of pretty dresses
and dainty cheer helped to make things pleasant
till the morning hours A bazaar in aid of the
School of Arts, Granville, is being prepared by the
ladies there. It is to be open four days from the
7th May, and there will probably be concerts each
evening Ernest Morrison has gone to Europe...
Over a dozen magnificent dresses, each fit for a
Rothschild, in the trousseau at the late Hebrew
wedding. Brocade at five guineas a yard —On
the 17th March, Goulburn Social Assembly was
inaugurated : singing and dancing. Mr. Hodge,
musician, lent his services—Picnic and dance
corrobboree at Corstorphine, near Inverell, kept
up till daylight, netted about £35 for the Nulla-
manna Church The spelling fcees still buzz.
One at Goulburn, one at East Maitland, lately
Corry, who has kept the Botany Tea Gardens so
many years, is starting pavilion and pleasure
grounds on a large scale at Mortlake, up the river.
The old Gardens are to be cut up into building
allotments, and will no longer be the resort of
blushing brides, and small but boisterous cricket
clubs .. A novel send-off was given at Inverell to
Dr. Segol, who has gone to Europe. Whist till
midnight, then supper and champagne, and his
friends, after seeing the doctor off by the coach at
4 a.m., walked steadily home Oriental C.C. ex-
cursion on Saturday was to Tennyson—in view of
its very parched state, we may call it Barren
Tennyson —and the Telephone took about 300
ardent young people down there to dance. Prince
of Wales band. It is hardly necessary to say that
“Ilka lassie had her laddie’’—and kept to him
The Inverell Argus has been “ dropping on ” to
the local Adolphuses very severely. The editor
does not object to dancing, but points out that it
is not the sole thing to live for. Says he: “ We
have dozens of young men to whom mental
culture is an unknown quantity.” Just so ;
but who wants mental culture ? It’s a four-
inch collar that enables the undeveloped hobble-
dehoy to bloom into a perfect dude
At the Glen Innes Show there were 18 hacks ridden
by ladies. Young men would have a harassing ex-
istence if the young ladies took to the Calmuck
style of courting up there. There was a ball in the
Masonic Hall on the night of the opening day
Mr. M‘lvor, the lecturer on scientific agriculture
imported a few years ago by Sir W. J. Clarke for
his tenants, comes to the Technical College, Sydney.
He was banqueted by the Melbourne Yorick ulub
on leaving A quiet wedding took place on
Thursday week at Cooradigbee, Yass, homestead
of the bride’s father. The bride, Miss E. L. Hannam,
looked interesting and charming, no doubt espe-
cially so to the bridegroom, Mr. C. T. Morris, who
hails from the far and dried-up west. Honeymoon
in Sydney At a church bazaar in Wellington
the poliee entered on the opening night, and
tabooed dice or any games of chance. The
“fooroe” attended regularly every evening till
the c105e.... A lady in Victoria ventured to alter
the census while travelling in a railway carriage.
The interesting facts of the case:—Son-birth, Sun-
bury. Sunday. We really can’t make it briefer
A Burwood doctor means to pair with a North
Bhore belle. Sly fe110w.... A fashionable weddiDg
at Brisbane last month was that of Mr. Ambrose
John, son of the Ho". J. C. Foote, M.L.A. of Ips-
wich, to Miss Ada Maria, eldest daughter of Mr.
W. D. Grimes (of Grimes and Petty, a leading
business house). The marriage took place at the
bride’s residence-a plan very frequently adopted
there—North Quay, Brisbane, and there was a
large party of guests. Presents were very numer-
ous The music at Miss Levey’s wedding last
week in the Synagogue was singularly fine, and
nothing was spared to get the best performers.
The playing of the organ was unusual; it is not
used on Sabbath or holy days, the choir being
generally unaccomnanied, but there is a growing
tendency towards the use of the instrument, which
is recognised in larger cities, even by strict
Hebrews.... Last week, the Fidelity Masonic Lodge
gave a soiree in their hall. It commenced with a
“spread,” at which ladies were present, then fol-
lowed music, elocutionary spasms, &e., and finally
dancing till 3 o’clock in the morning.... Mr. David
Lee* the well-known musician, had a birthday
party at North Brighton (Melb.), last week, and re-
ceived a presentation.... A very fashionable ball is
on the tapis, to be given by the wife of the most
successful racing man in the colony.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Bachelors’ Assembly (Nithsdale) April 4.
Eureka Plain and Fancy Ball April 10.
S.A.A.C. Sports May 3.
Suburban Bicycle Club Sports May 10.
North Shore Rowing Club Ball (Nithsdale).. June 5.
Sydney, Wednesday.
My Dear Belle,— During the past week we
have had a rare musical feast in the two Lieder-
tafel concerts. They wer» just splendid. We
half expected to see the Protestant Hall less
crowded than it has always been, but in that we
were mistaken, for we forgot, to take into con-
sideration that the number of subscribers has been
almost doubled. Hundreds were at the big iron
gates at the entrance to the hall before seven
o’clock, and some of the girls poked their pretty
noses through the bars imploringly ; but seven
was the time for admittance, and at that hour pre-
cisely they were opened. What a rush there was I
I was sorry for two beautiful trains, which, as far
as l could make out, were utterly spoilt by being I
made carpets of. I wish, oh 1 how I wish you coulu
have heard “ The Desert 1” It is certainly the
grandest thing the Liedertafel have yet given us,
and was a welcome change from their part songs.
Max Vogrich’s arrangement of the ever beautiful
“Nazareth” was also very delightful; indeed, by
reason of the familiarity of the theme it was, in the
opinion of many, the gem of each evening. At the A
concert the conductor had hard work to keep the
orchestra together, but, when one remembers that
they are nearly all amateurs, the wonder is that
they did even as well as they did. One would have
thought that they had had several rehearsals
between the first and second concerts, for the im-
provement of the latter was very marked indeed.
Miss Deakin sang two songs at each concert, but,
although she was much applauded, I do not think
she was in her best voice, or why did sh 9 substitute
“ For ever ” for “ Una voce ” ? I like a vocalist to
sing without music. One's eyes naturally rest
upon the singer, and the incessant bobbing down
or the head to glance at the music or words is
truly irritating, and can hardly fail to spoil the
singing more or less. Miss Deakin entirely dis-
penses with the aid of either, which is much in her
favour. Mr. Gee always sings satisfactorily, and
he has one of the nicest voices I know. Some say
his song was too sentimental, but aren’t love songs
always so ? Likely enough, had he chosen some-
thing more classical he would have pleased only a
third of the audience, instead of two-thirds. Mr.
Brewer sang his very difiicult solos in the “ Desert ’
with great feeling, but it seemed to me that he
was trying his voice too much. Mr. Pier’s true and
clear tenor was at its best in the B concert, when
he only just escaped an encore after his short solo.
Mr. Jefferson also had the distinction of being
selected as a soloist, and did not disgrace the
society by any means. The “Gloire de Dijon”
waltz was sung by the society, accompanied by
the orchestra, at the close of each concert. Herr
Vogrich is about the most popular conductor we
have ever yet had in Sydney, and it it speaks well
for Sydney that so talented a man has been induced
to stay with us.
Edith said to me this morning, “ Be sure you tell
Belle about that white satin dress embroidered
with gold which was at the Liedertafel;” and
again, just now, Fan, who saw I was writing to
you, remarked, “ Of course you won’t forget the
terracotta broch<s, nor the peacock satin with
cream lace flounces.” but, my dear, I saw none of
these—in fact, it would require a dozen pair of
eyes to take in all the dresses worthy of mention,
so don’t imagine for a moment that the few I tell
1 you about were the only nice dresses there nor
even, perhaps, the best. It tvas remarked by
many that, on the A night, there was a great scar-
city of colour, the costumes being mostly blacks,
whites, or creams, so the exceptions were the more
remarkable. The Misses Paling looked as charm-
ing as over in pale blue silk and striped broche
with silver ornaments. There was also a royal
blue silk, with deep lace pelerine caught up and
fastened on the left shoulder. The whole of the
trained skirt was flounced with white lace, w hlch
softened down the rather harsh colour consider-
ably. A black silk broche bodice, cut low and
sleeveless, over a black silk skirt, was worn by a
Croydon lady. A lovely dress, which was worn by
a lady tall and dark, was composed entirely of the
purest white tulle. The body was made in fichu
style, pleatings of the tulle being taken crosswise
over the chest. The skirt was profusely flounced,
all the trimming consisting of an edging of lace on
each flounce. A quaint dress was a white skirt
with one of those old-fashioned pleated French
bodices, the joining of the body and skirt being
hidden by a white satin waistband. I liked it
chiefly because it was different from all the others.
Miss Ross, of Burwood, looked extremely well in
cream satin and scarlet geranium. For some cause
or other the dreßses ou the B. night were far more
gorgeous than in the previous concert. There was
a wonderful combination of gold and white striped
grenadine, with bodice of plain old gold satiD, which
was cut low, but was filled in to the throat by a full
gathering of broad old gold lace, strings of pearls
round the neck and a large gold ornament in the
hair. A lady, who by reason of her beautiful neck
and shoulders was perfectly justified in displaying
them, wore her hair powdered. Her dress was a
white silk, and her fan of white feathers, and a'to-
gether she was not unlike one of those old-
fashioned pictures of ladies of “high degree,”
with powdered hair and beauty spots. In compli-
ment to the beautiful “Gloire de Dijon” waltz
many ladies wore roses of that name-a pretty
conceit, was it not ? It made me quite ill-tempered
to think we had not thought of it ourselves. Miss
Day looked very stylish in a black dress with low
bodice, around which was a full gathering of wide
white lace, forming a kind of bertha. Gold beads
round the throat, and twisted in the hair. A cream
nun’s veiling looked simple with ivy leaves for
trimming. Conspicuous was a black velvet with
silver passementerie round the bodice, and short
sleeves. I never saw a waistband of shells before
the other night, and I don’t think it could have
been very comfortable, though it was rather
pretty. A necklet of green beetles’ wings was an-
other novelty, and was worn by a plump lady in
black lace dress and wide lace collar. Miss Deakin
was becomingly attired in an ivory satin tunic
over a trained blue satin skirt. Bands of the satin
richly hand painted bordered the tunic, and a large
bunch of pink roses was worn at the throat. Miss
Lottie Hyam wore pale blue, and—oh! there were
heaps more, but I know you wouldn’t like mo to
fill my letter entirely with Liedertafel.
You need never have the annoyance of losing
your ball programmes any more, for there are
such dainty little metal clips, made with chains
attached, which hook on tojyour dress, and which
hold the programmes quite securely. When made
with good metal—say silver—and nicely chased,
these programme clips are as ornamental as use-
ful.
We went to see the “Silver King” last week,
and were delighted. Miss Mayor is a natural
actress, and looks so pre'ty besides, and dear little
Ettie Sherwood goes through her part so nicely.
Miss Mayor, in one act, wore a pale blue dressing
gown, with quilted satin facing, and soft cream
lace round the sleeves and edging the satin plas-
tron. Another time, her dress was pale blue, and
olive green plush trained skirt, with very short,
green silk tunic, very much bunched. The whole
of the tfrain was of the green plush, bordered by a
wide frilling of lace; the front of the skirt being
composed of alternate pleatings of the blue and
?reen plush. One of Miss Santon’s costumes was
very rich—an ivory brochd, with long train and
panels of ruby aud cream velours. In the circ e
there was a pretty blue India muslin, cut low, with
bands of black velvet bordering the bodice and
the loose short sleeves. A peculiar costume was a
dark blue nun's cloth, with mouse-coloured ribbon
velvet, an inch in width, on llounccs, sleeves, and
bodice. The wearer had such a bushy fringe that
it. was impossibie to see the colour of her eyes, and
the wonder was how she could manage to see any-
thing at all. She reminded me or a Shetland pony.
And there was a young lady most beautifully
dressed in white satin, who wore a small white
ribbon bow in her hair, which looked exactly as if
she had forgotten to take out one of her curl
papers. But the handsomest dress of all was a
claret and pale blue ottoman velours, made with
high shoulders and half short sleeves. I didn’t
notice any more of the dresses, as my attention
was given to the play, besides, we girls were crying
all the time we weren’t laughing. Jaikes made us
ory awfully, and for the matter of that, so did the
Silver King and Mrs. Silver King.
I saw some of those American “ fronts ” or
‘ frizettes” exhibited for sale in a barber’s win-
dow last week, but I am glad to see so few here
wear them. The American girls may have more
chic and smaller feet than tho Australians, but in
point of hair they can’t vie with us. It is a
wonder, too, for this climate, one would think,
would be more trying for the hair than that of
America. By the way, I wonder what has become
of Professor West's rival? Ho seems to have
vanished altogether, so, after all, I suppose tho
Professor will have it all his own way again this
season.
A unique costume has been seen several times
on the Block this week. It is a white muslin skirt
bounced with the narrowest bounces—almost
frills—and the shortest of basque bodices com-
posed of a rich coloured sateen. I needn't tell
you that we have put away our winter dresses
again; and it’s awfully tiresome, for they will bo
old-fashioned before we can wear them, at this rate.
A young Jewess looked very piquant in an old gold
satin skirt, with deep crimson tunic and old gold
jockey hat. The soft leghorn bop hats are by no
means out of favour, and the more bent and
crumpled they look the better. The three cornered
style has the most admirers, and is managed by
having an onormous bow in front, a heavy buckle
on the left side, and a bunch of fruit on the right,
and there you have it, but I like them best
trimmed solely with feathers—then, of course,
that’s the most expensive of all styles. We are all
complaining of ennui after last weeks’ gaitios, so
Pa has promised to take us to the Opera House
to-night and that reminds me to toll you that this
will be the Majeroni’s farewell week, and we are
to have tho Polks back again. And now, dear,
good-bye. Your affectionate
MAR.
Hop Bitters has restored to sobriety and health
perfect wrecks from intemperance. Peruse all.
Skinny Men—“Wells’ Health Renewer” re-
stores health and vigour, cures Dyspepsia
Impotence, Debility Moses, Moss & Co., Sydney.
General Agents.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shad be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general.]
RACING.
Hawkesbury R.C. Autumn April 3, 6.
Inverell Picnic Races April 4. ?
Balonne (Q.) Races April 8, 9.
Parkes J.C. Annual April 8,9.
Clarendon R.C ■— April 14.
A.J.C. Autumn April 14,16,18,19.
Wilcannia J.C April 33, 24, 35.
Dubbo J.C • • • April 34, 35.
Northern J.C April 30, May 2.
Murrurabidgee J.C May. 7, 8.
Great Western Downs (Q.) May 14,15.
Hay May 16,1«.
Newcastle J.C May 24.
Richmond J.C May 29.
Mudgee R.C - June 4, 5.
Clarence River J.C July 9,10.
Rockhampton J.C July 10,11.
AQCATICB
Intercolonial Eight-oar Race, Victoria r.
N.S.W April 5.
Trickett v. Beach April 12.
ATHLETICS.
Carcoar Sheffield Handicap April 14.
Adolong Sports April 14.
Cobar Sheffield Handicap April 17,18.19.
Windsor Grammar School Sports April 20.
Bourko Sheffield Handicap, £3OO May 30, 21.
Kastorn Suburbs A.A.C. Sports May 17.
Thistle Club Sports, Agricultural Society’s
Grounds May 24.
Casino £3O Handicap May 3-1.
Bourke Sheffield Handicap May 25.
CYCLING.
Chapman v. Rolfo ...April 5-
Suburban B.C. Meeting May 10,
BOWLING.
Intercolonial Matoh. Victoria v. N.8.W., at
Sydney April 15.
Clergymen, Lawyers, Editors, Hankers and
Ladies need Hop Bitters daily, tor nerve force.
Read
Ah ! you havo a headache ! Why don’t you try
Ayer's Pills ? They will relieve the stomach,
restore the digestive organs to healthy action,
remove the obstructions that depress nerves and
brain, and thus cure your headache permanently.
Headache, Languor and Melancholy gen-
erally spring from a Disordered Stomach, Costive-
ness, or a Torpid Liver. Each may readily be re-
moved by Dr. Jayne’s Sanative Pills, a few doses
of which will bo found to stimulate the Liver and
Stomach to healthy action, remove all biliousness,
and produce regular evacuations of the bowels.
To bo had of all Druggists and Storekeepers, and
Wholesale by Elliott Bros., Pitt-street, Sydney.


One Moment!—Are you suffering from any ail-
ment? Have you any sores about you ? Is your
nervous system shattered ? Have you pain any-
where ? If any or all of those troubles afflict you,
do not delay, prooure Bristol’s Pills and
Sarsaparilla; in them you will find sure and
speedy relief.
Enjoy Life.— What a truly beautiful world we
live ini We oan desire no better when in good
health; but how often do the majority of people
feel like giving it up disheartened, discouraged
and worried out with disease, when there is no
occasion for this feeling, Green’s August Flower
will make them as free from disease as when born.
Dysyepsia and Liver Complaint are the direct
cause of seventy-five per cent, of such maladies as
Biliousness, Indigestion, Sick Headache, Costive-
ness, Nervous Prostration, (Dizziness of the Head,
Palpitation of the Heart, aud other distressing
symptoms. Three doses of August Flower will
prove its wonderful effect. Sold by all Druggists
at 3s. 6d. per bottle. Sample bottles, 6d. Trvit.
1
Cot/ vr rumfo??
lilt!
Prepared according to the directions of Prot.
E. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOB
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS
WEAKENED ENERGY, &c. ’
W No Dancer caw Attend its Us*.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Growing Chil-
dren.
r , . . Sandusky, 0., May 21, 1880,
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can Dm.
nounoe it a very valuable addition. I find it use-
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nervous
depression following overwork and anxiety, as well
as the gastric derangements. Where there ia
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull!
heavy head, it is of undoubted value. Fast growl
lng children require this valuable addition.
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
JLlver and Kidney Derangements.
r . . ~ Boston, Mass.. May 18,1880.
In regard to the Horsford’s Acid Phosphate I
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give it in dyspepsia and in all cases where there
is derangement of the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
O. G. CILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
A. S. Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
“ Horsford’s Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
from indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, and always with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some oases of morbid
urine, ‘ it acts like a charm,’ producing the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, and is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable oompound.”
Can be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., Maroh, 1880.
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, in elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled. It is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed ft with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for Lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing urink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
IL/£stgfic Oil,
THE BEBT GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm.”
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, bu
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. Itoures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Braises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dyp«
therla.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers in
Medicines.
A FEW REABONB WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Mokham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughou the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest staud.
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very t est
steel and Norway iron, severely tested befcie
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the be.t No. 1
leather, and the upholstery 1s unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnish et are
used in their finish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under specif 1
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in Am erica,
and specially constructed for the Australia*
climate
And because all who use them say they a rb th*
bust.
American Carriage Emporium,
w xu YARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BARRDN .MOXHAM & CO„
Ml* Agent*
DENO[?]
PROPS
A section of the Anglican congregation of
Trinity Church, Geelong (an edifice that the
trustees have closed for some years), made an
effort recently to re-opon the church. The trus-
tees resisted. Result: a barricading siege, the
calling in of the police, and the ejection of the
intruders, who now sing, crestfallen: “ I was mad
when they said unto me ‘get out of the House of
the Lord.' ”
Fact. The question, “ Give the narrative
of the tribute-money, and the lesson we learn from
it,” was set at Sunday-school. The answer obtained
was—” They brought a penny to our Lord, and Ho
said, ‘Whose subscription is this? Give it to
C«:sar,’ the lesson being that rich people ought
not to put coppers on the plate.” The boy who
made that answer has in him the makings of an
evangelical curate.
The members of the Melbourne Presby-
tery are altogether too modest, and don’t see
themselves as “ithers” see them at all. At the
last monthly meeting, Dr. M'Donald, in offering
up a prayer, referred to self and brethren as
“broken vessels.” “ Broken vessels,” indeed! We
should lind a very different title to that for them.
With all their failings, they never sink quite so low
as a “ broken vessel ” would. But perhaps he only
meant “ broken ” in the related sense of “empty.
Archbishop Goold's Lenten Pastoral for
1884 is full of true things. For instance:—“ The
worship of some, and notafew, is, at the best, out-
ward.” Decidedly. Especially‘‘notafew.” ‘‘Love
your neighbour as yourself is not at present the
rule of life with many.” Quite right, but didn’t
require the qualification “at present.” It's a long
time that way. “Temperance in eating and
drinking is unheeded, and so many of the ills of
body and mind are accounted fer.” Most as-
suredly. The ills of body in particular. Gout, eh ?
American reformers complain bitterly
that the distribution of the Bible has no effect
whatever in striking at the evil of polygamy.
Now, having in view the fact that the greater part
of the Bible openly admits polygamy in its worst
form, and that in no part of it is the matter very
strenuously denounced, it is hardly to be expeoted
that the “ Book of Books” will act as an antidote
to that evil. The perusal of the spioy yarns anent
Solomon, David. Abraham, and other great “men
after God’s own heart,” will hardly tend to pro-
mote monogamy.
The late Rev. Monsignor Lynch made the
following bequests:— £lOOO each to St. Mary’s
Cathedral Building Fund, St. Vincent’s Hospital,
Diocese of Maitland, Diocese of Armidale, Home
for Sick Priests, Campbelltown Church, St. Igna-
tius’ Jesuit College, St. John's College, Sisters of
the Good Samaritan; and £5OO each to Marist
Fathers, Sisters of Meroy, Sisters of St. Joseph,
Campbelltown, and requiem mass for the repose of
his soul. His library of 1630 volumes goes to St.
John’s College. Now, how did Monsignor get
together all that money ?
The Rev. Lionel Wainwright, who sucoeeds
Maokonochio at St. Peter’s, London Docks, has
avowed his intention not to alter the ritual at that
church by a hair’s breadth, so we may expect to
hear of the Church Association bracing itself up
for another costly persecution. It never seems to
strike these holy men that, whilst they are squan-
dering thousands of pounds over immaterial
differences ’twixt tweedledum and tweedledee,
thousands of bodies (to say nothing of souls) are
perishing daily through sheer lack of bread. O,
the pity and the wickedness of it I
For centuries the peop'.e of Rome have
been the special care of a hierarchy unrivalled in
wealth and power. Popes, cardinals, bishops,
priests, inquisitors, prefects of the Index, and
goodness knows what other ecclesiastical officials
besides, nave tended the faithful, hunted down
the wolves-and to-day, as the result of all this
pastoral guidance, “childishtongues,” wearo told,
“ are heard boasting in Rome’s elementary schools,
’Io non credo in Dio.’” Yet. after all, when one
comes to think of it, what other result can priests
reasonably expect from priestcraft except non
credos “ out of the mouths of very babes and suck-
lings
James Hewish died and left his two chil-
dren, Ernest and James, to the care of their Pro-
testant uncle. Their maternal grandmother wants
these children back to bring them up as holy
Romans. The old uncle and the old grandmother
sawed away over the kids for a long time, and at
last found their way to Judge Holroyd, and asked
him to settle the matter. The grandmother asserts
that the father was wrong in the head when he
made over the children, and that he got right
again before he died, and told her to take them
back. But the Judge couldn’t see that way, and
so the grandmother had to let go of them, and
leave them to slidder down into endless fire. Um I
Bible Society morality. Thus Robjohus:
“ Whenever an edition was prepared for an island
in the Southern seas, word was sent to the mis-
sionary to this effect: ‘The value of this Bible is
two dol'ars, we will suppose, but the price you
are to ask is not to be measured by the cost of the
Bible, but the means ot the people.’ He called
that missionary work, and what was the result?
Why, those grand native Christians generally sent
back to the society more than the edition had cost.”
It does not seem to strike Robjohns that the little
game he to highly appreciates is nothing more nor
less than “doing ” those grand native Christians—
getting a subscription from them in an under-
hand way, in fact.
When the “Eastward position’’ was re-
cently being discussed in Convocation, it was con-
tended by many that the word “before,” in the
phraso “ the priest standing before the table,”
ineint “at the north end.” Bishop Magee, of
Peterborough, whilst the discussion raged, wrote
on his blotter the following note, which w s sub-
sequently found : “‘The piper played before
Motes.’ There are three ways in which he might
have done this. He might have played antecedent
to Moses, before he was born; or he might have
taken precedence of Moses, and so played before
Moses played; or he might have played in front of
Moses. But he did none of these; he played at the
north end of Moses."
A life-size statue of St. Patrick, the work
of Maxwell, was unveiled in St. Mary's Cathedral,
recently. The saint is represented crushing a
“sarpint.” As the “Irish Whisky-drinker”
wrote:— . , , ,
Quacunque in Apostolum
Cateryas explicaret;
Calcatur Pestis ungula,
Dilecta übi staret.
Or, as another sings:—
Success attend St. Patrick’s flat,
He was a saint so cle\ er;
He gave the snakes a mighty twist,
And banished them for ever.
One Colvin is the Anglican parson at
Jamberoo. In an appeal to his flock to reconse-
crate themselves—i.e., to go in fora revival, which,
on the strength of a live bob adv. he got inserted
in the Kiama Blunderbuss, he seeks to oonf ute
the objection that Jrevival converts do not as a
rule hold out, by this little apologue:—“lhave got
a fruit tree at my home, and every year it has so
many blossoms, that, if they should all produce
apples, the tree would break down. Nine-tenths,
perhaps, of the blossoms fall off; and yet I have a
large number of apples. ■ So there are many fair
blossoms in Christian work that disappoint us.” The
italics are ours. If all the blossoms produced
apples the tree would break down. If all the con-
verts held out, what would break down, sweet
Colvin ? Anglicanism ? Christianity ? or what ?
THE AUSTRALIAN EPISCOPATE, versus THE
PRINCE OP THE POWERS OP DARKNESS.
Bishops Parry and Barry
Should give fits to Old Harry;
And, assisted by Kennion,
Cut short his dominion;
And, aided by Thomas,
Keep the wrenches claws from us;
And, with help from old Halo,
Jam the miscreant’s tail;
And, supported by Turner,
Prom his lore drive each learner;
And, holpen by Moorhouse,
Look him fast in hell's poor-house;
And, backed up by Thornton,
1 orbid him to daunt 'un.
The Rev. O. Mordaunt, incumbent of
Hampton Lucy, Warwickshire, keeps a pub., the
profits of which (some £6O per annum) he donates
to parochial charities. The “temperance” folk
gird at him mightily, calling him a variety of
pretty names, but the Rook is inclined to think
that there may be work for those who, believing
in the impossibility of doing away altogether with
the sale of liouor, are endeavouring to reduce its
evils to a minimum, which, for the usually assi-
ninely, goody-goody Rock, is quite a philosophical
observation. Of this we are confident,* if the
reverend Boniface keeps a good tap, and eschews
the practice of serving people when they’re half
fuddled, he’s bound to do more good in a twelve-
month than a score of rampageous Boyces will
effect in a lifetime by their bigoted teetotal tactics.
Murray, the U.S. Governor of Utah Terri-
tory, in his reeent message to the Mormon legis-
lators, submits, with considerable sarcasm, “ that it
is not creditable to the territory that there are no
laws in the local statute book denouncing poly-
gamy, bigamy, &c„ as public offenoes, and express-
ing a hope that the local legislature will not fail to
place its seal of condemnation upon these offenoes.”
‘Apostle” Teevdale thus “countered” the
Governor’s attack in a Tabernacle sermon “I
don’t go back on our principle of the Gospel. I
believe in plural marriage as much as I do la bap-
tism for the remisaion of sins. I will not give up
one of my principles. Ido not fear to face man.
As for God, I’d fear to go behind the veil to meet
thpse who would know I bad given up the first
principle of the Gospel, I bear testimony that plural
marriage is a necessity, and the church cannot
exist without it. It is one of the landmarks of the
church.”
A London Salvationist recently wrote to
the General for a uniform, enclosing a £5 note,
and in the course of his letter, dated from “ 211th
Blood and Eire Corps,” said:—“ God bless you. I
think you can guess the size of the overcoat by the
other things. God bless you. I am beautifully
saved, thank God. lam expecting and believing.
lam your brother in Christ, W. Hartley.” Now,
W. Hartley, who was beautifully saved, was a
letter carrier, and he stole the five pounds, alleging
at his trial, that “they were always telling nim
that he could not expect to go to heaven unless he
wore the uniform of the army. (Laughter.) He
took the letters in order to get money to pay for
the uniform.” He got 18 months for this theft.
He was beautifully saved, but he was not well-
connected. This trial Jets rather a new light in
upon General Booth’s mode of doingbusiness!
The facts are highly entertaining, we should
have liked to have seen the General’s faoe when
he had to “ dub up ” the fiver.
The California Hill Wesleyan Church,
somewhere about Sandhurst, has a unique way of
keeping Its accounts. Its way of keeping money
is not. It must be confessed, unique—as far, at all
events, as can be at present judged. This church
has a court of its own, and as long as the com-
mittee of management satisfy one another, why.
pop goes the weazel. But lately they don’t. They
didn t give a balance-sheet this last fourteen
years, and when they worked up one the other
day, a pious brother called Roper expressed him-
self to the effect that the treasurer’s statement
showed blundering and plundering, and that £2OO
was non est. Forthwith, the committeo of manage-
ment prayed and resolved “ that Roper be expelled
from this church.” And Roper is now going up
and down the street on the side of his welt, want-
ing everybody to believe that it is he who h»s ex-
Eelled the committee, N’impnrle. And that the
alance-sheet is unique. N importc again. It’s
what was done with the money is important, and
to those who know Wesleyans there can be nothing
unique in that.
“ But they knew what the clergy were,
and how they came into a parish. The patron of a
living might be a good man, or he might be a
scamp. All the same, he had power to make the
appointment, and one day the parishioners saw a
parson walking about smiling and showing his
teeth, as much as to say, “Here I am, ana you
can’t get rid of me; and if you plant an acre of
ground with hops, I’ll make you pay me 16s. or 18s.
a year for it.” (Shame.) As soon as their labour-
ing men got the franchise, did they think they
would support a system by which they were com-
pelled to work five weeks in the year to support a
man who merely walked up and down a village
grinning and showing his teeth? No; when the
labouring men got the franchise, he believed
tithes would cease. (Cheers.)” This must be (our
readers will say) the frothy talk of some Radical
cobbler in a Birmingham or Northampton beer-
shop. Not at all. These words were spoken at an
indignation meeting of farmers held in the village
or Staplehurst, Kent, after the sale by auction of
some farming stock under d'straint for the pay-
ment of extraordinary tithe. If English farmers,
wh > used to vote nt their landlords’ pleasure as
blindly as sheep go follow-my-leader over a fence,
venture to use such language, we think wo ean
discern the beginning of the end.
Parson Peart, a pert parson of the Metho-
dist persuasion, hangs out at Blackall. Preaching
week before last about the drought, he dogmati-
cally opined that it’s cause was to be found in the
wickedness of the local population. There are
young men, said he, who actually play cricket on
<he Lord’s Day, and yet wonder that the sky
should be «s brass over them ! In reply to Peart
the Westekn Champion very pertinently puts it
thus: —“ The season 1880-81 was very similar to the
present one. No rain fell except a few light
thunder showers from the 14th May 1880 to the 22nd
February 1881. During that long spell of dry
weather the Rev. Mr. Kingham, Anglican clergy-
man, was residing at Blackall. When that gentle-
man left we were visited with heavy flood rains,
and eDjoyed continual and copious rains until an-
other C. of E. clergyman (Mr. H.) came to Blackall.
While he remained here we had a continuance of
dry weather, and it was not until two days after
he left that a heavy thunderstorm filled the tanks
and gave spiing to the glass around the town.
The Rev. Peter Campbell was also travelling
through the district during this period; but we
do not recognise that gentleman as an orthodox
parson. The drought that waited upon him dur-
ing his tour in the district will probably follow
him to the next world. Then the Rev. Mr. Peart
came amongst us, and although rain has fallen on
the majority of stations about Hiackall, the town
and its immediate vicinity have been given up to
the demon of drought.
Max Muller says he never saw a more
eloquent appeal for building a parsonage than the
following Red Indian poem, got up to sell at a fair
to raise funds for a rectory house, and translated
by Charles LeJand (“Hans Brietmann”):—
“ The bees make honey for man,
Man should give something to God;
The trees lift their tops to the sun,
We should lift up our hearts to our father.
The smallest flower in the forest
Gives out a perfume for all:
Man should do good unto all men.
The bee has a tree (for a home),
The tree has a plaoe to grow,
The flower has a stem;
The clergyman must have a house.
May this song help it!
Peter John Gabriel made this song,
He made it in Indian.
He made it in Campobello (the island by the
shore), " |
To help to build the house.
N’pow-o-lin (the scholar, or man learned In mys-
teries) put it into English.”
Peter John Gabriel’s logic is at fault. If the fact
that the flower has a stem teaches anything, it is
not that the clergyman must have a house; rather
does it teach that his not having been born with
one on his back, like a snail, points to the conclu-
sion that he should do without one. We also
question whether “ the bees make honey for man,”
in that sense, at least, which should point any
moral as regards the relations of man to either
God or the parson.
Some of the parsons are beginning to
growl at the vagaries of the Harmy. And, per-
haps, not without reason. One night last week a
shi voo was held in the Congregational school-room,
Pitt-street, when a crowd of converted Kanakas
were on view who had landed in the city on the
previous Saturday from the missionary vessel
John Williams. These gentle savages were got up
regardless of expense in bright coloured calicoes
and flaming turkey-red dressos, and their head-
gear was unique if not attractive. They were
on show with the object of raising some funds to
rig out some more of those highly-coioured Poly-
nesians with gaudy store clothes. Whilst the show
was on, the Salvation Harmy came down the street
in full war paint. The big drum was at its best,
the clarionet resonant, the whistles extra shrill, and
the tambourines in good form. As they marched by
the school-room aforementioned,they even threw a
little more vigour into the music.and it failed not to
stir the heart of the Rev. J. Jeffries, fie complained
that the Harmy gods were on the rampage every
Wednesday evening during the regular services in
the church, much to the annoyance of the wor-
shippers, and he thinks that Christian patience
won’t hold out much longer if the Salvationists
are allowed to parade and disturb other people.
Let us hope that Christian patience is about played
out. Ours is long ago. But then it is a long time
since our ears were attuned to the saintly music of
Moody and Sankey. We are just, now speculating
as to what would haDpen if Christian patience
were to give out. Probably we should see the
Congregationalists led on by the hot-headed
Jeffries, and the Harmy brought out in battle
array by their irrepressible Major Sutherland, and
Pitt-street running with human gore. They kill
each other for the pure love of God in Ould Ire-
land—why not in Sydney? We await the issue
with considerable anxiety. We want to recreate
ourselves at a Harmy funeral.
The following observations were suggested
by hearing a sermon by a Gospel divine in one of
the suburbs. The divine, who is not sn eminent
man as a preacher, yet is looked up to by his con-
gregation as orthodox, and is especially revered by
the older members. The sermon was on the text,
Be sure your sin will find you out.” After tell-
ing of numerous occasions in which men and wo-
men had been overtaken by the effects of sins
committed by them, he suddenly drew a compari-
son between the victims (sic) of freedom of thought
and the Christians of to-day, saying that while the
latter had the gospel, eto., and, without departing
from it, could do no evil, the “victims” had no-
thing whatsoever to prevent them from commit-
ting and reaping the effeots of any sin they might
take a fanoy to. Now, as a matter of fact, the
retribution of perverted instinct (for this is what
almost every sin amounts to) is the oldest doctrine
the “ victims ” have. The Eumenides and Furies
of the Ancient Greeks are no legend without a
meaning, but a natural phenomenon, localized and
personified. It is explained by Darwin at great
length that as men gave up solitary habits and took
to dwelling in tribes, their instincts beoame modi-
fied so that they might receive mutual assistance
and advantage by living together, and by the
action of Natural Selection those tribes that had
most in common and were more closely united in
spirit were able to withstand Inroads and attack
by other tribes and from animals. 4s men after-
wards formed larger tribes and inhabited countries,
their views of unity or brotherhood widened, until,
as to-day. a sin against one member was a sin
against all, including the sinning member. A sin
against A by B was just as much injury to B as A,
insomuch as B’s instinct was perverted, and by the
natural law a perverted instinct always leaves a
dissatisfied and remorseful feeling in the mind of
him who goes against or perverts his instinct, or,
in other words, commits a sin. A man, now-a-days,
must know that it is to his detriment and disquie-
tude to swindle or injure another. This law must
in time be so greatly felt as to become universally
recognized, and then, perhaps, we shall have Chris-
tian preachers who will not express the sentiment i
that a “victim” of freedom of thought has no
standard to protect him from killing another man.
* * *
In an article on “ Religion,” in the Nine-
teenth Century, Mr. Herbert Spenoer traces the
belief in God to a belief in ghosts, and argues that
those who do not believe in one need not trouble
themselves about the other A church paper in
Hawaii thus cunningly puts it:—“They have a
very pleasant custom in Canada. They get their
olargy out of the way, and then supply their par-
sonages with oats, potatoes, butter, eggs, meat,
and other good substantial creature comforts.
The clergy find also lying about new fur coats and
other serviceable articles for the winter.” The
Canadian church paper commences the same sort
of par.-“ They have a very pleasant custom in
Hawaii.” The Whitehall Rewiew rc the ap-
pointment of a successor to the late Archbishop
Vaughan, says:—"Very probably the tradition of
appointing an English Benedictine, as were Dr.
Vaughan and his predecessor, will be adhered to by
authorities at Romo.” Wish father of the idea, eh ?..
Dr. Glynn, now in Italy, has been appointed by the
Pope to be Bishop of the Far-North of Queensland,
including Thursday Island and New Guinea ..
Canon Hole, spoken of as likely to be appointed
first Anglican Bishop of Southwell. Hole is an
enthusiastic florist, and the author of those delight-
ful works, “ A Book about Roses” and “ The Six of
Spades."....Canon Liddon declares nothing would
induce him to accept the See of Chester. Can the
grapes be sour?....“The Bishop of Ripon,” says
Truth, is still apparently determined not to <
resign his See, and his friends are advocating the
formation of a new See of Wakefield to relieve the
diocese of Ripon. Surely this is a most unsatis-
factory method of solving the difficulty. No
amount of argument can evade the plain issue
that Dr. Bickersteth ought either to perform his
duties or resign. He is manifestly incapable
of the former, and his retention of offico is
therefore nothing short of a scandal.”... Nou-
mea is still deserted by her Protestant Pastor:
now three months since he left. . . The N.S.W.
Presbyterians can find parsons for mission work
in the New Hebrides, but cannot see their way to
do any thing for the aborigines in their own
colony. They see insuperable objections in the
way of doing more for the Australian autocta-
thyon than commending him to the sympathies
and prayers ot the church. The sympathies and
prayers of so inconsistent, so duty-shirking a
church, will not avail the darki°s much, we reckon.
■ • A New Zealand parson recently attracted a
good crowd to his Gospel shop by billing the town-
ship with a flaming poster bearing the words
‘ What must we do to be damned?’....The Uni-
tarians of the Liverpool-street Church, have pro-
vided a library, gymnasium and reading room, in
Harris-street, Ultimo, for the use of youths of the
class whenoe the larrikin is generally derived. In-
struction given nightly and conoerts occasionally.


We He PALING
AND CO. (Limited).
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC, ETC.
i
A
/ 1
ivt'
%
EASY TERMS SYSTEM
FOR
ANY
INSTRUMENT.
SBXC-A.iT o^a--^.^rs,
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
ft B e ll and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
at extraordinary low prices.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE, DRYSOALE & CO.,
is, VUBDBBT, 111 WE MISAK,
397 GEORGE STREET,
66 ana 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF
Coach
llui UUA AiiVU V*
_ . . n 'ools, Pounders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, Cos
■Engineers i>r General ironmongery, and Agricultural
guilder., ma Implements.
excises
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
lag and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fi*ed.
PUMPS.
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
machinery.
Itothes, Drilling, -0 Screw,ng
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
, a tionrs pinning and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws. Genera
rflftw
Enellsh and American Agricultural Implements.
* -Single,,Dav»ble, an^ScScKSS*S ™d s££&s*& SsheUe^ThreshingM&tines.
oa.Reapers riiq *
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
' - Axles Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnishings, Varnishes, and
... coach builders' Sundries.- Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours.
v, n<l nf pig Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvanised, Corrugated,
i. Large Stocks always on hand of Pa?, Iron . solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies.
„ 011 g Baddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
v Woolpacks, Sheep Shears, ons, Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
tooM, Hinges. Nalls, Screw* Sheet Lead, and Latest Impro.etoeota to (torpenteto Tool*
Particulars and Prlee Lists may be had on application to
EBRISCOE, drysdale AND CO..
387 George Streotp Sydney.
Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering
other organs from fullilling their functions. Set
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite in
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorator. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. Tc
obviate all these symotoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Set *'nls
organ in order and hoaltb returns as if by mag.o.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are Imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. Ihe
Laboiatnry,
434 Georgs Street, Sydney.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
and
AND
ZrftrtfuJ
It is of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should be carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported Into New South
Wales in srna 1 bottles.
Drinkers i>f this favourite beverage should com-
pare LOItN E HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will find a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORN E HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
A Check to Drunkenness!
That Curse of Nations, which desolates our
homes. Alls our gaols, and ends in painful un-
timely Death. A beverage is wanted that stimu-
lates, yet not intoxicates. Its price must be
moderate. The problem is satisfactorily solved
by
DALM AND OERTEL’B SELTZER-WATER,
Patronised and ordered by all leading doctors.
Highly spoken of by the Press. “Nofamily should
be without it.” We also highly recommend pur
Lemonade,Roda-water, Hinder Ale,Tonic. Lilhia-
water for Gout—the only remedy. Potass-water
for Rheumatism. Friedrichsballer bitter-water,
and Carlsbad, for centuries known as the best
purgatives. Obtainable at leading Hotels. Grocers,
Chemists, &c., throughout the co'onies. For town
and suburbs delivered by our carts.
MINERAL-WATER WORKS,
iff Bourke-street, Redfern.
MASON BROTHERS,
cxHiei
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for BALK
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY.
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
»LABS, CHINA,
ANB
EARTHEN WA RE,
WINES, BEERS, ASD SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J.T G ATEN'S
gobnaups ana ueneva.
A. MELVSN and SONS’
Kdinbu to Pale e.
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
or THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of tho Ago !
DESTINED to eclipse and supercede
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The <* r Tobacco o jmhlning Excellence of Quality
with Soonomy In Prloe.
Each PLUG la STAMPED with the word
" EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
* AT TlfE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENvJE STREETS,
An i ok n be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBAOCO.
RMistered according to Aet cf Parliament, to pro-
the PubUpwAiWt »Wirtou» wd wwrt*le«i
rnitationt,
Robert butcher & co.
(Late William Lodk),
er* WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIAKD'B SHORT HORN BOURBON.—The
drink of the army, navy, the club*, amt too
American gentlemen; will boob be the loidji /
beverage in Australia; it. has no rival ; the ofteuur
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOPPNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
Foster ’s Bugle Brand.
genuine extra stout.
£>
o.
I
*
ss
r
ri:_: r
m
H!
1 s
B-a-SS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
MOULTON
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MCKJLTON'”
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
wo oan prove what we soy. There are no failures and i> >
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also ran
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relievo distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulato the BOWELS, and PUUII'f
TIIE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medioum
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract ef Frmtj.
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Hold Everywhere, Price la. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILL
yk
fctdßsOC mark
Y>
mar
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite bran a
of Stout selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
cannot be excelled. To be procured ev«rywhoi <.
CATTKLL A CO- Stole Arenta.
Marshalls
TONIC NERVINE
RKQIBTTTRTCT*.
ABAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CERE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
snrinir from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Torthacbe, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss ol
Annetite Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints. General Prostration, &o. By its tonio
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
for Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to


lOR THE GUIDANCE OF OTHERS-
Glennaore-road,
Paddington,
14th January, 1884
Messrs. Elliott Brothers.
Gentlemen,—Some few weeks ago, I was so
severely affected with indisposition as to render
my rising each morning a matter of difficulty and
Fain, on account of severe pains in my back ) and
was just beginning to realisb that I would have
to absent myself from my Wbrk foi- a time; whbh
a friend recommended me to try Hamburg Tea,
mentioning at the same time the benefit he him-
self had received. At the time I used it, I really
was not fit for my work, and yet in the course of
three or four days I was myself again, and have
not suffered since. I write this conscientiously,
for the guidance of others, and you are at liberty
to make what use you please of it.
EMtL FitESE’S HAMBfriifcl TEA.
RELIABLE, SIMPLE, EFFECTUAL.
This well-known Tea has proved itself to be a
most certain and efficacious Remedy for such
diseases as Sudden and Severe Colds, Coughs,
Fevers and Ague, Asthma, Phthisis, Headache,
Bowels, Kidney and Liver Complaints, the Piles,
Congestion, &c., eaused by an impure state or a
superfluity of blood, rai use removes Scrofula,
Cutaneous Eruptions, Pimples on the Face,
Blotches, Boils, Rheumatic Phio?, and Pains in the
Bones and Joints. It is a preventative against
Contagion, and destroys inhaled Miasmatic and
Contagious Vapours. It purifies the Blood,
cleanses the Stomach and Bowels, and gives to the
whole system a healthy, easy tone. It opens the
bowels in a very mild and certain way. It works
on the system generally, causing little or no dis-
comfort. It will prevent almost any disease if
used at least once a month. It restores the appe-
tite, it removes the distress caused by eatmg
hearty food or overloading the stomach, and will
be found effectual as a Family Remedy where a
simple purgative only is needed.
NO FAMILY SHOULD BE WITHOUT
Full directions in English, French, Spanish, and
German with every package. Sold by all chemists,
storekeepers, and medicine dealers throughout
the colonies, at ONE SHILLING a packet.
Wholesale Depot for New South WaIes—ELLIOTT
BROTHERS, Sydney.
Mashers.— The best and lightest are mafle by
Offord, Hatter, 663 George-street, Brickfield Hill.
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
Ask for Hookings’ High-class Wines, all
aged and reliable. Drink no others. Sampling
Cellars. 143 Pit.t-street.*
“Rough on Rats.’’— Clears out rats, mice,
roaches, flies, ants, bed-bugs, beetles, insects,
skunks, jack-rabbits, gophers. Druggists. Moses,
Moos & Co.. Sydney. General Atrents.
If your stomach craves for a pleasant
bitter to sharpen the keen edge of appetite, ask
your chemist for Marshall’s Tonic Nervine, the
Great Nerve Tonic. Take no substitute. Whole-
sale at Elliott’s and Prosser’s. Sole Proprietors
Marshall Brothers, M.P.S, Pharmacists, 104
aud 106, Market-street, Sydney.
Mr. DeCourcy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land J
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 136 Pitt-street, Sydney
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.—Ad vt.
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents 36 O’Connell-
street, Sydney. Agents for the purchase
of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies, Harvest-
ing Machinery, Agricultural Implements, &c. No
commission charged for buying. 83F” Agents for
the salo ot purchase on commission of Pure-bred
atook.*
Tne Diamond Dyes are the best dyes made
Have you tried them? If not, then you should do
se. They are the best, and, at the same time, the
cheapest dyes in this market. Why? Because
they are true to colour every time, and can always
be depended on to produce the desired effect. One
package will dye from three to four times more
than any other ayes sold. All dealers sell them, or
will get them for you. Insist on having them, and
take no others. All sold at one price; 6d. only.
Wholesale by Elliott Bros., Sydney and Brisbane.*
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND,
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as tW?
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very sale and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the oongealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens ana gives relief:
a small bottle often cures. Ask for " A^rnoldJ* 1 '
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
GOT 'EM AGAIN.
The march of civilisation is no longer a
march. It is a rush. You can call It a forced
march, If you like. The baggage of old-fashioned
virtues that impeded it in past times is being
rapidly got rid of. Masters, we live in sorry days t
we who still hold by the noble old creed of honour
and honesty that our fathers left us. The lessons
•of goodness and gentleness that were taught us at
•our mother's knee are subjects of scorn to a race
of vicious writers, who, very probably, never had
mothers of their own- men who are never
except when they are in the lock-up. And these
are the wretched creatures who revile the quali-
ties our grandmothers looked upon as respectable,
and our nurse’s cousin in the police considered
next iu moral dignity to duck-pie. Every day it
becomes plainer to us that we are living in the
wrong age. We should have been born in the
heroic days of Greece, or in the grand old Roman
years, when nobility of mind upheld the republic.
What times we should have had with Sclpio and
Regulus, and Nero, and Nana Sahib, and Caesar
Borgia, and Apollonius of Kiama, and Gomorrah,
and Deuteronomy, and S.P.Q.R. Bmith, and Mecoo-
uas, who used to feed the poet Horace on thistle-
porridge, in honour of Scotland and to keep him
virtuou?, and Petronius Arbiter, who only got an
1.0.TJ. for a quintal of oboli (when it comes to
numismatics you will always find us at home I)
from the council of Trent for writing the epistle
to the Colossus of Rhodes (wrongly attributed to
Peter Campbell), whioh 1.0. U. he gave to George
of Cappadocia, in settlement of a billiard score, and
for presenting which to the Council, George
was promptly martyred, and made one of the
patrons of a noble order of knighthood, an eleotlon
to which caused Judas Iscariot to hang himself on
a willow that grew by the waters of Babylon, as
everybody knows who knows anything. What
lofty spirits there were in those glorious days of
Roman independence before the heel of the Saxon
had crushed out the last expiring flicker of home-
made whisky from the hearts of a down-trodden
people I But we are addressing ourselves too much
to the learned. We know it; yet this is so un-
common a fault with us that we may well be for-
given, for this once, by that lower and middle
Jurgiar class for which it is our delight to provide
intellectual amusement at all other times. And
sneaking of literary style, one of the secrets of our
greatness is that we make it a point never to write
over the heads of aldermen or justices of the
peace.
* * *
After this explanation, we trust we can go
on with pleasure to all parties. Who does not love
to soar out of the sordid surroundings of to-day ?
or, as Schiller says, speaking of lager-beer,
“ Wouldst thou soar heavenward on its joyous
wing ?
Cast off the earthly burden of the Real;
Par from this cramped and dungeoned being
spring
Into the realm of the Ideal I”
For purity of sentiment and genuine appreciation
of the esotoric qualities of sausage, the Teutonic
mind has no equal, not even on the staffs of
our daily contemporaries, though there are some
prodigies of Gargantuan intellects among the
i roduce reporters. And, indeed, to give everyone
niß due, we would take the opinion of the musical
critic of the Mail on a German-sausage in prefer-
< nee to that of Schiller himself, and for a masterly
Analysis of a pork-pie we would baok the dramatic
critic lately imported from the Navigator Group
by Alfred, against the whole round world. There
is no envy about us. Where we see superiority
we acknowledge it. It is this colossal unselfish-
ness which causes us to bo at present living in a
hollow log. We told you about that once before*
Well, we are living in the log still. This recalls to
our memory what we were going to say. Of
course. The world is going mad. The last sane
and splendid brain is now bending over the paltry
butter-pan upon which these polished periods are
being written. A scurvy age, truly I There was a
time when those sentences would hare been copied
in letters of gold, and the writer rewarded with
the Royal Order for the coney-circus, or whatever
was then showing, or perhaps have been made
Duke of the Dust Bin on the spot. But there is
no such chance now. What is the use of striking
for your altars and your homes in these days ? The
last time we struck we pretty nearly killed the
London correspondent of the Rum, just when he
had got to where he met Gladstone in Picca-
dilly, and was about to decline his invitation to
dinner on account of his informing him that Lord
Randolph Churohill would be there, to whom he
bad an objection on religious grounds. We no
sooner caught sight of the sugar-bag on which he
had been writing this than we repented for what
wo had done. We held a gin-cork to his nose, and
immediately restored him to consciousness, after
which you may b 3 sure we apologised for our
conduct; and as even if he had accepted the invi-
tation he would then have been too late for any-
thing but the dessert at Hawarden, we offered him
a share of half a damper we had just borrowed
from a sleeping swagman. This set him up again
at once, and he was able to give an elaborate ac-
count of the political situation throughout Europe
before sundown. When we spoke about striking
for our homes and hitting him, we meant that he
had mistaken his log for ours, and being some-
what hasty in temper we gave him a “ polthogue’*
with a red-gum root before we thought of asking
him for his card. Of course if we had known he
was a brother litterateur we would never have
been guilty of such an act of discourtesy. The
moral of thisaneodote is plainly that you should
never strike a man you may meet in a culvert or a
boiler or anything hollow, without first asking
nim for his card. And if he hasn’t got a card ask
him to show you his boots. Of course if you find
him in your wood-shed it is a different matter.
Still you arc not safe—in these days of general
enlightenment and correspondent depravity-in
striking even a “goanna” if you would not
wish to crush a probable press correspondent.
There is a speokled lizard living under a stone by
us who says he knows more about politicil
economy and social ethics than the wnol« staff of
the Shroud. And we see no reason to disbelieve
him though he Is a lizard.
* * *
But to return to the Teutonic mind.
When we said that others of the daily press
had hardly as much approclatlou of the hidden
prepertles of sausage as the Teutonic mind we
overlooked the probability that most of them may
be Dutch themselves. And now that this has
struok ug it seems to be more than a probability.
How else could there be such a ftavburof Hollands
about what they write ? This is a subtle Question.
We will pass it for the present and take up the
past again* The gorgeous &in cocktail-coloured
past! We never think of it without a glow of en-
thusiasm that Rushes our cheek and burns fer
ever, like the sacred lire of the Parsees, (whom we
told you all about in a previous issue) in our nose.
Gorgeous times ! gorgeous times 1 How we pity
John Milton that he did not live to meet us ! And
Shakespeare and Homer (so called from h's song—
“ Home sweet home a discovery we made our-
selves and printed in a paper that has gone to
where Homer is long ago) and Seneca who first
invented snuff-taking and could wßlk better on
his hands than any man in Borne* hot to mention
Tertullian, who wrote the Metamorphoses of Ovid,
and Billy Peters* Who could drink more beer than
any man in England! What a meeting, eh!
Make room for the wits there ! None
of your lean-llvered, whey-blooded, oyster-
eyed, hare - hearted, pill - brained hittherim,
sklttherims of tea-party pleasantry—your thin
shoes of humanity with the butter scraped off all
but a bit that stuck in a hole and stands for the
brain—none of these, but the giants of humour,
the Titans of wit. What a devil inside them I Hey
boy, ho boy, bring In a flagon, bring in a cask, a
tun, a tank I Bring in a cistern, bring in an arte-
sian well—and hark, boy, put it down to John
Milton—he is blind, and, besides, he got £5 for
“ Paradise Lost,” which is too much for a blind
man to be going about with when there is nobody
to look after him. Homer was also blind, but his
money is all bad—they used to pass off all the
crooked coinage of Greece on him when he went
around singing his Iliad. What William boy—
Shakespeare, my lad ! fill up l hoist in ! never
count the cost. Whisper, lad !—Jack Milton’s
shout—toss it up 1 Brave lad ! bully lad ! Heart
of iron—heart of tin, by thunder, If that doesn’t
corrode It. Pass the rum—rush it round—whirl it
IMPROMPTU.
Said a man who was recently wed,
“I’m so happy I’m out of my head”
When in came the bride’s ma
With a frightful “Ha! Ha!”
And the bridegroom crept under the bed.
round—drain the can, Jack - drainit dowD. What!
not another ? Art thou the man that wrote —
“ As with new wine intoxicated both,
They swim in mirth, and fancy that they feel
Divinity within them buddiDg wings.”
Pshaw, man, this never came of drinking gruel o’
nights! Never heed the clergy—you never did hoed
them much when you were alive. Good boy!
There is a brimmer for you! What, Seneca, sleep-
ing, man ? Rouse up ! drink up ! troll us out a
merry stave such as you used to sing on Roman
nights, when you and Cato and Marcus Aurelius
and the rest of the boys went around pulling off
the knockers and stealing the milk out of the jugs
to mix with your rum in the morniogs! None of
your coyness; no excuses; no shilly-shally come-
ani-coax-me-in-a-corner nonsense with us, please!
We know you, you antiquated old wine-sponge!
Now, then, silence, boys; Seneca’s song! Lift it
lad 1 Raise It up ! Roll it out! Bravely done !
Chorus, now ! Hand to hand, glass to glass I
Rarely trolled! royally trolled! What a night—
what a meeting—a meeting of Olympians—a night
of Belshazzar, lads! Come, now, Will Shakespeare,
tell us which plays are yours and which are
Bacon’s! All friends here, boy—all giants of genius
together ! What ? By thunder ! No ? But you
mean it? Oh, give us room to laugh! Could nevc r
even write your own name! And all the signa-
tures supposed to be yours are forgeries? And
the Stratford-on-Avon sexton wrote all the plays I
O Mother of Moses, this is a orusher! And you
killed the sexton, and hid his body in a
water-butt after stealing his manuscripts !
You bald-headed old villain! William Shakes-
peare, you are a dissolute person, and a man of no
account. O, you droll dog! William, you would
always have your joke. We are the boys to flood
the universe with fun—we can take the world out
of winding—we can make it dance round on its
axis to our piping! Jack Milton, you have no
humour that a bush missionary would stop to pick
up if he found it on the hi/hway. Wit you have
some, but it is laboured, Jack, laboured. None
of the dash and dazzle of William’s and ours about
it. It takes us to ripple out the raillery—to twirl
round the quip and crink, eh, William? Pass
your jest, Seneca-pass your proper jest! William
has little Latin and les3 Greek, if Ben Jonson is to
be trusted—(what? Not? Wouldn’ttrust hith for a
pint at the old Red Horse !h Straftoifd ? Blowed if
wfe didn’t thlhk sol)—bl\t we will translate for him.
ai’t'er all, you Romans could never pass a jest
Unless it was bitter. Perhaps they got that habit
when the Gauls came down on them, eh, Wil-
liam ? Ho, there, Terlullian, old baggage-mule—
sober still ? What kind of drinking call you this ?
Stand up to your flagon like a man. They don't
keep suoh stuff as this down where you are.
You're not down there? Ob, tell vs! And how
were Dives and Martin Luther when ybu left?
And while we remember, give our compliments to
the devil when you go back, and tell him wo can’t
oblige him in that little matter this year. He will
know what you mean. We have to kill a few
more ternperanoe-iracl distributors yet. Rut you
ban say we expect he will have a big boom of
business in the missionary line this year. There f s
a batch just going to the Islands. And now fill up
again and tell us how many times you were in gaol
when you were hero before. But Homer, Mele-
sigines, Magonides, man of the many names, what
keeps you silent all this time ? We can all speak
Irish. You were the boy to sing the syrupy oinos
in the carved cups, and how the heroes sat down
at night by tho watch-fires to drink after a hard
day’s battle, in which they had succeeded in killing
a Trojan cat. Eh, how the spears sing and the
swords swing in your rhymes, and the wily Ulysses
exults and Agamemnon is proud at heart be-
cause after ten years’ siege they captured a city
built of mud and music and garrisoned by about
as many heroes as it would take to protect a beef-
safe in times of war notv-a-days-. Nevet mind,
Smyrnasus, old phantom-, you lteft “gteht verse
unto a little clan ’ —anA probttbly died in the work-
house, so ydu httVe no reason to complain. [What
is all this lunacy? There is nothing loc«l in it.
We have not come across a word yet about Dan
O’Connor or Andy Lynch.— Ed. B.]
* * *
Spin round the can boys—spin it round.
We aro sitting in the halls of thunder, boys, we
are living in the lightning I Stand up, boys, to a
Phrygian reel! What, all asleep except our-
selves? Eh, and blind Jack Milton under the
table stealing a fig of tobacco out of Tertullian’s
pocket! You venerable old robber ! What, asleep
too? Fell asleep in the middle of his villainy.
And now that they are all knocked over we have
a thundering good mind to cut their heads off and
sell their skulls to professor Simms—the brains
have been stolen by others long ago. By the ghost
of Paddy Rupperty’s cow we will.
* * *
* * *
* * *
Antony Murphy, may the heavens be your
bed, but it was all a vision ! Gone—vanished—
faded-fied—frizzled out. And here wo are alone
with the moon looking at us through the chink in
our hoJJew log, and the London correspondent of
our contemporary crawling home on his hands and
knees after a heavy night at Potsdam with the
Emperor William and Bismarck. We forgot to
say that he is also Berlin correspondent, and, for
the matter of that, we suppose, he also corre-
sponds from Tlmbuotoo'and the seat of war
in the Soudan. But to think of our night
with the wits being ail a dream. This living
in the bush is demoralising us. Last time
we went into town we saw spectres in our
soup. But, anyhow, we have one comfort
—we are xdtimus Romanorum (Irish for the last
man sober). What the world is going to do when
we die, we dare not think. Probably it will end,
and go to blazes. There is no wit, nowadays-no
humour, except what we have. When we want to
laugh, we always read our own copy. And for the
matter of that, we cannot discover that any other
writer has any merit whatever. [There seems
to be a touch of, egotism about this !—Ed. B.]
We know everything that is worth knowing,
even to the price of eggs. The people of this age
don’t know what a genius there is pining away in
a hollow log out on the Berowra-road. If they did,
we should now be riding in a gilded waggon, and
crowned with laurel or turnip-peel, giving one
hand to an admiring crowd to kiss at half-a-crown
a time, and holding a jug of rum-punch in the
other. But they don’t know, and the only persons
who salute us as we pass are the maintenance men,
whose compliments chiefly coma in the form. q£
blue metal, Again we say It Is a due. I'herg
Is Ho no sentithent, nd anything, except
sordid suspicion and bailiffs now. Truth and
honesty and sobriety have almost disappeared.
(Note for the editor: This is dreadfully dry work
The rum ran out this morning. Of course, this
note is private—it will hardly do to let the public
behind the scenes. It is good for them to think that
we are living, like John the Baptist, on camel skins
and wild locusts’ hair, while we are writing in this
lofty strain. Don’t let that fiend of darkness, your
foreman, print this with the rest We have
watched him drinking out of a pewter and noticed
that he shut his eyes over it. A man who does
this is capable of any crime. Drink is a curse in
any case. You might forward us a keg of gocd
stuff—get the man who writes the prose morality
paragraphs to taste it, only muzzle him first, for bo
is an unadulterated scoundrel end, jvould rob
Lazarus of a §pobnfMl of gin if he were taking jt
down to Gehei na to moisten the tongue of hia
(the morality man’s) own father—and put it down
to our account!] the writer:—This goes
in by our order. We have determined to let our
readers see to what depths of hypocritical villainy
a man can descend who gives himself over to the
demon of drink. Your account is already
overdrawn. You have drunk four kegs
of rum in a fortnight. This is one keg
over the allowance we make to any of our
contributors, except poets. Anyhow, you are in-
coherent enough as it is. We forward you a bottle
of gold-cure and a tract entitled “To be read by
those in the Horrors.” And, by the way, you can
always make devils disappear by reciting the Ton
Commandments, We send you a copy of these
also, so that you may learn them. Any further
concession we can make to you m ust take the form
of cither a strait-jacket or a coffin.— Ed. B.]
No; there is none of the plain living and high think-
ing, none ot the dalm and hoble tetfiperanbß tfiat D 0
Seneciate ldVed. All id hypocrisy dnd hbllownesi;
And now tb come to the point oi this little pdj»a-
graph. Ses, dear readers, the inspiration of this
airy trifle—may Beelzebub make a local preacher
of us if we know what the inspiration was. Pro-
bably it was hair-oil. And now the moon is over
the blackbut-trees, and we must be off with the
flying-foxes. Skirrool


THE
Id NO
rap
If
THE
tg {be MOsf StjcdESSFUI
tronuced to Australia SUPERI
of similar size in Tone, Touct
Finish.
THE
lent ever in-
to all others
durability, and
Is Iron-framed, Doable Oblique Trichord, and
Sevon Octaves in compass, in beautiful Walnut
or Ebonised Case, or Gold Engraved.
THE
Migrnon
Is the BEST and CHEAPEST Piano in Sydney. No
piano ever had such a sale as the “ MIGNON.”
THE
ANOTHER BIG SUOCESSI
One of the LARGEST and BEST-CONSTRUCTED
Pianos ever made.
FULL-TONED !
BEAUTIFUL QUALITY !
PERFECTION OF TOUCH !
ALWAYS RECOMMENDS ITSELF I
THE
Wilmer
T*XAJXTO
Illustrated catalogues of the “MIGNON,”
“WILMER,” and all other good instruments, to
be had on application.
NICHOLSON - AND GO.,
325 George-street,
THE FIRST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR PIANOS
AND ORGANS.
QUONG TART & CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
Tta Merchants Si lamorters
28, 29, and 30 SYDNEY ARCADE, and
7 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
All Teas carefully selected at the plantitions by
our own Tea-taster, and quality guarateed.
Intending purchasers should visit our Tea Rooms
and sample forthemselves before buying.
The ladies of the city will find our new rooms in
the King-street Arcade a great acquisition—airy,
comfortable, and commodious, with prompt
ttendants.
170
R.3URGIS
TAILOR .
&
-
TRY BURQIS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
from IBs* 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a»rood. genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STREET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for self-measuring
;orwarded*to any part of the^colony.
ALCOCK & CO.'S
CELEBRATui)
BILLIARD
TABLES.
BOLE AGENTS:
111 d CO.,
375 George-st., Sydney.
TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED.
&
U
DE
COMFORTABLE TEF.Tii
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are three kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
turns, decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
rops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitat/iona .
ee that each Label bears the name, “ Wilcox ana
Co., 339 Oxford-street, London."
ASTHMA,COUGH/BRONCHITIS.
One of these Cigarettes gives Immediate relief In
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short hreath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each box bears the name of “ Wilcox and
Co., 339 Oxford-street. London.”
Ayer’s Ague Cure not only affords immediate
relief, but it eradicates the malarial poison which
produces the disease, without leaving any injuri-
ous effect, as is the case with quinine and many of
the ague medicines advertised. It is the only
medicine in existence which may be considered an
absolute antidote for fever and ague, and kindred
diseases.
BLEND
JMAR&)
THADE
2&/$ TEBIS
/COLLIE BLEND WHISKY. —Thin is a BLEND
Vy of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
PAPERB ANGI.NGS!
with
DABOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSER* P/ .-EHS,
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &0.
Imported by
Alexander Borthw/ck,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORB’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &e.
P. KIEBT,
From the late Mr. Jambs Cubtis,
XT n. d.er ta,3s:er,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
AYER’S .
Cherry Pectoral.
No' Otfffff complaints are so insidious in their
attack as those affecting the throat and lungs:
none so trifled with by the majority of suffer-
ers. The ordinary sough or C<sld, resulting
perhaps from a trifling or unconscious ex-
posure, is often but the beginning of a fatal
sickness. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral has
well proven its efficacy in a forty years’ fight
with throat and lung diseases, and should be
taken in all cases without delay.
A Terrible Cough Cured.
“In 18571 took a severe cold, which affected
my lungs. I had a terrible cough, and passed
flight after night without sleep. The doctors
gave me up. I tried Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, which relieved my lungs, induced
sleep, and afforded me the rest necessary
for the recovery of my strength. By the
continued use of the Pectoral a perma-
nent cure was effected. I am now 62 years
Old, hale and hearty, and am satisfied your
Cherry Pectoral saved me.
Horace Fairbrotheb.”
Rockingham, Vt<, July 15,1882.
® Croup. A Mother*® Tribute.
“While in the country last winter my little
boy, three years old, was taken ill with eroup;
it seemed as if he would die from strangrs*
lation. One of the family suggested the usd
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, a bottle of
which was always kept in the bouse. This
was tried in small and frequent doses, and
to our delight in less than half an hour tho
little patient was breathing easily. The doc-
tor said that the Cherry Pectoral had
saved my darling’s life. Can you wonder at
our gratitude? Sincerely yours,
Mrs. Emma Gedney.”
169 West 128th St., New York, May 16, 1882.
“ i have used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
in my family for several years, and do not
hesitate to pronounce it the most effectual
remedy for coughs and colds we have ever
tried. A. J. Crane.”
Lake Crystal, Minn., March 13, 1882.
“ I suffered for eight years from Bronchitis,
and after trying many remedies with no suc-
cess, I was cured by the use of Ayer’s Cher-
by Pectoral. Joseph Walden.”
Byhaiia, Miss., April 5,1882.
“ I cannot say enough in praise of Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral, believing as I do that
but for its use I should long since have died
from lung troubles. K. BRAODON.”
Palestine, Texas, April 22, 1882.
No case of an affection of the throat or
lungs exists which cannot be greatly relieved
by the use of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
and it will always cure when the disease is
not already beyond the control of medicine.
PREPARED BY * ' •
Dr. J.C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggistß.
BLLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
?a
If
/'Tc
1
®t>* s A
V)S
• n*£T" uM'e
» /
Eckx
•WJ
.V?
\N*
<A>
S'A/AN'
Qbo(7j^
i££3
—•- -S YDNEY^-w
opposite POST OFPIC€
NCAJJ.V
V>tT±Tf*Mf
Ut(
ret
Note the Address:
339 & 341 George.street.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
IS" 308 GEORGE STREET.
~ 'vafaßATS*-
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
80LEAGENT
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
%3T MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN'S COFFEE.
Copyright**.
UOU67ICH£ and WHISEEBS.
Boyd*s Beard FUxir did this, and I
toiU do it on cither bald head or \
bare fare. Forces heavy Mont- i
tar he in fromZto A toeek h and never 1
Jails , 20,000 young men already
wear full beards , having used 1 to
BEFons Arrew
Copyrighted.
3 pkts. No injury, easily applied, certain in effect. Packet* I*. 6cf.
earli, 3 for 3a. t*i., post paid, sent under cover, free from observation•
Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent,Box 730, 0.P.0., Sydney ,N.B. W*
BLAKE’S IMPROVED
STEAM PUMPS.
H. P. 6REGORY & GO.,
17 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE ABOVE,
and have in Stock and to arrive—
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULATING PUMPS.
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING PUMPS
SEND FOR PRICES AND ALL PARTICULARS
CATALOGUES FORWARDED FREE.
A COLOSSAL TRADE!!!
The following Gentlemen are engaged u
CUTTERS In the
LARGEST and Moat EXTENSIVE
Tailoring Establishment
In the Southern Hemisphere.
Some 300 hands are now employed by Messrs.
BIJIMIHERFIELB Si Co., whose chief
place of business is
235 & 237 Pitt-st.,
SYDNEY, with Branches at
NEWCASTLE, DUBBO, WAGGA, and 61 & 53
LEADENH ALL-STREET, LONDON, E.C.
Mr. H. W. CHAPMAN, the well-known City
Cutter.
Mr. W. FROST, Thirty Years’ Sydney expe-
rience.
Mr. C. PROBYN, of Poole’s, Savilla Row,
London.
Mr. H. J. TONKIN, of Tonkin, Sons and Co.,
Bristol.
Mr. R. MORRISBY, Eight Years with Summer-
field and Co.
Mr. CHARLES TAUTZ, of Tautz and Co.,
Breeches Makers, Piccadilly.
At Newcastle) :
Mr. WALTER RICE, best known Cutter in
Australia.
Mr. W. SHAW.
I.LMIFIEM,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
AND GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS.
ZOEDONE,
Pleasant, Refreshing,
Invigorating.
The non-alcoholic beverage acta a a a brain and
nerve tonic, and does not lntoxioate.
ZOEDONE
la recommended by the Faculty as a substitute for
wine, beer, and epirlts, aa It Invigorates without
producing any intoxicating effeot. In ease of
debility consequent on a long residence in a hot
climate, it is or great service, as it acts not only aa
a nerve stimulant, but also aa a permanent tonie
to the system.
Price per oaso containing 10 dozen H pints ...21/-
«i i* »t 0 ,• 1 ~ .. 24/•
ELLIOTT BROTHERS,
73 and 74 Pitt-atreet,
Sydney.
PAINTS
OILS.
o
6
WALL
PAPERS
Office: 330 George-sfreet.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
KST N.R. Patterns and Prieaa sent.
♦ r
m
HOT WATER BATH
HAIH r ! -£,: : V«.
i Z/. !4!
HALF HOL!o.~
ESTAt-i i.»hwuu r
' j F. I. C; •
y >- r/i'i/Fso*y


TO CLEANSE THE SKIN
Scalp and Blood of Itching:. Scalpy, Pimply, Scrofu-
lous, Inherited and Contagious Humors, Blood
Poisons, Ulcers, Abscesses, and Infantile Skin
Tortures, the Cuticura Remedies are infallible.
Cuticdra Resolvent, the new Blood Puriiier,
expels disease germs from the blood and perspira-
tion, and thus removes the cause. Citicura, the
great Skin Cure, instantly allays Itching and In-
flammation, clears the Skin and Scalp, heals Ulcers
and Sores, restores the Complexion. Cuticura
Soap, an exquisite St in Beautiller, is indispensable
in treating skin diseases, and for rough, chapped,
or; greasy skin, blackheads, blotches and baby
humors. Cutucara Remedies are the only in-
fallible Blood Purifiers and Skm Bf autificre. Sold
everywhere. Cuticura, 50 cents; Soap, 25 cents;
Resolvent, $l. Potter Drug and Chemical Co.,
Boston, Mass.
VALUABLE TRUTHS*
“ If you are suffering from poor health
‘or languishing on a bed of sickness,
* take eheer, for
Hop Bitters will cure you.
“If you are simply ailing, if you feel
‘weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘knowing why,
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
‘taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out with care
* and work,
Hop Bitters will Restore you.
“If you are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
* your every-day duties, or a man of let-
‘ ters, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strengliten you.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ordrinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
‘ pation, or are young and growing too
‘ fast, as is often the ease,
Hop Bitters will relieve you.
“If you are in the workshop, on the
‘ farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
* that your system needs cleansing, ton-
* ing, or stimulating, without inttoxicat-
‘ing
Hop Bitters is what you need.
“If you are old, and your blood thin
‘ and impuxe, pulse feeble, your nerves
* unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Hop Bitters will give you new 1.1 fg
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS is an elegant, heal- $
* thy, and refreshing flavouring for sick-
‘ room drinks ; impure water, etc., ren-
‘ dering them harmless, and sweetening
‘ the mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doo-
tors’ bills to pay.
HOP BITTERS
is an Elegant, Pleasant, and Refreshing Flavouring
for sick-room drinks and Impure Water, rendering
them harmless, sweetening the mouth, and cleans-
ing the stomach.
GRAHAM,
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
643, late 531, George-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—l respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and lit of our
Trousers, which are cut on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding,
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor brace?,
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to flt the corpulent as well as
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all th«
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial wiH suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am, Sir
Your obedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS, &c.
PRICE 3s. 6d.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist,
43 ERSKINE STREET.
Wnld bv W. IT. RIOTTU and all
Heaping Coals of Fire.
There is a reckless sort of boy out in
Woolloomooloo who will have to be watched as
he grows up, or he’ll bring his mother's grey hairs
down in sorrow to the grave. His mother is a
a widow lady, fairjand forty—and she might be fat
as well if worrying over that boy and his doings
didn’t keep her flesh down so. Until recently she
had a lodger in the house, a bald-headed gentle-
man of the Pickwickian school, who had a pen-
chant for antiquarian research, but seldom got
further with his investigations than the old maids
and widowsot his acquaintance. The boy smother,
being alone in the world, trusted and confided
in her lodger, who also had lost his partner in the
joy and sorrow business’somo yeais previous to
their meeting. Their spirits, through the sweet
influences of a sympathy born of a mutual bereave-
ment, naturally drew near to each other, and the
widow began to crimp her hair a little more care-
fully than she had done before, while he shaved
otf his grey beard and began dying the remaining
tuft of hair that sheltered each ear from the hot
summer winds. There was no use of his trying to
hide his baldness without the use of a wig, for his
forehead reached clear over to the back of his
neck. All was going along as though every-
thing had been lubricated for the occasion
when Johnnie and the lodger fell out about
something. Johnnie was impudent, and the
old gentleman, in view of the reef he had
struck and the prospect of ample returns after he
got fairly to work on it, proceeded to cuff the lad’s
ears after true stepfatherly fashion. The boy
went to his mother with a tale of woe more than a
yard long; but the old lady gave him little sym-
pathy. “ Well, what am Ito do?" cried Johnnie;
‘‘you don’t suppose I’m going to have that old
duller play hand-ball with my head all around the
parlour every time he takes a notion, do you ?’’
‘‘Johnnie, Johnnie,” soothingly began his mother;
“he is a dear, good mao, with a very kind
heart. If you think ho has treated you wrong-
fully, you must heap coals of lire on his head,
as the Bible says, and that will soften him aud make
him love you,” Johnnie appeared satisfied, but he
went away muttering to himself “I’ll burn the
durned old cuss up—that’s what I’ll do. Ma thinks
she can bonswaggle me with some of her old Sal-
vation palaver, but I’ll show ’em.” The other day
the lodger went to sleep in the sitting-room. He
was lying on hi« back on the sofa while the flies
were pl a ying hide-and-go-scek around his wide-
open mouth and over his up-turned nose. Johnnie
came in from school, with his book-satchel slung
over his shoulder. The snore which greeted his
ear 3 sounded like the first bray of a Salvation-
Army euphonium. Laying his boots aside, he
hurried into the kitchen. Presently he returned
with a pair of tongs and a live, red coal. He
placed it softly on the leather head-rest of the
sofa where it would roll down against the sleeper’s
scalp. Then he bolted for the street. The coal
did its work. First the old man only groaned as
though in a nightmare. Then, with a yell, he
sprang from the sofa. But the coal roiled over the
smooth surface of his pate and slid down his back.
Seventeen black-gins and a boiler factory couldn't
hare made more noise than he did as ne ran yelling
through the kitchen and made for the water-tap
in the back yard. Meanwhile, tho coal made its
way steadily down bis back bone, and Anally burnt
itself through out at the elbow of his trousers.
The widow appeared on the scene, but it was some
time before tho old man was finally put out. What
happened subsequently need not bo related. Suffice
it to say that the match was declared off, and
Johnnie has gone to Wollongong to stay with his
aunt until things at home have cooled down a bit.
A blunt but brave olci soldier is Captain
Battye, of A'bury, and, when ho has anything to
Bay, ho lets it right straight out, regardless of the
consequences. A low days ago, an enterprising
young gentleman from the Tumbarumba district
was credited with temporarily appropriating a
mob of horses, which he sold for £lOO. As it this
was not joy enough lor one day, he returned at
once to uis native heath, mar led a young lady,
and had quite a high old time tor a while on the
strength of the ‘century.” Shortly alter this he
was lodged in the local lock-up ou a charge of
horse -stealing. That night the lock o>' his dungeon
coll was manipulated, and the gay Lothuio has
been missing ever since. Captain Battye was sent
across to report, and, after carelully sitting the
business through, he declares that “if any hlamo
was to be accorded, it should be placed to the
account of the person who had, as inspector of
such buildings, passed work as fitted lor the
secure keeping of prisoners.’’ Quite right, too.
Some of these fortresses are reported to be so
liimsily constructed that, if an ordinary prisoner
leans against the walls, he is in Ganger of falling
out in the street and breaking something.
Under the heading ‘ Church and Stage/’
a little Melbourne paper gives us some of the
very drivellest of drivel. Deploring the absence
of “rooks” from the theatre, it wails thusly :
“ Beyond the fact that our worthy Bishop, Dr.
Moorhouse, accorded his patronage to Miss Jenny
Dee, when she gave a benefit lor the Children’s
Hospital, nothing has been done to improve the
tone of the Stage by the presence of clergymen
amongst the audiences at our theatres.” No, it's a
lamontable fact that nothing has been done, by the
presence of the black-coated brethren, to improve
the moral tone of the theatre. It's just the same
at Presbyterian Assemblies, and such liko gather-
ings: there, again, the “presence of clergymen”
doesn’t do much for the “tone”—except to make
it somewhat loud and angry. Before we shed too
many tears over the absence of such oily critics
from the theatre, let us carefully note the exact
Influence which the presence of clergymen will
have on the tone of prisons. A good many of ’em
have been “jugged” lately—for “lifting,” and
criminal assaults, and things like that.—
If the clergy’s holy presence
Is tho one important essence
In the “ toning ” of the Stage, it cannot fail —
When we “put away” a parson,
Say, for murder, rape, or arson—
To do wonders for the morals of tho gaol.
Another idol shattered, and another fond
dream of our childhood’s happy days gone hung.
Father Clarke, of St. Francis, p*ew York, lias just
returned Irom hell, und the account ho gives of
tbnt much-disputed country is so totally at vari-
ance with the description blasted into us at Sunday-
school, that we’re real sorry Father Clarke over
went to hell at all, or that, having started off, he
ever returned. First of all, Father Clarke tells us
there is no such place as hell at all It is merely a
“ state of rebellion against God, which is the state
of the agnostic here to-day.” Now, we know some
agnostics who lead remarkably comfortable lives,
and if hell has no more terrors than a thousind a
year and the best of everything this world can
give, we don't see that our donning sackcloth and
ashes, and living on a red herring a day by way of
mortifying the flesh, is such an enormously pro-
fitable speculation, after all. Then, again, Father
Clarke says there's positively no real fire in hell
whatever, and thit yarn about His Satanic Majesty
jabbing a pitchfork Into the unregenerated's sto-
machs and toasting them over a gas stove, while his
assistant cooks baste the sioners with boiling pitch
and then serve them up with sulphur sauce, is a
cruel libel on a very respectable old monarch who is
highly esteemed and respected by all his subjects.
Father Clarke has evidently made a special study
of this end of his subject, for he says:—“The fire
of Hell, though it is a true, real fire, is not the
gross, material lire with which we are conversant
upon earth. It is a supernatural fire. It produces
upon the bodies and souls of the lost the same
effect that fire produces here on our material
bodies, and through, them on our souls, except
that the agony it causes will be a thousand times
more intense. The gnawing agony of eternal
remorse and reproach will be far worso than any
bodily agony. The chief tor cent of Hell iseternal
separation from God.” If that last sentence is
straight, the bulk of the inhabitants of this world
must have been in Hell ever since their birth.
We’re disappointed with Father Clarke’s new Hell
In toto. If there’s no Hell at all, where in thunder
will all our amateur cornet-players and grand
juries go to ?
Her Letter. (D.H.I.M.S )
There is a talented old gentleman lecturing
up North just now called Captain William Jackson
Barry, who, it seems, was recently in correspon-
dence with the Queen. Ho gave the Queen his
book, and is expecting her’s by the next mail*
Here is the text, so far as we ean gather, of Her
Majesty’s letter to the gallant Captain
“ Balmoral Castle,
‘Half-past Railtime.
“ Dear Cap.,—Your letter was a source of great
comfort to me, though it' was generally con
sidered in the Palace that you are a hit shaky
in the pothook line. I have been having a
go°d deal of trouble with the chicks. Then the
Duke of Teckl Such goings on in Kensington
Palace! ‘Nap’ all night in the white drawing-
room, and ‘ heading them ’ immediately after
breakfast in the Duke’s study, which I have sine©
discovered contained in the way of materials for
mental improvement only a bootjack, a portrait of
Mrs. Rousby, and a song-book. Arthur, howi ver,
is doing well in India; and really Bertie, consider-
ing he nas not got natural talent enough to enable
him to earn a JiviDg selling pipe-lights, has suc-
ceeded in bec< ming popular beyond my expecta-
tions. The Crown Prince and Vicky, lam sorry to
say. live far from as happily as l could wish. It
seems she taunted him with having partaken too
liberally of lager at Berlin last week, and losing all
command of himself ho nearly had her life with a
copper-stick. And you know, dear Captain Barry,
how things are in Rustial What with Alexander
residing now exclusively in the coal-hole, and
living on Johnny - cakss, which he preparos
himself, tho look-out for monarchical regimes
is anything but an assuring one. Coming to
the question you put to me, if it is advis-
able to open and lecture when there is only
15 shillings in the had, ray counsel to you V yes,
provided you have paid the hall in advance, and
no, if you have not. With regard to your route, I
should, in your place, skip all towns containing no
more than two public-houses, and always make a
point of calling on the parson directly you arrive,
and giving hie cook a ticket. Application lias been
made to mo by your Premier—l forget his name,
hut his portrait proves him to be a gentleman of
MARQUIS TSENG, CHINESE AMBASSADOR TO FRANCK
remarkably attractive appearance—something
like the prints of Kyrle Belle w, in fact—to make a
Mr. D. O’Connell, or O’Connor, a Companion, and
to confer some mark of my favour upon a party
named Smith. I think the best plan will be to
send over a bam per of the crosses and let the people
‘draw the marbles’ for them. You, my dear
captain, will be welcome to the ii'-st plunge
before the boys begin to gamble. Your state-
ment, by the way, that you have known both
Arthur Orton and Torn Castro, and that
they are two separate persons, really a
remarkable one; but as the noblemm at Port-
land has almost eaten himself out of my prison by
now, it is hardly worth while re-opening the sub-
ject. And now, dear Captain Barry, good bye.
Let me recommend you. when the cold weather
sets in, to take a tumbler of ginger-cordial hot,
with a pinch of cinnamon in it, before you go to
bed. I use it regularly, and I consider it is to the
many virtues 'f that beverage (you might add just
a ‘thought ’ of ‘ Bloomfield ’) is due the prosperity
of my kingdom, and the happv and contented con-
dition of tne London poor. Victoria R. I.”
The effect of this letter when read, as only Captain
Barry knows how to read it, and accompanied
plaintively on the piano by a lady amateur (who is
rot suffering much from nervousness) is very
striking indeed.
1 he history of the Worcester sauce is ex-
citing attention in the old country and some rare
old lies are being bandied to and lro in connection
therewith. Here is one:-“Many years ago, Mrs.
Grey, author of “The Gamblers Wife, was on
a visit at Ombersley Court, when Lady sandys
chanced to remark that she wished she could get
some very good curri'-powder; which elicited
from Mrs. Grey that she had in her desk an excel-
lent recipe, which her uncle, Sir Charles, Chief
Justice of India, had given her. Lady
said that there were chemists in Worcester, who
might be able to make up the powder ; at all
events, when they drove in after luncheon they
would see. Messrs Lee and Perrins looked at the
r <?cipe, said they would do their best, and in due
time forwarded a packet of the powder. Subse-
quently the happy thought struck some one in
the business that the powder might, in solution,
make a good sauce. The experiment was made,
and by degrees the thing took amazingly.” Here
is another (told by a member of the Down Hunt):
—“lord Sandys introduced the sauce to Lee and
Perrins. He obtained its lecipe from one Nicholas
Coates, the caterer of the Down Hunt, a hunting
club in name, hut then, as now, without hounds,
and famed for good living,at the dinners of which,
and in the oouuty of Down generally, it was known
as Down Hunt Sauce. 1 have heard that the
sauce was known in its earliest days at the Down
Hunt as ‘ Bombardier sauce,’ owing to its recipe
having been brought there by an ex-vunner. The
Lord Sandy-i alluded to was the Lord Arthur
Hill of * the Duke's staff at Waterloo.’ ” We our-
selves remember hearing the late Lord Hatherton
declare at a mess dinner that he was tho “noble-
man” on the wrapper, ant that it was a shame
that a sauce which owed its origin to one Stafford-
shire man and been introduced to Loo and Perrins
by another should be calied “ Worcester ”
A new sect, entitled “ Mind-healers,” are
just now abolishing sickness in Boston, U. 3. This
is how the Boston Advertiser describes the pro-
cess: “A mind-healer is a person who is full to
superabundance of Divinity, upon his own cog-
nisance of the Almighty, and who is willlDg to
allow his, or more generally tier, superiluity or
abundance to overflow into the person of some
patient in whom it is declared the presence of dis-
oase proves tho absence ot' the Lord. The process
is of tho simplest. The healer sits down with his
back in contact with the corresponding portion of
the patient’s person, and, for the moderate price
of a dollar an hour, allows the supposed Divine
influence to flow from vertebra to vertebras.” A
lot of us would put up with that sort of treat-
ment if we could only make sure of our “ healer ”
—everything depends on that. The vertebras of a
fellow’s grandfather, for instance, could hardly be
expected to have the same divine influence as
would that of the “best girl.” When we come to
remember the amount of exhilaration that’s occa-
sionally derived from the mere pressure of a
pretty girl's hund, wo l'col'tis quite imptssible to
guess the beneficial effects of this “ vertebras
treatment.” At any rate, it will bo worth giving a
trial to over the next headache.
the vertebrae’s virtue.
Patent pills of all descriptions
We have swallowed—but in vain—
And are sick of quack prescriptions
That give no relief to pain;
So, this process of “ mind-healing ”
We look forward to with gleo,
And are mad to try the feeling
Of a dcse of “ Vertebrae.”
’Tis a treatment safe and simple—
Quite infallible, they say.
Any fever, cough, or pimple,
It is bound to take away;
And there's something in the notion
Which commends itself, you see—
(lf a lady gives the lotion)
Yes, we’ll try the “ Vertebra.”
We shall fancy the positions,
If the doctor’s young and nice;
Then, moreover, “mind physicians”
Are so moderate in price—
(Even patients poor and needy,
Cannot grumble at their fee)—
Now we’re feeling rather seedy,
So, we’ll try some “ Vertebra.”
Labby tells a good story about a sensible
soldier who on being tried for selling his medals,
was asked by the President of the Court-inartipl
what excuse he had to make for such a disgiacelul
proceeding, answered : “ Disgrace, sir ! I have
grown to think the medals almost a disgi ace; hav-
ing been chaffed so much by my friends about my
picnic to Egypt I was tired of the subject, ana,
as I supposed the medals were my own, 1 gold
them for hall-a-crown.”


WTCH WHISKEY!
Tttfe UfeIMIBR WHISKEY iS
thom and cameron’s
o lc3. Iv£a/t - u.xed.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
°* Ly brothers,
for N - S - w - and Queensland,
andotLSgSH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
3jjq u general merchandise,
George Street, Sydney
Ge nu,nelrish Whiskey
1(1 JAMES pN & CO.'S DUBLIN WHISKEY
1(1, b 18 UNSURPASSED.
for ® x PCTt at the Distillery,
f }l }K been in ™ m ? rs ma y> therefore, rely that it
tta^ y °u^kf.w.. ll andB of “Whiskey Doctors.”
ttiarkj 866 that you get it, look for the
< a diamond on label, cork and capsule.
>„ " al * Brothers,
e&ta for N.B.W. and Queensland.
C. COWLES,
Gimmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GENS
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &0.
Repairs by London workmen.
Bgr c. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
J LAWLER, 608 Georye-street, Bedding Manu-
• facturer, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed-
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair,
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. Established 1860.
Peapes & Shaw’s
STANDARD" CLOTHING.
srl\t or the SUMMER SEASON, THE MOST COMPREHENSIVE ASSORTMENT OF
YEMEN’S READY-MADE CLOTHING to be found in any bouse in the city.
Gen®
J B ®.
'SsSn^e
ifejaOHT
,?KD ov
“STANDARD” TWEED SUITS,” 325. 6d., 355., 425., 455., 505., 555.
BLUE SERGE SUITS, 355. and 425.
TWEED SAC COATS, 6s. 6d. each, suitablo for garden or office.
TWEED SAC COATS, 15s. 6d. and 21®.
BLUE SERGE SAC COATS, 18s. 6d., 21s.
TWEED TROUSERS, lfis. 6d., 13s. 6d., 16s. 6d.
TROUSERS and VESTS, 255. and 30s.
. n SUMMER DUST COATS, THIRTY SHILLINGS.
A h l - rnT?X® UCOA ®S, 425., 505., 555.
HOLLAND SAC O
COATS, 4s. 6d. EACH.
*ll'% hats,
new summer shapes.
u - WAR SUITS, guernsey
and
ir^UT.t? m P lG te.
l &«ong CLOTHIN G.-All
JfCllipßn?'mTx Ur s P®cial order.
CKEt ING, and LAWN-TENNIS
S A.CS, for cricketing or boat-
USERS, 13a 6d. per pair.
WHITE and COLOURED LINEN DUCK VESTS,
9s. 6d. each ; 3 for 375.
WHITE and COLOURED DUCK COATS, military
or roll collars, 6s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 13s. Od, 14s. 6d.,
18s. 6<L, 21s.
DUCK TROUSERS, 13s. 6d. per pair.
CHINA SILK SAC and DUST COATS, 15s. 6d.,
18s. 6d„ Sis.
BLACK ALPACA COATS, 10s. 6d„ 13s. 6d., 15s. 6d.
BLACK CASHMERE and RUSSELL CORD
COATS, 18s. 6d., 31s.
PEAPES and SHAW, George-streefc.
ERY DEPARTMENT IB Btocked With alLthe LEADING NOVELTIES for the Summer
- THREAD and SUMMER MERINO HALF-HOSE, in plain colours or fancy
dozen.
«rT, o Ts > India Gauze, Gosamer, Summer Merino (coloured and white), Balbriggan,
feWTW SBife Silk, with Pants to match.
** tfn^lNTEn I ®, O.F. or 8.8., 80s., 405., 50s. half-dozen. v ,
Sn/jif) lr,®N Cor i *\,? Gatt A and OXFORD SHIRT, collars attached, 80s., 405., 425. the half-dozen.
oHt’sT 8 for h^uTJi S :'~ Ttie Beresford, Seymour, Army and Navy, General, Admiral, with patent
i position. ' .
, Colourings, and De3igßS,“The Masher, Cyprus, Rosebery, Marquis,
BhtkK TItXM’ ribs < Natural Stlekß* Nickel Fittings, from 10s. 6d. to 85s.
n BRACE and DRAPERS SUSPENDERS.
2ls., 80s., 40s. the dozen.
PEAPES & SHAW, George-street.
Sz, ©on’s
C
r °Diall Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
H * W PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
IToTxr ©pom.*
HOTEL,
° r Der of
KING and CASTBEREAGH STREETS.
McCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
UP-STAIRS.
&
0 oo\
• T-
SSI
QU
The ONLY GENUINE tintag
TOBACCO.
consume, in manufacture, nearly three-
fourths of the whole of the leaf imported
n e t-f N.S. Wales, therefore their Twist and
c lq ooaie c in the estimation of judges of Tobacco.
Vieror, Sir Roger (thick tlvist), Cut R.C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture.
««(w ll ttbort' C ° NQIIER ' OR and EARLY BIRD hold a high position,
of P l ®® 4l Cigars, and all Tobacconists’ Sundries.
TOBACCO WORKS, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
Ted,
C. B. HSODINI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
|3T“ TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading' Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne ; also Angela Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
SOHO BAZAAR,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior assort
ment of
Brie a Brae, Articles of Vertu,
Terra Cotta, Cliinaware, &c. f
Tricycles, Trench and German
Model Dolls, Count Harrach’s
Bohemian Vases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Eigures,
and all varieties of
EANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
SoJglo Bazaar
352 Qeorgge Street
JOHN 6. HARBOROW,
470 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Fruit Markets,
FM GOODS IFITEB.
GLOVES
HOSIERY
SUNSHADES
LACES
LADIES’ HOOTS & SHOES
HAND BAGS
EANS
PURSES
and all varieties of EANCY GOODS.
470 Geerge-sfreet.
P. R. HOIDSWORTH,
AUCTIONEER, VALUATOR,
House, Land & Estate Mgent
63 ROYAL ARCADE PITT STREET.
PURE COUNTRY ifilLK.
irpHE MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being:
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Butter.
This is either manufactured at their own depflt
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning, delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food &. Ice Co., Limited,
21 HARBOUR STREET.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by ©very maker
of renown, from
J 836 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital .£300,000
Reserve Fund £133,600
DIRECTOR'S •
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidiey King, M.L.C.
C. Rol-leston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq
_ Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, Nyng-an, and Bourke.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G
Goo. P. Slade, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq,
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking-and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
w.
KERR,
Watchmaker
Jeweller,
and
Silversmith,
•JJAS JUST OPENED HIS NEW PREMISES
544 6EOR6E STREET,
Opposite the TOWN HALL,
With a magnificent stock of Diamond, Roman
and Vienna Jewellery,
GOLD AND SILVER WATCHES & CLOCKS,
Football, Cricketing, and Trophy Speciality.
Note the Address—
-644 GEORGE STREET.
“W\ H. Ariel! Ik Co. ? s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARTELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b.
and 2001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
J4> 14, and lib. tins.
R. WHITTINGHAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams,
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &c.
ANGLO-SCANDIN AVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand.
343 and 345 Kent Street,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
AND
GIBBS
A i tom die
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES
Mangle an l
wringer, £4lO
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shollera
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walwui
Wood,
&c. &o. &o.
'
HEBBLEWIIITE & CO.,
416 GEORGE STREET.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OF THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
J3T THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT,
on iixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Rank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
A CURE GUARANTEED.
JMsav
SHALfA
TREATMCNT-
kR. E. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREAT.
f MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness, con
vulsions, fits, nervous neuralgia, headache, nervou
prostration caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco
wakefulness, mental depression, softening of the
brain resulting in insanity and leading to misery
decay, and death; premature old age, caused l
over-exertion of the brain or over-indulgenc
Each box contains one month’s treatment, ss.
box, or six boxes for 255.; sent by mail prepaid o
receipt of price. We guarantee six boxes to cur
any case. With each order received for six boxe
accompanied with 265., the purchaser will reeeh
the manufacturer’s written guarantee to refur:
the money if the treatment does not effect a cure
Guarantees issued by all chemists and druggists
Australia.


(REGISTERED.)
:foV
• ' :
fcs
o
9 SYDNEY AECADE & 12 ROYAL ARCADE.
LATEST FASHIONS.
*
S*J|
WATCHES, irZESOIkfi 30®.
Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr, B, All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.B.—BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or Indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonics.
L. E. HENDERSON, Manager.
■M
j
THE PEOPLE’S CLOTHIEB. «.
MgS'lJsofllf
■es, and at VERY LOW PRICES. ». tbe StooK * n
Both shop,.,™thorouglr *»***■„ STB**!.’’ ‘
idET UULU muivuov
I keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING MEN’S CLOTHING i
Be sure youflndthe right shops, when requiring CLOTHING 0
e sure you ijihi lrifcut - .l
J. J. Byan, 780 Georga Street, Hay^
And m GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, rear Mar
HAWKES AND COMPANY,
TATTEItSALL’B HORSE BAZAAR
and
8A L E YARDS,
CORNER of CASTLEREAGH and HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sales Daily, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Livery; excellent accommodation
and fodder.
All kinds of Vehicles and Horses on Hire, day
or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
carriages.
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
separate.
GAIiTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.:
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TO BACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
HEYDE, TODSAH & CO.,
YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
: .: V :: V ; A
Heidsieck & Co’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OP ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICH AH DS & Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsieck & Co., Reims.
BEAUTIFUL FLOWERS.
Cat Flowers of every description
Wreaths, Crosses, Wedding and Ball-dress
Bouque's
Ball Room Floral Furnishing
Plants for table, &c. Chureh Decorations.
SEARL SONS,
Banquetists and Florists,
3 and 5 GEORGE-STREET MARKETS, SYDNEY
AIR-TIGHT SHOW CASE COMPY.,
6T GEORGE STREET WEfVT.
SHOP,
OFFICE,
AND
Hotel-bar
FITTERS.
Air-tight
SHOW
CASES
AT
LONDON
PRICES.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
UMBRELLAS
REMOVE BE &
STUDY ECONOMY
and
HaveyourU mbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. 'Rwnatr* neatly «xs
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MH. F. WAKE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
I Corner Georsc & Market Streets, Sydney.
Te ?th painlessly extracted by Laughing Gas,
iEtlier Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform.
EIG-GrIRT’S
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCHWOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
ZSP,
©
S
if; £UPHOf\BI\^
■ J.C
' ■ i
Cure
r .
Asthma; Bronchitis £f%
Coughs, i ,i
%
'l#'Thomas moHAM M!
ROCKHAMPTON
w
=sWBsr
estimation. Common - bitter crude beers are
made very fine, but no other brand has the
same mellow vinous character, the fullness on
the palate, and tko great l>eoping qualities of the
BULL-DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore eau-
BROTlSEilififcO.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and General Com «•
mission Agents,
lit and U 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CQBNBB OV PITT AND PABK BTBEKTS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customers and the
, « , u„ ri a. lv Unn n naOAvtmanr A f
ate Markets, rear
tear
: . wai^
Importer ol every
W. M
Literature, La «' J
anC/
Kn*Usli Papers and
7 erery g
aOTAL ARCAPB.
AROAPR. i
WRIGHT, HEA^
«*«****^
GENERAL
Forwarding , Shipped' u
and Commission
HEAP OF^ 15 ’
J4l Pitt Street
$
JARRIEBB TO THB
SOUTH > v>
■nAMcn
Bouthbbn U lB ' rllI ° 51
if
Goulburn
Vasa
ftownlng
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootarmmdra
Junoe
WWKTKHM I»Sf
Caportoe
Bathurst
Blarney
Orango
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevortlre
; ,ii"
C°s; ( e>
KX2
CoW.
t* e
NOBTHBn»
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
W&lgett
pr*LV‘
P>
4*
4*
anrv Kiraniaoa
a XV r IBNEafl5
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Rockhampton
Bogantuugan
Emerald
($’
Townsville
Charters Towers
NOBTS 1
fy
d r
Agent* In Viotori* .
WM. M *
/
/
Agencies in
aUP 1
<A
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer of all kinds of JErated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of VH
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
81 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Gold Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters ; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueur
9
