

TEEE WINTEE SEASON. I©S4-
utmky jituaii & soss
a,
I
-, . _ ® '— ——■ 9
I "U"ia.3.T7"eisa,l [EnrcTT-LcLeirs 1
%
Have recently receded
SEVERAL SPECIAL SHIPMENTS of
WINTER GO
ALL DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
HORDERN AND
v —«uE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET, ONLY.
F-A-SSKEOiTS! WIITTEE PASHIOITS!
v «ry description in LADIES’ MANTLES and WINTER CLOTHING, including every New Shape and the
■a t Newest Materials—The “ DnlmaD ” The. «i?nni.. ln-TTonrl Ttia (( ATnvirrvini’lrnf
"EADY-MADE clothing.
Newest Materials—The “Dolman,” The “ Pour-in-Hand,” The “Newmarket.’
-The largest and most variously-assorted stock in the colonies.
i ® Ve|, coatts! Overcoats! Overcoats!—New Shapes, New Styles, New Patterns,
? * ’ —Lor Ladies, for Children, for Gentlemen. Our Boots are celebrated throughout the colony.
Nit
N|
n * -w*. W -L'VIV/tO VUXVMXUIUV>LL UAAI U V UIIV V/V/AWJLLJ •
■ olankets !-—Twenty Thousand Pairs of the unequalled quality, and at the wonderfully low prices for
which The Palace Emporium, Haymarket, is so celebrated.
®*ure I Furniture!—Household Purniture of every description, imported direct from the Best English
Manufacturers, at very low prices.
HORDERN AND SONS.
palace Emporium, Haymarket.
T PROVIDERS.
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS
The Bulletin New Series


i
AND
PALING
CO. (Limited)
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC, ETC.
I
SgEjjwsi&U'Ua
-Z~=T.
’Vjri
EASY TERMS SYSTEM
FOR
ANY
INSTRUMENT.
©IeCKA-iTS,
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERB,
W Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
W. H. PALING & GO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
G
IBBS, BRIGHT & Co. p 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, md DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
UNION
1 Cement.
, ) —Portland Cement
— r-. — \r~x:r ——/.Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal, and Vertical Engines,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c., &c. ” ’
Crosslev Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, M Lachlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c.. &c.
Thos. Glover and Company, London —Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Pels and Company, of Patras and Corfu-Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c.
RedCrossPreserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, Sec.
De We °^^ a^ n Hayange, France-Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plalsm. Iron and
Safes. Drybrough and Co.. Edinburgh-Al®.
Bruntonand Co., Redrurh—Patent oafety Fuse. Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine.
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chabiis, Sauternes
„ m COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
JiSamCo Am ” B ° ott *** MuUaly ’ T - Allso P' ¥ - J - O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.,
Victoria.— James Fryand Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia.— w. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hincks.
INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances." conBlfiriimontB
STAB AND GARTER HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS Hotel is centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office. Theatre c.„
Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen First-Glass wine?2 y ! ‘iV 3-
Tbe most Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city. Albert S Mandeb a "2?,!? v pl ri tB ‘
supplied. Sporting telegrams from all parts of the colony posted up. Mandersand Co - b telegrams
San Francisco Palace of Art,
LATE
The patrons of the SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART, so well known throughout
the Australian oolonies, are informed that, in addition to the same high-class noriS
work for which it has been noted, 1
Copies and Enlargements to Life Size, by new and improved pro-
cesses, from any photograph or negative, are now taken.
Opals, Autotype, Transfer, or Albuminized Paper, in Crayon or Coloured.
The same staff of Artists, who have rendered the work of this establishment famous
are employed, and all negatives (15,000 in number) taken during the past four years, carefully
preserved, from which copies may be had on application by sending name and address.
W. T. BENNETT, Manager.
BRISCOE, DRY SOULE & CO*
IS, ICIEST, d HUMS
397 GEORGE STREET,
M and US TORE STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYMTIrt
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON,
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND*
IMPORTERS OP „ J
Engineers’ Tools, Pounders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery* ,
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agri cUl
Implements.
ENGINES
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
.
xOl XAlt,.
BOILERS.
Vertical and 'Horizontal,
MACHINERY. .
Latnes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting aDCI
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
Baw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Sa* '
Joilers’ and Mortieing Machines for both hand and steatn-P° wer '
English and American Agricultural Implements. lle rfl..
ngle, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows. Cultivators, Horse Hoes,
Rakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Com and Maize Crurhers and Shelters, Thresh 1 "
“"“"“J vuuiracwirs' jnareruu ana riant.
Coach Builders’ Sundries. —Axles, Springs, Wooden ware, Leathers and Furnishim?®*
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours. . corr u -
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet,, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvaniz 00 ’
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies. 0
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears, Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing » n<l V
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery. ,
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenter®
Particulars and Price Lists may he had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND C<
&87 Gear®® Straat. Sydnay.
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRIT
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just
extensive additions to his zj
Wholesale and Retail Bottle Depoj’Jf^
4
selected by the proprietor during his recent visit to Europe. He can therefore confldeD i o 1 ’ 1
the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, as per the following list, hopes to merit a
patronage, w&ich has hitherto been so liberally extended to him-
lift
PORT WINE.
40-year old, Gilbey’a ..
Celebrated Pour Diamond .•
Quality—No. 1 (very superior olw
No. ***** grape . ■
No.****
No. *** „ ... -
No. ** „ ... -
No.* ... -
Draught Port Wine, per Imperial o u ‘
sherry.
40-year old, Gilhey’s :‘'.a
Very Finest Amontillado (very dn
Fine Amontillado
Celebrated Four Diamond Sherry
Common Sherry •” >
Draught Sherry Wine, per Imperil q
BRITISH WINES-
James Heddle’s Ginger Wine ..*
Orange Wine
IRISH WHISKY.
Jameson’s *** , CU Btf
Old Dublin Whisky (***) bottled oy
Kinahan’s unrivalled L L ■
Thorne’s Old Irish Whisky .
Jameson’s .
Dunville’s au***
Kinahan’s Draught, per Imperial n
Jameson’s „ ~ SS 6
Flasks
SCOTCH WHISKY-
Walker’s 7-year old, in bulk
Thistle Blend
Royal Blend
Lome Highland
Kilmarnock
Glenlivet . ’^rt
Glenlivet Whisky, per Imperial
Flasks -
GIN. ... J
Blue Bell or Yellow Seal Geneva-- fliz e.
Celebrated Key Brand, very
bottle containing more than
Flasks Key Gin
3B
4S‘
dll“ J
:d !
gjl * +hQ *
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality> j a i &
aLlowed for. Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and deliv® 1 , jjt>"
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge. , $6 1 ,f,
P. R. LAPKIN’S CASE OF ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS.-On receipt of ** f
■M H 0.1,Vj0
TOTAL-15 QUARTS.
t Kt
nr/
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, pl° aB
Orders payable at the Hayraarket Post Office, f ,tf! l
Kindly Note the Address— - <
ivincuy inote the Address — „ /,j7
P. R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Merchant
George and Gipps Sts., Haymarket, S)' (
i


THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2 —No. 54 —New Series
SATURDAY, MAY 24, 1884.
Prioe—6d.
Heavy Troabl.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, MAY 24, 1884.
There is heavy trouble brewing in Europe.
A condition of revolt against inequalities
artiflcally created and sustained has be-
come normal. The lowest classes —that is to
say, the classs which suffer most sharply the
effect of these Inequalities—are everywhere
in a condition of mental insurrection. That
they are not everywhere in physical insur-
rection is one of the most menacing charac-
teristics of the epoch. Nothing more effec-
tually assuages the fever of a proletariat
than a copious bloodletting. If the uneasy
millions would but break out into open vio-
lence they could be massacred. One of the
most effectual arts of monarchs, of aristo-
crats, or of oligarchs, has been to divide the
people among themselves. The Roman Em-
surrounded their thrones with the
Pretorians, pampered body - guardsmen,
who hated and were hated by the public
whence they sprung. Their discipline and
arms proved al ways adequate to crush popu-
lar risings; and they did not fail, until the
attractions of their condition made their
corps itself an object of corruption, and
favour in lieu of valour become a passport
to their racks. Standing armies have ever
been the most formidable enemies of popu-
lar liberty—a fact fully recognised in Eng-
land when standing armies were first pro-
jected. Bodies of disciplined men taught to
look to the governing orders for the initia-
tive for action, and for the reward of zeal,
have ever displayed a tendency to cultivate
a spirit of antagonism to their iellow-men
in civil occupations. Even in the Repub-
lican United States of America this has just
been strongly exemplified by the readiness
with which the troops arrayed themselves
against the people, and supported organised
and constitutional injustice, against a manly
but disorderly revolt against infamous
corruption, by slaughtering citizens. The
soldier is sedulously taught to believe
that he has no business to think —his only
duty is to obey. Were human Governments
always conducted on eclectic principles,
this would be an excellent system. But,
considering in how many cases it is true
that Governments are but the embodiment
of a comprehensive and deep-rooted con-
spiracy by the few against the equal pro-
sperity of the many, it is easily understood
that such unreasoning dooility and ferocity
may be a frightful weapon for employment
against the interests of humanity.
* * *
The approximateness of a tremendous
cataclysm amidst the antique organisations
known as settled government and social
order, is not more significantly indicated by
the universality of symptoms of disquiet
among the lowest— i,e., the worst off—classes j
than it is by the comparative infrequency
of open revolt. The bitterness of the mur-
murs and revilings which proceed from the
multitudes, and the recurrence of what are
oalled cowardly, but may also be regarded as
carefully calculated, outrages of the dyna-
mite and incendiary order, indicate the pre-
valence and intensity of the revolt. The
infrequence of such risings as, till the pre-
sent day, generally accompanied equal agita-
tion, is a much more formidable and signifi-
cant sysmptom. It indicates that the
Wretched masses have learned some im-
portant lessons and are not so ready now as
they were, even a generation back, to strike
without looking to the end. They have
learned that a rising which is liable to be
crushed is worse than endurance, and gener-
aHy results only in intensifying evils
which it has been intended to abolish.
The peoples of Europe have learned
to calculate chances and to choose sea.
sons. They do not now allow themselves
to be cajoled or stung to the ordeal of com-
bat, on their adversaries’ own conditions.
They have recognised the folly and futility
of flying in the face of their brothers who
wear the livery and execute the behests of
their foes. They are not so ready now to
confront the military and do battle with the
troops. They recognise at last the law of
nature which raises combative feeling in
the breasts of men approached in a menacing
attitude. They know that training and es-
prit de corps will eDtrap poor devils in uni-
form, who have bartered their lives and
liberty for a few pence per day, into mas-
sacring poor devils, their brothers, in rags,
if confronted by them in a minatory fashion.
COLONEL EGBERT INGERSOLL, THE AMERICAN FREETHOUGHT LEADER.
And the populace have learned also that
these bedizened brothers of theirs are not
all rendered insensate by their training—are
not all oblivious of the fact that they have
more in common with the people than with
the masters, and may be successfully ap-
proached with remonstrance and reason,
although utterly inaccessible when con-
fronted without previous preparation, in
order of battle.
*• * v
Everywhere the party of revolution is now
slow to resort to risings, and everywhere
also it is proportionately active in infusing
its propaganda among the soldiery. It has
taken a leaf out of its adversaries’ book, and
has read with understanding that the most
successful efforts are those which have been
most studiously organised and most ripely
prepared. Where people are most fully
instructed—that is to say, where education
has descended to the lowest social strata,
and the habit of discussing and arguing out
questions of political and social interest have
been most generally diffused—the.re is the
least indication of movement, but not the
least of determination. It is in Spain
an! in Croatia, where the peasantry and
plebs are steeped in deepest ignorance, that
insurrections occur. Even there, however,
the soldiery are first “tampered with,”
although the condition requisite for a com-
bined movement does not yet exist. In
Russia, the peasantry have not even arrived
stage of intelligence when men reason
about evils which they feel. It is the middle
class there which furnished the revolution-
ists—a class impotent to create, unassisted,
a great national revolt. There, too, the
armies are the objects of a perpetual and
not ineffectual propagandism, which pro-
ceeds, curiously enough, from above to be-
low—from the officer class to the inferior
ranks.
* * *
The resolution of the party of change is
everywhere apparent. The more intelli-
gently it is guided, the more fixed is the
determination not to proceed to action until
victory has been organized. The spirit of
Louis the Great, of Napoleon, and of
Moltke has descended upon the frowsy-
headed of Europe. They have studied their
game, and play to win. When the hour
arrives, it will be discovered that regular
armies cannot be relied upon to operate
against domestic insurgents, and that the
fraternizations of troops and populace, so
common during the French revolutions,
may happen among other peoples. The time
is not very remote, when Tommy Aitkins,
in uniform, will want to know what he has
to benefit by it, before he consents to thrust
his bayonet into Jimmy Aitkins ia rags or
in fusfian.
The True Reason.
We wonder how the snivelling writers and
others, who affected deep distress when the
news arrived of the death of the Duke of
Albany, feel now! Every flunkey who held
a pen employed it to impress upon the
public that Prince Leopold was such a good
young man, so blameless in his life and
tastes, that Our Saviour himself scarcely
furnished so excellent a model for imitation.
An editorial writer in the Echo insisted on
slioviDg down his readers’ throats the assur-
ance that Leopold was distinguished by his
literary talents—and anticipated the obvious
objection that the deceased Prince had never
produced a single work or essay in literature,
science, or art, by observing that bis elevated
station had imposed upon him the necessity
of being a patron rather than a performer*
Thissortof “bosh” is gulped down by people,
without retort, at a time when to dispute it
would expose the remonstrant to unreason-
ing obloquy as a reviler of the dead. But it
constitutes an affront to the intelligence of
reasoning men, which is sure to produce a
reaction sooner or later. History derides
the maunderings of the sycophantio slob-
berers of a day. No sane and clear-headed
man really believes in his heart that the next
generation will recognise the claims now put
forward for the Prince. It is not the high-
born men over whose tombs contemporaries
writhe and blubber, whose reputations come
dcwn the ages. The pretence that high
station is a bar to high achievement is
maudlin. Suoh elevation helps to lend im-
portance even to the small things accom-
plished by the occupants of advantageous
positions. British Royalty has had among
its participants a number of literary aspi-
rants. Respecting those who made pretence
to taste we know nothing—in fact, their
claims are as thoroughly forgotten as
those advanced for Leopold by the servile
crew of to-day will be in a very few
years. But when a King or a Prince
had any literary ability and impulse,
his station, instead of stifling it, invariably
helped it to achieve a degree of attention
which the merits of the work done would
not have gained for it Literary taste with-
out performance counts for nothing—in a
Prince or in a peasant. It is obvious that a
Prince has only to let it be understood that
he regards himself as gifted in any respect,
and the courtiers, flatterers, and toadies who
crawl about princes and potentates will
raise and maintain a chorus of declarations
that such talent was never seen before. It
was not difficult for George IV. to become
convinced that he had a decided genius for
Generalship. Probably no one ever contra-
dicted his idea in all his life, and equally
probable there were plenty of lick-spittles
around him who fed his vanity on that
point. Even the stern old Duke of Welling-
ton wriggled out of contradicting the King,
when the crowned faineantahd fool referred
directly to him for confirmation of a pre-
posterous lie he told about leading the
oavalry at Waterloo, by a doublc-cntendre
which George accepted—and was meant to
acce pt—as an endorsement of his fiction. It
pleased Elizabeth throughout her reign to
be referred to as the Virgin Queen, and
Virgin Queen she was styled as long as she
lived But history, despite the meagreness
of material furnished during a reign of
arbitrary and jealous rule, now disputes the
fact, and painfs her as at least a lecherous-


pUBLTC NOTICE
MS, HE, & CO.’S
BRIAN BORU
V
IS MANUFACTURED FROM THE
FINEST IRISH GRAIN.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is bonded for severs
years before being bottled for export.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, when well matured
by age, is carefully bottled under supervision of
the officers of H.M. Customs.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is exported in enorm-
ous quantities to all parts of the world.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY. Australian con-
sumers will find this brand
PURE, MELLOW, ana WHOLESOME.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, ’in great demand
for this old Irish brand in England, Scotland, and
the Colonies is a sufficient guarantee for its
quality.
BRL/ ' 4&)RU WHISKY, sold by leading mer-
chants tnroughout the colonies.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY comes direct from
distillers.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, manufactured by
YOUNG, KING, and CO., “as a firm” one of tbe
largest whisky holders in the world,
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is unequalled In this
market for age and purity.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY was never exhibited,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &c.
YOUNG, KING, & CO., Distillers. Belfast,
Ireland, sole owners of BRIAN BOttu
WHISKY.
JAMES YOUNG, JUN.,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVE IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
YOUNG, KING, & 00.,
DISTILLERS,
BELFAST, IRELAND.
OFFICES:
SYDNEY : 7 & 9 Change Alley;
MELBOURNE: 25 Flinders-street East;
ADELAIDE: Universal Buildings, Grenfeil-street;
And at BRISBANE.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY.
Coughs anil Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
mr PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Settle Dcjirttmi,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
whore you can obtain for
ScL_
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, BHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
Is now open In
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler.
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
Is sold in this department.
Thb most Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
OLYNELISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street , Sydney,
minded coquette, and probably something I
besides.
• • •
Regal station, we assert, does not prevent
or hamper practical work, if the talent be
there. No British Kings or Princes have
been great or voluminous writers, but
whatever they have written has met with a
good deal more consideration than the
abstract merit of the productions have.justi-
fied. Henry VIII. wrote a treatise against
Lutiier, and all Christendom went into
ecstacies about the extraordinary genius of
the performance. Yet Luther’s work re-
mains an effectual accomplishment, and
even among Roman Catholics, Henry’s
essay is not now considered worth l eading;
while to Students it is merely a curiosity,
because written by a King, and at a parti-
cular and very momentous crisis. Eliza-
beth affected music as her forte among the
arts. There are, probably, a million girls
to-day who cau play better than ever Eltza-
b mi did ; yet fragments of the compositions
she used to finger through on the spinet are
preserved and examined with curiosity.
Jam as I , who was really learned according
to the fashion of bis day, expected to be
treated as a Solon, and treated as a Solon
he accor.tingly was, while he lived. And f
nevertheless, no one to-day scruples to de-
clare +hat he was a fool —so great a tool, in
fact, that all the book-learning which had
been rammed info his noddle had failed to
elevate him to even average sense. James
did—fool as he was—better than Leopold.
He did not stop shot t at the point of assum-
ing airs of literary taste. He actually wrote
a book. This act probably tends to‘show
that Leopold was wiser than l.e. A Prince
who could not draw a three-barred gate
might pass through life, and hand down—a
short distance—to posterity, a reputation for
extraordinary artistic genius, provided he
never drew anything —or, at least, left no
specimen of his handiwork for succeeding
generations to criticise. And, as Leopold
never wrote so much as an essay, no one can
absolutely deny that he could have put
Shakespeare, or Dickens, or Spencer,
or Mill in the shade, had he chosen
to commit his thoughts to paper. James
1., however, was so great a fool that
he did write a book, which was hailed with
the customary enthusiasm by “all right
thinking persons” of his day, and which
has since attained celebrity as one of the
dullest volumes, on an absurd theme, which
the range of British literature contains. His
son, the First Charles, also laid claim to
literary talent. His position did not narrow
his accomplishments to the limit of patron-
age. He wrote a book, concerning which
we, in common with nine hundred and
ninety-nine of our contemporaries, know
nothing whatever, except the name “Icon
Basilike,” and we are not sure about
that. That was also pronounced a god.
like work by the courtiers of the pfiriod,
and is at present c ffectively dead. Godlike
works, we may mention, do not die. And it
is not dead of old age eith'-r; for Chaucer’s
works are as live as ever, and William
Shakespeare’s and Lord Bacon’s works,
which are scarcely defunct yet, area good
deal older than Charles’s.
♦ * *
Since the appearance of “Icon Basilike,’>
there have been no royal English authors
until the present reign. After James 11.,
Great Britain was ruled over by foreigners
—and, with the exception of William of
Orange, very stupid foreigners—until the
accession of George 111., who was a true
Briton, and also a true blockhead. We
except the golden era of Anne, who was in
her time as worthy a woman and wife as our
present Sovereign, but not a pretender to
literary distinction The present Queen’s
journal has been received with theregulation
screams of enthusiasm. At least, the first
volume was—the last has proved rather too
much even for the most humble stomach.
People professed to be surprised and enrap-
.tured at the discovery afforded by the first
publication that Her Majesty had actually
sense enough to regard herself as a
human being, and, instead of grima-
cing as a demi-goddess, exempt from
mortal feelings and passions, freely
confessed that she loved her husband,
cherished her children, was inconvenienced
by exposure to showers, and smarted when
she shinned herself by treading on a hoop. A
record of interesting facts and occurrences
of that nature constitutes evidence, we are
gushingly informed (as per usual) of literary
talents of a high order; and the circum-
stance that edition after edition of Her
Majesty’s work is called for, is trium-
phantly referred to as affording conclusive
evidence, not that curiosity and flunkeyism
continue as rampant as in ages past, but
that the literary merit of the work is equal
to the extent of its sale.
* * *
Xenophon did not find that his military
distinction disqualified him from literary
performance; Julios C.esar was a greater
aristocrat than Leopold ; Frederick 11. of
Prussia earned the title of “The Great;” —
yet neither of these monarchs among men
felt their rank operate to render them hide-
bound in a literary sense. To say that a
man’s rank disqualifies him from literary
performance, and limits him to pretensions
/Which he shares with the countless multitude
whose aspirations make publishers’ and
editors’ lives a burden, and replenish thou-
sands of waste-baskets week after week, is
surely the elimax of adulation.
♦ * *
And now a long-suffering people are ex-
pected to permit the figment of poor Leo-
pold’s great abilities to be thrust down their
throats—the literary, artistic, and scientific
abilities of a young man who has written
nothing, drawn nothing, composed nothing,
invented nothing, and demonstrated no-
thing.
* * *
This is wretched work, miserable work,
which the slavering herd of panegyrists
have cut out for themselves. Self-respect-
ing and truth-respecting men, in their
hearts resent being treated as fools, and
conscientious men detest and deplore all
such trifling with the eternal verities.
• • *
What is it the lickspittles want people to
believe ? That talent, virtue, and all lov-
able qualities are the gifts of Heaven to
Princes, and part of their high birthright?
How, then, will they reconcile their theory 5
ventilated so gushingly as it has been in this
particular instance, with the intelligence
lately received (in addition to the brief and
guarded cable intelligence) that the exciting
cause of the paroxysm which brought about
Prince Leopold’s death was the agitation of
a bout of gambling at a public “ hell,” main-
tained by the idle and vicious with the money
extorted from the toilers of the world ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Fizzled!
The Sydney Coffee Palace Co. was started about
three years ago with a great flourish of shawms.
It was announced as a philanthropic enterprise.
The Palaces were to “supply a long-felt want ” of
a restaurant where young men from good to
middling could obtain a superior luncheon or tea
without being exposed to the temptation of intox-
icating liquors and pot-house society. After
serious and prayerful consideration, the directors
determined to go so far as to provide billiard
accommodation. Among the attractions which
were to wean the youth of the city from sinful
restaurants were a superior quality of milk,
waitresses, and fresh butter. Assisted by
pious leading article advertisements in the
Echo and the Howl, the enterprise started off
with a boom. Men of all ages rushed to, the
Palaces to lead better lives under the influence of
godly soup and pious pickles. 1 he dioiDg-rooms
were filled with the odour of sausages and sanctity,
and serious men in frock coats and with shaven
upper lips chucked the chins of lovely hash-
dispensers in the passages and corners. The milk
was slopped round in bumpers, and the butter set
an example of righteous firmness undtr the in-
fluence of lumps of ice. Hundreds of men, who
had never dreamed of getting drunk at lun-
cheon, became regular customers, and presently
began to long for beer with a longiDg
created by the feeling that beer was pro-
hibited. Then the nicest waitresses were taken
into the fold by the most pious Sunday-school
teachers, and the business began to decline. The
dividend was not satisfactory, and shareholders
commenced to grumb'.e at reforming society at a
less ra'e of interest than te.i per cent. So they
reduced the size of the glass of milk. This had
the natural effect of creating invidious compari-
sons with the long-sleever of beer given in at the
ungodly public-house luncheons. More customers
relapsed into sin, and backslid into mundane hash.
This sent the dividends down again; and in pro-
portion as the profits became low, the butter 1 e-
came high. Just as half-saved souls required
ice more, considering the diminished prospect
of ever enjoying any in the next world, the supply
of that became restricted. Next, the size of one
Palace was reduced by three-fourths. Then the
soul-saving business was abandoned at that estab-
lishment altogether, and the reformers sold the
lease and good-will to a yes, to a publican.
Finally, the other Palace is offered for sale also;
and the demonstration is complete that in these
hard times missionary efforts are not to be sus-
tained unless they pay at least the bank rate of
interest.
♦
A Text and an Application.
The Echo, on Saturday last, quoted from the
Paris Siecle as follows " The Commission of
inquiry about the, economic crisis has received an
interesting statement,'signed by economists,
business men, and men of letters, to the effect
that among the causes of the present distress
which affects workmen and employers is tbe
abnormal development of games, races, lotteries,
and hells of every kind. Thfse institutions ob\ i-
ously deflect the current of national wealth from
its normal and productive channel, and are a
direct contradiction of the law of labour. The
writers specially point out the nefarious influence
exercised by Monte Carlo, and ask the French
Bepublic to procure the disapptaranco of this
pernicious nest where so many crimes are hatched
and so many careers ruined.” This is all right, and
shows that the Siecle is a downright plucky
paper. But what’s missing is the local application
of that text by the Ecno. “ Willing to wound,
and yet afraid to strike.” Isn’t this the moral :
That the readiness with which men claiming to be
representative churchmen, patriotic politicians,
and typical, honest dealers, have entered upon or
lent their countenance to lotteries in this commu-
nity, exposes the rottenness of accepted definitions
of what constitutes good citizenship. Has it not
been made apparent that there are men among us
who have kept up appearances so successfully, and
have complied with all outward observances so
studiously as to obtain *a fair reputation on false
pretences? Has it not been demonstrated that it
is not inconsistent with what is regarded as busi-
ness principle, to be totally unable to appreciate,
or entirely indifferent to, moral principles in the
abstract ? Has it not been shown that there are
fair seeming men who think it not antagonistic to
“serious convictions ” and regular church-attend-
ance, to have recourse to any dodge for money-
making which can be practised without actually
exposing themselves to a criminal prosecution?
Has it not been disclosed that only the terrors of
penal proceedings restrain leading business-men
and devout Christians from plungiDg the com-
munity into the vicious excite : ents of universal
gambling? So long as a law prohibitory tf in-
jurious practises is operative, such practises are
shunned, and their professors denounced as rogues
and vagabonds. But let it appear that a loop-hole
exists in the law, and saints tuck their robes
around them and flatten their halos, so that they
may squeeze through: patriotic members of Par-
liament crowd round and assure astonished by-
standers that it’s all right and quite regular, and
that they’ll answer for the correctness of every-
thing; and a great minister for Justice, taking in
thesituation with an eagle glance proceeds, with
admirable promptitude, to—shut hi 3 eyes very
tight That is what the Echo forgot to say about
the quotation, on its own behalf. But memory is
fickle, and auctioneers’ advertisements are ad-
mirable things.
♦
Fo'f. 011*1 Applications.
Mr. Blue-Bibbon Booth vigorously denounces
moderate drinkers. We are moderate drinkers
ourselves, and are consequently disposed to regard
Mr. Booth as mistaken when he characterises us
as all sorts of evil things. But there’s a great deal
which must be admitted in favour of Mr. Booth’s
contentions. Whatever inward assurance, for
examp.e, we may feel that we shall never glide
from moderation into excess, no second person
can share that assurance. The matter is one of
statistics. There is no denying that the Drunk,
ard’s Brigade is recruited entirely from the ranks
of moderate drinkers. We don’t suppose that
there ever was an instance in which a man at one
operation, and with fixed intention, made a drunk-
ard of himself. We moderate drinkers are thus—if
drunkards be the Devil’s regiments-which we
fear cannot be denied simply the Devil’s
militia, from which the ranks of the regulars are
recruited by drafts—or you may spell the word
“draughts ” The argument is really a strong one>
and every fair man will give it reasonable con-
sideration-just as every large-minded man will
pass with a superior and indifferent smile the
abuse which mars the argument. We think we
know a better argument on the other side, cer-
tainly ; but as total abstinence never hurt anybody,
except in the way of disposing some otherwise
worthy fellows to somewhat Pharisaic and un-
congenial ways, we will let our argument rest for
the present. We don’t admire Booth’s sensational
method, and are tolerably assured that he exposes
hLcaself to convincing back-falls in a logical sense;
but, probably, he is doing more good than harm.
All that we need remark is that he will have to be
encountered by his adversaries with better argu-
ments than the Echo of Saturday last brings to
bear upon him. The Ecno observes that its
new toy and idol, Bishop Barry, is a moderate
drinker, and that therefore Mr. Booth’s denuii*
ciations, and the denunciations of his co-workers,
against moderate drinkers are illogical, UDjust,
and-worse still—discourteous. We presume the
same fault would be chargeable against Mr.
Booth, in even a greater degree, were Dr.
Barry a drunkard. We would like the Echo
to explain whether the Saviours references—
direct references, too, not mere accidental appli-
cations— !o the venerable High Priests and repu-
table Pharisees of his day, were, to quote its own
phrase, “in accordance with those laws of cour-
tesy which should govern life?” We can't con-
ceive what is coming over the daily journalists of
this city. The Evening News insists that land-
lotteries must be moral because Messrs. Hardie
and Gorman were prominently concerned in one:
and now the Echo pronounces that strictures
affecting moderate drinkers are illogical, unju«t
and vulgar, because the bran-new Bishop of
Sydney is a moderate drinker. We wait now for
the Herald to announce that compensation grabs
and Milburn Creekery are consonant with the
purest political morality, because the Honorable
John Lucas and that distinguished gentleman,
Mr. Thomas Garrett, M.P., were practitioners
of t hose sciences. Or, perhaps, the Daily Tele-
graph will instruct the public that dishonoured
pro -notes, given with no intention of paying
them, rfeflect no stigma upon a public man’s char-
acter, because a distinguished knight invariably
resorted to these expedients at critical moments
in his career.
The Aborigines Protection Association yearns for
definite official recognition from the Government
Board of Protection of Aborigines, and, in an
extremely officious way, presses its views upon
the latter body, upon whom we would strongly
impress the advisability of not allowing the
wretched black “remnant” to sink any lower-a
result which must ensue if there is to be divided
authority. The Association has done so little in
the past that it is an impertinence on its part to
pretend to speak with Weight. The Board has
it in its power to do somewhat, though
it is very late in the day to begin to
ameliorate the autochthones position ; stilL
what the Board can do, it ought to do, without in
any way mixing itself up with that fatal element
in all matters connected with the bestowal of pub-
lic charity—the element of proselytising sectarian-
ism. Should the Board consent to subsidise the
Anglican Warangesda Aboriginal Mission, it will
commit one of those mistakes of which ouly too
many have already been perpetrated. The com-
munity owes the “black” material comfort, a
blanket, and clothes for his back, and “tucker”
for his “ bingie,” but to the “ black robes ” it owes
nothing. If the latter do really desire to bring the
aboriginal to the spiritual truth, let them and
theirs do it at their own cost, and not whine
around the Treasury for spondulix in payment of
services which are only praiseworthy when done
gratuitously.
*
We live in an age of mechanical accomplishment
and moral paralysis. We harness the lightning,
cram thunderbolts into pint bottles, mistake for-
malities for religion, and flunkeyism for loyalty.
We worship the umbra of virtue, and heap obloquy
upon the reality. We style affluence indepen-
dence, and independence we term insubordination.
We allot to crowned mortals the power to bestow
nobility, and decline to recognise nobility be-
For continuation of Plain English, see next page.


MABHERS.-The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 653 George-street, Brickfield Hill.
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers'; it destroys ail
noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
As there are imitations and counterfeits
of the great perfume, buyers should be particular
to ask tor the Florida Water prepared by Lan-
man and Kemp, New York, who are the sole pro-
prietors of the genuine article.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla acts directly and
promptly, to purify and enrich the blood, improve
the appetite, strengthen the nerves, and brace up
the system. It is, therefore, in the truest sense an
alterative medicine. Every invalid should give it
a trial.
stowed by nature. With us a scoundrel may be a
nobleman, but when the Almighty implants a
noble soul in a market-gardener, or a factory
hand, we gibe at the combination as anomalous-
We attribute all virtue and all strength of soul to
popinjays and time-servers, and jeer at the great-
ness of soul which sustains men in fidelity to un-
popular principles through a life of struggle and
obloquy. With us, Caiphus, the High Priest, is
the type of moral grandeur; and the vulgar,
carpenter, with his rabble of adherents, and his
subversive theories, we bespatter with mud and
derision. We have no respect for saints whose
garments are not of the latest ecclesiastical fashion-
and whose stipend is less than three hundred a
year. We are decently civil to a curate, but wej
do obeisance to a bishop. We are fairly content j
to worship God under the auspices of a priest, but
we make up sensational crowds to worship Him
under the guidance "of a prelate; and we put onj
our best bonnets to worship in, on such occasions.
We subscribe three-and-sixpencc to relieve a
destitute widow, and spend three guineas to
dance in the same hall with a prince. We send
armies to crush patriots who have staked
their lives as gauges of their sincerity, and
we give complimentary dinners and presenta-
tions to fellows who have battened on a sham
patriotism which has always run current with
their own advantage. We put a price upon the
head of the defender of h>s country and his reli-
gion, and a coronet on that of his would-be assas-
sin. Wo style a blood-thirsty and misery-dealing
tyrant a martyr, when at last he f&ys a victim to
the hatred of the people he has oppressed, and the
desperate wretch who invites martyrdom by exe-
cuting the justice of God upon the despot, we
execrate that man as an assassin. Ah, which was
the assassin, and which the martyr? Officers dog the
steps of a Krapotkin, while Princelets are followed
by the obeisances of Bob Smith, and Dan O’Con-
nor smirks in the train of the celebrated Mr.
Hanlan. In the hour of need, our Princely hei oes
head the second line, and set it a glorious example
in standing still. While devotion to a cause calls
upon men to talk, patriots foam at the mouth
with their bubbling enthusiasm, and when a sacri-
fice seems involved, they “skulk behind a cur-
tain.” Our Honorable men plot to betray their
country by the device of compensation, and our
High Priests of Justice denounce the prophets of
the Press as disreputable. Who will bear testi-
mony and cry aloud ?
The inquiry into the dismissal of tram-conductors,
which the Minister for Works yesterday com-
menced, is due to a weak yielding to preposterous
interfetence by members of Parliament. Mr.
Wright should not have consented to the dis-
missal of the men unless he had satisfied himself
that they merited the punishment. And if he had
so satisfied himself, he should have resisted the
interference of the sort of statesmen who hang on
to public life by making a great splutter whenever
a country constable is thifted to a station he
doesn’t like, or a shunter on the railway dis-
charged for cheek. The objections which weie
raised to the course adopted to detect irregulari-
ties on the part of tram-conductors are ridiculous.
Mr. Wright, in employing a private detective to
watch the men when receiving fares, and to observe
their style of living, proceeded in a common-sense
and business-like manner. What he did is exactly
what ail banks do in respect to employes who have
the handling of money, and who give occasion for
doubt as to their integrity. Inquisition of the
kind does real good to straight-dealing and clean-
living men.
Colonel H.G. Inger[?]ll.
Colonel R. G. Ingersoll, whose portrait adorn g
our front page to-day, is a native of New York
State. His father was a farmer, and young Inger-
soll was brought up to hoe corn and dig potatoes t
as other boys are who are reared on farms in the
States. From his earliest youth Bob Ingersoll has
been an agnostic. His parents were strict Presby-
terians, and they undertook to make Robert
learn and believe the Psalms and Catechism;
but the boy couldn’t believe some of the
statements in the Pacred Book. After graduating
in an Eastern College, he studied law, and,
to-day is the foremost criminal lawyer of America.
He is the pet orator of the Republican party, and
his eloquence has more than once carried the polls
in their favour. Two or three times the people of
the Peoria district returned him to Congress; but
he grew tired of serving his country, and finally
ref used to bo sent back. He now devotes his time
to his profession, and for relaxation delivers an
occasional lecture on Freethought subjects. When
the War broke out, Colonel Ingersoll raised a
volunteer regiment and went to the front in the
cause of freedom. In his domestic relations, In-
gersoll is a model of gentleness and purity. His
iife is as blameless as any man’s can be on this
earth, unless it be a fault to teach one’s honest
opinions in the face of long established creeds. In
the higher circles of intellect and culture. Ingersoll
is considered the foremost orator of the age and the
forerunner of a brighter and better civilization.
During the past twenty years he has done more to
liberalise thought, and to make men tolerant of
the views of their neighbours, than any other
agency in the States. He has even made the
churches ashamed of the hard dogmas they used
to hold ; and everywhere ministers are coming
boldly forth and preaching a better and a nobler-
because a kinder—religion. Were it not for the
certain opposition of the Church element, Colonel
Ingersoll would long ago have been President of
the United States. In an oration he delivered on
the 100th anniversary of American Independence,
Ingersoll said, in the opening sentence: “One
hundred years ago our forefathers retired the
gods from politics;” and he is confessedly living
on in the hope of yet seeing the clergy of the
United States sufficiently civilized to vote lor an
honest man with or without a creed.
[?]
Sydney, Wednesday.
Dearest Belle,— By the last American mail I
received a small packet which entirely puzzled
me— until I opened it, of course. I turned it over
and over, and tried all my might to think what it
could contain. Now, that’s a way we all have
when we receive strange packets or letters in an
unknown handwriting. We glare at them and
rack our brains to think whom they can be from,
and it never seems to strike us that the quickest
mode of satisfying our curiosity would be to open
them. But it’s a feminine trait, my dear, which
would baffle sharper wits than mine to explain.
But to return to my mysterious packet. When I
did summon up courage to break the seal, I found
inside a tiny box containing a miniature wedding
cake, and on a little card was written, “ To cele-
brate our wooden wedding.” Now, I have heard of
silver, but never of wooden, weddings before. It
doesn’t sound pretty, does it ? It means, however,
the fifth anniversary of the wedding day. The
Americans do things well, and have these little
boxea and cakes made specially to send to friends
at a distance, and they have their initials worked
on top of the cakes in white iceing. It’s rather a
pretty idea, I think, but can only be carried out
by those who have little else to do. Just imagine
the time it must oocupy to pick up—say, even a
hundred of these cakes—and they are so nicely
packed, too,—all laced in the box with white satin
ribbon and covered with silver paper. But the
idea is purely American, and too big for us here
altogether.
Just think of it. We went all the way to Parra-
matta last Wednesday evening to a concert. Why ?
Well, in the first place, then, as Charlie Huener-
bein was to conduct, we felt satisfied that the
music would be good; secondly, we thought we
should like the trip. Now, if I wanted to tell you a
big story, I should say that charitable motives
weighed strongly with us, too; but I’ll be frank—
they didn’t. No, we didn't notice till after the
concert was over that it was given in aid of the
Wesleyan Church Building Fund. The Town Hall
was crowded, and the audience was very apprecia-
tive. Master Thompson played a cornet solo very
nicely. Mr. Hallewell’s “ Why do the nations, ’
was enthusiastically received; and had not my
sympathies been with Mr. Huenerbein all the
time, who could not get anyone behind the flags to
understand that he wanted his music turning over,
I should have enjoyed it also. As it was, I felt
inclined to go up and turn the music myself. A
young lady sang “Oh, rest in the Lord,” with
much feeling. Miss Deakin and Mr. Hallewellsang
“Of fairy wand,” and Miss Thompson “O'er
the bills of Normandy.” We saw Mr. Morgan on
the platform when we started, and felt sure he was
going to take part in the concert, but he didn’t—
and I believe he just showed himself to tantalize
us. 'I here was a very distressing clatter of knives
and plates during the greater part of the concert,
and the wonder was that no one took steps to stop I
such an annoyance. Miss Thompson wore pale ,
blue, and her medals, of course; Miss Deakin,
white satin, with a tremendous train. In the hall,
the dresses were mostly dark, relieved with
flowers. A black lace dress, showing snowy arms
and shoulders underneath, was garnished with
pink camellias, and looked so nice. Two young
ladies went up from Sydney in pale blue
plush Arabi Bey caps, and they were evidently
aware that they were becoming, as they did not
remove them during the concert.
I had a fit of the dismals last week, so used all
the persuasive powers I knew to get Ned to take
me to hear the Federal Minstrels. But brothers
are so mean ; you could hardly believe what
trouble I had to gain my point. Why, I promised
to make him a new smoking-cap, and I had his
breakfast kept hot three mornings running, but,
worst of all, he made me undertake to persuado
the “governor” that he was studying too hard,
and must have a month’s “spell ’’—and all this just
to get to the Minstrels. Well, it was well worth
the troubld, that's one comfort, and I have felt
merry ever since. The double-voiced singer was
one of the best things. Now, as a rule, I don’t
like to hear a man sing like a woman, but Carroll’s
is such a full, round, sweet voice that no one can
help liking it ; and then his baritone is manly
enough for anything. No wonder these funny
creatures draw big houses, for they are very
entertaining, and all have good voice 3.
Now about these Matinees. Last Wednesday the
principal ioatures were Mr. Gee’s singing and a
flute and piano duet between Signor Pagnottl and
Miss Thompson Mr. Gee is one of those fortun-
ate men who not only has a good voice, but knows
how to use it. His “ Message ” was quite a treat,
and the pity of it is that he doesn’t sing oftener at
our concerts. Miss Thompson, lam sorry to say,
lacked her usual self-denial in her duet with Signor
Pagnotti, in allowing the piano to be the more
prominent instrument of the two, consequently
there were times when tht flute could hardly be
heard. Signor Pagnotti is a neat flautist, but rather
lacks vigour. Mrs Foster sang twice, and was ac-
comi anied to perfection by Mr. C. B. Foster. The
lady has a round,rich voice, but “Sweet olden
days ” was just a little beyond her range. The
pianoforte duet played by the Misses Thompson
went well: and if Miss Thompson, junior, is a pupil
of her sister’s, she does her much credit. Madame
Mai-ius was in better voice than usual, and sang
only twice. I think Madame Rhoda made a great
mistake in bee choice of a solo, for beyond snow-
ing some clean and brilliant execution, it was
nothing more than the shallowest school-girl could
play if she chose. It is a pity to waste skill on
such trivialities. The MatimSe was well attended,
and Quong Tart’s tea, as usual, was very refresh-
ing.
I think I promised in my last to tell you some-
thing about “ Impulse.” You will be glad to hear
that Annie Mayor has entirely recovered from her
late accident, and acts the part of Mrs. M’Donald
to perfection. She looks so delicate, and pretty,
too, in a beautiful lavender satin wrapper elabo-
rately trimmed with old gold lace and satin. And
Maggie Moore, also, looks her very best in a silver
grey satin with long train, with just a sensation of
pink here and there. She also wears a ball dress,
all white, with high Elizabethan collar, which suits
her wonderfully well. I am sure you would like
“Impulse,” for it is brimful of love scenes: but I
must confess my heart’s with the “ Silver King.”
However, we must have a change sometimes, and
“ Impulse ” is about the pleasantest we could
have.
You want an idea for a fancy dress ? Well, now,
I believe I know one which would suit you ex-
actly. It is the costume of an Eastern lady, as
worn by Mrs. Polk in “Eastward Ho!” A very
short, deep, royal-blue, velvet jacket edged with
gold fringe, pale - blue satin, short skirt also
trimmed with the fringe, and bestudded with
handsome jewels. From either shoulder hangs a
gold gauze scarf, and round the neck large strings
of pearls and blue beads. Blue satin turban, pal©
blue hose, and ever so many bracelets on the
arms. Of course, the jacket is made with short
sleeves and open neck. A great contrast to this
dress is one worn by the same lady in the first
act, and which suits her admirably. A pale cream
soft material, just relieved here and there by bows
of pale heliotrope satin ribbon. But I don’t like
such an enormous jabot as is worn with this dress,
as it entirely spoils the contour. lam sorry Mr.
Polk has seen fit to cut short the run of “ East-
ward Hoi” for we were just beginning to appre-
ciate it; but I suppose he knows what he is doing.
Now, lam going to scold you. Why will you
spell “honor,” “labor,” “arbor,” &c., with a “u?’ r
You know quite well that the letter is quite
superfluous, and what a waste of time it is," and
its bad form, too. Do, like a good girl, try and
cure yourself of such a bad habit; if you don't,
believe me, you will be behind the times. If you
read the best home papers, you will see that in
many cases the double letter is entirely dispensed
with. For instance, program, instead of pro-
gramme; traveling, for travelling, and so on.
Ned says if it goes on like this, we shall come to
short-hand soon. And, why not ? I think it would
be just splendid if such a thing did happen. I
could then write my letter to you with just a few
strokes of the pen, instead of making my fingers
ache as they do now. Now, mind what I say, like
a good, dear girl, and please
Your loving,
MAD.
A NIGHT WITH THE UNEMPLOYED.
[BY OUR OWN CASUAL.]
/ou dont Often ff* &°up Jiks. that y V'/nj (i fS.
/ H, A f’d 'he Kiccjor dorr /0 c f\
7 )e /r isfr/ut/on
\rs*SjjT/' s / hbf of hen le/e /<?-
flM^'cc/, ' en)trr,^eri, %
M-tzf Me es ou>
Jf e Men -SougrfMe- M an
ipfurf’e U. rfrcaffi ou ' e/’Sy^ ,se a f
AesA fre Ah e a? ocAcAe/i-f^ 0 -'
f ure .S of & ur fefforv Ltn.eJTv-'
,/
HaviDgread the blood-curdling
account of the Herald man’s
night at the Soup Kitchen, we
procured a disguise, and resolved
to make a night of it at the
above institution. The disguise
we selected, was modeled after
that worn by an unemployed
brigand we once saw on the stage.
Being unable to sleep, we got out our note-book. “The Human Imagination,” we wrote (unconsciously reading our notes aloud),
“in the maddest Phantasmagoria of its wildef dtlirum must utterly fail to picture to itself the abject depths of Misery, to which
these l oathsome Wretches have been degraded step by step .”
“ Why, that’s just what lam going lo say!” said a voice in the next bunk.
“My very phraseology!” said another in the next bunk to him.
“ 1 had that all writu n out before I came here!” saidaDotlnr.
“He must have read my copy over my shoulder!” said still a- other, and so on. ... r
Could it be ? A’las ! it was too true. Every inmate that night was a newspaper man in disguise.
Major-General Sir G. Graham, R.E., V.C.,
K.C.R.
Somewhere in our present issue will be found a
portrait of Major-General Graham, who led the
force that relieved Tokar. General Graham was
born in Cumberland in 1831, received his military
education at Woolwich, and joined the Royal
Engineers (formerly “ Sappers and Miners ”) in
1850. He was present at “ Alma’s hard-won heights
and bloodier Inkerman.” For leading a ladder-
party to the ill-planned attack on the Redan,
he was awarded the Victoria Cross —the h’ghest
and most coveted English military decoration.
In 1860 he was in China, and bore a hand at
the assaults on the Tangku and Taku forts,
and was present at the surrender of Pekin.
He was wounded during this campaign. In
1882, he commanded the Second Brigade in the
Egyptian campaign, was present at El Magfar, Tel
Manuta and Kassassiu, and the final sauve qui pent
at Tel-el-Kebir. But it was when in command of
the Tokar relieving force, that he met foemen
worthier of his steel than the canaille who fol-
lowed Arabi. At Teb one of his squares was
broken by Osman Digna’s fearless fanatics, and,
but for the murderous fire of his breech-loaders
and Gattlings, it is hard to say bow the day would
have gone. For his success in scattering the
“rebels,” Mr. Gladstone paid him a high tribute
in the House of Commons. How a man with his
unsullied record in peace and war, could have so
far forgotten himself as to place a price on the
head of a brave but unfortunate opponent, is a
riddle of which no reasonable solution has yet
been offered.


Personal
Items
Pepper, says a correspondent of
the Cairns (Q.) Post, “i 3 one of the lucky men
who had scrip in itae good things on Gympie; and
this shows how a man, after years of had fortune,
may at last strike it rich.”
S. A. Russell, Under-Secretary to the Go-
vernment of Madras, H. Kennedy, Superintendent
of Police at Kaloba, and H. Davies, District Traffic
Manager of the Scinde, Punjaub, and Delhi rail-
way to Lahore, “doing ” Australia, on leave from
India.
It was Lady Samuel (Granny learns from
her English tiles) who conceived the graceful idea
that the Australian colonies should collectively
send a wreath of gardenias and eucalyptus leaves
for Albany’s coffin. We wonder Saul’s dame
didn’t suggest sprigs of jew-nipper as wcU.
Australian colonists in England tender
Governor Loch a banquet, asking Rosebery to
take the chair—why, no fellow can understand,
seeing that, though Rosebery isn't half a bad sort,
he can in no sense be said to represent Australian
colonists. Even Parkes would have been a better
choice, under the circumstances. .
The Gundagai Bailey speaksof the result
of the recent local election as tho return “of an
energetic member the people’s man.” How
“energetic,” unless —and how “the people’s,”
unless a few score nose-led Gundagujs bo the
People of New South Wales, as, in their own
esteem, tne three tailors of Toolcy-street were the
People of England?
The Princess Louise undoubtedly has been
taking a pretty warm interest in the proceedings
Instituted against “Lome’s” brother, Lord Colin
Campbell, by the missus. As the lady has been
successful iu her suit (heard in camera ) for a judi-
cial separation, the fair Louise may put two and
two together, in her mind, and begin to thing that
the young Argvles are not successes, from a matri-
monial point of view. We re sorry for Louise.
The raison d'etre of Michael Davitt’s visit
to Australia is to collect money for the Irish Mem-
bers’ Fund. Several of the States in the Americau
Union have promised to support an Iri9h member
each in the House of Commons, and it is expected
that tho Australian colonies will act similarly.
£40,000 is to be raised to enable eligible mea, who
otherwise are unable to leave their occupations,
to reside in London and give constant attention to
Parliamentary duties.
General MTver, whose scheme for assum-
ing the sovereignity of New Guinea wasfrowaed
upon by the home Government, has invaded these
colonies instead. The invasion is merely a poace-
able one, the bold Brigadier intending to capti-
vate us with a course of lectures on his "experi-
ences with the fourteen flagi under which he has
served.” "Fourteen flags” ought to knock
Archie Forbe3 into a cocked hat—our only fear is
that experiences so varied may possibly get mixed
upratherinthe narration. However, nous verrons.
Whisper it gently, like tho breathing of a
zephyr, or you might wake the child. But, then,
we forgot to say who the happy parents arr, and
not to keep you any longer in suspense, will just
tell you in strict confidence that the Pa is none
other thau tno veteran Shakesperian actor, W.
Hoskins, and the Ma is Mrs. H., of course. And,
further, we might inform all and sundry that the
infant “star” made his debut before a small but
select audienc? in Fitzroy, on the 9th instant.
There is, therefore, joy in tho house of Hoskins—
and paregoric, likely.
“ Fifty years ago,” said Earl Cairns at the
meeting of th 9 Church Missionary Soctety, Lon-
don, “if a man had been shipwrecked on somo of
the islands in the Pacific, he would have been
killed, cooked, and eat,m ; whereas if a man was
shipwrecked there now, he would receive a
Christian hospitality.” Yes, tho sanctimonious
Earl may well express satisfaction at times being
ohanged. Fifty years ago, if Cairns’ son—Lord
Gumboil—had thrown over the Fortescue at the
instigation of his pious parents, a bullet from the
girl’s big brother might have provided the old
gentleman with a new heir and an undertaker's
bill.
Henniker-Heaton, with a view to impress-
ing tho lieges of Canterbury with an idea of his
immeuse importance as a representative Austra-
lian, is advocating the holding in London of a
gathering of our absentees to protest against the
reeidiviste measure now before the French Legis
laturo. Our Legislature should take some decisive
step by which to let folks in England, and France,
too, distinctly understand that the vapourings of
plutocrat absenteeism are vox et preterea nihV,
[But they are a good deal more, and should be
authoritatively and emphatically discredited.
The offensive “spread-eagleism” of those absen-
tee nobodies has made us ridiculous in- the eyes of
both England and France.— Ed. B.]
Billy is a Clermont millionaire,
and, when in health, can show an average of more
plain undiluted ambition to the square inch than
any other man his weight in the land of alligators.
At a recent election, he was a candidate for the
Parliamentary representation of Clermont, but
didn't poll enough votes to stuff a sick canary
with. However, he represents Clermont all the
same to-day. Only hedaes the representing in gaol,
where he has been St.nt up for a month’s stretch
for stealing a mcasley old bullock. Billy should
havedonehis “shaking” just before the election,
because they appreciate that kind of thing up
North, and Billy would have scooped the polls
with a fat majority, and would, of course, had a
good show for the speakership, against Groom.
MTntyre, M.L.A., Sandhurst, went home
to flout some Maiden mining properties, and failed,
says Reuter’s man, because of " mistrust in mining
ventures.” Major Smith and Carpenter went home
many years ago over the Winter’s spec., Ballarat,
and the cause of their failure was alleged in pretty
nearly the same terms. Both parties were shrewd,
risky, and audacious men. Both made and lost
fortunes, and came up smiling. List. MTlwraitb,
Vogel, Service, O’Shannassy, Francis, Stuart,
Parkes, Berry, do not lose fortunes in mining.
Mining is a matter of give and take. Trafficking
in lands, and the probable growth of cities, aud
unearned increments, or investments as we call
them, is .what enriches Australians. It is all
“take.” Wonder where a fellow could buy up a
good block, now ? My son, please copy,
Charley Mitchell, the prize-fighter, is said
to dress very fastidiously, and to be possessed of
well-bred, gentlemanly manners. In travelling, a
little while back, from New York to Newport, he
collided with a fashionable dame and her good-
looking daughters. in an incidental conversation
that arose, they very soon discovered that the
stylishly-dressed Englishman knew “Duke This,
Earl That, Lor i Everybody,” &c. The result was
that the supposed blue blood “incog.” was treated
with 6very courtesy, and, on parting, asked to call
at an early date. A few days alter, when out
driving, tho dames struck Charley's path again,
and most graciously-bowed to him. “Do you know
to whom you just bowed?” cried their escort, a
gent also of tho “ uppah suckles,” quite horrified,
“ Why, that's Charley Mitchell, the prize-fighter.”
And the next fashionable-looking “incog.” those
ladies meet, they determine to set down at once as
a hangman, of a C.M.G.
One flaw the Canadians have already found
in their new Governor, Lord Lansdnwne is that
he is not dignified enough. One day his carriage
waited in the street for the Marchioness. When
she made her appearance, and paused a minute on
the steps, he thrust his head out of the window
and exclaimed,' “ Come along 1 , my dear. Hurry
up! We haven’t any time to lose.” The crowd of
Canucks watching the departure were shocked,
and said to each other, “ Fancy Lord Lome speak-
ing to his Marchioness in public in that way!”
The Canadians have evidently been misled by
that Chesterfleldian claptrap —“a gentleman is
never in a hurry.” It is a creed with the foppish
young aristocrats of Lome's Circle never to snow
haste or energy under any circumstances. It’s bad
form. But a gentleman according to a good many
of the Chesterfleldian dicta could only be defined
as a man who doesn’t have to work for his living.
“The Duke of Manchester will leave for
Australia shortly, on private business.” We are
here, dear Duke, and the land question is as it was.
You know, of course, the difficulties of a young
community. You know what a deuce of a struggle
we have to get on, and what with the Land Bill of
’6l, and Parnell’s new attempt, and the M’lhvraith
family (Oh, we forgot, you’re a man of figures).
Well, you see, dear Duke, since your last invest-
ment—not half so good a one, mark you, as Glad-
stone’s in Queensland—(Mac. got 6120 acres, his
brother Andy 5130, his cousin a slice, his partner a
bite, and his friends some nibbles out of the
sugary Delta of the Burdekin). We say, you
know what a hard time we’ve had, with Sir Henry
away floating Investment Companies with a paltry
million or so of capital—or, er—we say, come on,
dear Duke-on—on “ private business.” Bless
your Dukeship, we've millions of acres and hun-
dreds of legislative blockheads left, who want
nothing but—“ opening up.”
Mr. George Perry (six feet, and not to bo
trifled with) addressed a large number of the elec-
tors of South Sydney, on Saturday evening last,
at the corner o.f Campbell and Crown-streets, in
reference to gagging. It is a custom of ours—now
that we dwell in marble halls, and can scarcely
find our way through the silken hangings of our
couch, and step nimbly to our silver bath—we say
it is a custom of ours to visit the Domain, and
recall old delights, and remember the days when,
unhampered with care, we felt the chilly rain-drop
trickle its soothing channel down our spine as we
leaned against a tree and reflected on the starry
heavens in this same locality. We do this on Sun-
days, and our meditations have frequently taken
another turn when we have heard George open
his little chest on the evils of drink,and the neces-
sity of sending him into Parliament, if any. Chri-
stian soul was to escape a drunkard's grave. Then
we have thought of the virtues of a gag. Now,
however, George discourses on the evil of it.
Hang it! we’ll risk it—six,feet or no six feet. If
George isn’t more anxious to get into Parliament
than to reclaim drunkards, we'll—yes, we will,and
risk all—we ll sign the pledge.
The Rev. Jefferis appears to be getting
just a bit of a,local Joe Cook. “ There was a time,”
he said, “when I advocated the exclusion of re-
ligious teaching from the curriculum of State
schools, but I have grown a little wiser.” Just so.
We are with you. The ftev. J. has grown a
“little” wiser if he now imagines that religion
can be taught under any State sanction or State
supervision. It seems impofsible for the clerical
mind to grasp the idea that to be taught righteous-
ness and to be taught the foundation of the
current religious organisations, are two different
things. Many of the school-books now in use are
grossly immoral in the sense that they contain
exploded falsehoods—falsehoods that the Rev.
Jefferis himself dares not preach to an adult con-
gregation. But, in some inscrutable way, the re-
ligious folk, who have long outgrown the belief in
fable, imagine that such things are wholesome
diet for children. The holy men are appalled at
the widespread disregard for truth, and yet would
retain, for children’s use, open and transparent
lies. Let any man read the Irish National Second
Book, still in use in the Public Schools, and say
whether they wish their children to be taught to
believe what is therein written, and then say
whether they are anxious for an extension of such
“ religious ” teaching.
Truth is stranger than the Continental
cablegrams, and the whirling of Time turns up
some startling freaks of fortune. The first
plough-sod ever cut in the Victorian colony was
turned at Portland, on the very spot where the
Portland Hospital now stands, and it was iu this
Hospital that the pioneer ploughman of Victoria
was garnered in by that relentless old reaper,
Death. About this time there was an active and
devil-may-care young fellow knocking round the
Warrnamboul district who was known by the name
of “Flash Jack.” As a horseman, “Flash Jack”
had no equal then, and it is recorded that he once
rode from Portland to Belfast, back to Portland,
and again on to Belfast, on one horse, merely dis-
mounting to give his horse a short feed. The
three 44-mile journeys made the stupendous dis-
tance of 132 miles'in 24 hours. In those days there
were no bridges, and the rivers had to be swum
on each journey. This ttory seems stiff, but the
people who followed the Hentys vouch for its
truthfulness. On another occasion, “ Flash Jack ”
rode his favourite steed up a flight of steps, at
the Moyne Mills, Belfast, and down again. His
power over his horse was wonderful, and in the
early days of the “Rising Sun,” Warrnambool, he
once pulled off a “ fiver ” by causing his horse to
walk through tne passage, jump the bar counter,
and descend the steps in response to his master’s
call. Poor Jack is neither flash nor so young now
as he was in those rouseabout days, but he wears
well, and still knocks about with his four-legged
friends as usual.
“ Trovatore ” Verdi, recently being asked
whom he considered to be the greatest sopranos
in the world, replied: “Tne first is Patti—the
second is Patti—the third is Patti—the whole is
Patti.” This was good for Verdi, and better for
Patti; and it reminds us that the bat is now being
sent round to raise a trifle for one of the most
celebrated prima donne that ever graced the lyric
stage, Maria Piccolomini. For many years Pieeo-
lommi has been lost to the musical world through
her marriage with the Marchese Gaetani, who was
a sort of second edition of Patti’s very much lord
and master, the Marquis de Caux. It is said that
the blood of a celebrated Cardinal flows in Maria’s
veins, but Mr. Gaetani didn’t think much of that,
and quite frequently tapped her over the head
with a candlestick, just to see if a Cardinal's blood
bubbled out any faster than that of a boot and
shoemaker's. Twenty-two years ago, poor Arte-
mus Ward expressed his opinion that “there has bin
grater singers, an’ there has bin more bootiful
wimmen, but no more fassinatin’ young female
ever longed for a new gown, or side to place her
hed agin a vest pattern, than Maria Pickle-
homminy.” Madame Piccolomini is now 50 years
of age, and was enchanting the world with her
song when Patti was running about sucking taffy
in all the pomp and circumstance of a neglected
noss and a clean pinny. Piccolomini was one of
old Ben. Lumley’s bright particular stars, and the
originator of the consumptive cough in the last
act of “La Traviata.” We wish the poor singer a
full hat of London polytechnic fame.
Happy the man that does not live in Gun-
dagai, but dwells in the sylvan glades of Pitt-
street or George-street, and leads his flock along
the brink of the limpid footpaths of Sydney
undisturbed by aught but the gentle breathings
of the newsboy, and the cheerful rustle of a
thousand carts and cabs. For, in Gundagai, there
is war-bloody war. The Times and the Herald,
having failed to draw circulation, have drawn
beads on each other. Bailey called El worthy un-
worthy of belief, and Elworthy said you’re
another, and so, as the street don’t teem with
teams, and the poundkeeper won t commit him-
self, and nobody will wake up and throw a ginger-
beer bottle at somebody, the Gundagites have
column after column served up, splashed
all over with the hair and beard (in de-
fault of brains) of those two belligerent
scribes. Bailey, however, is detarmined to
give a mire cheerful cast to his paper, in
order to force the circulation, and is writing for
another class of readers. His last article was on
the local cemetery, and he was in strong hopes
that he had struck a constituency overlooked by
Elworthy. But when the first copy of his paper
was thrown in over the fence, a dead bullock-
driver rose, and brandishing the Times, said,
“ S'elp me —, Bailey, we’re glad yer came. We’ve
bin takin’ this rag now two years, and the
boys says it’s gone too bad. It suits me, and I
want to keep it on. And I will keep it on, too; and
111 give them a nasty jar for differing from me
in opinion. By , I’ll give them a dose. Leave
yours regular.*’
So Captain Boyle, of H.M.S. Tourmaline,
has burst up Henniker Heaton’s splendid romance
about his own public spirit and extraordinary
courage and discretion in taking charge of im-
portant, momentous, and secret despatches from
the Madagascar squadron. to Her Majesty the
Queen. It was only unstamped letters which
Henniker was asked to take along and get posted.
The French were not thirsting for his fiery blood.
They were most obliging and courteous, and
simply stuck at sending through their Post-office
letters which had E glish instead of French
stamps attached. This is very sad, and will be a
great blow to the Tory party and the electors of
Canterbury, and the Dean and Chapter of the
Cathedral, who, of course, are sound Conserva-
tives, and have been getting ready to vote
lor Heaten and save England. Still, the splen-
did account of the secret despatches which Heaton
sent to the Evening News and Town and Coun-
try Journal shows what he would have done
had the opportunity been offered him. He has an
heroie imagination, only the chance of exhibiting
his courige and devotion is needed. He has never
had that but once, and that time it was Walter
Cooper, a walking-stick, and a barmaid’s skirts,
which supplied the opportunity of showing his
mettle and his—heels. That affair was quite a
feather in Henniker’s cap. We forget just now
what was the colour of the feather. By the way,
it has just occurred to us that, possibly, Mr. Hen-
niker Heaton is also the author of the published
announcement that the daily circulation of the
Evening News is 35,000.
It is peculiar to this happy country that
its official utterances are not only unanswerable,
but the spirit of George Washington has been so
subdivided and distributed amongst its rulers,
that nothiog but the plain, undiluted truth can
ever be expected to emanate from its official
sources. A few nights ago, Mr. Wright, Minister
for Works, being cornered by Mr. Mudgee Taylor
on a certain delicate subject declared that *’ the
assistant station-master at Orange was net per-
mitted to refund portion of the public money he
was charged with embezzling, and then criminally
prosecuted for the balance.” Now, as Touchstone
would say, that speech of Mr. Wright’s is “good,
very good, very excellent good: and yet it is not;
it is but so so.” As far as the Minister for Works
is concerned, no fault can be found with the
declaration; but here is an extract from the
depositions of the station-master at the Urange
Railway Station, Mr. F. Richardson, in the
charge of embezzlement agaiust the deputy
station-master, W. H. H. Russell, which
was heard before the Police Magistrate at
Orange on Friday, April 18th: “On the.morning
of the sth February, 1884, Mr. Thompson, the
Auditor of Railway Accounts, arrived; after his
arrival, prisoner, in his presence, called me to the
door, and gave me one pound in silver, saying,
‘ That’s all I can get at present, but will try and
get the rest;’ gave him a receipt for one pound on
account of the deficiency.” Mr. Wright, of
course, cannot be expected to know everything,
but, at the same time, it would be far more satis-
factory to the bleeding public if Ministers of the
Crown would make stricter inquiries into the real
facts of cases they are questioned about, before
they venture to give such an emphatic contradic-
tion to honorable members as Mr. Wright recently
gave to Mr. Taylor. Possibly, station masters are
not permitted to act in the manner the member for
Mudgee complained of, but the stationmaster at
Orange positively swore he did act so, and therein
lies all the trouble.
Mr. Trickett, Minister of Education, has
done two things. He has sent home an order for
an enormous quantity of the most antiquated
schoolbooks that exist on the earth, and he has
visited the Kindergarten schools and shaken his
ominous head like Mr. Idly vick. That gentleman,
when testing Nickleby’s fitness to teach the young
Kenwigs, and anxious for a specimen of the
French language, asked, “ Whatsortot a language
do you think the French, now—is it a good lan-
guage?” “I should say it was,” said Nicholas,
shivering for his poor billet; “yes, a decidedly
good language.” Mr. L., it must be remembered,
was an officer of the Water Supply department,
and it was he who out-psthosed pathos when, in
showing his distress at the elopement of his per-
fidious Petowker, he remarked that “the plug of
life was dry.” “ What would be the French, now,
for water ?’' questioned this potentate. ‘ ‘ L’eaure-
plied Nicholas. “ H m,” snuffed old Plug, wagging
his head,” Lo I Don’t think much of that language.”
The N.S. Wales schools are swamped with the
dregs of the old booksellers’ contracts with the
Irish National School Board, and, although some
of the higher classes are supplied with Nelson’s,
and Collins’, and other excellent books, the bulk
of the scholars are at the mercy of a handful of
booksellers who bought up the vilest old lot of
tmsh that ever were placed in the hands of chil-
dren. We wonder how much of the Dublin firm
of Alexander Thom and Sons’ books are included
in the £13,000 order sent home ? We will venture
this, however, that not an article Australian, or
from an Australian pen, will be included in the
reading course for Australian children. Kendall,
Gordon, Clarke, ic , are nothing compared to the
fossilized blunderers who lived on the other side
of the world 100 years ago. As for Mr. Trickett's
condemnation of the Kindergarten business, as
practised here, we offer no opinion. But we know
what are the feelings of one poor, trembling
woman teacher when two or three ponderous
gentlemen calling themselves Minister and
Herald Reporter come in “ without notice,” and
ask “ What’s this, hay ? H’m 1 Kintergarten. Don’t
think much of that system.” (Echo of Herald
Reporter—“ Nor me.”).
The “ mitnbers ” of the Melbourne con-
stabulary keep up the traditions of the “foorce”
with that unerring exactitude which commands
our warmest admiration. When we meet with a
constable who cannot answer the “time o’ day”
correctly after consulting a “goold repaythor,”
after three months’ service, we look upoi him
with undisguised scorn; and should we drop
across a “Saynior ” who could not produce a long
rent-roll from freehold property (rarities though
they be), we are satisfied that he has mistaken his
vocation. But the Melbourne “traps,” as a rule,
hold up own end of the stick in that respect
to such an extent that there is little fear of any of
them filling a pauper’s grave in the near future.
And they manage things so nicely that, should
complaints be made against them, or charges laid, it
is just about imoossible to catch them Periodical
investigations are held—a kind of Star Chamber
busintss—but, beyond those most interested, and
the officer who hears the complaint, nothing
further is known of the nature of the charges
or the result of the inquiry. Senior-constable
Maguire, of Fitzroy, has not managed his affairs,
though, with that nice sense of discreetness that
distinguishes the well regulated policeman, especi-
ally one who “ carried a sthripe.” A few weeks
ago, a man named Patter, who was well-known to
have had dealings with the fair but frail sister-
hood of Carlton, applied for.the license of a hotel
in Rathdowne-street, and, although it was equally
well-kQown that he had the control of several
hagnios in the immediate vicinity of the aforesaid
hotel, yet his application for the license was
backed up by certificates of good character from
Senior-constable Maguire and a local J.P. I Well,
we hardly know which was the more reliable of
the twain—the enterprising “Saynior,” or the
Obliging J.P. The case, however, was so glaring
: that the police authorities, however much in-
clined to do so, could not wink at it, and the con-
sequence is that Maguire has been ordered to
resign from the “fqorce,” having, of course, the
cheerful alternative of being dismissed. He has
accepted the former, and we shall doubtless soon
hear of him in the whisky trade—or, maybe, on
the Binch. The ex-policeman usually degenerates
Into one or the other.
From a good source, we learn that there
will be some sensational goings on in Melbourne
shortly in connection with the publication of the
Marcus Clarke Memorial Volume, announced to
appear in a week or so. A few brief details of
what is likely to take place will satisfy our readers
that we are not overstating the affair. To begin
with, the dramatis personae, are divide! into two
sections—Christians and Jews. The former con-
sists of the unfortunate widow of the late Marcus
Clarke, the editor of the volume, Mr. Hamilton
Mackinnon, and the publishers, Messrs. Cameron,
Lang, and Co., with their lawyers, &c.; the latter
section consists of Mr. Aaron Waxman, J.F., com-
pulsory sequestrator of the estate of the author,
his official assignee, Mr. Samuel Cohen, and his
solicitors, Messrs. Braham and Pirani, who are also
legal advisers to Clarke’s brother-in-law, Mr. G. L,
Lewis. It goes without saying that the members
of the second section belong to the Semitic order.
. But it here may be added as regards Mr. G. L.
Lewis that he is a convert to Christianity as a
faith of respectable odour, which it is not deemed
necessary to practice in the manner its Founder
intended it should be. So much for the opposing
forces, and now for the “bone of contention.”
The Christians in the affair are determined to
bring out the book for the benefit of the widow
and children of the deceased writer, whereas the
children of Israel aro equally determined to have
a cut in, claiming that as the poor author died an
insolvent the copyrights of his writings belong to
them. At present the battle is being waged
privately, but ere long it will be carried into court,
and laid before the public by journals friendly to
the good cause-such as the Age and Herald.
And, so soon as this portion of the struggle is
over, there will be steps taken in relation to one
of the Hebraic gentlemen, the object of which
will be to shpw that he has been guilty of threat-
ening to injure a man, although supposed to guard
the peace of the community. Subsequently, there
will be held public meetings, at which resolutions
will be proposed to put down the frightful amount
of usury known to exist in Melbourne to the
destruction, social and moral, of hundreds of
young men with more money than brains, like
the Herman-cum-Waxman-bled unfortunates.
The death of Madame Anna Bishop, in
New Fork, in March, was due to apoplexy. It
seems only the other day that she was touring the
colonies, and deigning even to scoop the coin of
Northern coaa.' towns. Madame not only was one
of the m ost-^Aveiled of women, but had lived a
life very eventful in a variety of ways. Her father
was an artist of considerable standing, Riviere,
whose pictures are still held in esteem. Anna
Riviere was born in 1814, and so was 70 years old at
the time of her death. At the age of 17 she mar-
red Sir Henry Rowley Bishop, the conductor and
composer, but left him not very long afterwards
to make a tour of the world with Bochsa, the harp
ist, who had been her tutor. Bochsa died in Sydney
of asthma, January 6, 1858. Sir Henry died nine
months later at Finchley, England. Subsequently
Madame Bishop married a Mr. Schulz, of New
York. In a Melbourne exchange of recent date
we find the following from the pen of George
Darrell:—“ Back in the seventies, I was a fellow-
voyager from San Francisco to the Australias
with the singer who had sung before kings and
queens and princes, and made and lost fortunes in
her time; and o' nights, in the shadows, she would
sit and sing, with a chosen few around, the songs
that were written for her by the masters, and for
tho finale we would chorus her to some old-time
refrain, or cast ourselves as Julia, and Henry,
and Meg we had a Meg with us, another
woman to be reverenced and the duet and
the plaint, and the * Chough and Crow ’ were
wafted over the waters as the voices rose
and fell, and now two of those voices are silent
for ever. The last time I met the dear old soul,
as her intimates loved to call her, was in the
winter of 1881-2, in New York. 4 Come and see me
to-night, alone, and I will sing to you for 4 Auld
Lang Syne.’ Needless to say, the invitation was
accepted. 4 Sit by the fire, smoke your cigar, and
tell me when you are tired,’ and then one by one
she sang, with a pathos and a method entirely her
own, those quaint old ballads of yore, from the
4 Wreath of Roses’ to 4 Home, Sweet Home;’ and I
sat in the firelight and listened and wondered, and
felt subdued and softened and honoured beyond
honour; and the glamour of that night clings
round me still, and the news to me of the death of
the great artiste, good woman, and true friend,
brought with it a host of memories, a pang of
sorrow, and a reverential regard for the dead and
gone.”
It happened up Horsham (Vie.) way early
in the “seventies,” when the free selectors rushed
the fertile plains from which Sam Wilson, of
Longernong, raised the cash that enabled him to
buy a handle for his name. Horsham then could
only boast of limited hotel accommodation, and
not particularly good at that; so several of the old
residents took advantage of the glut of hash-con-
sumers to earn an honest penny by catering for
their wants. BeiDg amateurs in the business, it
could not be expected that they would strike the
average of a Macquarrie-street boarding-house
right off, but they managed pretty well, notwith-
standing. One day a “curled darling ” from the
metropolis arrived by coach, and failing to find a
rest for the sole of his foot in any of the hotels,
had perforce to seek refuge in one of the amateur
hash establishments, which was presided over by a
genius named Ward. The proprietor was one of
the rough-and-ready sort, a *'none-of-your
Bwell-style-about-me ” kind of fellow, who would
preside at the festive board in his shirt sleeves,
and with brawny arms bared to the elbows would
make the corned beef and carrots fly round the
table with the celerity of an artist who had ac-
quired a rough but thorough training at the bull-
puncher’s camp fire. The young metropolitan swell
was shown to his room—not alarge norgorgeouely
appointed one,by the way—even lacking the neces-
saries for th« performance of a bush toilet, and
next morning he made inquiries relative to the
location of the lavatory. 44 Oh, you want a wash,
do you?” was the curt reply, “well, you’ll find a
cask of water in the back yard, there's a tip dish
in the shed, and behind the door you’!! see a
towel.” Following the instructions given, the city
youth went out and prospected the premises, but
soon returned, and again interviewed the pro-
prietor. 44 1 have found those things you men-
tioned,” said the new boarder, “a—but—the towel
is rather damp. Couldn’t I get another one ?’
“Get another one?” sneered the now irate land-
lo«d. “ Well, you are blasted particular, to be
sure. Why, there’s been twenty of my best
boarders dried themselves on that there towel this
morning, and not one of them said a word. There’s
some people as would grumble and find fault with
the very best accommodation, and it appears to
me that you are one of them. So you'd better
clear out of here at once ; I don’t want any of yer
swells a stopping here.” And he travelled.
The “unf or tun ate n obleman, ’ ’ ‘ ‘Sir Roger,”
now serving out his sentence in England under
the name of Arthur Orton, may turn out to have
been wrongly convicted after all. The inquiry
about to be held with respect to the alleged
identity of the lunatic Cresswell,now in Parramatta
Lunatic Asylum, with that sane Arthur Orton,
promises to bring out a number of singular tacts.
Two of Arthur Orton’s brothers, Edward and
Charles, have made affi lavit identifying Cresswell
as Arthur. A gentleman resident in Benalla, Vic.,
is prepared to swear that he was Arthur Orton’s
schoolmate, and while playing with him wounded
him in the hand with a knife. He has identified
Cresswell, whom he picked out from among twenty
lunatics at Parramitta. as being Orton. There are
also two Londoners, intimates of the Orton family,
who have likewise identified Cresswell as the man.
Evidence is said to be forthcoming that Cresswell
was several times arrested in th s colony
under the name of Arthur Orton. There is
also a description of Arthur in the Victorian
Police Gaz.tte of May 1859, which is said
to tit Cresswell. It runs : “ About 5 feet
9in. or lOin. high, stout build, pale complexion,
fair hair, fair whiskers, one front tooth wanting
in upper jaw, by trade a butcher, and a good
jockey and horsebreaker.” Mr. John Hull, a well-
known resident of Sale (Vie.), has made affidavit
as follows:—“I swear that theie is not a man in
the colony of Victoria that knows Arthur Orton
better than I do, he having lived, boarded, worked,
and repeatedly bathed in the River Thompson
with me for over a period of two years. In per-
sonal appearance he was very»ungainly looking,
slobberly made, rough and uncultivated, very
large hands and feet, had a scar on t le back of his
neck, another across the right hand, one down the
cheek, another on the left arm, was tatooed, had
light hair, light blue eyes, high cheek bones, very
fond of expressing his mind, aud continually talk-
ing. His ears were bored for rings, for i have
repeatedly put into them leaden earrings, and
removed them again. During the years 1857,1858,
and early in 1850 he was engaged as a groom at the


Wells’ “ -ough on Corns.”— Ask for Wells
Bough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Moses,
Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
Eat and Live.— lf your stomach craves for
a pleasant bitter to sharpsn the keen edge of
appetite, ask your chemist for Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine, the Great Nerve Tonic. Take no sub-
stitute. Wholesale at the principal patent medi-
cine warehouses, and the proprietors, Marshall
Brothers M.P.S , lOiand 106, Market-st., Sydney.
Mr. DeCourcy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adv ser and Mining Titles,
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 136 Pitt-street, Sydney,
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.—A dvt.
While waiting for a eough to go as it eaine,
you are often laying the foundation for some
Pulmonary or Bronchial affection. It is better to
get rid of a Cold at once by using that sure remedy
Dr. D. Jayne’s Expectorant, which will cure all
stubborn Coughs, and relieve any anxiety as to
dangerous consequences. To be had ot a'l drug-
gists and storekeepers, and wholesale by Elliott
Bros., Pitt-street.
Eczema on Face & Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
FOIt EVERY FORltf OF
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
n
■ Scrofula on neck.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
rißeum, Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with ioss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent |
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap
externally.
Bad Blood, Scrofulous, Inherited pjid Conta-
tagous Humours, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patches in the Throat, and Mouth, Abscesses,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches Sores, Scurvy,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Organs,
Dropsy, Erysipelas, Enoemia, Pytemia,Leucorrboea,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Im pure,or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
One H undred Testimonials with each pack-
age and Sworn to before the British Consulate
repeat this story : I have been a terrible sufferer
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have been
obliged to shun public places by means of my dis-
figuring humors; have had the best physicians;
have spent hundreds of dollars and got no real
relief until I used the Cuticura Resolvent which
have cured me and left my skin and blood as pure
as a child’s.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri
fler, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
Cutlcura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Fleshl
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cutlcura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticuka, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, o "easy Skin.
Cutlcura Remedies, are absolutely pure, anu
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautiflera
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, of any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout the colonies. Price,
Cuticura, §0 cents per box, large boxes, $1.00;
Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shaving
Soap,' ls cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO per
bottle. Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston
U.S.A.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD & CO.,
THE PEOPLE S TAILOKS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
11. L. SUMMERFIELD & CO.,
THE GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
And at
51 and 53 LEAUENHALL STREET, LONDON. E.C.; 32, 34, aud 36 HUNTER
STREET, NEWCASTLE; FITZMAURICE STREET, WAGUA; MACQUARIE
STREET, DUBBO.
jgy* Our ii'>w Illustrated Catalogue of Fashions, with Prions of Men’s and Boys’
Goods; Patterns and Self-measurement Forms.sent post free, on application.
NOTWITHSTANDING THE LATE DISASTROUS El LIE,
CZS.A-MIFI'OaT dz> BEUCE
ARE ABLE
TO OPEN THEIR NEW MAGNIFICENT PREMISES,
197 PITT ST., (Opposite Compagnoni’s),
WITH A COMPLETE STOCK OF
Gtnm Piaios, Snitk Organs, and
lE.
Note the New Address—NEAß KING STREET.
W. W. CATER, Importer, 193 & 195 Pitt.street
The PARIS KID GLOVE DEPARTMENT is under the management of Sivnu
DPimi TP. OEISMARnn fr-ri.T. PavG H .r,™ f „ M.u tT- -• L - UA .. ° IJf OU
lal
done in Paris. This excellent plan of fitting Gloves is commanding a thorough appreciation
THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED STOCK TO SELECT FROM
Prices guaranteed the Lowest in the City.
KID GLOVES of all descriptions in the latest style
KID GLOVES fitted to the hands without extra
charge
KID GLOVES from 2 to 20 Duttons
KID GLOVES, Mcsquetaire style, 8 Duttons length,
4s. fit.
KID GLOVE 4, Mosquetgire style, 10 Buttons
length, Suede, 4s. per pair
KID G L< iVES, Ssrah Bernhardt style, Suede, 4-. Od.
jOVES, best quality made, 6 Buttons, 6s.
per pair
KID GLOVES, second quality, 6 Buttons, 4s. 6d.
per pair
KI p?ir ES ’ b6Bt QUality made > 4 Buttons, ss,
Kl p°pair EJ ’ BeCODd qualit >’> 4 Buttons, 3s. fid
K 1I p? < ir VES ’ Josephiae8 > 4 Buttons, 3s. Gd per
Kll l)e?pa ( l^ ES f ° r GeDtlemen . walking:, 4s. Cd.
KTl 5s G pcr pair lor Gentlemen eveeingr, 4s. 6d. an
KIE S L pai V r ES f ° r Ludie8 ’ Kid G »uu«etB, 3s. to 10s
klu GLOVES f fMr I f adie8 }j Gnun . tlGt8 ’ Vl - lvct tops
KT) rmv»a'£ ii? PB ' Gauntlets, lined
B-tl) GLOVES tor Misses, in every variety.
W. W. CATER, Importer ansi General Draper,
1!W and 195 PITT-STliBfJ F, SYDNEY,
Royal Exchange Hotel, Sale. He was a softy, and
very cunning. I hold property now which for-
merly belonged to Arthur Orton.” A Mrs. Mary
Smith, the wife of James Smith, tailor, of Sale, has
sworn that she knew Orton well in the year 1856,
and her description of him is identical with that
given by Mr. Hull. The case i i to be heard in the
Supreme Court to-morrow (Friday) week, the 30th
in3tant.
The Rev. Joe Cook, who rescued us from
infidelity through his demolition of Darwin and
Spencer, has been wrestling, not with the Lord this
time, but with a fellow crook-proprietor. The
Rev. Price, of New Hampshire, feeling that a re-
vival of undefilod relig'on was sadly needed to
tune up the spirits of his congregation and cheer
the collection-box, asked th» Rev. Joe to come
over to Macedonia and help him. Joe agreed to
wrestle on a given night at 7.15 p m.; but Price,
feeling that souls were every moment falling into
perdition, pounded at Joe’s bedroom door seven
minutes before that time. Joe replied that he was
tired—worn out—but he would be there at 7.15.
price, who had rapidly ticked off on bis fingers
how many more souls might be in hell by that
time, refused to go away, but kept on “ pounding at
the door” (these are Cook's own words in the N.Y.
Tribune), whereupon Joe sprang out of bed, col-
lared brother Price, and without inviting him to a
moment’s silent prayer alongside his bed, fired
him out, as he would a Spencerian theory, neck
and crop, and without any previous consideration.
At 7.15 he was down at the meeting. He had pre-
viously stipulated that he would pray only—was
too weary to speak. Brother Price fixed him with
his glittering eye (the other possibly had a bit of
raw meat on it), and called on Brother Cook to
pray. Joe closed his eyes, and in two-twos had a
Arm hold; of the promises, was lobbying away
in heaven like fifty land agents, and was within an
ace of a gracious outpouring when Brother Price
said “Amen.” Once more the sound eye was
focussed, and “ Brother Cook will speak a few
words if the spirit moves him.” Joe felt
the wrong spirit moving him; ‘2* instead of
muzzling Price, as the devil or we would have
suggested, he walked out and home. Price then
explained the matter in his own way to the
assembled brethren, and it was his bloodthirsty
narration that drew forth Joe’s letter of explana-
tion in the N.Y. Tribune. For our part, having
somewhat fallen away from that pitch of holiness
to which Joe worked us when he was here, we
rather think he erred on the side of mildness. It’s
bad enough when you’re tired to death, and are
lying down for an hour waiting for the postman’s
knock and a registered letter, and are then roused
up by a Chinese hawker, but to be woke up in
the middle of a snooze just to stop seven minutes
of the usual dribble of souls into the Inferno, and
by a man by the name of Price-not for Joseph,
twice over!
Now we’ve struck it. Or rather—“palmam
uui meruit ,” &c.—the future “Honorable” R. C.
Luscombe, of the Protection League, has struck
it for us, and in an address to the public at large,
he conclusively proves (to himself) that Free
Trade has been the curse of this world ever since
the day that Premier Joseph rigged the Egyptian
corn market, and thereby forced the reigning
Ministry of Canaan to pass Egyptian produce
into their country free of tariff. As Mr. Luscombe
learnedly points out, there was no Free Trrde in
the rouseabout days of our glorious ancestors, the
old cave men of England. In point of fact, so
great was their hatred of it, that they barely
manufactured enough stuff to trade off amongst
themselves. Does any intelligent person imagine
for one moment that an Ancient Briton of the
pre-Adamite period would be unpatriotic enough
to wear a stovepipe hat that was manufactured by
the old mound makers of America, and landed
free of duty in England ? Scarcely. Even if he
did, he’d be “goosed” from one diggings to
the other; and, by the time he got home, that
hat would wear the dejected expression of
a German concertina that had reared up on
the track and attempted to upset a loaded
tramear. Again, Mr. Luscombe points out that
caninet-makers are starving in our midst, and yet
shoddy, riels etty wardrobes and cupboards, &c.,
are landed iu shiploads, without paying a single
dump of duty. Would our brave old blue-metal-
axed forefathers tolerate a game like this? Not
much. They never left enough stray victuals
after a meal to stuff a thimble with, consequently,
they required no cupboards, save their binjies;
and as for wardrobes—well, they had about as
much use for wardrobes as a cat-fish has for one
of Hordern Brothers’ £5 tweed suits. Why, then,
should we put on frills, and despise the ways of
the mighty men of old ? They had no Free Trade
—why, then, should we? In conclusion, Mr. Lus-
combe gives some sound advice, worthy of Solo-
mon in his palmiest days, when he says:—“ Let us
keep out of Parliament, in future, all weak-kneed
men, who profess, on the hustings, to encourage
our Colonial Industries, and in Parliament shirk
the question, because they have axes of their own
to grind.” So we will, Mr. Luscombe; and if the
electors of this colony act on your valuable advice
it is perfectly safe to say that you, yourself, have
about as much chance of holding a seat in Parlia-
ment as you have of standing on your head on top
of the North Pole.
Justice Coleridge, the solemn, has sent
Edmund Yates to gaol (bar appeal to the wigs of
the ancients) for four months. Yates said in a
“society” journal a thing about Lord Lonsdale
that smacks of scandal, and the learned Justice-
fresh back from America, where Yates’ personali-
ties would be reckoned tame—has laid down the
law and a good many Obadiah-flfty-in-a-cave-pro-
phets as to what latitude should be allowed to
modern journalists in dealing with “personal”
matters. The drift of it is: 1. That a man in his
public capacity is open to public criticism. 2. In
his private-not. The British Bench is accurate or
nothing. But in the name of all that is opaque,
how comes it that in the administration of law,
which, according to all tradition, is the embodied
wish lor human fair play, such a man, recog-
nised as the highest representative of such
a cult, can sit there and dole out only half
a law ? Common jurists knew the distinction
we wished to point out when they allowed for
Equity. Laws are made by people who believe
they are in a position to enforce what is best for
people within the horizon open to them. The
British horizon when British laws relating to
printing were made was bounded by the know-
ledge of the time. The knowledge of the time,
codified by the men whom Lord Coleridge lollows,
was, “ that the rulers must rule.” The scaffold for
those who would not, civilly ; the rack etcetera,
for those who would not, as per Peter, his admin-
istrators and assigns (deceased), ecclesiastically.
A hew race (yclept journalists) arose, who knew
not Peter, nor Britain, but tried to follow Nature.
Under that teaching, they Jsoon learnt that the
way to teach men was to talk to and of men.
They followed Socrates, and Christ, and every suc-
cessful teacher, and ceased to deal with words, but
with men. It is nothing to the point that a few
Yateses abuse the principle, and cater for the
gossipy taste of many. It is a fact as open as
noonday that the man who says in print that “a
person high up in society is more than suspected
of a liaison ” is only half a power for good; the
man who says “ society is a Duchy not a hundred
miles from Balmoral,” is shady; or the philosopher
who ventures “in the higher grades we find the
commonest ties of the family more and more dis-
regarded,” is only half as good as that other who
can say “ Lord Tom Noddy is a d d scoundrel,
and look out for your wives and daughters.” No-
body has time to read generalities. When a man
becomes a scoundrel, he is open to be gibbeted—
cal! him noble or what not. What else is the
meaning of the Speaker’s tradition—The hon.
member will be “ named ?”
There is no news of J. J. O’Kelly. “ And
who the mischief is O’Kelly.” did you say ? Well,
he is, or was, one of the members for county Ros-
common, aud when his infant eyes first looked
upon the external world over a sod of turf,stretched
before him lay the field of Aughrim, where his
ancestors, under the gallant, but unfortunate, St.
Ruth, very neai’ly won for the miserable James 11.
a victory over the mercenaries of Dutch William.
O’Kelly completed his studies at the Porbonne,
and, following the traditions of his family, was
Boon lending a willing hand in endeavouring to
stop the German march on Paris. When the
Teutons swarmed under the “arc de triomph,”
and picketed their horses in the boulevards, O’K,
thought it time to be moving, so he struck West,
and landed in America, where he was soon em-
ployed on the New York Herald. For the next
ten yeirs his life was as adventurous as that of
“ Chinese ” Gordon. Most of the time he
carried it in his hand, and more than once
let it nearly slip through his fingers. Whenever
the roar of artillery or the rattle of musketry was
heard he was sure to be somewhere in the neigh-
bourhood. In South America, Cuba, and Spain
he represented his paper, describing events as they
arose, and shouldering a rifle and making them
when things were slack. Nor was he particular
about sides. He was superior to such vulgar con-
siderations, so that even to this day, it is not quite
clear whether his Spanish service was under the
Carlist flag or on the other side. Like the late
James Smiley, who was not particular which side
he backed so long as he got a bet, the easy-going
O'K. did not suffer himself <o be swayed by any
stupid scruples. It was probably through this
nonchalance that, when the Spaniards once got
hold of him in Cuba, with characteristic courtesy
they sent him a confessor and fell in a platoon of
infantry to treat him to the rough surgery of a
volley of musketry when the padre had prepared
him for that heritage we are all so anxious to
secure and so reluctant to enter upon. How he
escaped the soldiers’ unwelcome attentions are
not told, but we next find him in the British House
of Commons staunchly supporting Mr. Parnell
and evidencing a desird to pass some time in the
"Clock Tower” in defence of his convictions. But
his love of adventure was not to be satisfied with
the mimic legislative strife of St. Stephen’s, and
so we next find him following, in the interests of
his journal, the route taken by the ill-fated Hicks
Pasha on that mad march which was to end so
disastrously among the fastnesses of El Obeid and
thrill the world by its ending. O’Kelly’s commis-
sion was to discover whether there were any Euro-
pean survivors of the column. Like Gordon, he
dived into Upper Egypt, but, unlike the former,
who has come to the surface—for how long a
breathing time, who can tell?—at Khartoum, the
indomitable Irishman is among the missing. The
latest and wildest speculation is that O’Kelly has
joined the Mahdi, and is assisting that mysterious
personage with his counsel and tactical experience,
thus fighting the battles of Ireland in the centre of
Africa.
Ananias, and even Reuter himself, is right
out of it this time, and will have to perch on a
back seat while this old world of ours is blessed
with the presence of the London correspondent of
a Parisian journal called the Voltaire. This ex-
tremely imaginative gentleman recently recorded
all that took place during an interview he had
with Mr. Howard Vincent, the chief of the Eng-
lish Police Force; and, speaking of detectives, our
veracious friend reports as Mr. Vincent’s opinion
that “ a detective should be very good-looking
(aroo listenin’, Misthur Mulqueeny ?), and no fool.”
Furthermore, the British magnate declares : “ T
give preference to a Scotchman who likes his
whisky, and shares his flask indiscriminately with
his friends and enemies. One of the cleverest
men I have is a Scotchman who could drink the
Thames dry if it was run with whisky iostead of
water. He is employed on all the most serious
cises, and spends upwards of £30,000 a year.”
People who know Mr. Howard Vincent intimately
will recognise this as being exactly the kind of
chat he would enter into with a stranger. An-
other tot of Scotchman's Delight was then dis-
cussed; after which Mr. Vincent put in the cork
and continued: “ One of my men, a deuced hand-
some young fellow, has been clever enough to
become the lover of the wife of one of the
individuals suspected of having left explo-
sives at Cbari"g-cross Station.” AVith char-
acteristic frankness, Mr. Vincent also observed
that two other members of his force were then
going about Paris disguised as women, ia order to
obtain information from the Irish dynamiters.
This part of the story appears to have a.xoup<;on of
truth about it; but, unfortunately for the English
chief, his little game was completely burst up by
his own men. The pseudo-ladies and the "sus-
pects” were on very intimate terms, and were at
dinner together one day when a “ frind ” from
Ameriky, with "lashinsof goold ” (as the Parisians
say), arrived, and then, as Milton or Sladen, or
some other great poet, observes—
“ When he came among them,
And dropped his bag and trunk,
They recognised God’s mercies,
And started on a drunk.”
The end of the “ drunk ” was that one of the ladies
crashed in the new arrival’s head with a chair —the
“ divarshun ” became general—and then the gens-
d’armes trooped along, and ran the crowd into gaol
for “ righteous conduct.” The fertile-minded mud-
head who dished up the Voltaire screed seems to
have been reading Archie Forbes on Australia, and
to have subsequently dropped off to sleep and
dreamt he was Ananias.
• * •
Lady Loch, wife of the new Governor of
Victoria, ia twin sister to Lady Lytton. When
Lytton vice-ruled India, it was said vice ruled in
quite an abnormal way at head-quarters at Cal-
cutta or Simla... A lady brought her daughter to
Mrs. Sims Beeves, and said. “ She sings well,
madam ; how long do you think she should be
trained? Nine months?” "Nine months 1” an-
swered Mrs. Reeves. “Nine years. Why, even a
bootmaker takes seven.”.... Water was specially
brought from the Jordan, says a London paper, to
christen the infant son of Sir Charles Mordaunt.
It would have been safer to say, the son of Lady
Mordaunt. Liquid from the same stream was ob-
tained for Napoleon IV., the son of—Eugenie.
Either the messenger tapped the wrong stream, or
the water lost its virtue by change of longitude—
anyway, it didn’t save him from tho Zulus ...
The young husband of Vinnie Ream, an American
belle, has white hair. The other evening, at a
party in Washington, she appeared in a loose
(esthetic robe, fastened on one shoulder by a single
pin, wnereupon a sarcastic woman remarked she
supposed his hair had turned white with anxiety
from watching that pin. ...U.B. Senator Logan to
the students of a Western college : -“ By all means
I charge you to study grammar. The weakness of
Mr. Tilden s grammar crippled him and the correct-
ness of Arthur’s syntax enabled him to ketch fish
without a error. ' Study grammar, and by all
means talk proper. The man what don t talk
proper is always subject to ridicule. Of one im-
portant fact I want to impress you, either be
grammorous yourself er marry wimmin that air.
... Governor Weld has left the Straits Settlement
on a visit to Europe. Cecil Smith, C.M.G., admin-
isters the Government in his absence— Lord
St. Leonard, who was committed for trial for an
indecent assault, has demanded to be tried by his
peers.” No doubt. This is the way to ensure
justice. What have you been about, oh, veterans
of Woolloomooloo and Waterloo? If you had
only demanded, now but the case i« mb judice,
and St. Leonards is a peer, so we humbly pause.


XTUNEST CIGARETTES. FINEST CIGARETTES
fi ABB
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR,
Manufactured by W. S. KIMBALL and CO.,
Rochester. U.B.A.
Q PER
A
Lessee • • • • • • •
Sub-lessee and Manager
Stage Manager
HOUSE.
... W. J. Wilson.
... J. B Polk.
.. N. B. Jones.
STXTH WEEK
POLK
POLK
SIXTH WEEK
SIXTH WEEK.
POLK
THIS AND EVERY EVENING.
MARVELLOUS SUCCESS
of the new grand Spectacular Military Comedy
Drama, EASTWARD HO !
alter weeks of elaborate preparation, and at an
enormous outlay.
EVERYTHING ENTIRELY NEW.
For particulars see bills and future advertisements.
Prices of Admission.—Dress circle, 55.; stalls, 3s.
PIT-ONLY ONE SHILLING,
Reserved Seats at Huenerbein’s. Tickets at
Roberts’, adjoining theatre.
S. GENESE, Business Manager.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garnbr, & Musgrov*.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING,
IMPULSE !
IMPULSE !
IMPULSE !
IMPULSE !
Prices of Admission :
DRESS CIRCLE, 6e.: STALLS, 35.; FAMILY
CIRCLE, 2s.
Academy of music’
Lessee and Manager—Mr. F. E. Hiscoeks.
The Home of Incessant Mirth and Music 1
Crowded Houses. Crowded Houses nightly greet
the refined entertainment of
HIBCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
together with the
MARVELLOUS and ASTOUNDING GIRARDS.
Tremendous Success of the New Programme.
Glorious, Uproarious, and Boisterous Fun.
Admission— 45., 35., 25., and One Shilling.
Carriages, 1015.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee Mr. John Bennett.
Sublessee ... . . Mr. Wybert Reeve.
MR. WYBERT REEVE’S
TWO FAREWELL PERFORMANCES of his great
impersonation, “ Count Fosco,” in the
WOMAN IN WHITE.
Saturday next. Pinero's Great Drama, “ THE
MONaY SPINNER.” New and beautiful scenery,
by Mr. Kinchela. Tickets—Young s Hotel, next
Theatre. Prices 53., 35., 35., and Gallery, Is.
Business Manager, G. A. COLEMAN.
TRAGEDIAN and COMEDIAN.
“ One of the most versatile actors on the stage.”
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE,
Every Evening. Special Engagement.
Mr. Glover’s Tour will commence immediately
on the conclusion of his engagement with Signor
Majeroni, supported by one of the best companies
in the colonies. See future advertisements.
QUNDAY AFTERNOON.
GRAND PROMENADE CONCERT.
Sir Joseph Banks Pavilion and Pleasure Ground,
Botany.
Success still attends these Concerts.
Thousands of people pass a pleasant afternoon
every Sunday.
The following talented Artists will appear NEXT
SUNDAY in popular Ballads:—
Mr. Percy Shannon
Mr. J. Gordon
Mr. J. Barnett
Miss Pauline Bensom
Miss Jessie Baily
Miss Marion Sanders.
KOPFF and AUSTIN’S
Renowned String Band will also perform Solos
and Classical Selections.
Trams leave Bridge-street at 2, 2.20, 2.40, 3, 3.20,
3,40, 4.
The entertainment will commence at 3.30 and
terminate at 5 punctually. The semi-grand piano-
foite from the establishment of Nioholson and Co.
Tickets obtainable at Botany.
North Shore Rowing Club.
Third annual ball,
PLAIN AND FANCY DRESS,
will take place at
NEEDS’ ROOviS (NITHSDALE 1 ,
ON THURSDAY, JUNE 5,
Tickets: Ladies’, 123. 6d.; Gentlemen’s, 215.;
Double, 30s , may be had from F. W. B. Love, 99
Bathurst-street: J. S. Davis, 433 George-street;
W. T. Robertson, 409 George street; E. E. Brice.,
Railway Department, any of the leading shops, or
from
HARRY H. ROBEY,
Honorary Secretary,
11 Bridge-street.
Mr. EDWARD HANLAN, Champion Sculler of
the World, has signified his intention of being
present.
MASONIC BALL,
LODGE PARRAMATTA ST. GEORGE, 1943, E.C.
will take place
FRIDAY, JUNE 13th, 1884,
MASONIC HALL, GBOROE STREET,
PARRAMATTA.
ALFRED MASO*,
Hon. Sec.
Third Annual Owl Club Ball,
PLAIN AND FANCY DRESS,
ILL TAKE PLACE
at the
SYDNEY TOWN HALL,
THUR DAY, tlie I2th of JUNE.
T. L. CLARK B, Hon. Tress.
(care F. Lassetter and Co.)
MORRIS MENSER, Hon. Sec.,
384 George-street.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 9th May, 1884.
TENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kjent at every Post Oflice in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly oomplied
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Construction of a Line of Rail-
way Bungendore to Michelago |
Erection of Courthouse, In-
ver ell
Additions to Quarters, Nobby’s |
Ligtit House, Newcastle
Additions to Courthouse, Mer-1
riwa
Erection of Police Quarters, I
Lambton
Bridge over Niemur River, road
Moamato Moulamen
Erection of Station, Buildings,
Bungendore
Bridge over Marthaguy Creek at
Robbejubi road Dubboto Coo-
namble
Erection of Three Gatehouses on
the Illawarra Railway
Hand-Geared Punt for Wise-
man’s Ferry, Hawkesbury River
Erecting Guards’ Quarters at
Junee Junction
Foundations and Piers for Foot-
bridge, Wagga Wagga Rail-
way Station
Superstructure and Stairs of
Footbridge, Wagga Wagga
Railway Station
Erection of Porter’s House,
Macdonald River G.S. Railway
Erecting Porter’s House at Mur-
rumburrah G.S. Railway
Erection of Courthouse, Bal-
ranald
Erection of Quarters for Sub-
Inspector of Police, Walgett
Repairs, &0., Post Office, Alhury
Erection of Ladies’ Refresh-
ment Rooms, Botanic Gardens
Repairs, &c., Police Barracks,
Parramatta
Cart-shed, &c„ Lunatic Asylum,
Parramatta
Erection of Retaining Wall, Hos-
pital for the Insane, Newcastle
Supply of Portable Water
Tanks for the Locomotive De-
partment
Bridge over Dingo Creek at Tett-
setl's Crossing, road Wingham
to Wherool Flat
Additions, &0., Post and Tele-
graph Office, Jerildie
Addition Water Police Court,
Sydney
Erecting Stating Buildings, &c ,
at YouDg
Manufacture and Supply of
160,000 Tons of Steel Rails.
Bates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
Tuesday,
27th May,
at 11 o’clock,
Tuesday,
3rd June,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
10th June,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
17th June,
at il o’clock.
Tuesday,
24th June,
at 11 o’clock.
10th February,
1886,
at 11 o’clock.
F. A. WRIGHT.
WASTE PAPER, Hoop Iron, and Empty
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, Bulletin
Office.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
Offices: 43 KING STREET.
■Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (\ia Brie-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONG EDINA KONOOWARRA
BARRABOOL GABO LEURA
BURWAH BALMAIN MORETON
CHEVIOT GERLOVG RODONDO
DERWENT KEILAWARRA YOU YANGS.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SON* (Limited),
43 King Street, Sydney.
General Post Office,
Sydney, Ist May, 1884.
THE Postmaster - General desir s to impress
upon senders of letters the necessity that
exists for the addresses being legible and complete.
As regards Sydney and the larger towns, the num-
ber of the house and the name of the street should
in every case appear in tho address of a letter. It
is found that a 'arge number of letters are merely
addressed ‘’Sydney,” or to some street in Sydney,
without an direction. This greatly re-
tards the soiling, and is liable to lead to the wrong
delivery of letters.
The Postmaster-Genrral trusts that, on their
attention being called to the matter, the public
will co-operate with the Department, as far es
possible, in facilitating its business.
W. J. TRICKETT.
ANCI N G ,
PkOF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &c. Leigh House Academy, 251
Castlereagh street, near Bathurst-street. P.S.—
The ball-room is much, longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
spring floor, &c. No decorations required.
MATRIMONIAL— Parents and those newly
married may obtainmuch valuable informa-
tion, which may prevent years of suffering by
simply sending a stamped addressed envelope for
reply, to C. C. W., Box 766 G.P.0., Sydney.
Dr. HOFF —“The Skin fn
Health and Disease,”
2s. Bd., all booksellois.
L. BRUCK, Publisher, Sydney.
AFTEB OEFORE
Copyrighted.
MOUSTACHE and WHISZEES.
Boyd's Beard F.lixir did this, and
I will do it on cither bald head or
bare fare. Fo'. ce» heavy Mona •
tar he in from 2 to 4 weeks and never
fails, 20,000 young men already
_ „ . wear full beards, having Used 1 to
3 pkts. Fo injury, easily applied, eertain in effect,
each, 3 for 3 s. bl..post paid, sent under cover, free from observation.
jAddress, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent, Box 730, O.P.O.,Sydney^F\8^
EE FOR- AFTER
Copyrighted.
Packet 3 1«. W.
I WILLIAM RF.ED, of Hay, apologise to Wil-
. Ham Thomas Hills, of the same place, for tho
unwarrantable assault committed upon him by mo
on the evening of the 3rd ultimo, which assault
arose through the receipt by me of certain verbal
and written communications which I now believe
to be false and without foundation. I authorise
Mr. Hills or his solicitors to publish this apology
in the following newspapers :—“ Town and Coun-
try,” 44 Evening 1 Newp,” and 4< Bulletin,” Sydney ;
“The Riverine Grazier,” “Hay Standard,” Hay;
and “ Bulletin,” Melbourne, f will also pay the
charges in the action now pending in the Supreme
Court between himself and me, and I sincerely
regret the mental suffering and serious damage
to the character and position of Mr. Hills which
have been the result of my rash conduct.
Hay, 14th May, 1884. WiLLIAM REED.
$
■I
11
it
ii
as
allt
// '
M
IPI
: .1
r '4
> h
Y////
y
> -' .m- i
c.
r=33V-
. HUT & CO.’S Isw Wins aii Stint Stas ani Cellars,
CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
Airents tor—
Messrs. TRUMAN, HANBUKY, BUXTON & CO.,
Brewers, Durton-on-Trent;
„ JOHN ROBERTSON & SONS,
Dundee ;
Messrs A. C. MEUKOW & CO ,
E, & J. Bu RKE ■)
“ljjgbt Epai Kiing
Cosmac ;
TrtDf A e:
Messrs. MUNZER & SPANN, , .
Bordeaux, < iarets.
The Due da Montebello Champagne, S/Ay, France.
The Cnarei.to \ meyard Proprietors, Charente.
London Agents:
Messrs. Arthur Allt & Co., Wormwood Chamoe.s
, Wormwood-street, E.C.
" THE POOR PLAYER
[ Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession. |
Emelie Melville’s “Carmen” is drawing
crowded houses at the Bijou, in Melbourne. The
cast includes Grade Flaistead, Eva Davenport,
Blanche Leopold, Charles Harding, Edward Farley,
Franeis, Johnston, Benham, Deveraux, and Scott.
....The “Fun on the Bristol” combination will
visit Geelong, Sandhurst, and Ballarat before com-
ing to Sydney.... Miss Eloise J uno tried to organise
a company for a country tour down in Melbourne
the other day, but gave the venture up, it is said,
owing to a scarcity of professionals. Oh, Lud!....
Johnnie Gilmore and Dave Gardiner’s Easton
Minstrels are touring through Viotoria.... Johnnie
Hall is doing a season of comedy in Hobart aDd
other Tasmanian towns ...Mr. Cunard, wh® a
while ago used to allow Col. Ike Austin to shoot
apples off his head, will manage the De Gray Com-
bination, now in Adelaide, throughout Australia.
.. .Jennie Lee has finished a season of Jo atth.«
Opera House... The Blue Beard Combination, whictt
ran Teddy Haygarth into the ground, are going
to Geelong “ to reimburse Mr. Jackson for losses
sustained,” &c. &c. The company includes Jennie
Nye, Tilly Lake, Julia Featherstone, Walter
Medus, the Mathews Family, Ike Austin, etal
Florence Slater and Mr. Van Ghele have left the
Dunning Opera Company,now in New Zealand....
At a recent cricket matoh in New Zealand, Mr.
Ford, of the Williamson Opera Oompany, ran up
a total of 101. They are thinking of sending him
home to strengthen the Australian Eleven... Mr.
Luscombe Searelle’s new comic opera Estrella,
was highly spoken of by the Birmingham press on
its first presentation in that city. Mr. Searelle
will be remembered by Sydney play-goers as the
Boy I’ianist. He has written some first-rate music,
and we are pleased with the succesof his new ven-
ture... The Montague-Turncr Company began a
four nights’ season of song at Albury on the 21st
instant. Billy Green—beg pardon-Signor Gulli-
elmo Verdi, 'he Baltimore boy, is with them....
The Northern Mirror, a Queensland paper, is
about to fail. It may have gone to the wall
already, for aught we know. The signs of the
times, a few days ago, wtre \ regnant with evil, at
any rate. The Liliputiaus withdrew their adver-
tisement and complimentary ticket because the
editor slated the entertainment. Of course, this is
enough to kill any paper. The withdrawal of the
advertisement didn’t amount to much, but the
withdrawal of the complimentary ticket was
simply ruinous. This will no doubt cause the
Mirror to reflect.. ..While the Majeronis were
playing “ Fedora,” up in Brisbane, not long ago,
the solemn scene came on, and the give-you-the-
mumps doctor strode slowly up and declared:
“ Nothing can save her now,” when a shrill voice
from the “gods” squealed out: “’Old up er ead,
young man, an’ give ’er a dose o’ St. Jacob s lie.
That’ll fetch a kick out o’ a'.bloomin’ mummy.
The Majeronis are now playing their repertoire,
with the exception of "Fedora,” in Melbourne....
Miss Jeffreys-Lewis played “ Fedora ” at the
Theatre Royal, Melbourne, on Saturday evening,
“Fun on the Bristol” having been withdrawn,
after a very surceißfulrun.. .Miss Geaevieve Ward
is still at the Princtss, Melbourne, playiDg “The
Queen’s Favourite ” to crowded houses. Miss
Ward intends to visit Sydney ere long, and harrow
up our marrow with “ Lady Macbeth ” and” Queen
Catherine.”—
O Geneveive! sweet Genevieve!
The years but make thee dearer far;
Our hearts shall never, never rove—
Thou art our own dramatiostar.
—Shakespoke.
The Helen Vivian Dramatic Company have
been playing at Garner’s Theatre, Adelaide, in
“Neck for Neck,” “East Lynne.” “Lady Audley’s
Secret,” “ The Marble Heart,” &c. &c. Marie
Wilton, lately with the Cottan and South Com-
bination at the Academy, is with the Vivians, and
Adelaide Punch feeds taffy both to her and Ada
Grantleigh.... Miss Marie de Gray has been starring
it at the Royal, Adelaide, in “ The Unequal
Match.’ ’ More caromels from Punch .... Chiarini’s
Circus is doing B.A , and the benighted inhabitants
of that grain-growing colony are enabled to behold,
for the first time, a real lion and alive Italian in
the same combination Mathews’ World Circus
was at Hamilton (Vic.) on the 15th inst., scooping
up the Colonial Roberts... .The Merry Marionettes
have been doing Newcastle, to the delight of the
coal-heavers of that classic port.... Mr. Musgrove,
of the opera troupe now singing through New
Zealand, horse-whipped a young bank clerk in
Wellington, the other day, for rending an indecent
letter to one of the ladies of the troupe. At least
that is the way a local paper puts it, while a corres-
pondent writes us that the clerk had the best of
the encounter. However, Mr. Musgrove deserves
credit for his gallantry, and if the youfig puppy
wasn’t thrashed he should have been....At the
Queens Theatre, in Dublin, several years ago,
occurred a dramatic hitch. A very portly
Mephistopheles in some "Faust” extravaganza
had to “go home.” The dramatic devil was, like
Hamlet, “fat and scant of breath,” and as he sank
through a small circular trap—a soft of “con-
verted vampire,” to be technical—he stuck. The
demons below tugged at his crimson jegs in vain:
the mortals above tried to stuff him down ; all
useless. And then, over the delightful Dublin din
that rose from the whole house, came a still small
voice, “ Well, noys, that’s a comfort, anyway—
hell's fullV Then they dropped the curtain
Sims Reeves is going to America, and from thenc*,
via San Francisco, to Australia. In a recent inter-
view, published in the Paul Mall Gazette, Mr.
Reeves complained of the “ decadence in musical
art,” and declared that the world is over-run by
that pest, the amateur Grattan Riggs’ oom-
pany are.expected in Sydney the presont week. ..
Hart’s Happy Hours Combination was in the city
this week. The Combination opens at Dempsey,
and will travel through the Macleay River district.


The Autophone!
The oriental gold company
have been appointed Australian Agents for
this the Climax of Musical Invention. Cill and
see them.
George Street,
Just Opposite the Entrance to tho Markets.
Tho Autophono is a wonderful little instrument,
which, while it weighs less then three pounds, has
tho lungs of a full-sized parlour organ, and exe-
cutes its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect.
It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three keys, and
all the parts of most difficult music.
On it a child can correctly play, without instruc-
tion, any of i f s music, which at present consists of
over 300 selections from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas,
Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, Popular Songs, &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, in which chords predominate, but also
has wonderful power in executing veiy lively
pieces.
Price, 30s.
NEW MUSIC NOW ARRIVED.
WHERE DO YOU PURCHASE YOUR
JEWELLERY ?
Why, from the O It I KKTAL <»0 1,8 COMPANY
of course, where they have the Most Fashionable
Articles at a fraction of the price of those made
from the sterling metal. So good is the imitation,
that none but an expert can detect the difference.
See our List of Prices, as follows, and note that
ANY ARTICLE WILL BE SENT POST FREE,
AND AT OUK ROK:-
Gent's Oriental Gold AlnskaDiamond Rings, 7s. fid
each
Gent's richly-chased, engraved, and plain Solitaire
end Link Suites. 7s (id., Bs. fid , lCs , and J2s. fid
per set
Same as above, only Half Suites. 35., 4s, ss. per set
Very latest A merle in patent-spring Solitaire
Suites. 1()3. per f et
Gent s Oriental Gold Alberts, (is. fill, and 103. each
Gent 's handsome Scarf Pins, 3s. fid., 55., fis., 7s. fid.,
fs , and 10s. each
Gent's elegant Seals, real stones, 7s. fid , Bs., and 10s.
rach
Gent s elegant Compasses, latest designs, Bs., 10s.
end 123 fid. i aili
Gent's very Lite at American 18-carat rolled Gold
Albeits (made specially to our order), 17s. fid.,
20s . 25 3. 275. fid , and 30s. each
• holee Rrooqh and Earrings Suites, from 10s. to 355.
Richly-chased & engraved Bracelets, 12s. fid. to 30s,
Elegant Brooches, beautiful patterns, ss. to 255.
Ladies’ handsomo Oriental Gold Alberts, 7s. fid.,
Bs. fid , 10s.
Ladies’ handsomo Oriental Gold Alberts, with
double slides aDdtassells, 155., 20s, and 255. each
Handsome .jewelled Earrings, fij., 7s. fid., Bs. fid.,
and 10s. pair; Ladies’ choice Necklets, from
12s. fid. to 305.; I.a lios’ elegant Bangles, 7s. to
15s. pair; Ladies’ handsome Cloak Clasps,
15s. to 355.; Ladies' very best American 18 carat
rolled gold Chatalaines, 305.; Ladies’ choioo
Lockets and Necklets, 20s. to 405.: Handsomo
Gem Rings, 7s. fid., Bs. fid., 10s., 15?., and 20s.
No. 1.
Gent.’s Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £i 4 fi
No. 2.
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £2 10 0
No. 3.
Ladies' Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
handsome Oriental Gold double Albert
with slides and tasseils £2 17 fi
No. 4.
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £32fi
fST" These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
No. 5.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully Jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert .. £4 10 0
No. fi.
D;tto Ditto, extra jewelled, and compen-
sation balance, with Oriental Gold
Alb-rt £5 5 0
No. 7.
Rotheram's celebrated English Patent
Leven . .. ... .. .. .. £4 10 0
No. 8.
Ditto Ditto, compensation balance .. £5 5 0
-Wo. 9
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in bunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert.. .. .. .. £3 3 0
No. 10.
Ditto Ditto, compensation balance, with
Oriental Gold Albert £4 15
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance i« forwarded with each watch.
No. 11.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph,
with Oriental Gold Albert £5 5 0
No. 12.
Ditto, eitra jewelled, of the highest
grade £3 6 6
No. 13.
Ditto, in hunting eases, compensated and
full jewelled, Avith Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £lO 10 0
Wo import our Watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of alt. the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
givo as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches Avould not
cost less than £8 to £lO.
We want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY PO!?T, ON APPROVAL.
Specially Observe.—lf the articles do not
answer expectation on receipt, re-pack them at
once and send them back. If this is dohe Avithin
tAvo davs, or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and wo will return the
money for the articles not kept. Every watch
sold by us avill be rated and accompanied by a
written warrantry for two years. Remittances to
I bo roaio payable to the Oriental Gold Company.
[ 474 George-st., Sydney, op. Markets
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—“lmpulse” p. 8
Gaiety Theatre—“The Woman in White ” ib.
Opera House—" The Strategist ” ib.
Academy or Music—Federal Minstrels ib.
LOVE DELUDED-LOVE DENUDED.
I once did iove a maiden
Who in tbe ballet shone;
I loved her very dearly—
Loved this maiden all alone.
She seemed so plump and pretty
As she danced about the ?tage,
My eyes Avere fairly dazzled—
-1 Avished myself a page,
That I might have her near me
Each evening at the play.
This pleasure Avas denied me,
Still I could not go away.
I sought the Prompter shortly,
And told him of my love,
And asked an introduction
To the darling little doA’e.
“ The room where she is dressing,”
He said, “is over there:
Go tap the door quite gently,
And tell her who you are.
“ She’s not a skittish creature,
She’ll meet you with a smile;
She’s kind to cruel critics,
Although they treat her vile.”
I walked up then quite boldly,
The door was open wide;—
But who in thunder was it
I saw then just inside ?
An ancient dame, I vowed me,
Who forty ne’er will see!
The Prompter whispered softly,
“ That, gentle sir, is she.”
Her teeth lay on the table,
As likewise did her hair,
And beside them lay the padding
Which had made her limbs so fair.
I stood there half-bewildered
As this scene I gazed upon;
And when she had dismantled—
But before that I was gone.
** m *
At last the Theatre Royal crowd have
taken pity on us. Our soul had nearly gone out
to solace itself with a tankard of heer and a few
biscuits, when a messenger came rushing in to tell
us that “ The Silver King,” about which Ave had
been writing ourselves dry, was to be withdrawn
on Wednesday night, and “Impulse” put on
instead. You have heard of “Impulse?” Of
course, for it had a run of 70 nights in Melbourne,
and of about 700 in London. We don’t build much
on its London reputation, but any play that can
attract phlegmatic Melbourne for 70 nights must
be a Avonder. And, come to think of it, we wonder
why it has come here to stay only three weeks.
Evidently, the management, finding that they
have the public by the ear, as it Avere, have deter-
mined to briDg out some new novelties. In fact,
we know they have. We just said new novelties.
Perhaps you think that all novelties are new, and
that, therefore, the adjective is superfluous. You
are mistaken. We have seen some old novelties.
On the end of our noso is one, for instance. In
shape it is something like a wart, but in size and
colour it resembles a Queensland onion. Every
body who sees us, sees it, and they all agree that it
is a novelty. Now, we have carried that bunion—
or whatever you like to call it—around Avith us for
thirty years, and it has been a novelty all that
time. One day a man struck us right on that
wart. Since that time we have tied a blue ribbon
around it, to signify that we have “sworn off”
sticking our nose into other people’s business.
But to the play.
• • *
If we were to tell you that “a large and
fashionable audience gathered,” &c. &c., you would
at once conclude that we had been reading the
daily papers. We don’t mind telling you the same
thing, only in a different way. It was fashionable,
of course, for we were there, and the gentlemen in
the dress-circle went out between tbe acts. That
is the proper test as to fashionableness. And it
Avas large, too. At least, its feet and ears were
large. We sat behind one Jewish nymph in the
dress-circle, whose ears avo had to pin together
behind her head before we could see anything on
the stage. At this stage of the proceedings
there was a protest on the part of the
nymph. She said we were hiding her pretty
waterfall; but that wasn’t our fault. She had no
business bringing her Tea-fight ears out on an
opening night, when fashion takes the lead, and
scandal, for the time, is banished to the Sewing
Societies of the Church Militant. But to the play.
We are always wandering away from the subject
and getting people by the ears. “ Impulse,” was
written by Mr. B. C. Stephenson, and is founded
on the novel “La Maison du Mari.” It is a story
of love and jealousy, villainy and ruin, repentance
and forgiveness, and all the other 97 articles of the
creed-dramatic. The victim is a young and pretty
Mrs. Macdonald (Miss Annie Mayor) whose hus-
band, Colonel Macdonald (Mr. Herbert Flemming),
has left his home in England to fight for his coun-
try in the war in South Africa. During his three
years’ absence a former lover of Mrs. Macdonald
appears on the scene, and feeds her on caromels
brewed in the moonlight, and kissed into shape by
the fairies. This villain’s name is Victor de Beil
(Mr. Philip Day), and so well does he im-
prove his time, that he finally persuades the
victim of his malaria to elope with him to bask
for ever in the sunshine of his love and sip nectar
from the honeysuckle of his devotion. A mutual
friend, Captain Crichton (Mr. Titheradge), gets
wind of the affair, and prevents the elopement,
but the Colonel finds out about it, and for the rest
of the evening there is more misery in the atmos-
phere than would furnish forty funerals with
tears and crape and tapers. At last the Colonel
forgives the erring woman, who, after all, was
only weak, not wicked; and the whole thing winds
up like an eight-day clock with a seven-bell chime
attachment.
* * *
We don’tknow what these actors wouldn’t
do if we were not continually coaching them.
Now, there’s Mr. Titheradge. He is a fine actor,
but he doesn’t knoAV how to take off a pair of
gloves. Fancy an English gentleman, such as
Captain Crichton is represented to be, tugging
away at the finger-ends of his kids when taking
them off. This not only stretches the fingers,
but it otherwise destroys the shape «nd fit of
the glove. Anyway, it is not chic. He should
catch the gloAe by the back, at the wrist,
and gently peel it off, turning it inside out.
Then for a little “stage trick,” just to have
something to do, he might spend a moment or two
in gracefully turning it back into shape again.
He would probably have to use his teeth to perform
this trick at first, but that would only lend an
added charm. We [don’t know the reason for it,
but, somehow or other, the “make-up” of the
English country gentleman is never considered
complete unless he is carrying the stock of his
dog-whip. In parlour-scenes, in bar-rooms, every-
'vhere you find him (on the stage), he is accom-
panied by this suggestion of the chase. Think of
a gentleman making IOA e to a pretty, high-born,
and accomplished lady with dog-skin gloves in
one hand and a dog-whip in the other. It may
seem right to some people, but not to us. The
only English gentleman we ever knew who did it
was our friend the Duke of Devonshire, and he
was eccentric. We remonstrated Avith him about
ff. and after that Ave’re not going to let Mr. Tither-
adge escape unnoticed.
* • •
We had grown so used to seeing Mr
Titheradge as the Sih'er King that when he came
°n in different make-up, as Captain Crichton, avo
didn’t know him from a basket of sour apples.
Even after looking over the programme, we could
hardly believe it was he, until Ave caught some of
the familiar tones that he tried so well to conceal.
And then there was Philip Day, who made every-
body laugh and cry alternately as Jaikes. Those
who s iw him in that part would never imagine
that he would ever be cast for a young French-
man, and a villain to boot. But that just
shows what a good actor is capable of in
the matter of versatility. If Philip can make
loA r e like that on the stage, great Cmsar 1 what
couldn't he do off it, if he got right doAvn to
business in dead earnest. But we wanted to brain
him with asoup-ladle Wednesday nightforgetting
Annie Mayor into all that trouble.
* * *
And tbis reminds us that Annie got a very
flattering reception on her re-appearance on the
stage after her sickness and subsequent experi-
ence with the buck-jumper. The audience
Avouldn’t let her begin for fully a minute, and the
little lady took her honours so modestly that one
could hardly keep his hands still. She didn’t come
to the foot-lights and bow, and smile and smirk,
like most actresses do on similar occasions. She
just stood quietly by the table where she to
begin her lines and bowed slightly a time or two,
until the artist seemed lost in the lady. We
wouldn’t say this about Miss Mayor, only she
kindly fell off a horse last week to give us a par.
Maggie Moore, as Mrs. Beresford was just in her
element. One of the morning papers said she was
too "slangy.” We don’t think so. We think
she was too too. The only thing we wondered
at was that a pretty and dashing young Avidow like
her could fall in love with such a milk and Avater
gosling as CbrichtoD. One time he was milk and
the other time Avater, but all the while there was a
flavour of goose about him. But there’s no ac-
counting for taste, as the old woman said when
she kissed the cow ; and, anyAvay, tastes differ.
Perhaps the coav didn’t like it a bit. Oh, yes; and
Miss Annie Taylor got a “reception.” We don’t
exactly know who gaA T e it to her, but she got it.
She was cast as Miss Kilmore, an old maid who
looked as though she could Kilmore men at one
glance than a barrel of New Zealand tanglefoot.
We told you last week that Lance Lenton,
who plays Francois in “ Impulse,” was a walking
encyclopedia on every subject, from a modern
saveloy to an Egyptian mummy; and we told you,
tco, that Lance was an authority to whom his
brother actors ahvays appealed to settle disputes
as to pronunciation of Avoids, &c. At first the
good-natured fellow was obliging, for the truth is
he knoAvs more about such matters than almost
any actor out of gaol. But you know what jokers
these theatricals are. Now, they get up' all sorts
of disputes about simple words, and to
FIRST DUDE : “Arthur, did you see anything of my other cuff?”
S ECOND: “No, I haven’t seen it.”
F IRST: “ Oh, upon my word, you’ve got it on your neck,”
Lance for his verdict. Lance “ tumbled ” at
last, and now he tells them to drink less
whisky and buy a pronouncing dictionary.
♦ * *
Mr. Redwood’s Sir Harry Auckland was a
good piece of acting, and we felt sorry for him
when he was laid up, after being thrown from his
horse, and had to endure the advances of the
ancient and loquacious Miss Kilmore. But he
shouldn’t use the expression “ man and wife.” He
should say “husband and wife.” The law can’t
make any couple “man and wife,” for the simple
reason that the man has already been made by a
higher power. We ll allow him to speak of “ a man
and his wife,” but [What the dickens has that
to do with the play ? Suppose you go to the Min-
strels and get in a good humour again.—Ed. B.
•* * #
Presto! And at the Minstrels we are.
About the first thing that strikes one on taking a
seat amongst the orchestra chairs at the Academy,
is the number of stylish-looking people who crowd
in and take seats around him. Nigger shows have
not been considered fashionable in metropolitan
cities in years agone, and they are never likely to
become “dress” entertainments until the present
style of waist has gone out of fashion. Whenever
a woman “dresses” for anythi• g, she always ties
one corset-string to the bid-post, and passes the
other to her husband, with instructions to pull.
The poor devil pulls until his hands are creased
and cut; his breath grows shorter and shorter, and
great beads of perspiration ooze out of his fore-
head and roll down his cheeks. The result is that
the woman with a 33-inch waist appears at the
opera or play with a 20-inch waist, and she looks
like a fairy from the pumpkin patch of a Gipps-
land squatter. If the woman be single, she has to
work in conjunction with the bed-post herself,
and the way she turns and twists and surges and
heaves on that line to draw it tighter, can only be
imagined by us—for we have never actually seen
anything of the kind. About the time she gets
up to the fourteenth eyelet, we should be inclined
to yell “Fire! Fire! Fire!” just to see what
would happen. [Are you perfectly certain that
two strings are used in the operation of which
you speak ? Evidently you are too young and in-
experienced for the deep-sea trade. Suppose you
wade out now and get into shoal water.—Ed. B.j
• * *
[Don’t interrupt please. We’ve got a tight
grip on an idea, and mean to drag it forth by the
hair, if need be—Dram-on-tick Beporter] We
have come to the conclusion that tight lacing is to
blame for Minstrel entertainments not being
fashionable. We took a girl to see a nigger show
in a country town one night. It was in the halcyon
days of long ago, when love’s young dream was
rampant in our brea?t. and ice-cream was only a
shilling a plate with two spoons. She was a gentle
creature of exquisite mould. Her golden riDglets
clustered about her alabaster forehead like tangled
sunbeams on the brow of MorniDg, and her waist
resembled the Siamese-coupling that binds the
business end of a wasp to the rest of its anatomy.
She had been doing the bed-post act, but we didn’t
know it. Presently the curtain went up, and
Billy Emerson began cracking jokes. Of course,
everybody around roared with laughter. But our
girl sat there as mute and motionless as a boiled
lobster. We thought she had made up her mind
to be cross, or sensible, or something, and so said
nothing. But presently Billy brought out a joke
about a hen that laid an egg in a preacher’s hat.
The middle man couldn’t guess who the preacher
was; and then Billy asked him, “ Why shouldn't a
Hen re-Ward BeechGr ?” This was too much for
our girl. At first a sickly kind of smile began
to gather at the corners of her mouth. Thin
it spread all over her face, and got amongst
the roots of her hair. The hair began to pull. At
any rate, she turned pale and rolled off the chair.
As she struck the floor, there was a report like the
crack of a toy pistol. In a moment we were
bending over her, calling her “Angel” and one
thing or other, and telling the people around that
sho had burst a blood-vessel. After two or three
gasps and a long breath, she hissed in our esr:
“Shut up, you fool! My corset string’s busted.”
When she finally regained her seat, she began to
expand, and the first thing any of us knew, the
man on either end of the row was crowded off and
rolled in the aisle. Since that time, we have never
taken a girl to the Minstrels in full dress. It’s
worse than cruelty to make a girl laugh when she
don’t feel like it, or can’t, or something.
i« i •
"But we were going to tell you what a lot
of fun we had at the Federals. When we went to
the Academy we were feeling quite “ blue ” and
played out, like a bag of indigo after a hard day’s
washing. The fact is, we had been telling the
truth for three quarters of an hour, and that
always fatigues us. We had been telling a man
about—but no matter. We’il be able to sell the
crop before the mortgage becomes due, and we’ll
be out of the country. We saw Sam Keenan smile
again, and his mouth made us think of the door of
a blast furnace. We don’t think there is another
such mouth this side of the line. If we had to lead
an army to attack, we should cortainly want Sam
to go in front. We have an ’dea that his mouth
would catch the enemies’ bullets, and save our
command from decimation and death. When we
had scaled the ramparts and demolished the city,
we should drive the prisoners down Sam’s throat,
like one grand procession of Stewart Island
oysters, put a stone on his head to keep his teeth
together, and march back to the barracks for a
new sword and a pair of higljer-grade epaulettes.
Alf. Moynham is still gyrating about the stage as a
Girard. Alf. is so slippery and unreliable-like,
that we have a suspicion that he must have come
in contact with some of the statements we made
when a boy, concerning our mother's pastry.
* * *
Carroll, tbe double-voiced vocalist, who
has two throats and a patent, duplex uvula, con-
tinues to warble nightly for the edification of the
public. Carroll's female voice—the one be eats
lollies and spanks the baby with—could be heard to
better advantage if Mons. La Feuillade, who leads
the orchestra, were to muiHe bisflddlea little occa-
sionally. We like to hear this gentleman’s fiddle
sometimes, but, when a specialist like Carroll is on,
we would rather hear the specialist, if it's nil the
same to the leader. Carroll's male threat—the one
he drinks beer and plays poker wilh—has been in
excellent fettle for the past week or two. In re-
sponse to an encore, he sang a baritone solo that
made us look at him twice to see what kind of a
left-handed contradiction ho was anyway. Lou
Braham sang “ Hark the Drum,” the other night,
and we’ve heard thetrealof marching feet ever
since. Strange to say,, they sounded like our
landlady's feel, and she’s the most formidable
enemy we have to deal with. Beaumont
Bead sang “The Dying Scout,” a composition of
his own, that took us away over on the Fellow-
stone Hiver,where we used to be a “ Tender-foot,”
and where we found out the difference between a
Jack Babbit and a Bocky Mountain mule. We
couldn’t catch the rabbit because its tail was too
short, and we hadn’t nny salt, but we did catch the
mule. When we struck ground again, it was 300
miles further South and in another territory. If
Mr. Bead would bring out that word “ Sioux ” a
little plainer, the audience might have a better
understanding of his song. The Sioux arc a bad
lot, and the only wonder is that Beaumont got
away with a fertile scalp on his head after fighting
under Custer in the land of quart/, and cactus.
Since Beaumont seems.to know all about it, he
should tell the world who it was that killed General
Custer. Was it Sitting Bull, Death Face, or Crow-
foot ? The universe pauses for an answer. In the
meantime, there will be a change of programme
at the Academy on Saturday night, and Fred His-
cocks’ smiling countenance will continue to loom
up like a young moon in a fog.
** * *
“ The Woman in White.” That is the
name of the piece brought out by Wybert Beeve
at the Gaiety last Saturday night. Of late years
there has been a great rage for bizarre names for
new books and plays and things. And this re-
minds us of the wag who went into a bookseller’s
establishment, and enquired of the bashful-look-
ing young man behind the counter: “ Have you
‘The Woman in White?'” “Yes, sir.” “‘All
Alone?’” "Certainly." “‘ln the Dark“Of
For continuation of “ Sundry Shows," see page 13.


PEPPER AND SALT.
HIS DORG.
“ I oan show to any proper person that I
have in my possession a dog from the kennel and
strain of a British peer of the realm.”— Rev. Ross,
of Queanbeyan.
A splendid theme to sling Sladenie verse on;
This dog for doggrel uses we’ll usurp,
And speculate upon the “ proper person ”
To interview the Rev. Ross’s “ purp.”
He sang a carol wild and sweet of metre,
Who told the world the tale of “Injebjorg;”
But we’re about to tip you something sweeter.
Anent the Revd. Ross’s high-toned “ dorg ”
[Not if we have any authority in this office, you’re
not. This poem must now cease. We consider the
ways of the clergy sufficiently thorny already,
without having the blue metal of such verse as
this strewn over them. Besides, you don’t know
how the Hhuse of Lords might take it.— Ed. B.]
(Base, mercenary slave, what care we for such as
theyl We who soar to the Infinite, and dive to
the Profound-who sing, that men may hear the
organ voice of genius, and he lifted up and glori-
Resisting a Bailiff? Not at all. This is a Meeting of the Presbyterian Synod of Eastern Australia.
tled 1 There isn’t hall’-a-orown in that lot, anyhow!
Give us another show.— Poet B.) [Right y’aro,
but he careful.—Ed. B.]
Who can be qualified to view this canine,
Whom none hut “proper persons” may oome
near;
Whose veins, we are acquainted, have a strain in
Of the same iiuid as a British peer ?
Who may behold this dog that far surpasses
All others ? To whose hearts would seem most
dear
A Lord's worst mongrel ? Ha 1 we have it L Assez!
Three bob will have to square you up to here.—
Ed. B.]
* * m
What the Melbourne papers call “a most
distressing aocident” was brought about in this
wise:—“The footways on the Victoria Bridge are
in a very dangerous state. On Saturday evening a
young woman was crossing, when her leg went
through to the knee. A crowbar had to be used
before she was extricated.” Wo remember a
somewhat similar accident which occurred in Lon-
don. A young lady was standing up in a cab one
day, when the 'loor gave way, and ao feer locomo-
tive apparitqp, which was of tho riOSt* i'yminetri-
oal kind JeS'Cible, struck the g the horse
bolted, and before he was hauled up, something
like 10,000 persons enjoyed the cheap opera bouffe
display provided. Amongst the audience was an
exceedingly wealthy old hanker, and so captivated
was he by the show that he subsequently made the
lady's acquaintance, married her, and shortly
afterwards shot himself and left his wife a colossal
fortune. Why he suicided, however, no one can
tell, because neither sawdust nor pads were in use
in those days. Possibly he died through excessive
joy, or, having lived with an angel on earth, per-
haps he had a morbid desire to see for himself how
much better off he would he in heaven.
* * *
Last Monday morn, just as the sonorous
hoofs of the impatient steeds in Phoebu,’ glittering
car were thundering onwards through the cerulean
skies, and waiters were chasing the jumpers out of
bar-luncheon cheese with big sticks, a bald-headed
‘ but otherwise respectably attired, old man stood
at the foot of citizen Davenport’s stairs, and began
to straighten his vest and pucker his inouth before
he trooped upwards on his mission of love and
lucre. He was about 53 years and 11 months old,
but the rich, rosy glow of health shone brightly on
his cheeks, bis eyes sparkled like two bullet holes
in a stump, anda whiff of his breath would forcibly
remind one of the odour caused by attompting to
quench a rag-mill fire with Cooktosvn rum and
tan-pit soup. He had a quantity of foolscap
paper under one arm and a large picture
of Adam and Eve before the Fall under
the other. Hastily repeating a short prayer, he
placed a chew of tin-tag on the window-sill, and
ascended. What transpired during the brief inter-
val that followed will never he known; but two
seconds after he reached the landing, the old
party came down those stairs head first, carefully
rapping each step with his spine as he passed, and
then, a tangled mass of humanity, foolscap, and
our giddy first parents shot out in the street and
pulled up with a rousing thud against the opposite
wall. Half-a-dozen terror - stricken hy-stan«iers
instantly rushed to his aid, propped him up on a
tin can, and breathlessly asked if he was much
hurt. But the old man smiled, as he picked the
mud out of his oars, and softly said, “ Oh Lor, no!
I’m used to coinin' down stairs like that. Y’ see
I’m the party that travels round, requestin’ people
to donate something for the benefit of tho Fire
Brigades,” Then the disgusted spectators sat on
tho old fish’d hat, and began to c?v "Ch round for
qqggf t«? -svick to pelt at hi ti-
We have just been favoured by the acting
manager, Mr. Pemberton Graball, with the pro-
spectus of a new venture, called the Human En-
joyment Monopoly Company (Limited), which is
about to be floated in this city, on a purely exclu-
sive, philantroplcal basis. From the sheet before
us we find that Ministers of the Crown, members
of both Houses, clergymen of all denominations,
Civic officials, Civil servants, and, in fact, the bulk
of our principal leading citizens, are all interested
in the new company, and as a natural sequence it
is bound to “take well.” Whether it will “give
pleasure to all,” is however, a matter of some
doubt. The Human Enjoyment Monopoly Com-
pany is formed on five fundamental principles,
and these principles are:—l. The general public be
d—d. 2. Tax everybody and everything outside
of this society. 3. Grab everything; raise the
price of all necessaries, and lower the price of all
luxuries. 4. Lower all wages, and tax poverty. 5.
Secure all the land at the very lowest price, and
force the general public to buy it at the highest.
Motto on all public offices, &c.: “the general pub-
lic be d d.” Insertion of the same to be made on
the Australian shield, in place of “ Advance Aus-
tralia.” Rules, rates, &c., of the Human Enjoy-
ment Monopoly Company:—Beef Is. per lb., al-
ways ; other butcher’s wares in proportion.
Bread Is. per loaf. Tobacco 2s. 6d. per lb.
Fares on railways, trams, &c., to be doubled every
month. Labourers' wages, 3a. a day, with down-
ward tendency. Minimum house rent, 30s. a week.
For privilege of sending children to school, £1 per
head per month. For not sending them, same
price. Down with the poor man 1 For attending
church on the Sawbath Day, 10s. For not attend-
ing, £l. For the privilege of voting, 10s. For not
voting, fine of £5. Taxes : Water rate, Is. per
gallon; gas, 30s. per 1000 feet; air for breathing, 6d.
per cubic foot; sunshine, from 2s. to 1 guinea per
day, according to quality aDd graduation of tem-
perature. The general public to be d—d if they
conform to the above, and to be d d woree if
they don’t. Pemberton Grabadb, Acting-
Manager.”
• • •
This is what Alfred the Modest remarked
in a recent Nooze : “ For such an impoi taut finan-
cial crisis as a bank stoppage, there is compara-
tively little excitement in Sydney. This is doubtless
evn'mned by the fact that the public was prepared
for the contingency by the news wtaieh was pufi.
li?hed In our columns on Saturday afternoon, after
the banks had closed.” And in all probability, this
is the style of par. he’ll sling at some future date-
“ For such an important, and totally unexpected
crisis as the day of judgment to take place, and
yet occasion comparatively little or no excitement
in this world, is a matter for sincere congratula-
tion. The total absence of any unseemly bustle
and confusion, is explained by the fact that at the
first toot of Gabriel’s trombone on Saturday latt
a special edition of the Evening News was
priated, drawing attention to the fact that the
judging would take place at 9 a.m. on the following
Sunday. Full report of the proceedings will be
given in our third edition to-night, and a list of all
the prize-takers will be published in a supplemen-
tary form to-morrow. Our special Commissioner
h*»d a brief interview with Gabriel, who declared
that a great deal of the success of the monster
meeting was due to'he spirited enterprise of the
proprietors of the Evening News. Racy sketches
taken on the scot by our special artist will appear
in this week's Town and Country Journal
which has now a circulation of 250,000 millions
Agent for the same in the Great Unknown iAind-'
Mr. George Washington Ananias, Rue de Ola
Nicholas, Hades.” a
At a recent “ crowner’s quest,” held way
up in a Bulioo River township, an axe-handle, »
pick, a slip-rail, a razor, and a shot gun were
trotted out as “the instruments with which the
deed was done.” It was also shown that the
deceased defended himself for a considerable time
with a revolver, a spade, a pitchfork, two chhel*>
a handsaw, and a sheep dog. The jury brought to
a verdict of justifiable homicide against some
person unknown, and added a rider to the effect
that they'd have willingly given a pound a pieo*
to have seen the fight. A few days after the
inquest, the body of the “person unknown” was
discovered in a big lagoon, whilst the heal, which
looked as if it had been hauled off by a team of
bullocks, was found stuck on top of a telegraph
pole, where it had evidently been placed by either
the subject of the coroner's inquiry or the sheep
dog. We need scarcely add the occurrence casta
a gloom over the whole district, because, up North,
the people would their chance of the
“golden crown” than that of a good, fair, an
square stand up tussle. What makes the matter
all the more distressing is the fact that both men
were natives of the district, and yet they went n to
and thirty miles away, just to keep the fun w
themselves,


A member of the Melbourne Presbytery
stated, at their last meeting, “It was well known
that that assembly had been, during the last few
years, systematically ..maligned :” But that’s quite
a mistake, you know.—
Now and then, there’s no doubt, certain sinners
have laughed
At the Assembly has done —
Cut jokes at the snarls of the elders, and chaffed
(For elders are rather “ good fun ”).
People may have made comments that seemed
rather rough,
But (so it appears to our mind)
This sweeping assertion is simply all “stuff
The Presbyters con’t be maligned.
* * *
So Tamworth is not allowed to pray nor
return thanks. The sack and ashes business is at a
stand-still, and the collection-box leans dismally
against the altar, undusted and unrattled. And
all through the dilatoriness of the Government,
and the perverseness of the laws of nature, which
appear to regard Tamworth no more than if it did
not contain ten righteous persons who need not
repentance, and two editors who are past it.
The rain actually came before they had time to
get up on the Mounds, sit down in a row, tuck the
sacking in around so as to beep out ants, and call
on brother Rainmaker to inform the Almighty
that in the opinion of Tamworth there was just
such a thing as overdoing this drought business*
and to hurry up a bit with the moisture 1 How-
ever, the thanksgiving service needn’t stop. Let
“When Greek Meets Greek.”
(Then, be Jabers, it’s an illigant rucktion.)
another meeting be called, and some such resolu-
tion as this passed;—“We, the residents of Tam-
worth, having expended a considerable sum in
preparation for a day of humiliation so as to get
rain, and the said rain having fallen without our
asking, desire to express our extreme satisfaction
at the prompt manner in which our wishes have
been anticipated.”—To the Disposer of All Things.
The Meteorological Department Upstairs will ap-
preciate their sort of thanksgiving and wait next
time and do things according to custom.
* * *
The Melbourne journalists will have to
moderate their intense desire for sensational items
or get armour-plated. Last week a Herald man
went nosing around the Melbourne hospital, in
search of information, if not in want of merri-
ment, and his enquiries were pushed to such an
extent that the old Cerberus who does the “ques-
tions answered ” business in the vestibule of the
institution, began to lose patience, and mildly,
though firmly, hinted that the itemiser had been
“ where the corn was gently waving.” Of course
he didn’t use such a delicately-worded but
with characteristic bluntness, blurted out, “Oh,
you’re drunk.” Whereupon the ink-slinger waxed
wroth, and lifting his gingham on high, smote the
official right on the shoulder. Then the hospital
man took up his part of the contract, and a few
minutes later, when the scribe found himself
on the kerbing in Lonsdale-street with a peal of
joy-bells ringing in his left ear, and the roofing of
his pants sadly disarranged, JiO thought that he
must have unwittingly vent range of
the business end of a mule, when trade was boom-
ing. And now when the Herald “ rounds ” man
is “ down ” for the hospital, he gets his informa-
tion through the telephone at the city lock-up; and
instead of treating old Cerberus with that haughty
style peculiar to the cultured itemisers of the
Melbourne Press, the “ rounds” men are particu-
larly civil to the imitator of J. L. O’Sullivan.
* * *
He heard some of the youngsters say
they’d take a rise out cf him. It was at a lawyer’s
club, and getting on towards three in the morniag,
when men begin to arrange for the necessary lie
to tell at home. The air was redolent of tobacco
smoke and honesty. The old Judge had overdone
it, and was seated at a table with his head sagging
on one side talking to himself, under the impres-
sion that he was delivering judgment, and at the
same time winning for his grey hairs the respect
due from the club. “Yes,” he mumbled, trying
to light a cigar with a penknife, “ I’ve delivered
some judgments in my time, believe me. I’ve
sentenced more men to death than any man
since poor Jefferies’ time. That was the man,
gentlemen, but harsh—harsh.” They all drew
round to listen. “ This case has come be-
fore me to decide on the two points of
the criminality of the original malfeasance
in procuring this consignment of merchan-
dise, and in the second place the necessity for
further enquiry into the subsequent disposal of
the goods. Now, of the fact of the original ille-
gality, it appeal's to me that the evidence is con-
clusive, being borne out, as it is, not only by
direct testimony in court, but by a consensus of
public opinion, That this case should now b® re-
ferred to me, after the lapse of seventy years, is
nothing to the point. The deed was common talk
when I was a mere child, and why it has not been
decided before passes my comprehension.” “ What
is before the court?” putin one joker, winking to
the rest. “ The fact being decided,” mumbled the
Judge, “we pass on to the second poiDt: where are
those goods ? In looking over these brief notes,’’
he continued, scrawling down some words on the
club paper, “ I find that the evidence is merely in-
terrogative. It is not a question of fact—it is a
question of the existence and present custody of
the goods. Where are they ? That these goods
should mysteriously disappear, and that the
question still continues to be asked after so
many points to some nefarious transac-
tion. The goods are not of a perishable
re. and not of large bulk. Taking, there-
foiv, everything into consideration, thas my
judgshmin, gen’lmen,” pushing the paper across
the table.” “ But what was the case; who was in
it? ” The Judge only leaned forward and went to
sleep, and then the boys crowded round the paper,
and stared at one another. “Had, by thunder!’>
they gasped, and as they moved dejectedly to.
wards the door, the old Judge lifted up bis head
quietly, and said, “you thought you had the old
man, did you?” He had written out the legal
questions involved in the case of Peter Piper, de-
ceased.
BRIEF MENTION.
The “ final heat.” H—ades.
A bee one likes to grasp: Ru-by
A “ very nice point” : Kissing Point.
A cold “draught.” One on the Oriental.
Very “tall talk”: The “Giraffe” on the
“ spout.”
“Life is short.” Yes, and most livesprove
their owners a shingle short.
Some men are always “on the bust,” but
most women have “the bust” on themselves.
A smart insolvent the other day pleaded
not guilty to a suspicion of fraud, on the ground
that he “never wilfully contracted debts,” adding
with a wink, “I’ve done my level best instead
always to enlarge them.”
Thus runs a recent Nooze: —“ Laughter is
day, and sobriety is night.” Now we know why
the Nooze has such a slim gas bill. There’s an
average of twelve hours daylight up there to
every six hours of darkness.
A ohild died at Bellambi owing to having
eaten a toad. As it is not known that the flesh of
the toad is peculiarly indigestible it is conjectured
that the toad must have previously swallowed a
scrap of a S. M. Herald’s land-question leader*
carelessly left on the edge of the swamp by a pie-
nicker.
Advau.ce Australia! backwards. Last
Saturday week, at 10.30 a.m„ a wire was sent to
the Bank of N.S. Wales, Cooma, and arrived safelv
at the same hour on the following Monday. There’s
only one thing faster than the electric fluid now,
and that’s a o.ie-horse hoarse loaded up with a
stock of pauper corpses.
“ Dimycratic” philosophy is tolerably well
exemplified in a clip from a delegate’s letter, which
says: “At present, Sydney sosiety is kumposed ov
2 klarses. Those who hev heaps ov appertite, but
no dinnur, an’ those who hev heaps ov dinuur, but
no appertite.” Our suggestion is to let both
“klarses” box together, divide their stock-in-
trade, and then go share and share alike.
We have to acknowledge the receipt of a
new song—“ Let me flog him for his Father,” by
the author of “ Let me kiss him for his Mother.”
The melody-an exceedingly lively little strain—is
written in B sharp, the accompaniment is well-
scored, and a striking effect is produced by a tri-
angle obligato, which runs all through the piece.
It is dedicated to Sir Alfred Stephen, and has been
suDg with marked success ft the Darlinghurst
Academy.
The schoolmaster is evidently on the
“Jamberoo” once more. Not long ago a neat,
but not over gaudy, nest of drawers was made for
the Telegraph Department in order to allow the
clerks to leave their tools and love-letters, and
tailor’s bills and tobacco in safety during their
absence. And on top of the structure whs written
the following notice“ All clerks requiring draws
can have the same by applying to tho manager.”
2do applications were sent in next day from clerks
who urgently required “draws”—op their next
month’c
Way up in a township on the Bulloo (Q'
a solemn procession of one might have been seen
recently, wending its sorrowful way to the race-
course. Closer examination showed it to be a
funeral. The solitary mourner was dressed in a
black suit of clothes, and was apparently in no
laughing humour as he trudged along. On ii
quiry, it was found that he happened to be the
sergeant of polioe, and the party in the coffin was
a black gin, who had been administering to his
wants in the way of cooking, &e. Burial took
place In the proclaimed cemetery. To finish off the
romance, the “gin” ought to “jump up white
woman,” marry the sergeant, and both live long
aud prosper.
“ASgles,” of the Australasian, mado,
what we presume he meant t .* h*- a little fun about
the “ sauce ” (as he insinrn ted it to be) of a domes-
tic servant who re«ented her employer's not pre-
fixing “Miss” to her nanv. when writing to her.
Granted that the sdrl was silly, what is to be said
of the lack of courtesy on the “ lady’s ” part ? For,
essuredly, it was a lack of courtesy to refuse the
prefix that conventionalism accords t => all respect-
able spinste'B T tie Mrs Blank who by “ Angles’”
account, acted it this uni dy-like way, would
doubtless resent as an unpar lonabie rudness, the
fact of any one venturing to address one of her
daughters without the conventional prefix. Ser-
vantgalism has its weak points, yet rarely are
these so prorvmce in the direction of downright
vulgarity as the airs of would-be flue-ladyism.
It is strange, But true, that even at this
enlightened date many persons are to be found
who look upon the arrival of a telegram with
pretty much the same state of feeling as they
would upon the visit of an undertaker, or a bad
attack of the typhoid fever. A few days ago, a
Surry Hills womavi received a “wire” from the
city, and her face turned pea-green, and her whole
frame quivered, as she handed the unopened en-
velope to her eldest daughter, and exclaimed,
| “Penelope Ann, read that, for I cannot. Some-
thing dreadful is about to happen to us.” Pene-
lope Ann obeyed, and read "Your husband has
just been knocked down by a tram, and bis leg has
been amputated.” “Thank Heaven it is no
worse,” exclaimed the mother, joyfully; “do you
know, dear, I was afraid he might be going to
bring somebody home to dinner,”
What draws better in a country town than
a circus? Nothing; not even an oveiproof mus-
tard poultice or a Salvation Army wedding. And,
talking of circuses, reminds us that when old
Ashton, the father of the Australian “ Hoop-la ”
shivoos, was playing in the Bathurst market pad-
dock one night, the tent was blown down by a
squall, and about twenty persons were injured.
Twelve-years after this collapse, the venerable
knight of the sawdust and spangles visited the
town once more with his show, and advertised that
he would issue free tickets during his stay to all
those persons who were injured during his pre-
vious spell in town; but, alas for the merciless
ravages of time, before whose destroying breath
both prince and pauper wither and passaway, only
317 of the original twenty injured were able to roil
up and apply for the complimentary pasteboards.
Here’s a yarn from down South, and,
strange to say, it is neither a “ snaik ” yarn nor a
Salvai ion Army anecdote, but a real, genuine,
honest fact. A certain Church of England clergy-
man and his very much better three quarters were
recently travelling along in a buggy, when the
horse commenced to tear down a steep hill at a
pace that threatened to land the let on the Golden
Shoah, and the aggravated lady called out “ For
Heaven’s sake, hold in there; if that breechin’
breaks w«’ll crack our for certain.” To
which.the trusting little divine replied : “Fear
not, my dear, th? Luoard is in the breechin’,
watching over all." “That might be,” returned
the loving wife, “but Ho doesn’t know that a
blasted fool has hold of the reins, who doesn’t
know enough about drivin’ a horse to wad a gun
with.” But they reached home safely, thanks to
*»*»or?d breechin’.


course.” “Well, then, all I’ve got to say is, young-
man, you’ve got a mighty nice thing of it.” We
are not partial to women in white, that we know
of, but we wanted to see how Wybert Reeve
would play Count Fosco. Can he play it ? Yes,
he can; and we don’t believe there is a man on
earth who can play it better. We are not in the
habit of bestowing fulsome praise on anybody.
In fact, we never bestow anything more kindly
than a smile of anticipation upon the wine when
it stirreth itself with a little sugar in the cup.
Count Fosco, however, is a wonderful creation.
He is a sort of cross between Margrave in Bul-
wer’s “ Strange Story,” and Arbaces in “The Last
Days of Pompeii.” To sustain such a character,
on the basis of an intelligent conception from
first to last, requires peculiar and exceptional
ability, of which Mr. Reeve seems full to the
eyebrows. Since his return from England,
we have seen him play Maddox Dyson in
“Passion,” and EricThoradyke in “The rquire.”
In both of these pieces, we felt a longing to
“slate” him, because he can’t play either role to
the satisfaction of anybody but himself, and we’re
not sure that he satisfies himself even. Surrounded
by the right kind of support, we venture to assert
that Mr. Wybert Reeve could travel anywhere and
make money as Count Fosco; but, as Erie Thorn-
dyke or Maddox Dyson, the chances are he never
would get further than Woolloomooloo, unless the
walking was particularly good and the night clear
and cool. Supported as it should be (but it is not
so supported), Mr. Reeve’s Count Fosco would
come pretty close to taking rank with Emmet’s
Fritz and Jefferson’s Rip Van Winkle. And what
is the matter with the support ? We’ll tell you.
• i i
In the first place, there is Sir Percival Clyde
(Mr. James Carden). We would like to say some-
thing mean about Carden’s Sir Percival if we could,
because he set the Bruising Editor on to us the
other day for repeating a yarn about him of things
that never happened; but we can afford to wait
until we get him in some other role that he can’t
play. As Sir Percival, he is more of an artist and
less of a Carden than in anything we have vet seen
him do. And the beauty of it is that he looks the
downright, high-tempered villian his lines declare
him to be. On the street and amongst his friends,
James is as gentle as the clove-scented zephyr
which the man who sits behind us brings in
regularly at the close of each interval. But as
Sir Percival, he is as fierce and threatening as a
hungry mosquito on the ear of an elephant. And
we like Maggie Knight’s double of Laura Fairlie
and Ann Catherick. But we have praised Maggie
so much lately that she is getting proud. At any
rate, she appeared to be on her French heels on
Saturday night. She was called before the curtain
three or four times, and each time she came out
she looked madder than the first. Now we come
to think of it, there might have been some method
in her madness. You see, Ann Catherick is a crazy
woman, who bears a close resemblancellto Laura
Fairlie. Ann goes about in a costume that looks
like a night-shirt bound at the waist by a girdle of
white stuff with a French name that we forgot to
learn years ago when our best girl was a milliner.
It was always after the crazy scenes that Maggie
was called out, and perhaps that’s what gave her
the needle. After all, it isn’t every girl who cares
to appear before the curtain in undress uniform
with dark lines under her eyes to make her look
weird and witch-like. We’ll wager an Oriental
bank-note against the last overcoat we had stolen
that if Maggie had been called out in the pretty
costume she wore as Laura Fairlie, she would have
smiled like a basket of chips in front of a fire-
place. No. It was not because we had made
Maggie proud, It was because her clothes didn’t
fit her, and the people liked her best in her mo-
ments of lunacy. That’s enough to make any girl
want to pull hsir and make insinuations.
• • •
Miss Marston Leigh as Marion Haloombe,
seemed to have lost her rudder, and was clear out
of her {reckoning. As the Gipsy in “The Squire,”
Miss Leigh was a success, but as the friend and
guardian of the gentle Laura she was clearly out
of it. Somehow she couldn’t shake off the gipsy
influence contracted in the last piece, and you
couldn’t shake off the notion that she was still a
gipsy and had stolen Miss Fairlie to send her out
begging scones and stealing pullets and potatoes.
Her voice was harsh and her manner a little stiff
and cramped, as though she had left it out on the
line all night with a south wind blowing. We say
this with feelings of the utmost kindness. We are
always kind to the poor; and, as Miss Halcombe,
the Lord knows, if He ever drops into the Gaiety
on his grand rounds, Miss Leigh is poor enough to
delight the heart of any philanthropic critic South
of tne line. Strangely, however, Miss Leigh is at
her best in the most difficult of all the scenes in
which she appears, that is, the one in the Lunatic
Asylum where she discovers in the living Ann the
dead Laura. Throughout this scene she rises to
the dignity of a true artiste and you feel inclined
to forgive her for the stiff neck you caught while
watching her frozen interpretation of what should
have been some of the warmest and most attrac-
tive lines in the piece.
• • •
We don’t like to be hard on a man who
tries to do the best he can, and for that reason we
are going to let Mr. Appleton down on a feather.
We sat close up in front Saturday night, and are
sure that Mr. Appleton was straining every nerve
to play his part. At least he was straining about
something, and we suppose it was the part. He
must be awfully tired when he gets through play-
ing, for such a continuous tax is enough to give a
black gin the rheumatism or the lock-jaw. If Mr.
Appleton keens on improving for the next four or
five years, we’ll allow him to read something from
the New Testament at an amateur entertainment
that we are arranging to give as a benefit to our-
selves. As soon as we have elevated the stage—
“risen ” it, as it were—to the place where we think
it belongs, we arc going to retire from business,
and let some other sweet-tempered, patient soul
take up the lines where we have dropped them.
It is when this time arrives that we intend to let
Mr. Appleton appear at our benefit. Until that
time we shall keep a watchful eye over him, point-
ing out his shortcomings in ail gentleness as we
are doing now, and paralysing him with praise
when we think he deserves it. Now, isn't that
kind of us?
* • •
Pasca, the Italian refugee (Mr. D’Arey
Stanfield), was made-up for Jagon in “The Strang-
lers of Paris.” He might have played the part
worse, but we don’t think of anything just now
that would have helped him in that direction. His
Pasca is certainly an improvement on the part he
played in “The Squire,” but there is more in the
part, and about the same old thing in D’Arcy.
Mr. C, Graham, as The Man from the Lunatic Asy-
lum, nearly forgot his lines. Evidently he is a
young amateur of great promise and feet, etc.,
and we’ll have to let him alone until he does some-
thing to distinguish himself from other amateurs
of about his own size and importance. As Mrs.
Catherick, Miss Ethel Adele was quiet, dignified,
and matronly. She was just the kind of woman
you always find coupled with the clerk of the
parish. The character calls for a rare little bit o f
acting, and Mies Adele showed herself worthy of a
good, fair slice of the pastry. Miss Bessie Palmer's
Madame Fosco fairly won the “bon-bon, my
angel,” with which the Count occasionally pre-
sented her.
* * *
On Saturday night, the 24th instant, “ The
Money Spinner ” will be substituted for “ The
Woman in White.” Those who miss seeing Mr.
Reeve in his great impersonation of Count Fosco,
will lose an opportunity of witnessing some of the
best and truest acting ever seen on the Australian
stagf, and it is only to be expected that the Gaiety
will be crowded on the last nights of “The Woman
in White.”
** * »
Fooled again. “ Eastward Ho!” contrary
to our expectations and greatly to the disappoint-
ment of a lot of people, who read our last week s
notice of the piece and wanted to see it, was taken
off on Saturday night, and “ An Arabian Night
put on instead. We don’t know why any writer
should wfhit to “slate” so good a piece r.s “ East-
We observe that J. Henmcker Heaton,
Esq., is selected as the Tory candidate for Canter-
bury This makes us wonder how much it may
cost a low-born and democratic colonist to get
elected as a Tory member in England. We mean,
of course, how much he’d have to sacrifice, besides
his self-respect. It would come easier, of course,
If a man had no self-respect-and no money.
A Mayor out West lately informed a not
very classical alderman that, as regarded a certain
hobby of his about which he was eternally worry-
ing the Council, he had no locus standi. Then
arose the bucolic but unclassical civic, and with a
very red phiz, said: “I don’t know naught about
the locusts, but I’ll just tell ye I stand as high as ye
or anybody in this here Council, Mister Mayor.”
And then a reporter, who had been lately reading
up stock Latin phrases, was carried out in a fit.
Mr. Daniel O’Connor’s speech has opened
the question of ancestry. The only lasting peer-
age is a peerage of worth. Bangled showiness and
blatant frothiness is the peerage of politicians-a
stagey, tinselled imitation of barbaric pearl and
gold, a brawling mpe trying to be Massaniello. But
the true peerage is not understood of politicians,
for, as Emerson says, *• politicians can be had for
any opinion.” Of the genealogy, however, of most
politicians, if we are to judge of them by their
works, it is quite true that they have only to be
traced far enough back, and they’d reach one
general sire, who could a tail unfold.
The Alfred says, with reference to Dibbs’s
visits of inspection to the dens of the lower-class
Chinese:—“ There are plenty ways of obtaining
whatever information is requisite on certain sub-
jects without personal inspection of an official
'character by members of the Cabinet.” The organ
of the third party must be very hard up for a pou
Bto whereupon to erect a battery against the
Treasurer, when It makes one of the best things
he has yet done during his ministerial career an
ass’s reason for launching out at him with its hind
legs. Personal inspection of an official character
by members of the Cabinet is just what is wanted
of Ministers on a great variety of subjects, you
brilliant Alfred.
Wrong again. Mr. Wright, as usual A
few days ago the Minister for Works confidently
told the picked deputation from Forbes that the
sum of £750 was now available for the construc-
tion of a long-premised and much needed weir.
Then the deputation trotted home rejoicing,
triumphal arches were erected, banners bearing
the words “ Weir happy now ” floated from every
roof, and the flour, and poultry, and whisky doings
at night have never been equalled since Balthazar
“ gif a barty.” Now, however, the Engineer-in-
chief bobs serenely up and declares that the sum
in question w»s written off the estimates some
years ago, and the people of Forbes are therefore
clamouring for the Engineer’s head on a soup-
plate. “Are you there, More-ri-ar-arty ? ”
This is the style in which a Cabbage Garden
censor touches Muster Stooat on the raw: —“ Like
Bottom, the weaver, the New South Wales Pre-
mier has a perfect command over his vocal organ.
Back him up by a strong majority, and he will
roar at you so that it will do any man’s heart
good to hear him; but ask him to lead a forlorn
hope, md he will aggravate his voice so, that he
will roar you as gently as any sucking dove.”
That’s one of the foulest libels we have ever read.
There is not a particle of resemblance between
the Athenian amateur tragedian and our own
Alexander—in fact, if the whole of the Stuart
party were lumped together, it would be found
they have no more bottom in the aggregate than a
soda-water bottle has. Both bottom and back-
bone are of the slimmest kind imaginable.
Scene: Police-court, down South. P.M.:
“William Waxwarmur, you are charged with
dancing on your wife, and caving in her osfrontis
with the leg of a chair. How do you plead?”
Prisoner : “ Guilty, yer Wusship; but th’ provoca-
tion she gave me was maddening, i-he forced me
to go to church that Sunday, and for two solid
hours 1 had to sit in agony and listen to the squall-
ing of the infernal choir up stairs.” P.M.: “Was
it the choir of St Blanklbus’ you heard ?” Prisoner:
“It was, sir.” P.M. (savagely): “ Case dismissed—
I’ve been there myself. Such provocation would
justify wilful murder ; and, look here, prosecu-
trix, if you’re ever brought here before me again
I’ll give you 10 years in Berrima gaol.” A most
worthy Judge, indeed. Many of our metropolitan
choirs are murder inciters also.
This is deliciously simple, and we venture
to think goes far to account for the lacteal fluid
found in this and several other regal cocoa-nuts.
On the first page of a Weekly Irish Times ap-
pears the following par.: “ Wednesday .-The Prince
of Wales was unable to attend yesterday’s meet-
ing of the Royal Commission on the Housing of
the Poor, but all the other members were present,
and the examination of witnesses in private was
proceeded with.” And then we turn over to the
second page, and read: “ Thursday.—The Prince
of Wales arrived at Liverpool last evening to at-
tend the race for the Grand National. He is the
guest of Lord Sefton, at Croxteth Hall.” Just so.
Patronising the poor is all very well in its way,
when there’s nothing better to do; but when a new
ballet, a horse-race, or a cock-light is on, it’s a
case of “the poor be , I’m busy.”
Persons who have thrown their Oriental
notes down the dust-bin would do well to pick
them up again and turn them over. Many enter-
prising people have a mania for getting cheap ad-
vertisements by means of stamping their names
and business arrangements on the back of their
bank-notes These ingenious gentlemen will be
delighted to hear that by so doing they not only
commit an offence known to law, but actually put
themselves in the position of being endorsers of
the notes so marked, and, in case of a bank failure,
are bound to cash them when required. . This
shows that although the mill of the gods grinds
slowly, still it grinds sure and fine, and some of
those spirited smarties who best the poor printer
by the means above stated may find themselves in
the unenviable position of the squatter who lost a
200-guinea merino ram for the sake of a ha’-p’orth
of tar.
Alderman Little, of Alexandria, charged
Aldermau Lees that he had frequently seen mm
climbing a fence on Sundays, and he insinuated
that bis object in taking that Sabbatic exercise,
was beer. Well, how would Alderman Little do
it ? Would he rip out a paling, or drop his little
bov over and hand him the jug, or would he keep
a standing prescription from a friendly medico,
and rush frantically to the side door, brandish the
dog-latin scrawl, follow the landlord into the bar,
and just have a couple or three and not speak too
loud ? But there are many reasons why a man
might climb a hotel fence on Sunday. Vanity
might prompt him to show his agility, for there are
always spectators. Or a man might wish to leave
a tract in the kitchen, as the ungodly landlord
uses them only for pipe-lights. Or he might be
going in to dissuade people from Sunday drinking.
Let us be charitable: all these things are possible
—over the garden wall.
Minister Trickett must be Janus-faced, if
Granny and the Rum were both correct in their
inferences from his physiognomical expression
after his recent visit to the Kindergarten school.
For instance,
Granny says
“ This brought the in-
spection to a close, and
the Minister left appa-
rently not favourably
impressed by what he
had seen.”
The Rum says
“Mr. Triekett, who
was favourably im-
pressed with the ability
and enthusiasm with
which Mrs. Crowley per-
formed her duties, ex-
pected to find It a purely
Kindergarten school,
and was surprised to find
that, in two instances,
this was not the case, the
public school system be-
ing mixed up with the
Kindergarten.”
The children at the Kindergarten school repeat
the prayers that are taught them w'th closed ems
which (lotting alone the question whether prayers
should be taught in secular schools) is in direct
contravention of the command, Watch and
pray.”
at
It was the first night of “ Impulse,” and
lady, who, at one portion of her life had expert*
enced some of the heroine’s ups and downs, se-
cured a nice cozy seat in the sixth row of the
stalls, and settled herself for a real night’s enjoy-
ment. Presently a stout middle-aged man, wear-
ing enough shirt-front to print the Shroud od,
and a nose that looked like a piece of raw liver
stretched across a tailor's thimble, trooped in, and
sat beside her. Just as the orchestra had worried
the overture, Mr. Allshirt went out, carefully
crushing the lady's favourite corn as he passed.
Five minutes later he returned, and the odours of
Jamaica (rum) and Araby spices filled the air.
THE SITUATION ON THE NEPEAN.
As we go to press to-day we received the above sketch, by telegraph, from our
representative, who is on the spot. We confess its meaning seems somewhat obscure,
but it is doubtless meant to convey our representative’s opinion, that the ways of boat-
ing men are “crooked”—an opinion to which the Editor in no way stands committed.
Five times during the hour was this performance
repeated, and as he left on his sixth excursion the
lady drew her toes from under his heel, and said
in her sweetest tones, “ I trust, sir. I do not incon-
venience you by keeping my seat. He never re-
turned.
Next to the .Police Magistrate, the Sir
Oracle of the majority of our little country towns
is the Bank manager, and on these two the morals
of their district depend. It is, therefore, pleasing
to find that the doctrines of Brother Booth have
caught on to the financial magnate of a certain
thriving little town ever so far away from Houla-
han’s Creek. A few days ago, a most respectable
POUND,
In Bink’s back yard this morning, a dog. Prominent features, with a settled ex-
pression of yearning upon them; also, a rudimentary tail. The owner is requested to
come and raise the siege and ask no questions.
man built a first-class hotel up there, and applied
for the usual license. This was strenuously op-
posed by the teetotal Banker, who not only lodged
a protest, but, for the benefit of the Bench, en-
closed a few reams of what he termed “certified
Judge’s notes,” to prove a refusal was justifiable.
A few days after this the Oriental smashed, and
the would-be publican’s daughter skipped round
to bank some bullion, when the abstemious Banker
called out: “ Here! what notes are those ?” “ Oh,
they must be correct, sir,” replied the sarcastic
maid, “ because they are neither Oriental nor cer-
tified Judgi’s notes.” Mr. Manager waß sorry then
that he had gpoken, for tbo bank whs crowded, and
“ certified Judge’s ” is now the watchword of that
township.
Premier Stuart wouldn’t agree to Service’s
suggestion to summon the committee appointed
by the recent Convention, with a view of a joint
protest against French recidiviste proposals. He
thinks that a remonstrance going from each colony,
nearly simultaneously, is more likely to impress
the British Secretary of State, than a joint remon-
strance. No doubt his view of the matter is a
more common-sensical one than Service’s; yet the
better course would be, while leaving France to
mind her business, to mind our own in New South
Wales by making legislative provision to reduce
to a minimum the chances of escaped French reci-
divistes coming into contact with our lower social
strata.
The Haulan-Laycock boat race will doubt-
less attract many thousands of visitors to the fair
waters of the Nepean. The course has been care-
fully prepared and marked out, and every effort
made to enable the two champions to meet on as
equal a footing as possible Admirers of Laycock
profess to believe that, despite his recent mishap,
he will be able to show the Canadian the wav to
the winning post; whilst, on the other hand, those
who have seen and marvelled at the aquatic
powers of Hanlan, are ready to “back their bot-
tom dollar” on the vis l tor. However, our motto
i«, “Let the best man win,” and we shall be as
pleased to congratulate Haulan as Laycock on his
victory. Whatever may be the result, we trust
that the Hite of Potts Point, Darling Point, North
Shore, and Sydney generally, will grace the event
with their presence. We know they will, if thev
can; and a lady’s wish is, of course, a command,
especially as we have heard hints as to certain
ravishirur toilettes in course of preparation, which
must have caused many a visit to Anthony
H orpern’s.*


Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry,*
ard Ho!” But, then, there are critics and critics,
and one is thankful that he hasn't got the same
iind of dyspepsia as the other. This reminds us
fhat when wo landed in Australia, all we had in
the world was a yellow dog and the dyspepsia,
we’ve never been able quite to make out where
that dog went to. Otherwise we have held our
own in the great struggle for existence.
* * *
If “An Arabian Night” was not written
hv Mr. Polk, it has, at least, his brand all over
•y it certainly is one of the pieces in which
nAth he and his accomplished wife appear to
their best advantage. We gave an outline
]vf the plot a couple of issues back, and, there-
fore will not need to repeat. Mr. Polk as
Alexander Spinkle is so excruciatingly funny
that one wonders what it is he eats or drinks to make
him bubble up and run over that way. Mrs. Polls,
foo as Rose Maybloom, the bare-back rider, is so
toll v and otf-handed that you feel like starting off
a. randy butcher with the first circus that comes
iinng We don’t believe that she ever rode in a
c reus, but if you were to see her slap her skirt,
and sav “ hoop-la,” you would imagine that all
she needed was a canvas tent, a calcium light, and
a centrepole to be a full-grown overland show.
This is a Rose that we hope Maybloom on forever;
and even after the
shores to wander up»and down to shall
»* thelr
pet comedienne.
We should have told you_in
that the Polks are now Playmg their e . r deparfcure
gagemeut in Australia, prim
for America. As we said we snouia navo
this lathe beginningo • iwe the la9fc time
Polks, but for the public o“™?lves• f“„ in
•matter said when lmj’sS ? t'h«lp e i't' I "’B™r since
all, and the te ws “ unbidden start, as it were.
• • *
D’Orsay Ogden’s Uncle Major is * h ®
thing we have seen him do. We < 3 l h r „ sultan in
Major in “The Strategist,” and as the Suit™ m
“Eastward Ho!” he gave us the B° ut > as
Uncle Major, a good old soul to confide in, feel
that he is entitled to a fair portion of the plum
duff. Mr. Boothman as Herbert Rembrandt, looked
the picture of an artist and an enthusiast. The
only thing we wonder at is that Mr. Spinkle didn’t
break his neck for him, upon finding out that he
had followed Mrs. Spinkle (Miss Ruth Gray), 950
miles across the continent of America for the pur-
pose of adding her portrait to the galaxy of
beauty he was painting, to represent the Madonnas
of the Arabian knights.
• • •
As r a mother-in-law, Mrs. Weebles (Mrs.
Bryer) shall always have our undivided and un-
diminished admiration She is just our ideal, and
if we ever get one like her, we shall fill her false
teeth with dynamite, and then give her a stick of
horebound candy to chew on. About the first bite
she took the top of her head would go through
the roof, and then we should pay the funeral ex-
penses with Oriental bank-notes and a go-as-you-
please smile of forty laps to the minute. When
Mrs. Weebles finally discovers that her festive son-
in-law has been flirting with a pretty girl over the
way, she hops around like a hen on a hot griddle,
and rr akes her true motherly-in-law influence felt
in the family circle. We used to wonder what on
earth a mother-in-law wasigood for, and we used to
give it up. We don’t give it up anymore. We
know now. A mother-in-law is good for nothing,
if you ask us when the old lady’s back is turned.
It isn’t every man who would be so frank as we
are: but then our mother-in-law isn’t ripe yet, and
we haven’t picked her. When we have picked
her, we shall shave our head and talk respectful
like.
e • *
Mr. R. Stewart, junr.’s, representation of
the servant. John, Is as true a piece of acting as
one could wish to see. The part doesn Vmount
to much, but Mr. Stewart plays it so well mat you
involuntarily want to tip him each time he comes
on. He looks like a step-cousin of the fellow who
used to dish up fried fish to us at the Koyal Mail
Hotel, in Auckland, when we were over there one
time in advance of a circus. We were about three
months in advance of the circus, if we remember
rightly, and had to get a further advance on our
jewellery before we eould get out of the country.
Since that time we have never worn jewellery.
We have had diamond rings and gold watches and
things offered to us by the cart-load, and we man t
take them. All we had to do was to buy a shilling
ticket, but we had the moral courage to refuse.
The blank countenance that the man behind the
counter put on when we refused, only strength-
[ ened us in our determination not to run tne
risk of drawing a prize.
During the week, the Polks are presenting
‘The Strategist” for Tuesday, Wednesday, and
Thursday evenings. On Friday evening, Mrs.
Polk takes a complimentary benefit, when An
American ” will be introduced for the first time
this season. Mr. Polk announces that before
leaving for America he will present “ Sam 1 o
Posen,” “The Banker’s Daughter,” and other
comedies. “The Banker’s Daughter” is the one
we’re waiting for. When she is presented, we In-
tend to lock arms and take a tour around the
world.
Now that we are jumping ourselves to
death to find work for the unemployed, the fol-
lowing Idea chips in nice and timely. Not long
ago, the London Daily Telegraph contained an
advertisement offering employment as “Peram-
bulating signs” to twenty baldheaded men willing
to have the words “ Hoge's Horehound Honey
burnt in or stamped on the backs of their heads.
No less than two hundred clean old men presented
themselves next day for the coveted billets, and it
was then explained that the twenty selected were
expected to be “ content to be branded with the
brand of Hoge, and thus go about for the term of
their natural lives printed witnesses to another
man’s wares, and and all for the trivial stipend of
253 a week.” The spirit of the gallant two hun-
dred assembled was willing enough, but it appears
their skulls were not un to the required standard,
for the qualification was such absolute baldness
as would make the proclamation stand out on
their billiard-ball polls as promtnonty as a dab or
Nubian blacking on a new-laid egg, or a snub-
nosed man in a hot, theological argument. Later-
accounts, however, inform us that twenty suitable
subjects have been secured, and now the
average church-going Londoner as he prays in
his pew, runs a risk every time he raises his eyes to
heaven and piously asks ‘ Lord, whit mustl do to
be saved ?” of being answerod the of
a galoot in front, which advises him to Try
Hore's Horehound Honey. T ti is not i o n wil hoi
course, be caught on to by the whole of theadver-
tisir g world at large. The man with awel Usly®
neck as big as a fire-bell will have it tastefully
ornamented with solemn appeals to Ask for
Hordern’s Shirts, nnd be sure you get the right
brand the man with the wooden leg will polka
gaily round with his timber stump festooned with
coloured posters advocating the claim of Hop
Bitters;” and so on ad infinitum. Sh .kespeare’s
reference to “ bold advertisement ” was probably
really meant for some such bald device as that
of the- ingenious horehound honey hawker s, and
wo earnestly commend the subject to the careful
consideration of Mr. Stuart. According to Britain s
Bulwark, we will all rise on the last day, and appear
as w« were when in life; and if this is correct, we
predict that the valley of Jehosophat upon that
occasion will present an advertising display that
will make the very angels weep with laughter.
The Senate of the Melbourne University
tried to deal with an inter* sting question at their
meeting on the 6thinsirnt Professor Anderson
moved a resolution to have the papers of candi-
dates at future examinations signed, not by names,
but by numbers assigned by the registrar. They
will amount to an adoption throughout the
academical course of the custom at present
vogue at the matriculation examinations. The
only University that has accepted the scheme is
that of London. Professor Andrew, arguing for
his motion, complained of the mistakes likely to
arise from similarity of names, and referred to a
recent case in which one candidate received notice
of having been plucked, and another of having
passed, whereas it was, in reality, the other way
about. But the main advantage he claimed for
numbers was that examiners feel pained to pluck
any candidate, and that the pain is greatly added
to when, from the signature, they recognise him
to be a painstaking student. That was a delicate
way of putting the point which others put
more tersely, namely, that the judgment of
the examiner is affected by the name of
the examinee. This, after all, however it
may be disguised, is the root from which the de-
sire for change has sprung. Professor Elkington
energetically opposed the motion. He postulates
in the relation between examiner and examinee
a gentleman on each s'de. But he also dreads im-
personation, if the system of numbers be adopted
and in giving, his experience under the Education
Act referred to one enterprising individual, who
had made a good living by going round the exami-
nation rooms for several years filling up papers for
ambitious pedagogues. On the whole, however
the principle of the motion was left practically
untouched by opponents, and when the votes
wee taken. It was understood that numbers would
henceforth take the place of names. This was
found, next day, to be an error. The Warden
published a notice stating that the, votes taken
were not on that question at all, but on a motion
for adjournment, that it was by inadvertence ho
declared the former motion carried, and that so
rapid had been the break-up of the members, that
he had not been able to correct himseif. Yet the
motion has had a trial, and it is likely that at the
next meeting of the Senate it will be carried.
Three Ways of Seeing It.
WHAT OUR ARTIST SAW.
WHAT HE SAW.
Hej ewed Dude: “Egad, there can be no doubt about it. It’s a
genuine mash. I’ll insert a Personal in the Herald to-morrow, by
Jove. Just see’em smile.”
WIIAT TIIE LADIES SAW.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index patted up bv
»«c reUtriee of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .l
RACING.
Bourke... May 32, 33, 34.
Bydney Turf Club May 24.
Newcastle J.C May 24
Queensland Turf Club May 34, 26.
Richmond J.C May 29
Liverpool. May 31.
Mudgee R.C . June 4, 5.
Coolah : June
Coonamble June 18,19.
Clarence River J.C July 9,10.
Rockhampton J.C July 10, It.
Hawkesbury » August 31, 33.
AQUATIC.
Hanlan v. Laycock and others, on the
Nepean May 33
Grafton R.C. Regatta May 24.
ATHLETICS.
Thistle Club Sports, Agricultural Society’s
Grounds May 34.
Boyston College Sports May 21.
Casino £3O Handicap May 24.
Bourke Sheffield Handicap May 26.
Bourke Sheffield Handicap, £3OO May 26.
Queen’s School Bports May 28,
Sydney Grammar School Sports May 31.
CYCLING.
N.S.W. Cyclists Union Association, Cricket
Ground May 24.
THE GUN.
Yass Pigeon Matches May 33, 24
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Mr. W. C. Stafford has been elected hon.
secretary ®f the Double Bay Amateur Sailing:
Club.
H. Hutchens, the English phenomenal
sprinter, has offered to give 10 yards start in 300 to
anyone who cares to meet him.
Old Gold was recently sold for 700 guineas.
Some people seem to think the money was worth
the horse, and that both purchaser and horse were
sold about the same time.
John Largan recently challenged Bubear
for a match over the full Thames course for £lOO
a side. Bubear has refused on the ground that he
is stale, but states his willingness to row in August
or September tor not less than £2OO a side.
On 10th May, six men started for a skiff
handicap on the Clarence, which proved one of
the best-contested races ever seen on the river.
The winner turned up in Martin M’Mabon, who
won by a bare half-length. M’Mahon carried 15ft.
Oxford brought “Our Boys” up with a
round turn, by defeating them with seven wickets
and three runs to spare. A wholesome thrashing
now and then will keep the fourth Australian
eleven up to the mark, and cannot fail to do them
a world of good.
The recent set-to in Melbourne between
Mullens, of Tasmania, and Holbrook, did not come
to a conclusion, the police stopping the battle dur-
ing the fourth round. Holbrook had all the best
of it, so far as it went, and now wants to box any
list, amateur in the country.
The fourth Australian Eleven commenced
their season by defeating the Sheffield eleven, with
an innings to spare. The scores were: Australians,
212—Bannerman 94, M’Donnell 32, Blackham 31,
Giffen 27. Sheffield, first innings, 86-Ulyett 17,
Shrewsbury 39, Barnes 11; second innings, 120—
Barnes 34, Grace 30, Flowers 18.
A few yachtowuers met at North Harbour
on Sunday last, with the object in view of starting
a cruising yacht club, the idea being to purchase
Smith’s cottage at North Harbour as a club house.
Judging from the very limited number who put in
an appearance, the project does not appear to be
in remarkably high favour amongst yachting men.
“ I want to baok the two K.’s for the
Goodwsod and Cup—now, who’ll lay?” yelled a
speculative party at Bowes’ Tattersall's, the night
before the opening race day. “ What d’ye call the
two K.’s?’’ asked another metallician. “Why,
King o’ th’ Vale, an’ Creswick,” replied the first
man, and then he booked 500 to s—just in time to
lose the lot.
In the football field on Saturday, the
Wallaroos defeated King's School, at Parramatta,
by eleven points to four. For the winners, F.
FJigg obtained a couple of tries, Graham and
Oxley a single each, and N. B. Hill kicked a goal:
and for King’s School, Wilkinson kicked a goal
from Field St. Leonards put a very weak team in
the field for their match with the University, and
were defeated by 30 points to nil.
The best time for 10 miles on reoord was
made at the Athletic Club’s meeting at Lillie-
Bridge (Eng.) on April 7 by W. G. George, the well-
known amateur, who covered 10 miles in 61 min. 20
sec. eclipsing all records, even that of the famous
Deerfoot, whose reoord was 51 min. 26 sec.
George’s best time for the distance, up till this
wonderful performance, was 52 min. 56-2-5 sec.,
which was the best amateur record.
Professional pedestrianism has ever had a
bad name in these parts, and it appears to be going
from bad to worse. Amongst the pods, who ran in
the recent Botany Handicap were any number of
aliases, and great would have been the explana-
tions asked for had certain gentlemen carried off
the race. The “ Honesty is the best Policy” dodge
seems completely played out amongst tho peds. t
and the advent of such a runner as “Scone >
Watson may be looked for about once a century.
The nominations for what th© blacks term
the “big drunk,” and the whites the Yass Plains
pigeon matches, have closed very badly—for the
birds—as no less than 79 guns have subscribed for
the Yass Plains Handicap, and 51 for the Champion
Cup. For the Handicap, P. W. Jackson, F. Gannon.
J. Hamilton. F. Weston, H. M. Faithful, W. C.
Hill, and F. M’Evoy are to toe the 30yds. scratch,
and B. Jenkins, last year's winner, has been placed
at 28 yards.
Mr. W. J. Innes, a supporter of profes-
sional sculling in England, has offered to add £25
to a sweepstakes of £5 for a sculling handicap over
the Thames course. Twenty scullers have been
handicapped:—Boss, scratch; Boyd, Bubear, and
Largan, 15 seconds; and the limit man, W. Cobb,
one minute. The race was abandoned, as the
English scullers did not care about tackling Boss
even on those terms. What about the roaring
lion, now ?
The Hay Jockey Club had fine weather for
their annual meet, on Thursday and Friday last.
Course heavy, and attendance light Lucifer
had the devil's own luck, and carried off the
Maiden Plate and District Cup ; Tannapee won
Tattersall's Cup ; Bonnie Bee made a clean sweep
of the «ay J.C. Handicap, Bailway Stakes, and
Oxley Plato: Latitia carriedoff the Selling Hurdle
Bace ; Geroe, the Hay Winter Handicap ; and
Yellow Hammer, the Murrumbidgee Handicap.
At the Canterbury Park Race Club’s third
meeting on Saturday last, the Ashtteld Handicap
fell to Privateer, half a length away from Rata-
plan, Battalions third; Kathleen Mavournwen won
the Selling Race by a neck, Kestral second, Paul
third- Tristan won the Winter Handicap from end
to end, Emilius two lengths away second, Pala-
renda third; Phyllis defeated Friendship by halt a
length for the Cumberland Handicap, Young Aus-
tralian third ; and Briton finished the sport by
winning tho Ladies’ Mile from Waxworks, Pala-
renda third.
Says a Yankee paper:—“Hanlan did not
go to Australia to avoid a race with Teemer, and
the scribe who made the statement is well aware
of that fact. Why don’t Teemer row Conley?
The latter has put up a forfeit of $lOO and issued
a honafide challenge.” And further on—“I have
heard considerable twaddle about Teemer being
able to beat all creation in a shell. Many elaira he
can beat Hanlan, but none of his rich backers, as
they are styled, have the nerve to back him. Why,
Hanlan would not have gone to Australia If
Teemer’s backers had put up their money.”
The light skiff match between Gnlliford
and M‘Clerkin, for £5O. came off on Saturday last,
over the champion course, which was as placid as
the proverbial mill pond. M’Clerkin had the call
in the betting and went away with the lead as if
about to justify the confidence placed in him. The
men rowed very wide of each otter, and when
they closed up at Putney it was seen Gulliford had
a commanding lead, which he maintained with
ease over the remainder of the course. Gulliford
has how been matched against Matters m for a race
in wager boats, champion course, £5O aside, to
eventuate on J une 14.
1. NO ROOM.
Coming events, in the racing world of this
colony, arc casting their shadows before in a style
that is highly satisfactory. From the official
returns, we learn that for the December Stakes,
1884, the list has clos >d with 77 subscribers. For the
Champagne Stakes, 1885, there are 89 subscribers:
Sires’ Produce, 1886, 126 subscribers; Fi'St Foal
Stakes, 1886, 170 subscribers; Second Foal Stakes,
1886,167 subscribers; and, for the St. Leger Stakes,
1886, 84 subscribers. Entries and starters are, how-
ever, two mighty different things. For the St.
Leger of 1884, there were 84 subscribers, but only
two horses, Le Grand and Martini, faced the
starter.
There was big excitement in Adelaide
over the Cup, no less than £6OOO being put in the
totalisator on the event. The starters were Malua,
Conjecture, King of the Yale, Sting, Fryingpan,
Royal Irishman, Little Sister, Nicholas, Coulston,
Claptrap, Creswick, Ned of the Hi Ms, Lord Wilton,
Lancaster, and Country Boy. Conjecture, King of
the Vale, and Creswick led in the order named
up the straight, but Malua “hot out at the distance,
and, well ridden by Iverny—when is a winner not
2. PLENTY OF ROOM.
well ridden ?—dashed by the loaders, and made
rather an easy win by three-quarters of a length
from Conjecture; King of the Yale, a length
away, third.
A New Zealand paper suggests that a tes-
timonial of some sort be raised for R. Whiteside,
the runner and crack footballer, who, it is stated,
intends to reside permanently in Sydney. White-
side was picked with the Auckland contingent of
the team about to visit New South Wales, but
declined unless remunerated. At latest, the team
consisted of Auckland : Webster, Ryan, War-
brick, O Connor, P. Clayton. Wellington : I) ivy,
Dumbell, Campbell, Udy, Roberts. Canterbury :
Helmore, W. V. Miltlon, E. Millton, R. J. Wilson.
Otago : Braddon, Taiaroa, J. Allan, O’Donnell,
Robertson. It was thought probable further
changes would be made before the team left for
Sydney.
When a mining manager sends one of his
men down a thousand-loot shaft in a leaky cage,
or at the butt end of a mouldy rope, and the miner
subsequently slips off and sprains his neck, that
negligent manager has to trot along and tell a
Judge and jury all about it. Something similar
might be worked with profit in the case of trainers
who send their jockeys off on a risky mission,
trusting to good luck and damaged tackle. A few
meetings back, Keighran had to ride two miles of
a steeplechase course on a bursted saddle, and on
Wednesday week, our crack light-weight, Donald
Nicholson, whilst riding Woodstock in the Forced
Handicap, at Maitland, was badly thrown through
one of his girths collapsing. Jockeys like to die in
their beds, just the same as all the rest of us.
Mr. Long’s perverse luck, in England, in
running second with Tonans for both the Cam-
bridgeshire and the Liverpool Autumn Cup, is
made doubly aggravating by the fact that the
horse, after ehangiug hands again, has succeeded
in landing the Lincoln Handicap, the first big
event of the present season. Tonans, however,
had a bit of a throw-in for the event, as Buchanan,
who had done a capital preparation, and was con-
sidered well in it, was. for some reason or other,
scratched at the last minute; and Fulmen, a horse
that had been supported to the extent of some
£6OOO, got “cast” in his box, andinjured himselfso
seriously that it was considered necessary to with-
draw him. By the way, Charlie Wood—whose
license was only renewed after some hesitation oo
the part of the Jockey Club—had the mount on
Tonans.
Malua’s win in the Birthday Cup at Ade-
laide, on Thursday last, was a hard hit for Conjec-
ture’s party—Sir Thomas Elder and friends—but
they are a wealthy crowd, and what would knock
many other turfites clean out in one round, is to
them only a playful tickle. Forcing the running
was evidently too much for the plucky sister of
Guessworks, but she run a game race all through,
and finished a good second. At the last moment.
Cope, the jockey intended at first, was taken off
Conjecture, and the mount given to Filgate’s
light-weight, Master Weazel, so-called on account
of his size. Weazel is 3 feet 10 inches, and turns
the scale at 4st. 111 b. No less than £14,600 found its
way through the “bookmaker’s delight”—the
totalizator—on the Cup day. This looks sick for the
biz of the energetic layers of the “Cup-an-
Durdle.”
Last Saturday afternoon, the final heat of
the Glebe Rowing Club senior fours was rowed,
over a course from Ferry Road Jetty, round buoy
off Young’s Wharf, and back to Club shed, be-
tween the winners of the heats rowed on Thurs-
day last:—Messrs. lokerson and Robertson, and
Cox and Fair weather. The last-named pair got
away with the start, and held it as far as the Glebe
Point wharf, when their opponents commenced to
close up, and before the turning buoy was reaohed
Ikerson and Robertson had obtained pride of place,
which they held on the return trip as far as Jar-
rett’s, at which point they looked winners all over.
After passing Jarrett’s, Cox and Fairweather com-
menced to overhaul their leaders inch by inch;
and the strain made by Ickerson to hold first place
proved too much, as, passing Donnelly’s, he com-
pletely collapsed, and Cox and Fairweather won
one of the best-contested races rowed on John-
ston’s Bay lor a long time past.
Prof. Wm. Miller is on his way to this
country,” says a N.Y. exchange, “to box Sullivan.
After the champion settles him, there are others
who will take the conceit out of the Australian
athlete. Miller did not amount to a row of pins
as a pugilist when he was in this country. He
never beat any of the middle-weights, and Steve
Taylor could always stand him off in a set-to. If
Miller had not beaten Larry Foley—and he was
stale before he met Miller—the latter would have
been buried in obscurity, as far as pugilistic
honours are concerned. If Miller does meet Sul.
livan, the contest will create a sensation—a kind of
a nine-days wonder, and Miller will be either
stopped by a thunderer on Sullivan’s point-the
neck—or knocked out just as easily as Elliott was
at Washington Park, N.Y, July 4, 1883. After
Miller has taken off the gloves with Sullivan
Mitchell will think it preserves to cooper Miller.”
Miller’s accident, however, will compel Sullivan
and Mitchell to bottle up their kind intentions
for some months to come.
The Virginia (U.S.) Chronics savs
John L. Sullivan, the Boston ajsthete, had better
get back to his Athenian School, or he may be
ttken back in a box. Wherever he has been in his
Western tour he has almost invariably exhibited
the brutal side of bis character—being simply the
inside and outside —and insulting decent people by
threatening to ‘slap'em in der jowr,’ or to ‘mop
der floor with ’em/ Some day he will tackle ong
of those inoffensive little fellows so common on
the borders, who are quick on the draw, and who
don’t do their shooting under the Marquis of
Queensberry’s rules. Then Mr. Sullivan’s slog-
ging will be of no more use to him, and 1 e wifi
wish he had cultivated pedestrlanism more ex-
tensively. Should he get knocked out by a pistol-
bullet in the first round, there would be little
mourning outside of his native Boston. The
people are getting disgusted with him.” Another
Yankee paper says it is a toss-up whether whisky
or a revolver-bullet will be the agent to knock
John L. out of time.
Beach’s fresh challenge to row Edward
Hanlan, or any other man in the world, over the
champion course for £2OO or £5OO aside, ought to
bring the Canadian up to the scratch, without he
is content to travel on his reputation and scoop in
the dollars by standing on his head at Manly Beach
rowing exercise pulls on the Nepean, and giving
madly-exciting exhibitions on his rowing machine
over in Melbourne. Should Hanlan leave New
South Wales without meeting our champion, after
the manner in which Beach has badgered him for
a match, he will certainly leave himself open to
the charge—however wrongfully made—that he
much prefers such sport as we stated above, to a
genuine match on our champion course with the
only man in Australia who has anv show of extend-
ing him. When Hanlan left America, just as
Teemer, who is considered next best man to Han-
lan in the States, had challenged him, certain
papers at once ascribed Hanlan’s hasty departure
to the challenge, although it was well known
Teemer did not mean business; and should the
world’s champion leave Sydney without giving
Beach satisfaction, a similar cry will be made for
a certainty—and not without just cause, so far as
this case is oonce ned.
“The Agent,” who quietly but carefully
scooped in the big pools at the recent Portland
meeting, has had a rather eventful career. In
point of fact, he is what may be called a self-made
horse, just as a certain titled underground en-
gineer is a self-made man. Four months ago, The
Agent was hauling his owner’s (Mr. Furlonge)
buggy, but “by dint of honesty, industry, sobriety,
and the cultivation of those gifts the Looard had
given him” (vide “Electioneering Address of a
C.M.G.”), he managed to work his way to the front,
until at last he was thought to be a fit and proper
flyer to represent his stable. Sine - then he has
started eighteen times, and won no fewer than
thirteen races. This reminds us of the palmy days
ol old Alice Hawthorn, and the once celebrated
trotter, Jemmy. Alice, it is said, was formerly a
boundary-rider’s hack, and beiDg purchased by
Mr. Chirnside for £2O, very soon repaid that plucky
sportsman a hundred-fold. Jemmy used to act as
an agent for the devil by pulling a brewer's cart
around Geelong, and disseminating the seeds of
intoxication among the masses, when Mr. W.
Mullen, who knows a horse from a hand-saw, gave
£l5 for Jemmy, and after pointing out the evil of
his ways, and placing him on the right track, had
the satisfaction of seeing him beat tbe celebrated
“Sir William Don,” and eventually don the “Blue
Ribbon ” of the trotting turf of all Australia.
The Foley-eum-Farnaii-cum-Newton trou-
ble still drags its weary way through the open
columns of the Melbourne Sportsman, the only
new feature being that “Prolessor” Jackson hag
cut in, and states his willingness to try a hand
with Farnan. The Sportsman says that Jackson’s
challenge has the true ling about it, and we are ef
the same opinion—not under the idea that Foley
does not mean business, but because Jackson is
more of Farnan’s calibre. When in Melbourne,
Foley offered Farnan a fiver to give bim a chance
of being knocked out; and as this, accord-
ing to Peter Newton, is £4 15s. above what
Farnan agreed to take from bim for an
evening’s set to, it would seem that Farnan’s
billing with Foley has rather risen his scale of
charges. Foley has offered to meet Farnan for
£2OO, and allow the Melbourne man £5O for ex-
penses, the boxing to come oil in Sydney, as it is
not convenient fox him to leave j ust now; to which
Farnan replies that if he can find time to go to tbe
States, surely he can find time to take a run over
to Melbourne-butthe Cabbage Gardener seems to
forget that the American trip would mean about
a thousand for every hundred to be made in Mel-
bourne, leaving out of the question the reputa-
tion held by the man he would meet in America.
It is not likely that Jackson would care about
standing before Foley, but he might be induced to
staDd in with Newton and Farnan, when Foley, for
a slight shade of odds, might be willing to box the
three of them in one week, for the £2OO, which
evidently stands in the way of a match beiDg
made.
Matsada Sorakichi, the Japanese wrestler,
has been gaining more glory in the States. Hii
last victory was over “ Captain ” James A. Daly, a
Hercules standing over Oft. high, and weighing
over 15MS st. Daly’s friends were very confident
of success in the first bout, which was catch-as-
catch-can, but their hopes proved very short-
lived. When time was called, the Japanese lost
his listless humour, and sprang at Daly light and
agile as a cat. There was a moment's grapple at
arms’ length, but in the fraction of a section Mat-
sada broke Daly’s guard and seized him about the
legs with a grip that almost threw him over back-
ward. Before Daly could co’leet himself, the
Japanese had him about the waist, aud in another
moment, amid the most frenzied cheering, he had
thrown him over on his back, and the two men
were twisting and turning on the floor. The
struggle was but momentary, for Matsada deftly
flopped his adversary' over on his back, the bout
lasting but 56sec. The M.C. then explained that
the next bout would be in the Japanese style.
“ That is,” he said, “ If any portion of the bedy
touches the floor, If it’s only a thumb or a knee,
it’s a fall.” The bout lasted just 6sec. The first
second was occupied by an nrm’s-length grapple*
In tbe second, Matsada bad seized tbe powerful
Irishman by the waist, and backed him against the
wall. In 2 sec. more he had him by the waist
again. In the fifth second, he lifted him clear off
the floor and carried him to the centre of the
stage; and in the sixth he tossed him clean over
onnis back, and threw up his arm in triumpn*
Daly refused to show for the third round.
SPOUTING GLEANINGS.
At Wallsend, “Solly” defeated Pres9land.
ia a spring for £25 aside. ..Bathurst is anxious to
meet the New Zealand footballers on 11th of Juno.
The Prince Alfred Yacht Club have decided to
close the season on 31st May. Lunch at Cremorne-
....lt is stated Mr. Whittinghamcleared a bare -tV* 1
by Ironmaster’s win in the Goodwood Handicap-
Another rowing club has been formed in New-
castle, to be styled the Newcastle Mercantile Row-
ing Club.
*
The Loudon Sportsman says:—“We have
received a letter from tC correspondent named
Leon Delaunez, stating that an Australian gentle-
man is open to back Laycock to row Wallace Roes,
for £2OO a side, within a reasonable period. Afc
however, the writer has omitted to give his ad-
dress, we cannot attach much importance to tne
epistle.... W..P. Phillips, the English crack ama-
teur runner, is dead. His performance! from
, 120 yards to a quarter of a mile still head the ns l


Ask for Hookings’ High-class Wines, all
asred and reliable. Drink ho others. Sampling
Cellars, 143 Pitt-street.*
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham
bers. 90 PITT-STREET, Sydney. Agents for
tne purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
&c No commission charged for buying. Agents
for the sale or purchase on commission of Pure-
bred Stoek.*
THE GOMPAGNONI CATERING COMPANY
(LIMITED),
Caterers to the A.J.C.
SPECIAL FACILITIES FOR BALL SUPPERS. HAMPERS FOR PICNICS, RACE, AND OTHER
PARTIES SUPPLIED. SPACIOUS BANQUETING HALL, UPSTAIRS.
PERSONAL SUPERINTENDENCE GUARANTEED. WELL-APP -INTED BAR,
Luncheon and Smoking Lounge. All Goods are Gnaranteed of the very best Quality and Description.
E. D. TOLLEMACHE, General Manager.
Q7li.e ISeliafble 33‘u.g‘g'iesI
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION
BILIOUBNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK
NESS, Ac.
PRICE 28. «d.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist,
43 KRSKINE BTREFT.
Told hv W. TT. ROTTL. *nd *ll
'JMBREUAS
Rf-COVER! a
CSTUDY ECONOMY
jo and
Have your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs nnnt.ly *xe-
•qM
J. <3r. Harborow,
470 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Fruit Markets.
JUST OPENED, per s.s. Valetta, 3 cases Gauntlet Gloves, in all the Latest Styles and Shades:
a Large Consignment of Ladies’ and Children’s HOSIERY, in all the winter shades, consisting of
Cashmere, Merino, and Striped Cotton Hose.
EXTENSIVE ALTERATIONS.—OPENING of our NEW MILLINERY SHOW ROOMS
MILLINERY—A choice stock to select from.
MILLINERY—A large stock to select from.
MILLINERY—A new stock to select from.
MILLINERY—For the coming season.
MILLINERY—For the winter.
FLOWERS— Tn great variety.
FEATHERS-rn all qualities.
STRAWa —In all new shapes.
Having engaged a first-class French and English Milliner, and selected our stock from the Paris
and London markets, we are now propared to introduce the Latest and Most Fashionable Goods in the
above line. A largo sto kof FANCY" GOODS, consisting of Sunshades, Fans, Purses, Morocco, Russia,
and Seal Bigs, Workbaskets, Boots, Shoes, &c.
Note Address—J. G. HARBOItOW, 470 George Street, opposite Central Fruit Markets.
MO
METALLIC MS
MAKE
smu i
ABSOLUTELY THE BEST ROOFING KNOWN.
It is light, ornamental, cheap, and durable. Is used, and very
highly approved of, by the English Government Departments and
by the Royal Engineers.
References given to Sydney architects and builders by whom it has been already used
wtth unqualified approval and success.
AWARDED THE GOLD MEDAL AT THE PARIS EXHIBITION OF 1871.
Before using any other roofing material, call and inspect the above at
TOZER cfc CO.,
287 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE SPECIAL CLUB BICYCLE
Is ahead off all
Competitors.
OUR BICYCLES have the
LARGEST SALE, and give
the Best Satisfaction, of
any machines made.
Our Prices ? h r ® Lowest.
Our Terms are the
Easiest, and our sys-
tem of business en-
sures perfect satisfac-
tion every Customer.
Write to us,
w
OR
Gall on us.
J
AMES
& COIPY.
389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (On posile Royj’l HoJcJ'.
of bests on record for an English amateur
Iroquois, after having been at the stud for several
months, is to be put into training again, and Mr.
Lorillard has engaged him in several races at the
Monmouth Park summer meetings. Parole is also
entered for the principal events there George
H. Hosmer, the Yankee “lightning 6culler,” has
been engaged to look after the Princeton College
oarsmen. At Princeton he will traia for his race
with Albert Hamm, which must be rowed before
June 20.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A DEM Trouble.
Hark at one of the Down and Gumtree eaters.
“D.E.M.” writes: “I bought Borne jewellery and
paid £2 58. for it on Christmas Day. I understood
it was gold, but am told it is not, and is only worth
15s. I have six months to pay it. Can he make me
pay, it being Christmas Day when 1 bought it?”
Excuse us, Alf., we would have speech with him.
So you think you’ve been got at, D E.M.:
You’re told that the “ joolry ” is flash,
And ’twould “giveyou much pleasure” to see him
D.e.m’d ere you pay the cash!
Agriculture's your game, by the style of
Your letter ? All right—don’t look shy—
Your selection’s within half a mile of
The pub.—and the season was dry ?
Yes! We know; and you’d salt-horse for dinner,
And water drinks thin at the best;
So you said you’d take Bob—oh, you sinner!—
To the township, to get his hoofs dressed;
And you told Mary Jane—is it not so ?
You’d bring h er the flour from the store,
And you wouldn tbe long ? Ah, we thought so—
We’ve been among farmers before!
And she stood at the door, and with flouting
And scornful words bade you let her
Hear you’d been in the pub. again, shouting,
And see if she’d not raise your fur!
And you told her the danger was trivial
That you would be e’er found again
Spending money in moments convivial
Which brought dark to-morrows of pain.
With which plausible sentiment fresh on
Your lips you jogged oat at the gate
(Or the “ panels,” we think's the expression)—
Jogged out, as of old, to your fate,
After pledging your word to the Missus,
Like pledges of old, to be broke—
For, stronger than love of chaste kisses,
Or fear of chaste blows, is She-oak.
And you thought in your heart “ the old lady
Had no need to look so d d tart,”
And you instantly pulled up Tim Brady,
Who’d just gone along in his cart;
And he told you he’d just got a ” knife ” broke,
And h id to stop “ rapin’ ” until
It was fixed, when the voice of your wife broke
On your ear in words warning and shrill—
Words to you both of counsel and menace—
“ Don’t forget to bring suet and plums
For the duff—and, you hear me there, Dennis!
Be back before knock-off time comes I
Bring some eggs, if they re anyway cheapisb,
And, mind you. I must have the rice.
D.E.M., you looked demnably sheepish,
But promised to heed her advice.
And, in due time, you got to the village,
Or “township,” and at the smith's shop
Met many whose talk was of tillage,
Apd “ringing,” and “fallow.” and “crop;”
And Dooley declared to his Maker
He’d never before had such oats,
Thirty-ttve bushels clear to the acre—
And asked if the boys hadn’t throats ?
And you went with the crowd and had shandy,
Then Tim shouted—then you had beer;
Then you shouted—oh, shame!—and had brandy,
Which started your downward career.
You forgot all your Missus had bid you
To see to—eggs, suet, and flour;
But you didn’t intend just then, did you,
To stay in the pub. half-an-hour ?
By degrees, though, to care you grew blinder,
And told all the cockies, next year
You’d go for a reaper and binder —
No men for you, no bloomin’ fear!
And confided to Mullins, your neighbour,
You had to give six bob a day
(Which was false) for the whole of the labour
You had since you “ tuk in the hay.”
Then you set ’em up wildly and freely.
And said “ Hold on, boys—just one more,”
Till you lay—rough to tell you, but really—
As drunk as a hog on the floor:
Where the landlord allowed you to slumber,
And writhe in contortions, and shore,
As others there, times out of number,
Had slumbered and snorted before.
But when Christmas sun rose on the morrow
You lifted your head, which felt bad,
And you thought,and the thought gave you sorrow,
“By H , won’t the duchess be mad!”
So you went to the store, and demanded
A bracelet of gold for your bride,
Just to make her a bit more light-handed
In laying the axe on your bide.
And it looked most “rekerky”—he said it
Was gold, and he offered as well
To give you, poor wretch, six months’ credit
Far rather than see you catch H !
But you think you've been “ got at,” D. 25. M. —
You fancy, because on that day
All the children of Christ sang Te Deum.
The law won’t compel you to pay.
Well, you’ve hit the wrong birthday, old sonny,
Christ won't see you through with this trick;
If you want to do “ wrinkles” in money,
find out the birthday of Old Nick!
A Denial.
A correspondent of a Melbourne evening paper,
writing on that ever interesting topic, the ' Har-
my,” expresses an opinion that “ In the face oi
several cases recently cropped up, there is a large
per-centage of hypocrisy in the ranks.” There s a
sceptic for you—a veritable Thomas. Now, for our
part, we have a simple, childlike faith in the genu-
ineness of the Harmy and its ‘•conversions. Old
soldiers and recruits enjoy equal shares of our
regard, and we gladly take this opportunity of
testifying in ver3e to their merits, though humbly
conscious that our muse caunot rise to the sub-
limity of the theme. However, here goes—
Of brotherly love they have plenty
(They mention us ail in their prayers),
And there isn't one “soldier” in twenty
That ever gets tipsy or swears.
By the strength of their proud protestation
They may get, at times, overwrought,
But not one single son of Salvation
Is a hypocrite—perish the thought!
If a burglar assumes he is sorry
For deeds that have stained his career,
And is going in “ lemons” for glory,
Of course the poor man is sincere.
If he speaks of bis regeneration
On a Salvation platform, we ought
To regard him with fond admiration—
A hypociite!—perish the thought!
The “ Major ” attends to his sore cry,
And, fluding him meek and contrite,
Boon starts him purveying the War Cry,
And then to all evil “ good night;”
For close contact with that publication
Must speedily lift one (we’re taught)
Far above earthly sin and temptation:
All hypocrites!—perhh the thought!
No, no; any loafer or vagrant,
Housebreaker, wifobeater, or such—
Let his faults have been ever so flagrant—
Has only to fall in the clutch
Of the Harmy, and swear reformation,
When down to a meeting he’s brought,
And we’ll give him a holy ovation:
A hypocritel-perish the thought!
The Man with the Brand New Suit.
[A LEGEND OF THE UNEMPLOYED.]
I met him once, a month ago—
His clothes were (as a man might say)
Just lit to flutter in the breeze;
No scarecrow o’er so well at ease
Had tattered down so low.
We met next day. From head to toe,
His clothes were (as a man might say)
Fit for Beau Brummell at his best:
Parisian coat and flowered vest,
And fine kid shoon below.
“ What, Jack, a rise ?” He moaned “ Ah, no:
These clothes are (as a man might say)
The filmy fabric of a dream,
And all things are not what they seem,
As once said Longfell-ow.
“ For as the currents ebb and flow,
So hope ebbs. (As a man might say)
Within the panting breast of Youth
Hope puts the question straight to Truth,
And Truth just roars out ‘No.’
“ I had a dream not long ago—
A vision (as a man might say):
I’d wandered round without a bed,
And lived on Governmental bread
And cheese but just so-so.
“ With unemployed I stood in row,
Dejected (as a man might say)
As each stout lab’rer took his job—
And others chose to starve, or rob,
Father than work so low.
“ I was the last. One saw my woe.
I am not (as a man might say)
So well cut out for heaping coals
As marking score or playing bowls—
. I’m bare five-foot, you know.
“ ‘ Young man,’ he said, ‘ if you but know
A friend, for (as a man might say)
Such things exist, straight to him hie—
Replace those rags, and then will I
A billet to you show.’
“ He was a friend—this suit will show.
I sallied (as a mao might say)
Down to the office, and the job
Was worth per week just forty bob—
’Twas down with Jones and Co ’’
“ Give me your hand I” Said Jack, “.Go slow.
Your joy is (as a man might say)
Rather too premature—l’m out.’’
“ So soon ?’’ I answered, with a shout,
“So soon—so soon ? Oh, no I
“ Not drunk, I hope ? not too much ' go ’ ?
Not nothing (as a man might say)
To get the sack ? no loss at play ?
No up all night and dull all day—
Too much fantastic toe ? ”
“ Not me. But Messrs. Jones and Co.
Are neary (as a man might say):
They only offered forty bob—
I answered that for such a job
To work I would not go.
“ I struck for forty-two, and lo!
I’m outcast (as a man might say):
To-night once more without a boot.
I’m wearing back my friend's best suit—
To h with Jones and Co.! ”
C.W.C.
Robert S. Gregory, whose sudden disap-
pearance from the sunny side of Collins-street,
Melbourne, a few months ago, under mysterious,
if not altogether romantic, ciicuinstances, was,
after all, not such a cheerful idiot as he would
have led a discriminating public to suppose. It
will be remembered that this sportive youth left
some of his clothes in a boat in Hobson's Bay, and
also a letter, couched in the language of the
writer of a sixpenny sensational novel, in which
he intimated that, being jilted by the adorable
object (a woman, of course) of his ardent affec-
tions, he had discovered the hollowness of things
earthly, and preferred the chances of joining the
shining throng to living any longer in a cold and
unsympathetic world. All this happened about
the time that his elder brother, the Horsham J.P ,
got into trouble over that little forgery business,
for which he is now “ doing time ” in Ararat gaol,
along with some other well-connected young men
from the same district; and it was not un-
reasonable to suppose that the mind of the
impressionable Robert would be slightly affected
by the family difficulties if not by his pe sonal
troubles regarding the young lady on whom he
had set his young affections. There was weeping
and wailing and guashing of teeth, as it were,
amongst the fair habitufs of ihe Collins-street
“ block,” when it became known, or at least sup-
posed, that the dashing young Gregory had taken
a submarine passage to the Golden Shoah. We
even felt bad ourselves when we missed his pre-
sence in the city. But ’twas ever thus; wo never
had a pet goat, or a domesticated kangaroo, or
even a tame rat, but a mongrel neighbour’s dog or
something was sure to cause its untimely death.
And now we feel mad at having wasted such a lot
of sympathy over this brilliant young man: for it
seems he never took his ticket right through for
the land of the blest, but, on the contrary,
made a safe but unostentatious flit from the
scenes of his enterprise and triumphs to the
land of the brave and the tree, where his genius
will have greater scope, and where he will be able
to enter the lists with his peers in finance, the Jay
Goulds, the Fisks, and the Vanderbilts of the
United States of America. This junior member of
the Gregory family got bis first start in figures
under the tuition of a pious lather, who laboured
for the cause of the Loard in Horsham, whilst he
wielded the birch on behalf of the Education De-
partment in the local State school. But there was
not “enough of money in it,” so Gregory p ere
betook himself to the rostrum, and handled the
auctioneer’s hammer in a mallee township, in con-
junction with the business of general financing.
But, to return to Bob. He graduated as a bank
clerk in Melbourne; but, wearying of the
monotony of banking routine, he cut his connec
tion therewith and opened business on his own
account as a stock and station agent. His career
was short but exceedingly merry, and his sudden
departure was all the more to be regretted from
the fact that some of his documents are now com-
ing forward which throw a little light on his past
doing!. One of these documents is a pro -note
bearing the signature of a Mr. John Whitburn, a
Gippsland grazier, who, by the way, is ungenerous
enough to pronounce it a mere forgery, there
are several other documents of a similar style, and
equally valuable to the holders, which have been
negotiated by Robert A, who, it appears, had
sufficient go in him to get clear of his confiding
friends without raising suspicion until the wide
ocean had separated him from them.


F
H
USNITUSB SHOW BOOM 8.
BRADLEY, N’KWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring street*, Sydney.
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDB,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
‘ TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAiRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
’tAAALL CABINET?- for Choice China, &c 7
\ V VERY ELEG A NT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Furniture.— the largest stock in
THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB. O’Connell-street.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for dubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Grvat variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Eight-pound bedroom suiTEs.-The
Eoonomic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 20s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fram 355; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s8d; Tables, from 7s 8d; Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20a; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 255; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s: Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
OQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
pWOtl strong - , and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 86s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
o
CCASIONAL TABLES, elegant:
Tapestry, Embroidery, Piush,
finished in
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
CTConnell-street.
AS Y OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
Drawing-room occasional chairs.-
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d.
HAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
JOINING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
DINING
SVSJU. OUXIEJ, UUHipiCto, TV UJUonqt
-ROOM SUITE, comprising 6-FEET
LISH SIDEBOARD, MAHOGANY
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two leaves ; LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
T'VINTNG TABLES, with patent extending
j I * screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR-
Patented.
s*.
Mas
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice verm, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in it*
construction; works automatically. Tf«e above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash— strong,
durable, i nd light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMii (only).
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
RAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very extern
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
RAMEWORK for DlfflNG-ROOM FURNI-
X’ TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
BEDSTEADS, nickel-platedand black andbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
BEDDING.— Ail descriptions at lowest rates*
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Com
nell- street. *
W
ASHSTANDS, with marble, 33s each. BRAD-
LEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
g \ ARDEN SEATS, 30s: Verandah Chairs,
IjT INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’ConneU-street. _
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very eomplets
Assortment; beet make, lowest prices.
SOCIAL
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“A Subscriber," Wagga : Would have heoa wel-
come test month. But it would be naicuious
lor us to describe a ball now that
weeks ago at a place within one day s post.
“Florie": Your hand is good enough. H’s a dear
little band, and if it wants to
more, let the gentlemen do it. And • we i:e >aaro
vou’d think of something pretty to say when
you’re introduced, without our telling you.
“Anxious" wants to know the latest
trimming the t'erreador hat. VN ell, a girl sit
ting up all night on Friday doing the Torreador,
so as to be ready for the sports on Saturday, is
about the latest style we can think of.
Isn’t it extraordinary that, whereas men
of gentle birth, or good old yeoman lineage, who
make money in the colonies, and, on returning to
England, enter public life, sometimes maintain
Liberal principles, every cid and snob we sood
home inevitably postures as a high Tory, or under-
takes to ‘ found a family ? ” The latter process
involves so ludicrously awkward a concession that
it is surprising the sir Salmons and sagacious
Daniels don't see it. When a man sets to work to
found a family, he tacitly confesses that ho is him-
self a man of no family. No gentleman ever
thinks about founding a iamily, because one was
founded lor him centuries ago. Love of posterity
can’t go much further than to advertise oneself a
parvenu in order that one’s great-grandson may
have some sort of show when he claims to be of
good extraction |And the sasnflce is intensified by
the certainty that tho great-grandson -will stop
short, in boasting of his genealogy, exactly where
he ought to begin; and that my great-grand-
father, Jack-the kuock-about man, will be the
progenitor to whom, of all others, he will be careful
never to refer to.
* * *
The Sydney Owls roosted as usual on
Wednesday se’ennight, at their aviary, the Pro-
testant Hall, and the attendance-there must have
been nearly 300 on their perches - showed how un-
mistakably the Club s popularity keeps increasing.
They will soon have either to seek a larger hoot-
ing hall or else stop hatching fresh birds. The
evening’s entertainment was as varied as interest-
ing. including violin and piano solos, songs, elocu
tion, &o. The genial countenance was missed of
the gentleman who has been President for the last
eighteen months, he (Mocking Bird) having been
called from Sydney, and having therefore resigned
the position. The chair was ably Ailed by Mr. G. W.
Tate, who reigns in his stead. The new President
announced that tickets for the Owl Club annual
ball were ready for issue, members only to have
the privilege of procuring them till Monday, Jtith
instant, and the balance then being available tor
friends of the Owls. The large increase of mem-
bers, and the excellence of the ball on previous
occasions, render tho restriction absolutely ini-
perative. Wo have seen the programme, a blue
moonlight scene of the prettiest description,
specially designed by Fryer for the Owl Club, and
many will be kept as souvenirs. One word more-
Mr. Menser (ball sec.) collected about £2O for the
Fred Marshall Fund from the Owls, a most credit-
able contribution, and by no means the first they
have given to those in distress.
* * *
An initiatory dance was held a little while
ago in the Petersham Town Hall, with a view to
establishing regular monthly dances in that sub-
urb through the winter. It * went so well, that
the good intention was at once acted on, the list
of members quickly filled, and to-morrow (Friday)
night the first regular Petersham Social will be
held in their fine hall.
* * *
The Mayor and Mayoress of Sydney will
entertain a 'arge company of ladies and gentlemen
It a banquet in the Town Hall on the .9th June
The event will commemorate the opening ol the
grand staircase, and new Council Chambers and
Offices, which will be thrown open for inspection.
* * *
The dancing folks of Orange are again to
the fore, the first of the Winter nances this season
having been held on the 15th inst. About 50 per-
sons attended, mainly leading townsmen, their
wives and daughters ; and contrary to the general
rule, the sex< s weie equally divided. Of the fair
ones, a sister in pink was universally \oted the
Bede, though closely rivalled by Miss Lacey in
blue. Miss Parker in pink and Pearl 3, and the
Misses Kits in black with low-cut bodices, were
favourites. A petite and vivacious lady in white
and swansdown was the cause of .Jhtiirs'n?
as to her dancing programme. Ihe daughters of
the C.P.S. and of the local eoitor were centres of
attention. The palm for dancing was earned off
bv a sister of too belle, in blue, whose graceful
gyrations were greatly admired. A programrneot
14 dances, and extras ad lib., was managed by
midnight, when all returned to their homes de-
lighted with the evenings amusement, l ho an-
nual ball in aid of the local hospital eventuates on
the 28th May.
• • •
The Balmain Amateur Dramatic Club is a
rather popular band of young people who have
talent, differing, perhaps, in degree as regards in-
dividual brilliancy, but suifieieut collectively to
allure a good auuience to hear them whenever
thev perform. They have (which mo.-t amateur
dramatic clubs have not) acting lady members, and
that’s an attraction in these days when the modern
masher flourisheth. Some of the boldest members
of the club have even ventured .into other
suburbs; but in their native Balmaiu they are
especially esteemed. Last Friday night they per-
formed the merry comedy of Check: mate, for
the benefit of the local Rowing Club, an I the ocal
School of Arts was full on the occasion I he local
School of Arts is rather draughty, but suited for
theatrical performances, as it has a proscenium
which is mostly of those good primary colours,
“ red and yaller," and there are comfortable little
rooms at the back where the stars can wait, after
they're “made up,” without catching cold. Before
the comedy, however,there was a bnet concert, Mr.
Christopher Shepherd, who was accompanist, play-
ing the overture, “ Poet and Peasant. Items were
“Maid of Athens,” by Mr. T Ireland, No tongue
can tell," Miss M. Morran, “ Yeoman s Wedding,
I Mr Pedriau, “Ob, say once more, Miss Lames,
and “ The Little Hero,” by Mr. S. L Deane ; every
separate one of which set the hearers wondering
how it is that people who can sing or say
piece* very fairly, always choose pieces that
others have sung or said millions of times before.
Is there noth ng new or good among the modern
ballads that come out by every mail ? 1 he comedy
was good, the four leading parts especially so. the
others being subsidiary. If a gentle suggestion io
Mr Thomas Ireland, who played the groom (trans-
formed into a baronet), be acceptable, he did too
much. His baronet was a trifle butfoony. But he
was the life of the pieee, clever and leadyinhis
part; ond if his eccentricities were extreme, its
probably because, in his normal sphere of life, he
doesn't mix intimately with either baronets or
grooms, and h id to guess a good deal of their style.
Mr. Frank J mt s took Sir Everton Toffee demurely,
as (lid Miss M. Mo rau tho part of Miss Cha lo.te
the* heiress (who personated her own maid).
SXicted elrXby and well. It was Miss Cissy
Jones who did the rollicking, which she quite
revelled in. There is no refinement in the part of
Mm tha Bunn (the maid made-up as the heiress),
tint her aauehe manners, awful h s, and bad Irench
were acted to thi life’ In fact, Miss Cis-y was
capital, and deliciously sprightly all through, in
her yellow Batin with its occasional llash of red.
Both ladies showed skill in making-up for then-
respective characters, Mr. W. Walker was stage-
manager, aa well as taking a minor part. The play
was over about 11 o’clock, after which some of the
company stayed to dance for a couple of hours.
« « *
In the early afternoon it looked as though
the Eastern Subui bs Amateurs were going to have
a rather small attendance at their sports, which
seemed unaccountable with such glorious weather.
But though the stand was long in liliing, the
gathering by about 4 o’clock, when people were
olul coming in, was an excellent one. Charming
toilets were visibl j in all directions, and the sunny
afternoon was tempting enough to bring their
gentle wearers on t) “the track” in good num-
bers. There was more interest than ordinary in
the band, which was that of the Naval Artillery
Volunteers, maintained by them, and neatly uni-
formed in white and blue, and which played a
pretty programme of music under the direction
ot Mr.W. A.Thompson. Their singing in the “Silver
Rhine ” was the signal for the walkers and talkers
to stop and listen in way that was complimentary
to the performers. The sports went smoothly,
with no maddening excitement and no desperate
struggles. Kugg won his first “maiden” on the
bicycle; and the gorgeous blue and bi tck get-up
of C. R. Wood romped clean away to the front in
the four-mile bike handicap, despite the level best
efforts of Ferguson to keep up. If Wood is not
the coming man, at any rate he’s a good “going ”
man. The mile run was a gift to Middleton,
and the three mile walk to Hardwick; while
tne medley race was a mix-up of the most
unsatisfactory sort, in which the competitors
displayed a marvellous elasticity of conscience as
to the conditions. Bros was the comic man in the
walk. Perhaps he didn't intend to be comic, any
more than he intended to bo so far behind; but he
was, both. A man of less humorous turn of mind,
on finding that the longer he travelled the further
behind he got, would have given up ; but Bros
kept on to the bitter end, nobly disregarding the
ironical cheers of his friends, and the sarcastic en-
quiry of a small boy as to why he didn’t “cut
across and ketch up ? ” Two young ladies watched
NATIONAL COSTUME OF A RUSSIAN PEASANT WOMAN.
his energetic career round the ground. One said
“ isn’t ho dark ? ” and the other winsome creature
explained—“ he'd been so long on the course, he'd
got sunburned.” Girls are severe. But that shows
that the ladies—whose presence the athletes are so
glad to have—understand these sports, and get a
good deal interested in them. It's true that oueof
the fair, skirted ones, to whom a youth was ex-
plaining that four laps go to the mile, persisted in
saying she " couldn’t see any laps; ” but many a
bright-eyed belle proved her interest by wearing,
either openly or with modest shyuess, his colours.
• • •
Three nights of last week were devoted to
a Congregational conversazione in the Pitt-street
schoolroom, and the crammed attendance all the
time testified that the affair was a success. Mr. J.
Hardie, the Mayor of Sydney, formally opened the
entertainment with a brief speech; and, when he
said he was pleased with the scene, there is no
doubt ho heartily meant it All the walls were
covered with mirrors, pictures, etc , and on the
tibles were the countless articles of verlu and
curiosity usually brought out lor such occasions.
Decorations of the most brilliant kind were
lavishly arranged; ferns, suspended flowers, and
coloured draperies; a fountain shot from a little
rocky cone in the centre of the hall, its falling
spraydrops splashing over leaves and flowers; and
at one end a string baud of Italian musicians kept
up a succession of dulcet, dreamy airs. Their
sweet playing was admired by everyone, and its
softness didn't clash with conversation. Electric
lights were laid on in addition to the gas, and from
the gallery, where numbers were gathered to look
on, ti e scene was extremely'pretty and brilliant
Cloak-rooms, moreover, having bcei provided,
many of the ladies were able to remo> e their hats,
and with their dainty dresses setoff-as is their duty
—their sweet selves to the happiest advantage.
Quong Tart had a refreshment corner; and a jour-
ney upstairs, which required about an equal
amount of patience and pushing, revealed a lot of
small rooms dedicated to various purposes. Mr.
Teece showed a calculating machine, Messrs. Jack-
son electro-plated small articles whiie you watched,
Mr. Jefferis showed and explained microscopes
and scientific apparatus, Mr. Eopsch had tele-
phones, and Mr. Corbett electric machines; there
was a hoaxing room, and a pottery wheel; and a
room where shocking things were done—by gal-
vanism. Mr. Alfred Allen had a crowded audience
in the largo class-room, where he showed through
a magic lantern an almost inexhaustible series of
photographic views of great interest, all taken by
himself. There were harbour and mountain
scenes, family groups and picnic parties, and when
enlarged to life-size, many familiar faces were re-
cognized by the spectators On Thursday the church
adjoining was filled, to hear a concert given by a
combination including members of several choirs.
One portion was miscellaneous; Mr. A. Fairfax
sang “ Consider the lilies,” in a style he has seldom
bettered; Mrs. Morris, and Mrs. Dobbie sang
“ Resignation” and an aria from “St. Paul” respec-
tively ; Mr. Pier did well, but not his best, in the solo
“ If with all your hearts;” and other pieces were
“Watch on the Rhine,” Handel’s “Hallelujah,”
and an organ march by Mr. Kent. The other por-
tion was Weber’s Jubilee Cantata, the most am-
bitious effort yet of the Pitt-street singers; and
though not free from fault the performance was a
creditable one. While, for effect, the composition
cannot compare with any of the great masters’
oratorios, yet the demands it makes on some of
the singers, and especially on the leading soprano
soloist, are far greater. There is perhaps not
another lady in Sydney who could have rendered
the very difficult music of her part with finer
fidelity and skill than did Mrs. Dobbie. Not only
does it require a voice of unusual range and
power, but the character of the music changes so
frequently from the florid to the sustained that
only a finished artiste could attempt it; some of
the intervals—one, for instance, being a seven-
teenth-are remarkable. It would be hard to accord
the lady named too much prai.e for her rendering.
The choruses were fairly given, but the most that
can be said of the organist is that Mr. Angus did,
probably, his best; and the soloists, Messrs Fairfax
and Pier, and Mrs. Morris would have had a better
chance with a better accompanist. The school-
hall was opened again on Friday for children, who
of course enjoyed themselves; and, altogether, the
Jubilee proceedings were a social item of the
pleasantest kind.
Wagga has been feting. The City of the
Crows always fills at race time. All the inhabitants
of Wagga are critioal judges of horseflesh, and it
would be no use trying to “stuff” even the very
smallest boy that the crupper is used to keep the
horse’s tail on. They have a fine little raceoourse,
and some of the best-going nags in the country on
it. It’s good to see some of the Murrumbidgee
girls ride, and when you meet them in the bail-
room you don’t want subjects for conversation;
there's always one topic will animate them. If
your partner can’t pour out her share of the
chatter when horses are mentioned, you can make
up your mind she's imported. Australia’s steeple-
chase poet hazarded that, after man, the horse
might be fairly reckoned second as a work of
the Creator, and woman followed on. Our last
Governor told the Waggaites straight o't
that it required a very fine woman to compare
with a thoroughbred. And we hazard there are
youths about Wagga that don't think very differ-
ently on the subject either, though prudential
reasons might lead them to be cautious in ad-
mitting it. So the town was full at race-time, and
they had a ball, about 80 people present, and
Broadhurst gave his best music. Some very hand-
some costumes were displayed, and dancing kept
up till morning. Then there was a bazaar for St.
Michtel’s Church and School, scooping nearly £300;
and the ladies who did the scooping were so pleased
that they organised another dance for their
patrons and helpers, and, on the 13th inst., over 200
gay and festives gathered in Mr. Gormley’s new
building, and danced till four next morning. Bup-
Eer was provided, and the band was under Mr.
illey, Mr. W. Morison acting as M.C. Concerts,
private parties, the opera, and other events, alto-
gether made Wagga very gay for more than a
week.
(For continuation of Social, see next page.)


Messrs. Service, Berry, and Atkinson to
be knighted. One by one they enter the realms of
political night.
At the late Cyclists’ Union meet at Mel-
bourne, there were 300 bicyclists in the parade,
which also included among the wheelers two
sociable tricycles driven by four ladies. .Melbourne
BC. mustered 44, and the Normanby B.C. came
next with 31. Over 2000 bicycle riders have teen
seen at the famous Hampton Court me?t, near
London.
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations. OOt Hunter-street,
Sydney.*
The Rates op Subscription to The Bulletin
ar@—For one year, 345.; half-year, 13s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d. —In advance.
The Advertising Kates are 6s. per Inch!
special positions In the paper 7s. od. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions
16 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 36 per
oent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony ma be sent, if more convenient.
Granny, on Tuesday, published a cable-
gram statiug that John Dunn is President of the
Boers, and editorially stated that Dunn is “ leader
of various Boer tribes.” John Dunn is not Pre-
sident of the Boers, and there are no tribes of
Boers. Otherwise, granny is correct.
All of the components of Wolfe’s
Schnapps are of extreme original purity, not
compounds purged of noxious elements, but con-
stituents in themselves, perfectly harmless, and of
highest possible quality and proof.
C. W. BENNETT and CO.,
68 KINO- STREET.
OITR 13-GUINEA bicycle
for this season is a marvel for lightness, strength,
and hill-climbing power ; it has ball-bearings,
and all latest improvements.
SAN9PAREIL RACING BICYCLE,
Won the Five-mile Championship, May 10th, and
all heats and finals, with two exceptions.
m
*
Our TIME-PAYMENT TERMS are by far the easiest and best in Sydney.
We are the only house in town where you can get your bicycle promptly repaired by English workmen,
Sole Agents for UAYLISS, THOMAS, & CO., Coventry; HUMBER, MARRIOTT, & COOPER ;
W. ANDREWS, Birmingham.
HEP” Send or call for list. Inspection cordially invited.
HORDERNS
ON THE
Briclc±i©ld. Hill-
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS In LACE CURTAINS.
ISP These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
LACE CURTAINS, 100 PRICES.
r ? Bic *mg 111 the country can have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
curtains. If you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it out, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern.' See future advertisements for other patterns.
(ail A
1
UK
h&&&&&&&&&&&&&
/
StSuP'f'C
*• uuhid nramiTrmTitQ
nritotel
fen
Price: 12s. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d. the pair
ONE ONLY ADDRESS
.
LACE CURTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers.
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. 13&" Examine carefully the engraving of our
“LACE CURTAINS.’’
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
I LACE CURTAINS | 668 BRICKFIELD HILL. ] LACE CURTAINS |
|y Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
Immediately ou the close of his last per- I
formance, 13th inst., Mr. Kennedy, the Scotch
vocalist, and his son, Robert, were whisked off to i
a banquet at Compagnoni’s, where some three
score townsmen assembled, mostly sons of Cale-
donia, stern and wild. The Hon. John Sutherland
was in the chair, Messrs. Forbes and Kethel being
vices, and the company spent two rollicking hours,
like regular “rantin’ rovin’ laddies, oh!” Na-
tional enthusiasm prevailed very much, Mr. Ken-
nedy was presented with an album of photographs,
and he made a nice little feeling speech, embody-
ing some pf his personal reminiscences. The com-
pany dispersed at 12 o’clock, with “ Auld Lang
Syne.”
• • •
This Friday (23rd) there are several good
dances. The first Petersham Social takes place in
the Town Hall there, and wi'l commence early, so
visitors can catch the last town train, which leaves
Petersham 18 minutes after midnight. At Needs’
Rooms, Liverpool-street, the pleasant Woollahra
Assemblies will be resumed under a directing com-
mittee, with Mr. Birkmyre as hon. sec. Balmain
is to have its second Assembly Ball in the local
School of Arts, Darling-street, and it’s sure to be a
congregation of capital dancers. Then at Parra-
matta, the Quadrille Assembly Ball will be held,
which is creating a good deal of local interest.
• •
Professor West gave a birthday party at
his new rooms last Monday evening. The large
ball-room was prettily decorated with flags and
flowers, and the conservatory looked just as if it
had been made for “talking age and whispering
lovers ” But the Professor doesn’t give a chance
to whispering levers—he keeps them too hard at
work. They pout and look defiant, but it’s of no
use, they were invited there to dance, and dance
they must. The “ French cotillon ” was the dance
of the evening, and if Mr. West felt proud of his
pupils he was quite justified. It is about the most
deliciously graceful dance ever invented, being,
from beginning to end, brimful of poetry of
motion. During the evening, Miss Harvey sang a
bird song, and Mrs. Riley paid a pretty compliment
to Professor West by singing “ Many happy returns
of the day,” in a sweet, rich voice, which com-
pletely filled the big room. Most of the toilettes
were in good taste, and a few very handsome. A
pale blue plush suirt, with satin top, edged with
blue marabout trimming, was worn by a good
dancer. Mrs. Riley’s costume was a beautiful
shaded blue brocade and plain satin, trimmed with
white lace ; large steel ornament in the hair. A
white satin and swansdown was almost too sleeve-
less.but was a handsome dress,nevertheless. A pink
veiling was very nice, as it wasn’t spoilt by any
other colour, not even white or cream lace. A
HIS REASON.
D UDE: “Will you dance the next with me ?”
STOUT LADY : “You must excuse me, I am tired.”
D UDE: “ So am I, hut I thought you’d brace me up.”
black velvet low bodice was worn with a flounced
pink jupe, making a nice contrast. A lady wore a
bracelet composed of tiny bells, which tinkled
merrily through the dances. A striking dress was
black satin, with tufts of silver gr»ss on on*
shoulder and down the front of the skirt. And
another black satiowas profuse.y trimmed with
white passementerie, and looked very rich indeed.
Many wore simple white dresses with coloured
sashes, than which nothing looks nicer, especially
for juveniles. Mr. West wisely ruled that it should
be a Cinderella party, so 12 o’clock saw the splendid
rooms empty, and all went away well pleased with
everything and everybody.
• • •
On Tuesday last, the 13th instant, the
Great Synagogue was the scene of a large gather-
ing of "the old, the young, the fair, the gay, the
occasion being' the union of Mr. M. Goldstein and
Miss N. Berger. Rabbi Davis performed the
marriage service, and also presided over the break-
fast to which all repaired afterwards. At about
8 o’clock in the evening, the strains of professional
musicians signalled the advent of company to the
ball-room, nicely decorated, and soon about two
dozen couples began the pursuit of “fleeting
hours with flying feet,” there being eighteen items
on the carte-de-danse. And now to the ladies: the
bride looked .lust as a bride should, her costume
consisting of a lovely electric blue trimmed with
cream lace, a square train similarly edged, and all
surmounted with the usual wreath and veil suiting
an enviable complexion. Miss Marsh was lovely
in a costume of satin, trimmed with cardinal
and steel; and, being a beautiful waltzer,
was seldom off the floor. Mies L. Marsh
was garbed ia pale blu c ; plush, and muslin flounced
t.i the waist; Miss A. Marsh’s pretty toilet was
fawn and pale pink satin, bead edging; and MwsC.
Marsh looked charming in a cream devoid of trim-
ming. Petite Miss Solomon was admirable in
bronze green satin and plush of deeper tint, edged
With sage lace ; Miss Berger, sister of the bride,
looked well in lavender silk, and wreath of silver
an! rubies. Misses Nash were well arrayed in
w hite. The palm of the evening might, with equal
merit, be awarded to one of the four sisters from
Surry Hills, or to a belle from the mid-city.
Elderly ladies, as usual, favoured darker colours,
and the hostess in mourning took only a passive
part in the gaietit s. Tbe last strains of music died
away on the stroke of three.
Uncommonly bad luck, the. other day,
almost crushed a promising young bicyclist, who,
when he isn’t bicycling, ornaments one of the
Government departments. He was processing
prettily down Elizabeth-street, between the rails,
about 9 o’olock, the admired of all the little
milliners in passing trams, when fate brought him
suddenly to where a sleeper had been up-rooted,
which he didn’t see in time. The way he dis-
mounted was, over the handles, and he stepped on
to the ground with his head. When he got up, he
found that his plural garments had suffered
damages which delicacy forbids describing in
detail. Somehow, he reached the “ office,” where,
with the help of canvas, striDg, and sympa-
thetic friends, he effected repairs sufficiently
to justify a bold determination to ride the
machine home at 4 o’clock. But he had bought
a walking stick, and in an evil moment, he
decided that ;the bicycle should carry that stick
as well as him. The Block was astir with fair
women, who peeped under their parasols at the
poised Apollo who put one foot up a.d the other
down and so sailed gracefully along. All was aus-
picious, and the morning’s deft at was only a
fading memory, until a lovely belle came along
and flashed upon him her speaking eye. Despite
his precarious position, our hero endeavoured to
raise his hat, to grip on to the stick, and to ride'
I the machine. But the stick was a fiend, and it be-
: trayed him. Covered with dust and confusion, he
} got up, only to discover that his nether garments
were again riven in a most embarrassing way,
while an audible titter of pity from a group of
ladies was iron in his soul. Slowly and sadly he
went home, and then, like an Irish landlord, pro-
ceeded to “ gather in his rents.”
** m m
The marriage of Lord William’s sister,
Lady Alice Nevill (Abergavenny), will shortly
take place in London, to Captain Moorland A
novelty recently tried for evening parties is as
follows: Each guest at the door receives a small
bouquet, which has to be conspicuously worn, and
as the bouquets are all in pairs, the lady and gentle-
man who match are “ first call ” to each other for
the evening. Of course, the invitations specify a
bouquet party; and a hostess who intimately
knows all ner guests, and has tact, can make the
idea very successful....A French Club formed in
Melbourne; officers elected last Thursday. M.
Tucheur, president ...For losing the use of Bal-
main School of Arts hall for a concert on a certain
night, after duly engaging it, Mrs. Elizabeth
James, the Welsh vocalist, gained fifteen guineas
damages from committee May 26 beinsr the
silver wedding day of Mr. James Mirams, M.L.A.,
his Melbourne friends are going to testimonialisc
the great little man... Captain Murray and his
bride, on leturn from their honeymoon, were
weloomed by the officers of the Shannon with a
a party on board. Banquet in the saloon,
and toast by the chief officer; then dancing
in the evening on the hurricane deck
A grand Scandinavian Ball is announced for Fri-
day, 20th June, at Tattersall’s Halt ...There is to
be a Leap Year Ball at Penrith to-night (22nd),
floated by Mr. W. G. Clarke.... At Largs, the young
men debaters tried having a mock trial, for prac-
tice, so they’ll understand how trials are con-
ducted. No doubt it will be useful to some of
them. ...Havßace Ball took place in the Convent
hall on the 15th May; about 50 present .. At Bre-
warrina, there was a School of Arts Ball to reduce
the debt: and on Thursday* Bth. another in that
building, got up by the Oddfellows, which was
g00d....0n the 31st May. the resigned member for
Newcastle, Mr. A. A. P. Tighe, will be socially
entertained there by his friends, who are many.
. . Kalizoic Society inaugurated in Melbourne on
Friday i.ight at an enthusiastic meeting, Dr.
Bromby presiding; and Mr. James Smith, presi-
dent, addressed the hearers on beauty. When the
Melbourne man gets home late now, be will ex-
plain he has been studying kaiizoics. But he won t
mention tnat it was across a bar-
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Woollahra Private Assembly (Nithsdale)....May 23.
Assembly Ball (Balmain) May 23.
Petersham Social May 5:3.
Parramatta Q.A. Ball --May
Randwick Races ~a y™
Consul's Dinner (Compagnoni’s) May 26.
Contractors’ Dinner (Compagnoni s) May 27.
Sydney Private Assembly (Nithsdale) May 30.
Glebe R.C. Annual Ball (West's R00m5).... May 30.
North Shore R.C. Annual Ball (Nithsdale) June 5.
Madame Charbonnet-Kellermann’s Annual
Audit; two recitals (Protestant Hall)...June 7, 10.
Sydney Owl Club Annual Ball (Town Hail) .June 12.
Masonic Ball (Parramatta) June 13.
Bachelors’ Assembly (Nithsdale) June 13
Mercantile R.C. Annual Ball (Exhibition).. - July 3.
American Garden Party and Ball • •• J
Balmain R. C. Annual Ball (West’s Rooms). July 11.
TO CORRESPONDENIS.
[[?] who give [?]ther name nor nom-de-
plume [?] expect to have their com-
munfeat[?].]
“Loyalty”: You are right. Prince Leopold
’was the only one of his people who was ever in a
police court. Whether he was the only cne that
should have been there—not as a witness, mind
you—is a question we prefer not to answer ... “F.
D.” (Petersham): “Adieu” is good. ’Tis the
■originality that troubles us. Write on some local
subject as a guarantee of fair dealing —“ E.J.8.”:
Did not receive it previously. May And room ..
** J. W,D.": We are thankful for your good opinion,
Tbut—don’t send any more poetry. We have a
ilarge family to support, and (we put it to you as a
friend) is it right to smash us up, just when we’ve
;got things straight, by firing 21 verses like this into
n,s?—
“‘They pay him to preach to them week after week
And year after year, that is if he suit—
If he don’t, they soon give him a very broad hint,
And he quickly clears if he’s ’cute,”
Why, sonny, another like that would break the
Times “T.S.”: The double-entendre has not
even the poor merit of delicacy. It is gross.
Before sending it to us you should have shown it
~to some one who had travelled. Savezl
“Cootamundra”: You have a gord firm grip of
the wrong end of the stick. The raison d/ctre of
The Bulletin is not to “slate” people who may
have given offence to you or the like of you. Our
.game is ever so much higher. It is against knaves
and kuavery—political, social, religious, or intel-
leetual-that we have entered the lists. The more
iniluential the charlatan the more certain are
we “to go” for him; but to takes sides in a
petty, local cyclone in a thimble! Bah!
“ 1.L.” : May use some of it by and bye
“ Freethinker” (Bluff Rock): You can’t have read
your Bulletin carefully, or you wouldn't apply
to us at this time of the day for our views on
sweeps and those who run them. We wouldn’t
trust one of them any more than we would pin
our faith on the simple-looking joskin who “ but-
tons ” for a thimble-rigger at a country fair. If
you would place your money in a “ safe ” thing,
why not clap it in the Government Savings' Bank ?
. ..“Adrian": Not adapted.. .“Cynic”: It was
Mr. T. a. Reed, of S A., who was reported to have
advocated flogging for wife desertion. We can’t
say if hra is married. Had he suggested the
“cat” for getting married at all, he would have
supplied a long-felt want “Subscriber”: Over
50,000,000. Don’t know the precise number
“A.B C.”: We cannct say whether any or all of
the ladies you name are first-class phrenologists.
Indeed, we have grave doubts as to whether there
is much real difference between a first and a
twenty-first class professor. It Is just as great an
abuse of words to call phrenology a “science,” as
toapplv the same term to theology “J.C.J.T.”:
Good, but scarcely adapted for insertion in the
journal to which it applies “ Constant Reader ”:
Cannot tell the date of the wreck of the Atlantic.
Some reader may supply it... ‘’A.S.H.” (Norman-
ton, Q.): Are always glad to receive items. A
place will be found for them if meritorious—
!‘ Enquirer ”: “A is engaged to B, who is a beauti-
ful youmr lady. A's family do not consent to the
marriage, and B will not marry him without such
consent. The engagement goes on for over seven
years, when C, a nigh Church curate, comes into
the neighbourhood, and after beiug there two
months, and knowing nothing that has been goiDg
on, proposes to B, who, being tired of waiting,
accepts him. What should Ado ? ” Thisiswh .t
you ask us, and you pretend the question is
original. Why, it appeared in Vanity Fair a few
numbers back. Many a man has got his head
stove in with a clothes-prop in a public-house
cellar for trying on this sort of thing. Now, if
you were C and we A, you would be a Low Church
corpse, and your wife a widow and a maid before
the clergyman got to the benediction.
W. D. Pitcairn, Esq.: Kindly call, or communi-
cate your address.


The Bad and Worthless
are never imitated or counterfeited. This is es
pecially true of a family medicine, and it is positiv
proof that the remedy imitated is of the highest
value. As soon as it had been tested and proved
by the whole world that Hop Bitters was the pur-
est, best and most valuable family medicine on
earth, many imitations sprung up and began to
steal the notices in which the press and the people
of the country had expressed the merits of H. B. f
and in every way trying to induce suffering in-
valids to use their stuff instead, expecting to make
money on the credit and good name of H. B*
Many others started nostrums put up in similar
style to H. 8., with variously devised names in
which the word “ Hop ” or “ Hops ” were used in a
way to induce people to believe they were the
same as Hop Bitters. All such pretended remedieg
or cures, no matter what their style or name is,
and especially those with the word "Hop or
“ Hops ” in their name or in any way connectea
with them or their name, are imitations or
counterfeits. Beware of them. Touch none or
them. Use nothing but gemline American Hop
Bitters, with a bunch or cluster of green Hops on
the white label, and Dr. Soule s name blown m tne
glass. Trust nothing else. Druggists and
ists are warned against dealing in imitations or
counterfeits.
That Husband of Minb is three times the mas
he was before he began using “ Wells’ Healtn
Renewer.” Druggist* Moses. Moss A: Co.. Sydney
(ionersl A.gpnts,
Woman Items
There was a wedding in a fashionable sub-
urb, and the bridegroom was a man who enjoyed
life. Martin Luther practically observed
Who loves not wine, woman and song,
Will be a fool his whole life long.
So, fortified by such excellent authority, the bride-
groom loved song, was appreciative of women,
and not inditferent to wine. Now, rumour avers
that the bride went to the altar reluctantly, that
she repeiled the usual marital advances immedi-
ately, and that she has left him permanently.
Mr. Monroe Adams, of Brooklyn, has got
into trouble by ruuning a scheme by which he
professed to get divorces for applicants. He
pocketed the fees, and forged the diyorcei papers,
And now there are several hundred puzzled men
and women running about the United States who
thought they were divorced and got married again,
but are now discovered to be inadvertent biga-
mi.ts. The curiosity is that Adams holds himself
blameless. As those whom God has joined can’t
be bym .n put asunder, divorce is only a shallow
human device at b.-st; and Adams maintains that
as they have sinned against God by breaking their
compact, it is a matter of little moment who signs
the papers.
Patti looks 30 years old, and if she uses
cosmetics does it without leaving traces. Thick
black hair coiled over an oval, olive face, with
faint colour on cheeks. She is such a dainty bit —
of Parisian feminity—that it seems impossible she
could have any muscle. Her manners are perfect,
without coquetry, lixe those of a pretty petted
child. And sne Is regarded as the best-dressed
woman in the world; for all the great London and
Parisi >n dressmakers serve her first. Time's hand
has been very light. She has had such care as is
given to no royalty on earth—for no royalty
exacts such willing homage. Life has been a long
vista of ease, elegance, luxury, adulation. Sick-
ness or sorrow, she has never known. There has
been but one crumpled roseleaf to disturb Patti’s
life: she soon blew thatawav.
Clara Belle says she saw “ the goosiness of
man” illustrated at a watering place the other
day. A group of goosy young men stood on the
sands. Not twenty feet away were three pretty
girls i i bathing costumes-snug bodies and brief
skirts, which fitted with the tenacity of dampness,
and the shapeliest hose. But in another direction
was, on a campstool on a bank, a woman of matur-
ity and substance, who, while reading a book, had
elevated her fe-t onto a rock. Consequently, any-
one could see what supported her when she
walked; her feet seemed specially fitted by nature
to travel over sand, while out of their expansive
flatness arose two perpendiculars like spllndle
palm trees in a desert Now which way were
those young men looking? Were they gaz-
ing upon the dripping symmetry of those three
comely girls in bathing dress ? On the contrary,
thev never looked at what the pretty girls were
willing to show; their eyes were fixed on the ter-
minal exhibits which the lady on the campstool
accidentally disclosed. That, says Clara, is an
instance of the goosiness of man.
Men are certainly great fools— where wo-
men are concerned, we mean. We ourselves have
been weak enough, and to spare, in the heyday of
our youth; but let that pass. A facetious London
lady sent a circular letter to a large number of
gentlemen not long ago. This is how it ran :
"‘The writer of this is anxious to have the pleasure
of meeting you. She will bo at the Haymarket
Theatre on Tuesday, the 11th March next. If you
will be in the stalls, you will not fail to recognise
her; but, to show that this meeting is agreeable,
will you wear ft button-hol© ot violots ftnd li lies of
the valley, and sne will wear scarlet geraniums?’
She bagged over sixty. There they were in the
■tails, looking like nursery garden advertisements,
each for a while fatuously unconscious of the
others. But when they awoke to the fatal truth,
and saw the lady sitting up in a box with a circle
of male friends—whose mouths were stretched in
enormous grins, till their teeth looked like rows of
pan-pipes—their hearts died within them, and they
hadn’t enough courage left to get mad. Who would
have? But the story is not so bad, is it?—not so
bad in these insipid days. Only, if the lady bad
lived out here, she would probably—little as we
know of culture—have been cut by ail her friends
ere this time.
In the good old days, before we lived as
fast as we do now, it usei to be a firm-rooted theory
that woman was an unmovable fixture of the
domestic hearthstone; and that, directly she
aspired to any more important duties than lighting
the fire in winter, and keeping the baby replete
with sustenance, she became at once unsexed.
Modern life somewhat dissipates that idea. Woman
now goes out into the world a good deal. She
doesn’t fear that the details of domestic duty will
be neglected; she knows there are plenty of
rouug men walking about in high collars admir-
ably suited to take her duties-aud her attire, too.
There ara youug gentlemen walking George-
atraet every day, who wear bracelets, garters,
ind stays. We We frequently pointed out a
few of the avenues women tread with suc-
cess. The stage is not only recognised as a
legitimate profession for women, but a decent
one There are hundreds upon it against whose
reputation none raise a whisper, and hundred?
who arc by education ladies, seek admission to it.
As lecturers, we have had in bydneygiotable speci-
mens, all, in their special line, able to bold their
ground with more crpflit than average men. These
women are exceptional, we admit, but a lew
years arc they could not have entered on such a
living at all. Some of tie largest successful busi-
ness houses are managed by women. It is cer-
tain that nothing but stupid conservative preju-
dice prevents women from going numericallyinto
the ranks of the medical profession. 1 hat is so.
Mo doubt women suffer greatly for want of
aootors of their own sex- In the case of broken
bones, or anything veyy serious, they will go to a
male doctor with but little hesitation; the magni-
tude Of toe pain or danger overcomes delicacy.
Probably, It is well if should be so. But it is in
wtjat seem slight matters that a womap shrinks
from going to a male doctor with some trifling
Lain, or some disquieting surmise ot what is
wrong. Delicacy makes her dubious, until. <he
trifles have become serious; yet all might
have been averted by a few sensible words
at first, from one of her own sex. What
is chiofiy singular is that a woman is regarded as
lust the proper person to do doctors work in a
hospital lor thirty hillings a week, but not to
r>r etise as a medical woman and earn thirty
Douuds a week. It is too puli able. In many
towns women have set up gymnasiums, riding
aehools. baths, and such institutions, specially for
their own sex. Not only arc all these things
beneficial to women themselves, but they are
honest means of livelihood, infinitely nreterable
to a life of genteel ‘ spunging” on others when
oust any hope of mariiuge. We are tired ot this
£ domestic hearthstone ” theory about woman
It presupposes that she is always going to be
marrted. This ot itseli is an error. The propor-
tion of women who never marry has always been
large and it seems to be getting larger. Young
meu who h ve got into pietty good circles with
expeindvo habits don't pare about going back to
economy and start lug inarm# luo >u a small way.
women want ft hu&bftiiii who at 20 cau pro-
Sde a g home for them like their lather does at 40,
after a successful career of money-grabbing, and
£■ such suitors are scarce, the maid doesn t find
herself suited in time—so people marry less. That
is the mistake of looking forward to nothing but
marriage. Women want to be encouraged more
to earn an honest living in the world. Plenty do;
but, of course, we mean those who don't—those
who don’t—those who consider it unsexing to do
anything else but sit down and wait for a man.
We don’t like this cry of “ unsexing.” If a woman
rashly attempts what she is unfitted for, she will
cover herself with ridicule, just as a man would.
But when she proves herself fit for a thing, why
harp away on a theory now exploded ? Let her go.
. * •
At Melbourne University commencement,
the first B.A. presented was Lydia Amelia Harris,
whom the undergraduates greeted with "She's a
Jolly good fellow.” English lady writers (who
8 louldn’t cry decomposing fish of their own sex)
assort that the general relations between doctors
and their female patients are, as a rule, far too
ntimate. Somehow, we don’t think that those
who make this assertion can be honestly classified
as lady writers, though weholdthatfemalesshould
be attended by female doctors—Says la Comtesse
D ane: "SI une femme cl tingue un homme, ilse
rhor, außSitot a peuser du bien de lui-me.ne et du
mal d elle.” True In Allegheny, Pa., they are to
hoi«i a "hug-and kiss festival” for the benefit of
the flood sufferers. We quote: “ l'en cents to hug
any young girl between thirteen and twenty; five
oents for young girls between twenty and thirty;
one dollar to hug another man’s wife; old
maids, two for a cent; all lemales of the woman's
right persuadom. are free.” All the young
men n town have taken to the woods
Leap-joar parties are popular in some sections.
At these gatherings the girls yell “Mouse!’’ and
the young men jump on chairs and shriek—
u.car Wilde indignantly denies the report that he
is going to emigrate to Australia now he is
married. This is deliriously good news for Aus-
tralia.
A Darling Point ball. Agreeable hostess,
to gallant officer of the Australian Squadron, hop-
png his best: “Oh! this is really nice. Captain
Blazer; your step suits mine exactly.” Captain
Blazer, gaspingly: “ S’so— so glad to heah it, mad-
mad-darn. I—l'm an awful poo-poo-pooah waltzah,
y know.” the dance was finished in silence, anJ
Captain Blazer wondered what made Mrs. Merino
so distant to him for the rest of the evening.
The Gloucester Gazette reports that the
fertile banks of the Hunter are gradually being
washed away, this desperate state of things heing
caused by the wash of the large paddle-wheei
steamboats which are allowed to steam up the
river at the top of their speed. Hundreds of
MAJOR-GENERAL SIR GERALD GRAHAM, R.E., V.C., K.C.B.
liounds have been expended in lining: the banks
irith ballast stone with no praotical effect. The
inly effective remedy would be by compelling the
teamboats to steam, up the river at one-half of
ho speed at which they now travel. Doubtless
he suggestion, if acted upon by the proper autho-
itics, would wash.
Says Ruskin, “fors”-ibly, with reference
o Tenniel’B Punch cartoons: “Look, at th a
iharacteristic type of British heroism —‘John Bull
ruards his pudding.’ Is this the iinal outcome of
<ing Arthur and St. George, of Britannia and the
Intish Lion ? And is it your pride or hope or
fleasure that in this sacred island that has given
ler lion hearts to Eastern tombs and her pilgrim
athers to Western lands, that has wrapped the
lea round her as a mantle, and breathed against
ler strong bosom the air of every wind, the
ihildren born to her in these latter days should
save no loftier legend to write upon their shields
:han—‘John Bull guards his puddingl’”
“The Orient Co.’s steamer Austral, now
running between Liverpool and New York, has
Peen pronounced by naval architects in Europe to
pra the third finest vessel afloat, and ranks next to
the Alaska apd Gity of Rome.” All that may be
true enough, but we shall not sail in her. Some-
how, in spite of the chief naval architects of
Europe, we cannot forget a sort of sinking in the
Romach, we experienced when we had just
dpied our tears after parting with friends, and
then found we had to make oue uj3h for it and be
oaok again in the bailiwick we had-dreamt to see
no more. No. The Austral raises too many memo-
ries. Her name is always associated in our minds
with cofferdams, and the shriek t of exultation of
the Ten Lost Tribes who were drawn up in line on
the Quay, and who chorused, “ Veil, s’help Moses,
so you thought you vas out of de ballivick, did
you ? ’
How beautiful upon the mountains is the
pen of the Newcastle Hanby I How sweet to the
ear of the shipwrecked mariner, clinging to his
spar with shivering hands and failing heart, the
cneery shout of the life-boat men “ hold on a bit
longer boy—we're coming,” And in time of war,
when the land of our fathers is drained of her
sturdy sons to wage the bloody strife in foreign
fltlds, and the tidings reach us of a victory wou
and an honourable peace concluded I And then,
again, when Governments totter and fall only to
give place to others equally feeble, and socialism
and anarchy loom all around, a still strong man
arises and points the way out of national disaster,
and once more inspires hope in the restoration of
order. Or, who cannot sympathise with the sense
of holy calm that spreads through the soul of the
bank clerk on the eve of Cup day, when the little
temporary advance of a month’s screw has long
hung wavering in the balance, and he at last
chinks the little yellow things in his pockets, and
goes home to his little cot and sleeps to the lullaby
of a successful double? But these fade beside,
the reliet felt when the dreaded uprising which
seethes around, is quelled by the dulcet Hanby.
He says, “ When the time arrives to shake off our
allegiance to England and her institutions no doubt
it will be by a bloodless revolution.” We don’t
breathe again—we holla.
This is none of your Cup horse dreams
that occur after the event, but a fact vouched for
by a respectable country paper, and endorsed by
the Riverine Star. A gentleman had between
two and three thousand in the Oriental, and
dreamt on two successive nights his coin was not
safe, and so drew out the lot in gold on the Satur-
day. We are sick of everlasting jibes at dreams.
There is something in them, and we can give one
from our own experience showing that somehow
dreams come true. A friend dreamt the night
before the City of Glasgow smashed that he was
speculating on the London Stock Exchange, and
that the Bank shares were falling. He dreamt it
again, butstill paid no heed. He, however, wrote
to a friend in Edinburgh, and, in a gossipy way,
mentioned his dream. On comparing the date
with a letter subsequently received from Sydney,
it was found that a gentleman here had dreamt
that the Union Bank was smashed. But the
strange part of the affair was. that the very day
that the Glasgow Bank went to the wall, the two
shareholders admitted that they had never had
any interest in either Bank, and a Chinaman
named Ah Hing was found dead in his hut in
Cooktownl Oh, there’s something in dreams.
The fate of the Ballet—the dear, delight-
ful Ballet that for centuries has imparted suoh
pernicious pleasure to people of the masculine
persuasion, young and old—especially the latter,
the very latter—is sealed. The Melbourne D.T.,
from its proud position in the belfry of morality,
has commenced to ring the Ballet’s death-knell.
That organ winds up an exhaustive (not to say
spicy) article,on coryphees :— •* The only adequate
cure, however, will be a change of public taste.
It is a gross, ignoble, and shameful appetite
that craves to be fed with the indecencies of the
ballet. But we have faith in the humanity of
public sentiment. Even those who hang with
most delight on the changing movements and
undraped figures of the ballet, if they realised the
real though hidden tragedy of the spectacle,
would turn from it with horror. It is a genuine
‘dance oj death.’” Our heart beats it unison
with that of the D.T. in this matter. For our
part, we always go outside and smoke a cigarette
when the ballet comes on, but are well aware that
many others retain their seats, and polish up their
glasses for the purpose of enjoying the changing
movements of the undraped figures—our grand-
father does, for ins»noe. But, unhappily, we
cannot boast the same sublime “ faith in the
humanity of public sentiment” that the D.T. does.
In these degenerate, opera bouffeu days, publio
sentiment isn’t much of a stickler for humanity—
except on paper— and the popular appreciation
of pairs of legs, and plenty of each pair, is in
nowise qualified by apprehensions for the spiritual
welfare of the possessors of such shapely
extremities.
Somebody sent a letter to a friend of Con-
stable Powpr. of the Manning, asserting that he
(Power) had broken the pledge. His beloved friend
told this in some inconvenient quarter, and Con-
stable Power blew out with a revolver that bit of
ttuffy stuff that had stood him as brain u Where-
upon his wife, who appears to have had more
heart than the lamented deceased had brains, de-
termined to put her brains to better use and hold
on a bit ionger— she is holding on in a lunatic asy-
lum. By a singular chance, about the same time
a,i anonymous letter reached us containing a similar
misrepresentation, but it has been dealt with in
quite a different way. One of our contributors was
charged with having bean seen signing the pledge,
and, to add insult to injury, it was asserted that
he had since then been seen perfectly sober. It
was felt that this was a bit too much. How would
he stand with the members of the staff if it were
found that he uad deserted the old path and taken
up with the new-fangled craze of sobriety? It
was clearly an insinuation of softening of the
brain, and, as such, liable to imperil his literary
status and gains in the lucrative calling of letters.
Enquiries were made, and the malignant scribbler
traced. It was pointvd out to him by a deputation
of literary men that he was raising up against him-
self the whole honourable guild of letters. He
became clearly convinced that his information
had been faulty, and humbly sent around his
apology together with a couple of dozen of cham-
pagne and something handsome for the wife. Oh
no, Mr. Power, that literary man didn’t put out
his brains. He put in the champagne. And his
wife didn’t go to the asylum, neither. She went
to Farmer's and Hordern s every day for a week.
Libel or no libel, the immortal Northern
Miner is not to be trifled with, as long as there is a
stick, a pen, bottle of ink, or a sugar bag to be
obtained. Minister Miles said he would continue
the Charters Towers Sunday trains only so long as
they paid, and “we tell Minister Miles,” says the
immortal Thadeus of Warsaw (for no man sees
more war), “ that Mr. Gehrmann is working with
the snuffle-lusters to pile on the expenses and
make them not pay. If the Minister wants to
get at the real truth, he will consult the employes,
and not Mr. Gehrmann, the permanent head, who
has already shown his petty spite against some of
the employes of the train. If Mr. G. thinks he
can make this train a failure, he may find himself
in the wrong box. He may get himself shifted
somewhere else. . . Every reform in the public
departments, no matter how necessary, is resisted
by the officials. A Minister, entering office with a
heroic determination to remove patent abuses, is
soon brought to his knees by the internal
machinery. The only argument these gentlemen
really will listen to is the order to obey or resign.
Mr. Miles is practically ousted from office by
Gehrmann and one or two more mere servants of
the department.” Right you are, Thadeus.
Although we do not know, at this distance, the
merits of the case, we do know that to dub a
man responsible Minister, and hand him over to be
a lump of putty in the hands of men swaddled m
red tape and office traditions, is the curse of every
Australian Government. The State pays Civil
servants for professional advice, but Ministers are
paid to use that advice purely in the interests of
the public, and regardless of the old mud-headed,
cobwebbed fossils who have ‘•jumped” Minis-
terial responsibilities.
Says a Wagga paper“ A letter from the
poet Burns, believed to bo the only such document
in the colonies, has just been purchased by the
Canterbury Caledonian Society for £lO. The letter
is nearly 100 years old, and contains the poet's
directions for forwarding his correspondence
while away from home,” and goes on to say that
three times as much has been given in Scotland
for similar documents, and that the society (oh,
Sawney, Sawney, e’en in thy worship lives thy
wonted thrift) considered that it was “ remark-
ably cheap.” Where is that old woman that flung
the stool at the parson’s head for his Popish rot ?
Isn’t there a Popery of patriotism, when a people
first send their greatest man to gauge beer barrels,
and starve him, and afterwards lavish wealth to
procure such a relic as this? Had it been the ori-
ginal draft of Tam O’Shanter, or Highland Mary,
one could understand a sort of curiosity to see it.
But to see men sit in solemn conclave, and vote
£lO to see how Rab Burns said “Dearsir, Send
my letters round by Pyrmont, instead of by Bal-
main,” was reserved for us. And if he had spun
the letter out, and explained the rates by ferry,
’bus, and tram—Lord, why, £lOO would be “cheap.’’
Probably, this Burns document, to fifty out of the
hundred gentlemen amongst whom it was “passed
round and critically examined,” represents the
sum total of their acquaintance with the poet’s
works—for though every Scotchman quotes him,
who ever saw one reading him. However, we are
just as bad. We know more about John Brown's
legs than about the shrewd common sense that
enabled him to tap beer barrels in the cellars of
royalty, when perhaps some Burns was below,
measuring them—“ Measure No. 00. Burns, and be
quick about it. I’m unco drouthy I ”
Blood will tell, and unless we watch and
Kand sit on his head, the “ old Adam ” that is
all will break out and cut up rough occasion-
ally. “ They say ” that the pretty Lome Louise
smokes cigarettes in a style calculated to make the
saddle-coloured Queen of Tahiti swear, that she
talks slang, and sometimes acts up quite opera-
bouffeshly. Rumour also declares that the Markiss
frequently gives her a bit of his mind (he hasn’t
any too much for himself), and then Loo jaws
back, and asks him what would he be to-day if he
hadn’t married into property. According to an
old Eastern seer, marriage is like a bag which con-
tains 99 snakes and one eel. The party getting
spliced dips his hand in the sack and pulls out the
eel—sometimes; but, as a rule, the snakes come
out the oftenest. And it looks to us as if the
Argyll family (God bless ’eml) don’t always get
hold of the eel, for we find that in the Divorce
Court, London, recently, a hearing was commenced
in the suit for a judicial separation brought by the
beautiful Lady Colin Campbell nee Miss Gertrude
Blood, against her husband, Lord Colin Campbell,
the fifth son of the Duke of Argyll, and brother or
the Marquis of Lome. The hearing of the case is
conducted in the strictest secresy, by special com-
mand of the Queen, who fears the public scandal
that will attach to more than one noble family if
the comiDg revelations are not strictly guarded.
Lady Campbell, the appellant in this case, is the
daughter of an Irish gentleman, a resident of the
county Clare. Verily, the aristocracy seems to
have tumbled on troubled times-one half of them
being kept busy with matters of judicial separa-
tion, and the bulk of the balance in keeping them-
selves from being sent to gaol for card-sharpiDg,
indecent assaults, and such like frivolities.
One of the most cheery little social cus-
toms in vogue in the land of pop-corn and presi-
dents is the practice of calling on one’s friends on
New Year’s Day, and wishing them a jolly good
time as you fill up your tauk with whatever style
of fluids happens to be lying around. On the last
recurrence of this glad festival, old Mr. Nose-
blossom pranced gaily off just after breakfast, and
his subsequent adventures are thus recorded:—
Call No. 1 (Hydrometer shows J4ineh of wine).
“ I wish you a happy New Year, Miss Yere,
With all that the wish implies I
May the sky of your life be bright and clear,
And as fair as your assure eyes.”
Cali, No. 7 (Hydrometer records four inches of
whisky).
“ Wish you hap’ New Year, Miss Duff,
And ’speot I may call again
Some time when I think I know ’nough
To waltz in an’ outer th’ rain.”
Calu No. 13 (Hydrometer increased by seven inches
of rum.)
“ Wishoc Hap’ N’ Year, Mish Page 1
Hope you’ll have thousan’s more;
For you’re gettin’ long quite well in age,
An’ you’re nearin’ t’ Gold’n Shoah.
Hooray 1”
Call No. 37. (Hydrometer points to of
lager beer.)
“ Wisher Hap’ N’ (hie) Mish Mace I
'Scuse (hie) me! ’mawful tir’d.
Felsho shick (hie) t’ other place,
Thought whas goin’ ter git bell-flr’d I
Nev shay die ! Hoor— (hie)— ray !”
Call No, 10 (No record. Hydrometer broken.)
“‘Shap’ N’ Y’r! Whoop! three timesh three!
Whozzamazza (hie) wish ’ish had ?
Feelsh if wash on ’nawful shpree !
(Hie) ” (’Twas his last New-Year’s call.)
Dead March in Saul.


Balmy sleep, good digestion, picb blood,
elastic step and cheerfulness Ip Hop Bitters. Bead
believe.
Catarrh of the Bladder.— Stinging irritation,
inliamation, all Kidney and similar Complaint,s
cured by “ Buchu-paiba.” Moses, Moss & go.
Sydney, General Agents.
A Fact Worth Knowing.— Are you suffering
with Consumption, Coughs, Severe Colds settled
on the Breast, Pneumonia, or any disease of the
Throat and Lungs ? If so, go to your Druggist
and get a bottle of Boschee's German Syrup. The
people are going wild over its success, and Drug-
gists all over our country are writing us of its
wonderful cures among their customers. It has
by far the largest sale of any remedy, simply
because it is of so much value in all affections of
this kind.. Chronio cases quiokly yield to it.
Dr nggists recommend it and physicians prescribe
it. If you wish to try its superior virtue, get a
Sample Bottle for 6d. Large size bottle, 3s. 6d.
Three doses will relieve any case. Try It.
Thoroughly satisfied that it
CONQUERS PAIN.
Palace Emporium,
Havmarket, Sydney.
The Editor Bulletin.
Dear Sir,— ~ ,
I cheerfully add my testimony to the Rood
effects deriveable from the use of ST. JACOBS
OIL as demonstrated in my own household. Some
few week® ago my wife Buffered severely from
S>ains in her head. She applied the Oil with excel-
ent results, and h is since recommended it to a
riend for a case of swelling in the legs, in which
case the result wuo equally beneficial. It has been
used by members of my family, and its action has
satisfied my most sanguine expectations. I con-
sider it a most valuable preparation to have by
you for any household accident. I recommend it
confidently to my friends, and am thoroughly
satisfied “It Conquers Pain.”
Irem^rou^iV™.
(This testimonial is from a highly respected em-
in the employ of Messrs. A. Hordern and
Sons, and bears the endorsement of that colossal
firm).
£lOO—A Cash Reward of £lOO will be paid by the
Charles A. Vogeler Company, of Baltimore, Mary-
land, U.S.A.. proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by
tbelr accredited local representatives in various
parts of the world, to any person producing proof
to the effect that the testimonials published by
them in regard to St. Jacobs Oil are not strictly
genuine. Price in N.S.W., Half'a-Crownabottle.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS. Sydney,
Wholesale Depot for N.S.W.
I feel it a duty
To inform you, and through you all who are inter-
ested to know the fact, that a most disagreeable
and obstinate case of Salt Rheum or Eczema, which
has been under my personal observation from its
firBtappe trance to the present time,—about ten
(10) j ears,—covering the greater portion of the
patient’s body and limbs with its peculiar irritating
and itching scab, and to which all the known
methods of treating such disease had been applied
without be eflt, has completely disappeared,
leaving a clean and healthy skin, under a profuse
application of the Cutioura Remedies. I can and
do heartily advise all similarly afflioted to try the
remedy which has been so effectuaHn tols^oa^
Law Omcfß, 2ft State St , Boston.
WeakNervousMen
r
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay
and failure t® perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errci-3 of youth, etc.,
will hud a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
THEMARSTON BOLUS.
iNeither stomach drugging nor
instruments. Thistrentmentof
Nervous .Debility and
_ Physical Decay isuniformVy
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct methods and absolute t hor-
oughness, Fnll information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDYCO., 52Castlereagh St., Sydney
J. TURNER ROBINSON A CO.'S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Georgo-stroet,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ABSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
f3ST* Fashionable and First-olass GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
a
BULL-DOG ALB.—IT Is not the clearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this brand first in public estima-
tion. Common bitter crude beers arc made very
fine, but no other brand has the same mellow
vinous character, the fullness on the palate,
and the great keeping qualities of the BULL-
DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cautioned
against traders who for the sake of an extra
profit represent the common beers referred to
as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTELL
& CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents : WOOD
BROTHERS & CO,
WRIGHT,HEATON&GO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.!
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.S.W.:
Goulburn
7&B8
Bowning
Blnaloag
Harden
Young
Cootamundr*
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Kook
Culcairn
Cowabee
Narander
Hulong
Carratnool
Hay
Wkstbhn District, N.8.W.:
Capertee
Bathurst
Blajney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northern District, N.8.W.:
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
Walgett
Brewarrina
Tamworth
Uralla
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Lines
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Yeulba
Cambooya
Central Line:
Rockhampton
Emerald
Capella
Comet
Northern Line
Townsville
Charters Towers
Ravenawoob Junotion
Agents In Victoria and South Australia:
VU. M'CULLOCH & 00., LIMITED.
QT Agencies in all parte of the world.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALB
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. 80RIN and Co.’B
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Sob napps and Geneva.
A. MELV tiTand SONS'
Edinbuign Pale £ .e.
Foster ’s Bugle Brand.
GENUINE EXTRA
STOUT.
m
ss
'-.i
K’' V\ I *
m
o
BASS PALE ALB!.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINBIJ
MERCHANTS.
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
MOIILTOirS
f
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON'S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cored, not merely relieved, and
wo can prove what wo say. There are no failures and no
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promoto DIGESTION, relievo distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it ia possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, l»ric© la. 3<l.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
£
K ADI
Ma
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite brand
of Stout selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
cannot be excelled. To he procured every whore.
CATTKLL & CO„ Bole Agents.
TONIC NERVINE
REGISTERED.
A SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring: from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss or
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, &c. By its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
for Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4s. 6d., or 255. a case,
gold everywhere. 8o!e Proprietors. MARSHALL
BROTHERS, M.P.S., Manufacturing Chemißtsr,
104 and 106 Market-street, near Hyde Park,
Rvdnev. N.R.—All Imitation* illega l . TAKE NQ
SUBSTITUTE.
THE PETERSHAM MOSOUITO.
In the delightful village of Petersham,
•where youth are fairly fed, worse dressed, and
occasionally provided with pocket-money, dwelt a
man of profound understanding as is evidenced
bv his having taken up in youth the literary pro-
fession, thus securing an honoured leisure in me,
and no end of praise when he has been fairly
identifled in the morgue and placed under a pin-
nacled monument like Kendall's, with an inscrip-
tion (such as ha frequently ponders over in the
cemetery) like Fitzpatrick s—nit. At the date of
this history, he was engaged in an elaborate at-
tempt to prove that the land systems of 18.1, of
Mr Fame 11, of Mr. George, Mr. Mill, M. r
HeVdon, were all based on the assumption that the
nroper way to settle the question of land was to
settle the Land question. The editor of this paper, on
scanning the article, reluctantly said that twe ve
columns of figures would make the paper a trifle
heavy, and the subject was abandoned. The
philosopher had, therefore, to throw over bis pet
subject, and hit upon another.
* * *
One night, when the strange sunset had
faded away into a blue nearly as deep as his own
circumstances, and the next-door neighbour had
refused further advances of candle, he tossed
about ou his embroidered;couch, revolving the end
nf the world, the probable destiny of unelect
Kootcbmcn, and the ultimate restoration of hairy
coats, handy tails, and coooa-nut sprees on the
tree tops. He thought of riches, poverty and the
price of meat-of Kartoum, and dummyism, and
M’Elhone, but all to no purpose. Everything had
been said. He thought of an elegy on the faultan
of Sooloo, because nobody knew him, and a fare-
well ode to Normanby, because nobody wants to.
Historical sketches were worked out—everybody
of worth having already been fairly misrepre-
sented. At this stage came the Great Unknown.
The philosopher had only got up twice just to pull
the last neighbour's dog out of his well, drive the
grocer’s cow out of his yard without milking her,
smack little Sammy to sleep tor asking tor bread,
and had turned in to ruminate, as we said, with no
sound to break the stilly night but the boss snoring
of a publican up on the Parramatta itoad
distance one mile. #
The voice started away up somewhere near
the southern Cross, and was a pure tenor, with a
finely sustained lower range reaching down to
about three thousand octaves beyond_ C in alt.
Plis soul became calm as when he used to lisp in
childhood—
“ Now I lay me down to sleep.”
The whole troop of ancient and modern enemies
vanished. The splinters in his feat ceased to ache;
he no longer speculated what amount of rat-
powder would destroy a bail! f, and he felt as
happy as if he saw two days ahead with the wood-
man, or was Treasurer and Commissioner of Audit
at the same time, tor the rest of his lite. Nearer
and nearer came the celestial visitor—more and
more distinct his firm, unwavering tones, turning
iust a little into pathos, as he came past the top
right hand poster, and then, with a clarion blast,
calling his legions to war, the General swept down
with a Balaclava charge on eyes, nose, ears, mouth
aud hands, and proceeded to sabre ; Ihe philoso-
pher smacked his own outposts. His face was like
a Plevna alter the third attack; and as the corpses
blackened his arid brow, his nosy citadel, and be-
came heaped up in eye and ear trenches, he groaned
“ Oh, for the pen of a Forbes.” On they came,
regiment after regiment, trampling over dead
bodies, and mingling in turn with the slain. The
enemy carried on the conflict like the feromous
legions of El Mahdi-life was no object. Hour
alter hour the conflict raged. The philosopher
recalled the strategy of Charles XII. of smok-
ing out the enemy—but they fought through the
sulphurous canopy, and came to closer quarters.
The philosopher's matches gave out. He brand-
ished a slipper, till, like his own, the 8^ le ..
way; he felt for his boot, but couldn t And it, and
bitterly quoted: “Would God that daylight or
Blucher were here.”
• • •
Day dawned, and the enemy drew off.
But still —
“ He beard the distant and random shots
That the foe were sullenly firing,
and his “ bugle sang truce ” when the fuller day-
light revealed his enemy perched on the bedpost
Drenaring for sleep. “General, stid the philo-
sopfier, “what am I to understand by this night
attack ? I have never Invaded your territory—
the Newtown quarry holes, the Marnckville
swamps, the Necropolis, or the Petersham drain-
age works. lam a man of huge cares, and a man
of peace. When I heard your voice, I welcomed it
as a voice from heaven—one of those angel voices
that come when all else is what you may term
somewhat bung. Now that this cruel war is over
now that your sleeping legions are satiated with
the blood of a man of peace, and my countenanco
Is one scene of devastation, and my soul one sea
of blasphemy—tell me why this irruption ? Come
nearerl General, I would give you my paim.
“ Don’t doubt but what you would, said the
General, resting his gorged paunch against a soft
thread in the curtain, and winking. But, if you
want any information, Colonel, here s my history
in short. I was born in Marnckville, and educated
there. I followed the profession of my father,
Whom I never knew. None of us know our
fathers. We are hungry orphans. When we reach
the Marrickville standard of two inches high, and
can drink all night off a person s face and not hear
him swear, or carouse over a politician and hear
him mutter in his sleep the true reason for his
vote, we are ready. We league together for the
grand campaign. We move for the heights ot
Petersham as ‘efficient.’ We have been here two
days planning this, and now ” (Here the Gene-
ral burst into tears and muttered, My poor
starving troops-my brave starving troops. This
night we have indeed been routed. ) What I
roared the philosopher, “am I not one pool
of blood?” “Look at yourself in the glass.
There was nothing hut one black surface
—no streak of red, bar a slight Flow on
the nose that would shine through all the
ashes of a Sunda eruption. • Sir, said the
Generalwe had heard of you My ambition was
fired to revel in your blood. I have fought mil-
lions of battles, hut this crushes me. I was told by
legions of returned warriors that you had no
blood and that you were impregnable. Tis true.
You have starved out my army—l die. He here
fell with a crash to the floor, and the philosopher,
having carefully measured the body, found it that
of a middle-aged mosquito. The age he dates
from Macquarie's time. Weight about 17 ounces,
and measu.e of wing from tip to tip nine inches
and three-quarters. ~ . .. .
[We may add that the mosquito in question is
on view in our office. We may also add that the
philosopher did not need to lie in bed to get black
in the face.— Ed.]
The Dog In the Manger.
A FABLE.
‘ I am more than ever convinced,” said the
dog, as he was kicked out of a pantry and strolled
gloomily off to rob a hen’s nest, “that the onjy
principle regulating the distribution of power in
this world is, that he who hath must hold, and he
who hath not, and fails to secure a share of the fat
of the earth, will be patted at the wrong end in
proportion to his industry.’’ Having dejivered
nimself of this reflection, he jumped into a
manger, tucked a comfortable wat of ensilage
around him, swore a bit on missing the old mousy
aroma of barn hay, and went to sleep with one
eye. An ox came up and said “Your pardon, sir,
but T have no end of stomachs waiting for that
nutritious mattress of yours. Might I suggest
that as the whole surface of the globe is open
for sleeping accommodation, you will kindly
take your one stomach elsewhere, and per-
mit me to regale mine with its accustomed
fare?” “Do 1 understand,” asked the astonished
dog, “ that in a world such as this, you expect any
one to abandon, of his own free will, a position he
is able to maintain, simply because some others
may benefit by the change ? 'lhe grass must have
been very green which nourished your youth
sublime. No, sir, I shall not get up until my
frame has received the full measure of what I
deem kind Nature's sleep. Yes, that’s it—sleep.”
“But,” .argued the ox, “consider my case. Ido
not deny the strength of your position, but I plead
my own necessities. There is drought in the land.
We are slain in thousands, and you fatten on our
misfortunes. How do you reconcile this avarice
with common animal feeling?” “It's our chuck
in,” yawned the dog. “But, my dear sir. I must
have a mouthful ’’—reaching out for it. “So must
I,” said the dog, pinning him by the nose. Just
then the owner of the ox came in, and drove a
hay-fork through the dog, who died saying he died
in defence of his rights. The owner of the dog
came in and shot the man, who died ia defence of
his rights. The owner was hanged in defence of
his rights, and the hangman writes the moral.
Moral: When a rope is made of good yarn, it’s
always safe to drop it. [Who said we didn’t keep
an i®sop of our own ?-Ed.]
When, perhaps, the promotors of laud lot-
teries, racing sweeps aud church bazaars are driven
into the same paddock by an equally administered
law, and are either slaughtered outright or given
badges authorising them to scurry abreast through
a patient community, some brilliant genius may
take a look at the share market, and point out
where honesty ends and swindling begins. The
look need not be a very long one, but when he
proceeds with the pointing out, he may count on
finding himself in a national cyclone. In the
region of mining shares, especially, he will be
blown about and battered. Down at—s&y Poppet
Heads—Victoria, a discussion is at present going
on which shows the enterprising outside public
how little alter all they know about the depth of
holes into which they put their money. If the dis-
cussion concerned the mere laches of a manager,
or the bogus display of a directory of leading
names, there would be little necessity to draw
serious attention to it. These things are known
to exist everywhere. But it i 3 the basis of
the information in which the public lay trust that
has come up for examination. In the case of a
mine with an established reputation, the posting
of the daily yield is recognised as a duty which tho
management owes to those interested, and to the
speculative public at large. This return is the
basis on which subsequent sales or purchases of
shares are! made. If the return be false, there is
only one word to characterise it. Bat a plan has
been discovered, or, at all events, put in force, at
Poppet Heads, admitting by a dexterous manipula-
tion of words, an escape from the charge of falsifi-
cation, and at the same time conferring on “ the
knowing one 3 ” all the advantages which falsifica-
tion could bestow. The manager of the Strike-
Me Luckv gold mine has, it appears, bren following
a practice which he defends, and of which, indeed,
1 even in the metropo.is, many defenders have dis-
covered themselves, namely, that of reserving a
portion from a large daily yield, and putting it
with a small one. This reserve may represent many
hundred ounces, and the principle on which it is
kept back is to prevent fluctuations in the values
of Bhares. Whatever advantage may be obtained in
that way, and it is far from being apparent in such
a speculative pursuit as gold-mining where the
ultimate advantage ctn lie, the man who goes into
the market and invests his money does it with the
returns immediately before him. Forexample, he
sees that Monday’s yield wss 300 oz , Tuesday’s
2500 z., Wednesday's 3000 z., and he buys on
Thursday. When he gets behind the scenes, how-
ever, he is liable to find that Wednesday’s yield
was actually less than Monday’s, and that the
actual yiel i of each day was much swelled by the
manager’s manipulation of his reserve. Thurs-
days yield on the return will, as liiely as not,
return to Monday’s figures, even though on Thurs-
day no more than a couple of ounces be actually
realised. This illustrates the principle of hoarding
a reserve known only to the manager and his
sluiceman, and of distributing it in the way which
to him seems right. It is claimed that directors oi
mines in which th s principle obtains are kept in
the dark by the managers as to the amount of the
reserves; and that may be admitted. The system
would call for more summary treatment if, with
such returns to guide the public, the directors
were in possession of such qualifying secrets. But
there can be no doubt that the principle is bad, as
there can be no doubt that the retprn: co rked in
this way are, on the face of them, dishonest. [The
directors kept in the dark ? Tell that to these who
—haven’t been behind the scenes.- Ed. 8.l


Tlie Bail and Worthless
are never imitated or counterfeited. This is es-
pecially true of a family medicine, and it is positive
proof that the remedy imitated is of the highest
value. As soon as it had been tested and proved
by the whole world that Hop Bitters was the pur-
est, best and most valuable family medicine on
earth, many imitations sprung up and began to
steal the notices in which the press and the people
of the country had expressed the merits of H. 8.,
and in every way trying to ioduce suffering in-
valids to use tbeir stuff instead, expecting to make
money on the credit and good name of H. B.
Many others started nostrums put up in similar
style to H. 8., with variously devised names In
which the word “ Hop ” or “ Hops ” were used in
a way to induce people to believe they were the
same as Hop Bitters. All sueh pretended remedies
or cures, no matter what their style or name is,
and especially those with the word “Hop” or
‘ Hops ’ in their name or in any way connected
with them or their name, are imitations or counter-
feits. Beware of them. Touch none of them. Pse
nothing but genuine American Hop Bitte. s, with
a bunchK)n cli . _ . •- J —
label, And ,Dr
Trust nothing
warned agaim
felts.
UStar £>t green Heps on the won*
. Sotfle.'S'jiiyije blown in the glass.
eJsev. and Chemists are
st defitpg or oounter*
ROMEO AND JULIET.
In ’54 it was. We were living then under
Canvas at (say) Dead Crow Gully out Bendigo way
in Victoria. It wa3 surface work and panned off
gorgeous'y, and every day a hundred new tents
appeared. A right royal time, “ spi ightly, waking,
audible, and full of vent,” a time of two ounces a
day and square gin for all. A time when the earth
grew red and honey-combed, when the dirtAew
up into the air out of incredibly small prospecting
holes, when the loi g-handied shovels Hashed in
the sun, when the picks rose and fell, when the
cradles rocked, and the outtnro wn tailings rattled,
and the water dippers dipped. (By the way, that
last sentence would go in as poetry of the new
epoch if it only had Walt Whitman s name to it.)
But in the excitement of gold-getting, in tho stress
and push Of transaction, our minds grew hungry
for some manner of high spiced aliment. There
were no churches within reach, and gambling was
too much a matter of stern everyday business to
to be regarded as a recreation* and was conse-
quently rather neglected on the Sabbath. A stroll
out to the “convincing ground,” where the little
differenots of the week were adjusted with bare
Asts, an odd dog-Agbt or kangaroo hunt, and a
laborious reseating of moleskin pants, were the
chief features of the Day of Rest. Now and then
there was a murder, but they were mostly poor
spiritless affairs, and attracted but little attention.
Once we lynched a fellow for not shooting a
Chinaman who triAed with his washdirt, but tho
affair dragged horribly. Hosubmitted to be strung
up almost without expressing an opinion about It,
and at the foot of the eucalyptus decliried to make
any speech whatever, so lynching grew to be oon-
Jolly good f’lers.
Strange th’ pavement should heave so.
Fortunate thing I kep’ sober.
’Stror dinary predicament. If I le’ go,
I’m ’fraid th’ lam’ post ’ll fall down.
He meets a friend. Give ’shand, ole man.
Really can’t get’long till thisli pavementsh
put in order.
Oblivion.
lidered a bore, and fell into disuse. It was then,
when the want of food for the miud was growing
Titanic, that someone proposed to work up
an amateur theatrical performance to provide
funds to bring up Castlemaine Jake and matoh
him against Hare-lipped Huggins for £5O aside.
The idea took root like a thistle-seed. Tbo boys
Set to work like giants, and, out of many small
tents sewn together, formed a huge marquee,
which was to serve for the play first and the fight
afterwards. “Romeo and Juliet” was the piece
Chosen, for the diggers swore with one voice that
“old Shakspeare” should have first show at Dead
Crow Gullv. Unfortunately, there were no ladies
tvith any histrionic grasp in the community, so
Whitechapel Joe—who, by the way, was known to
possess science—was cast for the part of the love-
sick daughter of Capulet. Lady Montague and
Lady Capulet were cut out, and the Nurse was
enacted by Prank W (who, at the present
speaking, is a Senator of the United States).
Juliet had a moustache and a hopeful goatee,
Which sbe declined to sacrifice to stage require-
ments* and Tybalt had never been seen sober, but
these were considered trifles light as air. In due
Course the night that was to witness the first
dramatic performance in the world’s history at
Dead Crew Gully arrived,and the tent(orP jvilion,
with a big P, as we called it in the handbills—we
got them printed in Melbourne at an enormous
Cost) was crowded by a vast and fashionable
Audience, attired in their best shirts of red
or blue, many of which had been recently
washed. The drop scene, which represented
the Goddess of Love, or Liberty, or Something,
handing the horn of Plenty to a top-booted digger
seated smoking a short clay on an enormous
nugget, had only como up from Castlemaine by a
bullock waggon that day, and, in the hurry of a
flnal rehearsal, the management could not find
time to have it hung. So this was hurriedly done
at the last moment, as the audience were Aling in.
At last the word was given to the orchestra (two
Addlers, who played different tunes in different
keys by ear, and who regarded each other with
open hostility) to strike up “God Save the Queen,”
which was considered the proper thing witn which
to usher in the big work of art. Then the clothes-
line was untied and the great roller fell, and a
Dead Sea silence fell on the public, which changed
to a roar of applause that made the stars shiver, as
the delighted diggers read the two inscriptions on
the white surface of the scene: “F. fimifh, tent-
maker, Castlemaine;” and “ SuperAae Flour, S.
ttamsden, Carlton,” and understood the position.
The scene was inside out! The players ia the
dressing-room knew at once that no mere appre-
ciation of Art could have stirred up so much en-
thusiasm, so Benvolio and the Nurse (the latter
in a semi-nude condition) came out to remedy the
trouble. Tho sceno was cut down and rolled up
and once more hung, amid the most merciless
chaff, and the “band” started at “Con-found-
their-pu-li-tics ” once more, and once more the
scene fell, and the yell arose “ nearer, clearer,
deadlier than before.” This time it was
upside down, and nothing more comic than
the inverted goddess, apparently trying to save
herself by hanging to the thin end of the
horn, or the digger sprawling under the weight of
the nugget could be conceived. It was a quarter
of an hour before the sea calmed down enough to
recognise that the Arst Addle was playing “Oh,
dear! what can the matter be?” and that Friar
Laurence was counselling him in singularly
modern words to stop it or have his gory head
knocked off. By and bye, though, it all came
right, and an hour after time the first aot was put
on. It went off well—surprisingly well—for awhile.
The boys were in earnest, and tried to avoid all
but unavoidable burlesque, but the unavoidable
burlesque came in heavy at the end of the first
seene ip Act 2, where the “ fiery Tybalt ” is slain
8^a B’ e " Here the scenes should
shut to and hid© him, but there was a hitch some-
whera, and they would only partly close. But
Tybalt, who lay with his back to the audience, was
unaware of this, and, believing himself to be be-
hind the scenes, came promptly to life again, and
sitting up, drew a whisky-flask from within his
aQ d drank deeply therefrom. This genuine
holding up of the mirror ” moved the gods—they
were all gods in those days—to frantic applause,
but it upset the possibility of serious Shakespeare
It was the great hit of the evening, and the next
greatest was the wind-up, which came about thus:
Juliet, during the fourth act, had been across to
the “Diggers’ Rest” (where Tybalt now lay, not
dead, but speeohless) on four separate occasions
for rum (on one of which the prompter had
to interfere to prevent her from “slouching ’’
Canadian Bill, who took advantage of her garb to
make remarks) and was Inclined to “gag” in the
most unwarrantable manner. But they over-
looked all that, and Juliet had correctly said her
last sad words—“ O, happy dagger! This is thy
sheath—there rust, and let me die.” Having said
this, she plunged the dagger in herself, but forget-
ting, or not having leisure, to die, started for the
pub. again, by the left wing. But here the
prompter stood, and the diggers heard his sibilant
words p l ®!—d n you, die! Fail; you b—y
nnaJoi •< . D d “, 1 d< V’ the y heard her
answer, an’ you can’t make me. ’ That was
enough in those breezy times. Two minutes later,
Juliet s bead was held in chancery by the prompter,
and Romeo, who had risen from the dead purposely
to Interfere, was knocked through the canvas by
the Apotheoary, who in turn was laid out by An Old
Man, uncle to Capulet who was plugged in the ear-
hole by Friar John, who got it below the belt from
Escalus, who was up-ended by a Citizen of Verona.
Then we lost tal y, and the skirmishing became
general, and the audience took sides and fought
till the tent was torn to rags, “and all tho pave-
ment streamed with massacre.” But after all they
say of the good old days, and the enervating in-
Auence of modern innovations in Shakespearian
acting, we must say we’d rather see Irving and
Terry at their worst, than risk another such
Homeric performance.
Somebody told the Whittlesea people that
the age was getting ahead of them. They shook
themselves and looked around The age used not
to do this in the older times. Somebody pointed
to the Plenty Valley and the 24,000 acres under
selection, and said, “ Ye must be drunk; ye haven’t
a foot of railway along there.” “ Not drunk,”
cried the Whittlesea people, jumping up, “only
hncussed with the Yan Yean. Where’ll we strike ?”
“Order up some whisky,” said somebody, “and
get Cameron to bring the Ministers up to Morris’s,
All them to the chins, and make them promise ye a
line.” Whittlesea acted on the advice. Cameron
liked It, an 1 two or three other twenty-Ave pounds
a month men were willing to go to the Andes for a
feed, and so something like a deputation sidled
round for Service and Gillies and Deakin, and
asked them up to Morris’s. Service had handed
over a New Caledonian newspaper to his secretary,
saying, “There’s a dictionary and the darned thing,
and make it into English, so that I can see how
much the world is afraid of me;” and he had no
more to do for the day. Gillies and Deakin were
also ready for a spin. Off they went and got
into Morris’s at midday. The poor deluded
Whittlesea people were all about the doors. They
were sure they had struck luck straight, and that
the railway was as good as laid. And the way the
Ministers made at their chairs and caught the
bottles by the neck confirmed the hallucination.
In a little, Service got up. He was 'going to say
“You’ll get your railway?” No, he wasn’t. He
told them that he was a Liberal, and always had
been, and that his illustrious colleague was a Con-
servative, and always had been, and that since the
Deluge no two men of equal calibre had had such
a grip of the destinies of a country; and as for the
recidivistes, the devilish infiltration of the recidi-
vistes—as for the recidivistes-why, the recidivistes
—yes, the recidivistes— “What about our rail-
way ?” asked a man who had given three notes to
help to pay for the liquor. “ Wait a while,” said
another victim; “he's not drunk enough yet.”
But the great Victorian orator went on, “ The
recidivistes, yes, the recidivistes—now, the recidi-
vistes ” “Our railway !” howled several im-
patient men, who saw all their liquor going ;
for, while the Premier was on his legs,
Gillies and Deakin were active. “ Railway,
railway?” asked the orator. “Did anyone
bring me here about a railway?” “Yes,”
whispered Cameron. “Never heard anything
about it,” said the Premier, and then he dipped
down and drew the bottle over. And Gillies got
up and said, “ We’ll not sav you’ll ever see a rail-
way, but maybe you will.” And then Deakin got
up and said, “ Bother about the railway, but we’re
jolly gool fel —.” And the Ministers cleared the
tah' <ut into their buggies and were back again
in M iDourne at sundown. The Whittlesea people
are still standing there with their thumbs in their
mouths. All they said when the Ministers had
gone was, “ 'Tamil waterspouts, such a waste of
whisky, and we had to stand It all. We are behind
the age!”
The fire brigade men of Carlton and th«
deacons of the Independent Church In Rathdown
street are at loggerheads. The brigade men want
to open a barrack near the church.
enough, the deacons whoop. It is not easy to see
what impelled the young men of Carlton to declare
war against the Church at this juncture, but
whatever the impulse was, both sides are Aghtim?
the battle out, by petitions and counter-petitioDß
before the civic authorities. A few people say the
young men should be let have their barrack there
But these people doi't see behind the scenes. Wn
unhesitatingly affirm that the young men should
be made keep their engines at the opposite end of
the town. Our affirmation may be set down to
prejudice or partiality. But on momentous ques-
tions such as this we stand equally balanced under
the blue empyrean, and feeling is subordinated to
judgment. Therefore, our affirmation stands
Some people ask, What harm is it for young men
to be there to keep a Are down ? But that foolish
question is at once answered by inquiring, What
is the Independent Church there for but to
keep the fire up ? There is no use in quibbling
and the persistent people who say that one Are is
immaterial and the other material seek in vaia a
loophole for their inanity. The Independent
Church does not, as a body, suppose that the Are it
keeps up is immaterial; but even though that
point were yielded to captious fencers, it is cer-
tainly within the experience of every man of
common sense that some of the proudest feats of
the brigade, and many of the best evidences of
their devotion to duty, and of their spirit of self-
sacriAce and abandonment to the welfare cf the
community, were evoked, not by material, but by
immaterialjAres. These things being so—interests
in keeping up a Are directly clashing with interests
in pulling down a Are—we reiterate that the dea-
cons are right, and that the young men of CarltoA,
hose, engines, aud all, should be driven at leasts
mile away from the site already occupied by a suc-
cessful industry.


THE
GNO
Piano.
~ Mm
lIP
k I -
m
THE
PIA2TO
Is the MOST SUCCESSFUL Instrument ever in-
troduced to Australia. SUPERIOR to all others
Finish” SZe iD Tone ’ Touch * Durability, and
THE
Mig-non
Is Iron-framed, Double Oblique Trichord, and
Seven Octaves in compass, in beautiful Walnut
or Ebomsed Case, or Gold Engraved.
THE
Mignon
Is the BEST and CHEAPEST Piano in Sydney. No
piano ever had such a sale as the “ MIGNON.
THE
W ilmer
ANOTHER BIG SUCCESS!
One of the LARGEST and BEST-CONSTRUCTED
Pianos ever made.
FULL-TONED I
BEAUTIFUL QUALITY I
PERFECTION OF TOUCH !
ALWAYS RECOMMENDS ITSELF I
THE
W ilmer
Illustrated catalogues of the "MIGNON,”
WILMEtV and all other good instruments, to
De had on application.
NICHOLSON AND GO.,
325 George-street,
THE FIRST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR PIANOS
AND ORGANS.
C. B. HI OD I Ml,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY 1
ijfiMAQNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
Breech and Muzzle-Loading: Guns and
Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
TOaranteed at 803 GEORGE STREET. A choice
stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
anJt? work and repairs executed equal to
N n Ur ?P ean workmanship.
u ole A^ent for Australia of the celebrated
dnn; * r S akcr - Chas. Osbornk ; also Angelo Bor-
of Brescia, Italy.
Champagne
Heidsleck & Co’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
Agents for Heidsleck & Co.. Reims.
jj OBE R t BUTC'BEB 4 0 «
(Late William Long),
® r ' WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOBITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Qrd
prompt afcLntion.
Rev. Father Wilds’
EXPERIENCE.
Tho Rev. Z. P. Wilds, well-known city
missionary in New York, and brother
of the late eminent Judge Wilds, of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, writes
as follows:
<8 E. 54 th St., New York, May 16,1882.
Messrs, j. c. Ayer & Co., Gentlemen :
Last winter I was troubled with a most
uncomfortable itching humor affecting
more especially my limbs, which itched so
intolerably at night, and burned so intense-
ly, that 1 could scarcely bear any clothing
over them. I was also a sufferer from a
severe catarrh and catarrhal cough; my
appetite was poor, and m.y system a good
deal run down. Knowing the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, by observation of
many other cases, and from personal use
m former years, 1 began taking it for the
above-named disorders. My appetite im-
proved almost from the first dose. After
a short time the fever and itching were
allayed, and all signs of irritation of tho
B.un disappeared. My catarrh and cough
nere also cured by the same means, and
my general health greatly improved, until
it is now excellent. I feel a hundred per
cent stronger, and I attribute these results
to the use of the Sarsaparilla, which
I recommend with all confidence as the
best blood medicine ever devised. I took
it in small doses three times a day, and
used, in all, less than two bottles. 1 place
these facts at your service, hoping their
publication may do good.
Yours respectfully, Z. P. WILDS.”
The above instance is but one of the many
constantly coming to our notice, which prove
the perfect adaptability of Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla to the cure of all diseases arising
from impure or impoverished blood, and a
weakened vitality.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cleanses, enriches, and strengthens the blood,
stimulates the action of the stomach and
bowels, and thereby enables the system to
resist and overcome the attacks of all Scrofu-
lous Diseases, Eruptions of the Shin, Rheu-
matism, Catarrh, General Debility, and all
disorders resulting from poor or corrupted
blood and a low state of the system.
PREPARED BY
Dr. J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists; price SI, six bottles
for S 5.
AYER’S
CATHARTIC
PILLS. v
Best Purgative Medicine
.cure Constipation, Indigestion, Headache, and
all Bilious Disorders.
Sold everywhere. Always reliable.
BLLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
m
THS
' Ht>r neater ,
H/yf? dressinc&wicmakinG ESTABLISHMENT
\37, 139 A 141 <S T .
HALF HOUDA YCHC/t Y 7V/1/ASOA Y
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strenghtens, and beautifies the hair; it con-
tains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most cool-
ing, healing, and refreshing wash for the face,
hands, and arms, and is perfectly free from any
mineral or metallic admixtures ; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples. &c.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE pro-
duces immediately a perfect change iu red or grey
hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a g‘ 38y and per-
manent brown or black, which. colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents: Elliott Bros., E.
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
fJIHE MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Butter.
This is either manufactured at their own depflt
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
21 HARBOUR STREET.
il
[mark's
COLLIE BLEND WHJSKY.-This 1b a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
3OB GEORGE STREET.
Sf
T'»f«
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
BCHNAPPB.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PEICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
tr MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
BULTAN’S COFFEE.
PAPERBAJtfGI NGS!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS,
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, Ac.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORB’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oi
nishos, Brush os,
Paints, Colours, Va
Gold Leaf, &o.
So
g}
is*
m
C5-VCC
INVALUABLE
lo
ss
0
Ne
Ss
rui
f \a
«y
Especially
ADAPTED FOR THE
Australian Colonies
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
STIMATE3 CrIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
&
m
CH
m§xi&
OliOLr^
-}.,
post office.
L*re ov'sgs eeopeg sttcct
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
TEA ASSOCIATION'.
** 2?. per lb.
The TEAS sold
by this Associa-
tion have been
specially selected
and blended by an
Expert, to meet
the taste and re-
quirements of the
Australian pub-
lic.
TRADE
MARK.
[Registered.')
*** 2s. Gd. per lb.
Our TEAS ara
unequalled in the
Austral an mar*
fcet and unex-
celled in the
world for quality,
flavor & strength ;
the publio may
confidently rely
upon always re-
ceiving a Tea of
uniform standard
and excellence.
OFFICE and DEPOT:
114 Pitt-street, Sydney.
J.
Henochsberg,
Manageu.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIViNG GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c. *
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithiug, Blaoksmithine
lumbing, Gasflttmg, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting n
of every description.
DOULTON’S "FLUSH-OUT," t W WBTJ, "VACUUM" WATER-WASTE
So/e Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application. J *
Palace Hotel
(LATE COFFEE PALACE No. 2), PITT-STREET NORTH, SYDNEY. *
THE Proprietor of the above establishment, having obtained a Wino nnri t inonoo
prepared to carry on the business of a FIKBT-CT ass nnTPT in ° License, is now
.nO tramway tarmlnua. Hot and cold ahower'and plumgS Utto n!»W2^.lw“y“St»o'&!'’
HY. WILLMORE, Proprietor.


WONDERS OF THE AGE.
Why is it so many people are never satisfied ?
Their homes are marvels of comfort and luxury,
friends are generous and affectionate; they are
educated and refined, capable, not only of enjoy-
ing, but of imparting Happiness to others ; yet
they are dissatisfied, miserable, and, really without
intending to do so, makp others miserable. Their
blood is impure, they have taken a heavy cold, or
they are bilious. A few doses of Emil Freses
Hamburg Tea would remove all obstructions, ana
enable them to eDjoy, with renpwed zest, the plea-
sures they are now compelled to forego.
FOR THE GUIDANCE OF OTHERS.
Glenmore Road, Paddington.
14th January, 1884.
Gentlemen,—Some few weeks since I was so
severely affected with indigestion as to render mi
rising each morning a matter of difficulty ana
pain on account of severe pains in the baca; ana
it had just become necessary for me to take a holi-
day from my work, tor the performance of whicn
I was by no means fit, when a triend mentioned to
me the benefit he derived from the use of Ham-
burg Tea. In tbe hope of getting some roher, i
used it myself, the result being that I was my sen-
in three or four days, and have not suffered since.
My friends have devised me to write this for in«
guidance of others, and you arc at liberty to mate
what use you please of this
Yours,
Jqhij Keli/* .
Messrs. Elliott Bros , Sydney.
Use Hop Bitters once and you will use n°
other medicine. Test it. Bo sure aud read.
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Di esses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
ings, Carpet Rags, Ribbons, Feathers, or any tami
or faucy article, easily and perfectly coloured 1 ,
any shade. Black, Brovfn, Green, H lue >. ~c .
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colour®]
warranted Fast and Durable. Each package
colour one to four lbs. of goods, if yoj*.., . e
never used Dyes, try these once. l° u *hi
delighted. Sold by druggists aud dealers at oa-P
paciage. Send 3J. stamp to Box 181.
•Sydney, and you will receive a Sample car**
cOlom-e, <S{e.. &e. by return poet.
Intdd *amj
>apeT tDoljftiimffcedJ,
The buileti** New*-
- * * Qinlnur.
The Agriculturist's Adventure.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A short time since the wife of a settler residing
not far from Goulburn, was seized with a lit of
unconsciousness. Her husband thinking it was
death, came into town to procure a coffin, and to
soothe his sorrow indulged rather freely in the
worship of Bacchus. Upon returning home with
his mournful load, he was struck with surprise—
whether pleasurable or not, is a question for
casuists to decide -to see his wife standing at the
door.” That’s what the Goulburn Biley says,
anyway. We should have thought it more likely
that he was struck with the family grubbing-pick.
But the Hiley is riley too matter of fact in its
brief treatment of this appalling circumstance—
this wind-up of a happy spree. We
lean forward in our malachite chair, and leisurely
pick up our pen of gold starred with diamonds,
and drawing our rose-coloured paper to us, proceed
to dress this clipping in all the Byronic glories of
ttara rtma, thus—
Gerrup, you dog! God d you, Poley! ”
So spake the driver, as the bony steers
Up Sloanc-street, Goulburn, Jugged a waggon
slowly— -
Such waggon as full oft in by-gone years
Was bossed with language even more unholy
By loud, red-shirted, dusty Pioneers—
Upon whose side, in letters red as tiame, was
Inscribed the name. “ The Antelope,” the name
was.
A cranky vehicle of strange construction,
Whose every joint creaked loudly in complaint;
Its body seemed of pliocene production,
And showed the trace of many a coat of paint,
Put on ere Helen started such a ruction
At Troy, or England had a patron saint
Who, as you know (or, I at least, suppose you
Know), gathered dragons' scalps in Cappadocia.
Such was “ The Antelope.” As for the driver,
A lank and meagre vertebrate was he
You never saw - and we’d put down a “ fiver,”
That’s if we had it, that you’ll never see
A soberer flgure-this is truth, not “ guiver.”
We tell this yarn in all sincerity—
As well as “ temperate,” (“ overhaul the volume! ’)
“Sober,” you’ll find, means sombre, staid, and
solemn.
Sobriety in this place meaning sadness,
Our puncher was most sober, and his walk
Had not that springiness which tells of gladness.
He shambled on—a most reflective gawk.
Sorrow was on his brow, and half the badness
That bullocks love was weeded from his talk,
And to their lights and livers he devoted
No stronger epithets than we have quoted.
But plodded sadly, wrapped in thought, beside
them
Adown the street, as we remarked before.
Now, for a moment waking up to chide them
With the long poi >ted sapling that he bore,
Or, with a softly-uttered oath to guide them,
Until they reached an undeitaker’s door,
Which in his mind some memory seemed to kindle,
Whereat he yelled “ Whoa, there! you (something)
Brinile!’
“ Whoa, Ginger, blarst your hize 1 You (something)
block, you
Gee off-l’il make yer (something) brisket ache;”
And other words which, given in lull, would shock
you,
Fair readers: but we beg of you to make
Allowance, if you were in charge of stock, you
Would soon find mild axpressious a mistake;
And when the whip resounds in far-heard lashes,
What’s said can only be expressed in dashes.
Well, after beltiDg on the horns, and jobbing
Between the ribs with many a well-judged prod,
And calling one gaunt steer whose name was Robin
“A (blank) (hiatus) (dash) (omisiion)
And cursing (*’ with an undertone of sobbing ),
And calling vaiuly on the name of God
(As if he wasn't by a different maker),
He stopped the team, and sought the undertaker.
The undertaker, who had just completed
An order for two infants coffins, lined
With white, upon a trestle gaily seated,
A hymn was singing to improve his mind,
When suddenly the farmer’s accents greeted
His oar, in language for the nonce refined,
•* Good mornin’, boss.” Then scratched his touzled
head once. . , , ~ _ .
“ Ain't you the bloomin cove as plants the dead
’tins?
“ Y’are! Well, listen here: the thing like this is,
I want a coffin rigged with every fake
That you can think on, like tin angels phizzea
And flowers and firins—don’t mane no mistake;
I’m goin’ to do it proper for the missus.
So chuck yourself around, and keep awake
Ye see a feller’s missus don't die often,
So shove some science into that there coffin.
• Make it of hardwood—two-inch through, or
thicker—
No pasteboard box will suit my Mary-Anne.
She wor a Missus, boss; you couldn’t'lick her—
Though she could you; but no offence, old man—
I only meant to say she wor a kicker.
I’ve known her head me with a frying-pan
Of blazing fat around the whole selection—
And now she’s gone, and not left no direction.
« You sympathise with my affliction 1 Do you ?
That’s Goul jurn slang tor summat, I suppose.
Your line is hardly to say ‘ Hallelooyah ’
Whenever anyone turns up his toes.
But if you’d had that woman to pursue you
Across two paddocks in your mornin’ clothes,
You’d sympathise lots more: like me, you d buy
for
Her corpse a coffin worth her while to die for.
“ She tvor a woman, that ’ar!’—scuse my swearin’
Among yer coffin-lids, but d my soul,
If that there Brindle hasn’t started rarin
And got his leg across the bloomin’ pole—
The way that bullock acts is past all bearin I
Put on her breastplate in a bloomin’ scroll,
* She wor a woman,’ or, at Resurrection,
They mightn’t put her in the female section.
« What did she die of ?” Pills, of course. She bort
From a black doctor what was out our road.
He said they’d fix her trouble? in a short time;
And so they did. ‘No iaquest yet ? Beblowed!
t haven’t time to wait for no post-mortem.
When once she’s rnder ground, ’t will lift a load
From off my mind. Oh, won t she be a treasure
Among the angels! Bos3, this yer’s her measure.
“ From yer to yer’s her length upon the handle
Of this yer b'ullock-whip: ’twus in the dark
This mornin’, and I couldn t fiud no candle.
But this is near enough: you see the mark
Whoa, there! you (common nouns), if you don t
stand stid, I’ll . . .
Gouge out yer innards!—where I notched the
bark, , ,
Them's her dimensions, boss: she wor a rum un
Six feet by two-feet-six Just holds that woman.
’“Don’t spare the Umber, boss-shove plenty in
Screwier up trim and tight, without a crack;
For if there was, I’m such a frightened sm-er
I couldn’t sleep for thinking she d get bank.
And now I’m off to have a bit of dinner.
And buy some slops—l'll * follow’ togged rablao t
She’ll have fair play, will Mary-Anne, you b tyou:
jjut —make her strong —you'll find 111 not forget
you.”
He went his way, and bought his slops sedately
At Lane's (where, by the papers, you iray see
They’ve been reducing their cash prices lately).
Which didn’t fit, hut nought for this eared he;
And then—to tell this story grieves us greatly—
Set out with care upon a howling spree,
To drown his sorrow in "ach fiery charm, strong
And sweet, retailed in tots by Billy Armstrong.
Here he went in for only modest “ dashes,”
Till Billy riled him by declining straight,
Though with much grace "f verbiage, to cash his
Oae “ fiver”—which, it is as well to state,
Was Oriental; when he strolled to Nash’s,
And told the girl lo write ’em on the slate,
Saying “Dash it, Missus, set it down to me—l’ve
A ‘fiver’ George will cash at the Beehive.”
And George looked dreamily upon the “ Fiver,”
And thought “It's new, at least;” then said aloud
These cheerful words, which made the bullock-
driver
Cry “Drinks round (hie) for all the (crimson)
crowd.”
“I’ll do it, Jim, because I’ve got an ej o for
The Fresh and Beautiful.” He's noways proud
Ain't George: he talked to Jim just like a father,
And gave him torn old notes. The same Bank ?
Rather!
So all day long, with speech becoming thicker,
He haunted pubs, in hope of getting cash
For that creased paper, till, disguised in liquor,
He made this statement, •* Blank, and space, and
dash,
Such towns as this!” and to his bullook Nigger
In manner merciless applied the lash;
And towards his mournful homestead started off in
The twilight, freighted with a matchless coffin.
Started away through Night’s grim shades, to Lag-
gan,
Out in the darkness on the lonely road,
His new black things ti :d up an empty bag in
And snugly in the roomy coffin stowed—
Which rumbled hollowly against the waggon—
To find next day, on reaching his abode,
His bride right back from Heaven or (one can’t
tell) come,
Awaiting at his door to make him welcome.
So fa’ 1 the Riley; but, from information
Since fro n the seat of war obtained direct,
We learn his funeral caused some sensation
Out Laggan way, and when the corpse was decked
In its black togs, it met a wild ovation,
Both as successful corpse and architect
Of its own coffin. (Thus, you see how slyly
We get the bulge for “ latest ” on the Riley.
Mr. Sullivan, of Bingera, walked out last
week to the races, but the Gundagai Times does
not say whether he pulled off anything, but ca&u-
ally mentions his age to be 103. How are
you, old boy ? D'ye mind the time when you and
two others of us got full up of the old quarter-
acre, and went and borrowed £lO on a joint bill
from Sir Montefisre, and ran over to Paris
OH! INDEED?
BENEDICT : “No, no, old fellow. Don’t you get married.
Take warning by me. Why, she actually” (and so on for
ten minutes.)
to see the revolutionary boys? Well, we got a
letter from Mo. last mail, The old chap is only
100, but he hasn’t forgotten the little bill. It foots
up, with interest, to £2670.. Are you ready with
your share, or shall we file ? Wire early, and let s
settle it somehow. At our age we don’t want to
be bothered, and another 100 years will begin to
tell on both of us.
What facetious beggars some of our coun-
try correspondents art. Especially when they
intend to be thoroughly serious. For example:
Writing recently to one of our weakly dailies, a
Wingham Joe Miller playfully obsarves:—" Ap-
palling Occurrence. Our litt’e townbhip was
thrown into a state of terrible excitement on
Tuesday last, as it was made the scene of a 1 ** irful
tragedy An unfortunate man named Be: jamin
Baines walked to the water * edge, sat down, and
then nearly cut his head completely off with a
razor. Then the tide came up and drowned him!”
Foolish man! How easy it would have been to
have scooped tho studio# out of his head with the
razor, shaped it into a boat, and then to have
paddled home by the help of his eye-teeth, or his
bisected ” juglar.” How the verdict of the erow-
ner’s quest went we can’t say, bet as the Wingham
reporter happened t© be one of the “ twelve good
men and true,” it was probab'y recorded that de-
ceased came to his death by a kick from a horse
accelerated by the visitation cf Divine Provi-
dence.
Mrs. Mary Sims sent a dummy child to
Mrs. Mary Bedford, down in Melbourne, week,
or one day. very recently. The dummy wasn’t
much of a success, from an artistic point of view.
Its head was soft and towzy, its legs were not half
as straight as an octogenarian ballet girl s, and its
body was no more than a coarsely stitched bag
filled with rags. Now, what did Mrs. Mary Sims
mean by sending such a thing as that to Mrs. Mary
Bedford? When the subsequent assault came up
befort the court, the Bench went right away down
to the little incident of the dummy, and, with the
soft flabby bundle of rags before them, thought
they saw an ample reason forth*? issue of blood
and tears which they were called upon to investi-
gate. They said that Mrs. Mery Bedford would
not have to pay anything for what she did on Mrs.
Mary Sims. And then the Bench looked at the
dummy's chin, and said they had a capital good
mind to send Mrs. Sims inside. And then the
Bench looked at the dummy’s legs and—adjourned
the court for a week. Now, there must have
been some subtle meaning in Mrs. Mary Sims little
gift.
A great deal of the recent settliug over
the Warm am bool and Elsternwick race meeting
was carried on at Bowes' Tattersall room by proxy,
and the welkin rang with hoarse yells of, ’ I 11
s- ttl- for Porky Jacobs,” “ I'm receivin’ for Mossy
Abrahams,” ” 801 l up this way, all you boys that
want-* F hear from Ikey Josephs,” and divers
other remarks of asi nilar nature. After a time,
things began to get slow, until a speculative
“ sport ” roared out: “ Well, as there don’t appear
to be very much wagerin’ goin’ on, I’ll settle up
tor the Oriental Bank.” That fetched the gaffers,
and, in the twinkling of a duck’s thumo, they
crowded up a* thick as slaughter-house crows
round a dead horse. ‘’Sixteen shillin’ a pound is the
f>rice I'm doin’ Orientals at to-night; it 8 a certain
OSB to me, but, d—n it all, I likes to assist my
feller men. Stan’ aside. Barney Aarons, an’ let
that gentleman pass.” “That gentleman” held
£BO of the Eastern Bank's flimsies, which he handed
over for £66 cash. Then the crowd closed in, and.
in half an hour s time, no less than £303 worth of
“Orientals” were pocketed by the enterprising
cuss referred to, who handed over £219 odi in
exchange for them, bet us hope his philantropy
will meet with its just reward.
Thus does “Garibaldi” somewhat photo-
graphically describe to Cahcoak Mary the ways
of certain equestriennes:—“The bush girl: Rough
unshod moke, battered saddle, bridle ditto, old
alpaca habit skirt, and hat bedizened with four or
five different coloured roses, two yards of blue
ribbon flying behind; with a good quince switch
she makes the half-broken moke fairly fly, while
she rolls about all over him, but no fear of her
coming off, no need of giant cement. Next comes
the young lady who thinks herself infallible on
horseback; she is usually rigged out in a home-
made habit, tall hat, gossamer veil, and rides a
horse trained, like a circus steed, to arch his neck
and prance along at a slow canter, which is as
easy to sit as a child’s rocking horse; put her on
any other kind of moke and she looks nothing,
and set her beside the bush girl across a holey flat
on the wild Macleay and see where she would be.
The fat old country farmer’s wife is the climax:
old mare with a big foal trotting alongside,
battered old saddle and bridle, a big basket of
butter slung on her arm, and herself equipped in
a big white sun-downer, thick woollen jacket, and
old black alpaca habit skirt; and with a good
waddy, kept constantly going, she urges the old-
mare to a pounding jog which ought to churn
butter.”
A confiding tradesman down South un-
burthens his soul in plaintive style. He begins by
asking a question, the solution of which depends
altogether upon how one gets one’s living. “In
what light,” he queries, “are we to regard a man
whose untainted lips utter no oaths and imbibe no
liquor, who has been converted to righteousness,
and wears the badge of sanctity upon the lapels of
his coat?” We must distinguish that little word
“we.” Who are "we” you are talking about,
Tradesman? If by “we” you mean people who
get a share of the collection plate, a share of the
many privileges that cunning humbugs can al-
ways count upon extracting from a gullable public,
then the answer is that “we” are to regard the
man you refer to as a saint, aid the badge of holi-
ness on the lapels of his coat as Ihe outward and
visible Siam of a vast measure of inward grace.
But if by “we” you mean the people who act on
the square as much as they can in th s crooked ram-
shackle life, and who would no more think of
wearing a badge of sanctity on their coats to make
them look honest than a pair of wings on their
shoulders to make them look angelic, then the
answer is that “ we ” are to regard that man you
talk of as a fool or a knave, and may lay a thou-
sand to one that when his chauce comes he will
prove himself the latter.
Apropos of the 0.8. C. burst-up, and Land
Lotteries, and the Melbourne Cup, and “Nap.”
and “divarshuns” of a like exciting nature, it is
strange that we pay so much uncalled-for atten-
tion to gambling on the turf, and over the “ board
of green cloth,’’and so little totketen-t.imes-more-
risky “plunging” which is done every day on
’Change. If a man steps into the quiet little back
parlour of a sporting hotel, where there’s a nice
little table neatly covered with a thick blanket to
deaden the sound, and if he subsequently sts
down, and “rattles the bones” until he is cleared
of £5OO, we naturally say “ he had a bad night of
it.” If he is a thorough-paced sport, he may have
drawn £5O worth of blanks in a monster Land
Distribution business, aud perhaps another “live-
century” purse on the wrong horse for the
Adelaide Cup; and, of course, a man who was
known to have been hit as hard as this
would be an object of sympathy amongst his
brother sports, and a kindly sort of interest would
be taken in him by such of the daily pressmen as
happened to hear the secrets. One of his friends
might meet a stock-broking acquaintance oyer
the cafs luncheon - table, and say “ Bad job
that of young Splasher's, wasn’t it? pluog
ing again, and dropped five hundred over
“Conjecture.” This would cause Mr. Brokerman
to smile sardonically, and reply, “Pooh! Call that
plunging ? —pass the mustaru, please—you ought
to see the style we on ’Change go in for wh«t you
call plunging. Why, 1 know a man who, during
the last couple of months, has had transactions
(what you fellows call gambling) with one of us in
El Dorado’s’ to the extent of £60,00»; with an-
other broker in Pitt-street to the tune of £33,000 in
a lotof railway-in-prospective-runnlng-through-tt
land up West, not to mention £lOO,OOO worth of ,
bought-up steckin the‘Oriental.’” That’s what
we call speculation. Ours, you see, is—trouble you
for the cream—ours, you see, is a more lofty vein,
as Bottom would say, and yet we do it all in such
an off-handed, easy way, that you'd think a stock-
broker’s assembly was a meeting of Quakers to
start a poor-house. We think nothing, bless you,
of giving a cheque fpr a couple of ‘ thou ’ to each
other, even thodgh-we mightn’t have more than a
s >)it ary fifty to o'ur cfeiit,. All brokers understand
the biz, but you racing»peo*d@. d.ou’t know more
about plunging than a .'bantj'icaot does about
Magna Charta. Ta-»a, youiiie m>&. Be virtuous,
and you 11 miss heaps of fun.” •J, „
When the “ wise man,” who sfa?£§cl a Mor-
man settlement way down in Jndee, soffit
ago, remarked that there was nothi g new-undpc
the sun, he was evidently in blissful ignorance of
the secrets of street advertisements. Here’s the
very latest wrinkle from the “ Uontinong.’ First,
a fashionably dressed young swell enters a crowded
cdfi ; and having attracted some attention by
bullyragging the waiters, finally seats himself at a
t mie and calls for a bottle ot' the choicest wine,
and the morning “ pa-pahs.” Soon after, a fierce,
warlike looking man, who subsequently claims to
be a tailor, and accuses the swell, in M’Kihonian
terms of being a swindler, and of having dressed
himself in the height of fashion on credit
for tte past five years. Th* young follow
fires up, declares he is gro-eiy insul ed, aid
begins to talk about condemned liars, and
languinary maimen, in the most promiscuous
mm er possible; the crowd pnsset round, eager
ear. are on “fullcock ” io > ateh t very word, an i at
ast the young swell, in order to convince his soi-
disan' tailor that another house makes better
foids, and sells cheaper, pulls out the bill
or the stylish rig-out be then wears. This bill
(wt h the name, address, prices, &j } ), is
read aloud from top to bottom, and duly
commented on by the apparently thorough-
ly discomfited rival, who declares no one
could possibly compete with such a firm as that,
and then he retires—as the audience think —to
blow his brains out, but, in reality, to work the
same rosy little game in a different portion of the
city. Ladies are specially adapted for a milder
style ot this advertising business, as they can
draw attention to various articles at the same
time. One charming lady faints before a chemist’s
window, and as the usual street crowd presses
round, her bogus mamma cuts her corset and
re veals the stamp of a celebrated maker, the soles
of her dainty little hotlines advertise another es-
tablishment, and the frantic old lady imploringly
begs the chemist to give her darling girl a spoon-
ful of Professjr Yon Humpugge’s “Miiaculoug
Nerve Restorer,” which sets up the stricken damsel
as fresh as paint two seconds after it is poured into
her dainty little rosebud lips. For ways that are
dack, the heathen Chinee is as innoceDt as unborn
twins compared with the modern street adver-
tiser.
According to the Glen Innes Examiner,
a young man, who used to rejoice in the hilarious
n.me of Uroker, has made himself scarce, under
somewhat mysterious circumstances. Whether
(as the apostie Paul would say) th s young man is
’ still in the flesh,” or at the bottom of a big
lagoon, we cannot say; but it aopears he was stay-
ing at Graney’s Hotel, Vegetable Creek, about a
month ago, “ when he suddenly disappeared, leav-
ing a note to the effect that when his body was dis-
covered, his box should be handed over to a cer-
tain young lady, to whom he is understood to have
been engaged.” Strange to say, something similar
once happened down near Auckland, the hero on
that occasion being a young Frenchman, nim?d
Jules Marcisti, who used to patronise the moou-lit
dells and ice-cream saloons in c .mp iny with a
maiden fair called Selina bhorthote Alter a time,
the course of true love began to parttke of the
nature of a “corduroy” road in the wit season—
not because Jules loved Selina less, but because he
loved tri stellar branny more. Finally, he got the
“jumps,” and one night, when the loving pair
were perched on a seat in the park, Jules swore
the green sward in front of them was a seething,
roaring whirlpool, and that his future mother-in-
law was being dragged under the angry waves by a
na’ed nigger, who stood 10 feet high, and wore a
pair of horns as long ns a priza bull’s and a tail I hit
spouted sheet lightning and flames of fire every
time the monster waggle! it. JuJes was a brave
man. He was also a tailor, and standing up on the
seat, he swore he would rescue his intended
Mamma, or die in the brave attempt. Selina
endeavoured to soothe his troubled soul, and
earnestly implored him not o be an egregious ass.
Hut Jules was frantic, aud declared he’d be a whole
Spanish caravan of asses rather than see his
respected mother-in-law drowned; and then he
began to peel off his clothes in order to get on
level terms with the nigger. Selim stood it all
very patiently until Jules struck the region of his
braces, and then she cut J ules for ever, and made
for home. When Jules came to, he tapped Uia
nose playfully with his fore-finger, and said to
himself: “ Now I'll make a heap of sport for tome
one.” For he was of a humorous disposition, aud
had successfully wrestled with seven stages of the
sinall-pox So he left a note on his bedroom table,
saying he was fail up of Life's fleeting show, and
that his trunk was to be handed over to his sweet-
heart, but she was on no account to open it until
he made his ghostly presence known unto her.
Everything came off O.K , according to the pro-
gramme. No tidmgs could be beatd of Jules, and
the trunk was duly handed over to Seiina, who
packed it safely beneath her bed. A week passed.
The gloom of despair was wrapping its inky pall
around the sorrowing girl, but Jules ca r e not to
calm her anxious fears. Jules had bis reasons for
keeping dark. .Tales was dead. And in the deepen-
ing twilights of the autumn eves, Selma’s Ma used
to sit by her daughter’s bedside, whispering words
of courage in her ear. and occasionally askmg the
grief-stricken g'rl if there wasn’t “ a devil of a bad
smell about the premises, somewhere.” At length
it was feared Selina couldn't last n uch longer, and
as Jules was evidently shirking his contract, the
old lady determined to open the mysterious box
aud search for some clue to her intended son-in
law’s disappearance. She found the clue. In fact,
she found Jules. He had crawled into the box,
closed the lid with a secret spring, aud then te
quietly slit his throat from ear to ear, and plant i g
away in a corner thought to himself, “ Sacce-Hieu,
won t I have un grande laugh at Selina when she
bursts open zis box an’ finds I’m dead 1” It was a
bitter disappointment to the old lady, who guessed
from the weight that the trunk was filled with
gold, so they slung the jocularJuies to the sexton,
and • idu t mourn for him any more tuau they
would for the loss of a blind boil. Selina married
a carpenter who set the box of Jules on wheels,
and now it serves as a perambulator for Selina’s
thirteenth baby.


~VY IB
THOM AND CAMERON’S
yHALITY UNSURPASSED.
sc otch whiskeyT
**" premier whiskey is
TRnw
°*A Y ( BROTHERS,
Sole 4 ~ « ■ ntna
atto!i, ffiBTm™ S ' W ' '“ 1 <lueeMl * ,li -
Tn« “ J <*®®£ SISIMf 13 ™'
3n» ™ aßN *£«sar™
" e ® r Be Street, Sydney
Nnuine/rishWhiske
Wm t . ~~
I s ? Hot'S? at the Blstl
N yfeV n the rely t
trade mark ? k ' for **, see th / hi skev Doci
, cork and ca
cna on label, cork
a ty Brothers
xr c
for V Q Yrr
w.s.w. and Queenslan
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &0.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.8.-Second-hand Guns by best makers.
J LAWLER, 608 George-street, Bedding Manu-
• facturer, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed-
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair,
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. Established 1860.
new
W/'es'
and SHAW
Respectfully invite inspection of their
SEASON’S GOODS,
an ft PL- ** follows
n/ldren’s Winter Ulsters, Dolmans, Mantles and Jackets,
comprising a very choice and elegant assortment, as follows
T 4lt
> l2s 6d a toV TAIL ° R -MAD a ULSTERS,
%a M • 10 1 guineas
f n(l Children’s tt T
t>ol man , dsters. from ss. 6d. to 30s.
ilrZ u °lman r rs,lrom ss - 6d - to3<
l °H-CU T JAr& d UlBters ' New Cloths
U Hs Ac KETS, in NEW FANCY Mj
MATE-
FUR-LINED CASHMERE CLOAKS, from 31s. 6d
each
LADIES’ WATERPROOF MACINTOSH CAPES
and ULSTER- 5 , from 12s. 6d. each
Real an 1 Imitation Sealskin Jackets
Braided and Beaded Jers-y Jackets
Brocatelle Silk Mantles, beautiful new designs
Stylish Opera Mantles, in all colours, trimmed fur
and SHAW.
Standard
PEAPES and SHAW.
Tweed Clothing;.
open for the Winter Season the most
Potion n-p tWT ..RT-MADE CLOTHING- IN THE CITY, and would specially recommend
won of fh«““ f-WAUtc CLOTHING IN THE CITY, an
o various classes of goods enumerated below.
extensive assortment of
ITALIAW A rr S K CT7T LON& >
DALIAN CLOTH, 255., 30s.|
42 TW i i£ 5( S LSTER8, LINED WOOL > 3 03-
Me R0 0 EK n OVERCOATS, 635. ,
» .IOAUo ” VwmJ£ u & 428 • 50s - 66s -
J-Haru-'-ED for pTvn KD r,^ AC SUITS are
Can Ct >, ;! T Y\ ana ? UT L pit > STYLE, and
Surpassed. for Honest Value
% 3as - 35f S 4^ R II As EO LLOWS :
.' 08 _ ® 8 - SUIT -
V% ° c k nl ; 60s.
v ° f England Broadcloth),
M*.6a. r t onu?erB*’ 0 n u ?er8*’ weil°Bh? la ? kDoeskin ’3ss.,Bos.
iS%\V ‘
"st^wa's
MACINTOSH WATERPROOF CLOTHING.
MACINTOSH COATS and CAPES. Ventilated,
thoroughly Waterproof, Sewn Seams, Cut Long.
LEGGINGS, GAITERS, CAMP SHEETS, and
SHEETING
Travelling Rugs, Imitation Seal, Wool, and Silk
and All-wool, from 15s. 6d. to 525. 6d.
“ STANDARD ” JUVENILE CLOTHING.
Boys’ Knicker Suits—The Norfolk, lOs. 6d.; the
Suffolk, 13s. 6d
Beys’ Jersey Man-o’-War Suits, Knickers
Boys’ ditto ditto Trousers Suits
Boys’ and Youths’ Trouser Suits, 21s. to 30s.
Boys’ and Youths’ Winter Overcoats, all sizes.
CHRISTY’S HATS.
NEWEST WINTER SHAPES, in BLACK SILK
DRAB SHELLS
BLACK DRAB and BROWN STIFF" FELT HAT-,
NEWEST LONDON SHAPES. 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d
9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 11s. 6d., 12s. 6d.
French Felt, Plush, Camp, Tennis, and Travelling
Hats BndCapB
Solid and Basil Portmanteaus, in every size and
shape
Fitted Dressing Bags, Unfitted Travelling Bags,
all sizes.
'otejHAW,
PEAPES and SHAW,
GEORGE STREET.
Sz, Son’s
j? ...
r °aall Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
w PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
iTow Open.
HOTEL,
ner of KING and. CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
aSv WeCLEERY
R
OqqV
(late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
We
m
™ E °nly genuine tintag
TOBACCO.
*1
consume, in manufacture, nearly three-
fourths of tlie whole of the leaf imported
stand Wales > therefore their Twist and
Cl|> Aa* Co “iuor ® i n the estimation of judges of Tobacco.
Tn s.^nnV?A r Roger (thick twist), Cut R.C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture.
00}e Tlr,Dort «™ of S tIBROR and EARLY BIRD hold a high position.
,, ***■ Oisrnj, s> and »J 1 Tobacconists’ Sundries.
TOBACCO WORKS, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY-
SOHO BAZAAR ,
352 GEOBGE STEEET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior assort,
naent of
Brie a Brae, Articles of Vertu,
Terra Cotta, Chinaware, &c.,
Tricycles, Erench and German
Model Dolls, Count Harrach’s
Bohemian Vases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Figures,
and all varieties of
EANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
352 George Street
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHOUT HORN
WHISKY.
L EDI A HD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON- The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOrrMUM© & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
jjfc Warranted first qual i ty
v Charges strictly moderate
MARSHALL BROTHERS I
Surgeon dent' STS loQ market st ;e.
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
The practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
carried on by tbe aid of a large and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction by
anaesthetics.
BBack Swao Hofei,
GREEN WELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green pad docks, shooting', fishing and
hunting-. Good Stabling'. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, tbe place is unsur-
passed. The magnitlcient s.s. Ulawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o’clock.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Cctrtis,
"O’ rx dextalser,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was is the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (18) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
PREMIER
-t ; r
New Tobacco Factory.
PREMIER TORAOCO, free from Adulteration
and possessing all the agreeable qualities
of PURR TOBACCO.
Brand Registered to prevent imitation. Manu-
factured by
H. W. NORRIE.
Factory and Warehouse.
317 & 3!!), KENT-STREIT, SYDNEY.
s P.o bf'ngrn
w'iSfeliil :s i
■ 'ii “ r! *f [ »
•t S' *
0(1
0
SIDHfIH’H
TRY BtTRCIS’ £3 Bs. Suits, to measure. Trousers
from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house lor
a good, genuine suit of clothes. ITO PITT-STREET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for self-measuring
forwarded to any part of the colony.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 187 i
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Eund £133,500
Directors •
The Hon. Sir John Bay, K.C.M.0., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidiey King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors :
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq
Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Alien.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Kedfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, Nyng-an, and Bourke.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
Directors j
Edward Chapman, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G
Geo. F. Slade, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
QUONG TART & CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
Tia MsrclaiM Lnurtas
28, 29, and 30 SYDNEY ARCADE, and
7 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
All Teas carefully selected at the plantations by
®ur own Tea-taster, and quality guarateed.
Intending purchasers should visit our Tea Rooms
and sample for themselves before buying.
The ladies of the city will find*our new rooms in
the King-street Arcade a great acquisition—airy,
comfortable, and commodious, with prompt
attendants.
W. H. .Ariell & Co.'s
ASSHCXES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris- *
ing a variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury, Nor-f
maDby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
• Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
Casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b.
and 2001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery. '
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
J 4, and lib. tins.
R. WHIT! INGHAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, D*tes, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &c.
ANGLO-SCANDIN AVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand.
343 and 345 SCent Street,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
w
ILCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES
Mangle an a
wringer, JB4IO
M NGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shellera
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
vVaxnet
Wood,
«e. &o. &o.
EB
BLEWHITE &
116 GEORGE STREET
REGINALD TONIS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care ol
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
tar THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as followsSEVEN PER CENT,
on fixed deposits for 12 months: FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods : FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREIIAM, Manager.
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
A CURB GUARANTEED.
Nerve
BRAIM
TREATMENT
DR. E. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREAT-
MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness, con-
vulsions, fits, nervous neuralgia, headache, nervous
prostration caused by the use of aicohoi or tobacco
wakefulness, mental depression, softening of the
brain resulting in insanity and leading to misery
decay, and death; premature old age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain or over-indulgence.
Each box contains one month’s treatment, 6s.
box, or six boxes for 355.; sent by mail prepaid on
receipt of price. We guarantee six boxes to cure
any case. With each order received for six boxes,
accompanied with 365., the purchaser will receive
the nanufaeturer’s written guarantee to refund
the money if the treatment does not effect a cure
Guarantees issued by &U chemists and druggists
Australia.


G-olcL
Te^rellenry’
(REGISTERED.)
‘*r
w
ffl
■w-a-tches, if'isqim: 30s. riicis-
Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually attended"
BOYD’S
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OYER PALING’S),
I® and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists
Mr. if. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
specially engaged by
N.B.—BOYD (OVEB PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
-A. IDISI ES^
J. J. RYA^i
THE PEOPLE’S CLOTHIER,
Is OPENING
SUITS TROT!
WHITE and REGATTA SHIRTS, - COLLARS, TIES, and HOSIERY,
plain figures, and at VERY LOW PRICES. jn o tb sio^|
V3&~ Both shops are thorougty chock fuU. Come early and inspect the Stoc ctjoo se ’ r
I keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING MEN’S CLOTHING in SYDNEY
Be sure you find the right shops, when requiring CLOTHING OF EVERY
J. J. Ryan, 760 George Street, Hay"#*
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, near Market Stre
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
COCOA
S. FRIT & SO¥S, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“ An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or oorter.—Lancet.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. Or. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with *« moderate nrice.
HEYDE, TODMAN & CO.,
TORE STREET. SYDNEY.
AIR-TIGHT SHOW CASE COMPY.,
67 GEORG E STREET WE! IT.
SHOP,
OFFICE,
AND
Hotel-bar
FITTERS.
Air-tight
SHOW
CASES
AT
LONDON
PRICES.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
b itck, Station, and General Com-
mission Agents,
134 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
GILBEY’S SILVERSTREAM SCHNAPPS.
Giibey’o Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can he recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TUCKER & CO., Sole Agents,
ftW George-street,. Sydney.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed agamst the World
First Prizes and Exhibition.
ME. F. WARE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney
Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughing Gas,
ASther Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform,
HXG-aiars
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCH WOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OF PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customers and the
Sublic generally that he has a large assortment of
•rawing, Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Furniture, -all of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received by
every Mall.
ROYAL ARCADE. 496 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
xiOßirw
mm
It is of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should be carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New South
wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverasre should com-
pare LQRNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will find a difference
in favour of LORN E HIGH-
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
EURE
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
t3r- THE PARAGON OP PERFECTION.
FINEB TUAN SHE FINEST.
The Tobacco off the Age !
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The or y Tobacco eombiniag Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
Cf Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
“EUREKA," Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
ijnU’i lota Co., Lin.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENvJE STREETS,
And cam be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body aa soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO
Resristored according- to Aet of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public asratost snurtous and worthless
Iff'
BLAKE’S 1
ST2E3AM
H. P. GREGOR**?
P, T t Si***
SYDNEY- j
T o***
17
ARE SOLE AGENTS FO R
and have in Stock and to
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SER^ 10 ®
MINING PUMPS
rt aTl^'
COMBINED AIR & CIRCUS A
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING P
SEND FOR PRICES AND AL&
CATALOGUES F
,’ORVVAB I^
[a CABD.]
H. W. COO-,f
340 CROWN sa n r% e! '
Late with Dr. S
Author of “ Modern Treatmon p j
Queen’s Hospital, B^rrnio^^gj-’fiJp
EST" Patients treated by
PAINTS.
OILS.
A
&
o
pj
Office: 330 Geoffl^j#
STORES: M
N.flt. Patterns
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
manufacturer of alB kinds o? AErafed Wafers, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vigo
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. v
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Gold Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs
»**!>
