

is&i- ITOVELT E S- ISS4=.
HMY HUH 4 SMS,
ALA
the largest drapery warehouses
AND
Most Spacious Show Rooms
IN
THE SQTT'TEEEEISr hemisphere.
The LATEST FASHIONS FROM PARIS AMO LONDON BY EVERY MAIL STEAMER.
nthony
„ HORDERN AND SONS,
**ALACE EMPORayM, HAYHHARKET, ONLY.
A CHAI2 AT WHOLESALE FBICE.
cf cclt TJ"sefu.l OHo.©-Its,
ONE HUNDRED DIFFERENT STYLES AND PATTERNS.
THESE CHAIRS ARE EXCELLENT VALUE, AND VERY STRONG AND DURABLE.
We are now opening Large Shipments of Goods purchased speciallyfor the wants
of the present season. Ladies will find a most beautiful show of NEW MANTLE ,
NEW COSTUMES, and NEW DRESSES. A Magnificent Display of NOYELIIES
in every department, at prices low r er than any other house in Sydney.
We are the only UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS in the Australian colonies.
NOTE OUR ONLY ADDRESS:-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
PM.&GE EMPORIUM, H&YHJ&RICEY (ORLY.)
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS. UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS.
P
ohecun.
BENT TOP, WOOD SEAT, 3s
The Bulletin New Series


ok or in re’s moisi or
TIE EEIOIED CITY BOOT Pill
Corner of GSEOKGE and MAHKET STREETS,
SPLENDID DISPLAY OF BOOTS AND SHOES
1
Njior
Aira
i>iwlfnlPW |nEr r :
mic
I m
r^=ar-r_.
I
juftHffSraj | jT: 3RSSST§S;j'»
s^¥ETEz::f^
Ml'!''
3 3VIVd
-loog
E22HI
- =:-
Branches:— Rundle>st,, Adelaide, S.A.; Launceston, Tasmania; Hunter-st., Newcastle; Auburn-st., Goulburn. Wholesale Stores: 57 York-st., Sydney.
Manufac
n
IBBS,
BRIGHT Sk CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
Andat MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO.. LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OP CANIW-JU;ad C Offlce: HONGKONG'
-Portland Cement
( ¥E utod) ’ Manchester-The celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, M Lachlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c„ &c.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Pels and Company, of Patras and Corf u—Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c.
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles. Sauces
De Hayange, Franco-Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron’, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Thos. Perry and Son, Biiston—Fire-resisting Safes. Drybroughand Co Edinburwh—Ale
Brunton and Co., Redrutn—Patent Safety Fuse. Thos N Hunt-Port Wine gU A 1
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux-Clarets, Chablis, Sauternes
XT _ COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES
Jind E exa MmCo S -~ SCOtt &nd MuUaiy ’ T ’ Alls °P- *• J - O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.,
Victoria.— James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson
South Australia.—W. c. T —* ’ ~ ~ -
. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hincks.
INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terras, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received tor shipment to London, under liberal advances. *
IMZartim. ISeeslxaxa.,
STAR & GARTER HOTEL
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
As no expense has been spared in the erection of the Hotel nremlses M w
visitors and others the best accommodaUon? wmSd ® 8 C ° UDtry
San Francisco Palace of Art,
The patrons of the SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART, so well known thrm,„» „ f
the Australian colonies, are informed that, in addition to the same high-eJass portrait
work tor which it ha 3 been noted, P ait
Copies and Enlargements to Life Size, by new and improved pro-
cesses, from any photograph or negative, are now taken.
Opals, Autotype, Transfer, or Albuminized Paper, in Crayon or Coloured.
The same staff of Artists, who have rendered the work of this establishment famous
are employed, and all negatives (15,000 in number) taken during the past four years, careful] y
preserved, from which copies may be had on application by sending name and address.
W. T. BENNETT, Manager.
IMPORTER OE WINES & SPl^'
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just coi»P lc
■ted
extensive additions to his
Wholesale and Retail Bottle
Which is now replete with a well-assorted stock of tho Best Brands of Wines afl d
selected by the proprietor during his recent visit to Europe. He can therefore con* 1 ‘ /
selected by the proprietor during his recent visit to Europe. He can therefore w-
the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, as per the following list, hopes to m c ‘
patrenage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him-
PALE BRANDY. Per Bottle
g
Gilbey’s very old Brandy, gold top .. .. o
Hennessy’s v .0. ((very old)bottled by P. E. L. 6
Hennessy’s 3 Star (***) .: 6
Dubois and Co.’s Old *** Pale 5
Fine Old Pale, bot tled by P. R. L. .. .. f>
Hennes3y’a Battle Axe (*) 5
Martell’s Blue Label (*) .. .. . 5
Flasks 2s 3d and 2
Ilalf-iiasks 1
Hennessy’s Draught Pale Brandy, per’ impel
rial quart Os and 5 G
DARK BRANDY.
Hennessy’s 3 Star (***) 6 6
Martell’s Very Old *** 6 t
Martell’s Old .. .. .. .. 6s and 4 (
Martell’s Dark, per Imperial quart .. ..50
Flasks 2s 6d and
LOWNDE’S W. I. RUM.
DARK.
Quality—Good ~2 0
Better 8 6
Still Better .. ..30
Quality—No. 1, per Imperial quart Os and 5 0
No. 2, „ „ .. ~4 6
No. 3, „ 4 0
No. 4, „ „ 3s and 3 6
Flasks Is 0d and 2 6
JAMAICA RUM.
PALE.
Very Finest „ ..4 0
Ked Heart 4 6
Pine Jamaica, per Imperial quart .. ..50
Jamaica Rum, in Flasks .. .. 2s6dand 2 3
BEERS (BRITISH).
Best Brands of Ales and Porters always on baud.
ALBURY (N.S.W.) WINES.
•gundy .. .. quarts 2 6
S'ah, red „ 2 6
„ Muscat „ 2 6
„ Reislmg „ 2 6
on’s Shiraz .. .:
iass
.. pints 1
POUT
WIN® 1
40-year old, Gilbey’s .. •* .. |
Celebrated Pour Diamond • • m
Quality—No. 1 (very superior ,
No. ***** grape •• i
No. **** . ■ t .
No! *** ••• !.. !!
No. ** „ - ...
No. * - ~,(t
• „l <l u '’
Draught Port Wine, per JmF cr
SHEER?* /
40-year old, Gilbey's ... , <\iP
Very Finest Amontillado (v®D
Fine Amontillado ... ••• rr y
Celebrated Four Diamond S» Ci
Common Sherry..
iori J
Draught Sherry Wind, per
BRITISH ES ‘
James Heddle’s Ginger Win o „.
Orange Wine v
s#*'
IRISH Willi
ottled
j»y
pH
Jameson’s ***
Old Dublin Whisky (***) bo
Kinahari’s unrivalled L L
Thorne’s Old Irish Whisky
Jameson’s ••• ...
Dunville’s . ifl i
Kinahan’s Draught, per ImP 0r «i
Jameson’s „ »*
Flasks ...
m WHlS^^'
SCOTCH
Walker’s 7-year old, in bulk
Thistle Blend
Royal Blend ...
Lome Highland...
Kilmarnock
Glculivet
Glcnlivet Whisky, per Imp®
Flasks
GIN
ia i« ; 4
w
GIN. # I
Blue Bell or Yellow ...
Celebrated Key Brand, very "5* d v
bottle containing more
Flasks Key Gin
WeddtogandPlcnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality
allowed tor. 3Af Cases of Wines ami Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and del 1 '
Station or any wharf m the city, or any country station, Free of Charge.
P. R. LAItKTN’S CASE OF ASSORTED WINES AND SPIKITS.-On receipt of 'A{
anmno yirtirlos will n« in a —•
TOTAL-15 QUARTS. ~n (
The articles contained in P. It. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the h eS l
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, P loaS
Orders payable at the Hayrnarket Post Office. *
||t%
Kindly Note the Address— e m j
P. R. LARKIN, Who/esa/e & Retail Wine & Spirit '
George and Gipps Sts., Hayrnarket,
J


THE
BULLETIN
Vol. I.—No. 46.—New Series
SATURDAY. MARCH 29, 1884.
Price— fid.
Conservative Plounderings.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, MARCH 29, 1884.
The Quarterly Review has been investi-
gating the question of British pauperism,
and, as might be expected from an autho-
rity so steeped in the spirit of Gradgrind,
its conclusions are calculated to afford emi-
nent satisfaction to the “proputty ” owner.
These conclusions are, in brief, that the poor
are not getting poorer, and that what there
is of pauperism is the result of intemperance
in the way of drink and tobacco ! We are
told that in 1843 the gross income of Great
Britain was 515 millions sterling, the average
income of each family of the wage-earning
population being about £4O a year; and that
in lbBi the gross income of Great Britain
was over 1200 millions sterling, the average
income of each family of the wage-earning
population being between £95 and £lOO a-
year. The inference drawn by the Quar-
terly from these figures is that the poor
are getting richer. On the supposition that
the figures are in any way this is a
comforting inference for the wage-earning
-'population. But how about the sheer pau
perism, which contributes one-thirtieth of
the total population of the United Kingdom ?
How can it be supposed that the 1,360,000
registered paupers of the United Kingdom
are in any way benefited by the statistical
fact that “ the incomes of those who have
less than £l5O a-year have increased during
the last forty years by 130 per cent.” ? That
between the years 1843 and 1883 house rent
has fallen and clothing and food decreased
in price (and possibly in quality), are cer-
tainly circumstances that may be said to
affect advantageously those who have got
money to spend; but, for the life of us, we
cannot see how they can affect the abnor-
mally large and rapidly-increasing pauper
population. This pauper population be-
tween 1876 and 1883 went up from 1,028,000
to 1,360,000; and this increase ought not to
be regarded as a mere statistical question of
ratio as between increase of population and
increase of poverty, seeing that in propor-
tion as the gross total of national wealth
annually multiplies, so also should multiply
the power, the ability, and the will to assist
tho respectable poor from irretrievably
sinking into the slough of abject pauperism.
# * *
The argument of the Quarterly certainly
possesses the merit of ingenuity, whatever it
may lack in the way of ingenuousness. By
adopting the same method of reasoning,
it might be shown that if a community of
100 persons had started in 1843 with incomes
ranging from £5O to £5OO a-piece, and by
1883 two members of that community had
absorbed the incomes of all the others and
the profits arising therefrom, so that they
twain each possessed some £50,000 a-year to
the nil of the remaining 98, the community,
as a community, had grown the more pro-
sperous by the difference between the gross
total incemes of the two dates! That by the
way, however. Tne Quarterly Reviewer
having proved to his own complete satisfac-
tion that the poor are not getting poorer—
and we fully admit that the dregs of pauper-
ism can’t by any possibility get any lower—
airily suggests that what there is of poverty
is not the result of anything being rotten in
the political or sooial fabrio, but is the direct
outcome of Drink. Land monopoly has no-
thing at all to do with it—and that fellow
-George is a seditious hound for asserting
that it has. Drink is the sole cause. The
low wretches will drink beer and whisky—
and pauperism is the bitter fruit of their
intemperance. Would they butquench their
thirst in pure water, the income average of
the wage-earning population would strike a
yet higher note, and all would be well! Thus
the Tory property-holder ! And is it not
delightful to see him who for the sake of the
poor man attunes his tongue to the praises
of water, compelled by the force of fortune
to fare sumptuously every day ?
• • •
Quite naturally the social-political views
of the Quarterly dovetail into the con-
victions of the Sydney Morning Herald.
With a Conservative eagerness, that some-
times outruns even that of the organ of
British Jingoism, our local daily contem-
porary accepts as matters of course—that
great masses of the people must be poor!
THE HON. J. C. BRAY, CHIEF SECRETARY, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
that poverty and pauperism are the re-
sult of intemperance; and that the
political fabric is in no need of re-
form in the socialistic direction. “No-
body,” says the Herald, “who has the
slightest acquaintance with our social life
oan pretend for a moment that the destitu-
tion which undoubtedly does prevail at
times has in any way been brought about
by the Government sale of land. Those
who administer our charities have a large
amount of experience on that point, and it
is perfectly safe to say that they have never
traced the slightest connection between
poverty and land proprietorship.” It is,
indeed, “quite safe to say that,” since
“ those who administer our charities” belong
almost to a man to the class that constitutes
the staunchest buttress of the sooial status
quo. Echoing the Quarterly, the Herald
traces pauperism to Drink. Having some
little truth in it, this theory is accepted by
the unthinking as entirely true, and as
oovering the wholo ground. It is certainly
a most convenient theory for the wealthy.
Yet, as Henry George remarked the other
day, at Neweastle-on-Tyne, “It is not drink
that is the greatest cause of poverty. No!
It is poverty that is the greatest cause of
Drink " That’s about it. For one man
whom Drink has impoverished there are five
whom grinding poverty has first demoral-
ised.
Pauperism is developing in New South
Wales. About lin every 200 of the popula-
tion is an absolute pauper; and, besides,
there is a very considerable floating destitute
population, very many of whom are neither
loafers nor drunkards. Moreover, in all the
larger centres of population the “slum’'
area is annually increasing. In the metro-
polis and elsewhere mayoral aotivity may
make occasional raids upon the nuisance
but, whilst the municipal law remains un-
altered, the only effect of such activity is to
drive the evil it professes to cure further
into the system. And, as a matter of course,
contemporaneously with the increase of the
slum area and the growth of pauperism, the
inequalities of privilege and wealth are fast
augmenting. Here, as in England and in
America, “everything tends (as Georges
says in his “Social Problems”) to the rapid
and monstrous increase of these inequali-
ties.” Our belief is that the main cause of
this serious state of things is bad law—
specially bad agrarian and bad municipal
law; and we thoroughly agree with George
that the landlord system must be radically
reformed. In this matter, Australians
should not be above learning from the
American experience which goes to show
that, in aland where democratic institutions
are in full operation, yet where those insti-
tutions have not been so worked as to secure
a reform of the land laws borrowed from
England, land monopoly flourishes as stoutly
and with the same sort of fatal results as in
the old oountry. Where land is monopolised
by the few, the many oannot employ them-
selves. They must seek for employment*
The people of this colony cannot expect
that the simple faot of the possession of
democratic institutions will save them any
more than it has saved the people of the
people of the United States from the disas-
trous effects of land laws that systemati-
cally oreate and designedly encourage land
monopoly.
• • •
Use, as determined by its direct relation to
the public interests, should be the sole
measure of the occupation of the land by
individuals. The greater share of all un-
earned increment arising from the soil must
be gotten into the national exchequer. As
an initial step towards securing these ends
a tax should be imposed upon the value of
land. The effect of such a tax would be to
increase both the incentives to labour and
the rewards of capital; and, by stimulating
improvements in every direction, to afford
a larger amount of remunerative ocoupa-
pation to the mechanical and labouring
classes. At the same time, steps should be
taken to divest ownership in land of every-
thing resembling feudal privilege; to widen
the municipal franchise, so as to admit of a
lodger vote; and to reform the immigration
service, which, as it is at present worked,
does at least as muoh harm as good by keep-
ing up a constant supply of a very inferior
stamp of colonist. Reforms such as these
would be as the blows of an axe at the root
of the prime causes of poverty and pauper-
ism. At the same time bona fide Temper-
ance reform need not be neglected. It is
well that the drink curse should be battled
with; but it is raising a wholly false issue to
pretend that that curse is the sole cause of
the annual impoverishment of thousands of
the people, and of the absolute pauperism of
millions, when it may be so much more
truly said to be the effect of Poverty. Only
to go for Temperance reform, and to neglect
the other far more radical reforms, would
be simply to play into the hands of the land
monopolists, which is just what would please
the Quarterly Reviewer and those con-
servatives in N. S. Wales whose opinions are
manufactured at the corner of Pitt and
Hunter streets.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Gospel Truth.
The Adelaide Frearson’s Journal remarks
fatuously that “in America, where Henry
George was born, he is looked upon as a drivel-
ling: lunatic; in England he is looked upon as a
dangerous schemer. For ourselves, we presume
him a little of both.” And then, having spat this
assortment of stupidity, falsehood, and venom at
a profound thinker, whose views it is not compe-
tent to criticise, it proceeds to abuse certain South
Australian reverends who have gone in for the
Californian economist. One of these reverends,
the Wesleyan Carter to wit, delivered a
sermon, the other day, on the text (Leviti-
cus xxiii. 25), “The land shall not be sold for
ever, for the land is mine, for ye are strangers and
sojourners with me,” his object being to show that


Coughs and Colds.
THB Best Cure for the above Is Rum made hot
and taken at bod-time.
HT PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
fie. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Department,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
O. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
ed.
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of aueh a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler.
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The host Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. fid. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY
fis. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. fid. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. fid. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
3s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
fis. fid. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street, Sydney.
the intention of the original Jewish agrarian law
was virtually to prevent land monopoly by keep-
ing the land in the possession of the whole
people in perpetuity, and thus to form a race
of patriots by giving each man and each
family a direct stake In the soil. This healthy
and correct view having “ riz ” Frearson’s
dander some, that organ of economic orthodoxy
thereupon brayed as follows: “We say that if the
Wesleyan Conference is honest, they will seri-
ously take the reverend gentleman to task for his
outrageous conduct iu this dangerous, false, and
heretical sermon.” And not content with general,
ised abuse, the foolish Frearson must also
go in for what it idiotically deems to be the
particular proofs of Carter’s falseness of doc-
trine, giving alist of instances from the Bible of the
buying of land by Jeremiah, Judas Iscariot,
and Ahab, in complete and total ignorance that
these instances tell for Carter against itself, since
they are instances clearly proving that in the days
of Ahab, Jeremiah, and Judas self-interest and
greed had corrupted the law in question (as invari-
ably they corrupt all laws) and originated a custom
antagonistic to its intrinsic morality.
It’s a way they have in the army, we suppose—
that is, the N. S. Wales army—but it’s a way
neither we nor justice can understand. Here are
a few of the sentences passed on offenders in our
Permanent Artillery Conduct prejudicial to
good order,” 22 days; “disobedience of orders, and
allowing civilians to create a disturbance,” reduc-
tion to the ranks; “ dressing in plain clothes in
the streets,” 42 days; “improperly dressed,”
non-commissioned officer reduced to ranks ; “ as-
sociating familiarly with a gunner,” non-com-
missioned officer reduced to ranks ; “smoklDgin
the streets,” 14 days. It will be seen what heinous
offences the above are in a free country, especially
the two latter. Let us now take a peep at the other
side—apparently the very blind side—of our
military N.S.W. justice. A man who stole and sold
the property of his comrade got 14 days, just what
the “smoker In the streets” enjoyed. An officer
who collared a cheque, and made a false entry in
the register, received—twelve months at least ?
Oh, no I 14 days—just a third of the sen.
tonce which the “ plainly dressed in the
streets” party got. On the other hand, a de-
serter and an insulter (who’d blame them ?) of his
superior (?) officer received each a few weeks short
of a year’s hard labour, aud were then drummed
out in disgrace 1 Oh, and we note another smoker
in the streets got twenty-eight days—just double
what was doled out to the officer cheque-stealer.
But, isn’t there something sublimely suggestive in
the crime of “familiarlyassociating with a gunner I”
The Rates of Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 345.: half-year, 12s. od.;
quarter, 6s. ttd.—ln advance.
The Advertising Rates are ss. per inch;
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows :—On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions,
16 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony ma be sent, if more convenient.
Alive or Dead?
“ Admiral Hewitt and General Graham,
acting on the advice of several of the friendly
sheikhs, have offered a reward of £lOOO for the
production of Osman Digna, alive or dead.”—
Daily Paper.
Has “ Jack-in-office ” dragged her down so low!
By envious lips ’twill evermore be said
That England put a prioe upon the head
Of one she knew not-save as gallant foe—
“ Alive or dead!”
A lasting blot upon her history’s page!
To crown vile victories o’er these untrained
hordes
(Whose blood, shed thus, disgraoes English
swords).
As did the tyrants of a barbarous age—
“ Dead or alive!”
Each generous heart must o’en with horror thrill
At dastard words, writ in fair England’s name;
All Austral asks, with blush of honest shame,
“ Is the ‘ old country’s ’ sense of honour still
Alive—or dead ?”
The Deniliquin Chronicle says that kan-
garoos are dying in mobs from thirst up about
Warrah Station. If the poor kangaroo only knew
what excellent soup his tail would make, he might
soak the end of it in a little hot water every day,
and thus obtain a very palatable as well as a very
nourishing drink. But the kangaroo, like Mr-
Service of Victoria, doesn’t know everything.
The Cootamundra ’Erald is on the buck
once more, and this time it has its coffin-shaped
head between its knees in its wild endeavours to
hoist the local racing club •* bummity.” Fault the
first is that the C.J.C. doesn’t advertise its sports
enough, and as a natural sequence, sheets of tin
and brown paper still take the place of glass in the
’ Erald windows, and the gentleman who worries
up the “ future-policy-of-England-in-tbe-Soudan ”
pars, has to rub ink on his sock to assimilate its
colour to that of the surrounding portions of the
E.S. boot through which it ostentatiously pro-
trudes. Fault the second is—but let the complain-
ant speak himself : “People are not satisfied in
this msthetic age with rude rusticity. The inti-
mation of the auctioneer, when selling the club’s
rights, that members were permitted to take two
ladles to the grandstaad, and that ladies were ad-
mitted free to the stand, seems after the event
like a piece of grim humour, seeing that ladies for
sitting accommodation are provided not with
chairs or forms, but with the floor only; and our
modern ladies would not care to squat down in
black-gin fashion on tneir haunches.” We don’t
exactly know w hat style of females, “ ladies for
sitting accommodation ” are, but we venture to
think that for chasteness, and appropriateness of
simile that of com,paring modern ladies to “ black-
gins squatting dow n on their haunohes” lays over
anything of the ki ad. we can remember since the
day when the Mayor of Coventry, complimenting
Queen Elizabeth on her victory over the Spanish
Armada, said: “When the foreigner sailed he
thought he had yc >u fast, but your Majesty soon
let him see that 1 le’d caught the wrong sow by
the ear this time.” We predict a brilliant future
tor the ’Erald if t he Qgjce is not blown down by
the next breeze.
A Symphony in Brown and Purple.
The Queen’s new book, “More Leaves from My
Journal in the Highlands,” was published just
before the last mail left England. By a provoking
mistake our presentation copy has not come to
hand. We don’t know what has come over the
Queen lately. Half-a-crown's worth of stamns
should not have been permitted to stand in the
way between friends. Perhaps, however, the
weather w»s wet before the mail left, and Bertie
had lent the civil-list umbrella. Anyway, our
copy is not to hand, and we are under the neces-
sity of reading the work piecemeal in the home
papers. The dedication is, we observe, as fol-
lows “ To my Loyal Highlanders, and es-
pecially to the memory of my devoted Personal
Attendant and Faithful Friend, John Brown,
these reeords of My Widowed Life in Scot-
land are gratefully dedicated, Victoria, R. 1.”
The work appears to be replete with gems of
thought and incidents of thrilling interest. There
is, for example, the nerve-shattering incident of
the carriage accident. The Queen was driving
with Lenchen and Alice, and attended by Brown,
when the vehicle was upset. With the presence of
mind and devotion which endeared him to his
Soverrign, Brown had promptly jumped off and
saved himself as soon as he saw what was going to
happen. In spite of this magnificent self-sacrifice
on the part of the devoted Brown, the Queen fell
ker-flop, and hit the ground with her face “ very
hard.” The ground hurt her, a specimen of heart-
less disloyalty so degrading that we are surprised
not to read further on that, on being remonstrated
with, the earth opened and swallowed itself.
It is in moments of peril and suffering that genius
Hashes forth. The talent and devotion of Brown
are accordingly recorded. The promptness with
which he rushed into blasphemy and imbecility
marks him as no common man. The Hoyal jour-
nalist records, with keen admiration, these traits.
“The Lord Almighty have mercy on us!” roared
Brown, with instinctive feeling that the proper
thing to do was to grovel at some throne —even
if it were the Throne of Grace —“ who did ever see
the like of this before!'’ Of cour e we do not
exactly know what was displayed o Mr. Brown’s
eyes at the moment, although Alice and
Lenchen do appear to have been a good deal
sommersaulted and tousled; but if the spectacle
were merely a coach upset and some ladies spilt,
it does seem as though Brown might have learned
that such sights had occasionally happened pre-
viously, without appealing to his Maker for an
“ answer to correspondents ” which even Alf., of
the Town and Country, could have supplied.
But, if Brown was nrompt and discriminative, his
Royal employer flashed wita even a brighter
radiance; and, when penning the history of the
immortal adventure, recorded the profound con-
viction which grew up in her mind. The horses
were prostrate, and Her Majesty observes that
“it was absolutely necessary to get them up”
before they could be re-employed for pur-
poses of traction. The truth, the unimpeach-
able |truth, «f this line philosophic induction
places it at once on the highest pinnacle of in-
tellectual discovery. But, if Brown displayed
devotion when the Royal authoress was concerned,
the feeling was at Last reciprocal. Deep as may
have been Brown’s suffering when Her Majesty
bumped her head, It was at least equalled by the
solicitude of his tender-hearted Sovereign on the
subject of his own legs. Thus we read with de-
light—for it is ever precious to discover the work-
ings of Nature and humane feeling—that “I was
muoh distressed at breakfast to find that poor
Brown’s legs had been dreadfully cut by the edge
of his wet kilt, on Monday, just at the back of the
knee, and he said nothing about it; but to-day one
became so inilamed and swelled so much that he
could hardly move.” This condition of the back
of Brown’s legs makes very interesting reading. We
are only surprised that, as these splendid
memoirs mention that Her Majesty was made ac-
quainted with a Scotch haggis about this
time, it did not occur to her to combine her infor-
mation, as Oliver Goldsmith concocted his article
on “ Chinese Metaphysics ” out of the articles on
“China” and on “Metaphysics” respectively in
the Encyceopucdia. Given Brown’s excoriated
legs and a haggis—result, haggis used to poultice
the back of Brown's legs. The case was really
worthy of heroic treatment, for we read further
—and the exactitude and minuteness of the detail
do credit to the powers ol observation possessed
by the talented authoress:—“ It was really most
distressing to mo to see what pain poor Brown
suffered, especially in going up and down hill. He
could not go fast, and walked lame, but would
not give in.” When one bears in mind that
Brown’s wounds were excoriations Gaused by
the chafing of the edge of his petticoats,
the oonfession is forced from one that no
nobler instance of endurance is recorded in
history, sacred or profane, since the justly-cele-
brated Mr. Patrick Maguire walked from Calais to
Rome with his shoes full of peas-boiled peas.
There are other incidents of equal interest. There
is the story—illustrative, as appears, of the fatal
nature of the Princess Louise—of a good old lady,
a Miss M'Gibbon, who was too ill to come out, and
was visited by Her Majesty. In the Queen’s very
presence this rash old woman “ patted Louise on
the shoulder.” The result is told in the next
sentence: “She died soon after.” This, Iperhaps,
sheds some light upon the reason why Lome
doesn’t but this would lead us into too
long a digression. Whether the Rev. D.
Macleod and Sir Thomas Biddulph had also been
betrayed into tapping the fatal Louise on the
shoulder, we have no means of learning. But it is
recorded that they both died, and Brown was “in
it” each time. But we must quote :—" We had
come home at five minutes past eight. I had
w ished Brown good night, and was j ust going to my
dressing-room when he asked to come in again
and say a few words to me. He came in and said
very kindly that he had seen Colonel Ponsonby,
and that there was rather bad news from Dr.
Macleod, who was very 111; in fact, that they were
afraid he was dead I Oh, what a blow ! My tears
flowed fast, but I checked them as much as I
could, and thanked good Brown for the kind
way in which he had broken the news.”
One charm of truly intellectual writing is that one
reads so much between the lines. In this fashion
we get a glimpse of the true nature of Dr.
Macleod, and the qualities which made him so suc-
cessful as a clerical courtier. Thus the canny
doctor “ gave us such a splendid sermon on the
war f and, without mentioning France, he said
enough to make everyone understand what was
meant (when he pointed out that God would punish
wickedness, and vanity, and sensuality; and the
chapters he read from Isaiah xxviii, and from
Ezekiel, Amos, and one of the Psalms, were really
quite wonderful for the way in which they seemed
to describe France). It was all admirable and
heart-stirring.” One sees exactly the reverend
gentleman’s talent, in this, and understands at
once that, if Her Majesty had happened to be
Queen of France, the doctor would have managed
to make it quite clear that the texts and his
hints had distinct application to “ Pcrflde Albion.”
There is one little incident of a strange lack of
sensibility, consideration, and good feeling which
the divine authoress records. It is on the part of
Sir Thomas Biddulph—one of Her Majesty’s
equerries. As already mentioned, old Biddy went
and died. Well—but here you have it: “Brown
came round with a n«te in his hand crying, and
said ‘ It’s all over.’ It was from Sir William, say-
ing that dear Sir Thomas passed away at twenty
minutes past twelve. We were so distressed that
we had not remained at the house. Brown was so
vexed, and so kind and feeling. Dreadful! Such a
loss! Dear Sir Thomas was such an excellent,
honest, upright, wonderfully unselfish, and disin-
terested man—so devoted to me and mine. Under
a somewhat undemonstrative exterior, he was the
kindest and most tender-hearted of men.” We can
imagine nothing more inconsiderate than Sir
Thomas’ conduct in this matter. He should have
known Brown would be “vexed” if he died, and
yet he went aud died in the most thoughtless way.
The authoress leaves no room to doubt that
Brown’s heart was as tender as-we are at
a loss for a simile—ah! as tender as the back of his
legs. When the news of the death of the Prince
Imperial of France came, we have it recorded that
it was “too awful,” “Brown so distressed.” That’s
another of them distressing Brown, who, as far as
we have materials to judge, had done nothing to
deserve their apitefuluess. The following ia the
passage:—“Oh! it is too, too awful! The more
one thinks of it the worse it is! I was in'the
greatest distress. Brown so distressed; everyone
quite stunned. ... To think of that dear
young man—the apple of his mother’s eye—born
and nurtured in the purple—dying thus is 100
fearful—too awful—and Inexplicable and dreadful
that the others should not have turned round and
fought for him. It is too horrible!” Thus we
have the monarch’s heart laid bare. All the Queen,
you see. It is inexplicable that a young man, nur-
tured in the purple, should be killed like a common
soldier, who, of course, is never the apple
of his mother’s eye. Such incidents expose a
certain degree of carelessness and inattention on
the part of Providence, quite “ inexplicable.” The
Royal authoress obligingly prints the original tele-
gram sent by Sir Garnet wolseley after the battle
of Tel-el-Keber, which ran thus:—“ Arabi’s
strongly-entrenched position was most brilliantly
and gallantly stormed by the Guards and Line.
. . . Enemy completely routed, and his loss has
been very heavy ; also regret to say that we have
suffered severely. Duke of Connaught is well, and
behaved admirably, leading his brigade to the
attack.” In commenting on this telegram. Truth
gays :—“ Seeing that the Guards did not ‘storm
the entrenched position’—that we did not ‘ suffer
severely,’ and that the Duke of Connaught did
not lead his brigade to the attack—one wonders
where Sir Garnet could have acquired his informa-
tion. He certainly could not have witnessed the
battle.” Wg find a deal more about the Queen’s
friends, her servants, and something about her
dogs, which are praised as “ well-bred,” that,
perhaps, is one reason why they were not made
C.M.G.’s. But we don’t find anything about one
subject, her people, who are probably not interest-
ing because they are not like collie dogs—well-
bred. A Court pup is certainly more interesting
to write about, and to keep sleek and well-fed, than
a back-slum baby. There is nothing about back-
slum babies in this most interesting work, which,
we are told, concludes with another tribute to
John Brown, whose soul is now marching on,
untroubled by frayed legs.
THE CHAMPION BORE.
Ye fiends I that thund’ring rat-tat-tat
Upon my quiv’ring door
Tells me once more I am “ got at ”
By Sydney’s champion bore.
No use at my desk to sit still,
And make believe I’m “ out
That visitor's a man of will,
Who puts all tricks to rout.
He knows I hate him worse than sin,
But yet, day after day.
He’ll come, and the same vile yarn spin,
Then, smirk, and skip away.
I’ve stuck a notice on my door—
“ No hawked thing’s wanted here !”
He laughs at this, the champion bore,
As Death grins o’er a bier.
I’ll start off for Soudan this day—
I see no other means
To'keep those madd’ning fiends away,
Who “ run ’’—sewing machines I
A lady (who sent a lock of her hair— or her
door-mat) recently applied to the Charters Towers
Council for “the office of Assistant Rate Collector
and Inspector of Nuisances, and Goat Ranger.” It
was signed: “Yours condescendingly, Beatrice
de Montmorenci . . . . ,” and “references
kindly permitted to H.R.H. the Prince of Wales*
the Archbishop of Canterbury, the President of
the French Republic, and the Pope of Rome.” We
have not learnt yet whether or not the lady has
got the situation; but we should think, if she did
get it, things in the Council would become a good
deal more complicated than they are already.
Whenever a woman pushes into anything in the
business way, there is always a flare up. We know
this by experience. Just look, for instance, at
those newspapers in which they engage female
comps, and clerks. Why, there’s more type pie’d
and formes smashed in one of those offices in a
month, than in 50 male-run journals in a year. We
sub-edited a paper once that had one lady comp,
on it, the daughter of the proprietor, and she kept
us going all the time. One of her failings was to
write copy herself, and set it up, without going
through the form of having it edited. It was
chiefly poetry of a melancholy nature, and we had
to employ a boy on purpose to keep on “dis-ing”
it. But sometimes she was too clever for us. She
didn’t care where her “ stuff ” went in, as long as
it appeared, so not unfrequently a dirge commen-
cing,
“ Bruised and broken is my heart,
Sorely wounded is my soul,”
would appear under the heading of “Cow
Auction.” No; we advise the Council to let the
young lady adorn some other sphere. Though not
EO agreeable at first sight, they would find it come
convenient to procure, in preference, even another
old woman to join them.
A “suburban clergyman” has been writ-
ing to the Melbourne D.T., throwing doubt (fancy
that) on the genuineness of some of Mr. Booth’s
“conversions” to total abstinence. What he
seems to particularly complain of is that young
ladies, “more enthusiastic than discreet,” have
been swelling the committee’s list of “pledges”
with scores of very unreliable names. For in-
stance, “many young men who had not the re-
motest idea of becoming apostles of teetotalism
have admitted that young ladies have attached
the blue ribbon to their coats, and taken their
names for registration as pledged abstainers.”
Now, there can be little doubt that a nice, fresh,
enthusiastic, young thing, with a blue, beseeching
eye, and a rosebud for a mouth, would be per-
mitted to attach a blue ribbon to the coat of any
young man she chose to attack, and that nine out
of every ten of her “converts” would rush madly
to the nearest hotel and drain a bumper to her
beauty. Still, names taken for registration under
such circumstances would represent human be-
ings, at any rate, and not phantoms from shadow
land; for it is from the other world, apparently,
that these enthusiastic female labourers In the
temperance cause obtain most of their recruits.
The suburban clergyman tells us that “certain
young ladies have actually visited the cemeteries
and taken a host of names from gravestones, and
handed them into the committee as bona jMe
cases.” The practice of persuading “stitf-’uns”
to become abstainers has raised, in the breast of
many an old toper, the ardent expectation that he
will find strong drink in the next world, and that
the spirits he will meet with will prove to be
material as well as ethereal. Certainly, it is only
on that assumption that we can account for these
graveyard conversions. By the bve, how do the
girls contrive to attach the blue ribbon to these
“ cases ? ”
Here’s a “relick” of the giddy past. In
order to infuse some little degree of civilization
into Russian society, and give a tone to the First
Family “hops” of the time, the Empress
Catherine 11. issued a ukase, part of which joggled
along in thiswise:—“We, Catherine, Empress of all
the Russias, hereby ordain that: All ladies giving
parties to their friends and acquaintances shall
send out invitations by letter or verbal message.
Such parties are to commence at 4 or 5 o’clock, and
not to be extended beyond 10 in the evening. The
master of the house shall provide chairs in each
room, also candles, liqueurs, and other refresh-
ments for the company; moreover, cards, dice,
and other games for their entertainment.” So far,
Catherine’s mandate reads chaste enough to suit
even the present moral age, but a little farther on
the old girl (who must have been behind the
scenes herself occasionally), says: “Ladies are ex-
pressly forbidden to get drunk under any pretext
whatsoever; nor are gentlemen permitted to do so
before 9 o’clock in the evening. When the ladies
play at forfeits, or similar games, they are care-
fully to avoid everything that savours of im-
modesty. No one shall be permitted to enfore a
kiss from them, and anyone attempting violence
is to be at once expelled from the company. Given
in our Imperial Palace,” &c., &c. Fancy Queen
Victoria issuing similar orders to-day ! What a
flutter there would be in the Uppah Buckles.
The cry is still —“Retrench.” And a
mighty good cry it is, too, when properly followed
up. Biit we fail to see the wisdom in docking a
shilling off a half-starved and putting a
pound rise on the screw of men who draw their
thousands. In the good old days, when trams were
first started, it was found necessary to employ
some of the check clerks for four hours every
Sunday, and, as these men only received £2a week,
mBter very properly allowed them a few
shillings overtime lor their Sunday work. No
sooner had the present Minister assumed the reins
of office, however, than he was struck with a bril-
liant idea by which retrenchment could be en-
forced, and his bleeding country snved. And,
accordingly, he issued a minute ordering the
above-mentioned overtime to be stopped, because,
as he asserted, the clerks were handsomely remu-
nerated for a week’s work, and Sunday was in-
cluded in that week. Legally this is wrong,
because, in law. Sunday is no day at all. Besides,
if the tram officials are to be deprived of their
Sabbath overtime, Ave'll trouble Mr. Wright to ask
Mr. Trickett why a telegraph clerk, who draws his
£350 per annum, is allowed £1 for carefully doing
nothing for ten hours on Sunday ?
Swift’s wit is as pungent as Mackay rum.
The great Dean showed that cucumber is derived
from Jeremiah, thus: Jeremiah, Jerry, Jerrykin
jerkin, gherkin, cucumber. Some of our Austra-
lian words are on the same high road. Mount Ida
(goldfield) has become MTvor; a spot on Bandicoot
Creek became Bendigo; while Gabo (island) is only
an aboriginal blackfellow’s peculiar way of
pronouncing the name of the neighbouring Cape
Howe, accepted in all innocence by a primeval
surveyor. We once named a lake in the interior
Tah-e-ra, under instructions from an intelligent
aboriginal who stood by, scratching himself by fits
and begging by starts. When we showed our plan
to the squatter, and pronounced the name as
grandly as a turkey-cock gobbling, he merely ex-
plained that it was his Dairy lake, in the paddock
where the family milch-cows abode. Thus, in lots
of instances, do we “com© to our English ’’ ao-ain
like a Scotch fishwife in the tantrums. One double-
pubbed place has been successively Booral, Brooal
Brewer, Boorowa, and is now Burrowa; but it will
probably soon become Burrower, and eventually
either Kabbitville or Grabitall. Then there are
apparent natural affinities to distract us. For
instance, what relationship does Lake Cow-cowing
(W.A.) bear to the Victorian town Buin-buln ?
Discussion invited.
At a recent Botany banquet, one of the
brilliant orators made the rather novel and
startling announcement that “ Britons never
would be slaves ” Now, we fail to see any sensible
reason why Britons should be so loud in their
denunciations of slavery, and we are still at a
greater loss to know why they should take such
credit to themselves for partly checking the
business, considering that England was amopgst
the first nations in modern times to start it. The firtt
Englishman who engaged in the slave trade was
Sir John Hawkins. In 1562 he transported a large
cargo of negroes to Hispaniola, or Havti, and in-
vested the proceeds of their sale in cargoes of
sugar, ginger, and pearls. His profits in this
adventure were so great that Queen Elizabeth
became a partner in his second expedition, which
sailed five years later. In August, 1619, a Dutch
man-of-war entered James River, and landed
twenty negroes for sale at Jamestown, Virginia.
The captain’s name is not known, but he made
several other successful ventures in the “black-
birding ” line; and in this way, by the connivance
of England and Holland, African slavery was first
introduced into an English colony. Then, agaiD,
why should Britons “round” upon their “bul-
wark?” One of the most frequently mentioned
subjects in—what the Rev. Robjohns calls “ The
Word is slavery. It was first started by old
man Noah when he cursed Chanaan, and swore ho
should be “a servant of servants (i. e. a slave) unto
his brethren.” Father Abraham was a bit of a
“nigger" owner, too: and there are few more
cowardly acts on record than the way he kicked
the Egyptian girl, Hagar, and his own son out into
the bush with nothing but a damper nnd a flask of
water to support them on a nine days’ journey.
And yet a lot of brainless blatherskites think they
are sending England up with an 80-ton gun boom
when they yell out “Britons never shall be
slaves.”


Catarrh of the Bladder.— Stinging irritation,
inflamation, all Kidney similar Complaint,s
oured by Buchu-paiba,” Moses, Moss & Co.
Sydney, General Agents.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
j fc wa3 £350. nofc £3O0 > a y ea r tbe young
Martyr, late manager of the Bank of N.S.
Bourke, was in the receipt of at the time
death. The larger sum is reserved for old
° d tried officers. When first appointed, his screw
£3OO. Who would not be a country bank man
W flb suc h a “blue ribbon” ahead? Wal-
r awang is a coaling station for engines on the
mW Railway. The contract for the supply of
W al to the railway department is in the hands of
the Piper’ B Flat C.M. Company. Piper’s Flat is
:. ee miles west of Wallerawang, and before coal
Ln be stacked on the platform at Wallerawang
loading the engines, it has to be taken
miles east of Wallerawang to Eskbank
C^toVcin
sAfr|emoi tWi A
Tnouiked , J /louirmci.
tW\kwU) tWj Ml TU i TTULOJTU o|
m|iiuruj iWn . 2uou si, CAHjCMJ .
.Bui our Granny can
refute ihtm she
J F
not be in q A
a trained*
economic/
thinker'’
20 lmm can
4 ion s •
niffms
\
o, »d .
i><>t ‘
“SITTING UPON” HIM.
GRANNY AND THE GIANT.
to be weighed, and then brought back
Three trucks a day are used, and these have
to be hauled twenty - three miles round to
a place three miles from the starting - point.
Measurement for weight might save this.., .
Rice to be hanged for the murder of Griffin...
Arthur Green sentenced, at Maitland, last week, to
five years’ penal servitude and 20 lashes for a
frightful unnatural offence. Two women the
witnesses against him.. . N.S.W. Customs statistics
for ’B3, total revenue £1,520,361 (£1 14s. ll%d. per
head of population); increase on ’B2, £16,000 ; cost
of collection, £48,000; collected at Sydney £1,306,779;
at Newcastle, £80,747 ; at Albury, £22,829 ; total
Value of imports, £20,960,157 (as agair.st £10,741,483
?°r 1873); total value of exports, £19,886,018 (as
Mrainst £9,387,873 for 1873); re-export trade,
A 3,756,151 ; wool exported, greasy, £6,908,544 ;
*Mbed and scoured. £3,387,700; wool sent to Vic-
toria, 130,498 bales (as against 311,940 sent in 1880....
“Quidnunc,” of Burrowa, says: “The gold medals
awarded at the Amsterdam Exhibition have to be
paid for by—the exhibitors! Talk of ‘ Dutch cour-
age’ ! Henceforth we must talk of ' Dutch liberal-
ity,’ as well. To ask a successful exhibitor to pay
for his gold medal is really asking too much; but,
then, as Canning wrote, you know,
‘ In matters of commerce the fault of the Dutch
Is giving too little and asking too much.’ ”
...The newest little game up Port Denison way is
killing blackfellows and selling their skulls to
savans. One aboriginal, “ Jimmy,” has been
bowled out by the police as an adept in this kind
of traffic.... Public soholars (primary) cost N.S.W.
£4 4s. 1)4d., the United States £3 155., and Great
Britain £1 17s. 3d. a head. ..Sydney University
students cost £l6l a head (81 per cent, of which
sum is defrayed by the State) Sydney Uni.
Exams. First year:—Classics—Honours : Class 1.,
A. W. Fletcher and Neill (aeq.), Byram, Jane
Rassell; Mathematics—Honours : Class 1, Delo-
hery ; Chemistry and Physics—Class 1, A. W.
Fletcher, Jane Russell. Hughes. Second year:—
Classics—Honours: Class 1, Millard, Fullerton;
Mathematics—Honours: Class 1, Millard; Chemis-
try-Class 1, Ramsay. Third year (for B.A. de-
gree) :—Classics—Honours: Class 1, L. Armstrong;
Nautical Soienoe—Honours: Class 1, F.Leverrier....
The schooner Jessie Kelly, Captain Brixstone,
M. G. de Lcentour, Government Agent, arrived in
Noumea on the 15th March, in distress, with 90
“return labsur.” A survey was held and the
vessel was condemned as unsafe to proceed to the
New Hebrides unless she had a thorough repair*
The facilities for repairing her not being obtain-
able in Noumea, she proceeded to Sydney. The
“return labour” have been forwarded to the!
islands in the French schooner Ernestine Scab
Board: G. Campbell, M.P. for Carcoar, Samuel
M’Caughey, of Coonong; and John Christian, of
Hinton. ..Gordon has rescued Talfiyeh garrison....
Edward Williams found guilty as one of the doers
of the Woolloomooloo deed of shame, and
sentenced to be hanged by his neck until he be
dead—The Victorian warships not wanted at
Suakim. Service curtly (not courteously) declined.
....Staunton, Town Clerk of Dubbo, arrested for
embezzlement... Chief Justice Stawell (Vic.) has
decorated himself with the blue ribbon.... Only
one English essay—one lot of Latin, and two of
English verse- sent in this year (Sydney Uuiver-
sity), and none up to the mark !
• • •
The Queen usually edits and revises the
record of Court doings daily announced in the
Court Circular... At a recent School Board
exam., in answer to the question “ What do a jot
and tittle mean ?” the reply was, that a jot was
half a tittle, and a tittle was what Mr. Tennyson
had just received According to Lord Randolph
Churchill the peers of England are “the inspired
offspring of time, the chief guarantees of Christian
morality, and satisfy the highest aspirations either
of peoples or of man.” This is a companion senti-
ment to Lord John Manners’
“ Let laws and learning, arts and science die,
But leavo us still our old nobility.”
The family of the Smiths occupy fifteen closely-
printed columns in the Post Office London Direc-
tory for ’B4, and the Browns eight columns. Only
one man in London is given as Fatt, and only one
Thin, but there are two Stout ...There is in
existence in London a charity (some £13,000 a year)
for poor Smiths. Some five hundred of that class
are annually relieved. .In 1883, the losses by fire in
the United States of America exceeded twenty mil-
lions sterling; one third of the losses attributable to
incendiarism Proposal to legalise marriages
between Jews and Christians in Hungary defeated
by a combination of Austrian Reactionists,.,.,
A conference met at Rome in January to discuss
the question of the unification of time, and the
adoption of a common meridian. A diplomatic
conference will shortly assemble at Washington
to bring about an international understanding on
the matter—The French Chamber of Deputies
has adopted a bill for the establishment of Conseils
des Prudhommes, in connection with the mining
industry —Estate of the late Sir C. W. Siemens, in
the United Kingdom sworn at. £383.433. ..
Dr. Price, an Ancient Bard of the Druids, who
resides in South Wales, attempted the other day to
cremate a baby of which his housekeeper was the
mother. The police, however, intervened.. ..
Battle of Zareba fought March 13th; Graham v.
Osman Digna; began at daybreak; Arabs broke
Davis’ infantry square; cavalry forced Arabs to
retire, enabling Davis to reform ; then general
advance of British, Arabs preoipately flying,
leaving the camp and stores to fall into hands of
British. Arabs lost 4000 (1500 around Davis’ square)
British 130 men; by the 16th, British back at Suakim,
having burned four rebel (?) villages on their
return Moving along 1 Majorities very small.
Another struggle and ’twill be Progress trium-
phant:—“The motion in favour of the opening of
museums on Sundays rejected in the Lords after
debate, by a majority of eight votes The bill
introduced by Willis, member for Colchester, fo~
the exclusion of Bishops from the House of Lords
rejected by Commons by a majority of 11 votes
The College of Cardinals, discussing the expedi-
ency of the Pope leaving Rome—a circumstance
which kinder militates against the allegation that
his Holiness is a prisoner in the Vatican. If to leav e
the Eternal City at his pleasure is vat-he-oan do,
where does the Imprisonment come in?
As we expected, Depretis re-constructing the Ita-
lian Cabinet. It he re-constructs it by eliminating
the Radical element, it won’t last six months
The want of pence, which perplexes oublie
men, is delaying the departure of Sir Wilfred
Powell and party for New Guinea.


Thoroughly satisfied that it
CONQUERS PAIN.
Palace Emporium,
Haymarket, Sydney.
The Editor Bulletin.
Dear Sir,—
I cheerfully add my testimony to the good
eflects derive,able from the use of ST. JACOBS
OIL as demonstrated in my own household. Some
few weeks ago my wife suffered severely from
pains in her head. She applied the Oil with excel-
lent results, and has since recommended it to a
friend for a case of swelling- in the legs, in which
case the result was equally beneficial. It has been
used by members of my family, and its action has
satisfied my most sanguine expectations. I con-
sider it a most valuable preparation to have by
you for any household accident. I recommend it
confidently to my friends, and am thoroughly
satisfied “ It Conquers Pain.”
I remain, yours truly,
DAVID CURTIN.
(This testimonial is from a highly respected em-
in the employ of Messrs. A. Hordern and
Sons, and bears the endorsement of that colossal
firm).
£lOO.—A Cash Reward of £lOO will be paid by the
Charles A. Vogeler Company, of Baltimore, Mary-
land, U.S.A., proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by
their accredited local representatives in various
parts of the world, to any person producing proof
to the effect that the testimonials published by
them in regard to St. Jacobs Oil are not strictly
genuine. Price in N.S.W., Half-a-Crown a bottle.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney,
Wholesale Depot for N.S.W.
I have been
Connected with the drug business for twenty
years, and have handled every blood purifier and
remedy of any consequence for the treatment of
Blood, Skim, and Scalp diseases, and unhesitatingly
say that no system of remedies ever devised or
compounded so completely and thoroughly eradi-
cates the diseases for which they are intended as
the Cuticcra Remedies. Many remarkable cures
have come to my knowledge and I feel safe in
warranting satisfaction if directions are followed.
CHAS. H. MORSE, Druggist.
Holliston, Mass.
When a person is weak and faint, or
fatigued and exhausted, there is nothing so re-
freshing and reviving as a little of Murray and
Lanman’s Florida Water. Rubbed on the
hands and temples, and inhaled freely, it tones and
braces the whole system.
Personal
Items
Jeffery Samuel Prendergast, the last sur-
viving AVaterloo officer of the Scotch Guards, and
the last of the detachment which, under Colonel
Hepburn, aided in the defence ot the farm and
orchards of Hougomont, died in January, aged 87.
He saw thirteen of his brother officers shot down
in the defence of Hougomont, but escaped with-
out a scratch. He retired from the Guards in 1835.
After a careful search “ Ouida,” the
naughty but nice, has been discovered to
be a daughter of George Lawrence, the
author of “Guy Livingstone.” Guy, it will be
remembered, had a penchant for crushing pewter
pots in his hand and twisting pokers round hotel
waiters’ throats wnenever he thought they were
short of neckties. He was an interesting cuss for
a time, however', and combined the Apollo-like
beauty of R. B. Smith with the Chestorfieldian
politeness of a Muckalone. Most of Ouida’s heros
are built on the same pattern.
According to an Irish paper, the missing
war correspondent, Edmund O’Donovan, was at
one time a Fenian, and did six months in Limerick
gaol. It is alleged that he was one of the most
active of that body’s agents. Subsequently he
went to France, joined the army, and at the de-
fence of Orleans was taken prisoner. He next
appears as correspondent for the Freeman’s
Journal, in the Carlist war, and afterwards hold-
ing a similar position for the Daily News in the
late Russo-Turkish struggle. His life was one of
thrilling adventure, and his fate a mystery.
It is shrewdly suspected that the beer con- I
sumption in Wanganui (N.Z.) district will show a
considerable falling off at the end of the present
year. The reason of this is simply because old
Brown is dead. Didn't Know Brownl Why, we
thought even the fish in the river knew Brown.
Brown was a blacksmith’s clerk, but about six
months ago he received £5OO from home, and him-
self and his spouse at once went on a howling tear.
What the fun was like, may be guessed from the
fact that the publican’s records show the thirsty
pair have placed themselves on the outside of five
gallons of beer every other day since they touched
the legacy. And, a few days ago, a neighbour
happening to call in, found Brown lying dead on
the floor, while his wife sat up in the bed yelling,
and gibbering, a hopeless maniac from the effects
of beer. Beer. Bier.
Mr. Walt Whitman writes of his poems
“ They proceed out and revolve around one’s self,
Myself, an identity, and declaredly make that self
the nucleus of the whole utterance.” Right you
are, Walt. We have just been bewrayed into
reading you. We flatter ourselves that we are
above following the yelping of some of your
American critios, who don't even give you credit
for the beautiful things you have said. But, tak-
ing Rosetti’s edition of your picked pieces, it
strikes us you make yourself not only the nucleus
but the tail of a very eccentric comet. What else,
for instance, makes you speak of the Austral man
as “red” and “sooty” in the same line? When
you gush out your huge sympathy with every-
thing human, what makes you include even the
filth of humanity ? And, then, your cataloguing of
trades and occupations to show that you know
every phase of American activity! Are there not
guides, trade circulars, directories, and all that, so
that we might know of the smelting, hide-curing,
and the dustman’s cart, without having them
dished up as poetry ? Let these things “ revolve
round yourself ” by all means, but do not let them
revolve around us. Walt, they say, lies down and
looks the sun in the eye at noonday. Some verses
appear to show he is equally intrepid when the
fair orb of night looks him in the eye.
Governor Broome of Western Australia
has had as many ups and downs as a war corre-
spondent. As a stripling he went to New Zealand,
and during the intervals snatched from tending
flocks, he read everything, from Monte Christo to
the latest opinions on the nebular hypothesis.
He has long since given over study, owing (we give
the rumour for what it’s worth' to having been
sent a complimentary copy of an Australian
work-the Murmur of the Streams ” by Sir
Henry Parkes, K.C.M.G., late Premier of N.S.
Wales. After reading the book carefully Mr.
Broome set fire to his library and started for a
holiday in England. There he met Lady Barker,
the young widow of an old General. They were
married and went to New Zealand. Then came
hard times for the sheep-farmers, so youDg
Broome and his wife returned to England. She is
said to be a “ medium ” of exceptional power
The whirligig of chance threw her in the way of
a famous Duchess who, like Rachel, was mourning
the loss of her first-born, a boy of eight. Mrs.
Broome at once opened up communication
between the Duchess on this side of the river and
her son on the other. Then the great lady took
Mr. Broome in hand, introduced him to Delane, the
Times’ great editor, and got him a job. Among a
lot of miscellaneous work, he wrote an article
knocking the stuffing completely out of Harriet
Beecher Stowe’s account of Lord Byron and his
half-sister. The interest that got him on the
Times subseouently ran him into the Secretary-
ship of the Mauritius and probably had a hand in
landing him in Western Australia. The moral of
all this is obvious. Whenever you “ go broke ” at
squatting, cut away as fast as you can to England
if you are on the right side of 40, get all the army
lists for some years back, and take the names of
Indian general officers who have lately taken seats
in the celestial orchestra leaving young widov s
behind who know something of mesmerism.
Then look out for a Duchess who has lately lost a
boy, and—if you’re not Viceroy of Ireland in a
year it’s because the Irish dislike Viceroys and
don’t understand mesmerism. Golly ! if we had
had a Duchess behind us for the last 10 years!
Let s see. Where were we when the
4 ‘boss’ ’ editor came prancing in asking for the young
person that sent the “elegy on a dead ornitho-
rhynohus,” and flourishing the last poet’s femur
over his head? Under these constant irruptions
our appetite and our hair are going fast. We were
at “General” MTver, whose schemes for supply-
ing moral pocket handkerchiefs to the Papuans
were so unkindly up-ended by Lord Derby.
“Mac.” is a true soldier of fortune, and was once
a non-commissioned officer in the English army.
Not that he is the worse for that. Coleridge,
Cobbett, and Forbes were full privates, and there
are now in the ranks of the army, and always
have been, men who in one hemisphere of their
brains have more real knowledge stowed away
than could be found in the crania of a dozen of the
hobbledehoys sent from Sandhurst to chivvy them.
But’twas in the old “purchase” days, before the
“Grand Old Man” sent his toe through the
“ Royal Warrant,” that the well-bred joskins
from whom the ordinary marching regiment officer
was manufactured had it all their own way. Well,
this M’lvor doesn’tget his rank from the Turks. Au
contraire, they’d skin him if they had a chance, for
his having helped the Greeks to make border
raids upon them a few years ago. He helped
Garibaldi to tickle “ Bomba’s ” tail, was with the
Carlists in Spain, the Federals in America, the
French on the Moselle, and commanded the Ar-
gentine foreign legion in the Paraguayan
trouble. Beuides this he was in the Servian in-
surrection, ai id went for the “ unspeakable ” with
as much alacrity as Jack Johnson in “ Don Juan.”
The Turk se ems to be his especial bete noir, and
the efforts he made to get employment at Athens,
in order to ha ve a slap at his o d enemy, deserved
success if they* didn’t secure it. “ Mac.” is a gentle-
manly, shrew d, well-informed man. He speaks
Frencn fluent ly, has a powerful physique, is as
great a fire-eai dgr as ever swore in Flanders with
uncle Toby, au d loves luieeionaries au4 “ mggers ”
as the Protestant Standard loves the confes-
sional. In the Servian insurrection already men-
tioned, he was Brigadier-General, in command of
a body of cavalry.'considered by competent judges
to be the model of an irregular force. They were
so d irregular, that they were never known to
be altogether, except at meal times, and, with the
solitary exception of the Tower Hamlet milita,
were supposed to know more about distraining
goods coming their way than any equal number of
warriors engaged during the war. With one troop
of his ci-devant comrades he is prepared to im-
prove overy nigger off New Guinea, and make it a
fine country for the working man.
The name of Sir Wilfred Lawson is as
closely associated with the Temperance move-
ment in England as that of Professor Miller with
the Graeco-Roman style of wrestling in Australia.
But he is a good deal more than a teetotal advo-
cate. He is the member for Carlisle, in the very
front rank of Radicals, and as honest and courte-
ous a gentleman as any within the four seas. But
in debate he is a terrible hitter, and few members
SIR WILFRED LAWSON.
care to throw the first stone his way. A short
time ago one of his tenants made some improve-
ments on his farm. They were partly beneficial
to his landlord, but chiefly to himself. One thing,
at all events, is certain—the tenant’s improve-
ments gave him no claim for compensation—so that
a cheque for £BOO from Sir Wilfred was a very
agreeable and unsuspected windfall. English
papers say that the incident is a thoroughly char-
acteristic one.
“Orion” Horne dead, aged 83. Educated
at Sandhurst, served In Mexican navy during war
of independence, from ’52 to ’69 in the Victorian
Civil Service—first in the gold escort, subsequently
as gold commissioner; author of “Cosmo de
Medici,” “Death of Marlowe,” “Gregory V 11.,”
“The Death Fetch,” “Judas Iscariot” (a miracle
play), “ A New Spirit of the Age” (critical essays,
partly the work of Elizabeth Barrett Browning),
“Ballad Romances,” “Life of Napoleon the
Great,” “Letters to Mrs. E. B. Browning,” and
the really great epic, “ Orion,” a poem of classic
purity and real eloquence, which .he sarcastically
published in 1843 at a farthing (the price of the
new edition of ’76 is, however, 93.). For some
years he edited the Monthly Repository. In
1874 Beaconsfleld granted him a civil list pension.
Richard Hengist Horne was a kindly, honourable,
brilliant, eccentric man, with merit as a poet
much greater than his fame. Some seventeen
years ago, or thereabouts, Horne was a well-known
character in Melbourne. He was an amateur on
the guitar, and used to sing his own compositions,
accompanying himself on that classic instiument.
On one occasion he appeared in public—it was, we
think, a complimentary benefit to poor Cutolo,
the musician, when that excellent artist was
about to remove from Melbourne to Sydney.
Cutolo, by the way, did not settle in Sydney, and
was on his way back to Melbourne on one of the
A.S.N. Co.’s steamers, when the mizzen boom
broke loose, and, swinging, struck him on the
head, fracturing his skull and killing him. Horne’s
jerformance was not a success. He was an odd-
ooking fellow, to begin with. He wore his hair in
long blonde ringlets hanging on his collar, and his
singing was scarcely audible in a theatre, and
what could be heard was far from melodious. The
gods guyed him unmercifully. A composition by
im, not mentioned above, was “ The South Sea
Sisters,” an ode for performance before Prince
Alfred, C. E. Horsley set the ode to music, and it was
duly given in the Melbourne Exhibition building,
in presence of the Prince, who delayed the overture
nearly half an hour, by his lack of that “ politeness
of princes,” punctuality —The biography of R. H.
Horne will show a man with all the possibilities of
Swinburne or Landor to seize the fleeted imagery of
the old Greeks. Everyone has heard of his dwelling
in Australia, and his rather mourniul farewell.
Horne came with no end of Draise and high en-
comium from the most cultivated men in England,
notably Carlyle. The praise of the latter in matters
of pure art are grossly under-rated. Because he had
a mathematic head, and went for solid “ bu Hock-
ing,” as we call it, it is a common fashion to sup-
pose that he had little taste lor beauty. His essays
on Schiller, Richter, and Burns disprove it. He
found he had no voice for the pretty little voices
that rule the English men of culture to-day, and
he flung himself, with all his massive Miltonisms,
into speculations to which roses, lilies, and love,
can never be more than a pianissimo accompani-
ment to the concerns of greater minds. In “Orion,”
Horne gave the highest learning of the Greeks, in
the most Greek of English. The book is not much
read by us, because beef, and wool, and all the
struggles of a new community, made up of wan-
derers, are here. We can’t help it. Time will
mend all that; and if Horne died unrecognised by
us, he will live again in our more leisurely chil-
dren. And not unto us, but to men like Badham,
you may appeal for that hope. Both “ old men
eloquent.”
J. G. Gregory, Esq., J. P., auctioneer,
commission agent and general financier, Horsham
(Vic.), has pleaded guilty to forging and uttering
bills to the amount of £6ouo or £7OOO, and has now
retired for a period of three years and a half to
Government lodgings in Ararat, where the stern
demand of the übiquitous hash-provider for pay-
ment in advance is unknown, and a liveried atten-
dant knows where to find him in the morning. J.
G.—or, perhaps, we’d better call him by his front
name, Jack, for shortness—was but. a youth when
we first set our brilliant orbs upon him, and rather
a dull kind of youth at that. But dull youths
usually develop into pretty smart men. Take, for
example, the first Napoleon. He did not exhibit
any particular talents to start with, if we except,
perhaps, a healthy appetite. Yet his name will be
remembered long after most of our own C.M.G.’s
are forgotten. Then there was George Washing-
ton, whose juvenile genius did not show up worth
a cent, not even when he got into trouble over
that little axe; yet he became a great and
good man. And ourselves. We were not dis-
tinguished by any remarkable traits in our early
life, barring a penchant for investigating the
neighbours’fruit gardens, during the owners’ tem-
Sorary absence. But look at us now I Anyhow,
ack Gregory wasn’t a wonder to start with, as we
remarked already, but, with careful training and
good example, he developed pretty well. Many
a time have we listened to the teachings of his
aged parent, who used, in the early days of Hor-
sham, attend to the salvation of the unregenerate,
whilst the regular parson hunted up the stray
sheep in the outlying districts. Yes, the old man
used to run the local State School, and then amuse
himself during his spare time by preaching the
Gospel. But even the regular parson and his able
co-adjutor could hardly stem the tide of ungodli-
ness which swept over the Wimmera in those
days. Money was plentiful, and the “boys” just
ached for a chance to spend it. And they
didn’t spend it all on churobes, either. Champagne
wae very common tipple when such gay.and roi«
licking young sparks as Hector and Norman Wil-
son, and their bosom friends, the Penders, came in
from Vectis for a “tear round.” Then they would
emulate the high jinks of the Marquis of Water-
ford that “ made Dungarvan shako.’ They would
take possession of a “pub.” hand the “stuff ” up
from the cellar to appreciative crowds of reliable
drinkers, ride their fiery steeds through the pas-
sages of the house, thump the police, and, at times,
wind up the carnival by having to appear before
the local P.M. the next morning, who on one
memorable occasion fined them £3O each for their
night’s amusement. It is only fair to state that
the publican’s score—a pretty long one—used also
be liquidated in full by those reckless roysterers.
Yes, those were the halcyon days of Horsham,
when the rival brass bands used to meet in
deadly fray on the public square, and “belt
the stuffing” out of each other with the trom-
bones and horns and bombardons and things,
whilst the populace of that lively town used to
array themselves on either side as their sympathies
dictated, and scruff and gouge and punch each
ether until the streets fairly reeked with blood,
hair, and tobacco-juice, not to mention the ornate
style of the outbursts of profanity which rang
clarion-like above the din of battle, and for which
the early residents of that section were proverbial.
The unsophisticated Jack Gregory graduated
amongst these stirring scenes, and got his first
lessons in finance from experienced artists on the
local exchange. Then he launched out boldly into
commercial speculations, hung out his shingle as
stock and station agent, etc., and having proved
himself a pretty expert “ underground engineer ”
at several elections for the Victorian Legislature,
his services were rewarded by having the Com-
mission of the Peace placed at his disposal. Hence
the JP. But when Jack was pressed for money,
he adopted a spirited plan of raising the wind. In
the words of the immortal poet, “he was handy
wid the pen,” and, by an adroit system of finan-
cing, kept his credit good by forged bills on leading
firms, which he lodged in the bank, and always
took the precaution of retiring them before they
became due, only to replace them with similar
documents. The game worked well for some time,
until a couple of months ago, when Jack was
having a spell in Melbourne, and amongst the dis-
sipations and enjoyments of city life he forgot all
about the bill which just then became due. The
usual exposi followed, and the erstwhile .T.P. stood
in the prisoners’ dock. Now he is cracking blu9-
metal wherewith to mend the streets of Ararat.
His career was a short, if a merry one. Since he
retired from public life, one of the banks in Hor-
sham lost some cash. We fancy we could spot the
winner in a few tries. But then, you know, we are
clever. While awaiting his trial, Gregory begged
to be placed in a cell with another prisoner, just
for the sake of company, and right here the irony
of fate took a rise out of John G. by packing him
up in a quiet little room with a horse-thief whom
he had committed for trial a few days before.
Gregory pleaded guilty : and, on leaving for his
new residence at the Melbourne gaol, he was
chained to another prisoner, named Ernest Stack,
and the peculiarity about the business is that both
culprits were school-boys together at Geelong,
that they were both convicted of forgery, and both
were sons of State-school teachers. And this re-
minds us that there’s a heap of truth in the old
saying, “ the greater the crime, the lighter the
punishment.” The well-connected Gregory got a
three-and-a-half years stretch for forging bills to
the extent of nearly £lO,OOO ; whilst two of the
" great unwashed,” who opened a hotel window
and stole a pair of pants, valued 10s., a"d a couple
of pounds in cash, received five years for their
trouble, at the same Sessions.
* * *
Sam Paoliham, of Cripps’s Coffee Palace
Hotel, died without a minute’s warning on Satur-
day, just as he had finished paying his employes....
F. Marsh appointed P.M. at Wellington vice, Cas-
well Captain Armstrong has been promised a
paltry C.P.S.-ship. Poor compensation, this, for
two years’ enforced idleness and undeserved ob-
loquy Phil Pitt, oldest surviving Tasmanian
bar one, died last week. Visited Port Phillip in
1803 with Governor Collins aund|Fawkner Under-
Secretary-for-Mines Wakefield trammed to King-
dom Come last week in Dunedin The Countess
of Clermont Tonnerre intends the translation of
all Marcus Clarke’s works into French Mrs. E.
P. Weils died a few days ago at Maryborough (Q.).
She was a first cousin of Sir Garnet Wolseley, and
is favourably noticed in“Debrett.” Mrs. Jane
Steer, 83, oldest inhabitant of Goulburn, passed
into the shadow. She was the first white woman !
who arrived in Goulburn.
* * *
Father Tenison - Woods exploring the
Kinta River, Malay Peninsula: intends also to
examine the Pulo Pankoi coral reef; was to be
joined this month by Father Scortechini (botanist);
next month expects to be in Siam General Sir
A. A. T. Cunynghame, G.C.8., Colonel Ist Batt.
King’s Own Rifle Corps (old 60th), dead “Edin-
burgh” created quite a furore, the other day, at
Gibraltar by fiddling divinely at a concert in aid
of the widow of a bandmaster. H.R.H. should be
made a Mus. Doe. Fiddle D.D Prince Albert
Victor will study ar Bonn during the summer
months, carefully watched lest that Yankee girl
should chip in Colonel Colville made a
survey of the country between the Gulf of Akaba
and the Jordon Valley for the Palestine Canal Syndi-
cate, of which the Duke of Sutherland is chairman.
He reports the undertaking possible. Army
colonels doing surveys for syndicates! Question-
able, very !
Political
Points
Ninny certainly should be knighted, for
what’s a “ whip” without a good “ handle” to it ?
The Grand Old Man, borrowing the ex-
pression from Sir Wilfrid Lawson, says the words
rescue and retire ” describe the Soudan policy of
the Imperial Government. Good.
“ 1 do not remember ever having seen you
open your mouth in the Council,” remarked Jacob
the Honorable to John Nagle of Galong. “ Pardon
me,” said John ivagle, “ I have done so frequently
—your speeches invariably make me yawn.”
It appears that all the big bugs in Europe
are getting bunged up. Queen Victoria’s knee is
still painful: Bismarck is ill; Gladstone has gone
into the country to recruit; and Lord fleay is in-
disposed—to accopt the Govex-norship of Victoria.
Says the Narandeba Argus “We ar e
absolutely disfranchised by reason of the over-
whelming weight of Wagga influence. It has be-
come absolutely necessary for the average repre-
sentative to watch for the nod of Wagga, or to
forfeit his chances of re-election. The whole
electorate knows that this is precisely the position
in which we stand.
In the Queensland Assembly, Billy Brooks he did
cry:—
“Working men ain’t born idiots—no bloomimr
blank fear 1” 6
Whereupon Chubb remarked, with an inference
sly
“Billy Brooks ix no working man,” Cries of
“Hear, hear!”
In opening the new wing of Gloucester
Conservative Club, in February, the Duke of
Beaufort said that it was the duty of every man
to put bis shoulder to the wheel, and try to stem
that terrible toi’rent of democracy and socialism
which was being let loose upon the whole world
“Of every man ” ! That is good. We can under-
stand his Grace’s personal funk of the torrent
since it is calculated to turn a good many Somersets
out of their places. He should know, though, that
to put one’s shoulder to a wheel is hardly the wa v
to stem a flood.
Lord Randolph Churchill recently charged
John Bright with retaining office for two years for
the sake of its emoluments; he also charged the
Liberal Association with corruption. In making
these charges, he forgot that since the death of
the first Duke of Marlborough the Churchills have
“snavelled ” £680,000 from the public purse; and
that, whereas at the late general election he him-
self polled at Woodstock 513 votes and spent £lO6O
(or at the rate of £2 4s. 2d. a head;, the expenses of
Messrs. Bright, Muntz, and Chamberlain at Bir-
mingham were no more than Is. sd. ahead.
Poole’s Constitution Act Amendment Bill
provides that any person who shall directly or
indirectly undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in
whole or in part, any contract or agreement on
account of the public service shall be incapable of
being elected as a member of the Legislative
Council or Legislative Assembly, and that any
person being a member of such Council or Assem-
bly who shall enter into any such contract or
agreement shall have his seat declared
provision does not extend to any
ment, or tender made by any company (whether
incorporated or not) consisting of more than
twenty persons.
Wolseley says that since he first entered the
army, thirty-two years ago, it had always been
‘ going to the dogs,” yet he maintained that the
physique of the army was as fine now as, if not
finer than, it was when he entered it. At the pre-
sent moment, including the 33,000 men enlisted
last yeai-, 91 per cent, were over 20 years of age, 20
percent, of thirty years; 58 per cent, stood over
sft. Tin. in height, 83 per cent, were 35in. round the
chest, and 78 per cent, had two years* service.
Taking it as a whole, the army of to-day, in which
he included every branch of the army, militia, and
auxiliary forces, was much more effective than in
the days of the Crimean war—which, entre nous,
isn’t saying such a lot in its favour.
W. Anderson (or &-derson), in a letter to
the Manning River Times, animadverts upon the
singularity of New South Wales essaying to meet
financial difficulty by increasing Civil Service
salaries. If, says W.A., the salaries of the
useless drones in the service, were cut down then
additional taxation might be fair, “ but, as it is, I
think economy should be tried before taxing the
poor, starving widow's cup of tea.” Why should
W.A. spoil an otherwise strong case by dragging
in ail that rot about the “ poor, starving widow ?"
Nothing is more likely to make people suspect
the bona fldes of a political cry than the intro-
duction into it of any gush about “poor widows”
or “horny-handed worruking men.” Public
affairs should be discussed as they affect men and
women.
Thus the Daily Northern Argus, with
considerable truth: —“ Something must be done to
break down the ‘one idea’ men, who hold the
notion that a few head of cattle and a bark humpy
constitute the Australian cockatoo’s paradise.
The chatter of the jackaroo by day, and the howl
of the dingo by night, may gladden the promoters
of the • squatting go as you please,’ but we will
have none of it. Six and twenty long years have
passed. Millions of cattle have come and gone.
The earth has brought forth her increase and we
have sent to New Zealand for potatoes and timber;
to Tasmania for jam, to South Australia for flour,
to Sydney for hay, maize and coals, and all the
time have allowed the debt of the colony to in-
crease to the monstrous sum of £7O per head.
Wonderful coionisation truly I”
Twenty-two years ago a survey party
chalked out the route for a railway line from
Muswelibrook to Mudgee, and the greater part of
the track selected can still be traced. A few
months ago, another crowd of chain and theodolite
humpers started along on the same errand, and,
after a short spell of masterly inactivity, the gang
has been once more recalled, and the work shelved
in all probability for twenty-two years longer. If
this praiseworthy style of go-aheadness is kept up,
it is thought the first sod of the new line will be
turned on the Day of Judgment, or, if showery
then, the week after. What the Brook people
should do, is to sell a few thousand acres of the
best land along the route to some pushing M.P. at
about 100 pox; cent, below its real value. Then the
iron horse will commence to snort instanter.
Our elections here are sometimes pretty
lively, but a recent Harbour Board election at
Wellington (N.Z.) knocks them out entirely. One
candidate, when he rose to speak, found his skull
in very unpleasant proximity to a huge flying
lump of road metal. Of course he at once dared
the thrower to stand forward, put up his props,
and he’d knock spots out of him. At this stage, a
gigantic boiled potato went bang against the
worthy chairman’s head, who thereupon seized a
bottle and vowed by the gods he’d shy it at the
thrower of the next missile. This challenge was
answered by the alighting of another “spud” on
the chairman’s beak, who replied by wafting a
couple of bottles into the crowd. He then sprang
amongst the mob, and a glorious free fight ensued.
No, we can’t touch our New Zealand free and in-
dependent electors when a real spicy bit of fun i*
on.


The SMITH Organs
Have no rival
on tlie Planet.
Sole Agents:
GRAMPTON
\
AND]
BRUCE.
irzs&kil
&
t. |r. i
Jw ' **■ UJi&. *. _£_,
281
GEORGE ST.,
OPPOSITE]
HUNTER ST.
FINEST STOCK OF PIANOS AND ORGANS IN SYDNEY.
CUUI METALLIC SLATES OR SIGLES !
MAKE
ABSOLUTELY THE BEST ROOFING KNOWN.
It is light, ornamental, cheap, and durable. Is used, and very
highly approved of, by the English Government Departments and
by the Royal Engineers.
References given to Sydney architects and builders by whom it has been already used
wtth unqualified approval and success.
AWARDED THE GOLD MEDAL AT THE PARIS EXHIBITION OF 1878.
Before using any other roofing material, call and inspect the above at
TOZER and CO.,
287 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
@"LONDON AND PARIS IN SYDNEY.
NEW ENTERPRISE AT
IMPORTER & "GENE UAL DRAPER,
193 and 195 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PARIS KID GLOVE DEPARTMENT,
the steamer Potosi. formerly m charge of the well-known Kid Glove Department of the Bon March/.
Pans, now Kid Glove Department manager at W. W. CATEIPS, 193 and 195 Pitt-street
Every pair of Kid Gloves sold warranted a perfect fit. The Paris Kid Glove Department is fitted
out in the professional continental manner and style. Ladies and gentlemen will find it to thoir
advantage to have their Kid Gloves fitted to the hands at the PARIS KID GLOVE DEPARTMENT.
Kid Gloves fitted to perfection
Kid Gloves fitted in two minutes at the counter
Kid G loves warranted a perfect fit
Kid Gloves from 2 to 30 buttons
Kid Gloves of all descriptions in the latest style
Prices guaranteed the lowest in the city. The largest Kid Glove stock in the polonies Mr a r w
Geismardo, Kid Glove Department manager. English, French, Spanish, Italian, Flemish", Dutch and
German spoken at the Paris Kid Glove Department. ’
W. W. CATER, Importer and General Draper,
193 and 195 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
uitiGura
Kid Gloves, Mousquetaire style
Kid Gloves, Gauntlet style
Kid Gloves, Sarah Bernhardt style
Silk and Lisle Thread Gloves, Lace Mitt*
s'S'ifi
’vs.xAV.'.l
vm/im
'3k
i
■t*=s
Eczema on Face & Scalp
A POSITIVE GURE
FOR EVERY FORM OF
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
Scnifula on neck.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
Rheum, Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with loss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap
externally.
Bad Blood, Scrofulous, Inherited and Conta-
gious Humors, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patches in the Throat and Mouth, Abscesses,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches, Sores, Scurvy,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Organs,
Dropsy, Erys’pelas, Enasmia, Pyjemia, Leucorrhoea,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
i One Hundred Testimonials with each pack-
age and Sworn to before the British Consulate
repeat this story : I have been a terrible sufferer
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have been
obliged to shun public places by means of my dis-
figuring humors; have had the best physicians;
have spent hundreds of dollars and got no real
relief until I used the Cuticura Resolvent which
have cured me and left my skin and blood as pure
as a child's.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicina
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Fleshl
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, i»
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies, are absolutely pure, and*
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers l
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout the colonies. Price,
Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes, $1.00;
Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shaving
Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Reso event, $l.OO per
bottle. Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston t
U.S.A.
The revolutionary movement that has re-
nnmraenced ia Spain is the natural result ot the
foolish Alfonso calling to his councils ultramon-
tane Conservatives like Canovas del Castillo and
Vidal y Mon. On the very evening that Alfonso
sent for Canovas, Castelar, the Republican leader,
exclaimed in the presence and bearing of a num-
ber of deputies in the lobby of Congress. “ He
Jthn King) at last shows himself what he is—the
Lrandson of Ferdinand VII. This stroke of his
Sonvi- ces me of the fact that democracy is im-
possible with his Monarchy. I will retire from
Parliament, and I will never again enter this
House.” Castelar, the greatest living orator, by
the way, was no doubt riorht about Alfonso’s
maternal grandfather. No man knows really who
his paternal grandfather was, as his mother Isa-
bella was, and is, a royal harlot. Alfonso’s throne
isn’t worth many days’ purchase.
One day, Colonel Wintersmith, of Ken-
tucky, was in the gallery of the Senate, when
M’Creery, of the same State, arose to make a
speech. Every senator on the floor sought the
cloak-room, except his colleaguej and the Presi-
dent. Wintersmith could not help that, but when
a stampede from the galleries began he felt that
his opportunity had come. Jumping to his feet
he shouted: “Senator M’Creery is a Kentuckian,
so am I. The first man who moves out of this
gallery shall die.” All took their seats under
duress, and for more than five mortal hours sat
still listening to his address. When it was over, he
lowered his pistol and the crowd started. With a
gesture one man stopped the rush. “Colonel
Wintersmith,” he said, “we have stayed here
under duress at your request. Now let me ask
you a favour. We have been here nearly six
hours because we preferred to stay rather than bo
shot. Cut if this emergency ever happens again,
we ask you simply this shoot, without any
parley.”
The O’Mara, in a very mutual-improve-
ment-association sort of speech,moved a resolution
in the Assembly lately, amid a shower of coarse
interruptions from that past-master of frivolity,
Sir John, of Clovelly, to the effect that it was in-
expedient to declare vacant the seat of any mem-
ber who might accept office as a Minister of the
Crown. The Ministry wisely supported the motion;
but, notwithstanding, it was lost. On O’Mara’s
side was common-sense and reason ; on the other
side, bunkum and pretended respect for the con-
stitution. As for Robertson, his favourite
“winged words,” “bosh I” and “rubbish 1” are
but verbal expressions for the low matter to
which his whilom intelligence and briskness have
degenerated. As the poet somewhere says :
“Bosh” and “rubbish” are words which, on
Robertson’s part,
Flow with damnable iteration.
His mouth doth but speak from his fullness of
That’s his conduct’s sole explanation.
Sir Geoage Campbell, who represents the
Scotch electorate of Kirkcaldy, is one of the most
advanced Liberals in the British Parliament. He
goes in bald-headed for Home Rule, maintaining
that no great free country ever succeeded under
very contralised institutions, and illustrating
his views by reference to the historic fact that all
the success of ancient Greece, of Switzerland, and
of tne United States has been obtained under a
localised system, the local self-governing bodies
being united for certain purposes. “ Proud as I
am of our Scotch history and character,” he
observed, the other day, in an address to his con-
stituents, the sturdy men of Dys«rt, Kinghorn,
Burntisland, and Kirkcaldy, “I fear that ttie effect
of too close contact with a gx eater eountry and
population is that the superior small people may
be swallowed up by the inferior large people, and
their more high-class and perfect institutions may
be lost. I am afraid that something of this sort
has already taken place.” Sir George is quite
right. The “Inferior large people ” must be kept
in check by decentralisation.
The vast interest of labour is represented
jn the British House of Commons by two mem-
bers all told, and one of these unfortunately acts
generally as decoy-duck to the capitalists. On the
other hand, the peers have no fewer than 272 re-
latives in “the People’s House;” the Fighting In-
terests, 168; the Landlords, 282; the Lawyers, 122;
Liquor, 18 ; Money (bankers, &c.>, 25 ; Literary,
Professional, and Scientific Interests, 84; Placemen
(past and present), 113; hail ways, 113; and Trade,
Commerce and Manufactures, 155. The producing
classes, while contributing at least three-fifths of
the revenue, have certainly not more than a score
of even passable representatives The spending
classes have the rest, the fighting interest alone
making away with no less than thirty millions of
the national incomel One hundred and eighty
borough constituencies, wbh 3,500,000 inhabitants,
return 231 members to parliament; while seventy-
one others, with 11,600,000, return only 129 repre-
sentatives 1 Forty-two boroughs, with less than
7000 inhabitants, have one member each; while 178
towns, with an aggregate population of 3,630,000,
and in no case counting less than 10,000 souls, are
for voting purposes included in counties.
Thadeus of Charters Towers denounces
Griffith's Polynesian Labourers Bill. He says :
“ ay the expiree clause of the Act a Polynesian
who has been five years in the colony, counting
from the Ist of July next, will be a free labourer,
and can go where he pleases to seek employment.
The 30,000 Polynesians now engaged in plantation
work, supposing them to renew their engage-
ments, will be free of the colony in another three
years, and they will compete in the open market
with white men. This is not a satisfactory out-
look for the white working men. The working
men of Queensland had confidence in Mr. Griffith’s
promises that he would put an end to this slave
traffic. He has not kept his promises. He has
enabled it to strike deeper root in the colony.
Expiree Kanakas will be greedily snappf d up by all
the runholders, and no white man will be able to
get a job of work on a station. The Kanaka is
’ reliable,’ he will submit to be ‘wolloped,’ and that
is his special charm and attraction. The Grass
Aristocracy of Queensland must have a servile
class, and Mr. Griffith by his obsequious compli-
ance with the wishes of the planters has laid the
foundation of a permanent servile class in Queens-
land.”
There’s hope for Satan, after all, providing
he hides his tail and envelops his ipofs in a
guinea pair of shoes. In fact, we are almost
tempted to assert that even Parliament is not
hopelessly damned for all eternity, because, sneak-
ing of the recent declaration of the Reid-Burdekin
polJ, Granny naively observed: " Amongst those
present were several members of the Government
and of both Houses of Parliament, who, it may be
said, were quite as orderly as other sections of the
assemblage.” Mark that, now. Bong Alf., the
suBsex-street ’busman, who occupied such a pro-
minent position on Punph’s halcopy, and cordially
acknowledged each cheer from beiow, as he tried
to stick the Hunter River pet’s 634 hat on his
c’assic-shaped head, was not one whit more digni-
fied than the aristocratic-looking A. G. Taylor, or
the jaynyil Dan O’Connor; and the hordes of hood-
lums below looked enviously on the m ambers of
both Houses of Parliament, who, it may be said,
were quite as orderly “as even they themselves
were.” Coming from such a source as the Sydney
Morning Missionary, this is praise indeed. In
fact, so great is the compliment, that were we not
already painfully aware of the sobriety and
solemnity of the old lady wh© penned the same,
we would be iuclined to think the above remarks
were, to say the least, “ sarcastic.”
Says Labouchere in his “Radicals and
Whigs ” “ There is not one single case on record
where, when the Lords have appealed to the
country against a decision of the House of Com-
mons, the verdict has gone in favour of the
former. Although rich, the Peers are no’ inde-
pendent. They are, in fact, remarkable for their
abnormal greed. Because they are by the chance
of birth legislators, they insist upon decorations,
distinctions, and salaries being showered on them
and th°ir relations. In the Financial Reform
Almanack for this year there is an interesting
calculation of the amounts that living dukes,
marquises, and earls, and their relations, and those i
that have died since 1850, have received out of the
public Exchequer. Toe dukes figure for £9,760,000,
the marquises £8,305,950, and the earls for
£48,151,292 ; total £06.247,242. The voracity of a
vestryman is nothing in comparison with that of
the British nobleman. 83 peers are privy council-
lors ; 55 have received decorations; 193 are con-
nected with the army or navy; 63 are railway
directors; their total rental is £11,873,333, and they
possess 14,351,133 acres; yet in pay and pensions
they absorb annually £639,865, and whenever there
is a change of Administration, they clamour for
well-paid sinecures about the court and other
such sops, like a pack of hungry hounds. Les
80utien8 de V Etat, indeed ! Comme une conic
souticnt un pcndu.
Granville’s instructions to Gordon were in
thiswise:—To report on the military situation in
the Soudan, and on the measures which it may be
advisable to take for the security of the Egyptian
garrisons still holding positions in that country,
and for the safety of the European population in
Khartoum ; to report upon the best mode of
effecting the evacuation of the interior of the
Soudan, and upon the manner in which the safety
and the good administration by the Egyptian
Government of the ports on the sea coast can best
be secured; to pay especial consideration to the
question of the steps that may usefully be taken
to counteract the stimulus given to the slave trade
by the present insurrectionary movement; to con-
sider himself under the instructions of Her
Majesty’s agent and consul-general at Cairo, and
as authorised to perform such other duties as the
Egyptian Government may communicate to him
by Sir E. Baring. It seems that it was Granville
and Hartington, while on a visit to the Roths-
childs, who took upon themselves to summon
Gordon from Brussels to London. In town they
were joined by Dilke. Gordon made severe stipu-
lations. He must have half a million sterling at
his disposal, to buy over the chiefs; he must have
40u0 troops, if necessary, from Malta or India; and
he must be independent of his old enemy, the
Khedive Tewiik. The conditions were granted.
The Parnellite Parliamentary brigade held
a meeting early in February, at Dublin, pre-
liminary to the opening of the session. Parnell
was elected sessional chairman; Justin M‘Carthy
sessional vice-chairman ; Learny and Small hon.
secretaries: and E. Redmond and E. Sheil whips.
It was decided to introduce bills on the following
subjects during the coming session: Land Law
Amendment; Labourers' Act Amendment; Elec-
tive Council and County Government; Municipal
Franchise: Poor Law; Registration of Voters;
Technical Education; Fisheries; Sites for Churches,
School Teachers’ Residences, and Parochial
Houses; National Teachers; Tree Planting; Re-
clamation of Land. It was also resolved ‘'that
the party take measures to call attention fully to
the wanton prohibition of legal and constitutional
public meetings in Ireland, and the suppression of
free speech throughout the country, the impunity
allowed to bodies of magistrates who have made
Eublic declarations approving of the conduct of
erd Rossmore, and deliberately inciting to illegal
acts, disorder, and violence, and the continuance
of the policy of forced emigration of th j people;
to move for a commission of inquiry to inquire
into the dispositions of the property held by the
suppressed trade guilds in Ireland: and to warn the
public in America, in Australia, and on the Conti-
nent against placing reliance upon intelligence
concerning Irish affairs telegraphed abroad by
English news agencies.”
Sir John Lubbock to the February number
of the Fortnightly contributes “Liberal versus
Conservative Finance,” whence the following:
“The late Conservative Government incurred
special liabilities for the Russo-Turkish and South
African wars of £13,385,000, only £4,185,000 of which
they paid out of taxes, while they raised £7,850,000
by borrowing, to which must b© added £5,000 000
towards the expense of the Afghan war. The
present Administration have not only paid the
whole of the extra war expenditure incurred dur-
ing the last three years for the Egyptian and
South African wars, amounting to £6,500,000, but
have also liquidated at least £7,000,000 of the debt
left by their predecessors. The account, therefore,
will staud as follows : The Conservatives incurred
extra war expenditure amounting to £13,385,000,
while they paid £4,185,000. The Liberals incurred
extra war expenditure amounting to £6,100,000,
while they paid £13,000,000. Again, the present
Government has had a substantial, if moderate,
surplus every year, while in the three last Con-
servative years the deficiencies were respectively
£3,600,000, £3,300,000, and £3,800,000. Or, take again
the state of our debt. The annual reduction when
Sir Stafford came into office was over £6,000,000.
This he considered insufficient, and he therefore
brought in a Bill to increase it. So much for
principle; but in practice, during the six years of
the Conservative Administration, the actual re-
demption of debt was at the rate of £3,000,000 a
year. During the three years of the present
Government it has been at the rate of £6,800,009 a
year, while this year it will probably exceed
£8,000,000. Lastly, as regards expenditure, it is
true that the estimates for 1883-4 as compared with
1879-80 show an nominal increase of £3,000,000. We
have, however, to deduct the extra amount
devoted to debt £1,436,000, that for grants in aid
£900,000. and Post Office £1,675,000, which amount
to £4,021,000 ; so that, after allowing for the
nominal increase of £3,000,000, we get a difference
in favour of 1884 of more than £1,000,000.”
• • •
If the whole of the colonial Legislatures
vote federation resolutions by June next, the Eng-
lish Government will introduce an enabling bill
this session Scratchley spoken of for the High
Commissionership of the Western Pacific
Tawhio goes to England by the next San Francisco
boat, accompanied by a numerous retinue. He
has foraged pretty successfully, and with the
money in his possession ought not to be obliged
to beg the money to pay for his return trip
M‘ll wraith, M'Crossan, and Perkins, of Queens-
land having respectively occupied the position of
Ministers of the Crown for a period of three years,
have acquired the right to use the prefix “ Honor-
able a right best left in abeyance.
* * *
If a dissolution be forced upon the Glad-
stone Government by the Opposition, they will
appeal to the country, not on their Egyptian
policy alone, but upon the other measures to be
introduced this session—Redmond brothers back
in ould Ireland Reay declines to accept the
Governorship of Victoria. Third refusal. Argus
wrath Suez Canal Company approves the de
Lesseps convention “ If you happen to be born
a lord in England, you are born a legislator, diplo-
matist, artist, learned man—anything you like.”
Thus Max O’Rell, truly British Government
undecided whether to invite co-operation of a
foreign power re repression of outrages in the
Pacific. They certainly should do so. A high
commissioner for the Pacific to be appointed,
with jurisdiction distinct from that exercised
by Des Veeux and Wrenfordsley.... A French
resident appointed at Obok. Abyssinia.... The
French have taken Bacninh with slight loss.
The Black Flags and Chinese in full retreat....
Graham ordered not to march on Berber. . Ferry
wouldn’t see Murray Smith; Murray Smith Ferry
mad. As a consolation, M. Smith expects that the
Victorian torpedo vessel, Childers, will be em-
ployed at Suakim as a despatch boat England
and Russia discussing desirability of fixing Afghan
northern frontier.... Austria: Wealth £73, debt
£ll, agricultural products £5, manufactures £8 per
head. France: Wealth £215, debt £5, agricultural
products £lO, manufactures £l3 per head. Ger-
many: Wealth £lOl, debt £l, agricultural products
£B, manufactures £lO per head. Great Britain:
Wealth £261, debt £22, agricultural products £7,
manufactures £23 per head. Russia: Wealth £52,
debt £36, agricultural products £5, manufactures
£3 per head. United States: Wealth £230, debt £7,
agricultural products £3O, manufactures £32 per
head In Germany there are twenty-six estates
larger than any in Great Britain, with the excep-
tion of the Duke of Sutherland’s. The landed
possessions of Prince Schwartzenburg (in Austria
and Hungary) cover one hundred and twenty
German square miles; those of Prince Lichtenstein
extend over one hundred and four square miles,
Prince Esterhazy’s eighty, and Count Schonborn’s
sixty. There are numerous estates of fifty square
miles... The Northampton Radicals desire Labour-
chere—The Conservatives swear by “Jingo!”
the ultra-Radicals by “George!” The lions
fled to the Sahara when they heard of Gordon
coming.


FEET above high water mark, Gore Hill,
OvJvJ North Shore. Buy there next Saturday.
WATKIN and WATKIN.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 31th March, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are Invited for the foD
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Govebnment Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this offloe.
Additions, &e., Courthouse,
Menindio
Laying on Gas, &c., Oallen Park
Asylum
Erection of Fencing, Ac., Pro-
testant Orphan Sohool, Parra-
matta
Erection of Sheds, Closets, &c.,
Hospital for the Insane, Par-
ramatta
Iron Bridge, with Timber Ap-
proaches, over the Lansdowne
River, at Coopernook
Bridge over the Hunter River
at Denman
Erection of Stationmaster’s
House at Eskbank, G.W. Rail-
way
Erecting Waiting Room and
Coke Shed, Waterloo
Erection of Cottages, &c., Callan
Park Asylum
Public Wharf, Five Dock, Par-
ramatta River
The Construction and Supply of
the Whole of the Wrought
and Cast Ironwork required
for the Superstructure of a
new Tunnel at Redfern, Great
Southern Railway
Erection of Retaining Wall,
Fence, &c., Pilot Dagwell’s
House, Pilot Station, New-
castle
Construction of Gallery, Court
House, Forbes,
Erection of Ladies’ Refreshment I
Room, Ac., Botanic Gardens
Additions to Court-house, Mer- I
rivva
Erection of Engine and Boiler
House, Albury Water Supply
Works
Engine House, &c., Goulburn
Water Supply
Engine, House, &c., Wagga
Wagga Water Supply
Alterations, &c., Court House,
Brewarrina
Bridge over River near Lunatic
Asylum, Parramatta
Erecting Trucking Yards, Nar-
ramine, G.W. Railway
Construction of Breakwater,
Ac., Northern side of entrance
to Clarence River.
Construction of Timber Over-
shot Dam, Trial Bay Prison
Bridge over Nemur River, road
“Moama to Moulamein
Additions to Quarters, Nobby’s
Light-house, Newcastle
Lease of Refreshment-room at I
Werris Creek Railway Station
Erections of Additions, Ac., )
Police Barracks, Walgett |
Bridge over Leicester Creek,
Lismore
Eerection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Kempsey.
Pine Laying, Hunter River
Water Supply
Manufacture and Supply of
150,000 Tons of Steel Ralls.
Tuesday,
Ist April,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
Bth April,
at 11 o’cloek.
Tuesday,
15th April,
at 11 o’clock,
Tuesday,
22nd April
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
29th April,
at 11 o'clook,
Tuesday,
13th May,
at 11 o’clock.
10th February,
1885,
at 11 o’clock.
F. A. WRIGHT.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 24th March, 1884.
TENDERS FOR KITCHEN, Ac.
TENDERS are invited for the Erection of a
Kitchen and Covered Way, at the residence
in connection with the Canterbury Public School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Kitchen and
Covered Way, Canterbury Public School,”
must be lodged with the Acting Under-Secretary,
Department of Public Instruction, at or before 10
o’clock a.m., on Wednesday, 16th April, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
J. P. ABBOTT.
AWKESBURY HANDICAP
AND
SYDNEY CUP.
6000, at 10s. each.
Total .. - •• £3OOO.
Post Office Orders, payable to “Lena Amos,”
only. Stamps not accepted. Cheques payable to
No., or self.
Guarantee Any bona fide member can have
the names and addresses of the principal winners.
The papers containing this advertisement will b
supplied with a full list of all winners—not, how
over, for publication.
Enclose two stamps, and address—
“LENA AMOS’
Care of W. Miller,
Box 583, G.P.0., Sydney.
W I L COX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES
Mangle an i
wringer, £4lO
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shellero
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walwut
Wood,
Ac. Ac. Ao.
& EBB LE WHITE & CO.
416 GEORGE STREET.
FEET above high watermark, Gore Hill,
OUU North Shore. Buy there next Saturday.
WATKiN and WATKIN.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musgrovb.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING,
IMMENSE SUCCESS
of
THE SILVER KING
THE SILVER KING.
Prices of Admission :
DRESS CIRCLE, 55.; STALLS, 35.; FAMILY
CIRCLE, 2s.
O p E
R A
Lessee
Sub-lessee and Director
Business Manager
Treasurer ..
HOUSE.
W. J. Wilson.
Signor E. Majeroni.
Monty Browne.
Joe Brown.
LAST WEEK BUT ONE
of
THE MAJERONIS THE MAJERONIS.
THTS AND EVERY EVENING,
The beautiful Military Drama, of
FRIENDSHIP
FRIENDSHIP
or.
THE TWO SERGEANTS.
Entirely New Scenery, Costumes, Appointments,
Properties, &c.
Box Plan now open at Huenerbein’s, 411 George-st.
Prices Dress Circle, 55.; Stalls, 35.; Pit, 2s.
Tickets at Robertson’s, next Theatre. Carriages
at 10.45.
TRAGEDIAN, COMEDIAN, BURLESQUE
ACTOR, &c.
“ One of the most versatile artistes on the stage.”
OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY, EVERY EVENING.
SPECIAL ENGAGEMENT.
For future arrangements, Managers are
politely requested to address as above.
N.B.—Amateurs “ coached,” and pupils prepared
for the stage in all its branches.
SECOND EDITION. PRICE, Is. 6d.
Maid, Wife, and Mother:
A BOOK FQR WOMANKIND.
CONTAINING matters or a medical nature
highly interesting to the sex. Post free, in
secure cover, for Is. 6d., money order or N.S.W.
stamps. To be had only from the publisher,
MRS. BEARCROFT,
Box 740 G.P.0., Sydney.
O/'k/'k FEET above high watermark, Gore Hill,
Oww North Shore. Buy there next Saturday.
W ATKIN and WATKIN.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
W. H. A-riell & Co.'s
AQENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b.
and 3001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
M, and lib. tins.
R. WHITTINGHAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams,
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &e.
ANGLO-SCANDINAVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand.
343 and 345 Kent Street,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 17th March, 1884.
FRESH TENDERS FOR ADDITIONS.
FRESH TENDERS are invited for Additions to
the Public School Buildings and Teacher’s
Residence at Mooriields, near Canterbury.
Plans and Specification may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Fresh Tender for Addi-
tions Mooriields Public School,” must be lodged
with the Acting Under-Secretary, Department of
Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m., on
Wednesday, the 9tn April, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
JOSEPH P. ABBOTT.
QAH FEET above high water mark, Gore Hill
WAX S.'fwATKiN 81 ' 1 ' tber " ““ 8 *‘ Ura »»'-'
QRIENTAL cricket club.
Annual EXCURSION to Tennyson, Paramatt*
Riyer. TEIIS (Saturday) AFTERNOON, 29th March
Splendid Steamer TELEPHONE will leave the
Government Jetty, foot of Phillip-street, Circula?
Quay, at 2.15 sharp. The favourite Prince of Wales
Dancing 10 pertormer8 > specially engaged for
Cricket, Quoits, Football, &c.
Refreshments to be had on the ground.
Tickets, Is. 6d. each, to be had from any of the
members and on the wharf. e
The Excursion of the Season.
H
ORDERNS* IN PITT-STREET.
invite your attention This Day to
their SECOND SHIPMENT
of
NEW AUTUMN GOODS.
MANTLES ESPECIALLY.
Beauties, the Cream of Style,
fresh from London and Paris.
Many a lady who buys a Mantle half
through the season regrets that she did
not pnrchase earlier, when she sees a
more beautiful style on the lady sitting
before her in Chureh, or promenading
in front of her on the Block,
Now you have the remedy brought
right under YOUR NO f ICE,
viz.:—
To Buy Early, at the Commencement
of the Season.
Well, to-day, about 2 o’clock, we
A GRAND B LOT h MARKED OFF
all
READY FOR YOU,
so come into PITT-STREET this after-
noon, and ask to have them shown to
you (in our end showroom).
If you live up the country or in the
suburbs, and can’tstep in thisweek,
WRITE TO US
for a
DESCRIPTION OF THEM,
and we will write one, and post it to you.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
Mantle Warehousemen,
PITT-STREET,
Can give you Quality, Price, and
satisfaction.
WHAT TO INVEST IN I
WHr INVEST !
HOW INVEST I
WHEN TO INVEST !
WHERE TO INVEST !
WHAT TO INVEST IN I
LAND! Because so long: as the colony advances
land cannot decrease in value.
LAND! Because its acquisition is the first step
towards prosperity and position.
LAND! Because you can build a house and
save the exorbitant price charged for house rent.
LAND! Because by so doing you can leave a
legacy to your children that is always increasing
in value.
LAND! Because, should your inclinations so
lie, you can cultivate Farm or Garden pioduce,
or direct your attention to that most profitable
and pleasing occupation of raising poultry, the
demand for such being ever increasing, and the
pursuit of which will give healthful recreation to
yourself and family.
WHY INVEST!
Because you never know when reverses may
come, and money that is invested in land is always
secure. Because a man who is a landed proprietor
is a better Citizen, a better Husband, and a better
Father.
WHEN TO INVEST I
Now that Land is at a low price, in consequence
of money being tight, large buyers are not inclined
to invest, and thus allow small capitalists to secure
some of the good things of this world. NOW!
Because Land can never bo cheaper than it is at
the present time. NOW! Because the rapid
increase in population must create a demand for
new settlements. NOW! Because you are earning
good wages, and a few shillings a week will never
be missed by you. NOW! Because the shillings
invested at present will rapidly grow into pounds.
HOW TO INVEST !
In Land in Small Allotments that have been
laid out by the practical agents whose experience
teaches them where increase in vaiue is likely to
ensue, and whose intereso is identical with the
purchasers’ to advance the value of land they are
selling.
WHY INVEST IN SMALL ALLOTMENTS ?
Because the property has been chosen by practi-
cal men with a view to its utility. Because the
blocks are laid out on a scientific principle con-
ducive to sanitary comfort and advantageous
position. Because, the roads having been given,
you are saving “ one-fourth ” of the land that
you would have to cut to waste were you to buy
by the acre. Because the payments are so small
that you will never miss them from your weekly
earnings. Because you will induce a feeling of
self-reliance and independence in your children,
and a personal interest in the advancement of
your country.
WHERE TO INVEST I
IN THE CLIVE ESTATE,
RIVERSTONE.
Because the high price brought by city pro-
perty causes purchasers to go further afield.
CLIVE ESTATE,
Situated in the busy and prosperous township
of Riverstone, being only twenty odd miles from
Sydney. This locality is favourhbly known as a
health-giving and invigorating district, its salu-
brious atmosphere being universally recognised,
rendering the settlement the most desirable in the
colony; possessing the advantages of direct city
communication, a thriving and increasing trade,
with the luxury and retirement of country life. The
Railway accomodation is excellent, there being
five passenger trains a day, with extra accomoda-
tion on Wednesday and Saturday, besides numer-
ous goods trains daily, and additional trains will
be run as occasion requires. This Estate offers
facilities superior to any in the market. The
land holds an elevated position, and is beautifully
watered by an extensive creek, guarded with high
banks covered with nutritious verdure, containing
an inexhaustible quantity of water; in the driest
season the supply of the limped element is prolific,
as clear as the crystal spring of an enchanted glen,
and shedding a balmy influence over the district.
There is neither rock nor gully to be found
throughout the entire property, and the remark-
able growth and production on this and the sur-
rounding farms, vineyards, and orangeries satis-
factorily prove the unmistakable fertility of the
soil. This Estate has been partly cultivated, and
consists of productive, loamy soil, on which nutri-
tious pasturage, and, in fact, all vegetation,
abounds in luxuriant profusion. Two residences
erected are at present occupied, and numerous
others are projected. The Railway Station is with-
in a few yards, and the road leading therefrom on
to the property is well metalled, and a substantial
Bridge crosses the Creek, from which a Govern-
ment road leads through a public reserve directly
into the main road of the Estate, 100 feet wide,
and laid out on the latest scientific principles for
the enhancement of the property, rendering it a
model township, which must rapidly rise in archi-
tectural beauty and intrinsic value. The sur-
roundings of the property materially assist the
favourable aspect, being bounded on the west by
the property of Mr. W. Stevenson; on the east by
the Township, Hotels, Stores, and Railway Station;
op the south by extensive Crown reserves, with
old-established vineyards adjoining; on the north
by pasture land, with works in the rear belonging
to Mr. Richards. Vast strides have been made in
the improvement of this district within the past
twelve months, and business and population have
increased, a public school erected, and a great
number of new buildings have been erected; and
numerous residences and stores are rising every
day. To show the hona fldes of the foregoing in-
adequate description of the many advantages
possessed by this property, intending purchasers
are particularly urged to personally inspect the
land, and to buyers of 10 lots and upwards the
return railway fare will be refunded. In conclu-
sion, it would be urged that this is not a specula-
tion, but will prove to investors a provision for
the present and future.
A HOME NOW,
AND
A VALUABLE LEGACY WORTH LEAVING
TO THE WIFE OB CHILDREN.
Until recently, none but (the affluent were able
to become freeholders of their native land, such
luxury being alone for the wealthy classes; but
under the present administration in this glorious
land of New South Wales, deservedly known as
THE GARDEN OF THE WORLD,
there is no excuse for the poorest man paying ex-
travagant rentals, for he is enabled to become the
owner of the land he cultivates and the homestead
that shelters him. Remember, Sixpence a week
for 90 weeks secures a piece of Land that will en-
able you to become the owner of a valuable site
for Business Purposes or Villa Residence, for
Garden Produce or Poultry Raising, and within
the next lew years become valuable beyond the
most sanguine anticipations. This is an invest-
ment without risk—the first steps towards pros-
perity and wealth—and particularly recommeded
to young married couples, either for farming
their homestead, or an purposes, a site for
investment for their children.
Notice.—Only until the 25th inst. will these
Allotments be sold at 455., after which date the
remainder, if any, will be 60s. an Allotment,
Further particulars from—
BOYD & KING, Auctioneers,
96, Pitt-street, Sydney.
CLIYESSESTATE
RIVERSTONE
o
*
T H £
*
MiHHhSG
J « » W U.fcJ iJ u
*
jitrt:
DCLATVARC
ttu" ffrmrom
n.
*
fifi
la p
a.
<r
JCRM S 5/- DEPOSIT r*W
BALANCE 2/s RCA MATH \
X
H#
■wtfi
Gi
lhHh H
4-M *> r w
1 .
i k f row
■h
LAST
A a i
4/<4 /? SDC/V ROAD
ra^julij,,|k rjCUliißßß"»li*jjnTjirt!j»|RWWE" j* y j *
« L! &.LI J LI U U {j ><«] i. u Li j u u| |J i»| m W ;«j «i «> Jwj u
h H Kiid w Hhn ri H H H kfid H rfrl
ROAD
n-n ■'■[,]ij'|.
kw
I W i» w
rc
”i p.
44- £
tra
IiSP
!PJJ
rTT
sa
I 1"
Iflfi
i~rT
SLB
4 -
iff. STEPHEN
licensed Surveyor
fiT/CvAN CHAMfitRS
Castlcsmgh $f
R/VCR ST ON C
■ ■■■■■■
rtK+i
at, w jai
K i,«.« « " ?
irLc-gina.
wu
AUCTIONEERS
96 PITT^STREtT
uvift] roat


TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“ J.C.” (Yass): If up to the mark they will
be welcome and published. “Redmyre”: We
have read your “ Funny Tale,” but we can see no
waggery >n it. Get the gravedigger to explain
this to you Your contribution shows us
that you have a vein of humour, which you may
one day make a fortune out of it, if you dig down
sufficiently deep for it. But you would have to go
down so far that we think you will attain affluence
sooner by continuing to dig potatoes— “ Oscar ” :
The fact that your first wife called jour hair “ red
and carroty,” has no interest for us, nor do we
think it would convulse our readers. It should be
a matter of sufficient satisfaction to you to know
that she is dead without wanting to vent your joy
in the public prints. We congratulate her on her
eaily decease, if your conversation is any thing like
your writing “Science”: Much obliged to you
for your theory about the red sunsets. But we
don’t want it. The last man who brought us a
theory stole a bottle of carbolic acid—which, wc
suppose, he mistook for something else-out ef
our office when he was leaving. We are happy to
say it killed him. But we have had enough of
science for one small family... “Carmen” : You
omit to send you. name and address—“ St.
Patrick”: There is nothing interesting about the
three-shilling hop given by your local publicans on
St. Patrick’s night “8.J.8.”: Next week
“Septuagen”: Merci beaucoup “Ronald”:
Give us a rest about “ Sunny New South Wales.’
This phase is now only used by the wrecks of
literature and aldermen. Sometimes also by
members of Parliament—and then only in despon-
dent acknowledgment of their inability to steal
the sun “Henty Wright”: We have made in-
quiry at various booksellers, and discover that not
a copy of Henry George’s work is procurable in
Sydney “H.J.” (Goulburn): We have received
your “ Light verses on seeing a Girl carrying a
Beer-jug. Surely you must mean light-porter
versiS 1 “James Lore” (Brisbane): We are
most decidedly of opinion you are a “maiden”
until you win a race. Seconds do not count
“ Algernon ”: Algernon—but, pshaw!—your name
is Jimmy. Jimmy you are, and—we say it boldly,
after a long experience in literature—the sorrow-
fullest specimen of a writer we ever came across.
You must be very poorly in health, Jimmy; your
style is flaccid and furry in the extreme. Be
advised by us, Jimmy, and whenever you feel the
writing-lit coming od, take some medicine.
Trouble in the stomach is what is the matter with
you, not agitation in the brail “Joker”: You
are a scurvy fellow. We thought we had told you
before that we did not want to know anything
about the paltry intrigues ef your township. We
thought we had cow-hided a something like sense
into you. But no—
Cow-hided all the time, you but—
But half hide;
I seems a cow-hide cannot cut
A calf-hide.
“D.T.”: We have replied further to you else-
where. Have you any more trash like this in your
head ?
“ I’m not a woman hater, no I
No old bachelor neither,
But to woman’s smile I don't bow,
It is only a gay deceiver.”
If you have, we should like to buy the lot out—in
the head. What will you take for your head ? It
must cost you something in combs, and you can
write just as good poetry withoutit. We would
like to use your skull as an inkstand—the only way
we see for ideas to flow from it. Be advised and
send it along.
The greatest appetizer, stomach, blood
and liver regulator on earth—Hop Bitters. Look
for and read.
o
6s. 6d. Is. 6d. Ss. 6d. i»cr pair
The Oriental Gold Company
(Only Australian place of business, 47-1 Woorgro
street, opposite the Central Entrance to the
M&rkots)
has solved the problem of ihe season, and pro-
vides EXQUISITE GIFTS from ss. to £5:
Articles of dainty design and enduring beauty,
which will give delight at the first glance, and
. will last a lifetime.
the very latest discovery
of the alchemist s laboratory. There have been
good and useful imitations of sterling gold before
't; but all have been thrown into the shade by
this triumph of modern science. Articles of
Oriental Gold cannot, after years of wear, bo dis-
tinguished irom the costliest wares of tlie gold-
smith. So noble is this metal, that no tawdry
goods ol old and inferior designs are manufac-
tured of it. The discoverers have not condescended
mrxx, to apply it to base uses.
THE VERY LATEST DESIGNS IN JEWELLERY
AND BIJOUTERIE
are regularly worked up in Oriental Gold simul-
taneously with their production in sterling metal,
and, placed side by side, the one article cannot be
„„„ _ told from the other.
THE PRICE OF ARTICLES OF ORIENTAL
GOLD IS BUT A TRIFLE
when compared with identical models of sterling
q * ~ metal.
UTAMowna 6 ffoods are mounted with the NEW
& an other masterpiece of the chemists
, Bfc ones which
XM&% b ss^sir ,itBi “ ,it *“ d Kiitter * and
The Artist-designers of Paris have, with eager
appreciation, adopted Oriental Gold as worthy to
their happiest conceptions. The most
graceful Parisian models are impressed upon a
SSSStfM b/SJetj&i" 11011 ls r ” ,,l “' Blltd ”“ h
CALL AND IN /P“CT-E|ACTLT OPPOSITE
and not pestered to buy, hecause we know that no
one has ever yet viewed our goodiwithout beW
astonished and delighted with their variety el el
gance, and surpassing and novel beauty-and such
amoDfir
Hero are a few lines for customers’ guidance
At ss. each.
A Neat Scarf Pin.
A Pretty Dress Ring.
A Set of Shirt Studs.
A Natty Brooch.
A I’air of Jewelled Ear-rings.
An Elegant Pencil Case.
At Is. Od. each.
Handsome Brilliant Bing.
Beautiful Charm.
Elegant Locket.
Necklet, with Clasp.
Fashionable Hair-pin.
Pair of Cuff-pins.
At lOs. each.
Grand A lbert..
Ladies’ Albert.
Brooch and Ear-rings.
Ladies’ Gem King.
Lovely Bracelet.
Collarette.
At 15s. each.
Choice Locket and Necklet.
Exquisite JGwelled Bracelet.
Brooch, Set with Brilliants.
Magnificent Jewelled Scarf-pin.
Solitaire Brilliant Collar Stud.
Superb French Ear-pendants.
Charming Parisian Bangles.
At £l eacli.
t a j! es ! Suit®—Necklet, Locket, and Brooch.
Ladies Tasselled Slide Albert.
GeD pendan't Esthetic Fob Chain, with Steel
Exquisite Charms, of lovely and novel Designs.
Ladies Bar Brooches, beautifully Chased.
At £2 2s. each.
Gentleman’s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face,
with Crystal Glass, in Oriental Gold Cases
Albert Chafn 6d Work8 ’ wlth orien tal Gold
(Stem-winder—6s. extra.)
Lady’s very handsome Hunting or Open Face
(with Crystal Glass) Watch, in Oriental
Gold Cases, full jewelled, and splendid
J imekeeper.
(With a most handsome Oriental Gold Albert
with slides and assels, 15s. additional.)
At £3 each.
Gent’s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face, with
Crystal Glass, in sterling Silver Cases—a
reliable, sound watch, perfect Timekeeper,
specially rated, with Oriental Gold Albert
(Stem-winder-ss. extra.)
Lady’s Sterling Silver Watch, in Hunting (or
Open Face, with Crystal Glass) Cases,
beautifully Engraved, highly finished, full
jewelled works, perfect Timekeeper, with
sterling Silver or Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, with slides and tassels.
At £4 each.
Sterling Silver Chronograph, double dials, for
marking 5-10ths of a second, patent fly-
back hand, patent keyless works, 18 carat
Gold winder, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain.
English Patent Lever, Hunting (or open face,
with Crystal Glass), capped and full
jewelled, examined and rated, in sterling
Silver Cases.
(With Oriental gold chain—los. extra.)
Gerts Silver Hunting Waltham Patent
Lever Watch, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, and beautiful Compass, or other
charm.
At £S.
A Combination Parcel, comprising any selec-
tion from the above which customers may
make, to value.
W© want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST, ON APPROVAL.
Specially Observe. —lf the articles do not
answer expectation on receipt, re-pack them at
once and send them back. If this is done within
two days, or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any ©no
article and return the rest, and we will return the
money for the articles not kept. Every watch
sold by us will be rated and accompanied by a
written warrantry for two years. Remittances to
be made payable to the Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-Sit., Sydney, op. Market 9
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—“ The Silver King” p.B
Opera House— “ Friendship” ib.
Yes; it was something like a house at the
Royal on Saturday night to see the long-t.alked-of
“Silver King.” Various similes suggest them-
selves -herrings in a barrel, snakes in Bourke,
loafers at the Albert statue—but they’ve all been
so hackneyed by reporters that we shall content
ourselves with saying that the place was full. And it
would be sate to predict that there will be no fall-
ing off for some time. The play is sensational, but
the story is simplicity itself. It is a story of a
man’s remorse and a woman's faithfulness. It is
crowded with incidents—sorrowful, gay, gro-
tesque. There is a bar where horsey-men con-
gregate to congratulate themselves in Seven
Dials’ English on their successful rascali-
ties or lament their losses in maudlin blas-
phemy- But here we noticed a grave omission.
Among the bar customers who bet and swore and
swilled there was an entire absence of Hebrews—
of men with large pins, frowsy linen, and bent
beaks. Surely, now that Hanlan is in town, andasa
consequence the city plethoric with Australian
rooks, it wouldbe possible for the management to
give additional vrateemblance to the piece by enga-
ging a dozen or two well-known “ welchers” just
to loaf round for flats ?
v v v
Of the story itself, we intend to give but
the merest outline. Mad with drink, Denver fol-
lows Ware—an old sweetheart of his wife—threat-
ening to kill him. He finds his way to Ware’s
house, but some burglars have been there before
him. They chloroform him, chuck him in a
corner, and proceed with their work. Ware re-
turns. They murder him with Denver’s pistol,
and decamp. Denver awakes, sees the dead body
of Ware, recognises his own recently-discharged
pistol, and, of course, concludes that, in his
drunkenness, he had carried out his threat and
done for his former rival. So the story develops,
plot and counterplot thicken, Denver escapes to
America, makes a fortune, returns to England,
and, having received a hint that he was not the
real assassin, devotes all histimeto clearing up the
mystery. Ho is successful and recovers bis place
in society, while the law takes an uncomfortably
firm grip of those for whose crime he had suffered
so long
• • •
Mr. G. S. Titheradg© took the part of
Denver. It is a trying one, and requires capacity
of a high order for its proper pourtrayal. If ap-
plause is an unfailing test of success, he should
feel satisfied, for the marks of appreciation were
frequent and noisy. His remorse when first on
his half-muddled brain the conviction dawned that
he was a murderer, and his subsequent parting
from his wife, belong to phases of acting
which are seldom found in connection with
what are popularly known as “sensational
pieces.” From start to finish—whether mouthing
drunken threats against Ware, throwing a table-
cover over the glazed eyes of his supposed victim,
holding his wife at arm’s length lest she should
kiss an assassin, or, as the Silver King, endeavour-
ing to atone for the crime committed during
his madness—he is consistently realistic. And his
wife, too —Miss Mayor I Like her husband, she
takes a good firm hold of your sympathies—as-
suming that you possess such things—at the begin-
ning, and keeps possession of them to the end.
When she returns them, vou feel, somehow, that
they are none the worse for the temporary loan.
Why men with wives like Annie Mayor, and chil-
dren like Cissy and Ned (the young Sherwoods),
should slobber round bars, and supply funds to
billiard-sharpers, magsmen, and miscellaneous
pot-wollopers, who should be fracturing granite
in provincial gaols or storing electric batteries by
“ padding the hoof ” on tread-mills, is one of those
questions for which a solution will only be found
when a satisfactory reason is given why British
workmen have to support, in luxurious idleness, a
mob of well-bred male and female loafers who
would not touch the ’orny-’anded's digits without
a shudder. » » ■
Ana little Cissy—Ned, too, for the matter
of that—deserves a par. all to herself. She is such
a consequential little woman, trips along so appa-
rently unconscious of the thousands of admiring
eyes focussed on her from the front, emphasizes
her words so daintily, and behaves altogether in
such a self-possessed, intelligent fashion, that the
matrons in the audience look as if they would like
to cry over her, or cover her tiny face with as
many kisses as they could scroodge into such a
limited area, and the men as if to them all pleasure
would be commonplace compared with that of
filling her pockets with shillings and her mouth
with gingerbread.
• i ■ •
The are two burglars iu the piece, repre-
senting the head and tail of that useful fraternity.
Captain Skinner (Mr. Ireland)—the “ Spider ” is his
professional title-is one, and Cripps (Mr. Leake)
the other. The Captain does the fancy work, and
Cripps the rough *nd tumble. Neither is to be
trifled with—you can see that from the start.
Cripps is good enough for a bit of plain sweeping,
but he couldn’t sweep round a lamp-post. When
delicate jobs like that have to be done, the
“ Spider ” has to take the matter in hand. The
latter is the Johnathan Wild and the other the
Bill Sykes of his caliing. And Bill not only looks
a professional man, but is proud of his looks. and
well up in the little traditions of his department—
the nice points of precedence and etiquette in
which amateur marauders so lamentably fail.
He knows his duty and performs it—tak-
ing care that others perform theirs. When
disturbed in his business—when the owner of
valuables comes sliding down stairs in his robe de
nuit, and objects to the removal of his silver with-
out his written consent, why, of course he must
put up with the consequences of trying to inter-
fere with a man’s living. Cripps is prepared to
argue with him —he’s a reasonable fellow is Cripps
—but some men have no sense of humour. They
make for the bell, and—well, Bill is prepared for
that, too, and prospects their anatomy before they
are half across the room. The amount of chin
bristles rank tobacco, and ready ribaldry men
engaged in the burgling business appear to hive
always on hand has for a long time seemed to us
one of the pleasantest characteristics of their call-
iDg - • • •
Oh, and there’s a marine store dealer, Elijah
Coombes (Mr. Redwood), who is useful in many
ways to the “ Spider ( ” and his mate. Indeed, but
for him, it is not easy to see how they could
get along. The business would be so slack that
it is really diflicult to guess what they could
do except come to Australia and go into one
of the colonial legislatures. But he saves them
from that by “smashing” the swag. He, too,
knows his business, and a good deal about other
people’s. And he is a hardened villain—a regular
out-and-outer, who would think no more ol shov-
ing you over the Thames embankment on a foggy
night, than an Irish landlord of shifting the roof
of your house, if you objected to pay rent. The
number of utter rascals, not only on the boards,
but in real life, who are named Elijah, has always
struck us as siagular. Only one of the breed ever
came to any good—the chap that drove off in the
blazing buggv. We’ve often thought how tanta-
lis ngly meagre our information was of this “ biz.”
Depend upon it, he didn’t leave before he
“scooped the pool” in some way not referred to
in the sacred records.
• • *
There was a “ tipsy passenger,” on the bill,
and 4 to 1 was freely offered by a hook-nosed party
behind us that he would be a Kelt. He was—a
Milesian of the purest descent: one whose pro-
genitors had lent a hand in serving out “ teko ” to
the Danes at Clontarf and later to the Orangemen
at New Ross and Vinegar Hill. Harry Leston per-
sonated the exile, and we will say this of Harry
that when we went to the Royal on Saturday night
we were a little “off eolour”—a bit thoughtful and
homicidal. We’d been reading of a Paris restaura-
teur who the other day objected to buy some
rabbits—refused to take them as a gift—for fear
his customers should discover that they’d been
wolfing' cats since Waterloo. There was a bad
taste on our mouth, and the future seemed a
blank. But this “ tipsy passenger” cheered us up.
Of course he was not at all necessary in the piece
—had nothing to do but carry a stick with a
red bundle at the end of it and goad the officials
to a state of madness with his irritatingly irrelevant
questions. But he soon became the gallery’s first
favourite, and kept up a pleasant simmer of satis-
faction till he was finally run out by the slack by
the outraged officers. And just here it is as well
to state that the stage Irishman is undergoing a
gradual but certain change. The knee-breeches,
pipe, and red waistcoat are giving way before ad-
vancing civilization. He still retains the stubbly
beard, black eye, damaged hat, and partiality for
raw spirits with which we are so familiar, but his
penchant for chipping pieces off his neighbours’
skulls, or twisting himself into unnatural posi-
tions when itinerant fiddlers strike up “ Rory
O’Mooro,” is perceptibly subsiding. Nor is he so
seditious as formerly. Some time ago, you re-
member, whenever a person from Cone or Tip-
perary appeared before the footlights, he was
generally in possession of a blunderbuss, filled
pretty well to the muzzle with miscellaneous pro-
jectiles, which he was bent on transferring to the
first landlord or tithe-proctor coming his way.
This game appears to be out of season now, or get-
ting scarce, so that one source of innocent relaxa-
tion is being cut off from the poor, struggling
“ Kelt.” Still, with all these drawbacks, be sure and
keep your seat at the “ Silver King ” while Leston
is on—if only to see what real fun can be extracted
from an insignificant part by a capable man.
* * *
There are a number of other people in the
“ Silver KiDg,” but we haven’t room for the lot
this time. We must« however, speak of one more,
Jaikes (Mr. Day), an old family servitor of Mr.
Denvers. We left him last, but, as a matter of
fact, the character is about as important as that of
the Silver King himself, and Mr. Day served it up
to us in a way that we make bold to say no other
actor in Australia could—yes, equal. With the
remembrance of his “ play-acting ” fresh upon us,
we say “equal” in preference to “excel.” The
way he subducted his coat-tails, and presented to
the struggling fire that anatomical configuration
it is equally improper to offer to a friend or an
enemy, brought back to us the liveliest recollec-
tions of days gone by, and the pleasure we often
derived fromasimilar proceeding in foggy London.
And the assumed cheerfulness of the old boy as
his mistress and he gradually went down from
venison to tripe—and not much of that—from
generous hock to cold water! Again, the way the
unimpressionable “ancient” received the ad-
vances of Mrs. Gammage (Miss Melville), his old-
time sweetheart, before she went through three
husbands, kept up a feu dejoie of guffaws, starting
from the man who banged the cymbals in the
orchestra and winding up with a smudgy-faced
apple-orange-and-lemonade man in the gallery.
* * * *
“No. 47, or Tfot Guilty,” is the name of
the piece now on at the Academy of Music. In
the bills it is announced as “an emotional and
spectacular drama, with entirely new and elabor-
ate scenery, &c. &c.” We went to see it, the other
night, and are still alive. It nearly knocked us
out in the fourth round, but, by dodging some of
the heaviest long-arm jokes, we managed to stay,
and were rewarded with half the gate money.
The play might be worse, to begin with; and,
when we say that the scenery and some of the
acting are about on a par with each other, we do
so in the hope that neither the artists who painted
the one, nor the actors who did the other, will die
from the effects of flattery. It is rumoured that
the scenery was painted by moonlight with a sage
brush and that the artists were two blind men
from Melbourne; if this be true, it certainly
reflects great credit upon them, for it isn’t every
blind man that can paint that way by moonlight.
• • •
The plot of the play is laid all over one
half of the globe, including England, France,
South Africa, India, the high seas, and Australia.
It we wanted tolbe sarcastic, we would say that if
the scenery were a little better the piece might
pass as a holiday entertainment at a Deaf and
Dumb Asylum; and that, it the language were
considerably improved upon, it would make a
good show for blind men. But we don’t want to
be sarcastic, and therefore the remark is withheld.
Act 1 is confined to England, and for aught we
know the author of it is confined there, too. We
hope he is, if he is a fighting man, for our bull-dog
has gone into the country to visit some relatives.
(N.B.—He will be back early to-morrow morning).
Just before the curtain rose, the orchestra, con-
sisting of a piano, a fiddle, and a horn, struck up a
symphonv that sounded something like a cross
between the morning chaunt of a love-sick mule
and the howl of an orphan hyena.
♦ * *
Robert Arnold (Mr. William South) is the
hero of the play. The spectators are first intro-
duced to him as he is standing on the Southhamp-
ton Quay, amongst a lot of army recruits, who are
bound for India. Robert is a locksmith, but is
going to India to accept a clerkship in the army.
While they are all merry over their beer, Silas
Jarrett (Mr. Joe Stark) steals liobert’s basket
of tools, and extracts from it a bunch of skele-
ton keys, with which he presently effects
a robbery by dim lights to slow music. He then
leaves the tool-basket, the keyr, and a portion of
the stolen property in a room where Robert is
subsequently found. Robert is accused of the
theft, tried, found guilty, and sentenced to seven
years’ penal servitude at Dartmoor. He escapes
with another prisoner named Jack Snipe (Mr. Sam
Howard), and together they make their way to
India, where Robert learns that he has been par-
doned, and he assumes his clerkship. Of course
he falls in love, and has a terrible time of it for
several years, but finally he gets back to England,
the villain is identified as the thief who stole the
pocket-book, Jack Snipe, who has turned over a
new leaf, receives a full pardon, Robert marries
the girl of his choice, and the whole business
winds up like a new music-box.
* * *
Mr. Sam Howard, as Jack Snipe, is the
life of the performance In the prison scene he
was made-up for the grave-digger in “ Hamlet,”
with the grave left out. His jokes and quips, some
of which were interpolations, were immensely en-
joyed by the audience. In this scene he introduces
a song entitled “Jack in a Box,” and sings it
in a merry, knowing way that suggests the
idea that i he isn’t in gaol he ought to be.
Mr. South, as Robert Arnold (No. 47), lacked vim
an I fire. He was lively enough In the first scene,
but getting into gaol and falling in love (both
great calamities) seemed to knock all the sand out
of him, and made him look like the good young
man that died. If he would brace up a little and
pull down his vest, he might add more dignity to
the part for which he is cast Mr. Joe Stark, who
doubled for Silas Jarrett and Captain Willoughby,
was particularly happy in assuming the character
of the drunken vagabond. H f s make-up was per-
fect. In fact, he looked so drunk that the audience
could almost smell his breath. As a villain, too,
he seemed in his element; but he will have
to learn to carry his sword as though it were
something besides a cane-knife, before he can
plav the role of Captain. Triggs, the lawyer’s
clerk, would have looked better if he had taken
rue precaution to pare down his ears. They looked
entirely too heavy to be hung on s@ weak a head
as Triggs is represented to have. Miss Blanche
Murray, as Polly, was lively and vivacious, and
her conception of the part quite appropriate. She
kisses rather much for a well-conducted soubrette,
but No. 47 was as much to blame for that as any-
body. A plea of “Not Guilty” need not be
entered here, for it won t stand. Miss Marie
Wilton, who doubled for Margaret Armitage and
her daughter Alice, was equally pleasing in the
one as in the other character. Marie always looks
nice, but we like her best as Ophelia. She’s
drowned as Ophelia. Taken as a whole, the play
is worth witnessing, if only to hear Jack Snipe’s
jokes and to see Polly sit down in the second act.
* * * *
At the Opera House the Majeronis are
ladling out “ Friendship, or the Two Sergeants.”
W e believe there was a good house on Saturdav
night, when we were not there, and we know there
was an indifferent one on Monday, when we were.
Yet why it should have toeen so slender-except
that the piece is well-known in Sydney, and the
superior novelty at the Royal seduced the publio
that way—we are at alossjtosay. One “motif”
runs through the piece—the struggle between
affection and duty in the breast of Wil-
liam (Signor Majeroni). To this key all is at-
tuned. Still, there are many side issues which
are made the most of in the hands of capable
subordinates. Mr. Musgrave’s corporal of artil-
lery, for instance, causes a not unpleasant diver-
sion from the otherwise sombre surroundings.
Oddly enough, there is an important part allotted
to a boy—a mere child—just as in the “Silver
King,” a part of equal importance is in the hands
of another child this time a girl. Young
Maieroni—a bright little chap of six or seven—did
what he had to do so accurately, archly, and with
such an evident understanding of what it all
meant, that he fairly shared the honours with his
parents.
* ★ *
In our day, when the high sense of honour
that was supposed to have been peculiar to the
ancien regime before the little Corsican bandit
played nine-pins with European thrones is said to
be everywhere on the decline, the desire of William
to leave his wife and kids and return to his regi-
ment to be shot is slightly peculiar. Under similar
circumstances, we know people who would stay at
home, or, if they took the trip at all, would avoid
the barracks—go the other way, in fact,—pop
aboard a vessel going on a whaling voyage or
coming out to Botany Bay. It’s bad enough to be
a soldier returning from furlough with the pro-
spect of a month’s “ setting-up ” drill before you
to banish from your system the awkwardness
induced by a couple of months’ loafing; but to be
returning with a knowledge that a platoon of your
comrades is awaiting at the other end to let day-
light through you, is about as cheering as to wake
up in the morning after a wild night to find your
pockets empty and no tick at the “ pub.”
•
The Marie of Signora Majeroni is a line
performance. Her endeavours to learn from her
husband the secret weighing him down, and her
struggles to prevent his departure made many of
the audience look stonily about them as if they
would like to take a fall out of somebody and
didn't know whom. By the hysterical way they
laughed when Corporal Valentine worked in
some little pleasantries it could be seen how
nearly they had approached the border-land
of pocket-handkerchiefs and general damp-
ness when the Majeronis were on the scene. As
Marshal d’Altaville, Mr. Glover, notwithstanding
a bell-topper hat instead of a chaco, looked and
spoke ever so much better than the Field-Mar-
shals who attended our drawing-rooms when we
were in society—better than George of Cambridge
—than even the redoubtable “Wales,” whoso
baton, as everyone knows, was obtained through
good honest service in the field of—Venus.
“Friendship” is only on for a week’s run. On
Saturday “ The Living Statue ” and “ A Kiss ” are
promised. We mayn't be there for the “Statue,”
hut if there’s any of the other kicking round drop
us a line.
* * * <*
What is Sheridan doing ? Well, at the be-
ginning of last month (February) he was subsi-
dising a troop of United States cavalry to keep
back the crush to his “Lear” and “Louis X 1.,” at
the California Theatre, San Francisco. This is
what the Daily Examiner of that bustling town
says of him : —“ ‘Louis XI ’ introduced him to
San Francisco, and won him that high place among
actors from which no succeeding performances
have dislodged him» . . . One of the most
positive virtues of his elocution is a rarely perfect
enunciation, which makes it a delight to listen to
his speech.” If we know but little about the
Daily Examiner, we know a good deal about
Sheridan. Of two things we are certain—that he
had no hand in that critique in the first place, and,
next, that, even if he had, there is not a commen-
datory word in it to which his Australian per-
formances do not entitle him.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Last Wednesday week a most “ rekerky ”
concert was held at Ashfleld, in connection with
the Never-Touch-It Lodge, 15,556, Mr. Hutchinson,
the worthy G.W.C.T.X.Y.Z., being in the chair.
And our own exclusive musical “cricket* hap-
pened to have the “ jumps ” very bad that night,
and we are indebted to the Novello who slings
concert critiques for the Noozh for the following
scholarly notice, which appeared on Friday last 1
A duet was “nicely given.” Mr. Barton was In
“good voice.” Miss Hathway sang “very well.”
Mr. Gould sang “very nicely.” Miss Weber (ap-
parently went one better, as sho) sang “very
nicely indeed.” A duet was “ greatly appreciated.”
Miss Smith sang “ Erin on the Rhine ” (companion
to “ Erin-go-bragh,” we presume,) in “good style.”
Messrs. Slayton and Gould sang “very well." Miss
Weber nnd Mr. Barton sang “very nicely.” Mr.
Gould “ sang in good style.” Miss Hathway was
‘in good voice,” and a quartette was “loudly
applauded.” Such ilattering notices as the above
are the strongest incentives for the encourage-
ment of true genius that one can well imagine,
and must assuredly fill the heart of every true
musician with a fierce desire to get hold of an axe
and belt Fish River caves in the head of the born
natural genius who wrote them.
• * •
When Max Adeler described the Republican
Army of General Flynn as consisting of 135 men,
22 of whom were brigadier-generals, no doubt he
thought he had struck a patch of side-splitting and
original humour; but, from an answer given by
the Premier to Mr. Withers, the other night, it
appears that Majah Cracknell’s Torpedo Corps runs
Misther Flynn’s brigado moighty closely, for,
according to Mr. Stuart, there are just 75 full
privates in the gallant Torpedo squad, and these
are bossed by 23 officers—viz., 1 majah, 1 captain.
4 lieutenants, 7 sergeants, and 10 corporals! That
Is to say, an oflicer to every four soldiers, and a
fraction of a warrior over,—the said fraction
forming a sort of emergency squad, very useful
in time of war or making surprise attacks on
the canteen department.
• • •
For once in his life, David Buchanan threw
out an extremely sensible suggestion when he
proposed that whenever one hon. member insulted
another the pair were to be locked up in a room
with a pistol eaeb, and left there until one, or
better still, both, fell dead. The great drawbacks
to this, however, would be the unseemly noise
occasioned and the sinful waste of good powder
on such worthless objects. We think we can im-
prove on Dawvid’s plan by copying the style of
duel recently fought in Strasburg. Two students,
it appears, fell up to their ears in love with the
same lady, and as the law didn’t allow her to
marry both, the lovers agreed to fight it out in a
private bedroom, an old army doctor being the
sole second“ There were no firearms visible,
only a black, morocco case, from which the doctor
drew forth a pill-box. It contained four pellets,
one of which was destined to cause instant death,
the remaining three being harmless. The two men
agreed to the mode of ‘duelling’ proposed. A
gold piece was tossed in the air to decide who
would have the first choice. Two of the pellets
were swallewed, and then the piece was tossed
again for the other two, which the doctor insisted
should be swallowed by both the principals at the
same moment. A draught of claret washed them
down, and the next instant one of the young men
fell forward in the last agony.” There you are.
Dr. Tarrant or Dr. Creed could fix up the pellets.
All we require now is the necessary pluck on the
part of our honorable members. Take the physic,
Johnnie.
♦ * *
The Rev. D. S. M Eachran, of Melbourne,
presided at one of Booth and Glover’s temperance
gatherings, the other evening, and delivered an
address. Mac., you will remember, has been play-
fully referred to by one of his brother divines, as
a “mixture of Pecksniff and Uriah Hoep,” and
really, there was something about the good
gentleman’s address which did remind one of
“XJry”—it was so “’umble.” The “mixture”
commenced his harangue with the explanation
that “ he was present not as a pledged teetotaller,
but as a practical abstainer.” It’s evident that
Mac. doesn’t believe in pledged teetotallers always
abstaining, you see—but no matter. Then he gave
his reasons for renouncing wine and “ whusky,”
and they were two-fold: “ first, he had discovered
by experience, some time ago, that he had no need
for wine or strong drink [and he a Presbyterian
minister, too —well, well I—Ed.B.], and secondly,
because by abstaining he was able to do some good
for his fellow-men. He did not wish to force his
views upon others, but held that he had a right to
set them up as a guide for others.” Now, there’s
’umbleness for you, if you like. But let us sing
altogether:
Ho lets his fellow-men be free
To act just as they choose,
And has (dear, modest soul I), you see,
No wish to “ force his views;”
But still, the lowly man maintains—
With honest, holy pride—
“ He has a right to set ’em up
For others—as a guide.”
• • m
If a man were dying, what would you
give him ? Give him up, of course. They hold
different opinions, however, in Otago—a town
which is in New Zealand, if fire and brimstone
from Heaven have not consumed it since the last
mail came in. A candidate for a public position-
says the local paper, but does not say what posi-
tion, and leaves us in the dark as to whether it
was the borough membership or town dustman-
ship—was addressing a meeting there lately.
Several questions were put to him by the enlight-
ened electors, to all of which ho answered with
more or less satisfaction. At last a man got up
and gravely propounded this one:—“lf a man was
dying, which would you give him, a glass of grog
or a leg of mutton ?” The audience waited in
solemn and earnest silence for the candidate’s
reply. He was a long time thinking over it—the
question had completely staggered his intellect.
At last he feebly answered, “I would give him a
glass of water,” a rejoinder which was received
with yells of derision. We have not heard whether
the candidate got the position he wanted or not’
nor do we wish to hear. But this anecdote is sug_
gestive—everything is suggestive to a mind like
ours. If one of our Parliamentary candidates
were asked what he would give to a dying man*
what should he his reply ? Don’t know ? Well,
it’s very easy. He should reply, “ I would give
him a card to vote forme on election day.” You’ve
got to know something about politics to under-
stand this.
• • •
TO A PARLIAMENTARY CANDIDATE.
So, good man, you are aspiring
To direct the Ship of Stale ?
What gifts (s?y) are you requiring,
Do you think, to legislate ?
You are rich and very stupid ;
You are smart without a cent. ;
A Tlmrsites or a Cupid ;
You’re the man for Parliament.
You are madder than a hatter,
Or, we’ll say, than a March hare—
Bless your heart, it doesn’t matter,
You'll find kindred spirits there.
And your ignorance is thorough—
You’re a chuff-head from the jump 1
All the better for j our borough,
All the more for the town-pump.
And you thought some little knowledge
Of law-making, you might need ?
Q o to! Bedlam is the college!
You were innocent indeed!
fou would trifle with the Graces!?
Read the records of old time ?
Pish! sit down and make grimaces:
Parliament’s a pantomime.
You will get them—it’s a foeus
For such imbeciles as you—
If you’ll say this hocus-pocus,
And as we direct you, do.
Tell the free, and the enlightened,
That you’re damned if they are free;
Don’t be flurried, don’t be frightened.
Be as coarse as coarse can be.
Say that Capital is sitting
Like a nightmare on their chests,
While they lie there, all unwitting—
Throw in here some scurvy jests!—
“ When you think of it, you burn—you
Boil with anger and with pain”—
Swear right here, if they return you,
You will d d soon break the chain.
“ As for those who griped and wrung them,”
You will—” they will see—’tis well!”
Say now you were born among them—
That is always sure to tell.
Say the honour overcomes you
When you speak t@ them—the pride :
And the scrapings of the alums you
Will at once have at your side.
Say you are disinterested,
You’re a horny-hand yourself;
Say your rival (or suggest it)
Is just going for the pelf.
Say that nought could be absurder
Than such man as candidate;
Hint he was in gaol for murder,
But forget to give the date.
Then, to make the thing dead certain,
Get a graveyard vote or two;
And you’re in—and precious dirt in !
Here’s our next advice to you.
Never care for Honour’s laurels,
Never look into a book,
From the burglar get your morals,
Get your grammar from the cook.
Listen in the lanes and alleys,
In the dens of dirt and vice—
Pick up there your pleasant sallies—
Be not, prithee, over-nice.
Let your eyes with envy green be,
Let your teeth be green with slime,
Foul and faithless and obscene be,
To the mouth with malice prime!
Folks will call your foulness funny.
Call your malice speaking plain—
Sling the muck around then, sonny,
Smoking from your dunghill-brain.
Any lie to undermine a
Reputation fair to view;
For the Venus Cloacina
Is the goddess meant for you.
When, perchance, you hear men utter
Noble thoughts, pray be not weak!
Rise and quench them in the gutter,
Let the ordure in you speak!
•o to all men you’ll be hateful—
In itself a source of pride—
When you see us, if your grateful,
Pass upon the other side!
# • *
This is what we call heart-rending pathos.
An old gentleman died over in Melbourne last
month, and, after giving the particulars, this is
what the death-notice said “ After serving his
church in the capacity of sexton faithfully and
assiduously for twenty-three years, died, aged 74.
and was buried like an alien, unwept, unhonoured,
and unsung.” Very sad, very sorrowful, this I
How it must have embittered the last moments of
the old man to think that his successor, who was a
poor creature, and knew nothing about his busi-
ness-all successors to old men are like this—would
perhaps bury him wrong side up, so that he would
be smothered before he was in the grave half-an-
hour, or, may be, cut a hole in his skull with the
spade while making room for another retired
gentleman. We can sympathise with this feeling.
We never think of our own demise without a
spasm of emotion as we reflect on the improba-
bility of anyone being left behind us who is able
to spell. It is a harrowing thing to think that when
we die our name may be misspelt on the grave-
stone. How in thunder, if this happens, our soul
will be able to find our body at the Ressurrection,
is more than we know. It would be a nice thing
if, after a life of blameless virtue and a death of
sinless peace, we were at the last day to pick up
the body of, say David Buchanan, and be damned
forever, without enquiry, the minute we presented l
ourselves. Or suppose we did not make such a
disastrous mistake, but picked up the body of a
Christian, there would be an action for theft against
us at once which would settle our hash for all
eternity. It is these considerations—which may
appear trifling to the thoughtless—which make us
shudder when we look forward to our decease. So
we can feel for the poor sexton. Still we don’t
think he has so much to complain about. A sexton
dying has many advantages over other men en-
gaged in the same occupation. He has more
acquaintances among the dead. Intact, when you
come to consider the matter, you will see that a
sexton must necessarily feel lonesome among the
living. There was one feature of this case puzzled
us for a while. Wo thought it was an established
fact in natural history that sextons never die
Neither do they; but it appears this old gentleman,"
in a moment of weakness, gave up his position,
and, of course, immediately became mortal. Our
sextons never die —they disappear, not as the irre-
verent Harmy singers say Elij ih did “in a fiery
van,” but in a shroud of grey mist, and become
perpetual correspondents to the Town and Coun-
try Journal. Yet the sorrow of this hapless
Melbourne stiff-seereter dying “unwept, un-
honoured, and unsung,” haunts us. Why unwept ?
Had he not a mourning mother to bend over the
bier of her clay-cold child, and cry bitterly?
Where was his uncle, the country editor ? Perhaps
he could not get bail in time to attend. Hapless
sexton. Perished in the heyday of his youth, with
none to drop even a door-scraper over him ! A
sorry masque this thing they call life, gentlemen !
But unsung ? It shall not be said that he died
unsung while our palsied fingers can draw music
out of a washboard. Listen :
A SIGH FOR THE SEXTON.
Sigh for the sexton! Low he lies,
The earth is heaped up over his head;
Little cares he who sells or buys,
Little he cares for the price of bread.
Stiff he lies in the silent tomb—
There we shall all lie, poor and rich;
Crowded in where there isn’t room
To scratch your leg if it chance to itch.
Nothing to drink there, nought to smoke;
Nothing to pass the time away;
No one there that will crack a joke—
Dull as the Shroud till Judgment Day.
One bone fails on the other bone,
Then the bald skull falls in between—
What did you weigh, sir ? Fourteen stone ?
Good Lord, you now look devilish lean!
Crossed in love, were ?—poor old bones !
Keep calm, we beg of you—calm and quiet—
Do not speak in these strident tones,
1 bis is no place for rant and riot I
Sigh for the sexton—three times three!
And now your grief in the goblet sink!
This is a truth—if a truth there be—
No man is dead while he can drink!
* * *
We have some correspondents for whom
a grave in a dingo-preserve is too good. What
they take us for is to us a mystery, but we think
they must take us for a cask of cement. Every
week we get dredge-loads of letters containing
measely stories of the “ this-little-pig-went-to-
market” style of humour, which the writers ex-
pect us to print. Then the town fool sends us
something about the baker and his girl, and asks
us to “give them a turn.” Goodness knows how
proud and gorgeously pleased we should be to do
this, if we had them entangled in a circular saw,
but, otherwise, it is a matter of stony indifference
to us if they had all been hanged three centuries
before the Christian era—that is, providing they
were not subscribers of ours. What do we care
for the baker? And what do we care for his
girl ? What do our readers care ? If the girl
chooses to jilt the baker, and take up with the
dustman, will that affect the price of flour ? And
if it does, it will not hurt us. We live on iron
nails and ground bones of bush humourists. And
now let us ask any person whom the devil has
tempted to send us a story to resist the temptation;
and, instead of putting the story in the post-office,
to put it in the poor-box. Some unfortunate
creature, to whom life is a burden, may then get
it and be released. But if the story is really funny
—and it would be well to submit it to the monu-
mental mason to make sure of this—then send it
along. We would not like to crush genius in the
bud, because we have known many geniuses who
would have made excellent plate-layers if they
had not been crushed prematurely. When any-
body of importance in the town—the Mayor’s cat,
for instance—dies, we shall always be glad to hear
of it. And, if our correspondent can assure us—
as he hopes to see Heaven—that he is giving us the
information with his latest breath we shall be all
the more pleased, and proud to drink to his
memory. Correspondence on this basis we are
always willing to accept—and on no other.
* * *
The things that were wonders to our
fathers—but this is too delicate a style for our
simple paper. We are nearly a hundred years
ahead of thG last century. TherG is pace for you!
And what have we done during this time ? Al-
most everything, from inventing telephones to
talk with the saints in glory to constructing patent
jimmies for opening poor-boxes. Professor Ander-
son—who is now showing somewhere in the colo-
nies—used to make us stare once. He could hardly
do that now—unless he asked us to lend him some-
thing. He has what he calls a new trick in his
repertoire. It consists of cutting his wife to
pieces on the stage, and then putting her together
again. This is poor fun. Go up a back lane in
Wooiloomooloo any night, and you can see a
better show than that for nothing. Y ou can see
wives cut to pieces—and not with a sword, but
with a simple boot or axe-handle—and left in
pieces as you imagine. But are they ? Well, you
will see them going out about an hour later to
pawn their petticoat to get beer for the performer.
Pshaw! Professor Anderson is out of date.
* * *
Another bard. Perdition is full of them.
This one opens up with a remonstrance addressed
to us about the manner in which we treated some-
thing or other immortal he sent us some time ago,
and Avhich he says his mother considered very
clever. We would never have presumed to set
our opinion against that of a lady if he had re-
stricted the circulation of his poem to his mother.
And here we will drop a bint. When a young man
becomes Intoxicated with the praise of his private
friends, let him not seek further. This rule applies
as much to intoxication with fame as with whisky
—when drunk, stay at home. However, as this
youth as elected to do otherwise, we will let him
speak. Says he :
“You certainly gave me a critic—
A good one, people might think;
But was not your decision too quick
Appearing in BuLLETiN-covered pink ?”
Perhaps our decision was too quick ; we are hasty
sometimes If we recollect aright, we informed
him upon a previous occasion that he could not
make poetry, but with perseverance and attention
to details he might in course of time make very
good beer. And now, on second thoughts, we
come to the conclusion that ho would not make
even good beer. He has not sufficient head. But
he is willing to acknowledge his deficiencies
“ I know I’m not an artist yet.
Have much to practice and learn :
On those verses I would like opinion to get,
Give, as you think, mild or stem.”
Now, this is magnanimous. We would like
to say soihething pleasant about his poor,
little rhymes. But what can we say? Only
this—we hope and trust that the gods love him,
and that the usual result will follow suddenly.
There seems to be a presentiment of this in the
lines that come after :
“ I may some day bo amongst the useful body
Of those happy ones writing in this clime.”
If he only knew how much they are wanted—dead!
Poets, politicians, patriots—the grave yawns for
them! But, to go on. Here is a sample of the sort
of thing we get by every mail from young men
who cousider we are doing them and the public an
injustice, and literature a lasting injury, by not
printing their “ poems ”
“ THE MOON AND THE TREE.
“ Clouds are siowly mooving (sic)
Yonder in the blue skies;
The bright moon’s shing (sic)
In dreary night with flry (sic) eyes.
“ Oh, through the trees serene,
While dark-green their hue,
As charmingly is seen
As human eye e’er knew.”
One hardly knows which to pity the more—the
poet or the moon. But it must be the moon; the
poet will cease and be at peace one of these days,
but the moon will never be at peace while she
hangs in heaven. As soon as one bard is done bay
ing at her, another, who is seven times worse, rises
up. Curious thing, isn’t it, that as soon as a youth
has learnt to write, and long before he has learnt
to spell, he must outrage the moon ? But there is
lurid strength in the line—
“ In dreary night with fiery eyes.”
It suggests Dord at his darkest; it suggests Baude-
laire in his most abysmal mood; it suggests—of
course—a tram-car. And now we are weary of
this young man. We hope a copy of this issue will
reach his residence in time to be put in the coffin
with him.
• • •
Jl correspondent signing himself “Kisser”
has sent us what he calls “ some very nice things
in verse.” We have sent them to the sewer. After
telling a prurient story about some local larvae
they wind up with these elegant lines:—
“ there is a few more loafers here
who mooch round on the track.”
Bird-like this, isn’t it ? We suspect the writer has
before now worn feathers—and tar. He writes
his doggerel in a forged hand—probably not the
first forging he has done. There was no need of
this; the subject was quite worthy of him. We
would not notice this young man—he must be a
young man, for no civilised community could ever
have allowed him to live to grow old —only that he
is a type of a large class who seem to think we
are publishing a paper for the benefit of the
damned. If “ Kisser,” as he signs himself—though
we daresay no respectable cow would be seen kiss-
ing him—is to be judged by his writing, then we can
unhesitatingly affirm that he will do credit to any
gallows.
* * *
His hat was minus a band and part of
the rim, while through the crown blew the sweet
airs of heaven, so badly was it torn. His nose re-
sembled in hue the trunk of a boiled lobster, and
his clothes had become wrinkled from smoothing
down the grass in the park. Hie toes were better
—that is, they were able to be out; and so were
his elbows. About his breath there was an odour
that reminded one of the offence of Hamlet’s
uncle—it was rank, and smelt to heaven. As
he entered the door of the sixpenny restaurant,
and with light steps stealthily approached the
waiter, that individual looked up with a weil-
defined interrogation-point in each eye. “ Please
sir,” said the impecunious one, as he stood twirl-
ng his dilapidated head-gear in his hands, “ how
ong can a man do without eating ?” “Aderned
sight longer than some of ’em can without drink-
ing,” was the somewhat sarcastic reply; “for in-
stance, there was Dr. Tanner, over in America—
he went forty days without eating, and got fat
on it. Now, I’ve seen men that if they would only
do without drink that long, and wash themselves
up and go to work, would look quite respectable."
“Sho! You don’t mean me, do you? I’m not a
drinking man. But say, can’t you give us a feed ?
I’m dreadful hungry.” “No, sir; unless you’ve
got the necessary sixpence. Why, in the name of
deceney, don’t you go and wash yourself ? You’re
as dirty as a pig.” “Do you see that dark line
around my neck near the shirt-band? You do.
Well, that’s the high-water mark I got by diving
into swill-barrels after something to eat. Let me
go out the back way, won’t you? I wan’t to
lick the sweat off the kitchen windows. I'm
awful hungry.” Just at this juncture, the pro-
prietor came up, and the next thing that vaga-
bond knew, the footpath rose up and met his nose,
and nearly put it out of joint. As he gathered
himself up and walked away he muttered thought-
fully: “ Strange world this—very strange. If you
ask a man for a drink, he gives you a coldshoulder;
if you ask him for a, loaf, he gives you a flsht t
Strange world—very strange.”
* * »
Here is enterprise—here is business acumen
—here is a lesson for our sleepy speculators I Head
this advertisement, written by a poor Queensland
innkeeper, and hire a man to blush for you! He


is speaking—the innkeeper is—of the advantages
accruing to people who stop at his hotel. Says he:
“ SPLENDID SPORT—Alligator Shooting.
® Sportsmen are reminded that it takes a
first-class Rifle to bring down this splendid
GAME (a miss in many cases proves fatal to
the Sportsman). Rifles always on hire.”
Splendid game, certainly—for the alligators. We
presume the rifles that are on hire are first-class
fatalities. If we had a rich uncle who was fond of
sport we would send him up to that hotel at once—
and go halves in the result with the iandlord.
But this is not all the fun to be had. Read again:
“ A shot at a Nigger can always be relied on,
a large Camp (Myalls) being only two miles
from the Hotel.”
There is a man for you! There is perception of
public taste! But you say it is outrageous satire ?
So it is;—but there has been a great mortality
among the blacks up there, lately. Wish we had a
drink! We wonder which the landlord hires lout
to sportsmen to kill the niggers with—his rifles, or
his rum ?
You have all heard of a certain marvellous
oil which can euro anything I Well, it is marvel-
lous, but we never knew how much so, till we read
a testimony in a Northern paper the other day. It
is in the form of a letter from the father of a
formerly dumb girl up there. This girl, it seems,
went to bed one night in her usual good health,
but the next morning she was as dumb as a door-
mat. Her mother took her to the doctor, “ who
advised her to inhale the fumes of Stockholm tar,
saying she might never recover her speech again.”
From the construction of this sentence, we infer
that the fumes of Stockholm tar are particularly
comforting to persons with a leaning towards
silence. What a pretty present a little cake of it—
with a small work of art, such as you get on the
flat boxes of wax-matches, stuck on one side—
would make for the member of Windsor. This is
only a delicate hint—[Oh, go on!— Ed. B.]. But the
tar-fumes were not properly inhaled, or some-
thing. Anyhow, the girl still remained mute.
The doctors prescribed several other remedies
such as mentally repeating the Thirty-nine
Articles backwards three minutes before moon-
rise every night, covering the ears with
paste made of fern-seed and iron filings, and
swallowing cobblestone soup. Still the girl did not
recover. This was a matter of surprise to the
whole faculty of that township. The faculty, we
might remark, in passing, consisted of a really
good doctor, who could quote you Instances from
Galen and Averroes, from the rising of the sun to
the going down thereof, and a superannuated
sawyer, who got a sudden and miraculous insight
into the science of medicine while falling from the
top of a turpentine tree. We don’t know which
treated the case, but we suspect it was the sawyer.
Anyhow, the girl was getting on famously with
the dumb alphabet, when one night her father
took it into his head to rub her neck with the oi l
we mentioned. He only used two drops of It In
water. What was the result? Why, next
morning she was blaspheming all round the
house, to the Intense delight of everybody.
Curiously enough, this is true. So also is
this perhaps. As the undertaker’s men were
screwing down the lid of a coffin In a house In
Surry Hills a few days ago, one of them, who had
in his pocket a bottle of the oil in question, which
he was taking home to give to hij grandfather
who was dead, happened to spill four-fifths of a
drop on the corpse. Nothing came of this then,
but late that night, when the neighbours were in
the house of mourning, drinking a pleasant journey
to the deceased, a dreadful knocking at the door
was heard. Somebody got up and opened
it, and, gentlemen all, as we hope to wear a crown
of glory where the moth does not rust, there was
the corpse with his coffin on his back like a tor-
toise carrying his shell. The oil had not taken
effect until after they had buried him. This oil
we may also state, is a certain cure for horses with
a tendency to homicide. Two drops of it put on
their oats will take the kicking out of them for
ever. This is the very oil that Apollonius of
Tyana used whenever he wanted to be in two or
more places at once. He made it out of toads’-
blood, and the brains of suicides. The secret was
lost, like a great many other secrets during the
Dark Ages, and was not re-discovered until com-
paratively lately, when au American genius came
upon it quite casually, while looking for a stray
cow—though there are some who say that he re-
ceived it by a special revelation. The calcined
bones of members of Congress and other criminals
are now used in its manufacture, instead of the
materials employed by Apollonius. However,
nobody need die now, who prefers to live.
• • •
You will receive this information with a
titter of delight. We got it in an English paper.
The Duohess of Fdinburgh has been entertaining
quite a number of visitors lately. Titter here!
There were the Duke of Albany, several earls, and
a waggon-load of right honorables. They went
out shooting, and the paper from which we quote
says:—“The Duke of Albany was not very for-
tunate with his gun”—poor, dear invalid! we
should imagine he was very fortunate in being
allowed to carry a gun at all!—“but Lord Hoth-
fleld and Captain Billington seemed rarely to fail
in their aim, and the skill of Captain Wynne Finch
was marvellous.” Judging by his name we should
fancy the latter gentleman would be equally lucky
with the bonea or the billiard-cue. Funny how
suggestive names are sometimes. We know a man
once [What has that got to do with the matter ?
Confine youtself to fact.— Ed. B.]—who is now
dead. He was an editor—and he died suddenly
from carrying too far one day a habit of interrup-
tion he had acquired during a long and infamous
career. But it seems this Captain Wynne Finch is
one of those men born occasionally for the purpose
of setting the table in a roar, though why or how the
table should roar is more than we ever understood-
“ However,” says our authority, speaking of the
madcap captain, “he amused the ladies by taking
off his coat and firing in his shirt-sleeves, the tem-
perature being warm.” There was a wild waa- for
you—there was a merry fellow, if you like! He
saw the affair was dull, the gay dog, and, as he had
nothing to say that would brighten it, what
does he up and do but take off his coat. If he
had kept his coat on there would have been no
amusement. This quickness of insight and ready
humnur marks him out as a man especially fitted
to fill a coffin with pleasure to all. There is a
Bpectral sparkle about his humorous impromptu
which faintly foreflickers what a demon of drollery
he will bo when he becomes a corpse. This little
incident shows us how little we should begrudge
the members of our Royal Family their amuse-
ments. If we knew where to dig for a copy of
Sydney Punch we would send it to them. After
this, we have no doubt it would convulse them
with merriment. This is what is called “whole"
some fun,” you know.
* * *
We forget now where Wide Bay is, but
what does that matter ? What does anything
matter? We will bet you a keg of rum that we
can to you that it is of no consequence to
you whether you were born dead or not. But,
never mind. There is a newspaper in Wide Bay
and will be long before you were born. And it is
proud of being there, too, is that paper—or the
editor of that paper: though whether the editor
edits the paper or the paper papers the editor, we
have neither idea nor information, and don’t want
to have. What interests us in the matter is that
the editor gives an anecdote in a late issue of an
old sailor—“ ancient mariner,” he calls him, be-
cause that sort of thir g is considered graphic writ-
ing up, or down, there—whom he heard lamenting
in the street about having lost time in the various
seaports of the world. But let the editor tell it:—
“Yes, I’ve lost my time,” he repeated; “I’ve
lived in every seaport in England Liverpool,
Bristol, Plymouth, all of them; and I thought I
knew what foul language was. But,” and here he
looked up, “ I learned more her a in five minutes
on Wednesday than in the whole of my life. I’ve
lost my time.” We should think so. There is
more to curse about in Wide Bay in five minutes
than in the remainder of the earth in a long and
blasphemous existence. We have not been there,
but we have seen the paper. There is the paper
to curse, and the editor's father, and grandfather.
And a pretty poor kind of a place it must be that
can only lay claim to celebrity for its cursing
We wouldn’t send an alderman there, and we
would send him to almost any place where we
didn’t expect to go ourselves.
THE FISHER-K NIFHT
An Ironclad yarn without any moral whatever.
Pe earlier times
i Olden,
of the sort
len.
>ro’s tame
Byron)
•s, his shoes >
- of iron.
said, . ■' /,
j ,
Bind), ....
I have hinted at love in <ny opening linet
But the love was ah one-sided—
Thb maideD scorned that, errant tcnignt,
A_nd his iron suit derided -
6hfc gave him no " errants " to go upon, t
I So he spent all his time iD angling i <
' All day eftsoons at the water’s brink (
His iron-clad legs were dangling. .§
He angled and dangled for many a day, '
Till his Iron frame grew weedy
His iron 'pants got bagged at the kneesj
His iron boots grew seed). z - **
)Yet still he angled and dangled and hoped,
His motto, " Nil desperanduni, *
" Mayhap,“ aighed he, " adzooks, My Word
(I'm writing. I fear, at random.)
At any rate, to shorten my song,
To this knight of the tempos oldm,
There came at last. a 9 it seemed to him t
||! Ad opportunity golden
One day, as over the water’s brink
His legs, as usual, dangled,
He heard a vociferous cry of “ Help I
A cry that seemed half-strangled.
“ That voice 'tis she I the knight outspoke,|| |i
£ “ I’ll ascertain what's the matter, '<
"Why, I'm blest if that gal hain't been and gone
- And tumbled into the water I ” _
“Ah ' help ! Alack, an’ it’s awfully wet,"
Loud shrieked the maiden excited ,
“ That man as dishes me out of this
With my hand shall be requited.”
/
The knight straightway had plungeryhim in,
i And so have won his charmer, y
But, alas for the irony of fate,
Whoever oould swim in armour f V /
Quoth the knight, who stood riveted to the spot,
14 With this armour all riveted to me,
It l went to the rescue I’d sink like a shot,
Then what good would her favour do me P”
Be called to the lady these words of hope :
“ Lf my fish-line was just a bit stronger—
Stay, l*ll go to the village and borrow a rope,
Pray keep up a little bit longer I” _
No sooner that knight had turned on his heel
(The lady already had fainted),
Than along came * native as blaok a 9 your hat,
With his taoe all tattootled and painted.
He sprang to the rescue a a quick as a cat,
Otherwise the fair maid had been drownded ;
Quoth the knight, who returned upon hearing a
r- sp’asli,
44 11’ a a mercy the lady hath swownded l"
*' Grammercy." he faltered, addressing the nig. 4
" [ thank thee for saving tny daughter ,
For a gaerdon. this sixpence I prythee accept,
Pray take something stronger than water.”
The k night, as you see, took this delicate way
Tc forestall an appalling disaster
Twere toe sad if this girl, all along of her v 0 Wi
o.A\6 & black for tier lord m&aLox
— —
No sooner the latter had wended his way
lo a puh that had lately been founded
Tlwn the knight set to work with the usual means”
To restore the apparently drownded
At last all his efforts were crowned with success?'
lie worked with such diligent fervour
TW the lady ot last partly opened one eye
And faintly exclaimed 14 My preserver I "
0 merrily rang out the marriage bells,
As the knight and bis love were united ;
All the world came to see—all excepting the
And he was not even invited.
• Moduuv&l Usui fur tfouserk


BRIEF MENTION.
Grace before Meat: Prayers for the Dead.
Between Wagga and Narandera there’s
nary a pub. a fact the thirsty ’Tiser (Jones’s
organ) bewails.
Parramatta water supply reservoir leaks
to the tune of 1,325,000 gallons a week, more than
the local weekly consumption. Dam bad.
So the member for—but, what matter ?
calls the gay Giraffe a “Jackanapes!” Better be
oallei Jack any thing,than Jack but, who cares ?
The editor of a Southern paper has had a
splendid cabbage-head given to him. He has it
now on show in the office. Let him keep it there.
Two heads are always better than one.
Tennyson - Homer - Virgil - Milton Sladen
says “ Poetry arises from the fact that man likes
to see two things at once.” If that’s true, Sydney
is full of poets every Sunday afternoon.
Backolock rum doesn’t tend to soften the
heart. This is a notice a traveller found affixed to
the door of a shanty out West lately“ Gone to
bury my wife ; will be back in 30 minutes.”
The fastest time on record. Mr. Braddock,
of Baulkham Hiils, received a letter posted to him
from Parramatta (adistanceof flvemiles) after the
expiration of nine days. Advance, Australia!
The editor of a Western paper says that
the Mayor and the Town Council are “at logger-
heads.” What other heads would he have ? It is
a poor place where a man is not allowed to wear
his own skull in peace.
Mr. Blue-Ribbon Glover urges the un-
happy public to “sweep the bottle from their
sideboards and the glass from their tables.” Tem-
perance people, evidently, must lap up water out
of their hands—or hats.
A correspondent asks us if there is any
truth in the statement made by one of our weekly
contemporaries to the effect that It is to be found
at every fireside. Certainly there is. It is to be
found at every fireside in the morning—just before
the Are is lit.
Edward Hanlan says that he saw King
Kalakua when he stopped at the Sandwich Islands
on his way from San Francisoo to Sydney. That’s '
nothing, Edward. We know a man who “saw” |
four kings and an ace, and it cost him something i
like 400 dollars.
As l-iB4 is divisible by 4 without a re-
mainder, it’ll be in order to hash up the ancient
yarn:—“’S leap year,” said a rural damsel to her
beau as she tried to nerve herself to pop the ques-
tion to him. “No, by thunder, 1 can’t, ’ he ex-
claimed, “the folks’ll be lookin’ for me at home.”
An exchange says that several impudent
robbaries have been committed in and around
Brisbane lately. We have heard of highway j ob-
bery, robbery from the person, and several other
kinds of robbery, but what is an impudent rob-
bery ? Does it mean stealing soup from one’s sick
mother-in-law ?
Monsignor Lynch left £5OO for a requiem
mass for the repose of his soul, and £lOOO for the
repose of the minds of the trustees of Bt. Mary's
Cathedral From which we laboriously calculate
that he will take just twice as long to get into the
house not made with hands than we shall to com-
plete the one that is to be. What is it—labour
slack up there?
Here is a nice little item about the great
Calcutta Exhibition, for which the London Tele-
ghaph is responsible:—“ A large portion of the
material out of which the Calcutta Exhibition has
been erected was carried on the backs of women,
some of whom were nursing children at the time.”
After all. there are a few bright spots in this re-
ligious and civilised nineteenth century.
A Melbourne “society” paper (humph!)
commences a puerile yarn thusly:-“ In this, the
latter end of the Eighteenth Century, and especially
In this country of compulsory education and cheap
newspaper literature ” This particular specimen
of “cheap newspaper literature” doesn t speak
well for the “compulsory education,” does it?
The Eighteenth Century—good gracious!
WHICH?
The Poet, with his passion-frenzied eye,
The Prophet with his prophecies of woe—
Whence do their winds of inspiration blow?
Over a rose-field, or a field of rye?
If we knew which, then might the world, grown
sane, plan
And make a pot of many a mighty brain-pan.
On opening the will of an Essex millionaire
a few months ago it was found he had bequeathed
to his daughters their weight in £1 bank notes.
The eldest daughter scooped £51,200, but the
younger pulled the scale at £57,344. If their hus-
bauds had known the terms of the will before the
old man stepped out they’d have stall-fed the girls
until the Bank of England couldn’t hoist them on
the scales.
Up North, a boy undertook to pour a
charge of powder down the barrel of a gun that
had been worked into a led heat by constant
firing. Strange to say, the boy and the gun went
off together, although they had only been a few
hours acquainted with each other. This is how the
Narrabri Argus tells the tale :—“Tragedy in two
acts :—Act I.: Boy—Gun. Joy—Fun. Act II.:
Gun—Bust. Boy—Dust. (Curtain.)”
At Bourke a man recently purchased an-
other man’s wife and three children for £2. And
yet young, blushing, and innocent creatures talk
of bying obliged to go to New Caledonia! Now,
we know that if a passible-looking girl can get up
Cobar way, she is certain of dropping in for a good
thing. And then what a comfort to consider that
even when pasade and hampered by three kids, she
will yet fetch the noble sum of £2. This is a great
country.
“ The law for you as for your victim has
the most profound compassion,” said the Chief
Justice. He then sentenced the prisoner to be
hanged. The Inquisition, too, had a profound
sympathy with heretics would not shed their
blood, so gave them oyer to the civil power to be
bqrnt. What we want to know is this: If the law
has compassion on the wretch whose life it is going
?q take, what punishment does it mete out to him
or whom it has no compassion at all ?
Wontagoona Mathews, the King of Louth,
is on the warpath down here once again—and this
reminds us. One flood season, the mails for
Wontagoona were delayed for fully three weeks,
and a travelling “drummer” asked if a blank
period like that wasn’t considered somewhat dull.
' Well, yes,” replied the Louth magnate; ‘but,
then, they’re just as badly off in Sydney for they
never hear what we’re doing at Wontagoona.” As
it looked like rain, the drummer left abruptly.
Princess Charlotte was, perhaps, the cham-
pion tomboy and hoyden of her day in England.
A rather good story is told of her with regard to
one of tier scapegrace uncles. It seems that, after
the manner of certain living Princes, he had intro-
duced a frail fair weakness into the sacred Court
ring. On the Queen’s expressing her horror at the
action, Charlotte coolly observed, “ What does it
matter ? The Dukes can’t marry whom they like,
and they must love somebody, you know!”—a re-
mark, we may add, which embodies a good deal of
sound philosophy.
Town and Country bard to friend: “How
did you like that last poem of mine?” Friend:
*• Well, I thought it soft! ” Bard : “ Soft be
h mged: it was iron, it was adamant, it was anOue
to the Spirit of Battle I ” Friend : “ Well, that
may be, but the one you wrote before had more
blood about it.” Bard : “How in thunder was
that, it was an idyll.” Friend : “ I read it on a
rump-steak, the last I read on a roll of butter.
We read all your poems that way at our boarding-
house. Ajoo ! ” (Exit.) Bard (dismally) : “ And
this is the reward of genius 1 I wish I had a pie I”
The cry is still they come. Melbourne
papers declare ‘ a rumour is current abeut town
that society will shortly be shocked by the dis-
closures in an application to the Divorce Court on
the part of a gentleman prominent in fashionable
circles, who will make a very popular Melbourne
clergyman the co-respondent. Popular clergy-
men will be up to their larks, It seems, and this
leads to a very strange consideration. How is it
that none but married clergymen ever get into
Similar scrapes ? Catholic priests never carry on
like this—at least, if they do, we never hear of it
in public.
The silly season isn’t quite over yet, as the
Mudoee Post has just been shown “ an enormous
f 1 2 n f’ ’ t ! 3e Jaws of which were
furnished with such formidable tusks that the
fl l Bt “ iBt aken for one of Chiarini’s
Waxing learned over this varmint, the
w C uv .ic l '. says: When one of these cats
t k hl B fVnt ? ifc 1S thrown down and a hole made In
Iw t*? reach the kidney fat.” This is the
?h?rin S 0 ai l ce * on record of a sheep being so blood-
kblnev rj°, tu r e[ , lnto a cat in order to reach the
of us e L a anH b fL W h v °' and learn. At least, some
country’journals. ba aaCe Wnte iunatic mems - for
At a Public School examination made by
askiMn a°+Z r tu e Department, a question was
f - d -to whether the children knew who was
having f sovereign at the present time. Not
called by this-to them
children were at a loss for a
Ji “I the teacher prompted, “ Come, children
know—Queen— “Please, sir, I
+ £i ie r a youngster. “ Well, my little man?”
asked the Inspector. ‘Queen of Hearts, sir!”
How do you know that, my boy?” “ Well, daddv
fiaf * n , a dus h last, night and he said it was
money in°the f” aU8 ° he W ° Q BUCh a pot of
It is consoling to learn from Granny’s
r'? n d on ,f c r Ibe that, after all, Her Majesty’s new
I’cpk w iH not be ‘little more than a prolonged
eulogy upon the late John Brown ; but although
fo a « -'n? un u °t space will be devoted to the
faithful Gillie, he will net take up an undue
quantity of room.”
Not “ an undue quantity ” will fill he,
? °c once all-filling, bare-leggsd Gillie.
In life we all were ever ‘-full of him
Perhaps in death we’ll get “ the pull of him,”
More jam to swallow with our Gillie
Wouldknockthe whole creation silly !
No, faithful Queen, he does not want it—he
Can rest without “an undue quantity.”
Besides, he s got his ’arp and crown, now.
And iso t Quito the same John Brown now.
“THE BRITISH SOLDIER IS TO BE SUPPLIED WITH SLIPPERS.”—EngIish item.
This is a step in the right direction, but it does not go far enough. We hope to live
to see the day when that bulwark of our liberties, the British Soldier, will face the
cannon’s mouth, nor only in easy fitting slippers, but a smoking cap of tasteful design,
and a “Jonah’s gourd” dressing-gown. And now a thought strikes us, just as we go to
press—a sweetly dreamy thought, This slipper policy will give sQQpe to the mis-directed
energies of that charming young person whom he, the British Soldier, left behind him.
A pair of these regulation slippers (easily obtained, doubtless, on application to Mr.
Gladstone or the Minister for War), embroidered by her own fair hands, with designs in
which the symbols of love and war are curiously blended, would be a fitting reminder
of her love.
We notice that poor Clifford, the actor,
rscently committed suicide in Hobart. He bor-
rowed sixpence off a shoemaker, bought six-
pennyworth of opium, and soared. Clifford was a
good-natured fellow, and a fair actor, and he like-
wise.wrote some “are more,” dramas, which, like
Horne Tooke’s, “ adapted for the closet than the
stage.” Clifford had a glass of brandy-and-cloves
before going to bed on the fatal night, and we are
disposed to think that had as much to do with kill-
ing him as the six-pennyworth of opium. If that
amount of opium could kill a man, the writer of
this par. would have been fencing in his allotment
on the golden shoah long ere this.
Sirenree has been interviewed by a Pall
Mall Gazette reporter, and says:—“ Tf you could
put a ring-fence round New Guinea, it might re-
mainlasiMsbutyou cannot. The only wayin which
the mischief can be prevented is by converting
the island into a Crown colony ; that, no doubt,
would accelerate the settlement and development
of the resources of New Guinea, but it would en-
sure that the inevitable impact of the white on
the dark-skinned races should take place with a
minimum of cruelty and injustice.” This is all
very well, of course. But a party cooking beef
blocks in a frying-pan without a handle up the
line wants to know where she is in all this.
At tho annual conversazione of the Exeter
Literary Society, held on Saturday evening, Janu-
ary 12, Sir Stafford Northeote delivered an address
on “Nothing.” On receipt of this intelligence, a
special meeting of the directors of the Hunter-
street Zero was held. The question now is, how
to put it to Sir Stafford about throwing over the
leadership of the Conservative party and coming
down here, where there is more scope. Another
meeting is to be held—the managers dividing on a
man who limits himself to Nothing. The tradi-
tions of the paper and the more influential men
lean to a large subsidy if Sir Staffoul will consent
to modify his views, and come and write some-
thing less.
On the occasion, some time ago, of a
political veteran’s visit to Boggabri, in the neigh-
bourhood of which smiling home of burr and
black soil a portion of his earlier days had been
passed, he caught sight of an aged nig. whose pod
was well-nigh as snowy as his own, and, recog-
nising an old acquaintance, exclaimed with his
usual bluff cordiality to everyone: “Hello, Billy!
I s’pose you’ve forgotten me by this time, eh?”
The countless wrinkles on the old darkey s f ice
puckered up till it looked like a minaturo Black
Sea in a gale of wind, and a sly twinkle came into
his eyes as he replied: “No fear, Misser
R* ■; I ’member you. I ’member well ’nough
time you run 'way with my gin. My word I” Then
that wicked old legislator, instead of being covered
with confusion at the dark mine so unexpectedly
sprung upon him, burst into a roar of laughter,
while the fair aristocrats of the surrounding plains
sniggered consumedly.
Very smart fellows, some of those New
Zealanders ! A young man in Christchurch has
been giving private entertainments of rope-tying
tricks. He gets into a box, lets his friends cord it,
and gets out again in two or three minutes with-
out assisi ance. This is clover enough and harmless
enough, if the young man does not become too
haughty about it. If he does, we will back Mr.
Robert Howard, of this city—who has a pretty
little knot of his own invention—to fix a rope on
him that he will not unfasten, unless he can un-
fasten his head also. But, may be, he can do that.
Young men who devote their energies to rope-
tying tricks are of about the same intellectual
value without a head as with one.
Young men, on matrimonial joys intent,
would do well to take warning from the case of
John Light, a venerable Melbourne citizen. John,
it seems, doesn’t live on the best of terms with her
who is—actually, as well as figuratively—his “ old
woman,” and, alter one of their periodical conju-
gal storms, ho retired to his room and took trem-
bling aim at himself with a pistol. Mr. Light,
however, didn’t altogether extinguish his light,
but merely succeeded in inflicting a “ small wound
on the top of his head,” and, his worthy spouse
disturbing him in this single-handed combat, he
“ left the house.” Half an hour later, being then
in a calm and penitent mood, John returned, and
his “old woman” “gave him into custody for
attempting to oommit suicide.”
Somewhere about the centre of our
Northern district there resides a fussy little
medico —suppose we call him Hawkins—who pulls
the scale at about Ist., and whose very much better
half is a portly Milesian matron, whose style of
architecture might be termed colossal, and whose
knowledge of the three R.’s is, to say the least, of
an extremely limited nature. A few nights ago
there was a social little “ sing song ” party at the
doctor’s house, and as the company were grouped
around, the local banker asked: “ What’s up with
Thompson, doctor ? Hejnover sings at all now ’ ”
No,” replied the pill-roller, “and I fear he never
will again. Fact is, he’s suffering very much, just
now, from a swollen uvula.” “Hawkins,”
screamed the unfortunate doctor’s lady, “ you
forget sir, there is ladies present.” And then she
sailed out of the room like a Dutch man-o’-war,
while the company jobbed pins in themselves to
ease off the merriment.
“Out of evil cometh good’’—occasionally.
Scene : Department of Public Muddje—Superin-
tendent’s sanctum. Enter First Official: “Bad case
this, sir. Flashman, at Fuddletown, is six weeks
behind with his returns, and there’s £3O missing.”
Superintendent, excitedly: “D n those fellows!
there’s always something. Look here: Flashman’s
people are well off—tell him to get them to square
it up at once, or he’ll be arrested. Bully him like
h 11, but keep the thing dark. It mustn’t get
into those infernal newspapers, or they’ll say we
carry on here just as loosely as they do iD the
G.P.O. How’s that affair of Skinner s?” “ Oh,
the old man paid half the cash down, and we’ll
stop Skinner’s salary for the balance.” S.: “Right;
and then, when you get clear, find some way of
sacking him at the earliest opportunity. D n
these fellows! they’re enough to ruin one’s diges-
tion.” Skinner’s trouble was squared, and now
he's inspecting public buildings.
Anecdote illustrative of the generosity of
Prince Bismarck: On the evening of Gravelotte
there was nothing to eat-nobody could get any-
thing. Then the masterly statesmanship of the
Prince was exhibited. H» procured live eggs.
Did he eat all these himself ? No; he ate two and
divided the other three with two of his com-
panions—that is, taking one himself. He thought
the two eggs he gave away were bad. This almost
equals in magnaminity the famous action of Sir
Philip Sydney at the battle of Zutphen, when he
told the man who was bringing him water to give
it to a dying soldier, who had more need of it than
he. He took it for Hollands at first, and was so
disgusted when he found out it wasn’t, that he
made a noble speech, which has charmed every
generation since and immediately turne 1 over
and died. Let these instances of lofty heroism
teach us to take our rum separate from the gruel
whenever we get our periodical cold.
The English press spaaks with as much
confidence upon Australian matters as the Pro-
testant Standard when it is giving the statistics
of Hell. For instance, the London Daily Tele-
graph “expects to witness in a few months the
birth of a new nation in the Southern seas.” What
nation ? All this information comes from the
missionaries who have gone home with fat purses
and a noble gout to talk about the “ pore heathen ”
in Exeter Halt. The only nation they have founded
out here is damnati >n -for which the devil may
thank them, but we cannot. And yet, why not ?
If they had not established Hell on a firm founda-
tion most of our politicians and men of note
would be as good as homeless when they got into
the next world, and even we ourselves might have
peen taken up for vagrancy when we reached
there. So let us be grateful to the missionaries,
a ™ whenever we have a crooked threepence let
us put it in their plate.
, A n( ! s° the residents of the droughty dis-
;?U£gest that the Government should
P,* a , f°, r .general humiliation and supplica-
‘'l°n,, °F rain throughout the colony. And a verv
excellent suggestion, too ; but it won’t do for
t?®™ t° ca,rry on their supplications in the open
air the rain might come down and drench ’em
before they were half through with the business.
On the other hand, it might hold back for an hour
or so, certainly, and give everyone time to get
under cover.
A GOOD SUGGESTION.
Oh! whensoe’er the rainfall may
_Be ’neath your expectation,
You merely need to fix a day
For “ general supplication,”
A !& th £ l ? t he drought (at least, it ought),
f which you’ve such abhorrence,
Will leave the land, and, quick as thought,
Sweet rain descend in torrents.
M’Elhone’s 30-ribbed, time-payment ging-
ham, will soon be an object of as much historic
interest as the famous sun-shade which the
(esthetic K.B. condescended to hold over the roval
cocoaauts of Ned and Georgie. It was with this
16s. silk we speak of that Mac. placed W. c.
Browne in imminent danger of his life by pointing
11 at .p im > and threatening to blow his brains out
with its contents—although by the way, it after-
wards transpired the weapon was only loaded with
a tew sheep’s trotters the senator was carrying
home for supper. That he values it even as the
jealous Moor did his fond wife’s mouchoir is evi-
dent S om the fact that having at one of the re-
cent East Sydney election meetings observed a
prominent ‘ Dimercrat ” eyeing his treasure sus-
piciously, Mac. walked up and flourishing a fist
like a prize ham in his face yelled out : “ You
handle that umbrella, you touch that umbrella,
you even look at that umbrella, and I’ll cram it
down your gory throat and then spread it.”
The details, as given by the Parramatta
Fergt and by Salvation Cyrus, are widely
different sometimes contradictory— but there
appears to be no doubt about tie bar® facts of the
case. These are they. A male soldier in the Par-
ramatta detachment of the “Army” fell in love
with a female warrior in the commissariat branch
of the force. “Charley the German” was the
knight’s name—Stettler, the patronymic under
which Imogene sidled along towards Zion. They
were married by the Rev. W. J. Gunther, and at
the feast two extra lege had to be put under the
table to support the obelisks of corned beef,
carrots, and sour-kraut prepared for the occasion.
With the discernment of an “ old soldier,” Charley
appears to have gauged his comrades’ appetites.
By the time the revellers had parted with most of
their buttons a dance was proposed, and the floor
was cleared. This was too much for the bride.
Charley had entrusted her with £4O, and among
the guests was an old flame of hers in the sinful
days, before salvation reached as far as Parramatta.
The dance was over, the guests departing, but the
bride—where, where was she ? Ask of the winds
that far—Let us be calm. She, the ci-devant sweet-
heart and the £4O had gone over the water and left
Charlie. It is upon these simple facts that the
journals mentioned have built their irreconcilable
and improbable stories.
Quite recently the Ashfleld Nimrod Club
enthusiasts chartered a 4000-ton steamer, and
cleared the Heads for a real good day’s fishing.
And they enjoyed themselves immensely. So did
the fish, who were hreawfull of fun as soon as they
caught sight of the Nimrod mullets perched on the
rails endeavouring to cod the finny schools into
taking a schnapp-er two at the trussed prawns that
dangled seawards. Just after lunch, however, the
waves began to get a trifle giddy and the Ashfleld
Waltons amused themselves by leaning over the
side and pelting the fish with Scotch pies, bits of
liver, and everything else that was handy, at the
same time joining in a soul - stirring nautical
chorus, the burden of which was “Whooo-ooopl
Ooop-la!” Luckily for the crowd, however, the
steamer was well able to carry all the plunder
home without submerging her Plimsoll chalk line.
And as they trudged aloDg together with empty
creels, says the Mayor to Alderman Scott, says he-
“ By thunder, we had a real gay old time of it to-
day ! now, didn’t we ?” Then says Alderman Scott
to the Mayor, says he: “Gel-oriousl stupendously
gel-orious 1 I shan't forget that nibble I had just
before dinner, even if I live for a thousand years.”
But the verdict of the Nimrod's wives was that it
would have been a considerable saving in the way
of time and trouble if the bold fishermen had
stayed at home and cooked their bait.
A little while ago the Gttndagai Bailev
was going to treat its contemporary, the Local
and Ancient Ilworthv with all “possible
journalistic courtesy.’’ It seems that the School
of Arts won’t give him an ad., and, so under the
heading of “Coercion ” he writes as follows-
“The public would do well to pause and consider
whether they should support an affair which
is characterised by such gross favouritism as
is here displayed . . . The Literary Institute,
as in most other institutions, is composed
of the proprietor of the Gundagai Times, his
6ditor, his overseer and fellow iickspittlers.”
Ideas may, of course, differ on the subject of
journalistic courtesy, but we certainly can’t see
anything very affectionate about this. We re-
member this kinsi of courtesy being extended to
people up Queensland way many years ago, and
the miners expressing their sense of it by making
a mud dumpling of the editor. They tried to
draw his eye-teeth, too, with a pair of boarding-
house tongs, and evinced a disposition to shake his
left whisker with a chopper. Curiously enough,
we were offered the editorship of that paper just
about that time, the editor having to go South on
“urgent private affairs.” The miners, too, were
flattering in their efforts to secure our brilliant
services, and at a crowded meeting we consented
to act. We addressed the assembly in a neat
speech from the dining-room table of the Eldo-
rado Hotel, only being interrupted three times by
combats, and twice by gentlemen “ heaving ” the
lamp at people with whose political views they
could not agree. We said we were proud of the
confidence reposed in us, and directly the meeting
had fought itself out into the rainy night, we
girded up the butcher's horse and fled for our lives.
Nyngan has a new progress committee
now, and those dead bullocks are beginning to
show signs of life once more. What dead bullocks ?
Ah 1 thereby hangs a tale. Some six months ngo
the Government dammed the river above Nyngan
and for about a month after, the inhabitants
revelled in the oriental luxury of a wash once a
day in real water, and a couple of Holy Joeys were
on the eve of starting a Temperance Lodge, when
suddenly a “ fresh ” set in ; the dam burst, and in
a few hours a score of dead bullocks were wafted
down and safely anchored almost in the very
township. Then the people began to damn the
river themselves—for the dry season set in, and
pretty soon the defunct cattle began to make
things go so high that many of the Nynganeese
couldn’t afford to stay about the district. The
old progress committee then held a meet-
ing, and passed a series of resolutions, the
only result being an increased activity on the part
of the aforesaid bullocks. More meetings were
held, and one committeeman ev*n went so far as
to suggest that fortnightly meetings be in future
held twice a week, but the cattle still kept on in
the even but bad-smelling tenor of their way. At
last the police were applied to, but, as no warrants
had been issued, and there were no funds avail-
able, the “foorce” was powerless also, the only
hope held out being a promise made by the
oflloer in charge that if the committee “showed
him the man that put them dead bullicks in the
river, he’d run him in immaejitely—if notsooner.”
The cattle, however, are still masters of the situa-
tion, and the subject for debate at the next Pro-
gress Committee is, “ Whether would it be more
advisable to shift the bullocks, or to shift Nyngan?”
It is thought the latter would be by far the cheap-
est, and most efficacious plan.”


If the starving London poor ever read the
twaddle drafted from home to our daily contem-
poraries, how they must squirm in their rags and
misery. Here is a sweet little refrain from
Granny’s blue-blooded correspondent. Speaking
of the Marquis of Hertford, lately deceased, he
pathetically wails, “But the late peer had to
maintain the family dignity upon something like
£30,000 a year.” Poor fellow.
Mashers.— The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 653 George-street, Bricklleld Hill.
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
[?]
Spurgeon entertains some strong opinions
with regard to the Salvation Army. Being him-
self nothing if not sensational, he naturally has an
Intense horror of extreme sensationalism in others
—since one never excuses in others tho'e faults by
which one is affected oneself : though to do
Spurgeon justice his sensationalism has ever < een
confined to his own tabernacles and publications,
■whereas that of the Army is aggressively objec-
tionable in every public place. Says Spurgeon to
Coming Out,
“ Mr. Abbott will relinquish the portfolio of Mines, and take that of Public Instruction. " Gaily PAPER.
the Salvationists “ The other day I read in your
official report, ‘Brass band better than ever, 13
blowing salvation through their instruments.’ If
this be so, let them blow till all is blue ; it is not
for us to rail at sounding brass if it has indeed
become a channel of salvation. Blow by all means.
If any of you judge that this is your high calling,
pursue it ardently; and if outraged humanity
should pelt you with mud and rotten eggs, do not
reckon that a strange thing has happened unto you.
If you should also create about twice as much bias
phemy as religious feeling, do not be surprised ; if
your course of action should bring ridicule on all
religion, and educate the mob in the art of rioting,
which they may use by-and-bye with unexpected
results, do not marvel. If you conceive this to be
your line of usefulness, listen to no advice; reckon
all who differ from you as your enemies; become
martyrs; and go forward as good soldiers, so long
as leather and brass hold out. Only be prepared
for contingencies Suppose the big drum and
tambourine should cease to charm, what next?
What else is to be done? Will you stand on your
heads? Hornpipes have been tried; will you try
the tight rope ? ” It is rather good though to read
Spurgeon’s denunciation of creating blasphemy
and bringing ridicule on orthodox views, when
one remembers that tis not much above a quarter
of a century ago since he was advertising himself
by talking about the Lamb of God being always
in season though green pea* weren’t; and making
Surrey Music Hall audiences guffaw at similar
Oddities.
Thus Moderator Laing i—“ From time to
time we are startled by hideous exposures of vice
and crime, whioh disclose a frightful condition of
degradation and immorality in a certain class of
our population. I will not say that the Church of
Christ is blameless in this matter.” Bosh! The
Church of Christ cannot be otherwise than blame-
less, else it ceases to be the Church of Christ.
What Moderator Laing should have said was that
the Presbyterian Churoh is not blameless, and
ditto for the Catholic Church, and all the rest of
the plate-humping, salary-scrambling institutions
Father Mahogany has evidently taken a
leaf out of the book of zat goot ole mahn, Pastor
Chiniquy. One Sunday, a few weeks ago, it was
announced at the 11 o’clock Mass at St. Mary’s
Cathedral that a special lecture for men only
would be given in the afternoon, to which no
women or children would be admitted. About
3000 males rolled up, and no doubt were highly
delighted with all they heard. Taking it on the
whole, this innovation was a great success; but it
was mighty rough on the ladies at home, each of
whom must have felt like a citizen’s wife ou the
night of her husband’s being made a “
That’s where the “ Canajian ” divine had the bulge
on the Catholic clargy. He was a very much
married man himself, and consequently could
argue the case from both standpoints. Gentle-
men’s lectures in th« morning, and spiritual dis-
courses with ladies only in the evening. That vas
the roshy leedle game dot Charley played. And it
took well, too.
The Baboo Keshub Chunder Sen, the
leader of the Brahmo Somaj, died in January, aged
46. He was the successor of ammohuu Roy, who,
a few years prior to his decease in 1833, bad founded
an institution to revive the ancient Monotheism of
India. The Brahmo Somaj was not established on
its present footing till 1860. Sen was born in 1838,
and was educated at the Hindu College, Calcutta.
He joined the Brahmo Somaj in 1860, and, being a
born orator, soon became its leader. In 18T0 he
visited England. He believed that ha was inspired,
His system of faith opposed caste, idolatry, asceti-
cism, metempsychosis, suttee, child - marriages
(though he allowed hie own daughter to be mar-
ried to a wealthy Hindu prinoe before she had
attaiiied the age which he had fixed on as the least
that should be insisted on in the reform he
preached), and every form of deism; dud advo-
cated ethical monotheism, the duty of prayer and
self-surrender to God, and the eventual union (in
the Brahmo Somaj) of all the religious sects of the
Christian and Mahommedan world.
The description of Christ alleged to have
been written by Publius Lentulus, President of
Judaea, to the Roman Benate, the original of which
precious (?) account is said to be preserved in the
Vatican library, is a clumsy fiction. The docu-
ment at the Vatican mirnortimr t be Tjontulus's
description is obviously a third century fabrica-
tion: yet wo are constantly seeing its contents
gravely published in papers and magazines as
though it were the most authentic record in the
world. The fellow who evolved it out of his
inner consciousness was the Lew. Wallace of his
day and generation, and we’Ve no particular fault
to find with him. Taking tne words of the 45th
Psalm, “Thou art fairer than the children of men.”
as a sort of authority for laying it on thick, the
monkish fabricator did lay it on thick and no
mistake. “ In structure (he wro e) he is tall and
of perfect form; his countenance and air, sweet
and reverent, such as the beholders may both love
and fear; his hair is of a colour that would be
difficult to describe—something resembling the
colour of the ripe chestnut—from the crown of his
head to his ears, whence downward it is more of
a tint of golden hue, and falls waving and curling
into ringlets, and spreads itbelf in golden profusion
on his shoulders. In the centre, from the fore-
head to the crown of his head, his hair is parted by
a seam or partition, aud falls over each ear after
the manner of the Nazarenes. His forehead is
loftv and pale, and his face without spot or wrinkle,
beautifit d with a slight tinge of comely complexion.
His nose and mouth are formed with the most ad-
mirable “ymmetry. His beard is thick, and of the
colour of h'S hair; not of any great length, and
dividing in the centre at the chin, takes nearly the
form of a fork. His look innocent »*ud mature.
His eyes blue, brilliant, and serenely beautiful. In
reproving, he is awful and majestic; in admonish-
ing, oourteous, sweet, friendly, «md persuasive;
and speaking or acting he is grave, temperate;
modest, and wise. It cannot be remembered that
any have ever seen him laugh, but nlany have
seen him weep. In a word, he is a man who, by
h<s exc°6ding great beauty and his divine perfec-
tions, surpasseth the children of men. 1 ’ As we
said above, thdre isn’t the least doubt that the
“Lentulus ” description is a third centurv fabrica-
tion. The bastard Latin of it is quite proof
enough that a Roman gentleman of the Augustan
age never wrote it. In all probability it was con-
cocted to combat the early Christian (and perhaos
accurate) notion that Christ was a man of mean
aspect, “of no form nor comeliness.” In the
eighth century Joannes Damascenus issued another
k’rect (though differing) description of the Christ,
word-painting him as “ stately,” with his eyebrows
joined together,” with “black hair” and of a
” yellow complexion.” As a rule, Christ’s face in
portraits has almost invariably been the character-
istic free of the nation of the painter.
• • «
Mrs. Stapleton Bretherton, of Ditton Hall,
Lancashire, has bequeathed £400,000 to the Pope.
She had been created a Marchioness of the Homan
Court by Pius IX A volume of sermons and
addresses by the Bishop of Sydney shortly to be
published in London Write Victorian journals:
“ A Melbourne clergyman is shortly to appear as
co-respondent in a divorce suit.” A clerical error,
no doubt.


The Referee.
SPORTING" AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Swimming matches are to be carried out
at Balmain baths on April 5.
The South Adelaide Football Club intends
sending a team to Sydney next season.
Foley and Far nan are still sparring—in the
columns of the Melbourne Sportsman.
At Queanbeyan, All sorts beat Little
Wonder in a trotting match for a century.
Blackburn and Miller have been matched
to wrestle in Sydney for £lOO aside, mixed style.
The New York Spirit op the Times of
10th January sports a half-page portrait of Mar-
tini-Henry.
Paddy Ryan, who recently backed out of
his fixture with Sullivan, is called the Courtney of
the prize ring.
TricyclistS in America make very fast time
on the ice, and fly away from the skaters as if they
were standing still.
Some of the Yankee papers are very rough
on Hanlan for doing the show business with Mui-
doon at ’Frisco, for which he received £lOO.
O’Shea and Jackson, two 9st. men, fought
a glove contest in Melbourne, on 15th March, for a
fiver. O’Shea won, after one hour five minutes of
heavy fighting.
The Cootamundra-Wagga match for the
Cox Cup, played at Cootamundra, was won by
Wagga with an innings to spar©.; T. Tompson, of
the Waggas, scored 49.
“ Don’t forget to order home a ton of coal, dear. Here
is the money. It’s a one pound note. We are all out.”
“ Dear ” goes in with the pound to get it “ changed,” and
comes out about a crown short.
“ Dear ” meets a friend, and another crown breaks
loose from the original pound.
“Dear” says: “Lemme see—(hie)—half-a-ton will do—
(hie)— plenty. Lea have another!”
“Dear” meets more friends, and the balance
shrinks rapidly to half-a-crown.
But “ Dear ” is equal to the occasion, and gets a bushel
and murmurs, faintly bpt fondly c ’Ere J be, an’—(hie)—
brought ther coal home myself—(hie)—to save expense.’’
A Diminished Ton.
The Bourke Sheffield Handicap, to be run
on 20th and 21st May, 120 yards, open to all comers,
is for no less a sum than £310: first man £2OO, second
£5O, third £3O, and fourth £2O.
Viator and Thomas are again matched to
wrestle the best of three falls—one in the Grreco-
ltoman and two in catch-as-catch-can above the
waist—for £4O. Thomas defeated Victor in the
last match.
From Wellington, N.Z , comes the news
that a proposal is on foot to send Hearn to Sydney
to try conclusions with Laycock and Hanlan. We
are afraid he would not “ earn ” his salt at the
game over here.
In Melbourne it has been resolved to form,
from the various suburban football clubs playing
the game of the Anglo-Australian Football Asso-
ciation, a team to play in the intercolonial match
at Sydney in July.
The Albert-War wick match was continued
on the Association Ground on Saturday last, when
the Albert innings came to a conclusion for the
large total of 295 runs. H. Moses (not out) 161, G.
Murdoch 42, G. Tooker 62, J. Cleeve 12.
Windsor v. 2nd Carltons, on the Domain,
Saturday last. Windsors scored 145 in first innings
(Hannigan 23, Defries 21, Greenwood 20, Spilsbury
15, not out), and Carltons lost 7 wickets for 44 runs,
Graney topping the list with 13 not out.
Go it, ye cripples! W. C. Wood (very ap-
propriate name, that), the wooden-legged cham-
pion of Cootamundra, would like to make a match
for £5O a side with any other timber-toed pedes-
trian who fancies he can walk ten miles in quicker
time than W. C. can.
The latest American skating sensation
comes from Fishkill, where Robert Henry skated
from Fishkill Landing to Albany, a distance of 101
miles, in lOhrs. 20min. He is said to have returned
tho next day. John Ennis covered 100 miles in
llhrs. 37min. 45sec. at Chicago in 1879.
At the Adelaide races on St. Patrick’s Day’
held on the old course, Memphy won the All-Aged
Handicap, Jem Mace the Steeplechase, and Brigand
the St. Patrick’s Handicap. On the last race, the
totalisator was a trifle mixed, which brought out
curses loud and strong from the public.
On Thursday last an eleven from H.M.S.
Nelson played the Gladesville Hospital team, on
tho grounds of the latter. Time would not allow
of the match being played out. The following
were the scores: Hospital, first innings, 107. Nel-
son, first, 38; second, four wickets for 59.
On Jan. 22, at Shakespeare Hall, Syracuse,
New York, W. H. Craft accomplished the feat of
walking 300 miles without sleep or rest in 100 con-
secutive hours. Craft is the pedestrian who, in
1877, walked 806 miles, or at least was credited with
the feat, in 14 days, at Schenactady (N.Y.)
Professor Miller has challenged Donald
Dinnie to wrestle best two out of three, or three in
five falls, Grreco-Roman style, for from £lOO to
£5OO. Dinnie has been a great athlete in his day,
but he must be gotiiug rather too stale to tackle a
man like Miller with any chance of success.
The American horse-owners, the Dwyer
Brothers, won £27,556 during the year 1883. This
sum is larger than any English owner of race-
horses has won in the past live years. In 1879 the
deceased Count Lagrange won £25,595, and this is
the nearest approach to the Dwyer’s winnings.
The Balmain Rowing Club, which, by the
way, recently gave its ’orny ’anded members the
go-by, on Saturday last held its second annual
regatta. J. Barnes won the 9st. skiff race; S. J.
Law the lOst. ditto ; J. Beadman the over list,
ditto; and J. Langley the under 7st. ditto ;
T. R. Ainsworth, J. Fraser, P. Small, and
W. R. Aiasworth carried off the maiden gig
trophy; W. R. Ainsworth made an easy win of the
wager-boat race; and A. Kinnamount and J.
Fraser won the maiden double sculls.
Says the ’Frisco Newsletter: “Miller,
the Australian, is rivalling Sullivan. He is travell-
ing with a ‘combination,’ and will soon start for
this country to meet the slogger. If both com-
binations would meet in Honolulu and annihilate
each other, the world would be well rid of much
rubbish.”
Our own Edwards has duly arrived in
’Frisco. A local says: “ Edwards, the pedestrian
who defeated O’Leary with ease in Sydney and
Melbourne, reached this city on Tuesday. He has
come to a poor place to hunt up a walking-match.
We advise him to take a ticket for New York by
the first train.”
Canowindra races, Friday last. Albury
won the Maiden Plate; Elastic carried off the
Canowindra Handicap, Freedom 2nd, Barney 3rd;
Kilvardo won the Selling Race; Redmond the
Flying Handicap; the Balabula Handicap was
appropriated by Freedom; and Barney annexed
the Forced Handicap.
So far, the Croydon-Osborne match, for
the Junior Cup. stands—Croydons, first innings,
141 (M'Carthy 57) ; Osbornes, first innings, 97 ;
second, one wicket down for 6 runs. The contest
will bo continued next Saturday. Ths following
match is fixed for tho sth April, between the Car-
thonas and Orientals.
There is a probability of the Hon. W. B.
Hawke accompanying the professional team of
English cricketers who are preparing to visit us
next season. Should the Hon. W. B. come he will,
no doubt, be skipper, and a great acquisition to the
batting strength of the team. His average for
Yorkshire last season was 16-9.
D. A. Driscoll defeated G. H. Hosmer, the
sculler, in their ten-mile walking match at Lynn,
Mass., Jan. 16. Hosmer went off with the lead, but
gave up after walking 814 miles. Driscoll went on
until he had a score of 10 miles 333 feet 6 inches in
the announced time of lbr. 16min. 39sec. It is
stated the timing was unreliable.
; When Williamson lest the big race on
Morpeth at the last Randwick meet, he received
his walking ticket next day. And yet the chest-
nut made a far better show than Martini did for
the recent Champion. Luckily for Hales, how-
ever, he holds a twelve months’ engagement. The
fact is, the smartest pig skin straddler in the
world cannot take it out of a horse if it’s not in
him.
The quarter-mile heat of the swimming
contest, for the championship of Australia and a
stake of £lOO, took place on Saturday, at the St.
Kilda (Vic.) ship baths, between W. M’lndoe and
A. T. Kenny, and resulted in a win for Kenny, who
oovered the course in 6min. Next Satur-
day the distance will be half a mile, and the final,
to be swum on the following Saturday, will be a
mile.
The following boats started for the Double
Bay handicap on Saturday last:—Petrel, 28 feet,
half-deck, lmin.; Bronte, 24 feet, open, scratch;
Curlew, 22 feet, open, 3min.; Wingadee, 20 feet,
half-deck, smin.; lanthe, 19 feet, half-deck, 12min.;
and Iris. 19 feet, half-deck, 12min. The Bronte
came in first, but by time allowance the Wingadee
took first place, the lanthe second, and the Curlew
third.
Fine weather, a numerous attendance, and
well-contested races left nothing to be desired at
the Canterbury race meeting on Saturday last.
Marony started at 7 to 1 for the Flying Handicap,
which be carried off from Rataplan, Soldier Boy
third; Paul easily defeated Fritz for the Selling
Race, Tait third; Troy, at 10 to 1, won the Autumn
Handicap, by a couple of lengths, from Manfred,
Liberty third; Soldier Boy, 9st. 31b., had an easy
victory over Phyllis, 7st, in the Suburban Handi-
cap, Strathmore third; and Exchange started at 8
to 1, and defeated Saionara, who was splendidly
ridden by Colley, for the Ladies’ Bracelet, Regu-
lator third.
The Moonee Valley (Vic.) races on Satur-
day last resulted as follows:—Hurdle Race: Cla-
verley 1, Young Snowden 2, Brighton 3. Hair-
Mile Handicap: Pyretta 1, Honora 2, Gymkhana 3.
Soiling Race: Sea Serpent], Quietude 2, Pocohon-
tas 3. Handicap Steeplechase: Blackthorn 1, And-
over 2. Three-quarter-mile Handicap: Country-
man 1, Cassiopeia 2, Gympkana 3.
Mudgee sports on St. Patrick’s Day:—P.
Garretty tossed the caber 20ft.4in.; “Ferguson’’
covered 16ft. 2in. in the running long jump; T.
Budd vaulted 9ft. lin. with the pole; Hugh Kear
showed best on the horizontal bar; L. Cassimer got
over sft. 2in. in the running high jump; R. J.
Newton won the St. Patrick’s Day Handicap; and
P. Spies won the Consolation Flutter. Several
minor events were also got through.
In 1882, the progeny of the celebrated
Hermit won upon the turf no less than £44,608.
At the close of 1883, the son of Newminster again
heads the list of winning sires, but as he did not
have so many representatives running, his total
only reached £29.028. With, perhaps, the excep-
tion of Stockwell, there has been no more success-
ful sire than Hermit, and undoubtedly the New-
minster ana Stockwell cross has been marvellously
successful.
Taking for his text a verse from St. Paul’s
Epistle to the Ephesians—“ Take unto you the
armour of God, that you may be able to resist,”
&c.—the Rev. R. J. Mercer recently delivered an
eloquent sermon on “Cricket,” in the Anglican
Church, Clunes (V.), during the course of which
he conclusively proved to himself that cricket is a
manly game, “possessing many spiritual advan-
tages.” That’s so; and it’s the whisky saloon-
keeper that reaps the bulk of them. Now’s the
time for some other apostle to quote St. Matthew’s
words—“ But Peter swore he knew not the man,
And immediately the cock crew,”—in order to
enable him to tag on an “eloquentsermon” on the
spiritual advantages to be derived from a Lane
Cove cockfight.
A wordy war has been going on lately as
to the respective merits of A. W. Fittes and W. G.
Brett to the title of amateur champion sculler of
New South Wales. “Cloanthus,” in the Austral-
ian, has rather the best of it when he states that
|“ e , Sydney people are quite welcome to call
Brett the champion of New South Wales, so long
as they admit that Fittes defeated him on his
merits and has proved himself the best amateur
sculler in the colonies.
In America, George D. Phillips, the ama-
teur oarsman, athlete, and skater, on Jan. 6, skat-
ing against time, under proper supervision and
upon an accurately-measured straightaway course
on the Harlem River, covered a half-mile in lmin.
30sec., being the fastest amateur record. He had
a strong wind at his back, but the roughness of a
portion of the ice, which caused him to stumble
after going six hundred yards, about made up for
any help gained therefrom.
Wentworth Races, March 18th and 19th.—
Firstday. Handicap Hurdles: Pinty 1, Rhuailan2,
ChevalierS. Flying Handicap: Lantern 1, Prince
Consort 2, Lady Golightly 3. Sires’ Produce Stakes:
Nialya 1. Victorine 2. Darling Handicap: Rubv 1,
1 ishhook 2, Convent 3. Hack Race: Rheence 'l.—
Second day. Maiden Plate: Prince Consort 1,
Ballarat 2, Janson 3. Wentworth Handicap: Ruby
L Southern Light 2, Fishhook 3. Steeplechase:
Pinty 1, Rhuallan 2, Belamboo 3. Ladies’ Trophy •
Lantern 1, Fishhook 2, Mayflower 3. Free Handi-
cap: Lantern 1, Ballarat2, Conundrums. Conso-
lation Stakes: Ballarat 1, Micky Free 2, Zanga 3
Hurry-Scurry: Canary 1.
The dailies are now gushing over the
liberality of Mr. John Bennett’s offer of £2OO for
a sculling race for the alleged purpose of finding
out who is the best man to pit against Hanlan. At
first sight the proposal appears liberal enough, but
when looked into, it does not seem that Mr. Ben-
nett is throwing himself away to any great extent,
as the gate money, as it is now termed, would no
doubt more than recoup him. Jf Mr. Bennett
really wants to do the generous, we would suggest
to him that an offer of fifty pounds or a hundred
pounds, with proceeds of steamers added, would
have a more genuine ring about it than the £2OO
with no mention of “ gate money.”
Fully 2000 rolled up for the St. Patrick's
sports at Bathurst, and the fun was simply
‘soobloime.” The Grand Handicap fell to Dowey,
an Orange “stamp-picker,” after a desperate
tussle with Pursehouse, whom he brat by half a
yard; Fitzgerald 3. Young Humphries, who won
the Amateur Cup, had to run a heat more than
his rivals. In the first division he won by two
yards, but, as the judge was not at the post and
the tape was not stretched, the heat had to be run
again; Kingston, 2; and young Tom Hellyer, 3.
Three or four hundred roughs crowded the track
during every flutter, and at Stapleton's booth the
dear little shamrock was drowned beyond redemp-
tion.
Victoria will be represented by the follow-
ing bowlers in the Intercolonial Bawling match to
be played at Sydney, on April 15:—“ Rink 1: Hard-
ham, vVest Melbourne Club; H. Thompson, Kew
Club; Falconer, Fitzroy Club; M. Moss, Fitzroy
Club (captain), Rink 2: Cuddon—Richmond Club;
S. Lyons, North Fitzroy Club; Moffat, Melbourne
Club; Balderson, Melbowrne Club (captain). Rink
3: Randell, Victoria Club; Cleverdon, Hawthorne
Club; Stead, South Melbourne Club; Butler,
Richmond Union Club (captain). Rink 4: F. Smith,
wilhamstown Club: Lloyd Taylor, W. B. Club;
Kennedy, Carlton Club; A. Fraser, St. Kilda Club
(captain). Emergencies—Charles Smith, J. Fisher,
Gavin Shaw, Tillet, Cochrane, and H. J. Aitken.
At one time there was a suspicion abroad
that Hanlan, the oarsman, had his boat rigged out
with some sort of a wheeled contrivance at the
bottom that made it move through the water with
greater velocity than the use of the oars alone
could accomplish. Hanlan denied this, and the
world believed him; still there were plenty of


For close confinement, want of air, seden-
tary habits and brain and nerve tire, trust in Hop
Hitters. Head.
ÜBLIO NOTICE
J. TURNER ROBINSON k CO.’B
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET!
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
OR. TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD
WeakNervousMen
ismmam mmmaaamm mama
Whose dctMy, exhausted
powers, premature deer. y
mid failure to perform life's
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
THEWIARSTON BOLUS.
stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Nervous Debility and
Physical Decay isumformly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct method* and absolute thor-
oughness. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO., G 2 Casticrcagh St., Sydney
F
INEST CIGARETTES. FINEST CIGARETTES
ABB
VANITY FAIR VANITY FATR
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR,
Manufactured by W. 8. KIMBALL and CO.,
Rochester. U. '.A.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINK of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
Offices: 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYB, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Macka
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONG EDINA KONOOWARRA
BARRABOOL GABO LEURA
BURWAH BALMAIN MORETON
CHEVIOT GEELONG RODONDO
DERWENT KEILAWARRA YOU YANGS.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
.>»- Warranted f i rst qual i ty
v Charges strictly moderate
MARSHALL BROTHERS
Surgeon dentists , 0 6marketst e.
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
The practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
o rried on by the aid of a largre and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction by
anaesthetics.
ISeliaTble 33 - ULg*g'ies I
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BT BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
THE SPECIAL CLUB BICYCLE
FOR 1884,
Is ahead of all
Competitors.
OUR~BICYCLES have the
LARGEST SALE, and give
the Best Satisfaction, of
any machines made.
Our Prices ft® Lowest.
Our Terms are tlie
Easiest, and our sys-
tem of business en-
sures perfect satisfac-
tion cyery customer.
Write to us,
OR
Call on us.
BHp BHHHi
JaiesMARTW & COHPY.,
w 3»g QEiQilCe BTR£«T) SVDNEV (Opposite Royal Hotel).
oarsmen who “couldn’t see ” how he got over the
course so rapidly. Then the rumour began circu-
lating that he greased the bottom of his boat with
a new kind of oil that did away with all friction.
This also was denied by Hanlan, who said that the
only grease he used was “ elbow grease;” but still
his rivals “couldn’t see” how he made such
wonderful time. Those who know the grt at oars-
man best say that everything about his rowing
has been open to inspection. There has only been
one thing his adversaries really couldn’t see, and
that was—his back.
T. M. Malone must be a wonderful runner,
if the times are correct that he is credited with.
At Cootamundra, in the second division of the
Grand Handicap, he was put back two yards, and
yet was stated to have won in 15 seconds; and, in
the final, he finished within a yard of M'Tieron,
the time being given as seconds! Rot! The
fact is, half the races run in the country are
started by the competitors themselves, as, in nine
cases out of ten, if the men jump away well to-
gether, the pistol goes after the men are well on
their journey. The same thing happens in boat
racing. We have pulled in a fair number of races,
and on nearly every occasion have we started the
contest ourselves, and with pretty well a length to
the good. If a field of men are in anything like a
line, with the starter’s flag raised, and one man
jumps away, ten to one the official will drop his
flag, if he is anything but an old hand at the game.
Not long ago the Murdocks, Spofforths,
and Bonnors of Muswellbrook stepped across to
show the Scone scrubbers how to play cricket
with real cricketing tools, and to prove to their
benighted brethren the advantages of the said
weapons over the customary rag ball, half-paling
bats, and empty kerosene.tin wickets. We met
one of the Brook team a few days after. His collar
bone was badly cracked in three places, one of his
eyes was wandering about his cheek, his leit ear
was squelched flat, no two fingers on his hands
pointed in the same direction, and his nose looked
like a piece of raw beef stretched tightly across a
nutmeg grater. According to his own ac-
count, the ball bumped, and hit him badly, but
the guard who was in the same van with the
cricketers when they returned says the battered
ball-punisher had no show with the other fellow,
who belted him all round the truok, and finally
hoisted him out on his head through the window.
It was a very sultry sort of a day at Scone, and
they served the beer in a buoket. Hence this
thusness.
In a letter to the New York Police
Gazette, Prof. Wm. Miller says:—“ln reference
to Muldoon’s challenge I must state that Muldoon
and myself have contested only four times—once
in the Rink in Third avenue, New York ; twice
In Baltimore, namely, at the Masonic Tempi e, and
then at the Maryland Institute, in all of which
matches Muldoon suffered defeat at my hands.
We also contested at the Madison Square Garden,
whicn match ended in a draw. Tuns, so far, I
have considerably the best of it, as Muldoon has
never beaten me. The proof of the pudding is in
the eating of it; so let Muldoon show some news-
paper notices of any match, as mentioned in his
letter, giving the name of the hall or theatre and
city in which such contest took place, as there is
no denying black and white. I may state that I
have issued a challenge to box John L. Sullivan
for $3500 a side allowing him SSOO expenses; the
match to take place in Australia or New Zealand,
if said challenge is n«t accepted, it is my intention
to go to Amerioa early next year and settle as to
who is the champion at boxing, and when that
matter is settled I shall be prepared to meet all
wrestlers for the championship.”
Says a Yankee exohange: “Judging from
information I have received from home and
abroad, the approaching aquatic season will be a
busy one. List year Teemer joined the front
rank, by being victorious, accidentally, over
Hanlan, while George Hosmer and Hamm and
Conley got a step higher on the ladder of fame. As
to the relative merits «f these men, there was a
variety of opinions last year, and during the
winter they have not grown less in number.
When Teemer was victorous in the Hulton regatta,
his 'riends claimed him the equal, if not the better
of Hanlan, and to-day there are thousands of
dollars ready to back him against any sculler in
the world. Hanlan, on the other band, has a long
line of records behind him, and will certainly not
refuse to row any man, if a substantial stake be
forthcoming. So it is safe to conclude that Teemer
and Hanlan will this year row for the world «
championship. However much Courtney may
talk, there is no likelihood of his rowing Hanlan,
but there is a probability of Ross and the latter
testing conclusions. Such a raoe would be re-
garded with interest by the whole world, because
Ross has many friends who yet think he can defeat
Hanlan. Hosmer will row Courtney or Ross, and
both Hamm and Conley have trieuds who will
back them against any of the three.”
The Yass Courier is pretty good on snake
varns. but we reckon it has to play second “bosh”
to the Chico (U.S.) Record, which says:-“ One of
the most novel teams on record is owned by a boy
in Tehama. The young fellow’s flyers are nothing
more or less than two large sturgeons, which were
caught by his father in the Sacramento River.
The boy’s name is Frank Cooper. He has fastened
an end of a strong rope to the tail of each fish, and
the other end is fastened to the bow of an eighteen-
font boat. Two cords, fastened in some manner to
the fish serve as reins, and the owner of the team
guides his fishy chargers up or down stream at
will The other day he took a spin up the river to
Rod' Bluff, accompanied by three other boys, and
that place the curious outfit attracted much
attention Young Cooper contemplates a trip to
Chico, and if the trip thus far is successful, he will
lav in a stock of supplies and continue his
meanderings to Sacramento. The first day the
•water-horses’ were hitched up they ‘bucked’
with all the energy of a throrough-bred. untamed,
Mexican mustang, jumping and plunging out ot
the water, and diving down as far as their harness
would permit. But they have been broken
snlendidly, and cause no trouble to their proud
driver When they are not in use the fish are
driven into a largo cage, which was made
expressly for them.
The long-talked-of glove fight between
Foley’s clever pupil and a well-known Surry Hills
man, who comes of a fighting family, was decided
nt Rotanv on Tuesday week last, for an alleged £5
trophy The betting was 3 to 1 on Foley’s pupil,
and he justified the confidence placed in him by
knocking his opponent to a standstill in three
rounds The winner is a first-class athlete, and,
Asides being the most scientific amateur boxer
wo have ever seen perform, he excels at rowing,
cricket and football. When in boxing attitude he
afnnds right foot and hand foremost, which makes
him doubly awkward to a man used always to set-
to with left-handed men. By the way, “profes-
sors” of the noble art assert that men who stand
right hand in front leave themselves open, and
invariably try and induce them to change. But
we fail to see it in the same light, as, when right
and left-handed men are standing ms-a-yus, they
are in exactly the same position to each other, and
if one is left open the other must be so to a cor-
resnonding degree. In our opinion the man stand-
ing'right hand foremost has all the best of it, as
he is used to setting-to with men in the style
onposing him, while his opponent is all astray with
the strange attitude. We have always imagined
the reason to be that tutors of the “ art ” find it so
much easier to teach a man in the orthodox
fashion.
After enjoying good skating until it be-
came a trifle monotonous to them, a party of
youths on a large pond at Clifton, Staten Island
CIT s \ introduced a novelty with which to make
the pastime more exciting. The innovation con-
sisted of what they called a “whizzer.” The
“'whizzer "was made by cutting a hole in the ice
ulacing an upright pole through the hole, and
attaching two horizontal bars to it. The bars were
about fifteen feet long and on opposite sides of the
upright pole. A dozen boys would catch hold of
the bars and begin to skate around, after the
manner of sailors winding a capstan. The result
would bo that the boy near the pole would be
moving in a circle at a very moderate pace, while
those on the outer edges were whirling around at
a terrific speed, and if they chanced to let go of
the “ whizzer,” they would be hurled forward as if
shot from a catapult. The excitement of the sport
consisted in watching 1 the gyrations of those who
let go. One lad named Willie Dearborne loosened
his grasp on the bar, was hurled forward about
fifty feet, and after sliding most of the distance on
the ice, went home with the left side of his face
almost devoid of skin and bleeding profusely.
Another boy named Daniel Simpson ti;ipped, went
gyrating over the ice, and was carried off with
sprained wrists and a broken knee-pan. Charles
Flynn tripped and fell, and before he could get
out of the way, the other bar came around and
one of its occupants struck Flynn in the head with
a skate-gutter, and he also was helped from the
pond suffering from concussion of the brain and a
large gap in his scalp. The “whizzer” was then
stopped for the afternoon.
Sydneyites have ever been noted for their
homage to muscular Christianity, out never in
their wildest flights have they carried it to such an
idiotic extreme as they have done in the case of
Edward Hanlan. There was some excuse so far as
Trickett was concerned, as he was Sydney born,
and his fe'iow townsmen naturally made a fuss
over his defeat of the Champion of the World, but
Hanlan comes to them a perfect stranger, his only
recommendation being that he is a phenomenal
sculler. We can understand a man possessed of
the gift of the gab and a very scanty knowledge
of the Queen’s English making a bid for cheap
notoriety by appearing as often as possible in
public with a man who is an object of curiosity to
the crowd, but there are men chasing the sculler
about in a manner which is not conducive to the
dignity of their position or a tribute to their good
sense. Hanlan is evidently a big lift above the
general run of professional scullers, and it would
seem more his misfortune than his fault that he is
hunted about in such a pitiless manner. One of
the most persistent of his persecutors has been the
D.T. reporter, who appears to be as great an au-
thority on rowing as a pig would be of a diamond
necklace, judging from the account he gave of
Hanlan’s first row on Australian waters. He says:
“ That an oarsman was stepping into the boat was
unmistakable. Boats are generally held for scul-
lers, but with Hanlan it was like stepping on to the
wall.” And all through the half-column of gush-
ing twaddle he writes of the Canadian rowing
with a pair of oars. It is for the information of
the D.T. man—and not our readers—we state that
any sculler having pretentions to being a water-
man can perform the feat which made the D.T.
man’s hair stand on end : and that the Champion,
as a rule, rows with a pair of sculls. Put him on
the “ Shandridan Papers,” by all means. ’
At Grafton, on Friday last, T. Noud and
C. Lintott, ran 100 yards for £SO. Noud got well
away, and won by three yards. Another match
for £2O aside, 150 yards, was subsequently run be-
tween Noud, jun., and G. H. Willis, the latter re-
ceiving one yard start. Noud soon overhauled
Willis, led him at 100 yards, and beat him by one
yard, in the alleged time of 15 seconds, which is
given in several papers, Granny amongst the
number, as correct. What ridiculous nonsense to
publish in all seriousness that young Noud had
equalled the late C. Westhall’s celebrated 150 yards,
run at Manchester in 1851; and that Willis had run
within two yards of evens. After both the
Grafton races the blackguard scenes bo common
amongst professional peds, came off as a matter
of course. Lintstt objected to the stakes being
fiaid over, on the ground that the starter had al-
owed his opponent to get four yards over the
crease before he fired the pistol; and at the ter-
mination of the second event, Willis wanted to
fight Noud. It is stated a “double cross” had
been worked in this race, and that it was a case of
biter bit. Willis, the winner of the second prize
in Kush’s handicap, from all accounts, has rather a
shady reputation in the ped. line. In the nomi-
nation form he gave his occupation as that of a
shopboy in Sydney, but he afterwards acknow-
ledged that he was residing on a station near
Cootamundra, where he is getting colonial experi-
ence, and that he had been nominated as Willis for
the Cootamundra Handicap, where he got a start
of 16 yards, but theacceptanee beiDg late, he went
and started as Turner from 9 yards, and won third
prize, which the committee paid over after repri-
manding him. The Grafton committee have held
over the money, pending enquires. Mr. Willis is
evidently pioking up colonial experience in any-
thing but a slow manner.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
For the Victoria Coursing Club’s Derby 70
nominations have been received this year, against
76 last year; and for the Oaks 66, as against 77 last
year At the Cessnock Annual Races, on ’Bth
March,Darkie and Hesitation ran two dead heats for
the Ladies’ Purse, and then agreed to divide—For
the Gulgong St. Patrick’s Day Sheffield Handicap
H. Wilton carried off first prize, W. Wilton socond,
and M. Andrews third The owner of Commotion
has backed him for the Sydney Cup for some
thousands at 8 to 1 ... At the Gundagai Bports on
St. Patrick’s Day, Sheehan won the Maiden Plate
and Harpley thehop-step-and-jumpand Handicap.
Wollongong T C. Autumn meeting on St.
Patrick’s Day: Dependent won the Maiden Plato;
Martha Lee the Wales Stakes; Discord the
Municipal Handicap; Martha Lee the Hying
Handicap; and Footprint the Forced Handicap
The V.R.C. committee have notified that in future
no scratchings will be received except direct from
the owner, or under his written authority...
Suwarrow nas been purchased by Mr. Danie's, of
Bellarine At Quirindi, the Gunnedah United
C.C. defeated the locals by 2S runs On Saturday,
at Moore Park, the Britannia and Commercial C.C.
played a match, which ended in a win for the
former by 7 runs. Scores : Britannia, 43 ; Com-
mercial, 35 In the Maori Hack Race at the
Rotorua (N.Z.) races, v jockey, nick-named
“ Young Fatty,” cleverly landed Rangipo a winner
with the saddle under his be11y.... A boxing-match,
for £2O a side and the light-weight championship
of Auckland, took place in the Theatre Royal,
Auckland, on February 23, between W. Murphy
(who beat O’Brien for a stake and the title on
January 9), and T. Hogan. Hogan, who had the
best of the set-to, finally won on a foul
The steeplechase mare Lizette has been purchased
by Mr E. Weekes, in whose colours she will run
in future During Mr. Weekes’ late trip across
the Indian Ocean, over a hundred valuable horses
had to be thrown overboard At Colac (Vic.) Mr.
L. G. Calvert broke his arm badly during a polo
match A recent cablegram announced the death
of Mr. H. R. Horne, the well-known author of
“ Orion,” who, in the old days, was one of the
champion swimmers of Australia; and at the
Caledonian games ho carried the late Mr. Pond (of
the well-known firm of Spiers and Pond) upon his
shoulders in a footrace for 50 yards, Mr. Pond
being 6ft. 4in. in height At the Moama race
meeting held on St. Patrick’s Day, none of the
horses which started in the Hurdle Race were able
to negotiate the fences, and after some twenty in-
effectual endeavours to get over the hurdles
(which were of the regulation height), the horses
were withdrawn from the course, and the race de-
clared off by the judge. The club thus benefited
to the extent of fifteen sovereigns, the amount of
the prize The principal event of the Upper
Yarra (Vic.) amateur regatta on Saturday was the
maiden eight, which was won after a good race by
the Yarra Yarra crew At Melbourne, the Cata-
pult C.C. defeated the Grosvenor C.C. by eight
wickets and 3 runs for Boyle and Scott’s Cup
match Coates’ C.C. defeated the Hawthorne C.C.
on Saturday last, at Parramatta, by 11 runs—
At Adelaide, the North Adelaide C.C., playing
against Hindmarsh, in their first innings made
235, and the Hindmarch team put together 348 for
eight wickets, of which Noel contributed 165
At Gundagai a cricket match, played on Saturday
between the Gundagai and Coolac cricket clubs,
resulted in the former (not out) making 378 runs.
Kaiser made a score of 187.
• • •
In America, J. I. Case, the owner of Jay-
Eye-See, has offered to match that horse against
any trotter or pacer in America next season for as
much as £2OOO a side There are 3500 yachts in the
United States, about 40 per cent, of which are
steam One hundred battles were fought at a
two-days’ cocking-main, at Chillicothe, Ohio. This
is enough to tempt some of the North Shore sports
to the States In America, W. B. Curtis has the
best record for lifting in harness, vis,; 3391 b.,
New York city, in 1868 J. M. Cannon and Henry
Leussing lifted separately by hand an iron weight
weighing 13841 b., at Cincinnati, Ohio, March 31,
1880 Baron Alphonse de Bothschild gave the
big figure of £5600 for Count Lagrange’s colt,
Arcbiduc, recently Mr. E. Tegetmeyar, of
Fenchley, Eng., covered over 10,000 miles on a
bicycle during the year 1883. ..Charles Mitchell is
going into partnership with Madden in a new
sporting house at New York, United States—
8. A. Miles, Woodside, the bicycle rider’s trainer,
was arrested in Chicago recently on a warrant
issued by Justice Lyon, charged with drugging
Woodside in his race with Armaindo, at Chicago,
in May, ISB3, and held in $5OO bonds Louise Ar-
maindo, the female Yankee bicycle champion, was
recently severely injured in a one-mile race with
Thomas W. Eck, a~ Salt Lake, Utah—William
Cummings has the fastest record in the world for
a mile, viz.: 4min. 16 l-ssec , at Preston, England,
May 14, 1881 George Poulton, who became
champion at ornamental swimming by a victory
at Holborn Baths, London, Eng., July 1, 1845, and
held the title for thirty-eight years, retiring an
undefeated man, J uly 1,1883, recently celebrated
his sixtieth birthday—On January 7, for a wager
of £5, Sam Day undertook to go on foot from
Birmingham to Coventry, England, and back, a
distance of 38 miles, in sh. 40min. He succeded in
winning the money, having two minutes to spare
During 1883, English racehorses won £450,000
of public money.
The Arithmetic of Crlbbage.
“Do you know,” said Mrs. Bilkins as
she came into the parlour where her husband
was his evening paper. “Do you
know, dear, I think that Willie is studying
altogether too hard at school? Why, he’s only
eleven this month, and yet they have let him
take up the hardest kind of arithmetic. I was
upstairs just now, and passing his door I heard
him saying his lesson over in his sleep. I know he
was asleep, because it's after ten now, and besides
he got the numbers all jumbled together. I tell
you he’ll have brain fever or something if we
don’t take him out of school for a while until his
body develops more.” “ Nonsense,” replied Mr.
Bilkins, who had been abo v once himrelf. “ You
just imagined you heard him talk. I’ll go up
and see if he'll talk when I’m around.”
Mr. Bilkins’ slippered feet made no noise what-
ever on the stairway or in the hall. Upon reach-
ing the room where his two sons—Willie, 11; and
Frank, 9—were supposed to be sleeping, he put
his ear to the key-hole and listened. Presently he
heard the voice of Willie: “Fifteen, two; fifteen,
four; a pair is six; his Nobs is seven, and a run of
three are thirteen.” “ What’s in the crib ?” broke
in Frank. But the old man didn’t wait to hear any
any mere. He slipped quietly down stairs, got a
trunk strap and roturnod. Two minutes later
some of the tallest yolling that ever had been
heard in the Bilkins neighbourhood emanated
from that room, and fora week afterwards the two
young arithmeticians oouldn’t sit down to their
meals.


! URNITURE 8H 0 W ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
i O Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS, Tnd
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES, bookcases, secretaires,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, in EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Mil URNITURE.—THE LARGEST STOCK IN
Jj THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, O’Connell-street.
HARJ&LI-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAM-B, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
IG HT-POUN D BEDRO.OM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
HEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 30s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fram 355; Chests Drawers, from 40s: Wash-
stands, from 10s6d: Tables, from7s6d; Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from SOs; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 355; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10a; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell a
streets, Bydney.
I and Spring
o^**!*^’
v_
PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
c*ultJU strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs In Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCA SION/Sf TABL ES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Etabroidery, Plush, &c.
CHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-strect.
EA 8 7 <2 CCA?! O N A L CHAIRS, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upaotateredtatfeS CHOICEST materials. STYLES
ITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited,
~TV RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL
XJ A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d.
H AIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
EARLY „ x
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two Laves ; LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 8 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
DINTNG TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 30 feet.
S
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR-
Patented.
%
KS
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting: to reclining- and vice verm, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. Use above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and wift: but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of tfae body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superier
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
RAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment ia Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
"tpKAMEWORK: for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
JP TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak.
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, ana
LAMB.
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass -
' new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
B
BEDDING.-AU descriDtions at lowest rate?.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
O. ARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah Chairs.'
M INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Conneillstreet.
BENTWOOD EURNITURE.-A very complete
Assortment; best make, loti eet prices.
SOCIAL
There is now in Sands’ window the most
interesting picture of Mrs. Langtry yet exhibited
in Sydney. It is a large proof engraving of a por-
trait by Millais, painted from life when the Jersey
Lily was in tho blush of her girlish beauty. Many,
perhaps most people, who look at her late photo-
graphs are disappointed, and fail to see where the
beauty lies that has made her so famous. It is
more apparent in this picture than in auy we have
seen; and, as in all her photographs, Mrs. Langtry
wears the simplest toilet, She is standing, three-
quarter face, in an easy-iitting black dress of some
soft material, and there is no attempt to “ make ”
a figure in the way usually adopted by actresses,
or even to display it by any trick of posture. Her
white lace cuffs reveal a large hand Holding a lily,
and the wide lace collar is very low on th<> neck—
there is no other ornament. There is none of the
hardness seen latterly in the rather thin face: it is
relined and calm, with that indescribable charm
in the eyes which nearly all her photographs fall
to reproduce; and the hair is loosely fringed and
knotted behind. The whole aspect of the face is
different from hers now. It is decidedly that of
an ingtnue, poetical and pensive. Mrs. Langtry
had, even then, a full-sized useful mouth, yet no
one can look on Millais's portrait and deny that
face is full of spirUuelle beauty.
• •
It is intended to re-form the Sydney Musi-
cal Union; to start with 3CO members at a guinea,
and gentlemen joining subsequently to pay an en-
trance fee in addition. At least four concerts a
year; members to have two tickets for each con-
cert, but no tickets to be sold to anyone. Con-
ductors, Messrs. Moss and Kretsohmann. It is also
probable that the befitting celebration of the bi-
centennial anniversaries of Handel and Bach will
be among the festivals of the new society next
year.
• • •
The sunshade is as old as the Sphinx.
Prinoesses in the early Egyptian era were just as
careful of their complexions then as the radiant
girls are now who dot George-street on a summer
day. We have it on the authority of the best
painters that Miss Pharaoh, whose complexion the
Egyptian mashers were never tired of admiring,
used one when she went to the river and pioked up
littie Moses. But the ancient maidens had one ad-
vantage over Sydney girls in using parasols—they
knew how to manage them better. They didn’t
trip about the streets of Memphis or Palmyra
knocking hats off, and prodding people in the
cheeks with projecting spokes, with such airy
insouciance as the daughters of men do now.
They didn’t carry these essentially 'feminine
weapons cuddled to their breast with one hand
while the butt-end stuck out over their shoulder
at exactly the height of the average man’s eye.
No; the Egyptian girl let the carrying be done by
a slave behind, who knew that if her carelessness
resulted in anyone’s eyes being gouged out, there
would be trouble. It is different now. It is only
In these civilised times that the parasol has become
a thing of such complicated beauty, and an object
of terror to brave men. He who ventures to pro-
menade upon those portions of the pavement in
this town particularly affected by the fair sex, has
to be very flexible to successfully dodge the be-
headed, lace-edged, crewel-worked, crook-handled
weapons which on all sides flutter within an inch
of his shrinking eye. Whether in the street, on the
Blatform, in the cars, on the lawn, it’s all the same.
iauger bristles about the presence of ladies. Too
often have we stood in the shitting crowd and said
to ourselves: “In one moment this delicate, fairy
Soung creature in front of us will put out our eye.
ine move, and henceforth we must spend our
substance on oculists, and only take a limited view
of the world. We shall go through life with a
green shade over one optic, or with the steady
glare begotten of an artificial orb. And yet we
cannot, we dare not, we have not the lion courage
to ask this young lady to carry her sunshade pro-
perly. She would tlx us with a stare, and probably
utter the word ‘brute!’” So it is. There is a law
against the carrying of concealed weapons. But
what shall we do with the charming creatures who
carry these exposed ones ?
On Friday night, the friends of Mr, Nor-
man Selfe, 0.E., held a social gathering in the
Balmain School of Arts, to wish him farewell. He
leaves for England to-day, by the City of Sydney.
After the banquet came speeches, interspersed
with songs by Messrs. Milne, H. Selfe, Davidson,
P. Jones, &o. Mr. George Davidson, who presided,
proposed he toast of “ Our Guest,” whose life of
Industry aod undoubted talents had won for him
as a professional man a position second to that of
no other civil engineer in the Australian colonies.
Mr. Selfe replied, admitting that his career had
been one much more given to business than to the
softer graces of society. Other toasts, and “ Auld
Lang Syne ” brought the close of a cheerful even-
ing.
m * *
The German Club celebrated the birthday
of the Emperor of Germany at their rooms, on
Saturday, by a banquet. Some 70 gentlemen,
nearly ail natives of Kaiser Wilhelm’s domain,
attended, and the place was decorated with flags,
portraits, &o. Mr. Von der Heyde presided, and
Mr. Carl Sahl, Consul in Sydney, proposed “ His
Majesty” and “The Queen.” afterwards, the
German Club Liedertalel rendered some beautiful
music under Herren Kretschmann and Sussmilch,
the company breaking up at midnight.
* * *
Mr. W. H. Giddy, who has been secretary
to the Sydney Liedertafel for nearly two years, was
presented with tho tirst golden lyre of the society
on Saturday night and also witn a photographed
group of the members. Sir P. Jennings spoke
most highly of him in making the presentation,
and Mr. Giddy regretted that he had to retire
from the society, which now comprises 1000 sub-
scribers, and 80 singing members. Then Mr. W. H.
Paling was the receiver of a handsomely written
address in acknowledgment of his musical worth,
and of the fine present of an Krard grand piano
he had made to the Liedertafel.
m * *
The Wagga branch of the Hibernian
Benefit Society celebrated St. Patrick’s Day with a
grand ball and supper in the Freemason’s Hall,
which was tastefully decorated. There were about
eighty couples present. The music was supplied
by Professor Broadhurst, assisted by Mr. Lilly,
master of the Wagga Brass Band. The supper was
very well got up by Mr. E, Spring, of the Sports-
man’s Arms Hotel. The Mayor and Mayoress (Mr.
and Mrs. James Gormly) were present, as well as
Miss Gormly and Mr. Louis Gormly. Among the
many admirable dresses were two of pink tariotan
trimmed with lace, worn by a pair of sisters from
Newtown; ruby satin, worn by the Mayoress;
black velvet and silver flowers; pale blue satin
with hand-painted flowers; several whites, and a
very pretty water-wove silk. Newtown sent the
belle in green tarietan, which was much admired,
as was the young lady who wore it, both for her
dancing and good looks. A very attentive com-
mittee carried out all arrangements, and just as
day was breaking the company dispersed, after
spending an enjoyable evening.
** * *
Some time ago Mr. Randolph Arndell of
Maitland went home, to develop his musical
talents. We hear of him at a coucert at Brixton
(Eng.), where his singing, especially of his own
composition “Cathedral days,” was well appre-
ciated Sir William Des Vceux, Governor of
Fiji, came overland from Melbourne last week, and
lett in the Cintra for Suva on Friday —Lady Har-
berton presided at a meeting of lady members of
an Engiich tricycle club, who discussed the ques-
tion of cycling costume. It was decided that the
proper thing was, to dress outwardly like a lady,
but inwardly like a gentleman To purchase
scenery, &c., the Amateur Dramatic Club at Went-
worth gave two evening performances with fair
success. Farces, “ The Model Husband ” and
“Cupboard Love,” were acted, and a miscellane-
ous selection of music given, Mrs. James being
accompanist, and Mesdames Nixon, Brown, and
Scott, and Messrs. Chatto and Goddard the princi-
pal vooalists The graceful waterfall and ballet
skirts, of tulle, net, &c.. are greatly worn at big
London balls now. Mostly with brocade or plain
satin bodices.... There is to be a Guild bal 1 at Tam-
worth on Easter Monday.. .During the last voyage
of the Sorato to Melbourne, a leap-year ball was
held on the quarter-deck on the 29th February,
and attended by all the first and second cabin
passengers, as well as ship’s officers. It is seldom
girls get such a chance—absolutely no escape out
on the wild ocean—Last Thursday, some of the
many friends of Mrs. Martin, one of the most
popular teachers of dancing, presented her with a
purse of sovs. and a testimonial at her academy.
The lady was deservedly complimented, and then
dancing went on.. .To-morrow night (Friday). La
Coterie, a social and literary society some four
years old, give their friends an entertainment in
the Newtown Town Hall There was a fancy
dress ball lately at Albury, to celebrate the open-
ing of the new theatre there.... Miss Nellie Veitch,
the natural elocutionist, is coming to Sydney
° lr v ■ Palme r arrived from Brisbane on Sunday.
... .Rev. T. A. Gordon, of Newcastle, received 100
guineas from his parishioners as a home-tour
JGft Mr. H. Richardson, the popular rail-
way station - master at Parramatta, was ban-
queted on Friday. He is going to Europe
Mr. E. Farr, eight years Council Clerk atßurwood,
was given a silver tea-set on resigning the position
last week— Haulan presented the ladies’ bracelets
to the winners at Canterbury Park races on Satur-
day Miss Jana Russell has taken first-class
honours in classics and science, and second-class in
mathematics, at the University. Such learning at
once suggests oerulean hose Lord William
Neville purchased forty front seat tickets for
Genevieve Ward’s opening performance at Mel-
bourne, and treated his friends. The play was
* Forget-me-not.” The scion of Abergavenny also
presented a bust bouquet to each lady in the party.
Potts is in Melbourne Third Buffalo Lodge
opened in Brisbane.. .Annual picnic of the Mel-
bourne Argus and Australasian happened on
Saturday, at Caulfield; 800 present... Fortnightly
Quadrille Assembly established at Nyngan, meet-
ing in Rowe’s rooms.... Mr. J. R. Fairfax (of the
8 M. Herald) and family returned from England
on Friday last.... Mr. C. St. Baker, J.P., leaving
Forbes for Sydney, was duly suppered... Mr. R. S.
Mortwas banqueted at the Mechanics’ Institute,
Moruya, last week, by the Agricultural Seciety, of
which he is president. Off to Europe Mrs. W.
A. M‘Donald (n<?e Miss Kate Slattery), and Miss Mary
Agatha Hopper, of Scon«, have collected £lOO in
aid of St. John’s (R.C.) Fancy Fair, Forest Lodge.
Alone they did it!.... A farewell banquet to the
departing Governor of Victoria will be given at
Melbourne on the Ist April. The Marquis of Nor-
manby is expected to stay with Lord Loftus for a
short time before he leaves for England. Sir
William Stawell will be Acting-Governor till the
“strong new man” comes.. Jennie Lee’s sister is said
to be engaged—in the profession.. A ball and supper
given at Waipawa, N.Z., to honour Donald Dinnie,
the great Bcotch athlete This Saturday’s regatta
is expected to be the best Woolloomooloo has yet
had. The fine ship Hallowe’en is to be flagboat,
and steamers will ply from Cowper Wharf every
quarter-hour — Last week we stated Miss Gracie
De Lissa's dancing-teacher was Mrs. Walscott. It
should have been Mrs. Warskitt, who really de-
serves credit for the splendid performances of her
graceful little pupil The interesting marriage
at the Synagogue yesterday will be noticed in our
issue next week Oriental Cricket Club excur-
sion to Tennyson Saturday afternoon, March 29.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Woolloomooloo Regatta March 29.
Oriental C.C. Picnic (Tennyson) March 29.
Bachelors’ Assembly (Nithsdale) April 4.
Suburban Bicycle Club Sports May 10.
[?]
Sydney, Wednesday.
Dearest Belle,—You want me to tell you
about Hanlan ? Well, what can I say, excepting
that he is a nice-looking, manly fellow, with most
unassuming manners ? His modesty has urged him
to protest against th’S Hanlan-worship of ours,
and our well-meaning, but dull citizens were some
time before they discovered he was in earnest.
No picnic, entertainment, nor dinner was con-
sidered perfect last week unless graced by his
presence, and all the girls’ hearts “ have gone out
to him.” How easy it is to become famous, after
all!
Madame Marius and Miss Bva Thompson purpose
giving a series of six matinees if sufficient induce-
ment should offer. Their object is to enable those
who live too far away to attend evening concerts
to have an opportunity of hearing good music.
There is to be one matinee each week, and
they are to be held in the new Masonic
Hall. I hope their venture will succeed, but
one cau never tell how the Sydney people will
take to a new idea. Matinees, as a rule, are not
popular here, but if once they could be made
fashionable, ladies would attend them whether
they enjoyed them or not. There’s no doubt, dear,
we are slaves to fashion. I was particularly con-
vinced of this one day last week. We had gone to
Baumann’s for some refreshments, and were
Eatiently awaiting our turn to be served, when I
eard a little girl who was sitting near us exclaim,
“Oh, mamma, I am so hungry! when will they
bring us something?” “Have a little more
patience, dear; I daresay seme one will think of
us soon.” “Do you always have to wait so long,
ma ?” “ Nearly always, dear.” “ Then why don’t
you go somewhere else ?” “ Because, love, this is
fashionable.” The little one was silenced, but I
couldn’t help thinking what a pity it is that so ex-
cellent an establishment as Baumann’s is in every
other respect should be marred by the indifferent
attendance. I have often seen people go out after
having exhausted their patience in waiting. Surely
it would be wiser to employ more hands than to
lose custom in this way!
The Sydney masher gets more and more aggres-
sive every day, and there are times when he looks
such a poor, helpless creature. Yesterday one was
hurrying to catch his tram, when his beautifully
tapered-toed boot caught in the line, which sent
him sprawling on all fours. It was line entertain-
ment for the street larrikins, who lost no time in
hemming in our noble hero. One seized his um-
brella, whilst another tried on his hat and struck
a masher attitude. The poor masher, who, by
reason of his stiff collar and tight pants, was not
altogether expeditious in his movements, pre-
sented a pitiful spectacle when he did “find his
trott a s," as the larrikins ex pi eased it. And yet
another instance of a dude’s manliness. A little
child was running along the street, when it tripped
and l ell. One of these dressed-up puppets was
passing at the time, but with just a glance at the
screaming child it passed on, and took no more
notice, and I wonder if it felt ashamed when a
common larrikin went and picked the little one
up and set it on its feet as gently as any woman.
And yet these things are what we call men. Ugh 1
I have seen no dresses worthy of notice at the
Theatre circles this week. Black satins and grena-
dines are the favourites, enlivened of course by
flowers and ribbons. Lace pelerines are very use-
ful, as they can be worn over almost any dress for
evening wear,and look so dressy. Marabout feather
trimming is to be extensively worn this season,
and as much bijouterie on your walking costumes
as you please. Cloak or mantle clasps are made of
nickel, silver, or gold, and they are worn as largo
as a crown-piece, and even larger. I saw an absurd
use made of one of those large tortoiseshell hair-
pins with the gilt top: it was fastened in a hat as
an ornament I When there are suoh beautiful hat
ornaments to be got, it seems to me very stupid to
use hairpins for this purpose The latest thing in
fans takes the form, colour aad size of a large leaf.
The raised veins are represented by means of an
ornamentation of flowers and birds. The back
of the fan &la mode is lined with a highly con-
trasting colour, as this new shape is generally
longer on one side than the other; so this colour
shows when the fan is closed, and looks well.
Frequenters of the Block are already donning
their winter costumes, and very rich and tasteful
some of them are. Autuma brown and elephant
colour are amongst the favourites. I also hear
whispers of dull reds, but hardly think they will
find much favour, being so dreadfully unbecom-
ing. A pretty little blonde wore, on the Block,
this week, a mixture of browns, which was very
effective. The skirt was quite plain, and composed
of seal brown ottoman cord, the long rediugote
was a lighter shade in velvet,, whilst the hat and
feathers were almost of a golden hue. Some
thought had evidently been spent over the cos-
tume, and the result was very happy. With a
merino dress, plush tippets of the same colour
look very stylish. A dark green shot satin with
panels of brocade edged with deep cream Madras
laee was almost too gorgeous for a walking
costume—but looked very handsome, indeed.
Just one pretty white driass 1 saw to-day,
and, as it will probably be the last of
the season, I shall attempt to describe it.
The finest Indian muslin made with baby body and
two deep flounces to form the' skirt; each flounce
was beautifully worked and edged with fine lace.
Encircling the waist was a silver zone, and the hat
was a large leghorn with white feathers. Hardly
a diess is made now without tucks. Even in the
thickest materials, I have seen them ; but, of
course, they look best when the material is soft
and pliable. No wonder the dressmakers charge
so high for making a dress I Just imagine the
time it mast take to run—say—even three tucks in
each flounce, and very few are contented with
three. For my part, I much prefer the narrow
velvet rim on the flounces to the tucks. The long
kid glove is rapidly being displaced by velvet
gauntlets, which are made in any colour ; but
when next, dear\ you commission me to purchase
you some gloves, send the exact measure of
your hand, as, now-a-days, the sizes vary so,
there is no trusting them. It is quite usual, now,
to go to the French glove shop to be measured for
gloves, just as they do in Paris. And shoes are
made with cloth tops, in any plaid or colour to go
with the costume. I hear that in Paris they are
actually trimming bonnets with cork, and chenille
is used for almost everything—chenille fringe,
chenille flowers, and even chenille muffs. I am
glad, for it is really beautiful when of the best.
Mr. Giddy, the late secretary of the Liedertafel,
was presented with the first golden lyre by the
members last Saturday night, prior to his depar-
ture from Sydney. In him the Liedertafel will lose
one of its most valuable members, and we shall
mips*his familiar face amongst the bassos at the
concerts sorely. Heigho! there’s always someone
going away. And row the thought of it has
brought a lump into my throat, and a mist before
my eyes, and has driven all the rest of my news
out of my head. Ever your affectionate
MAB.
P.S.—I have sufficiently recovered to remember
that I have told you never a word of the Lieder-
tafel concert I However, it will keep till next
week, and I promise you I will not forget to give
you a full account, m.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We than, be triad to have this index posted up bp
secretaries of racing chibs and managers of
sporting events in general.)
RACING.
Wahgunyah R.C March 29.
Hawkesbury R.C. Autumn ..April 8, 5.
Balonne (Q.) Races April 8, 9.
Parkes J.C. Annual April 8,9.
Clarendon R.C April 14.
A.J.C. Autumn April 14,15,18,19.
Wilcannia J.C April 28, 24, 25.
Dubbo J.C April 24, 25.
Northern J.C April 30, May 2.
Murrumbidgee J.C May 7, 8.
Great Western Downs (Q.) May 14,15.
Hay May 16,1«.
Newcastle J.C May 24.
Richmond J.C May 29.
Mudgee R.C June 4, 5.
Clarence River J.C July 9,10.
Rockhampton J.C July 10,11.
AQCATICS
Woolloomooloo Bay Regatta March 29.
Newcastle ft.C. Regatta March 29.
Intercolonial Bight-oar Race, Victoria r.
N.S.W April 5.
Trickett v. Beach April 12.
ATHLETICS.
Carcoar Sheffield Handicap April 14.
Adelong Sports April 14.
Oobar Sheffield Handicap April 17,18,19.
Bourke Sheffield Handicap, £3OO May 20, 21.
Eastern Suburbs A.A.C. Sports May 17.
Thistle Club Sports, Agricultural Society’s
Grounds May 24.
Casino £3O Handicap May 24.
Bourke Sheffield Handicap May 25.
CYCLING.
Chapman v. Rolf e April 5*
Suburban B.C. Meeting May 10.
BOWLING.
Intercolonial Match. Victoria v. N.S.W., at
Sydney April 15.
Wells’ “Rough on Corns.”— Ask for Wells
Rough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Moses,
Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
No nervous sufferer of either sex ever
tried a course of that agreeable and wholesome
stimulant, WOLfE’s Schnapps, without being
thankful. It is now and has been for many years
a standard professional remedy.
If your stomach craves for a pleasant
bitter to sharpen the keen edge of apatite, ask
your chemist for Marshall’s Tonic Net, i n-, the
Great Nerve Tonic. Take no substitute. Whole-
sale at Elliott’s and Prosser’s. Sole Proprietors
Marshall Brothers, M.P.S, Pharmacists, 104
and 106, Market-street, Sydney.
The Lungs are Strained and Racked
by a persistent Cough, the general strength wasted
aud an incurable complaint often established
thereby. Dr. Jayne’s Expectorant is an effective
remedy for Coughs and Colds, and exerts a bene'
hcial effect on the Pulmonary and Bronchial
Organs. To be had of all Druggists and Store-
keepers, and wholesale by Elliott Bros., Pitt-
street, Sydney,


Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 34th March, 1884.
TENDERS FOR WOODEN BUILDING.
TENDERS are Invited for the Erection of a
Wooden Building for Public School purposes
at Tempe.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tenders for Wooden Ruild-
_ig, Tempe Public School,” must be lodgod with
he Acting Under-Secretary, Department of Pub-
s Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m., on
ednesday, the lilth April, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or auy Tender.
J. P. ABBOTT.
GORE HILL, NORTH SHORE.
Gore Hill, North Shore.
The Highlands of North Shore.
NEXT SATURDAY, MARCH 29.
Next Saturday, Maroh 39.
341 LOTS to ohoose from.
4 BETB of TERMS to ohoose from.
Torrens' Title. Torrens’ Title.
ATKIN and WATKIN have been favoured
_ . with instructions to sell by auction, on the
ground, on SATURDAY. March 29, at 3 p.m.,
THE GORE HILL ESTATE,
Comprising 341 lots, amongst which are business
sites and residence sites, the equal of which
are not likely again to be in the market.
With an elevation of 300 feet above sea level, the
future residents on Gore Hill will look down on
their brethren in the city and the railway suburbs,
whilst between stretches that lovely panorama of
the harbour—the river, Biloela, Goat Island, &c.—
which only Port Jackson affords. The pen of
Forbes would fail to convey to the reader an
adequate idea of the charming loveliness which
spreads out to the vision from Gore’s Hill. The
most beautiful drive around Sydney—and we take
this statement advisedly—is that from the Crow’s
Nest along the main Lane Cove-road past Gore’s
Hill.
Ipaagine, if you can, what our railway suburbs
frota Redferu to Parramatta would be if, instead
of an elevation of from 33 to 100 feet, the height
shown on railway time-table, they had the splendid
elevation of Gore’s Hill, 300 feet.
Imagine what an exodus there will be to these
high lands as soon as facilities are afforded,
whether by railway or tramway, or both, for
access to and from the city.
That the railway to connect the Great Northern
ry and St. Leonards, money for which was
Railway ana »r. ueuuaras, money lor wmen was
voted last cession, must be speedily commenced, is
evident. Is it likely in the interests of economy
that the vast bulk of the products of the north
are to be unnecessarily hauled eome seven or eight
miles ? The railway from St. Leonards to Pearce's
corner could be commenced and built whilst the
bridge is being erected across the Parramatta
River at Ryde.
What land such as Gore’s Hill will be worth
when the railway is a fact, the most san-
guine even of local landholders would not be ablo
to guess.
Only 3J4 miles from Mllson’s Point.
Only 3 miles from the city.
Nearer than Petersham is to liedfern,
Nearer than Stanmore is to the Town Hail,
will Gore’s Hill be to the City.
To those who do not know the property, wc say
inspect it before the sale.
The omnibuses to Lane Cove and to the Great
Northern Hotel pass the Estate; it is not too much
of a walk for any man.|
The streets are all cleared and formed, name-
posts erected, every lot marked out and pegi
numbered, so that identification is easy.
The finest, bricks are manufactured in the im
mediate neighbourhood, and can be obtained at
lower prices than at St. Leonards or in the city.
The subdivision is a liberal one.
Good frontages. Liberal depths. Wide streets.
The Terms are liberal, buyers having the choice
of four sets of terms.
The Title is under Torrens’ Act.
We invite inspection Inspection must lead to
approval, and approval te purchase, especially as
the vendors’ instructions are to sell.
GORE HILL, NORTH BHORE,
NEXT SATURDAY.
Lithes. READY.
Special Conveyance on Day of Sale.
ONLY
£l.
VIGOUR, HEALTH, «5c LIFE.
DR. WESTBURN’S IMPROVED ELECTRIC BELT.
SPECIAL OFFER FOR SIXTY DAYS. *
ONLY
£i.
H
/
ICITJ
TJAVING obtained the sole right to sell Hr.
* wntnarn > Improved Klrrtrlr Bolt In Australia,
from the Inventor, we are determined, whatever
may be the cost, to Introduce them here at once.
The price of the Belt has always been £2 10s. ■ but
to Induce Invalids to give It a trial, we will for the
s®# se l? 2*® Improved Electric Belt for
«NK POD.MI, provided you will out out and send us
the annexed coupon, and give us your written
promise to recommend the Belt if yon And it as
represented. This belt is without doubt the best,
strongest, and most scientifically constructed elec-
tric appliance ever introduced, and has met with
the most marvellous success in Europe ba’ng
recommended and endorsed by the entire Medical
Profession. The inventor has in his possession
letters from I rince Bismarck and several members
of the Royal family. A quarter of a million of them
were sold in the German Empire last year. Those
Belts, unlike many so-called electric appliances,
are very light, and not disagreeable to wear, and
generate a current that can be immediately felt.
TheUr action is stimulating, and at the same time
soothing; causing the Stomach, Liver, Kidneys,
and Nervous System to act as nature intended they
should, curing thousands of cases that internal
medicines failed even to relieve. Under no circum-
stances can it do any harm, and must do good no
matter what is the complaint.
A PosUive Cure for RHEUMATISM, LIVER, STOMACH and
KIDISEY DISEASES, DISEASES OF THE BLOOD, SKIN DIS-
EASES, FEMALE COMPLAINTS, PARALYSIS, NEURALGIA,
CATARRH, LAME BACK, and NERVOUS DEBILITY.
Nervous Affections, from any cause, rapidly and
thoroughly cured. There is no waiting; it acts imme-
diately, and is specially adapted to those suffering
Nervous and Physical Debility, Lost Vitality, Lack of
Energy, &c., &c. For Female Complaints, that feeling
of bearing down, &c., &c., our Belt has no equal.
It acts immediately upon the Blood, Nerves, and
Tissues generally, producing more benefit in a few hours
than the doctor has given in weeks or months.
Hundreds of Testimonials can be seen at our offices,
showing the most gratifying results.
Remember ! This offer is good for 60 DAYS ONLY, and all Orders must be accompanied by
the above Coupon and 20/. Order at once, and address the Sole Agents—
KEELEY GHEMIGAL GO, 72 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
This Coupon la Worth £z ios.
If you will eat oat this Ooapon and send it to as with
ONE POUND in a registered letter, we will send you,
post paid, by return post, One
IMPROVED ELECTRIC BELT,
with fall directions. Write Name and Post Office Address
▼ery plainly, and giro your waist measure in inches, a
KKELEY CHEMICAL CO., Sole Agents,
72 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
CUT THIS OUT.
FBET above high water mark, Gore Hill,
Ol H f North shore. Buy there imt Saturday.
W ATKIN and WATKIN.
Q/'W'V FEET above high water mark, Gore HilJ,
OUU North shore. Buy there next fcaturday.
WAXBJN ana WAX AIN.
Woman Items
An English lady ®f title is in the habit of
bartering a vessel for her own special use when-
«rer she takes a short sea trip, because she
S-romrly objects to fellow-voyagers being sea-sick.
That woman ought to be forced to earn her own
living as a stewardess.
A young actress confessed, the other day,
her pastor that at a supper party she had sung
a rather naughty song. The priest was willing to
Sive her absolution on condition that she womld
not do so again. “Oh, how good you are! ex-
claimed the little daisy. “But then perhaps you
don’t know how naughty the song is ? ” And she
struck up, in a voice loud enough to be heard all
over the church, a ditty which his Reverence con-
sidered so fearful that he request'd her to write it
out for his more deliberate consideration.
There is a pretty little bit of yvri ting some-
where about a maiden who was good and beauti-
ful and who hopped into bed leaving a snowy
mound of warm, soft, white apparel on the floor.
Now, says a brutal Yankee, when the lovely
woman skips into between the sheets the tradition-
al snow-heap resembles nothing so much as a
kaleidoscope gone wrong, what with black stock-
ings and bronze boots, pale blue under-flannels,
pink flannel skirt trimmed with black lace, cherry
balmoral embroidered with olive floss, corsets of
hunters’ green finished with scarlet, &c , &c.
A late development in American society is
the “correct grammar’’ craze, and only those happy
individuals who are comparatively perfect in their
phraseology dare to let their speech come trip-
pingly from the tongue. Says “ Una:”—“ I shiver
before the objective case, and stand abashed at
awkward pronouns. The craze has permeated all
classes; and I approach the sales-ladies in my
ribbon-shop even with a consciousness that my
grammar Is being criticised. I have heard them
discussing it behind the counter.” Under these
circumstances, perhaps, it’s just as well that
Consul Kahlo has postponed his excursion with
our “representative men.” The grammar craze
may blow over in a while.
We can never see any mention of the
Marquis of Bute and his three hundred thousand
a year without calling to mind an interesting
anecdote connected with the great man’s marriage
day ; but, as it's a most “ select ” little story, you
must promise not to let it go any further. Well,
just this: After the Marchioness had retired to
rest on the evening of that auspicious day,
“hubby” failed to follow suit for some time-
hours, in fact. Quite alarmed at his uncomfort-
able absence, “my lady’s own” maid was de-
spatched on a voyage of discovery, and found the
noble, but not ardent, bridegroom fast aslesp in
the drawing-room. It’s needless to mention that
the Marquis makes a good husband. Men of his
matter-of-fact disposition always do.
From “Woman Chat, by Volatile Miss,” in
the Newcastle Herald, we cull the following:—
“ We have few concerts in Sydney now, and the
result is—we are complaining of ennui. And they
pay so well that I wonder why some musicians do
not arrange for a'few high-elass concerts.” The
trouble is that they pay too well. Look at the pile
Wilhelmj went home with, and how very nearly
Kate Thayer had to walk baek! Look how splen-
didly Charles Huenerbein did with his popular
concerts, and what a gigantic fortune the lady has
made who declined to sing for the Highland
Society. Kowalski, too, was a splendid attraction;
and the Bully-Powley concerts at the Royal
brought in gigantic returns. We are inclined to
think this “Miss” very volatile, indeed. We
wonder what her name is ? But it’s Sal, of course!
-Sal Volatile!
Princesses don't seem to have always been
such very delectable creatures. Princess Caroline,
for instance, wife of the “first gentleman in
Europe” is put through thusly by a recent writer:
“ Stout, painted, raddled, with a large head and
short neck, a quantity of light hair gathered in an
untidy knot under a monstrous beaver hat, quick
beady eyes deep sunk in their orbits, and a scarcity
of clothing ill-suited to so overblown a figure. A
lilac-silk pelisse was negligently open, displaying
a shor+-waisted robe of thinnest sprigge 1 muslin,
through the lower part of which was plainly visible
a pair of thick ankles and wrinkled stockings.”
We are also delicately informed that her dress
“ was of the crumpled, flashy kind which is worn
by vulgar drabs. The stockings, of common
thread, were wofully unclean.” and water
did not agree either with tho sweet Caroline, for
we find that the Regent had to lecture her on the
desirability of washing and of esohewing dirty
underlinen. It was the charming Caroline, it will
be remembered, who posed for a time before the
public as a saint and martyr. Perhaps this
saintly game accounts for her many other attrac-
tive attributes.
Lord Garmoyle’s mamma says his mar-
riage with Miss Fortescue, the actress, will kill
her, so the dutiful boy has broken off his engage-
ment. Another reason also moved him to the dis-
honourable step, to wit, a statement made to him by
the Duke of Richmond and Gordon, that his be-
trothed would not be received at Court. Con-
sidering that old Lady Cairns comes of stock not a
whit better than the Fortescues, that old Lord
Cairns has himself sprung from the ranks, that the
Duke of Richmond's great-great-great-grand-
mamma was the courtesan and spy, de Queronaille,
that reception at Court is no stamp of worth
since notorious and demireps have the entree
there, and that not a word has ever been breathed
against Miss F.’s character, Garmoyle's conduct
is only explicable on the probably perfectly cor-
rect hypothesis that the fellow’s an infernal snob.
Old Cairns offers Miss Fortescue £lO,OOO as solatium,
but the Fortescue doesn’t see it. Although Gar-
moyle can’t be worth a bad sixpence, the title of
Countess, with all the attendant deference, and a
life of ease, and what is known as distinction, are
worth something. 8 > she sues for £40,000. Some-
thing like a breach of promise case, that! The old
eouple, Lord and Lady Cairns, behaved just as
skunkishly as their cub of a son. They received
the girl as his betrothed, had her visiting at their
house, and all the time were secretly moving
heaven and earth to prevent their cub from keep-
ing faith with her. Imagine the torture they have
inflicted, if the girl was really in love with the
dude. Girls have broken their hearts for just as
dirty, inferior, little skunks, ere now.
The question of woman’s rights has been
most curiously before the United States Govern-
ment. Mrs. Mary Miller, of Louisiana, applied for
a license as master of a river steamer. In a long
and peculiarly poetical minute on her application,
the Treasury Solicitor observes: “There is no ex-
press provision in the law to prevent a woman
commanding a steamer. Neither is there anything
in the Constitution to prevent a woman being
elected to Congress, or made President, or to pre-
vent her commanding a ship of war or the army.
The law is silent as to sex.” But, nevertheless, the
Solicitor sees numberless reasons why women
should, law apart, be barred from unsexing occu-
pations; and, after describing at length the various
rough-and-tumble duties which pertain to the
master of a Mississippi steamer, he considers that
Mrs. Mary Miller should rest content as “the
Priestess who ministers at the shrine of the house-
hold gods.” Mr. Secretary Folger, however, over-
ruled this view, saying: “I see no reason, in'
Written or unwritten law, why Mrs. Miller, if com-
petent, should be refused the license. Nor is there
any need of pro or con., on thesooial
status, or on woman’s rights, so called. Having |
been put on God’s footstool by Him, she has the
right to win her bread in a moral and decent way,
which is open to any of His toiling creatures. If
she chooses to do so as master of a steam vessel, it
is an honest calling, and if she is fitted, though
clothed in skirts rather than breeches, she has the
right to follow it, and no one should say her nay.
So Mrs. Mary Miller is to be examined, and if she
knows enough, will be boss of the boat.
An exohange prints an article entitled
“ Work for Girls.” Of course that is what a man
may expect to do if he intends to rear a family.
Jacob of old knew all about that. He worked
fourteen yeart for one girl and got another one
from the same family thrown in. The modern
young man has to work in the first place to get
the girl, and after he has got her he must settle
down to business and work for her and all the
others she may see fit to present him with. Cer-
tainly. Our exchange is right. But what’s the
use of giving advice on a dead sure thing like
that?
Egbert S. Sinclair, the only heir to a
Louisiana planter’s fortune, was married in a
romantic manner last Dec. The nuptials occurred
at a candy-pull given by a prominent merchant.
Miss Lizzie Jones, a charming young blonde of
eighteen, was one ot the merry-makers. Sinclair
fell violently in love with her. The attachment
proved to be mutual. Toward the close of the
candy-bee Sinclair whispered words of love to the
fair Lizzie, and proposed marriage. To his surprise,
she accepted him, and insisted on being wedded
on the spot. A resident Congregational clergy-
man who was present consented to perform the
oeremony, and did. With both hands full of candy
they stood in front of the fireplace while the knot
was tied. It was the sweetest wedding ever known
in Macon. After a tour through the Southern
States they returned to the young lady’s house to
spend a few days before going to New Orleans to
live. 'I here Sinclair saw his wife’s sister for the
first time. She is only 14 years old, but is the
acknowledged beauty of the High School. Sinclair
became infatuated with her pretty face and win-
ning ways. He was constantly by her side out of
school hours. Being a fine musician, hevoluntered
to become her tutor. They spent hours together
at the piano. The young wifo became jealous, and
with tear-dimmed eyes implored her husband to
lavish a little attention on herself. He treated the
matter lightly, and said that his conduct was
merely that of an affectionate brother, and she
appeared satisfied. At midnight, on 23th Deo., a
coaoh drove up to the old mansion. The driver
was a negro. The blinds parted from an upper
window, and a manly face appeared. It was Sin-
clair’s. He gave a low whistle, to which the driver
responded with a flourish of his whip. A minute
later Sinclair, accompanied by a little woman
heavily muffled, hurried from the house into the
coach, the horses were urged forward, and in a
moment the conveyance vanished. Early next
morning the young bride was thrown into con-
vulsions upon ascertaining that her husband and
her sister had eloped.
Early last Christmas morning, a policeman
applied to the Presbyterian Hospital, New York,
for an ambulance for the conveyance of a dying
man. It shortly returned with its ill-fated occu-
pant, but medical skill was unavailing. He had
taken a poisonous dose of morphine, and died be-
fore noon. “But, why,” you will say, “go so far
as New York to stand by a suicide s death-bed ?
Have we not our own luxuriant crop of self-
murders on which to moralise?" True. But the
sorroundinga of this were rare and romantic. The
man was young, handsome, and noble. He had
graduated at Bonn; he had health and competence
and—yes, it’s the old story. A year ago, young
Baron Yon Sternberger landed in New York. His
first employment was in a restaurant. You know
what that means. Had ho been a political “ bum-
mer,” or a flatulent orator, he would, probably,
have obtained a State appointment, or at least
have been run for Congress; but, being only a
cultivated German gentleman, of course he had to
take to cleaning boots or waiting on hodmen.
Then he got a job in Mr. Hesse’s drug store, at
one dollar a week and found. He was very re-
ticent; but, at last, it leaked out by parcels that
his father was recently dead, and the estate in the
BARON VON STERNBERGER.
hands of trustees, ono of whom was a professor at
the young man’s university. It fuither transpired
(in newspaper jargon) that the youth had been
“wild” at Bonn, and had drunk to the dregs the
cups most of us have at one time or another sipped
—love and debt. Of his debt we can only surmise
that the creditor was a person with short podgy
fingers and predatory Eastern profile Of his love
we know more. Praulein Maria Marx, his fiancee,
was a sweet girl, the beauty of whose face (ns
three-volume novelists say) was only to be excelled
by that of her mind. We give you the face, so you
can judge for yourselves. Of her mind we can
only guess by her last letter to her sweetheart, and
it is so tender—so full of true womanliness—that
we can understand Yon Sternberger’s killing a rival
in a duel. It was for this he had to leave Germany,
and It was this, in addition to the wild life he had
led. that induced the poor fraulien's friends to
insist on her giving up this wayward young man.
Yet she held on, until he wrote saying that it
would be impossible for him to return to Germany
under six years. Then the woman spoke out:
“When vou come back you will be just in the
prime of your years, but I, on the other side, will
have lost the bloom of youth. lam a woman. If
you could have come back in one or two years, as
you at the time promised me, I would have with-
PRAULEIN MARIA MARX.
stood all their threats, but the last hope is gone.
. . . Whv did you teach me the highest felicity
in the world, only now to let me sink into misery?
. You were my first young love, and ever
will remain so, because I beiong to those natures
that only can love once.” And now, you epicene
moralists through whose sluggish veins a woman’s
kiss has never hastened the blood, don’t you think
after all that the little bottle ef morphine was as
good a way as any to meet the double loss of
country and cara sposa t
Judging from the facts disclosed at a
recent trial, the town of Flatbush, near New York,
must be a rather rouseabout sort of place to live
in. According to the evidence given, it appears
that what is called a “ church social ” was held at
the local Methodist Church, and as things were
going slow, some of the skittish young people
proposed to have a game of mock marriages.
Accordingly, quite a number of giddy couples
were married ; squeezing and “promiseus" oscu-
lation became the order of the day, and in some
oases stretched pretty far into the night time also.
A few weeks after this, one Miss Annie Higby,
aged 18, happened to visit a lady friend who had
just been married in reality, and, as a matter of
course, the bulk of the chat was all about the
rooent nuptials and their gay surroundings. That
night it struck Miss Higby that the different items
on the programme of a mock marriage were pre-
cisely the same as those connected with the real
article itself, and so firm a grasp did this idea cateh
on to the gentle Annie’s mind that she at once
“took the law” on Walter Vaughan, the young
man to whom she was so enthusiastically mock-
married to at that frisky old Methody “church
social.” The suit was contested, and it then leaked
out that the ways of the people of Flatbush are,
to say the least, peculiar, Amongst other items
too numerous to mention here, the young Flat-
bushers are in the habit of meeting at their various
houses, where they spend the evenings lying in
hammocks together, clasping and kissing each
other continuously. Wo don’t wonder Miss Higby
considered she had a perfeot right to be called Mrs.
Walter Vaughan, after that lot. All that stiffens
us is to know upon what grounds the “honorable
but not learned ” Judge dismissed the case and de-
clared there was nothing wrong about Annie’s
trouble whatever, as the whole ooncern was
simply a little innocent amusement, in which she
had quite as big a say as Walter. Flatbush Fro-
liques ought to take well in this climate, and
Methody meenisters with a big debt on their
Joss-houses would do well to start a “ church
social.”
Gems from the album of an old—a nasty
old—bachelor:—“ Foxes are all tail, and women all
tongue.”—La Fontaine. “ I wish that Adam had
died with all his ribs in his body.”— Bouctcault.
“Women detest the serpent through professional
jealousy.”— Victor Hugo.
“ A woman, a spaniel, and walnut tree,
The more you beat them, the better they be.”
- Taylor.
“ It goes far towards reconciling mo to feeing a
woman, when I reflect that I am thus in no danger
of marrying one.”— Lady Montagu. “ Luxury is
bred in women, and there are few wives who do
not make their husbands very intimate with neces-
sity.”— Simonides.
“ Sure, of all ills with which mankind is eurst,
A wife who brings you money is the worst.’ 1
—Juvenal.
“ As a sex, women are habitually indolent, and
everything tends to make them so.”— Mary Wool-
stoncroft.
“ Woman! doubtful theme, I sing;
Dear, delightful, dangerous thing;
Magic source of all our joy—
Tempting, trilling, tinsel toy;
Every faculty possessing
Which constitutes a curse or blessing.
Witty, empty, fond, capricious;
Pious sometimes, sometimes naughty;
The most ambiguous w ork of heav’n
To charm us—or torment us—given.
Without them, naught can e’er be well,
Yet with them—oh, ye gods I—it’s h—l."
—Anen.
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome tread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
Ask for Hookings’ High-class Wines, all
aged and reliable. Drink no others. Sampling
Cellars. 143 Pitt-street.*
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents 26 O’Connell
street, Sydney. t 3?“ Agents for the purchase
of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies, Harvest-
ing Machinery, Agricultural Implements, &o. No
commission charged for buying. iST* Agents for
the salo or purchase on commission of Pure-bred
Stock.*
Mr. DeCourcy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pitt-street, Sydney
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles »
speciality.—A n vt.
Toe Diamond Dyes are the host dyes made
Have you tried them? If not, then you should do
so. They are the best, and, at the same time, the
cheapest dyes in this market. Why ? Because
they are true to colour every time, and can always
be depended on to produce the desired effect. One
package will dye from throe to four times more
than any other ayes sold. All dealers sell them, or
will get them for you. Insist on having them, and
take no others. All sold at one price; 6d. only.
Wholesale by Elliott Bros., Sydney and Brisbane.*
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for “Arnold's ’
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
Carmen Sylva (the Queen of Roumania
has just written the libretto for an opera called
“ Meaga,” which, with music by Hallstrom, is to be
produced at the Royal Opera, Stockholm ... A Mel-
bourne paper, speaking of the tirst appearance of
Miss Genevieve Ward, at the Princess Theatre,
says that a list of the notables in the dress-circle
“ would read like a fashionable, political, and
scientific directory.” Think of that.
That Husband or Mink is three times the man
he was before he began using “Wells’ Health
Renewer." Druggist# Moses. Moss A Co.. Sydney
Anronts.


FRESE’S
HAMBURG
E
MIL
TEA
THE GREAT GERMAN FAMILY MEDICINE.
RELIABLE, SIMPLE, EFFECTUAL.
This well-known Tea has proved itself to be a
most certain and efficacious Remedy for such
diseases as Sudden and Severe Calds, Coughs,
Fevers and Ague, Asthma. Phthisis, Headache,
Bowels, Kidney, and Liver Complaints, the Piles,
Congestion, <&c, caused by an impure state, or a
superfluity of blood. Its use removes Serofula,
Cutaneous Eruptions, Pimples on the Face,
Blotches, Boils, Rheumatic Pains, and Pains in the
Bones and Joints. It is a preventitive against con-
tagion, and destroys inhaled Miasmatic and Con-
tagious Vapours. It purifies the Blood, cleanses
the Stomach and Bowels, and gives to the whole
system a healthy, easy tone. It opens the bowels
in a mild and certain way. It works on the system
generally, causing little or no discomfort. It will
prevent almost any disease if used at least once a
month. It restores the appetite, it removes the
distress caused by eating hearty food or overload-
ing the stomach, and will be found effectual as a
Family Remedy where a simple purgative only is
needed.
NO FAMILY SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT. Full
directions in English, French, Spanish, and Ger-
man with every package. Sold by all chemists,
storekeepers, and medicine dealers throughout
the colonies at ONE SHILLING ajpacket. Whole-
sale Depot for New South Wales—ELLIOTT
BROTHERS, 8ydney.
Prepared according to the directions oc Prof.
E. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENBHD FOR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS
WEAKENED ENERGY, &c.
No Danger can Attend its Use.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Crowing Chil-
dren.
T . . Sandusky, 0., May 21,1880,
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can pro-
nounce it a very valuable addition. I find it use-
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nerve
depression following overwork and anxiety, as w
as the gastric derangements. Where there
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a du
heavy head, it is of undoubted value. Fast grow.’
ing children require this valuable addition.
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
r . , Boston, Mass., May 18, 1880.
In regard to the Horsford’s Acid Phosphate. 1
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give it in dyspepsia and in all cases where there
is derangement or the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
O. G. CILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
~ A. 8. Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
from indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, and always with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some cases of morbid
urine, it acts like a charm,’ produciug the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, and is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound.”
Can lie borne by the most Sensitive
Stomaehs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Horsford s Acid Phosphate, in elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled, it is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed it with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for Lemon juice, and as suoh
will furnish a refreshing ilrink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNES
Pain Killing
2v£ag*lc Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm.”
It la not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, bu
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dvp-
therla.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious siokness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers la
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughou the eolonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand ■
ard make
Because the iron-work oonslsts of the very test
steel and Norway Iron, severely tested betoie
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of tbe bait No. 1
leather, and the upholstery Is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their finish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special
Instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use thorn say thky a ri thi
bbsz.
American Carriage Emporium,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BARRON .MOXHAM & CO„
Mis Agent*
The Reporter’s Rat-trap.
“ Can you tell me,” inquired the woman
with a oast In her left eyo, and a wart on the side
of her nose, “ can you tell me the best way to
catch rats?” “Certainly Madame,” replied the
reporter, who was fond of his landlady notwith-
standing- her defective appearance, and was glad
of an opportunity to do her a favour; “I can tell
you the best way out to catch rats and mice, but
don’t you give it away, for it’s an invention of my
own, and I want to get it patented. In the first
place, you want to get a few pounds of pulverized
plaster of paris. Place this in a dry dish with a
tow rim, and stir into it some grated cheese rind
and a little sugar to sweeten it and make it pala-
table. Put this down in the cellar where the rats
cm get at it handy-like, and beside it set another
dish containing water. Presently you’ll see an old
rat come out of his hole, smell abound till he
finds the dish and then begin to eaA. About the
second mouthful he swallows he’ll begin to think
that that stuff is the best he’s ever tasted; and he’ll
R-orge himself, you can bet. Every once in a while
he'll turn to the water-dish and take a drink.
When he’s had enough, he'll proceed to take a little
wost-prand'al exercise, while his comrades, who
have scented the dainty dish at last, are helping
themselves. Before very long that plaster of Paris
will begin to dry and get hard. Mr. Bat will notice
a queer sensation at first,, and then, all at once,
he’ll be taken with the awfulest stomach-ache that
a rat ever knew. He’ll scratch his ribs first with
one hind paw and then with another, but that
won’t help him. As the stuff inside him grows
harder he’ll lay down, roll over, kick up his
heels, switch his tail and squeal. By this
time the other rats have finished their meal,
and they gather around their unfortunate comrade
to offer consolation. But their efforts are vain,
and the first thing they learn is the discovery that
the malady is catching. One after another they’ll
follow the first one's example, until half an hour
later they’ll all be stretched out stiff and hard as
an Italian vendor's images. Then all you’ve got
to do is to go into the cellar with a club; give each
one a blow, and he’ll fly into forty pieces. See ?”
The landlady thought she saw, for she said: “ Why,
how simple and easy it is! I’ll go and try it at
once "—ana then the reporter retired into the soli-
tude of his own chamber to conceal his emotion.
Catagorical Catastrophe.
There is a man over in America who has
invented a! machine which he calls the “audi-
phone.” The object of this invention which, by
the way, is too intricate for a minute description,
especially when one has never seen it, is to give its
possessor the exact location of any sound that may
be heard in his neighbourhood. In Woolloomooloo
there resides a young man whoso fertility of brain
has long rendered him an object of admiration
amongst a large circle of friends. He lives at a
nice boarding-house, and draws salary enough to
make any young man happy ; but for months
his soul has been troubled and his slumbers
disturbed by a congregation of cats, which were in
the habit of perching on the back fence and wail-
ing forth the {cantata of “Queen Esther” almost
under his very window. In vain did he hurl
water-jugs, old boots, chunks of coal, soap-dishes,
and tumblers out of that window at those pesti-
ferous cats. The concert went right along as
though nothing had happened, and had » run of
865 nights in the year. In sheer desperation, after
emptying his room of everything in the way of a
missile it contained, the young man has more than
once been known to kneel down by his bedside and
say the Lord’s Prayer backwards for the repose of
those felines’ souls. They didn’t repose worth a
copper, however, and then, in the agony of de-
spair, his troubled spirit went forth to the
nearest pub., and drowned its sorrows in the
flowing bowl. One day he read an item
which described the audiphone and explained its
functions and design, A bright idea flashed
through his brain, and straightway he sent off an
order for one of those machines, it arrived a few
days ago, and was clandestinely conveyed to his
room. Night came on, slowly and gently, like the
fuzz on a seventeen-year-old upper lip. With the
darkness came the cats, and their preliminary
“ mews ” was like the tuning of diseased orchestra
fiddles. “Ah,” said the young man to himself,
“the hour of my triumph has come at last. Now
shall my soul be satiated with revenge, and the
back yard be strewn with the bones of mine
enemies.” Then he loaded up his double-barrelled
shot gun, adjusted the audiphone, and waited for
the concert to begin. Presently tho stage manager
arrived and the music was in full olast. The night
was inky black, but the audiphone proved an unerr-
ing guide. After a little experimenting, the young
man got the right range and proper elevation on
the soprano, cocked both barrels, and then let them
go together. There was one wild discordant shriek,
heard high above the thunder of the gun, as the
bones and flesh and hair of that cat parted com-
pany for ever. But the concert went on. A sub-
stitute was obtained from amongst the chorus,
the manager apologised for the interruption, and
begged the indulgence of the audience for any
shortcomings that might be noticeable in the
scarcely-prepared soprano. Esther stepped to the
front, and began to tell how she was just about to
go into the cellar and see if the king or the cook
had left any cold meat within reach. Soveral of
her maids gathered about her and told her to
“brace up” and go right in, when “bang” went
the gun again, and the air was filled with the smoke
of battle and the fragments of a dozen high-
class performers. The manager began to get
riled about this time and called a council of war.
The prompter proposed that the concert be indefi-
nitely postponed, but the chorus wouldn’t hear of
this for a second. Tabby said she could take the
part of Queen quite as well as Esther had done.
And Thomas declared himself quite ready to per-
sonate the character of Haaman. While they were
thus engaged in angry dispute, there came another
flash and a roar like the boom of a cannon; but
high above the din of battle there rose a wild,
concrete yell of agony that made the neighbours
think the lid of perdition had been lifted for a
moment. The concert was over. The young man
rang down tho curtain of his window, breathed a
prayer for Yankee ingenuity, and slid into bed.
In the morning when he looked out, the back
yard resembled the private dissecting-room of a
sausage factory. Claws, hair, teeth, and bones lay
about in the greate t profusion; but, since that
eventful night, so fraught with catastrophy, the
young man’s slumbers have been undisturbed,
and the catsgorical cantata is hushed for ever.
Blayney is a rising township situated on
the Bellubula River, hounded on the north by the
Barrier Range, on the South by the Antarctic
Ocean, on the west by the Canobolas, and on the
east by a dead cow. Why we are so particular in
describing the exact locality of this Blayney to-
day is because the following incident didn’t happen
there at all. It eventuated in quite another
Blayney altogether—one way up in the China Sea
somewhere, i'he occasion was the banquet given
in connection with the Blayney Agricultural
Society’s last show meeting, and, when the speechi-
fying was in full blast, one of the rural magnates
—we fancy his name was Smith—having floundered
through a speech written for him by the local
schoolmaster the day before, concluded by laying
his ’and ©nhis ’art and exclaiming, “Now, gendel-
men, I calls upon yer all t’ drink success to the
Pastortal Interests hof th’ Blayney district.” Just
before the hiD-hips could be given, however, the
funny man of the town rose and said: “ Gentle-
men, Before drinking the toast so ably proposed
by our friend Mr. Smith, I beg to request that he
will also couple the Pastorial Interests of the
Blayney district with the Minerial Interests of the
mountaynious regions of this glorious subter-
ranean archipelago to which we all belong.”
“’Ear.l’ear,” shouted Muster Smith, “them’s my
sediments to aa T. Now, boys, wid a hip, hip, hip,
hooroar!”
Our Western people are liable to be laid
low, by malarial faver, when breaking up new
lands. The folks in the East are also complaining
of fevers, chills, and agues, arising from decaying
vegetable matter and imperfect drainage. For
either East or West the best remedy is Ayer’s
Ague Cure.
There’s serious domestic trouble at Hobart.
There’s quite a small squadron of warships in port,
and the amorous servant-girls have, it is said,
deserted tkeir posts almost en masse to revel in the
tender attentions of the blue-jackets. A blue-
jaeket’s life in Hobart is just heaven with the
latest improvements. And, by the way, it’s not
only the “slaveys” who idolise them. We re-
member—but we dare not write all our memories
of Sandy Bay and Kangaroo Point beaches. One
thing we will whisper: A certain strict guber-
natorial dame found it her duty to debar sundry
fair lasses of the hmut-ton from her receptions,
owing to little amorous scenes that came to light
at a ball at which the naval heroes were the cham-
pion “ mashers.” Oh, and w® recollect this
occurred just when Venus was in transit up
above, so it was only natural she desired to play a
prank or two below.
A Melbourne gentleman, and a poet, is
supposed to have committed suicide. We’re
always sorry when poets commit suicide—we miss
’em so much; but we specially grieve for this par-
ticular bard, because he is described as having
been “ respectably connected,” and very few are
like that. Well, this gentleman—Mr. It. S. Gre-
gory—seems to have taken a boat from St. Kilda,
and, when he got out into the bay. to have got
out of the boat and sought a poet’s death. [We
always prefer to dispose of them hy drowning, if
possib’e.— Ed B ] Mr. Gregory, though, left a few
of his ideas behind him in a letter found at the
bottom of the boat:—“The finder of this letter
will know that I am no longer a sojourner on the
face of this horrible earth, it is too much for me,
so I give in. If there is such a place as hell it
can’t be worse than this. I hope God and my
family will forgive me for taking my own life and
bringing disgrace on them. It is not my fault, for
I am driven to it—too many land-sharks about.
They say lam mad—well, perhaps I am.” There's
a little more of it, and then comes some poetry in
a postscript
“ I’m not afraid—l do not think I am;
I’ll lace my death—at least, they shall not stay
me;
And yet I wonder if I shall be calm,
Leaving my life, love, and friends behind me ?
“ To-morrow I am nothing, and thereafter
Each day will dry a tear, if any sorrow
To me ’twill be the same—their grief or laughter-
just 33, and to die to-morrow.”
We certainly don’t think that Mr. G. was justified
m regarding himself as mad ! Perhaps he was
rather rough on Melbourne in thinking that “hell
can’t be worse,” but there was nothing insane
about the conclusion that there are “too many
land-sharks about.” Besides, no man could turn
out such verses—or any verses, for the matter of
that—unless he was possessed of a robust intellect.
Under the sad circumstances of the case, we feel
constrained to drop into poetry ourselves, as an
epitaph—
We’re much afraid you left that little bark
To meet a fate undreamed of, and unpleasant,
Ard fall a victim to some ocean-shark—
Their greed, like that of land ’uns, is incessant.
A Fact Worth Knowing.— Are you suffering
with Consumption, Coughs, Severe Colds settled
on the Breast, Pneumonia, or any disease of the
Throat and Lungs ? If so, go to your Druggist
and get a bottle of Boschee’s German Syrup. The
people are going wild over its success, and Drug-
gists all over our country are writing us of its
wonderful cures among their customers. It has
by far the largest sale of any remedy, simply
because it is of so much value in all affections of
this kind. Chronic cases quickly yield to it.
Druggists recommend it and physicians prescribe
it. If you wish to try its superior virtue, get a
Sample Bottle for 6d. Large size bottle, 3s. 6d.
Three doses will relieve any ease. Try it.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Duke.
The gold-digger's shaft was short, narrow, and
deep,
The ground just above it was abrupt and steep;
And close alongside, running down the incline.
The fence of the paddock looked out on the
mine;
But down in the deep shaft lay, covered with
steam,
The very best bullock Bob had in his team.
The farmer came down with dismay in his look.
And said that he thought ’twas a case with the
Duke.
What made the thing look more discouraging
still,
The head of the Duke was found facing up-hill.
The diggings were old, and the diggers but few,
Yet came up like men to see what they oould do.
hhe job was a tough one-they’ll try and they'll
dare;
’Tis not in a digger to ever despair.
They whistled and cooe’d, and word went around,
And soon a good muster was got on the ground—
All neighbours and mates, too, a jolly old crew,
Some digging away since the year ’52
The “Buck” and the “Boatman ” and “ Bos’n ”
were there,
And “ Harry the German,” and “ Sandy the Bear,”
Old “KapBey” and “Buggy,” and “Major”
M‘Can,
Three untitled brothers—John, Robert, and Dan;
The “ Hawk,” and the “Nugget,” and “Tommy
the Frog,”
The “Judge,” and the “Jackass,” the “Parson,”
and “flog”—
Up here on tho diggings, one’s failing or fame
Is sure, in the long run, to get him a name.
They set to, to work, ana they worked with a
will,
And cut a deep trench from the shaft up the hill;
They worked and they toiled, and, relieving eaoh
shift,
They tried by all means to diminish the lift.
Out spoke the old “Bos’n”—his aocents were
rough—
“ I think, my good fellows, we’ve sunk deep
enough;
This noose round the butt of his horns you just
pass,
And with a good pull we may bring him to grass.”
They let down the “ Frog,” with the rope round
him east,
And, after some failures, the noose was made
fast.
“ Now, ready, my boys, like one man,” said the
“ Judge.”
They pulled and they tugged, but with never a
“ budge;”
They pulled up again—to the “Bos’n’s” strong
word—
Position the same: the poor Duke never stirred.
“ I think,” said the “ Parson,” “I do, ’ponmy soul,
That bullock will never come out of the hole.”
“ Come on,” said old Bob; “to the shade, my boys,
come,
And help yourselves here to a drop of good rum.
The day is exceedingly sultry and warm,
And, hark! in the west is the voice of the storm;
I thank you all, boys, but I fear ’tis in vain
To hope for the Duke to be got out again.”
They stood up again, saying “ Come, lads, be-
fore
The storm comes on we shall try it once more.”
Grandfather came up from the digging, and said,
“ Good daughter-in-law, put your hat on your
head;
Yourself and the girls here should go down and
look
At all that is doing to get out the Duke,
Your sewing in hand—though the beat is intense,
You may look for awhile o’er the rails of that
fence.”
Two beautiful girls with their mother came
down,
The best and the fairest in that little town.
When first they were sighted descending the
green,
A magical change was observed in the scene;—
The “Major” here spoke out in commanding
word,
“ To get him up this way, the thing is absurd;
Jf we are determined the bullock t,o save,
A g*od Spanis 1 windlass’s the thing we must
have.”
‘You just spoke before me,” the old “Bos’n”
said ;
‘ I wonder what kept it so out of my head.”
The untitled brothers, John, Robert and Dan,
Pronounced it the only—the very best plan.
Each man had his say—even old fellows took
A different view of the fate of the Duke.
Ward Brown of his powers left no one in doubt;
The chips from his axe like great pancakes flew
out.
The trees were soon down, and the windlass was
made,
Secure on the shaft it was carefully laid.
Ere all things be ready, there still must be placed
A sort of a band round the animal’s waist.
The “ Bos’n ” with ropes made a very fair band
(In anything ropey, a very good hand);
He went down the shaft, and, ’tis said by a fluke,
He got his rope girt round the ribs of the Duke.
And when he arrived at the top of the shaft.
His mates cried out “Bravo!”—the young ladies
laughed.
Thev hauled up the Duke, and they set him quite
free,
To roam for a while o’er the mountain and lea.
But, mark what he did—just to show his good
sense,
He tossed the old “ Bos’n ” right over tho fence;
The rest, when they saw him prepare to give
chase,
Flew over the fence to get clear of His Grace!
Some called into “ Barrel’s ” to have a full glass,
A read of the paper, and let the rain pass.
Next morning, when “ Barrel ” first opened the
door,
He found half-a-dozen stretched out on the floor,
And saw in the rut, from the place where he
stood,
“ Judge,” “ Parson,” and “ Rapsey ” asleep in the
mud.
The years, like the waves of the ocean, roll on,
And many of these men are now dead and gone;
Yet, some still dream on, as fond mem’ry presents
The beautiful forms that stood by the fence I
Bus in Urbe.
He came to town from Bilbarook—
Tall, boney, young, and callow;
High hat: hair cut with reaping-hook;
Shirt crimson, necktie yellow.
Across his arm he slung his coat,
And lounged along the Block,
And oft paused on his way to note
And time the Town Hall clock.
He heard the flippant quack explain,
But was not “taken in;”
Aspasia spread her nets in vain—
He knew the snares of sin.
For often round the glowing Are
The Nestor of the shed
Had told to wond’ring ears the dire
Deceits they had to dread.
He carre to see the Cup race run—
To share a sweep he stood—
Although he cared not much what won—
That’s if the sport was good;
He’d show his colours on the Flat,
Or maybe on the Hill;
He’d throw a shilling in the hat,
And try his shooting skill.
He tramped his passage to the course,
And, itching to begin,
He put some money on a horse—
The horse that didn’t win;
He uttered many a dry remark,
Bran-new upon the station,
Nor knew that Noah of the Ark
Cursed Ham for their creation.
He met another country lad,
Way down from Jamberoo—
A soft and simple youth, who had
Come for the races, too.
On rustic themes their views they blent,
And joined to curse the weather,
And then meandered to the tent
To hav-s a drink together.
And while they quaffed their “ native ” beer,
Their wandering glances light
On sleepy eyes, and stupid leer—
A sharper “on the tight."
Their rustic hearts beat fast in glee;
Their hopes, their bright looks t«*ll;
TaJl yarns loom in their minds—“ How we
Once had a city • swell.' ’’
He showed the youths a handsome case,
A present from his girl;
Her “phiz ” within—a wondrous face,
With frill and fringe and curl.
He closed it; and, in maudlin tone
That told his sotted brain,
He challenged all who heard, that none
Could show the face again.
The man from Jamberoo bad learned
The casket’s simple trick,
And whilst the magsman's head was turned,
He worked it—with a click;
Then ventured, with his rustic friend,
Two fivers to a ten,
That, ere the quarter chime would end,
He d show the face again.
The box is closed; the wager laid;
The yokels turn and twist,
Their visions with the minutes fade,
The mystic springs resist.
The quarter chimes; the rustics pay
The premium for their folly;
The sharper goes his happy way—
No longer drunk, but kf jolly.”
But friends must part, with fond adieu
And mutual sympathising;
Gone is the lad from Jamberoo,
The other ?—moralising.
In town, next day. he met the twain
Consulting o’er their “ book.”
He left—to catch an early train,
And start for Bilbarook.
HUGH K LIPTUB.
Brunswick, Victoria.


w. H. FM.IN6
AND CO. (Limited).
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC, ETC.
1: ;
m
= ■' '.'J;-- '
EASY TERMS SYSTEM
FOR
ANY
INSTRUMENT
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
ft Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
W. H. PAUNG & Co7(Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.,
lEOH, MACHINERY, and DAK MERCHANTS
397 GEORGE STREET,
68 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coach
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
ENGINES
Robey’s celebrated Portable "Wind-
ing and lloistiDg, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed..
PUMPS.
Bpecial Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY.
Lathes Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Screwing
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws. Genera
Joiiers’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements.
Sintrle Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoes, Land Rollers, Horse
Rakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Shellers, Threshing Machines.
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Coach Builders’ Sundries.—Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnishings, Varnishes, and
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours.
Laree Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvanized, Corrugated,
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears. Oils, Raddle, Twine. Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND CO..
397 George Street, Sydney.
Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering
other organs from fulfilling their functions. Bet
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite la
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’B PILLS,
The true invigorator. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. To
obviate all these symntoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion oi
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Set "his
organ in order and health returns as if by mag o.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Laboiatiry,
484 George Street, Sydney.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.—The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
Amerioan gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTB.
MASON BROTHERS,
I 'till*
/ * 1. V
sa
PS*
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
ANB
EARTHENWA RE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’B
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVilTand SONS’
Edlnbui&n Pale -e.
PAPERS ANGINGS!
with
DADOES, BORDERB,
FRIEZES to match,
NURBER* V/. x fißg.
OEILING CENTREB.
FIGURES, SCENES, &0.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead. Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
TJra.cLerta,ls:or,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was In the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
71
EURE
KA
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
vr THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age !
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The or y Tobacco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
mr Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
“EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
M’sToMd-.Li.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
An ' oh n be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits beoome known.
EUREKA TOBACCO,
Registered acoordiDg to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
■nutations.
Robert butcher & 00.
(Late William Long:),
*3 r WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders reoeive prompt attention.
W. H. ARIELL & CO.’S
AGENCIES.
Swallow & Ariell’s prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 12 kinds—Canterbury, Normauby,
and Family Cakes, Pium Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour, Treacle and
Golden Syrup, in all size tins, casks, and bottles....
Excelsior Mills.— oupenor Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, aud Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b. bags.
..Dillon, Borrows &Co ’s orizo assorted Confec-
tionery... A. M. Hunt & Co.’s prize Baking Pow-
ders, in J 4,54. and lib tins.. It. Whittington and Co.’s
prime Vork Hams, Currants, Figs, Paper Bags, and
General Provisions ...Victoria Lion Preserving
Company's superior assorted Jams. .Scandinavian
Condensed Milk-Gold Medal Brand,
1.43 & 345 KENT-STREET, near King-st., Sydney.
GILBEY’S SILVERSTREAM SCHNAPPS.
Gilbey’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TDC.Kkic A CO., Solo Agents,
3VH Georire-street, Sydney.
Foster’s Bugle Brand.
genuine extra stout.
m
s
.i'
8
IC
:< =
t =
1
' BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE J
MERCHANTS.
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The beat known remedy for RHEUMATISM.
f-URALOIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHAC lE,
RAINS, BRUISES, BURNS. SCALD-3, &e* and
;aken internally cures DIARRHCEA, DYSENxiciKY,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other iutbrna ache*
tnd pains. mmmmmmmmm ______
Price, 2/- Sold Everywhere.
C. E. MOULTON, sole PROPi i roR.
MELBOURNE AND *j‘ - DNEY,
PAINT
hall
4
%
Co
\
*1
a
7^
m
fA
mmS£
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.— This favourite brand
of Stout selected with great care from tbs
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
cannot be excelled. To be procured everywhor*.
GATTELL & CO.. Sole Agents.
v
Marshalls
TONIC NERVINE
REGISTERED.
A SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring' from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, &o. By its tonio
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
for Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4s. 6d. Bold everywhere.
Sole Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS,
M P S.. Pharmacists, 1(H and 10S Market-street, near
Hyde Park, Sydney. N.B.— All imitations Illegal,


Matrimony
It has been our little wealcuess to marry
so frequently of late that, notwithstanding in our
most recent experience of it having come down
rapidly from the mandolin to the American axe
we have more than a passing interest in this hon-
ourable phase of human joinery. It is, therefore,
with some glee that wo welcome two matrimonial
journals—one Matrimony, published (its third
issue) in Sydney, and the other L’Alliance des
Familles, an old-established paper issued in Paris.
Matrimony is conducted, it seems, by a foreign
gentleman, whom we have not had the pleasure of
coming across before, either in the field of letters or
where you get three courses and a broth bath for
a bender.” That, however, is doubtless our loss.
Anyway, here is now the Signor as large as life,
answering correspondents i n a weepingly sarcastic
manner which must exercise, we should say, in no
lightdegree our candidates for connubiality. For
nstance, to “Christian” the Signor says:—“The
photo, we have received was submitted to our
reader of character- [The paper Is published under
the auspices of the Phrenological Society of New
South Wales, whatever that is.—Ed. B.j—and he
has named her Miss Sickly Sentimentalism, simper-
ing along through life, whimpering over silly
JifSIMJUTJQtf.
lif CuriATtOJt
J^Q>riuu;vricM
AnTiCtPA.TJO/4
U ASATI Oil
A CONTRIBUTOR’S EXPERIENCE.
BY ONE OF ’EM.
novels. She loves aod adores. Perhaps you may
love her, but we don’t.” . . . Think of that!
To “H.J.8.” he says with dignity, “Philosophy
cheers our brightest moments - religion our dark-
est;” this being the first instance of our being
apprised that “ our brightest moments ” wanted
cheering! But, doubtless, ihe Professor is of a
more profound temperament than we are. Let
there be always something cold in the safe and a
not absolutely brutal publican at the corner, and
we can laugh even at comic open. Poor “ A. 8.”
drops In for a terrible dose, yet it is hard to see
what he has done to deserve it. But it takes a genius
to find out these things. However, read:—“The
organ of approbativeness and sell-esteem is situ-
ated at the crown of the head, and from the ap-
pearance of your person you have an abundance
of it, amounting almost to vanity and conceit”
We shouldn’t ie surprised, after this, if “A.B”
called round to pay his subscription with a box-
iron. One writer ausweis “tome one to love,”
and states that he is “middle-aged, iu tollerably
(trie) good position ” [remember our little bracketed
note above], and it “the advertiser thinks she
comes up to his st tndard, and that she does not
pin her faith to Dr. Simms with regard to the
shape of nose and features, a letter addressed,” eto.
There can be no doubt, of course, as to the sterling
genuineness of that communication; no doubt
whatever. [Pass the cough-lozenges; we have a
tickling in our throat.— Ed. B.] “ G.S.W.” will
“ Pay handsomely ” for an introduction to a young
lady with a “fondness for music” (we wonder
whether ho means ihe concertina ?); and “Rocks
and Bricks” require-modesty is evidently their
failing!-“ two prepossessing ladies of 17 and 20
[Not two each, we hope.— Ed. B.], with fair hair
and dark complexions.” “ George,” who is “cheer-
ful,” will “settle his wife’s money on herself;”
and Eucy, considerably good-looking, wants a
tall, sandy-oomplexioned gentleman, inclined to a
Roman or long nose.” “ Allegro ” - but read it; it
is the gem of the lot: “ ‘ Allegro ’ wants to meet a
lady with a little mea-rs, so as to help him on in bis
profession. A phrenologist told him that ho will
shine in the held of letters. He has some means,
but cannot keep up the appearance of a profes-
sional. . Will be rich some day, being of a good
lamily.” Wethink this gentleman is a little vague;
for it seems to us that if his “profession” be the
“ held of letters," the only thing he is likely to
shine with is yellow soap. And why, if aspiring to
the field of letters, should he wish to “keep up
the appearance of a professional ?” Does this
deluded young man think labourers in the literary
field go about with a shiny hat over one eye, a
brass pin in a dirty greon tie, a velvet collar orna-
merited with bair-oil, and a <juarto note-book with
an 18-inch pencil ? Does ho imagine that those
choice “wall-flowers” who are perpetually polish-
ing the Theatre Royal premises (outside), sucking-
short ends of doubtful cigars, are labouring
under the delusion that people can't see
that they have inked their cloudy socks to hide
paloable holes in their “property” shoes; can
Allegro ” think these scarecrows are editors and
dramatic critics? Of course, he thinks so, poor
youth; and how many more persons of a similar
Intellectual calibre have been under precisely the
same delusion! Having given the Signor a very
fine show, let us do our little best to send the
Almance des Families along. In this publica-
tion, as is not uncommon with .journals printed in
Paris, the contents are in the French tongue; it
will, therefore, be necessary to translate a few'of
the “demanded et off re* de maria an a travail,
w hich, with the aid of a member of the German
band, we daresay we shall be able to successfully
accomplish. In connection with this office, though,
we will first tell you a little story. Once an elderly
wi 'ow advertised for a husband, and some young
fellows answering it, sent her the photo, of au
ourang-outang. The editor, hearing t his, was ex-
ceedingly angry, and immediately wrote to the
la.dy, apologising. Before, however, he could post
his apologetic missive, he received from the widow
the following reply Sir, I accept the husband
you offer me, with pleasure. He has a very
distinguished air.” L’Alpiance, then, has over
sixteen columns of closely - printed advertise-
ments; and an extraordinary feature in these
announcements is that all the advertisers ap-
pear to have cash unlimited. For instance, here
is a widow lady with 200,000 francs (£8000) who
wishes to wed a gentleman of position, and imme-
diately below this we find “ une demoiselle in-
struite ” advertised for by a gentleman possessing
‘‘a fortune of one million francs.”! We will give
you the next one side by side with the French
original. We fear (though such a thing has never
occurred, to our knowledge, since we commenced
to impart instruction to humanity) you should
doubt the authenticity of what we serve up to
you
“Demoiselle noble, 23 “ A young lady of title,
ans, d’ancienne famille, 23 years,coming of an old
900 000 fr. do dot, desire- family, with £36,<>oodow-
rait dpousor Monsieur ry, wishes to marry a
occupant belle position gentleman of good posi-
industrielle ou commer- tion either in commerce
ciale -” or some other industry.”
Then one with 150,000 francs wishes to wed a bar-
rister; another, with 70,000 fr., a splendid trousseau,
and good expectations, is desirous of being linked
with a head clerk. The ladies advertise witli great
energv through six or seven pages for lieutenants,
captains, engineers, architects, publicans, even for
workmen; but there is not one sinyle demand for a
.journalist! This ought to be a crusher for the
young man who wishes to “shine In the world of
letters” and “keep up the appearance of a pro-
fessional I ” What a show he has of finding a lady
with a little means who will help him along in his
business! So far as we are concerned, we bear
calmly this neglect of the noble guild —we quote
an Evening News man—of letters. We remember
that we are married: and a robust voice has just
also recalled to our recollection that there is some-
thing wrong with the pump.
‘‘Old Streak-’em, Btroke'-em ” was the
sobriquet by which, some years ago. one of the
mr ff h? t h ShlP h W J ler i l ia GJa KOW was known. Ho
h^ d a d ® cent baptismal name, possibly
bU u If was very little used amongst
ty odred « who sailed in his vessels, or
d < hls warehouses along shore. He
an °i F ®i Qa ' * ever there was one, a cranky
cross-grained, canny Seot, of the old school, and
he received his nickname was this:—A
captain in his service brought one of bis vessels
white ™* " Rih w elfrr, H v ? y ** e with her decks as
make them B “«str oa w d „ Prayer Books ” could
hisnracHco +hl e em ’ was, as was invariably
"I B ,P™ c 5 ce * the flrst man on board. His eyes lit
on the snowy planks, and without greeting captain
lor officers he rushed for’ard. '* Do’sen, Bo sent-
he roared, “ha ve ony Stockholm?” »>r'
caskies, sir,” replied that officer, who knew his
yuan. i etch ’em aft then, an’ knock their heeds
m,” shouted the old fellow. This was soon dont
and seizing- a broom he. to the Infinite horror m*
the captain, commenced to plentifully plaster it
over the decks, whilst saying, with every move
ment of the broom backwards and forwards—
streak em, stroke ’em, streak ’em, stroke ’em
J II !earn y > to wear awa’ my timmer wi’ ver
dawmed hooly-stanes;” then turning to the captain
Noo, ye doft callant, see that ye hae them a’ the
same gude colour when I come back; streak W
stroke em, ye ken, wi’ a’ the brooms in the shin*
Rut Perhaps one of the best of the many storks
told of the eccentric old curmudgeon, is in Conner
tion with pamting the stern of one of his newlr
launched vessels. The “artist” he had engaged
tor t he purpose was a Londoner, and on his apply
ing to old “Streak-’em” for instructions, that
worthy replied: “Hoot mon! joost pent a pt
fS cnt.icc, a pot) wi a flo-er in her moo. 1 ’ The man
w iuid have obj-ct.-d, had he dared, to wh .t h«
regarded as an absurdity, but very few people
aver objected to “Streak-’em Stroke’-em,” ora?
east to ms orders. So he went to work. A dav or
wo itfierw'irds, and just as the man was putting
he finishing touches to his contract, his employe?
lame t. . the staging and literally stood aghast as
10 behold the result of his directions. “Oh vl
lalt-born fule, ye! ” ho roa ed, at length, tuining
n fury on the poor painter, “ye mongrel-bred
junnon tyke that ye are. Dldna I tell ye a pig!
: P ] «. ! .ve feckless eediot, an’ may I dee an" be
Jt >' e hae na bin an’ pented a bluidy auld
The London Jeweller.
London, September 1,1883.
“ The progress and success which it is possible
tor a commercial enterprise to reach, is sbo«*n
very fnrciblv by a descriptive account which the
American Waltham Watch Company are now
issuing to the English watch trade, and we under-
stand that any jewellers desimus of distributing
these leaflets in their re.ghbourhood with the
vmw of promoting business* can have a supply on
application to the offices of the Company »t
Holborn-circus. The buildings at Waltham, it is
stated, cover an area of 48,371 feet, the frontage
on the street is io4 feet, length of main building
>46 feet, aggregate length of benches 387 miles,
length of shafting 3'93 miles. These figures sneak
r of the Present position o? the
1 t^e f 1 * 00 ;*® 8 and increasing sale of
thf u » a f m wat i jh VPr y substantially proved
bv the statement that it took 23 years to make
Lins IiOU watches, six yea. sto make the
SnnS ,8 . estimated that the third
mil ion will be produced in about two years. It
Z ha Beem )l rom ,his tl,at every buyer of a
fHend«?i a^ a / ChBpea ), k 8 wellof and induces his
sam^nnll?^^ 1 / 0118 *® 0 -’ and tlley do the
same, until the rat© of increase becomes so for-
iu'hat it is difficult to comprehend what
lYki b Jw e rf l Sult a f 9 w >’ PbrB hence. Hut progress
like that shown in the leaflet referral to
proves not only the quality of the watch sold, but
also how well the Waltham Company must bo
managed: for the best article will not force its
way in the world unless it is assisted by good
business capacity and generalship. ' 8


M
THE
EGNO
N
r^ssr:
wmm
'Hi;
4^
THE
Is the MOST SUCCESSFUL Instrument ever in-
troduced to Australia. SUPERIOR to all others
of similar size in Tone, Touch, Durability, and
Finish.
THE
Is Iron-framed, Double Oblique Trichord, and
Seven Octaves in compass, in beautiful Walnut
or Ebonised Case, or Gold Engraved.
THE
PI^.ITO
Is the BEST and CHEAPEST Piano in Sydney. No
piano ever had such a sale as the “ MIGNON.”
THE
ANOTHER BIG SUCCESS!
One of the LARGEST and BEST-CONSTRUGTED
Pianos ever made.
FULL-TONED !
BEAUTIFUL QU l LTTY I
PERFECTION OF TOUCH J
ALWAYS RECOMMENDS ITSELF I
THE
to
S 3?” Illustrated catalogues of the “MIGNON,”
“WILMER,” and all other good instruments, to
be had on application.
NICHOLSON - AND GO.,
325 George-street,
THE FIRST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR PIANOS
AND ORGANS.
QUCNG TART & CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
ti HotUi Si Imoctos
28, 20, and 30 SYDNEY ARCADE, and
7 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
All Teas carefully selected at the plant *tions by
our own Tea-taster, and quality guarateed.
Intending- purchasers should visit our Tea Rooms
and sample for themselves before buying.
The ladies of the city will And our new rooms k
the King-street Arcade a great acquisition—airy
comfortable, and commodious, with promp;
ttendants.
s
I/O
n
JT'AII
OR
"
m
SI
Kttfli
»\ & 1\ w
* 0 o
/'• SwV:-
T R y BURGIS £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
J,™ 168 • 6d. AlJ[ garments hand mad.-, and
gh y B,lrlmk - Thls 18 th e cheapest, house lor
Svrtnf,', 8 « nuln ? BUlt ofclottaes. 170 PITT- STREET,
for»f y i Samples and diagrams for self-measuring
forwarded to any part of the colony. 8
ÜBL I C
NOTICE.
MS, El, t CO.’S
BRIAN BORU
n
IS MANUFACTURED FROM THE
FINEST IRISH GRAIN.
BRIAN BORTJ WHISKY" is bonded for severa.
years before being bottled for export.
BRIAN BOItU WHISKY, when well matured
by age, is caret ullv bottled under supervision of
the officers of H.M. Customs.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is exported in enorm-
ous quantities to all parts of the world.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY. Australian con-
sumers will find this brand
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
, BRIAN BORU WHISKY. The great demand
for this old Irish brand in England, Scotland, and
the Colonies is a sufficient guarantee for its
quality.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, sold by leading mer-
chants throughout the colonies.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY comes direct from
distillers.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, manufactured by
YOUNG, KINO, and CO., “as a firm” one of the
largest whisky holders in the world,
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is unequalled in this
market for age and purity.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY was nevor exhibited,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &c.
YOUNG, KING & CO.. Distillers. Belfast,
WHISKY 801 ® OW,lers of ***** AN BOBU
JAMES YOUNG, JUN.,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVE IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
YOUNG, KING, & CO.,
DISTILLERS,
BELFAST, IRELAND.
OFFICES:
SYDNEY : 7 & 9 Change Alley;
MELBOURNE: 35 Flinders-street East;
ADELAIDE: Universal Buildings, Grenfell-street;
And at BRISBANE.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY.
BLEND
TRADE
MA
BLEND WHISKY.-This Is a BLEND
\J of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
A Check to Drunkenness!
THAT Curse of Nations, which desolates our
homes. Alls our gaols, and ends in painful un-
timely Death. A beverage is wanted that stimu-
lates, yet not intoxicates. Its price must be
moderate. The problem is satisfactorily solved
by
DALM AND OERTEL’S SELTZER-WATER,
Patronised and ordered by all leading doctors.
Highly spoken of by the Press. “ No family should
be without it.” We also highly recommend our
Lemonade, Soda-water, Ginger Ale, Tonic. Lithia-
water for Gout—the only remedy. Potass-water
Rheumatism. Friedrichsballer bitter-water,
and Carlsbad, for centuries known as the best
purgatives. Obtainable at leading Hotels, Grocers,
Chemists, &c., throughout the colonies. For town
and suburbs delivered by our carts.
MINERAL-WATER WORKS,
37 Bourke-street, Redfern.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
sw
m
ORb'£
iLmwm
t£uu%
AND
WfUniaJ
* m P°jtapce that contents of
Bhou . l( l be cftrefuiJy compared, as large
™;““„alib«"?s.' mporte ' ! to, ° N< " South
gSTESM HiSIfJSW&Ys'K?
the other brands, when they will find a difference
LAND e WHISKY Cent ' favour 01 LORN E HIG H-
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
Rev. Father Wilds’
EXPERIENCE.
The Rev. Z. P. Wilds, well-known city
missionary in New York, and brother
of the late eminent Judge Wilds, of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, writes
as follows:
“78 E. 51th St., New York, May 16,1882.
Messrs. J. C. Ayer & Co.. Gentlemen :
Last winter I was troubled with a most
uncomfortable itching humor affecting
more especially my limbs, which itched so
intolerably at night, and burned so intense-
ly, that 1 could scarcely bear any clothing
over them. I was also a sufferer from a
severe catarrh and catarrhal cough; my
appetite was poor, and m.y system a good
deal run down. Knowing the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, by observation of
many other cases, and from personal use
in former years, I began taking it for the
above-named disorders. My appetite im-
proved almost from the first (lose. After
a short time the fever and itching were
allayed, and all signs of irritation of the
skin disappeared. My catarrh and cough
were also cured by the same means, and
my general health greatly improved, until
it is now excellent. I feel a hundred per
cent stronger, and I attribute these results
to the use of the Sarsaparilla, which
I recommend with all conlldence as the
best blood medicine ever devised. I took
it in small doses three times a day, and
used, in all, less than two bottles. 1 place
these facts at your service, hoping their
publication may do good.
Yours respectfully, Z. P. Wilds.”
The above instance is but one of the many
constantly coming to our notice, which prove
the perfect adaptability of Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla to the cure of all diseases arising
from impure or impoverished blood, nud a
weakened vitality.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cleanses, enriches, and strengthens the blood,
stimulates the action of the stomach and
bowels, and thereby enables the system to
resist and overcome the attacks of all Scrofu-
lous Diseases, Eruptions of the Skin, llheu-
matism , Catarrh, General Debility, and all
disorders resulting from poor or corrupted
blood and a low state of the system.
prepared by
Dr.J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists; price $l, six bottles
for §5.
AYER’S
CATHARTIC
PILLS. '
Best Purgative Medicine
cure Constipation, Indigestion, Headache, and
all Bilious Disorders. »
1 Sold everywhere. Always reliable,
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO ,
Wholesale Agents.
3
fV
%
\)9
o*
r
©\
V,\N«
'4^
aeoMC. s
J ,
OPPOSITE POST OFfICF.
irmitcst srrttr
liemv
u
Note the Address:
339 & 341 George.street.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
n 'S&fSKATB*
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
80LE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
tatT MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
after oefore
Copyrighted.
MOUSTACHE and WHISKERS.
Boyd's Beard Elixir did this, and
toill do it on either bald fund or
bare face. Forces heavy Alans,
tar he infrom,2to 4 weeks and never
fails, 21),QOO young men already
- - _ wear full beards, having Med Ito
3 pkts. No injury, easily applied, certain in effect,
each, 3 for 3*. 6 d.,post paid, sent under cover, free
4ddress, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent,Box TAP, G.P.O,
froir observation.
, Sydney ,N.S.W'
—■
EEFORS AFTER
Copyrighted.
Packets I*. 6d.
BLAKE’S UNPROVED
STEAM PUMPS.
H. P. GREGORY & GO.,
17 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE ABOVE,
and have in Stock and to arrive—
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULATING PUMPS
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING PUMPS
SEND FOR PRICES AND ALL PARTICULARS
CATALOGUES FORWARDED FREE.
A COLOSSAL TRADE!!!
The following 1 Gentlemen are engaged as
CUTTERS In the
LARGEST and Mont EXTENSIVE
Tailoring Establishment
In the Southern Hemisphere.
Some 300 hands are now employed by Messrs.
SVMNERFIELD & Co., whose chief
place of business is
235 & 237 Pitt-st,
SYDNEY, with Branches at
NEWCASTLE, DUBBO, WAGGA, and 61 & S 3
LEADENHALL-STREET, LONDON, E.C.
Mr. H. W. CHAPMAN, the well-known City
Cutter.
Mr. W. FROST, Thirty Years’ Sydney expe-
rience.
Mr. C. PROBYN, of Poole’s, SaviUe Row,
London.
Mr. H. J. TONKIN, of Tonkin, Sons and Co.,
Bristol.
Mr. R. MORRISBY, Eight Years with Summer-
held and Co.
Mr. CHARLES TATJTZ, of Tautz and Co.,
Breeekee Makers, Piccadilly.
At Nxwcajstijb :
Mr. WALTER RICE, bast known Cutter in
Australia.
Mr. W. SHAW.
ilmdm,
THE FEOFLE’3 TAILORS,
AND GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS.
ZOEDONE,
Pleasant, Refreshing,
Invigorating.
non-alcoholic beverage acts as a brain and
nerve tome, and does not intoxicate.
ZOEDONE
Is reoommonded by the Faculty as a substitute for
wine, beer, and spirits, as it invigorates without
producing any intoxicating effect. In case of
debility consequent on a long residence in a hot
climate, it is of great service, as it acts not only as
a nerve stimulant, but also as a permanent tonic
to the system.
Price per case containing 10 dozen J 4 pints ...31/.
« *« •» 6 .. 1 „ 31/-
HLLIOTT BROTHERS,
72 and 74 Pitt-street,
Sydney.
PAINTS.
OILS. JV
&
WALL
PAPERS
Office: 330 George-strect.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
N.R. Patterns and Prices sent.
rW
>
HOT WATER BATHS
Hni 1 rr^-4.:*•/:.rsr.Ar i -,wMGur
io/. !J-» 4/14! CX*v0Ft L
/ H Ol / L, , 1 y /■ / -/. /> : ' 7~.V 4/. . y


HE WOULD DO HIS DUTY.
A PASTORAL PARALVSER,
In Four Fyttes and an Interval.
DRAMATIS PERSONAE:
Wholesale Grabber, Esq.—A pastoral lesseo on
an extensive scale.
Mr. D. Uty.—A newly-appointed Inspector of
C.P.’s, and who Is, as such, most flrmly deter-
mined to do his duty.
John Dumbye.—A selector. .
Scene, Sarawak.
fytte i.
W. Grabber ( loq .): Good morning, Mr. Gty.
Going far ?
D. Uty: Not very far, Mr. Grabber: only out to
look for a selector named lmmbye, and round
about a bit. You see, I'm a stranger in the dis-
trict. Some of the places are dillicult to find, and
I want to do my duty if possible, you know.
W. Grabber: Oh, of course. Yes; very right.
Dumbye's, eh V 1 Oh, well, s’pose I may as well ride
along with you and show you a bit ef the country.
FYTTE 11.
W. Grabber ( pointing to hut in the distance):
There, that's Dumbye’s place ; but you needn’t
bother yourself about him. He's one of “ our's,”
you know. Good man, Dumbye. Very old ser-
vant. Turned him out therewith the run of his
teeth, you see. Ha! ha! ha! He'sall right enough.
Come along, though, and I’ll show you a fellow
who’s a confoundeu nuisance, and who hasn't been
on his ground for a twelve-mouth.
D. Uty : Eh ? What! What d’ve moan, Mr.
Grabber? (Pulls out memorandum). Yes, here it
is, right enough—J. Dumbye, 610 a C.P., parish of
Sarawak.
W. Grabber (aside): What a d—d ass! (Aloud):
Oh, that’s square enough, of course; and old Tip-
taker's passed it half-a-dozen times before you
came. Oh, well; of course, if you must see the
man, you must!
fytte 111.
D. Uty (loq ): Mr. Dumbye, I presume ?
Dumbye: That's me.
D. Uty: Areyou the bona fide owner of this pro-
perty standing in your name P
Dumbye ( hesitatingly , and looking at Grabber):
Well, s pose so. But you ain’t Mr. l’iptaker ?
D. Uty doq): Never mind who I am. Is this land
yours ? W hy, the hut's empty and the tank's dry!
How and where do you get your living ?
Dumbye ( doggedlu): Look here, you want to
know too much! Better ask the boss there (point-
ing to Grabber).
W. Grabber : Come, come, Mr. Utv: that’s
enough, surely. Can't you see with half an eye
which way the wind blows ? Why, you're irregu-
lar new-ehum! You've done all you're paid lcr
doing now. Come along.
D. Uty (stifflu): Mr. Grabber, I believe I shall be
but doing my duty bv moving for an inquiry into
this conditional purchase I think it looks most
suspicious. And you yourself admitted, a short
time ago, that the holder was one of your own
employes. I must do my duty, sir.
W. Grabber: Never said such a thing, I can
assure you.
D. Uty: And I say you did, sir. ( Exchange mu-
tual compliments, and exeunt).
FYTTE IV.
“ To the Hon. the Minister for Plantations, Borneo.
“ Dear Peter,—Things, I see, are looking rather
shady for your side just at present, and the general
opiuion seems to be that before lorg you’ll all
have to ‘face tho country’ again. By the way,
how did that ass of an Inspector of C.P.’s come to
be sent up here—D. Uty, I mean ? He’s kicking up
a fine shine. Says he must do his duty. Prepos-
terous, that, you know. Got dummyism on the
brain, I think. Couldn’t you manage to sack him
or shift him somewhere out of the road, and send
old Tiptaker back again ? Everybody is complain-
ing. Try, and oblige
“ Yours most sincerely,
“ Wholesale Grabber.
“I .S.— Should things come to a push with you, and
v l should have to come up here, I think I may
ay my people are good for fifty votes at the least,
i. the right side.—W.G.”
AN INTERVAL.
Wholesale Grabber (reading Government
azette) : “ C. M. G. Tiptaker to be Inspector of
< nditional Purchases, Sarawak District, vice D
Utv, transferred to Fly lfiver District, N G.’
Aloud): Ah! He would do hisdEty, would he?
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ If you are suffering from poor health
‘or languishing on a bed of sickness,
‘ take cheer, for
Hop Bitters will cure you.
“If you are simply ailing, if you feel
‘ weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘knowing why,
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
“ If you are-a Minister, and have ovev-
‘ taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘ and work,
Hop Bitters will Restore you.
“If yor. are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
‘ your overy-day duties, or a man of let-
‘ ters, tolling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strengliten you.
“ If you are suffering from overeating
‘ or drinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
‘ pation, or are young and growing too
‘ fast, as is often the case,
Hop Bitter’s will relieve you.
“ If you are in the workshop, on the
‘ farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
‘ that your system needs cleansing, ton-
‘ ing, or stimulating, without inttoxicat-
‘ing
Hop Bitters is what you need.
“If you are old, and your blood thin
‘and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
‘ unsteady, and j’our faculties waning,
Hop Bitters will give you new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS is an elegant, heal-
* thy, and refreshing flavouring for sick-
‘ room drinks ; impure water, etc., ren-
‘ dering them harmless, and sweetening
1 the mouth, and cleansing the stomach.’’
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
HOP BITTERS
is an Elegant, Pleasant, and Refreshing Flavouring
for sick-room drinks and Impure Water, rendering
them harmless, sweetening the mouth, and cleans-
ing the stomach.
GRAHA
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
643, late 631, George-etroet, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—l respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and lit of our
Trousers, which are cut on the Bame unerring
principles as those which have made th® name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion In the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either In sitting, riding,
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces,
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as woll as
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial wIH suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am. Sir
Yourobedient Scivmt,
JOHN GRAHABT.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS 1 , LTVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS, tKI.
PRICE 2s. 6d.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE. Chemist, to
43 KRSKINE STREFT.
TnlW TT, BOTTfi. and pi) OhA«ntgfa
BOUTS WITH THE
BAILIFFS.
E lias been in two days
and as he stretches out
there, with dusty feet on
a pillow, and dreams the
happy hours
away, we
peruse ag un
his written authority for taking up lodgings under
our roof tree. From Ilia 1 : document we learn riutt,
a “judgment ’ was obfaiued| i£raii.flt us for so much ;
and that, hr we had failed to divert, that amount oi
currency from its nvtural purpose of supplying
bread —and as, moreover, the days are gone by
when decapitation paid all bills, a “ warrant ot
execution ” is issued against our goods and wo are
consequently looking up the produce reports in
order to ascertain how straw is quoted, in \ iew of
an early adoption of that breezy stylo of repose
recommended by the great financial and saniiary
reformer, Marjorv Daw. Further on, we gather
that if the whole amount (it s only about seven
years’ earnings) be paid within one hour of the
gorgon’s entry, everything will work sweet. But,
as forty-eight houis have already elapsed, and
uncle Mo. is full up of our accounts, we have made
no sign. It is therefore, a foregone thing that in
three days’ time there will be a rare opportunity
for parties about to furnish—the whole of the
elegant furniture, pianos, clocks, &c., selected in
Europe, together with an imported tomahawk
with a loose handle, the whole lot tilling one
packing case and a portmanteau, and amoui. t-
Fng in value to fully fifteen shillings, will
have to go without reserve. In the meantime we
have adopted such little precautions as a some-
what varied experience has taught us. And how
our memory wanders back to the days when
irruptions such as this were mot with considerable
agitation, not to say worry! When we had given
our nights and days to Addison for purity of style,
and to the reports ot Parkes's speeches for a final
polish and moral tone, prior to launching out into
the glorious and lucrative career of letters, we
were not cool. We disliked the practice of the
women along the terrace leaning on their brooms
at the door, and sending around their children to
watch the loading of the van, and take stock of
the pattern of the carpet and the number of flat-
irons. We used to swear, and getaway. Those
were in the old days, and before we had begun to
look upon the bailiff as the heaven - ordained
adjunct to a literary career, and his work as the
crowning glory ot British jurisprudence. The
property of the liteiary man has in all ages been
recognised as the most acceptable and legitimate
sacrifice at the altar of justice, and the profession
of a bailiff as the most honourable open to man.
Property is made to he seized; and if there were
nothing to seize, thousands of honourable gentle-
men would be cast upon the cold world, the
march of civilisation be retarded, and the intellect
of the man of letters would stagnate for want of
wholesome change. But, as we said, these things
only dawn on a man after many years’ experience.
We should say that at least two dozen seizures
have to be gone through before one’s estimate of
this business, and knowledge of how to treat its
oflicers with due deference mature; and, as many
literary men, and successful ones, too, have been
known to go months and months together without
entertaining one of these angels, it is not to be
wondered at that their posthumous letters some-
times betray an amount of agitation over such
affairs, that, to say the least of it, looks like repin-
ing against the decrees of Heaven. Seizable pro-
perty could not exist without a teizer, and to rail
at the process is to run amuck at the very founda-
tion of property, and to prevent accumulation—
the worst form oi communism.
* * *
Many are the devices of the amateur
seizee. One gentleman ot our acqu dntance has
followed with unbroken success tho practice of
loading up at night, lending this load of household
gods to a friend, and coming around to stay with
us when our man is not “in.” It is a cheerful
spectacle when this adept taps at the door and
comes upstairs We remember ono particular
occasion. We were at breakfast, and hourly ex-
pecting seizure. The children were well up to
their work and at the ttrst tap tho whole live rose,
and pocketed their spoons. Then each “ plauted ”
a tin-plate under a brick in the (Ire-place, and
walked off to school humming “ There s no place
like homo.” We openei the door. Macaulay said
“Open wider, and take in real estate, land in fee,
and in reveision. Prepare for prospective profits,
and realised wealth : and get ready a bit of some-
thing to eat while I fritter away broad acres.’’ It
was then that we noticed his bulk. In times of
“WALKED OFF BUMMING ‘THERE’S NO PLACE LIKE HOME.’”
ordinary prosperity, and when his chest is not in-
flated with the burning sentiments of an ode for
next week’s Town and Country Journal, he is
slender built, and, like the rest of that staff, with
legs that might be worked off in a job lot of pick-
handles. But now he could have given John
Lucas twelve inches, and sent every button of his
waistcoat fiying. “ Yes,” he said, pulling off two
overcoats, three coats, lour vests, three pairs of
trousers, six shirts, aud emptying out of his hat
live collars, three pairs of socks, a comb, and
a Mackinnon pencil, “ l thought I would
leave over there, and shift into more com-
modious quarters. You see, there was some
little difficulty about getting out my port-
manteau, so I thought i would just wear away
my property. I shall have to call over three or
four times again to-day, as there are some boots
and slippers I shall want.” He then sat down and
asked our opinion of the last line of his new ode,
aud forgot all about breakfast.
* * *
Another has discovered that a good
bottle of whisky judiciously administered
in a public-house handy, will cause a stern
bailiff to lose his way back for tho night;
■whilst a third relies on treating him hospitably,
and then flavouring his tea so peculiarly that he
requires to go to the hospital. But all these de-
vices fade beside the masterly ouo of having no-
thiDg—a style of living for which the income and
tastes of the literary man are peculiarly suited. It
is a known fact that pleasant surroundings, pic-
tures, music, an H comfortable sofas, have a ten-
dency to repress the noble rage of the soul, and to
enfeeble the understanding. Tn this view it is a
great tribute to the intellectual vigour of George
Eliot, Swinburne, and other wealthy writers to
state that they were able, in spite of these draw-
backs, to produce the woriis they have. For our
part, we find our highest flights when we sit
down on the floor and transfer to paper,
spread on a gio - case, the thoughts that
breathe and words that burn. When the
stomach is not burdened with the dainties of the
pampered rich, but just lightly and commodiously
nourished once a day from the groaning boards of
a sixpenny eating-house, then genius expands her
rainbow wings, and catches the sheen of the upper
skies-scattering her golden rays all adown the
empyrean - gladdening stars and revivifying a
moribund humanity. Then the clear brain shivers
with the divine tones of poesy, the dishevelled
threads of subtle speculation warp and woof them-
relves into a handsome method; scattered con-
jectures unite into a symmetrical whole, r.nd
poetry, metaphysics, and paragraphs gush forth
with the point, the elegance, and the ineisivenesa
of a M’Eihonian estimate of the Government.
And. then, the surroundings. When the caudk sticks
have gone with the rest,! when the wood-heap can
no longer be kept in countenance with the loose
palings of your neighbour's fence, and you wash
your face at the tap and wipe it on your sleeve,
“ Isn’t that your son Tirrince, Mrs. MacHalloran ?”
“Whist, it is; but he doesn’t wish me to recognoise him on the sthreet.”
and scrape your bald spot with a three-tooth
comb, and the milkman calls next door, and the
butcher and grocer meditate about sending sup-
plies, and decide not to—then is the time to pile
up an extra wad of straw at your back, and to
lie down with a wisp in your ear and a handful in
the small of your back, and give way to profitable
meditation. It is then that the true man of letters
knows that this is the best of all possible worlds,
lie secs maras of design in the mosquitos that
blacken his tossing children, and adaptation in
every knot and carpet tack that binds him to
earth. He has consolation in the thought that his
neighbours sleep well, and have corn and wine in
ample store. Oh, yes. When the bailiff has come
and gone, and all the enfeebling surroundings of
chair and mirror and table and crockery have
vanished, then is the time to stick your candle in
your blucher, and roll out the side-splitting joke,
the pointed epigram, and the polished stanza. How
else did we produce our immortal “ Considerations
on the Probable Destiny of Imperial Rule,” or
trill off the first three cantos of tne ” Lay of the
Lily ?” In what walk ol life is the art acquired so
early and thoroughly of wearing the boot all down
at the heel to k- ep the toe from going ? Where
will you find that exquisite enjoyment of the
infrequent German sausage, or the unforseen
counter lunch that nourishes and inspires ?
Where . But he is stirring. Will we join you
across the <ay ? Certainly. And you can favour
us with that little ditty of yours.
• • •
THE BALLAD OF THE BAILIFF
Oh a merry life has a bailiff bold,
No care nor toil has he;
He thrusts the widow out in the cold
And warms his toos while the hed is sold
Then travels right merrilie.
He merrily travels away, my boys,
And cares not, he, a pin ;
For a woman’s sobs are a cheerful noise,
And a rattling joke the tears of her boys,
That raise but a good old grin.
To-night he rests on a poet’s bed.
Watching the pale-faced bard
Pacing and racking his fevered head
For the rhyme he must write to bring him bread
“ Oh God, but the wo-ld is hard 1”
And then he sits on the spendthrift’s chair,
Sipping the spendthrift's wine ;
And he leaves his lodgings empty and bare,
And sings in the midst of the deep despair
“ Oh, a merry old life is mine.”
They’ve got a Latin class at Randwick
now, and Mr. Isaac Samuelson seems to take a
great inter£ st in it. He walked in, the other day,
musiugly, and having tapped a boy on the head
who was choking over an apple, he stood a d
listened. “I suppose you’ve forgotten all your
Latin. Mr. Samuelson, by this time?” said the
teacher, smiling. Then there came a lull. “No,”
replied he, thoughtfully; “I know a bit yet.
What do you call that part that begins with hii*?”
he enquired. “ Demonstrative pronouns,’' replied
1h a teacher. “ Alt,” rejoined the great man, “well
1 know some of that. Lot’s see:—’7 lie luve hoc. -
Hujus—lKK.' I always remember that,” ho ex-
plained, “because it brings in my own name so
pat. Good inornua.”


Notch whiskey!
THE premier whiskey is
THOM AND CAMERON’S
IL£a,tvLred.
Quality unsurpassed.
d *ly brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
OB^RSo f IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
***’ & CO.'S DUBLIN WHISKEY
itjj b is Unsurpassed.
h„ ubii n, and ond for rt at the Distillery,
not boen C nP?i? m u rs may ’ I' _nefore, rely that it
U f th « hand « of “ " hiskey Doctors.”
mark T Bee that y° u tret it, look for the
• 111 diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Bol e Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &0. .
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by beat makers.
J LAWLER, 608 George-street, Bedding Manu-
• facturer, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed-
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair,
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. Established 1860.
Peapes & Shaw’s
S TANDARJT CLP THING.
haVen r^ open, for the SUMMER SEASON, THE MOST COMPREHENSIVE ASSORTMENT OF
GENTLEMEN’S READY-MADE CLOTHING to be found in any house in the city.
“STANDARD” TWEED SUITS,” 335. 6d., 335., 435., 455., 505., 555.
BLUE SERGE SUITS, 35;. and 435.
TWEED SAC COATS, 6s. 6d. each,suitable for garden or office.
1 WEED SAC COATS, 15s. 6d. and 21s.
BLUE SERGE SAC COATS, 18s. 6d„ 21s.
TWEED TROUSERS, lf.s. 6d., 13s. 6d., 16s. 6d.
TROUSERS and VESTS, 255. and 30s.
fe&jLUG]
Sp ECTAr OVERCOATS, 425., 505., 555.
COLOURED HOLLAND SAC COATS, 4s. 6d. EACH.
LIGHT SUMMER DUST COATS, THIRTY SHILLINGS.
-fcs' wf HATS, all new summer shapes.
1 5te^&e WAR SmTS ’ suo ‘"“>'
MACINTOSH CLOTHING.—AH
°rATINfj OI J-?TK ad ® to our special order.
’ PICKETING, and LAWN-TENNIS
| 8 F 6d AN NEL SACS, for cricketing or boat-
TROUSERS, 13s 6d. per pair.
WHITE and COLOURED LINEN DUCK VESTS,
9s. 6d. each ; 3 for 375.
WHITE and COLOURED DUCK COATS, military
or roll collars, 68. Gd., 10s. 6d., 13s. 6d, 14s. 6d.,
18s. 6d., 21s.
DUCK TROUSERS, 12s. 6d. per pair.
CHINA SILK SAC and DUST COATS, 13s. 6d.,
18s. 6d., 21s.
BLACK ALPACA COATS, 10s. 6d„ 13s. 6d., 15s. 6d.
BLACK CASHMERE and RUSSELL CORD
COATS, 18s. 6d. f 21s.
PEAPES and SHAW, George-street.
'on.
DEPARTMENT is stocked with all the LEADING NOVELTIES for the Summer
%T- S ,
LISLE THREAD and SUMMER MERINO HALF-HOSE, in plain colours or fancy
from 12s. per dozen.
r' Vtlt SHIRTS. India Gauze, Gosamer, Summer Merino (coloured and white), Balbriggan,
Pants to match.
. ,
a , S iu nfi°+ scarf in position,
titosibert w th< ? Newest Shapes, Colourings, and Designs.—The Masher, Cyprus, Rosebery, Marquis,
A« u J' m ' Hand -
I§S I°-U-16 ribs, Natural Sticks, Nickel Fittings, from 10s. 6d. to 355.
AMf\NIA UMBRELLA, folds neater and closer than any umbrella, 1 guinea each.
5 tUNTr9S* BI NATION BRACE and DRAWERS SUSPENDERS.
2ls., 80s., 40s. the dozen.
PEAPES & SHAW, George-sfreet.
'Wolff Ss Son’s
roin all Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
. «&.re IfTow Open..
HOTEL,
C °rner of KING and CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
R. McCLEERT (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
riE Bar up-stairs.
0 00\
oU^
Hi
H
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
I»
consume, in manufacture, nearly three-
fourths of the whole of the leaf imported
K % into N.S. Wales, therefore their Twist and
S° stand FIRST in the estimation of judges of Tobacco.
riCitueror ’ Sir R°£ er (thick twist), Cut R.C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture.
. Jt *TTES.— CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold a high position.
mDor t eri of Pipes Clsraru. awd all Tobacconista’ Sundries,
TOBACCO WORKS, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
W;
Guff
/ mm m mm ■ i
ar & Cutler.
t=®"‘ TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only award.?)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 603 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne ; also Angel© Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
SOHO BAZAAR,
362 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior assort
ment of
Brie a Brae, Articles of Verth,
Terra Cotta, Chinaware, &c.,
Tricycles, French and German
Model Bolls, Count Harrach’s
Bohemian Yases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Figures,
and all varieties of
FANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
S©;fo.o IBetzetstr
352 George Street
JOHN G. HARBOROW,
470 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Fruit Markets,
m
it
GLOVE 3
HOSfERY
SUNSHADES
Daces
LADIES’ BOOTS & SHOES
HAND BAGS
PANS
PUHSES
and all varieties of FANCY GOODS.
470 Beorge-streei.
PTflUMDSWORTif
AUCTIONEER, VALUATOR,
House, LautS & Estate ilggenf
63 ROYAL ARCADE PITT STREET.
PURE COUNTRY BULK.
|Jp|HE MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Butter.
This is either manufactured at their own depSt
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
21 HARBOUR STREET.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
£26 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music In Stock.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET. SYDNEY.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED by ACToy PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £132,600
Directors *
The Hon. Sir John E ay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
_ „ Auditors:
Jas. Scrogg-ie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq
Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Alien.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, Nyngran, and Bourke.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhal l -street.
Directors :
Edward Chapman, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G
Goo. F. Slade, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
“This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
w.
KERR,
Watchmaker
Jeweller,
and
Silversmith.
H
AS JUST OPENED HIS NEW PREMISES
644 GEORCE STREET,
Opposite the TOWN HALL,
With a magnificent stock of Diamond, Roman
and Vienna Jewellery,
GOLD AND SILVER WATCHES & CLOCKS,
Football, Cricketing, and Trophy Speciality.
Note the Address—
El r 544 GEORGE STREET.
a
:r, IJu tar,”
TEMPORARY PREMISES :
110 SCing-street, Sydney.
GUNf-LER, THE
CATERER”
Has decided to open in Syd-
ney, but premises such as he
desires are.not now available.
He has therefore opened
temporarily at the above
address.
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER’®”
Name is a household word,
and his desire is to retain the
confidence of his customers,
who may rest assured that
the care and attention which
has made “Gunsler the
Caterer,” a household word
in the neighbouring- colony
will be devoted to any and
every undertaking he may
enter into.
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER’S ”
Staff of Cooks and Pastry-
cooks is the most complete of
its character in the colonies,
and their assistance will
enable the proprietor to
supply Shortbread, Jellies,
and every delicacy in. such
style and at such modetate
prices as has never been at>
tempted in this city.
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
Has a practical knowledge of
every branch of his business,
and consequently can gua-
rantee to every customer
thorough satisfaction, or at
any rate he will do his best
to deserve it.
GUNSLER THE
CATER-SR ”
Has much pleasure in offer-
ing to the public, for the
Christmas and New Year
Holidays, a few specialities,
and is confident they will
meetwith universal approval
GUNSLEK THE
CATERER”
Also manufactures every
class of goods incidental to
the Catering' business.
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
Make a special effort for the
supply of the finest brands
of French and English Con-
fectionery, for which he is
sole Agent in Australia.
(3UNSLER
Was the Special Caterer to
Sir George Ferguson Bowen,
to the Marquis of Normanby,
and V.R. Club.
GUNSLER
Is the leading Australian
Caterer.
GUNSLER
Has the most complete staff
of thoroughly trained hands,
GUNSLEU
Is prepared to undertake
Catering Contracts to any
magnitude.
fcST" THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT
on fixed deposits for 12 months; FI VE PER CENT
and UPWARDS for shorter periods : FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Saving's Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Parlc-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
A CURB GUARANTEED.
M ERV
BHALML
TREATMENT^-?*?
DR. E. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREAT-
MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness, con-
vulsions, fits, nervous neuralgia, headache, nervous
prostration caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco
wakefulness, mental depression, softening of the
brain resulting in insanity and leading to misery
decay, and death ; premature old age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain or over-indulgence.
Each box contains one month’s treatment, 6s,
box, or six boxes for 255.; sent by mail prepaid on
receipt of price. We guarantee six boxes to cure
any case, with each order received for six boxes
accompanied with 265., the purchaser will receive
the nanufacturer’s written guarantee to refund
the money if the treatment does not effect a cure
Guarantees issued by all chemists and druggists
Australia.


/
9 SYDNEY ARCADE & 12 ROYAL ARCADE.
Ml DIAMOND KB!, CAPE DOLD WATCHES, St,,
LATEST FASHION B.)
S, FCESODLC 3Qs. DS^CSZ.
Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually attended
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OYER PALING’S),
ss carried on with the original staff
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
JS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
N.B.—BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
L. E. HENDERSON, Manager.
J.
J.
THE PEOPLE’S CLOTHIER,
[g OPENING up, every day, a Larpe Stock o| Choice and |’ nd Sgg \
HOSIEBY - EVOT L»*f
plain-figures, and at VERY LOW PRICES. j r , or , 0 „t the Stock in
Jsgr- Both shops are thorougly chock full. Come ear!^“ d * ® P „ vr)Nß y to cb
I keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING BIEN’S CLOTHING m p ß gp»tf
Be sure you find the right shops, when requiring CLOTHING 01 E j,
J. J. Ryan, 760 George Street, Hayn^
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, near MarKe
HAWKES AND COMPANY,
TATTERSALL'S HORSE BAZAAR
and
SALE YARDS,
CORNER of CASTLEREAGH and HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sales Daily, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Livery; excellent accommodatioa
and fodder.
All kinds of Vehicles and Horses on Hire, day
or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
carriages.
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
separate.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 346.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
HEYDE, TODIHAH & CO.,
YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
Champagne
Heidsieck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OP ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsieck & Co., Reims.
BEAUTIFUL FLOWERS.
Cat Flowers of every description
Wreaths, Crosses, Wedding and Ball-dress
Bouquets
Ball Room Floral Furnishing
Plants for table, &c. Church Decorations.
SEARL SONS,
Banquet i sts and Florists,
3 and 5 GEOROE-STREET MARKETS, SYDNEY.
AIR-TIGHT SHOW CASE COMPY
er GEORGE STREET WEfiT.
SHOP,
OFFICE,
AND
Hotel-bar
FITTERS
IS
Air-tight
SHOW
CASES
AT
LONDON
PRICES.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
UMBRELLAS
REiCSVEBIB.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Hay c your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Ttnnaima ne«t,iy euro-
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gained against the World
First Prizes and Exhibition.
m:r. t. ware,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
lIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Co rner George & Market Streets, Sydney.
Toeth painlessly extracted by Laughing Gas,
iEt her Spray, Methyline, and ChlorofQrm.
HIGGINS
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCHWOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
fca
«INGH^IM’S
! Euphof\biv
<
Cure
.Asthma,Bronchitis a
* Coughs,
NO ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS,
™ PREPARED ONLY BY 5.
Thomas Ingham
OCKHAMPTON
m
70.
&
£
ms
O
-0
tr
2
o
20
O
*
<S
0
0>
<£/?$
BULL-DOG ALE.—IT is not the clearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this brand first in public
estimation. Common bitter crude beers are
made very fine, but no other brand has the
same mellow vinous character, the fullness on
the palate, and the great b eeping qualities of the
BULL-DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cau-
tioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred
to as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTELL
& CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents: WOOD
BROTHERS & CO.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and General Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produoe.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OF PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customers and the
public generally that he has a large assortment of
Drawing, Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
W. M. iWA
Importer of every desc
Literature , Law, Merc«
Fancy Station W
English Papers and Maga*
every Mail-
ROYAL ARCADE. 496 o®©^.
S?«
(LlMlT®®*'
GENERAL
. ruS o‘
"warding, Shipping, 0
and Commission 9
HEAD OF®* o®' 0 ®'
241 Pitt Street, W
#
CARRIERS TO THE
SOUTH WA®® 3
y
BRANCH OFF ,C^
oulbum
SOUTHERN DISTB iCT ’
owning
inalong
arden
oung
ootamundra
anee
.pertee
ithurst
ayney
-ange
ellington
abbo
arromine
overtire
ssag
§s>
sss?*
Hay ;
Western district
Nyogf
Condo
jyfycaafc
Cobaf„ji)ie
Coontf v
Donr® 6
NORTHERN
>rpetb
mnedah
•rrabri
ilgett
Cre^tf
3SSJ*
QUEENSLAND
Southern and South
.sbane
b° c
central I***'
Capeji 9
com®*
Bkhampton
?antungan J
ierald ~/i
U
■an-ve o*' 0 *'
wnsviUe
asters Towers
a So
Agents in Victoria and
,ttt»
__ o, £0"
W. M'CULLOCB f
' Agencies in
aUP^
of
t» e
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer of all kinds of Crated Wafers, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor off
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Gold Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs,
vig° ri *
Biti**’
