

PALACE
tAYMARHLET, ONLY
o*3XLn."vea:sa.l Jpx oviders. "CrxxiTrexs©,! PiOTidexx.
toe
A
IN«
The Prettiest Hiantles and! the most Charming Costumes in the Australian Colonies.
j Novel and Fashionable in Millinery, Laces, Ribbons, Trillings, Gloves, Lace Collars, Ties, Prints and Sateens;
* a multitude of pretty little accessories to ladies’ fashionable attire.
OF OUR
nmr»‘
V/jC \J\JL\
K of Bedsteads
18 UNMISTAKEABLE,
Pi
Elated to meet the wants of every
class of buyers.
V,
6 keep only the Very Eest Makes.
l 1S •'
!L
mu a
THE ENG HAVING 13 A FART REPRESENTATION
OF ONK OF THE
ay briiliois of iiWs
SOLD BY
Anthony hordern & sons.
We Sell at tlie Very Lowest Prices.
the foot end of the newest registered design in Black and Brass Bedsteads, 6ft. 6in. x 3ft., 39/6-; 6ft. 6in. x 3ft. 6in., 42/-
Double Bed, or 6ft. 6in. x 4ft. 6in., 51/6. 45/6. Bowcliffe’s Spring Mattress 45/6.
Our Bedding is all Our Own Manufacture, and we can guarantee its absolute purity and cleanness.
WHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
Palace Emporium, tfaymarket, Only.
The Bulletin
j^


(LIMITED),
REDFERN WORKS,
SYDNEY.
U NEQUALLED SAFETY.
EXTREME SIMPLICITY. m~ GREAT ECONOMY IN USE OF WATER.
S3T LEAST POSSIBLE WEAR OF ROPES.
as. ‘S
Hiitl
PW!
scsss
Mi® *
ts
m
//
swa^i-^SSJw
mmm
IST SIMPLICITY OF MANIPULATION. OT* SMOOTHNESS AND NOISELESSNESS OF MOTION.
FROM SHOCK CAUSED BY A BRUPT STOPPAGES. Estimates, Diejrrams, &o„ to be obtained at
HUDSON RitOTISEIIS, Regent-street, Recifern,
The Otis Hydraulic Elevators.
ALLAN A. HmSSHALL aisd CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIViKE GEAR, Brass '& Bisisteg-pSat©g§ SUSP PROMTS,
Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c,
t-gr Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing,
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, "VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas F/res, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BOM ACCOM WORKS, 8 Hk ® Slacquarie Place,
Full particulars and price on application.
SOLE IMPORTERS OF
Only Iron -frameil Pianos I
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
137 PITT STREET.
w
ataal
m
MpS
-: ■ ; c, -""■:;•■■•■■■•'
ks . t
', -
*.IS
agiCTjfj;
P ;'- :; i^^ :^u;v)lfeov‘;'M,
P, V■.■' && if :.v-i!il V /;\:i
**«&#' i&; ■
PlsP#;,
tyd
SOLE AGENTS FOB THE
SMITH ORGAST.
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
107 1 ITT ETKEBT
YANKEE DOODLE
m
ygg-zs,''
mmm
28£B£»3t£
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
r.oN &
&
-zb
wl QUE„
TOjACC Q jff
VOX FOPULI !!! Tnis mighty power has built the HIXSON'S great Tobacco Factory. How ? The
voice of the people declaring the YANKEE DOODLE and CONQUER OK Tobaccos their own
demanded the supply--'tMxijon and Sous responded- end hence a Tobacco Factory having no eouai in’
the Southern Hemisphere, and consuming- the bulk of ail the Imported American Leaf Tobacco'.
Hi
i
MEMO, to you from
a
7
To Residents in the Country.
You cannot do better tlian send down to us f Q1 ’J^ 00 J
whenever you want something nice and tasty, dineren
from what you can get in the country stores.
|3gP’ Send down to us for our Catalogue, Self-measurement Guide, and Prices
You will not be disappointed.
BE CAREFUL OF OUR ADDRESS
Hnwfern Brothers,
209 and 211 PITT STREET, SYDNEY'
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.,
397 GEORGE STREET,
58 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, EN
Qh^'
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OP
Engineers* Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, j
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricult#*
Implements.
JENSiINEV
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horisontsd.
S
MACHINERY.
-Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting * n< *
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD’WORKIKfi MACHINERY.
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret SaW •
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements.
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoes, Land
Bakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Shelters, Thresn
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Coach Builders’ Sundries.—Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnishings# J
Masury’a celebrated Coach Colours.
Larjte Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Anglo and Tee Iron ; Galvanize ,
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpaeks, Sheep Shears, Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and D
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery. f oo y,
Locks, Hinges, Nalls, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters
Particulars and Price Lists may be had en application to ~
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND C°"
397 (Saorge Slmi, Sydney.
W. W. CATES, Importer, 193 & 195
ALL GOODS AT STRICTLY WHOLESALE PRICES.
at
✓
WATER’S system of importing all goods from the manufacturers, and retailing them
j prices, is being thoroughly appreciated, as shown by ourlargely-increasing trade.
FRENCH MILLINERY, MANTLES, COSTUMES, SILKS, SATINS, LACES, GLOV® 0,
DRAPERY OF ALL KINDS, AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
n
Our Introduction of Glove-fltting at the counter as done in Paris, isa great f
now both Lady and Gentlemen fitters engaged.
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR FITTING.
the LARGEST AND BEST STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
WHOLESALE PRICES.
W. W 5. CATEE, .
19 3 and 295 PITT STHE^
W. SHEARSBY & GO.,
Merchant Tatters, tiahii, and Eoisss SKa**®’
Trousers from 21s. to 4«s.
, a" 0
W. S HEARS BY & Co,, A 1 bert House, Tom pie Court,


OF
[A Special Enlarged
Issue!
MAGNIFICENT COLOURED
CHROMO-LITHOGRAPHED
Picture Supplement,
By W. MACLEOD, Esq,
“FOUND!”
A CHRISTMAS CAROL,
In Black and White,
DRAWN BY L. HOPKINS.
A REGULAR BUDGET
Uck, Kan:, aai Fin!
NOTHING TO EQUAL IT!
Price— 6d. only.
Agents will please send in their orders for
extracopies.
Advertisers will please note that only a couple
of pages will be allotted to extra advertisements.
Thus their announcements will have the grandest
display attainable in any Australian Newspaper,
and will be seen and read by more people than
advertisements in any other publication in these
Colonies.
Special rates on application.
THE
BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 81.—New Series.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1884.
Price—6d.
With Thank s to Bishop Barry.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1884.
We have not, it is now apparent, been out-
rageously ahead of our times in placing
prominently before our readers, as we re-
cently commenced to do, the growing im-
portance of Socialism. On all hands evi-
dence multiplies that the Socialistic theories
are destined to engage the chief attention of
economists and statesmen, and that from
their consideration something whether
something momentous or merely something
trilling, certainly something interesting-
will be accomplished. By accomplished, we
mean carried into practical effect. As one
example of tha overwhelming influence of
the rising system of thought, we may refer
to the fact that, for the very first time in
the history of ecclesiastioism in Australia,
Socialism was, on the Id’h inst., alluded to
by a Christian clergyman in terms of serious
respect, and without any ebullition of abuse
and misrepresentation. In his address at
the meeting to inaugurate a Christian Evi-
dence Society, Dr. Barrv, Anglican Primate
of Australia, used these remarkable expres-
sions—remarkable because, up to the mo-
ment of his speaking, no man and no journal
which makes respect for “law and order,”
and “ the existing constitution of society,”
HENRY WISE, ESQ., MANAGING TRtJSTEE N.B. WALES SAVINGS’ BANK.
and “the approval of all right-thinking
people” its mottoes and rules of thought
haye ever mentioned Socialism, save to re-
vile the very name. Listen: —
“ He had observed, for instance, among the work-
ing classes at home—he had not enough experience
to know how it might be here—that their aliena-
tion from Christian faith was due very much to
this—that they did not see that Christianity dealt
with those great questions which mainly occupied
their attention in life. They thought, for example,
that it gave no light upon the rights and powers
and the advancing privileges which grew up under
the democratic condition of society, in which
their hearts were so much bound up. They thought
it did not touch upon the great questions of So-
cialism, which now, in various degrees, were af-
fecting the minds of working men of all other
civilised countries. They thought Christianity
had nothing to do with material progress; that it
neglectod the body and the present life because Its
whole attention was fixed upon the soul and tho
life to come."
Bishop Barry has, we have every reason to
believe —reading, as we do with interest, the
“rags” which the Avorking classes in Eng-
land mainly look to for exposition of ideas
in sympathy with their own : “rags” which
such papers as the Times or the S.M. Herald
ne\ er even allude to—oorrectly defined tho
sentiments of the British working men in
this particular. And dare he say that the
working men have not justly thought all
that he alleges? Dare he deny that among
the influences which have fostered the mon-
strous growth of privilege and class-rob-
bery, tho Church to which he belongs—the
State Church of England, the Church whose
head-bonzes are nobles, and whose seoond-
rato priests are aristocrats, and allied to the
rich by being themselves rich—has not been
among the ohiefest?
• • e
Even to-day the priests of his Church who
have opened their hearts and understandings
to the revived political gospel of the poor
can be counted on the fingers of one man's
hands, while the number whose proud sto-
machs rise at the very word “Socialism”
are comparatively as the sands of the sea.
The warning of Bishop Barry is a word in
season- Of a surety, except Christian minis-
ters and Christian churches will fairly deal
with, and, where just, adopt, the politics of
the poor and oppressed, Christianity will b?-
eome ere long that moribund thing, the re-
ligion of Patricians—or,[rather, to substitute
modern terms, the religion of property-
owners and of employers of labour. This
menacing truth seems to have flashed-
brightly or dimly, we know not—upon
Bishop Barry. Its piercing rays areawaken-
ing clerical sleepers elsewhere, just as
their reddening of the political hoiizon
sent, the other day, three Emperors to
huddle together and scheme how the judg-
ment of God, and the demand of my-
riad voices for the right to live in com-
fort and decency, could be eluded and
denied. Here in Australia it is not the
Anglican Church which represents the
wealthiest sect. The Congregationalists
comprise far more of our wealthy lower
orders. Accordingly it is the Anglican
Bishop who speaks the first decent word of
recognition, and Congregationalism which
is the stronghold of opulent bourgeois de-
termination to refuse to hear or to cease to
curse. But, in England, where the social con-
dition here prevailing is reversed as regards
the two Churohes; where, to quote au Eng-
lish Tory paper, commenting on a matter
presently to be refered to, “Congregation-
alism is essentially democratic, but its ad-
herents have been always for the most part
people of the lower middle class,” it is from
Congregationalism that the voice issues.
In the City Temple, in presence of the
Congregational Union, the delegates num-
bering upwards of sixteen hundred, the
Chairman, Dr. Parker, delivered the in-
augural address; an address which has set
all the papers talking, and most of them, as
becomes organs of the wealthier orders,
sneering. Of the delivery of this remark-
able address, it is noteworthy that in New
South Wales the S.M. Herald, the organ of
bourgeois Congregationalism, and ordinary
lavish of space to give publicity to matters
oonneoted with its Church, gives its readers
but the slightest hint. Dr. Barker’s ad-
dress was on the subject of “The Larger
Ministry.” As introduction, he suggested
“ That possibly the Ministry which Christ meant
them to exercise in the world might have a larger
function than some of them supposed. ....
Christ always began at the point of social pres-
sure.”
Upon the question of territorialism, he ob-
served, towards the conclusion of his paper i
“That the land could not always be held as it
was (held in England this day. ... As a work-
ing man, and he was not ashamed of the title, he
believed that on© day it would be possible for
them to have the honest use, on equitable
terms—a us© guaranteed by ownership—of more
land than would be required for a grave
There was something more than mere property in
the world. Whatever property they acquired they
would acquire justly. No public burglary would
they abet or sanction. They would not degrade
the dukes, but would raise the common people.
The peasant should be taught its history, have a
voice in its destinies, and a stake in the fortune of
his country. But, in working towards such ends,
they must never forget that Christian Socialism
was no easy problem, and that social inequalities
wore not to be adjusted by the rule of thumb. Let
them be on their guard lest the word * Christian ’
be only the handle with which the knife * (Social-
ism t was worked. Their hope was in education,
and in the mental enlightenment which accom-
panied it. Their duty, as religious Churches and
Christian teachers, was to show that the morality
of the Cross was as sublime as its theology, and
that no land was worth having that was not ac-
quired honestly and tilled industriously. Duke-
doms and earldoms had no future. His assurance
was in the eternal, and his faith in the Son of Man.
In the golden age of a Christianised humanity,
which was pledged by the oath of God, when the
great dukes were as forgotten as Dukes Teman,
Omar, and Zepho, the land would be honestly
held, and cultivated into plentiful harvests by peo-
ple who had heard a great voice from Heaven
saying, ‘ The earth is the Lord’s and the fulness
thereof.’ ”
• • •
There is certainly a cautious vagueness in
this pronunciamcnto, startling as it is con-
sidering the quarter whence it proceeds,
which seems to indicate that Dr. Parker
reserves the right to cry-back if convenient.
He commits himself to no definite plan of
reconstructing aooiety and sweeping away


F POLAR
or
BRIAN BORU
"VrOTE.—YOUNG, KING, and CO. (sole proprie-
tors of BRIAN BORU WHISKY), have
NEVER EXHIBITED THEIR WHISKIES
and therefor® cannot boast of gold medals, &o.
Brian Boru
Whisky
is guaranteed
SEVEN YEARS OLD,
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
Ell EORO WISE?,
when matured by age, Is
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION
of the
OFFICERS OF H.M. CUBTOMS.
SOLE AGENT.
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY.
T
Coughs and Colds.
|HB Best Cure for the above Is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
wr PURE RUM.
Extra Strong,
«S. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Sing!) Bottle Etjirliit,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
OO TO
0. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR£
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET?
where you can obtain for
GdL-
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at WBJ
other establishment in the world.
0. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
Is now open In
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only Bd. per tumble*;
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
Is sold In this department.
Th« most Wholbsomi or all Bivib^om.
a W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
OLYNBLISH WHISKY
(s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. od. per bottles,
PORT MACQUARIE .RED WINE*
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNBSSY’S STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
is. Od. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Street\ Sydney.
fe&isting inequalities and rascalities. In
fact, 'he pretty distinctly repudiates that
part o'f Henry George’s proposals—while
Obviously influenced in the main by GEOrge
—tfhich Insists thait, to grant compensation
for appropriation off rent, would be to
neutralise the teniedy. ife said i
u Bat the re-arrangement of its tenure must ex-
press in its altered and popularised terms the moraj
preparedness of the people, and therefore have in
it no taint of injustice to proprietors whoso title-
deeds went back, not only to an immemorial, but
a mythological past.”
* * *
Respecting the significance of such an
utterance from a Christian minister, we
have already remarked. But it appears that
in Dr. Parker’s case a double signification is
involved. From the comments of a London
paper we gather that the Rev. Doctor is a
highly paid and somewhat popularity-hunt-
ing divine: one of those who are only daring
leaders when powerfully propelled from be-
hind. According to this paper,
» Dr. Parkier is a kind of Clerical Times, and
his Utterances indicate roughly the amount of
pressure on the social barometer. It is not many
years ago that he used his pulpit in the City Temple
to make an attack upon Trade Unions; now he
takes up a strong position as a Land Reformer.
We apprehend that both now and formerly his
Utterances represent to a. considerable extent
earnest middle-class opinion. ... He discerns the
drift of nubile opinion, and, being devoid of social
superstition, he is quite ready to march abreast
therewith.”
From this it may be inferred that middle-
class opinion in England|on*the subject of
property in land has been sensibly affected
by the philosophy of which Henry George
Is the latest and greatest prophet. But, after
all, this amounts merely to a restricted and
specialised Communism. At the same Con-
gregational Union, however, downright So-
cialism did not lack an exponent. The Rev.
G. S. Reaney read a paper onlthe Relations
bf the Churches to recent Movements of
Thought in regard to the Social and Moral
Condition of the Poor :
“Having depicted the extreme prevalence of
poverty in LondonlheTasked, IWhy this poverty?
Why, because tens of thousands are underpaid
find overworked, and have not got, and do not get
their share of the profits of their own toil. Who
had made, or rather got, the money of late ? Hav.
ing quoted Mr. Gtffen, he observed that Mr. Mttl-
flEAti says the 2 046,000 families possess £7,562,000,000,
Or £3700 per family, and that 4,620,000 possess only
£378,000,000, or £OO per family, and that of these
Mch families] 232,500 families possess £5,728,000,000
or £56,000 per family. Then descending to details,
Mr. Reaney stated that a bootmaker makes a pair
bf fishing-boots, for which he gets ss. 3d., of course
hot providing the material; they sell at £3 3s. A
Woman makes one dozen pinafores for Bd., and
they sell for 7s. Od. She makes a shirt for 314 d.,
knd spoiling it is made to pay 2s. 3d. Another
lhakes a shirt for %d., which is sold for Is. 6%d. Is
that by the visitation of Providence ? Is that a
high necessity of modern trade ? Is that the sort
Of distribution of wages that can be justified at
the bar of conscience and of God 1 In London
250,000 girls were earning less than 10s. per week,
and match girls were making 1296 boxes for Is.
Let them think of it, investors who were promised
10 per cent. Then let them think of what a thief
can make; think of what can be made any night in
the street, within sight of the homes in which the
white slaves live, suffer, and die—ay, die, rather
than steal or sin. What, Mr. Reaney next asked
Is the remedy ? It is hard to find a remedy in our
present system of trade. He did not think they
would find a remedy so long as they acted upon
a brutal politioal eoonomy, that teaches Christian
men of business to say “ that 5 they know
toothing of philanthropy in business; that every
tnan looking after himself will be the best
for all; and that competition makes the mar-
ket prioe, and not the fair sale of the work
done. Better the Commune than a law of politi-
cal economy that worhslin such wise. Take the
cases he had mentioned—common justice de-
manded that the boot-maker, the match-maker,
the shirt-maker, ought to have a fuller wage out
Of the ultimate price made by the man for whom
they toil, early and late, lor starvation wages. To
that the answer was made, ' Other men will do the
Work for less; why should we give more than the
market price?’ Market price I What is that?
•Take it or starve,’ and take it they must. But
was that the rule of Christian men in business, not
to estimate the worker’s wage fairly, but to force
a lower price, with the alternative of no work, no
bread, no home—the street, the workhouse, or the
river ? As to the cry that ‘ If we do this we sbalj
be ruined,’ he quoted Mr. Fawcett as to the suc-
cess of profit-sharing methods of trade. This was
a dangerous question, he reminded the meeting,
In conclusion, and ho appealed to the Church to
take it up and deal with it on the principles of
CHRIST.”
* * *
It is somewhat odd to observe that almost
Simultaneously a Lord Bishop, Magee of
Peterborough, while evincing his conscious-
ness of the tremor in the social atmosphere
by remarking at a conference of the Peter-
borough Diocesan Council that
they could not put it more simply or more clearly
than this—that it was idle to expect men to lead
the lives of Caristians when they had the houses of
brutes,”
repeating, parrot-like, the old conventional
chatter of the “ brutal political economy ”
which the Congregationalist parson de-
nounced, and which the Socialist writers
are bent on controverting, the hopeless and
heartless half-truth, that
“if they could establish to-morrow at the cost of
the State comfortable and cheap abodes for all the
labouring people of London, they would do more
to pauperise that city than anything else. Labour
Would flow to the place where comfortable abodes
and cheap residences were provided. This would
lead to a reduction of wages as well as an increase
in tile rates, both Of them ttafe direct result of un-
wise interference on the part of the State.”
And dll thi9 antique gabble in sublime un-
consciousness that Its purport has been
analysed and its significance converted from
an excuse for monopoly into a reaeon for
condemning monopoly. Not less curious is
it to note this same Lord Bishop explicitly
recommending in his innocence exactly
what the keener-sighted plebeian parson
had specified as a dangerous complication.
Dr. Parker said in a warning sense that
“ It is easy to excite the spirit of discontent, but
this need not prevent us promoting the justice due
to every creature of the living God.”
Bishop Magee, with extraordinary courage,
or else extraordinary unconsciousness of the
nature of his recommendation, declared
that—
“ The Church, which dealt with individual man
and not with men in the mass as did politicians,
could do much to improve the condition of the
people by making the individual man discontented
with his dwelling and his surroundings, and by
helping him in the struggle to improve them.”
Should the Church adopt this plan, it will
find itself working shoulder to shoulder with
very strange collaborators. What the Bishop
indicates as a proper function of the Church,
the Socialist writers have been busily en-
gaged in for some time past, and the Con-
servative organs and leaders have been
desperately condemning and endeavouring
to counteract. Conceive, for example, our
Sydney Morning Herald addressing itself
to the enterprise of making the masses dis-
contented with the prevailing adjustment
of conditions!
• 9 •
But the Bishop of Peterborough seems to
us to have blundered on a truth, of which,
also, our own Primate has evinced a misty
consciousness. There has commenced a Social
movement of such enormous magnitude that
not merely the people of one nation or one
continent, but all civilised communities,
participate in it. The surging multitude is
looking around for leaders. Stand still, it
cannot and will not. Its motion is an intel-
lectual impulse ripened by the fruition of
thoughts and conditions long maturing, and
propelled by Almighty power. Leaders have
already presented themselves, in the persons
of the Socialist philosophers and propo-
gandi9ts, till recently accounted as vain
babblers and men accursed. If the Church-
men refuse to bestir themselves and hurry
up to recover lost ground, they will
be left behind for good and all. The
Christianity of the last two hundred years—
that complaisant servant of the patrician
and the wealthy—has had its day, Chris-
tianity is once more about to cast its skin,
as it did in the days of the Reformation, and
is to be again reformed, and carried back
still further towards the primitive form and
meanings. The people have broken loose
from the priestcraft which would fain have
them believe that “caste” is of Divine ordi-
nance, and the misery and penury of the
many for the benefit of the few an ordinance
from the Most High. The religion of those
that labour and are heavy laden can no
longer be one which offers them the conso-
lations of—the rights of oroperty and the
law of demand and supply ! If the Church-
men desire that the working men of the
next generation shall believe in Christ,
they will have to begin themselves to be-
lieve in Him a good deal more implicitly.
Amongst other things, they will have to
begin to believe that when He spoke the
parables of Dives and Lazarus and of the
Camel and the Needle’s eye, and when he
told the man of great possessions to sell
them and communise his property, He
meant what He said. One thing seems as-
sured: that the religion of the mass of man-
kind in the immediate future is going to be
Socialism, and that whether the nations,
and not merely the nobles and the rich, are
to be Christians, will depend entirely upon
the readiness and ability of theologians to
demonstrate that the principles of Chris-
tianity are identical with what is now
known as Socialism.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Pebble from the Brook.
Mr. Thomas Walker, the Freethought Parson,
is certainly a very astute young man. He badly
broke-up his orthodox brethren assembled under
the leadership of the Bishop of Sydney to promote
the' inauguration of a “ Christian Evidence
Society.” Mr. Walker’s method was very adroit.
He cordially concurred with the professed object
of the meeting. This amiable co-operation ob-
viously took the promoters of the meeting all
aback, and puzzled them consumedly. They could
not decently deny a hearing to any one who sup-
ported the object for which the meeting was held.
And they could not challenge Mr. Walker’s sin-
cerity. Had they frankly announced that their
object had been in reality to constitute a society
to rake upland disseminate the evidence favour-
able to Christianity, of course Mr. Walker might
have been ruled out of Court, so to speak. But
the assumption, which was a necessity of their
position, that all evidence bearing upon Chris-
tianity is favourable—or, at worst, that the balance
of evidence is conclusively and crushingly favour-
able— exposed them to Mr. Walker’s flank move-
ment. The evidence respecting Christianity is, as
he pointed out, a matter of quite as much concern
to Freethinkers as to Regulation-thinkers. While
the ’meeting had tacitly .meant that the Society
shohld be one to promulgate only one Bide of the
evidence affecting Christianity.Mr. Walker spread
dismay and confusion in the ranks by blandly
ignoring the tacit understanding and accepting
the apparent sense of the project. He offered the
co-operation of his fellow-scsptics to go thoroughly
into both sides of the evidence, and to utilise any
resources at the command of the Society to
disseminate the particulars of the investigation.
This obliging offer is so transparently fair, so en-
tirely in harmony with the ostensible objeot of the
proposed Society, that it is no]wonder the Bishop
in the chair was utterly;confounded and posed by
the dilemma it placed him in. To refuse accept-
ance of Mr. Walker's offer would have been
tantamount to a confession of uncertainty as to
the result of permitting the “evidence” to be
other than To accept the offer would
have been, on the other hand, equivalent to a con-
fession that the truth of Christianity,'as ordinarily
propounded, is debateable. No wonder that the
Bishop and his entourage of orthodox champions
stood aghast and staggered when this heterodox
David appeared, sling in hand, to confront
Goliath Barry and such mighty men of
war as occupied the citadel on the platiorm.
The Bishop’s rejoinder to Mr. Walker's gage, suf-
ficiently indicates the quandary in which he found
himself. “We thank Mr. Walker for his sugges-
tions,” said the poor Bishop, “whether we will
adopt them or not” (somo hisses, cries of “Ob,”
and applause); we shall give them our best con-
sideration, claiming our right to free choice, and
doing whatever we believe to be most advisable to
the bringing out, not of ad captandum controversy,
but of real truth.” Unless we are greatly mis-
taken, the result will prove that the theologian’s
view of the course best adapted to t licit real
truth, will be to confine the enquiry entirely to
hearing and publishing all that can be elicited
—on one side of the question; and if the
case for the other side be stated at all, to
take care that it be stated by advocates specially
engaged to make nonsense of it.
«,
More Libel Law.
A libel cas'.’* was heard before Mr. Justice Win-
deyer at Maitland, on October 27th, which has in-
terest for all journalists and many strolling
players. The proprietor of the Maitland Mail
had inserted an advertisement for one Thomas
Ellis, manager of a company of strollers styled
the Royal Bijou Dramatic Company. On personally
applying for payment for the advertisement, the
proprietor was refused a settlement, the debtor
simply alleging that he was short of money and
had to take his company on to New England, and
asking his creditor to wait till he (the manager)
got back to his business in Newcastle, where, it
came out in cross-examination, he is a boot
“ manufacturer,” It also came out that the plain-
tiff is an uncertiflcated insolvent, and has been
twice insolvent; and, in cross-examination, he
admitted that he had left Maitland without
paying a hotel-keeper for the board of
some of his company. Failing to get paid, the
proprietor of the Mail published the following
notice:—“The Royal Bijou Dramatic Company
have.it appears, 4 bobbed up serenely’ atJTam-
worth. We trust the enterprising manager, Mr.
Tom Ellis will be more fortunate up North than
be was here, and tnat the ;people up above
who do anything for him will be more
lucky in getting paid than those who had
anything to do with him in this town,”
which, perhaps, saved hotel-keepers and news-
paper-proprietors in other towns the unpleasant
lot of becoming ci editors of Ellis without covet-
ing that advantageous position. The paragraph
quoted was the alleged libel, and £5OO was the sum
asked for as damages. Mr. Edmunds, for defen-
dant, argued that this was a case in which it was the
duty of the press to protect the public by uttering
a warning against unprincipled men. But Judge
Windeyer ruled that “the paragraph was un-
doubtedly libellous, and one for which there was
no excuse. A newspaper-proprietor stood in the
same position as any other private individual.
All people had a right to comment on any matter
of publio interest or notoriety, or criticise a public
man’s actions. But the paragraph was not a matter
of public interest so far as the evidence went to
show. It appeared that defendant only jwas not
paid, and this was not a matter of public interest.
If it could be shown that plaintiff went about
swindling the put lie, then that would be a differ-
ent matter. Under the circumstances, it appeared
to him that there must be a verdict for plaintiff.”
The jury accordingly returned a verdict for the
plaintiff for £5O, which carried all costs. In future,
therefore, country journalists will have to observe
that, if they desire to warn their brethren and the
trades-people and hotel-keepers of other places
that non-paying strollers are on the war-path,
they will haul to do so by private letters marked
“private and confidential," and then still at the
risk of having to contribute £5OO to the im-
provement of their debtor’s ciroumstances, if
he can have them before Judge Windeyer. On
the other band, the result of the case should be a
great encouragement to any uncertiflcated insol-
vent in the boot- 44 manufacturing ” line, and to
others similarly ciroumstanoed, who may have a
taste for theatrical speculation, and prefer to pay
their way only when convenient to themselves, or
possibly only if their spec, turn out well, and to
make people who are foolish enough to give them
a meal or an advertisement without having cash
in advance bear the loss, if the dramatic specula-
tion prove unprofitable. To prevent any miscon-
ception which might expoie us to the ruling of Mr.
Justice Windeyer or other Judge learned in jus-
no, learned in the law is the usual phrase, we
have to state distinctly that we do not allege that
Ellis was actuated by the motives above indi-
cated. We hold, with Mr. Justice Windeyer, that
he is a most estimable person, who has been unfor-
tunate in his business transactions, although pos-
sibly not so unfortunate as those who had business
transactions with him prior to any of his insol-
vencies.SHMr. Ellis, we hold to be a most esti-
mable man—unlucky, perhaps, at times, but fortu-
nate in the esteem of Mr. Justice Windeyer. The
proprietor of the Maitland Mail, on the other
hand, may possibly have been fortunate enough in
business to pay every man his due throughout his
career. But he has an intemperate animosity
agiinst persons who run into debt without reflect-
ing how their liabilities are to bo discharged, and
has a wicked tendency to cry "stop thief," to the
great injury of persons who ask nothing better
than to be allowed ,to pursue their business in
peace and quietness.
For continuation of " Plain English,” see next page


A Caustic Critic.
We have just come across the following paragraph.
It was at the bottom of an old file of similar things
which we mislaid while moving to our new marine
residence. We recovered the file this morning. It
was in the crown of a tall hat of an antique pat-
tern, in which we were accustomed to carry our
luggage when leaving our lodgings in the old
Bohemian days. Just read the paragraph, and
then say if we have not got our troubles as well as
the rest of tho worl d. Here
“ Last week’s issue of the Sydney Bulletin con-
tains a would-be-funny paragraph on our pre-
sumption in attempting to analyse and criticise
Henry George’s Communistic work, ‘ Progress
and Poverty.’ The Bulletin asserts, in language
strongly flavoured with the ‘essence of sneer,’
that all that could possibly be written on George s
book has been written, and that it is impossible for
a country editor to throw any further light upon
the subject, or advance any new arguments to con-
trovert George's plausible though sophistical
theories. Our articles oh the work are written
with a view to, if possible, counteract its mis-
chievous tendencies by exposing the fact that the
strength and plausibility of his arguments emanate
from a false base.”
And this is a paper that we have especially recom-
mended to serious-minded trunk-makers and reli-
gious hosiers! Where was ever ingratitude like to
this?' The editor will not even admit that our
paragraph about him was funny. Perhaps it
wasn’t—the subject was a poor one. But let us
inform that bush philosopher that it is impossible
for a country editor to controvert the statements
of Henry George, for the reason that the man
who could do this would find some higher mission
in life than to grovel to squatters, and lick the
shoes (it is an old phrase, but so is the custom) of a
shoddy aristocracy for the sake of their miserable
patronage and wretched applause. If he would
not, then we have trodden on better dirt than
such a man. But, of course, there is no such. We
are quite sure that the editor of the Wentworth
Advocate— although Wentworth is in the centre
of a squatting district—would never descend to
such degradation. Therefore, his articles on Henry
George are to be taken as novel though
tedious jokes. It is a peculiarity of ancient men
to make “to-be-continued” jokes of uncommon
humour—only that, unfortunately, they either
forget the point or die before they come to
it. As to the paragraph which we have quoted,
it is hardly necessary to say that it is a
corollary to the articles, and written in the same
spirit of decrepit drollery. Wc need only point to
the concluding sentence about the articles being
written to counteract the mischievous tendencies
of George’s work, and mention that Wentworth
is a city with a population about equal to that of
Five Dock, to establish this fact. The paragraph
winds up with this spiteful little sentence:—
“The Bulletin never fvakespuns; it oniy im-
ports them in wholesale quantities, adulterates,
and localises the original article to suit the times.”
J ust imagine the state of an intellect which can
conceive of a pun being imported, adulterated,
and localised ! The old story, we suppose—too
much beer! Who could be angry with a man who
could write like that ? Not we. Therefore we—
figuratively, of course —pat the editor on bis
reverend head with a bologna, and forgive him.
Buchanan and Malthusianism.
In view of Mr. Buchanan’s attempt, since backed
up by journals which should know better, to put
the Malthusian saddle on the wrong horse, the fol~
lowing extracts from an article published by us
on June 4 th of this year have peculiarly apt re-
levance :
“Does population inevitably outgrow the means
of subsistence unless artificially checked, or does
it not? Malthub maintains the affirmative;
George argues for the negative. It is quite im-
possible for us, with the space at our command, to
give even a synopsis of the arguments on either
side. Readers must master these for themselves.
All we intend just now to state is a series of con-
sequences supplied first by Malthus, and
secondly by George, according to the system of
each, if Mat.thus be correct, then clouds veil the
face of Heaven. A merciless Creator looks
down in sublime indifference upon an unhappy
race of His creatures, of whom the greater num-
ber are doomed to toil and suffering, and
a multitude to misery of such bitterness as can
scarcely be conceived—the misery of wretches
perpetually quivering on the verge of destruction
by famine, violence, or diseases produced by, or
rendered fatal by, want. If Malthus be correot,
irregularities of condition are ordained by Heaven,
and all would famish together were equality in-
sisted upon. According to Malthus, there are
but three checks to population, viz., moral re-
straint, vice,! and misery. Mr. Malthus was a
clergyman of the Church of v.ngland, and his pro-
posed remedy was, of course, moral restraint. The
form recommended, and advocated with satisfac-
tion by the school which he founded among the
comfortable classes, was that, in proportion
as a man was poor, he should abstain from
marriag;e, or at least from procreation. In
brief, his proposition was that when fortune had
denied to a man the enjoyment of affluence, rank,
consideration, and ease, and had instead heaped
upon him care, want, penury, insult, and toil, he
should crown his miseries by denying himself the
Pleasures of wedlock and the joys of paternity,
railing that, he was taught that Providence had
other terrors as inevitable alternatives. The cata-
logue is a grievous one. Redundant humanity
was to be kept down by “ unwholesome occupa-
tions, severe labour, and exposure to the seasons,
extreme poverty, bad nursing of children, great
towns, excesses of all kinds, the whole train
of epidemics and diseases, wars, plagues, famines,
Promiscuous intercourse, unnatural passions,
adultery, and (improper arts to conceal the
consequences of irregular connections.” It is
worthy of notice here that Malthus has the
ardent support of the majority of the clergy, of
Mr. Bradlaugh, and of Mrs. Besant. The doc-
trine that it is the duty of the poor to abstain
trom wedlock and parentage is one much insisted
upon by clerical visitors of the slums and cottages
or England, and has, of course, done much to en-
dear religion to the distressed classes. Mr. Brad-
bAUGH and Mrs. Besant, however, imagined that
modern physiological discoveries had supplied a
remedy more just and equal than a moral restraint;
to be exercised only by those whose entire life
was one long penance; and, so believing, un-
dertook, in what they believed were the
interests of humanity, to disseminate those
Physiological facts, which, according to the
view of Malthus, would, if acted upon, avert
trom mankind all the catalogue of horrors we
have quoted above. There was true heroism in
the attempt, no doubt. It involved a frightful
“elf-sacrifice—to the woman, at least. Both had to
race the ordeal of a criminal prosecution, and to
“dBtain life-long obloquy as disseminators of wbat
was stigmatised as foul and immoral literature,
posterity will, perhaps, do justice in this matter,
to expect it of contemporary opinion would he
vam. Such are the fruits of the doctrine of Mal-
yhs. A world perpetually scourged. For the
Poor, no hope. For the wealthy, no reason for ex-
ercising charity, or pretending a pity which the
frLMiQHTY himself had not deigned to show. On
{ho other hand, Henry George stands forth with
“G denial that population does increase, under the
most favourable circumstances, faster than the
means of subsistence. Let his view b correct,,
nd straightway the heavens open; a Benignant
God smiles upon all His creatures; Hope blesses
the earth; Charity becomes a duty; Self-denial is
a virtue once more; the catalogue of horrors fades
out of the Book of Fate; the brooding spectra.
Misery, which Malthus had raised as a perpetual
terror to mankind, skurries gibberiDg into oblivion,
like a ghost at the first celestial refulgenoe of a
dawning day. All creation, till then dumb with
the chill horror of the Malthusian gospel, breaks
into hymns of joy and adoration, as the pitiless
Deity depicted by Malthus vanishes, and the
Just and Loving God portrayed by George is
disclosed in all His majesty.”
An Abortive Attack.
Mr. David Buchanan once declared in his place
in Parliament that a man has a right to get drunk
if ho likes, and we believe that the hon. gentleman
has honestly acted up to his principles in that
particular. The other day he declared that the
Government was deeply blameworthy in not sup.
pressing the meetings and preachments of the
heretics known as Freethinkers and Secularists.
Combining these expressions of opinion, we arrive
at the singular fact that Mr. Buchanan maintains
that a man has a right to drown his reason in rum,
but not to exercise it in a sense repugnant to
established theories. Mr. Buchanan specially
enforced his contention that the Sunday lectures
should be put a stop to, by refening to the recent
shocking cases of procuration qf abortion, and to
the fact that one of the parties ac cused had quoted
the principles of Malthus as justification for his
acts, and had announced himself to be a Secular-
ist. Mr. Buchanan’s inference is that Malthu-
sianism is peculiar to Secularists, and procuration
of abortion a resource counselled by either system
or by both. The whole presumption is nonsensical
ARS LONGA, VITA (AQUA VITA)) BREVIS.
ART CRITIC (to rising colonial artist): “DO YOU KNOW THAT YOUR MASTERLY STYLE
OF COMPOSITION, YOUR MARVELLOUS MANAGEMENT OF CHIARO OSCURO, YOUR—
YOUR UNLIMITED USE OF—OF COLOUR, AND YOUR MANNER OF LAYING IT ON
THICK, YOU KNOW, REMIND ME OF REMBRANDT!”
ARTlST—(pleased, of course—naturally): “HUM! YES; AND DO YOU KNOW THAT YOUR
UNLIMITED KNOWLEDGE OF ART, YOUR—YOUR HAPPY CHOICE OF TECHNICAL
WORDS TO EXPRESS YOUR UNSTINTED PRAISE, YOUR-YOUR MANNER OF-OF
LAYING IT ON THICK, REMINDS ME THAT IT IS TIME TO-TO TAKE A DRINK I
WHAT WILL YOU HAVE?”
and baseless. In the first place, Mr. Malthus wss
to the close of his life a respected beneficed clergy-
man of the Church of England. Secondly, his
principles have teen universally endorsed by
Christian writers, and happen to be about
the only theories which Christian authorities
and Secularist writers agree in accepting.
The Archbishop of Canterbury and Mr. Brad-
laugh are equally Malthusians, and the mainten
ance of the entire structure of society is chiefly
defended byfarguments which take,|the proposi-
tions of Malthus as their base. The only differ-
ence between the two sets of Malthusian dis-
ciples isjthat both hold with Mr. Malthus that
while the begetting of children should be re-
strained, the well-to-do and orthodox maintain
tbat the desired end should be accomplished by Id.
ducing or compelling the lower orders to abstain
from marriage, or at least from sexual commerce
with their wives; while the plebeian and hetero-
dox'assert that such a proposal is a monstrous ini-
quity, would deprive the poor of about the only
joys they share equally with the rich, and suggest
instead simple and entirely harmless methods by
which sexual commerce can be rendered fruitless.
Mr. Buchanan altogether blunders. It is not Mal-
thusianism which is heterodox, disreputable, and
dangerous in -the eyes of Conservative opinion
Malthusianism is the orthodox and proper thing
to believe in. It is anti-Malthusianism which is to
be censured and denounced by “ all right-thinking
people.” The Bulletin has repeatedly denounced
the Malthusian doctrine as probably false, and
certainly a cruel, gloomy, and detestable theory,
disposing men to doubt the existence of a just and
loving God. But the Duke of Argyle and the
classes which hold views in common with such
staid orthodox men as he, stand by Malthusianism
stoutly. In a paper in the Nineteenth Century
of April last, the Duke fiercely sneers at Henry
George for his repudiation of Malthusianism, and
says :
“The man (Henry George) who gives this dark
this almost black—pic Ure of the tendencies of
American progress, is the same man who rejects
with indignation the doctrine that population does
everywhere tend to press in the same way upon
thehmitBof subsistence. This, as ir well known,
is the general proposition which is historically
connected with the name of Malthus, although
other writers before him had unconsciously felt
and assumed ils truth. Since his time it has been
almost universally admitted not as a theory, but
as a fact, and one of the most clearly ascertained
of all the facts of economic science. But, like all
Communists, Mr. George hates the very name of
Malthus.”
Tlie “Temporary” Imposture.
The case of the Temporary Draftsmen in the Sur-
vey Depirtment has been various’y discussed—
first, by Mr. Farnell, in replying to the deputa-
tion from these employes, and subsequently by
several of the daily papers. But neither Mr.
Farnell nor any of the writers in the press have
the knowledge of the grievance which actual ex-
perience gives. We have, although our experience
is seventeen years old. This gives some idea of
the permanence of the order of “ temporary ’
draftsmen. As might have been expected, no
e'ear remedy is proposed either by Mr. Farnell
or by uninformed writers. Now, here are the
laots. The work of drafting is in some offices done
almost entirely by temporary employes. In our
own experience, in one small department there
were four temporary to every one permanent
draftsman. A margin of fluctuation in drafting
work there will constantly be, and eoonomy re-
quires that there be a corresponding proportion of
men engaged only when there is a press of work.
But there is no proportion observed. Heads of
Departments .like to have a body of men under
them wh i are abs ilutely t on their nod.
The regular members of the Civil Service are com-
paratively independent. They have their charter,
so to speak, in the Civil Service Act, and can
neither be bullied with impunity nor turned
adrift at will. The temporary employes are sub-
ject to both incidents, and, besides, have the mor-
tification of seeing boys whom they have prac-
tically taught their business promoted over thoir
heads. There ii only one true remedy for this
absurd state of affairs, and tl at is to confer per-
manent appointments on temporary omployds as
soon as there is evidence that the growth of steady
work has reached a stage which makes it sure that
there will be no need to reduce the staff. And let
them then be rated according to the place their
efficiency has won for them in the office,
without regard to canons of seniority which would
make them junior in rank and in salary
to lads who had entered the office subsequently to
themstlves. The simple plan would be to make
their appointment to the Civil Service date as re-
gards seniority to the day they practically entered
it. There would be minor difficulties in the case
of men who had been employed on several occa-
sions at intervals, but administrative ingenuity
should be equal to framing a scale of averages to
meet these cases. If Mr. Farnell really sees bis
way to reduce, ere long, the number of drafts-
men, he should try to do justice to old “tempo,
rary ” servants by dispensing preferably with new
“permanent ” ones. But we have lit tie faith, after
twenty years’ experience and observation—seven
of weioh were spent in the Civil Service in the
Australian colonies—in the reality of reductions.
Our belief is that, without imposing one shilling
of extra or unnecessary burdens upon the tax-
payers, two-thirds, if not four-fifths, of the tem-
porary draftsmen now employed might be ga-
zetted members of the regular Civil Service.
The Rates of Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 345.; half-year, 13s. od.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—ln advance.
The Advertising Rates are 6s. per inchi
special positions In the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions
16 per cent.: For 63 consecutive insertions, 36 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony m«y be sent. If more convenient.
Mr. Henry Wise, Managing Trustee of
the N. 8. Wales Savings’ Bank.
Mr. Henry Wise, whose portrait appears on
our front page, has been appointed to the posi-
tion of managing trustee of the N. 8. Wales Sav-
ings’ Bank—to the position rendered vacant by the
death of Mr. W. H. Cutt. Mr. Wise was unani-
mously elected by the ;trustees. and his election
subsequently confirmed by the Executive Council.
The post is a very important and responsible one,
requiring ability, courtesy, and an unblemished
reputation in the official occupying it. For nearly
thirty years Mr. Wise has been connected with the
institution over which he now presides. During
that long period both his confreres who have
elected him and the public whom he has served
have had ample opportunities of gauging his fit-
ness for the appointment. The fact of his having
been chosen unanimously by the one, and the
choice endorsed by the other, is a fair index of the
esteem in which he is held. Nor is it as a Govern-
ment official only that he is well and widely
known. As an amateur artist of merit and a con-
noisseur of judgment, he has done much to de-
velop a taste for art in Australia. Many a strug-
gling tyro is indebted to him for advice, sympathy,
and ready assistance.
TO CORRESPONDENTS .
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“H. Parry”: A little too risque “Ad-
vance Australia ”: Time out of mind, l-eligion has
been a serviceable oloak for ail descriptions of
knavery. The case you cite is but one of thou-
sands— “W.E.8.”: Received "Veritas”: Call
to-morrow "Brumby”: Thanks. Will probably
use. ..“Enquirer”: You are right. St. Patrick,
Brian Boru, Mulachi (the chap that collared the
collar of gold), Dan O’Connell, and Joe Brady were
all Scotchmen. Of course, we’ve heard the rumour
that Huchanan, also, is one, but we doubt it
“Antipodes”: We received your lines on Profes-
sor Fawcett. They show that you possess a keen
insight into character, oombincd with the crudest
notion of what constitutes poetry:—
“ True son of your race. Let homage bend
The knee. Right noble was your aim.
Give ear, and let the heart attend
The Muse, who seeks no other fame
But to surround a cordon of delight
Round one who fought a martyr's cause,” etc,
Now, you know, “ Antipodes,”—but there, we’ve
said enough — “ Chartist ” regrets the prospect of
a compromise between Lords and Commons. So
do we. It will keep "heredity” a bit longer on
its legs by mending its crutch ...“T.8.”: Yes
“Junius”: Your verses-as you yourself saga-
ciously supposed—had not suilicient fire in them.
At least, not when they reached us. They had
about five minutes after. We will send you the
ashes in a canister, if vou will send down the
stamps for postage — “Violet ”: Now, you are the
kind of girl we like to write to. There is chic in
your caligraphy—style about your “s’s,” win-
someness about your "w’s;” and, so to speak, a
dumb tenderness about the crossing of your “ t’s,”
which fetches us at the first call. You have asked
us many questions, “ Violet,” but we can now no
longer tarry to answer them. We go foith to
obey the call of whisky “X.X.”: Received
“Miner”: Yes, in Solomon’s time it might have
been right enough to go to the ant for wisdom.
But the ant is about played out now. The best
way to become wise present is to watch a gang
of Corporation labourers when the “boss ” is two
blocks away. If you happen to be a rate-payer at
the same time, your head 11 burst with wisdom
“Is a tree an animal, or can it be classed witn
animals of any species ? ” is what a Newcastle man
asks the Jernal. “There are three kingdoms in
nature,” is the answer; “animal, vegetable, and
mineral. A tree belongs to the vegetable
kingdom, and, therefore, is not an animal in
any sense.” Surely there are four kingdoms.
There’s no room in any of the three named for the
paddy-melon who gave that answer “Old
Soldier": 80 you think we can hold India against
all-comers, as the Hindoos love us so. Get out 1
Why, it is a Hindoo proverb that says “ contempt
will pierce the shell of a tortoise.” And there
isn’t an Englishwoman in India who wouldn’t turn
up her nose if asked to sit in the same room with
the native whose ancestors had mastered the mys-
teries of astronomy while hers were plastering
their haily bodies with yellow ochre, or shinning
up trees out of the road of the cave bear
“Teacher”: There may be four genders, as you
say, but we never heard of more than three—men,
women, and priests —“Unfortunate”: Nothing
but experience will teach fellows like you. If you
ever Bee a dog and a pup come across a hedge-hog,
you keep your eye on them. The old dog will just
hoist his nose in the air and walk off. He’s been
there before. But the puppy hasn’t, and wants to
find out for himself. And he does, too. And you
can bet that when he hobbles up to the big dog
again with a seotion of his nose between his teeth,
he knows more about hedge-hogs than he ever
knew before. Savezf
For Australian productions, Gibbs, Shal-
lard, and Co.’s Christmas cards are wonderfully
well grot up; and)what can be more appropriate for
posting to friends ia the old country than these
same cards, where you hive Australian subjects,
Australian talent, and all the rest of It? One
showing an Eastern view of the city of Sydney
would prove to them that we have a beautiful
har but, of course, they have heard about
that; at all event-', it would show them that we
aren’t quite heathen here in Sydney, and have
some very fine buildings. A quaint idea is one
showing the Globe with Young Australia sitting
on top and Young England at the bottom. Young
Australia, wide awake, and perched on top of a
fence, is calling out through a telephone to iToung
England, who is asleep in his cradle: “ Get up, you
lazy beggar; don’t you know it is Christmas morn-
ing ?” But Young England doesn’t see it,
and says ho is sleepy. So Young Australia
brags that we aro more wide-awake out here,
b-it ends in promising to drink his health.
This, of course, ig given in verse, in fact the whole
thing is more poetical that you might be inclined
to judge from our paragraph—but that’s the gist
of it, anyway. And then there is a gorgeous blue
be-fringed picture called “ Onward,” which, we
take it, is symbolical of our onward progross. A
boat in full sail, laden with Australian fruit, and a
dignified-looking kangaroo as passenger. And
then the beautiful floral cards, with such long hard
names that our pen finds it impossible to get rcund
them, are truly works of art. We can recommend
these cards from Messrs. Gibbs, Shallard, and Co.


Personal
Items
In the “ Malmesbury Memoirs ” it is shown
that the Prince Consort, being a German, and a
strong opponent to France and Italy, was perpetu-
ally intriguing against Lord Palmerston’s Liberal
Foreign policy.
According to the Rum, the jay nil Dan re-
cently performed the remarkable feat of going to
two picnics at one time. So we suppose each
picnic had half of him. Well, half of Dan s
enbugh for anyone at any time.
The unprecedented gathering of the Royal
familv in Scotland this year was partly owing to
the cholera, but mainly to the disappearance from
the scene of John Brown, who was cordially de-
tested by everyone who knew him, save the
Queen. +
When Aaron Waxman heard that Sir
Moses Monteflorowas 100 years old on 27th Octo-
ber, he remarked to Marks Hermann, Shemomi-
ee! just tink vat a couple of tousan’ poundsh
The Australian Representative Cricketers.
D[?]ACERAM. SCOTT. COOPEE. MIDWISTER. M'DONNELL. ALENANDER.
GI[?]EN. DOVLE. MURDOCH. DONNER. PALMER
A.BAWNERMAN. SPOPPORTH.
vould tot up in a hundred years at fourteen hun-
tret per shentl”
When little Launeelc t Garland appeared
On the platform to put forward his claims to be
elected, an astonished selector, who had come in
from a distance, said to a friend : ‘What! is that
the little man who married the paper, a superior
jobbing-plant, and the only beaut Well! he is
greedy.”
The Armidale Chronicle says that .1 ohn
Gallagher, the founder of the Tamworth Exami-
ner, recently died in the Armidale gaol. His Anal
words were—“ The last forme’s up; ” and then ho
went up himself. John is the only man in the
district we have ever known to die not “ regretted
by a large circle of friends.”
John Bull, a London paper, avers that of
late years peerages have been sold in England—
i.e., that needy aristocrats and others in power
have, for large monetary considerations, procured
the “ennoblement” of the rich ambitious. We
wonder now many of the puling idiots, snoring
gluttons, and shameless frauds in a certain colonial
Legislative Council owe their political positions to
their having lent or given money to someone in
power ?
Mr. J. H. Richardson, accountant at the
A.J.B. Bank, Wagga, on being promoted was pre-
sented with a purse of 25 sovereigns at a vale-
dictory “ wine. And he took it. And he said he
was deeply sensible of the kindness of the people
of Wagga, and of their appreciation of bis modest
merits. Then, we suppose, he went home and bit
the air, assaulted his shoe-trunk, and cursed crea-
tion. £25! As Kit ecstatically remarked, “What
a property I”
Colonel Stewart, who, with M Herbin,
french Consul, and 40 men, was killed on his way
to Dongola, was 39 years of age, and had much ex-
perience in Asia and Africa. He was an Irishman, ]
a member of a well-known and respected Ulster
family. He was a soldier every inch, a man of a
noble courage, most amiable manners, and a highly
cultivated understanding. But what has fixed his
worth in the eyes of the empire is the simple fact
that, out of all the officers in the British army, he
was the man selected by General Gordon to be his
second in command.
The Rev. Mr. Tollemache-Tollemache, vicar
of South Wytham, England, has thus named his
three children: L.vulph Ydwallo Odin Nestor Lyonel
Foedmag Hugh Erchenevyne Saxon Esa Cromwell
Orma Nevill Dysart Plantaganet Tollemache-
Tollemache; Mabel Helmingham Ethel Hunting-
tower Beatrice Blazonberrie Evangeline Vise de
Loui de Arellano Plantaganet Toedinag Saxon
Tollemache-Tollemache; and Lyonia Decima Ve-
ronica Eoyth TTndine Cissa Hylda ltowena Ada
Phyra Ursula Ysabel Blanche Lelias Dysart Plan-
tagenet Tollemache-Tollemache.
Max O’Rell, in his “ Daughters of John
Bull,” remarks that the importance of matrirnony
in England is emphasized by an anecdote of Lord
Derby, who, in proposing the toast of The
Ladies” at a city banquet, once said, “ Before
naming an Englishman to an important post, the
first question which invariably occurs to the
electors is this, ‘What sort of a wife has he?
Whereupon the lively Frenchman neatly philoso-
phises, “How many men of meric could 1 name
who will owe to their wives the honour of remain-
ing all their lives obscure heroes?”
It appears from the Malmesbury autobio-
graphy that when the late Emperor of the French
was elected to the Presidency of the Republic, the
Duke of Wellington said: “I don't believe Louis
Napoleon will over go to war if he can help it; but
he mnst keep up his popularity, and then God
knows what he may do.” How happy we ought to
be in this Southern land! When our great states-
men—John Davies and Angus Cameron, and so on
—want to keep up their popularity they don’t
proclaim war : they simply attend a Friendly
Society’s picnic down the harbour.
The chief magistrate of one of the Irish
towns visited by the Duke of Cambridge must be
a humourist as well as a Nationalist. He presented
a cartoon to the Duke, issued by United Ireland,
which picture represented Lord Spenser playing
an organ, with the Duke of Cambridge as a mon-
key, begging for pence. The Duke was polite
enough to smile, and the reporter who described
the incident spoke of him as appearing “immensely
amused.” A more Irish way of making a guest
fed at his ease during a tour could hardly be in-
vented, even by one of Lever’s heroes.
Despite all the “marmalade,” some of it
rather bitter, lavished by Max O’ltell, upon
Englishwomen, in his new work, “Les Filles de
John Bull,” it is plain that he, while acknowledg-
ing their charms as home companions, by no
means believes in their possession of heroic
qualities, for he says distinctly, “ England made all
her great conquests In the time when women
were treated with as little regard as they have for
them.in the harems of the East; and it is to this in-
difference for women—to this independence of the
man—that one can in part attribute the success of
the English.
On the occasion of Sir Moses Montiflore’s
hundredth birthday, blankets bearing the vener-
able Hebrew’s motto, “Think and Thank,” were
distributed to the Kamsgate poor. The Vicar said
he hoped no pawnbroker would take in pledge
these blankets. Sir Moses, of all men, should be
able to negotiate with “mine uncle” oq this head.
This distribution of blankets and prohibition of
their sile or hypothecation, reminds one that the
English poor haven't got half as good a social posi-
tion as the Australian blackfellow, the purchase of
whose Government blanket is prohibited by Act
of Parliament.
Recently, a shop-boy at pastry-cook’s in
Brussels murdered his master by stabbing him in
the breast with a kitchen-knife. When arrested,
the youth explained that he had stolen down in the
kitchen one day, and watched the pie-man prepare
the mince-meat, and the reason of his master’s
peculiar partialitv for black beetles dawning upon
him, he resolved" to slay his master and confer a
lasting boon upon the city. He was, we under-
stand, acquitted by acclamation; but we are un-
able, until we receive our usual Belgium wire
from Dubbo, to say how much the juvenile assassin
was awarded out of the poor-box.
General Gordon will not return to England
at present—though he would get a magnificent re-
ception did he choose to make his appearance in
the world's metropolis and permit people to lionise
him; but Gordon is a man who detests show or
display. He intends, by and bye, to settle down
finally in some hut amid the squalor and misery of
the East End of London, where he will address
himself to the work of teaching and Christianising
and ameliorating the temporal condition of the
masses—who, never having had such a man among
them since Loudon was a city, may yet come to
regard the iron-willed General as a Divine being
rather than as a mere man.
The S. M. HERALD’s’eulogistic post-mortem
notice of the late Mr. Lord is exceedingly touch-
l ing. Now, we’ve done a good deal fer the country,
yet if wo died they’d—bark I We can imagine,
while we were being measured for the five-loot
tenner, Alfred, his tongue following every up and
down stroke of his pen, painting on a slip the fol-
lowing:— Sudun Disease of an Edditer. In the
berryiDg kollums of this jernel it is put in print
that the undersi'ied is no more, but we are sorry to
say we can’t lie for he took rises out of Kris., also
self, and Frank, and all the crickets wanting more
wages. Hip. of course, but a hapoy releese. Note
to printer: Put the apended in piker.”
It is not generally known, but in the Art
Gallery there is a bust of Alfred. It is on the left
hand side of the last room as you go out. The
cast is a very fine one. On it is stamped every
trait that Alfred possesses-excepting, perhaps,
his lavishness, and his poetry. We didn’t look long
enough, or perhaps we might have stumbled
across one of Garden Honey. By the way, Alfred’s
bustis labelled Brutus or Daphne, or something;
anyhow it’s Alfred. And talking (we are full of
anecdote), of the Art Gallery, here is something
that occured there, the other day :—An Iroquois
sailor said to one of the attendants—“ Say, whar
d’ye spit, boss, in this yer pictur mill ? ” “ In your
handkerchief,” was the grave rejoinder.
The Prince of Wales got lately from a fa-
shionable London tobacconist a sample of cigars.
He called in at the trader’s a few days afterwards,
and, haviog in his frank fashion praised the quality
of one weed, offered to buy up the lot. Ali right;
honoured, delighted! only M. Baumgarteo
thought it proper to state that the cigars were ss.
each, or £320 for the consignment. Whereupon
H.K.H. expressed himself thus: “Mr. 8., your
cigars are the very finest I have ever smoked, but
I am too poor a man to pay such a price for them.”
And with this pronouncement the heir to the
throne left the spaoo between the commercial
counters for the glittering realms of royalty. Sub-
sequently, however, the Duke of Sutherland, him-
self an epicure In cigars, sampled the same lot, and
sent them as a present to H.tt.H.
When the gentleman who is now Admiral
Courbet was a young officer, he once went ashore
with half a dozen men in cannibal-land, and seeing
some eggs about, proceeded to mix up the ingre-
dients for an omelette. But, what to flavour it
with? Lieutenant Courbet, however, saw hanging
round some festoons of morel, a condiment of the
fungus family, better known in German than in
English cookery, and haoked off with his swerd a
goodly piece, which the blue-jackets mixed with
the omelette. But the women of the tribe pointed
to the morels and howled, and the men began to
get mad. Ultimately it transpired that the sup-
posed festoons of morel were, in reality, dried
human brains, taken from the skulsl of conquered
enemies emblems sacred as household gods.
Admiral Courbet, all the same, delights in relating
his culinary adventure, and to this day declares
that he never ate such a savoury omelette 1
Ismail Pasha, being interviewed by a Pall
Mall reporter about his chance of “ biffing ” that
splendid sovereign, Tewflk, out of Egypt, said:
“ They say the Egyptian soldiers won’t fight—yet
with them alone I conquered the Soudan. They
are staunch; but the Kurds are not. It’s the
whey of those Kurds to flee.” “It’s the ”
murmured the reporter timidly. “ Your pardon,”
said Ismail; “ I omitted to tell you that the miser-
able sixty thousand a year granted me by an un-
grateful son not sufficing for my minus plaislrs, I
have supplemented my income by writing for the
comic papers.” “ Then I think, ’ stammered tho
interviewer, making for the door, “ that I'll ”
“ Oh, if you must go—but, stay; ’ere you depart,”
cried the Unthroned One, “weigh well what
have said about those Kurds.” Then the reporter
departed precipitately, and Ismail sat himself
down at his little desk to build up “wholesome
fun ” at ten shillings a column.
Mr. Richard Jefferies, when discoursing on
English pastoral subjects, is not surpasred in
simple eloquence and graphic power by any living
writer. But he has now issued a novel, "In the
Dewy Morn,” and seems to have gone, In the lan-
guage of the South Seas, “ dean off his kadoova.
The novelist dwells on the indications of his hero-
ine’s bodily charms with a fervour that amounts
to rhapsody. The beauty of a perft ct skin, we are
told, is so great to gaze at, it is happiness; and “ to
express beauty, you must delineate the adipose
tissue,” but the knee is the exception, for the
knees are the centres from which ail beauty rises.
“ Human life is centred in the knee—it is so very
human, so nearly sorrowful in its humanity. Beau-
tiful knees, the poise and centre of the form!
Were I rich, how gladly I would give a thousand
pounds for a true picture of the kneel” The old
gentleman has evidently had a long course of opera
bouife and the ballet. The heroine does all the
courting in his book. We hope she didn’t scruo
many floors. She might have had corns on her
knees.
The next Mayor of Newtown is to be
Alderman Boots, a rival of Ninny's in the under-
taking line, but not an antagonist, since they
bury their dead in harmony together, and, ia baa
weather, are even known to coal-tar their charger*
out of the same barrel, and exchange ideas on ttm
subject of coffin-plates. The attitude of tne
Council is not so harmonious, however; for, toe
other day, on the subject of Alderman B.’s elec-
tion being booted—we mean bruited—there was
considerable confusion, and a number of member®
waxed ferociously facetious. It was contenaea
that Boots lacked polish; but, in reply, besarcas-
I tloally congratulated himself upon never being


“over on the heel.” This allusion to the well-
known bibular proclivities of a worthy alderman
attracted much notice, and, in the middle of the
g bine, Boots departed. “There is nothing half-
soled about me I” cried Boots as he banged the
Aldermanic door. “I’m no ‘pegged-up’ fellow—
not me!” Then, hailing a passing hearse, he coiled
himself up cosily beside the coffin, and was thus
lost to view.
During his recent journey to Scotland, the
Conservative leader, the Marquis of Salisbury,
changed his costume for a full Highland rig-out,
intending it as a delicate compliment to the Land
of the Kilt. But when he looked at himself in the
glass, he found that the tailor had cut his petti-
coats. or whatever they are called, too short. So
he made uo his mind to put on evening dress. Ho
changed his upper garments, and then sat down
for a few moments to read up his speech. This
sent him to sleep. He only woke with a start to
find himself running into the station. Forgetting
what had happened, he thrust on his hat and ap-
S eared at the window bowing, and this was how
e was dressed: He had full Highland costume as
far as his waist, above was a white shirt and swal-
low-tailed coat, and the entire edifice was crowned
with a chimney-pot hat, upon which he had sat
down without noticing it. His lordship’s horror
when he stepped on the platform and felt the keen
wind cutting his bare legs changed to absolute
agony when his valet appeared scrambling out of
the carriage with a pair of trousers in bis hands,
waving them wildly, and exclaiming, “My lord,
you’ve forgotten these! ”
Mr. George Augustus Sala is a Jew—at
least, so all his London literary brethren aver.
Perhaps they make the statement with a view to
accounting for his cleverness. There is in the
London D.T. office a gentleman named George
Anderson—his patronymic, on dit, was originally
Aarons—many brilliant leaders from whose pen are
attributed to Mr. Sala, whose literary stylo Mr.
Anderson has acquired to perfection. The latter
gentleman, who probably owes much of the pic-
turesqueness and force, which pervade his “ copy,”
to the Semitic current running in his blood, is a
strong link in the vertebras of the D.T., and is
known to many Australian readers as the autho
of that lovely and most readable book “ Scenes
the Commons,” reviews of which appeared in th
colonial press not so very long ago. Mr. Anderso
who is close upon fifty, but only looks two and
thirty, was originally a wood-engraver, which pr
fession he forsook some twenty years since fo
journalism. The pen fits his fingers even bette
than did the graver. He is a clever speaker, anc
may yet visit the colonies as a lecturer. And—tel
it not in Gath I— Edmund Yates of the World
also a Jew. This year he will probably spenc
Christmas in gaol, for libelling Lord Lonsdale. Pe
baps it’s just as well. If he were free, he wou
probably not celebrate the great Christian ann
versary in a manner according with the views o
the Evangelicals.
One of the blue-blooded squatocracy
the Western district (Vic.), who gave his name
George Robinson at the City Police Court (Me
bourne), lately, was haring a playful time of it i
the Southern Babylon, and would have got into
good deal of trouble had he not been “highl
connected.” This gay young blood, havin
tired of the revelries of Bourke and Swans
ton streets, went 'urther a-field for new ad
ventures, and pulled up at the house o
a commercial traveller in the Victoria Parade. I
response to his knock, the lady of the hous
opened the door, when the visitor tried to fore
himself in, and, failing that, he tried the efllcac
of the golden key. but was equally unsuocessfu .
Eventually a policeman appeared on the scene
who, “ with the greatest of diifewkulty, sur
rounded him,” and, after considerable loss o '
gore and uniform, he handed the highly connectec
party over to the tender care of Monsieur Delaney
at the City lock-up. Next morning the young
squattah faced the music at the City Polic
Court, a-d, though th - charge was sheeted horn
by the lady whom he had so grossly insulted, anc
whose evidence was corroborated by that of th
intelligent constable, yet this playful young blooc
wss let off with the light fine of £3. “Begorra
afther all, tisn’t so bad at ail to have a friend an
coort,” murmured the arresting policeman, as h
surveyed his tattered uniform, an-l fixed th
sticking-plaster on his cheek; “an’, maybe, th
next toime I’m axed to lumber one ov his propin
sities, ’tie a wide berth I’ll be afther givin’ him.”
At one of the principal cricket matches a
Lord’s during the past season, a lot of people sit
ting round the ring were much annoyed by an
over-dressed, wizened young man, who seemed to
be a barber’s clerk out for a holiday, and bad con
siituted himself jester to the company. Some o
his remarks were rather smart, and, egged on by
the laughter of the crowd, he lost no opportunity
of chalfing, In a more or less offensive way, alrnos;
everyone who walked past his bench. During the
rnllipg of the wickets, he addressed his polite at-
tentions to an Australian who sensibly wore
white hat, while thousands of the multitude swel-
tered in the sun’s glare arrayed in bell-toppers and
black frock coats. “Has to wear white to keep
his brain coo),” remarked the clever young man
The Australian addressed turned sharply round,
looked at the speaker for a moment, and then saic
pleasantly, “ An, Lefroy 1 it’s you, is it ? I thought
you had been hanged!” All eyes were turned on
the jester, who certainly bore a marvellous like-
ness to the hanged gentleman—which resemblance
the crowd, most of whom had evidently seen the
portrait of the convict in the illustrated papers,
instantaneously noted. The cheeky, ferret-eyed
young man tried to say something, but bis face
grew white with rage and his tongue seemed glued
to the roof of his mouth. At last he stammered
out, pointing to the Australian team, who were
now takiDg the field: “ I suppose you’re the Judas
from among the twelve.” “No,” sweetly re-
sponded our cornstalk friend, “I am the juryman
who for one minute held out for you agarnst the
other eleven. Go back to your grave, Lefroy.”
There was a hum among the crowd and the jester
spake no more.
If report speaks truly, a rcene from “Mea-
sure for Measure” (but with a more disastrous
termination) has just been enacted in Melbourne;
thepart of the lustful ADgolo bemg taken to the
me by a certain detective (a married man, too), his
victim being a barmaid of considerable personal
attractions. To this Isabella, it seems, Angelo of
the ‘ foorce ” has long made improper overtures,
out she, being a virtuous girl, even though in the
ranks of the much maligned, repulsed the scoun-
drel always. Mark how Angelo manoeuvred. He
knew his victim had a wild, harum-scarum
Brother, much after the style of Claudio in the
Pjay, and he therefore kept his “ heaglo heye ” on
the young fellow until he tripped. Immediately
oe had done *o, the detective swooped down like a
\ uiture on his prey, and, getting the warrant for
arrest, he went off with it at once to the
sister, to whom he proposed that she should yield
mm her honour as the price of her brother’s
escape. There was no hope of the brother getting
away, for the detective, who had shadowed him
mr weeks before the warrant was issued, could
“m his hand upon him at any moment. To save
mother, the wretched girl at last consented,
h? B a ’ Grange to say, the detective actually kept
“‘s word and permitted the accused to escape,
nn achieving the singular infamy of being at
ini*? falße to bis wife, to his Queen, and to every
of humanity. We have heard of some
* deeds done by the Victorian D.’s, but,
or Pure, undiluted villainy, this overlaps them all.
Jbe ex-Empress Eugenie spent a sorrow
ifßn^ e ? k * d, . 3riD ® her recent visit to Paris; but her
attitude was that of a person who, through
jUC6 suffering, bas come almost to be insensible.
ier complexion j S bleached as her hair. The eyes
It blue have lost the faculty of lighting up.
diffn OUJd 3)6 hard to sav whether they express in-
j-grwioeto most things or resignation. But they
88 lf they had cried so much that no more
in a 2? e r® in them. The Empress drove about
ana Jr - COU She was always in black crepe
ebn ? en ?P- Her figure has lost all flexibility, and
stiff walk that rheumatism or the
de-fat of years gives. The outlines of the shoul-
*• nowever, retain some of their former ele-
gance. If the world has not gone from her, she
has lost all taste for it. Seclusion sometimes
weighs upon her. At Carlsbad she refused all ex-
ceptional honours and favours, lived quietly at
an hotel, and took her place in a queue at the
pump. Her old vivacity has died out. She has
the generosity to ascribe to her impetuous dispo-
sition the culminating error of the Emperor’s
reign, and another event for which she will mourn
as long as life and consciousness remain to her.
The Empress still thinks aloud, and talks often and
rapidly of what is on her mind. She ill bears any
mental tension, unless in religious exercises, and
has not the resources of music, embroidery, knit-
ting, or sewing, which enabled Marie Arnelie to
beguile the tedium of a residence at Claremont.
Her infirmity prevents her walking much. Bhe
lives at Farnborough in the past and among
objects reminding her of departed glories of the
Emperor and of her ill-starred son, of whom she
can now speak without falling into paroxysms of
grief. She has been compared to Henrietta
Maria, widow of our own Charles 1., who also
had reason to deplore the impetuosity of
her disposition. That Queen, however, had a trial
in her old age to which the Empress has not been
subjected. She lived in France when she was a
discrowned Queen and widow in dire poverty.
Her house at Bois Colombes was in the marshy
part of a wind-swept plain, and, being too poor to
buy firewood, she had to stay in bed in winter to
keep herself warm.
Amande Lucille Aurore Dudevant (n&e
Dupin) was a veritable Frenchwoman-the female
Rousseau of her day and generation—the immense
vibrations of whose sweetly-passionately human
voice filled Europe with the name of George Band,
the non de plume over which she wrote works that
were social revelations: a name at which the prud-
ish British matron shuddered, and the pulpit-
thumping evangelical Honeythunder roared at in
supreme unblushing ignorance of the holy teach-
ings contained therein. The “mad, lewd, bra-en
virago,” the “ Muse of Adultery ’’—such were the
choice terms which Messieurs the Chadbands and
Mesdames the Grundys applied to the bright,
delicate, keen intellect, whose only anathemas
were for the “average sensual ” man and conven-
tional tight-laced, narrow-brained woman; whose
every aspiration was towards a purged society
whose every literary effort was in search of a free
conception of a more beautiful human life; and
whrse religion was not idle talk about God and the
unknowable, not setting of Him forth dogmati-
cally, but a purification of existence and a revivi-
fication of affection by suffering unselfishly en-
dured and duty hravely done. Aurore—the George
Sand to be—was born in 1804; her father, whose
“GEORGE SAND.”
illegitimate daughter she nearly had been, her
mother, Aurore nte von Sachsen (daughter of
Moritz, Graf von Sachsen, the illegitimate warrior
son of that too, too paternal monarch of Paxony,
Augustus 11. bv Aurore von Konigsmark) having
only married Mons. Dupin a few days before
her birth, was a well-to-do Parisian bookseller,
? f i . B '® UEBeau - Voitair ean views. He did the world
infinite service by begetting Aurore, to whom, at
his death, he left a snug little property at Nohaut,
m Berry, the streams, and woods, and sloping
downs about which his daughter’s poetical genius
has given a music for evermore. Three years of
hfe in a convent quite satisfied Aurore that she
wouldn tbe a nun. She claimed and obtained her
freedom, and then went in for independence,
which, however, she sacrificed again, when at 18
she consented to marry Baron Dudevant. Dude-
vant, in his own stupid person, taught his brilliant
young wife to hate the “average sensual man”
with her whole heart and soul. She left him in
1.831, having bought from him for £3OOO her two
children by him, Moritz and Solange. When they
separated, she went into man’s dress, and taking
with her her little daughter and the MSS. of
Indiana, went to Paris. It was the year after the
Revolution that had expelled Charles Dix from
the throne. Full of ardent hope, she joined the
party and propaganda of organic change, but only
to see a plutocratic bourgeosie, headed by the Fox
of Orleans, step into the place vacated by Divine
Right! No wonder she was bitter for a while, and
that her days were the “ days of revolt.” In Paris
she linked herself to Jules Sande ail (hence the
Sand ”) and together they wrote “La Prima
Donna ’ and “Rose et Blanche.” Then thair pub-
lisher asked for something all her own. bhe
banded him “Indiana.” In the year 1833 she
cut Sandeau, and became lie with Alfred de
Musset, with whom she “did” Italy, lingering
awhile in Venice, where were brought forth
several works, splenc’id with local colouring, pas-
sionate with cries for an Italiaßedenta, and sad with
unspeakable anguish begotten of the contempla-
tion of oppression. In “ Elle et Lui ” she has told
the story of her connection with De Musset, paint-
ing him as a wondrous mass of contradictions—as
a cynical enthusiast, as a melancholy Bacchanal,
»s a heartless blast child. On returning to France,
she “ kept company ” awhile with Pierre Leroux,
and under his impression produced “ epiridion.”
Next came her passion for Chopin, and then the
“days of revolt” calmed down, and she settled
herself at Nohaut to preaeh, in her hundred works,
a social gospel to these two texts: “To execrate
the People is the real blasphemy,” and “The senti-
ment of the ideal life is none other than man’s
normal life as we shall one day know it.” Her
* Dernieree Pages ” were published in ’77, the year
after her death. Poet, dramatist, novelist, she in-
spired Europe with beautiful thoughts; reformer
and philosopher, she scattered broadcast the most
germinal ideas. Not without faults, she clung to
Truth, fought to the last gasp for Freedom and
Equality; and was, withal, as cordial, simple,
benevolent a being as ever walked this earth.
Prudery may throw her sfiteful pebbles, and Cant
his blatant maranatha at George Sand, but she is
beyond the reach of either.
Mrs. Besant’s recollections of her earlier
struggling to support her mother and
child by her own exertions, contain touches of
pathos that must go home to the heart ol even the
fiercest bigot. The description of what was con-
sidered her parent's death-bed, the desire of the
m other to take the Sacrament with her daughter,
and the resolve of the latter to participate in a
ceremony which she considered as useless and
hypocritical, solely to gratify what was thought to
he her last wishes, cannot but interest the reader
in the life of the writer. Two clergymen refused
to administer, but at length Mrs. Besant appealed
to one of the noblest and largest-hearted men that
ever wore surplice and stole—the late Bean of
Westminster. The result is thus told:-“I went to
a clergyman I knew well, and laid the case before
him; as t expei. ted, he refused to allow me to com-
municate. I tried a second; the result was the
same. I was in despair. To me the service was
foolish and superstitious, but I would have done a
great deal more for my mother than eat bread and
drink wine, provided that the eating and drinking
did not, by pretence of faith on my part, soil ray
honesty. At last a thought struck me—there was
Dean Stanley, my mother’s favourite, a man
known to be of the broadest school within the
Church of England; suppose I asked him? I did
not know him, though as a young child I had
known his sister as my mother’s friend, and I
felt the request would be something of an im-
pertmence. Yet there was just the chance that he
might consent, and then my darling’s death-bed
would be the easier. I told no one, but set out
resolutely for the deanery, Westminster, timidly
asked for the dean, and followed the servant up-
stairs with a very sinking heart. I was left for a
moment alone in the library, and then the dean
came in. I don’t think I ever in my life felt more
intense) y uncomfortable than I did in that minute's
interval as he stood waiting for me to speak, his
clear, grave, piercing eyes, gazing right into mine.
Very ialteringly I preferred my request, stating
boldly that I was not a believer in Christ; that my
mother was dying; that she was fretting to take
the Sacrament; that she would not takeitunless
I it with her; that two clergymen bad refused
to allow me to take part in the service; that I had
come to him in despair, feeling how great was the
intrusion—but she was dying. * You were quite
right to come to me,’ said, as I concluded, in
that soft musical voice of his, his keen gaze having
changed into oue no less direct, but marvellously
gentle. ‘Of course I will go and see your mother,
and I have little doubt that if you will not mind
talking over your position with me, we may see
our way clear to doing as your mother wishes.’ I
could barely speak my thanks, so much did the
kindly sympathy move me; the revulsion from
the anxiety and fear of rebuff was strong enough
to be almost pain. But Dean Stanley did more
than I asked him. He suggested that he should
call that afternoon, and have a quiet chat with my
mother, and then come again the following
day to administer the Sacrament. ‘A stranger's
presence is always trying to a sick person,’
he said, with rare delicacy of thought; ‘and
joined to the excitement of the service, it
might be too much for your dear mother. If
I spend half an hour with her to-day, and adminis-
ter the Sacrament to-morrow, it will, I think, be
better for her.’ So Dean Stanley came that after-
noon, and remained talking with my mother for
about half an hour, and then set himself to under-
stand my own position. He finally told me that
conduct was far more important than theory, and
that he regarded all as * Christians ’ who recognised
and tried to follow the moral law. On the ques-
tion of the absolute Deity of Christ he laid but
little stress. Jesus was, *in a special sense,’ the
‘ Sou of God,’ but it was folly to jangle about
words with only human meanings when dealing
with the mysteries of divine existence; and, above
all, it was lolly to make such words into dividing
lines between earnest souls. Tbe one impoitant
matter was the recognition of ‘duty to God and
man,’ and all who were one in that recognition
might rightfully join in an act of worship, the es-
sence of which was not acceptance of dogma, but
love of God and self-sacrifice for man. ‘ The Holy
Communion,’ h© said in his soft tones, ‘ was never
meant to divide from each other hearts that are
searching after the one true God; it was meant by
its founder as a symbol of unity, not of strife.’
On tbe following day he came again, and cele-
brated the ‘Holy Communion’ by tbe bedside of
my dear mother. Well was I repaid for the struggle
it had cost me to ask so great a kindness from a
stranger when I saw the comfort that gentle,
noble 1 eart had given to my mother. He soothed
away all her anxiety about my heresy with tactful
wisdom, bidding her have no fear of difference of
opinion where the heart was set on truth. ‘Re-
member,’ she told me he had said to her—‘remem-
ber that our God is tho God of truth, and that,
therefore, the honest search for truth can never
be displeasing in His eyes.’ ”
The Stuart Cabinet—the lone and the
• , Dibb ® an( i Dailey — For a week or two
after the departure of his cricketing colleagues
Freddy, the “Demon Bowler,” aired himself
among the grandees at Scarborough.. Percy Lucas
removed ’from the Public Service. And he
wasn teven well-connected.”... .All Creswell re-
members of the past proceedings is that someone
gave him a plug of tobacco, and another two pairs
of socks. But he has a rooted conviction that Joe
waj Prince Albert Alick Bannermaun
considers it a comfort to be once more back in
Australia. No doubt. For, out here a man oan do
what ho pleases-wifh his knife.
• • •
The eidest son of the Prince of Wales is to
get £15,000 a-y ear.... Thus Bismarck: “Never be-
lieve a statement until it is contradicted in the
newspapers by authority.” Archibald Forbes
has speculated ” and lose all the money he made
by lecturing in Australia. He is now hard at work
to retrieve his fortunes —There has been a great
luss because the Prince of Wales recently went to
£° r a day or two with Lord Dudley, who is
olf his dot, and has a beautiful wife,.... .Jules
Verne was born at Nantes on Feb. 8, 1828. His
Published in 1863... Some of the
H? 1118,1 bishops who howl so loudly against
the Deceased Wife s Sister Bill becoming the law
rn 0 rH C Uanioi m vfn r u ed OWn flrBt COUSinS 1....
Lord Randolph Churchill’s idea of a happy life:—
y„°„ to bed in a quiet room, stay there through the
day reading and dosing, dine in slippers and dress-
ing gown in the evening, and as soon as conve-
nient thereafter go back to bed... Lord Rose-
bis fall through his bad horsemanship,
not through a crab-hole. He is an industrious
worker when on board a horse, and rides all over
the animal from his head to his tail.... The prima
2S° n . aB „i°2, e °° e another dearly. Nilsson professes
great admiration for Pattis voice, “considering
herage. Patti declares that she will be delighted
if she is able to sing as well as Nilsson when she
gets to be as old as the latter. Gerster speaks with
rapture of her childhood’s days,” when she used
Nilsson 11 t 0 the 8p endid of Patti and
THE KOOKABURRA.
“You,” said his Honor to an acquaintance,
are no gentleman." “And you,” rotorted the
other, are no judge."
When a lady sprinkles her dressing-room
ai I d INMAN'S FLOHIDA
. .iiKtt, it becomes to one sense at least a deli-
cious floral bower. No tropical grove can exhale
a rarer tragrance.
The waning of the honeymoon.—Wife, to
husbHnd who has promised to spen" the evening
at home: ‘Do take some coffee!” Hubby: “No
it keeps me awake.”
John T. McInnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham
BER8, 90 Pitt-stbeet, Sydney, tsr* Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements
Saw Mill Plant. &o. No commission charged for
buying. t-SF" Agents for the sale or purchase o*
commission of Pure-bred Stnok.*
“ Dp* you cut that tree ?” asked my father
and I, remembering the story of George Washing-
ton. said “Yes, father, I did.” And he took me
into the library, and set me on his knee, and he
lorgave me face downwards!
Mr. DjsCocmor Browne (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book."
Mining Leaseholders’ Guide," und “Manual of
Minerals, Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles^ Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 62 Castle-
reagh-strect, Sydney. «sr Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
6kill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
A sentimental editor says: “It is comfort-
ing to know that one eye watencs fondly for our
coming, and looks brighter when we come.” But
a contemporary is grieved to learn that his “ bro-
ther of the quill has a wife with one eye only.”
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
ings, Carpet Bags Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabrio
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Each package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods, if you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You will be
delighted. 8old by druggists and dealers at 6d.
per package. Send 2d. stamp to Box 181, G.P.O.,
Sydney, and you will receive a Sample Card of
Colours, &o., &c., by return post.*
Outside an omnibus; very hot night. Five
maidens and one man. “ Would you mind moving
a little farther up, please?” says the old maiden
at the end; “as I’m sittiDg on an iron of the
omnibus.” “Very happy, ma’am,” answers the
rude young man, “if it's possible; but I’m sitting
on some Ironwork myself, and I fancy It doesn’t
belong to the omnibus 1”
Headache, Languor and Melanohoiy gener-
ally spring from a Disorded Stomach, Costiveness,
ora Torpid Liver. Each may readily be removed
by Dr. Jayne’s Sanative Pills, a few doses of which
will be found to stimulate the Liver and Stomach
to healthy action, remove all biliousness, and pro-
duce regular evacuations of the bowels.
The Mudir of Dongola, having attained
much proficiency as a liar, is going to start as a
peripatetic lecturer. The anecdote by which be
expects to make his pile Is this: ‘“How do you
like Egypt?’ I enquired of one they called the
Windsor Warrior; * how do you like the Pyramids ?'
‘ I never cared for Pywamids,’ he replied; ‘ I pwe-
fer taking the entire pool.’ ”
Marshall Brothers, American Dentists,
supply Artificial Teeth of first quality at strictly
moderate charges. The practice of painless Den-
trlstry is carried on by the aid of a large stock of
modern apparatus. Teeth painlessly stopped.
Painless extraction by nitrous oxide gas. Denta.
Rooms, 104-6 Market-st., near Hyde Park.*
This is not a cannibalistic story, After a
shipwreck, a Jew and a Christian were clinging
for dear life to a spar inmid-ocean. Thelrstrength
was all but spent; the Jew was almost done for,
his hair and beard were trailing in the water, ana
his numbed fingers could scarcely maintain their
hold of the wood. The Christian suddenly espied
a ship, and exolaimed, “A sail! a sail!” The half
insensible Jew roused himself at the word, and
moaned, ‘A shale, did you say, ma tear? a shale!
oh, it’s just my bloomiug luck! and i haven’t got
a catalogue!”
At the Produce picnic, the Mayor said th e
municipal expenditure had been large this year, on
account of the wooden blocks. Never mind, a lot
of the aldermen will retire soon.
The proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil offer a
cash prize of £3O for the best original humorous
sketch on any subject peculiar to Australia or
Australian life. The sketch is to appear in the
“St. Jacobs Oil Family Calendar” for 1886, and
must not exceed 700 words, nor be less than 650
wpras in length. Mr. H. S. Chipman, of Sydney,
will furnish intending competitors with all de-
sired information.
Cheery chat for a customer, this -was. Dr
Cortis, of “bike” and cold-water-loving renowD,*
was out West, the other day. andduringthe oourse
of his travels, bought a real Jive horse, sired, we
believe, by “ Sir Roger,” and darn’d by everyone
who had previously tried to ride him. And, as
the medicine man led his new purchase home, he
casually observed to his groom, “ Ike, d’ye think
t bat chesnut’s likely to throw a ‘ splint' ?" “ No, 1
don’t,” replied Ike; “but I think he’s mighty apt
to throw a doctor.”


Professional Directory.
HIBCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Hiscocks..
W.
Sydney
HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks’Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
Theatre royal.
Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Mubgrove.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
THE SUCCESS
of the
DRAMATIC SE ISON.
H. J. Byron’s powerful drama,
LANCASHIRE LASS.
Enthusiastically received every night by fcn over-
llowing house in every section.
TO-NIGHT, at 8 sharp,
LANCASHIRE LASS.
Mr. ALFRED DAMPIER as Ned Clayton.
Mr J. R. GKEVTLLE in his famous impersonation,
“ A party by the name of Johnson.
PRICES: Dress Circle, 55.; Stalls, 35.: Family
Circle, 2s. PIT, ONE SHILLING.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4. No free list.
E W
Lessees
O
PERA HOUBE.
.. E. Ma jeroni and W. J. W ilson.
This and Every Evening.
Grand Production, by
MAJKRONI and WILSON S
COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
of LUSCOMBE SEARELLE’S NEW OPERA^
ROBADIL
BOBADIL
bobadil
HOBADIL
BUUAUUj
BOBADIL,
With the following powerful Cast
Miss Grade Pldsted
Miss Minnie Desmond
Mr. Ch'is. Harding
Mr. F. Wentworth
M- A novlos
Miss Frances baviiie
Miss Blanche Leopold
Mr. Geo. Leopold
Mr. Oily Deering
Mr. W. P. Morrison
Gaiety the at re.
Lessee Mr John Bennett.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Wybert Reeve.
Last Night but one of Ireland’s Great Comedian and
Versatile Actor. Arrangements having been made
with Mr. Charles M’Mahou for the engagement ol
Grattan Riggs. Last Night but one I airy
Circle,” and “ Handy Andy.” To-morrow Last
Night Grattan Riggs.
Box Plan, Nicholson’s. Tickets, Loder’s Hotel.
Business Manager, G. A. COLEMAN.
N I rand C Q RCH EOT& A under th- Uftoa of
Leader “ 8CO “ OB tIJSTBB.
BOBADIL. BOBADIL. BOBADIL.
Box plan now open at A. and C. Huenerbein s
Music Warehouse, 318, George-street.
THEATRE.
Mr. John Bennett.
Mr. Wybert Reeve.
Mr. Charles Turner.
Mr. George Coleman.
Gaiety
Lessee
Lessee and Manager
Sub-Lessee and Director.
Manager for Mr. Reeve .. -
SATURDAY NEXT. November 29,
Grand Opening_Night of the
MONTAGUE-TURNER ENGLISH OPERA
COMPANY.
Return of Sydney’s Operatic favourite (par ex-
cellence), Miss ANNIS MONT AGUE, and the highly
popular artiste, Mr. CHARLES 1L KNER,
who have been induced to give a season of English
Opera during the Xmas season, commencing on
SATURDAY, November 29, with the revival of
Auber’s chef-d'oeuvre. .MwiaunH
FRA DIAVOLO.—ZERLINA, Miss ANNIS MON-
TAGUE (*irst time in Sydney); FRA DfAVOLO,
Mr. CHARLES TURNER (first time in Sydney).
Orchestral Chairs, 55.; Stalls, 35,; Family Circle,
2s. • Pit Is.
“ Box Plan at Messrs. Nicholson and Co.’s Music
Warehouse, George-street.
H.TREVORAH, Business Manager.
DUNCAN MACALLUM, Advance Agent.
CADEMY OF MUSIC.
Lessee
Manager and Leoturer..
Mr. J. C. Rainer.
„ Mr. P. Stuart.
LAST WEEK. Change of Programme.
RAINER’S NEW PANORAMA
of the
RUSSO TURKISH WAR.
The Entertainment will conclude with a magnifi-
cent distribution of VALUABLE PRESENTS.
A SUITE of FURNITURE or a PIANO
Given Away, Every Evening.
N
E W
MASONIC
Castlereagh-street.
HALL,
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 6th, 8 p.m. sharp.
jsg- Under and in the presence of Distinguished
Patronage.
PROFESSOR SIMON
will deliver his lecture on the
POLITICAL CHARACTERS of N.B. WALES,
for which special PORTRAITS in oil of
OUR MOST POPULAR MEMBERS
have been painted.
Professor Simon has already received the pro-
mise of the presence of most of our leading mem-
bers of both Houses to assist in the parading and
character reading on the stage.
Reserved Tickets at Professor Simon’s Consult-
ing Kooms, 126 Elizabeth-street.
4 LL ENGLAND v. CUMBERLAND.
ALL ENGLAND v. CUMBERLAND.
ALFRED CRICKET GROUND, PARRAMATTA
FRIDAY and SATURDAY,
28th and 29th Instant.
Play to commence at 12 o’clock,
gw Band will be in attendance each day.
Luncheon may be procured on the Ground.
EXCURSION FAREsT EXCURSION FARES !
Admission to Ground—ONE SHILLING.
Grand Stand—Two Shilling's.
P. F. MAYBURY, Hon. Sec.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
First open date, Monday. January
19th, 1885. Share or Let. Terms on applica-
tion to
J. B. HICKIE,
Lessee.
N.B. Only responsible managers treated with.
ROCKHAMPTON, QUEENSLAND.
SCHOOL OP ARTS HALL.
CONSIDERABLE Additions and Improvements
have been made to the above Hall, which is
now the most commodious place of entertainment
in Rockhampton, and is in the centre of the town.
It is thoroughly furnished and fitted, seated for
500 people, and has a large Stage and Gallery.
Ajnple means of access and egress have been pro-
vraed ; also thorough ventilation. Travelling
companies will find special facilities for giving
entertainments in this Hall. Terms moderate.
Particulars on application to the Secretary.
D
N
N
PROF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening:
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &o. Leigh House Academy, 251
Castlereagh street, near Bathurst-street. P.S.—
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and Is superior in ventilation,
gnring floor, &c. No decorations required.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, caie of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
SPECIAL NOTICE—ALTERATION OF AR-
RANGEMENTS at the
LAVENDER BAY
Swimming; Baths
(the «nly pure sea-water baths near Sydney.)
Open every day for Ladies and Gentlemen from
6 a.m. till dark.
Admission, 3d.; Children, accompanied by adults,
2d.; 100 tickets, 215.; Monthly Tickets, 55.; An-
nual Tickets, from Ist September, 21s.
SWIMMING TAUGHT by Mr. Frederick
Cavill, the world-renowned swimmer, who swam
from France to England in 12 hours, 20th August,
1877. Six Lessons, 21s. The North Shore Ferry
Steamers leave the Circular Quay for the Baths
every quarter-of-an-hour.
i saoraa: rtysrtohav •
SUV9IO JO xoa V
: ALITVIOadS HUO
•Anoioo aqj u?
sxNawaamOaH .snaMows onv ooovoox
jo jumu
-jiosBv 180 H pub jse&nri eqj jdoq eq wav oiat(Av
‘saeqmuqo s.ubsiojjbj, JX9N
GG
‘'ITTW TTO
jb ‘sastraojj poptnitß
-AfW-Uuao pub MON (jHNaaO ‘suo.ijßd TAT
snoieuina jo jsonbei oqj jb ‘ssq aMVON 'H J/lL
•ay ‘sooovqoj_ ‘sjdSiq
ao aaxHoawi
T
NOW READY.—An edition of the NEW LAND
ACT, with Copious, Full, and Explana-
tory Notes, written by A. ARMSTRONG, the
well-known Land and Parliamentary Agent, whose
long experience of, and extensive connection with
the Administration of the Land Law. ensure this
edition giving reliable and practical information
of the changes recently effected In Land Legis-
lation.
Price—Five Shillings, poft free.
J. J. MOORE and CO., Publishers.
554 George-street, Sydney.
RAILWAY TICKETS
St
A?
Z?la,:n.s-
I3T- The last chance to secure Riverstone
Land by the Lot. Future Sales by the Foot.
COLES
/o
V
%
Christmas Si Ksw Year Cards
H
EDWARD R. COLE
AS pleasure in announcing- that be has jus
received a Magnificent Assortment of
Urns & lb Tear Cards
from the principal English, American, and Conti-
nental Manufacturers, comprising all the
LATEST and MOST ELEGANT DESIGNS in
floral Cards
Plushed Cards
Fringed Cards
Hand-Painted Card 3
Photographic Cards
Gelatine Cards
Floral Fans
Compressed Flower Cards
Mechanical Cards
Folding Cards
Satchets
&c., &c., &c.
The Stock, amounting to
<£3ooo,
is of the Cboicpst and Most Varied Description
ever shown in Sydney, representing the pick of
the London, American, and Continental Markets ;
and many of the designs are unrivalled for beauty
of finish and execution, in order to clear out
this immense stock of Cards, they will be sold at a
small advance on manufacturers’ prices, and less
than Sydney Wholesale Prices.
edwaeFr, cole,
Wholesale and Retail Card Emporium,
BOOKB, MAGAZINES, and STATIONERY,
Corner of George and King-streets.
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING.
WEST END HOUSE,
168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Two Doors from Compagnoni's.)
THE undersigned, recognising the want of a
FIRST CLASS TAILORING ESTABLISH-
MENT, have OPENED the premises lately occu-
pied by the Bank of Australasia, at 168 PITT-
isTREBT (THE WEsT *NI) HOl SE) where they
Intend to carry on a High-class and Fashionable
Trade.
The public may feel assured that we shall be
able to maintain a high standard, when we state
that our Mr. Ward has had some yeats’ experience
in the best houses in Lo idon, Paris, as well as in
first-class Sydney Establishments, namely, Farmer
and Co.’s and David Jones and Co.’s.
HjOur Mr. Wilson has had fully 30 years’ expe-
rience in the Australian trade, and has just re-
turned from England, where he visited all the
principal Woollen Mills, including that of Hud-
dersfield, as well as West of England and Scotch
Mills. This will be a sufficient guarantee that the
tastes and requirements of the public will receive
the attention they deserve.
In conclusion, wo desire to say that we hope to
obtain a fair share of patronage, in return for
which we guarantee first-class work, all hand-
made, well ehrunk, perfect fit, and all in tae latest
London and Paris styles.
Soliciting a trial, we remain,
Very truly yours,
FREDERICK WILSON,
HUGH WARD,
Fashionable Tailors, Robe and Habit Makers.
West End House,
168 Pltt-street, Sydney.
HEY WILL LOOK BETTER THAN NE
PRICESREOUCI
71
rHEY WILL WEARBETTER THftN NEW
ffm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINK Of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
Offices: 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Bteamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED.
NESDAYB, and FRIDAYS.
Bteamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINTONG
BARRABOOL
BURWAH
CHEVIOT
DERWENT
EDINA
GABO
BALMAIN
GEELONG
KEILAWARRA
KONOOWARRA
LEURA
MORETON
RODONDO
. YOU YANGS.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney,
Sulpholine
Lotion,
THE CURE FOR SKIN DISEASES!
In a few days Eruptions, Pimples, Blotches entirely
fade away. Beautifully fragrant. Perfectly harm-
less. Cures old-standing Skin Diseases. Astonish-
ing results follow. It removes every kind of
Eruption, Spot, or Blemish, and renders the skin
clear, smooth, supple, ai d healthy. Sulpholine
Lotion is sold by most Chemists. Bottles, 2s 9d.
each. Made only by J. PEPPER and Co., London t
PEPPERS
QUININE & IRON
“SSffihWH. TONIC
ENERGY. ' VftfW,
GREAT BODTLY aTRENGTH !
GREAT NERVE STRENGTH !
GREAT MENTAL STRKNGTIiI
GREAT DIGESTIVE STRENGTH follows the use
of PEPPER’S QUININE and IRON TONIC. It
promotes appetite, dispels languor, depression,
&c., Is a remedy for Neuralgia, Chest affections,
and wasting diseases. Bottles, 32 doses. Sold by
Chemists everywhere. Insist on having Pepper’s.
Made solely by J. PEPPER and Co., London.
Specially suitable for the colonies.
PEPPER’S
TARAXACUM
AND PODOPHYLLIN.
A FLUID LIVER MEDICINE, MADE FROM
DANDELION AND MANDRAKE ROOTS.
Of Great Value for the Colonies.
Good for Liver Disorder, Indigestion, Dyspepsia.
The best Antibilious Remedy. Without a particle
of Mercury. Safest and surest Stomach and Liver
Medicine. Clears the Head and cures Headache.
Regulates the BoweJs. Removes Heartburn, Fla-
tulence, Torpidity. Bottles, 12 doses. Sold by
most Chemists. Insist that Pepper’s is supplied.
Xj er’s
SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
THE BEST. THE SAFEST. THE CHEAPEST.
Restores the Colour in a few applications.
Large Bottles, Is. 6d. Made in London.
C. F. PRIDDY & CO,,
433 GEORGE STREET,
HAVE THE
Largest and Best-selected Stock
of Hats in Sydney.
HATS MADE TO ORDER.
All, the Best London Makes Imported.
438 GEORGE STREET,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
“A thing of beauty is a joy for ever.”
CALL and view the Works of Art displayed iD
Christmas and New Year’s Cards.
Christmas Cards. Christmas Cards.
The Largest and Choicest Variety ever
Displayed in Australia.
Hand Painted, Ivory Gelatine, Satin, Plush.
Photographic Cards, and a host of others, too
numerous to particularize.
Cards from 3d. per dozen to 103. each.
T. L. SMITH,
Royal Book and Picture Promenade,
418 and »»» Georjye-street,
Near Royal Hotel.
WASTE PAPER Hoop Iron
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher,
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TUB!
HOTEL, which is now kept by
Ned Warmoll*
&r,g <& fe*eryd&*c.TiAU*-x,*v<£*&6
0-7 U CvJir* <J t kz/7n^+tJ- ■ _ *=zhLSpe£Zuno vr’-tSc&A- "ZkHtnfry
,S'rjrr-r-rsj^f2 ; .
Any/- /rny *?-»


THIRTY SHILLINGS.
* > ■ m
V..
W THIRTY SHILLINGS,
The Autophone!
f |>HIB triumph of musical invention is acknow.
1 lodged on all hands to he the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It is a wonderful little instrument, whioh, while
it weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL-SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and executes its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 22 reeds, plays in three keys, and all the
parts of most difficult music.
To Mr. H. B. Horton, the inventor, the world
was first indebted for the Organette ; but that was
too expensive to come within the reach of all.
After years of persistent effort and intelligent
otudy, he has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of cost and crudeness.
It requires no skill to extract from it any sort of
musio that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas, Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, &c., &c., &c. A child can
play any of these selections with perfect aoouraoy
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that ere sent with each
instrument, and are so plain that “he who runs
may read.” It is best adapted to the kind of musio
which suits an organ best, in which chorda pre-
dominate ; but it has also wonderful power in
executing very lively pieces. It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little oard-holdier for convenience
in singing. It will be found Invaluable for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and
for Dancing. Every shanty in the bush should be
supplied with one; and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autophone. It will afford greater and better
entertainment 1 ban four times the price can pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Bole Agents for this marvel-
ous little instrument in the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO. f
OF
474 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the colonies. Orders have
come to us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonely
obepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
olergymen, from residents of the cities—from
everywhere, in fact. And one of the best argu-
ments we can offer as to the genuineness of the
instrument, is the fact that, in all our corres-
pondence, we have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they will reoommend It
to their friends.
It Is eoneeded by ail educators and moralists
that music Is the great refining influence, and
especially with children, its effect for good is
boundless. The love for music which musio in
the family engenders, is more potent in forming
dispositions and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, and parents, and in conjunction with
th«»e, is the oil or balm which renders an other-
wise bard task an easy one.
The price of the Autophone Is 305.,
and where good music can be prooured for such a
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
be without it. With each Autophone for 30s. we
send three tunes of own selection and a listed
catalogue from which\the customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
All orders for musio are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list prioe, and we make it our
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogue of tunes at any time.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Sole Agents for Australia:
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY,
474 George-street, Sydney, 474
[
Opposite entrance to Fruit Markets
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Rot At—“ The Lancashire Lass ... p 8.
Opera House—“ Bobadil ” lb.
Gaiety Theatre—" Fairy Circle ” ib.
Academy of Music—Rainer’s Panorama ib.
A TYPE.-Iso. 2.
He stand aloof—they give him room,
He does not with them cluster;
Observe his featuresjsvrapped in gloom,
His eyes that are “ lack-lustre.’’
Despair’s upon his ev’ry glance—
Death seems to be his idol;
For he’s in an unholy trance,
That’s worse than suicidal.
In caverns both his eyes repose,
And, mark you, now, this, lastly—
His vtdoe’s tones are simply those
Which strike on you as ghastly 1
" What ghoul is this ?” you’ll quickly cry i
“ Who is this gloomy needy ’un ?”
That is, we’ll tell you, with a sigh,
A splendid low comedian!
He sets the pit upon a roar,
His Jokes are new and mellow;
And, oh, the public love him, for
He’s such a " funny fellow.”
He sometimes takes a holiday
(’Tie on but few occasions);
Then he does on a tombstone lay,
And reads the “ Revelations.”
** * *
Lttsoombe Searelle, following up his silo*
Cess with “ Estrella ” at the Royal, has produced
“Bobadil” at the Opera House. We attended on
the opening night, and haven’t been since. This
testifies to our unselfishness. You seo, we don’t
want to crowd out the paying audience. The
story upon which Mr. Walter Parke has founded
the libretto was, we believe, once original.
A Sultana told it to her spouse to induce
him not to cut her head off. This shows the trust-
ing nature of woman, and the idiotic character of
Sultans. Jf Mr. Walter Parke were, for instance,
to insist on our keeping awake all night while he
read the story to us from his libretto, we wouldn’t
cut his head off, certainly—we would bite it off.
The original series, of which the “ Bobadil ” yarn
is an instalment, ran for a thousand and one nights.
These were Arabian nights, however. We don’t
think Mr. Bearel>e's opera will run a thousand and
one nights, but we daresay Mr. Searelle would, if
any of the clever gentlemen who have composed
librettos that no one would set music td, and
operas that no manager would produce, happened
to get on his tracks with a bill-hook.
* * *
The production of “ Bobadil ” Was interest-
ing for many reasons. In the first place, because
It is composed by Luscombe Searelle, who is almost
»n Australian, he having been born, we believe, in
Mew Zealand, and having developed his musical
abilities in these colonies. There are plenty people
who caH remember him, not so long ago, perform-
ing in Sydney* as a phenomenal Juvenile pianist.
" Bobadil ” is, therefore, the first opera written by
a colonial composer which has been produced for
the first time on the boards of an Australian
theatre. Only one other opera composed In the
colonies has, so far as we know, ever been
produced on the stage at all. That one is
Vincent Wallace’s “ Maritana,” and the libretto Of
that, like the libretto ot “ bobadil,” waB written
In London. We prefer “ Maritana.” “ Bobadil ”
Is not Mr. Searreiie’B best effort, the frequent
'strains of melody whioh embellished "Estrella”
being comparatively lacking in “Bobadil,” al-
though Some of the duets, and notably an accom-
panied quintette in the second act are exceedingly
graceful and harmonious. The cast strange
how the word reminds us of horses or horse-
shoes or something —is scarcely adequate to
the best possible interpretation of the opera. Mr,
Harding, to whom the fot« of Bobadil is bhtrUsted,
sings the music right enough, and, on the night of
our visit, spoke the lines accurately whenever he
could hear Mr. Searelle Prompting. His last solo,
however, was a hit, ahd resembled the bombard-
ment of the Chief Mandarin’s house at Foochow.
That in to nay, it brought down the house.
* * *
The Sultan, Haroun al Rasehid, has a
lovely daughter, invented by Mr. Parke, and
Bobadil finishes off by marrying her; although,
judging by the levity of her conduct in perambu-
lating the city in boy’s clothes, he might have had
her on cheaper terms. This fair larrikinesh is
laken by Miss Grade Planted, who whs as lively as
a kitten with a spool of cotton tiea to its tail, and
sang in a manner which reminded us occasionally
of the same kitten, grown up. This was probably
attributable to her parentage, as her stern parent,
the Commander of the Faithful, had so very poor
a voice that not even a black-mailing reporter
would have dreamed of borrowing a note from it.
Oily Deering and George Leopold were
doubly entertaining—the one as a Court Jester,
who put a good deal of colour into his Jokes, and
who deserves to have evety bone broken, but
especially his blasted trombone (no impropriety
in this expression); and the other as an Armenia i
money-lender, who had anticipated the fate which
we should wish for all in his line—that is to say, he
had turned up his toes.
• • *
The minor characters were full of interest
and sawdust, une nymph in blue would have been
invisible edgeways but for her calves, which she
seemed to have borrowed from her cousin in the
Permanent Artillery. Another had concentrated
all her talents in her ankles, and she seemed to
have great talents. The Sultan’s son smiled genially
upon the entire proceedings, and in the third act
sang a duet with Lulu In a style which en-
chanted the gods. It was a sort of lightning act,
with constant flashes which made the performer
wink whenever he had a note high enough to be
likely to attract the electric fluid. The composer
was called for at the close of the first act, and
mode a little speech in which he said that Heaven
Kr Sydney, we forget which) was his home, and
that if he had his choice he would rather be an
Australian native than a Hottentot. We under-
stand, however, that when Luscombe was at the
Cape of Good Hope, he used to make little speeches
and say that he would prefer to be a Hottenott
more than anything, except it were a Boer or a
giraffe. On the whole, “ Bobadil ” is an amusing
trifle enough. We should be disposed to place it
in the same category with “Don Giovanni.” and
“ Will you gather by the River,” and “ Les Hugue-
nots.” and “ lhree Blind Mice,” and “Guillaume
Tell.” In the meantime, anyhow, there’s no other
man born on this side of the world who has at-
tained the position of producing an opera which
has been worthy to put on the stage. Luscombe
Searelle is not a Mozart, truly, but he is a very
clever fellow all round, alike as a musician and a
writer of ballad verses.
•• * *
Grattan Riggs packs his little shoe-trunk
on Friday night, and flits to Hobart, whither, we
understand, the gifted Addle accompanies him,
and where he is to be further supported by Maggie
Knight. “ The Fairy Circle,” in which Mr. Biggs
has last appeared in, is a fantastic little sketch,
with more poetry than backbone in it, but which
affords the gifted Grattan a certain scope for the
delineation of Irish character in its many phases.
Handy Andy,” however, which comes after, was
far more to the taste of the audience, and it is but
fair to Mr. Riggs to state that his efforts were the
cause of infinite merriment. Both pieces having
such a decided monologue flavour, necessarily
Preclude the chance of the other players “ getting
mto double figures ” (into such degradation have
we fallen 1), and, therefore, it would be, if not in-
vidious, at least monotonous to follow each indi-
vidual actor througa his rugged path of trouble.
• • *
Grattan’s season has been, on the whole,
successful, and he will be followed ocuSaturday
next by Mr. Charles Turner, Miss Annie sS&ntaguc,
and a very good crowd, including Gordon; and M.
Leon Caron is engaged as conductor. Mr. Duncan
Macallum (who has exhausted himself in curses
respecting all that is dioramtc) is Mr. Turner’s ad-
vance agent; and, curiously enough, the minor
members of the troupe are almost identical with
those forming the Montague-Turner Company
when they first opened in Sydney.
*• * #
We looked round to see Rainer the other
night, and finding him seated on a chair outside
the Academy, we said, “Well, how’s things—
pretty good ?” “Jones has not made a bad stand.”
he replied. “There's not much biz. doing, is
there?” we inquired. “Iknew him,” he replied,
“for fifteen years. Poor Joe.” “How can you
afford to give away pianos with such a b»d house
as this ?” we inquired. “ I always use putty,” said
he, musingly; “ I find it come cheaper.” “Putty?”
we yelled. " Yes, and rosin.” “ But what for ?’ we
yelled, breathlessly. “ThaDk you,” he rejoined;
“it’s jdst about my time. 1 hardly ever—out, as
you’re so press—” “ But what aboiit rosin ? ’ We
whooped. “No, no,’* he Said, wagging his head
jocularly; “no Champagne for me—Scotch whisky
—always Sootch whisky.” But what do you do
with the putty?” we screamed, in despair. “No
more, and be thanked to you; I’m an old man, sir
—an old man.” This is Rainer’s last week, when
he will be succeeded by another opera company.
*♦ * #
There was produced ou Saturday night, at
the Theatre Royal, “Lancashire Lass,” a melo-
drama by H. J. Byron, who is dead. It will suffice
to say, in this issue, that Mr. Ureville enacted the
r6le of A Party by the Name of JohDson. This in-
timation will draw people to every part of the
house but the dress-circle. And this is a good
thing, for there is all the more room for our little
basket.
“THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession .]
Poor Player! we should think so; and a
lovely item to begin with—the opening ot Thomp-
son’s Diorama at Bathuist, by which, it seems, that
W. H. Thompson, Esq., is not only the lessee of the
School of Arts, but the sole proprietor and lec-
turer also. We see that the agent of the oratorical
Thompson is a Mr. H. Eastwood, a g ntleman we
have with humiliation to confess is unknown to
us| but who 18, probably, Henry Irving or Law-
rence Barrett in disguise. .. And it has come to us
that Mrs. Kendal is now the best-hated actress on
the London stage. The Heferee says when they
speak of her husband they say “ Poor fellow.”
Mr. Kendal is a true comedian, but he squints. He
seems to be higher, however, in the world drama-
tic than Will. Simpson, who is coming in for a
million. William (that reminds us) ie, perhaps, the
champion artist of the wofld in letting off a joke
that is positively pregttant with gloom. The fun-
niest part of Mi. Simpson is bis foot! and it is
alleged that this dazzled Mr. Arthur Garner entre
deux vins. Not that we believe it, however; for in
the whole of our experience of the picturesque
Arthur, we have never known him drink anything
stronger than naptha with a dash of kerosene.
... And what about the Wollongong Amateur
Dramatic Club wrestling on the 10th instant
with “The Charcohl'blirner,” and defeating him
with treat sl&ugnter? And how did they
conclude with a nigger farce, in which “ Mi*.
Rogersonand company” appeared, to the confu-
sion of the district? But this is nothing to the
Public School concert at Gundagai, where “the
children under Mr. Forsyth sang exceedingly
well,” and “ several ladies and gentlemen of un-
doubted ability assisted both as vocalists and
accompanists,” and conscientiously took It out of
the instrument that had been loaned by an enter-
prising muSic-seller. The proprietor of the piano
Is an amiable and accomplished little foreigner,
and he Attended th§ first night to assist at the per-
formance. He waited until the champion thumper
of the district had performed the “ Blue Danube ”
waltzes with hysterical variations, when, with a
pallid face and a sweat-bedewtd forehead, he
Hoarsely murmured, “ Mon piar.o, non rerlendra
pas." At latest, South’s Opera Company were at
Tumut; though we regret io hear that Miss
Theresa Horan, one of the company, is laid up
very sick at Yass....And, let us tell you that Miss
Alice Sydney Burvett has been playing (“she,” as
Thady says, “brings her own grand pianos I") at
the Towers, and her instrUmentalism has much
mystified the Winters 1 , Tnejy can’t linnerstatid
why she can’t perform on an Instriiiflent With-
out a tail to it. Miss Alice began with
one of Chopin’s waltzes in drum-major; but
she had to shift to “Rule Britannia,’’ with
involuntary variations, or they’d have eaten her
brother—Fes; and the Mathews Bros.’ cirous is
at Bombala. We see they have rolled away the
stone from Barlow’s sepulchre, and that sprightly
young performer now flgu es in the show. The
Mathews’ “push” go io Tasmania, and then re-
turn to play in the Royal pafitomithe. Poe Brown,
by the wAy, is to localise the pfodubtida, but he
has not ootttthehded on it yfet; so a suspicion is
gaining ground that he is holding out for another
million... The Mascotte Opera Company is still
perambulating the country districts (Mudgee,
Bathurst, &o.), and Emma Wangenbeim is busy
enslaving country editors. We forget how long it'
is ago now since we were ipris of the charming
Emma, but we fancyit was at a time when Edwin
r Lester was in “ pinnies ” and frilled drawers, and
Emma was engaged in a combat with “ The White
Cat,” at the Royal. We remember, one night,
lashed by love into frenzy, proposing to fly with
her, and she acceded. But, ab She woUl’d stop at
the oyster shop fof srefreshtheDl, prior to
breastinfc the foaming billow#, she was swooped
down upon by a deputation of the family,
and, in all probability, spanked Maitland,
according to latest dates, has been in a state
of gloom, consequent on Miss Ellen Fergus Ogden
insisting upon playing Romeo. We understand
during one of the entr'actes of this classic per-
formance, a well-read bank olerk, accosting the
Mayor outside the show, and quoting Master
Slender, said, “ Why do your dogs bark so ? Be
there bears i’ the town ?’’ And then the Mayor,
who has a ready wit, straightway quoted “Sweet
Anne Rage,” saying, “I think,there arte, sir. I
heard them talked of.” This is a bit diffuse, of
course; though it is here on record that dogs will
bark at a bear, there is no precedent, so far as we
can gather, for their ever howling at a Romeo ..
Fancy I Frank Cates has been playing "The Bells”
in Adelaide. Frank’s ambition appears to be bound-
less. He 11 buy a mule one day, harness it to an
ice-cream cart, and make his fortune.... And Dun-
ning is now back in Adelaide with the eternal
“Boccaccio,” and a lot of girls with big limbs,
and, by way of novelty, Appleby, Loredan, An-
nette Ivanova, Annie Leaf, who used to support
Mr. Harding—how kaleidoscopic is the life theatri-
cal!—and Knight Aston, who, we hear, is in splen-
did voice—a consummation he mildly attributes to
the effects of ginger-ale. ..Then there is “The
Octoroon at the Academy of Music, Maggie
Knight, of course, asZoe; Carey as Salem Scudder;
and Palmer as Jacob M‘Closs:y....Ain’t-it-lovely
Teddy, though, seems to have seceded from Pro-
fessor Anderson, who now gives away Koh-i-noors,
while the greatest ventriloquist in the world is
about to take a pub. We remember Teddy’s last
pub. It was a gorgeous hostelry, and was chiefly
noted tor the slimness of its sausages and for the
obdurate nature of its steak. But it had a fasci-
nation for us, somehow, and we used to detect
ourselves neglecting to punish our landlord, and
stealing round to Teddy’s to hear him lie about his
millions, and build up little fables about the dia-
mond rin.s that were always deposited at his
bankers. And how does the old familiar cry,
rhythmic in its every cadence, come back to us
after all these years, when the cruel stew was
borne in relentlessly by the surly “help,” and a
female voice ejaculated the words—“ Now, I
cooked it myself. Ain’t it lovely, Teddy ? ...And
you wih be glad that Georgia Smithson (we always
try to tight against it), who had a buggy accident
recently in Invercargill, and fractured her eyeball
or something, is to be given a ben, and you wiii learn
with a calm and equable spirit that Chi&rini is
doing good biz. in Invercargill; sffid that that
giddy young thing, Mrs. G. B. W, Lewds has been
playing Selim in “ Aladdin ” (thunder!) with Tsddy
Haygarth as Corporal Zoog-Zoog. We understand
that Teddy reoently attained his 94th birthday,
when he returned thanks in a happy speech for
the tin of sardines, profusely illuminated, which
was presented to him by the company—Let us
tell you, too, that Miss Tilly, in Wollongong, is
gradually mounting the ladder of fame, rung by
rung. She reoently gave a concert at the Temper-
ance Hall, the performers consisting entirely of
infants, who, in the intervals of their perform-
ances on the bottle, sang concerted pieces with
much eclat. .. And of course St. Leon’s circus is at
Moruya, and advertises "two hundred men and
horses.” We consider that there is a melting
modesty about this announcement which would do
credit to any bell-man And here is the latest
about Ristori. She is very rich, and lives in sump-
tuous apartments in the Boulevard Malesberbes,
Paris, adjacent to that palatial residence which
erstwhile was known as l'Hotel de Christophavie-
bennette.
The trial of Mr. William Webb, of the
Campbelltown Herald, on a charge of having
criminally libelled Sir Henry Parkes, Was called on,
on Tuesday morning, but postponed till afternoon,
as Mr. Webb had found it difficult to fee counsel
The services of counsel were, however, secured in
the interim. As we go to press, the case had not
been concluded.
Place the asphodel buds 'neath our classic
nose, and soak our tired head in Tlang YlaDg.
Says the local speciality man in the Gladesville
Independent : “ A dainty little' Cen-year-old fairy
tripped, into my sanctum on Saturday morning
with a bouquet of the most delightful pansies I’ve
seen this season. Flowers are a great institution
in Parramatta. Flora has shed her treasure abroad
with lavish hands, making, with all their fragrance
and colour, as Swinburne says—
‘ A rsitn and a ruin of roses
Over ths red rose land.’
My little friend was determined not to leave me out
of this embarras des richesseg—fof which, much
thanks.” What a superficial cuss that fellow is. On
the same day that the dainty fay tripped in, «c., a
patient in the local asylum swallowed a brass but-
ton; old Mrs. M'Gillicuddy’s goat was confined of
twins, and a Granville milkman was fined 2s. 6d.
for allowing his cow to stray on the railway track,
and yet never a word is said of these items of all-
atsorbing interest, but we get a 6-inch par. about
a littlo fresh vegetation. Besides, it is ungrateful,
too. as not the slightest word of thanks is given to
the man who ran the backyard blockade on the
previous Sunday, but helped the rose-lover along
with a gill of fuctl in a #inger-beer bottle.
When Sper ser had finished his priae poem
of “The Faery Queen,” he hauled it along to the
Bari of Southampton, the Henniker Heaton or
great patron of the poets of that day. The manu-
script being sent up to the Earl, who was in bed
suffering from a recovery at the time, he read a
few pages, and then made a signal to his servant,
who at once darted downstairs and speedily re-
turned with a battle-axe heavy enough to stun a
pri£e btill or split the skull of a Rum reporter.
After explaining that the patty below was not one
of the usual run of bards, Southampton ordered
the man to give Spenser twenty pounds. Heading
on, he soon after exclaimed, with rapture, “John,
bring that man another twenty.” Proceeding still
further, he shouted, “John, hand him yet another
twenty. I’ll make it up to-night at pool.” Com-
mencing the second canto, however, he lost all
patienoe, and yelled, “John, shoot that fellow out
of the house, for, if 1 read any further, pickle
my blooming dnfieStors if I won’t be ruined.” Why
we think of Southampton to-day is because we
have just seen a broken-doWfl MA. holding
the horse of the magnificent litefary genius
who presides over the only Jernil. And
this recalls the story of an Australian Spenser
who agreed to do a Christmas Carol for
the unequalled Jernil lor thirty bob, and
who sent his “copy” up-stairs and waited
below for results, just as Southampton’s singer did
of old. Afiet carefully spelling through the first
verse, the boss thought that 80s. was quite a
heap of money to give for a ffflltry “ pome.” On
this being told the bard, he said with A flfgh, “ All
right, call it flve-and-twenty.” At the end of the
second verse, the distinguished patron thought “ a
note was quite enough for a thing like that.”
“Gimme the note, and let me go,” was the reply
returned; but when the boy trotted back again
andaskej if half-a-sov. wouldn’t do if paid down
in cash, the disgusted poet exclaimed, “ For
heaven's sake, tell him not to read any more, or
he’ll bring me in his debtor for five poundsl”
Williams’ Yeast Powdet m«4*e* light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.''
Mashers.—The best and lightest are made bf
Oflord, Hatter, 653 George-street, Brickfield Hill.*
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
My wife and daughter were made healthy
by tii© ush of .Hpp Bitters, and I recommend it to
my p^oplfi.—MeßßWdiK Clergyman. Bead.
Wolfe’s UtiS diMyst been a
household word ia the mouths jof td6' t&onsands
who ha’ r e been restored or relieved by its use, and
it is certainly proverbial for the wonderful cures
it has consummated since its introduction.
There were many inquiries at a leading
lady’s “kettledrum” t l e other afternoon, tolas-
oertaln where the decorated chinaware used on
that occasion came from. It gives us pleasure to
state that Bray Bros, supplied the tea set and des-
sert set; ahd fit their Warerooms, 403 and 404
Georgb-streett dan be foiind duplicates, as well as
a great variety of otnei 1 aesiffns.*
A Perilous Voyage.—The llalldffl TtJWSr
has safely arrived in port, after braving the perils
of the stormy deep, encountering terrific hurri-
canes and narrowly escaping being crushed by a
huge iceberg over two miles long, one of the
largest ever seen. We must congratulate the cap-
tain on his skilful seamanship, as the people of
New South Wales would have suffered serious loss
if the ship had foundered, there being some forty-
sii arses, ttottion bf the assigned estate of Owen
md James, bought bjf the bondbrl House of H. L.
Summerfleld and Co., the Great Juvenile Out-
fitters, and consisting of big job lines in boys’ and
youths’ suits, and men’s Zephyr masher hats. This
is one of the cheapest consignments ever imported;
and the goods being bought at a great discount,
Messrs. Summerfleld and Co. intend to give their
patrons some genuine plums. Facts are stubborn
things, and we say that2Coo boys’ linen drill man-o’-
war suits trimmed with blue, with collar and badge,
sizes 000 to 6, are being sold at ss. lid.; and another
big line of pretty satenne P ince suits, nicely
braided and trimmed, to fit children from two
years to eight years of age, at half the Ehgllsh in-
voice price, ss. lid. But this is not all, ladies tak-
ing this favourable opportunity can purchase
good strong tweed school suits at B*. lid.-, and 10s.
Sd., in tho new Greenwich and Sultan styles; fine
Scotch tweed trouser suits, at 315., 355., 305., in
sizes 4 to 13, and a very special line of pure wool
worsted rib trouser suits at 375. 6d., in all sizes.
Messrs. Summerfleld and Co. respeotfully direct
the attention of ladies, residing away from town
to their prompt attention to country orders' and
will be pleased to send post free on application
their illustrated book of styles, containing every
information. The past English season has pro-
duced some striking novelties in woollen goods,
the motif of the masher being originality, and
the firm, thanks to the promptness of their
London manager, has a fine assortment of the new
Scotch checks, in every colouring, with line
merino homespuns, and fancy worsted coatings,
on show in their order department. Eight high-
class cutters are employed, and gentlemen desiring
a perfect-fitting garment should patronize tailors,
not drapers devoid of practical knowledge. Re-
form your tailoxs bills by paying cash, and secur-
ing an all-wool suit to measure for £3 35., or a West
End pair of trousers to order for 16s. 6d. Only one
Sydney address: H. L. Summerfleld and Co., Mer-
chant Tailors, and Great Juvenile Outfitters, 335
apd 337 Pitt-street, Sydney,*


PEPPER AND SALT.
ODE TO THE “ECHO” “NIHILIST.”
Enlarging on English ideas,
Dear scribe, you with vehemence rave
At that horrid North Pole, whioh has lured
So many men on to the grave.
But, in search of a subject for scorn,
Say, why to world’s end need you roam ?
Should not censure, like charity, first
Be bestowed upon objects near home ?
You tediously labour to prove
That your ancestors ought to be spurned;
But, if they could speak, don’t you think
That the compliment would be returned
You say that they were a bad lot—
No doubt the assertion is true;
But is it not lucky that they
Cannot give their opinion of youl
A great tub of boiled rice, sweetened with brown sugar
Cght on the deck of the
this mixture were handed round to the ClnelS, wn
voured it with evident satisfaction. ■
Then the Commodore read ts a little thing of his own, which
was received with great enthusiasm, and swallowed also with
“ evident satisfaction,” but without sugar.
One of the chiefs was presentee,
with a stick with a florin set in at
the top, which was to be an em-
blem of his authority. “ I wish
I know'd whedder dis yer coin
was jinniwine or not, dat s all,
is what the chief said when he
got off by himself.
Then each chief was presented with a shirtj
tomahawk, a tract, a knife, and a copy of “ Han-
sard,” and allowed to see himself in a large
pier-glass.
<c After the chiefs had received their presents, the firing off of some guns of
the ship took place, so that the natives might be interested in seeing what could
bo done in the way of firing at long distance.
(' warn of th»~"fi»rbour Iny plnoid ta a lake,
with tbs ship* of war far out from tho abore, »nd here
and there native cancaa moving slowly along or rent-
ing idly on the aurtnoe : end the bill* and valleys
vr9To green aud <th*d®d from the iun, quo woro a
frtghening appearance, which is notablo when the trees
and the grass have been bathed in dew, aud when the
ml, rays are etrong enough only to malm tho
dewdroo# aparkla and to deeoen tba obndows in the
recesses where the eunlight bee not yet, penetrated.
The above extract is simply repro-
duced here as a piece of fine writing.
It needs no elucidatory picture, even
supposing that, with all the resources
of 1 oar extensive establishment, we
were capable of doing it justice. We
at first thought of having it pickled,
but finally decided to have it framed
and hung up to dry.
Curiously enough, the officers found many evidences of ad*
vanced civilisation among the natives.
Now that a British protectorate has been
established in N. Gk, the country will, doubtless,
bo opened up rapidly.
- - - ■ •' ■— ■ ■■ i——
That New Guinea Protectorate.
(THE S.M. HERALD’S VERSION.)
Out-Heroding Herod, you wish
Every baby forthwithlto destroy:
Would to Heaven this doctrine obtained,
When iyou were a girl—or a boy I
Tbe “ country,” and all it affords,
You treat with the utmost disdain;
But its crops and its herds will increase,
Though your smile never greet it again.
You say that in picnicing now,
No pleasure or joy can be found;
We don’t doubt you, dear gjjJ J- -’tls the case,
Whenever you travel around.
We join with you when you assert,
Some picnics too quiet by half;
But, if you want pleasure, just go,
Next holiday, down to CUmtarf!
Farewell I stick to Nihilist maxims,
Abolish all things that exist;
Note each down for early destruction,
And—place yoursdf first on the list!
Abolish our rulers and princes,
The offspring and lineage of Guelph;
But, firstly—again we would ask it—
Take care to abolish yourself!
• a •
“Sympathy,” in the Parked Gazette,
wishes “space to make a few remarks about a
funeral.” It seems a man named Antram, who
had lived for 20 years in Forbes, died, a pauper, in
the hospital, having never “during that long
term," says “ Sympathy,” “ even blotted his ex-
cutcheon (Btc).” Much to “Sympathy’s” sorrow,
however, the “fun’l” was poorly attended: and
“Sympathy” is the more surprised at this, as he
naively informs the editor that the deceased used
formerly to play the trombone in the brass band.
This noble troupe of sworn torturers rolled up>
however, and—we quote “Sympathy”—“played
in front of the costege (sic) the ‘ Dead March in
Saul.’ It was really refreshing to witness the eon-
trast of feeling displayed by the bandsmen, as
compased (sic) with the heartless behaviour of
some, who had known the late Mr. Antram so
thoroughly," &o. Whoever “Sympathy” is, he
seems to have a good heart. Something whispers
us that the man who can iind anything “refresh-
ing” about a funeral must be an undertaker. If
so, hinc ilkv laehrymm! Evidently all the deceased
performer was treated to, in tbe coffin line, was “ a
plain pine with a tin plate;” while, had popular
feeling been aroused, it would have probably run
to a mock mahogany shell, with brass screws and
a cretonne lining.
* ■ ■
The Moruya Examiner’s poet has been
“at it” again, and has got at the editor of the
paper (who, we believe, is his grandmother) to set
up some more of the poetical dripping from his
Parnassian brain. It seems the Moruyans played a
cricket match with the Boys of Bega, and received
at the hands of the latter an instalment of gruel
that would have satisfied a giant. On this the
Maro of Moruya tuned up his gridiron to a lyric,
out of which we chop the following metric" 1
chip:
“ And, though we must congratulate
Our friends who won,
We’ll do it in a manly way,
Not blaming those who lost,
For all must own that our men were
Less practised than the rest ” (sic).
Let's add our little merry mite to this, in the way
of a modest „
Warning.
Now, once we knew a bard like you,
Whose soul’s outpourings welled;
He, “ in his tracks,” fell ’gin an axe,
'That someone, somehow, held.
And at dawn’s glim did they lay him
Beneath the “ wave-worn stones ? ’
What!!! No darned fear! the maidens here,
Made brooches of his bones.
“A New Chum” writes a poem in the
Cootamundra Herald, which that powerful
organ is cruel enough to “run on.” The work is,
nevertheless, deserving of notice, since it presents
many original features. He commences with
commendable frankness, coming at once to the
point:—“Being a new chum and out of work, I
will write a few lines on the Melbourne Cup."
There is a certain merit in this-if only from the
fact, as Mr. Weller says, “There is nothing about
Wenus in it.” He soon, however, carols in a loftier
strain. Mark:—“What I write is from my own
brain, I will not borrow another man’s fame.”
Though this Homeric couplet does not contain
more than a poor halfpenny worth of rhyme, it is
perfectly saturated with reason. We should say
that man could make almost anything out of his
own head—caulking mallets, for instance; and
supply the oakum from his brain. The quality of
bis “pitch” is already en evidence. But to pro-
ceed. At the Cup he waa struck with “select
groups of walkers, all well-dressed and attentive
talkers,” which proves him to be of an observant
nature. The following criticism, we mildly think,
is open to question:—“ The ladies dress very neat
rather stiff and sedate. Some are large and
stout, with much muscle [II]; while more are
small and thin with very much bustle.’*
The classification here exhibits a considerable
knowledge of human nature, but the sedateness*
we think, evinces on the part of the bard a slight
tendency to overcolour. This, too, we consider
slightly below “ A New Chum's ” lofty standard:—
“I saw some fast young gentlemen, who prided
themselves on their breed and blood. The breed
of fast men I never understand.” But he soon re-
asserts himself, as will be seen by the following:—
“Now for the larrikin class—rich and poor, I will
write impartial I am sure. Of the larrikin class I
do not know much about; they seem addicted to
saver (sic) and shout.” Well, one can’t be expected
to know everything—hence, doubtless, our ignor-
ance of the meaning of the verb “to saver.” Ha
the bard ended here, all would have been well,
but we regret to chronicle that he now falls wit
startling suddenness from his high estate. No
content with proving himself to be worthy of bays,
he now, in a most unmistakeable manner, pu
forth his little palm. Read, and weep:—“l be & a
subscription for my father and mother, a poor
blind sister and a crippjed brother. . , • °
Saviour begged, according to Scripture; I beg 10
my parents, brother and sister.” Now, swee
bard, flap your expectant ear this way :
We’ll give you—for we arc not mean—
Our dole for this gay^stuff; »
But, bide a wee—it has not been
In pickle lonp enough.
m * *
“Have you seen my new Sydney ©d*
over here to-day ?” enquired a Western proprietor
of one of the great Archimedian levers w 1C


iftsthe world, as he dashed Into a local shanty
with a mile and a half of “copy” In his hat.
” What’s he like?” replied the barman; “tall, thin
man?” “Yes.” “Ginger whiskers an’ a black
eye?” “Yes,” “ Wears a dirty shirt and a set o’
dimind studs?” “The same.” “Ah; well he was
in here not more’n 10 minutes ago. Asked me
which was th’ Bible Sussiety’s offls; drank a bottle
o’ lemonade an’ then cleared,” “ Drank what ?’’
“Lemonade.” “Lemondevil; that’s not the same
man at all.” And in the hurry of his exit the dis-
tracted proprietor actually forgot to ante-up for
his own beer.
In the District Court. Absent-minded de-
J end ant under cross-examination. Counsel: You
Trying It On.
DAVE BUCHANAN (putting on Parked Left-off Suit): “THERE, NOW. I MAKE JUST AS GOOD A PROTESTANT HERO.”
area widower, I .believe, Mr. Jumbles? Mr. J.:
Eh? Question repeated. Mr. J.: I have the hon-
ner. (Sensation.) Counsel: Now, Mr. Jumbles,
how many times have you been married 1 Mr. J.:
Only three times-leastways, only three times in
this colony, sir—l mean Your Worship. Counsel
(amid a dead silence): And have you any children,
Mr. Jumbles? Mr. J.: No, my lord. Counsel (per-
suasively): Ever had any, Mr. Jumbles? Mr. J :
Sixteen, honoured sir. Counsel: And where are
they, sir ? Mr. J.: Dead, Mr. Speaker (Sensation )
His Honor: Really, Mr. Bigfee, this is such a very
unpleasant witness, that Counsel: Certainly,
your Honor. (To witness) Stand down, sir. And,
under a fire of indignant eyes, ho slunk out into
the sunshine. He wasn’t given time to explain
that five had been carried off by small-pox, two
had succumbed to measles, and the rest had been
still-born.
* * *
The other day a Maitland reporter started
for Morpeth on horseback, to report a meeting*
but, encountering a few convivial friends in the
pub., he forgot all about the business he had come
about until the thing was over. So, after three
rounds of drinks more, ho mounted, and com-
menced to ride back. “ I must have some copy,”
he muttered, moodily, “ or ” At this moment
he was pitched off on his head. But, even as he
lay on the road metal, a smile lit up his blood-
stained countenance; and, getting with difficulty
his note-book out of his pocket, he commenced, in
the moonlight, to pen a par. commencing “Fright-
ful ( hie ) condition of the roads.”
* * *
Here’s a breezy little item from the Cum-
berland Nobbs, which our Blue Ribbon tract,
compilers would do well to collar, as it is not one
of the usual 18d.-a-hundred faked-up yarns de-
scriptive of the disastrous effects of the demoralis-
ing bottle, but is, in point of fact, a downright
stern reality. “Mr. Stieme,” we are told, “met
with a very painful accident at the Masonic Hall
while Mr. Read’s closing ball was going on. He
walked out of the ballroom to sit in the open air
about 2 o'clock a.m., and unconsciously sat down
upon a piece of a bottle which was upon a seat at
the rear of the building. A wound of a consider-
able length and depth was caused, and the blood
flowed in torrents.” Mr. Stieme sleeps face down-
wards now, and has a strong dislike to sit on any-
thing harder than the lapse of ages-say, from
sweet sixteen up to two-and-twenty. Verily, the
bottle is at the bottom of at least three parts of all
the misery that now afflicts the world.
* * *
We were reading in the Manning River
opaper of an instance of far-sightedness which oc-
curred up there lately. It was not much of an in-
stance, but it reminds us of a story we were told
by a veracious person the other day regarding a
similar thing. He was on board an immigrant ship
t'lat came out here lately. There was a lot of Irish
on board also. These were clustered on the fo’k’s le
head looking at the long line of coast along which
lights were beginning to glow, it being night time*
They were eager to get some impression of the land
they were going to “Luk at that,” said one sudden-
ly, “ Oi can see a mud kyabin on the hill.” By this
time it was pitch dark. “ Ooh, Bedha hursht," said
anot her, “ there are no kyabins out here—they're
all ebaney bouses with go'old ehimleys.” “Fwbat ;
do you Bay, Owney ?” asked a third, of a tail, red-
haired Tyrone man, who was peering hard into
the gloom. “ Hould your whisht!” he answered
impatiently, “an’ a’Jl tell ye.” He was the far-
sighted man, and so they waited respectfully till
he had finished his observations. “ Bhoys,” he
said, “I see a house.” “Yis, Owney.” “And
there's an ould cailloch standin’ forninst the
dur6.” “Throth, it’s you that’s got the sight,
Owney, and may the Lord presarve it!” “And
she’s lukin’ out at us.” “ Ay, faix, Owney.” “And
she’s sayin’ to hirsilf, * Gahd help the poor Irish I’
• * •
The native drink in Egypt is called
“ Boosa.” It has been so-called since the first
Pyramid was built. Hence our slang phrase—
which now we find is not a slang phrase—“ Boose, i
We venture to say that when philology becomes
an exacter science it will be discovered that all our
slang phrases are genuine natural words embedded
in prehistoric tongues. We would not be asto-
nished to find that the patriarchs constantly com-
municated with each other in a dialect which is
now only known as argot, and relegated to thieves
and aldermen. We oiler the suggestion to Max
Muller. Fancy Isaac saying unto Methusaleh:
“Tip us your fln, old hoss, and name your poison,”
or Mahalaleel unto Solomon, “ I’ll raise you half a
Jimmy I turn up the Jack first gol” The dis
covery of these matters would tend greatly to
humanise the study oi philology, and cast a tender
light upon our common nature as it was from the
beginning.
* * *
Queer thing is taste. We read somewhere
the other day, that the latest fancy of Parisian
ladies is to have landscapes and miniature por-
traits painted on their finger-nails by accomplished
artists. It is a delicate fancy. What must be the
rapture of the lover returned from long absence
to find the portrait of himself, painted before he


left, still glistening on the filbert thumb-nail of his
lady! How his heart must thrill with holy emo-
tion, such as hard unsensitive natures never feel,
to know she kept that memorial nail sacred from
soap through all the weary time! It is a beautiful
idea. There is a maiden whose face is seldom ab-
sent from our dreams—when we are sober—upon
whose treasured thumb-nail it would be our highest
aspiration to see our features shine. It would, if
the thing were possible. But, alas, it is not.
Her fairy fingers have to dabble in the wash-tub,
and our portrait would, therefore, last but one
brief day, which would .hardly justify the expense
of its production. Yet we are consoled for this
deprivation by knowing—but let us king it. Song
is the language of love. Softly, now—
For this small deprivation, dearest o ne,
No gloom our bosom fills;
We are as cheerful as the summer sun—
For though you play the laundress’ humble part-
We know our picture’s traced upon your heart,
Our name upon your hills!
Mr. Farnell’s Dispersal Scheme.
So let the little maiden slide. But before passing
on to other themes, we will say that this custom
of the Parisian ladies is outdone by a largo number
of prominent persons in this city, from members of
Parliament to ministers of the Gospel. We have
seen it. Not content with pictures of landscapes
on their nails, they carry a landscape itself—or
rather, perhaps, a landslip— under them.
* * *
SWEET AND LOW.
Sweet and low is the young man’s voice
A-coaxing of the young maiden:
her little heart for to rejoice,
So sweet and low is it then.
But turned it is to a tenderer pitch,
When ho linds that the gate is barred,
A-coaxing of the saw-toothed bulldog which
Is a-roaming around the yard.
• • •
Says the Adelaide correspondent of the
gApnsDA Herald, re the late cricket match:—
“ & very disagreeable impression has been created
by their play. It has been freely asserted that
wickets wore designedly lost by the Englishmen*
. . Their play has been flagrant.”
You funny little scribe, why then
It really seems that you
Esteem your tale about these men
As something that is new.
It never dawned on you, now say,
You small Kapunda creeter,
The secret of this flagrant play
Was centred in the “ Peter V'
. * *
/
POOH!
“ An unpublished symphony by Mendels-
sohn has been discovered among some old papers
in a music-shop at Berlin.”
This Virtuosi does enthral,
But, 10, it interests us not;
Yet, how we’d start if it but were
A youthful song by Lewis Soott!—
A tragedy of Utting, which
At one fell time when he lacked gold,
In darkling eve, with bated breath,
His work he to the tripe-shop sold;—
A par. of Alf.’s they wouldn’t print,
Although he wrote itev’ry line,
And said the picnic-feed “took well,
Though sower the kolonian wine.”
But, as for dug-up symphonies,
And tuney trities of that kind.
We can assure you they don’t make
The least impression on our mind.
Speaking of the local brass band the
Moruya paper says: “What the boys want is a
little kindly sympathv from the public; also some
of the help that the Quaker gave the man when he
lost his donkey, viz, pecuniary assistance to pur-
chase a drum with.” It was cheerful assistance,
this! On the same principle one might offer an
accordion to a man who had lost his aunt, or a
trumpet to a boy who had lost his father. But it
£ill comeg to the same thing in Moruya.
BRIEF MENTION.
There are at present 1,000,000 Irish in Aus-
tralia No wonder the supply of potatoes is not
equal to the demand.
Dog poisoning is rife at Gundaroo. We’ll
soon hear of the remains of a missionary being
discovered about there.
“ Is Dying Painful?” is the title of a para-
graph in a late Echo. Well, we should say not—
after reading the Echo.
A toast for the Bar dinner:—“ The Benoh
and the bar—were it not for the bar, there’d be
little use for the Bench.”
There are 65,000 clergymen in the United
States. It would be interesting to know the pro-
portion gaols bear in this respect.
Forty thousand men earn their living in
London by selling sandwiches. It is highly pro-
bable that undertakers are benefited by this lot.
When the teetotallers thought of starting
an illustrated temperance paper, H. J. Byron
suggested that it should be called the Hydro-
graphic.
The Adelong Miner published a trium-
phant par., to say that it goes to Government
House. It, however, omits to state round what.
Should tbe new Recidiviste law be en-
forced, 20,000 to 30,000 French malefaotors will be
transported and divided between Guiana and New
Caledonia.
“ Are you going to the Baptist pionic ?”
onquired one merchant’s clerk of another. “ Well,
no; I think not,” replied his friend; “ I’ve already
so many to keep ”
We have notioed that certain young law-
yers make a habit of going down to Middle Har-
bour to bathe, every week. We only mention this
fact as a caution to the sharks there.
School Inspector: What is the meaning of
the Salic law ? Clever Tommy: The Salic law was
a law established in olden times in France to pre-
vent women having any but male children.
IMA BIXPENNY RESTAURANT.
Three fierce men sucked their knives,
No word a man did utter;
Each was intent on having blood,
Or—the first cut at the bw. ter!
There is a rumour in Cooma that the local
lunatic asylum is to be converted into a Lands and
Survey Office, The selectors hail the idea with
Joy. But perhaps their joy is premature. The
lunatics may be removed, and a staff sent from
Sydney.
A oentipede was found in a helpless staet
of intoxication in an hotel in Yass a few days ago.
He had been sent to the editor of one of the
papers originally as one of unusual size, and—
Yes, that will aooount for it being discovered in a
pub. drunk.
He rang the bell at 2 a.m. so violently that
the whole hotel woke up and rushed to his room,
at the door of which he stood arrayed in the
snowy robe of night. Said he calmly: “Pray ex-
cuse me, but could you tell me the right time—my
watch has stopped ?”
Arohibald Forbes says that the Highlanders
have a tradition that the Garden of Eden was in a
§len in the Highlands. We are not in a position to
eny this. It might have been. But, if so, it is a
matter of thundering surprise to us why Adam
and Eve were so sorry to leave it.
Editor’s sanotum in a country town.
Present—Editor and valued contributor. Ed.
(marking manuscript): We’ll have to omit that,
for one thing. V.C : But, hang it, you are lopping
out the point, sir. Ed.: D n the point; we want
none of your points here. People say I’m always
pointing at someone
The editor of a paper published up Bourke
way, in a footnote to a correspondent’s letter, says*
“ We are inclined to think that the snakes refer*®,,
to by our correspondent,” &o. “ Inclined to thins-
The teamsters must have been “ stuck up, » *“
seems so long ago since he “ had ’em.”
A Salvation soldier walked along the prin-
cipal streets of Goulburn and gazed fixedly
ever# window he passed. “ What are you looking
at, brother ?” said a sister, “do you see salvation
there ? ” “ No, but I see some slashing windows ior
lifting!” He was a “ reformed ” burglar.
The local papers remark with surprise that
two steamers recently left Townsville with eignty
steerage passengers on board. The surprise is tna
so many left by steerage. We think it is uncane
for. We should not be surprised to hear that
people left Townsville in the funnel. What sur
prises us is that they stay there.
A well-connected young Frenchman re-
cently butchered his grandmother and her house-
keeper, making off with the plunder. Oreat efforts
were made on nis behalf by his high connections,
the result being that the culprit was in the ena r
turned to them--in two pieces. France is, aiasi
becoming decidedly democratic.
The F. and P. Gazette says that w*
wanted the portrait* of the three local editors
but some wag sent us, instead, those of a mumw


IF YOU ARE ABOUT TO FURNISH, AND
cannot spare the time to pay us a ■visit, or
If you are about to Furnish, and through living
in the country find it inconvenient to leave Rome,
write for a copy of our 32-page Illustrated Cata-
logue, containing lists of reduced prices.
It Will Show you how Houses of various sizes
may be nicely and comfortably furnished for
various sums of money.
It Will Show you for what a small sum, under
the 20 per cent, reduction, you can buy your bed-
steads.
It Will Show you the style of the Austrian Fur-
niture, and the low price to which ea ch article is
reduced.
It Will Show you the great reductions made in
prices of cedar dining-room and bediroom furni-
ture, and
It Will also Convince you that a revolution in
prices has taken place, of which you should take
advantage.
As the Christmas Season approaches, w e shall be
exceedingly busy, and it iB our general request
that orders, particularly those from the conutry,
be sent in early, in order to prevent the possibility
of disappointment.
You nave ODly to write for a copy of our book,
and it will be sent post free to your address.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
Royal Furnishing Arcade,
426 George-street, Sydney, next the Royal Hotel.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to whicta
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
Additions to Police Barracks,
Wiloannia
Additions, &c., Police Barracks,
Walgett
Additions, &c., Courthouse, Gos-
ford
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Tarcutta
Erection of Gallery, Court-
house. Wilcannia
Bridge over Greg Greg River at
Island Crossing
Erection of Ladies’ Refresh-
ment-room, Botanio Gardens
Construction of North Shore
Cable Tramway
Supply of Iron Docked Culverts
and Small Iron Bridges, Boads
Department, 1885
Supply of Engine and Boiler for
Railway Department
Tuesday.
2nd December,
at 11 o’clock.
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Urana
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Dubbo
Erection of Courthouse, Dubbo
Repairs, &c, old Lands Office
Buildings
Painting, &c., Boatman's Quart-
ers, Newcastle
Construction of Wharf, Church
Point, Pittwater
Construction of Pipe Sewer
along Alderson’s-road, Red-
fern
Bridge over Billabong Creek, at
old cemetery, near Parkes
Tuesday,
9th December,
at 11 o clock.
Pumping Machinery, new Grav-
ing Dock at Cockatoo Island
Repairs, &c., Courthouse, Mer-
riwa
Erection of Gasworks Buildings,
Lunatic Asylum, Gladesville
Additions, &c., Police Station,
Mittagong
Bridge over Gwydir River, at
Boolooroo, near Moree
Erection of Brick Wall and an
additional Room, Muswell-
hrook Gaol
Tuesday,
16th December
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of section a, Mur-
rumburrah-Blayney Railway
Construction of Shed, Lismore
Wharf
Erection of Stables, &c., Court-
house, Condoblin
Erection of Gaol, Glen Innes
Supply and Erection of Iron
Bridge with timber ap-
proaches over Snowy River
at Buckley’s Crossing
Tuesday,
23rd December,
at 11 o’clock.
Manufacture and Supply of
150,000 Tons of Steel Balls.
10th February,
1886,
at 11 o'clock
F. A. WRIGHT.
The Vienna Confectionery
and Cafe,
54 and 56 William-street,
Next to Lawson’s Large Furniture Wareho use.
SPECIALLY
ESTABLISHED FOR PRIVATE ORDER TRADE.
T ADIES AND GENTLEMEN of Sydney and
JLi its environs are most respectfully informed
that we have commenced BUSINESS at the above
address, and will be happy to attend to all orders
that we may favoured with, diligently supplying
requirements in a superior manner and of the very
.choicest description and variety.
WEDDING CAKES, BIRTHDAY CAKES, AND
CHRISTENING CAKES, TARTS, Pastry, or
Jelly, &c. &c.—VIENNA CONFECTIONERY
AND CAFE.
IFor ICE-CREAM, go to the Vienna Confectionery.
Beautiful Effects in CAKES and ICE-CREAMS:
see Photos, at the Cafe. Lion or Deer group—
Flowers and Fruit Basket—Ducks. Geese, and
Swans, with young—Pigeons in Nest—Angels’
Post—Nicely oomparisoned 4-horse Carriage-
Water-mill in full working order, gplendidly
illuminated—Amour at play with Pigeons—
Amour with Horn of Plenty—Lohengrin, &c.—
These and other elegant devices will decorate
our patrons’ Tables at moderate rates.
For CHOCOLATE, come to us: we will supply
you with the best Chocolate in the world.
BON-BONS, PRALINE AND FONDANTS.
PATISSERIE and DESSERTS.
TEA, COFFEE, and CHOCOLATE always ready.
GREAT ASSORTMENT
OF
FANCY CONFECTIONERY.
1m MX a BROS. & CO.
THE YANKEE RUBBER
BABY.
THE unprecedented de-
mand for these inter-
esting infants has ex-
hausted the supply a full
month earlier than we an-
ticipated. A fresh supply
will, however, be received
in time for Xmas and New
Year’s amusements ; it is,
therefore, advisable to send in your orders as
early as possible, and we will forward tho infant
as soon as received. Post free, Is. 6d.
4^~
THE WIZARD CARDS,
changing from eights
to deuces, from black to
red, and back again at the
pleasure of the per-
former. Post free, with
full instructions, Is. 2d.
I’m a Daddy ; I’m in
Love; '1 he Mother-in-law;
I’m a Farder ; and Be
fore and After Marriage.
The funniest pictures ever issued, 5 in each set.
Price, 6d. per set, or 5 sets for 25.; by post, 2s. 2d.
The Three Donkeys. The newest “have” out.
Bend for them, but keep it quiet. Price, Is.: bv
post, Is. 2d.
The Sooner Dog—a wonderful little animal :
roars of lauvhter follow him wherever he goes.
Is. (id.; by post, 2s. 6d.
Napoleon in Council, very rich, Is. (id.; by post, 3s.
Metal Puzzles, the best in the world. Of these
we have a large assortment, priced as follows
New Challenge, Is. 6d.; New Favourite, Is. ed.;
Arrow Heads, Is.; Afghan Maze, Is.; Mystic Rings,
Is.; Magic Heart, Is.; and many others. On single
puzzles add 2d. for postage. On receipt of 3s. we
will send, post free, to any address, one 18d. and
two at Is. each.
Box6H T G I p l O ld C ° ’ George-street, Sydney.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 30th November, 1881.
TENDERS FOR ADDITIONAL STAIRCASE.
TENDERS are invited for the Erection of at
Additional Staircase at the Darling Roac
(Balmain) Public School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Formt
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Additional Btair-
case, Darling Road Public School,” must be
lodged with the Acting Under-Secretary, Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, at or before 10 o'clock
a.m.,on Wednesday, the 10th December, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 10th November, 1884.
FRESH TENDERS FOR WOODEN BUILDING
FRESH TEND BRS are invited for the Erection
of an additional Wooden Building, at the
Tempe Public School.
Plans and Specifications may be seeD, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Fresh Tender for Wooden
Building, Tempe Public School,” must be lodged
with the Under-Secretary, Department of Public
Instruction, at or before 10 o'clock a.m., on
Monday, the Bth December, 1884.
The Minist-r does not bin! himself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
Department of Public Instruction,
Svdney, 34th November, 1884.
TENDERS FOR SUPPLY OF SCHOOL FURNI-
TURE. t
TENDERS are invited for the Supply of Furni-
ture for Public Schools in the Sydney District
for the year 1885.
Specifications may be seen, and Forms of Tender
obtained at the office of the Department of Public
Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Supply of Furni
ture for Public Schools in Sydney District,”
must be lodged with the Acting Under-Seoretarv.
Department of Public Instruction, at or before
1C o’clock a.m., on Monday, Bth December 1884
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
W J. TRICKETT.
MATRIMONIAL.— Parents, the newly-married
and those about to marry, may obtain much
valuable information, which may prevent years of
suffering, by simply sending a stamped addressed
envelope for reply to C. U. W., Box 766, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
SHALLARD, AND CO.’S
AUSTRALIAN
CHRISTMAS & NEW YEAR CARDS.
SEASON 1884-5.
ALL CARDS BEAR VRRSES, MOTTOES. OR
BOTH,
specially written by Australian Authors,
as space will admit.
DESCRIPTION and NAMES of FLOWERS on
BACK.
ENVELOPES SUPPLIED FOR EACH.
301 .—TO FRIENDS AT HOME—Young 1 Australia
seated on three-railed fence, disturbing by
telephone the midnight slumbers of Young
England. English night and Australian morn-
ing scene. Is; trim ed, 2s; double fringed, 4s.
302.—“ ONWARD ’’—Kangaroo comfortably seated
in gondola with sail, escorted by four white
swans, drifting from the old to the New Year.
Sunset scene with gold fancy border. Is:
fringed, 2s; double fringed. 4s.
003.—THE NATIVE MASHERS - Emu, with
masher hat and collar, walking out with a
kangaroo dressed in blue silk as lady masher.
With view of Farm Cove and Gardens. Is:
fringed, 2s.
304, -OVERLAND TO ENGLAND-Kangaroo on
Skates. Sunrise. Is; fringed, 2s.
305. —J ABIRU AND FROG—Lake scene at Sunrise,
with gold border. Is; fringed, 2s; with 306 at
back. Fringed, 3s. Or the two cards folding.
Fringed, 6s.
306-NATIVE COMPANION AND PLATYPUS-
Lake scene at sunset, reeds, &c., with gold
border. Is; fringed, 2s.
307. —DIAMON O FINCH, in circle of blue sky,
surrounded with Lantana Camara and other
fiowers, &c. Grey ground tint. Is; fringed, 2s;
with 308 or 300 at back, 3s; or two cards fold-
ing, fringed, 6s.
308. DIAMOND FINCH, in circle of blue, with
Swansonia alba. Companion to above. Is:
fringed, 2s.
300.—THE RIFLE BlRD—This was sketched from
the only caged specimen in the world, which
has since died. In circle, surrounded with
Callistemon lanceolatus and other fiowers. Is :
fringed 2s.
310. —LH’TLE GIRL, presenting bunch of Wara-
tahs, with border of Clematis and brown back-
ground. Is; fringed, 2s.
311. OF ORANGE, CHRISTMAS BELL
LOBELIA, and other dowers, with dark-green
background. Motto in gold ochre frame. Is;
fringed, 2s. With 312 at back; fringed, 3s; or
the two cards folding, fringed, 6s.
312- OF THYRSANOTUS, FERNS, and
other flowers. Companion to above. Is*
fringed, 2s.
313- ChIMSON-WING PARROT, perched on a
bough of decaying box-tree overlooking
Queensland view, with border. Is; lringed. 2s*
314. NATIVE TULIPS (or Waratah) and ENG-
LISH TULIP, with view in sepia of St. Mary’s
Cathedral. Background of leaves. Is; fringed,
2s. With 315 at back, fringed, 3s; or the two
cards folding, fringed, 6s.
315. NATIVE ROSE and ENGLISH ROSE, with
view of St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney, in
sepia; background of ferns Is; fringed. 2*.
316. —1 LANNELFLOWERand Corea Speciosissima,
with sunrise background and border. 10d-
fringed, 2s. Card back and front, fringed, 3s;
or two cards folding, fringed, 6s, to include
311, 318, 319,
317. NATIVE ROSE and FLANNEL FLOWER,
with blue sky background and border, lOd;
fringed, 2s.
318. SPRaY of Passifiora Purpurea, with sunset
background and border, lOd; lringed, 2s.
319. SPRAY of Bossice Crisilolia, with blue back-
ground, lOd; fringed, 2s.
320. SPRAY of Eriostemon Salicifclius and other
flowers across circle of blue, with grey ground
tint and border. 10i; fringed, 2s.
321. —OVAL OF SHELLS, with dark-green back-
ground and pink coral ornament, lOd; fringed,
2s. With 322 at back; fringed, 2j. 6d. The two
cards folding, fringed, ss.
322. —OVAL OF SHELLS, with white coral orna-
ment and background, lOd: fringed, 2s.
323—KANGAROO and EPACRIS and other flow-
ers, with English Fox Hunting scene, gold
border. Od; fringed, ls4d.
324. —ROCK SCENE IN MIDDLE HARBOUR,
showing growth of Rock Lily, purple hills in
distance, 9d; fringed, Is 4d; with 325 at back,
fringed, 2s; or the two caids folding, fringed,
4s.
325. ROCK SCENE, showing growth of Staghorn
Fern, Middle Harbour, Od; fringed, Is 4d.
326-MIDDLE HEAD AND ENTRANCE TO SYD-
NEY HARBOUR, with sketch of Drovers by
moonlight, in circle, coral ornamentation, gold
border, Od; fringed, Is 4d.
327. SPRAY of Bancrea rubioides and Fern, with
dark background and border. 8d; lringed. Is
id. With 328 at back. Fringed, 2j; or the two
cards folding, fringed, 4s
328. SPRAY’" of Bursaria Spinosa and Lovelia gra-
cilis and Fern, with dark background tint, 8d;
fringed, Is 4d
329. —SQUATi’ER'S SHADOW - a huge Rabbit
(with moon behind), casting its shadow over
squatter's station, sheep in foreground. 7d-
fringed, Is 4d
330-EMC and NATIVE COMPANION-Water in
foreground, gold border. 6d; fringed, Is 4d.
With 331 at back. Fringed, 2s; or the two cards
folding, fringed, 3s
331. APTERYX and BLACK SWAN-Riverscene,
gold border. 6d; fringed. Is 4d
332. —“HOME TO OUR MOUNTAINS’’-Duet by
Kangaroos, with piano accompaniment. Baby
kangaroo sitting on hassock nursing doll kan-
garoo. sd; fringed, Is 4d. Card back and
front
333. LET’S GATHER ROSES WHILE WE
MAY ” Walaroo Ashing, beer bottle and basket
of comforts at his side. sd; fringed, Is 4d.
Card back and front.
334. SHOULD AULD ACQUAINTANCE BE
FORGOT”—Kangaroo on bicycle passing Ab-
original in street without recognition. sd -
fringed. Is 4d. Card back and front.
335. —THE HONEYMOON.-Two kangaroos spoon-
ing in shady spot on banks of a river. Parasol,
hat, v loves, &e. sd; fringed, Is 4d. Card back
and front.
336. —MOT HER'S DARLING.-Aboriginal baby boy
wrapped in an opossum rug. sd.
337. SPRAY OF EPACRIS, with ground tint, 4d•
fringed, Is id. Card back and lront.
338. SPRAY OF NATIVE VIOLETS and other
flowers, and ground tint. 4d; fringed, Is. Card
back and front.
There is also a series consisting of
BIRD’S-EYE VIEWS
of the cities of
SYDNEY 7 ", MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
as follows:
Sydney: No. 1, North-west View; No. 2, East
View; No. 3, South V:ew; No. 4, West View
—ls. each.
Melbourne: No. 5, North-east View; No 6, North
east View continued; No. 7, South View: No.
8, North-west View- is each.
Adelaide: No. 9, from North-terrace; No. 10, from
West-terrace—ls each.
Also a selection of
HAND-PAINTED GELATINE CARDS,
«t prices ranging from 3s to 5s each.
These cares can be obtained from all Booksellers,
Stationer o , and News Agents, to whom postage
stamps or P. 0.0. may be forwarded in payment.
ANHOOD RESTORED!
A Clergyman having tried every known
remedy for the Cure of Nervous Exhaustion
Premature Decay, &c., has at last discovered a
simple Self-Cure, which for the sake of suff'erinir
humanity, be will send FREE the Prescription
which CURKD him. Address, with self-addressed
P O. Box 298, Sydney.
stamped envelope—
Dr. E. A CLARKE,
pal magnate, a clergyman, and a prominent
official. Weil, they didn’t go in. But, probably,
had he sent down pictures of a wombat, a goose,
and a goat, we might have been deceived.
The Queen is only slowly recovering from
her accident. So did we, when we fell across a
case of whisky left by the last tenant. It was
fully a week before we were able to take even
“gentle exercise.” Then we did it leaning on the
arm of an attendant, whose attachment to our
person prevented him from leaving us on any
account. How these things occur.
Her Majesty the Queen was cruelly sold
not long ago. A woman gave birth to three
children in a workhouse. The local clergyman
was informed of the fact by someone who was
either a gay wag or a hopeless Idiot, and accord-
ingly his reverence wrote off claiming the Queen’s
Bounty for the mother. The usual £3 was seßt
and handed over before the clergyman found that
the children were illegitimate!
JUSTIFIABLE.
Put her in her little shell
(You’ll not see me weep);
Mind you do the f un’ral well,
And mind you do it cheap.
That hatchet did it clean and nice—
I don’t call it a sin;
She heard the milkman calllout twice,
And wouldn’t take it In.
Ou, sont les neiges d'autan? (for the sake
of your grandfather who was hung set this sen-
tence up correctly, O printer!) This Is one of the
few frequently quoted lines of poor Fran?olß Vil-
lon. He had a bard life of it. But that was not
enough. Even his after fame must be denied him.
A goblin of the name of Wills writes in the Auck-
land Observer an imitation of one of his ballads
with a translation of the line referred to prefixed
and attributed to—“ F. Dillon!” After this, we
are only surprised that Wills did not mention that
he knew Dillon well and had many a quart of beer
with him. Wills himself is probably a wombat.
Armidale is to be illuminated with gas,
and the works are to be started forthwith. The
newest and most approved plant is now on its way
from England.
Compagnoni’s have adopted the Continen-
tal plan of holding matinees two afternoons in the
week—Tuesdays and Fridays—in order that ladies
may enjoy their cups of tea and have their ears
fed at the same time. That’s good.
Quick as follows the thunder’s crash to the
lightning’s flash, came the effect to the cause of an
incident which happened this side of the line last
week. On Monday morning a raving lunatic
escaped from the Yarra Bend Asylum. On Thurs-
day he crossed the Border; and on Saturday the
following par. enlivened the pages of the Gwydir
Examiner and Fishshops’ Friend Accident.
On Sunday last a lad named Robert Griffin, who
was out riding with his brother, sustained a serious
wound on the leg, which had to be stitched up, by
being kicked whilst riding behind the latters
horse.” The stitching up of a serious wound by
means of a horse’s kick is, we imagine, quite a new
idea in the way of surgery; and the pity of it is
that the operation was not repeated on the head of
the mule that wrote the paragraph.
Who’s which? and which’s who? are two
prize conundrums which are evidently greatly
exercising the gigantic brain of the Bennetts just
at the present date. Speaking of the “man-
eaters ” operated on by Professor Sample a few
days ago, the Bindley Murray of the Nooze ob-
served: “The second horse exhibited was the
property of Mr. John Free, a fine chestnut mare,
who had only been handled once before.” How
Mr. John Free managed to metamorphose himself
into a fine chestnut mare is not explained. But all
this was eclipsed in next day’s suckin’ edishun,
when we were confidently told that, at the
Remenyi concert, “ the performance commenced
with a piano solo by Mr. Luokstone, which ex-
hibited considerable grace and precision of touch.”
Judging from this, we should infer tint the piano
solo played upon Mr. Luckstone; but, anyway,
the two items show the phenomenal wisdom of
saving a few shillings a week by employing a
wood-and-water Joey to report, tor a respect-
able journal,” on a cat-fight in the morning and a
high-toned classical concert the same evening.
The oricket match between the English
professionals and eleven of New South Wales,
came to a conclusion on Monday last, and although
at the end of the respective first innirgs the game
looked very open, the Australians tailed off like
rotten sheep in their second effort, and the visitors
proved the victors by four wickets and a run. An
immense attendance put in an appearance on
Saturday, when the two teams were seen both at
the wickets and in the field. Taken all round, the
fielding of the Colonials was execrable, barring
Evans and Massie, who showed exceptionally
good form. No less than eight lives were
given away to tne visitors by mistakes in the
field. Though there were in the field as fine, if
not finer, men than Massie in point of physique, he
showed out pre-eminentiy by reason of the innate
grace with which his every sway and undulation
of the bodv was replete, and when looking at him
on Saturday we could not help thinking that
the British yokels must have had an eye for
something more than eggs and bacon when
they christened him “ The Deer.” Amongst
other pieces of bad fielding, Garrett dropped a
very easy one off Bates. Attewell, who was uis-ct-
vis to Bates, started to run, but Bates did not reci-
procate, and Garrett made amends for his miss by
smartly running with the ball to the vacant
wicket and giving Attewell his quietus. Appended
are the complete scores:—New South Wales —First
Innings: S. Jones 73, H. H. Massie 0, H. Moses 49,
C. Turner 1, C. Bannerman 35. R Allen 31, H. H.
Hiddilston 10, Evans 0, Garrett 3. Bryant (not out)
1, Downs 0, widel; total, 184. Second Innings: R.
Allen 1, S. P. Jones 33, H. Moses 0. H. Hiddilston 0,
E. Evans 3. H. H. Massie 5, C. Bannerman 9, T.
Garrett 0, C. Turner 0, K. Bryant 0, F. Downes 0,
byes 1, leg-byes 3; total 44. All-England Eleven
—First Innings: Shrewsberry 0. Scotton 13, Ulyett
5. Barnes 0, Flowers 19, Bates 33, Read 0, Attewell
17, Briggs 0, Peel 31, Hunter 3, bye 1; total 110.
Second Innings: Shrewsberry 35, Scotton 19, Ulyett
5. Barnes 11, Flowers 15, Bates 33, Bead (not out) 4,
Briggs (not out) 0, byes 6, wide 1,7; total for six
wickets, 119.
For ways that are dark, the heathen
Chinee isn't a circumstance by the side ot the
genuine gold-diggiogs bummer. When a matter
of work turns up, the bummer lies as dead as a
knot in a pine log; but when it comes to a ques-
tion of procuring free grog be combines the
activity and meanness of a bob-tailed skuDk with
the fertility of invention of a Munchausen or a
Continental war correspondent. A prime sample
of this genus came to light the otner day on tne
Crocodile Creek diggings near Rockhampton.
Being blest with the insatiable thirst of an elec-
tioneering tout on poll day, this worthy jpker
made two punctures in the calf of his leg with a
pin and then, rushing into the nearest pub., called
out that he was bitten by a black snake, and re-
oueated leave to lie down, as he felt tne deadly
symptoms of sleep coming fast u P°o, him.
“ Jumpin' Jezabel,” roared the landlord, don t
do that, man, or you’re a gone coon for certain.
Here, take this bottle of brandy, and walk about
and drink it.” Half an hour after this, that bum-
mer was the gayest man on the whole dig-
gings. Divesting himself of his clothes, be
smeared his body all over with red mud, stuck
a lot of hay and wattle bark through his
hair, and grabbing a long-handled 'hovel he re-
turned to liis benefactor, wrecked the whole bar,
split a tunnel through the landlord s bead, chased
his wife under the bed, threw the baby into the
creek, rammed the nigger cook mto a horse-
trough, and nearly scrubbed him to death with a
mixture of soap and brick-dust. After this, he
kicked down the post-office, rubbed the post-
master’s horse all over with kerosene and set him
alight, routed the whole Chinese camp, fired the
lock-up, and thou st irted off on the back ot a wild
cow for Rockhampton. It was the primest day s
sport that bummer ever bad since he broke out ot
the Woog&roo lunatic asylum three years before;
the total damage done by that one bottle of snake-
juice oame to £3 135., and a Kanaka who acci-
dentally smelt the cork has been lamed for life in
consequence. The lesson to be learnt from this is
when a Rockhampton snake bites a man it is far
better for him to hold on to the ills he has than to
fly to others which will necessitate a ruinous in-
crease In the number of grave-yards and lunatic
asylums.
An Englishwoman gives a graphic account
of how aristocratic Parlsiennes carry on the fancy
fair business. It is notorious that many of them
go into the business, under the guise of charity,
with just the same motives as they would go into
private theatricals—for self-display and gratifica-
tion. A celebrated prelate lately issued a circular
to his fair flock, enjoining them to exercise a little
more becoming modesty. Aristooratic ladies, got
up like denizens of the demi-monde, smiled, and
handled male visitors freely. And mixing in the
crowd were ladies of the green-room got up like
ladies of the real world, who behaved more freely
still. It was no use men trying to evade them.
The pretty spiders soon got used to it, and, with
inimitable skill, when they attempted an evasion
managed to jam them against the walls with a
sharp twist of their “ dress-improvers.” The
clothes most of them wore must have cost three
times as muoh as all the money they collected;
while the dominant thought in their minds was
certaiDly more envy than charity. To get more
than their sisters was the aristocratic aim, and
women who could have paid out of their own
pockets ten times what they collected, without
feeling poorer, stood there for hours together
with anguish and malice in their hearts. To
spite a rival extortionist, and fill own her money
bag, one pretty actress actually—really, I can’t
tell it; but we stood there and heard it several
times, and she was several sovereigns to the good.
But she was one of the really pretty ones. Sara
Bernhardt was to collect one afternoon. But
there was no more charming woman there than
Emilie Broisat, the actress, though she is over
forty. The most successful woman with men is
unquestionably Judio. Her eyes, her arms, her
hand, her voluptuous smile, are irresistible. Each
deluded fly, of course, thinks the glance is for him
alone, the smile for him alone, the manner of ap-
proaching him peculiarly and exceptionally sweet.
Judio Is an artist from the top of her fascinating
head to the scle of her pretty foot. Most people
agree with the Archbishop in denouncing these
bazaars. They are too often mere pretexts for
Immodest displays of shoulders, dangerous dally-
ings over roses, and serve as convenient cloaks for
disreputable intrigues innumerable. Charity that
is bom of vanity, corruption, and impurity, de-
serves no admiration. Charity in its new Parisian
dress is little better than stieet mendicancy, and
not a great deal better sometimes than street-
walking


INVALUABLE TO DYSPEPTICS.
Heath Bank, Sandridge.
Dear Sirs,—l have during the last few weeks
advised several patients to try your
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
Tne result has been uniformly favourable. In
dyspeptic cases of long standing they will prove
invaluable.—Yours sincerely,
FRANCIS CHEETHAM, L. et L. Mid., R.C.P., Edin.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We ehall be glad to have tM» indeat petted up by
leeretarie* of raalng club* an d managert of
tporttng event» in generaL]
BACING.
Gwydir I!cT (Annual) December 8,4.
Victoria Amateur T.C.
A.J.C. (Midsummer) December
Wallsend J.C December 26, 27.
Moonee Valley (V.) December 27.
Tattersall’s Club (Annual) January 1.
V.R.C. Summer Meeting . .January 1.
Adelong J.C January 1, 6.
Sydney T.C January 22.
Lawrence J.C • • w'^. anuar^^a‘
Cootamundra T.C • • • .February 11,12.
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) February 11,12,13.
Tasmanian R.C.. February 18,19.
Murmmburrah T.C. (Annual)...... February 18,19.
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting Feb.2B. March 5. 7.
Hawkesbury R.C Maroh 26, 28.
AQUATICS.
Brisbane Annual Regatta. Deoember 10.
Snail’s Bay Regatta. J T a °“, a JX «>«
Anniversary Regatta
Hanlan v. Clifford ebruary 7.
Clifford v. Beach Feb TsC
Hanlan v. Clifford (if Clifford beat Beach).... April 18.
Glebe R.C. Regatta December 13.
Gardiner Challenge Cup December 20.
Newcastle Regatta January 1,
Intercolonial 8-Oar Race April
ATHLETICS
All England Eleven v. Eighteen of Cum-
berland, at Parramatta Nov. 28, 29.
Riverine Athletic Club Sports, Hay Race-
course December 26, 27.
N.S.W. Highland Gathering, Sydney —January 1.
BFOATING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Joseph Duggan, a Brisbane bioyolist, lost
his life through a fall from his wheel.
In Ootober, Meagher, the fastest walker in
the world, was to try and lower the mile record—
6m. 23sec.
An English “leg” who has been roughly-
handled by the papers has a oolt by Scamp—Lam-
poon, and has called it “ Editor."
George Webber won.in the 100 miles bi-
cycle race at Boston, U.S. He did the distance in
9hr. 30m., thus beating the highest previous re-
cord.
At an eight-oar race. Little Girl: “ Mam-
ma, what makes the little man in t he stern bob
forward each time?” Mamma: “The sliding
Beats, my dear.”
In England, J. 11. Adams, riding a 46-in.
“Facile” bicycle, accomplished the astonishing
distance of 266J4 miles within the twenty-four
hours, thus beating all previous records.
The latest American bioyole records are a
half-mile bylDolph.lin 1 min. 17 3-5 sec., and a mile
in 3 min. 39 sec., by both Sellars and Prince, the
English professionals.
Arthur Wilson, of Leeds, failed in his
attempt to gather 160 penny pieces thrown into a
deep plunge bath. He was only beaten by eight
pieces, though, after being 115 seconds under
A match for £l5 a side, 150 yards, was run
on the Armidale racecourse on Saturday afternoon
last, between L. Daly and D. J. Trim. Trimgot
away well at the start, and ,won easily by about
four yards.
At Gundagai, on Saturday last, the Ade-
long and local cricketers started a match for the
Engden Cup. So far, the Adelongs have made 130
in their first innings, and the locals have put to-
gether 141, with two wickets to fall. They con-
tinue next Saturday.
It is stated by a London paper that “Dr.
H. L. Cortis. the champion bicyclist, died in N.S.W.
at the beginning of August.” The Dr. is privi-
leged. It is not every man that has a chance to
read his own obituary notice.
In the 32nd annual boat raoe for the
French championship, Lein, who has regularly,
since 1876, carried ofT the Champion’s Cup, given
bv Sir Richard Wallace, was at length dethroned,
and indeed only came in third. D. D’Hautefueille
was the winner.
There is an invention spoken of which, it
is thought, mav abolish the bit. It is called the
carrago, or anti-horse torture. It is oom posed of
a steel band placed over the front bone of the
horse’s nose, and to this appliance the reins are
attached. It has been tried with satisfactory re-
sults.
In face of the warning ediot of the
stewards’of the English Jockey Club against the
heavy bettmg of trainers and jockeys, one of the
former class made no secret of having won £ll,OOO
on two races at Kempton Park last week, and a
leading jockey laments having lost over £3OOO at
Doncaster.
We must go from home'for news. The
Glasgow Herald states that Watson, the cele-
brated yacht designer, has on band drawings tor a
10-ton cutter for Mr. Williams of Sydney, the
measurement of which will be 41ft. 6in. by 7ft. 3in.
Watson was the designer of the lines from which
the Oithona was put together.
A Manchester man and friends entered the
local cricket ground (on the occasion of the match
between the county club and the Australians) at
3 40 p in. The weather caused play to be sus-
pended ten minutes after be had entered the held.
Annoyed at this, and feeling he had not received a
nuid pro auo for the 18s. expended, he asked for
the return of his money. This being refused, an
action was entered. Verdict for defendant.
The refusal of a returned Australian Eleven
man to play for his colony in the late international
match was about as consummate a piece of impu-
denoo—not to speak of ingratitude—as we have
dropped across for some time past. What cricket
has aone for the young gentleman in question, it
is scarcely necessary for us to remind our readers.
But the old saw again outs in—Put a gentleman of
limited moans on horseback, &c.
The Weekly Dispatch ooolly remarks,
apropos of the fact than an Englishman named
Btriokland is said to have plunged 73ft. lin. from a
divinff-board sft. above tho water, that Austra-
lian ‘ records ’ are, as a rule, very peculiar, and
that unless they can be supported by testimony
such as we can understand and accept they must
always be passed over as at least doubtful.' For
infernal John Bullish impudence this would be
hard to beat.
On Saturday last, races for 24-footers and
30ft. half-deckers were sailed in connection with
the Sydney Amateur Sailing Club. For the 34ft.
race the starters were the Victor, Dreamland,
Lottie, and Adelphi; and the boats finished in the
order named. The half-deckers finished Nereus,
Warganella, and Elaine. The Nereus is a hand-
some little craft, built by Golding, an amateur, of
Balmain. She is finished in first-class stylo through-
out, her appearance being greatly enhanced by a
rosewood dock, French polished.
The following resume of sporting men’s
fortunes is given in the N.Y. Police Gazette:—
Edward Hanlan, £10,000; Wallace Ross, Hosmer,
Plaisted, and Teemer, £lOOO to £3000; John L. Sul-
livan, £30,000; Billy Madden, £3000; Coburn, £4000;
John Morrissey and Jem Mace made several for-
tunes. which they lost in gambling. Weston, the
pioneer “pedestrian” of the world, made £6000;
Rowell, £12,000; Ennis and Fitzgerald, £3OOO each;
Harding, £1400; Harriman, £2000; and Duncan C.
Ross cleared £6OOO in wrestling matches.
Charley Mitchell, the English pugilist, who
appears to have gained in avoirdupois at the ex-
pense of science, on the 13th Oct. engaged in a
four-round set-to with Dominick M'Caffrey, of
Pittsburg (U.S.), at Madison Square Garden, N.Y.
It was not till the Anal round that any smashing
work was indulged in. At the termination of the
bout, both men were completely played out, and
everyone in the plaoe considered it a draw; but to
the surprise of all the referee gave the battle in
favour of M'Caffrey. Mitchell now wishes to have
another “ shy ” at him.
Morley the cricketer’s wife and children
are left almost unprovided for. Morley’s visit to
Australia might have set him up, but for the un-
fortunate accident to the mail steamer in which
the Hon. Ivo Bligh’s team were proceeding to the
antipodes. After that Morley never pulled him-
self together, and lost his bowling, as the phrase
goes. The accident affected him mentally as well
as physically. We remember that in Sydney he
had as companion the Victorian cricketer and
football player, George Coulthard. The latter
was then far gone in consumption, and Morley,
who was apparently unwell, but not ill, was told
off to keep him company. Both have now joined
the great majority. Morley was but 34 when he
died.
W. Reid, of Glebe Point, who recently
turned out for “Podge” Newton the handsome
and fast working boat Admira 1 , has just planked
up a 22-foot racer for the Messrs. Longfield. She
is about Bft. 3in. be<m, and something over 6ft.
across the tuck; and, given a good “turn out”
and an efficient handler of the pick-handle, we
should not be surprised to see her give even Mr.
Clarke’s handsome Rosetta her quietus. Wo
understand her maiden effort will be at the New-
castle regatta, in the hands of “Podge” Newton,
when she will probably meet the St. Crispin. The
boat is put together in first-class style, and we
shall be very much disappointed if she does not
turn out a regular flyer.
The famous European gambler Dupressoir
has just died. Dupressoir was the man that ran the
gambling tables at Baden Baden before their sup-
pression in 1872. He was the head and front of all
the progressive improvements in that beautiful
watering-place. After the Reichftag had sup-
pressed gambling, Dupressoir went to Monte Carlo
to manage that earthly paradise on a salary of
£4OOO a year. But he soon tired of the Riviera,
went to Paris, and made a proposition to the
Frenoh Government, which M. Theirs declined on
the ground of public morality. What the gambler
proposed was that he should have the exclusive
privilege of running sporting houses at Nice, Biar-
ritz, Dieppe, Boulogne, and Fontainbleau, for
which privilege he was willing to pay cash down
20,000,000 f., and.annually thereafter 4,000,000 f. dur-
ing a period of fifty years. He died a comparatively
poor man.
Mr. Jaok Macnamara wishes us to state
that be is willing to run Malone for anything, from
9d. to £5OOO. We asked Jack how he came to be a
pedestrian, and he explained that at the time he
wore frilled drawers his dreams were to be an
angel, and every night he used to kneel down and
say his little Iprayer requesting Heaven to make
him an angel as soon as convenient. Years passed
on, and no halo was handed down to him, so he
then resolved to be the next thing in brightness
and glory to a seraph—a professional runner.
Jack says he always wins, unless he is seized with
the cramps, or falls down, or is dosed before start-
ing, or the other man is too good for him. No man
has, however, proved too good for him, but
Malone, though Jack explains that on the day of
his contest with Mr. M. he had the cramps, fell
down, and was dosed before starting. Both Mr.
Macnamara and bis friends are very confident, and
as we are fired with the desire to win a few mil-
lions, we shall certainly put a trouser-button on
Jack.
Paddy Pigott, one of our best top-weigbt
jookeys, and as desperate a post-finisher as ever
sported silk, made his first appearance in the pig-
skin, since his terrible fall in the Melbourne Cup
of 1883, at the last Melbourne carnival, and, strange
to say, he rode the same horse that he got his spill
from, viz.: The Plunger. Luck was hard on
Paddy, however, and although he tore into the
straight with a lead of two lengths The Plunger
collapsod as soon as ever Commotion touched his
girths. In the Melbourne Stakes. Paddy landed
the son of Argus Scandal second to Malua, and he
also steered Lady Claudia in the Maribyrnong, and
Leporello for the Derby. With the exception of
Johnnie Cutts, Pigott is the only jock, who has
succeeded in winning the Melbourne Cup twice,
which he did in 1874 on Harricot, and in 1877 on the
mighty Chester, whom he also landed first for the
V.R.C. Derby the same year. Paddy has now de-
cided to settle down in Melbourne where, he in-
tends to not only ride but also train. Owners
on the look out for a thoroughly competent and
honest man to take charge of their flyers would
do well to fix their eyes on Paddy.
The Australian mail, carrying the detailed
account of the Hanlan-Beach match arrived in
London at 10 p.m. of Friday, October 3rd. The
morning papers ot Saturday had not a line about
the event: even the Daily Sportsman appeared
without it! The evening papers, which issue their
first editions just after mil-day, apparently knew
nothing of the arrival of the mail, and so contained
no allusion whatever to the matter, for particulars
oonoerning which even the general public had
been anxiously looking. It was not that the
editors cared nothing for the event, for they had
been printing columns, and half-columns, and
quarter-columns of elaborate speculations as to
what nows the mail would bring when it did come
to hand. The rem ssness was simply due to utter
ignorance on the part of the London newspapers
concerning Australian mail* and all other things
Australian, in the end, Patchett Martin handed
to the editor of the Echo, at about three o’clock, a
slip cut from the Sydney D.T., which, wonderful
to relate, was reproduced the same evening in the
Echo’s last edition. The conclusion speedily ar-
rived at by anyone who sees a little of the inner
life of the London press is that when what in
England is known as a “ big thing ” is done, it is
almost invariably accomplished by the sheer
brutal force of money, and net by the force of wit.
The Timks is the only London daily which has an
Australian correspondent, and the city editor of
the St and ahd the other day printed a statement
in his money article that Melbourne had 35,000 in-
habitants 1! 1
Just after the Prix de Fortifications, at
Longchamps races, Paris, the noble French public,
dissatisfied with the result, Seriously 'maltreated
Sharpe, the jockey who rode Blonde 11., the Duo
de Castries’ mare. He was pulled off the animal,
and while on the ground was kicked and beaten in
a most unmerciful manner. The animal was also
injured by blows from sticks, stones, and um-
brellas. Sharpe was taken into the weighing
ground in an alarming condition. The soldiers
had to guard the weighing-room from the in-
furiated mob, one of whom was seized by three
jockeys, and was only saved from being lynched
through the intervention of the police. The
jockeys had already pulled off the fellow s clothes,
and were about to hang him. The weighing-room
was veritably besieged during the space of half an
hour. Storr, the jockey who rode Infldele, was
also maltreated on coming in after the race, but
was able to go home in a cab. Sharpe, however,
was found to be so seriously hurt, that it was con-
sidered dangerous to remove him from the weigh-
ins-room. The dastardly conduct of the crowd
appears to have been altogether due to the ig-
norance of the persons who had a pecuniary in-
terest in the race. The event passed off in a regu-
lar manner. Carrat, who rode Georgina, seeing
that he was sure to win, pulled in the mare, Sharpe
at the same time endeavouring to get up to him.
Carrat then spurred Georgina, and made a dash
forward, leaving? Blonde IT. behind. The crowd
immediately cried out “ Thief!” and commenced
their manifestations of ill-will against Sharpe.
Lacrosse is only in its infancy in New
South Wales, and we look forward with longing to
the period when lovers of the Canadian “ national
game ” will be able to show us a little championship
form. Then will football, canine controveisiee,
and Queensberry matches have to take a baok
seat. In a par. under the heading of “ The World s
Championship,” the N.Y. Clipper says:—"The
laorosse matoh for the championship between the
Shamrock Club of Montreal, nolders of the cham-
pionship, and the Toronto Club, from whom the
former won it at the beginning of this season,
took place at the former oity Sept. 27. Although
the weather was most unfavourable, raining all
the time, and the field covered in places with pools
of water, a multitude of spectators paid for en-
trance. Both teams went to work with a vigour
and roughness never equalled in Canada. The first
game was contested with extraordinary pluck and
valour, for no quarter was given on either side for
forty-seven minutes, when Green won the game
for the Shamrocks. The second game was fought
inch by inch for thirty-five minutes, whenHubbell
carried the goal with a brilliant throw for the
Torontos. The third game was the most exoiting
of all. After thirty-seven minutes’ play, it was
pronounced drawn, the referee deciding time up.
The following were disabled and had to be carried
off the field: Dwyer, Cregan, M'Kay, and Daly of
the home team, and Bonnell of the Torontos.
Some had fractures on the head, arms, and legs,
while others had dislocated shoulders. The play
was the most exciting and scientific ever witnessed
there, but it was offensive from the brutality in-
dulged in.”
“ Pendragon ” in the Referee writes that
“ beyond great surprise at the issue, and still
greater self-glorification, there is little enough to
be learnt from the Sydney newspaper aocounts of
the Hanlan-Beaoh race.” He remarks that in the
matter of fine writing, not to say tall talk, some of
the acoouDts out-do even the most extreme trans-
atlantic efforts on like occasions, and adds that
a few lines he has reoeived from! correspondents
whose letters arrived by the mail which brought
the papers “are worth any amountof the delirious
joy which has found its way into looal print over
the vengeance which had at last overtaken the
conqurero of previous Kangarooland representa-
tives.” The “few lines” referred to consist of a
letter from “ a member of the London R.C. now on
a visit to Australia” and one from “ another trust-
worthy correspondent.” The former says that
“ Hanlan was taking it easy and laughing when
the steamer bore down upon him. He seemed to
consider for a minute whether he should run into
it, but, deoiding not to do so, pulled half a dozen
strokes and left Beach as if he were standing sMll.
Hanlan then appeared to be looking round to find
something else to run into, and finally pulled across
Beach’s bows. After that he began to make most
desperate signs of rowing very hard and being
quite pumped—rounding his back, splashing, etc.,
in something very unlike ‘Hanlan form.’*' The
“other trustworthy correspondent” insinuates, if
he does not aotually state, that the raoe was sold.
For instance:—" Here is something that looks very
fishy. One of the chief sporting hotel-keepers
here who made the match for Hanlan on the
Nepean with Laycook. on Friday night sent a com-
mission of £lOOO to £5OO on Hanlan. On Saturday
morning he withdrew this, and backed Beach to
the same amount! He said he had heard that Han-
lan was not fit. Hanlan, [indeed, did not seem to
care to make himself fit. At four o’clock, just
before the race started, he was drinking beer in a
room full of men smoking. A friend told me this
who i imself handed Hanlan the beer.” It’s a great
pity that in N.S.W. the libel-law precludes our
friend’s “ trustworthy correspondent ” making
such statement on his owu responsibility in the
press. We shall be glad to hear what Hanlan and
Hanlan’s backers have to say to all this. The
“trustworthy correspondent” says, among other
things, that he doubts if there was £lO 000 laid out
in all the colony on Beaoh, who was backed mostly
for half-crowns. “ There is accordingly no sug-
gestion that the race was sold for the sake of the
market on this occasion. But, then, there is an-
other matoh to come on. * Had Hanlan any idea of
losing this one in order to get people to plank
their money down next time?' That is the ques-
tion everyone is asking. There is no doubt Beach
will be backed next time to any amount, and if
that is Hanlan’s game he could make it pay.”
And so o«. Bosh!
SPORTING GLEANING.
A few cycling menm jammed together.
Jules Terront, French champion trick-rider, lately
got married in Paris The most risky trick he has
yet tried —At Belfast, Mecredy, who fell, gained
second prize by carrying his machine 100 yards to
the post.... Cap throwing is tne popular juvenile
pastime. The result of one boy throwing his cap
at a wheel was, the ’cyclists shoulder put out,
muscles of the left arm burst, five teeth knocked
in, and conougsion of the brain. The dear little
boy escaped Two children, Lotto and Lilo, have
been giving exhibitions of trick-riding. They are
averred to be respectively four and five years old.
Lotto, facing backward, rode the bicycle forward;
seated ordinary way, he carried his sister round
standing on his shoulders; taking off the handle,
rode round as easily as with it; he jumped into the
saddle with the machine stationary, and balanced
without stirring it In January, 1883, there was
but; one cyclist in Moscow (Russia) now they
are not fewer than sixty, who have a club.
Most ride the “Russian Club,” a machine made spe-
cially for Russia by the Coventry Co. This year
the first bicycle races seen at Moscow drew 20,000
spectators The London Cyclist says : “An
eminent surgeon in Sydney has put down the
rheumatism prevalent in Australia solely to the
pernicious effects of tea-drinking, which prevails
so largely.” We could “put down” that eminent
doctor in a short word of three letters, an’ we
liked....F. de Civry, champion of France, nearly
killed by a woman crossing his bike while at full
speed. Cut all over Dr. W. B. Richardson, health
oracle, says: “ The tricycle is becoming quite a
common prescription with me ” An American
judge non-suited an injured cyclist in Courtonthe
peculiar ground that Sunday being a dies non, the
cyolist could not claim for damages inflicted on
that day Many English racp committees are in
the habit of giving prizes for trick riding.
Racing men frown on it as infra dig. but
it draws the bawbees. Slow races, however, are
nearly obsolete.. .Lord Coleridge lately decided
that a cyclist had a claim against a Tramway Co.
for accident caused by their rails not being “ level
with the road.” At Moody and Sankey meetings
a man was specially appointed to look after
cyclists’ machines. What would it profit a man if
he gained salvation and lost his bicycle ?—Street-
riding is almost impossible in Berlin; so many
streets are interdicted by the authorities —At
tho Isle of Man, a bicyclist tried if he could ride
close to the edge of the pier without tumbling
over on the rocks below. He found he couldn’t,
and died A small fox teirier who ran out to
bark at a machine got caught by the wheel and
jammed in the fork. He didn’t bark any mere.
But the cyclist was “barked.” A London
bobby eaid he considered the prisoner had no
right to ride in the street “because he was
an amateur.” On bring interrogated, Robert
defined an “amateur” as “one who is learning to
ride.” A magistrate, where the defendant had
ridden down a bicyclist, said he would inflict a
heavy fine just to remind such drivers that the
streets were not made for the sole use of those
who could afford to drive carriages or cabs. All
had an equal right to the road For the Philadel-
phia 25-mile race, the first prize was a plate worth
£l5O. Entries, £2 each. The three days’ meetings
were continued at night by electric light. Total
prizes valued £lOOO Two novel races in England
were—one, a mile race in which the winner was
the man who did it in nearest time to 3min. 25sec„
and the other, a race whore the bell was rung
exactly at half an hour, and the man then ahead
won At a large gathering at Leipsio, the cham-
pionship of Germany, 6J4cailes, was won by Jul.
Huber.
Woman Items.
Wives are presumptuous creatures. They
are always asking for a lock of their lover’s hair
before marriage, and taking it without asking
afterwards.
The Paris Baby Show was prohibited, ac-
cording to the bachelors, because the mere hold-
ing of it was calculated to seriously reduce the
marriage-rate. No man could help registering a
vow of celibacy in the presence of 20U0 babies.
It was a case of May and December; and,
talking generally about divorces, Mrs. May was
asked her opinion of it. Without hesitation she
replied, “ An unhappy compromise for a state of
things which can only be cured by widowhood.”
Doctor: “You see, wifey dear, I have
pulled my patient through, after all.” His wife:
Yes, dear; but then you are so clever. Ah! if I
had only known you five years earlier, I feel cer-
tain my first husband—my poor Thomas—would
have been saved!”
Queen Elizabeth of Roumania writes:—
“ If one forgives one loves no longer, for true love
knows nothing of forgiveness.” “ The jealousy of
those who love us is the grandest flattery.” “ Man
and wife should never cease to do a little courting,
no matter how old they may be.”
‘•Ah, Miss de Smythe, did you enjoy your-
self in the mountains ?” ** Oh, yes, I had a most
delightful time.” “ What have you done all the
summer to amuse yourself ?” “ Well, I have been
painting most of the time.” “ Yes, I can see that;
but I mean what else?” And then, somehow or
other, a polar wave seemed to strike both of them.
“ George,” she said, as he assisted her from
the buggy, “ the next time you take me out riding
in the evening, I wish you would drive a less
spirited horse.” “Why, my dear?” he replied;
“ there isn’t the slightest danger with this horse. I
can hold him easily.” “ Oh, I suppose you can
hold him; but you have to vse both hands, you
know!”
The Bishop of Oxford, speaking at a con-
ference of clergy and laity, said the most impor-
tant question now before the English people wts
that relating to marriage with a deceased wife s
sister. With Lord Hatherley he would prefer the
landing of a French army at Dover to the passing of
that measure, for the army could be got rid of,
but, onoo passed, the Act legalising those mar-
riages could never be repealed.
“I wish to look at some mourning goods,”
said a lady, as she entered a linendraper’s shop.
“ Yes, madame,” replied the assistant; “this way,
please.” After looking through the entire stock,
she remarked that she would come in again in the
course of a day or two. “May I ask,” said the
assistant in a sympathetic tone of voice, “if the
death occurred in your immediate family ?”
“ There has been no death yet,” she replied sadly,
*' but my husband is very low.”
A young man who had become passion-
ately enamoured of an aged woman, besought htr
hand in marriage. But this she resolutely refused
on the ground that she had promised never to wed
without her parents’ consent. This it was now im-
possible to obtain, since they had both been dead
for several years, and the young man was forced
to console himself by running away with a plump
young creature of eighteen, who»e parents were
not only living, hut energetically protesting. This
fable snows that the notion of “duty to one’s
parents ”is not altogether an absurd one. It may
be occasionally and advantageously objected to an
unpalatable scheme.
You never meet a fashionable woman in
the street without something in her hands. Not
one woman in fifty can carry a pair of empty
hands successfully. They may be small and neatly
gloved, put if there’s nothing to carry the fashion-
able woman fancies they feel as large as a pair of
hams. In this peculiarity the woman is like the
dude: if you take his cigarette from one hand and
his cane from the other, the dude is helpless. The
woman who carries her unoccupied hands down
the promenade is likely io get an insight into the
mysteries of hopeless confusion. The young lady
who carries a roll of music to disguise a pair of
idle hands is very numerous. The library book on
two straps is also extensively used.
She, having been tempted to go a muckre
in silk stockings, had run up a veryTarge bill, tor
which John, the mercer, was daily pressing her.
She, not wishing to let her husband know of her
extravagance, kept putting the vendor of leg-
ulsters off, until, goaded beyond endurance by his
importunities, she told him to send in the bill to
her spouse. All that night she slept not, and when
the morning meal she did attend, it was with
trembling limbs and a mind full sore perplexed.
But when she saw him open the letter and heard
him exclaim, "Hose, £251 Why the devil couldn't
the gardener have let me know before ? I thought
the plants were looking bad I’’ Then a great glad
look came into her tawny eyes, and the birds
hushed their song in envy as her pure young
voice filled the morning air.
A French couple who had been married
ten years applied tor a divorce. “ Have you any
children ?” inquired the judge. “ Certainly, your
worshipl” “How many?” “Three: two boys
and a girl, and that’s why we have come to you.
Madame wants to keep two, and so do I!” “ Will
you abide by my decision ?” asked the judge.
“Oui, Monsieur!” they exclaimed. “Well, then,
you will both wait till you have a fourth child.
Then there will be two lor each of you, and I will
decide how they are te be allotted.” The couple
agreed, and the judge heard nothing further from
them. At length h© met the husband. "Eh bien,
Monsieur! How are you getting on ?” “Ah, Mon-
sieur le Juge, a separation is lor the present out
of the question.” “ How is that ?” “We have got
five children now!” “Ah, then, we’ll wait a bit
longer,” remarked the judge.
The Lancet relates that a young girl “ of
an idiotic type ” has died ia the asylum at Ham-
burg, who possessed the peculiar gift of changing
the colour of her hair, according to the state of
her mind. In “ periods of sedateness ” her hair
was of its natural dull colour; when she was ex-
oited it became reddish; and her idiotic fits were
indicated by a blonde colour. Three days were
generally required for the change to be completed,
and her complexion also varied in the same periods
and in the same direction. Altogether, we have in
this young girl “of an idiotic type” the true
origin of the girl of the period, who, as is well-
known, takes about three days to change the
colour of her hair satisfactorily, and doctors her
complexion accordingly. When sheer idiocy pre-
vails in the mind, the colour most affected is the
yellow tint of a haystack.
Thus a Frenoh writer Women like to
marry prosperous men, to hang upon them, prey
on them, and take their turn oui of them. They
may be good to their marital hankers, but they
hardly ever love tnem. Ask any Catholic priest
who nas obtained through the confessional deep
insight into the feminine heart, and you will find
that he will bear out what I now tell you. I be-
lieve this is why Mother Church is so indulgent to
fair sinners. The Czarina not long ago said to a
lady from whom I have it: ‘I am thankful to the
Nihilists for one thing. They have made me love
my husband dearly. Our home-life has beeome so
different since I began to look upon him as though
he were under sentence of death. You can't think
how deeply his menaced state attaches me to
him.’”


W. H. CHARD AND GO.,
WOOL BROKERS,
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
LIBERAL ADVANCES made on WOOL ©r
other PRODUCE shipped to their LondoH
Agents, Messrs. Redfern, Alexander and Co., 3
Great Winchester-street, E.C.
The Careful Personal Supervision of this well-
known firm is given to all consignments.
NOTICE OE REMOVAL.
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
jjsgg)
i
£3
%
&
Will
mini
Mi
m
VAL U ABLC^J^
•urrcßiNa
-rpo**
*o
t®
M)s
on
Sof
CS
flip
tve
?S$
Be
fu!
ru
is
‘'{tSfECIALLr
APTID FOR T
ah Colonies
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
CM AND CUTLER,
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
No. 3 Hunter-street,
. SECOND DOOR FROM GEORGE-STREET.
JamesLawson&S ons,
CABINET-MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Corner of William and Boomerang Streets.
FURNITURE for DINING-ROOMS, BEDROOMS,
LIBRARIES, and DRAWING-ROOMS.
HIGH-CLASS FURNITURE, in the Newest
Designs, at very Moderate Prices.
BRUSSELS CARPETS AT se. PER YARD
Including Making and Laying Down.
NEW DESIGNS IN WILTON, BRUSSELS,
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS.
Special Designs for Art Furniture.
FACTORY : KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
OXYGEN IS LIFE.
Dr. Bright's Phosphodyne.
THE only Reliable Remedy for Indigestion,
Nervousness, Nervous Debility, Liver Com-
plaints, Female Complaints, Lassitude, Loss of
Power, Mental and Physical Deoression, Decline,
and all Functional Derangements. Thoroughly
recruits and re-establishes Health. Highly recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty. CAUTION.—
The indubitable proof of the great value of Dr
(the only genuine) Phosphodyne is the
various worthless imitations which are being made
up. Therefore ask for Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne
and refuse useless and possibly Dangerous Substi-
tutes. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROTHERS.
MURRUMBURRAH TO YOUNG RAILWAY
CONTRACT.
WANTED strong HORSE-TEAMS, for haul-
ing Bleepers, on the above oontraot. Long
Job, and highest wages. Apply on the works to
O’ROURKE & M’SHARRY,
Contractors.
C. B. MODINI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
TWO SPECIAL FKIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 603 GEORGE BTREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery Just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborns ; also Angelo Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Jtaly.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
1:,;
First Prizes ana Exhibition.
9
MR. F. WARE
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney
f Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughing Gas
Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform.
IN
four W £
.stored
Ni
o?meoßos
ESSENCEopUFE
...fe only infallible remedy for
4>//feR/oifs JjebiLijyT
THIB Invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently oures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustive derangement of the system: regenerating
all the important elements or the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In oases at 135., or four quantities is onefor
£68.; if by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,!
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and! tO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from George-street South.
IJ! O ALL WOMEN.
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, in either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERY
IN SOAP !
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with it;
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
fid. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers :
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
*
T
BAS
1
*
£
O
o
Royal
Sydney
Arcades
d
THE AUSTRALIAN PHOTO.-ENGRAVING GO.,
24 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL CLASSES OF ILLUSTRATIONS UNDERTAKEN.
Fac-similes of Handwriting: for Circulars. Music Plates prepared.
THIS COMPANY having 1 specially engaged a number of first-class experts from London, New
York, and San Francisco, in addition to a staff locally trained, is now in a position
TO UNDERTAKE WORK IN ANY QUANTITY, AND OF QUALITY NOT SURPASSED BY
ANY ESTABLISHMENT IN THE WORLD.
Book of Specimens Sent Post Free on Application
UHofo a graving
'a cuf encrra\?eb
e Aef-
A
an. oL
if "a cui engrraveo op
a£ emicaP nneary
9C f mounfeej arid-
car? Pe yetl in cj?
ancj prir?fecL ‘prom any ordi-
nary jc) r i nfi*n.g prey. 9r? appear-
ance if reyenaffe/ 1 \?ery ePosePy
a a}o*ob cu.IL anc| y* to
sajperyede to a cjreaf"
{HaP <sPooo aruj na.etn.od_
encjra\?incj . \7e caip o^er
cyedT i to aPP coßo
are cut/ ■por , Price
"Pi j"ly > Oata Pocj'u.ey or cl gay
N^ertty*i ncj par'po/e. Qet our
e.s Pi naatey ancj Pry uy
RESPONSIBLE AGENTS WANTED IN EVERY CITY IN AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
The Federal Art Union.
TO BE DISPOSED OF BY SUBSCRIPTION, ON
THE AKT UNION PRINCIPLE,
By permission of the Hon. the Attorney-General.
£5OOO Worth of Pictures,
111 10,000 Shares of lOs. Each.
COMPRISING
LANDSCAPES, PORTRAITS,
AND OTHER PICTURES,
By the Best English and Colonial Artists.
The following Subscribers have kindly consented
to assist the Drawing Committee in the distribution
of the prizes
A. J. GOULD, Esq,. M.L.A.; J. A. MACKINNON,
Esq., M.L.A.; F. J. GIBBES, Esq., M L.A.
R. M. VAUGHN, Esq., M.L.A. ’
THE drawing of the prizes will take place under
the direction of a committee to be elected
by the subscribers, who will receive nctiec by
three advertisements in the “Herald,” “Daily
Telegraph,” and “ Evening News.”
The date of drawing will be advertised as soon
as two-thirds of the subscribers have been ob-
tained. When the drawing day has once been
decided upon, there will be no further postpone-
ment.
Purchasers will be found for all pictures over
£5 at a commission of 10 per cent, should the win-
ners consider the prizes over valued.
Winners of prizes who prefer selling their pic-
tures can have the money immediately after the
drawing.
Should this Art Union be withdrawn at any time,
the money will be returned in full to the sub-
scribers.
WINNING NUMBERS WILL BE ADVERTISED
IN ALL LEADING PAPERS.
Amongst the pictures is a “ View on the Thames.”
by Varley, the eminent artist—for 60 years or more
in the house of the late Sir George Stephen, Knight,
Q.C., Beputy-Lieutenant of the county of Buck-
ingham, from whose sole surviving executor it
has been purchased. Authenticity of this picture
guaranteed by certificate from the Hon. Sir Alfred
Stephen, C. 8., K C.M.G., Lieutenant-Governor.
Send crossed cheques, P. 0.0 , or stamps.
Apply to
J. A. PARKER, Secretary,
19 Hunter-street, or Box 606 G.P.0., Sydney.
Secure tickets at once, so that the date for draw-
ing the prizes may be fixed upon.
£2500.
TATTERS ALL'S CUP,
NEW YEAR’S DAY.
Eurick’s Subscription,
5000 MEMBERS AT 10s. EACH.
First Horse ,
Second Horse
Third Horse .
Starters Divided
Non-Starters
Add 3d. for Membership.
Address “Euriok,” G.P.O.
ber 29th, Results posted ;
. £lOOO
500
. . 200
500
. . 300
£2500
Registered letters only.
Sydney. Close Decem-
also this paper.
VENETTA WALTZ:
Tlu Air to tu waU marked. Oxßourg CowTinxl*.
■anloAtU.
Pod
Ped
M
TV^ofMUSlffihe^tJf 8 thG LargeBt Stoc *
Mu si cN e w est Songs, Pieces, Dances, &c.
rC v h ,^ B fe Ant^ m8 ’ Psalters < Services, &c.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Musio, in variety,
ox x. Catalogues of above post free.
Bta tec CCOUnt Books, Letter and Note
Printing.-Invoices, Billheads, Circulars. Cards
Cards.ved 0r prlnted - Ball Programmes, Menu
orders executed in best style and promptly.
R°°£? I° r Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
upward. f
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &o.
m +^ Bic an^ d Books bound in any stylo, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stook
w,T| h h«W«L°. f CH RIS T MAB CARDS this year
will be the llnest ever seen ; many beautiful kinds
have already been received. UUIUI Kinds
Call and see the two most important CoDviDg
Instruments ever invented. The Trynogranh
copies ; the Berrygiaph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
WILLIAM ~BULLARD,
342 GEORGE STREET.
THE
The SIMPLEST, CHEAPEST, & BEST MACHINE
ever introduced into Australia.
EASY TO WORK, EASY TO LEARN,
EASY TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Machine in the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Mmicm
Science, and of the Best Possible Materials. "
Sold on TIME PAYMENTS in Town and Country.
tST" Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE to
any part of the colony.
B. O. Holtermann & Co.,
Sole Agents,
G 74 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Berrygra ph!
The Universal Copying Instrument, tor
4 |d. Fourpence halfpenny. 4M
Will take 70 Good Copies of any better.
Note size, 4a. 6d.; Letter, 65.; Foolscap, 9g per
_ quire.
Full particulars,
W, BULLARD, 342 Georgo-street.


F
URNITUKH SHOW ROOMS
BRADLEY NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HATBTANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
end
T IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
JLi TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion : well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o.
VERY ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for olubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &o.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Eight-pound bedroom suites—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attaohed ; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3105.; Clothes Horses, fromlos.6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
*
PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
strong, and durable, Trichord full
compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
/'■'IHIU'FONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
CrConnell-street.
Enamelled and jewelled mikroks, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for firo grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
0 Connell-street. _
tYra wing-room occasional chairs.-
I } A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Priees, from 13s od. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
CHAIR BE D STEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and W ASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dintng-room—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-strcet.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
< ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CH A Ik-
Patented.
Sfc
EE
■
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durablKund light, weighing only ten Pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thiokness
when Vided. Krio? 80s. BRADLEY. NEWTON
and LAM Jl (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
2a. ftd. extra. .
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
RAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
"nd other designs, which can be upholstered in
u ay materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
T7IRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
Jj TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
T.AMB, Spring and OTonnell-streets.
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
‘ new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
EDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb. .
B
B
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest jrates
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and :
_____ T.AMB, O’Con-
sell and Spring streets.
ASHSTANDS, with marble, from 2&s. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ARDEN SEATS, 20e: Verandah Chairs,
It INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street
W
> ENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment; best make, low est priees.
SOCIAL
Ladies hardly knew how to attire them-
selves for Saturday’s cricket match. The summer
time dictates light toilets, but the gloomy sky
threatened danger to all dainty fabrics, and no one
could guess to a moment when the rain might
come For this reason there was no uniformity in
the first summer show. Almost every variety of
dress conceivable was seen. And even then, num-
bers were never seen at all. So great was the
crowd that a seat would not be lightly given up
for the privilege of scintillating on the lawn. It is
possibly wearisome to sit for tour hours, but it is
certainly more so to stand. All round the ground
outside the pavilion there was a dense black mass
of spectators. Inside the half-crown haven, one
deep TfeA dress was remarkable. It was entirely of
the one colour, cloth bodice edged thickly with
Zl satin underskirt, and aU close-fitting. As the
very antithesis of this, was a white grass cloth
dress, which compelled notice by its enormous
distension. Yet it was symmetrical, and in quiet,
keeping its owner wore black gloves to above the
ttlhow tinv black bonnet and parasol, A third
prominent y dress was all of briaht gamboge green,
combining cashmere and satin, with large ruches
of the latter round the skirt bottom, and small
hnnnflt to corrrespood. Whether intentionally or"
not, two ladies appeared in light India muslin
drpssos of precisely the yellow hue seen in bat and
■wickets lace trimming matched: and as they
were well made, none looked much nicer A
married lady's dress was extremely pretty:
black satin polonaise artistically piped with
britrht crimson, the skirt alternate stripes of
black and crimßon satin, caught up with buckles;
a delightful little bonnet just matohed, and bore a
vleaming crimson foather. Another married lady
wore a cambric all of black and white stripes,
about an Inch wide; although plain, it was most
(tastefully so, and the only decking was a little
■bouquet of violets on the bonnet. This alternate
■stripe device seemed very popular. instance,
an excellent toilet was a dark-brown cloth
bodice, pointed and tabbed, draped with apron-
■shaDed folds in front; while the waterfall back
-was in long, very narrow pleats, which opened out
to disclose alternate streaks of vivid apricot, p as-
tron of same. It was all rather gracefully carried,
too. A young lady wore a neat costume of corn-
flower blue, ottoman cord top and veilinv below,
and anothor very commendable costume was of
brownish grey cloth —a Mother Hubbard tiny
pointed bodice, the skirt with a very broad band
of analogous coloured silk, and the small hat
covered with the cloth-neat and simple in every
wav One white lawn was ornamented with tasty
hnnnuet at the waist; another by half a dozen
very small pleats down the back of bodice, and
worn with a white lace postboy hat; a third with
rubv belt and ruby velvet bonnet; while a golden
belt and golden basket bonnet looked charmiDg
on a fourth. It seems the white Is made to endure
all kinds of treatment, according to women s
whims. A Jewish lady displayed a pretty bis-
cuit-coloured silk, hung with white lace; and a
Tudire * escorted the owner of a natty brown
dress 6 hi summer cloth, under a brown
hat and feather. There was a maroon surah
nnrt nanlors over a skirt in which
maroon and gold stripes took turn about, and the
waist sash cuff facings, collar and bonnet were all
of combination. A dress that anyone
would naturally admire was slate silk bodice and
draniosTsV over a deep red velvet skirt, and worn
with deep rod bonnet—really in faultless taste. A
vmink gentleman, who walks in the arena some-
cavalierod a maiden in countless flounces of
white Unen, and tight black silk bodice, and a very
pronounced Battenburg. A pretty Leichhardt
maiden was enticing in a cre-irn cambric, whose
three flounces were edged with brown, and_a
peaked hat made after the model of asugar-loat
A fast skater was in charge of a young lady in
dark red silk and ficelle lace, who looked neat and
attractive A papa could not find seats for two
daughters'in white, with cardinal ribbons; but as
they had to promenade, the public gained a treat.
Then two young ladies came along in artfully
ibunched percale—one pink, one blue ; they, too,
Kd not descry a vacancy in the crowded, staring
stand, but they were pretty enough to command
much sympathy. A Woolloomoolo belle exhibited
a delicious pink, made and draped with a good
Seal of grace, furnished with a pink feather, too,
*ud edged with brown scroll work. Figured silk
Sfd«ep heliotrope tint was worn by a married
?advaod looked well; and several raspberry reds
were seen. The redingote style was very little
worn; and the eccentricities of toilet now seem to
centre mostly in the hat.
a nlain and fan iy ball in aid of the Hos-
nltal washeld at Tam worth on the 13th last., in the
larae rooms known as Doyle and Gordon s. Very
nrettv decorations and fairly (food supper pro-
vide/ Nearly 200 present, a good proportion in
finW dress some very handsome, but not many
SKSfv iiris “he belle was either a dark-eyed
Sousetmaid in pink, or a Starry Night in pale blue
who was decidedly effeotive. A Bride was so
beautifully dressed that other gentlemen could
readily forgive her husband for turning benedict,
w 'tneraida was remarked for her striking costume
dauciog. Bed, white, and blue well
enhanced the charms of a petite. The wife of the
a?Jiripv M.L.A. looked charming in pale blue ana
diStriex A jjed fctidingbood, Night, and lono-
buttercu • , t g 0 g oo d was the ball
™netSoa was indulged in next night, when
t.he 6 dancing was kept up for several hours, and
the remanet of the supper was disposed of.
* * *
Tf anv man could devise a means of getting
♦A imwanv without being oovered by dust, the
to Botany clean and contented community
w3d be breathed upon that man. Probably there
W0U f„«; nmnin who have not on some occasion in
il not prevalent as it used to be, but
?h™ dust since the invasion of the.trams> seems even
ssr^Sftas L s&®.® ss “' ! »"* ! w 1 * 8,
gmlfth and when the Produce men and their ladles
«nd friends frolicked there on Thursday the place
was as bright green and lovely as the eye of man
waB i^Lri l B nestara and amber beer—ail innocent
U the a flrs“thing, bighly.-grateful
turthe parching dust, and then while some went
round on the miniature tram or danced the sports
started fcbeir work, and the athletes
awav in the Bun with herbic courage.
The gwdenl, which are particularly. Prolific in
wliite lilies just now, wore muoh patronised. Quoits
occupied a number of married-looking gentlemen.
Children were provided with toys, and Koptf and
Austin’s band played lor those who danped. At
two Mr. W P. Martin took the chair at lunch,
sunn ,rted bv the Mayor, Messrs. Merriman, Nelson,
AblgaU, Davison, See, Young, Palmer. Larkin,
As the chairman announced that several distin-
viiished visitors “ were anxious to get away,
sneaking' was brief. The toast of “ Produce
A P ff«nts and Merchants” was pro-
Doaedby Mr? Abigail, and acknowledged by Messrs.
See S Procter, and Prescott. Mr. A.. H. Prince
oro’nosed the •• silver lining to our cloud of pares,
The Ladies.” It is they who are the real secret
of England’s greatness; it is their smile that is
dear above everytaing else, and sought equally
bv painters, princes, and produoe merchants. Mr.
p-inpo then irracefuily buried bis face in a bou-
ouet and took a rest. Among the fair beings
whom Mr. P. so poetically extolled, Miss Purcell s
niana-like flaure was conspicuous and handsome
in nurule attire of peculiar shade; Miss Coulter, in
Hale* straw berry*pink percale, with canary plume
Fu her hat, alBo looking very fine. A pretty
brocade polonaise of fungus brown, with brown
silk pleated underskirt was worn by Miss Solomon;
and a matronly lady in cream brilliant ana helio-
trope ribbons looked particularly nice. Miss Bond
wore white effectively trimmed with brown lace,
and Miss Fewings a dress of cafi au lait, veiling
and hat to suit, both frequently gracing the floor.
Miss Pointer, the best dancer there, also wore a
cnarming white, the perfection of a picnic toilet;
it was of lawn, with silver belt and necklace of
silvery shells, surmounted by a huge hat turned up
with white. Miss M‘Crae, a petite) maid, who seemed
quite effervescent, with happiness, wore a maho-
gany brown cloth, and her No. 9 hat was turned
up with black. A blonde in black satin also sup-
ported one of those monster straw wheels, with
its under edge lined with sorrow. A cocoa-
coloured cashmere trimmed with a broad band of
brown velvet, and brown gloves en mite, looked
well under a hat turned up with brown. Miss
Burrows was alluring in black silk and white lace,
and a hat that shielded a lovely complexion. A
smiling little attraction was Miss Munro, in white,
and her utter hat was also turned up with—oh, but
these hats get monotonous—it was not turned up
at all, but hung sadly down, oppressed with the
weight of cherries. Mrs John Booth wore black
satin; Mrs. S. Marsden, an exceedingly fine shot
silk of that delicate purple known as “fruit
bloom;” and Mrs. C. Harrison was bright and popu-
lar in black and white. Dancing was kept up till
nearly six o’clock, and then all returned decor-
ously home, some in buggies and some in the
democratic tram.
• * *
A fairly enjoyable evening was spent by
the Petersham Owls and their friends in the local
Town Hall on the 19th instant. Miss Cooper played
tastefully one of Chopin’s pieces. Pippo sang “On
the Deck ” in good style; and the Misses Kennedy,
accompanied by Miss Ada Fairfax, sang “Queen
of the Sea” pleasingly. Woodpecker made his
first appearance in “Let me like a soldier fall,” and
suffered an encore. Mr. C.Teece recited “Wreck
of the Hesperus,” and, on returning to quieten
the noise he raised, gave “Pa’s Letter.” Miss
Sheridan-Reed sang “Ohl hear the wild winds
blow,” splendidly, and, for an encore, a new song
called “ A.E.1.,” which became popular directly.
Mr. Ward favoured the owls with “An Alpine
Storm,” and the president announced that it
would be his last appearance. He also gave
“ Lullaby,” and his splendid voice will be much
lost at the future hoots. Miss Wood played
a piano solo on the “Carnival of Venice;” and
a nice voiced youth sang “ We have been glad to-
gether.” Being encored, he changed the glad to
sad. Encores are becoming so common that it
will probably soon be a desirable distinction not to
have one. Considering the entirely reasonless
way in which audiences persist in recalling singers
to the stage, it is quite open to suspicion that the
singer is frequently called back just to see if he
can do any better. Mr, Blocombe’s recitation,
" M'Lean’s Address,” was given naturally, but was
too, too harrowing. While ladies went down for
refreshments, chairs were moved for a dance.
Two sisters, of Petersham, wore plain white lawn
dresses, tucked, with low necks and short sleeves,
and their fresh, bright faces well became such
pretty toilets. Another nicely made white dress,
trimmed with lace and pink ribbons, was worn by
a local lady. Airy and pretty was a cream dress
with red ribbons, worn by a brunette; and a
married lady of Petersham had a blaek satin de
lyon, with beautiful lace skirt. A Double Bay
lady looked neat and stylish in simple cream India
muslin, with blue sash and bow. A crushed straw-
berry silk and a cream satin dress were pretty,
also a violet velvet body and heliotrope silk skirt.
Several ladies and gentlemen obligingly presided
at the piano.
Some of the dresses at Madame Charbon-
net-Kellermann’s concert were far too nice to be
Eassed over unnoticed. Madame’s was of that
eavenly blue which becomes her so well, neither
too pale nor too deep. The material was of some-
thing soft, with striped satin draperies relieved by
white lace. Madame Merz wore blue also, almost
entirely covered with black Spanish lace, very
tasteful. Signora Fabris wore her favourite
oolour, cardinal, and looked very handsome. Mrs.
Spencer, a black dress, with extremely rich white
lace flounces, and cardinal flowers adorning the
corsage. One of the pupils, in a creamy slik
gauze, san* colour, was a delightful object for
admiring eyes. Another (one of the best pianists)
in pure white, was equally charming. Miss Gouet
wore a ruby velvet basque over a pink skirt, which
became her well. In the hall there was a white
ballet skirt, with dark green velvet short basque-
very quaint and very nice. Mrs. Wyatt’s dress was
a deep violet nun’s veiling suirt, with black velvet
bodioe, meed in front with white silk cord. Miss
Guerney wore black, cut half low, and boautiful
natural flowers fastened on one shoulder. Miss
Carey’s dress of rich blue satin had waist-
band and bows of deep cardinal satin a
charming contrast. Little Elsie Hall, in her
spotted muslin, and with two tiny kid shoes
tucked in the rung of her chair, was a wonder, and
several opera-glasses were kept intently levelled
at the wee, wee Ungers which made such pretty,
and so admirably correct, music. Everyone thought
that Miss La Fontaine (is that the name ?) was de-
licioußly pretty among the bevy of Signora Fabris’
pupils: and everyone agreed that Madame Keller-
maan thoroughly deserved the beautiful bouquets
that were showered on her, and admired the art-
less way in which—quite accidentally—the best of
all, with the long tri-colour streamers of la belle
France, was left so prominently in view on the
piano. But we wish this bouquet business could
be reformed. Of course, it is ruthless to hurl tne
beautiful flowers on the stage; and yet it looks so
formal to hand them carefully up. It looks more
like cold preparation than spontaneous admira-
tion, and as if people were determined to throw
them, irrespective of the performer's merit. But
by inviting attention to an excellent article on this
very subject by Locksley in last week’s Austral-
asian, we can save ourselves from saying any-
thing more than that if ever a predetermination
to hurl a bouquet would be justifiable, it would be
when Madame Charbonnet-Kellermann takes her
seat at the piano. A handsome amber satin dress
oovered with black Spanish lace, looked excellent
on a tall form; Mrs. 8. Burdekin wore a handsome
but quiet costume of lavender brocade; and one of
the most stylish and fashionable costumes there
was a theatre bodice of terra-cotta veiling and sash
of same; the vest front was of light pink, and so
was the sashed skirt, the whole effect being splen-
dld’
On Wednesday, 19th inst., Lady Augustus
Loftus gave a numerously attended “at home.”
About 300 guests representing the beauty and
fashion of Sydney were present. During the
evening, Mr. Norton appeared in some of
his character sketches with much success; and,
later on, the audience were thrilled by the exqui-
site playing of Herr Remenyi. Intense silence
pervaded the rooms as the pathetic strains of the
old, but ever sweet, “Last Rose of Summer”
floated through the air, and a burst of applause,
such as is seldom heard in those State apartments,
voiced the appreciation of his listeners as the last
whisper died away. After an interval for supper,
dancing commenced, and some three or four
waltzes were managed before the entertainment
concluded, shortly before one o’olock. There was
a most brilliant display of elegant toilettes on the
part of the fairer portion of the company. Lady
Augustus wore a handsome cardinal satin, with
train ; Mrs. Barry, a black costume; Mrs.
Speaker Barton was attired in a stylish cream
satin; Mrs. John Smith, white beaded satin;
Mrs. Moriarty, a long-trained cream brocho and
pale pink; the Mayoress, an elaborate flowered
silk; Mrs. C. J. Roberts, cream satin; Mrs. Bou-
verie, a white dress; and Mrs. Le Patourel, cream.
Miss Stephen was in black net, Miss Parkes in
cream satin and pink broche; Miss Robertson
wore a beautiful white satin ornamented with
pearls and lace flounces; Miss Q. Eagar, white
spotted net with bertha of scarlet flowers; Miss
Constable, a tasteful combination of London
smoke; Miss Manning, a cloudy brown net of
delicate hue harmonising with her hair. Mrs.
Palmer looked well in black. Miss Salamons
affected a peculiar pale mouse-coloured lace dress;
and Miss Halloran wore a beautiful drees of white
satin and net, tne front of the skirt of satin was
embroidere 1 with large lilies worked in graduated
pearls, and the body, which was of white satin,
perfectly plain—except a bust bouquet of
white chrysanthemums was noticeable for
being cut in a very deep narrow shield-
shaped opening; it was sleeveless, being only
held by narrow straps and pearl ornaments
over very shapely arms. Mrs. Bingham Perens
wore a dress of black lace over salmon silk, with
gold and silver birds; while her sister, Miss Leila
Halloran, wore a black costume, and wore it well.
Among the guests were Mr. H. Halloran, 0.M.G.,
Sir Alfred and Lady Stephen, officers of the
American corvette and the N.S.W. Permanent
Force, Sir James and Lady Martin, Bishop and
Mrs. Barry, &c. Miss Dibbs (daughter of the
Colonial Treasurer) wore black net and cardinal,
and Miss Forbes a lovely pale-green silk. Miss E.
B. Smith was attired in light blue, and Miss Gore
was pretty in an uncommon costume of orange
yellow, relieved with lace. Skirts were all very
much extended, and crinolines the rule —with very
few exceptions. Net dresses in all shades, with
waterfall backs, seemed popular and in good style.
They are likely to continue so during the Summer
* * *
Though it is well known by the general
public, few men care to say openly, that many
fancy fairs are conducted in a very questionable
manner. There are sundry items in the way of
expenses into which it does not do to enquire too
closely, and tradesmen who lend or supply goods
sometimes find a charity bazaar very profitable.
Even if a scheme be protected by the magic label
of “Charity," that is no reason why inquiry into
its working should be either bluffed or hushed. It
is not only that raffles, art-unions, and share-lists
are often merely synonymous with systematised
extortion; but the unpleasant suspicion so fre-
quently lingers that even when the money has
been wrung from the visitor it may not all go
where it is supposed to go, after all. There is
no satisfactory check. Raffle lists contain
quite an indefinite number of names; and as
shillings and half-orowns tumble into the pockets
of young girls, there is the vaguest uncertainty as
to whether the coins ever actually represent a
“ chance ”in anything. At not one bazaar in fifty
are the names of winners advertised, and these are
precisely what the contributors have a claim to
know. Half-grown children pertly travel round,
selling bouquets and boxes of cigarettes, and it
rests with themselves how they balance their
finances. This is putting an unwise strain on
young people’s integrity. Even were the stall-
holders confined to well-known people, it would
be different; but at nearly every bazaar there are
clouds of assistants who volunteer their aid, and
bustle round for one or two nights in the most
delightfully independent wav; and there is nothing
to give assurance of the fact that they are respon-
sible persons. Frankly, is this state of things de-
sirable ? It is a matter to whioh a newspaper has a
fair right to call attention. And if the inference
from these remarks seems to be an ungenerous
one, the onus rests on those who permitjthe fault,
not on those who merely notice it.
I An entertainment of triple attraction was
performed in the new Masonic Hall on Monday.
First was a brief ooncert—a Beethoven sonata, by
Misses Woolley and Pedley, a dainty ditty of Blu-
menthal’s by Mrs. Berrie Drinan, and Mr. W.
Street sang distinctly and carefully ‘ The Valley.
Miss Pedley finished with Pinsutrs Heaven and
Earth ” The second attraction was Schumann s
cantata “The Pilgrimage of the Rose,” a poem
full of delicate fancy, with a deal of recita-
tive in the music, but containing several beau-
tiful melodies. The third consisted of Mrs. John
Smith’s tableaux vivants, which silently illustrated
the cantata as the singers unfolded its story.
Briefly, it is this: In thejfairy regions, the Rose-
ohild longs to taste the delights of mortal love,
and the flrßt tableau shows her seated apart from
the rest of a group of fairies. The part was taken
by Miss Enid Macarthur, all in cloudy white, and
with her fair face resting pensively on the hand,
and turned towards the audience full of the
beauty of maiden wistfulneis, while the light
was thrown on her light hair rippling down
—there was a general buzz of admiration.
Her wish is granted, and the next tableau
shows Lady Innes as the Fairy Queen in
the centre of the group beading down and giving
the Rose-child a rose, as a charm to carry in
her pilgrimage on earth. Thenceforth she Is a
mortal, Rosa. Tableaux show her interview with
the cottager Martha (Miss Macarthur) and the
Grave-digger (Mr. Floyd); and in the fifth, the
Miller and his wife (Mr. G. E. Labertouobe and Mrs.
John Smith) are mourning the death of their
daughter. This was very beautifully pictured.
Then the Grave-digger enters leading Rosa, and
their grief vanishing, they adopt the lovely Rose-
child as their own. The change from grief to
happiness was cleverly shown in the radiant look
of the Miller's wife—its effect being heightened by
the lime-light thrown upon her face. The next
scenes showthe Ranger (Mr. JustinM Carthy) woo-
ing her, and the wedding festivities. Finally, a
year having flown, the Rose-maiden has a bud of
her own to kiss; and thus, having reached the
height of mortal bliss, she resigns to the babe her
rose, aud is borne back to her fairy compeers
above, in the dosing tableau. Each time the cur-
tain fell, the singing proceeded. After the two
tenor reciters (Messrs. W. B. Scott and W. G.
Walker), the burden of the soloing was sustained
by Mrs. Gerald Richardson as Rosa, the hairy
Queen being daintily taken by Miss J. Brenan.
There was a large chorus from St. Cecilias
choir. In the tableaux, tho cynosure of ad-
miration was certainly the rose-maiden, first
in her gossamer garb as a fairy, and afterwards on
earth in a flowing robe of white, edged with
classic border of blue lines. In most of them, the
curtain had to be raised two or three times, and
even the spectators were hardly satisfied, the
scenes were so attractively arranged. The audi-
ence was a very fashionable one, including a
party from Government House and Bishopscourt.
Lady Loftus wore a handsome, dark-brown satin,
trained, with beaded trimming; Miss Constable, a
simple dotted muslin, of pale straw-tint; Miss
Windeyer, cream satin and tulle ; Mrs, Bayly, a
rich black dress; Miss Woolley (who acted as
accompanist) black satin and lace set off with old
gold; Miss Pedley, a rich brocade of dawn pink,
with pink rose garland, and white satin skirt. Miss
J. Brenan, a pretty pink veiling bodice and dra-
pery, and dotted net white skirt over pink, bou-
quet, and white elbow gloves. A unique dress,
more conspicuous than anything in the ball, was of
soft material, prettily made, all of that extremely
brilliant colour, sang-de-bceuf. A pale blue india
muslin, heavily hung with ficelle lace, was grace-
fully worn by a tall, auburn-haired lady, well-
known in society; and another rich costume was
bodice of brightest crimson velvet, decked with
gold jewellery, and satin skirt to match, worn by a
lady whose gleaming light-brown hair was heaped
together in large crested curls. A cuir brown
satin stylishly made and loopod with crimson cord
was also brilliant, and the wearer had suited her-
self well.
• • •
On Thursday, the Iroquois officers enter-
tained a number of guests on board their vessel
The decks, which are very spacious, were pre-
pared for dancing, and a melodious string hand
provided. Guests began to arrive early in the
atternoon, and they included tue Mayor of Sydney
and wife, the American Consul and daughter,
Captain and Miss Dearborn, officers of the Miranda
and Wolverene, Captain and Mrs. Broomfield, Lady
Manning, Mr. Hanlan, and the well-known faces of
those pleasure-hunting members of Sydney society
who never miss such affairs. In spite or a sultry
afternoon, dancing was well kept up, and flowers
in profusion and dainty refreshments added a zest
to the scene. Captain Yates Stirling played the
host most genially, and one interesting incident
was the presentation, by Miss Kahlo s hands, on
behalf of the crew of the Iroquois, of a jewel suite
to the great oarsman, Hanlan. Most of the oom-
pany were landed again by the boats in the dusk.
• • •
A fashionable and pretty little affair came
off last week, in the way of an exhibition of danc-
ing by the pupils attending,Mrs. Johnston’s Ladies
College, West Maitland. Prizes were awarded by
Mrs, Johnston and Professor Christison to the best
(For continuation of Social, »ee next page.)


Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchas?d from Hookings and
Co., 1& Pitt-street.*
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations. Artlstio effects skil-
fully arranged ; peouliar brillianoe In display
consummated. 60S Hunter-street, Sydney.*
Think and Acr.—After many trials,
Messrs. Dalm and Oertel succeeded in preparing a
most delicious Lemonade from Australian lemons.
They discarded imported, unwholesome Oil of
Lemons. Give It a trial. A2rated-water works, 403
Pitt-street.*
There is a dearth of news at present—the
Franoo-Chlnese war has no new features, the New
Guinea question fails to thrill us to any great ex-
tent, the cricket matches alone attract attention
but, stay I we were forgetting that the new Parian
marble goods just opened at Bray's, 403 and 404
George-street, are attracting crowds.*
Rip Van Winkle was a grand old fellow,
but he slept too long. The legendary Dutchman
slumbered and slumbered, and, when he did wake,
the golden opportunities of life had gone, and
everything he laid his hands to crumbled into use-
less dust. The village maidens jeered at him, and
his ancient cronies laughed him to scorn. It is
just as well that people should know how unneces-
sary it is to close the eyes to be perfectly somno-
lescent, for, as a matter of fact, there are many
walking about in this 19th century practically as
sound asleep as if they were packed “this side up”
ready for the old-fashioned family vault or the
new-fangled cemetery. There is one thing—we
are not a very sleepy lot in this oolony; there is a
good deal of “tall talk,” Yankee fashion, but
there are a good many “ tall ” things done also.
There is the city railway, also the great water
scheme, which for years past have bem the sub-
ject of “ tell ” talk, and, so far, they are nothing
but talk; but, for big, useful deeds, there is
Anthony Hordern and Sons Palace Emporium,
Haymarket, which, but a short four years ago,
had no existence save in the active brains of its
enterprising proprietors. ♦
161 King-street (near Tramway), Sydney.
Madame Weigel’s Paper Patterns of Dresses, Mantles, &c.,
And 'Weigel’s Journal of Fashions,
Containing the latest styles, are sold at the above address, and by the following
agents e
defies, Fancy Repository, 131 Regent-street.
Newtown—Mrs. Griffiths, Milliner, &c., 335 King-street.
Parramatta-Mrs. Chapman, Fancy Repository, Church-street South.
&r M M E a aa( J-,^ epo ' ltorv - 107 (| xfrrd-street.
Waterloo- Mrs. S. Waller. Milliner, 34 Elizabeth-street.
Principal Retail and Wholesale Business-161 King-st., Sydney (near Tramway)
WILL MAKE YOUR HENS LAY.
WILL MAKE YOUE HENS LAY.
J
CoSJS *w? 3 Faath
mu wutrt IW2SL&
COSTS But s?
T«\ •» tcij ,m lb.
Packages fo* a V
Ftotrj or i 2 Fowl£
SH
ECCS
■
W/Ll
S Hi Vi lay
rot*
Mncvtmra j Cu/us\
'SIAXtr *ll 0/3TA3I
CCA9/*oat ro Aotsir/]
fonts uf V£*LTnr X;
COno/r/oM /‘oviTX
mt /MOST f/>Ofir/\BL£.
srocq atf mm. />/£/*».
srcu*£o by nrrr/js pawvt
WILL MAKE YOKE HENS LAY.
r URT EVA NT, Sole Proprietor (
3 UCCCSSO/t ro CMA* H Au£r» *er j
218 State Street
HARTFORD.
Price-2oz. packets, 4s. Od. per dnz.; single pounds, *s ; 4s,; Olb, boxeu *fa ».
lOlb. boxes, 125.; 2Slb. ltegs, 21s. Od. *
Liberal discount allowed to the trade. To be had from all Grocers, Chemists, Seed and Agricultural
Stores, and
EUGENE KLOTZ & CO., 32 Bridge-st., Sydney, [
HOBDERBTS
ON THE
Brlclrtield. Hill.
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LAGE CURTAINS.
EiT* These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
LiACE CURTAINS, 1«« PRICES.
Curtai^ dlI Tf in *£? country can have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
wtms. n you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, out it okt, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
K 5
%
(
s&£* 9£ S£B£
TONE ONLY ADDRESS
LACE CURTAINS, 200 »IFV ERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napa^S 8- Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers.
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union t&r" fc. * a mine carefully the engraving of our
‘ LACE CURTAINS.’*
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS.
Tlace curtains] 868 BRICKFIELD HILL, [lace curtains]
OF* Patterns and Price Lilts of Goods forwarded on application*
dancers. The Masonic Hall was decorated, and at
4 o’clock things presented a very lively appear-
ance, all the young adies being brettily dressed,
gome In fancy attire. Master G. Pender wore
Scotch kilts. Masters Morson were In sailor suits,
and their costume set off their dancing. Mesdames
Gillies, Adams, and Rourke were judges. The
contest was close, and ultimately resulted as fol-
lows:— Waltzing, Miss Fitzpatrick 1, Miss Alicia
Sparke 2; step-dancing, Walter Morson, silver
medal; ballroom dancing, Master Pender; thus
showing that eaoh style received attention, each
being useful in its way. The Mayor, Mr. Robert
Hyndes. presented the prizes. Prof. Cbristlson
danced the Marquis of Huntly fling in great style
during the afternoon. A special prize was given
to Miss Lucy Lee, at the request or the Judees, for
correctness of time and waltzing. Altogether, the
affair was pleasant, interesting, and likely to prove
very instructive.
## # #
Mrs. Sands, of “Marmion,” Waverley,
gave a nice party on Friday night. To excellent
music, some thirty couples danced spiritedly till
the early hours, and Baumann catered one of his
very best suppers At the Produce Picnic, the
veteran Prescott said most of the produce jmer-
chants he had known in years past had “gone
down below.” But you oan’t expect produce mer-
chants to go up into the blue ether. The line
must be drawn somewhere A Normandy Fair,
for St. John’s church, was opened at Wagga last
week; stalls presided over by Mesdames Fitz-
bardinge, Commins, Gardiner, Croaker, Wren,
Hillas, Mitchell, B. Rand, Dalgarno, Korff, and
Williamson .. The national anthem of the Anti-
podes, “ God defend New Zealand,” written by
Thomas Bracken, has been published to music
written for it by J. J. Woods, Otago. A Maori
version is interlined with the English Mrs.
Bolger, of Warreston, Redfern, gives a fancy
dress ball on the 22nd December A grand
ball at Portland, Viotoria, on the 20th in-
stant, celebrated the 60th anniversary of that
colony. The Governor and Lady Loch were pre-
sent ....Dr. Beaney, M.L.C., of Victoria, lately
gave a ball to over 700 guests in the Melbourne
Town Hall. At supper, 11 o’clock, Alderman Mou-
bray proposed the Doctor’s health. Dancing till
3 am. Costumes exceedingly fine... A very gay
ball was held in Lithgow School of Arts a few
nights ago, and the local paper gives a most ex-
haustive description thereof, and of the feminine
loveliness for which (we now hear for the first
time) Lithgow is famous. There was a special
bower, thought to be a boudoir, but afterwards
found to be dedicated to Bacchus, which, says the
reporter, with naive innooenoe, “was a very happy
arrangement.” Only few fancy dresses appeared,
Mr. Tougher’s band played music, and the dances
lasted till daylight Mr. W. C. Stafford, of Double
Bay, took the English cricketers for a pleasant
trip round the harbour in his yacht on Sunday,
and treated them to lunch on the picturesque
shores of our lovely, etc .. Annual ball connected
with the New England Athletio Club was held in
Armidale Town Hall on Tuesday week. A brilliant
gathering showed that athletics are approved. ..
n 19th inst., the raoe ball was held in the Gunne-
dah School of Arts; Singleton band, good refresh-
ments, and gyrating till dawn—Next month,
Madame Charbonnet-Kellermann’s pupils’ concert
will be given All about the ball to the Mayor
next week.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“E.H.G.”: You will see we have merged. You
have our thanks “Marjorie"; Rather late;
but inserted....“ Three Stars”: Yes; thank
you for sending "Maude”: We have added
a little from another source. Your contribu-
tions are always welcome.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Metropolitan Liedertafel December 4.
Sydney Liedertafel. Ladies Night (Ex-
hibition) December 9.
Messrs. Needs’Annual Juvenile Ball. December 9.
Industrial Exhibition opens December 16.
[?]
Sydney, Wednesday.
My Deab Belle,— One of the most brilliant
oonoerts of the season was (riven by Madame Cbar-
bonnet-Kellermann last Wednesday night in the
Protestant Hall. I expect when Madame’s banker
entered the three figures to her credit the day
after the concert, he thought to himself “who
wouldn’t be a charming pianist?’’ And, indeed,
who wouldn’t, if they could; but that’s just it-rif
they could ? Without a Charbonnet’s musical talent
and aptitude, a lifetime of hard practice couldn’t
accomplish it; on the other hand, talert without
work is just as useless. By combining the two,
Madame is what she is, and that is something so
good that when she gives her annual concert she
is always honoured by ns brilliant an audience as
greeted her the other night. Heller’s transcription
of the “ Desert ” was her first solo, and it was a
happy choice, bringing back to our minds as it did
reminiscences of one of the most successful of our
Liedertafel oonoerts, when they delighted us by
their rendition of this beautiful work. All that
can be said of Madame’s playing of this solo is that
she fairly exoelled herself, and was rapturously
encored, and bouquets aotually rained upon her—
that is, if bouquets can rain; but, at all events,
they were showered upon her, and her trouble
was how she should carry such a load of beau-
tiful tokens of admiration. But she managed
it, as she does everything else, with a delight-
ful and piquant grace quite peculiar to her-
self. For an enoore she played Chopin's beautiful
plaintive waltz (I am sure Chopin must have been
sobbing all the time he was writing that waltz) in
A minor. Her own brilliant “ Myosoli ” waltz
was her next solo, and I think I told you before
that it is a composition to be proud of. It is to be
published shortly, but, as it abounds in difficulties
which cannot be overcome by an ordinary per-
former, it will be considerably simplified in the
published form. And, now, it is no ridioulous
’gush” when I tell you that I never in all my
life heard suoh a wonderful performer for her age
as little Elsie Btanley Hall. Ernest Hutchinson,
the Australian Mozart, is clever—very clever-but
little Elsie is some years younger than he was
when he performed in Sydney, and yet her solo
the other night (Mozart’s “Sonaia in A”) was
more difficult than any he attempted at that time.
Her accompaniment to young Tom Traill’s oboe
solo was equally astonishing. I heard some one
say, “ How Madame must have drilled her in that
accompaniment!’’ but I had it from Madame her-
self, dear, that the child read it at sight perfectly
and required no drilling whatever. Indeed, her
•reading at sight is marvellous for such a baby.
The youthful oboist and infant pianist well de-
served all the praise that was bestowed upon them :
for just think, dear, how the little mites must
nave worked to attain in so few years the
•skill they possess for, even talented as
they are, they must have spent many a weary
hour, and perhaps shed many bitter tears,
■over triplets, syncopated time, &o. I remember
'Once reading an anecdote of Mozart's child life,
which was as follows:—One day he had been play-
“Qg to a party of children, when a little girl went
hp to him, and, with a big sigh of admiration,
Jlsped, “Tell me, pretty boy, how Is it you oan
■“take suoh beautiful musio? Is It born In your
eager a “pretty boy ” shook his head, and
replied, “Oh, no I I have great trouble to make
my fingers do as I want them; I try until I get
tired, then rest, and then again I practice them,
till I grow very weary; and again, and again, until
at last I am able to make the music which pleases
you so.” And yet I have known more than one
fairly talented musician in Sydney make it their
boastitbat they never found it necessary to prac-
tice more than an hour a day; but I think you will
nearly always find that these talented ones are but
skin de«p, and it is only a genius who finds it
necessary to labour in striving for the perfection
which alone can satisfy the superior mind. But
here I am forgetting all about the concert. Where
was I ? Oh, I remember—with the children, and I
think I have staved with them quite long enough
now; so, good-bye, little ones. It doesn’t
seem possible to give a concert without Mons.
de Willimoff, ana, if it wasn’t that he was
such a delicious performer, I should be quite tired
of writing his name. I am glad others agree with
me about nis playing; but, at the same time, there
isn't half tne satisfaction in saying a good word
for him when ho is suoh an universal favourite.
Still, I must be honest, and tell you that he received
suoh a decided enoore for his solo that he was com-
pelled to give another; and his obligato to Mrs.
Spencer’s “Alla Btella’’ (which she sang very
sweetly) was just what it should be. But Mr.
Cooper 1 Oh, Mr. Cooper 1 It wasn’t his fault, I
know, for the piano was not tuned to his proper
pitch; and then, again, he was bothered for want
of a stand, which altogether put him out—and no
wonder. Now, if I told you that he played his
clarionet solo as well as he can play it under more
favourable conditions, I should not be truthful,
and should deserve your utmoßt contempt; there-
fore, although it breaks my heart to write it, I am
compelled to own that it was decidedly below his
usual performances. He knew it himself, too, so
I expeot he would be rather surprised when he saw
in the papers that he had played splendidly, or
something to that effect. I know if I were
he I shouldn't beihalf pleased to have the hundreds
of people who were present led to believe that
that was the best I could do. It’s well meaning of
the papers, no doubt, but very stupid and unjust.
The ever welcome Fabris came in for her share of
flowors and recalls, and after singing “ Rataplan ”
with a chorus of her own pupils, chose “The Last
Watch ” for an encore. And Madame Merz, too, I
was nearly forgetting her, which wouid have been
quite too bad, for she sang very nicely indeed.
The “ Hallelujah Chorus,” played on seven pianos,
by forty-two hands (how many fingers would there
be, dear ? there's a little sum for you to work out
in any idle moment), was so well received that the
whole twenty-one girls had to troop on to the plat-
form and go through it again. Miss Browne in a
piano and violin duet with Mons. de Will, (that's
for short, dear), astonished us by her brilliant and
finished style of playing, and had not the concert
been considerably lengthened by reason of all the
encores demanded, we should have much liked to
have had her play again. The same may be said of
Mr. Harding's “My Queen,” which he sang with
passion, tenderness, sweetness, and all the rest.
And here endeth the Charbonnet-Kellermann
concert.
The fourth Vogrich mustcale was better
attended than usual; in fact, nearly all the front
Beats were reserved, which was as it should be.
The opening quintette for two violins, viola, ’cello,
and clarionet was very enjoyable, the clarionet
(Mr. Cooper) being particularly prominent in doing
some good work. Madame vogrioh, who looked
extremely well in a biscuit-coloured silk dress,
with rioh white lace trimmings, amber-beaded
necklet and bracelet, was hardly in her best voice,
but her second-best can scarcely be found fault
with, being, as it is, so far above an average
singer’s best efforts. Herr Vogrich’s “ Rhapsodie ”
(Liszt) was a fine performance, and there were
other good things which I haven’t time to talk
about just now, so they must wait till next week;
but, you know, good things will always keep.
I do believe the Rita-Radcliffs are having such
good times in Brisbane, they can’t tear themselves
away. Of course all the papers speak of them in
very eulogistic terms, and, indeed, how could they
do else? I suppose they will be picnicked and
champagne-suppered to their hearts’ content, if
not more. Oh I what merry lives these first-class
artists lead, to be sure! And there is Grattan
Riggs going to leave us now (excuse the blot, dear,
’ttoas only a tear). He is to have a benefit on Fri-
day night, and, of course, we are all going, for
Goodness knows when we shall see his like again.
Fou remember, dear, when the two Thornton
girls left school to go to the Continent to finish,
how timid they were at the idea of a Continental
school, whore, as you know, we were always led to
believe the girls were so ladylike, graceful, and
clever ? Well, I heard from one of them the other
day, and she tells me that far from being behind
the Continental misses in general information,
music, and dancing, they find they have not half
the difficulty in holding their own as they had
here; and as for graceful girls, they are not to be
compared to the Australians. Fancy that I They
are, os a rule, better read, and in painting they
beat us, but that’s all. How vexing to think that
all the time when wo were being worried into the
belief that we were intolerable dunces, that we
weren’t so bad after all ! And our calisthenic
master, toot how he bothered us about our limp
attitudes, and our standing at ease with a crease in
our sides, as he expressed it, and which, just to
frighten us, he used to declare would make us
grow as crooked as a mark of interrogation ?
Heighol though those were happy days, with no
dressmakers’ bills (at least, we weren’t troubled
with them) and no lectures for flirting at the last
ball, we didn’t half know what good times we were
having, did we, dear ?
It strikes me, if I do not bring this letter to a
close, I shall have double postage to pay; and as I
am in an eponomlcal frame of mind (which I feel
bound to own is pompulsory, being tfle end of the
month, you know, dear), it would be inconvenient.
So, audio.
Your loving
MAB.


A POPULAR MINSTREL MADE HAPPY;
OK, FROM JEST TO EARNEST.
“ For seven years,” writes Mr. Horace Bent, of
the Federal Minstrels, “ I have suffered from an
acute neuralgic affection of the right knee and
rheumatic gout, which became so severe during
our season at the 4 Gaiety ’ in September, ’83, that I
was obliged to relinguish the active duties of my
profession and keep my room for a couple of days.
I had tried several strong liniments at various
times, some of which gave me partial relief. In
the course of my lecture and sketches I had fre-
quently mentioned, jocularly, St. Jacobs Oil; but
it never occurred to me to apply it to my own ail-
ments until a friend who happened to be in my
room whilst I was complaining of intense pain re-
minded me of its claims, and sent out for a bottle
right away. I used a little of it immediately, and
found instant re ief, repeating the application
again later on in the evening. From that night I
have never felt either the neuralgic affection of
the knee or the rheumatic gout return, and I
would have sent you this acknowledgment earlier
but I thought it best to thoroughly establish the
permanence of the effect; and have to subscribe
myself a firm believer in the virtues of St. Jacobs
Oil.”
Sold by all chemists and druggists in N.S.W.’
price 2s. 6d. per bottle.
Political
Points
itself to treat the Radical party with anything but
contempt, or in any way to recognise the Berry
regime as an enduring actuality. Patterson scorns
the pretence made by many weak-kneed persons
that the Black Wednesday dismissals were justified
by moral grounds. The Ministry’s action, he says,
was only right as a bold political expedient—as a
grand coup d’etat, Napoleonic in its terror and
suddenness. In other words, its sole justification
was its success. The secret history of the Vic-
torian Revolution, from the pen of J.R.P. or ef
Lalor (whose name, says Patterson, will be written
in letters of gold in the annals of the colony) would
be truly interesting. The diary of a man like
Peter Lalof, the present Victorian Speaker, extend-
ing from the troublous times of the Eureka Stock-
ade, where he stood in the .ran of the digger-rebels
and had his arm shot off, and had a price put on
his head, down to the fight with the land-mono-
polists, would be of unspeakable Interest to every
native of the colonies.
“ Discussion,” says Macaulay in his toma-
hawking article on Barere, 44 may safely be left
free by rulers who act on popular principles.
Tyranny may last through ages where discussion
is suppressed. But combine a press like that of
London with a Government like that of St. Peters-
burg, and the evitable effect will be an explosion
that will shake the world.” Liberty is dead in
Russia. It has been strangled by that race of
murderers, the Romanoffs. The Emperor aud his
creatures have killed all the journals which they
could not debauch and prostitute. Bince the pre-
sent Alexander's accession, eight newspapers have
been prohibited, including the Golos: only two
Liberal journals now exist, and they are in hourly
anticipation of their fate. Political discussion in
newspapers is altogether forbidden, and a grand
crusade has been directed against the mavazlues.
The Slovo, the Messenger oe Europe, and the
Annaes oe the Country have all been sup-
pressed the latter was the greatest magazine
in Russia, with a circulation of 10,000 copies and
worth £120,000! The charge was 44 entertaining
subversive opinions;” the real offence was that of
discussing too closely the condition of the couutry.
An index of 44 Books which may not be sold ” has
been issued. It composes 125 works, in 800 volumes,
and includes such books as Lyell’s 44 Antiquity of
Man,” Smith’s 44 Wealth of Nations,” and Lub-
bock’s 44 Primitive Civilisation.” All the works of
Stuart Mill, Bagehot and Herbert Spencer are
defendu, the Index having apparently been drawn
up by some priest who is au absolutist. As we
have already said, Piddingtonsky, the bookseller,
who impotently denounced The Bulletin in that
Hsylum of senile debility, our Legislative Council,
when we wrote concerning the fate of that blood-
thirsty bombed-up adulterer, the late Czar, should
Stage direction by the Speaker: “ Exit
Parkes; enter Baker.”
Granville is to have a pape r all to itself.
It is to be a nioa, lively paper, and its proprietors
advertise that a resident reporter will be stationed
at Rookwood. At last there will be opposition to
the Shroud on its own ground.
The Land and Industrial Reform League
have returned Mr. Baker for Carcoar. Like.Gam-
betta they recognise the value of opportunism in
politics. And opportunism has just been defined
as “doing ill yourself lest others should do it.”
The South Australian Legislative Council
“ kicked out ” tbe Payment of Members Bill. The
Bill provided for paying members of both Housr s,
so that the Council cut off their own supplies. Dr.
Campbell was In favour of paying members of the
Lower House only.
A Doomsday Book has been for some years
in preparation by tbe Lands Department of New
Zealand. The Premier. Mr. Stout, has stated offi-
cially that the first volume of the book is now
ready, price 30s. As the book does not give the
names fof mortgagees of real property, and as
these are quite as plentiful in New Zealand as in
New South Wales, it is scarcely a reliable guide to
the practical owners of real estate.
In a speech of remarkable straightness
(toned down in the daily papers). Sir John Robert-
son has fixed his position as regards the new Land
Act. Replying to Mr. Dibbs, he said, generally,
“Itis a damnable falsehood. It is true I did my
damnedest (only he said damdlst) to prevent the
Bill passing, but now it has passed, I’ll be damned
if I prevent the Government getting money
enough to carry out their measures.”
If we only wrote as rudely about politi-
cians here as they do in New York. Harper's
Weekly said of Mr. Blaine that certain letters
him of deliberately telling; a series of
flalsehoods.” Well, now, there are a few gentle-
(tten in public life here of whom it would be quite
truthful now and again to say tnat something con-
victed them of deliberate falsehood. But as the
Marchioness said to Mr. Swiveller, “ we dursn’t do
it.”
It was Captain Barry who in New Zealand
related the disooveryof a vein of “lumbago” at
the Dunstan, and another time complained of
“plumbago” in the back. In South Australia, Mr.
John Bray, M.P., is also a little astray in medical
terms. He lately hoped that the back-bone of the
Ministry was not “ infectious.” In New South
Wak s, it is possible thafc|Dr. Ross will hope that
the Ministry’s want of Dack-bone is not “in-
fectious.”
Lord Henley, who poses as a Liberal, pro-
mised to attend a Franchise meeting at Northamp-
ton. But he thon didn’t know what was in store
for him. The resolution he was announced to
support declared, among other things, that the
hereditary system in legislation is bad in principle,
wholly mischievous in oractice, and ought at once
to be abolished. This was too much for his lord-
ship, who did not attend the meeting, and wrote
to say he could not conscientiously do so.
The Government are supposed to have
under consideration the representation of New
South Waies at the approaching International
Inventions Kxhibition. There are soveral national
inventions of New South Wales, so rare, in general,
that they would have to be exhibited in a glass by
themselves. Take M’Elhone and A. G. Taylor, for
Instance, as political inventions Nothing in the
world can touch them. David Buchanan would
like to be sent to England as an exhibit of “colo-
nial oratory,” but his style is too common. *
Memo, for politicians : When asked why
he did not take a prominent part in public life, the
late Duke of Wellington used to answer, “ My
father’s thoughts were given up entirely to the
country, and the consequence was that he, whom
all the world may be said to have envied, was
often heard to say that there is nothing in life
worth living for. I very early made up my mind
not to follow his example in that direction.” In
Australia, the politician doesn’t give himself up to
the country. The country gives itself up to the
politician.
The Cumberland Independent is a pretty
little paper for holding half pints of shrimps. As
a political organ, too, it has lofty views, that soar
beyond representative G ivernraent. Thus it tells
us that Mr. Hugh Taylor placed £5OOO on the esti-
mates of this session for improving Parramatta.
Mr. Dibbs may be Colonial Treasurer and a man oi
some account in New South Wales (outside Parra-
matta), but in Parramatta they do not know him,
and Hughey Taylor they do. No doubt the Inde-
pendent does It is a fine thing to be on tho free
list at—oh, at anything.
Mr. Farnell has got all he can ask to enable
him to give the new Land Act a fair trial. De-
partmental estimates passed in a lump. Now the
only question is, “Can he (for it would be unfair
to doubt his will) prevent practical evasion of the
law in regard to improvement purchases and
dummy selections taken up before January Ist,
1885? That these things will be tried on, there is no
doubt. Many country land offices have had ap-
plications to purchase land conditionally put in in
swarms during the last four months. And this in
the Western district, where conditional purchase
is to cease after the end of 1884.
Here’s a splendid way of putting down a
parliamentary bore, suggested in a bill introduced
by Mr. Fitzherbert in the New Zealand Parliament,
but not passed. However, next session, in New
South Wales, some one may be humai e enough to
get it adopted. The plan is this. Whenever a
member is speaking and attention to the want of
a quorum has had to be twice called, the member
is not to be let continue his speech, and some one
else gets an innings. For ourselves, we should
like to see this thing tried here. It is a gentler
way than having a messenger go round with a
meat-axe and chop members who will talk when
they should not. And if it answers, we would
give up advocating the meat-axe.
Now that the financial session of the New
South Wales Parliament has commenced, members
will be glad to learn what bright and shining ex-
amples they are, compared to those in New Zea-
land. II seems that last session, in Maoriland,
there was “ open, scandalous drunkenness ” with-
in the walls of the Parliamentary buildings. At
least, that is what the New Zealand Times says,
and it ought to be a fair judge in the matter. And
the drunkenness was not that of “clerks, police-
men, and messengers.” That could have been
soon remedied. But it was the legislators them-
selves who got drunk. How pleasant it is to know
that there is nothing of this kind in Macquarie-
street! No member of Parliament ever gets
drunk here, and Mr. Chief Messenger May h»snow
included in his duties the periodical smelling of
the breaths of members of the Press, to see that
they do not go too far.
J. B. Patterson still glories in “ Black
Wednesday.” He claims for himself a not incon-
siderable share of the credit of crumbling to dust
tho arrogant Civil Service of Victoria, which, long
pampered by the Conservatives, could never bring
now go to Russia and make his fortune. The
Hansard which contains his speech, would,
doubtless, serve as a sufficient introduction to the
tyrant he professes to admire. The day has al-
ready come when Sophie Perovslsaya, the hang-
man’s victim, is placed by the civilised world on
the same pedestal with Charlotte Corday, the
heroine whose dagger, thrust into the heart of
Marat, avenged France and mankind.
• • •
The last new phrase for Mr. Gladstone’s
possible mode of putting the screw on is “ Water-
ing the Peerage.”. ..At an Atblone meeting, our
old friend, the sweet-tempered Mr. W. Redmond,
said that his presence in Atblone was due to the
act of a Dublin itoglishman, “Jack, the Red Earl
Spencer.” ...The Pope, who, at the instigation of
Mr Errington, not long ago denounced Parnell,
has now turned right about-face The democratic
party in tne R C. Church in Ireland have, there-
fore, carried the day. Since the Irish will not now
elect the Pope's M.P.’s, the Pope is compelled to
solicit the services of the M.P.’s whom the Irish
will eleot... The Skye crofters’ agitation has as-
sumed what the Jewish organ, the London D.T.,
describes as “alarming dimensions.” At a recent
meeting, 60U of them pledged themselves to pay no
rent until their present rents have been reduced.
Each crofter agreed to contribute 10s. towards a
defence fund, should legal proceedings be taken.
It is stated that everyone present was compelled
by the leaders of the movement to agree to this,
under threat of having their property destroyed.
. .. The Skye Crofters daolared they would pay no
more rent unless their grievances were attended
to. The Government told this to the Marines—6oo
of them.
“German Syrup.”—-No other medicine in
the world has ever given such a test of its cura-
tive qualities as Boschee’s German Syrup. In
three years two million four hundred thousand
small bottles of this medicine were distributed
free of charge by Druggists in the United States of
America to those afflicted with Consumption,
Asthma, Croup, severe Coughs, Pneumonia, and
other diseases of the throat and lungs, giving the
afflicted undeniable proof that German Syrup will
cure them. The result has been that Druggists in
every town and village in civilized countries are
recommending it to their customers. Go to your
Druggist and ask what they know about it. Sample
Bottles lid. Regular size, 3s, ad. Throe doses will
relieve any case.
TALE OF A TRAMP.
People who like to live for nothing should
be allowed to live on nothing. This is an aphorism.
Tt is a sample one. We can sell similar ones by the
gross or the bale to country editors and others. It
was suggested to us by the little plot of the two
tramps who presented themselves before the
Health Department, the other day. with the story
that they had been drinking in Baird’s quaran-
tined public-house. They were vaccinated and
fired forth upon the street once more. What they
wanted, of course, was to be sent to the Quaran-
tine Station. The competition for existence must
be pretty sharp when men can be found who want
to make a living on pretence of having the small-
pox. But, after all, this is not so bad as a case
that came under our personal notice. You can,
therefore, rely upon reading the truth severe and
simple in what follows. One early morning we
were going through the Domain on our way to the
Fish Market to purchase fish. We did this fre-
quently at one time, when we were under the
hallucination that fish was good for the brain;
but, as we were also in the habit of exchanging
the fish on the way home for liquor of a quality
calculated to promote idiocy of a peculiarly debas-
ing character, we were finally led to the conclu-
sion that we were not making sufficient mental
progress to justify a continuation of the practice.
Let us linger over this old memory for a moment.
There is no harm in recalling it now. We have
given up fish-eating, and renounced rum. All we
take in these times in the way of a stimulant is
our little pint of liquefied brimstone in the morn-
ing, a trilling dozen glasses or so of naptha and
nicotine through the day, and a few petits verves
of vitriol and verdigris before going to bed. So
you see, we cannot be accused of encouraging in-
temperance, however we write. Well, as we said
before, we used to barter our fish to the barman.
Frequently one of the fish would be alive. This
one we would keep, and-it being our ecoentricity
n it to drink alone—“shout” for in the most im-
partial fashion. The consequence was that, when
received on our return with a freezing glare, we
would basely endeavour to cast the blame on the
fish, and, with feeble meanness, insinuate that it
led us astray. And, as it would certainly by that
time present too degraded an appearance to be fit
to come to table, it would be promptly thrown out;
and the house cat would shortly after go away, and
come back several days subsequently in a dejected
state of mind with half her fur gone, one eye out,
and only a stump of her tail remaining. We must
have used up about two cats a week in those
times. But those times are gone, and we are re-
formed. There is no reason, reader, why we
should not admit to you that we have often been
the prey of remorse for having sent so many mem-
bers of the dumb creation into inebriates graves.
Now we can return to our tramp. It was, as we
have previously intimated, early morning in the
Domain, and we were brushing the pearly dew off
the grass as we tripped lightly along, when we
came across him, stretched out at full length under
a tree. The sun was just rising in rosy splendour
from the sea, and weaving slender golden gossa-
mers of light in the soft green foliage over his
head. He was blinking at it lazily, and probably
wondering in a drowsy way why it should be so
everlastingly foolish as to take the trouble to rise
when there was no policeman to rouse it. He was
certainly a picture of repose, and we paused to
look at him. The only signs he gave of being
aware of our scrutiny were a droop of the left eye-
lid and a slow elliptic movement of his tongue
around his lips. Finally we held up a shilling, and
softly whispering 44 rum,” watched for the effect.
A slow shudder shook his frame, he closed both
eyes, traced another ellipse with his tongue, and
then with one whirl was beside us. On the way to
the hotel he told us his story. We forget most of
it now, but we think he said that he was a Univer-
sity man—Cambridge, we believe. The statement
was possibly true; his English was bad enough.
Also that he was sent out to Australia to dazzle
the natives and marry wealth and beauty, lhen
the usual sliding-scale. Chief hotels, champagne,
carriage parties, bouquets, box at the Royal.
Second-class hotels, brandy, cabs, no bouquets,
pit stalls. Small restaurants, rum, tram, no
bouquets, occasional free pass. Boiler, rain-water,
rum at rare intervals, no tram, no bouquets, do
free passes, no anything but requests to move
on.” Could not work. Was too delicate to work.
Did not like work, anyhow. Had even been shifted
from his boiler by a later descendant of the ladder
of luck. Son of a baronet this one, but a boor.
Did not know ten lines of Terence, and could not
repeat a verse of Horace to sa v e his life. And so
forth. He was an amusing tramp, and we will-
ingly spent an hour —and also half-a-crown in
his company. When we left him, ho was chanting
choruses from Sophocles to himself, superior to
fortune and to fate. This was the last we saw ot
him, till about a year after. We had been walking
wearily down the block in George-street, towards
the Post Office, in the desperate nope of getting a
letter informing us that one of our relatives was
dead, and had left us something. We got the
letter. It was an uncle who was dead. He left us a
mourning ring made of his hair, and his portrait
upon which we had to pay sevenpence postage.
It was just after we had got these gifts, and were
standing under the Post Office portico gloomily
speculating on the probable future of a man who
could calmly face eternity after leaving an affec-
tionate ana indigent nephew a hair-ring and a
portrait with sevenpence to pay on it. when we
caught sight of our friend the tramp. But he was
a tramp no longer, or, if a tramp, a beautified one.
He was dressed in elegant apparal, wore patent-
leather boots, and smoked a Henry Clay. We
knew it by the smell. He recognised us almost as
soon as we did him, and came up with the old in-
dolent grace, and shook hands with us. 44 Wealth
and beauty at last?” we said smilingly, while the
bitter thought of our own blighted hopes was
burning at our heart. 44 No,” he replied, in that
style of inimitable languor peculiar to lazy men
who smoke Henry Clays, and regard the workaday
world as rather a pantomime than otherwise. Then
he also smiled, but mysteriously. “ Let us take a
glass of wine together,” he said, in a still serener
tone. We replied that we had no objection. We
would have made the same reply to a suggestion
of taking tar-water, for that matter. Over the
wine he enlightened us as to how he did it, and it
but faintly expresses our feeling to say that it
pretty nearly catalepsed us. “You see,” he
began, poising his glass with a finger and
thumb so that the wine would catch colour
from the in-streaming sunshine, 44 you see
some time after I met you, I happened to catch
the eye of an undertaker. He was beginning in
business, this undertaker. He had been some time
beginning, but he had not come to the business,
rival undertaker had a shop close by, and funerals
were always dashing out of the gateway. Used to
stand at his door, too, and make sarcastic remarks
about my undertaker, who never had a funeral.
My undertaker was very much cut up about this,
and began to brood over a plan of revenge. So,
seeing me pass his shop one day (I was on my way
to the Library to make an intellectual breakfast
on 4 Bacon ’—a rather weak joke, but as strong as
I could venture upon in my delicate state of health
at that time), he called me in, and after—very
politely, I must say—asking me to join him in a
glass of whisky, wished to know if I would like to
make money without having to work for it. Of
course, I replied that I would. It was always my
idea of how money should be made —by me.
‘Then,’ said he, 4 1 have a nice, quiet occupation to
offer you. You will be driven about most of the
time; and when you are not driven about, you
will be carried. All you will have to do will bo to
lie still and take your ease. And you will be well
paid for it. Do you agree ?’ I, of course, answered
that I would agree, and then enquired what the
occupation was. 4 Well,’ he said, 4 you see, t have
to make a show of business to get business. It is
the same in every trade. Besides, I want to make
the other man think I am doing better than he. It
will hurt his feelings; and I want to hurt his feel-
ings. He has too m«ny funerals for me.’ 4 What
you want me to do, then, is ?’ I suggested. “To
play the part of a corpse,’ he replied, briskly. ‘You
will only have to go out three or four
times a day, and have all your evenings to
yourself. And when trade begins to get
brisk, you will only have to go out two
or three days a week. 4 ltis a light, pleasant job,’
he added, seeing I seemed to hesitate at the idea of
acting the part of a dead man, 4 and you will get
so fond of it after a while that you will sleep in a
coffin by choice. I know,’ he continued in a
whisper, ‘because I have done it myself, but I
have to stay in the shop now or the other party
would get suspicious. Can’t be in the shop and the
hearse too at the same time, you know.’ He made
this last remark in a jocular tone, and asked me to
take another glass of whisky. I did. 4 lsit a bar-
gain, then?’ he enquired. I replied that it was.
He immediately took me out into his workshop
and showed me a superb coffin yined with blue
satin. 4 That’s your cherry-case,’ he r remarked,
‘only it’s rose-wood. You being a gentleman I
wouldn’t offer you a piner.’ Then he showed me a
suit of grave-clothes, which I must say were as
neat and airy-looking as any corpse could desire.
‘And now if it’s all the same to you, 4 be said,
‘we’ll begin business to-day. Funeral starts at
half-past two—so be ready.’ Well, there’s no need
to tell you much more. I have been playing a
deader ever since. Business came in rapidly to
him after that, and his rival grew green with envy.
Of course my engagements became intermit-
tent, but, nevertheless, I was always retained
to be dead when necessary. Besides,
the population increased, so did undertaL. <■
There are several others in the corpse line beig
myself, but I get most of the engagements, be.fig
more accustomed to the business. It is a nice,
cheerful, gentlemanly occupation. You mighttry
it. I can get you a billet at once, if you like. No
other references required, and you are not asked
to keep sober. Thinic of it. I must go now. Got
to be dead at three o’clock precisely.” We were
too paralysed with what he had told us to stop
him, although we had several questions to ask
him. We wanted to ask, for instance, whether
they really buried him, and, if so, how long they
let him lie underground before exhuming him.
We shall see him again, however. And when wo
do, we shall certainly accept his offer and go into
the cadaver business ourselves. If we continue
writing for papers much longer, we shall have no
chance. We shall be dead in earnest.
A lawyer says that a convenient way of
testing the affections of your intended is to marry
another woman. If she don’t love you, you will
find it out immediately.
From the New York Woman’s Journal:—
44 One of the nicest girls I have met this summer
at the sea-side is to be a bride in the present month.
She is a philosophic little thing, I noticed that her
to-be-husband was being slowly, gently, but none
thb less surely, let down from the heights of
shadowy sentiment to the solidities of human actu-
ality. Let me illustrate my meaning. She waltzed,
one night, with the infatuated fellow ; and, on
seating her at my side, he whispered rapturously.
4 1 really think you have wings on your heels, you
danced so lightly.’ 4 Not a wing,’ she replied; 4 the
fact is that I bad No. 2 shoes on No. 3 feet, and I
felt as though I were stumping round on my
ankles. But just now my pet corn stings through
the numbness.’ 4 Ah,’ sighed the persistently ro-
mantic fellow, 4 then the wings extend Invisibly
from your shoulders, dear girl.' 4 Well, It’s safe to
say,’ the heavenly seraph responded, ‘that if any
wings are attached to me they are somewhere out-
side of my corset, for there isn’t room for half a
breath inside.’ This was one of the nicest girls
that ever graced a ball-room, and I asked her how
on earth she could talk so to her sweetheart. 4 I’ll
tell you,’ she said. 4 There is usually a shock of
disenchantment for the husband after marriage,
so I’m told, when he iinds out that his wife is
actually a human being. Now, I mean to bring
my lover gradually to just such a point in
the revelation of me, understand, that when we
get married there will be no shock—merely, as one
might say, a passage from kisses to connubiality.’
A Rhapsody
The genial suti on hill and vale is beaming,
The blush of beauty burns in Nature’s face;
Through flow’ry meads the poets walh, a-dreaming
Of linen suits, for summer oomes apace .
And e’en the winged approach of Time seems fieetnt-
Bringing new joys, fresh fancies, and—the “ skeper
Gay little fly, since none have sung his praises,
() Mine be the muse to glorify his name;
I love to watch his gambols as he grazes
On tempting dimpled neck of maid or dame-*
Tasting of each to try which be the sweeter
(For quite a gourmand is the giddy “ skeeter
Had I the power my earthly lot to barter
For his, to-day, then one young creature fair
Would be, methinks, to my regards, a martyr,
And dread to let her lily neck lie bare:
Bo often should I come with kiss to greet ber^
If I were but a little buzzing “ skeeter."
Since Adam's time, young men of qll conditions
Are like to “ skeeters ” in their fond desire,
For, despite Reason’s calm, cold admonitions,
No swain the warmth of passion’s fire,
And said not in his)heart, “ I’d like to bat her
JLore levels all and makes of man a “ skeeter."
[?]


Itching
ECZEMA, or Salt Rheum, with its agonizing
itching and burning, instantly relieved by a
warm bath with Cuticura Soap and a single ap-
plication of Cuticura, the great Skin Cure This
repeated daily, with two or three doses of Cuti-
cura Resolvent, the New Blood Purifier, to keep
the blood cool, ihe perspiration pure and unirri-
tating, the bowels open, the liver and kidneys ac-
tive, wili speedily cure Eczema, Tetter, RiDgworm,
Psoriasis, Lichen, Pruritus, Scalled Head, Dand-
ruff, and every species of ItchiDg, Scaly, and
Pimply Humors of the Scalp and Skin, when the
best physicians and all known remedies fail.
I HAVE been afflicted with a troublesome skin
disease, covering almost completely th 6 upper
part of my body, causing my skin to assume a
copper-colored hue. It could be rubbed off like
dandruff, and at times causing intolerable Itching
and the most intense suffering. I have used blood
purifiers, pills, and other advertised remedies, but
experienced no relief until I procured the Cuti-
cura Remedies, which, although used carelessly
and irregularly, cured me, allaying that terrible
itching and restoring my skin to its natural color.
I am willing to make affidavit to the truth of this
statement.
Milan, Mich. S. G. BUXTON.
CUTICURA REMEDIES
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
CUTICURA, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Sold by all Chemists and Druggists.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
CUTICURA SOAP, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura
is indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby’
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes,
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, or G~easy Skin.
CUTICURA REMEDIES are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
Price, Cuticura, 50 cents ; Soap, 35 cents ; Re-
solvent, $l.OO, Prepared by
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
3
9
175 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
November, 1884.
BY the present we beg to announce to our Patrons and the Public in general that our
New Premises, situated at 175 PITT-STREET, near the corner of King-street, have
now been opened under the style of GUNSLER’S CAFE.
Thankful for the liberal support extended to us since commencing business at 110
King-street some nine months ago, we now present to our customers a place which stands
unequalled in the colonies for extension, comfort, and elegance.
GUNSLER’S CAFE will supply a want much felt, forming in the heart of the city a
most convenient resort for Ladles as well as Gentlemen, whose requirements have been
carefully studied in the appointments of the new Establishment.
We simply invite inspection, and hope that the fame and success achieved by Mr.
Gunsler in opening a similar place in Melbourne about live years ago, may repeat itself
here, and make GUNSLER’S CAFE the general rendezvous of the polite world of Sydney.
Yours, most respectfully,
J. F. GUNSLER & CO.
Purveyors, Caterers, and Confectioners.
w
fw
PALING
AND CO. (Limited).
tiP>
The Largest, Most Complete, and Best Selected
Stock of Pianos in Australia.
OXSO--^3iTS,
BT THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.
The Lowest Possible Prices tor Cash ; or Easy Terms.
W ALL THE LATEST MUSIC IN STOCK.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK O NEW SOUTH WAhBS.
COMPAGNONI CATERING CO. (Limited).
__ JJ?® LeadiD * and Oldest Catering Establishment in N.B.W. Caterers to the A.J.C., &c., &c.
Tand a allk?nds n o d f undertaken for Weddings, Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons
G “ Ueme °' tho ”°“ t *"
1 KIVAIE BAR AND SMOKING LOUNGE. Beef Tea dally, 11 a.m. Coffee in the Bar until 11 p.m.
E. D. TOLLEMACHE, Licensee and General Manager.
Compagnoni Catering Company, Pitt-street, Sydney.
READ THIS!
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£3 10s. each,
"Warranted for three years.
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 Piit-st. f Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER
GOOLALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX, 7
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 G-eorge-street
(Beneath Paling’s.)
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT!
GENT.’S 60, la. 6d.; 100, 2s. 6d.
LADIES’ 50, 2a. Od,; ICO, 3a. Od.
Addreaa, 6d. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 3a. 6d.; 260, 6a. Od.; 500, 10 n ; 1000, 15a.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
Ordera executed and forwarded by return
post.
the iicnumi co.,
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
n
n
EXTENSION OF PREMISES.
Opening of New Show Rooms.
Mm BOSOM, LLOYD & 00.
GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WYNYARD STREET.
Ladies’ Under clothing & Baby-Linen.
A Magnificent NEW STOCK was selected bv Mr.
Lloyd In London, Paris, and In Ireland r
FIRST GRAND SHOW OF DRESSING GOWNS.
FIRST GRAND BHOWOF TEA. GOWNS.
FIRST GRAND SHOW OF UNDERCLOTHING.
An endless variety of Dressing Gowns, Tea Gowns, Morning Wraps, Cashmere liobos, Children'!
Washing Pelisses and Cashmere Frocks. (The most complete stock ever shown.;
ERIN-GO-BRAGHI
IRISH HAND-MADE UNDERCLOTHING. | LONDON MACHINE-MADE UNDERCLOTHING.
LADIES’ DRAWERS, CHEMISES AND NIGHT-DRESSES. '
|3P“ An array beggaring description. Moderate prioes. Call and ask for illustrated Catalogue.
WRIGHT, HEATON & CO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding , Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALESJ
BRANCH OFFICES.
Bouthirw District, N.S.W.:
Goulburn
Yasa
Bownlng
Blnalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
June©
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rook
Culcalrn
Cowabee
Narandor
Hulong
Carratnool
Hay
WMTKiir District, N.S.W.:
Gapertee
Bathurst
Blarney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromlne
Nevertlre
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymagea
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Nobthbbk District, N.S.W.:
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
Walgett
Brewarrina
Tannrortb
Uralla
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Line:
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Yeulba
Cambooy*
Rockhampton
Bogantungan
Emerald
CENTRAL liINR:
Capella
Comet
Northern Line:
Townsville
Charters Towers
aoftounf ’eooALsasAßft
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. MCULLOCH k CO., LIMITED.
V W~ *genole* in all i*arta of the world.
Foster ’s Bugle Brand.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
BOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WTNEI
MERCHANTS. J
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
M. A. BROWN & CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
2CO GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-street.)
From the Strand, London.
hall
<£
%
Co
\
7a
a
vw
s
m
#A
&TLmSI
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite brand
of Stout selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Go., Dublin, and therefore
cannot be excelled. To he procured everywhere.
CATTBLTj A CO.. Sole Agents.


REMEMBER THIS,
IF YOU ARE SICK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails. ,
If you are comparatively well, out reel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any other of the numer-
ous diseases of the stomach or bowels,
it is your own fault if you remain ill,
for
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a ‘ Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of all coun-
tries —malarial, epidemic, bilious and in-
termittent fevers—by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
will give you fair skin, rich blood, the
sweetest breath, health, and comtort.
In short, they cure ALL Diseases of
the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver
Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
JBSOO
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in the them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
Will you let them suffer?
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no siekness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
WeakNsmsMen
m
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay
and failure to perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
TUPMARfiTON BOLUS.
stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Nervous Debility and
Physical Decay is uniformly
successful because baaed on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct methods and absolute thor-
oughness. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO., E 2 Castloroagh St., Sydney
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST
Graduate In MEDICINE and Regis-
tered Physician of N.S.W. Specific: FEMALE and
NERVOUS Diseases a speciality, and treated by
t.ho most Modern Methods. „
Office Hours—lo a.m. to 4 p.m.; 7to 9 Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday evenings.
Certificate of Registration, Diplomas, and Testi-
monials of Numerous Cures can be seen at office.
Electricity as used by the most eminent Pb ysicians
of France and Germany. Send for Free Treatise
on Vitality, Nervous Debility, &c. (or Diseases of
W aSss-ELTON BOYD, M.D., Australian Medi-
cal and Surgical Infirmary, or B. O. HOLTER-
MANN, Esa., M.P., President—P.O- 80x673. (
Ladies’ Waiting-room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen s. No.
11. 52 Castlereagh-street, Sydney. Note.—Office
and Waiting-rooms UP STAIRS. CONSULTA-
TIONS FREE BY MAIL OR IN PERSON.
want to
ness
y?.
'V,
t
For the
Of// 1 /
one
X!
iddres
TED
Rto
D
LA
y
One
Tto**dddi-ess
t;5?
T
iri
0
usfralia
S 5
T>
®p
tymdicd/j'on
T
wm
LOCH-DHU V.O.Scotch Whisky.
SHAMROCK V.O. Irish Whisky.
F all Whiskies imported, these are the Oldest. Purest, and Best. They were awarded GOLD
1 MEDALS at every Exhibition, viz.,
GOLD MEDALS, CALCUTTA.
GOLD MEDALS, S. and W. AUSTRALIA.
GOLD MEDALS, NEW ZEALAND.
LOCH-DHU and SHAMROCK WHISKIES
are bottled and shipped in bond under supervision of H.M. Customs. Full contents guaranteed
a 6 KIRKER, GREER & CO. (Limited), Belfast and Glasgow.
G. H. ADAMS, AgsnL 113 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Melbourne. Brisbane, and Adelaide:
o
BOURKE,
18 assays sss&'xsil ’ttssM.&sr
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
■"•SS? «SSK KlS'& p B aI iStE E T. rt 18
701
Everybody
Everybody
Everybody
Everybody
Everybody
Everybody
Boyd’
Everybody
should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio,
knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
knows that the best assistance only is employed. .......
should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Reoma are the Grandest in Australia.
is invited to inspect the Establishment. , .. . .
is informed that this Studio is carried on for the benefit of the late Mr
s children, by his executrix,
should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney
A T.Tf'RED WILLIAMS. MANAGES.
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSH!
A HONEST REMEDY. Prescribed hv the BEST PHYSICIANS.
THEY WILL POSITIVELY
CURE
Nervous Headache in t> minutes!!
Bilious Headache in 5 minutes!!
Neuralgia in 5 Minutes!.
Falling Hair and Baldness! I
Dandruff and Diseases of the Scalp!
Promptly Arrest Premature Grayness. Make the Hair grow long
P and Glossy. Immediately Soothe the Weary Brain.
mm
feV.
r >».
sg*§§|p
asS3s*£rG!*-.\ *y« v -
--v
/? v
S?*
v£v
Ss.
11l
e
x*
'**-
■iv
YS
flh
j>
vAX
sa
G*<.
•> ?//?<
m
mfm&.
; /*\
r //r
5 ?3Si
6
SS2£
V afl? 'SjsSsfcwSl kzSs&Kßiii
as
:o
✓
1
'
V-jrte
sr
G;
IgX' 4 '
*w* \ •
§G
Wa
I
3P-
SB
;*5
.vi
|\s
O
w///i
&
r M.
m
p-3K^
m
, r >
<jff
/
AV
sia
T
%
,'H A II jr
i /Hi HUr in
l
m
\
m
*ST.
§©<
‘"A"
sis
m.
-
-
m
wkerne, Nov. 12, 1880.
■, —My patients have given
a very satisfactory account
)r. Scott’s Electric Hair Brush,
s lady assures me that she gets no
neuralgia in her face if she uses it, and
others state that by a few minuteß brush-
insr with the Electric Brush, a nervous headache,
or one arising from overwork or debility, is quickly
removed. The invention is, I think, very valuable.
I am, your obedient servant, « " T ”'“ M 1
Wn.i.s. M.D.. M.B.C.S.E.
A Handsome
Unbreak ible BRUSH,
Elegantly Carved & Mounted-
Deo. 28, 1881.
Dr. Lemfrikrk, D.C L., Ac., St. John’s College, Oxford
domestic appliances
development
open
only
Your Flesh Brush
C. Lhmpribre, D.C.L., &c
Yours faithfully,
the money.
Brushes are indeed a wonder, and well
’The
. . ,1 , f „11 ('hpmkl,i and Fancy Btordccopcr«/or -will bo forwarded
These Brushes r n^' “™p\recelpt of prices named, with ,l.. added. Re-
direct to nny part of N.S.tV-or Quc p.o. Orders, Stamps, or Currency, theoues can be
*23&S£ £Tof the £me o*f Dr. ITott isonthcW&ont tvhich
none are genuine.
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
64 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
P.O. BOX 22!.
Hair Brushes, and a long list of Distinguished Patrons cou o p
lished, and their Testimony added, did space permit.
The Brush Handle is made of a new odorless composition, resembling cboiiy : aco“Wnation
i^s e ru d p u o^
tested by a silver compass, which accompanies each Brush.
PUBE BBISTLEE-NOT WIRES. Wire Brushes injure the Scalp,
and cause baldness and irritation.
The Right Honourable WILLIAM E. GLADSTONE, M.F.,
has written upon the merits of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair
Brushes, and has added them to his Toilet.
Lady A. CHURCHILL -daughter of the Duke ot
Marlborough (hero of Blenheim), and sister ox
Lord Randolph Chuithill, of Parlia-
ltary celebrity—uses them regularly
and thinks them unequalled for
the hair.
Send .for Circular of
Dr. £>cott’s Electric Flesh,
Brushes , Corsets, Belti
for Ladies’ and Gen-
tlemen's use.
it
ANDROCLES AND THE LION.
[A. NEW TRANSLATION.]
There was once a slave named Androcles,
who was so ill-treated by his master that bis life
became insupportable. He was expected to turn
out at 8 o’clock In all weathers to milk the cow,
but was allowed none of the milk to mix with his
rum. His eggs were boiled hard by the time he
got back, his coffee was only lukewarm, and his
toast gone dry. To add to his misery, ihe girl was
forbidden to bring him up a cup of hot coffee in
the bed, and his callous master, having discovered
him with his mouth to the decanter, more than in-
sinuated that he would prefer that his slaves
should stick to their allowance of two sesterces
(about three pints) of gin per .day, and keep their
mouths from his bottle. Neither was he Permitt
to cut off a slice of ham. and make himself a sand-
wich, while attending at dinner, althoug
he was quite capable of . J fv
one hand, notwithstanding that the i atl “
knew he was subject to a sinking of
stomach. Things went from bad to worse,
he couldn't take one of his master s shirts to go to
a ball in, even when that selfish monster was not
going out for the night; and if he only walked
into his master’s dressing-room for the tootn-
brush and comb, to titivate himself up a bit,
was the devil to pay. This treatment began to
prey on his mind to such an extent that as he
mixed his master’s night cap of toddy, ihis trem-
bling hand could scarce lilt the ,J° b J B bP B,
when he wanted to see if he had just hit
flavour. But when his master s income had some-
what fallen off, and he was asked to chop wood,
and dine off corned beef and carrots, and give up
his afternoon nap from two to four, he felt that
the time was come for action. He therefore
pushed a rapid sale of his masters cigars and
watches, made up a small portmanteau, and just
taking one mournful glanco in the glass to see
whether his wool hadn't turned white, be left
word with his old master to go to th ® dejil, went
into the back slumsof Athens, from which, having
spent his last farthing, he was "fired out, andbe-
took him to the woods for a little bushranging.
He wandered about for some days without food,
and cursed the day when be despised corned beef
and carrots, and a quart of beer to wash it down had
been held in contempt. But still his principles
bore him up; and in his bitterest anguish, when
he was almost fainting with hunger and tempted
to go back and beg pardon of his master, he re-
membered that there was wood to to chopped,
and no afternoon nap, and he said, No. Inthis
solitude I need chop no wood, and I tnay sleep on
the turf as much as I choose. Better liberty and
lumbago than corned beef and slavery. • •
afternoon when he had been lying bj 8 back
chewing roots for some hours, and thinking of
nothing at all, he was startled by the roar ofa
prodigious lion, and shinned up to the topmost
branch of a white gum to consider the situation.
The lion sat down at the foot of Jbe tree and de-
minded a narley* 44 As monarch of this forest,
he began, “ I do not think I am straining Imperial
precedent in inquiring to what cause i may attri-
bute the present irruption mf a race with which I
have not hitherto deemed it advisable to establish
diplomatic relations?’’ “ I am a
turned Androcles, with the branch ah aking under
him. " and having hoard that in this region, blest
with a constitutional monarchy, I might enjoy
that measure of freedom whichlwas
me by a heartless and anarchic oligarchy, I fled
hither.” “It shall never be said,” returned the
noble lion licking his lips and noticing the plump-
ness of Androcles, " toat any one who threw
himself on my clemency ever lived to repent
of bis confidence. Are you acquainted with
surgery?” Androcles hereupon informed him
that he had frequently cut his master’s corns.
“ Then approach,' said the lion, Ufjink.Vß. *
swollen paw; “ approach, and remove this splinter
from my foot.” But this poor slave did not stir
an inch, until the King had solemn y assured him
that in all his expeditions he would reserve for
him the brisket and the undercut of the sirloin.
Androcles hereupon descended, and was about to
approach and raise the wounded paw, when a band
of soldiers approached, and
• • •
Calieula, the last of the Grecian Emperors,
sat on a golden throne at the entrance to the Par-
thenon or the great Coliseum in Athens. Tens of
thousands filled the vast arena, for Caligula had
announced that a slave was that day to be torn in
pieces by a lion, and all the Greek clergy were
present to solemnise the dreaa occasion. This
day,” said the Archbishop, " will remain tor ever
in the memory of man, as marking the national
abhorrence of the characters of men who use
their God-given intelligence to corrupt, by their
lives and teaching, the minds of youth. A dread-
ful silence ensued, and a trembling slave was led
forth A door was opened, and a monstrous lion,
with flaming eyes and jaws that gaped like an open
sepulchre, darted forth and swallowed the slavein
two bites. His name was ASsop, and it was whilst
holding an inquest on the few poor remains that
the parchment was found with the story of An-
drocles, just bitten off at the point where wo left
Androcles above. The lion couldn’t swallow the
rest.


THE
IGNO
fa
r m
V.-/
IIKOI MI CL’S
rAMOUS
Mig’non
PI^ITO.
NEVER previously did any piano win such a hold
on the public as the Mignon has done since
its introduction. Our competitors have no doubt
done their level best to rival us—blazoning forth
their bald imitations with a tremendous flourish
of trumpets. What result have they to show,
excepting to point to the gradual death of all their
offspring? The reason is soon found. Inferior
instruments, with showy exteriors, have been
brought forth and attempted to be foisted on the
public. But the right-thinking public will have
none of them. The consequence is that the
Sales of the Mignon Piano
have Trebled.
THE MIGNON PIANO
has found its v/ay into every town almost of all
the colonies—in victoria and New South Wales,
from north to south ; to the far north of Queens-
land ; in New Zealand, from one end to the other
of the islands. In South Australia and Tasmania
THE MIGNON
can be found, and its name is really a household
word.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the people’s favourite.
THE MIGNON PIANO
for its size defies all would-be imitations.
THE MIGNON PIANO
guaranteed to withstand any climate in Australia.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the cheapest, because the best.
THE MIGNON PIANO
can be hadjon very easy TIME PAYMENT.
THE MIGNON PIANO
excels all similar pianos, for first-class work and
richness of tone.
Illustrated Catalogue, with full description
of THE MIGNON and all other good instruments,
on application.
NICHOLSON - AND GO.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
PAI
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The beat known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
N*.URALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
RAINS, BRUISES, AURNS. SCALP 3, &c- and
<»ken internally euros DIARRHIEA,
CRAMPS, COLIC, rind all other iiitferm, aches
and pains.
iPrice, 2/- Sold Everywhere.
C. E. MOULTON, sole prop:
AT3I T/B OTJ K IST.Id - D!N EV,
PAINT
Marshalls i
TONIC NERVINE
RBGISTTKUSD.
A SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all com plaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Low of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints. Loss of Vital Power, &c. By its tonic
and soottains? effects it at once removes all cravinsr
for Alcohol, By its richness ln P h ™phorous and
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL 8
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system* Price* is# 6d.. or 255. a case*
Sole Proprietors? MARSH A LL BROTHERS, M.P.B.
Manufacturing and consulting Chemists, 101 and
10* Market-street, near Hyde JX "Vi
6 Pitt-street. Circular-quay. TAKE WO DBSTI-
«DTB.
TAL I A N
EMPORIUM’
FANCY CHINA WARE,
comprising
TEA SETS, DESSERT SETS, VASES, ORNA-
MENTS, &c.
FANCY GOODS IN GREAT VARIETY.
Silk Fans, Ladies’ Belts, Sunshades, Dolls, &c.
The Latest Novelties always on hand.
Best quality with reasonable prices.
B. MARMONT, 470 George-street.
PAINTS.
OILS.
&
WALL
PAPERS
Office: 330 George-streef.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
ygr N.H. Pattern* and Price* sent.
-* DOMESTIC PAPER FASHIONS
Xv/vJvf shown in our Illustrated Catalogue.
Price, Threepence ; by Post, Fourfence.
CH A P PE L & CO.,
Late Johnston & Co.,
Paper Pattern ani> General Sewing-machine
Agency,
746 GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Machines repaired, and all fittings, &c., kept in
stock.
Champagne
Heidsieck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
role Ao-ents tor Heidsieck & Co., Heims.
Everybody i
should use f
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE EBOM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW. and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
victoria flour mill,
831 George-street, Sydney.
1
ROWLANDS ODONTO is the best, pur-
est, and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such Row-
lands’ Odonto has always proved itself to be.
B OWANDB EUKONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and has
lately been much improved. Each box has inside
the iid a certificate of purity from Dr. Redwood,
Pb.D., F.C.8., &c. Sold in three tins : white, rose,
and cream.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ ar-
ticles, of 30, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations .
Wholesale and Retail Agents, Elliott Bros., E.
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
CUT THIS OUT.
BY cutting out this COUPON, and sending
it. accompanied by Post Office Order,
you will receive a
SPLENDID ENGLISH LEVER
(by Rotherham, or other well-known makers)
ss.; or a strong, serviceable, genuine
Waltham lor *3 10s.
Guaranteed for 5 years I
Note the Address:
C . GRANT,
WATCHMAKER ANT) JEWELLER.
584 George Street, Sydney.
Established 1878.
1
UIIST S BOOT*
|j^E 0 Q f UAUED
PfSYDNEY
2 EITHER FOR
1 3 RIC E or QUALITY]
■ 4Q4
Ml 111 I I |
-A.ToraJa.sumu’s
Fills
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy!
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
Serience. They overcome the worst form of
•iseasea of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
UkmS MACGREGOR,
yr 808 GEORGE STREET.
'*ft£SKATP*
°^9cottP«i^
m
WHOLES ALB
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Georga-street,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEBT-ABSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
tar- Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
BUY WHOLE
BOTTLES
A. & C. HUENERBEIN'S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
318 GEORGE STREET,
Next Peapes and Shaw.
The most liberal house for Pianos and Organ#,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
A. & C. Huenerboin,
318 GEORGE STREET.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
FI
oU
ftse
Tts V?As* X %
ES?
m
i&e
OljOLr^
£
53ft &54I»QeORSe s?
SYDKJUKSeie
Of® 6 >-‘8 fPC£I
Jg^jgjggj
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
Th,© ZRelistTole DBu.g-g'ies!
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMINGS', Merchant & Importer,
. 22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
Complete Photographic Outfits,
COMPRISING EVERYTHING NECESSARY TO ENABLE
EVEN THE MOST INEXPERIENCED TO PRODUCE
SATISFACTORY PICTURES OF LANDSCAPES, ETC,
rHOTOGi^APHfc
1 STOCK .
IMPORTERS £
m
\
Si
I
VitsaJa
s
OKI
. ■ fi
I h*.
9t 's eis K of .
CAMERAS,
CARDS.CHEMICALS'. t-O'mc
: : — : m~ia\
W.JOHNSON &,sons
NITR.SILVER AND CHLOR.GOLD.


GENTLE, BUT EFFICACIOUS.
Wyndham-street, Alexandria, Sydney, Feb. 14,1884.
Gentlemen,—l beg to inform you that I have
used Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea in my household
with good results. My children have taken it as
an aperient, and its action has been gentle but
efficacious.
Yours faithfully,
Joseph Lingard,
Head of Composing Staff of the
“Town and Country Journal.’’
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
VERDICT OF A POPULAR BONIFACE.
I have tried Hamburg Tea, and my household
have proved it to be gentle but efficacious as an
aperient, and I can strongly recommend it.
G. A. BROWN,
Exchange Hotel,
West Maitland.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SVD N EY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Hymn to Humbug;.
VERSES unto vice.
MASHERS AND THEIR VICTIMS.
Thus far, the Muse has taught her slave to
speak _
In such mild strains that the betraying oheek
Of purest maiden need not know the flush
Of Virtue’s danger-sign, the warning blush;
Thus far. the patient reader has been led
By paths which guileless innocence may tread—
Tracks such as those which Fashion’s self would
choose, .... * .
Where nOirude stones the shrinking foot may
bruise.
But, now another path the Muse desires,
Where “ treacherous ashes cover glowing flres
(This phrase, you note, is Horace’s, not mine—
See Book two, ode one, and the seventh line);
And here all they who follow needs must wear
Sandals of sense, which now. with jealous oare,
Our boasting Modesty has laid aside,.
As not required by those whom she would,guide #
If, then, some reader should disdain to gaze
On those dark scenes which social life displays,
And shrink with signs of hyper-modest fear
From words which, weekly, when in church, we
hear,
Whether the curate read or vicar speak,
Tempt not the. mind to flush the conscious
chcclc
To such I say: “If your too shrinking mind
To social evils would be always blind—
And if your tongue, fastidious, is afraid
To use plain terms, and call a spade a * spade,
Read on no farther now: this theme complete.
The Muse once more shall spurn words indis-
creet.”
But they who wear the triple coat of mail
Which Virtue lends, yet notice and bewail
The many ills that load our social state
And truly wish those evils to abate,
May, with some interest, these lines peruse,
And laud the object, though they slight the
Muse.
I write of mashers, dudes, and all the crew
Whose vicious minds impel them to pursue
To earthly ruin those, like Mother Eve,
Who wake to knowledge, and then live to grieve.
I say to earthly ruin—He who sees
Our place on earth shall judge of crime s de-
grees :
To everyone the crown or pain condign,
Sweet Mercy and stern Justice shall assign.
Then shall we know, what no one now may tell,
Whether such victims have not lived their hell.
Many the arts these mashers can employ,
While gilded Humbug acts as a decoy;
Lures on the maid, wno, not suspecting aught
That’s wrong, wakes only when her ruin s
wrought;
Then see’s herself debased from Virtue s throne,
W hilst lover, friends, and fame alike have flown :
Deeper she sinks, no helper calls her back,
And p’r’aps her death bell’s rung by murd'rous
quack.
At first, perchance, in Sunday-school or choir
The lovers (?) meet —for dudes with foul desire
Resort to churches, and, with pious dress,
Conceal their lust and dark perfldiousness.
The quiot evening walk, in secret planned—
The gentle pressure of a thrilling hand,
The whispered compliment, and soft reply:
The flattering glance and smile—too soon supply
Wings to tho shaft, that speeds from Cupid’s
bow,
And bid love, all unchecked, in fulness flow:
Suspicion from the maiden’s breast is thrust,
And perfeot love produces perfect trust.
Woman's true love—guerdon above all price,
The only relic lelt of Paradise I
When our first parents were from Eden driven,
This, this alone, was left to symbol Heaven.
Though woman's fall entailed our human grief,
’Tis she alone, on earth, can give relief:
Her boundless kindness earth-born woes can
charm,
And yield to ev’ry wound its healing balm.
A mother’s love—in childhood’s days so dear,
And valued more in each advancing year;
A sister’s love—producing, every hour,
Some newer token of its wondrous power;—
These each are noble gifts, and yet beside
The strength of woman’s love, when its full tide
Goes with her heart, but as a taper's light
Contrasted with the rounded orb of night.
Yet. all too oft the maiden’s generous flame
But burns the barriers that encircle shame;
Too oft the pseudo-lover plays a part,
And steals her virtue when she gives her heart -
Betrays the trust so lovingly bestowed,
And starts his viotim on the downward road.
Shall we, then, scorn as vile and infamous,
A woman who has loved and fallen thus?
Mark Twain (in “ Tramp Abroad,” unless I err,
The book’s not here, so that I can’t refer,)
Tells how a bride rushed to an early^grave,
In that bright land which Arnold died to save.
By narrow path, preceded by a guide,
Her party scaled a dizzy mountain’s side:
A wall of rock, whose dark forbidding face
Was one long preoipice from peak to base
SThe path is one that tourists tread with care—
II fares the man whose mule may stumble there).
The girl looked round; in front, on left and right
The ether seemed in volume infinite;
Straight down beneath she saw the far-off plain,
The sight was too vast for her whirling brain;
She faltered—reeled—sprang into empty space,
As though she longed to rest in its embrace—
One cry of anguish showed that, all too late,
She knew her madness, and beheld her fate.
Do we blame her, and quote our maxims wise,
Say that she took her leap with open eyes ?
No, surely not; although she sought her doom,
Let flowers of pity wreath her self-made tomb.
Here we must stop, for want of further space,
Till Phoebus seven times runs his fiery race;
But, with these days o’erpast,, again the lute
Shall hymn the rate of “Beauty" and the
“Brute.”
ISHMAEL.
WILL MCDONALD’S STORY
I had eczema and salt rheum for seventeen
years. I had it on my head, face, neck, arms, and
legs. I was not able to walk, only on my hands
and knees, for one year. I have not been able to
help myself for eight years. I tried hundreds of
remedies: not one had the least effect. The doc-
tors said my case was incurable; so my parents
tried everything that came along. I saw your
advertisement, and concluded to try Outicura
Remkdies. The Cuticura brought the humor to
the surface of my skin. It would drop off as it
came out, until now lam entirely well. All I can
say is I thank you most heartily for my cure. Any
person who thinks this letter a fraud, let them
write or oome and see me, and find out for them-
selves. WILL M’DONALD, 2542 Dearborn-Street,
Chicago, 111. ~ , _
Sworn to before the British Consul.
Temperance clergymen, lawyers, ladies,
and doctors use Hop Bitters, as they do not intoxi-
cate, but restore brain and nerve waste.
Aybr’s Ague Cure is a powerful tonic
bitter, composed wholly of vegetable substances.
Its action is pecular, prompt and powerful, break-
up the chill, curing the fever, and expelling the
poison from the system, yet leaving no harmful or
unpleasant effect upon the patient. Sufferers
from chills and fevers who have used quinine as a
Remedy will appreciate this*
The recent experience of Mr. Justice
Grove, on circuit in North Wales, is said to have
been unique. His Lordship found absolutely no
prisoners at three assizes, and received three pairs
of white kid gloves. At Ruthin, the judge, the
sheriff, chaplain, a full bar attendance, grand and
petty juries, and the sheriff’s retinue assembled to
try one petty civil suit. Please observe, a'l this
happened in North Wales. In [New] South Wales
things are far more lively, and an assize Judge
gets a pair of white kids nbout as often as a tom-
cat voluntarily goes to sea.
When our railing has all fallen awry, and
our tombstone has cumbled away, and the grass
above us affords succulent herbage to the nefari-
ous goat, it will be remembered that, with all our
crimes, we were never wanting when genius was
struggling for recognition. We have recognised
several poets already, and they are to-day listening
with dreamy souls to the wail of the forest as they
put up the chock-and-log fence of industry. And
so we hail the advent of Mr. R. Small, of Bydney,
who has sent his modest appeal for fame to a New
England paper, instead of flaunting it in the pro-
fane eye of a venal metropolitan press. Here is
one ohirp :
“ A mournful voice now haunts my hour
Of stolen, saored muse,
Which tells me of a faded flower,
And whispers solemn news.”
That is the movement, dear Small. And now a
mournful voloe haunts our hour of stolen muse,
algo—
One Mr. Small the muse provoked,
And roused her bitter choler;
" To think,” she cried, “that I’m invoked
To make a small thing smaller.”
The smartest man on this side of the line
has just gone through the mill again, and come out
white on the other side. This is how he operated.
A few years ago he bought a section of land for
£lOO, on th® agreement that the vendor would
Our illustration shows two dainty dresses for young girls. The figured one is of grey
sateen with red spots. The skirt, drapery and sleeves, are ornamented with cross
bands piped with scarlet, and the buttons on the plastron are also scarlet.
The other, a self-coloured cashmere with velvet cuffs and collar, is made with a box-
pleated skirt and plain polonaise, and is neat and serviceable.
take a mortgage for the full amount of the pur-
chase money, and also advance him a sum of
money equal to three fourths of the value of a
large house he intended erecting on the ground.
Having signed the mortgage for £lOO with his
usual flourish, be said to the vendor, who was a
lawyer, and thought he knew a thing or two.
“ Now you must give me a receipt for this £100.”
“What £100?” asked the man of quibbles, quite
astonished. “ Why, the £lOO mentioned in this
document, which states that you have advanced
me that sum. You know you have not advanced
it. You have kept it to pay for the section, and I
want a receipt to show the land is mine.” “Very
well,” said tne lawyer, “ I think I see what you
mean. I’ll give you a receipt.” And he did. He
also gave him an agreement to make the advance
required on the house when built. With these two
documents in his fist the speculator next inter-
viewed a timber merchant. “ I have just bought a
piece of ground,” he Bald, “and paid cash for it.
Here is the receipt for it. I want you to give me
enough timber to build a house. You see when
it is built, this other document states I am to get
an advance on it to three-fourths its value, so I’ll
have no difficulty in paying for it.” The timber
was got, the house built and finished; a new-chum
passing by thought it would suit him, and offered
£6OO for it. The price was accepted, and the money
paid. When the purchaser came to take posses-
sion, the speculator said to him, rather gruffly,
“When are you going to take away this house ?”
“’lake it away I” gasped the other; “why, I
bought it where it is; I don’t want to tske it
away; I want to come and live in it.” Then the
speculator stormed and swore, declaring he only
sold the house; he wanted the section, to build
another on it. The sale note and receipt given at
the time only mentioned the house, and said no-
thing about the section. In short, he worked his
point so well that in the end the buyer thought
himself lucky in getting the house and section
together by agreeing to take up the £lOO mortgage.
The speculator then went into business with nis
£5OO, m a wholesale merchant, and recently failed
for £25,000, the dividend amounting to 2%d. in the
£. This is why we are so positive that they aian t
know everything down in Judee,and that a modern
Oceanic Gentile knows more than Solomon in
all his glory, with the single exception of a pene-
trating knowledge of womankind. There, if y9u
like, Soiomon had the start of any colonist
extant.
Ah Chung is his name, and for ways that
are wild this heathen Chinee is peculiar. From
information received, it appears that Constable
Stutchbury, of the Monaro District, recently had
the felicity of digging up, in accordance with
official instructions, a dead Chinaman who
had been planted in the Thredbo cemetery—the
object of this body-snatching adventure being to
recover a £5 note whioh, marvellous to relate, had
been burled with the defunct Mongolian. Ah
Chung, having nothing particular to do, joined
the constable in his frolic, and immediately after-
wards began to exhibit unmlstakeable signs of
having a bad attack of the fantods. Travelling
along to Cooma, he armed himself with a toma-
hawk ; and as he passed through a place called
Cobbin, he created a great deal of amusement by
chasing the inhabitants round the place for the
purpose of showing them how surgical operations
were carried on in China. After this, he visited
the Berridale Hotel, stuck up four women and six
men, andthen marching them out in the yard was
about to hold a series of Impromptu executions
after the most approved fashion of his native land.
A Nlngpo man named O’Brien strongly objected to
take part in the proceedings, and, instead of step-
ping out and putting his neck across a log as re-
quested, he caught the frolicsome Mr. Ah Chung a
“ sockdologer ” und*i the ear that completely
knocked all the humour out of him for the time
and sent him whizzing head first into an adjacent
workshop. Having carefully picked the chips out
of his ears, and rolled up his tail, Ah Chung started
off once more, and, meeting a hawker named John
Gerrathy, politely requested a lift in his c irt. This
was at once granted, the two Johns jogging along
together, chatting sociably about Parnell, the crops
and the “ edjycashin ” question, when suddenly
John Chung catching John Gerrathy fiercely by
the arm, flourished a young sapling over his head
and requested him to look up in the sky and see all
the dead Chinamen that were floating about with
their throats cut and biue fire and green devils
dancing all about them. Mr. Gerrathy said never
a word on hearing this, but getting quickly out of
the cart, he crossed himself three times, said about
14,000 Pater Nosters, and allowed Mr. Chung to tool
his team into the yard of Mullane’s Pine Valley
Hotel. Here he tried hard to persuade his com
panion to walk In and inspect the fittings of the
stable His friend briefly replied that the bar was
more in his line, and accordingly he marched in
and began to make things nice and lively for the
landlord and his customers. Seeing the Celestial
crank at his game, the watchful Gerrathy imme-
diately hitched up his team, and jumping on his
seat drove off at a gallop, congratulating himself
on having got so well rid of the heathen. Just as
he was chuckling over his adventure, he felt a
clammy hand grasping his own, and turning round
was horrified to find the irrepressible Ah Chung
crawling out from under the seat and pointing
skywards once more with the mild request that he
(Mr. Gerrathy) should go aloit and pull off the
dragon that was holding a picnic on the dead bodies
of his countrymen. Then Mr. Gerrathy came down
from th* cart once more, not that he was at all
afraid, but simply because he thought a walk into
Cooma would do him good, a d having arrived
there, he lost no time in introducing the local
police to his imaginative fellow-passenger. Th<
general opinion up Monaro way is that the sight < f
the “ demnition dead body ” exhumed in the
Thredbo boneyard turned Ah Chung's brain-pan
upside down; but our own private belief is that
he was sent off his kadoova by being an eye-wit-
ness to the fact that the police had omitted to
search a corpse, and had actually buried a “ fiver ”
with the body. Such a startler as that would con-
fuse the head of a nail-teg,
The gifted party who wrote “A New Way
to Pay Old Debts ” has been knocked clean out by
a long-headed leech down South, who has just in-
vented “A New Way to Collect Old Debts,” which
is at once so simple and efficacious as to recom-
mend itself to all—debtors, of course, excepted.
From what we can learn, it appears that this art-
ful dodger, Mr. Dundetter by name, runs a grocery,
and is also a legally ordained member of our noble
band of colonial J.’sP. Mr. Neverpart is a gentle-
man who resides in the same town, and who for
the past three years has stood mighty bad on the
slate of the little grocery round the corner. On
the morning of the Prince of Wales’ natal day,
Mr. Neverpart was full to the ears with patriotism,
but long before t*e shades of eve began to fall he
w ® B as full of beer. That night he availed him-
selt of the hospitality of Constable Decimal Naught
Naught One, camped in the marble cells of the
local lock-up, and next morning marched along
with the rest of the sore-headed caravan of
* ,5 UI l^ 8 had done full justice to thetoastof
Albert Edward. Hearing that his debtor was
lumbered, the downy Dundetter hauled on a clean
shirt, had a 3d.-shave, and took his seat on the
judicial bench looking stern enough as he did to
scare the soul out of a fossil. And Mr. Neverpart,
having owned up like a man to the soft impeach-
ment, His Worship observed: “Neverpart, I am
surprised and pained beyond all expression to find
you—a man that I have known, respected, and
even trusted for years—in the humiliating position
that you are at present. All is not lost, however,
and you may yet redeem your fallen reputation.
Between ourselves now, what about that little
account of ours ? It’s been on the chalk a long
while now,, you know; but I have heard that
you ye got a long job from old Smith on the Plains,
so tell you what I’ll do. You gimme an order on
Smith for the full amount, and I’ll dismiss this
c® B , 6 - If you don’t, hup y’ go for seven days wid-
ous th hoption’.” Order given, case knocked out,
and the insulted majesty of Justice once more
avenged. be facts, and it’s hard to improve
upon them.
There is insubordination, bordering on
rank mutiny, in the standing army of Victoria,
which that intrepid warrior, Major-General Sar-
good, will have to put down with a high hand, or
we tremble for the future of Australia. Instruc-
tions were recently issued to the horse-drivers of
the East Melbourne Artillery, that the officers’
accoutrements and trappings, including their
boots, should be cleaned and polished for the next
parade of the corps. Well, the horse-encouragers
were not disposed to quarrel over the accoutre-
ments and things; but when it eame to cleaning
the officers’boots, why, they just drew the line-
pot so much on account of the menial nature of
the work as the extra amount of labour involved
in going over Ihe ground For, be it known to all
and sundry that when an East Melbourne Artillery
officer puts down his hoof, he covers a good deal
of real estate. Which reminds us of a black
tracker we once saw in Narandera. It was during
the time of the “ Kelly scare,” when every well-
regulated police camp was furnished with an
aboriginal sleuth-hound, so to speak, whose duty
it was to keepwell to the front, so as to receive
the first volley from the outlaws, and to give the
regular troopers time to beat a masterly retreat.
The Narandera tracker bore the name of Welling-
ton, or Nelson, or Wolseley, or some of the naval
or military heroes of Great Britain—we forget
which—and, being a slim-built child of nature, the
resources of the second-hand department of the
police stores were not severely taxed to provide a
constabulary uniform for him. Bnt when it came
to getting him shod, there was nothing in the
whole ran<re of the Government stores to fit, ex-
cept a pair of shoe-trunks, and, as they were
found to be inconvenient when riding through
scrubby country, they were reluctantly discarded,
and forthwith condemned as unsuited to guerilla
warfare. Then Wellington, or whatever his name
was. had to ride bare-foot, and a picturesque old
rooster he looked heading a cavalcade of troopers
to death or glory, his feet flapping on each side of
his fiery charger with cheerful abandon, being too
large tp take any grip of the stirrup-irons. It
saved him a lot of boot-cleaning, though. But we
digress. Let’s see, we were talking about the
Victorian heroes ? To resume. So a dozen of the
drivers decided that at the next parade, should the
question crop up, they would be prepared for the
emergency, and when Majah King stepped lightly
to the front with the order, “The drivers who
refuse to clean the officers’ [trappings, step for-
ward,” they came out en masse. This was a bit of
a surprise to the Majah, but he promptly fined
them 10s. each for disobedience, which in turn gave
uie Jenus a start, as it meant a serious item oat of
their munificent salaries of £lO per annum. But
they are determined to see the matter through;
and should an appeal to head-quarters not result in
their favour, they will probably resign from the
army, the crack corps of the colony will getall
broken up. and the hearths and homes of the fair
Southern land will be at the mercy of the first
invader that chooses to come along. And all this
trouble, too, over a mere boot-bin eking atfairl
We would, with all due humility, suggest to Com-
mandant Sargood—we can afford to ignore Majah
King-to organize a boot-black brigade in connec-
tion with his standing army. Or, better still, let
the officers copy the example of old Wellington,
the black-tracker. There’s millions in the sugges-
tion.


•Siiif*-
ffi
INGHAM’S
£UPHOJ\BIA^
m
Queensland Cure
m
Coughs,
<
ND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS.
PREPARED'ONLY BY
lOMAS IN OH AM
OCKHAMPTON
4W
mma %
T:
UMBRELLAS
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have y our Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
i Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repair# neatly exe-
tinted
ALEX. BQHTHWIGK,
Importer of
Plate, Sheet, and Ornamental Class,
OIL & COLOR MERCHANT,
PAINTER AND DECORATOR,
Glass Silverer, Beveller, and Embosser.
82?/* A large stock of Paperhangings of the most
beautiful designs ever seen in the colonies.
Patterns sent post free.
281 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Hunter Street.
KiBBY AND CO7,
96 King-sfireGt.
Mlmti’t liras, St.
Kibby’s Shir at 4s. 6d., seldom equalled ! Never
excelled in Fit quality or finish.
_ Underwear for Winter, large variety, lowest
Prices.
Neckwear, new and stylish shapes.
Collars, Cuffs, Night Shirts, Handkerchiefs, &c.
KiBBY & COT 96 King-street.
&
4
x
o
o
o
Safe
MARK
TRADt
Or
y
-O
(2
<*o*z
CROSS
bQ
N
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULLDOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTELL & CO.,
Sole Agents.
Anglo - a ustralian investment
FINANCE and LAND COMPANY
(Limited.)
Offices: HOFFNUNG’S BUILDINGS,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Capital, £500,000, in 50,000 Shares of £lO each.
Subscribed Capital £102,570.
Reserve Fund £5OOO.
Directors:
Henry Gorman, Esq., J.P., Chairman.
Hon. Fred. A. Wright, M.P., Vice-Chairman.
C. C. Skabratt, Esq.
W. H. Paling, Esq., J.P.
J. H. Newman, Esq.
Benjamin James, Jr.,
Esq.
Deposits received at following rates
At call Five per cent.
3 months .. .. Five and a half per cent.
6 „ Six per cent.
12 „ Seven per cent.
INVESTING SHARES :
Shares are now being issued.
Full particulars on application to Manager.
DIVIDENDS :
Half-yearly dividends, at the rate of 12J4 per
cent, per annum, have been paid sinco establish-
ment of Company.
ADVANCES:
Loans, repayable by monthly instalments, ad-
vanced for a term of years.
WILLIAM CLARKE,
Manager.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
EnjjrllHli Papers and Magazines received by
•very Mall.
ROYAL ARCADE. GBOROK BT.. iSS BYTWKY.
SFEXKTg- SEA33IT, 1834.
SHAW
Have the pleasure to inform their friends and the public that they
ARE NOW OPENING FOR THE COMING SEASON,
CHARMING MILLINERY AND STRAW GOODS,
ALT, the newest press materials,
Ladies’ PARASOLS, of the newest colourings and designs,
Trimmed and Untrimmed, Gilt Ribs, and Newest Handles.
Heal and Imitation LiACH GOODS,
In Cream, White, and Black, as well as the Various Shades in New Coloured Lace Goods.
Also, NEW GOODS and NOVELTIES in the following departments:—
EMBROIDERY
C and SILK HANDKERCHIEFS
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING
CHILDREN’S UNDERCLOTHING
STAYS and CORSETS
SILKS, SATINS, and MANTLES
EVENING DRESS MATERIALS.
Qyr Plain Drapery Department
supplied with an unusually large assortment of NEW GOODS for tho Season, and we are
quite sure our prices will compare favourably with any house in the trade.
Sheetings, Towellings, Counterpanes, Calicoes, Blankets, Flannels, Irish Linens, Tablo Linens, &c
Gentlemen’s Departments.
Rewes* Ties and Scarfs ; all the latest shapes in Linen Collars; Gentlemen’s Gloves, in every make,
snap; r;l /,e, and colour; Gentlemen’s Umbrellas; "Waterproof Clothing-; Gentlemen’s White
and Coloured Shirts of ovory description,
STANDARD READY-MADE CLOTHING—We are almost daily opening out Men’s and Boys’
ClothiU r, cut on the most scientiiic principle, and of a reliable and durable character.
TAILORxNG DEPARTMENT.—AII the Newest Woollens for the Season. Skilful Cutters and
Moderate Prices.
& SiHAW", Importers and Manufacturers,
324, 32G, 328 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
. And 123 PALMERSTON BUILDINGS, OLD BROAD STREET, LONDON.
NEW PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
Are :&T©tx7- Open,.
McCLEERY’S hotel,
Corner of KING and CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
(late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
private bar up-sta™s-
Reuters Life SyrupNo2
A positive and radical cure for every form of
Scrofula, Syphilis, Scrofulous Sores, Affections of
the Skin and Scalp with loss of Hair, and all
diseases of the Blood, Liver, and Kidneys.
GUARANTEED to purify, enrich, and vitalize the
Blood, and restore and renovate the entire system.
Reuter’s Healing Soap
For the Bath, Toilet, Nursery, and the healing
f skin diseases of every kind and at every stage.
Sole Wholesale Agents :
S. Hoffnung and 00.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
.?>, Warranted first quality
v Charges stncWy moderate
MARSHALL BROTHERS
Surgeon dentists )06 |vi AR ketst e.
TEETH PAINLESSLY STOPPED.
The practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
carried on hy the aid of a large and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction hy
Nitrous Oxide or Laughing: Gas.
Black Swan Hotel,
GREEN WELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to he
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
Eassed. The magnificient s.s. Illawarra, leaves
ydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o'clock.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TXrxclertsulsex,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (Ifl) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
IHIHE fresh food and ice company
H (Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
Ho. 23 RoyaS Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &e., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
“KOUMI6S,” so highly recommended in pulmo'
nary complaints.
PURE COUNTRY MiLSC.
THE MLK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Bustler.
This is manufactured from cream, extracted
by the use of eream separators, at their Mittagong
factory.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
Head Office..
Stables
Factory
21 Harbour-street
Liverpool-street.
Mittagong.
G. COWLES,
GUNMAKER & IMPORTER.
Sole Agent fo?
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS
For Price and Quality ave no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS In Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
D R RiDCE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AMO INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wiso mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
r- THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPER!’F
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows :~SEVEN PER GENT
on fixed deposits for 12 months: FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods: FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 P&rk-at.
T. V. WAREHAM, Manager,
SCOTCH WHISKEY 1
m~ THE PREMIER WHISKEY 13
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. 2^£a,tTJLr@d
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
CIL¥ BROTHERS,
Sols Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIE
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
30S Reorgge Street, Sf sisiey
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is Bottled in bond for Exv crt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, th erefore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ '“'biskey Doctors.”
W hen you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Oafif Hratliere,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland. •
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £138,000
Directors *
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.O.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jaa. Scroggie, Esq. j Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq"
General Manager:
JT. A. A. Wilson,
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, liedfern, Giralarabona,
Goaford, Nyngran, Bourke, Manly and Byerock.
Branch in Queensland :
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-streei.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G
Geo. F. Blade, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Es
Tirtwnnw Ra vifii'Pfl*
Tho National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking 1 and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
W. H. Ariell & Co.’s
AOENCISS.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in ail size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b.
and 2001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
■J4,34, and lib. tins.
R. WHITTINGHAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &e.
ANGLO-SCANDIN AVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand,
343 and 345 Kent Street,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
i 1
W H
m.
TRY BURGIS £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
Irom 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STKEET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for s« A»-measuring
forwarded to any part of the colony
w
R.BURGIS
TAILOR .
w
NSURE'
/N Tf/C
ACCIDENT
/NDt/IffNITY CO y (UM/TED)
E.W. MOON Manayej'
eMafcjatarie Ptocee


The London aind Liverpool Watch Company,
/
27 27
The Manufacturers of the above Watches have OPENED a BRANCH at
t he above addres?, where the people of New South Wales can
PURCHASE a SINGLE WATCH at the MANUFACTURERS’ PRICE.
First-ciaas, Sound, Strong, Sterling Silver Hunting English Lever, Capped and
Jewelled, for £3 10s., warranted for 5 years.
27 27
THE LONDON AND LIVERPOOL WATCH COMPANY.
SFOR GENERAL DEBILITY AND NERVOUSNESS,
FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION,
FOR FEVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE,
ALL CONVALESCENTS, DRINK IT I
At all Druggists and Chemists.
DRINK IT!
DRINK IT!
DRINK IT 1
liiui MSI, 1
China, Glass, Earthenware, &■ Fancy Goods. „
GE~ST>
348
(OPPOSITE WYNYARD STREET.)
*
STAR AND GARTER HOTEL,
No. 104, KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS Hotel is centrally situated, Seine close to Post and Teleerap h Spiles!
Siine-rior Accommodation lor Families and Commercial Gentlemen. Tirst-ciass w ines ana opirna.
The most Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city. Albi irt S. Mandersand Go. s telegrams
supplied. Sporting telegrams from all parts of the colony posted up.
THOMPSO 3ST,
A.J.C. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SALOON,
91 King-street.
N.B -I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
ASK YOUK GROCER FOR
J. S. FEY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney
«An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the beat ale or porter—LANCBT.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
OR
QRN£
111
11;
INLAND
mm
s|S|
It is ot' the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should bo carefully compared, as largo
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LOItNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will find a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORN E HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON , AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
HIGGII’S
Prize Med a! Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained tlrst honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCH WOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
G LBEY’S SILVERSTREAM SCHNAPPS.
Gilbey’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TUCKER & CO., Sole Agents,
3W George-street. Sydney.
WALLACH ISOS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYHYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
MASON BROTHERS,
EXHIBIT'
limited,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Have always in STOCK, for SALS
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA*
AND
earthenware,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONB’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. 80RIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J.T. OATEN'S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MSLV'INand SONS’
Sdiuboiftn Pale * o.
AF7EB DEFORE j
Canuriahted. '
MOUSTACHE and WHISEEE3.
Boyd’s Beard Elixir did this, and
I will do it on cither bald head or
bare fare. Forces heavy Mous-
tache in from* to 4 weeks and never {
fails, 20,000 young men already
wear tuLL beards, havina used 1 to
BEFORB AFTER
33
Copyrighted.
Packets Is. Got.
wear full oearas, natnng usca 1 ic
3 pJUs. No injury, easily applied t certain in effect, x acneis ia. *».
each, 3 for 3*. (id., post paid, 6cnt under cover, free from obsen’alion.
'Addrcos, Frank Douplas, Sole Agent, Box 730, G.V.0., Sydney,N.S.W'
Robert butcher & co.
(Late William Long),
•a tr WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders reoeivo prompt attent
USE NOTHING BUT
STANDARD MIXED PAINT.
HAS NO DIRT NOR HARD LUMPS IN IT.
RESISTS HEAT AND WATER.
Anyone Can Apply It.
Factory : COWPERWKAEF, SYD HEY.
See Evening News advt.
BLAKE’S IMPROVE®
STEAM PTJMPS-
H. P. GREGORY & GO*
17 PITT STREET*
SYDNEY,
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
and have in Stock and to arrive-*
I'IRE PUMPS
H .ILER-FEED PUMPS
TAN K OR LIGHT SERVICE PCMP*
MININ G PUMPS p
COMBIN ED AIR & CIRCULATING ptJSJ
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL SINKING PUMPS
SEND FOR PRICES AND ALL PARTP- 015^
i v :'o'
CATALOGUES l ORWARDED *f
BLENf'
? ' ; r j.
TRA
1
4&'STER&- gag,
bming fulness of body, with “ qo«
of taste and flavour. CATTELL *
Agents.
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer of ail kinds of Crated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vigorine,
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Coin Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Cold Medal for Liqueurs, Bitters, '
