

THE BULLETIN
VeL 3-No. 110.—New Series.
SATURDAY, JUNtt 20, 1885.
Price—SA
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JUNE 80, 1886.
Titles and Honours.
The distribution of Birthday “honours” and
titles to prominent colonists brings again to
the front a subject which, unimportant in
itself, derives significance from the cir-
cumstances surrounding it. For a long
time, among advanced nations, the value of
these badges of superiority has been steadily
falling. The English aristocrat of to-day is,
in the eyes of his untitled countrymen, a far
different being from the gorgeous creature
who fluttered in satin and brocade round
the courts of Anne and the Geokges. His
title still provides him with a seat in the
legislature, but the House to which it gives
him the entrie has become almost a cypher
in practical politics. It is true that Mr.
Henniker Heaton— we quote from his
recent speech at Canterbury (Eng.)—thinks
that, “ As the Lower House is popularised,
so it is necessary that the Upper House
should be strengthened. ” But Mr. Hbaton>
in spite ,of his stupendous ability, does
not appear—in this view, at least—to be in
accord with English public opinion. There
is, as we said, a marked tendency towards
decline in the social and political values of
titles among civilised peoples. They are un-
known in America, valueless in France, and
of far less importance in Britain than they
were even during the early years of the pre-
sent reign. The newly-created nobles in
England now-a-days are chiefly drawn from
the ranks of successful traders—many of
whom rejected, as inimical to their interests,
Mr. Pi/iMSOim’s efforts to give sailors a
chance for their lives—or of successful
soldiers, who are, from their very profes-
sion, obliged to take what is offered them.
There was a time when the cream of every
nation was to be found in the army—when
not to be or to have been a soldier was to
stamp you at once as a nobody. That time
has gone by, in England, at least, and the
successful warrior of to-day who receives a
large sum of money and a title, will usually
be found, on closer inspection, to be—apart
from his acknowledged aptitude for killing
men scientifically—a commonplace person
enough. # ,
The great objection to titles—particularly
hereditary ones —is that they set up a false
standard of excellence and foster a spirit,
not of proud obedience, but of mean syoo •
phanoy. There is enough of the latter
quality in human nature without adding to
it. The men who guided the struggles of
the young American Republic saw all this
with clearness, and so we have now
60,000,000 of the freest, most ingenious, and
most progressive people in the world who
manage to go through life without a First
Lord of the Bedchamber or a Lady of the
Robes—who receive a foreign nobleman
courteously and smile pleasantly at his
high-sounding appellation when his back is
turned. Of course it will be said—has often
been—that no people in the world are so
fond of distinctions as the Americans—that
every third citizen is a colonel and every
fifth a major-general. The people who
make these facetious statements are
those who preached for thirty years
against the horrors of American slavery
and then clamored for war against the
North for endeavouring to put it down. It
is clear that, whether an officer be called
corporal or general, he must be called some-
thing. Even with us there are numerous
captains and colonels commanding service-
able battalions, consisting of two bushmen
with one gun and a clasp-knife between
tfeem. It is algo figgert§d that no Penpsyl-
vanian heiress, whose father's bore hole
1 struck a subterranean oil-well, would refuse
the advances of a sexagenarian duke. All
these things are advanced by the sticklers
for titles, to show that the love for distinc-
tive appellations is inherent in man, and
must be gratified. But, even if true, they
merely prove what most observant men
know, that in every nation there is a certain
proportion of grown-up children, who cry
for gew-gaws and rattles just as they cried
for the moon some years previously.
• * •
Whatever value titles still possess in old
countries, where the exploded system of
heredity still obtains, and Democracy is still
but a vigorous infant in swaddling clothes,
they are a stupid anachronism in young
lands, where Democracy is full-grown and
virile. Whatever their raison d’etre in Eng-
land, they have none at all in Australia.
The proud man is content to rest his repu.
tation on his life and works. It is
not so with th® vain. He must have
his sash with blue, or yellow, or green
edging, his cross with variegated ribbon,
his title to transmit to descendants who
may be wise and laugh at their ancestor s
vanity, orfoolish and applaud it. With his
eyes open, he takes on his back a veritable
old man of the mountain. The homely
woman with large, red, honest hands, who
was happy as his “wife” is wretched as his
“lady.” The poor thing starts when she
first hears the unfamiliar title, and either
brazens it out at once or broods upon it dur-
ing her declining years. For the colonist who
has the happiness of bis household at heart
it is a terrible risk to allow K.C.M.G. to
appear at the end of bis name.
• • •
It was in the Nineteenth Century that
Henry Qeolgb, when administering to the
Duke of Argyle the soundest polemical pom-
melling that has appeared since the best days
of the Edinburgh Review, referred to His
Grace’s “ trumpery title.” Men of the
“ George” trademark care little about the
Campbells— whether they “are coming” or
not—and less about their quartcrings. The
<‘San Francisco Prophet” treated the
Duke’s arguments with reason and his titles
with contempt. But if “trumpery” be
fairly applicable to the patent of nobility
borne by the historic Campbells, what
toague will supply an adjective of sufficient
oontmueliousness to meet the requirements
of the colonial K.C.M.G. case ? We know of
none. The English does not supply one, nor
the French, nor the Latin. Such a word-
now that manyexplorers are abroad —spoken
when the world was young, and men ex-
pressed their opinions freely, may ultimately
be found on a clay tablet in some Assyrian
tunnel. On this it would be idle to specu-
late. Our business is with the title of
K.C.M.G. specially invented to hold together
the Empire and still the yearnings of am-
bitious butchers. In the British peerage
were five orders running from the “ Duke ”
to the “ Baron.” Below the latter was the
“ Baronet,” who was occasionally allowed a
look through the window of the chamber
where his big brothers were saying how
much they enjoyed thespeech of the “ noble
lord whQ had just sat down,’? hut was not
permitted to go in and lit with them. Any
of these orders might have been conferred
on aspiring colonists, but English official*—
dull in many respects—saw by anticipation
the raised eyebrows in a London drawing-
room when the usher announced the “ Mar*
quis of Botany Bay,” or the “Baron of
One-Horse Gully.” To avoid this, a special
order of knighthood was created, for thp
double purpose of meeting the growing
wants of the colonies, while preventing any
unpleasant contretemps at home. This is
the genesis of the noble order of “Knight
Commander of St. Michael and St. Georgs.”
The colonists fell into the trap, and received
with enthusiasm a pinoh-beok title which
they should have rejected with derision.
• * •
It is easy enough to institute a new order
of nobility or of knighthood, but it is tax-
possible to bring back the primitive states
of society in which those distinctions had
their rise and without which they are mean-
ingless. Among people speaking the Eng-
lish tongue, a fast-increasing minority of
whom, even in England itself, desire the
abolition of titles, the creation of a new
order is provocative of ridicule. And the
making that order one of “ knighthood” was
peculiarly unhappy. For it is a military
distinction or nothing. The knights of old,
when they were not vowing to protect dis-
tressed damsels nor annexing their neigh-
bours’ beeves during his absence on a pil-
grimage to atone for murdering some kins-
men, wore expending their latent energy on
dragons. Between them and those treacher-
ous monsters there was a bitter feud of long
standing. Superficial people sometimes
express surprise at the scarcity of dragons
in these days, but a moment’s reflection will
convince any unprejudiced man that no
genus of animal, however formidable, could
survive the wanton attacks of these mediae-
val knights. Indeed, it was by destroying
those creatures thatSt. George first brought
himself prominently before the public. We
are not so sure about St. Michael. Whether
it was in the dragon in the damsel line he
distinguished himself it would be hazardous
at this distance of time to say. When
elderly colonists then become Knights of
at. Michael and St. George it is surely
not too much for the public to ex-
pect that they will endeavour to emulate
the deeds of those worthies? It is whispered
that in one of the branches many of them
have already distinguished themselvee, but
it is certain that they have entirely neg-
lected the dragon department. How else
account for those sad stories that reach us
from time to time of the ravages committed
by the bunyip ?
♦ * »
Do these Birthday honours, then, serve no
useful purpose ? We are far from saying so,
They serve to show men imbued with the
true spirit of Democracy the political
mountebanks who occasionally come to the
surface. When we remember the modern
British giants who have done so much for
human progress and for human pleasure—
the Carlyles, Dickens,
Buckles, Beckys, Darwins, and Huxleys—
and who either refused real titles when
offered, or expressed disapprobation of the
principle—we feel thankful to the Home
Government for instituting an order of
knighthood, and thus giving us a chance of
gauging the calibre of our “ leading citi-
zens.” Tennyson is an apparent exception.
He maundered about “Maud” when young
—when old he gave us “ Hands all round.”
A peerage was a fitting climax to both.
When we see English Chartists. Irish rebels,
and Scotch mendicants greedily grab in
prosperity the badges they professed in
adversity to despise, the necessity suggest*
itself of teaching our children that when
they are citizens of a federated and indepen-
dent Australia, their first duty to themselvee
and to their country will be to make a oiean
sweep of all meretricious baubles out of
keeping with Democratic simplicity.
JOSEPH CHAMBERLAIN,
The English Radical Leader.


ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS,
Palace Empobium, Haymabket only.
•saaaiAoad r ivsaaAiNH
UWIVBR&AX, PROVIDERS.
The Criterion Range.
30 Inches, 33 Inches, 36 inches.
78/6. 84/- 89/6.
The above are Peculiar prices, but then we
Peculiar people, Touching: the Stoves. o„®
Oddity consists in the Odd money, for 78/6 is w«
opine, better than £4, and so on, and even so'
our friends. Moreover, this odd idea is but th«
fag end of the advantages we give in such goods
in which our prices will bo found Lower than anv
quoted by the wholesale trade. y
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium,
Haymarket (only).
QUOD FACIMUS VALDB FACIMUS.
(What we do we do well.)
TOUR PHOTO.-If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful photograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
counsel, and pay first a visit to
the Vestibule leading to the Bur-
llngton Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can Inspect an
array of portraiture,not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, coupled with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost jniversal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as photographers.
Prices—C.-D.-V., 15s.; Cabinets. 30s. per dozen.
CBEELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADE
J. TURNER ROBINSON * CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Georga-stroot,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
IV* Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
Annual Income sxwsds One Militant
Lightning and Gas Bxplosion,Damagcs Paid.
C. W. EGBERTS
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9s.
Small Bottle, , 4s. 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
A J8TRALIAN PORT WINE,
la. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT POET,
28. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN-IN FLASKS,
ls«9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke s Prize Medal Brand.
In stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST SIZH,
IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
C. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Street^
RTDNET.
Wolfe's Schnapps is far and away
otjjer spirits, Hence if* widespread
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Prayers for Hain.
“ What,” Dishop Barry la reported to have said
In a late sermon, “ was the lesson taught us by our
parobed plains and the distress In our city [through
the drought! ? Nothing but to watch and pray.”
We doubt If this is the lesson taught. We think
the following more in accord with the Creator’s
teachings: Laws constant and immutable govern
Nature, from the spinning of a planet round a
central sun to the moulding of a tear. The Maker
of those laws knew of their operation through all
time. He gave man intelligence to enable him to
discover and obey them, but He never held out
the hope that, If they were disobeyed, He would
come to the rescue and set things right. Nor has
He ever done so. If man, then, by using his intel-
ligence, discovers that clearing a country of
trees means a diminished rainfall, or that wet
and dry seasons follow with tolerable regu-
larity and still persists in felling trees and
neglecting to conserve water, bow dare he ask
the Great Architect to save him from the conse-
quences of his own neglect—to suspend the immu-
table laws in order that he may escape typhoid, or
obtain drinkable water ? There are certain part 8
of Egypt and of South America where rain rarely
if ever falls. It would be j ust as sensible for a man
to take up a farm in either of those places, and
pray to heaven to change the meteorological con-
ditions, as for the Sydney people to pray for rain
because the Botany dams are low, and the Nepean
scheme is still incomplete. No, Dr. Babky. This
sort of thing is quite behind the times. In thi 8
respect, at least, your Right Reverend brother in
the Lord, Jambs Moorhoose, of Melbourne, is
leagues in front of you, and running strong.
Shall we Hang Johns?
Frank Johns is In Darlingbarst Gaol under sen-
tence of death. He Is a young man of two or
three-and-twenty. When a lad of sixteen, his
head perhaps full of the literature of the dock—
the exploits of Claudi Duval, Paul Clifford,
and Jack Sheppard— he was enticed from home
by a specious ruffian, an old gaol-bird known to
the public and the police as “Captain Moon*
light." Moonlight’s career was short, and not
particularly brilliant. A constable was shot, and
the lad of sixteen being among the would-be
bushrangers, found himself and his companions
facing Judge Windeyeh from the dock one morn-
ing and listening to the death-sentence. The boy’s
youth, coupled with the fact that it was not shown
that be fired the fatal shot pleaded for him. He
was reprieved. For seven years he conducted
himself creditably in gaol. But now again he is
under sentence of death. During bis confinement
an elderly lady of pious proclivities was a constant
visitor at the gaol. She took an interest in the
young convict, and he—he knew little of the
world, having left It when a mere child—fell in love
with her. Prison walls do not shut out gossip.
One of his mates " chaffed ’’ him, whereupon he
Jumped up and buried a knife-a knife he bad con-
cealed and sharpened—in the man. The latter re-
covered. And so Johns is again a tenant
of the condemned cell, awaiting the fiat of the
Executive Council. For some time previously his
manner was so peculiar that the Governor of the
prison thought of putting him under medical sur-
veillance. Oddly enough, he was tried before the
very Judge who, seven years ago, sentenced him
to death. Judge Windeyeb has the reputation of
being stern and unbending. His reputation is in
no danger. Many might think it a heartless thing
to sit, gaudily-attired, on a raised seat, and, in a
roundabout way, if not in so many words, tell the
man before you, whose life was forfeit, that you
regretted he was not banged years ago. Not so
Judge Windeyeb. He is above such puerile
weakness. But still we think Johns should not be
hanged. He could not, by law, be banged in Eng-
land for a similar offence—he would not in Victoria*
But we can give a number of other reasons. To
commence, we do not believe in capital punish-
ment at all—in its necessity or Its efficacy. In two
nations precisely similar in every respect, it is ex-
tremely doubtful whether crime would be less in
the one where capital punishment was common
than in the other where it was unknown. * It is not
the enormity of the punishment, but the cer*
tainty of detection, that deters from crime. Break-
ing on the wheel did not put down murder in pre-
revolutionary Prance, nor did hanging prevent
sheep-stealing and highway robbery in the Eng-
land of George III. It was the railway and the
telegraph that wiped out these offences by ren-
dering arrest almost certain. Had Johns been
hanged seven years ago the other convict would
not have been stabbed to-day. Very likely not—
certainly not by Johns. Bnt this merely shows
the necessity for ordinary caution. Had ordinary
supervision been used in our gaols that captivating
assassin, Mrs. Wilkie, while confined in Darling-
hurst, would not also have borne a child to the son
of one of the prison officials. Nor would ladies,
old or young, religious or sceptical, be suffered to
go at will amongst men so peculiarly situated.
We could enlarge on this, but the foregoing
will do for the present. Thera is at least one
American State where capital punishment has been
abolished, but convicted murderers never get
another chance of committing crime. Should it
ultimately prove that they were Innocent, repara-
tion can be made. And if the death penalty, where
life has actually been taken, f s so open to objection,
how much stronger is that objection where no life
has been lost? Compare the case of Johns with
that of the two greedy women, who. at Maitland,
calmly looked on from day to day while their
victim’s life was slowly ebbing away. What is his
crime to theirs ? Vet they were reprieved only a
week or two ago. On account of their sex ? But
the law knows no distinction of sex when crime is
concerned. It is certain that if Johns had com-
mitted the offence while serving a short term for
petty larceny the death sentence would possibly
never have been passed, and certainly never car-
ried out. But there are officials in New South
Wales who think that the best thing to do with a
vicious convict is to kill him, while, as a psycholo-
gical fact, it is the worst. And there is yst another
aspect of this qu sstion. Prominent public ser-
vants of New South Wales boast,,perhaps with
Justice, that their r scent action la foreign affairs
has brought Australia, particularly this colony,
fairly befofo the w/£fid, l* ranted. The first thing j
the world will do will be to enquire concerning
the Government, customs, manners, and laws of
the distant country that is so desirous of taking its
place among the nations. When strangers find out
that in this young state, so anxious to gain the
world’s good opinion, there exist barbarous laws,
barbarously administered ; that the penalty of
death is enforced in oases which, in other lands,
would be met by imprisonment, and that every
hamlet in the country can boast of its whip-
ping-post where men are flayed for blasphemy
—they will be apt to say, “ You had before
you all the experience gained by us in our
struggles upwards, and yet. Instead of going
forward you prefer to go back.” Let us return to
Johns, Through ram and sludge we saw his
mother—an utter stranger in this colony—walk,
last week, seeking signatures for the reprieve of
her son. The poor woman is a widow, with two
other children. She suffers from heart-disease. She
called on Judge Windeyer, but he could promise
nothing. Nor would ecclesiastical dignitaries re-
spond to the widow’s appeal. Had she lived in
Galileo two thousand years ago, Christ might
have pitied her. But His followers of to-day have
Improved upon their Master. It now remains for
the Executive—(ere this meets the public eyo they
may have spoken)-to say whether the welfare
of society demands a death: whether an execu"
tion, by ending the convict’s punishment and cast-
ing life-long misery—passing sentence of death, in
fact—upon the widow, will conduce to public
safety or to public shame.
Mr. Howard Vincent on his Travels.
Mb. Howard Vincent was a fierce Radical, but
he saw the error of his ways, and has become a
fiercer Tory. “Who is Mr. Howard Vincent,’’
did you say ? He is au ex-detective from Scotland
Yard, who, not long since, married an heiress, and
who has just returned to England from a trip
round the world. He spent some time in Australia,
and tells the Pall Mall Gazette young man that
either Gladstone would have to retire or Aus-
tralasia would set up housekeeping on her own
account. “Not a single public building in Mel-
bourne,’’ this observant policeman says, “would
consent to receive a portrait of the Prime Minister
of England, while th ere was hardly a cabin in the
bush in which Lord Beaconsfield's picture
would not be found.” He thinks that the
neglect of British interests abroad “ can only
lead to the early overthrow of the unity and com-
mercial prosperity of the Empire.” We are not
told why bushmen and bulloek-drivers should be so
fascinated with Disraeli's portrait and look so
scornfully on Gladstone's. It cannot be because
the former was particularly enamoured of the
colonies, for on more than one famous occasion he
wrote of the necessity for letting” those wretched
colonies” drift. Nor can it be on account of his
truthfulness, for no English statesman lived who
could concoct such a dexterous “ story” when it
8 erved his purpose. Had he been in power it is
possible that, not a part alone, but the whole of
New Guinea would be in German possession to-day*
No. The reason of this devotion of gentle and
simple Australian “ Jingoes” to “ Benjamin ” is
the belief that were he alive British ships would
now be blockading Russian ports and British sol-
diers advancing in force on Herat. This is wha 4
the squatters and shepherds of Victoria pine for.
They should remember what Lord Laurence, the
greatest of Governor-Generals, wrote concerning
| an advance into Afghanistan:—
“ But, supposing that Russia has the desire, and
[ possesses the means of making a formidable at-
tack on India—assuming that she can at once place
her affairs in Central Asia on so secure a basis as
to justify her rulers in contending with us for
supremacy In India—all ot which appears to me to
be very problematical, is it our true policy to go
forward to meet her armies ? I should say not.
In that case let them undergo the long and tire-
some marches which lie between the Oxus and the
Indus, let them wind their way through difficult
and poor countries, among a fanatic and courage-
ous population, where, in many places every
mile can be converted into a defensible posi-
tion; then they will come to the conflict, in
which the fate of India will depend, toilworn,
with an exhausted infantry, a broken-down ca-
valry, and a defective artillery. Our troops would
have the option of meeting them either in the
defiles of the mountains, or as they debouched
from the passes, or at the passage of the Indus;
wherever, in short, the genius of our commanders
might dictate. Thirty thousand men placed at
Herat and elsewhere in Afghanistan would have
every disadvantage, and we would have spared
the Russians several hundred miles of marching,
and consequent diminution ot effective numbers,
before they reached us; while our reinforcements
would have a long, weary march, and probably be
harassed, before they could aid our advanced
troops.”
The thriving traders who shout for Beacowsfibld
and a forward movement into Afghanistan should
get off by heart these weighty words written by
one whose keen glance covered the whole field.
It might then appear that the “ Grand Old Man’ ’
was not so cowardly after aU in preferring to
pause even at the risk of having his portrait
thrown out of Melbourne public buildings and
bush-shantlee.
The Dignity of Decrepitude.
If the little drivelling Sydney Echo’s Influence
only equalled its venom, there are no limits to the
mischief it might work. The power, not the will,
is wanting. On the defeat of the Gladstone
Ministry, it was cabled, among other things, that
the Irish members leaped on the seats crying
“CoercionI Btslgnl” To this display of feeling
the Echo contrasts the “ quiet contempt ” of Sir
Stafford Northcote, “that pink of English
courtesy,” and the staid conduct of “more than
500 English gentlemen.” “Coercion,” the Echo
goes on, “ of course they would yell at coercion-
coercion of anything.” There are some men so
constituted, so evenly balanced, that they would
yell at nothing—not even at a stranger in their
wife’s dressing-room. It is to this genus the Echo
belongs. It is such “ bad form,” you know, to pro-
test against a law that allows a ribald soldiery to
break into your house at night, pull your wife and
daughters out of bed, and admire them in their
dishabille, while you are being held down I Still,
admitting the bad taste of yelling “ coercion,” or
anything else, in such a sacred place, it should be
remembered that several times within the last 30
years the “more than five hundred” courteous
and contemptuous gentlemen of the Commons not
only yelled but danced, shook flats and umbrellas
at each other, and clenched their opinions of one
another with expectoration. And similar things
have been seen In French and American assem-
blies. while, when we turn tg colonial legislatures,
what meets our view ? Is there a Parliamentary
session of any Australian legislature during which
the galleries have not at various times to be
cleared, in order that strangers may not witness
Parliamentary blackguardism ? How many times
In Victoria have hon. members in the Speaker’s
hearing gone through the whole gamut of vitu-
peration from “drunkard” and “sneak” up to
“liar” and “thief?” How many times in New
South Wales have representatives of the people
been invited outside the precincts of Parliament
to have their heads punched ? The Echo chiffonier
knew all this, but dirt was to be thrown, and he
was there to throw it. There is nothing In jour-
nalism meaner than this singling out for abuse a
raee which is no better and no worse than its
neighbours.
The Conservative Candidate.
It was on “ Primrose Day ” that Mr. Henniker
Heaton was introduced to the Conservatives of
Canterbury (Eng.) as the prosperous, publlo-
spirited Australian who had crossed the globe to
battle in their cause. Captain Lambert was in the
chair, and introduced Mr, Heaton as a “born
Englishman, of a good old Lancashire family, who,
by his perseverance and great ability, became a
thriving colonist in Australia, and took a promi-
nent part in the equipment of a New South Wales
Contingent to do service in the Soudan.” This
was a good ‘‘send-off ” for Henniker, and, to do
him justice, he took up the running with the same
modest assurance that characterised bis Australian
career. He spoke for some time, and thoroughly
explained to his hearers that, while he respected
Liberalism, and thought Mr. Gladstone a fairly
intelligent person, still, Conservatism was his
sweetheart in adversity, and he would not desert
her now that he had become prosperous. Refer-
ring to his reception, he proudly said, “ In the
name of Australia, I thank you.” Coming from
one who would have had some difficulty in secur-
ing a seat on a suburban committee estab-
lished to enforce the destruction of vagrant
goats and registration of unclaimed dogs, this
“ in the name of Australia ” is more than talent—
it is inspiration. “ When I visited England in 1877 ”
Mr. Heaton went on, ‘‘Thomas Carlyle ap-
peared surprised to learn from me that Australians
were Conservatives.” It is probable that what-
ever Mr, Carlyle’s opinions were concerning
Australians before his interview with Mr. Heaton,
those views were considerably modified after-
wards. We know what he thought about them
before Henniker ventured as far as Chelsea,
but we shall never know what bethought of them
subseq uently—we can only guess. Carlyle knew
a Scotchman who was an uncompromising Radical
—flirted, indeed, with Socialism and land-nationali-
sation—when he bad only a pig, but became a
sturdy Conservative when he got “ a horse and a
cow.” Likely enough, it would require but .'a few
sheep and a working bullock to make this ci-devant
Communist a reactionary of the most unbending
type—one pledged to “ law and order’’—filled with
the conviction that the lower classes must be kept
in their places. “lam constrained to believe,’*
Mr. Heaton continues, “even in opposition to
Shakespeare, that there is a good deal in a
name.” Many people are frightened at the very
name of the divine William— take off their
shoes, so to speak, when they approach his
shrine. Not so H. H. He puts on his thickest
boots. Nothing is too sacred for this proud
Australian to oppose. Henniker caused roars
of laughter by the mordant ridicule he threw on
the bastard Liberalism which thinks “ that it is
possible to get to the top of the ladder with one
bound, and thus avoiding the trouble of going up
securely rung by rung;” which cannot understand
that “men are not birds, and that to try and
mount too rapidly is to make a certain fall.” He
knows better. He thought, no doubt, of the
dreary drudgery he had to go through before
being allowed to put In the Etenino News a para-
graph commencing “cruel hatchet work,” or “a
horse attached to a spring cart.” He was justly
severe on the French Republicans who “in one
day, overthrew a throne and abolished an aristo-
cracy.” These pregnant words caused a flutter in
the “Faubourg de St. Germain.” Still, as the
English showed the way by chopping Charles’
head off and kicking James across the Channel, the
ground was delicate. “ Has anyone ever found in
his own nature that progress upwards was rapid
said Mr. H. to a chorus of “ no, no’s.” This was
certainly true before the introduction of dyna-
mite into politics, but it is being altered. Then he
goes on: “To the first of these changes [the dis-
establishment of the Church] I am altogether op-
posed.” Even on tithes he is sound and will not
budge. But his trump card was the necessity for
Imperial federation, so that England “ might not
sink to the level of another Holland.” He handled,
in a masterly way, the dwellings of the poor, the
French in Tonquin, and the battle of Bunker’ s
Hill. We have said enough to show the extent of
ground Mr. Heaton covered, and those in Sydney
who know him best, while regretting the absence
of his facile pen and burning thoughts from the
police columns of the News, will rejoice that their
loss is England’s gain. We cannot do better than
conclude with a sonnet addressed as follows by
one (the Bard of the Rabbit-drive) who has already
left his mark-a pretty heavy one-on Australian
letters —
“TO J. HENNIKER HEATON. Esq.,
Conservative candidate for the city of Canterbury,
an enterprising and successful colonist of New
South Wales, and a munificent contributor to the
Patriotic Fund with which she is supporting her
Contingent to (he Army of the Soudan, an emi-
nent author and philanthropist, and the untiring
advocate of all Colonial interests.
** Smiling, stout England sees her sons go forth
To seek their fortunes o’er the Southern main;
It proves them worthy of the ancient strain
Which sallied out to conquer from the North.
And loves [she, when they’ve well displayed
their worth,
To hold them to her bosom once again.
Where, if their hearts beat high, they would
remain
Rather than in the softest air of earth.
And Kent is proud of him who hewed his way
In the new land so swiftly, who doth yet.
Though his heart bids him in the old land stay.
The home of his adoption not forget,
But strains his purse to make her burden light
While she sends sons in England’s ranks to fight.
“Douglas B W. SLANDEN
“Author of ‘A Summer Christmas,’ ‘A Poetry of
Exile,’ * Australian Lyrics.’ &c.


Hi Rathe! oi Subscription to The Bulletin
*ra—For one year, 84a.; half-year, 18a. 6d.:
Waiter, 6b. 6d.—In advance.
Kates are 5a. per inch. 1
-Positions In the paper 7a. 6d. per
nw Paragraph advertisements 10a. per Inch.
«.^? unt8 . are allowed on continuous advertise-
«enta ordered for periods- as follows On ad-
ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
i0 p ? r oeQ t' • For 26 consecutive Insertions!
cert °^t : For 52 consecutive Insertions, 36 per
nT.nl- N 9 allowance can be made on advertlse-
ordered for alternate or Intermittent In*
belnoj* Che QRes, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
Payabie to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
cS.* 1, Postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent. If more convenient.
Can a man be charged with cruelty to
animals if he assaults a mule? The Bible says God
created all animals. The mule was invented, not
created. Therefore, it is not an animal. For all
that, it is unwise to assault a mule, unless a person
is weary of this world.
When a genuine article such as Wolfe’s
Schnapps has earned a good name for itself,
nutations spring up.
Captain Walker, <-i i.ie Cahors, may be
said to have made two voyages a week on this
coast since 18541
The wife of a member of the N.8.W. Par-
liament is proceeding for a Judicial separation on
the ground of cruelty.
Mayor Playfair has found that money is
wasted by the Council. Everyone knew that.
Therefore, the Mayor has discovered a mare’s nest.
“The Roll Call.”
THE original of this now famous work of Mrs.
Sutler (net Thompson) has recently been pur-
chased by the Government, and will in future be
one of the features of the £7C00-a-year N.S.W.
National Gallery. We present-the work this week
to our readers (with certain modifications) as a sup-
plement. We felt that Miss Thompson, when she
painted this great military subject, had, with pro-
phetic pencil, foreshadowed an event in the history
of Australia—the return of our own war-scarred
heroes from the Soudan. If this really was the
Mrs. Butler had in her mind's eye, we
must admit that faer original, as it now stands, is
unsatisfactory and incomplete, owing, no doubt,
to the fact that she bad not “caught on” as it
were, to colonial character, and had not authentic
portraits of General Dailey, Sergeant Loftus,
and the Herald correspondent. Our artist (being
5fa the spot) was able to supply them, and we
turned the whole business over to him. He has
been pleased to draw pointed attention to Private
Smith’s renowned toe, and to war-correspondent
Lambie’s no less celebrated leg; and in depicting
these affairs has, no doubt, been Impelled by
Kenlus to follow strictly in the lines laid down by
Miss Thompscn.
THIS WICKED WORLD.
At a suburban Cinderella the night before
she slipped going down stairs, and did the quickest
time on record to the bottom. He, in duty bound-
enquired, when they met, how she felt. “ Oh>
you’ll hardly believe it,” she said, “ but you ought
to see me now, I’m black and blue from head to
foot.” He said he should be delighted. And as
the colour, more brilliant than a Waverley tram
light, illumined her cheek, she discovered that she
did not mean it... A Manchester man willed
£30.000 to his brother, got into difficulties, lost
his money, and died insolvent. He meant well, of
course, but the will was better than the deed...
Mamma (pointing to some unclothed cherubs) :
“Lizzie, if you are a good girl you will go to
heaven and be like those little angels.” Lizzie
(who has a strict sense of propriety): “Weill I
hope I’ll be better dressed than they are.”...Genera 1
Keenan, writing of Alikhanoff,’says: “He was
always a harum-scarum fellow.” The first half
of the adjective refers to his domestic affairs, the
latter part to his treatment of the Afghans
Max O'Bell, author of “John Bull’s Woman-
kind ” is not an Irishman, after all. He is M. Paui
Blonet, a French master at Westminster School,
England. Another injustice to Ireland....
Mrs. Mugwump, in describing her new house,
always alludes particularly to the “ spinal
staircase.” She probably means the back stairs.
— Henry James, the novelist, is strikingly
like the Prince of Wales. Henry must be careful
to keep away from Ireland.... Goaheadativen ess is
the latest addition to the American language
An exchange says: “We believe woman are
every day becoming broader, nobler, higher.”
They certainly are becoming broarder.... A
fashion journal reminds its lady readers that
“Boots and shoes require particular attention
now that they are so much seen.” This seems to
favour the belief that ladies’ dresses are now to
be made a la school-girl This is from Truth:—
“ Oscar Wilde, who favours abolishing the coat and
waistcoat, will, if he keeps on, soon look like a
Society lady in full dress.” We gather from this,
that Oscar does not wear a shlrt-or guernsey....
Dr. Dick, of Melbourne, tells the Victorian Lunacy
Commission, that good liquor is wholly innocuous.
Liquor D, he thinks, injurious only when adulter-
ated. He also objects to the present mode of
treating drunkenness In the law courts. Ho calls
it unjust to fine a man Incapable of resisting drink
as heavily as another who can resist To die
here medical examination and evident
would be necessary. If Dr. Dick bad hiswav
mo r Qll \? 8 Y°K ld be rl ° h harvest
his brother leeches in the metropolitan lockuns
Tyne.foundry (Melb.) bollermakera, who struck
because smoking was forbidden, have resumed 1 It
all began and ended la smoke.... Victoria leads the
H?«?n^KK U8ua ’ 8‘ xp enny telegrams throughout
the Cabbage-garden after 1st July... .The Bulimba
(Q ) Divisional Board have managed to diddle the
Government out of £178 by means of ingenlouall
construe ted accounts, which earned endowment
exceeding that actually due. The Attornev-
General will not prosecute criminally, but insists
upon a refund....Tho Palmer (NVo ) CHaniv?n?»
says some of the local Chinese tfave a funeSI
custom of placing 1 a shilling in the mouth of a
corpse to pay its passage over the River of Death.
This is an outrage. The fare ought to be reduced
to sixpence —To keep the accounts of the city of
Sydney costs, in salaries, over £60 per working
day. A private firm would manage it all, and
manage better, for £35, and no difficulty could be
got In flndiog a contractor to do It Mr. W.
Coote, the N.Q. Territorial Separationlst secretary,
receives a pound a day for his services....Small
boy, to another who is devouring an apple: “ Bay,
Bill, give us a bite.” Bill: “ No fear.” First boy;
‘‘Well, then, leave us the core." Bill: “There
aint going to be no core; so, there 1” A well-
known Atheist, Stephen fiulmer by name, baa left
£1000 to Mr. Bradlaugh. He left his wife only 13s.
a week.
The Return of the Contingent.
Blest be the day that gives us back again
Our native warriors I Tho’ their short campaign
Was not red-writ with blood, yet they displayed
Their power to carry on War’s ghastly trade;
To bear the weary march, the simoom’s breath,
And stand as targets for the marksman Death;
For though their records no stern battles show
Fever and heat fought strongly for the foe.’
Not one of them had power to signalise
Himself, and claim a Playfair’s proffered prize;
Not one by daring deed a place can claim
Upon the rolls of soldier-hero’s fame,
Yet this the verdict let our Muse attest—
“ Bach has done well, for each has done his best I "
Australia wept when Dailey’s voice decreed
Her sons should go to “succour England’s need,”
Or, rather, join a war of Infamy
Which strove to bind “ men struggling to be free,”
And much she grieved that ruthless hand should
stain
A Political Allegory:
THE GIRLS’ FRIENDLY SOCIETY AND SIR ALEXANDER.
Her ’scutcheon with the blood of patriots slain—
That this, the foremost of her foreign wars,
Should be to aid so infamous a cause.
Yet not the less she praised the fearless zeal
Of those who, deeming that the nation’s weal
Asked for their help, joined with the generous
band
Who took up arms at Dailey’s mad command.
For well she thought, “ If such response can be
Evoked by spurious, shameful loyalty,
What deep devotion shall my sons display
When purest Patriotism leads the way! ”


Personal Items
“Lord Clanmorrls,” says Vanity Fair,
* ‘ la about to Btart on a trip to AustraliaJoy I
Sir Samuel Wilson has, we are told, the
entree to Lord Salisbury’s inner circle. Surely he
will now get a peerage.
Governor Rohinson has published two new
Bongs. The melodies are spoken favourably of by
the musical authorities of Melbourne and Ade-
laide. D’ye think our new New South Wales
Governor is doing nothing ? Why his new
regimen for brahmapootras ii a perfect success.
Mr. H. Gullett (for the last 13 years editor
of Thb Australasian) is coming to Sydney as a
leading member of the staff of the Daily Tele-
OBAfh. And, as Mr. Alexander Britton, sub-
editor of the Argus, is to join the 8.M. Herald
shortly, Melbourne will, journalistically, soon bo
cleaned out.
Five years ago some visitors to Berrima
Gaol were allowed to see a prisoner who was
doing his “ solitary confinement,” and the opinion
of each of them was that if he were not then mad
he soon would be made so by his punishment.
That prisoner was Williams, alias Johns, who has
just been sentenced to death for the second time
In his life.
Mr. Lewis Scott dates a letter he writes to
the D.T. from “ Cottingham,” We should like to
see this ancestral pile exceedingly. We saw a
place labelled “ Mount Orgueil ” once, which was
Just about the size of the box into which we cast
our turnip-peel and cigar-ends. There is a lot in
a name, anyhow. That’s why, when we move into
that nice little damp three-roomer on the flats at
Annandale, we shall most probably call it “ Nlty-
Nlty Villa.” Ya-as.
To act greatly, while life is fresh and hope
radiant, is not hard. It is hard to hold the spirit
up and be brave when one’s fortune has tumbled
down on all sides and health is irrevocably gone.
General Grant lying on his death bed, for despite
recent reports his days will be few, is silll the
great soldier and the large-hearted man. It is not
the pain of tbe terrible cancer that most affects
him; It Is the excessive demands his helpless con-
dition makes on those who have to care for him.
“I want to go,” he keeps saying; “I would be
glad for them to be free.”
Perkins, ex-Minister of Lands (Queens-
land), was a passenger by the ill-fated Gabors. He
has been wrecked four times in four years, and
baa greatly distinguished himself on each occasion.
His reputation as a Jonah is so great that two
saloon passengers were nearly refusing to travel
In the Cahors when they saw him on board at
Sydney. One of the Brisbane papers predicts that
the steamship companies will soon refuse to carry
him; and there are hundreds of people up North
who, out of sheer superstition, would absolutely
decline to travel in the same steamer with the ex-
Minister.
We are sorry to see that Captain Willows,
veterinary surgeon to the Contingent, died of
typhoid fever on board the Arab, and was
buried at sea. “ Here’s a form of will, my friend,”
■aid to him a well-known Sydney solicitor just ere
tbe troops left; “you’d better fill it up. for one
can’t tell what may happen.” “Come and have a
glass of wine for the last time,” half jocularly ex-
claimed another friend to the strangely deferential
and taciturn little man with the melancholy
name. “ My dear fellows,” remarked Willows, “ I’ll
be back in no time, and shall bring you lots of
medals.” Such is life I
It is sad to record that the best and
brightest of modern English dramatists, Henry J.
Byron, has achieved what may prove his greatest
success by a work which has only seen the light
after his death. “ Open House ” has not a dull
moment In It from start to finish, and is as amusing
as, and of better class work, than “Our Boys.
Here is a sample line, which is worth a whole
barrel-full of the laboured witticisms which we
hear in the theatres. One of the characters,
speaking of a dead man, quotes: “ De mortuis nil
nisi bonus.” “Bonum,” somebody correctly in-
terposes. “Well,” is the reply, “the life insur-
ance people call it ‘ bonus,’ and they ought to
know.
The much-travelled R. 8. Smythe is again
coming our way. This time he brings along Dr.
J B. Taylor, the well-known writer and lecturer
on natural history subjects. Dr. Taylor is a young
man of 44 or 45 years of age, with, it is said, ability
to handle a topic well on the platform, and with,
as most people know, very high skill with the pen.
When barely of age, he published a volume on the
“ Coalfields of Great Britain.” From that time till
the present he has always had something in the
Press. He is a rapid workman. He writes for
several magazines and reviews, and for the last 12
years has edited Science Gossip. Articles from
him appear also occasionally in the colonial Press.
He will take Melbourne on his way from Adelaide,
and will then give Sydney a taste of his quality.
Lord Augustus Loftus, with all his deep
sagacity and diplomacy, has never managed to hit
it with the R.C. Archbishops. Just after the late
Dr Vaughan had finished arranging his big library
and museum at St. John’s College, His Excellency
nald him a visit. Roger Bede, with some little
nrlde showed the distinguished visitor over the
Institution, specially pointing out some capital
oaintings and a collection of interesting library
curiosities. The illustrious diplomatist maintained
a profound silence like unto the uncommunicative
ovster, and never a compliment paid he. At the
door with one of his accustomed strokes of bril-
liancy Augustus turned to Roger Bede and
patronlslngly remarked. “Ah, Archbishop, you
seem to have a very nice p ace here-plenty nice
irraas and some nice cows I” Now, If this is not
diplomacy, what is it ?
The Rev. J. F. Horsley, who has been play-
ing the part of literary apostle of Barkerlsm this
rounle of years back In Victoria, has broken out
in a fresh place. When he went over to Barkeriam
he declared the Salvation Army alone was capable
of doing a good stand-up tight with Satan. The
Maior was proud of him, and giving him a pot of
oaste a pair of scissors, and a slap on the back,
told kim to make the War Cry hum. Now,
Horsley, “ late of the Salvation Army,” lets up on
the old system. He says there are people In little
bush towns all over Australia that are going right
down to the bottomless pit, and that Barkerism is
utterly incapable of lending any aid. He has,
therefore, started out on his own, hook. He calls
his system “ The Gospel War.” He will lend aid
to those people in the little bush towns. In the
meantime, he wants aid. This is Bacterian evolu-
tion. Or is it Barkerlan ?
Dr. L. L. Smith, of Melbourne, has deter-
mined to slide gracefully down the incline. In
defiance of all the great Berry’s efforts, the ambi-
bltlous medico crept, inch after inch, foot after
foot up to the Presidency of the Victorian Vine-
growers’ Association. The Indian and Colonial
Exhibition to be held in London was just a yard
or so ahead. Berry was again defied, and the per-
severing creeper, who, in his advertisements, says
no one should get married without consulting
him, began the final crawl. He wanted to go to
London. Berry slyly hinted that Victorians who
want to marry would be gravely inconvenienced
If such a thing were permitted. Word followed
word. At last Apothecary Smith, recognising the
fitness of things, throws up the idea of London,
throws up the presidency of the vine-growers, and
turning about, begins to slide away down the hill,
quitting the high lands of dignity and honour. It
Is to be upped HQ one will get in his road. Let him
Jllde.
Colonel Smith is one of the members for
Ballarat. Wo forget the number of his boots—two
probably. He was Minister for Education in a late
Administration, and used to spell “ recommend ’
with one “m,” and “antil** with two 1 8. It is told
of him that he put these remarks in one State
school he visited and was dissatisfied with:—
“ Dlssiplin dissatisf actory—pensils to short." At all
events, during the time he bossed that Department
more good-looking young women got billets as
teachers (the Major, he was only Major then,
examined them), and more ugly female school-
marms got posts in the Benevolent Asylum, than
during any former rigimc. There is an hotel at
Ballarat called Craig’s. Colonel Smith presided
there the other day “ at a meeting of the most
notable gentlemen of Ballarat,” to present purses,
containing 30 sovereigns each, to “ two young
ladies who had honoured the house by officiating
as barmaids.” The presentations were given 4 as
marks of esteem for courtesy and civility invari-
ably displayed.” Next to being a Ballarat nugget,
we’d like to be a Ballarat bar-maid.
Ellen Terry, the most brilliant living
exponent of Shakespearian comedy, though twice
married, is now, for the first time in her life, a
widow. Charles Kelly, successor to Watts, R A ,
as lawful husband of the fair artiste, has played
his last part, and journeyed to that region whore
ghosts walk every day of the week. Ellen was
awfully ’‘gone ” on her second choice in the ante-
nuptial days, when she lived in retirement in k
Northern suburb of|London, and gave small supper
parties to a select circle of admirers. 41 Charlie
was her hero until the knot was tied, and t hen he
became that most objectionable of all appendages
-a jealous husband. After his wife took to wor-
shipping at the shrine of the divine Irving, Charles
Kelly took to drink. Perhaps that prevented him,
in a measure, from ever attaining the permanent
success as an actor to which his grand talents
should have entitled him. He was, in the opinion
of the 44 perfesh”—not that that always goes for
much—a genius, and many playgoers endorsed the
verdict of his brethren. An actor of the low-
voiced “ reserved force” school, Kelly could ren-
der emotional passages with singular power, and
If his better half had seen her fair way to casting
in her professional lot with “ hubby,” he might
have made a great name for himself. <
It was too bad to laugh so scornfully when
an unlucky footballer had to be hustled Into a cab
the other day in Moore Park. “ What ails him ?”
“Burst up behind, yer banner?” was the reply.
The same thing happened to Tongan royalty not
long ago, and the savage counterpart of the man
in the cab is worth a note. Prince Gu, or Wel-
lington, as everyone called him, was the hero.
Poor fellow, he died very suddenly a week or two
agol It was a gala cricket match, and the critical
Europeans were in full force. Gu, in full British
costume, was got up to kill. He was a splendidly
built fellow, 6ft. 41n. high, and sound in wind and
limb. When the fun was at its height, Gu broke
from the throng, laid hold of a native basket full
of cocoa-nuts, emptied out the nuts, and sat down
In the basket. With the gravity of a man lately
civilised, he surveyed the field and intimated to
his attendants to make his excuses to the Euro-
Eeans on the ground. After a time they brought
1m a “ vala ” which he fastened round his loins,
and, with as much dignity as our footballer in hla
cab, the heir-apparent to the Throne strode home.
Several of the Australian dailies had war
correspondents in the Soudan. What of that ?
The Suburban Times, Redfern (N.S.W ), has had
four, and their letters contain volumes of infor-
mation. True, they are only amateurs—they lay
down the pipeclay to take up the pen; but, as the
Times ventures to assert, their notes are all the
more valuable for that reason. From one of these
productions we cull the information that General
Graham “reviewed us on Tuesday, the 31st., and
afterwards told us (before we marched to camp)
that the men were very well —that we coveted a
great many faults made by the officers, so that was
one for us.” And “ one ” of another sort for the
officers. Another correspondent seems to possess
a pendulous pair of ears, for he writes;—“ A bullet
whistled past my ear, almost touching jne, and
BtfUpk the ground at nay tost.” Ttjif yaUa^t
warrior should tie his ears round hla waist before
he goes into action, and not allow them to trail on
the ground at his feet. But after so nearly obtain-
ing an ear-mark, can you wonder that he walls:—
“ I would like to see the war ended to-morrow,
and return to Australia."
The little Figaro, a London paper (much
and admiringly quoted by the Sydney dailies),
tells us a good deal of Lord Carlngton. That
his Lordship has been a boon companion
of the Prince of Wales is rather against him
than otherwise. Valentine Baker was also one
of the Princes set. So was Lord Aylesford.
And there were a good many others, male and
female, who were never heard of by the public,
except through the divorce court. And now for a
little Figaro slip-slop:—“It would never da to
send Mr. John Smith, of whom nobody had ever
heard, to rule a great and growing colony—the
colonists can produce plenty of John Smiths. The
fact that Lord Carlngton is a nobleman, a friend of
the Prince of Wales, a cousin of Lord Rosebery,
and a personage at Court, counts—it counts con-
siderably. It is the fashion to deprecate titles in
print, though the Radical hatred of a lord is often
disguised in the drawing-room by fulsome flat-
tery.” Now, what does all this mean, considering
that the Caringtons are simply Smiths ? Cali a
man John Smith, if you like, but don’t send him to
govern a colony till you’ve changed his name and
given him a title! We’ve heard many hard things
said of N. S. Wales and of Australia, but this is the
hardest of all. Is it true? Alas! Yes.
Four or five years ago, Mr. Edward
Nesbitt was a promising young limb of the
law in Adelaide. He was svorn in as soli-
citor, and began to make fame and money.
But he started to lecture. Friends told him
he could do it. He sailed round to Mel
bourne. He started to lecture there also. How
he did go on in the Town Hall and Temperance
Hall about a year ago I The audience used to help
him. Sometimes he would talk very fast for
a while, and run short of breath. Then he would
ask some civil-looking hearer in the body of the
f St,
hall to oblige with a song while he was coming
round. He was particular as to dates, and scrupu-
lously honest. When he forgot such a point as the
day of the month on which Queen Anne died, he
would ask the inoffensive people in front for help.
If they failed, he aeked to be excused while he ran
down to the Public Library to hunt the matter up.
One night, when he uad stayed away too long, and
the audience manifested Impatience by sundry
noises, they were brought to by finding that Mr.
Nesbitt was addressing them from an elevation at
the back. Well. weUl He had to be put in a luna-
tic asylum last week down in Melbourne. Should
not the example dissuade? Listen, you men who
lecture in the Sydney School of Arts* For some of
you there may still be time.
When our mind is overwrought with the
monotonous conventionality of civilisation, we
turn to the North Queensland papers for relief.
In those sultry districts the spur of equity, ac-
cording to Judge Lynch, is occasionally jabbed
into the flank of Justice, and more regard is paid
to the art of Foley than to all the science of Black-
stone. May town was the last place where this
amateur Court of Equity sat. The defendant was
a man named Crozhur; all the other officials of the
Court were concentrated in the person of the local
banker. Crozhur was summoned by the bank ac-
countant and charged by the Court with publishing,
or causing to be published, a libel reflecting on the
Court, whose name was Davis. He demurred, but
was either found guilty of libel or contempt, and
the Court, whose weight is said to be 14 stone, pro-
ceeded to sit on him, and, as it is stated, kicked
and otherwise maltreated him. The defendant es-
caped from custody, or rather Davis, and appealed
to the Petty Sessions Court, where the judgment
was reversed, and the financier called upon to pro-
duce shekels to the extent of £4 10s. Then Crozhur
moved for a fresh trial in the newspapers, and, at
latest dates, the pens were at work with such
vigor as to make it appear probable that the horse-
whip would again be called in to arbitrate between
the parties. Our Queensland contemporaries
playfully dejicribQ tfcls affair as the MaytQVfQ !ffl-
brogUq,*
William Pritchard Morgan, of North
Queensland and general celebrity, who la shining
in aristocratic circles in London just now, was
chatting a few weeks back to a passie beauty and
telling her about Australia. He round her densely
Ignorant of everything except the fact that all
things here were upside down. So W. P. M. pro-
ceeded to “ stuff ” the fashionable goose. He told
her the sun rose in the West and that the prevail-
ing colour of the moon was a luminous green. He
told her gold actually grew imbedded in the trunks
of trees, and that (as Mark Twain has it) the
turnip-crop is gathered by climbing up the tree
and shaking down the fruit. And so on, and so
on. The old lady believed it all. But, after he
had left off “ gagging” her, and the conversation
was serious, the topic of sheep and cattle farms
cropped up. “ We have a large farm,” observed
the lady, “ and it has quite 100 cattle upon it, and
three or four hundreds of sheep. It is quite 600
acres in extent.” “Madam,” replied Morgan,
“ some of our large sheep-and-cattle breeders own
over 1000 square miles of country and half a-mil-
lion of sheep.” “ Now, sir, I know you’re deceiv-
ing me. I know better than to believe that. You’re
an impertinent fellow to come here with your
falsehoods.” A.nd she swept out of the room.
That was the only true statement Morgan had
made to her. She greedily swallowed all bis fabri-
cations, but she couldn't believe that.
General Grant was ill. He had “ epithelial
cancer,” and all the doctors said his early death
could be the only termination of the malady. But
begot better; the surgeons suddenly discovered
that he might live for a long while. And this is
the style in which the profession Is handled by the
8.F. Newsletter:— 1 “ What shall be done with
those New York doctors ? What manner of
punishment shall be meted out to this gang of
muddle-headed scientists, who a few weeks ago
gave the whole world to understand that General
Grant’s first-class ticket to the grave was duly
punched, and that the distinguished traveller
might take his departure at any moment? The
editors throughout the length and breadth of
this glorious land have suffered injuries in mind
and pocket which a thousand gibbetings would
not expiate. Who has kept their columns open
until gray dawn, waiting for the sad news of
Grant’s demise ? The doctors. Who has led to
columns upon columns of obituary matter stand-
ing idle for weeks? The doctors. Who has
brought to their sanctums hosts of weeping poets,
staggering under their load of dirges ? The doc-
tors. May Satin fly away with these long-eared
dabblers in prescriptive Latin, who in a few
weeks hence will call upon the nation to pay their
bills. That Grant has recovered despite their
malignant ministerlngs and lying bulletins, is the
most remarkable proof of the old hero’s vitality
yet adduced.”
The Melbourne Age has burst out into
howls of rage because New South Wales got the
big share of the so-called Birthday “ Honours.”
Now, if a certain story is true, that journal, which
ought to be well informed, should not be one bit
surprised at what has happened. Let us throw the
information into the form of a parable. Some
time ago Lord Rosebery, one of the most influ-
ential of the Liberal peers, paid a visit to Australia
in company with his wife, nee Rothschild. While
he was in Victoria a paragraph appeared In the
newspapers to the effect that Lady Rosebery had
been shown over Parliament House by Mrs. X and
Mrs. Z, the wives of prominent politicians.
That was an unfortunate par., for the very next
day Lord Rosebery received a letter from Mr. X’s
brother-in-law stating the person who had
escorted Lady Rosebery was not Mr. X’s real wife
—that that lady, the writer’s sister, was living
apart from her husband. Lord Rosebery having
made enquiries, replied to this note very politely,
and informed the writer that the paragraph was
not correct, and that the lady in question had not
escorted his wife through the buildings. At the
same time the irate brother-in-law sent a similar
letter to Lord Derby, and that Minister replied to
it through his private secretary. At this stage
Mr. X’s knighthood seems to have come to an
end, for we hear from London at the time that the
knighthood had actually been passed by the Im-
perial Cabinet, but it does not appear to have gone
further. Of course, from a flunkeylsh point of
view, it is “very hard lines” for Virtorla,
but it’s all her own fault. As to Mr. Z, pro-
bably the fact of his wife keeping company with
the alleged pseudo Mrs. X damaged him. It s very
easy to throw stones and turn up the whites of our
eyes with holy horror at such things, but those
who know the full particulars feel quite as much
sympathy for Mr, X as for his “ real ” wife. His
own father, who was a pious man, and knew the
facts, thoroughly condoned his son’s fault, and
lived with him, so that the error could not have
been all on one side.
At 6 p.m. on Wednesday week the A.8.N.
Co.’s splendid steamship Cahors was stranded on a
reef about midway between the heads of the
Richmond and Clarence Rivers, where she
still remains. Happily no lives were lost.
The cause of the occurrence has yet to be
determined by an official enquiry, but meanwhile
the utmost sympathy is felt for the Cahor’s vete.
ran commander, Captain David Walker, who for
33 years has “gone down to the sea in ships,” and
who has, all along, enjoyed a personal popularity
such as is rarely accorded eyan to a seaman.
The “ Converted Irishman ” in the Sydney
War Cry gives a soul-stirring and graphic account
of his “fall into the founting” at one of the
Harmy meetings, after a life of more than average
gaiety, interspersed with lively whisky bouts,
peeler-belting escapades, and slmllarpleasautrles.
We like to see these legends in the War Whoop,
because they bring up old memories. We once
knew a converted Irishman, and we reckon that
he was a fair specimen of. the regenerate sinner.
His name was ,l Tip” M‘Grath, the front portion
of which modesty referred to his birth place in the
“ Quid Sod.” “ Tip ” was a noted “ karacthur ” on
the Victorian diggings, about a quarter of a cen-
tury ago, and his appearance on a new rush was a
sure signal for a riot. His strong suit was “jump-
ing,” and if a piece of good ground were in
dispute he was never too nice about using a pick-
handle—or, for the matter of that, the soft end of
a steel drill—in backing up his claim to the pro-
prietorship. It is on record that, on one occasion,
Tip had some little difficulty with a Chinaman,
relative to the title of the latter to a claim on a
rich lead at Daisy Hill, and when the Chinkie, who
could show a better right to the gn.und than the
“jumper,” refused to budge from his position, the
playful Tip pinned him to the mother earth by
sending a driving-pick through one of the Celes-
tial’s feet into the virgin soil underneath. After a
while, however, these little adventures began to
pail 90 the WU4 Tipperary man, and, not unaided
WOMAN!
Says the Morpeth Times:—“In order to give employment to ladies of business
habits, American firms have resorted to a very ingenious movement in having their
houses represented by female travellers, and considerable success has attended the
enterprise. We can readily understand the engaging manner with which ladies would
wheedle out orders from the most crusty of shopkeepers, and obtain for the same hand-
some prices. We understand it is the intention of Messrs. G. H. V. Beckmann and Son
to shortly engage the services of several ladies to represent them in the ladies’ depart-
ment in the Northern districts. The experiment will undoubtedly be a novelty in
Australia, but we believe it will be a profitable one. We fail to see why a woman
should not be as well able to transact business as a man; and we may rest assured that
none will be put on the road, unless they are competent for the position. This speaks
well for the enterprise ofithe firm.”
FEMALE COMMERCIAL TRAVELLER (Loq .); “NOW, MB. SOLOMON, WHAT CAN I DO
FOB YOU TO-DAY?”


DR.SCOTT'S
s n
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by the
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continental
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial ?
If you have any pain, ache, or ill-feeling
from any cause; if you seem “pretty well,
yet lack energy and do not “feel up to the
mark;” if you suffer from disease, we beg
you to at once try these remarkable cura-
tives. They cannot and do not injure like
medicine. Always doing good, never barm.
There is no shock or sensation felt in wear-
ing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results; electro-magnetism acts quickly,
generally the first week, more frequently
the first day, and often even during the
first hour they are worn their wonderful
curative powers are felt.
The mind becomes active, the nerves and
sluggish circulation are stimulated, and all
the old-time health and good-feeling oume
back. They are constructed on scientific
Erino'ples, imparting an exhilarating,
ealth-giving current to the whole system.
Professional men assert that there is hardly
a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily
practise the same, as your own physician
will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearance
from those usually worn, as we substitute
our flat steel magnetods in place of the
ordinary corset-steels. They are all equally
charged, differing only in quality and design.
They are elegant in shape and finish, made
after the best French patterns, and war-
ranted satisfactory in every respect. Those
who have tried them say they will wear no
others. Most of the above applies equally
to the Electric Belt for gents.
s»S
m
Dr. Scott’s Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &o., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all other remedies (so-
called) have failed.
The prices are as follows
s. d.
6 6
No. 1
No. 3 .. .. ... 8 6
No. 3 .. .. 10 6
No. 5 .. .. .. 15 0
Electric Belts.. .. .. 15 0
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Blectrio-Magnetio
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.^
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece ef common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can he made by cheque,
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
WL
B4 Margaref-street,
SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 221.
A POPULAR MINSTREL MADE HAPPY;
OR, FROM JEST TO EARNEST.
“ For seven years,” writes Mr. Horace Bent, of
the Federal Minstrels, ‘‘I have suffered from an
acute neuralgic affection of the right knee and
rheumatic gout, which became so severe during
our season at the ‘ Gaiety ’ in September, ’83, that
was obliged to rellnguish the active duties of my
profession and keep my room for a couple of days.
I had tried several strong liniments at various
times, some of which gave me partial relief. In
the course of my lecture and sketches I had fre-
quently mentioned, jocularly, St. Jacobs Oil; but
it never occurred to me to apply It to my own ail-
ments until a friend who happened to be in my
room whilst I was complaining of Intense pain re-
minded me of its claims, and sent out for a bottle
right away. I used a little of it Immediately, and
found Instant relief, repeating the application
again later on in the evening. From that night I
have never felt either the neuralgic affection of
the knee or the rheumatic gout return, and I
would have sent you this acknowledgment earlier
but I thought it best to thoroughly establish the
permanence of the effect; and have to subscribe
myself a firm believer in the virtues of St. Jacobs
Sold by all chemists and druggists in N.8.W.
price 3s. 6d. per bottle.
Smokers whose indulgence in the weed
is continuous should use such a.cordial as Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Mashers.— The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 663 Goorge-stroet, Brickfield Hill.*
On the day of the arrival home of the
troops it is expected that the crowd will be so
great near the Joint Stock Bank that many persons
intending to view the display of the beautiful
articles from Britain and the Continent that are
on duty at the showrooms of Bray Bros., will
suffer disappointment.*
The public should be no longer duped by
cheap fiery compounds imitations of Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
MacLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 George-street,
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &c.*
Mb. DiOoubot Browni (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Booh,”
"Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and "Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 53 Castle-
reagh-streot, Sydney, Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, tar Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
A NEW DISCOVERY.—Hoffman’s Euoalyptol
(legistered) “ Mixture and Injection.” They will
positively cure all kidney diseases and disorders,
all urinary complaints and discharges, irritation,
scalding, Inflammation, gravel, pains In the back,
&c. A case Incurable In nine months was actually
cured In eight days with Hoffmann’s Eucalyptol
Injection (“ purely vegetable ”). Hoffman's Eu-
oalyptol Mixture or Injection contain no mineral,
no sandalwood, no balsam, or anything Injurious
to the most delicate constitution of either sex.
Ask for Hoffman’s, and take no substitute.
Wholesale: E. Prosser and Co.; Elliott Bioi. Re-
tail : All principal chemists and storekeepers
Price, 2a. fld. and 3s. 6d.*
by a few kindly hints from the authorities—
usually taking the shape of a three months’
•• stretch ” — he determined/Ion turning over
a new leaf, with the laudable intention of
“making his sowl,” as he quaintly expressed
It. We have a lively recollection of Tip’s
first visit to a Wesleyan Little Bethel, some-
where out Sebastopol way, from Ballarat. He
was sitting demurely in a seat near one of the
side windows listening to a stirring dissertation on
the trouble In store for the damned, which were
luridly described by a Cousin Jack lay preacher,
who had previously won a wager of £5 and the
championship in a praying contest with the pick
of the Kohinoor mullock-punchers. Then Tip
began to realise the depravity of his nature, and,
being unable to suppress his excited feelings
any longer, he delivered himself of a wild
“hurroo” that startled the congregation worse
than a snort from Gabriel’s trumpet, jumped
clean through the window, taking the sash with
him, and proceeded at a reckless pace for the
nearest pub. After such a fair start on the road
to glory, it can easily be imagined that Tip's con-
version would be only a matter of time, and, next
time we heard of him, he was expounding the
Scriptures to the hardy miners on one of the West
Coast rushes, New Zealand. But Tip never at-
tained such successful results In the mission-field
as he used to effect In the jumping arena. His
erstwhile companions of the pick and shovel,
not to say the flowing bowl, would not catch
on to his Gospel p eddling, and after a short so-
journ In Maoriland, he returned to Australia. For
a while he shed the light of his countenance over
some of his old haunts on the Victorian diggings,
but he fell away from grace, and finally drifted to
Rlverlna—the home of the dead-beat. There he
joined that noble body of voyagers known as the
“ Murrumbidgee Whalers,” and eventually he
pegged out his last claim on the banks of that
fertilising stream somewhere in the neighbour-
hood of Darlington Point, about six or seven years
ago. Tip was a man ahead of his time. Had he
been among the quick when the Salvation forces
took the field in Australia, he would have by now
—if, in the meantime, he hadn’t been brained with
a tomahawk—contested the position of General
Booth, or have knocked the stuffing out of every
converted Irishman in the Harmy. As it is, if Tip
gets half a slant, he’ll locate a big section of the
golden streets of the New Jerusalem as a pro-
specting area, or take it up under a mining lease.
At last New South Wales is to have (in
Lord Carington) a Governor who, If not an avowed
Radical himself, has acted all along as if he sym-
pathised with Radicalism. This will be a sad blow
to many. The idea of a man with a title and ever
so many thousands a year entertaining views on
the land question closely allied to those of Mr.
Chamberlain and Mr, Bradlaugh is simply Inex-
plicable to those men who dummied millions of
acres by means of convalescents and swagsmen.
On the subject of the franchise, too, his lordship’s
views—according to N.8.W. Conservatives—are
hopelessly unsound. They would restrict, he
would enlarge it. He did all in his power to aid
the reform agitation at home, which resulted in
the enfranchisement of a couple of millions of
men. and which, within a year or two, will lead to
manhood suffrage, and sound the death-knell of
the monarchical system—for, when every British
citizen has the same electoral privileges as every
American or Australian citizen, the House of
Lords will first be rendered impotent and then
abolished; all titles will be extinguished, and even
the Crown Itself be swept away. During his three
years in the Commons, all Lord Carington’s votes
were on the Liberal side. The same In the Lords
during his attendance there. Unlike most of his
order, he sees that the endeavour to stop Demo-
cracy Is on a par with carrying water in a sieve.
And so he endeavours not to obstruct but to
guide.
King Kalnkaua, of the Sandwich Islands,
cannot help being a good man. His ancestors ate
so much missionary in their time that it worked into
their systems, and was transmitted to their des-
cendants The daughter of a publican in West-
ern Victoria is proceeding against a recently-
married member of the Southern Parliament for
breach of promise. She wants a big sum to settle.
...Tobias Clements, the well-known Melbourne
caterer, recently deceased, left £18,566 . Thomas
D. Jennings, of Hobart, is the champion fat man
of Australasia. He comes of a large-framed York-
Bhire family, stands 5ft. is 601n. around the
chest, and weighs 33st. 3lb. For 25 years he was
“ a Jolly young waterman ” on the Derwent River,
and, though he always led an active and temperate
life, he gradually fell into flesh. He is a widower,
with a strong inclination for another run in double
harness.
♦ * •
Vanity Fair says Bismarck’s income is
now In all £25,000 annually. ...The King of Slam, a
beneficent monarch who has not yet celebrated
his 20th birthday, is already the—more or less-
happy father of no fewer than 263 children. If
this is so, the Siamese are to be congratulated upon
their absence of any cause for anxiety with regard
to the Royal succession....At a recent London
sale a long and interesting letter of Charles Lamb
brought £1315s. This was one of the neatest pass-
ages “ Shelley, the great atheist, has gone down
by water to eternal fire; Hunt and his young
fry are left stranded at Pisa to be adopted
by the remaining duumvir. Lord Byron, his
wife and six children, and their maid. What
a cargo of Jonahs if they foundered, tool” A
Vienna lady of 65 haa suicided on account of
“disappointed love.”....Henry Irving, the actor,
la going to stand for Parliament....Concerning
Lord Tennyson’s verses on the British fleet, an
American paper remarks that: “If the condition
of the British fleet is as bad as the poetry, it’s no
wonder England hesitates about going to war—
“The Duke of Edinburgh,” says a home paper,
“ is a most indifferent speaker. To listen to him
attempting to give a lucid account of himself at a
meeting, banquet, or other gathering, is distressing
In the extreme. He gets his sentences Into a hope-
lessly entangled state, and ultimately collapses,
after having grown palpably hot and horribly ner-
vous, and made his listeners sympathetically un-
comfortable.”— Earl Clanwilllam, with whom the
sons of the Prince of Wales came to Aus-
tralia, will probably succeed Admiral de Horsey
in command of the Channel Squadron Dr.
Russell asserts that the Prince of Wales is a
neat and effective public speaker. The Prince
must have improve]. Some years ago Dr. Rus-
sell complained that as a speech-writer in ordinary
to the future King of Ragland it was a continual
trial to him to get up speeches so short that the
Prince would learn and remember them.... It is
reported (probably on tho authority of Archibald
Forbes) that Sarah Bernhardt’s health is at last
completely ruined, and that she is only supported
through her nightly performances of ** Theodora”
by the frequent use of the most powerful stimu-
lants. Bernhardt herself is quite willing to He
down and die, but her creditors will not permit it,
and furnish her with relays of physicians, who
force life into her whenever her once invincible
frame begins to fail ...Thehealth of the Emperor
of Germany is said to be faiUng rapidly. He was
not allowed by his physicians to visit Queen Vic-
toria at Darmstadt— Pierre Carme, the celebrated
French billiardlst who visited Australia some years
ago, is destitute and dying in Mexico city. In 1881,
he says, he was worth 200,000 dol. (made at the
Cape diamond mines) which he has since lost in
speculation The News (of course) announces
that “Mrs. F. M. Bates, whose husband was
murdered in the Royal Park, Melbourne, is play-
ing at the New York Standard Theatre.” Poor
Bates 1 Tho mystery of his death has never been
satisfactorily cleared up; neither, by the way,
have the authoiities yet puzzled out tho identity
of our old friend the “stabber.”
To the Australian Public.
Six years ago we began the manufacture and
sale in the United States of Warner's Safe Cure,
Safe Diabetes Cure, Safe Pills, and other Safe
Remedies. The senior member of this firm, at
that time, bad acquired a very large capital In
the sale of fire and burgler-proof safes. In 1870
he went to Rochester, N.Y.. and in ten years, by
severe application to business, he found himself a
millionaire; but the intens e application, so charac-
teristic in American business, seriously under-
mined his health, and in 1879 his physician stated
he could not live six months. He was prostrated
with very severe, and by many physicians said to
be incurable, kidney disorder ; he himself did not
expect to recover. Providentially, however, he
happened upon the medicine now known as
Warner’s Safe Cure, and, sceptical of any benefit,
he began its use, In three months he was fully
restored to health.
Out of gratitude for his unexpected recovery,
and knowing that serious Kidney and Liver dis-
orders were not treated readily by the remedies
of physicians, he determined to devote a portion
of his accumulated capital to the spreading of
the merits of this wonderful Remedy before the
world. The formula and preparations constitut-
ing Warner’s Safe Remedies were carefully
analysed, and not until found to be purely vege-
table and free from mercury, poisonous and
deleterious substances, did Mr. Warner consent to
their manufacture. His conviction, that acquaint-
ance with tho merits of Warner’s Safe Cure would
necessarily create an extraordinary demand for lt f
was prophetic—the sales in the United States,
Great Britain, and Canada aggregate six hundred
thousand pounds per year—and there are thousands
of people to-day living In the best of health who
would long since have been dead had not Mr*
Warner selected this humane method of rendering
return for the benefit he himself had received. In
obedience to this purpose we have opened a labor-
atory and warehouse at 147 Little Lonsdal e-street
west, Melbourne, Australia, and are prepared to
supply a proportionate demand for the people in
this section of the globe of our extraordinary
valuable preparations.
During the past five years we have published
testimonials of thousands of cures from the first
people In the United States, Canada and England,
Including physicians, clergymen and barristers,
and for three years have put out a standing re-
ward of one thousand pounds to any person who
could successfully dispute the genuineness of
these testimonials, and this reward no one has yet
attempted to claim. We guarantee:
First.—That Warner’s Safe Remedies are pure,
harmless and effective.
Second.—That the testimonials that we use, as
far as we know, are bona-fide, with a forfeiture
of one thousand pounds proof to the contrary.
Third.—That Warner’s Safe Cure, Safe Diabetes
Cure and Safe Pills are not merely temporary but
permanent in their curative effects, and will sue-
tain every claim made for them if used sufficiently
and as directed.
For the present we shall manufacture for the
Australian trade Warner’s Safe Cure, Warner's
Safe Diabetes Cure and Warner’s Safe Fills. The
price of these remedies is as follows s—
Warner’s Safe Cure. 5s. per bottle.
Warners’s Sabe Diabetes Curb, 5s. per bottle.
Warner’s Safe Pills, Is. 1W. per vial.
Warner’s Safe Cure is the only known Cure for
the dread Bright’s Disease of the Kidneys.
Warner’s Safe Diabetes Cure is the only known
cure for Insipid and Sweet Diabetes.
Warner’s Safe Cure and Safe Diabetes Cure are
put up in 18oz. bottles, the largest bottle in the
market.
These remedies can be obtained cfl any drug-
gist or chemist in Australia, and in the surround-
ing islands, at the prices named. If your chemist
does not keep them and will not order them, we
will send them to you by express In such quantities
as you may desire.
Our trade mark is an iron safe, a representation
of which is printed on the outside box or caddy
and on the label. It is also blown on the back of
our amber glass bottles. For your own safety ac-
cept no substitutes for these goods.
Many of the best physicians In England, Canada,
and the United States, knowing that there is no
other trustworthy specific for such disorders as
we treat, prescribe our remedies constantly in
their practice, thus adding another significant
testimonial to the wonderful power and reputation
we have secured through their intrinsic merits.
By sending your address to our Melbourne office,
a pamphlet will be sent you containing a vast
amount of useful i 1 j.mation, together with a
lithograph in four colours of Niagara Falls.
Sincerely,
H. H. Warner & Co., 147 Little Lonsdale-street
West, Melbourne, Australia.
H. H. Warner & Co„ 81 Southampton Row, W.O.,
London, England.
H. H. Warner & Co., 18 Front-street East, Toron-
to, Ontario.
H. H. Warner & Co., 62, 64, 66, 68, 70, 72, and 74
North St. Paul-street, Rochester, N.Y.,
U.S.A.
“ The treaty between France and China has at last been signed.”
[THE CHINESE QUARTER CELEBRATES THE MONGOLIAN SUCCESS OVER THE FRENCH
ARMS.]


Academy of music,
Lessee and Manager.. Mr. F- E. Hiscockb.
54th Week, and Second Year
of the
LEVIATHAN SHOW.
HIS COCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and SPECIALITY UNION
Every Evening In their Refined and Amusing
Entertainment.
The whole terminating with W. H. Bent’s original
and laughable Sketch, HARD TO KILL,
Admission, 4s., 3s., 2s., and la. Box Plan at
Paling’s. Carriages at 10.16.
[SHE EXCELSIOR AND HUMBER
AMATEUR BICYCLE SPORTS.
ASSOCIATION CRICKET GROUND,
SATURDAY, 37th JUNE.
The most valuable Trophies ever offered.
THE BRISSMEAD PLATE-THREE MILES
INTERCOLONIAL HANDICAP.
1st prlza. Piano, value 95 guineas
2nd prize, Gold Chronograph Watch, value 35
guineas
3rd prize, Trophy, value 15 guineas.
THE SYDNEY FIVE MILE SCRATCH RACE,
3 prizes.
Grand Parade-Prize, Silver Bugle *
1 Mile Handicap—1st prize, Excelsior Bicjcle, 23
guineas
1 Mile Maiden Handicap (on Roadsters)
150 Yards Flat Race Handicap
1 Mile Tricycle Handicap
Yt Mile Boys’ Race Handicap.
Entries Close on THURSDAY NEXT, 18th June.
Entry Forma may be obtained from BENNETT
and WOOD, King-street, and all other Bicycle
Agents.
L GRAND CONGER
will be given by the
FORT STREET MODEL SCHOOL,
in aid of their PRIZE FUND,
Under Vice-Regal Patronage,
In the
NEW MASONIC HALL, Caatlereagh-street,
On THURSDAY, JUNE 18tb, 1885,
T
The features of the programme will be
A Cantata (The Christmas Serenade)
The See-faw Valse
A Floral March
t nd
A Song of Welcome to our Contingent—words
by John Plummer, Kiq., music by Herr
Hugo Alpen, Illustrated ny Tableaux.
Mr. A. Fairfax, and several amateurs, have
kindly promised their aid, as well as the D’A Ibert
Orchestra, conducted by Mr. Toombe.
Tickets-Front Seats, 3i : B f ;ck Seats, 23.
Concert to commence at 8 o’clock precisely.
Conductor, Herr Hugo Alpen.
Carriages may be ordered at 10.15 p.m.
F
Sydney Owl Club.
BALL
OURTH ANNUAL
(Plain and Fancy Dress),
TOWN HALL, THURSDAY, 18th JUNK.
(Compagnoni Catering Co. Caterers).
Tickets—Double. 303 ; Ladies’. 15s.; Gent’s, 2D.;
Can be procured from Mr. A. N. Jonsen, Mr. E.
Cantor, of King-street; Messrs. A. and C. Huener-
bein, Mr, T. L. Clarke (F. Lassetter and Co.), Mr.
L. De Groen, of George-street; Mr. R. J. Demford,
of Oxford-street; Mr. W. Stewart, of Pitt-street;
from any of the Board of Management, or
. MORRIS MENSER, Hon. Sec ,
881 George-street.
8 T ’
Lessees ...
GEORGE’S
Melbourne.
HALL,
Clark and Byman.
OPEN ALL THE YEAR BOUND.
First-class Artists, Novelties, Combinations—
jlther Musical, Dramatic, Minstrel, or Operatic—
:reated with.
Silence a respectful negative.
This popular place of amusement Is now In Its
full tide of success—houses packed to the doors
nightly. Pronounced by the Press, public, and
profession to be the best entertainment ever seen
En Melbourne.
Notice.—The title of ‘’Red Stockings” has
men duly registered, and anyone infringing this
itle will be prosecuted according to law.
JOHN FANNING,
Business Manager.
ODDFELLOWS’ HALL,
Goclburn.
T
HIS Theatre, one of the best In the colony, Is
open for Engagement. Particulars from
M. K. PULLEN. Hall Secretary.
BILLIARD TABLECLOTHS, BALLS, CUES,
Tables New Cushioned and Recovered.
THOMAS’S FACTORY, 153 Bathurst Street,
>
A
■
R.BURGIS.
TAILOR..
IIIUIllll
MRY BURGIS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
L from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
oroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
food, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STKKBT,
-dney. Samples and diagrams for sc ft-measuring
rwarded to any part of the colony
Professional Directory.
"1717 HORACE BENT, with Hlscocks’Federal
\\ 0 Minstrels, at the Academy ol Music,
Sydney
EORGE PB i "iIMAN, Scene Painter, Theatre
Koyal, Bri i;-:ne.
G
A L
mHEATBE «°Y
■ Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson. Garner and Musorovb.
Lessee. Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
Doors open at 7.30, commence at 8. Carriages, 10.40.
NINETEENTH WEEK
of the
ROYAL DRAMATIC COMPANY.
THIS EVENING it 8 precisely,
The mast perfect and successful Drama of the age,
the
SILVER KING
SILVER KING
SILVER KING. „
By Henry A. Jones and Henry Herman.
Furnlturb and appointments from Hamilton and
Co., Globe Furniture Warehouse, Park and Castle-
r^c'es r of t Adml88lon: Dicss Circle, Bs.; Stalls,
8s.; Family Clfcle, 2s.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Bast way s
HoteL Box office open dally from 11 till 4.
1
BW OPERA HOUSE.
nder the Lesseeshlp and Management of E. Ma-
jetonl and W. J. Wilson.
Stage Manager, Mr. A. Rodney.
Doors open ftt 7.15; curtain rises at 8 o clock;
carriages 10.50.
THIS EVENING
ivkbNBSDAY, ERIDAV, only,
maJbronis MAJEKONIS MAJERONIS
of Sardou’s greatest work
FEDORA.
JUNE 20,
SATURDAY
(Queen of France).
Bb± plan at Huenerbein’s. Prices as usual.
v JOB BROWN, Business Manager.
G
A I B T Y THEATRE!
licssec • •• •. ••• B. N. Jones.
1 '' 1 ""-
on batubdaV evening,
which Is proof conclusive that the
BEST ENTERTAINMENT IN THE CITY
is presented nlurhtly at the
GAIETY THEATRE.
EVERY EVENING, at 7.45.
WIDOW O’BRIEN SHERIDAN
WIDOW O’BRIEN . SHERIDAN
FUN ON THE BRISTOL
FUN ON THE BRISTOL.
The superb company of
AMERICAN and ENGLISH ARTISTES,
and
The Great E. D. DAVIES The Great
Original E. D. DAVIES Original
PREMIER VENTRILOQUIST of the WORLD,
with his talking figures,
JOB. TOM. LITTLE MARY JONES, &C.
Mr. DAVIES made an instantaneous,
A Palpable HIT HIT HIT. A Palpable
P On SATURDAY NIGHT.
— A MAMMOTH PROGRAMME.
Doors open at 7; commence 7.45.
®onular Prices: Orchestra Chairs, 4s.; Stalls, 3s.;
Family Circle, Is.
Box-plan at Nicholson’s, George-street.
Representative for John F. Sheridan, Wm. Hughes
Assistant H. J. Samuel
If you want to secure “ My Darling, when we are
nade one ” go to Nicholson’s, on George-street.
* SUCCESSFUL MANAGER.
HARRY "jTsAMUELL,
Advance Agent and Business Manager.
PERMANENT ADDRESS: G.P.O., Sydney,
NOW OPEN FOR ENGAGEMENT, ,
itter having successfully taken John F. Sheridan s
Fun on the Bristol” Company through their late
° Ur ’ FORMERLY BUSINESS MANAGER
or Madame Vogrich, nee Alice Rees, Armes
ieaumont, Madame Maggie Menzles, filmblad,
)avld Lee, Madame Simonsen, Horace Poussard,
’ohn Radcilff, Madame Pauline Rita, &o., &o., &o.
[copy].
Gaiety Theatre, Sydney, June 16th, 1885,
dr. H. J. Samuel. x , . .
, Dear Sir,—I take great pleasure In expressing
nyself as entirely satisfied with your services as
Advance Agent during your engagement with me
n that capacity, and can heartily recommend you
is thoroughly efficient and reliable. Trusting at
tome future time to have the pleasure of resuming
m association so pleasantly ended,
I am,
Dear Sir,
Yours sincerely,
JOHN F. SHERIDAN,
Manager and Proprietor
Fun on the Bristol Company.
ASONIC HALL, YORK STREET.
Harry Lynch.
M
Lessee .
SATURDAY, 20TH JUNE, 1886,
and Every Evening, until further notice.
after many years’ absence from
Sydney, of the
jYnch family bellringers,
Instrumentalists and Vocalists
(Organized 1867),
in their
ORIGINAL CONCERTS,
as given by them throughout the
CIVILIZED WORLD.
Admission—4s., 3j„ 2s., and Is.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
Doors open at 7.30 ; Overture at 8: Carriages
at 10.20.
J\HB
ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George street, Haymarkbt.
and Director Mr. Frank Smith
S Manager Mr. Edwin Shipp
lufical Director Mr. Chas. Austin
louses crowded nightly. Houses crowded nightly
Unprecedented success, and
Second appearance of the favourite artists,
ohnnv Gilmore, the celebrated Negro Delineator’
Mias Millie Herbert, the Charming Soprano,
Dave Gardner, Song and Dance Performer.
Miss Marie Mackay, Characteristic Artist.
Mr. Frank Phillips, the Marvellous Soprano.
Lrtlstlo Triple Statue Clog Dance, with limelight
effects, by the PERMAN .FAMILY.
Pnnular Prices : Orchestra chairs, 2s : stalls, Is.;
laJcony/Od. CHAS. AUSTIN, Business Manager.
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSEHOLD a Canister of
lams’ Australian Yeast Powder!
WILLIAMS'S
n
H
ro
TJ
>
H
H
M'S
I _ AUSTRALIAN —
LAST POWDER.
It AND PATENTEES* "
™lton.crimwade&CO-
Im«m|
Williams’ Yeast Powder
MAKES LIGHT BREAD, TEA CAKES,
and PASTRY,
HALF-POUND TINS, SIXPENCE.
Beware of Imitations.
I
TAKE ONLY WILLIAMS’.
This YEAST POWDER, the first manufactured
In the Australian colonies, has from the outset
maintained its position as the Premier Yeast
Powder ; and, in spite of severe competition, its
radius of consumption has steadily increased.
WILLI A MS’ AUSTRALIAN YEAST
POWDER is the most economical of Bakina
s Powders, and sold at Sixpence the half-pound
s canister.
Wholesale Depot :
VIRGOE, SON, and CHAPMAN,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY,
THE SYDNEY SPOR TS
DEPOT.
889 GEORGE-STREET SYDNEY
(Opposite Royal Hotel.)
BICYCLES,JHNGYCLES.
OUR
1885 Pattern Bicycles
and Tricycles
Have Every Improvement.
OUR SPECIALITY
New Cheap Roadster.
THE UNIVERSAL CLUB
BICYCLE,
fitted with Improved Ball Bear-
ings to front and back wheels.
Hollow Forks, Patent Head and
Detachable Bent Handle Bar,
Easy Slide Spring, Hubs Plated,
Black Enamelled Spokes,
1885 Universal Club, a thoroughly reliable and easy-running
machine. Ball bearings to bote wheels, and improvements.
Price, £13 lOs. At the price
we defy competition.
JAMES MARTIN & COMPANY, 388 Baorge-st., Sydney.
«
AVOID COMPLICATED FOREIGN BRACES.”
THE
“CHEDENTA,”
SIMPLEST AND BEST FOR MEN AND BOYS,
WHOLESALE ONLY AT
16 & 17 CHEAPSIDE, LONDON, E.C.
And of W, EENNY FINDLAY & ERO., Melbourne k Sydney,
i
THE WELL-KNOWN
WYNDELLA ESTATE,
Fronting the MAIN NORTHERN ROAD, and Extending to the HUNTER RIVER
AN EXCEPTIONAL CHANCE for SMALL CAPITALISTS to Secure an AGRTPTTT tttpar
GRAZING FARM, or an EXCELLENT PLOT of LAND, adapted for a Vineyard In 0r
the most DESIRABLE POSITIONS in the Hunter River District, upon Idberaf Teri f
L’erms,
Contains as a whole about 1700 ACRES,
It has been judiciously sub-divided into well-arranged Farms, varying in extent from 12 to 120 acrp
and the frontage to the Main Road in Allotments containing from 2 to 7 acres”
FOR SALE BY PUBLIC AUCTION,
AT NETTLINGHAM’S HOTEL, WEST MAITLAND,
On Saturday, July It, 1885, at Two o'clock p.m.
TITLE PERFECT.
JJRUNKER and WOLFE have A. Wilkinson. Esq., to sell by am*fc
Saturday, July 11, 1885, at 2 o’clock p.m.
JjlAQLBHAWK MECHANICS’ INSTITUTE.
GRAND ART UNION,
In strict accordance with the Act.
VALUE
PRIZE £500. priIe.
SECOND PRIZE, £200.
. . . THIRD PRIZE, £100.
4 prizes, value £50 each. 100 prizes, value £5 each.
»« » £25 each. 550 ,, „ £1 each.
•• each. 300 „ „ lOs.'each.
1000 PRIZES I 1000 PRIZES I
10,000 TICKETS at 10s. each, obtainable at most
business places in the colony.
N.B.—In proof of the value of the above, the
Committee undertake to find purchasers for the
various prizes at the prices named, and to hand the
winner full amount In cash, less 10 per cent, for
commission.
The drawing to take place In June, under the
supervision of the Mayor and Councillors of Eagle-
hawk and a Committee of Shareholders.
T. H. TAYLOR,
Managing Secretary.
Bull-street, Sandhurst, and
Mechanics’ Institute, Eaglehawk.
BEWARE OF SPURIOUS
WATCHES I
tmd watch, which
troTXle If e you bu7one of “ d Ki ™ D ° end 0f
ROTHERHAM’S COMPENSATION BALANPT?
AND JEWELLED WATCHES N
from C* GRANT* you will novor wunf «nnfv»o»
market?’ wlthout doubt - the Bmt wItcm Sr t“
Guaranteed for fr years. Price, only £6 10s
Sent B^U
C. GRANT, Watchmaker,
K84 George Street, Sydney.
Established 1880.
N^^v^ 3 DE ?lf lITY > LOST VITALITY
Weakness, and Premature Decay.-A simnle
ana positive means for Permanent Self-cure by a
very eminent French Hospital Physician sent
free to any sufferer. Send your address’ on a
Sydney * nY9l0T *' to C * °* Box TeT&pfo!!


ORIENTAL GOLD CO
BEG to Inform the public that, In consequence
of the
EXPIRATION OP LEASE
of their present premises, they have commenced
their
GS-HAITD
HEW SUE,
Which will
LAST FOR A FEW WEEKS ONLY I
The Goods are all marked at an
as will be seen by list below.
PRICE LIST.
Ladles’ Handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 10s, 15s
17s 6d, and 20s each
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 4s and 5s per pair
Ladlis’ Choice Necklets, 5s each
Ladles’ Choice Necklets, best American Plate, 2d
each
Ladies’ Elegant Bangles, 4s, 6s, and 10s per pair
Choice Lockets, 5s each
Handsome Gem Bings, 4s and 8s 6d each
Wedding and Keeper Bings, In Solid Gold, 7s Od
each
Ladles' Handsome Lockets, 10s each
Ladies’ Elegant Crosses, 4s, 6s, and 6s each
Ladies’ Brooch and Earring Sets, from 5s to 16s
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, 3s 6d each
Gents’ 0. G. Watches, Hunting, Open-Faced
Crystal Glass, and patent Keyless, 30s each,
warranted 3 years
Ladles’ (same as above.)
These watches are made specially to ouf
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and Jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully Jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses .. .. .. ..£4 0 0
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
Jewelled, and compensation balance ..£600
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levers .. £4 10 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance ..£600
The celebrated Waltham Watch, In hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses.. ..£3150
Ditto ditto, compensation balance.. .. £4 16 0
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance Is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Sliver Double Dial Chronograph, £6 0
Ditto, extra Jewelled, of the highest
grade £6 0 0
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full Jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £8 10 0
We Import our watches direct from the mantt*
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 36 per cent*
as compared with prices when wholesale middle*
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £6
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £6 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £10.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Bings, 4s
each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Rings, half round buokls
flat broad buckle, engraved, good luck rings
2s 6d each.
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 3s, 4s, 6s, and 6s 6d per set.
Same as above, only bait sets, Is 6d, 2s, and 3s per
set.
Best American Patent Spring Solitaire Suites,
6s per set.
Gent’s elegant Seals, 4s each.
Gent’s Elegant Compasses, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberts, 6? each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold handsome Scarf Pins, Is,
6d, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s, 3s 6d, 4s, 4s 6d, 5s, and 6s 6deao
Very best American Pencil Cases, 2s 6d each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Match Boxes, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Sovereign Purses, 4s each.
Richly engraved Bracelets, 6s each.
Handsome Bracelets, beautifully Jewelled, 8s, Id,
12a, and 14s each.
Broooches, Brooches, Brooches, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 61, 3a,
3a 6d, 4a, 4s 6d, 6s, 6s 6d, 6s, 6s 6d, 7s, 7s fid, 8s, 8a
fid, 9s, 9s fid, and 10s each.
PLEASE NOTE.
All goods will be sent post free, with the excep-
tion of the watches, orders for which must be ac-
companied with an extra amount of two and six-
pence to defray postage expenses. Send in your
orders early, as the goods must be sold, and no one
should miss this chance of procuring the beautiful
gems at less than cost price.
Note the Address s
The Oriental Gold Co.,
474 Georgo Street,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS,
The enormous increase in the sales is a
Eroof of the growing popularity of Wolfe’s
chnapps.
Velocity is what a man puts a hot plate
down with.
Over four thousand physicians have testi-
fied to the purity and excellence of Wolfe's
Schnapps.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Rot ai.-“ Silver King ” P* 8
Opera House— “Fedora”.., •»
Academy of Music.— Hiscocks’ F. Minstrels.. ••
Masonic Hall.— Lynch Family of Bellringers
Gaiety Theatre.— “Fun on the Bristol’ ,,
Alhambra Music Hall —Minstrelsy *•
Yictorien Sardou’s “Fedora” was repro-
duced at Sydney Opera House on Saturday night.
The title is poetic. M. Sardou, it has been remarked,
dallies with his titles. He likes “ Dora ” to be some-
where in them. Three of his plays are called “Dora,
“ Fedora,” and 11 Theodora.” His own name forms
the anagram “Sudora.” Someone who seems to
know all about the great dramatist, and is possibly
his own Dora, says, “ II adora Dora, car Dora le
dora.” It would take much trouble to show the
play between “Sudora” and “Dora.” Let the
nuptial curtains be therefore let down, and leave
them alone in italics.
* ♦ * A
The drama of “Fedora” has been made
familiar to Australian playgoers by the Majeronis.
There has been a special adaptation of it for this
c ampany. ; Although the cast is large, the interest
is confined to the two principals. Indeed, one-
half the characters named on the bill have hardly
anything to do. What they have to do could be
mostly very well left undone. The machinery and
plot are so well known that only a brief outline is
wanted.
♦ » ♦
Fedora, the Princess Romazoff, is affi-
anced to Count Vladimir. The Count is shot in
some mysterious way. He dies. Loris, Count of
Ivanoff, is suspected. He flies. The police cannot
obtain complete evidence. As far as can be seen,
the crime sprang from political causes. Loris is
thought to be a Nihilist. Fedora, full fof passion
to avenge her lover, pursues Loris. She meets
him in Paris. She pretends friendship, pretends
affection, pretends love, to extract his secret.
While pretending, her heart becomes interested in
his fine courtly presence, his magnanimity, his
grave, earnest, but shadowed life. At last, when
she longs for him to say he is innocent, he admits
he murdered Vladimir. She flings him from her,
and announces vengeance.
* * *
He collects himself, sees he has been
trapped into the confession, but remembers they
are alone. She changes her character again and
holds him in her toils. She tells De Seriex,
to the French Embassy, of the confession. He
informs her that there is no extradition for
political offences. Had the murder a political
cause ? She winds her influences about Loris and
extracts from him that the murder had no politi-
cal origin. She appoints a meeting with him In
the night, writes the news to St. Petersburg, gives
word to the agent of police, and has the house sur-
rounded. She leads him to speak of the murder,
and is fascinated. He tells her of Vladimir’s base-
ness, shows her letters in which Vladimir scoffed
at her, explains the circumstances In which, mad-
dened by outrage, he shot the scoundrel. Fedora
reads the letters; sees the man she was avenging
was a scoundrel, sees the man she is taking venge-
ance on is courageous, noble, unfortunate. With
a rush her love slides from Vladimir, flows to
Loris. But she has already written his guilt to St.
Petersburg, toldjlt to the police, and arranged for
his capture.
• • *
Loris learns from St. Petersburg that a
woman’s letter has reached there informing the
father of Vladimir of the revelation. As Loris is
not to be immediately seized, his mother and
brother, whom he dearly loves, are sent to
death. Loris asks who the woman informer can
be, from her own lips learns, in faltering words,
that it is Fedora herself, rises Into a frenzy of
passion, believes he has been played along to the
abyss of destruction by a designing sorceress, and,
in the whirl of madness, the poison-cup is seized,
and Fedora sinks.
• * *
Signora Majeroni, as Fedora, works out
many exquisite conceptions of the fluctuating
emotions of an excitable disposition. The char-
acter is apprehensible, comprehensible In her
hands. The sinuosities of the impulsive mind of
the Princess are seen. The variableness of her
expression, the variableness of her sentiments, are
made to look natural. Mediocre ability would
bring such a character into ridicule. The notion
of a woman possessed with a passion to avenge
Vladimir, possessed with a passion to destroy
Loris, going straightway into the arms of the
latter, and pouring out all her love upon him,
because some offensive letters of the former have
been put into her hands, approaches very near to
hysterical exaggeration. The artiste, feeling be-
fore her, however, possesses an audience with a
saving sentiment. Not the words of the drama-
tist, but her own looks, her gestures, her restless,
feverish, palpitating suspense, springing from a
keen conception of what is before her, leads the
imagination of the spectators towards the goal,
and when it is reached, reason and common sense
are off guard.
* * *
» T As Loris, Count of Ivanoff, Signor Ma-
jeroni is, as usual, strong. The absolute security
he professes to enjoy in Paris while there
remain at St. Petersburg two women who
know he murdered Vladimir, is not very clearly
accounted for. He accounts for it with a shrug.
It keeps in one's head as a strange thing that these
women, who were poor, did not inform the Chief
of Police, who would give a rich reward for the
Information. The Signor brings out some points
with great force. In the narrative of his marriage,
his wife’s infidelity, and the consequent murder of
Vladimir, the play of feature, the distention of
muscle, the rasping of throat, accord with the
Easslon. vehemence, and intense hate that possess
im. D'lflcult as the character of Fedora is to
represent, near as it moves to the perilous brink
under which the ridicule that meets emotional
exaggeration lies, there is an undevelopment of
Loris—a situation that wants still more, delicate
handling. He has won Fedora. He learns that it
is her communication with St, Peterburg that has
led to the death of his mother and brother. He
thereupon drives Fedora from him, sits down on
the sofa, and cries, " My poor beloved mother; my
dear brother 1 ” It is made appear that s flection
for these takes precedence. It takes consummate
acting to hide that Love never allowed that since
the world began.
■ • •
The tragic scene with which the play
closes, and which should stir the audience pro-
foundly, is marred by the listless way in which the
two witnesses of Fedora’s death stand by. what
do they want there at all If they are to do nothing
but look on as if it were a cat washing her
face ? Did ever a mistress of a house stagger about
after drinking poison, and while her husband
laboured to support her, And the only other per-
sons present with their tongues in their cheeks
looking idly at her ? Could the pair not have put
a little terror into their faces ? Could not somebody
have stuck a toasting-fork into them ? They were
like letter-pillars at the corner of a street. Fedora
and Loris were tragic, but the curtain fell, and in-
stead of the audience being anguish-stricken, hats
and sticks were picked up and people looked about
spryly. The stupid pair of figures that stood look-
ing on destroyed the illusion,
* * *
One of the characteristics of those plays
adapted for the Majeronis is that there is very
little for anybody but themse ves to do. The oast
In “ Fedora” is large, and the little chances the
people tret to show their faces to the house they
seize with avidity. But they have hardly gone
when you forget what brought them, and the next
time they appear you ask yourself who is it that is
pushing them out. Mr. Alfred Boothman, as De
Seriex, was allowed the freest use of the carpet.
But he was principally there when the room was
empty. He enjoyed nimself as much as he could,
however, in the circumstances. Gretoh, the Rus-
sian agent of police, in the person of Mr. H. N.
Douglas bad the liberty of gaming in a few tiqres.
He didn’t seem to be doing much, but he never
appeared to have time to take his big overcoat off.
Although in Paris, he stuck to his Russian gar-
ments, and felt so cold that he kept coat and hat
on in the Princess’s drawing-room.
• • *
Mr. D’Or say Ogden as Dr. Lorek and Mr.
Edwin Palmer as Cyril, a coachman, had just a
chance each. Mr. Charles Seagrave, as Desire,
Count Vladimir’s valet dropped in off and on. A
rumour was current a short time ago to the effect
that silk stockings and “smalls ” were coming Into
vogue again in England. Many are not made for
them. Many, therefore, dislike them. These will
thank Mr. Seagrave for walking about in them.
Through seeing him thefashlon will never take in
Sydney. Those with a very violent dislike should
send Mr. Seagrave home to walk about in them.
Then the fashion would die in England, too..
* * •
Miss Blanche Lewis, Miss Doey Mainwar-
ing, Miss Wilton, and Miss Florence Lewis were
about and about, but, with the exception of the
last, who made a very nice page, they did nothing
of any consequence.
• * *
And now to M. Sardou again. There is
no stage rhetoric —or very little—in this adaptation
of his play. The less there is in any play the
better. Moral maxims delivered by an actor at an
audience ought to be caught as they come, be put
into an empty kerosene-tin and dropped down on
the stage again. The English used is very good,
and the dialogue is lively. But It is the acting that
makes it all it is. M. Sardou thinks a great deal of
“ Peiora,” and of all his “ Dora ’’ performances. It
is said that he repeats every morning before he
sets to work the following litany:—
0 Deusl
Qui protegis Gymnasium—Dora pro nobis I
Qui protegis Vaudevillum—Fedora pro nobis I
Qui protegis Sancti Martini Portam—Thdodora pro
nobis I „ „ , _ .
Qui protegis Comediam Galliam—Marie Tudora
pro nobis!
Qui protegis Rempublicam — Thermldora pro
nobis! . ,
Qul protegis Gendarmios—Pandora pro nobis!
Qui protegis Academlam—Plngadora pro nobis!
We are not much at praying ourselves, but that
burst of Sardou’s inspires us. We, therefore, let
off our little petition—
QulProtegis Theatrum 1 Ludat signora”Fedora”
cui nomen New Op- r nobis I
era House ” datur ) pro noD ’ 81
* * * *
A complimentary matinee, under dis-
tinguished patronage, was given at the Royal on
Saturday afternoon for the benefit of Miss Lewis.
Lord and Lady Loftus “ and suite ” were among
the patrons, as well as a committee of "distin-
guished” citizens. The titled patrons stayed away
and the suite followed. Miss Lewis has not been
an unqualified success in Australia. We’ve not
time to analyse the causes—it is with the matinee
we’ve to deal.
• • •
Some members of the Owl Club started
with a piece called “Furnished Apartments.”
When they began, all the seats in the back row of
the circle were full, and men were standing up
behind. By the time they were half through the
men behind were gone and the others going.
From one standpoint, an amateur performance by
the Owls is phenomenally funny. From another.
It Is funereal. There was a Telemachus (pro-
nounced Telemak’kus by the others) Thompson,
who, when his hands were not under his coat-tails,
was washing them, like Uriah Keep, in visionary
suds. Why hands are apportioned to such people
at their birth has always appeared to us strange
and mysterious—stranger why such people are
born at all—strangest of all why, having been
born, they go on the stage, bringing their hands
with them, Instead of taking to the pick and
shovel. There was a nervous-looking little man,
who confessed to being ’appy. We believed him,
and respected his feelings much more than the
successful digger beside us, who never took his
eyes off the stage till the curtain went down on
“ Furnished Apartments,” when he drew a long
breath and simply observed, “ Well I’m .”
m * *
Three people from the “Fun on the Bris-
tol ” crowd came next, Freaar dances better than
he sings; Miss Wooldridge sings better than she
dances (she doesn’t dance), and Meade neither sings
nor dances. He recites. He gave "Shamus
O’Brien” very well. We’d say more, but—thun-
der!—we’ve heard Montgomery. It was the
Majeronis turn now with “ A Kiss.” We’d say the
Signora looked “queenly,” but, considering that
all the Queens we've ever seen were short, podgy,
greasy-looking women, with big mouths and
thriving moustaches (we only saw the Queen of
Spain and the consort of “King Billy” of the
Bogan), this would be no compliment. “ A Kiss ”
was encored— it mostly is, but a good deal deperds
upon age. At 70, one would put you through for a
week; at 17, a hundred a minute is not considered
too much. It brought down the house. Htlas, it
has brought down and burst up houses from the
start, and will continue to do so until Gabriel
sends along the message that time and kissing
shall be no more.
• • •
Miss Lewis gave the “Bridge of Sighs,”
and a neat little speech, rather shaky with leeling
towards the end. Redwood Imitated a youngster
sitting for his photograph, and the gradual change
of expression from complacent imbecility to un-
disguised disgust was marvellous. Titheradge re-
cited “How He Died,” and had the house noisy
for “ more ” when he had finished. The niece was
written for and published in The Bulletin some
eighteen months ago. It has gone toe round
of the English and American papers. The author
is Mr. John Farrell, of Goulburn, who can wedge
more poetic feeling and fire into a verse than any
one in Australia—always barring a little dark man
(short —once long—stubbly black hair, eyes wide
apart, face full of expression and freckles, and
thirst insatiable), who is now said to be editing
comic advertisements in Melbourne. Carroll, Ball,
Dunbar, and Warner, of Hlsoooks’ people* gave
specimens of their specialities, and it was nice to
see how the severely proper persons, who would
attend a fashionable but not a vulgar
“ni rver” show, looked at one another and laughed.
Han “Loftus” been there he’d have had to be
earned out or gagged. Allpress “ bossed ” the
piano. Somebody’s been at his hair—it is less
aggressive than usual. Hart was to the “fore”
with a laughing song, which made some smile and
many weep, and Vincent received what the
country Press would call an “ ovation ” lor the
ever-welcome “ Queen Mab.” A scene from thj
“ Merchant of Venice ” brought the matined to an
end after a three hours’ struggle. Grattan Riggs
was one of the judges—the only one, we thlna,
who appeared with his proper hair and fyce.
He wore the customary flowing robes and
scarlet cape, but it would take a winding-
sheet, covering him all over, to conceal
his Identity. His face is, indeed, his for-
tune. He looked like a Mayo priest after a fair at
Castlebar. Once, when he sneeated or started, or
something, he nearly shunted one of his brother
judges off his seat into the body of the court, and
we noticed what a sharp look-out that judge kept
on Grattan till the fall of the curtain relieved him
of further anxiety.
IK § j|t SK
Round to the Academy for another scream
at Hiscc cks’miscreants. These ridiculous pheno-
mena are in their 54th week, and still pack the
hall like a Petersham boneyard—pardon the
simile, dear fellow-deadheads! Warner pulls off
all the laurels now with his legend about the
Fenian cat, and the pit still rises at Keenan’s
“ mouf” and penguin-like attitudes. The farce at
the end—“ Hard to Kill” —is exquisite foolery.
Feuillade’s fiddle, Horace Bent, Amery, little
Read, and Dunbar start about level,, but Nicholas
leads the ruck coming up the straight, and though
the others pull up well in the home-stretch, the
oat-gut man invariably wins on the post. But we
won’t say anything about the words of the
Patriotic Song, Nicholas. We’d rather not, if you
don’t mind. Oh! and if anyone, by any possibility,
hasn’t yet seen these tuneful idiots he’d better
1 hurry up. They’re going to clear,
The Lynch Family of Bellringers, who
open at Sydney Masonic Hall, this Saturday, have
just returned from a lengthy tour through the
East. The manager, Harry Lynch, thus dis-
courses:—“ India is a very fair show country for a
small compact, attractive entertainment, but even
then a great deal depends on good management
and favourable seasons. Large shows will rarely,
if ever, pay the expenses of transit, and in many
oases the want of large rooms altogether pre-
cludes the pessibillty of great audiences. The
usual rates of admission vary from four rupees
(eight shillings) in the larger cities, such as
Calcutta, Bombay, and Madras, down to eight
annas (one shilling) In the great military
cantonments throughout the land. Burmah I
do not like; in fact, outside the capital
Rangoon, there is nothing left worth journeying
for—Moulmein, Akyab, and other places in that
ebuntry being simply one-horse towns. China
possesses some really good show cities, and a great
deal of money can be made there by a company of
any real merit, Shanghai in particular being with-
out exception one of the best show cities in the
world. Hongkong, Amoy, Canton, and Foochow
are also excellent places of amusement. The rates
of admission vary from 3dol. (13s.) to Idol. (4s.), and
at those prices I nave taken 1500,1600, and 1700 dol.
nightly—much larger sums, I have every reason
to believe, than any show (large or small) has ever
taken in any of the Australasian colonies. Hong-
kong is also a fine show place. Japan is a grand
country, and, I think the most beautiful in the
world, but regarded as a field for foreign artists,
the expenses of getting there, and the limited
number of treaty ports in which to perform, would
not permit of a large profit, no matter how well
and carefully the tour may be arranged. In our
case, we had exceptional advantages in the sup-
port of the British Ambassador, the Hon. K. Plun-
kett, who obtained for us the distinguished honour
ot playing before the Mikado and Empress at the
Imperial Palace, Seddo—the first European per-
formance their Majesties had ever witnessed.
Probably through this circumstance we did much
better than could otherwise have been expected.
The rates of admission vary from three yen (about
10s. 6d.) to one yen (3s. 6d.) The inhabitants are
the most hospitable and courteous specimens of
the human race. Phillipine Islands will not pay,
Manilla at best is only a middling show town, and
there is little else beside, albeit the Spaniards are
appreciative and kind enough. Straits settle-
ments, outside Singapore and Penang, have little
to commend them. Java, on the other handjs the
home of music, and the land of plenty. The Dutch
there support everything in the shape of amuse-
ment, and pay their four guilders (8s.) without a
murmur. During our career there w® gave 85
concerts with remarkable success, and at leaving
were honoured with many favours by the music-
loving residents of Batavia. All shows travelling
the Bast will require a considerable amount of |
capital to work upon, a respectable reputation,
and good management; moreover Hold
hard, Henry Lynch; you’ve got to pay for your
advts. in this paper.
• • • •
“Fun on the Bristol” is packing the
Gaiety as the Emersons did when at their best.
Sheridan has improved-appears rounder, mel-
lower, and more distractlngly funny than we ever
remember. May Livingstone, too, keeps the ball
rolling, and halves the honours with the “Widow.”
Davies, the ventriliqulst, was noisily received, and
deserved it. lie is very good in his line,
* * * *
“The Silver King” is still scooping the
pool at the Sydney Royal.
* * « *
Professor Simon, the physiognomist, gave
Mudgee a turn last week. If there be one part of
them the Mudgee people like you to look specially
at it is their faces. They came in a crowd, there-
fore, to the Town Hall, everyone bringing his old
piece of property with him to show it to the Pro-
fessor. That expert stood at the door, surveyed
the crowd, and whispered to the ticket man and
the cash man, “ Don’t let one of them cross the
threshold without forking out. Take no promises.
Feel their tin.”
* « « «
The Juno Theatrical Company have done
well in North Queensland; but the company of
our friend Bloiso may not thank their stars for
trying to do too well. In Mackay, where nobody
wears a tall hat but the tailor, this troupe had
bumper houses for the first few nights. Consi-
dering that for the last six months theatres were
at a discount, the Juno Company must have been
satisfied at the result. So they rigged up a special
Elece, “ The Colleen Bawn,” and with a flourish of
andbills it was announced, it was on a Saturday
night, and the Colleen’s countrymen were not so
plentiful in the hall as they might be. Anyhow,
the play opened with the inevitable paraphernalia
of absurdities, including Father Tom drinking
stolen potheen, and Biddy, the housekeeper, smok-
ing a dhudeen. Somehow or other the audience
didn’t applaud, the front seats were ominously
silent, the larrifclns on the back seats whistled and
yelled, some gentlemen walked out, and the door-
keeper, whose wife was an Italian signora from
Munster, hurried behind the scenes, and whispered
that this was not the eighteenth century, that the
audience read the papers, and didn’t believe in
humbug. The priest—who, by the way, had a pipe
in his mouth—not liking revolutions, began to
draw it mild, and the play assumed a civilised ap-
pearance to the finish.
« • « •
The Alexandra Theatre, to be erected at
the corner of Exhibition and Little Bourke Streets,
Melbourne, will seat 5000 to 6000 people, and will be
the largest house of amusement in Australasia
Mr, Nahum Bsrnet, the eminent young architect
(who-happy man I-will, in a few weeks, marry
one of the loveliest of the daughters of Judah in
Sydney), is to design and carry out the work,
which will, it is hoped, be completed by Christmas.
Jules Joubert is at the bottom of the enterprise.
« • * •
The Rodcliffs, who have been enthusiasti-
cally received in all the N.Z. towns, were serenaded
at Christchurch. They found it necessary to
engage a travelling pianist down there, as many of
the little mud towns didn’t deal in that article; so
they managed to secure the services ot a first-rate
fellow called Clutsam. Now, as one of the great
flautist’s peculiarities is that he can never catch
hold of a fresh name till he has had it dinned into
his ear for at least a thousand times, Madame
Rita, in order to prevent embarrassment, had the
euphonious name of Clutsam pasted over every
available space likely to catch Raddy’s eye, and
thus familiarise him with it. But it availed no-
thing, tor when night came and the new man had
t > he Introduced to the audience, Mr. Radcliff,
• h t.ia blandest smile, began: “And now allow
o introduce to your notice my pianist, Mr,—
a -a—Luckstone—oh, I mean, Mr. Jutsam—bother
ill—no; I mean Mr. dear me (to the audience),
ladles and gentlemen, what is the name of my
pianist ?” “ Clutsam,” came from a voice in the
crowd. “Oh, ah, thank you; Mr. Clutsam, of
course.” Roars of laughter, and Radcliff as self-
possessed as usual through it all.
* * * *
Mrs. F. M. Bates, who has very many
friends in the colonies, was, at latest dates, with
Bishop’s company at the ’Frisco Standard Theatre.
She takes a leading part in Guntler’s play,
“ Strictly Business.’ B. A. Hart, Mrs. Hart, and
daughter are to be joined by Fred. Millis for a
tour in N.8. Wales and Queensland ...And Dave
Carson is over from Calcutta, looking as jovial as
ever. David is uncertain whether to return at
once to India or remain here on the off chance of
getting Loftus’s billet....The lease of the Gaiety
will soon fall in, when a few thousand pounds are
to be spent on the inside to make it ship-shape.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Bishop Barry’s clergy offered special
prayer for rain Sunday week, and within a day or
two it came, but there has not been enough, and
we hear It is in contemplation to make fresh and
more emphatic representations re the niggardli-
ness of the grant. The form of application will
read somewhat thus:—We, the Inhabitants of that
portion of the earth known as New South Wales.
having duly considered the matter, are of opinion
that the time has now arrived when a revision of
the laws of Nature is urgently required. We would
point out that the present system of altering
the direction of the wind so as to bring
the raln-olouds over the dry districts entails un-
expected and exasperating delays to all shipping
carried on In confidence of a steady wind; and we
would suggest that a tap be laid on in the heavens
to be turned off and on as circumstances may re-
quire. We would also point out, 0 Lord, that
the recent fall of 1.761n. Is ridiculously inadequate,
and request that, pending some rational arrange-
ment overhead, a temporary downpour of at least
3.77in. be swashed down upon thy devoted people
forthwith. Amen.
Perhaps you read about little Clarft
Crosbie, who was lost in the bush for three weeks)
somewhere In Victoria. You read of how
resided In the hollow trunk of a tree, and sub-
sisted upon wild berries. And you marvelled that.
her weak little frame withstood cold and exposure
for so long a time. But shall we tell you what it-,
was-dhat pulled little Clara through these priva-
tions? It was the Harmy. Don’t smile, but listen >
to what the Hon. James Balfour—pietist and'
M.L.C.—said in a letter to that holy and musical)
organization—“ The Argus’ account of the little
girl, Clara Crosbie, lost in the bush„ for three
weeks, and recovered alive, is most interest'
Oh, bards, who, now but three short months ago,
Sang to the strains of patriotic blow;
Hymn’d—See, to bear the stubborn battle’s brunt
They go, and screamed " Our Brave Boys at the
Front.”
Another song, good sirs, you now should hum—
Bray loud of "daring acts,” of “blood-staln’d
plains”;
Say bullets “whistled,” “shower’d,” “hail’d,” or
“rain’d”;
Tell how “ Our Boys”—all strangers quite to fear—
Call’d, when the battle ceas'd, for “ English beer”;
Then tell again how, when the Jam was gone
And commissariat “ rooty ” came anon
At call of “ Cooks to cook-house”—sing or groan—
Our brave Contingent wanted to come home.
Now tell how " horses neigh’d,” how “ sabres
clash,”
His illness came In wond’rous sudden manner;
Then yell aloud, dear bards, how he must needs
Get doubtful honours for more doubtful deeds!
They’ll soon be back who never should have gone I
We’ve launch’d our bark a troub’lous sea upon!
Say we believ’d we did but what was right—
Call it, good bards, by any name you like—
But "Patriotism,” for th’ Almighty’s sake, leave
out!
Gladstone’s Defeat;
on,
BULL AND HIS BEER.
Sing of the things those same “ brave boys ” have
done; , .
Of things they meant to do you screech d a lot,
And of the sort, sweet songsters, we call “ rot.”
A picture draw, now, of the battlefield,
Of stubborn goats, and asses made to yield
By force of arms; and bring in something here
’Bout “thund’rlng cannon ” and “ dread foeman’s
spear;”
Whilst, Just to make the picture look the more
Like real war, throw in a little gore,
And strew upon the “ desert’s burning sand ”
A man or two who died for Fatherland.
How even .Ik '.ien braved the “thund’rlng crash
Of charging cavalry,” and shed their blood
For Fatherland and Liberty. Denude
The glitt’ring romance of Romance’s cloak,
Disperse, with Truth, the battle’sshelt’ring smoke*
And own in honest language, ev’ry one,
The thing we’ve done we would were left undone.
Yet tell how, while the bloody strife was raging,
Our own Sir Alick, on Zealandla’s shore,
Reposed in graceful state, and only waking
When cables brought the news that all was o’er;
But whisper these few words in tones “ planner,”


Ing. It appears she used to sing the hymns
learned at Salvation Army meetings, when
she retired to her lonely hollow in the tree. Who
can doubt that her faith in God’s care, strength-
ened by repeating her hymns, produced in her
that calm, quiet frame of mind which enabled her
to sustain the trials of those weary nights and
days ?” Who can doubt it ? If Clara, for instance*
had attempted to keep her little “pecker” up
with a series of comic songs, would she have lasted
out those three weeks in the bush ? No—a thou-
sand times, no! Undoubtedly the Harmy saved
Clara. Hallelujah 1
Through those days, so lone and dree
(After she’d the wrong route taken),
Clara lived Inside a tree;
But her faith was never shaken.
With her nerves still tightly strung—
Lacking organ or piano—
Pretty, plaintive hymns were sung
By that child, in sad soprano.
Though her spirit kept serene
Through those nights (reverse of balmy),
Think where Clara might have been
If she hadn’t joined the Harmy 1
If she had not learned to sing
Harmy hymns (two lines a minute)
Clare might have been—poor thing I—
Up a tree, instead of in it.
BRIEF MENTION.
A correspondent of one of the dailies, sug-
gests the erection of a statue to the Contingent.
Certainly. Put it on Goat Island.
The Cootamundra Herald tells of a man
who sewed (sic) 100 acres of land. We suppose there
is another rival of Singer in the field.
“It isn’t the salary I care for,” said the
applicant for the Boobalongo Post-office, “but my
wife and daughters are mighty anxious to read
the post-cards that pass through.”
Once we had in N.S.W. the Assigned Ser-
vants’ system. Now we have, thanks to the
“ Sydney Girls’ Friendly Society,” the Consigned
Servants’ system. Only the difference of a prefix.
At a suburban church on Sunday morning
a churchwarden suggested that the thanksgiving
for rain should be read. “Not to-day,” replied
the cautious parson. “ I never return thanks for
less than two inches.”
Prom the Sydney Evening News:— “Dr.
York, the celebrated American orator, thinks the
Press of Australia compares favourably with that
of America. The Evening News, he says, Isa
* live ’ paper.” Alive with what ?
“ Boy wanted, one who can Milk and look
after a pony’’—advertises “J.T.”inthe Cumber-
land Mercury. Koumiss is evidently losing
favour with the Parramatta people. They like
their milk straight from the animal.
We are always glad to chronicle the con-
version of a brother. This appears in the Moruya
Examiner:— “Notice.—The editor of this journal
isnowa ‘ blue-ribbon man.’ ” “Further particulars
unnecessary,” remarks a malignant rival local
publication.
An Italian corps is to be formed to defend
Sydney. The force will, in case of invasion, be
drawn up in line at the Heads. Front rank
to consist of. those with barrel-organs and
monkeys; the rear, of those possessing organs, but
no anthropoids.
There is an article in the current number
of the Wollongong Ar.ous called “A New Method
of Blasting.” Now that Sir John Robertson, the
•G.O.M. of Watson’s Bay, has quarrelled with the
Sydney D.T., we take the liberty of commending
•this to his notice.
Jefferis has been lecturing on Buddhism
and Christianity, and he defines the great hope of
Buddhism to attaining the state called Nirvana—a
■state without thought, without desire, without
consciousness—an infinity of nothing; In fact, a
‘sort of eternal Herald leader.
From the 8. M. Herald Legal.—
Wanted, Office Boy. Monday morning.” Here is
a splendid chance for any boy to enter the profes-
'Bion. Next time there Is a vacancy we will adver-
tise thus : “ Literary.—Wanted, Boy to sweep
a chimney. Apply Bulletin Office.”
He was growling at the rain. Said his
-fellow traveller: “ But didn’t you pray for rain
last Sunday?” “Yes, I prayed for rain—not for
Uiis beastly drizzle.” Bishop Barry will please
remodel his prayer, so that the very description
of shower desired may be obtained in future.
The Darling Downs Gazette, on the
occasion of a man falling down a 90ft. shaft, speaks
of the affair as “ A rapid descent into the bowels
of the earth,” while the opposition journal calls it
a “ Hurried departure for the next world.” The
Individual must have had a “ through ticket.”
The Gunnedah Advertiser is not at all
satisfied with the patched-up affair between Eng-
land and Russia, and is keeping an eye on both
nations. The paper is regularly filed (on a darning
needle) in Petersburg, London, and Berlin, and the
Continental Press are very chary about tackling it.
“Let us,” writes “George King, LL.D.,”
to the 8.M. Herald, “let us, even at the eleventh
hour, encourage every true effort which may be
made on their [the behalf, that, at
least a remnant may be saved.” Herein is dis-
played with a vengeance the insolence of priest-
-cratt. Every nigger who isn’t instructed in the
"oil Million ” by some arrogant cleric or other is
to be eternally damned and roasted I Let us,
beloved white brethren, hurry up to New Guinea
with our rum and Bibles and diseases of civilisa-
tion. so that the unsophisticated blackfellow may
be "saved.”
To write for all time is the ambition of
every author. So says a Victorian country con-
temporary. This may be the case with authors in
the bush, but It Is not so with those in the city.
Most of the latter we have ever seen, have been
content to write for some time and then get
drunk.
The Inhabitants of Lilydale (Vic.) have
been much alarmed of late by rumours of a wild
beast hovering about the neighbourhood. The
children are all kept in, but as the local editor has
been persuaded that it is a real animal, he does not
evince much alarm. What curls him up is when
he sees the bunylp crawling up the wall of his
calico kitchen, smoking a Manilla cigar.
A new oath, that is said to be regarded by
Chinese witnesses as hopelessly binding, has been
discovered, and has been once used at Cooktown.
It is called the " yellow oath.” If the yellow oath
shall Justify the high expectations entertained of
it, a long-felt want will be supplied. A red, white
and blue oath of equal power is badly needed for
the use of the white population of this great
country.
Alderman John Young complains that
there is such a swarm of useless officials employed
in the Sydney Town Hall that the chief vigour of
many of them is shown In dodging behind pillars
as the Mayor walks through. If wo can sympa-
thise with the poor fellow who has to skip behind
a pillar, how does our heart bleed when we think
of his making a dart for cover and finding another
already there 1
The Lancet says :—“ Certainly animals
helow the order of men never commit suicide.”
‘Why, of course not,” comments the Melbourne
Daily Telegraph; “they never do anything
sufficiently wicked and disgraceful to drive them
to suicide. Of course not, with all our hearts—
we have never yet heard of a member of the
Telegraph staff committing suicide. That is left
for its constant readers.
The Melbourne Herald, In “ skiting * *
over some of Its reporters’ work in connection
with the late Dank robbery, observes, “ there is no
such word as/otl In the vocabulary ot the Herald
office.” But then there are no poets on the staff
of that lively little Journal. Bards know the
meaning of the word “ fall ” only too, too well.
Last week one of our rising Tennysons com-
pounded with his creditors for 2s. 6d. In the £.
From the sultry birthplace of blasphemy
and bananas (we refer, of course, to North Queens-
land) comes the veracious news, announced by
pur familiar friend, the Cairns Chroniolb, that
•During this week a hundred thousand dozen
bananas have been sent away from Cairns. Th's
is only a commencement.” One hundred thousand
dozen! One million two hundred thousand!)
Only a commencement!II We should like to be-
lieve it. We have tried to do so. But, when we
remember that the C.C. is also responsible for the
20-foot eel, the 50-foot crocodile, and the champion
snake story of the season, we are inclined—[Yes.
—Kd. B ]
Private J. Walker, a Kiama warrior now
with the New South Wales Contingent, may have
been a mild-mannered man when he left his native
village, but has now become a very glutton for
gore. This is from his letter, published In a Jour-
nal which has a circulation of several millions In
the egg and butter country:—” We killed between
300 and 600 Arabs. We came back much dis-
appointed, as we expected to have one of the
biggest engagements that has taken place yet.”
Probably this valiant soldier will, on his return,
have no appetite for breakfast unless he has the
reeking scalps of two policemen and an alderman
on the sideboard.
Everybody does not admire the Sydney
Light Horse warriors. The force is said to
consist, on average parades, of 30 men divided
into two troops. Of these two are captains,
two lieutenants, two sub-lieutenants, three ser-
geants, and three corporals. That leaves nine
men for solid work in each troop. Our corre-
spondent is of an arithmetical and generally in-
quisitive turn. Why does he not discover whether
these 18 men are tailors, and then work in Queen
Elizabeth’s salutation to the 18 tailors of her day:
“Good morning, gentlemen, both I” There’s a
broad seam of humour to be worked In connec-
tion with this Light Horse Brigade.
From the Evening News:—“The Mel-
bourne Herald has received a telegram from a
resident of St. Arnaud, that an immense quantity
of whisky was drunk on Wednesday night when
the defeat of the Gladstone Ministry became
known.” Any excuse has always served the St.
Arnaud people for the shameful vice of intoxica-
tlon. When Disraeli was In office they got drunk;
when Gladstone succeeded him they got drunk;
now that Gladstone Is out they get drunk again.
The same Issue of the Noozk tells us that “Dr.
Flelschl, of Vienna, has discovered that the hydro-
chlorate of cocaine, administered hypodermically
in doses from one-twelveth to one-fourth of a
grain, will cure morphinism, alcoholism, and simi-
lar habits within 10 days/' For the St. Arnaud
people, verb sap.
A bushman sends us:- “Lines on finding
the Skeleton of a Blaokfellow.”—
No suipllced parson, with strong nasal drone,
0 er him the burial service did intone;
Vet, though unoofflned and his grave looks shabby,
He d sleep no sounder though Westminster Abbey
Upon his resting place did throw Its shade,
Or for him its great organ requiems played.
Perhaps he died full of good whisky, mellow,
Sustained by hopes to jump up some white fellow.
Perhaps—Oh, d 1 here’s rabbits In my tent,
Though to exterminate them I am sent; fc’WJ
And, if the “ boss” comes, sure as my name’s Jack,
This cursed scribbling will get me the “sack ”;
My carefully-built castles fall to wreck—
1 write a doggrel, and he writes my cheque.
What are “obtrusive clerical visitations ”?
There is a Girls’ Grammar School in Maryborough
(Q ), and one of the local papers complains of the
commission of this Indefinite offence there. Do
the reverend gentlemen climb over the wall, kick
the class-room doors in, or make a breach In the
direction of the kitchen ? Or do they gently tap
at the doors of Yes. Points of this kind
should be always put plainly. We notice that a
clergyman writes to a Northern journal to ex-
onerate himself. It Is never fair to write a para-
graph In such a way that the subject of It has to en-
quire If It concerns him. If the rev. gentleman in
question made a breach In the direction of the
kitchen, climbed the wall, or did anything else, it
should have been said that one of these was just
the thing he did.
There is splendid reporting material going
to waste in the North of Queensland. There was a
tug-of-war between 20 Quarters Towers men and
20 Townsvillalns lately, and the event was so
momentous that the great 0 Kane sent a special re-
porter to the scene of action. The reporter wired
that the Towers men won. Next day he came
home and wrote up a side of matter, showing
“ that they didn't. This discrepancy he explained
by saying that the contest had not taken place
when he sent the wire, and that If he had waited
for It to take place he would have been late for
press. He had, therefore, guessed as well as he
could. In the state of moral obfuscation that
exists up there they call that reporter mendacious.
We think he ought to transfer his services to a
large metropolitan paper. Metropolitan papers
are anxious to engage men like that.
Here is an argument in favour of our own
Dailey’s offer of £60,000 for an anti-rabbit crusade,
it will also give the cremators a leg up in their
road to ashes. The Laird of the Manor in Water-
□Ishe. Skye, let his rabbits roam. They ate under
the highways, they ate under the parsonage, they
ate into the graves In the village churchyard. The
parson expostulated. “Whatl ’’cried the Laird,
“ Four rabbits may hae got Into your graveyard
and gnawed at your grandmother’s bones. But
who cares ? ” Only prejudiced people, of course,
care. But If four rabbits did all this in Skye, well
may our ideal patriot—and all ideal patriots have
their prejudices—offer untold wealth to exter-
minate the pest. Rightly, also, may cremators
say that it is better our grandmothers should be
ashes than transubstantiated Into rabbits ana
come on our table as an article of family diet.
From 18 to 30 Chinamen meet every Sun-
day at Wombat Flat (Vic.), and under the splrltua
baton of Chlng Wah, warble mellliluously, “ There
is a gleen illy fal alay ” and other tender excerpts
from “ Hymns, Ancient and Modern.” The Rev.
Chlng has been some six or seven years in the
Daylesford district, evangelising his countrymen
and during the whole period he has, according to
bis own statement, converted 14. That is not
heavy work. We knew an evangelist once, who,
after a single year’s labour, sent a report to the
head officer, chronicling conversions to the number
of 800. It afterwards transpired that the holy man
had spent the whole time in the loft of a Conne-
mara shebeen, eating rashers and drinking whisky.
There are 300 Chinese In the Daylesford district,
and it would be strange if among them there were
not 14 capable of being impressed by Chlng Wah.
It is cabled by the Sydney dailies’ “ own
London correspondent” that the unctuous G. A.
Lloyd, of Sydney, “ was a guest at a State dinner
given by Lord Derby.” A straw shows how the
wind blows. This enthralling announcement,
wired across the ocean at 8s. a word, affords an
admirable index as to the sympathies of the daily
papers. Such are thy gods, O Pitt-streetl Why
didn’t you tell us what sort of a grace was said by
the oily and pious one I Why didn’t you let us
know what were the viands and the liquors that
passed over the plausible and holy tongue of this
distinguished politician and saint ? And who is
the “ own correspondent" that has taken all this
trouble? Surely not G. A. Lloyd 1 And now we
have It cabled that “ Mr. Alfred Bennett (of the
Evening News), attended the Royal levSe yester-
day.” There’s glory for you, at eight bob a
word.
In the gossip that ran around Melbourne
In connection with the robbery of the National
Bank there, lately, the Rev. J. A. Stuart found bis
way into print. He said he saw some men at the
Bank that morning, but “they looked like larri-
kins or men employed in boot factories,” and his
mind was easy. The delicate compliment tendered
by the parson appears to have been outweighed
by the unfortunate reference to larrikins. The
bootmakers go for him with their awls. As far as
personal appearances go, one of them avers the
sons of St. Crispin are as idecent-looking a set of
men as Presbyterian parsons. Another quotes
Montaigne, and says the shoemakers of Melbourne
are most of them owners of property, which the
Rev. Stuart is not, and ate all of them readers of
the Abqus. When Greek meets Greek, the fight
is furious. When soul meets sole, the light is
funny. Pull healer—pull heeler 1
Two fine old holy fathers, born in the
grand old prehistoric time, and surviving till the
E resent by a freak of Providence, were having it
ot, sweet, and strong on the night after the Syd-
ney R.C. Archbishops valedictory letter had been
received and conned. “ Begorra, says one, “ only
Faith tells me that the Church will last for ever.
I’d be after thinking it had its ears back and its
tail cocked now tor the bottom of pardition.”
“ Little wonder ye’d be after thinking that way,”
■ays the other. “ What chance have we now to
rise the tin for a timple to the banner and glory,
seeing as how we’re euchred out of the main idea
of our innocent picnics ? No one is to be let come
wldout a special Invitation 1 Begorra 1” “Be-
gorra,” says the first, “ the boys’ll drap on to it
and won’t come at all, at all. Why, that was the
time all the courting was done. A fine sunshiny
day, and the girls and the boys In tip-top spirits
was worth twlnty pound at the laste.” “And
there Isn’t to be even a shtep on the llure to put
a roof on to the banner and glory I To pardition
wld his .” “ Begorra I ” sajs the other.
At a banquet given in Kiama, recently,
the Independent was admitted to the gorge,
while the unfortunate Reporter, who arrived in
a splendid condition of linen and the front of his
boots carefully polished, was curtly told by the
doorkeeper that he couldn’t eat there. Indignant
at this, the editor bewails his lot in bis paper, and
indignantly denies, to bis friends, a slanderous
allegation made by the other side that on the
occasion of the banquet to Dr. Tarrant, one
of the staff went away with a water-melon
under one arm and a pine-apple under the
other—explaining smilingly to the committee
that he preferred to eat his dessert in the
solitude of his editorial sanctum. One of
the consolatory letters to the editor ends as
follows:—” . . The public who detected these
contemptible actions will not fail to recognise the
spirit ot justice and independence fflatntalned by
you In tne conduct of your business from the
beginning.— 8dum Cuiqub.” Th< writer has wisely
refrained from dating from anywhere, it would
have looked rather too pointed to have put “ Re-
porter office.”
A WOMAN ON THE AUSTRALIAN RABBIT QUESTION.
WHAT, INDEED!
“Kendall’s grave—what about it? asks a
correspondent. It is understood that those who
purchased the adjoining ground and collected a
sum sufficient to place a modest stone thereon
have stood aside in expectation of better things
provided by the celebrated Remenyl. But where
Is he, and when may those interested expect a ful-
filment of his generous promise ? If there is any
doubt about the matter, let those who first under-
took the work finish it.”— B. News.
Why rear for him a monument ?
’Twas but a simple bard that died!
The grocerman, you must perceive,
Will have a bigger, side by side!
Or some dead Shylock’s heap of stone
Will dwarf the poor dead poet’s own.
Of what avail the wordlets now
i On “ Austral’s poesie and art
These champagne-laden sentences
That never, never knew the heart ?
What care they, these bombastic chaps,
If that grave’s strewn with greasy scraps ?
How pitiful it is to list
While one of these “ primed” champions raves,
When “ Araluen ” should have brought
The price of, ay, one hundred graves I
Yet now there’s silence, like to gloom,
About a paltry little tomb.
Let some Mnscenas see the grave 1
It is a sight, we do declare,
To note the luncheon-paper and
The jam-tins slyly nestling there I
Yes, go I ’tis but a pleasant walk—
And when you’ve seen it, act— don’t talk.
A lady Correspondent of the 8.M. Herald suggests cats as a means of keeping
down the rabbits, who are eating all our grass. “ A halfpenny a head offered for
kittens six weeks old would get 10,000 in a week, and in another week those 10,000
kittens would have killed 50,000 rabbits. The oats would increase, the rabbits decrease.”
[Our artist has dealt with this charmingly domestic suggestion. First the cats “ tackle”
the rabbits. The latter disappear, and the oats, after running wild for a while, de-
velope into toy tigers. Then we turn 10,000 dogs loose to settle the cats. After the
dogs come the sausage-machine, the alligator—and the deluge.]


RETURN OF THE CONTINGENT.
PREPARATIONS FOR BRILLIANT RECEP-
TION.
A GLORIOUS WELCOME,
BACK AGAIN.
PROGRAMME.
The Third of March saw a spectacle never before
presented to the eyes of the world. A great race,
that had overspread the world, and sent her civili-
sation, language, and commerce amongst the in-
habitants of territories which, from the dawn of
history, had been known only as savages, appeared
to have met in its career obstacles which would
test to the utmost its vast resources. A war, which
of itself, might have been easily made mere child’s
play, was made the occasion, by another waiting
nation, for a challenge to arms. The British were
quite able to cope with the enemy before them i
but whilst making preparations for a short and
sharp campaign, a hostile nation chose the time
to make arrogant demands. It was as if one of two
pugilists, who had received a worsting years be-
fore, waited till he saw his old enemy with an arm
in the sling, and then asked him to put up hi 8
hands. It was at such a juncture that Australian
statesmen—for some of them deserve the name-
being well-informed of deep-laid plans on the
part of unscrupulous Continental powers, decided
to show the world that the lusty young civilisa-
tion of a colony, of Australia in fact, was not so
far gone with the gold-hunting spirit, but they
would, on occasion, rise in force to see that the
stock they came from should not meet with dis-
grace. People who have been talking of the nar-
rowing of the sympathy of England and Aus-
tralia, were astounded to see thousands ready to
leap to arms in defence of the old land. As it
was, we sent only a fraction of those who were
eager to go from this colony alone. Had it been
necessary, the other colonies would have made it
up to thousands. The Contingent we sent num-
bered something under 800, but they return to us
with the praises of the first Generals of the British
army; and with the applause of the world. Con-
tinental papers, far more than ourselves, awoke to
the significance of a great Power having at her
service, not a
CONSCRIPTION,
but a band of thousands of lusty fellows trained
to all hardships, and seasoned to all climates—
—from the frozen region of Canada to the hottest
provinces of the New Continent—ready
TO VOLUNTEER,
and a people at the back of them able to pay them
two or three times the fighting wages of any sol-
diers on the earth; to fit them out with provi *•
slons and necessaries on a scale utterly beyond the
resources of any existing nation; that private
enterprise established a Patriotic Fund for the re-
lief of the relatives of survivors. The C. A? -
Vogeler Company, perceiving the necessities of
the case, anticipated the Intention of the Govern-
ment, and well knowing the dangers to which our
men would be exposed, the privations and suffer-
ing incidental to war and rough work, Instantly
furnished the authorities gratis with a large sup-
ply of St. Jacob’s Oil—a remedy which has-
never been known to fail in cases of bruises,
sprains, rheumatism, &o., and to the merits of
which we shall have much pleasure of furnishing
the testimony of members of the Contingent who
have used it. The country is to be congratulated
that the bloody scenes the men appeared destined
to pass through have been averted. With the ex-
ception of a very small number who have fallen
victims to typhoid fever—a disease, by the way,
that in the meantime has carried off many a one in
the land they left, and which they might meetany-
THE BOYS RETURN
pretty much as they left, and, heartily as we
cheered them off, no less hearty will be the cheers
that will ring from hundreds of thousands of
throats as the brave fellows
LAND AT CIRCULAR QUAY
on the 23rd, and take their way back to the bar-
racks. They will pass along the same route by
which only a few months ago they were watched
by many a wistful eye, that never expected to
look upon them again; but which eyes will now,
in the words of General Wolseley, brighten, as
MOTHER, SISTER, AND SWEETHEART
watch from the windows. The Government have
rightly arranged for large concessions in railway
fares to accommodate country visitors, and
THOUSANDS OF VOLUNTEERS
will attend to welcome their brethren home. Re-
presentatives from all the colonies will be present
to express their estimation of the noble national
spirit which prompted and carried the Expedition
through, and, altogether, the day will mark
AN EFOC1 IN OUR HISTORY.*
Wolfa’s Schnapps is now Australia’s most
popular health beverage. Ask for Wolfe’s and
>ace3pt no other.
‘‘Be calm, me’appy ’eart I ” softly breathed
Detective Eason, at the door of the Bank of Aus
tralasla, in Ballarat, one evening last week. “ '
ave been hall along: waiting for a chance like
this. I m hin for a ‘sub.’ now at the least 1 ” I
was quite dark. The detective had found the
bank door open—not honestly, butknavlshly open
He crept in. No one visible, but sounds heard in
a corner. Evidently robbers at work. “Becalm
me appy ’eartI ” He crept out. “Make ’aste tc
the lockup,” he whispered to a man passing. “ and
“Order the traps to ’urry ’ere at onet harmed to
the teeth.” ” Go to heaven I ” said the man, walking
on * A haccompllce! ” mused the detective. “ Go,
he whispered to another, “ and bring’em harmec
to the teeth.” This man went. They came. They
entered with pistols, batons, and lights. The
manager came running down stairs and asked wbai
was up. Was the bank not burglared ? No. Why
the open door ? The servant had been sweeping
out, and was now at the rear of the premises. “ Be
calm, me hunfortunate ’eart 1 ” sighed the detec-
tive as he led the way out. “ Hit’s a ’oax I ”
- The Rev. Yarnold, of St. Leonards'
Sydney, writes in the local Cleary that he had
received two interesting letters from the Rev. Mr.
Rose, who, it may be remembered, went out to the
Soudan to soothe the dying hours of such of our
boys as may have come off worst in a deadly com-
bat with the ferocious nannies and billies which
browse in those arid regions. On 10th April, Mr.
R. reports: “lam now sleeping on a cork mat-
trass on the ground, and I am quite comfortable.
. . . Up to now I have lost my overcoat and re-
volver, both stolen. . . , One thing, however, we
have plenty to eat and drink.” At the present
writing the Rev. Rose is aboard the Arab, and not
far from the shores that are yearning for his intre-
pid presence, and the Rev. Yarnold, rising to the
occasion, announces that on his arrival special
services will be held In Christ Church. This is as
it should be. A man who. in the service of re-
ligion, takes his Bible and his life in one hand, and
a revolver in the other, and goes out to convert
the foe, is entitled to special service in his honour,
and we shall cheerfully join in the hymn of
thanksgiving which the parish jwili send up over
his safe return. We t o a step further, and here
volunte r to start a subscription for the puroh«se
of a new revolver to ennble the gentleman to
start afresh on an evangelistic tour through our
back s'ums. When the Bible fails, a bullet per-
suades
If there is one thing that should cheer the
true Australian, it is evidence of the continued
advance in intellectual and material wealth chro-
nicled in the Press from day to day. W«, there-
fore, feel a sort of thrill of emotion and hope for
the future of this young nation when we take up
the Narrabri Irish Australian (so called from
Narrabrl being the centre of Ireland and Australia
both, besides being nowhere in particular), that
“ In Pllliga, we have had two new arrivals, who
promise to be eligible additions to our population
—the first, the new schoolmaster (who, by the way,
is recommended to marry straightaway, and who,
if he is not a fool, should do as we used to do when
wielding the chalk and duster In a similar place-
fix on the red-headed daughter of the richest
farmer, court the old man, and eat farm bacon and
eggs, and drink new milk free of cost) and Mr.
Joseph, who is going to set up store [the only
store there.] His advent to Pllliga may be taken as
a good augury of its commercial progress, and
indeed enterprise was sadly needed here.” “ The
Post Office is a hut.” We should say it was a good
augury of commercial progress, for already in-
creased activity has been noted on the wharves
and in the great Sydney warehouses. Upwards of
three cases of sardines, four of pickles, and two
d ;zen Crimean shirts and moles are already chok-
ing the goods shed at Redfern. Cheer up, Pilliga.
Only let the school-master marry now and Mr.
Joseph supply the real sound stuff in his shop, and
hansoms and trams will soon roar past palatial
banks and warehouses and whisk a thriving popu-
lation over the stumps and ruts now sacred to the
cayease of a dog, or thoughtfully eyed by the
waddling but parched duck.
The recent daring daylight bank-robbery
in Simpson’s Road, Melbourne, and the promptl
tude with which the assailed officials (though one
of them was armed to the teeth) “ balled up ” and
turned over the bank cash to their visitors, recalls
the celebrated and effectual res'stance offered on
14th June, 1864, at Gertrude-street (Pitzroy, Mel-
bourne) branch of the National Bank of Austra-
lasia by Mr. John Dowling (the manager) and Mr
Percy de Jersey Grut (the ledger-keeper) of the
Institution named. On the date In question, just
after the bank had been opened, and the safes
unlocked, three rough-looking fellows lounged in,
and while the leader, Woods—a West Aus-
tralian expiree — ran round to get into the
manager's room, Carver, another West Aus-
tralian ruffian, covered Mr. Grut with a re-
volver. Phillips, the third armed bandit, looked
stolidly on, prepared for emergencies—while An-
derson, the fourth, kept the door. Woods was
armed with revolver and long double-edged dag-
ger. For a moment, Carver looked over his
shoulder to where Phillips lounged irresolutely.
In that moment Grut, active as a oat, hopped over
the counter and grasped his throat. Seeing how
unsettled matters were, Phillips grabbed some
.silver from the counter, and, accompanied by An-
.dersoc, ran down the street. Woods had, in the
(meantime, reached Dowling’s door, when he
•was seized by the wrists by the manager. Carver
tflred over his shoulder at where he expected
rut’s head to be, but the latter had more regard
for his head than to keep It where Carver desired.
.Still it was anarrow affair, as the bullet removed a
tiny portion of his ear before burying itself in the
ceiling. The shock caused Grut to relax his hold,
when Carver broke away, and ran down the street
(after Phillips and Anderson. Then Grut quickly
made his way to the manager's room, having first
bolted the door so as to make sure of at least one
of the robbers. He was none too soon. Aided by
the manager’s brother. Tom Dowling, who had
run in from the back, they promptly secured
Woods. The other three were captured next day
in Little Bourke street. The plucky manager and
hfs plucky assistant were promoted, Caryer and
Woods were hanged, and Phillips und Anderson
got 15 years’ imprisonment each. Dowling is long
since dead. Mr Grut is now visiting inspector ot
the bank His portrait Is given above. He is as
well-known for his love of science and his kindly
disposition as for his Herculean muscle and bull-
dog pluck.
Woman Items
“ Brides now go k> the altar without
gloves.” So says a fashion journal. This is for
fear the bridegroom should blush at the sight of a
pair of “ kids ?”
And yet another sudden death at a dance.
Belfast (Vic.), the locality this time. This is the
third within a month. Heart disease the cause.
Hearts are often affected at dances.
This is how the Allora (Q.) Guardian goes
tor certain "claimant*":—“Substantial Damages.
—Miss Mulroney has succeeded in obtaining a ver-
diet for £1550 against the Commissioner for Rail-
ways- ‘Mary’ is described as being of ‘prepos-
sessing appearance’—hence we suppose the swinge-
ing damages awarded by the intelligent four.
When a pretty girl sues the Government for
repairs, ‘ Mr.’ Government has to crawl on all-
tours, and ‘ mooch ’ around for a back seat. A. G.
Jones scooped in’ £4000, yet considering it wai
proved that the railway collision afforded him an
opportunity of contracting ankleclonus, spinal
meningitis, pleurisy, consumption, asthma, and a
whole heap of other diseases, we can hardly blame
the jury in this instance; but, after all, we question
if any man ,wlth so very plebeian a patrynomic is
worth it.” This foul Insult will, we are sure, be
indignantly resented by every true-born Briton
whose name is Jones. And the Smith and Robin-
son family will join in the chorus.
At Trouville a French lady, conversing
with a Journalist, was condemning In pitiless
terms the realistic feeling of the age, which, she
averred, was engulphing every higher emotion,
when her artless daughter of 18, clad in virgin
white, entered the room, and whispered: “ I had
better not dance with Monsieur S. this evening,
mamma. The latest quotations of the Stock Ex-
change arrived while we were talking, and, on
reading them, he turned deadly pale and trem bled.”
“ You are quite right, ray child,” whispered the
sentimental mamma. In reply; “ say you are en-
gaged already if he asks you.”
An Adelaide divorce suit is promised us,
the details of which (ride telegram) “ will surpass
anything of the sort which has previously come
to light.” To say that this news has merely un-
settled and excited our nerves would be to under-
estimate its importance. The prospect of a “ best
on record” in dainty divorce details, is positively
maddening to a sanguine temperament—
We read in the N.Y, Herald a delightful
little paragraph, to the effect that on 7th April
at Louisville, “ Mrs. Saliie Ward who has been
known for 40 years as • the most beautiful woman
in the South,’ was married for the fourth time to-
night in her private parlour at the Galt House.
The groom was Mr. G. F. Bonus, a wealthy gentle-
man of high social position, about 70 years
of age, and, although he has been Mrs. Armstrong’s
devoted suitor for six years, the wedding to-night
was entirely unexpected and will cause a great
social se'isstion. There were no guests save three
or four of the bride’s intimate friend’s and the son
and daughter-in-law of the groom. The bride at
58 looked 45. She was simply attired in a Parisian
costume of cream serge, with gold threads run-
ning through it, and trimmed with a fringe made
of gold coins. The ceremony was performed by
the Bight Rev. George William MXIloskey, R.C.
Bishop of Louisville. A wedding tour has been
deferred until the autumn Mis. Saliie Ward
Lawrence-Hunt-Armstrong-Donus is known -in
every city in America.” As the gidy old boy is
about 70 years of age,” we strongly advise him
to postpone his wedding-tour until after the
general resurrection.
“The English language,” said Mn Pinto,
consists of two words—‘nice’ and‘jolly’—arid,
some grammarians add, ‘ bore.’ ” We thought of
this when we read the deposition of the Honorable
Mrs. Gerard (in the Lord Durham divorce case) as
reported in the Morning Post;— “Hon. Mrs
Gerard: I said to my sister, ‘You must see Lord
Durham is making up to you.’ Her sister said she
thought Lord Durham a very, nice fellow. She
afterwards said Lord Durham was the only man
who had put Lord Burghersh out of her head. I
said, * If you think so much of Lord Durham, you
must make up your mind to give him an answer.’
The witness thought there was a tiff between Lord
Durham and her sister a day or two after. I chaffed
my sister about the matter, and she rather shut
me up ” Apr eg cela, as the French say, il fawt tirer
Vichelle. And if the Durham case—our justifica-
tion for again referring to it is that the S.M.
Herald wrote a leader about it-has shown us
nothing else, it has convinced us that in Mrs.
Oliphant, Lord Gerard’s daughter, we have a dra-
matic critic after our own heart. Mrs. Oliphant:
“ I remember we all went together to the theatre
one night.” Q : “What theatre was it?” Mrs.
Oliphant: “1 can’t remember” The Judge:
“ What was the play ?” Mrs. Oliphant: “ I forget.’’
Would that all dramatic critics were gifted with
the same grand powers of forgetfulness which
distinguish this lady.
Like the Sydney Evening News, the Mel-
bourne Age now makes a speciality of mournful
metrical obituary notices. These tributes of be-
reaved affection are, no doubt, composed in the
reporters’ room at a small extra charge. If the
afflicted family studies economy, or includes
amongst its members some one with a turn for
poetry (and what family does not ?) the mortuary
verses may be home-made. This is a bit of what
was, perhaps, a home-brewed article:—
“ Bat she always bore it patiently;
She never did complain;
And though she’s gone from those she loved,
We know she’s free from pain.
(Composed by her daughter Jane,)”
Observe how artfully the rhyme leads up to the
name of the authoress. This both heightens the
merit and increases the consolation. With any
other subscription than “ Jane ” the verse would
have lacked that literary completeness over which
the eye of criticism fondly lingers, and it would
have afforded less comfort to the survivors. The
defect of epitaphs in. the form of newspiper’ad-
vertisements is thuir merely ephemeral publicity.
Verses graven on a tombstone are a Joy for ever,
but Inserted in a daily newspaper they “havetheir
day and cease to be.” - However, in the Age “ In
Memoriam” department, for a suitable charge,
you can advertise ydur departed friends on the
anniversaries of their deaths, adding new poetry
which you have made in the meantime, or repro-
ducing the old. Thus, to take an example, on the
8th May, 1885, is reaonounoed the death, “after a
short and painful Illness,” of “ my dear daughter”
on the 8th May, 1883; then follows the dear old tri-
butary verse, beloved of Nooze readers: —
“ Pale death could scarcely find another,
Ho kind a wife, so fond a mother;
In all her actions she was kind,
Sne has gone and left her loved ones all behind.”
This is how David Syme teaches the Victorian
public to anticipate the last trumpet. What
a ghastly grin must pass over the widow or
widower who, having married again, sees her or
his new partner in life chuckling, at morning cof-
fee, over the Age’s resurreotory notice of the dear
departed!
* ♦ ♦
An Irishman suggests in an English paper
that the marriage of Albert Victor with an Irish
maiden would do more than Home Rule to pacify
the Emerald Isle, True. But if a Connaught girl
were to marry the young Prince, he would never
be a “Home Ruler.”—“ There was an unfor-
tunate thing connected with my marriage,” said
Mullethead. “ You see, wo eloped, and the rope
was thin and had to reach from a three-story
window” “And it broke?” questioned a
breathless listener. “ No, the blamed thing held.”
... A couple of girls were standing in a tram-car I
when a sudden Jolt threw one of them into the
„° j 0u , n ? ““h. He expected she would start
up and blushingly apologise; instead, she calmly
turned round, faced him and said, “ if you don't
mind > sir, I’ll stop here.” And so she did, all the
way to Forest Lodge. There was nothing in Good-
chap s rules to prevent it.... “ Outstripped by a
, ’L°5 lan ’ is the title of a late novel. It must have
*11 happened at a ball ...She came from Surry
Hills, and it was her first visit to the bush. “ Dear
me, she exclaimed, “what a very large moon for
such a small village as Croajingalong! ”
it rtS 63 your mother ever speak of me, darling?”
Oh, yes; every morning.’' “ I’m so glad.” “ She
? a Y8 she hopes we’ll be married very soon.”
That s pleasant. If she likes me so much, we’ll
be very happy, won’t we ?” “ Oh, ma thinks we
ought to get married at once.” “ She is anxious
t° have me for a son-in-law, isn’t she ?” “ No, it
isn t that; but she says your hair-oil has ruined
every cushion In our house.”...." How is it you
never leave Paris and enjoy the country?” said
a lady to Auber, who liked quail on toast. The
author of ‘ Masaniello ” replied: “ Madame, I dis-
like any place where birds go around raw.”
Mary Anderson is 27....At a recent London picture
snow, Mrs. Langtry’s appearance created a little
sensation, and she was the only person who was
mobbed ’ for a while. She wore an elegant cos-
tume of dark seal-brown velvet and faille francaise
trimmed with twine-coloured Irish guipure. The
bodice was velvet, laced up the back, with the
basque edged at the back with broad pleats of the
velvet, while its front, from the point to the hips
on each side, had the Irish lace turned up ©n to it,
6 collar and cuffs being similarly ornamented.
A drapery of brown faille francaise was drawn
back over an enormous toumure, a petticoat of
velvet showing slightly in front. Mrs. Langtry’s
bonnet, which towered high above her turned-up
hair, was of black jet, trimmed with gold lace,
and a big bow of watered ribbon, chartreuse in
oojour, in the centre of the front. Mrs. Oscar
Wilde out-Heroded Herod in aestheticism. Her
no™- which hung loosely and depressedly, was
of sickly green. It was relieved only with touches
of consumptive-looking pink.
TO A LADY GRADUATE.
Lusus doctrincB— but no easy fun—
A bachelor and spinster both in one I
Another paradox at once one sees.
Master and matron, if my Lady please.
Fast as I write, another follows faster,
A rtless, of Arts a Bachelor and Master.
THE LATEST THING IN STRIKES.
NO. 1; “ OUT O’ WORK BILL ? ”
NO. 2: “NO, OUT ON STRIKE.”
NO. 3: “ SO’M I.”
NO. 1: “ME AN’ MY MATES STRUCK ’CAUSE THEY WANTED TO STOP US 8MOKING1
ALL DAY.”
NO 2: *• WE RE OUT ’CAUSE WE WEBN’T ’LLOWED TO DRINK.’’
NO 3; “ WE STRUCK FOR HIGHER WAGES AN’ NO WORK.” V
ALL TOGETHER: “DOWN WITH THE BLOATED HOLTQARCHY THAT ’UD STOP A
POOR MAN’S BEER AN’ ’BACCY, AN’ MAKE HIM EARN HIS LIVIN’.”
“Sad suicide ” or “ sudden death ”
Are headings to our soul delightful;'
“ Elopement ’’ takes away our breath,
And any tale of murder frightful,
With eager longing eyes w« read,
At restaurants, between the courses.
Still, these are joys but slight indeed
Compared with highly-spiced divorces.


Jgx S.S. BALLARAT. EX. S.S. BALLARAT.
J3BAPES and SHAW PE APES and SHAW,
HAVE OPENED a large SHIPMENT of
GLOVES.
INCLUDING Gen'.* • hevrettes, Ladies' Chev-
r lies
F.u.-botton Tan Florentine GLOVES
Bri.n.t .. . B~_ ditto ditto,
JpOUR-BUTTON or C.a-T Tau SID GLOVES, “
With ingrain Tvs 1st Politi, Black and Self
C-iiour.
Eight-button Length 'I an Mjsquetalre.
LARGEST, most 11JL1A(iLV.VnTThelD *
JL est
STOCK of LADIES’ and GENTLEMEN'S
GLOVES
JN THE AUSTRALIAN CO JOnIeL
and CHILDREN’S GLOVES
J N~EVElorLKNG TH,“sIz d COLOUR"
J>EAPE3 and 8H AW, PE APB 3 and SHAW,
B STREET, GEORGB-8TREBT. '
WEATHER REQUISITES
PEaPBS and SHAW’S, GEORGE-8TRBBT,
TAILOR-MADE ULSTERS.
JjADIES’ MiCINlOSH OVERALL^
gl-LMDID EX1EAOKDIH
GENTLEMEN’S WINTER OVERCOATS,
25a, eacn *
A NDIPLUVIAN mACINJoTTi aeami
J)° u BL E TEX T UREM ACINTOS RES, 30s. ea^t
J|jVEKY VAHIBTY E «„ m WINtS
ADIES’
and QBNTLBMF . W1NTEI
GLOVES.
JpEAPES and uUAW, PEAPES and SHAW
BORG E-STRB BT, G tORHE-STRBiKT.
Magic
Mirth
Mystery.
A NEW BOOK.
C it-. it g over 350 Tricks
ANr> DELUSIONS WITH CARDS, DICE,
AND INJURING APPARATUS.
Illuii a > d tv 1th blocks and diagrams, fully ex.
plained, simplified, and adapted for home amuse-
ment and social entertainments, forming the most
complete collection of Its kind eror offered to the
Australian public. Mailed free to any [address
ONE SHILLING.
THE WIZARD’S CHANGEABLE CARDS.
These cards change from Red to Black, from
eights to deuces and back again at the pleasure of
the performer, and elicit exclamations of wonder
and surprise from all who witness them. Post
free, with full Instructions, Is. 2d.
THE YANKEE RUBBER BABY.
Goes in the waistcoat pocket, yet can be Instantly
blown out to llfesize; screams awfully if smacked.
Even experienced fathers are deceived by these
laughter-producing Infants, and no home can be a
really happy one without their cheering presence
Price, post free, Is.
dosing? out and Post it to us, en-
oiosing a in postage stamps, naming this paper,
and we will send you by return post,
THE BOOKS, CARDS, AND BABY.
Address all communications:
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT,
401 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ALCOCK & CO.’S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS j
mum db ui cd,
375 George-st.p Sydney.
tW TIME PAYMENTS. IF REQUIRED
The wreck of the Cahors must have been
* most exciting affair. According to Mr. Gregory,
a passenger, as soon as the stranded ship’s rockets
were answered by the Burwah, •• some of the pas-
sengers In the cabin responded by singing * Praise
God from whom all blessings flow,’ and two ladhs*
voices rang out by way of anticipation and true
Christian faith in God, ‘Safe in the arms of
Jesus.’” And here is a charmingly i; ive and
bathetic paragraph from the Sydney D.T.
*’ • • • I saw less of the operations lor the res-
cue than many other passengers, but enough to
confirm fully the Intense admiration felt for the
bravery and endurance of the officers and men.
Even Captain South was compelled to express
himself delighted that the sailors worked so nobly,
grandly, and cheerfully. They never lott heart.
For hours they were in peril of their lives, but
stuck to their work like Britons; and there it not
a passenger but felt that there is no falling off in the
good old British pluck. Let me add that, while a
staunch total abstainer, 1 have become half a con-
vert to the belief that there is some virtue in brandy.
While the men could get brandy they worked splen-
didly. Therefore it was willingly and properly sup-
plied.” Whatl Is British pluck” only imtch
courage ? No. gentlemen. Bum and true religion
once more. Very likely Byron was right.
OBUOITS’S
SWISS CIGARS
Have been recognised as the BEST for half a
century.
Foster ’s Bugle Brand.
m
%
m
m
J=-
&
MB'
_£?
1
s
>Ar
«S
N-'
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALS A LI
The BEST ALB and STOUT in the Market
BOLD BT ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
Wholesale Agents :
W. Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
Commercial Chamhers,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
Infants
i
What gives our Children rosy cheeks,
What cures their fevers, makes them sleep;
Castorla.
When Babies fret, and cry by turns,
What cures their colic, kills their worms,
Castorla. i
What quickly cures Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Colds, Indigestion ;
Farewell then to Morphine Syrups,
Castor Oil and Paregoric, and
jt HailCastoria.
“ Castoria is so well adapted to Children
that I recommend it as superior to any medi-
cine known to me.”—H. A. Augheb, M. D. f
111 Oxford St., New York.
Elliott Bros., Sidney, Agents.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
Marshall’s Artificial Teeth.
MARSHALL BROTHERS, Dentists, owing to
the great increase of their dentistry prac-
tice, have also taken extensive premises at 138
ELIZABETH STREET, Hyde Park. They still
continue to inseit teeth at the same enormously
reduced price as before, namely, iB5 per set,
upper and lower, which are precisely the same
£rize medal teeth advertised by other Aims,
[arshall Brothers gurantee these to bo equal in
every way, both for quality, fit, and appearance,
to those inserted by hundreds of dentists (with a
limited practice), who charge double and treble
this amount. The public may doubt this, but
Marshall Brothers offer £300 to any person who
can prove this statement untrue. Consultation
free. Painless extraction by the aid of nitrous
oxide gas. MARSHALL BROTHERS, American
D-ntlstS. 133 Klizabeth-street, Hyde Park, and
Market-street. N.fi. - All trams stop at the door.
Wherever Wolfe’s Schnapps have been
introduced it has by force of merit obtained public
confidence.
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated wltt
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skll-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. Hunter-street. Sydney.*
Murray and Lanman’s Florida Water.—Is
one of the surest and speediest of cures for every
form of nervousness. It relieves headache when
other applications completely fail. It relnvigor-
ates the fatigued and overtaxed body, and it
imparts force and buoyancy to tne mental powers.
Ayer’s ague Curb is a powerful tonic
bitter, composed wholly of vegetable substances.
Its action is peculiar, prompt, and powerful, break-
ing up the chill, curing the fever, and expelling
the poison from the system, yet leaving no ha. mful
or unpleasant effect upon the patient. Sufferers
from chills and fevers who have used quinine as a
remedy will appreciate this.
Recent exposures by the Customs Author-
ities show how the reputation of Wolfe's
Schnapps has been trilled with.
Sydney, Wednesday.
Dearest Belle,— Just a liitie wnile ago I heard
a tale of “ woman’s wrongs” which has so filled
me with indignation that before I go on to plea-
tant topics I must unburthen myself into your
ever-sympathetlc ear; then I know I shall feel
somewhat relieved. It appears some time since
there was an advertisement in a Sydney daily paper
for a “ lady clerk, not young, salary Small, duties
light; office hours from 10 till 4 every day, except
Saturday. Apply, &c., &c.” Well, at the appointed
time about 50 or 60 ladies waited upon the adver-
tiser, and in due course presented their various
testimonials. But judge, dear, of the disgust of
the poor ladies who had frittered away a whole
morning in waiting their chance of success to hear
that the remuneration was to be the magnificent
sum of live shillings per week , paid monthly! You
will laugh, I know, as I did, when I first heard it,
for I thought it quite too funny to be true, but
when my informant assured me that she was one
of the applicants my smiles died away, and my
heart was filled with grief at the thought of our
fair and prosperous Sydney harbouring a creature
so mean. I think he ought to be put in a glass-case,
and exhibited as our champion mean man.
Fancy the Princess of Wales being fond of trim-
ming up old bonnets I It’s quite nice to know that
members of Royalty have the same weaknesses as
ourselves, isn’t it ? It is said that nothing delights
Her Royal Highness more than amateur millinery,
excepting a romp with her boys. They are get-
ting rather big to play plck-a-boo with now, cer-
tainly, but Qeorgie, who, as you know, is merrier
and less dignified than his brother, still enjoys
making a playfellow of his royal mother. I like
this Princess, dear, for 1 think sho is better than
all the rest of them put together. She is so
womanly, gentle, and sweet, and although not by
any means a vain woman, she loves admiration,
and is frank enough to own it. She is very parti-
cular about the fit of her dress, wrinkles under the
arm or across the shoulders being detected at once
by her artistic eye. By the way, when the Princess
visited Ireland, the other day, it was observed that
she did not wear the faintest suspicion of either
crinoline or improver.
There was a concert given at Sydney Deaf and
Dumb and Blind Asylum, last Thursday week, and
as admission was free, it was well attended. There
was a collection at the door, however, and
about £25 was realized in aid of the organ
fund. It is amusing, dear, to see these
poor afflicted ones talking and signing to each
other, and I wondered if in the silent exchange of
ideas they ever used faulty grammar, or ever
spelt out bad language when they felt irritated;
for I don’t suppose that Nature has omitted to
Imbue them with a temper, even if she did forget
about their eyes, ears, or tongues. Some of the
items oh the programme were very enjoyable, but
others were just the reverse, and indeed, dear,
there were times during the evening when I
Almost envied the poor little deaf boys and girls—
Very wicked of me, wasn’t it ? But I always feel
wicked when I hear bad music. You will be glad
to know that all the Inmates at the asylum seem
to be happy, and I believe no effort is spared by
the management to make them so.
I saw in one of the papers the other day that
Mr. Dunbar, who has now joined the Federal Min-
strels, had been playing the piccolo very nicely.
Of course, we had all heard him play the musette,
but didn’t know he could also manage the piccolo,
so went to hear him. But It was all a mistake of
the reporters, for evidently to his enlightened
jpind the musette and piccolo are one, and the
same instrument, for the musette it was we heard
again, as it always was when the same performer
belonged to the “ Fun on the Bristol ” jeompany.
But some reporters are very eccentric and mis-
leading. Another instance of this was when, the
other night, we met some friends in the Gaiety
Theatre, who had gone there under the impres-
sion that they were going to see the Ma jeronis in
the “Foundry Master,” I asked them how they
could have made such a mistake, and they replied
that they were distinctly told in one of the morn-
ing papers that this play was running at the
Gaiety. I looked next day, and found that their
statement was quite correct. Too bad, isn’t It,
that we can place so little reliance upon the
papers?
One Friday night during their visit to Sydney,
gir Henry and Lady Loch, accompanied by Lady
Loftus, went to the Opera House to see the
Foundry Master.” I thought it bad taste in the
Government House “ hangers on ” that they
should be so conspicuous by their absence upon
this occasion. It would have looked so much
nicer had each box been filled by well-dressed and
affable people in honour of the Melbourne visitors,
Instead of which nothing but cold, empty boxes
surrounded the party. I like Lady Loch’s face ex-
ceedingly, for, without being surpassingly lovely,
ft &o winning and gracious that it gets near one’s
fiearf at once.
Oh I whilst I think of it; don’t forget to tell
{Trank that the dude collar—the high stiff choker
ike a wristband, you know—has almost gone out,
and is only worn now by second-class mashers.
But, at the same time, warn him not to be too
sudden in casting it lor the dog-eared collar, as I
know several boys who, by doing so, and thus
leaving their dear little throats exposed, have con-
tracted colds. Tell him to begin by changing his
throat-protecting collar for the new style when
the air is mild at mid-day, and so gently prepare
his manly neck for the change ; and whatever you
do, see that he doesn’t send me more than half-a-
dozen pairs of gloves this time for my advice, for
I know that he lost a great deal of money at the
last races. You will see to this for me, won’t you,
de£t ? And (this for y° u only) it is quite true that
two newlv-lmported dudes, who have attracted
much Attention on our block lately, on account of
their upright and symmetrical figures, really wear
them—corsets, J mean. Yes ; it’s a fact; fori had
it from a reliable source that a man, who was
anxious to satisfy himself upon the point, acci-
dentally (apparently) dug one of them in the ribs
with an umbrella. He was quite convinced, for
the dude neither started or winced at the dig, and
something hard, which must have been whalebone,
collided with the umbrella stick. Another in-
vasion of our rights, you see, dear.
I always did dishxe those closely-packed heavy
bouquets which seem to me more a nuisance than
a pleasure to carry, so I was more than glad when
I heard, the other day, that loose bouquets, tied
iwith ribbon to match the costume, are now t e
nrooer style. An infinite amount of taste can be
“displagpd in the arrangement of fl owers for table
for baud, gnd, indeed, floral decoration for dinner
tables is carried to such a pitch at home that
.ladies have made quite a profession of It, and those
'who are kuown to possess the proper artistic taste
for the same readily meet with employment at the
best houses. The prettiest dinner-table in Lon-
don is said to be that of Mr. Chamberlain, as it is
not only ornamented by the most unique collec-
tion of orphlds, but they are arranged ty one who
shows a proper understanding of flowers. I think,
“dear, if I wanted an occupation, I should love,
all things, to be a llqral decorator. I hope
you’re not as badly oft for flowers as we here are
just now. For the past three months our flower-
famine has been such that for our dinner-tables
we have been glad to make shift with artificial
plants and flowers. I have often gazed lovingly
into Holdsworth’s window, where have lately been
exhibited the most beautiful specimens of artifi-
cial flowers I ever saw—so beautiful that, did I
possess any, I should no longer pine for the real
article. But It would take a small fortune to buy
enough to satisfy me.
Don’t laugh, but I must tell you that the latest
fashionable attitude is to stand at ease with one
hand on the right hip I I positively counted no
less than 17 ladies at the sports the other day
standing thus. How did they look? Well, I.
think, dreadfully vulgar; and I also observed
several ladies carrying their gloves in their bands.
One could forgive this if the uncovered hands
were white and pretty, but either the wind or un-
kind Nature had given them a decided boiled-lob-
ster appearance, which, to say the least of it, wasn’t
becoming, A well-known writer delivers him-
self as follows In regard to the fashion of glove-
wearing “ For my part I detest gloves, except
when there is dancing, or in the open air as a pro-
tection from sun or dust Gloves, in conjunction
with Court dresses, were the device of the Kmpress
Josephine to conceal the traces of the washtub on
the hands and arms of marshals’wives who had risen
from the common people and to hide the manual
beauty of her sister-in-law.” I fancy the Empress
Josephine would have insisted upon those ladies I
saw at the sports covering up their wrists and
hands—not that she would have been jealous of
their beauty, but for the other reason the author
states as being the excuse for her insistence on
glove-wearing.
Do you know, I should so have loved to have
been in England on Primrose Day I I think it must
have been a lovely sight to see the uninterrupted
rain of the pale golden flowers in front of the
Beaconsfleld statue for a whole afternoon. And I
read that many of the ladies who attended the thea-
tres on the evening of Primrose Day wore charming
coiffures and corsage sprays of the sweet lemon-
coloured flowers, cunningly Intermixed with dwarf
ing leaves. The effect must have been quite
Charming, don’t you think so ?
What do you think of this, dear ? In England,
the other day, a young fellow was sentenced to 15
months’ imprisonment just because he wouldn’t
take a girl's “no” for an answer I But, from all
they say, sending a man to gaol in Sydney is by no
means calculated to cool the ardour ot his love.
We have just had the most horribly romantic
affair in one of the prisons. Think of a prisoner
falling desperately in love with, and going mad
about, an old woman of nearly seventy I Really, it
seems that love is never extinguished in our
hearts. I suppose if the unhappy fellow (who
seems to be a mixture, in about equal parts, of Sir
Richard Lovelace and Mr. Richard Turpin) bad
been out of prison he’d never have lost his heart
to a woman old enough to be his great grand-
mother. '1 hat so venerable a lady [could uncon-
sciously or deliberately fascinate a young man
merely because she happened to catch him in
gaol and could manage to retain his affection
so long as he found be couldn’t get out,
only shows you how happy we girls could
be if we had our husbands continually
under lock and key. My cynical friend Charles, who
is now 33, says that the English Judge, instead of
sending the young fellow into seclusion for 15
months, should have condemned him to marry the
girl. Charlie says love is all a mockery and a
delusion. He says—not that I believe him—that
he has been deeply in love fO times, and has always
got over it. “ Yes,” he remarked to me the other
day, “ I go down thestreets in Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, and Brisbane, or one of the 30 other
cities I have lived in during the last 15 years, and
unconcernedly see passing by girls, for whose
sake once upon a time I believe I’d have jumped
over Govetfs Leap. Once their cheeks reminded
me of peaches; now they only recall speckled
apricots, and they never look so old as when they
laugh. Suppose 1 had married any one of those
women ? ” I replied, that bad he done so, he’d no
doubt have been very happy, for he and the girl
he married would have grown so used to each
other that they would have been Indispensable to
their individual well-being. But the crusty old
bachelor, who, entre nous, dear, really has no heart,
at once flew into a passion, and said that marriage
was an institution by means of which a couple
of people who had become one were made into two
(dr three) again. If there’s one thing in the world
I dislike, dear, it is a selfish, ill-conditioned old
bachelor. How much more to be admired is—well,
such a man as this, for instance: “A young resi-
dent of the Stawell district,” says the Pleasant
Creek News, “ was proceeding in a buggy to the
house of his bride-elect, when his hat blew off,
and upon jumping out of the buggy he fell and
broke his arm. He drove on and got married, and
then returned to Stawell and had the limb set.”
Now, there’s a man for you! That’s what I call a
devoted man, and just the sort we girls love, eh ?
And just here I must conclude, for we are all
going to see this wonderful “ Thauma” at the
Wax Works, which, of course, must be some kind
of a delusion. But whatever it or she is, we must
go, so now good-bye, dear,
Your loving
MAB.
A Welcome.
(After Tennyson.)
Raw recruits from over the sea,
Smiths, O’Marae, M’Padyens are we—
Christian and heathen aborigine—
But all of us Jingoes in our welcome of thee,
_ Loyal Contingent.
Fire at them blundering guns of the fleet I
Let off torpedoes under their feet I
Larrikins, stand on your heads in the street!
Goats, on the rocky headlands bleat I
Welcome them all things tuneful and sweet;
Strike, every orator, an attitude grand;
Rave and roar at them—brandish your hand I
Call them the joy, the pride of the land I
Welcome them, music of terrible band I
Burst all the bugles and batter the druml
Back to us, safely, the fire-eaters come
(They fear neither man nor devil, by gum);
Swords from the rusty scabbards flash—
Meet in the air with a deafening crash 1
i The owners are ready to fight and to smash).
Mash, ye belles, in the merry June air I
Blissful bride, with a blissful heir,
Hug him and kiss him, and show his pare;
Fireworks blaze in the city at night I
Burn up the place in the wild delight I
Every man that is joyous and free.
Join in the maddening jubilee;
Tipplers, toss up your "tiles ” in glee;
Drink, every one of you-get on the spree I
For Christian or heathen aborigine,
Smiths. M'Fadyens, or whatever we be,
We’re Jingoes all over in our welcome of thee.
ALEXANDRA.
loyal Contingent.
Joseph. Chamberlain.
The Right Hon. Joseph Chamberlain, President of
the Board of Trade in the Gladstone administra.
tion, whose portrait is given on our first page to-
day, is a Radical of an advanced type. Some of his
late speeches on the land question evidently de-
rive their inspiration from Henry George. The
defeat of the Liberals will probably mean nothing
more to Mr. Chamberlain than the loss of office for
a few months. Por the principles he champions are
those that are to-day rapidly making their way to
the front. And it is almost certain that the advance
of those principles will be assisted rather thau re-
tarded by the next general election, when two
millions of lately enfranchised Englishmen will
have the privilege of voting for the first time. It
is not easy to see how a Tory Government can
exist for any time in England after the late Re-
form Bill. The world sees in Mr. Ch imberlain, the
Birmingham screw-maker, the future British
Premier.


Many Afflicted
With serious skin, scalp, and blood humors go to
their family physician, who either frankly tells
them he cannot cure them, or else exhausts their
patience, and they consult the “Authority on Scalp
and Skin Diseases.” $15 (price of consultation) is a
pretty good sum in these times, and much is ex-
f>ected of the “authority,” but we regret to say
ittle is received. Soon the patient sees no im-
provement and become discouraged; accidentally
learns of the Cuticura Remedies, uses them and
is cured. This is astonishing, but true.
Wolfe's Schnapps. There are doubtless
other preparations typified as Schnapps but they
are as a counterfeit coin is to current metal.
RISEN FROM THE DEAD.
It was a sad scene. The wife he had loved so
long was dying fast. Even the doctors agreed on
this point, although on all other matters their
opinions were as wide asunder as the poles. Near
the heart-broken husband stood the dying wo-
man’s bosom friend, a sprightly brunette, with a
glass eye and a smile sweet enough to coax a
soldier from his morning beer. And, turning to
her friend, the wife in faltering accents said,
“ Bessie, dear, I am about to leave you all. I
know you love me. and so I want you to promise
you will marry my husband and make him com-
fortable when I am gone. Won’t you promise me
that much, Bessie ?” “ Don’t mention it, Maud,”
replied the sobbing friend; “I’m on the Job
already. Me and John have Just settled it all—
that last suit from Summerfleld and Company’s
did the business for me.” “ Let me see it on him
before I go,” pleaded the wife, and her request
being complied with, she Immediately grew better,
and lived to bless the merchant tailors for many
years. The “friend” never married; but pur-
chasing a tailor’s dummy, dressed it up in another
of Summerfleld and Company’s best, and felt as
happy as if she had been wedded to the Czar of
all the Rusalas.*
The celebrated Wolfe’s Schnapps is a
shield and safeguard against sutden changes of
temperature.
“ BEACH’S ”
CONSULT A r J ION
ON THE
Hawkesbury Handicap, Metropolitan and
Melbourne Cup,
NOW OPEN.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10s. BACH.
First Horse, £850.
Address—
“BEACH,”
dare of J. G. Heebie,
Hotel, King and Pitt Street, Sydney
Please apply early.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We than be glad to have thU index petted up by
teeretariei of radna elube and managen of
tporUng evente In generaL]
RACING.
Rockhampton June 18,1
Rosehill R.C June 30
Birdsvlll© J.C. (8. A.) June 23, 25
Lower Clarenoe J.C June &
Victoria A.T.C ..Juno
Balrnsaale R.C. (V.) •*'* July:
Elsternwlok (V.) July-
Brewarrlna J.C July
Walgett R.C July 8,
Clarence River J,0 July 8,
Moonee Valley (V.) July 11
BosehlU R.C July 18
Charters Towers J.C July 23, &
Canterbury Park R.0 August;
Tam worth R C August 5, (
Rosehill R C August
Townsville (Annual) August 12,1;
Canterbury Park R.C. September 5
Hawkeabury (Spring) September 10 12
A.J.C. (Spring) September 19, 22, 24, 26
Rosehill R.C October 3
Canterbury Park R.C October 11
Canterbury Park R.0 „ December IS
A.J.C. (Summer) December 26
Rosehill R.C. ...... December 28
AQUATICS.
St. Ignatius' College R.C. Regatta June 20
Olebe Rowing Club Malden Pairs July 4
Clifford v. Kemp July 11
Newcastle K.C. Regatta September
M.R.C. Outrigger Race September
M. Branch Regatta October 10
ATHLETICS.
E. Sutton r. Power, 200yds, £400, Wallsend..June 30
Kelly’s International Handicap...June 37, July 1,4,6
Quirlndi Handicap August 5, 6
Sir Joseph Banks Fourth Handicap—August 23,
23. 38, 29
Mudgee Sheffield Handicap September 1
’CYCLING.
Balmain and Burwood B C.’s Joint Race
Meeting. Association Ground July 18
N. ’Cyclist s Union Race Meeting July 35
Sydney Bicycle Club (Annual R.M.), Asso-
ciation Ground August 22
SPORTING AND ATHLHTIC MEMS.
Lord Rosebery will be “getting himself
disliked” by the English sporting public. It is
complained that bo leaves it till the last moment
before scratching his horses.
Maud 8., the Yankee “ Queen of theTurf,”
weighed when she made her record ot
3 09>$ When she commenced work this season,
she turned the scale at 10401b,
The Candelo Coursing Club’s meeting last
week passed off most successfully. The silver cup
fell to P. Heffernan’s bk d Glenroy, and the sapling
stakes were appropriated by D. Wilson’s f and w d
p Snaveller,
Mr. E. Seymour, of Wantabadgery, caught
the other day a cod of 1211bs. in the Murrum-
bldgee. In trying to land it he was pulled into the
river. The fish’s head has been brought to the
Australian Museum.
Mr. W. A. Long’s filly Dame Agnes was
backed to the tune of several thousands for the
English Derby, at 100’s to 8. A wager of 3500 to 100
against Paradox for the Two Thousand Guineas,
Melton for the Derby, and Dame Agnes for the
Oaks was also laid.
The promoters of the Excelsior and Hum-
ber Intercolonial Amateur Bicycle Sports were a
shade premature when they billed Shackleford
nnd Bennett to compete in a five miles’ match.
The Victorian crack will not compete in Sydney
until the Sydney Bicycle Club meeting on August
22nd.
Says the London Echo Travelling
cricket teams are, we are thinking, nearly played
out. Shaw’s eleven have not done anything like
so well as they expected In Australia—not in a
an £ s. d. sense—while we are sure that the next
Australian team that visits this country will meet
with a second-class reception only.”
An authority on rowing at Cambridge
says:—“The Oxonians made victory assured by
their long dragging stroke; we defeat inevitable
by the short, smack-on-at-the-beglnning style we
have so long clung to.” These are the respective
style* of N.S.W. and Victoria, The smack-on-at-
the-beginning style did not come off on the Parra-
matta this year.
John Bernhard, of Louisville, U.S., is said
to be the strongest man in the world. He is 27
years old, 6ft. 4ln. tall, and weighs 19st. He can
lift 8641b. dead weight, and has often killed oxen
with a single blow of his fist. What a sub-editor
John would make. Held up to ridicule the lines
on your “ Little Johnnie’s gone to rest” did we ?
Just step into the next room and consult the sub-
editor.
In spite of the decision of the Surrey
(Eng.) Bicycle Club to allow no rider employed by
a cycling manufacturer to take part on the pro-
ductions of his employers, there was very little
tailing off in the entries at their annual meeting.
Another English body, the Brixton Ramblers,
have introduced into the rules governing their
race meeting a still more drastic clause. No cyclist
in the employment of a manufacturer will be
allowed to take part in their contests.
Beach informed an Iliawarra reporter that
he thought very highly of Hanlan's rowing and
“gentlemanly” qualities; that Tom Clifford was
the best man in the colonies—bar himself, of
course; that Matterson is k promising sculler,
though too young to last out a desperate race.
That Clifford has been “ cowed ” by pitting him
in the first instance against first-class scullers, and
that he (William Beach) will not go off the Parra-
matta River to compete for the championship.
And so say all of us, William.
First-class entries have been received for
the professional light and middleweight competi-
tions, to come off on 18th, 19th, and 20th June, at
Foley’s Athletic Hall, W bite Horse Hotel, and three
evenings’ amusement may be looked forward
to by lovers of the game. Foley Is working like a
nigger to build up the fortunes of the grand old
sport, and so far his efforts have shown us that
these contests can be brought off in an orderly
manner, and that competitors who fairly win the
honours can rely upon wearing them.
This is an American account of Beach’s
last victory over Hanlan:-*’Hanlan and Beach
after the start kept well together for some dis-
tance. The race was close and exciting. The
scullers approached the winning-post almost bow
and bow, and the excitement among the spectators
was great. When pulling with all their strength
for the winning-post Beach ov«rhauled Hanlan
and increased his advantage until the very finish
amid the wildest excitement.’ It is surmised that
this account was taken from a copy of the Nooze,
and, as the printing was not very legible, the Yank
had to guess some.
This is a sample of Jingo manners. The
President of the 8t. Petersburg Society of Amateur
Veloolpedists wrote to the captain of the East-
bourne (England) Bicycle Club, inviting entries
for some races in the former city. The following
faoetiously-insolent reply was returned East-
bourne Bicycle Club, April 20th, 1885.—My dear
sir,—Please accept our very best thanks for the
kind invite to your races in St. Petersburg next
month. All our best men are, however, unfortu-
nately booked for May, and we must, therefore,
decline your Invitation with regret. If, however,
you should think of holding any races near Herat
this summer we should be glad of particulars! as
many of our best men expect to be near that place
In the course of a few weeks. Yours, very truly,
L. Adams, Captain and Hon. Sec. B.B.C.-T0 the
President, St. Petersburg Society of Amateu
Velooipedists.”
Peter Duryea, an American turfman, ant
promoter of several six-day go-as-you-pleas
rackets, relieved himself thusly over the Hanlan
Beach affair “ There must have been something
wrong with Hanlan. He agreed to send me
cable if he thought he could win the race and was
in condition. I received no cable, and came to th
conclusion somethin r was amiss,” Further, h
said : “ It is my opinion that the zigzag court
had a great deal to do with Hanlan’s defeat. I am
ready to back Hanlan to row Beach a 4 or 5 mil
race for £1000 or £2000 a-side, the race to be rowed
on R ny course In America, and I will allow Beach
£100 for expenses.”
The Mercantile Rowing Club outrigger
handicap for Mr. T. M. Alcock’s ten-guinea trophy
was on Saturday rowed over a course on the Par
ramatta River, from Charity Point to One Man
Wharf, when W. G. Brett (scratch), J. O. Trimble
(Ipsec.), R. N. Bull (ZOseo.), S. H. Martin (25seo.), and
W. Freeman (65seo.) put in an appearance. Free
man soon gave up the ghost, and the mile poin ,
was passed by Martin, Trimble, Brett, Ives, ant
Bull in the order named. Trimble’s slide now go;
out of gear, ard Martin’s arm going wrong, Bret:
took command about Putney, and eventually won
as he liked from Ives, who secured a second prize
of a pair of slippers presented by a lady admirer o: 1
the Club.
Seekers after racing coincidences can find
yet another one in the result, as cabled, of the
English Derby. Paradox, the runner-up to Melton
was a dead-heater for third place in last year’*
Middle Park Plate. Couronne-de Fer. who occu-
pied second place in the Derby of 1884 (won by
George Frederick), had previously run a dead heat
for third place In the b;g two-year-old event
Couronne- de Fer, by the way, was the property ol'
Lord Rosebery, and his dead-heater In the Middle
Park Plate was a horse called Marsworth. Mars-
worth was bred by the late Baron Rothschild, and
presented to his daughter Hannah—now Countess
of Rosebery. A sweetly romantic and prophetic
coincidence that, to be sure I
Mr. Southall, the Indian trainer, who sailed
for Calcutta, owing a bit to some of the Victorian
"boons,” has since liquidated his debts like a man,
through the medium of the agents of his em-
ployers. It isn’t every day of the week that
metallicians have such comforting tidings of de-
parted friends, but they do occasionally get what
look like very bad debts refunded. A singular
experience once occurred to a well-known English
bookmaker—Charlie Head. With many others of
the bookmaking fraternity, he had been let In
by a fashionable Italian nobleman at one
of the Ascot meetings. Some years afterwards he
happened to read of the death, at Turin, of an
Italian Prince bearing the same name as his old
client. On the off-chance he wrote to the English
Consul making enquiries as to whether the dead
Prince was related to the defaulting "punter,”
and received a reply that the latter was only son
and heir of the former. Charlie Head despatched
bis little account—running into thousands—and
received a draft for the full amount after very
little delay.
A BRIDGE OF SIGHS.
The “ Murkan ” authorities have put their
number tens down with a vengeance, so far as
glove lights are concerned. John L. Sullivan and
Dominick M‘Caffrey were matched to box four
rounds, under Queensberry rules, at Philadelphia,
on April 3. The affair had been discussed In all
the papers for weeks beforehand, and under
advice of the city solicitor, the mayor of the
Quaker city affirmed that he was powerless to In-
terfere; but on the very day fixed, while the
people were seating themselves in high-priced
seats to view the contest, warrants were taken
out against the principals, and they were bound
over, under heavy penalties, to keep the peace.
Cuss words were knee-deep in the streets that
night. The old opponents, Sullivan «nd Ryan,
fixed upon Butte City, Montana, for their little
show, and it cannot be said they dropped on a
Eug.’s Paradise. The penalty for glove fighting In
tontana is six months in the Penitentiary, and a
fine not exceeding £1000 It is needless to say the
pair will disdain to soil their understandings with
the mud of Butte City, Montana.
Soon after the first defeat of Hanlan by
Beach the proprietor of the Turf, Field, and
Farm made the following offer:—“I will give a
purse of 6000dol. to be rowed for on the Lachine
Course, five miles, open to the leading scullers of
the world, but with the understanding that
William Beach, Edward Hanlan, and Wallace Ross
are to enter and start. Money to be divided as
follows: 50 percent, to the first, 25 to the second,
15 to the third, and 10 per cent, to the fourth. En-
tries to be made on or before July 20, at the office
of the Turf, Field, and Farm, with Hamilton
Busbey, who is to act as stakeholder and appoint
referee in case parties to the race cannot agree
upon a referee. Race to be rowed in August,
1885, the day to be named when other conditions
are settled. Entrance free to Beach, but all others
will be charged 5 per cent, of purse.” In spite of
the second decisive reverse sustained by the
Canadian the offer is again repeated, and more-
over it is stated that if Hanlan will place himself
in the bands of his own mentors the proprietors
of the above-named paper will find him £10C0 as a
private stake between him and Beach. America is
offering tempting little baits to our William, and
it remains to be seen if he can withstand them.
The following is a Yankee account of the
great Farnborough fight;—“Heenan fairly and
squarely beat Tom Sayers, but the referee ran
away on the appearance of the police, and subse-
quently decided the fight a draw, without having
| witnessed the end of It. The police did not stop
the fight, being unable to do soj they quietly
looked on, and watched the fight fought out to a
close. The battle terminated by Sayers being
Sulled through the ropes out of the ring in an
(sensible condition, and In Heenan knocking
down Sayers’ seconds for not throwing up the
sponge. Finally, while Sayers was being carried off
as lifeless as a bag of meal, Heenan was proclaim-
ihg himself champion of the world. The last act
of Heenan’s was to bound over the ropes by plac-
ing one hand on one of the stakes, and then run-
ning to the railway at a race-horse pace. This is
the way the great battle terminated which John
Bull called a draw.” Though overdrawn, so far as
Sayers being insensible, is concerned, It is, without
doubt, more correct than the general run of
accounts we get in the English pugilistic books,
with Ms crippled arm, Sayers was unable to
reduce the young giant, and had the battle been
fought out, there is not much doubt Heenan must
have won. The Yankee’s eyes were pretty well
closed at one period of the fight, but the lance was
called into requisition with effect. It Is perfectly
true that Heenan vaulted the ropes when the
affair was declared drawn, and ran a considerable
distance at top speed,-which showed that his
strength could not hare been very much impaired
Some months since a match was entered
into and articles signed for a contest under
Queensberry rules for a hundred-guinea trophy
between Mr. George Seale, who claims the cham-
pion middle-weight amateur boxing championship
of New South Wales, and Mr. Brinsmead, a gen-
tleman who came to us some years ago with the
reputation of amateur light-weight champion of
England. The match was fixed for July 31st, and
a big treat was looked forward to by the favoured
few who would have had a show of wit-
nessing the bout, but, like a thousand of
bricks, fell the news from the dallies last week
that the match was “ off,” and that a box-
ing competition for middle-weights, under the
auspices of the Sydney Amateur Boxing Club,
would take its place, when Messrs. Seale and
Brinsmead would have a show of proving who is
the better man. The dallies, we hear, would have
been more correct had they stated the match was
” off ” only so far as one side was concerned. The
following are, we are given to understand, the
actual facts of the case Mr. Seale, who desires to
go on with the match, last week addressed a letter
to Mr. Brinsmead. suggesting that it would be as
well to make final arrangements for their contest.
No reply was vouchsafed to this, but Mr. Seale was
verbally sounded as to his feelings towards an
open contest in place of the match. Mr. Seale has
now requested Mr. Brinsmead to state definitely
if he Intends to go on with the affair, and up to the
time of our writing we have not heard with what
result. If Mr. Brinsmead refuses to meet Mr.
Seale, we are sorry to say there is no show of the
pair coming together, as we have it on the best
authority that Mr. Seale will not box on any con-
sideration in a competition under the auspices of
the Sydney Amateur Boxing Club.
It isn’t often a sporting writer gets a
rightdown pathetic yarn to tell, and now that we
have dropped across one, is it to be wondered that
we feel a bit diffident in the handling of it. How-
ever, here goes. A little while ago the entire
United states Press was full of wonder at the in-
domitable pluck and “ sheer grit” of a lad named
W lllle Donovan, who won the “ roller-skating ”
championship of the world” at Madison-square
Gardens with a six-days’ record of 1093 miles. A
Mr. Tom Davis tells how, on the first night of the
six-days’ skating race, somebody informed him
that there was a boy entered, and struggling
desperately, who would certainly win the prize if
he got .a chance, but that while he was resting
from his work on the track his cap and shoes and
skates had been stolen. “ I asked who it was,”
said Davis, “ and Donovan was pointed out to me.
When I questioned the boy, he said that he came
from Elmira the Saturday before on a news-
boy’s pass, and had eaten only one meal
since. He declared that he had nothing In
his stomach but water.” Davis took the boy in
hand, and had him properly looked after, the
result being that Donovan won easily. From the
Yankee papers we learn that young Donovan had
a father, who probably scarcely knew he had a
son until William made fame for himself by win-
ning the six days’ trundle. And then we learn the
father hawked the boy around as a show at so
itnuch a bead, and the youngster died of sheer
fatigue. And now the pathetic part is to come.
Mr. Tom Davis, the lad’s backer, sheds briny tears
at the boy's death, and in his agony moans out:
“ If they will let me, I will give poor Willie a first-
class funeral, and put a nice little monument over
him." Whom "they” refers to the deponent sayeth
not, but if "they” means Donovan’s papa and
company, we shouldn’t say they would object to
Mr. Tom Davis bearing the expense of the roller-
skater’s funeral. Anyhow, “little blue-eyed
Willie got a first-class funeral,” and we sincerely
trust that when Willie is cutting figures of eight
with his fellow angels, he will not be mean enough
to skite about it to his less fortunate companions.
HOW THEY INVENTED IT.
First you gaze on the wine when it is
red. Then you look on the devils when they
are blue.
M. Tissot (aParisian fashion-writer): “My
reputation depends on making a new sensa-
tion. Let me think very hard . Yes, I
will call in my friend M. Tailleur, the cos-
tumer.
M. Tatllbuk (delighted): “Ah, lovely!
Just to think of this footstool being used as
the foundation of a tunic! But don’t you
think it would be even better still to put it
this way ?” (Tissot concurs# “ It will look
bigger that way.”)
M. Taii,leur: “ O, my friend Tissot, you
are a magnificent genius—a deity—a Phidias
—a Miehsel Angelo—a Raff aelle. Yourfame
is made for all ages throughout the universe!
And so they all think!


GQMPAGNONI CATERING GO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. * ’
to H “ Wonii * tbe
TB. DtoliK inth. oolony,
GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from Sam to 11 n m Rafter the
Theatre*. Select your own steak, Ac., and see It grilled In tho This Si’ono of tSe’arauMtlona
or the oicy and a long-felt want. Inspection Invited Club ro™m? of the Prince Alfred cSSo
Club, upstairs. - E; D. TOLL E MAC HE, General Manager.
and City i
Bray <Sc Liclitner,
±39:0 COSJNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
Our Photographic preparations are recognised os the most
and Cheapest in the colonies. ,
Complete Photographic Equipments, wit h fun iwtruot*ii**«r noth**:
r\
c. c
*ps€*irci7
Our Photographic preparations are recognised os the most ]'
and Cheapest in the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments, w i th fun Novi«*:
va
cj
§
Q
► ►
O
9
c:
«b
%
t >
C
c
mi
*53
si
o
*&tt€lT€U
c-'
i
\¥V
w
qeq.reni aq; ui pidfei p®re exquqaa aeora
aq* ‘aXBid; Xiq e.-i9qBff -ioj axoaSy exog
importers: .of supplies
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling:, healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALB, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTBLL & CO„
Sole Agents.
JAS. LAWSON & SONS,
ART-FURNITURE MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN.
Comer of William-street, Hyde Park.
High-class Furniture
At Very Lowest Prices, compatible with the finest
workmanship and finish, for entrance halls,
dining-rooms, drawing.rooms, bedrooms,
and libraries.
CARPETS IN NEWEST DESIGNS AND
FINEST QUALITY.
WILTON CARPETS, BRUSSELS CARPETS,
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS,
With Hearthrugs to match.
0T CORLICINK AND LINOLEUM.
BEDSTEADS IN BLACK AND NICKEL AND
BLACK AND BRASS,
In all sizes and various designs.
A. & C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
SIS GEORGE STREET.
Next Feapes and Shaw.
The most liberal house for Pianos and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
iHBPBonoK Cordially Intitmd.
A. & C. Huenerbein,
818 GEORGE STREET.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
mm g[ HE.
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL-PLATED
BEDSTEADS,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRASSE8
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR,
kapok, flock, fibre, and flax
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
&o., &c.
T
0 ALL WOMBN
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
%r TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, in either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERY
IN SOAP I
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with it;
HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE,
WF“ Sold by every Storekeeper and Grooer at
«d. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers:
Lewis &
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
■ asssss&i
R 1 ® IE^sibS5sE§’ S
»«R*eOR*>’8
ESSENCEgfUFE
remedy for
ERyoifsJjEBlllTYT
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ez
haustive derangement of the system: regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 12s., or four quantities is one for
Ms.; if by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,!
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 48 Gdulbum-
Btreet. One Door from George-street South.
AYER’S PILLS.
u
A large proportion of the diseases which
cause human suffering result from derange*
meat of the stomach, bowels, and lirer.
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills act directly upon
these organs, and are especially designed to
cure the diseases caused by their derange-
ment, including Constipation, Indiges-
tion, Dyspepsia, Headache, Dysentery,
and a host of other ailments, for all of
which they are a safe, sure, prompt* and
pleasant remedy. The extensive use of these
Pills by eminent physicians in regular prac-
tice, shows unmistakably the estimation In
which they are held by the medical profes-
sion.
These Pills are compounded of vegetable
substances only, and are absolutely free frclh
calomel or any other injurious ingredient.
A Sufferer from Headache writes:
" Ayer’s Pills are invaluable to me, and
Are my constant companion. I have been
a severe sufferer from Headache, and your
Fills are the only thing I could look to
for relief. One dose will quickly move my
bowels and free my head from pain. They
are the most effective and the easiest physic
I have ever found. It is a pleasure to me tt>
speak in their praise, and I always do so
when occasion oners.
W. L. Page, of W. L. Page & Bro.”
Franklin St., Richmond,Va., June 3,1882.
•*1 have used Ayer’s Pills in number-
less instances as recommended by you, and
have never known them to fail to accomplish
the desired result, we constantly keep them
on hand at our home, and prize them as a
Sleasant, safe, and reliable family medicine.
'OB DYSPEPSIA they are invaluable.
J. T. Hayes.”
Mexia, Texas, June 17, 1882.
The Rev. Francis B. Harlowe, writing
from Atlanta, Ga., says: “For some years
past I have been subject to constipation,
from which, in spite of the use of medi-
cines of various kinds, I suffered increasing
inconvenience, until some months ago I
began taking Ayer’s Pills, They have
entirely corrected the costive habit, and
have vastly Improved my general health."
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills correct irregu-
larities of the bowels, stimulate the appe-
tite and digestion, and by their prompt and
thorough action give tone and vigor to the
whole physical economy,
PREPARED BY
Dr, J.C. Ayer &Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists,
All experience the wonderful
beneficial effects of
YOUNG.
OLD, AND
MIDDLE-
AGED.
ilitic taint, may be made healthy and strong
by its use.
Sold by all Druggists; $1, six bottles for $5,'
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
Children with Sore Eyes, Sore
Ears, or any scrofulous or syph
ide
ELLIOTT BROS, and 8. HOFFNUNG A CO.
Wholesale Agents.
before MOUSTACHE asd WHI2ZEE2. mona *n«"
Boyd’a Beard Elixir did thia, and
l oiU do it on either bald head or
bare fate. Forceq heavy Mous-
tache in from tto4 weeks and never ,
Jails, 20.000 young men already
wear full beards, having used 1 to Copyrighted.
8 phU. No injury, easily applied, certain in effect, Backets 1«. 64.
each, 3 for 3s. 6 d.,post paid, sent finder cover, free from observation•
Ffank ftpuglad. Sole Agent, Box TM, G.F.O., Sydney,N.S. W*
Copyrighted,
THE LATEST W0«K8 AND (PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOBRAPHY.
■
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
WILLIAM
purest ingredients, and are guaranteed not to
cause the least injury to thg most delicate skin,
BALL,
THE “PROFESSIONAL’' AND PHARMACEU-
TICAL CHEMIST.
61 Bourke-street East, Melbourne.
THE Toilet and Theatrical Requisites, manu-
factured by W. Ball, are composed of the
" ‘ * are guarante ' 1 "
ift-n
There are few ladles nm}, either in private life
or of the Theatrical Profession, who do not look
upon the
BLOOM OF PEACHES
(registered)
as the one article that is perfectly safe and satis-
factory to use either for the
THEATRE, BALLROOM, OR PROMENADE.
Our Cupids Manufacturing Bloom of Peaches.
“Dear Sir,—I consider your ‘ make-up' perfect,
and should never think of using anything else
while it is possible to obtain it.—Yours truly,
Ed. Farley.”
The following ladies and gentlemen have also
written, speaking in the highest terms of these
Toilet Requisites Mesdames Louise Pomeroy,
Alice Deorwyne, Myra Kemble, Eva Davenport,
Roland Watt Phillips, etc., etc.; Messieuts George
Titheradge, GeOrge tiignold, Sheridan, Henry
Hodgson. VY. J. Holloway, Fred. Marshall, Brian
Darley, Frank Cates, etc.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
Price, 1/0, 3/6, and 7/0 per bottle.
Wholesale Agents, N.S.W.:
Messrs. PROSSER & CO., Sydney.
GIBBS & CO.,
HOUSE, LAND AND GENERAL AGENTS,
Bosd-strbet Chambers, Bond-st., Sydney,
WOULD respectfully call the attention of the
public to the following
Owners are reminded that by sending in particu-
lars of the properties they have for sale, their
insertion is guaranteed in our list, and thus a cheap
mode of advertising secured.
No sale no commission, is our motto. We do not
expect, because a property is placed in our hands
(but sold by the owner himself), payment, except
for money actually expended out of pocket in
advertisements.
Intending purchasers should send for our
Monthly List, which contains full particulars of
every class of property from the cottage to the
mansion.
Houses Let, Rents Collected, and Estates
Managed. Prompt Account Sales Rendered.
A Trial is Respectfully Solicited.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationeiy.
English Papers and Magaslnes received by
every Mall.
BOTAL ARC ADI, G1URG1 ST* M 87SN1Z
Bavarian linn
itters, flUr
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
Made of the best Bavarian Hops. Superior to any
other.
They take the first place wherever tried, and ata
well authenticated bjr eminent medical men and
well-known analysts.
Read the reports and testimony which aooom
pany each bottle, and do not forget to make a
trial of BAVARIAN HOP Bitters.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
TJ - nd.erta.lcer,
94 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also.
Manager for over ten (10) years.
Been hunting for ease all my life, P.nd found it at
last with the Argosy Braces at Qowing Bros.
38
'A
GOWING BROS.
Have Just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. Ott.. 3s., 3s. 6d., A 4». 9
GOW1NGI BROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS, HATTERS. OUTFITTERS, A
1 982 and 488 teorss-strstt,


F
UBNITUBS SHOW KOOK
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
Library furniture, centre and side
tables. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
HEADING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
"PI RAWING-ROOM StfirE*, fashionably uphold
JLr stored, at all prices. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
WALL CABINETS tor Choice China, Ac.
VERY ELEGANT, Just received- Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
N
OVELTIES in BOUDOIR and BOW WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Bedroom suites complete in various woods
and very handsome designs, with, 7-fftf
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for slngi
rooms. Grvat variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
E
ji IGHT-POUND
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward*
BEDROOM SUITES.—The
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and IAMB, O’Oonnell-sti eet.
B'
■BDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early :
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with sllverea
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tfle back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10a.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 20s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.:
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s-
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s.; Clothes Horses, fromlOs.fld.; Writing
Tholes, with Drawefs, from 90s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O'Connell streets.
5
QOS? PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
eUOU strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves foi
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also elegantly finished in
Embroidery, Plush, &rc.
P1HIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
\j Just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
CrConnell-street.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell-street.
ThRA WIN 6-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIBS.-
J J A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inei-
jensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’ConneU-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS. CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Ccanell-street.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 6 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR-
Patented.
S
ass
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in any
material.
S
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
B
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMIh
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early Engusft,
and other designs, which can be upholstered ta
any materials to meet the taste and requirement!
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Framework for dining-room furni-
ture, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and‘Materials for Upholstery-
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-stfeets.
B
B
BDSTBADS, nickel-plated and black and bras!
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamg
EDSTBADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
, lowest rates.
LAMB, O’COB-
w
A8HSTAND8, with marble, from 26s. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Rustic
1 AWN and PARK SEATS 6 feet long.
JLl Cast-Iron Standards, 15s. each. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb.
XIBNTWOOD FURNITURE.-A very comri#**
Assortment; beat make, lowest prices.
The public should avoid ail imitations of
■Wolfe’s Schnapps. Be sure you procure the
genuine Wolfe’s.
SOCAIL
They have initial* d a new kind of enter-
tainment at Sacramento City, California, which
would bear transplanting here. Mrs. E. Crober,
Wife of one of the great millionaires of the
Pacific sled'' is the Daly Bountiful of Sacramento;
to thb IdLdiel, and gentlemen of the town got
Up, ip recognition of her big-heartedm 8“, a l
festival. The details read like a paae torn the
“ Arabian Nights.” The city , was one mass ol
liowers, sent from every town in the state
Sothio and Grecian temples were formed of
owers, and all the principal buildings were one
mass of flowers. How impressively beautiful
ffiust the festival have been I Imagine our quaint
city the scene of such another I But where here Is
the Margaret Croher deserving of such ? What has
this lady done for Sacraihento ? She has added a
large tract of land to the city cemetery, erected a
magnificent public conservatory, built the Mar-
guerite Home for deserving old ladies at a cost of
*35.000, and presented the city with the B. B. Croher
Art Gallery, costing £100,000 1 There are any
number of wealthy ladles in Sydney, but they
haven’t yet discovered how blessed It is to give ;
so If we wait till a Sydney Crober turns up we
shall have slender chances of witnessing a floral
festival here. +
The Newtown Cinderella Club had their
first dance of the season at the Petersham Town
Hall last week. This Club, is so strictly exclusive
that if a lady member wishes to take her husband
with her (and sometimes ladles are desirous of
doing so), she has first to have him nominated
before she can invite him to accompany her. This
seems to be overdoing It somewhat, but evidently
the Newtown folk deem It necessary. The dues-
tlon Is, where do they draw the line r Not at
tradespeople surely, for it s Almost Impossible to
fret up eVen a whist party In aristocratic Newtown
Wlthoiit admitting ode of the objectionable lot,
let alone a Cinderella Club. But, about the dance.
It was a nice gathering of pretty girls and
affable young men, but beyond that there
were “no particular points about this yer Club
mor e’a eny other club.” The nicest dress, which
was worn by the prettiest girl (Miss Butler), was a
oink grenadine flounced to the waist, and a pink
satin bodice. Miss Dean, from Burwood, was
fresh and nice in a white satin with spotted tulle
overskirt: her cousin, from Balmain, was simi-
larly attired. Mrs. Maitland’s costume was rloh-
looklng, and was composed of a crimson satin
skirt, over which were draperies of black lace and
short black brocaded velvet bodice. Miss A. Cook
chose pale heliotrope, and her sister pure white,
lletresbments Were Just a shade better than they
are at most suburban socials, and rather more
plentiful too—that'S to say, a hungry man (ladies
fiever drfe hungry) hadn’t to fight for that he got
&s If for dear life. Dancing terminated strictly at
24 o’clock. # *
The Petersham Owl Club held the last hoot
they Intend to give this year at their Town Hall
last Wednesday evening. The entertainment
onened with a concert, In which many well-known
performers took part. Mr. Andrew Fairfax sang
n will o’ the wisp ” in capita style, and, later on,
was Joined in a duet from “ Puritan! by Mr. K.
Booth. “Close to the Threshold,” with violin
obligato, by Mr. Bird, was sung by Mrs. Junta so
well that an encore was demanded. Miss Chapman
-ang “ Waiting,” and “ When the tide comes in,’’
In a very pleasing manner, and was in capital
voice. "The Gauntlet,” sung by Mr. Wenban, and
“ I am waiting,” by Mr. Jefferson were also wel-
come Items, At 10 o’clock, chairs were cleared
away, and dancing Indulged in until midnight.
The dresses of the ladles, owing, doubtless, to the
dismal state of the weather, were mostly sombre-
blacks prevailing. Next month commences a new
Vear with the Club—Mr. W. D. Davis, Mayor of
Petersham, being elected as President.
♦ • •
The miserable weather didn’t prevent
about 35 couples from attending the third New-
town private social last Friday night. There Is no
pretention about these socials, but, for all that,
they are decorous and enjoyable, and the com-
mittee men work well and make things pleasant to
all. The next social takes place July 3rd.
• • •
Miss Jeffreys Lewis is evidently more of a
favourite with the gentlemen than the ladles, as
fine looking women generally are, for reasons
too obvious to be dwelt upon. This, no doubt, is
sufficient to account for the preponderance of the
stern *ex at her matinee at the Sydney Hoyal on
Saturday afternoon. The ladles who were there
kept on their bonnets in the most sbsbtJng man-
ner-tor an actress always feels slighted if her
audience Isn’t a dres«y one. Not tbat it mattered
much upou this occasion, for had they donned
the most expensive of costumes they would
have been lost. In the all too dismal circle,
excepting Just now and then, when the Ughte were
turned up for a second or two. The beneflclare,
who made a pretty speech, and hoped we d like
her a little when she was gone, was attired in a
bright moss-green satin skirt, over which was a
polonaise of the deepest shade of green satin, fas-
tened up slishtly at one side, ana edged with a
ru by fringe; a becoming black hat and
pVumes. Miss Alice Wooldridge wore a stylishly-
made dress in the new red-brown shade. The
pleated skirt was of satin, and the very high, full
draoerv of some soft material, bonnet of biscuit-
colored lace, Signora Mejeroni looked sweet and
graceful in a pale lavender silk,elaborately trimmed
with cream lace. Miss May Livingstone sat in a box
with “ the widow.” and looked neat in a green
dress peppered with crimson soots, and a green
velvet Tam o’ Shanter. There was a nice costume
In the circle composed of stone-grey cashmere,
with a deep binding of ruby velvet on the skirt;
the velvet was repeated In the collar and cuffs;
bonnet of ruby straw edged with cut beads. A
■malbfalr lady wore an electric-blue cloth jacket
trimmed with grey fur. over a dark-brown full
skirt- becoming white straw bonnet with electric-
blue trimmings. Nearly every other bonnet wap
adorned with the everlasting flame-coloured tuft,
which, even under the most advantageous circum-
stances. can never be anything but unbecoming.
But ladies will be fashionable, at whatever oast.
» • »
We have had a rest lately from new waltzes,
but our repose has been pleasantly disturbed by
one composed by Mr. Willie Moore, which he calls
“ My Favourite Waltz.” This Is a nice ball-room
waltz- not difficult, and very pleasing, besides
which’ It contains an idea or two. We like this
trifle, but, above all things, we admire the modesty
which Induced the composer to call It his “fa-
vourite Waltz.”
* * *
Heavy rain didn’t prevent a few hun-
dreds from finding their way to the St. George's
Masonic Ball, held in the Masonic Hall. Parra-
matta, last Friday night. Amongst the throng
were several visitors from Sydney who went by a
special car attached to the mail-train. The gor-
geously-decked Grand-Master received all with a
hearty welcome, and, what with gay decorations,
the bright regalia of the members of the lodge,
and the brilliant dresses of the ladles, the hall pre-
sented quite a gala appearance. Parramatta has
nothing to boast about in the way of terpsichorcau
feats-indeed, It effects a style peculiar to itself.
One gentleman quite excelled himself in awk-
wardness, and managed to deposit two of his
partners upon the floor during the evening.
Tn the matter of ladles dresses, that worn
hv Miss Agnew was tasteful, and consisted of
a bodice of broohe satin, skirt of casn-
mpre embellished with short draperies of bro-
oded sifk.and the who! dJatlly trimmed with
ndfiiwelss lace. Mrs. Ma on’s dress was of rich
black Spanish lace and sureh, relieved by cardinal
loses; and Mrs. Bladon bad 00 0 glOWlag costume
composed of cardinal skirt trimmed with lace, and
a pea-green satin bodice. Miss Smith, a choice
and pretty dress of rich cream Satin and siik,
touched up with cardinal roies and edelweiss lace.
A handsome dreSS, wotn by MiSS Little, was a
body of black lace, over salmon satin, btocaded
satin skirt, caught up with cord and tasae'S of same
colour Other,dresses worthy of mbntlon Wbre.
Miss Ferguson'S suljihur-coloiired milslln, trimmed
With flowers and lace, and Elizabethan collar, com-
posed of pearls; Miss Rosy Watt's pale blhe satin,
trimmed with lace and pink flower#; Miss J. Bond,
in a black lace and surah, brightened with scarlet
poppies looked very nibe; Miss Tookcy iflnk satin
and pearls; Mrs. Ferris and Mrs; Murray, in their
pure white bridal robes; Miss Mannix, a quaint at-
tire of pale-blue satip trimmed with floille lace
and pink ostrich feathers; Mi»s Stewart, a brilliant
m.ilze-culoured satin; Miss Fitz-Simmons, cream
satin and white lace; Miss A. Band, white silk
trimmed with olue; a natty dress worn by a
Sydney lady was a cream satin, with deep flounces
of lace; and another was! a black, satin, with
high draperies of lace caught up with cord,
Mrs. Ham wore black satin and net. and Miss
Sehwartzbroff was comely In a black velvet bodice
and Indian muslin skirt, trimmed with white lace
and pink and gold ribbons. Mrs. Ballile donned
white cashmere and satin, sprinkled with dark
garnet flowers; Miss fisher, .blue satin and pun’s
veiling; Miss Redden, soft cream satin, trimmed
with flowers; Miss Moore, cream satin, trimmed
with peacock’s feathers; and Miss Doyle, white lace
skirt and satin corsage. Mr. A. L. Hays made a
most assiduous M.C., and the ball was a splendid
success, Baumann’s refreshments were appre-
ciated, which, by the way, is more than can be said
for the music, which was acknowledged to be the
defect of the ball.
♦ ♦ ♦
To-night (Thursday), the Sydney Owls
give their ball in the Town Hall. It promises to
be one of the best affairs of the season, and either
plain or fancy dresses can be worn.
* ♦ ♦
The Excelsior and Humber Amateur
Bicycle Company’s sports promlsS to be very
attractive next Saturday tVeek. The events are
all interesting ana the prices valuable. The sur-
plus ffluds are to be devoted to some charitable
purpose, so it is to be hoped that they will prove a
“ draw.”
• • •
The recent Bachelors’ Ball at Mudgee
seems to have whetted the dancing appetite of
the townsfolk, for they are now arranging about a
Benedicts’ Ball. They also propose to establish a
Cinderella Quadrille Club, so that they can have
a dance every month.
a • i
At St. Luke’s Church, Burwood, a pretty
wedding was held on June 9th. The bride, a
daughter of Mr. C. Hughes, a well-known resident
of Homebush, looked superb in a dress of purest
white silk and brobhe; the longjsweeping train set
off to the best advantage the pretty, slight figure.
The long veil was caught to the head by a rich
wreath. Two of the bridesmaids looked sweet in
fawn silk, cream lace, and Jessamine; two others
In soft white material and silver leaves; two in
sea green, and one little mite looked like a huge
poppy in all cardinal. The seven bridesmaids
all wore long tulle streamers attached to their
wreaths. A sumptuous breakfast was provided
for the numerous gathering and daneing was en-
joyed in the evening ; a sister of the bride ap-
peared in a pretty fawn skirt and pale-blue bodice:
another wore a neat white skirt and cardinal
velvet bodice, with pale-blue and cream trim-
mings; the sisters of the bridegroom wore pure
white; a young lady looked nice in a cream skirt
and cardinal satin bodice, and her sister wore
white trimmed with primroses: two sisters from
Petersham wore, one pale-blue and the other
crushed strawberry; and a pair from Homebush
wore white and pale-blue satin; a black dress
beautifully trimmed with coloured laoe was ad-
mired. A little before sunrise the company dis-
persed after an enjoyable time.
• * *
A masquerade ball, given in aid of the
Mechanics’ Institute, Cooktown, on the 29th ult.,
was one of the most successful events of the kina
that ever took place in the North. The officers of
the Haven were conspicuous in their uniforms,
and were the lions of the evening. Specially
attractive was Mrs. Milman, who, as Lady Jane
Grey, looked slmpiy charming in her historical
costume. Other well-represented characters
were Highland Lassie, Miss Cameron ; Queen of
May, Mrs. Clendenning; Pocohontaa, Miss
Smith ; Lady Graduate, Mrs. Baiston; Shep-
herdess, Mrs. Geo. Robinson; Barly Dawn,
Mrs. M. Brodziak; Starry Night, Miss Oor-
mack; Cinderella, Miss Wiltshire; Spanish
Lady, Mrs. Barnett; Florence Nightingale, Miss
Henriques; Summer, Miss C. Henriques ; Ire-
land, Miss Kate Minch; Speculation, Mias J. Baird;
Disappointment, Mrs. H. B. Warren; Red Hiding
Hood, Mrs. Mathews; Ylvandlere, Miss Hodel;
New Guinea Chiefess, Mrs. F. Miller; Master of the
Rolls, Mr. H. Milman; Pickwick, Mr. d’Arcy; Sam
Weller, Master Wakeford; Master-Mason, Mr. G.
Robinson; U S. Senator, Mr. Dooley; Young Aus-
tralia, Mr. B. Wilshire; Old Benbow, Captain
Mackay; Shy lock, Mr. H. B. Warren; Luther,
Mr. Hodel; Holy Willie (Burns), Mr. J. C. Baird;
Merchant of Venice, Mr. B. Palmer; Mickey Free,
Mr. Clendenning; Robert Emmett, Mr. H. Barr;
Reformation, Mr. John Sullivan. Mr. Emanuel
acted as M.C., and both music and refreshments
were excellent.
♦ ♦ »
On June 30 (Tuesday) the Masonic Lodge
Fidelity, No. 1979. R.n„ win hold a return social in
the Exhibition Building. This will be the first
ball in that building this season, and tbe fact of
choosing tbe Exhibition shows the Masons are de-
termined to make u a big thing. Those who have
been to their pleasant socials can testify they are
always good.
• • *
The clever pupils of the Fort-street Model
School give a grand concert, under distinguished
patronage, at the New Masonic Hall to-night
(Thursday). Their musical instructor, Herr
Alpen, conducts the affair, and the proceeds go to
augment their prize fund.
♦ • ♦
The third Mercantile Quadrille Assembly,
at Orange, held in Whipples’ Railway Hall, was
attended by about fifty couples, and was the most
enjoyable of the season. Two sisters from Presley-
street in black silk and lace were attractive, and a
March-street favourite in pink satin and Madras
muslin was equally nice. A married lady in white,
and a stranger in similar costume from same street,
had many admirers. There was a fair one from
Anson-street in pale blue and pink surah, and
Summer-street was represented by a model of
amiability in black silk. Lucknow sent two pretty
maids in pi k and white nun’s veiling, and a lady
from St. Sttnlslaus was extremely obliging In the
way of extn s. Music first-class, and several new
waltzes introduced.
ANSWERS TO SOCIAL CORRESPONDENTS.
[Note.—Social items, in order to ensure inser-
tion for the current week, should be to hand no
later than Tuesday.]
“ Sunny Corner ”: Can’t promise to send reporter
so far, but shall be glad to have short account
of the affair “Lottie”: Try tne new waltz’
called “My Favourite Waltz.” It’s quite pretty
You can get it at Paling’s.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Sydney Liedertafel concert, for ladles and
gentlemen, Exhibition Building, Tues-
day June 23.
Amateur performance in aid of Good-
enough Koyal Naval House, Theatre
Koyal June 24.
Social to be given by the bachelors of
Mltchel, Weinart’s Victoria Hall '..June25.
Champion Amateur Bicycle Meeting, Asso-
ciation Cricket Ground June 27.
Masonic Social (Fidelity) Exhibition.. June 30.
Masonic Lodge of St. Andrew’s social, ves-
tibule of the Town Hall, Thursday July 2.
Concert at New Masonic Hall by the Fort-
I street Model School children in aid of
their pri ze ftmd June 18.
Sydney Owl Club Ball, Town Hall June 18,
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“ W. Beil ”: Lettet tod long; The Met that
Sydney uses steam trams In ter streets, while all
the rest of the world uses horse-oarSj proves some*
thing. But it doesn’t prove that Sydney knows
better than the world in general....” J. T—e”s
Much obliged....The BtENiNd News in-
nocently calls It “ Hudson Brothers’ Scheme."...
“Voila Tout”: Many thanks. The subject, how-
ever, happened to have been previously treated—
“Hiram”: Herald logic. What “ loyalty” or
“patriotism” can be shown by assisting In a
miserable and aimless struggle ? Shades of Locke I
As well talk of exhibiting virtue by dancing in a
casino, or honesty by assisting to rob a church—
“ Girondin Thanks. Your remark that Mr.
Dailey has “ravished Australia of her virginal
peace,” is a neat one “Caspian”: Thanks. The
printed lecture you hand us, by Mr. Beotge lies, of
Montreal, on “Religion without Dogma,” cer-
tainly has a most suspicious resemblance to Judge
Williams’ brochure, “ Religion without Supersti-
tion,”.... “0.0.”; General Komaroff is a lineal
descendant of Ananias, by Sapphira his wife. Sir
Peter Lumsden, on the contrary, traces his descent
in an unbroken line, to George Washington, who
never told a lie....“C.J.”: That the cowardly
horse-mutilator, Roberts, should have been
stabbed in gaol by the convict Johns, is an illus-
tration of now Nemesis dogs his man.... ‘W.
Lott”; Had the Contingent remained In Sydney,
very likely duite as many of theii* number
would have died from typhoid fever and other
causes as have perished since they left N.8.W
“Bacchanalian”: A couple of points in yours.
Thanks “Manly”: Your verse about “the
little boy at Manly” is more childish than its
theme....“ J.A.T.H.”; Mr. Traill has gone to Eng-
land “An Old Hand”: Many thanks for your
interesting letter....“Joseph H.” (Prahran, Mel-
bourne): You tell lies, Joseph. You stole that
set of verses and palmed them off on us. You
don’t “ have ” us again, if we can help it. Good-
bye, Joseph. Howls Mrs. Potlphar? —“ W.J.B.”:
We cannot tell you whether anyone named
Scott now writes for an obscene Bathurst print....
“A Suffering Member” (Barrier Ranges): Pas-
toralists make money when they can; so do
miners. If the railway speculation be as you say,
why not go ahead ?....“ Jason ” (Sandhurst); Your
sentiments are good, but your verse is not. You
speak of “an ass btaying at the Muse’s door.” The
Muse hasn’t a door. She lives in the Empyrean—
a place without a backyard or a front garden.
You must have got to some other body’s house.
“A. Maver” (Byrock): If your money has been
stolen while going through the Post-offlce, you
should write again to the Postmaster-General.
(3.) 39 inches, we are told— “ Ixlon ”: We’ll take
your word that a B.A. of Sydney University wrote
this sentenceIf you have that house to let,
which was to let when I asked you last week for a
house to let, I would like to look at it.” All the
universities in the world couldn’t teach some men
English....”A Regular Reader”: The poem you
composed “while laying awake in bed,” nearly
laid us asleep. You don’t “lay ” in bed. You lie
in bed. We don’t know where else you do it...
“Marco”: Thanks for the sketches, We don’t
mind how funny you make them. Give your hero
a smile something between that of a billy-goat
whose horns are jammed in a fence, while a bull-
dog attends to his rear, and that of a Chinese fowl-
stealer afflicted with facial paralysis.... “X.Y.Z.”
(Singleton): Referred to last week. The trouble
seems to lie in the “Patriotic Fund” committee's
not informing Mrs. Lewis what really they in-
tended to do “ H. Cox”: We don't see that
the Liberator is a bit worse than the so-
-called “ religious ” paper (admitted to the
School of Arts reading-room) which has openly
stated that Sisters of Mercy are nothing better
than abandoned women. And yet we’d not advo-
cate turning the Protestant Standard out of
the institution. We want the Weekly Zack to
have its little say and add its little mite
to the consensus of public opinion “ J.
Willis”: Let “ poetry ” alone, and concentrate
your energies on getting up a subscription to
provide Prince Battenberg with a wedding pre-
sent ofl tobacco....” J.L.B.” (Bulo, Paroo, Q.):
Always glad to hear from bushmen—“ G. Sims”:
We don’t know whether it is true that the em-
ployes of the S.M. Herald office, to whom a
“ Patriotic Fund” subscription list was handed,
forked out so small an amount that the Messrs.
Fairfax, ashamed of its littleness, ordered it to be
banded back to the subscribers. If the story is
true, it affords a magnificent illustration of the
extent to which one of the most—perhaps the
most—intelligent classes of artisans sympathised
with a policy initiated by the N.8.W. Government,
and backed up by only a few rich people and wire-
pullers “ M.L.” (Townsville): At latest, Emelie
Melville and Co. were in India....” Fidus Achates”:
You had better write again to Geo. Robertson and
Co., sajing exactly what you want. Sorry we
can’t set you right —“Urana": The greatest
Eoint in favour of Parkes is that, through all
is vicissitudes, he has uniformly stuck to the
side of the Liberals as against the Tories
“Inquirer”: (A) No. (B) No—but they must show
their indentures, or prove they’re members of
some pharmaceutical society. In Victoria, there
is an examining board—“ Omega.”: We are quite
in accoi d with you. But why pay any attention to
the views of the Evening News, or of the
S.M. Herald on land-nationalisation? It would
be absurd to dignify as “argument” the splutter-
ing platitudes they advance in condemnation of
George. They will come round by-and-bye—when
It is to their Interest “William Cox”: It is a big
order you send us, William. We cannot put our
hands just now on the information you require
concerning the salaries of the Queen, Prince of
Wales, Emperor of Germany, and Presidents of
France and America. All information re English
Royalty can be found in the Financial Reform
Almanac, price a shilling. The heads you have
taken for your opening speech are sufficiently
comprehensive, and cannot be improved upon. It
only remains for you to work them out....
“ H.H.C.”: Received. Give ’em a rest for a bit....
“Koom-posh”: We’ve been considering for some
time the very subject on which you speak. Yes;
the extraordinary apathy of the working-man is
the greatest sleeper on the rail of progress,
and the greatest factor in keeping knaves
and Idlers in fine linen and choice wines....
“Subscriber”: Received “Cosmo”: Think
we’ll let them “slide” for a while “Cor-
beau”: We disagree. We deeply sympathise
with Mr. James Smith, of Melbourne, in the deli-
cate position in which he was placed. You see, he
was himself writing a translation when the Jef-
freys-Lewis version of the play came out at a
Melbourne theatre. It was (being a piece cf
American work) utterly inferior to Mr. James
Smith’s version: and, unfortunately, Mr. James
Smith, in his capacity as Argus critic, felt
called upon to most adversely criticise the
acting in it. No doubt, Mr. Smith did so with
a deal of regret. Mr. Smith is, and always
has been, a thoroughly conscientious critic, and
we are sure it cut him to the heart to have to give
ai unfavourable verdict in the case referred to
We quite agree with your proposition that play-
wrights should not be dramatic critics. But we
have, and always shall have every confidence in
Mr. J. Smith....“ Critic”: You are wrong. The
common interjection “ Great Scott ” does not re-
fer to the eminent litterateur ...“Port Maokay”;
We don’t think Mr. John Ewen Davidson dis-
played the wisdom of the serpent when he showed
his hand so soon by mixing his coolies with the
separation question.


THE HAPSBURG PIANO,
THE HAYDN ORGAN,
Unequalled for Sweetness and Purity of Tone.
BEALE &G0MPANY
The Wertheim Sewing Machine
FOR ADAPTABILITY TO ALL CLASSES OF SEWING. -
Illustrated Catalogues and Price Lists from the Sole Agents,
BEALE
371 Pltt-street; 612 and 386 George-street;
151 Oxford-street, Sydney;
AND FROM
BRANCH OFFICES AND TRAVELLERS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
TUT?
BECHSTEIN
PIANOS.
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT,
Messrs. Nicholson & Co.
have great pleasure in informing their numerous friends that they have secured, through
the intercession of their Mr. NICHOLSON, who is now in Germany, the SOLE AGENCY
for the whole of Australia, Tasmania, and New Zealand, for
Bechstelns’ Magnificent and Unequalled Pianos.
THE BECHSTEIN PIANOS ARE MANUFACTURED IN BERLIN.
The two factories there, employing over 500 workmen, are now the most extensive and
best organised in Europe. All modern inventions and improvements, many of which are
Mr. Bechstein’s own, are utilised, and the number of instruments produced venriv far
exceeds that of any other manufactory in Europe. y Iar
The exceptionally unanimous opinion of all the highest authorities as to the tone and
quality of these instruments, as evidenced by the accompanying letters, is better testi-
an an ything we could say ourselves. Asa matter of fact, however, the hrcir.
STEIN PIANOS are now used in over 800 Public Concerts annually, and are used almost
exclusively by all the eminent players. J
Mr. BECHSTEIN has had the honour of supplying his instruments to Tier
the Queen of England His Majesty the Emperor of Germany. His Majesty theS ?
of Russia, His Majesty the King ot Bavaria, Her Majesty the Queen of
Imperial and Royal Highness the Crown Princess of Germany (Princess Roval of Tireat
Britian), Her Imperial and Royal Highness the Princess Helene of Russia Her Imperial
and Royal Hrgbness the Duchess of Edinburgh Her Royal Highness the Duchess of P Con-
naught, Her Royal Highness the Princess Elizabeth of Prussia, His Roval Hiehness the
Prince Frederick Charles of Prussia, His Royal Highness the Duke of Melldenbure
Schwerin, His Royal Highness the Duke of Mecklenburg-Strelitz, His Royal Highness the
Duke of Baden, His Royal Highness Prince Henry of the Her Rcfval HIeh-
ness the Grand Duchess of His SereneHighness the Dukeof Saxo-Meiningln,
His Serene Highness Prince Bismarck, His Serene Highness Prince Hohenlohe, His Serene
Highness Prince Schonburg Beuthen, His Serene Highness the Duke of Ratihor His
Serene Highness the Duke of Sagan, Her Serene Highness the Duchels of AugustenbuVg!
The BECHSTEIN PIANO is used in Concerts in every country by all the leading
artists. Amongst others by Dr. H. von Bulow, Anton Yon Rubinstein. Abbe P Liszt
Carl Tausig, A. Dreyschook, N. Rubinstein, C. Heyman, Professor Barth, Eugeu D’ Albert
Charles Halle, Camille Saint-Saens, Xaver Scharwenka, Josef Wieniawslyl Johannes
Brahms, Professor Joachim, Professor Raff, Professor Henselt, W Rummel Professor
Kullak, Professor Klingworth Leonh. E. Bach, Madame Menter, Madame E “sipoff, MX1
Krebs, Mdlle. Janotha, Mdlle. Timanoff, &o., &c. y
The BECHSTEIN PIANOS have been introduced into the following well-known con-
certs in Europe :-Mon day and Saturday Popular, Philharmonic Society, Crystal Palace.
Musical Union, Richter Concerts, the Promenade Concerts, Covent Garden D R vm
Bulow’s, and Mdlle. Janotha’s Recitals, Mr. Chappell’s, Denmark Hill Concerts
P T - H L VOn ul Ant> TO R. Rubinstein, Charles Halle, C. Heyman, Madame Menter.
Madame Bssipoff, and many others use exclusively on their concert tours the Bechstein
instruments. ‘Beohstem Pianos are sounding benefactions to the musical world”
Richard Warner.
Messrs. NICHOLSON and CO., are now receiving a Splendid Assortment of these
Famous Instruments, Bechstein Cottage Pianos, Beohsfein Small Grands, Bechstein Semi-
Grands, Beohstem Concert Grands. No other maker in the world equals Bechstein
KTioliolson «Sc Co.,
Sole Agents for BECHSTEIN, and from whom all particulars and prices may bo
obtained.
POSTAGE
FOREIGN STAMPS FOR COLLECTIONS, &o.
UNUSED INTERCOLONIAL STAMPS FOR REMITTING.
COLLECTIONS AND OLD COLONIAL STAMPS BOUGHT.
PRICE LISTS OF FOREIGN STAMPS GRATIS.
DAW! ON A. VINDIN, THE SYDNEY FOREIGN STAMP DEPOT,
9 HUNTER STREET, NEAR GEORGE STREET.
G. F. PRIDDY & GO.,
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS,
Beg to announce that, on and after APRIL 7th.
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Days
at 6.30 p.m.: Saturdays as usual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
8TSNBT,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
F. A. WRIGHT.
\ U8TRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY*
_ .. Established 1872.
with po . wer tf increase to £1,000,000
BONUSES—30 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
Head Office*. <R>»
I First Fire Society established in lp- coieay oa
I the Mutual principle, giving policy-1 Wen* back
part of their Premiums as a cash b in» oat of
profits every year.
Policy-holders are perfectly free 1. v from'
all liability.
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid, ;
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire Insurance at lowest rates.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Offices—PITT and KING STREETS.
THE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital £100.000.
Head Office : Melbourne.
Sydney Branch : Hoyle’s Chambers, Bond-street.
Victorian Directors : I N. S. Wales Directors:
John L. Dow, Esq., M.P., | Andrew Town, J.P., Esq.
Chairman | Frank Cowley, Esq.
Hon. J. F. Levien, M.P. George 8. Yeo, Esq,
Thomas Learmonth, Esq. I
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs insured
against death from Accident, Disease, or Natural
Causes on land, rail, or at sea.
Marine Risks on Stock covering mortality or on
Merchandise accepted.
The only Live Stock Insurance Society in the
olonies.
Full particulars can be obtained from the under-
signed.
Active Agents wanted where unrepresented.
A. J. WILKINSON, Branch Manager.
Office, Boyle s Chambers, Bond-street.
%
mr*
&
c/£
a
SS
Oa
o
(/
<£
Jf.
Qy
y
y
<*
*«c
a
o.
S3
'*
»**»#
*
tm^t RDMAM.
f)URY,BUXI0N4C ?
ENGLISH ALES .
Burfon-on-Trenf.
CO
URN
V F(K|RNISSEUR3 oe S M
3ohd
*
of
>c
&
«fe
© k
♦r ?*»
Jb>
O
S» 5^
1
M
x»
*
O't
C<-
J:
/
0^
a as
OHNE
. ALLT 2 CO/S fa and Spirit Stores and Agencies,
London
Agent^
CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.


Wolfe’s Schnapps. Be sure you obtain
Wolfe.s Schnapps as it Is the only genuine
Schnapps.
A suggestion. Referring to the reception
of our Soudan Contingent, aa the procession has
to pass up George-street, It Is suggested that a
halt be made opposite the Joint Stock Bank to
enable our brave boys to tall out of line and pay
a hurried visit to Bray’s china and glass show-
rooms.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the purest and safest
medical stimulant that can be taken by enfeebled
invalids.
Among tonics with an alcoholic basis
Wolpe’s Schnapps holds the foremost place, and
ii besides a good medicine,
Political Points
I Not a single address, says Vanity Fair,
was presented to the Prince and Princess of Wales
by any Catholic institution in Ireland during their
vlsitT *
Dailey says the Contingent were sent
“ for service, not slaughter." Yes, the Contingent
•were sent for (that is to say against) Service. James
Service.
It is said that, should the Government
fifoclaltfl Mdnday neft a public holiday on account
of the landing or the Contingent, sevefal of the
largest Sydney warehouses will remain open.
> t The Saturday Review says concerning
the Soudan Expedition:—“ The progress of the
affair, as it is looked back on, resembles nothing
■o much as the progress of a drunken man In its
alternations of torpor and wild zigzag rushes, its
absence of any apparent object, and its final col-
lapse.”
“The ten thousand landlords in Great
Britain without toil receive from the soil more
than twice as much as the total wages paid to
eight hundred and fifty thousand labourers for
working twelve hours through the seven days in
every week.” And yet, in spite of these facta,
people will persist in being labourers rather than
landlords. This is what surprises us.
The Mackay (Q.) Separation League re-
cently advertised for tenders at per name for
every signature obtained to their petition. This
is a paying patriotism, evidently. Now, if the
people want separation, and are ground down, &o„
by the Brisbane Government, how is it they can-
hot be got to. undertake that little Job gratis f
And yet Mr. Hume Black, tho head and front of
the movement, is opposed to payment of members.
The P.M. Gazette of the 29th Aptril sfiys :
—“ Mr. Childers has swept a wide net, and his
Budget will create a great outcry. Already the
Freeman s Journal is protesting that the in-
crease In the whisky tax is another wrong done to
old Ireland by the brutal Saxon. The newspapers
approve the Budget generally, but in this matter
newspaper opinion 1s worth very little—Journalists
as a rule are not financiers, and we shall have to
wait a week before we know how the country
takes it. Mr. Childers, be it remembered, is one of
the most unlucky of Finance Ministers. All his
bills miscarry, and his new Budget may fare no
Better.” Nor did It.
Truth says:—“ Sow pedple can be such
idiots as to suppose that Prince Bismarck desires a
war between England and Russia it is impossible
for any reasonable being to understand. If Rus-
sia had the best of it, the certain issue would be
her alliance with France against Germany; and if
she were beaten, it is Inevitable that there would
be a revolution in the Holy Empire, which would
soon spread to Germany. Everybody knows,
moreover, that if Russia plunged into war the
bankers in Germany would become bankrupt, as
they are by far the largest holders of Russian
stocks, and Prince Bismarck is perfectly aware
that he cannot afford to provoke a financial crisis.
The German Emperor is as eager for peace as is
the Queen:”
When the Prittoe and Princess of Wales
were expected at Belfast, Ireland, 20,000 Sunday-
school children were kept waiting in the rain for
two hours to greet the Royal visitors, who, when
they came, drove by without stopping. Truth,
oommenting on this piece of cruelty, asks:—” Why
on earth should children be dragged into our
f rown-up pomps and vanities ? They care nothing
or these things. When Royalty visits a town, let
the children of that town have a holiday, and do
what they like with it. That is the way to make
them happy and ‘ loyal’—whatever ‘loyalty’
means. But whatlchlld was ever yet made ‘ loyal’
or happyiby being foreed to stand for two hours
in his Sunday boots (always too tight) to sing
* God Bless the Prince of wales,’ for, perhaps, at
the outside, a miserable penny bun, and a fight to
keep It?”
Sixpence a name is the price paid for
names obtained to the North Queensland Separa-
tion petition in Mackay. One delegate to the re-
cent Convention in Townsville wanted to know if
women would be allowed to sign it. We don’t see
why they shouldn’t, provided they understood it
as not in the nature of a divorce. We would also
suggest that kanakas, Cingalese, and Chinamen
should sign it. It would look quite democratic to
see the names of A. B. C. D. Robertson, J.P.,
planter, and E. F. G. Smith, merchant, interspersed
With “ Tommy Man Santo” and “Sun Mun Hung,”
and the aristocratic name of the coolie tailor,
Whose tropical agricultural occupation of making
pantaloons. &c., at one-tfllrd the price of white
men entitles him to our most unqualified admira-
tion, By the way, speaking of coolies, if you ask
a man from North Queensland his opinion of se-
paration be mutters “ coolies” in a tone that
brings visions of Denis Kearney and the Califor-
nian agitation to our mind.
The Radicals and their “Press” organs
have too long been suffered to have it their own
way. With them liberty has become license, so
that now some of the more daring of them insinu-
ate that their Sovereign is not as liberal as she
ought to be—that she might spare a little from her
modest Income to support her children and grand-
children without quartering them on the nation.
This was going too far, for ail Englishmen know
the liberality — approaching prodigality — with
which our gracious Queen has subscribed to
worthy objects, straitening her own slender
resources by so doing. Why, to the Indian
Famine Fund alone she gave nearly a day’s
pay, while every mother whom a mistaken
sense of duty induced to bring into the world
more infants than she could conveniently nurse
at one time could always depend upon Her
Majesty’s sympathy and aid. It is no wonder then
that these Radical ravings caused pain in high
places. The Lady’s Pictorial Journal (Lon-
don) says as much, and hints that when Parliament
provides for Princess Beatrice and Prince Victor,
the “Queen intends, with the sanction of Parlia-
ment, to portion the other children of the Prince
and Princess of Wales out of the sum which she
draws in her Civil List.” “ This,” the Pictorial
adds, “ is a most admirable arrangement, and one in
which both the common-sense and deep family
affection of our beloved monarch are touchingly
shown.” Will this generosity close the mouths of
those bad, ragged men, who live on a meal a day—
when they can get it ? Not it—it will make them
yell louder than ever.
The N.S.W. Ministry naturally desire to
bring about the retirement of the Premier, Sir
Alex. Stuart, who, though very unwell as a con-
sequence of his recent severe paralytic attack, in 1
in a most irritable condition of mind, insists on
trying to attend to office affairs. This course of
procedure, it is Telt. will mentally tend to his
complete collapse within a short period. Sir Alex.
Stuart's peculiarities, one of the most prominent
of which is his unreasonable stubbornness, have al-
ready led to more than one serious oolllsionbetween
himself and the real Premier, who has manfully
borne the heat and burden of the day—Mr. Dailey.
The latest instance in which the nominal head of
the Government has asserted bis authoriiy and
overruled plain W. B. D. is the Girls’ Friendly
Society imbroglio, wherein. in direet defiance of
the decision and order of the Attorney-General,
Sir Alexander, who is completely beneath the
thumbs of the “ synod ” and the fair sex,
had ordered that certain high-toned dames
of Sidney are, to be given a preference oyer
the more plebeian sections of the population
in the matter of engaging servants brought to
N.S.W. by means of the State Immigration vote.
The members ofjthe Government, it is needless to
(ay, are enthusiastic in their determination that
Mr. Farneil, who has been less than a cypher all
along, and who has made the most awful and
miserable bash on record of his so-called adminis-
tration of the Land Act, shall retire into befitting
obscurity at the earliest possible moment.- To
have such a Minister of Lands as Mr. Farneil.
whose only remarkable achievement for the Lord
knows how many years has been to unconsciously
memorise his celebrated panegyric of Garibaldi
frbm the Masonic burial service, is, the Govern-
ment feel, too absurd a situation for protracted
contemplation. Mr. Farneil, whose political day is
past and gone—how is it that such people ever get
into positions of political eminence ?—will, of
course, not have to be provided for when he
retires; but it will bo necessary to “do some-
thing” for Sir Alexander Stuart, who, it is
expected, will, at no very distant date, be
provided with the Agent-Generalship now held by
Sir Saul Samuel. Everything that can be thought
of in the way of making the post too hot for Sir
Saul is being diligently done. It will be remem-
bered that the Prince of Wales, in circularising
the various Australian Governments on the sub-
ject of the projected Colonial Exhibition in London,
intimated that it was his Royal desire that the
Agent-General of each colony should be appointed
to represent it as Executive Commissioner. All
the colonies took the hint with the exception of
N.S.W., which deliberately insulted Sir Saul by
leaving him out in the cold and accrediting Sir
Patrick Jennings as its principal representative at
the Exhibition. The idea is that a series of such
annoyances will cause Sir Saul to resign his post,
and that a hole will thus be created which can be
used as a political grave for the able but failing
administrator, Sir Alexander. Friends will please
accept this intimation.
* • ♦
Melbourne firms interested in Northern
sugar-plantations are determined to seek compen-
sation from the Queensland Parliament for remov-
ing their black labourers to the South Seas. They
contend the planters did not know the men were
kidnapped, and were quite within the law in
engaging them when passed by Government
agents. If Parliament will not entertain the case,
the firms are instructed by leading barristers to go
into court.
Says Vanity Fair:— “The abstention of
all ranks of the Irlsh R.C. clergy from any part in
the reception of the Prince and Princess of Wales
is very ominous indeed”— Apropos of the state-
ment that the Prince of Wales was * heartily
received” in Ireland, Reynolds says:—“ Poll the
Irish to-morrow, and three-fourths will vote for a
Republic, condemn the Prince of Wales to exile,
and banish the whole of the Royal family from
Ireland.” /
“An Old Hand” writes us;—“Ihave not
seen publicly noticed the singular fact that it has
rainea nearly always on the lith June for the past
half-century. This year is no exception, and on
the previous day M of an inch fell (after many
weeks of dry weather). It is strange that any
particular day should be constantly wet in so long
a period. On the occasion of the illumination in
Sydney for the Prince of Wales’ wedding, in 1862,
the S. M. Herald remarked, in their issue of that
day (June 11):—‘It was an unfortunate day to
have selected, as rain had fallen on it for the pre-
vious t/wenty-five years.’ And, you may recollect,
it fell in torrents on the night alluded to."
The “ Race for Life,” from a sporting con-
temporary ;—“ If one could see a million babies
start on a journey (all scratch the mark, of course),
and could follow tbem through life, this is what
he would see. Nearly 150,000 of them drop out of
the ranks by the end of the first year, while twelve
months later the number would be further thinned
by the deduction of 53,000 more; 28,000 would
follow at the end of the thirteenth year. They
would throw up the sponge by twos and threes
until the end of the forty-fifth year, when it would
be found that in the intervening period some-
thing like 500,000 had left the track. Sixty.
years would see 370,000 grey-headed men
still cheerfully pegging away. At the end of
eighty years the competitors in this great * go-as-
you-please ’ would number 97,000, but they would
bo getting more shaky and ‘ dotty ’ each lap. At
the end of ninety-five seasons 223 would only be
left in the final * ties,’ while the winner would be
led into his retiring-room, a solitary wreck, at the
age of 108. There is something grimly humorous
in this quaint array of figures, but they are
founded upon statistics carefully compiled. One
cannot help wondering what would be the betting
at the start about any one of those million babies
coming in alone at the one-hundredth lap of the
great and mysterious track upon which the race
of life is run.”
“AH, THERE!”
A DUBIOUS COMPLIMENT.
The jewels of the recently-widowed
Countess of Dudley are estimated to be worth
nearly a million pounds sterling. If the fair lady
has enjoyed annually her money’s worth in the
privilege of wearing these jewels, she must now
be suffering a heavy financial loss. A year of
mourning (with jet ornaments) will cost her about
£50,000.
Says the Manning River Times, a journal
generally understood to be the official organ of
the illustrious C.M.G.:—“ Mrs. O. J. Roberts.—We
notice by late cablegrams that Mrs. C. J. Roberts,
late Mayoress of Sydney, and the wife of O. J.
Roberts, Esq., C.M.G., M.P., member for this elec-
torate, has been presented to the Queen, at one of
her drawing-room receptions. This is an honour
only conferred on ladies of distinction.”
An enthusiastic Bulletin supporter has
taken the trouble to write an acrostic for the
benefit of little Lewis Scott:—
A h, Scott! with all thy giant powers and intellect
colossal,
N o more at vanguards tilt your spear, but turn
and charge the fossil I
IWe have left a blank to be filled in at our readers *
pleasure.— Ed, B.]
The S.P. Newsletter predicts an awful
street accident in the future:—” The doer of this
calamity will be a female doctor—a lady prac-
titioner, who drives a small bay horse and wears
spectacles of the most scientific pattern. When
that gentle admlnisterer of the drastic pill climbs
into her chariot and gives her fiery steed his head,
it is time for the San Francisco pedestrian to hunt
bis shed. Heavens, how she drives’ She shrieks
the prelude of a prescription into that bay’s ears,
and he is off like the wind. His tail is as straight
as a toothpick, his ears extended, his eyes ablaze,
and at every word of encouragement uttered by
the fair charioteer he jumps as if a lancet had
jabbed him in the tall. The breezes howl about
her spectacles, but she heeds them not. Cobble-
stones fly against her dashboard, but they might
as well be bread pills for all the concern they give
her. Then the population begins to scatter, and
huddle in corners, and stand from under until the
Juggernaut has passed.” Which spirited descrip-
tion would apply to some of the ladles of Brisbane
(Q.), who are necessitating an addition to the local
hospital. Any lady there who aspires to Society,
thinks a carriage and pair necessary to her position
This would be harmless enough but that Fashion
demands one thing more; she must drive it herself.
And so when the wary pedestrian rushes into a
grocery, and entrenches himself behind the
counter, the shopkeeper does not fear a burglary,
or hope for a purchaser. He merely surmises
that Mrs.—-is driving through tho town.
“ BY JOVE, HORACE, BUT SHE'S A BEAUTY I WHAT’S HER NAME?”
“I DON’T KNOW HER FROM ADAM, MY DEAR BOY—MET HER AT THE RACES THE
OTHER DAY, AND THAT SETTLED IT I”
HE: “WHAT 18 IT, BOY OR GAL?”
SHE: ‘’BOY.”
HE: “AH, I THOUGHT 80. BLESS HIS LITTLE HEART, I WAS JUST SUCH ANOTHER
AT HIS AGE.”
Victor Hugo.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the hard years have spent their
And turned to grey the looks of jet or gold
That in our youth each vagrant wind caressed
And tossed in wantonness; when feeble steps
But serve to bear the ever-wearying frame.
And those bright eyes are dimmed, and that fair
brow
Wrinkles in furrows of deep-delving Care-
Then oometh death and silence and we rest.
To ?ome ’tie given to sail in summer seas,
To float amid the verdurous isles and breathe
The gales that come from groves of sandal. where>
All-ralnbowed birds idle their summer day,-
They float, and float, and anchor safe at last.
Not such to thee the voyage which has passed.
But bitter toll, as thy blind brother sang.
For thee “ scarce hoping to attain that rest.
Always from port withheld, always dlstrest.
Thee, bowling winds drove devious, tempest-tost.
Salls rent, seams opening wide, and compass lost.”’
Closed are the eyes that looked so long on pain;
For ever stilled the voice heard over eB
The frantic clamor of the greedy crown,.
Who, crying Liberty and Brotherhood,
Raged but with lust of power and selfish gain;'
While all around the reckless horde began
To plunder thy dear land of Liberty,
And steal from her the freedom bought by blood;
Upon thy brethren’s neck again they’d set
The ruthless foot of kings and courtesans.
Nor didst thou waver for their proffered gold,
Nor flinch when men, grown desperate with delay.
Followed thy steps with murderous intent.
And drove tnee from thy own beloved France,
To wander-alien, poor, and sick at heart—
Amid strange faces and to toil and starve.
And feel the bleakness all a winter’s night
Bite through thy scanty garb and shivering frame.
While thou didst shrink for shelter in some porch.
And watch, with tearful eyes and sinking heart.
The sumptuous carriage of the rich whirl by
Laden with laughing women and gay men
Muffled in richest furs. And when the clock
From some dim steeple chimed the midnight hour
Thy drooping lids would ope again, and catch
The giddy laughing faces flitting by,
As home to ease and luxury and warmth.
They come from scenes of feast and revelry.
Then wouldst thou closer draw thy shivering
limbs,
And crouch to await a hunger-bringing morn.
Thy people welcomed thee again. How oft
The golden crown that comes from golden speech
Delays till silver hair the prize doth win 1
Thy people welcomed thee I A few short years
Of praise and peace were thine, then peaceful
death.
Son of the ilon-heart, true King of France,
Not thine the throne whose gilded steps are stained
With many a spot that tells of hearts’ blood spilt
In the dread struggle for a golden crown;
Thy throne was in thy brethren’s reverence^.
Nor in thy darling France alone.
But wheresoe’er the name of Liberty
And Brotherhood among the sons of men
Is heard, or preached, thou wert revered a King;
And neither Kaiser, King, nor trembling Czar,
Nor Emperor the world has ever seen
Had coronation such. Chill Siber’s wilds,
Where patriots shiver out their hapless souls.
Oft echoed back thy ringing words of hope
To hearts fast sinking in despair. From there,
And from a million hearts which thou hast
cheered.
In song, and tale, and burning history.
Comes forth to day, from all around the earth—
“ Thou hast well done, and mayst thou rest In
peace I”
And we, the youngest born of all the earth,
Unstained as yet with blood, but pressing on.
As thou wouldst have us, in our fair career
Of peaceful toil; and on our fair, young face
No soar as yet, such as drew forth thy tears
To see besprinkling thy beloved Prance,
Cry; Hall, farewell, our poet, seer, and king;
Where thou art gone to rest beneath the tears
Of Europe’s greatest; we, too, bring our wreath
Across a world, and place it on thy tomb.
C. WESLEY CADDY.
L et Freedom, in its forward march,
B ’en now its enemies see;
W bile Literature, for free men meant,
I s thus debarred by thee.
S et not thine eyes on plain-writ facts,
S ell not thy soul to Right,
C orreot the views that others hold,
0 f despots be the Light;
T each not thyself (what bigots fear)
T he plain, unvarnished truth.
1 nsist that others shall not hear—
S o form the mind of youth.


T-A.C2Z Tsoawcpeoasr,
A.J.O. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SALOON,
91 Sing-street.
} — '
HT N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
RAW VASELINE.
B
A
m
f-V
SOFTENS and Preserves Horses’ Hoofs, KlUs
Parasites, and prevents their growth. In-
valuable as a Leather Preservative, rendering it
soft, pliable, and waterproof, and prevents It
cracking. From Its antl-corroslve qualities, un-
equalled for keeping free from rust and In
perfect order all metal goods, firearms, machines,
&o. It Is the sole material used for the above
purposes In the Austrian and German armies.
Sold by all Saddlers and Storekeepers.
„ SOLE AGENTS :
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS’ IRONMONGERS,
. 125 Tork-strcct, Sydney.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GUNT-’S Is. 9d.; 100, M. 6d.
LADI ®8’ as. Od.; 100, SB. Od.
Address, 60. extra.
Meat Business Cards.
100, 8s. 8d.; aeo, 6s. 6d.; 600, 10s,; 1000, Us.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
W" Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
TEE nisroCD,
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A POSITIVE CURE
_ . WITHOUT MEDICINE.
One box will cure the most obstinate case, acute
ln four da E? or less.
DR. BAYLEY’S SOLUBLE MEDICATED
BOUGIES (EUCALTPTOL).
No nauseous doses of cubebs, oapalba, or oil of
sandlewood, that are certain to produce dyspepsia
by destroying the coatings of the stomach. Price
a L ed on receipt of price. Address P.O. J
Box 833, Sydney. (Registered).
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 864 and 386 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above Is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work. ,
Everybody knows tnat the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia.
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment.
e> e ,7 B b o^. 1 ohiw!S!l)ythUe t^atrtJ 0 “ 0 “ rrled °“ ,0r ““ b<meflt ot “■« >»*• Mr.
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manaosb.
, and CL
(J. A. ROBERTS* R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
im, mm ni MACEHCH7 nuns,
Importers of
I and REQTJI8]
TORS’ PLAN!
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PBRFO
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRU8HWARB
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACKS
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON
GERT
ROLLED H GIRDERS
PORTABLE, J1KI
B
''0 “ «*
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BR
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLL
1 SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, fto.
-in?*! m§
“ Price Hats and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.
Head Warehouse -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Office
- 64 YORK STREET.
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS, —
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR.
SYDNEY.
- - - 86 GRAOECBUROH STREET.
Qiticura
DISFIGURING- HUMORS, Humiliating Erup
tiona, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching
; Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from Infancy to old age, are cured by
•-Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
•daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
;will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Bcalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
With Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
Of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fler, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cube (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), Instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, la
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
are by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
lassachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Prepared bt the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.8.A.
Ml
356 George St.
Established
SYDNE
185:
PIANOS/ORGANS
Best Makers Only
EVERY INSTRUMENT
GUARANTEE
a/V
W s~m - ./OVER
800
Instruments
ON VIEW
lb SelecKfrom.
SYDNEY.
VERY
MODERATE
PRICES*
The Most Liberal;
TIME PAYMENT
SYSTEM.
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
iar LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.


W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON,, and SYDNEY.
Catalogues Catalogues
POST FRKB.
W. WALKER
and SONS
mu
are one of the
Largest
Stockholder*
and
Manufacture™
n
m
High-class
FURNITURE
ENGLAND.
POST FREE.
ALL STOCK
In their
HOUSE
Supplied
DIRECT
from their
London
Manufactory,
and Latest
London Styles,
GDARANTMDi
SYDNEY BRANCH :
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
VALUABLE TEUTHS.
“ If you are •off erlng from poor health
‘or languishing on a bed of sickness,
• take cheer, for American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will core yon.
“ If you are simply ailing, If you feel
‘weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘ knowing why, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will B>evlve yon.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
• taxed yourself with your pastoral
• duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘and work, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will Restore yon.
“If you are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
‘ your every-day duties, or a man of let-
‘ ters, tolling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghten yon.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ordrinking, any indiscretion or disai-
• pation, or are young and growing too
• fast, as is often the case, Am. Co’s
Hop Bitters will relieve yon.
“ if you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
• that your system needs cleansing, ton*
‘ ing, or stimulating, without intoxicat-
‘ ing, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters is what yon need.
“ If you are old, and your blood thin
• and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
‘unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Am. Hop Bitters will give yon new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS, as made by the Ame-
' rican Co., is an elegant, healthy, and
• refreshing flavouring for sick-room
‘ drinks, impure water, etc., rendering
‘them harmless, and sweetening the
‘ mouth, and cleansing the stomach."
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in
bottle. Shun all others as vile poisonous stuff.
WeakNenmMen
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay and
failure to perform life’s duties
properly are caused by ex-
cesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
3 he Marston Bolus.
either stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment
of Nervous Debility and Physical Decay is
uniformly successful because based on perfect
diagnosis, new and direct methods and absolute
thoroughness. Full information and illustrated
treatise sent free (sealed).
Address— Doctor J. O Connell,
P.0. Box 466. 62 Castlemgh St,, Sydney.
CONSULTATION FREE.
E
A U D B
4711
COLOGNE.
4711.
Established 1793.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1872; Prize Medal, Vienna, 1878
This Bau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 35 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for Its superior sweetness, strength,
and Invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
’become the great favourite of the public,
apd Is extensively patronised by the dllte of
ThtPtorge and constantly Increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Bau de Cologne, not only In
Europe, but also In North and South America,
India; and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of Its superiority.
•The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number—4711 changed Into 7411, 1147,4117, Ac,, Ac. ,
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition Is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pltt-
street, Sydney. : *•
To be had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
and Storekeepers, m town and country.
SOLE IMPORTER. OP
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE.
197 PITT STREET.
SOLE AGENT FOR THE
SMITH OHGrAU.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 F1TT STREET
limn
sesmm
MHIIWMUIIIIIIBIlin
AUTUMN SEASON, 1885.
<35 CO.
HAVE RECEIVED THEIR NEW MILLINERY from Faria and London, and are now showing the
moat charming little Bonnots at 21s.; and Hats at 18s. 6d., which are simply beautiful; and,
judging from the enormous variety and the magnificent quality of the materials, it is quite evident
that their home agent has spared no time or trouble in carrying out the instructions given him bj
Mr. Lloyd.
We are showing upwards of 1000 imported HATS and BONNETS, suitable for all ages, at such
extremely low prices hitherto unequalled in Sydney.
IN OUR LACE DEPARTMENT, wo are second to none in the colony, for the variety is astonishing
and prices are so much less than we have ever had to ask at any other time.
IN OUR RIBBON DEPARTMENT, we have every possible shade and width, at cutting prices, for
best qualities only.
IN OUR GLOVE DEPARTMENT, we have a large stock of every kind.
The leading speciality is 270 dozen REAL GRBNNOBLE KID, usually sold at 4s. 9d. per pair in
black and dark colours, with four patent clip fasteners, all sizes, 3s. 6d. per pair, post free 2d. extra
Also 390 dozen in light and daik tan, with heavy black stitching, four buttons, only 3s. 6d. per pair, pott
free lor 2d. extra.
In the Ladies’ and Children’s Underclothing Department we have every requisite at London prices
ROSSAL IE, LLOYD & CO.,
OPPOSITE WYNYARD-STREET. SYDNEY.
No family should be without it, do remedy
is more reliable, note more infallible than Wolpe’s
SCHNAPPS.
No health with inactive liver and urinary
organs. Take only Hop Blltera made by American
Co. Bee.
Persons who suffer from sleeplessness
gaould use Wolfe’s Schnapps and they wou ? d
sleep well.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
CX3X
DEATSD
BISCUITS ill CAKES, TREACLE ADR COLDER STROP,
Self-raising /Erated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE. <1
\, & A. have obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney I.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-1,
Sydney Agents: «. H. ARIELL & CO., 343 and 345 Kent-street.
THEY WANTED AN IRISH ARCH-
BISHOP.
That’s what the faithful wanted £°r Syd-
ney. And they got him. Their former shepberd—
a stately, high-bred Englishman—had many recom-
mendations? But there was one obstacle, one
sleeper on the rail -which nothing would remove or
creep round. He was a Saxon. So, when thenews
came that he went to sleep and never woke, the
lay and clerical pillars of the sanctuary put to-
gether what were termed “ heads —by 9.9 UI
and said: “Dlvil another foreigner we 11 shtand.
We were the ‘ Island of Saints, an’ had harps an
wolf-dogs whin the haythens across the wather
were paintin’, an’ altln alch other whin they
weren’t dhrlnkin’.”
♦ » *
Then they laughed a low, pleasant
and sent to St. Peter’s successors message begging
for a countryman to rule over them. His Holi-
ness looked kindly on the petition of his faithful
children beyond the sea, and Patrick Francis
Moran rose up one morning to find himself Arch-
bishop of Sydney. #
He came and saw them. Then he wanted
to go back. He was no orator-his predecessor
was. But what he lacked in persuasiveness he
made up in piety. He loved teetotallsm and Irish
saints, and hated with a fierce hatred picnics,
balls, twenty-fives, raw spirits, moneyed priests,
and mixed marriages. He made no secret of his
likes and dislikes, and when the faithful found
how kind the Holy Father was in sending them a
good man after their own hearts, some of the
turkey-eating priests lost divers pounds in weight,
whlld -certain leading members of the L..C. laity
were often noticed shaking their heads at one
another when they thought they were unobserved.
They-even went so far as to speak of His Grace by
the stupid sobriquet of “ Old Cobwebs. But
Patrick Francis wore a smile of deep meaning.
Borne is the place to live in to learn sweetness of
expression. He waited with Pntlcnco till ho gota
firm hold of all the threads of all the details of his
charge. Then he began to pull them, when
the cleric and lay elders began to rear as if
they’d upset the driver. But he was too firmly
seated. This one he hit over the head with
bis pastoral crook—that with his mace. On
those with red noses and large banking ac-
counts he kept an unsleeping eye. They were
to fly whisky and make their wills—the latter to
bo kept in the diocesan secretary s safe. Even the
Wbbklt Michael was alarmed. More than one
ecclesiastic took fright. They were notorious y
poor—they always are; there was Dr. Backhaus
of Sandhurst, for Instance—and didn’t want to ex-
pose their poverty by making their wills and
placing them In the secretary’s keeping. Of
course, Patrick Francis would never know the
contents of the wills. Still, when he wanted a few
thousand pounds for “ the glory of God, it Is just
possible he might hit on the exact person to whom
to apply. And, as if this wasn’t joyful enough-
coming from a countryman, too—it was pleasant
to witness bow gleefully they read the following
In HiS Grace’s letter:—“In each parochial district
a temperance association shall be formed, and
the various local associations shall be aggre-
gated to the Central Association of St. Mary’s
Cathedral. ■. . . It Is strictly prohibited to the
clergy of the province to contract any debt in
connection with the missions without a written
sanction from the Bishop.” Then they knew they’d
got the right man, and in their prayers they
thought pf the Pope for sending him. For if
there's ope thing more than another that recon-
ciles to life a man who can somehow hold most of
the tens at i“ all-fours,” and give a really scientific
opinion on“ Klnahan’s best," it is the hint that l e
will be expected to take an interest in a Temperam e
Society. * ♦ *
The olargy separated to gloat over their
good fortune. One started for Oroajingolong,
where, it is said, he intends to increase his sphere
of usefulness by teaching languages and de-
portment. At one time, it is whispered,
he had his eye on a rural mitre, but
—ha preferred a Csltio Archbishop. It was
at a club in the city we heard the following
gay little yarn, which is probably a perjury. Hr.
Moran’s pet aversions wero frivolity and dissipa-
tion. Such things, we are aware, were unknown
amongst the clerics, but still the good Bishop was
not at ease till he issued an order that all were to
bedn atlOp.m. One very cold night while the clock
was bioOuping eleven His Grace thought he would
take a walk to commune with Nature, and wrestle
with Satan. The porter was at the door appar-
ently waiting for some one. “ To your couch/’ said
the Bishop curtly, “ I shall wait.” He waited. An
hour passed. Midnight was tolling over pictur-
esque Woolloomooloo, when a muffled figure statu-
esquely stiff, and with breath smelling of pepper-
ment.Sent the door in with an unmlstakeable kick.
That figure had to explain a lot of things befoie
going to bed—the way to toll cards from a prayer-
bobk-and so on. Yes-yes. Next morning a cab
took away from at. Mary’s a young man from
Balgowlahmlne, who, after an absence from Sydney
of five years, had been in town on a four days' visit.
OnMnlxed marriages and education the Dr. has
decided views also. If little Paddy Murphy should
learn up to “ four times ” in a State infant-school,
Pat plight be lucky enough in this life, but could
never expect to see God in the next—except
throhgh bars. No wbitky, picnics, balls, cards,
mixed marriages, or money I Yes, Messieurs-you ;
wanted an Irish Archbishop, and, by the Pope, you
got bml '


C. B. MODINI,
DURING hls recent visit to London, carefully
selected a Stock of
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
G. B. M. further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been annotated AGENT for
the following Firms.'—JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
don; THOS. BLAND & SON.. London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London ; CHA8. OSBORNE &
CO., London.
G. B. M. is also AGENT for the cmlnint firm of
BtJSSY & CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, &o., and all
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 Goorge.st., SyJnay,
inspection Is Invited.
NO MORE CORNS 1
CORNS AND WARTS removed without pain
by the use of Palmer’s Painless, Hamless,
and Effectual CORN AND WART REMOVER.
This preparation is the most wonderful ever used
for Corns, Warts, or Bunions. If applied accord-
ing to the directions, it will effectually remove
them In from six to eight days.
PALMER’S
Tmdel FACI/E
M„ k . ( CURA IB*
For Neuralgia, either Chronic or LooaL
This most wonderful Preparation has surpassed
all others in speedily removing 1 this excruciating
and most distressing complaint. It matters not
how long or severe the suffering has been, a single
bottle has never failed in producing the desired re-
sults : and it can be most confidently recommended.
Sold retail by all chemists and druggists and
general stores; wholesale by Messrs. Elliott Bros.,
ydney ; B. Prosser and Co., Sydney ; Felton,
Grlmwade, and Co., Melbourne; Kempthome and
Prosser, Dunedin.
Sydney Pharmacy,
16 HUNTER STREET,
Opposite Tramway, Elizabeth Street.
TiHTSICIANS’ PRESCRIPTIONS carefully pre
J7 pared with Drugs of the purest quality,
French Indiarubber Goods, Ladies’ Abdominal
Supports and Pessaries. Syringes and Enemas of
every description, always in stock.
Country Orders promptly executed.
H. P. SABIBLi, M.P.S., Mgr.
NEUSTADT and CO.,
COMPLETE
FURNISHERS,
39,154. 156, i 158 OXFORD-ST\
SYDNEY.
r HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
—btthir tor Cash ob Txmi Paymhnt.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Gash Purchasers.
REMEDY FREE.
ful Errors, tarly Decay, t(
WEAK MEN,
,, Suffering from Youth-
ful Errors, Early Decay, Lost Manhood, etc., will
learn of a simple and certain means of Self Cure,
Free of Charge, by addressing ;
M. B. TAYLOR, Esq.,-Box 891, Sydney, N.S.W.
VENETIA WALTZ.
Tks Air *o ** fcpfl markmi. OaJWLir* Lowthiaa
oatitabiU
PM
Pad
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC In the city*
Music.—-Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orchestral and Brass Bhnd Music, In variety.
|f New catalogues will be ready In a few days and
sent gratis on application. . „ .
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &o., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Bali Programmes, Menu
Cards.
Ail orders executed In best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, Ac.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two,most important Copying
Instruments evor invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost ol
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copied.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM ~BULLARD,
342 GEORGE STREET.
DENTIST.
(Of America)
GUARANTEES
Met Fit ul Mastication.
PRICES MODERATE.
Corner George and Market Streets
OVER HUNTER’S BOOT PALACE.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE.
MADAME ELISE,
PARISIENNE DRESSMAKER AND SPECIAL
STAYMAKER.
BEGS to call Ladies’ attention to her superior
FIT, TABTE, and exceptionally reasonable
charges. All orders receive her personal attention
STREET EAST.
Champagne
Heldsleck A Co p s.
DRY MOMOPOLE.
OF ALL WINK MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
Bole Agents for Heldsleck & Co- Reims.
E'8h r o t u d l°d d 5 3 e IPEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a mu replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE Is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
IB GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
83>1 G corse-street, Sydney.
■V,
OTUDT economy
(5 and
Have yourU mbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts,
Parasols made to match cos-
fcumes. Bepalrs neatly exe-
cuted
THB FKBSH FOOD AND ICB COMPANY
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DBPOT
AT
No. 23 Royal Arcado,
where they supply
Miit, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &o., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
M KOUMISS,” so highly recommended In pulmo
nary complaints.
Fresh Food £ he Co., Limited,
Head Office..
Stables
Factory
21 Harbour-street.
... .. Liverpool-street.
” Mlttagong.
CIENCE/M
or
LIFE
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WOEK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man,Errors of Youth, and the untold
miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses may be
Alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur-
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled the-Sclence of Life
or Self Preserration. A book for every man, young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health ntay be
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
all acute and chronie diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
any physician. 300 pages, bound in beautiful French cloth,
f nil gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will be refunded In every Instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
The Science of Life should be read by the young for
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all. —London Lancet.
Address the World’s Dispensary Medi cal As- M
sociation, or Dr. W. R.Parker, No. 69 Hunter ||
Street, Sydney, N.S.W. The author may TLJVQ
be consulted on all diseases requiring | fl I O
skill, secrecy, and experience.
Itt
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SVD N FV
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
MOULTON'S
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON'S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and nc
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PlLLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit}.
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Bold Everywhere, Price li. 3d,
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PIUS
Marshall’s-
TONft NERVINE
BMGI8TBRBD.
A SAFE. CERTAIN. & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss or
Appetite. Female Disorders, Liver and money
Complaints. Loss of Vital Power, &c. By Ita tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
■ ■ — phorous and
for Alcohol. By its richness in _ 5
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4a. 6d., or 25s. a oase.
Bole Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHBR8,,M.PB.
Manufacturing and consulting Chemists, 104 and
108 Market-street, near Hyde Park, Sydney, and
BPltt-etreet, Clreular-quay. TAKE NO bU BSTI-
rum.
£Are you going to Bourke ?
~™Yes; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
The “LOUIS’*
VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unccjimllcQ, and in met
— for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
mav be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of “ Louis.”
I May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
send patterns
POST FREE on
application.
“ VICTORIA ” OFNER BITTER-WATER,
The Best and Strongest Natural Aperient.
A Natxjbal Fluid Magnesia, as a safe, ordinary, and gentle aperient in InflammaWqn
and Congestion, in Rheumatic and Gouty Disorders, against undue tendency to Fat,
in Bilious Attacks and Disorders of the Liver.
apirniFNT Remedy during Pregnancy, and in many Female Diseases; fqp
HaWtual Constipation, in Organic Diseases resulting from fatty degeneration, tq remove
the consequences resulting from excess in diet, &o.
BT* One wineglassful will usually relieve the most distressing headache.
ONE BOTTLE OF OF OIS.K 81T TE*
In ca"es of Indigestion, Stomach and Liver Affections, Constipation, and other Derangements of the
m ea.es oi System, as a Family Medicine this has no equal.
Sold in Bottles at /s. fld, and 2s.,
And may be obtained of any Chemist or Patent Medicine Vendor in the United Kingdom,
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Hobo Makers.
Trousers from Sis. to 40s,
I jp- N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Farmer and Co.
W. Bhbaksbt & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabeth-st.
BOURSE,
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor
Tla.© SSella-Tol© S-u.grg:ies!
V
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE A MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES*
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
iy BEST manufactured articles only kept in stock,
FLEMING, Merchant A Importer
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)


Unpleasant dreams and general unrest
do not trouble persons who are wise enougn to
use Wolfe's Schnapps.
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
duality, may be purchased from Hookings ana
Co.. 143, Htt-street*
Printed and Published by Tm Btjlljtin New*
paper Co. (Limited), 84 Pltt-st* Sydney, N.8.W,
To cure all kinds of symptoms use Wolfe’s
Schnapps. Be sure you obtain Wolfe’s.
Quiet nerve and balmy sleep in Hop Bit-
ters, for sleepless ladies and Invalids. American
Co. make the genuine. Notice.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is now and has been for
many years a standard professional remedy.
FAC-SIMILE OF A LETTER FROM BISMARCK.
Concerning the Genealogy of Certain
Noble Australian Families.
A recent English work on Genealogy states
according to the Melbourne Argus, that there are
several families in Australia of Jtoyal descent. We
always thought there was a secret reason for the
hauteur of Bob Smith of the Macleay. Probably
the ancestors of Garden Honey wore Plantagenets.
The present writer was somewhat disappointed to
discover that hi* family is not mentioned as being
of Royal descent—in fact, is not mentioned at all'
This Is all the more curious as he belongs to the
Royal blood of Ballyslatthery, that was famous a I 1
the world over thousands of years before ever the
Plantagenets were heard of, and would be now
only for the cursed dhrink. The fall of that noble
bouse is a sad, sad story. The great Irish historian
M’Gladhrikan tells it in that beautiful and pathetic
brogue which is now, alas, a lost art. Shortly, it
runs In this fashion. King Brannigan Roe O’Dai-
leadh called a meeting of his nobles in his fine, old'
underground palace of Ballyslatthery-in-the-Bog
on purpose to declare war against the haughty
race of O’Hafferty, who lorded it in the adjacent
quagmire. Tte casun belli was the Royal cow of
me O’Daileadhs which the young Prince Patsy
Beg had allowed to stray over the march of the
O'Hafferty’s while he and the heir-apparent of
that lamily had been playing pitch and-toss with
Danish trouser-buttons (the Irish never wore
buttons at that time, and torrents of blood had to
be spilt before they could be got to adopt the few
they wear now). This was looked upon by the
O’Haffertys as a violation of international law, and
the cow was confiscated. What became of her
may be easily guessed at when we mention the
fact that the captors were known ail over the
country as the hungry O’Hatfertys. She was
killed and toasted and eaten—she, the Royal
cow of Ballyslatthery. The blood of the writer
boils even now as he thinks of his high-born and
gently-nurtured ancestors having to sit round the
porridge-pot with noggins of water instead of the
beautiful buttermilk of happier days. Such was
the scorn of water Implanted in the proud souls of
the O’Daileadbs in those days that King Brannigan
Roe ate his porridge with whisky until he died,
which was soon after. His example was followed
with sorrowful alaciity by all the Royal house-
hold. but the outrage of the O’Haffertys could
not be suffered in silence. Therefore, the meet-
ing of nobles of the sept was called in the
palace- the proceedings of which were kept pro-
foundly secret by a bush being dragged into the
doorway by the last arrival. War was declared,
and it was determined to make an attack that
night on the whisky-still of Sheugh-Sloother
Castle. Phililoo I if the pen was a shillelah and this
paper the skull of an O Hafferty, the writer could
describe to you right well the elegant ruction that
ensued. But as neither is either, it will be enough
to say that the O’Daileadhs, after a desperate fight
- for whisky was the breath of life to the O'Haf-
fertys, and they fought to the last gasp to save
tne still-came off victorious, and after gutting
Sheugh-Sloother Castle carried away the sods of
which it was built in five barrows to make turf-
fires for the winter. Besides this spoil and the
still and six tubs of potheen, they brought away
the Royal pig (which the King was fatten-
ing up for the next fair, and which drank
of his cup and slept In his bosom), twelve
griddle-cakes of boxty-bread, three dozen eggs for
setting, and six dozen for eating, a chicken (which
Phaudheen Dhu O’Daileadh subsequently broke
two of his teeth over) a recipe for making beer out
of heather, and an iron hat stolen from the Danes,
in which the king’s punch used to be made, besides
a suit of elk-leather, which had decended from
father to son of the O’Hafferty Royal family for
five hundred years, and a flint pipe, with which
criminals of noble extraction were executed in
three whiffs. The spoils were great, because all
the treasures of the sept had been stored at Sheugh-
Sloother castle for safety. What a triumphal pro-
cession that was into the borders of Ballyslatthery I
But the curse of their race was upon the doomed
O’Daileadhs. King Brannigan Roe commanded
the tub-bearers to stop and broach one of the tubs
just to rinse the Sheugh-Sloother mead out of his
mouth. Then the princes and chiefs—they were
all princes and chiefs—each held out his bullock-
horn for a toothful. Well, once they got the taste
of the potheen, it was sweet bad luck to the six
tubs. Let us draw a horse-rug over this harrow-
ing scene. Even the somewhat partial M'Gladhri-
kan fails to find excuses for the orgle that followed.
And well he might, considering that the whole
tribe had taken the pledge from St. Patrick that
very morning. They were doomed to it. King
Hellsblazes O’Hafferty had been out on a raid into
the O Finnegan country, when the attack had
been made on his castle, and when he returned
and found not one sod of it upon another, he
swore by all his gods (he was a Pagan) that he
would never shave his teeth till he had wreaked
revenge on the O’Daileadhs. So he straightway
disguised his princes and chiefs in drink-
plundered from the O’Finnegam—and started off
on the track of the enemy. But the O’Haffertys
were not so far disguised in drink that the eagle-
eyed Patsy Bog—who was suffering from sore
throat, and could not get enough whisky through
his ea'S to make him as drunk as the rest of his
tribe-did not see them from afar. He gave the
alarm, and the O’Daileadhs awoke and staggered
out to meet the foe. But by this time the
whisky of the O’Flnnegans had told on the
foe so far that they had to lie down a
while to remember what they came out
for. Then Carbry the Cunning (so-called from his
subtlety) conceived the idea of surprising them as
they lay asleep, and cutting them off one by one.
So he emptied the last tub into his bullock-horn
and took another drink to nerve him to the deed.
Cautiously he approached the foe on hands and
knees—it was the only way he could approach
them, as he was too drunk to walk—and had got
within a dozen yards of the nearest O’Hafferty,
when he lurched forward and lay down on his
face as calmly as a dead pig. The last drink
conquered him. Both armies were now lying
within spear-shot of each other, motionless as
men slain. But one act was wanting to complete
the tragedy. It came in the shape of the O’Finne-
gans—who had been carrying fire and sword
through Ballyslatthery while the O Dalleadhs were
harrying the O’Hafferty’s-thlrsty as fiends (for
devilish little whisky did the O’Daileadhs ever
leave behind them), and they fell upon both
clans, and killed every man cf them except
Patsy Beg, who was spared by King Blood-
anouns O’Finnegan, who was struck by the
gigantic size of his head and his more than human
truthfulness. He was founder of the bardic
branch of the O’Daileadhs. From him the present
writer is descended. The palace of Ballyslatthery-
in-the-Bog was filled up — it was a sort of pit
roofed over with furze-bushes and sods, but very
sumptuous to dwell in in dry weather—and, for all
the writer knows, a turnpike road may now run
over the spot where it once stood, or rather lay.
This is the melancholy story of the Fall of the
House of Ballyslatthery. Those who have accom-
panied the writer thus far will understand how it
is that, with such a Past, his proud spirit chafes
under the restraints of modern society, and tre
vile necessity of having to pay for his whisky
before he can drink it. But the sceptre
has passed away from Ballyslatthery, and tne
O’Daileadhs have had their day, and are sober at
last. This simple narrative of the fall of a noble
house will, if it does nothing else, give the reader
an insight into early Irish manners and customs,
which he could never find in the pages or tne
ordinary historian. And now the writer takes
leave of his readers, requiring no reward for tne
story he has told them, but only asking them it
they happen in their travels to meet a broad-facea
little man with a look of noble bipod in his eye,
and bad boots, to remember Ballyslatthery ana
delicately suggest the possibility of his having a
mouth an’ him.”
THE WOMAN WITH THE LADY-
LIKE HAIR.
A FRENCH ROMANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[In describing Madame Francey’s appearance In
Court, when standing her trial for shooting Bris-
bard, the Paris correspondent of the Sydney
Evening News says:—“ She was simply dressed In
Court, and her hair was lady-like and modest.
The facts, as given by us below, of the remarkable
case may be relied on by those who feel like it.
Anyway we are as near Paris as Alfred b corre-
ponient. We only dined together, last night -
though whether tne banquet took place at the
Trots Fr'cres, or at the Full and Plenty, we don t
feel called upon to state.]
I.
In the Rue d’ Arras, in the town of Tonnerre
(Rhone et Marne), la a house which the finger of
Fate has made famous. It faces the Auberge of
the Lion of Silver. But that is not the reason.
Ecoutez.
n.
*Twas in the autumn that a lady reclined upon a
Couch in the salon of that mansion.
The leaves were growing gold with the glow ot
that autumn—but she marked them not. Neither
did she heed the note of the rossignol (nightingale)
which sang its song to her from its clothes-prop in
tho back y&rd.
The announcement of dinner alone sufficed to
r °‘‘ 1 What r 'have we to-day, Shane-Henn?”* she
enquired, languidly, of her English domestic.
Madame Franoey adored all that was Baalish I
“What eat we, Shane Henn?” she asked.
‘‘Something of your lovely cuisine English.
PfpAti ? 99
“Fried beef sausages, with sause d la greasy
Water, mum,” was the reply.
“ De-liclousl But stay! is there any dorf I
“A plum un, mum,” replied Shane-Henn.
Madame Francey rose, and while she pressed her
heart with one hand, she crumpled a letter with
the other. . .
“ I feel,” she cried, “ despite the horrors that
■urround me, that there is still something left to
live for.”
Then, summoning her domestic, she seampered
down into the kitchen to “ wolf."
in.
fie sat tapping his boot with his cane, and he
gazed scornfully on the furniture from out the
corner of his libidinous eye. His face was common
—the face of a Jones, but he had the underllp of a
Wilson. , „ . „ ,
This was Brisbard, the Satyr of Tonnerre!
[To the Printer.— Put some spirit into the set-
ting here, please. There’s lots in the copy.—
Author.]
" She tarries long worrying (chicquer) the minu"
he said, lounging upon madame’s cretonne sofa.
“ But it is no matter!
"lam foiled. The mystery Is still a mystery;
&nd Anatole de Brisbard is foiled.
“ in vain have I attacked Shane Henn. But all
the knows of my language is * Johnny Crapaud;’
al) I know of hers is ‘ ploom puddang.’
“ But she writes me, does oetfe Shane Henn—one
“ And whom do you think shall translate me
this in all Tonnerre ?
"Not one I Here,” said the Satyr, tearing a
paper from his breast-pocket—" here is this most
accursed letter.”
It was written on a curl-paper, and ran as
follows:—
" mister Brusher, blow the gaf afore
you antey up no such bloomin’ mug. to
fly to put the moniker.”
Here he uttered an exclamation.
"She comes 1”
IV.
to the fall glow of womanhood, she burst] upon
him. Flushed by her beloved dorf she was
Radiant. As her eyes upon him fell, he rose.
" She must be mine,” he murmured.
" He comes to destroy me,” she gasped.
Both were on their guard. He doubly so; for
tripping, he was on the fire-guard.
[We are really sorry to see the distinguished
narrator Introduce such poor matter at this excit-
ing juncture.— Ed. B.] T
f “ Mushoo, your husband has gone out, I be-
within, mosher,” she replied, dust-
ing the China Shepherdess with one eye, and keep-
ing the other fixed on Anatole.
" Has he been out long ?” Inquired the Satyr,
With grim joooseness. . . .
“ Two years, monsieur. He went out just two
since to buy tobacco, and has not since re-
“ DIable I does he always take as long as that
buying tobacco ?”
"Alwaysl” ,, „ . ... ..
" Cri dieu!" exclaimed the Satyr; "he must be
a heavy smoker.” ,
But the dame (la dame ) was only badlnaglng him.
M. Francey dealt in cigars. He bought tin-tag by
the ton-shag by the shipload.
“ A truce to jesting,” he said, hoarsely. To
business.” .. . ,
At these words—and it was a beautiful womanly
action—madamo took the poker in her hand and
the bell-rope in her teeth. ,. ,
He little knew that poker was but a patent
one—that bellrope could ring no belli]
If he had [The editorial foot comes down
here. So many considerations might be Involved
in the course of the reflexion that we feel our
author would be compelled to travel outside the
course of mere ; narrative. Under these circum-
stances we deorecatlngly interpose our little blu-
oher. —Ed. B.]
« You got my letter? ” he said, quickly,
"I did.’ 7
“ And you read it?
“ A thousand times 1,”
He approached once.
She "offered ” at him with the poker.
He approached once more.
She vibrated the bell-rope.
Curling his upper lip into a roll, he retreated.
" What says that letter,” he cried.
"Alas, I know not,” she replied, gazing upon a
paper as she spoke.
“And you have read it a thousand times?
" We, mushoo.”
Suddenly the Satyr cried—
“ I see itl ”
“Where?” cried Madame, gathering together
mouse here?” he asked, getting on a
chair. . ,.
Should she Jmake it ? She paused to consider.
Then she fell—don’t start I—from an artistic point
here ?—No Moushere,” she said.
A little water restored him. No amount of water
Will ever restore her—in our estimation.
He explained that to ensure safety he had made
bis gardener, who had been in Cochin Chine,
translate it into Chinese, It ran as follows :—
" Me wantchee you be my glrlee. Ole man no
bulla goo. Mee likee you allee seem leal Chinee
piecie. You catchee dollur in safee. My come
along by back door tomoller. Me lumber one likee
you. Anatoleb.”
“ No matter 1 ” he cried as he put the missive
away in a hollow tooth, “ it is not too late. I can
re-ter-ranoe-ce-late it.” , J
“ What would you say to me ? ” faltered Madame
Francey.
He looked at her with such satyr-like sensuality
that you could have hung your hat on his lip.
Then on his knees he poured forth his story,
ft was the old, old story, with additions.
They were terrible, those additions—wild, weird,
End fantastic.
* AnoHcd—“ Jane Ann.”
♦ We adopt this mode of spelling the French
Word mounseer, chiefly by reason of its popularity
actors on the colonial stage.— Author.
y Varied,—A.
" Mounseer,” she said, at length, timidly—“I
have ahusbsnd.” • . .
•• Madame,” rejoined Anatole, “ he has gone out
to buy tobacco.”
“ True, but I ”
“ It must be 1 ”
And he advanced towards her. with his eyes
gleaming like two lighthouses, and all the veins or
nls forehead tied in a knot. In another moment,
bis unhallowed grasp would have been upon her
snowy wrist, when a noise from without caused
him to pause.
“ Hark I ” cried Brisbard.
Madame Francey turned as pale as wood ashes.
Thus the sound ;—
“ Whulsh, whulsh I coo eel’
Anatole laughed; a demon’s laugh.
“ A signal 1 ’Tis he you love 1”
“ ’Tls but the cook —”
From without—” Whulsh whist I ”
“And that? ”
O Nelly the hoyden, are you the girl
Who never could keep your hair in curl ?
Are you the girl who used to run
Freckled and tanned in the ?
And are you the tomboy—I altno i uoabt —
Who sang to me “ Over the fence is out ? ”
Are you the girl with the laughing eye,
And the strong inclination to chaff and guy?
“ The boiler,” faltered the lady.
He uttered the roar of a tiger, and then paused.
“Madam,” he presently said, “that noise does
not come from her boiler, but your Friar
On this he fell I never, never more to aspire to
art I
VI.
On hearing these words, the lady’s bearing
oh&nged.
She even approached and let him take her hand.
He had hardly had time to cover It with kisses,
and remove a valuable garnet ring from the third
finger, when the door opened and discovered the
figure of Shane Henn. ... . A
A glance of Intelligence passed between her and
her mistress.
“ Serve grogs," said Madame Francey.
Brisbard summoning her beside him upon the
critonne couch, drank the grogs one by one. Th»
grogs were of rum 1 At the 37th grog he rose, and
The Secretary of the Sydney German Club has favoured us with the circular letter
in which Prince Bismarck formally tenders his best thanks for the kind congratu a-
tions the Club sent him on the occasion of bis 70th birthday.
with a wild laugh he demanded a night-cap. The
women trembled.
He undid the tie of hla cravat.
They shuddered.
He took off one boot.
They were appalled 1
Then with a wild shout of “ Victory I the day Is
mine I” he—fell asleep.
Madame Francey stood gazing silently upon the
clock struck 14. It was an Ameri-
can clock, and alv ays struck 14 at midnight.
This recalled her to her senses. Approaching
the somnolent Satyr, she said, sadly:
*• You have guessed my secret, Anatole, and you
must die. I am sorry [with much emotion], for I
know your mother. She has my two small wash-
tubs, and she will avenge your detrth by not
returning them to me. But I must be firm*
I " Ho I bo l” a little later, laughed the Jovial host
of the Lion of Silver, '* the boys are out shooting
to-night over the preserves of M. le Maquis, there
will be some cheat) game to-morrow. There again j
Bang! WhoofI I shall roast a pheasant for M. ie
Cur<5And he filled a flagon of burgundy, did
mine host, and drank it to the lees.
Be little knewl
• . • • •
“ Is It over ?” said a jovial voice, as a P°rtiy form
Issued from the coal-hole of Madame Francey.
“ ’Tis well, Shane Henn. Then cover over the
body with a hearth rug. And let us eatl supper
first, and absolution afterwards 1” .
The Jury filtered back Into the crowed Curt
Every ear was Happed towards the
every eye was glued on the prisoner. She was
drepsed In deep mourning.
“ For what reason do you wear black, madamei'
enquired the President. “ For the deceased, whom
THE METAMORPHOSIS.
'ELLY the hoyden, your golden hair
Is smoothad and banged on your forehead fair.
Nelly the hoyden, your dress is long,
And there isn’t a bow or a ribbon wrong.
Your hands, in gloves of the whitest kid,
In the folds of your dress are demurely hid.
Your eyes are bent most modestly down,
Till no one knows if they ’re black or brown.
0 Nelly the hoyden, come out in the air,
Out of the ball-room’s feverish glare.
Come out with me 'neath the moon serene,
1 don’t care a snap if you are eighteen.
Come away from the suitors who bow so
lew—
I was your suitor ten years ago !
And alone and away from this well-dressed
Be Nelly the hoyden—the same old girl!
you, on your own confession, stupefied with 37
grogs and then killed with a revolver ? ’
“ In mourning for that fiend,” cried Madame
Francey, indignantly; “no, Indeed I These sable
crarments are (much moved) for my two
washtubs which I shall never see again. (Sympa-
thetic murmurs In Court) . _
The President, to the jury: “Mushers, how do
you find the prisoner ? ” , „ ... ,,
“ Very agreeable, M. le President, replied the
f °The prisoner lifted her heavy veil, blushed, and
immediately lowered it. , , , .
“ That, madame,” said the President, addressing
the prisoner, “ is French for an acquittal. You are
discharged. Be as good as you can, and recom-
mend your husband not to be out so long when he
is buying his tobacco." ... , ,
“ Mercl, masher,” said the fair lady, through her
tears. And she was about to depart, when, turn-
ing to the President, she asked him, in confidence.
if he know to what her acquittal was owing, when
she had confessed the crime.
“ Madame,” said the President, gallantly, your
hair was so modest and ladylike. . . . The—hem I
—Court is adjourned, but —
“ A thousand thanks, mushoo,” she cried, with
emotion; -‘not now; another time. The next time
I'm tried. Adieu 1”
He would have detained her, but, rushing out,
she hailed the first passing vehicle, and was soon
well on her way to confession.
[The End ]
