

THE BULLETIN
Vol 3 —No. 133—New Series.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1885
rno«—64.
The Bu[!etin.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1886.
Sir John Robertson on the Federal Bill.
In the speech terminating with the opinion
that the present Government was quite un-
worthy of confidence, Sir John Robertson
is credited with having said:—
“ The inoompent men recently governing: the
country had attempted to Introduce a Federal
Bill, and they only had to thank the Melbourne
Cup for having escaped the passing of that 8111.
Nothing prevented that Bill becoming law but
the Melbourne Cup, for had it not been for that
event the measure would have passed by a ma-
jority of 11. If that Bill bad passed they would
have been bound to the other colonies hand and
foot.”
It would appear from this that New South
Wales owes the preservation of her auto-
nomy to a horse-race in a neighbouring
colony. It would further seem that a career
of political isolation is that on which Sir
John and his school would launch their
adopted country if they had their way
With the distant cousins on the other side
of the globe they would willingly enter into
partnership while holding aloof from any
rapprochement towards the next of kin at
their doors. We, on the other hand, hold
that all other losses resulting from the Mel-
bourne races of 1884 were trifling compared
with the loss of the FeJeral Bill; that any-
thing likely to weaken the aggregative and
strengthen the segregative tendencies of
the colonies towards each other is to be de-
plored, and that the time is ripe for laying
the foundations of that mutual good-will,
without which the well being of coming
generations of Australians will be gravely
imperilled.
• * •
In a nation’s career geographical position
is the chief factor. Some countries are
fitted to go alone. Their position, in fact,
forces them to depend entirely on them-
selves. Take New Z-aland, for instance.
She is of sufficient size, and possesses natural
resources of sufficient extent to enable her
to look to the future with confidence. Her
situation, again, with no land of any extent
within a thousand miles of her coasts, Is an
additional reason why she should pursue a
career of independence. New Zealand
statesmen, recognising all this, were, there-
fore, quite right in declining to have their
island’s political development dependent,
however slightly, on a country which could
only be reached by a considerable water
journey. Thus their rejection of the Federal
Enabling Bill was the outcome of sound
common-sens?. But the reasoning so con-
clusive when applied to New Zealand loses
all force when applied to New Houth Wales.
Into the gap formed by Victoria, South Aus-
tralia, and Queensland, the colony of New
South Wales is wedged much as Germany is
into that formed by France, Austria, and
Russia, or, to use an illustration better
suited for our purpose, as Pennsylvania
into the space left by New York, Virginia,
and Ohio. That Australia is, willing or not,
approaching the goal of complete independ-
ence can be seen by any person possessing or-
dinary discernment coupled with a capacity
for rising above the dull atmosphere of
national prejudice. It is inevitable that it
should be so. Nothing short of an independ-
ent national life will satisfy a powerful and
progressive people. To suppose that the
Australia of sixteen or twenty millions of
people bred in Democracy will be content
to remain an outlying province of an
empire, instead of starling business on its
owu account, is as absurd as to suppose that
America, with its sixty millions of people,
would be a British colony to-day if George
111. had fo I lc red the advice of Chatham
rather than of North. Leaving American
aspirations out of the question altogether,
England, if only for her own safety, would
have been long since obliged to sever the
connection. British statesmen see all this
now. They see, too, that a populous Aus-
tralia necessarily means an independent
Australia. But, while recognising this, they
see no reason why the political bond should
be snapped abruptly, and so—just as indul-
gent mothers keep their children amused
with rattles and fairy tales, knowing that
the little ones will get sense in time—new
orders of knighthood, for which grey-headed
men greedily strive, take the place of the
childish rattles, while the fairy tales are
superseded by the visionary project of
“ ImperialjFederation.”
It may be said that the subject of Aus-
tralian independence is of no immediate
concern—that when the time comes our
children will know how to act. But just as
a child’s youth may bo warped, so may a
country’s. National prejudices last long.
If, by and bye, New South Wales finds her-
self hemmed in on three sides by a prosper-
ous confederation from which she sulkily
holds aloof, she will have to thank the
Robertsons and Pabksses who had access
to her youthful ear, aud filled her mind
with vague suspicions regarding her neigh-
bours. “ If that Bill had passed they would
have been bound to the other colonies hand
and foot.” This is the pernicious lesson
taught by the Opposition leader. Of course
New South Wales would be no more “ bound
hand and foot,” and placed at the mercy of
the other colonies, than the State of Dela-
ware is manacled and exposed to the di-
usage of her sister States. In the small Re-
public of Delaware there are laws which
are a scandal to every other State in the
Union. Still, none of the others are en-
titled to interfere in matters which do
not trench on the powers of the central
Government. It would be precisely the
same with the various colonies or States
composing an Australian confederation.
With the local laws of New South Wales,
which were not opposed to the principles on
which the confederation was established, the
other colonies would have no more right to
interfere than New York has a right to
object to the Texan method of dealing with
horse thieves. What does Sir John Robert-
son want more? Surely the amount of
freedom that satisfies the citizens of Boston
should satisfy those of Sydney.
• •
In previous articles we have shown that,
from a naval and military standpoint, Eng-
land is weaker and more liable to embroil-
ment troubles through possessing
provinces in America, Africa and Australia,
than she would be without them. It is
obvious, too, that her trade is not increased
by the possession of self-governing commu-
nities having the power to subject her goods
to imposts, and who would not think of
pivirg a £ to a British merchant for an
article which they could obtain for a farth-
ing If S 3 from a foreigner. The late pitiful
exhibition of disorganized incapacity in con-
nection with the despatch of raw recruits to
take part in a shameful quarrel will have
done something to open the eyes of the
British public to our military resources.
Lord Blackford thinks that the loyalty of
the colonies might last through one cam-
paign, but that a second would test it
severely. This is only reasonable. For
when a person has no interest in a quarrel—
is not consulted tegarding the cause, nor
given a voice in the adjustment—one good
hard knock will generally be found suffi-
cient to induce him to return home and put
up his shutters. The time is approaching
when the mother country and her colonies
will discover that both an? chafed by the
tits binding them. It is too muon to expect
that the English nation will much longer
consent to weaken itself at the centre, where
ail its strength is required, in order to pro-
tect self-governing extremities from which
it derives no benefit. And it is unreason-
able to suppose that the extremities will
continue to have their trade endangered
and their towns threatened in causes with
which they have no concern. Thus will
come about a mutual desire for separation.
If, when that time comes, the jealousies
sown by politicians of the Robertson class
shall have borne fruit, and the cutting of
the painter shall have left Australia a con-
geries of weak and jealous democracies in-
stead of a powerful confederation, the dreary
drama that has dotted the South American
continent with hostile republics will have a
chance of being repeated on Australian soil.
Let us revert one j more to the case of the
•United States. It is to the Union, rather
than to England, we must look for lessons
to guide us. Suppose, then, that, on the ter-
mination of the Revolutionary war, the
State of Pennsylvania, anticipating Sir John
Robertson, said: “We shall not be bound
hand and foot to the other colonies. We
snail be independent—have our own army
and navy; adopt Freetrade or Protection,
as we think lit; and let our neighbours shift
for themselves.” What would be the result ?
Either ihe other States would coalesce and
force them to join the fedeiation—as the
Northern States, twenty years ago, forced
the Southern to remain in it—or each would
set up for itself, build Custom-houses on its
borders, and introduce all the abuses of the
European system. To-day, instead of one
powerful country washed by two oceans, we
should tee a number of communities dis-
united and jealous, constantly at war, and
not infrequently inviting European Powers
to take a hand in their disputes. This is
exactly what will occur in Australia should
public opinion follow the teachings of those
vain men who, busied with the petty
wranglings of to-day, pay no heed to the
morrow.
• » ♦
The people of Australia, then, should look
to it that when the inevitableparting comes
the continental provinces will be found
welded together—possessing all the strength
of homogeneousness while enjoying the ad-
vantages of a large measure of local inde-
pendence. Compared with clearing away
the obstacles which retard the federation
of the colonies, all other political acts are of
small importance. There are two principal
causes which prompt the Press and the
public men of New South Wales to hold
aloof from the movement. Distrust of Vic-
toria is one—dread lest a protective fiscal
policy should bo forced on New South
Wales the other. Of the former it is enough
to say that it is seldom found amongst the
natives of the colony, being almost confined
to the fast-disappearing remnant of elderly
immigrants. When they go the jealousy will
probably go with them. Regarding the
M. CLEMENCEAU,
THE FRENCH RADICAL STATESMAN.


AMUSEMENT JZVo? w .
On receipt of the advertised price, any of the
following Tricks will be sent by return post
THE DISAPPEARING GAUD BOX.-A card
S laced in the box instantly vanishes, and the box
i shown quite empty. Price Is., post free Is. 6d.
THE MAGIC CORK BOX."A capital multipli.
cation trick. Three corks are placed in the box
which is seen by the audience to be quite empty’
The lid is placed on. and when removed there are*
found six corks within. Price Is., post free Is. 6d
THE WIZARD OP THE NORTH’S CHANGING
CARDS.-These cards change instantly to other
cards, whilst held In the hand, in a most surprising
manner. Price Is., post free Is. 3d.
THE GBEAT HAT AND DIB TRICK. A solid
die passes completely through the top of a gentle-
man’s hat and is found inside. Price Is. 6d., .post
free 3s. 1
THE MARVEL CIGAR CASE.-The case is
shown crammed full of fine cigars, which instantly
vanish. Excellent trick. Beautifully made in
leather. Price 3s. 6d., post free 3s.
THE MAGIC SNUFF BOX.-A most excellent
trick. No opening can be discovered anywhere
It looks Just like a solid piece of wood,' and no
person can possibly open it but the owner. Price
3s„ post free 3s. 6d.
THE MAGICIAN’S PACK OF FORCING
CARDS.—No conjuror with card tricks can pro-
perly perform without them. The most astound,
mg tricks can be performed with them. Verv
superior cards, 3s. 6d., post free 3s.
DEMON HANDKERCHlEF.—lndispensable to
every conjuror. Watches, rings, coins, and any
articles placed under this handkerchief, instautiv
disappear, although the handkerchief is thoroua h l v
shaken and shown to the audience each time
Price 3s. (id., post free 3s.
THE MAGNETIC PACK OF FLYING CARDS
—Can be made to run up and down the arm or
body, and elongated in the air two or three feet
apart in the most beautiful regularity without one
of them falling. Very astounding. Price 3s. fid
post free 3s. u- »
THE MAGIC DIE AND HANDKERCHIEF-
A solid wooden die is placed under the handkor
chief, and felt to be there by the audience, one of
whom may be allowed to hold It. The performer
exclaims. Presto I gone I ” and Instantly takes
the handkerchief and shakes it to show the die has
vanished, and exhibits it thoroughly, whilst th«
die itself is found inside a canister or any othe?
article. Price 3s. 6d., post free 3s. 6d.
the WONDERFUL JAPANESE DRAWER
BOX.—The performer sends round a pretty!it*; l
box to the company, which they fill with i rTn. q
gloves, coins, &c. Directly the performer if 2
It in his hands, without removing it from sivnt
the articles instantly vanish, and the drawer
shown empty. Price Is. 6d,, post free 3s. JS
THE MAGIC DISSOLVING PACK OF CARDS
—A pack of playing cards are shown to the am
dlence and then placed into a case jmt larae
enough to hold them. One of the audience instantly
after this is done, opens the case, and finds it full
of sweets, and the cards vanished. Price Is fid
post free 3s. ’’
THE MYSTERIOUS CANDLE AND BE-
WITCHED HANDKERCHIEF.—The perfomer
brings forward a candle out of a tight-fitting case
and lights it. He then borrows a lady’s handker-
chief, burns it to ashes in the candle, and places
the ashes and eandle in the case again. The lady
is then called on to open the ease, which is handed
to her. She does so, and finds her handkerchief
restored therein but the cand e entirely gone
Very excellent trick. Price 3s. 6d,, post free 3s. '
N.B.W. stamps taken at par, otnei colonies add
Id. to each Is.
Address all communications;
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT
BOX 641 G.P.O. 401 GEOKGE-ST,, SYDNEY.
Between King and Market Streets, opposite the
Royal Hotel, and no other address.
IHB RATES or SUBSCRIPTION to Thb Bullitiw
are—For one year, 24a.; half-year, 12b. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—ln advance.
Cbj Advertising Raths are 6s. per Inohi
special positions In the paper 7s. Bd. per
Inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per Inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive Inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive Insertions!
16 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or Intermittent In-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under 41, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may bo sent. If more convenient.
A BEAUTIFUL CHEOMO
SUPPLEMENT
(PRINTED IN BIGHT COLOURS),
“When Fortune Smiles/’
Will be Presented Gratis with each
copy of
THIS is the finest specimen of colour-printing
ever produced by a colonial establishment,
and we cannot undertake to supply any but early
orders.
Our Agents are therefore requested to send in
their full orders with the utmost despatch.
IESF” Specimen copies of the Chromo will be
despatched to them, the first week in December,
with their parcels.
The Agonizing Itching and Burning
Of eczma or salt rheum instantly relieved by a
warm bath with Cutxcuba Soap and a single ap-
plication of Cuticitra, the great skin cure. This
repeated daily, with two or three doses of Cuti-
cdra Resolvent, the new blood purifier, to keep
the blood cool, the perspiration pure and unirri-
tating, the bowls open, the liver and kidneys
active, will speedly cure eczema, tetter, ringworm,
psoriasis, lichen, pruritus, Beall head, dandruff, and
every species of itching, scaly, and pimply humors
of the scalp and skin, when the best physicians and
all kmswn remedies fail.
Recommended for hot ates—Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Render the system disease-proof by taking
Wolf’s Schnapps.
“We all have our fancies,” as the old
woman said when she kissed her cow. The public
show their fancy for certain business houses, and
the old established China and Glass bouse of Bray
Bros., 402 and 404 George-street, near King-street,
have been honored with the patronage of an ap-
proving public. They will always strive to eement
it.*
Scientific judges confess Wolfe's Schnapps
has no equal.
Always ask for Wolfe's Schnapps and take
no other article.
The man who climbs up the greased pole
of luck after the giddy bird of fortune will learn,
when the backbone of his resolution is broken,
that the glittering fowl makes its nest amidst the
slippery crags of the mountain of aweatful toll.
A cheering cordial for the despondent.
Wolfe’s Schnapps,
C. W. ROBERTS
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9r,
Small Bottle, , [la. fid.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From. Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOB INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. fid. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEB PORT,
Ss. par Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT POKTI
M. per Bottle.
BUM,
In Flasks, Botties, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Frloas.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
la. ad. each.
The Key Brand, and Henkejs Prize Medal BramM
in stone bottles and square bottles,
laboist size.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND HBLLOWg
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets
K TDNMJ.
change in fiscal policy, it is true that a
federal state, where each province could
adopt a tariff of its own, would soon come
to grief. But, just as in social life, in order
that society may hold together at all, it is
necessary for each individual to gif e up
some of his freedom, so, in political com-
binations, utilitarianism, or the greatest
good of the greatest number, must have
sway. No State in the American Union has
the power to frame a tariff for itself, yet it
would be absurd to say that, as a whole, the
States do not enjoy political freedom. If a
confederation is to exist at all, it must be on
the understanding that there are some sub-
jects with which no individual State
has the power to meddle —subjects which
can be handled by the central Govern-
ment alone. Unless this is conceded
at the very outset, nothing but mili-
tary force will keep the Union from
falling to pieces. Chief among the subjects
alluded to is that of fiscal policy. In spite
of the arguments of the middle-class or Man-
chester economists, to whose teachings the
English people have hearkened during the
last fifty years, there is a decided leaning
towards Protection in all the constitution-
ally-governed British colonies. Some have
already decided, and others are in a fair
way of deciding that, under certain circum-
stances, unrestricted trade is a bar rather
than a help to progress. Owing to various
causes —the possession by capitalists of the
chief organs for misrepresenting public
opinion being amongst the number—this
tendency is less robust in New South Wales
than in the other colonies. Still, it is grow-
ing. While contending that the States
composing an Australian Union would
have as much right as the American
Congress to insist on a common tariff,
we at the same time contend that
the other partners in the proposed firm,
seeing the progress of protective ideas,
would gladly give guarantees not to inter-
fere with the New South Wales fetish, nor
show disrespect towards it. After the Union
of England and Scotland, certain sureties
for non-interference and good behaviour
were given by England, and have been held
inviolate for nearly two centuiies. Similar
guarantees were not demanded by the cor-
rupt scoundrels, who, a hundred years later,
bartered the legislature of the neighbouring
island for gold and ribbons. The result in
the latter case has been almost a century of
anarohy. The necessary guarantees being
given, the people of New South Wales,
possessing a country second to none in
natural resources, would soon discover that
if Free-trade throughout Australia, coupled
with protection against the rest of ; the
world, became law, those resources would
not long be suffered to remain idle. This is
what we hope to see in the near future, and
this is why, if the Melbourne Cup has had
the effect attributed to it by Sir John
Robertson, we would cheerfully vote for
its suppression.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Legalised Torture.
Wk commented on the 7th instant upon a sicken-
ing aooount of the torture of five human beings—
three men and two boys—in the Brisbane Gaol.
The account of the sufferings of these poor crea-
tures under the lash on that occasion was well cal-
culated to make a man ask himself seriously
whether Queensland was supposed to be a civilised
country. A telegram from Brisbane, la a Sydney
evening paper on Saturday, informs us that, on
last Thursday, a still more disgraceful scene oc-
curred there. On that day, we are told, three of
the previous sufferers received their second flogging
In order to fully comprehend the full horror and
extent of this legalised torture it must be borno in
mind that only a month previously their backs
were torn to pieces with the lash so thoroughly
that, after flogging the two first men, the flagel-
lator’s oat was so soddened with blood that he had
to procure a fresh one. Yet, after a month—in
gaol and on gaol fare, remember—two of the men,
named Toohky and Carmichael, and a mere boy )
WiiiiiiAM Phillips, are tied to the triangles again,
to have the yet tender and newly-formed flesh
once more stripped from their bones. The tele-
gram from which we quote says:
“ The three prisoners, Phillips, Toohey, and
Cabmiohael, who were convicted some time ago
of robbery with violence, received their second
flogging in the gaol yesterday. Phillips, who
was the first to receive the punishment, screamed
or groaned at every stroke, and when he had had 21
lashes out of 30 the doctor stopped further punish-
ment. Toohky received his 30 lashes, screaming
and groaning at nearly every stroke. Carmichael,
who was very severely punished at the previous
flogging, was to have received 40 lashes, and he
gave a piercing yell as soon as the flagellator's
arm was uplifted. After the thirtieth lash the
doctor interfered, the prisoner being too much
exhausted to bear the remaining 10. Carmichael
after the flogging was completely broken down
and sobbed piteously. He appeared terrified at
the thought of the third flogging which he has yet
to receive.”
The hoy Phillips, who on the former occasion
was the third to suffer, and “bore up with great
fortitude” for 30 lashes, the torturer being some-
what fatigued with his two former patients, was
this time the first. We may Imagine the agonies
he must have suffered when the doctor was
obliged on this occasion to stop the tor-
ture before its close. Toohey at the first
flogging received 40 lashes, and “ with the excep-
tion of a few low groans which ho could not stifle,
he was not heard . . . but was led away in a
partially conscious state.” Mark the increase in
Buffering which must have been Inflicted now
when screams and groans were wrung from him
at every stroke. Cabmichael had suffered 50
lashes before and was brought out to receive
another 40, but we see that he was so much “ ex-
hausted” (good word, that; we should have said
“ smashed up ”) at the 30th, that the doctor in-
terfered, and probably saved his life. No wonder
he is terrified at the thought of a third flogging,
which, it seems, he has yet to receive. We may
convey a clearer idea of the punishment actually
inflicted on these unfortunates by a few figures.
The instrument of torture, the cat-o-nine-tails, has
9 long thongs of stout, knotted whipcord fastened
to a handle, and the flagellator draws his fingers
through them after every stroke so as to ensure
each separate thong inflicting a stripe. Thus, to
estimate fairly the number of stripes Inflicted, the
number of lashes must be multiplied by nine. In
this way we find that the following is an accurate
aooount for each flogging of
Cabmichael. Toohey. Phillips.
Ist. 2nd. Ist. 2nd. Ist. 2nd.
Lashes 50 30 -80 40 30-70 £0 21-51
Stripes 450 270 -720 360 270 -630 270 189 - 459
The first named has, it seems, a third torturing yet
in store when he has been patched up by the
doctor. Remember that all this suffering is in
addition to the punishment of imprisonment, not
in lieu of it, and the fiendish cruelty of the whole
thing will horrify any thinking man. If a vicious
horse or a rabid dog were kept locked up with
food sufficient only to maintain life, and cruelly
torn and lacerated periodically in this manner the
law would quickly enough,call the perpetrator of
such an outrage to account. Is the law logical or
right which permits human beings to be legally
treated in a way which would ensure punishment
at the hands of the law if applied to dumb brutes ?
Better kill them and so end their misery at once.
The Plenary Council.
At the third session of the Catholic Plenary Coun-
cil, at present being held In Sydney, the Bishop
of Dunedin (N.Z.) made some remarkable state-
ments regarding the right of the Church to con-
trol education. Here are a few of them :
“ Who received from our Lord Jesus Christ
the commission to teach ? The Church, and only
the Church. . . . Her right to teach the truths
of revelation carries with it her right to direct
and superintend all other teaching in order that
error and corruption may not creep in. . . ,
History proves and illustrates the fidelity of the
Church to her office. ... Our school neophytes,
however, now heap blame upon the Church for
not having accomplished impossibilities. . . .
Through her jealousy of the Church the state has
undertaken to do the impracticable—to educate
independently of religion—of religion that has
Christianised and civilised all Christian and
civilised nations, Informed their literature, guided
their history, directed their manners, given tone
to their intellectual pursuits, leavened their legis-
lation, influenced their morals, and given life to
their arts and science.”
Granting, for the sake of argument, that the
existence of a personal First Cause is demon-
strable, that the lowly Galilean whom the Jews
are said to have put to death in accordance with
the barbarous usages of the times was His only
begotten Son, that He founded a Church, com-
missioned it to teach all men, and that the Catholic
Church of to-day is that which Christ established,
we are entitled to ask, “ How has it performed its
mission ? ” Dr. Moran says “ history proves and
illustrates the fidelity of the Church to her office.”
If such is the case, it is at least remarkable that
she is most discredited in the very countries
which have been longest sub j acted to hor teaching.
What has she to show for the 1400 years from the
murder of Hypatia to the taking of the Bastille,
when she held almost undisputed sway in
Europe? A thousand years of ignorance,
dense, dark, and brutal a millennium of
misery and massacre. At intervals during
this long night of bondage were not the
brave spirits that endeavoured to lighten the
surrounding darkness crushed mercilessly either
by her or with her connivance ? Did she not re-
joice when the Alblgenses were destroyed, strike
medals when the Huguenots were massacred, and
sanctify the deeds of harlots and poisoners ? And
to be told, after all this, that “ history proves and
illustrates the fidelity of the Church to her office!”
So it does, but only on the assumption that her
office was to perpetuate Ignorance. To those ac-
quainted with ecclesiastical history the claim to
“ direct and superintend all other teaching in
order that error and corruption may not creep in”
is an example of high-class humour.
Sir James and Democracy.
Sib James Martin, Chief Justice of New South
Wales, recently said:—“ In these very Democratic
times there is an unreasonable jealousy mani-
fested by Democratic legislators against the judges,
both here and elsewhere.” The allegation as put
by Sir James, is incorrect. The Democracy has no
objection to a judge merely because he is a judge;
hut It altogether objects to the shoddy preten-
sions and greed of power manifested by too many
of the persons to whose level the Bench has been
degraded. The Democracy is proud of the
abilities of a man who, like Sir James Martin,
has by legitimate means—by the honest exercise
of a strong right hand and a big brain—risen from
the ranks of the people and qualified himself for
the proudest Intellectual position in this country.
But it has no reverence for the cheeky petti-
foggers who, after countless years of besmirch-
ment in the slime of political trickery, succeed in
juggling themselves on to seats for which they
were never intended by Heaven, and straight-
way posing as uncanonised saints and wing-
less angels—just as though the leopard could
change Its spots or the blackfellow his skin. The
Democracy sees no reason way the “ dignity ” at-
tendant on a Judgeship should degenerate into
arrogance—nor can It calmly listen to a man who,
because he has been clothed In scarlet by a Parlia-
mentary dodge, talks as though he, and he alone,
had been born In the purple. The Democracy dis-
likes judges whose creed is Toryism, and who
make political speeches from the judgment seat;
it detests and abhors judges from whose Neronio
hearts have been blotted out all human tender-
ness and pity—Judges who gleefully order the most
fiendish punishments allowed by brutal codes, and
who send out*a convicted man Into the darkness
with malignant leers and with the brutal exulta-
tion of the victor in a fight for life. The Demo-
cracy pities or despises the judge with trembling
limbs and mumbling jaws who sticks to his
billet long after his brain has given out, and who,
derided by the Bar, is allowed by a corrupt system
to deo.de (ha fate and fortunes of men and of
families, and of great principles, in the days of his
hopeless decrepitude. The Democracy utterly
distrust all lawyers, and It distrusts all Courts as
places where an ounce of justice costs a ton of
gold. But the Democracy is patient, and it won’t
Interfere with the judges so long as they mind
their own business and keep civil.
The Developing Dalley.
At the laying of the foundation-stone of the pro-
posed priest-training establishment at Manly, and
doubtless laying a copy of that day’s Bulletin
under it, whilst excluding the B. News for fear of
dry rot, we are informed by that venerable parch-
ment a “procession was formed, and chanting
‘ Nisi priug—no Dominus' to a solemn Gregorian
tune, the throng of divines wended their way to ”
—of course. In proposing “Advance Australia,”
the Cardinal coupled the name of Mr. Dallby
with the toast, and said: “He knew of no indivi-
dual who had done so] much to develope the re-
sources of Australia, and to make this country
known to the civilised world.” True for your
Eminence on the latter point. You have lately
returned from Europe and you ought to have
heard in your travels what France, Germany,
and Italy think of a country with ample gold,
wool, and work, complete immunity from the
coercion or need of military service, and un-
menaced by anything bigger than a corps d’armee
of Paroo blacks; think of the idiotic parade of our
poor little handful of humbugged boys who went
away with all the pomp and circumstance of war
to meet ridicule from every level-headed man in
the world. Oh, they made us known to the world
enough, no doubt; and no doubt von MOLTKEand
the Czar’s teeth are chattering with fear to this
day lest we should break out in a new place. But
as to the “ developing of the resources,” dear Car-
dinal ? We have been here for some years now,
and we fall to recal that Mr. Dalley has “ de-
veloped ” anything more than the character
of an honourable gentleman, the reputation of
being a speaker, eloquent indeed, but equally
eloquent on an Imperial question, the brief, or
a much-beloved client like Sir Henry Parkes, or
the laying the foundation of a post-office at Bun-
geraboo. He has “ developed" the reputation of
a lawyer by no means the first, and in many cases
we doubt whether the development of an extra
degree of ’cuteness in carrying a case through
court is exactly the sort of thing usually under-
stood by the resources of the colony. That his
action in sending away the grande armee which
devastated whole cargoes of tinned beef and
untold aores of Khakee is true. But to talk of
developing resources is, if we may bo allowed the
expression with all reverence—a cardinal error.


When buying Schnapps, be sure you
obtain the genuine Wolfe's Schnapps.
About the best thing you can take is
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps. Only those who never
used the genuine article are imposed upon.
When the vital system has been weakened
—use Wolfe’s Schnapps to renovate it.
You really ought to drink Wolfe’s
Sctmapps.
There is no recruiting medicine so prompt
and efficient as Wolfe’s Schnapps.
DEUTSCHEN KRANKEN VEREINO.
It is not a new novel, a temperance drink,
a patriotic song, a Papal manifesto, a corn-salve,
a rat-poison, a cure for dysentry, nor another
domestic drama with 15 sensations, by George
Darrell. What is it? Patience, messieurs! It
was morning—a summer morning—and the early
rays of the rising sun cast a golden halo about
everything they touched. They touched the new
Sydney post-office tower, and gliding slowly down
its breastwork of scaffolding, lit up the granite
pillars adorning the upper part of the building
beneath. They glinted through the network of
wires running along the eastern front, enamelled
the posts supporting them, and one solitary ray,
with a recklessness born of ignorance, had actually
attempted to disperse the funereal gloom pervad-
ing the archway leading from Pltt-street into the
bowels of the structure, when chancing to come
into contact with the figure of a gentleman
measuring out tripe-forming one of the five
gems that make up our now famous post-office
carvings—it, with a graceful, yet rapid movement,
transferred its beams to an advertising poster on
the adjacent hoarding. It hashed up King-street,
and painted the pedestal that so narrowly escaped
being made symbolical of the present condition
of the British people (a liberal reward will be
given to any person other than a recognised mem-
ber of the Royal family who unearths this joke), it
played around the statue of that Albert who was
so well paid to be “ Good,” and, piercing the leafy
awning sheltering one of the Park seats beyond,
dropped lightly on a gentleman seated thereon.
He is tall, handsoqie, of military bearing, and Is,
at this moment, dividing his time between the
perusal of a book and the study of the statue we
have named.
* * •
This gentleman is frequently to be found
at the same spot when the weather is fine, and
nearly always engaged in the same pursuits, for
he loves to bask in the presence of Royalty, even
though it be represented in motionless bronze
instead of living brass. A strange idea, say you ?
Not at all. He was at one time intimate with all
the Royal Family—quite one of them; in fact-he
has nearly had an eye gouged out with the point
of the Duke of Cambridge’s umbrella, which a dis-
loyal gust of wind wrested from the Royal hand of
the Field Marshall on a field day at Aldershot. He
has sat at the ” present” before Her Majesty with
a pillow-slip tied to his lance, when, as ono of a
signalling party, he had to signal the approach of
the Royal equipage from a point where, a dense
wood forming the background, the regimental
pennant was not visible to the next station, and
the rapid approach of the aforesaid equipage pre-
vented his untying the bag. And he has seen
more of the late John Brown than, perhaps, any-
body except the Queen herself. From a financial
point of view he is no better off now than he was
before it all happened, but, for a period of some-
thing like six months subsequent to the umbrella
incident, he was the hero of the canteen, and
Eointed out to every new arrival on the station as
avlng been the distinguished object of a graceful
message of condolence from the Comtnander-in-
Chief, but which he—being at the moment en-
veloped in a thick atmosphere of extemporaneous
blasphemy—did not hear.
• » •
From this it will be concluded that he is
no ordinary person—that’s so! We will, however,
formally introduce the illustrious stranger to the
reader; the reader—ourselves 1 It may perhaps
be Imagined that we are a little haughty on the
strength of our intimacy with the Guelph family;
we were once, but our greatness at about the
time we refer to was ass?ssed|by the Horse Guards,
and the commercial value that august body set
upon it was Bd. per diem for one year. This we
have never yet claimed, so that the British Crown
is still indebted to an obscure genius in the sum of
£9 3s. 6d., which the very next time we meet Vic-
toria we shall ask her for.
• « *
We are at this hour of the morning just
starting out to take part in the Olympic revels
our heading suggests, and have been cramming
ourselves with some small but useful phrases in
the German tongue for use during the day. Clos-
ing our •* Princlpia,” we leave the Park, and in
passing Albert on the near side, notice, for the
first time, the presence of what we had so often
flattered ourselves in having at last discovered a
statue without—a scroll. Why sculptors always
fix up statues of public characters, past or pre-
sent, with either a roll of papers or an open scroll
like unto a newspaper-canvasser on the war-path,
we could never understand. This feature is espe-
cially prominent when Royalty furnishes the sub-
ject, yet, without the least stretch of imagination,
the artist could find many things more apropos as
indicating the temperament, as well as interpret-
ing the cnaraoter. We have seen many sculptures,
in many lands, but, with one exception, never
noticed a single indication of thought exercised on
the part of the sculptor. The one exception was
in the figure of Queen Victoria (God bless her!),
and this was fitted up with a decanter in the right
hand. We could offer many suggestions for the
flstal decoration of contemporary monarchical
statuary, but space will not permit; we are, how-
ever, prepared to furnish emblems suitable for
any subject on the shortest notice and most rea-
sonable terms.
■ • •
Down Macquarle-street: pausing awhile
to admire the architectural grandeur of the ’Ouse,
or the graceful outlines of soma able-bodied
domestic engaged in cleaning the front steps, we
at length arrive opposite the main entrance to the
gubernatorial residence—now, alas! tenantless.
In our mind’s-eye we again see the vice-regal
turnout dashing through the iron gates en route
for the railway station; we recall the last scene as
we saw it enacted only a week ago, when, as the
curtain was rung down on the retiring hero, he
appeared-in the midst of a struggling mass of
cavalry and chargers—a nodding bald head, and a
waving white hat. We hear again a feeble cheer
from the assembled populace that is promptly and
properly smothered in its infancy; and a whisper
that the five spoons and three soup-plates, which
an appreciative public refused to bid for, are care-
fully packed in Lady Loftus’ oonnet-box. He is
gone, and now {all is gloom—a gloom that the
arrival of 30 Smiths could not dissipate—and as we
gaze long and earnestly with our face pressed to
the iron railings, the sole survivor of all this mag-
nificence appears in the person of a sentry. This
gentleman’s chest seems to have crawled round
his neck and taken a back seat between his shoul-
ders as he leans gracefully upon a carbine and
expectorates voluptuously. He does not salute
us, an omission we account for on the grounds of
a laxity of discipline and ignorance of the mode of
saluting. Leaving him iu quiet enjoyment of his
“quid,” we pass on, and a few minutes later are
standing on the Circular Quay, in the Immediate
vicinity of the floating jetty. Alongside are two
steamers, and over the bridge of each is stretched
a strip of calico on which is inscribed the mystic
legend, •* Chowder.” We have seen the same sign
outside a saloon in New York, but with the prefix
“ clam,” and this was interpreted to us by one of
the cognoscenti of the quarter as indicating the
presence of a free lunchjinside, the chef dc resistance
of which was the luscious compound enumerated
above. In the present case, however, there was
no prefix, and, therefore, as we rightly conjec-
tured, no free lunch.
» * *
Seating ourselves on the thickest end of a
log—for it is yet early—we light a cigar (one of a
brand that cost us elght-and-four the hundred, for
we are of luxurious habits), and watch the people.
There are always something interesting to be found
in watching a crowd, whilst the pathetic and gro-
tesque is never so strangely blended as in a crowd
that imagines Itself out for a day’s pleasure, every
individual member of which returns home more
weaned and discontented than after the hardest
day's work. There is one feature in the formation
of the social strata before us that interests us
considerably ; it is the apparent carefulness with
which many young girls possessing more than
average charms seem to have chosen partners
from the opposite sex, and of opposite appear-
ance. Scores of really handsome girls are here
arm-in-arm with youths whose faces, unsup-
ported by any further testimony, would Insure
their getting six months’ in any respectable
Police Court, and we are inclined to think with
Mr. W. S. Gilbert that—
“ With pretty young maidens who can choose,
’Tis not so much the gallant who woos
As the gallant’s way of wooing 1”
Yielding to the eloquence of a gentleman with a
powerful lung and a rosette, we part our little
two-and-slx and board the first boat. It wants 15
minutes of the advertised hour of starting, and, as
we sit smoking in the fort part of the boat, we are
struck with a vague sense of the as yet undis
covered resources of your beautiful harbour.
Your public pleasure-grounds are glimpses of
fairy land, your ferry-boats are magnificent, your
harbour defences are—unique; yet it seems that
when that bridge that 1s to span this harbour
within five years is completed, all your ambitions
will have been gratified. This must not be. You
will even then be but an average community in
this age of go-aheadedness. Listen, while we un-
fold to you our plan for placing Sydney at the
head of all tbe great capitals of the world in one
chapter—enclose the whole Circular Quay from
Port Macquarie to Dawes Battery, and label this
reserve—Patent Sewers.
* * *
Lost in contemplation of the glorious
future our idea had opened up for the colony,
we must have fallen asleep. We were awakened
by the grating of the boat alongside the pier at
Chowder, and, jumping ashore, went in search of
some amusement. The first thing that struck us
on landing was the exalted position of the hotel,
and the difficulty of approaching it. We soon
conquered the latter, ana retain a profound ad-
miration for the genius who was responsible for
the other. Having worked our passage up the
steep ascent, we arrive at the front, and—as the
guide-books put It—“the magnificent view ob-
tainable from the point fully repays the tourist
for any little difficulties he may have encountered
during the journey.” It is a fine building, con-
taining, we are told, 63 rooms and—a bar. It was
the bar we were in search of, and, having found
It, take a last look at the “Principla,” and enter.
Elbowing our way towards the fountain-head of
this nectarean temple, we make our first essay in
the language of the hour. “Was befehlen sle?”
we enquire of the attendant, whose only response
is a stony stare of amazement. Can we have mis-
taken the line ? No, it is written in pencil on our
shirt-cufi, this one sentence, as being the demand
above all others we should be likely to make that
day. “Was befehlen sie ? ” we repeat, on catching
his eye as he passes down the bar. Ah I we have
made him understand us at last, for he approaches
the spot where we stand, and, bending towards us,
whispers—“What’r you a giving of us?” and
then we remember him. It is one who frequently
ministers to our midday wants at the Coffee
Palace in town, and. to his credit be it said, always
fishes out the dead flies and things that in a spor-
tive mood have hurled themselves into our soup
before it has time to cool. We get along better
with him after the recognition—which it seems is
mutual—and soon have our nose burled in a long
glass of amber-tinted nectar.
* • ■
Sounds of harmony are wafted towards
us upon the saline zephyrs 1 So we leavo the hotel
and make for the pavilion. As we enter, about
500 couples are twirling the II [Cali it some-
thing else.— Ed. B.j are dancing, and, looking
along the seats at each side where sit the “ un-
employed,” from amongst which we soon pick out
a pretty little woman seated near one of the doors,
and watching our opportunity, approach her.
“Zwelmal war der junge Mann von dem Pferae
geiallen,” we asked, but before the words were
well out of our mouth, with a hurried exclama-
tion that sounded like “ mugegotickbeetrootem,”
she fled. We only wanted her to dance. Turning
sadly away, we are met at the pavilion door by a
a little damsel, whose nationality sticks out in
every feature, and ashed if we will “do a
favour.” Made careful by a long experience
of the ways of females generally, and the
giddy picnicer in particular, we should, under
almost! any circumstances have hesitated,
but crushed by the dreadful error we had just
been guilty of, rashly promised the youthful
Teuton maiden that we would. For ten minutes
there was joy in the hearts of many youthful
pleasure-seekers seated upon an Infernal machine
called a roundabout. But there was a deep and
heartburning sorrow in the breast of an old gen-
tleman in spectacles, who had been seduced into
sending the thing around, and presently there was
a yell of terror, a shriek of laughter, and the old
gentleman was picked up from the sand with ono
shoe missing, bis battered tall hat filled with dirt,
and his spectacles jammed half down his throat,
to say nothing of sundry abrasions, contusions,
and things. Need we say it was—ourselves! Out
of evil sometimes comes good, however, and this
was our case. When we had been picked up, and
most of the dust shaken out of our frame, we
looked about for some cool place where we could
sit and recover ourselves a little. Near the
roundabout was a fruit-stall, attended by the
prettiest .woman we had met that day—tall, with
eyes and hair black as jet, a complexion of roses,
and teeth like pieces of tooth-brush handle. {
Pulling ourselves together, and having made our
bow—a bow, we may remark, that has mashed the
female heart wholesale ere now—we begin: “Das
madchen sohrelt, als ware es in ” “Eighteen-
pence!” she interrupted. She evidently mistakes
us; we will try again: “Die vliume slndgriiaim
monat ” “Oh, bother! phwy can’t ye spake
plane English ? If it’s oranges ye want, they’re
elghteenpence the dozen!”
m m m
The last boat having deposited its load,
a gentleman comes to an open window near us
and energetically rings a muffin-bell. This, we
imagine, is part of the show, but learn upon
enquiry that it is the announcement that the ban-
quet has been prepared in the banqueting hall
above. Wo are the first to take our seat at the
long table running down the centre of the room,
and as the waiter comes up for our order, we fix
him with: “ Was kdnnen Sle uns zu essen geben ?”
“ No, Sir, but we’ve got corned beef and ham.”
Rushing out of the room, we tear our “ Prinolpia”
into 999 fragments and hurl them savagely into the
ocean.
• m •
Our interest in the proceedings soon after
this began to cool, and as there bad been neither a
fight, accident, nor drunk to enliven the proceed-
ings all day, we felt penslve.jjSo’ wending our way
sadly towards the jetty, we embarked and re-
turned to town, having during the day met at least
one German, and for this had we squandered three-
and sixpence in a work that we could find no use
for—our “Principia.”
ARABIAN POETRY.
[FROM BURTON'S NEW “ARABIAN NIGHTS.”]
In this world there’s none thou may’st count upon
To befriend thy want in the nick of need.
So live for thyself, nursing hope of none-
such counsel I give thee; enow take heed.
Reserve's a jewel. Silence safety Is;
Whene’er thou speakest many a word withhold,
For e’er of silence thou repent thee once,
Of speaking thou shalt repent times manifold.
When fails my wealth none then will deign be-
friend,
When wealth abounds all men their friendship
tender;
How many friends lent aid my wealth to spend—
But now to want of wealth no friendship render.
Escape with thy life if oppression betide thee,
And let the house tell of its builder’s fate;
Country for country thou’lt find. If thou seek It,
But life for life never—early or late.
It isistrange men will dwell in the house of abjec-
tion
When the stretch of the earth is so wide and so
great.
Unjust it were to bid the world be just;
-So blame it not. It ne’er was made for j ustice.
Take what it gives thee—put all griefs aside;
For now to fair and then to foul its lust is.
CORRESPONDENCE
Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“ No Surrender:” An expensive little joke.
“S. J. Thompson”: A question not to be
answered publicly “Maud 8.”: Unsuitable.
Too hastily done, and lacking in force and con-
sistency. Please call “ F.A.” (Melbourne):
Within six months the improvement suggested,
and many more, will be made “a Subscriber”:
If three good swimmers stood quietly by while
their mate drowned in 7ft. of water, it is needless
for us to say that they were cowards of the basest
order, and if the coroner refused to hold an in-
quest, it would certainly seem that the corpse
might well complain of the slight passed upon
him. But to publish your letter would, most
likely, do nothing more than land us in the
Supreme Court “F.8.J.”: We condense your
narrative thus:—“Amateur fisherman, 18in. of
whisky, went fishing on land, and caught a gum-
tree.” Thanks for the yarn “A.S.”; Feed your
Muse on something nobler than sausages, and
send us the result. Good verso, but tale too thin...
“F. 8.8.”: You say that “any man who is not
devoid of sense will set his face against the whole
race of barmaids.” You must have a big cheek.
One at a time satisfies us “T.W.": The ancient
game of “kiss-in-the-ring” is said to be coming
into fashion with England’s aristocracy. So it is
inN.S.W., except that we don’t bother about the
ring —“Lily Agnes”: Bustles, we believe, are
called “ birdcages ” because they are usually hung
Just outside the sitting-room “ Two Sojourners
of Goulburn”: You say:—“Your illustration, re
Whistler and Ram, is in exceeding bad taste.
Surely it is the most abject cowardice to hit a man
when down—and a man, moreover, who has no
chance of reply. At all events, anyone with the
least bit of feeling would say so, and, to our minds,
a man who had beaten (and that fairly) every op-
ponent he had met in the colony up to the time of
bis death was, at least, entitled to some show of
respect.” In order to show how you have mis-
read the plain meaning of the cartoon, we append
a few extracts from a letter by A. 8., who says:—
“Your Whistler cartoon is, to me, the most power-
ful, pathetic, and mournful sermon I have ever
read, and my brain has, since the dawn of
memory, been packed with sermonio literature
of every order of ologies. A satire worthy of
Juvenal, an oration worthy of Bossuet. It
is my habit to read only your clear-headed,
thoughtful, and prophetic articles. It is seldom
I look over other matter than your articles and
the cartoons and pictures. The Bulletin, with
its ‘ Australian Sermon ’ and its * Symphony of
Hell,’ appeals to every passion, emotion, and
faculty of mind, heart, or soul, I possess. God
helping me, I will lay your lesson safe to heart.
It will have a governing Influence in some direct
way with me. Nature exhausted her most gener-
ous efforts to furnish Clarence Whistler with
chest, lungs, muscle, jaws, teeth, and marvellous
constitution—he assailed his every force with what
seems studied force of purpose. This number I
will keep while I live as an admonition.” Read this,
ye “Goulburn sojourners,” and acknowledge
that you are not the smartest men in creation—
“C.G.”: You should know that we cannot publish
an ex parte statement of this kind. If we did so
our epitaph would be written fin the Supreme
Court thus: “C. G. le Bulletin.” Don’t know
French ? Then show it to someone who does—
“A.T.F.”: We see your point, taut think you are
rather rough on him this time “ M.0.D.”: Sorry
to hear that it is in the m-u-d. Up a “jolly”
stump, in fact “T.J.”: We are holding over
your letter until the vessel is announced
“T.W.”: The Turf Club of which you speak has
no existence, and no secretary; but if you don’t
look out, it will “have” you....“Basilicus”:
Sorry that we cannot print your letter
“Subscriber”: He may be able to do all that he
says, but the strong probability is that he is one of
those social leeches who obtain a living by sucking
the blood of a weak-minded section of the com-
munity. He is to be found at the address stated.
“Nap ”: There was no slight intended, and, In
spite of your dictum, we shall go on believing that
there was no disrespect shown. Thanks for cutt-
ings... “Karl”: Your joke was old when Noah
was first short-coated.
M. Clemenceau.
Eugene Cuemenceau, physician and politician,
was born in Vendle, in September, 1841. His
medical studies commenced at Nantes, and ended
at Paris, where he obtained the degree of M.D.
He afterwards passed a considerable time in the
United States, where he married an American
lady. On the collapse of the Empire at Sedan, and
the subsequent proclamation of the Republic, he
was elected major of the 18th Arrondissement. At
the election of February, 1871, following the
capitulation of Paris, he was elected represen-
tative for the Department of the Seine, and took
his place on the extreme Left. For endeavouring
to save the lives of Generals Laeomte and Thomas
the Central Committee of the Commune decreed
his arrest, but he escaped the Communal police,
and, by so doing, probably saved his life. For the
part supposed to have been taken by him in the
Commune he was tried and acquitted in Novem-
ber. 1871. Owing to the personal animus shown
towards him by M. le Commandant de Poussargues
a duel resulted, when the olhcer was wounded and
M. Ciemenceau brought to trial. The result was a
fortnight’s Imprisonment and a tine of 25 francs.
In 1875, M. Ciemenceau became Prtsldent of the
Municipal Council of Paris, and in 1876, Deputy for
the Department of the Seine. At tne general elec-
tion of Oct., 1877, he was re-elected to the National
Assembly for the 18th Arrondissement of Paris,
which place he still represents. In M. Ciemenceau
it was at one time thought that Gambetta had a
dangerous rival. It will be remembered how, as
grey commenced to show in the latter's hair, and
power appeared almost within his grasp, he, as it
were, banked his Ares—modified the ardour which
had captivated young France. By so doing he
may have gained favour in some eyes, but he
certainly lost it in many. Whether, as a loader,
M. Ciemenceau will ever occupy the position lett
vacant by Qambetta’s death, Is a question which
argument is not likely to end in agreement. That
he has not done so yet few will deny.
But his friends attribute this rather to the
want of opportunity than of ability. Dr.
Ciemenceau has endeared himself to the poor
of Paris, not alone by his political views and the
fearless manner in which he upholds them, but by
his charity. His professional advice is always at
the disposal of the sick poor and his fee—nothing.
Although the late elections appear to have re-
sulted adversely to the party with which M. Cle-
menceau is identified, yet the “ Left ” is stlil sulli-
olently strong to keep in check the efforts of those
who would stick at nothing to destroy the Re-
public which, to their chagrin, gains strength as
the years go by.
Woman Items
The Lancet says that a woman can be
made seriously 111 by the nervous strain of keeping
an Important secret.
One trouble brings about another. In the
long drawn-out Malpas divorce case, Mrs. Malpas
was condemned for misconduct with one Edwards,
a groom. Now, Edwards was a married man.
whose wife had for long wondered what had
become of him. She thus got wind of his where-
abouts, as also ready-made evidence of his doings.
Her petition for a divorce was thereupon pre-
sented and heard, successfully for her, last week.
It occupied the Court only about as many minutes
as the Malpas case had taken dajsto hear. Mr.
Edwards, years ago, was a perky draper's assistant
at Warrnambool, where he married his wife, "a
woman who sang ’’—have you ever read that
charming story, "The Woman who Sang and
whose mother kept a pub.
Adelaide is largely supplying the Mel-
bourne population just now. Amongst many who
have drifted over has been a Miss Minnie M Evoy,
It appears she was disappointed in getting a hus-
band in Mr. James Hay, the son of one of Ade-
laide's leading public men. In Mrs. Weldon’s
fashion, she sued Mr. Hay for breach of promise,
conducting her own case in court. She probably
thought so doing would lead to a compromise.
The first day in a law court was enough for her,
and on the second she was non est— going on to
Melbourne in place of completing her case. The
ungallant Mr. Hay now pursues her for the costs
of the action she so abandoned. She started in
Melbourne as a cigar-vendor, but her brother
claims the goods, which the Sheriff seeks to lew
on. Being asked what she had done with the £2OO
she brought from Adelaide in September, she
stated that she always spends money freely, and
two months had been long enough with her to see
the end of that paltry amount. The claim to the
goods has to be settled by a j ury, so giving the
lady another day with the Bench and Bar.
If you ask us “ Who are the best adver-
tisers in Australia?” we unhesitatingly reply (1)
Genevieve Ward; (3), Foy; (31, John Alexander
Dowie. In that fascinating little paper, the Hamil-
ton (Vic.) Spectator, which is now always chock-
full of "informations ’ about the illustrious of the
land, we And the following;—" Tributes to Genius.
—ln a prosperous career pursued in many climes
and amongst many nationalities, that talented
dramatiste, Miss Genevieve Ward, has had many
curious experiences and funny acknowledgments
of her talent. When residing at an American
city she secured private apartments which, as a
rule, when she can obtain good accommodation,
she prefers. On leaving the city, she received a
note as under from her milkman: ‘Madam, you
are a perfect lady, you always pay your bills
prompt, and I should like to serve you again when
you come back.’ At a meeting of a mutual ad-
miration society, the question of theatre-going
was discussed, and a Dissenting minister stated
that he considered the drama and its pro-
fessors were immoral and disreputable. There-
upon arose a dough-manipulator, and replied
something like this, * Although the reverend
gentleman who has last addressed this august
assembly may be right In some cases, I must pro-
test against any suen general onslaught on a pro-
fession which numbers many of the most estimable
of our race; ladies and gentlemen, sir, who would
be an honour to any profession in the world, whose
talented expositions of a sublime art sway human
nature for good; seldom for evil; ladles whose
virtue, sir, is irreproachable—whose charity is pro-
verbial. Gentlemen, sir, who would be an orna-
ment to the pulpit, whose dramatic force could
not but make itself felt there as on the stage.
When, sir, I know there are such as these in a
noble profession, I protest against the calumny
which has been uttered against them. The poet,
Longfellow, sir, has said—
* Lives of great men all remind us
We can make cursives sublime,
And, departing, leave behind us
Footprints on the sands of time.’
And, sir, I believe that many men, aye and many
women too, who have taken the foremost positions
in the dramatic professions, and have held thou-
sands in enthralled admiration, have so left their
footprints in the sands of time, and will bo re-
membered long after many who asperse them are
dead and forgotton. Were it not thus, sir, the
names of Garrick, the elder Kean, Kemble, Mac-
ready, G. V. Brooke, Fanny Kemble, Kistorl,
Helen Tree, et hoc yenus omne would long ago
have been consigned to the tomb of oblivion, and,
sir, I am Indeed pleased to know that Miss Gene-
vieve Ward Is a worthy succesaor of these great
lights of the past. For her thorough respecta-
bility, sir,l can vouch; her talents must be known
to you all. lam not on visiting terms with her,
although I should deem that a great honour, I
cannot invite her to my humble but happy abode,
but, sir, I do know her well enough to bow my silent
appreciation of her genius when I meet her in the
crowded thoroughfares of this busy life, and 1 can,
sir,i always; rely upon a sweet smile in return."
"Sweet smile in return ”is good. Paying tho
baker (and also the butcher), to say nothing of the
hotel-man, with a “sweet smile ’’—only that, and
nothing more—is quite a common theatrical trick.
But it isn’t every actress who manages to secure
the freehold alike of the heart of her milkman and
her baker. Now that we learn, on no less an au-
thority than that of the Australasian, that Miss
Genevieve Ward h»s, in Melbourne, "won ail
hearts," we read with fiendish pleasure the follow-
ing paragraph in a ’Frisco paper:—“There is a
funny little complication among four talented
women. They are Genevieve Ward, the actress;
Clara Louise Kellogg, the singer; Jennie June
Croly, the writer; and Janet Gilder, editor of the
Critic. There has long existed a close intimacy
between Miss Ward and Mrs. Croly. while tde
friendship between Miss Gilder and Miss Kellogg
is phenomenal in its ardour. Miss Ward contem-
plates a professional tour of this country. Mrs.
Croly has lately been with her in Europe. No-
body familiar with their relations, and the old-
time methods of advertising by recourse to startl-
ing ttcilon, was at all astonished by the story which
came across the ocean about Miss Ward enraptur-
ing the Maori King, who thereupon wished
to marry her, and offered to kill all his present
wives ifjsho would but smile on him. Considering
that Miss Ward is something like —* or —* years old,
the taste of the monarch may well be criticised,
but the tale was in itself admirable as a striking
example of that kind of work. About the same
time there came from the opposite direction a
fabulous account of Miss Kellogg singing to
audiences of cowboys, ranchmen, and scouts,
away out West, and so delighting them that their
antics of adulation were stranger than those of
N.Z.’s king. Miss Gilder is now ridiculing Mrs.
Croly’s story. Mrs. Croly retaliates by asking i f
the narrative of the veteran prima aonna’s ad-
venture is intended for Wild Western humour, and
all we lack to turn the farce into a tragedy 1s to
let Miss Ward and Miss Kellogg get their hands
into each other’s hair. The four women possess
so much and diversified talent that any oonilie: of
theirs is bound to be unique."


Personal Items
"■ Mr. George Wilkes, founder and proprietor
of the N.Y. Spirit of the Times, died recently.
It was he who took John C. Heenan to England to
fight Tom Sayers.
Lady Florence Dixie has just written an
article in Vanity Fair. It is not. as might have
been anticipated, on “ Champion Liars.” Its title
is “ Dog-breaking.”
“ Mother-in-law ” is one word under the
new English sixpennv telegram regulations. Tnis
is solely out of consideration to the limited means
of Princess Beatrice.
Mr. Abbott, the N.S.W. Minister of Mines,
said something in the Assembly the other evening
about the dilution of water. “You cant dilute
water,” interjected Mr. Garrett. “ You can.”
replied the masterful Mr. Abbott. The House
roared.
We notice from a passenger-list in the
Sydney dallies that the “ Hons. Berkeley and
Lloyd” have arrived at Adelaide. Now G. A.
Lloyd isn’t an Honorable at Adelaide. He Is only
Honorable within the colony of N.B.W. Berkeley
is “honorable” anywhere.
The Baron Munchausen of Maoriland is
the person who, la certain two-column letters pub-
lished In the Oban (N. 8.) Times, signs the name of
the “Reverend AY. A.Gordon Macpherso",clergy-
man In charge of the Waitakl Mission, N.Z ” In a
vivid picture of his perils in the wilderness whilst
endeavouring to evangelise the heathen of the
Waltaki, a picture Intended to move credulous
and sympathetic readers of the Oban Times to
subscribe to the “Mission,” he writes thus: “On
one occasion 1 lost my way, and so soft was the
ground that my steed often waded a foot out of
sight:'
Mrs. Pattison. to
whom Sir Charles Dilke,
the English Radical, has
just been married, had
the neat little dot of
£40,000, bequeathed h y
her lirst husband, the
Rev. Mark Paltison, who
not only did not forbid
her to marry again, but
In his will actually ad-
vised her to do so, and
confided to his brother
toe trust of seeing the
widow “through her
widowhood and into
second wedlock.” The
groomsmen at the wed-
ding were Mr. Chamber-
lain and Mr. Frank Pattl-
son, the widow’s trustee.
Remembering the libe-
rality of the Rev. Mark,
we think that the least
the bridal party could
have done, won'd have
been (as one of our poets
puts it) to “Rise and
drink to the cheerful
corpse."
It was in the Mel-
bourne Waxworks Exhi-
bition. A couple of
“leery Uds," true be-
liever* i be refining in-
fluenc x rcised by as-
soolailoi.. nrtef though
It be, with the great and
good and bad in human
nature, «s tvptfled by the
wax casts of the Bourhe-
street show, had passed
i" 'root of the figure of
J udge Barry. Gazing ou
him for a moment, one
turned end observed
briefly, “Jimmy, that's
the bloke as hanged Ned
Kelly,” And *o the level-
headed Judge was dis-
missed, not as the fear-
less upholder of the law
of the land, the erudite
justice, the ornament of
the bench, and the re-
vered law-interpreter of
the people, hut handed
down through the larri-
kin lines of posterity as
“him who bunged Ned
Kelly.” But for that act
In his judicial career, he
would certainly have
been unknown to th o
young Australians, who.
either of them, could
have reeled off the his-
tory of the outlaw with
as much ease as he could
the evening prayer.
More, perhaps.
Poor Hugh Conway, it now appears, had
not, by any means, reached the limit of his literary
powers when he jumned into notoriety with
“Called Back.” ‘ A Family Affair,” published
Since the author’s death, i 8 considered to be vastly
superior to “Called Back.” Whether the criti-
cisms would be as favourable if Fargus were still
In the flesh is open to doubt. There is no recipe
like dying for securing the good will of the critics,
and we cordially recommend this Idea to Douglas
Sladen. Let him first “hop the’ twig,” and a
nation’s gratitude will soon run his poems into 50
editions.
“Ouida,” writing in the North American
Review, justly says:—“The wit and epigram of
Disraeli’s novels have never been appreciated in
England any more than their genuine verisimili-
tude has been understood. If Disraeli had been
horn in France, and written in French, be would
have ranked with Beaumarchais and Rochefou-
cauld. The English language, which he never
knew thoroughly, allowed him bombast and
hyperbole, which have obscured the fine qualities
of his wit and wisdom, yet there is no novel in any
language which has more of these two things than
has ‘ Conlngsby.’ ”
The world knows how a London man
named Crawford brought a divorce action and
declared the gay and festive Radical widower Sir
Charles Dllke, duly elected as co-respondent; how,
thereupon, Mrs. Mark Pattlson, an accomplished
widow with £40,000, who was engaged to marry
Sir Charles, rushed to England from India, and in-
sisted on marrying Sir Charles right off the reel,
which she did. A London Conservative paper
received by last mail has a picture (entitled
Saved I ”) of Dllke, arrayed in bridal wreath and
orange-blossom, going to the altar with Mrs. Pattl-
son. The legend is: “Mrs. M P takes the
blushing Sir C D by the hand and makes a
respectable female of the Radical party.”
The Dublin Freeman’s Journal says that
“ though Victoria has not a match for Dailey and
Deniehy she nevertheless has her Peter Lalor, and
her gifted Winter.” Who, you will ask. dear sir,
or madam, Is “ Victoria’s gifted winter ? ’’—for we
nresumis that you, not being “ connected with the
Press,” have not heard of that luminous person-
age. Victoria’s “gifted Winter”—we have never
seen such an adjective applied to him before-ia
the gouty gentleman who runs that, pleasant little
vespernal organ of blood, hair, flying skin and
artistic ghastUrpn". the Melbourne Herald. You
should bear the gifted Winter objurgate in the
presence of the foreman of the composing-room,
when the paper is late going to press. “Gifted,”
indeed! rather. Even George Augustus Sala, who
c*n swear in seven languages, hasn’t such a voca-
bulary.
There must be plenty of colonials of 20
years' standing who remember to have seen James
Stead in London. He made what was regarded as
a pot of moi ey for professionals in those days by
an altogether idiotic performance. Stead was the
“ Perfect Cure” whose humour consisted In sing-
ing some doggrel lines while jumping up In the
air. The Lora only knows where he got the idea
from or the impudence to put it into execution.
Anyway, it kept him going. In a double sense, for
a long while. People got into the hshit of speak-
ing of it as a “marvellous performance. ’ Probably
it aid affect his “ bellows,” for we now learn that
poor Stead is put away iu the Hospital for Diseases
of the Chett. Thera’s no “ perfect cure ” for him
now, alas I
One of our Australian candidates for a
seat in the forthcoming British Parliament finds
electioneering to be hard work. The House of
Commons is said to be the grandest of clubs, and
the wealth and ambition of the world culminate
in a desire to belong to it. Mr. Howard Spensley,
fighting for a rest for the Clerkenwell division of
Finsbury, finds much speechifying day and night
very laborlous-especlally when he addresses as
many enemies as friends. He is on the Liberal
ticket, and the Conservatives attend his meetings
and exnnstulate with him. Things stronger than
words have to be encountered from them. An
ancient egg struck him on the chin and be-
spattered hi* beard. Wiping it away, he coolly re-
marked: "‘Some of these arguments of the Con-
servatives are very unsound.” This shot told well r
and no more such rotten arguments were offered.
After all the florid woe that has been ex-
pressed over the fate of General Gordon it seems
odd to find that men of Eastern experience flatly
refuse to believe in his death at all. Colonel Long,
for Instance, who has htmsolf led a Gordonesque
life, after pointing out that no two stories of his
friend's end agree, maintains the probability of
the “hero of Khartoum” having escaped In one
of the steamers which have never been satisfac-
torily accounted for. if the lost soldier should ever
turn up, what reams of bad rhyme would have to
be burnt In commemoration of the event. The
statues would do with an alteration of the inscrip-
tions; but the Soudan goat would be robbed of
more than half of its romantic interest. By the
way, that concert in Melbourne in aid of the
Gordon memorial fund didn’t do as much for the
statue as for the artists engaged. The receipts
were something like £338, and the expenses £3OO.
There's something very unGordonllke about the
latter Item.
The following extracts from the diary of
Prince Henry of Battenberg can be relied on as
perfectly authentic: “I don’t vas like Vindaor
Castell Donner Wetter, vot a mother-in-law I
hafe. She call me Bat. already two times, snd
because I vos late by the dinner yesterday, she
order me to ride seven times with her in the park.
Oct. Ist—My mother-in-law catoh me smoking,
and take away my meerschaum. Last nlte, too, 1
take a schnapps mlt Wales, and she smell It onto
ray breath. My Beatrice cannot understand why
I like not go to church three times jeden Snnntag.
mit only Boys in the chor and no girls who sing
sopran. Yesterday afternoon my mother-ln-iaw
tell me we go soon—how you say-to Sohottland.
where I may no more the pantaloons year—she
year them herself, Und now I must close to make
ready mjseif to go to the mausoleum, without
shmoko for four day, and noting als tea and
damscherrywein by my meals. As sure as my
name is Battenberg, I would more soon be a Kell-
ner in a restaurant in Berlin.”
A while back we drew attention to the
melancholy case of Miss Emma Dash, of Brighton
(Eng.), who married a dashing stranger after a five
days courtship, and lost her husband before the
week was out. Emma has been making frantic
efforts to find her ephemeral adorer and bring him
b»ck to his conjugal duties, but without avail. A
certain captain was arrested as being the levanted
bridegroom. Emma swore'o his identity, so did
her brother, so did the parson who “ put ’em
through.” The captain, on the other hand, satis-
factorily proved that he hadn’t even clapped eyes
on Hmma before he was arrested. So the poor
little grass widow is as far off her husband as ever.
Unfortunately, she had no opportunity during
the brief period of her bliss to discover any Jprivate
marks by which she could make certain of her
man If she gets a chance of marrying again the
unfortunate lady is pretty certain to make a point
of looking for a strawberry mark on the arm, or a
mole on the back, or some little peculiarity by
which the matron’s loving eye can usually “ spot”
her husband, even among a crowd of bathers.
The interminable “Strong” controversy,
which has vexed the soul of the Melbourne Pres-
bytery, is at length pretty nearly ended. The
General Assembly has decided in favour of the
orthodox, once and for all. In this decision the
‘fathers” have tho ursympath?tie supoort of un-
I reshyteriau Melbourne. The majority of people
are heartily sick of the Reverend Charles Strong
and his “ doctrines.” That worthy man, it is felt,
has acquired an exaggerated reputation for broad-
i mindedness by not being exactly a bigot. The
martyrdom which his Idolaters claim for him is
fairly played out. A Roman Catholic converted
to Protestantism is a fine fellow la the eyes of—
Protestants. The priests, on the other hand,
regard him as a lost sheep; and that’s how the
Presbytery regards the Rev. Charles. A Presby-
terian parson holding advanced views—which Mr.
Strong is proud to hold—is simply an anomaly, so
the best thing his friends can do is to build the
new church they talk about, put their pet parson
lathe pulpit, and let him preach agreeably to all
parties. There is every encouragement to adopt
this course. The Rev. Nat. Kinsman started a
church of his own, and look at the result. He
marries 15 couples a week.
Says the artless little Macleay Herald:—
“ It is a pity that the people on the Macleay (not a
solitary storekeeper or licensed victualler) should
not have availed themselves of the opportunity
afforded them by the late visit of Sir John Coode,
the eminent marine engineer and surveyor, to in-
terrogate him cenu multis alus as to the cost and
construction of a suitable swing bridge over the
Macleay, on the site of the present ferry, the main
highway to the north and east. Had Sir John
Coode been banqueted at Kempsey and lionised
a little for a short period, it would have bsen the
means perhaps of drawing out his opinions in a
semi-official manner." That’s how Burdett Smith,
M.P. lor the Macleay, does it. He " banquets and
lionises the electors” for a short period. Mr.
Pope certainly aid once sing—
" The shortest way to men’s hearts, I And,
Lies through their bellies, or 1 mistake mankind.”
But as Sir John Coode is in the habit of receiving
tnousand-guinea fees when his opinions are
“ drawn out in a semi-official manner,” the Mac-
lbay Herald would have found that, had he been
banqueted, he’d never have opened his mouth save
to put something into it.
We love history. Contemporary history.
Men of the time history. It is a grand study, and
we muse and ponder as we move amid the masses
and sae men rising slowly from the ruck and
others falling swiftly from the height, on the un-
certainty and littleness of the pomps and vanities
of this wicked world. Some day we may take the
bung out of the barrel, and let the stream of our
reminiscent knowledge flow for the enlightmcnt
of the people. We will, perhaps, give an epitom-
ised resumi of the history of the Australian
nobility. Readable matter it will be, too. Some-
thing of this: '■ Brown, Sir John (Bart 1886.) Early
colonist, arrived ’54. Employed as shepnerd by
Captain Malcolm, in lieu of wages receiving 200
ewes and their increase par annum, with free
rations; secured grant of land, '66, and depastured
his own flock in charge of convict assigned ser-
vant. Upon the discovery <f geld in the colony
sold the sheep at high prices, ana bought a smsd
station. Married Mary Jones, lellow-servant, ’57-
Bred cattle till ’63. Subsequently sold out, pro-
ceeded to England, and purenaaed shares in Scot-
tish Banking Co. Succeeded in placing his cousin
on Directorate. Returning to the colony took up
pastoral holding, borrowed largely from Scotch
Bank on this security, at 4 per cent., and advanced
on mortgages at 8 per cent. Bought freehold
station, dummied all water frontages in vicinity,
and shortly doubled area. Bred sheep and
cattle and sola large drafts annually, snip-
ping heavy wool clip. Bought more stations
foreclosed on mortgages and donated sum of
money to public institution. Result, KC.M.G.
Left colony, absentee. Bought a few counties in
England, filed kings in embryo, Dutch and Chinese
plenipotentiaries, Italian nobles, &c. Created
baronet, 1886. His brother (shepherd in bis em-
ployment) died ’74.” Of course, this is purely an
imaginary sketch, hut we merely wish to show
you the style we will adopt when writing our
“ History of the Rise of the Australian Nobility.”
However, that is not what wo meant to tell you.
On a station not far north of Adelaide there is a
shepherd employed who is a baronet. That he is
such Is known to but few, for the old man is re-
ticent. He has not held this high estate many
years, and but for the interference of the monarch
of peers and princes—the title-transmitter, Death —
“ old Square-bottle Bob ” would probably have
died a simple shepherd. He keeps the proofs of
his Identity, and, though the estate is not worth
much, the title is an old one. He can be Sir
when he chooses. But he doesn’t choose. He pre-
fers ta have his income paid quarterly through his
employer’s lawyer, and still lives in the old nine-
mlle hut with his dog and demijohn, still takes his
flock out in the morning and briags it home at
night. Now, what would not some of our
squattocraoy, our Sir Bullockwhips and Lord Tal-
lowfats, give to have his chance and to get hold of
his papersl But, remember, every shepherd Is
not a baronet, nor are our colonial nobility all
Shylooks or shepherds, or their descendants.
Sergeant Ballantine’s “ Reminiscences »
has reached yet another edition—jumbled up mass
of anecdotes though it he. The hook is as desul-
tory as an evening’s club table-talk and much of
that sort of thing. An utter want of literary
ability Is its greatest characteristic There Is but
one anecdote left in our memory after closing the
book. It is told of Sergeant Bpankie who married
late in life, a lady who had been long on the shelf*
The poet laureate of the bar mess, to which the
Sergeant belonged, had to celebrate »uch events—
d. la Tennyson with Princess Beatrice. This is how
it was done:—
" When Miss Qoldney was twenty
She had lovers in plenty;
As Mies Goldney grew older
Her lovers grew colder;
At last there came Spanklo
And Miss Goldney said—“Thankie.”
The case of William Campbell interested
us partly because it shows how happy people
should be who Jive under the British flag, and
partly because we ourselves once underwent a
similar experience. Campbell was arrested in
Queensland some months ago. He’d just started
business, when a constable called, toid him that
the police authorities in Sydney were hankering
after an introduction, and persuaded William to
accept the invitation to go South. Bo the shutters
were put up and a notice pasted on the door in-
forming the public that the proprietor had to keen
an engagement: in N.B.W. The date of his return
depending as it did on circumstances beyond bis
control, was not given. Alter some weeks of
plank-bed and handcuffs he arrived in Sydney, ex-
plained how he had come by certain moneys, re-
ceived an apology; from the prosecutor, and left
the court without a stain. But did the authorities
compensate him In any way for his troubles ?
Not a bit of It. They just left him to get back to
Queensland the best way he could. We were once
marched a thousand miles to tell what became of
a horse. A policemau, a rope, and a revolver
accompanied us. The day after our arrival the
the law discovered that the wrong citizen—in thia
case, at any rate—was in its meshes. We, too
were turned adrift with our previously irreproach-
able character unstained. But what of that?
There was the dreary march back in the middle of
Summer. It was during that return Journey that
we first acquired a taste for profanity—a mode of
expression to which we always fly when country
journals dwell on the glory to bo found under the
Union Jack.
The Rev. J. W. In-
glis, of Ballarat, has just
converted several Chi-
nese to plagiarism —we
mean Calvinism.
James R, Burgess is
not the name of one of
the smartest officers in
the Incorporated Bank.
Jam es w as for some years
in the service as a junior
clerk, at 50, 60, acd 70
pounds per annum salary.
It was not enough; he
could not live cn it. Re-
peated applications to
head-quarters for a rise,
were resuitless. By the
coach, which arrived
after bank hours, came,
one evening, the inspec-
tor. Jim knew him, and
there flashed an idea into
his mind. Rushing to the
cottage of a blacksmith
close by, he borrowed a
pair of moleskin pants,
a blue shirt, and billy-
cock hat; a blue hand-
kerchief loosely tied
in a sailor’s knot round
his neck, and elastic-side
boots, completed a some-
what nondescript rig.
Of course, the articles
were “scrupulously
clean,” and, tnough com-
mon, sat with a brigand-
ish, notill-pleating, effect
upon him. He entered
the hotel, where he met
the inspector. The latter
looked very, very muen
surprised, said nothing,
however, beyond re-
questing that the keys of
the hank be handed to
him. This was done, and
next day the inspection
was made. The result
was most satisfactory,
and he complimented the
oiera. “ But your attire,
Mr. Burgess, is hardly
suitable to your posi-
tion.” “That I know,
sir,” replied Jim, calmly,
“ bat it Is eminently suit-
able to my salary. I
cannot afford better
without injury to some-
one, and come what may,
J shall preserve my
honesty.” There was.
of course, much more
laid on the point, and
Jim, in comideration of
a promised rise, guaran-
teed to wear hla best
clothes every day.
In Australia the irreverent frequently
smile as they notice how easily cattle-duffers and
land-sharks acquire the companionship of certain
saints who, judged by the writings of their con.
temporaries, were not much better than they
should have been, but in England tho process of
evolution, which transforms a “trimmer” into a
peer, is occasionally still more remarkable, even
if a degree or two more protracted. His Koyai
Highness Henry of Battenberg, who lately acceded
to the establishment of Princess Beatrice, is an in-
stance in point. His maternal grandfather was at
one time clerk to Count Bruohi, administrator of
the Berlin museums, but when the Count had a
little Black Wednesday in the establishment, the
ancestor of Beattie’s Batt., yclept Huack, was
one of those invested with the ancient and (some-
times) honourable “order of the sack.” He
was then on the "stone-broke” for some
time, but at length obtained employment as
“ chucker-out ” In a Warsaw theatre. His
ability In this line gained him a commission
In the army, obtained through the influence of
the Governor of Poland, ivho took him from
Warsaw to a place where he saw war, and attained
the rank of colonel. He was killed in 1830, and the
Grand Duke Constantine, who took an interest in
his only daughter, sent her to St. Petersburg to
complete her education. While there she mashed
the Prince Alexander of Hesse, who married her,
and had to quit Russia immediately in conse-
quence of the mesalliance and his tailor. Three
sons were the result of this marriage. One,
Alexander, is now having a lot of fun over in Bul-
garia, where Prince Milan threatens to make mat-
ters somewhat sultry lor him, and the other is
helping Trixie to spend her £39,000. The duchy or
principality of Battenberg is about as big as a
Warrnambool potato patch. It is said that on one
occasion Battenberg, the eider, offended Bismarck,
and the latter threatened that unless an apology
were forthcoming he would send a man with a
barrow and trundle Alexander’s ancestral domains
Into an adjoining pond. From this little sketch It
will be seen that the blood of the Battenbergs is
only a shade or two bluer than that of the vulgar
crowd, but that did not prevent the Queen from
transforming Henry from a “ Serene ’’ into a
“ Royal” Highness—a transformation, by the way»
which avails not on the Continent, where H.R.H.’S
place at dinner will bo with the butier.
Our Gallant Defenders.—An Episode.


QUOD FACIMUS VALDE FACIMFB.
(What we do we do well.)
TOUR PHOTO.-If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what la but well-meant
couusel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries In the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices—C-D-V.,; Cabinets' 30s. per dozen.
CREELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADE.
PE APES & SHAW S
SHU 96 SHOW!
IPEAPE S AND SHAW’S SPRING MILLINERY
PEAPE'S and SHAW’S SPRING COSTUMES.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING DRESS
FABRICS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING FABRIC
GLOVES.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT
KID GLOVES,
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING HOSIERY,
from J. and R. MORLEY’S.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
LACE GOODS,
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
EMBROIDERY.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
iPARASOLS.
0T SPECIAL NOTICEI
All the above goods are
Now Open for Bnspectlon.
Eargb Shipments
for other Departments are
CLOSE AT HAND,
and a constant flow of
NOVELTIES
will be opened up
DC RING THE SEASON.
PEAPES& SHAW,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS.
324, 326, 328 George Street
r*IHE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER, THE PEN.
LEG* HI LIT Y, RAPIDITY. EASE.
CONVaNIENC*, ECONOMY.
THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER s*vrg
labour, stationery, and time, wrltli g much
faster than expert penmen, and eondenslngnoatter
to lews than one-half the apaee occupied by pen
writing, Me»utlful copies may be taken in the
usual manner in the lettei-preis. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, edlto'sand author ,
re orfeis, and all men r>t buioe a should use iho
type-writer, and save much valuable time,
hold wholesale and retail bv the sole a vents.
IMRAY and r \J..
85 Car.-nee-street.
READ THIS!
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS.
Manufactured by
THE GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS CO.,
SALE.
Certificate by Wm. Johnson, Government Ana-
lytical Chemist
“ Government Analytical Laboratory,
“Melbourne, July 14th, 1884.
“ I have examined Trood’s Hop Bitters (manu-
factured at Sale). They are remarkably pleasant
to the palate, and as a general tonic and promoter
of appetite for invalids and young people are no
doubt excellent. The Hop Aroma is delicately
combined with a fragrant fruit flavour, producing’
a really elegant preparation, which may he relied
on as beneficial to health and free from anytbiug
deleterious.
(Signed) •• WM. JOHNSON,
“Analytical Chemist.”
THESE celebrated Bitters have been proved by
analysis to be a pure, delicate, iialatable com-
pound, and are invaluable in affording relief in all
cases of disorder* of the blood, stomach, liver,
nerves, etc.
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Will be found a perfect “ Balm of Gilead” to all
who are suffering irum shattered nerves, an over-
worked bram, or lassitude; they are, in fact,
nature s brain and nerve food.
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Are an excellent appetiser, and may be taken
with peri ect safety by the most delicate invalids
and young people.
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Enrich and purify the blood, and are an exquisite
tonic and stimulant. If you are sick, no matter
from what cause, use
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS.
The large and increasing consumption has
gained for the GippsJacd Hop Bitters Manu-
facturing Co. a w de celebrity.
Beware of Imitations,
And use only those manufactured by the
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS CO.
Thev are pronounced to be the beet and only genn-
ine Hop Bitters manufactured in the colonies.
Sale. Nov. 11th.
THOMAS TROOD & CO.,
Pr<- prietors.
To b» obtained from all the lending merchants,
chemists, and hotels in the colonUa.
Sole Agent for Sydney— A. W. KEESON, Foy’s
Chambers, Bond-street, Sydney.
Allen’s Black Wlngen Oils.
THEY WORK LIKE A CHARM.
TO those who have been suffering from Rheu-
matism or Sciatica, we come with glad tidings
of the wonderful cures that have been effected by
CHAB. ALLEN’S BLACK WIN GEN OILS. Num-
bers have been cured, and can attest to the great
and miraculous powers of these already famous
Oils.
There Is now no reason why anybody should be
be racked with pain, when for the small sum of
» bottle of CHAB. ALLEN’S BLACK
WIN GEN OILS may be obtained from any che-
mist or storekeeper. On how many occasions,
when you have been laid up with a severe attack
of lumbago, would you have given anything to
get relief: also, when you have been rendered
sleepless through neuralgia or toothache, have
you sought in vain for a cure. Suffer no more :
Keep the balm by you—a bottle of Chas. Allen’s
Black Wlngen Oils. It is needless to further recom-
mend, as a simple trial will prove to the most
sceptical the merit of Allen's Black Wlngen Oils.
“TRF THEM.”
COSTELLO & GREY,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
ALIPN’R BLACK WINGKN OILS, stand un-
equalled for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
saddle girth, and wind CJHIIs, Strains, Stakes,
Sprains, Bruises, Sweat Boils, Fistula, Wounds of
all descriptions No ’bus proprietor, carrier, or
stockowner should be without them. They will
heal any sore, no matter if freshly done or of
years’ standing. No spell required to effect a cure.
“TRY THEM,”
May be obtained from Chemists and Storekeepers.
COSTELLO & OBEY,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Agents.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jambs Curtis.
TJn.d.ertalr:er,
84 HUNTER ft PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was In the employ of the
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) yean;
Manager for over ten (10) yean.
PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT-ELECTRIC BELTS
MESSRS. NEILD and CO., on behalf of Th«
Magnetlcal-Electrlo Appliance Company,
e'rnestly desire to call the attention of the public
to the tact that, in consequence of the success
attending the sale of the above Company’s Bloo-
trio Belts, Corsets, &0., a so-called Caution has
been published, emanating from an agent for
Electric articles, who, prompted by a motive to
attempt to monopolise the sale of such articles,
the principle of which we emphatically assert has
been known to the world for at least twenty years
and are now being manufactured in Great Britain
by dozens of firms, and variously styled lor the
purposes of a trade mark only, but avowedly par-
taking of the same nature, being an adapta-
tion of the element of Magnetical Electricity.
We ask, therefore, those who desire to adopt
the treatment of Electricity for constitutional
or local derangements, to compare our Elec-
tric Belts, Corsets. &c, with those of other
manufacture, as they are undoubtedly of su-
perior Electrical Strength, design, quality of
material, and elegance or finish. The 16e.
Gent.’s Belt is the best ever offered to the public
for electrical strength and quality. Gent’s special-
power Electric Belts, 30s. These Belts are manu-
factured exprotsly for tropical climates, and are
very durable, as also are our Electric Corsets,
Lung Invigorators, Spine Bauds. &o.
THE
MACN fLiTICALi
*
*
The “ Msgnetical Electric” Appliance Company’s
ELECTRIC BELTS, Corset Lung Invigorators,
Spine Bands, Kneecaps, Insoles. &c,, &c, is the
only perfect method for generating the curative
properties of the continuous current of Electri-
city, without the aid of batteries or use of acids,
without incurring any risk of undue action upon
the most delicate invalid, and impart Health and
Vitality to all who wear them.
Thn MAGNETICAL ELECTRIC TREATMENT
is now admitted by Medico-Electric Scientists, and
many leading Physicians, to be the most valuable
Electrical Remedial Agent for the Cure of all
Nervous Diseases, Affections of the Heart, Epi-
lepsy, Spinal Complaints, Rheumatism, Lumbago.
Sciatica, Paralyse, Gout, General Debility, Indi-
gestion. Fern el.- Complaints, &o„ &o, and is now
adapted for Ibe Successful Treatment of all Lung
Troubles, hitherto without the domain of Electric
Agency.
One of the Special Features of this Treatment Is
the MAGNETICAL ELECTRIC CoKSBT, which
is unsurprised lor Its curative properties In all
female trouble*, and is of superior shape and
manufacture. Price, KB., 15i, and 20s.
The Guinea Special Power Bbctrlo Belt is the
same as sold in England for £3 3s. Thousands of
people of all ranks in the United Kingdom have
testified to the beneficial results of the Magnetical
Electric Treatment; and Testimonials from lead-
ing Medical and Scientific Men are in our pos-
session,
GENTLEMEN’S BELTS are manufactured of
superior material. In the shape of a riding belt,
and are very durable. Send size of waist, outside
first garment. Price, 15s, and 305.; if mailed, Is. fid.
extra.
LUNG INVIGORATOBS, 305.;
KNEECAPg, 7«. 6d.; SPjNE BANDS, 108.
IN SO LES, inval uabjo for cold feet, chilblains, and
defective circulation, ss. fid. Send size of boot, or
paper pattern of inside (Is. fid. for postage).
Ail correspondence treated with the greatest
despatch. Post-office orders to be made payable to
B. S. NEILD & CO., 158 Pitt-strkkt,
Sole Proprietors “ Magnetical Electric” Appliance
Company, London and Sydney.
ECONOMICAL FURNItUR
ECONOMICALFURNITURE
r. I /
r- THE LARGEST AND ONLY LEGITIMATE
TIME-PAYMENT FURNITURE WARE-
HOUSE IN THE COLONY.
369 PITT STREET.
J, TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKED CLOTH HALL,
478 Goorge-straat,
Established U6l.
HAS THB LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THK MANUFACTURERS,
pr Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guaranteed.
AJUtaal IIMMI IMNiI Out HIIIIMU
HUNTER STREET.
Likniaintr and G«s Explosion Damages Paid.
BEST IN
i
EE
■■
LOWEST
IN PRICE
OFFICE - 31 LOMBARD ST. LONDON,
mi
■■■
I scotian Horizontal engines,/i,^
“ALBION” UONCSTROKE HORIZONTAL ENGINES.®
i“CLIMAX” \7ERTIGAL ENGINES & BOILER’S.
“CLIMAX” PORTABLE -HOISTING ENGINES;
“BRITON”«HORIZONTAL COMPOUND LAUNCH ENGINES.
INVERTED COMPOUND MARINE ENGINES.
®. PORTABLE STEAM CRANES.
Vertical,cornish,s marine boilers.
, ■'■■■■!■ ,■■ l ;"f“l"*TT"TT, , m . !:■ ■. ~ ". .1 ■> miTT"
■JL
2
D
LARGE STOCKS;FOR FULL PARTICULARS AND PRICES APPLYTO
D.& W.ROBERTSON.SYDNEY, SOLE AGENTS NEW SOUTH WALES.
J.W.SUTT0N &CO, BRISBANE.SOLE AGENTS—QUEENSLAND,
ROBISON BROS.& CO. MELBOURNE, SOLE AGENTS -.VICTORIA
Another early colonist has gone in the
person of Mr. William Wallis, who has for the last
53 years been more or less identified with the pro-
gress of N.S.W. The deceased gentleman saw the
time when above Pltt-street, Sydney, llowed the
historic Tank Stream, when boats ran up against
the backs of the houses on its banks, and smug-
gling was systematically carried on by the
occupiers thereof. His recollection carried
him back to the time when the fashion-
able spot where last he lived was only
rocks and scrub, and which, from M‘Cabe’B Point,
was offered to him for £5OO, there being then but
one house on it. in which some Government official
lived. Temporn mutautur -what would it bring
now ? Having heard something of the then newly-
colonised territory from his grandfather, who sailed
with Cantalu Cook at the time of its discovery, he
adventurously determined to abandon his idea of
joining the Navy and take the first opportunity of
sailing for Australia. Owing to the reduction of
the pension received by his father as chief drafts-
man of the Deptford Dockyard, he was compelled
to strike out for himself, and soon found the
looked-for chance, of which he availed himself,
landing at Sydney In 1833. He started In business
at the Union Wharf, Darling Harbour, from which
place bo removed to Kliziheth-street. where he
continued in business until his final retirement in
1864. it may be interesting to relate that ‘‘The
Fig Tree ” (now known as the Corporation Baths)
was handed over to the Sydney public as a
bathing - place through the instrumentality of
Mr. Wallis, after a notable conflict with the
authorities of the time. Mr. Wallis’s desire for
the intellectual development of the colonial youth
induced him to heartily co-operate with Went-
worth, Lowe, Bland, and otheis. In the formation
of Sydney College—now the Grammar school.
Being of a sporting turn of mind as well as a keen
business man, Mr. Wallis, with John Rose Holden,
Major Hunter, and others, formed the old Homo-
bush Jockev C.ub and course, where Jorrocks,
Cassandra, Blue Bonnet, and Plover were celebri-
ties, and the names of Htggerson, Healey, and
Dunn figured among the cracks. When the first
Australian railway—that from Sydney to Parra-
matta—was projected by a private company, Mr.
Wallis’s tender for the flrsr. contract was accepted
—on 13th March, 1851 Having completed this
work, he retired from business, and went
to England to educate his sons, who both
graduated in honours at Cambridge. Dur-
ing his leisure at home he made a collection com-
prising some very valuable paintings well known
in the colonies, and which will shortly como to the
hammer in Sydney. After his return to N.S.W. in
1803, he associated himself with several of the In-
ternational Exhibition Commissioners, but other-
wise lived in complete retirement at his residence,
Potts Point. He was a man of firm determination
and iron will, but yet was of so shrinking a dispo-
sition that he never attempted to take any pro-
minent part in political life. He died at the ripe
age of 74, having lived to see the short line of rail-
way laid down by him 34 years ago develope into a
great and far-reaching system.
THE LATE MR. WALLIS, OF SYDNEY,
The first Australian Railway Contractor.
7
KOVEMBER 28, I88l!.
THIS BUMiBTIHf.


FirZROY WARD ELECTION. '
Alderman James Poole
is a
CANDIDATE FOB RE-ELECTION,
and
RESPECTFULLY SOLICITS
YOUR VOTES AND INTEREST.
Polling Day :
TUESDAY, DECEMBER Ist, 1885.
NOTICE.
ART UNION.
ON account of all the Books, &c, getting de-
stroyed in the late Fire at Mossvale, the
Committee have decided to refund the money.
Subscribers, by applying to the agent, will receive
their money on production of the ticket.
J. 8. HYAMS.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves. strengthens, and beautifies the hair : it
contains no lead or mineral ingredients, a r ’d can
now be also had in a golden colour, which is
especially suited forfairor golden-haired children
and persons. Four size?.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most
cooling, healing, and refreshing wash for the face,
hands and arms, and Is perfectly free from any
mineral or metallic admixtures : it disperses
freckles tar, prickly heat, redness, pitrp’es, &o.
ROWLANDS’ ES ENCB OF TTftß
produc a immediately a perfect change in r«d or
grey hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and
permanent brown or Mack, which colour neither
washing nor penplration will remove.;
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Matton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents—FfiniOTr Bugs ,
B. Prosser & Co., Sydney,
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 31st November, 1885.
TENDERS FOR GIRLS' AND INFANTS’
SCHOOLS.
TENDERS are invited for the Erection of GiFs'
and Infants’Schools in connection with the
Parramatta North Public School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of tho Depart-
ment of Public Instruction. Sydney; and at the
Parramatta North Public School, on application
to the Teacher.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Girls'and Infants'
Schoo’s, Parramatta North Public School," muT,
be lodged with the Under Secretary, Department
of Public Instruction, at or before 10 o'clock
a.m , on Wednesday, the 9th December, 1885.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender. _
W. J. TRTCKETT-
Department of Pud lo Works.
Sydney, November 24 1886.
FENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP-
PLIES.—TENDERS are Invited for the fol-
awing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
ulara see Government Gazette, a file of which
] kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may he in attendance when the tenders
,re opened, and the name of the successful
enderer will be announced, if possible, before the
iutles of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
ess the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
rith.
W. J. LYNE.
NOTICE.
ADVERTISERS and others will please take
notice that Mr. FRANK A. HALL is NO
LONGER CONNECTED WITH THIS OFFICE
as Canvasser, Collector, or otherwise.
W. H. TRAILL,
Managing Director.
The Bulletin Office,
Sydney, November, 1885.
CONTINUED SUCCESS
OF
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£5 IUMT DALES!
PACKED In CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
pr Carriage paid by mail all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale rystem has been In operation for 13
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than over,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe.
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
£5 LADY’S BALE.
6 Ladles’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
3 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longcloth, and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered Instead of
any of the above.
£5 MOURNING BALE.
35 yds. Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 dr z Crape Trimming
1 Black Sbawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVES.
On receipt of 3a. in
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 3 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For accouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5.
158.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fliteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials - Silks, Velvets, &o.—with
prices, and full Instruction for self-measurement,
If applied tc. i
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
Originate is of the celebrated £5 Bales of Drapery
I HI
LIMITED,
356 Gearge-streat,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS
and
MUSI C.
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EASY TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W.H.PALIN6&CO
350 Georpre-street, Sydney.
Professional Directory.
GEORGE PBRRIMAN. Scene Painter, Theatre
Royal, Brisbane. Disengaged.
Theatre royal.
Under the management or
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Mdbgrovs.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo.L. Goodman.
WILLIAMSON, GARNER, and MUSGROVE’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
ami until further notice.
THE MIKADO THE MIKADO
THE MIKADO THE MIKADO
THE MIKADO (THE MIKADO
THE MIKADO THE MIKADO:
or,
THE TOAVN OF TITIPU.
Admission: Dress Circle. 53.; Stalls, 35.; Family
Circle, Us.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre dally from
10 till 5. No Free List.
NSW OPERA HOUSE.
Under the Lesseeship and Management of
MAJERONI and WILSON.
Continued Success of
Mr G. W. ANSON.
Miss FLORENCE WADE,
Mr. HENRY ALLEYNF,
and Majeronl and Wilson’s Comedy Company, in-
cluding Mr. J. T<. HALL.
SATURDAY NOVEMER 28.
and until farther notice.
The 3-aet comic drama, written by Harry Poulton,
Esq , entitled,
NOAH’S ARK
NOAH S ARK
NOAH’S ARK
NOAH’S ARK.
NEW SCENERY painted expressly by Mr. CLINT.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Nicholson's Music
Warehouse, 335 George-street. Day tickets at
Cole's Book Arcade, George-street, Furniture
supplied by the Globe Furbishing Warehouse.
Business Manager for Mr. Anson, Mbs Wade,
and Mr. Alleyne, LIDDY.
GAIETY THEATRE.
Proprietor Mr. John Solomon
Manager for Mr. Solomon, Mr. B. N. Jones
Manager for Mr. Dampler, Mr. F. Gunther.
Bth WEEK Bth. DAMPIER SEASON.
ANOTHER GRAND PRODUCTION.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS.
Engagement of that charming comedienne, Mies
MYRA KEMBLE, who will appear as MERCY
MERRICK,
supported by the best Dramatic Company in
Australia.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING,
until further notice,
Wilkie Collies’ Great Play, in Prologue and three
Acts, entitled
THE NEW MAGDALEN.
FRIDAY, November 37, HAMLET.
Tickets may be purchased during tha day at
Cole’s Book Arcade. Box Plan at Nicholson and
Co.’s.
The Olympic
(late Old Masonic Hall, York-street).
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. M. L. Raphael.
Stage Manager .. .. Mr. D’Aroy atanfleld.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY. NOVEMBER 36,
Magnificent Reception of the
COURT CARDS AT HOME.
The entertainment is a novel one, the dresses
being supero; all the young ladles were attired in
court costumes of a hundred years ago, with
white wigs, velvet coats, satin smalls, and looked
Immense.
The Olympic Company has taken a firm hold
with the lovers of Burlesque.—Evening News.
Last Nights of the famous Burlesque,
ORPHEUS.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 38th
first production of the favourite Burlesque,
THE MAID AND THE MAGPIE
Million Prices—Stalls, 35.; Gallery Is.
seats, at Nicholsons, Bs.
Reserved
H. TREVORAH, Business Manager.
THE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL
George-street, Haymarket.
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
THE HIT oITtHB SEASON.
Triumphant Success of the
NBILLSON FAMILY NBILLSON FAMILY.
Houses packed from floor to celling.
Hundreds unable to obtain admission.
Enthusiastic Reception of
Miss ALICIa DEARLOVE, the Elfcric Sparkl
Audience perfectly electrified.
rong after song encored.
Highly refined Entertainment.
The most powerful combination in the colony.
THIS (Thursday) EVENING at 8 o’clock,
and until 1 urther notice.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 2s; stalls. Is;
balcony. Is.
Artists of acknowledged ability disengaged,
please communicate with Mr. Frank Smith.
Academy of music.
Under the Management of
RIQNOLD. ALLISON, and HISCOCKB.
Fourth Week. Ur abated Success.
RICKARDS-LEETE «:OMBINATION.
THIS and EVERY EVENING,
The GREAT HARRY RICKARDS’ BRIC-A-BRAC
Lightning Cartoonist Sketches, National Local
Celebrities.
Prices, 45., 33., 3s , and Is. Hoxnlan, Nicholson's.
No Free List. Manager lor Mr. Rickard?. Buchan
Hepburn. Acting-Manager for Hignold, Allison,
and Hiscoeke, G. A. Coleman.
r« o ACTORS, ACTRESSES, MANAGERS, &C.
THE THEATRICAL NEWSPAPER
BUREAU.
All the chief London Theatrical Papers on sale,
including " Stage,” “Theatre,” "Topical Times,”
“Dramatic Review,” “Bat,” &o„ at moderate
prices. Postage free to any address in Australia.
vVrite to Manager,
10 IMPERIAL CHAMBERS,
Bank Place, Collins-street, Melbourne.
Everybody i dI'MU'T T
should use (JrJhMJEiJ iJ i P
EXTRA SUPERFINE
FX-OUR
IT 13 MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approval
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA PLOUEi MILL,
BSI Creorge-street, Sydney.
rff\o Country Journalists.—Leaders, Telegrams,
1 and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man of long experience, on moderate
terms. “ Beta,” Bulletin Office.
OFFORD & CO.’S HAiS
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
{Up 39 Next to Eoyal Hotel, and at 652 George Street.
Alex. Berth wick. m ass ,
WALLPAPER, PAINT, &c.
2Si G-eorg'e-st-,
It is a good thing to keep a bottle of Wolfe’s
Schnapps In the house.
Mb. DbCottbot Brown* (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
Mining Leaseholders’ Guido,” and “ Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land an*
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person*
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 52 Castlc-
roagh-street, Sydney, Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record In the Departments and
bupreme Court.*
Why will people dose themselves with
medicine when they have Wolfe’s Schnapps?
THIS WICKED WORLD.
The Sandhurst (Vie.) people have had
their free library open on Sundays till 9 p.m. for
a long time past. Now the commutee have passed
a motion—in view of the large attendance at the
library on Sunday evenings—to keep it open an
hour longer... Bismarck has fulminated an order
to his own people, which might with advantage
be imposed upon the whole world that write their
names. He demands that henceforth everyone
shall sign his name in such a clear, distinct and
legible way that it shall be readable at a glance,
and not have to be studied “ as if there was some-
thing valuable to be found In it when discovered.”
I’.israarck has evidently been trying to read the
signature of Dr. Patrick Moloney, of Melbourne.
....Mr. Edward Scott Docker, surgeon, has [been
granted a British Civil list pension of £ICO, in re-
cognition of the value of his treatment of dysen-
tery by ipecacuanha, and of the saving of life
which it has effected in her Majesty’s forces. The
power of the drug in such cases is not sulliciently
known in the Australian bush.
• • “
Members of the Royal family of England
seldom go to church more than once on a Sunday.
Once, they think, is orthodox; twice is Puritani-
cal . Edhem Pasha, who was named Minister to
France, has been quietly withdrawn, because In
the llrst Bulgarian conference, when Chandordy
spoke violently of Turkish barbarity, he retorted.
.*• pray monsieur. Is the Saint Bartholomew
massacre a mere Action ? ” France never forgave
him this ...When Alexander wai offered the
throne of Bulgaria, and came to ask Bsmarck
whether he should accept the honour, be received
for answer—so at least It was given at the time:
“ Oh, certainly, by all means; it will always be a
pleasant memory for you, even if you don t stay
long there.”....A coloured washerwoman at Al-
bany, Georgia, boasts of twin daughters called by
the surprising names of Mary Magdalene and A ir-
gin Mary. Other helpless twins at Eldora, Indiana,
rejoice in the names of Gasoline and Kerosene—
A lady travelling on an American railroad was an-
noyed by the expectorations of a fellow behind
her and when the conductor entered she drew up
her dress, and asked: “Conductor, have you not
any rule in regard to spitting In the car ? The
genial ticket-puncher smiled on her, and re-
sponded: “No, marm; you can spit around any-
where you 1ike.”...-Ladles’ “improvers ’ are med
so extensively as a means of smuggling that ihe
rf wFs Customs officers have published a notice de-
claring that “these appendages must henceforth
be searched, though with the necessary polite-
ness.”. ..“ Bobby,” said the minister at the dinner
table. “ what do you expect to do when you grow
up?” “I'll be a minister, I think” “Thats a
laudable ambition, indeed, Bobby. Do you think
you will like to be a minister ?” “Oh, yes, Bobby
replied, ‘ pa says you hive go* the easiest job In
the world.” ...A female criminal escaped from
gaol and, in man's attire, ffed from justice. She
was travelling in a coach, and stopped at a country
inn. The travellers alighted, and the supposed
man got out with the others. A man watched the
woman In disguise as she washed her face and
hands, and when she was done he at once arrested
her. He discovered her sex by her manner of
applying the water In washing her face. All
men rub up and down and short. All women
apply the water and stroke gently downward....
Mrs. Smithson (who flatters herself upon her
youthful appearance): “That young lady ever
there is my daughter, Mr. Jones; would you be-
lieve It ?” Jones (looking in the wrong direction):
“Your daughter! Is it possible? I should have
guessed she was your sister.” Mrs. Smithson:
“ Not the lady you are looking at, Mr. Jones; she
la my mother.” Jones: “0h1”....A new arlnk,
equal to Queensland rum, has just been discovered
as largely drunk iu Glasgow. It is fittingly called
•■finish,” and is sold at twopence the gill. Ills
made of methylated spirits, to wbich is added one-
tenth of the quantity of wood-naptha. Its smell is
that of a naptha lamp, and two glasses of It pro-
duce insensibility. For fourpance you can make
your whole family comfortably drunk right
through the Christmas holidays ..A fashion paper
makes the startling announcement that “ low-
necked dresses are to be dropped at the opera
next winter.” This will, no doubt, liven up the
Bale of season tickets. The same paper soys that
nothing but plain collars will be worn by ladies
the coming winter. We should think that comfort
if not delicacy, would forbid such a dec llete cos-
tume . “I threw a stone I know not where, ’is
the flrst line of a recent poem. The author’s name
is not published, but there is little doubt that a
woman wrote it Ihe latest notion among
fashionable ladies is to wear silk stockings em-
broidered with pansies ani butterflies. This Isa
pretty conceit, and we hope to see more of it—
Mrs. “Bonanza” Mackay recently gave a “rose-
dinner ”in London. The table was transformed
into a bed of roses, with just margin enough leit
for the plates and glasses of the guests. The
flowers were ad half-blown, and of a delicate pa'c
oink. Light wai supplied by wax caod es place!
in )a p ge silver candelabra, each candle rising out of
the heart of arose. The menus were painted upon
pale pink satin... P. T. Barnum sues allaitford
paper for £lO,OOO damages for charging that the
elephant Jumbo, by Barnum’s orders, was pur-
posely put in the way of tho train that kill* d him.
An American reprobate advertised that he
would, for half-a-deliar, send "a book that every
sporting man should read; better than anything
of the kind ever printed; 300 pages and no trash.’
He carried out his agreement by sending a shilling
Bible “ But what’s your objection to the girl ?”
“Well.” he said, meditatively, “she's the sort of
girl that one a mother used to tell you would make
you such a good wife.” And then another man
took no more interest In that young female
While a man was out watching his melon crop
somebody eloped with his wife, and now it
la a common thing in his neighbourhood
for married gentlemen to pass their nights
in their melon fields. Melons, they think,
cannot be watched too carelully.... Rachel,
the actress, left Bt. Petersburg just as the
Crimean war broke out, and was banqaetel by
some Russian oflicers, one of whom banterlogiy
said to her:—“ We’ll not bid you good-bye. but
merely say au revoir, for we will soon be in Pans
to drink your health In sparkling champagne.”
“ Monsieur,” replied Rachel, “ France is not rich
enough to treat all her prisoners of war to cham-
pagne.” “Why comes not my love to me?”
asks a poetess. It was probably became he had
Been her before.. London charity supports 65 000
paupers.” This is exclusive of the Royal family.
Zola, the French novelist, says that at one
period ho was hard pushed, and lived iu a garret,
scarcely having food to eat. Suddenly an idea
struck him. He set a trap on the roof and caught
sparrows, of which he made most dainty dishes,
these birds forming his onlv animal food for
months. . .It was a maxim of Bulwer-Lytton that
“ the guest who comes late spoils the dinner.” In
modern boarding-houses it is the guest who comes
early that spot's the dinner; the guest who comes
late always gets left. This is one of tho disad-
vantages of our modern system . Lord Tennyson
has receive! a command from the Queen to write
a poem on the death of Jumbo.


■y
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
&T THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
THIS triumph of musical Invention is acknow-
ledged on all hands to be the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It Is a wonderful little Instrument, which, while
it weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL-SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and executes its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 32 reeds, plays in three keys, ahd all the
parts of most difficult music.
To Mr. H. B. Horton, the Inventor, the world
was first indebted for the Organetto; but that Was
too expensive to come within the reach of all.
After years of persistent effort and intelligent
study, he has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of cost and crudeness.
It requires no skill to extract from it any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas, Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, &0., &c., &c. A child cad
play any of these selections with perfect accuracy.
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that are sent with each
instrument, and are so plain that “ he who runs
may read.” It is be st adapted to the kind of music
which suits an organ best, in which chords pre-
dominate ; but it has also wonderful power in
executing very lively pieces. It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card-holder for convenience
in singing. It will be found invaluable for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles,- and
for Dancing. Every shanty in the bush should be
supplied with one ; and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autophone. It will afford greater and better
entertainment than four times the price can pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Sole Agents for this marvel-
ous little instrument in the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
or
474 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the colonies. Orders have
come to us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonely
shepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the cities—from
everywhere, in fact. And one of the best argu-
ments we can offer as to the genuineness of the
instrument, is the fact that, in all our corre-
spondence, we have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they will recommend it
to their friends.
It is conceded by all educators and moralists
that music is the great refining influence, and
especially with children its effect for good is
boundless. The love for music which music in
the family engenders, is more potent in forming
dispositions and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, end parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm which renders an other
wise hard task an easy one.
The price of the Autophone Is 305.,
and where good music can be procured for such a
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
be without it. With each Autophoce for 30s. wc
send throe tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
All orders for music are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it ou r
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogues of tunes at any time.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Sole Agents for Australia:
Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-street, Sydney, 474
Opposite entrance to Fruit Markets*
Wolfe’s Schnapps taken before meals is a
wonderful appetizer. Try it.
Thousands have recovered robust health
by taking Wolfe's Schnapps.
With no wild Inigoistic hopes
My heaving chest will throb,
So long as Summerfleld and Co.
Sell pants for sixteen bob’*
Beware of inferior spirit being passed on
you as the genuine Wolfe’s Schnapps.
MacLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 Qeorge-street
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &c.*
When the lamp of life burns low, use
Wolfe’s Schnapps. It will give you a new life.
M When we’re married,” said Kate, “ I will aways
obey.
If you grant me one little request,
That is that you’ll always wear Summerfleld
pants—
You will And them the cheapest and best.”*
Wolfe's Schnapps has become the mos
popular drink througaout t je Colonies.
Don’t be put off with any fictitious brand*
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the genuine article.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Taeatre royal-" The Mikado- p. 8,
Gaiety Theatre—“ The New Magdalen”... ~
The Olympic—” Court Cards at Home ”
Opera House—“ Noah’s Ark” „
Alhambra—Variety Company „
Fryer’s Circus, Belmore Park ~
Academy op Music.—Rickards-Leete Com-
bination .. ~
“ The Mikado” still draws crowds to the
Theatre Royal. There Is every likelihood that it
will hold the boards till Christmas. The extended
notice we gave of it last week leaves very little
further to describe The quality of some of the
voices is the only thing to which any exception
can be taken. Gilbert’s humour is often very line.
A slurred phrase or a lost syllable breaks the
charm of the conceit. He wants voices of which
the prime constituents are flexibility and clear-
ness- When the articulation is clumsy or the voice
feeble the meaning of much has to be guessed at.
It is not the music so much as the distinct delivery
of the words that makes such a verse as the fol-
lowing a favourite:—
To sit in solemn silence in a dull dark dock,
In a pestilential prison, with a life-long lock,
Awaiting the sensation of a short sharp shock
From a cheap and chippy chopper on a big black
block.”
It is with these words, set to rapid, jerky music,
Messrs. Vernon, Woodfleld, and Benham wind up
t some speculations on the prospects .of being
executed.
** * *
Mr. Anson gave nothing new at the Opera
1 House during last week. The moderate success
whichattends the performancelof “Grimaldi” ap-
, pears to satisfy him. As the central figure, he is
• certainly worth seeing, but there is nothing in the
trf the drama or in the way it is given to ex-
cite enthusiasm, or even interest. In the farcical
afterpiece he creates a good deal of laughter, but
at the expense of his reputation as an artist.
♦ * *
Mr. Anson has attained something of a
name In England. It Is as a comedian, however,
his chief triumphs have been won. As Grimaldi,
he is not a comedian at all. As Bob Crump, in
“Puppets,” he is a farceur of a very broad
“ variety ” character. It is, therefore, interesting
to observe the terms of some of the praise be-
stowed on him for his performances In Australia.
He receives as Grimaldi eulogiums earned as
Mlnadab. They heap upon him as a tragedian the
glory he achieved as a comic actor. Take note,
Mr. Anson may deserve it all, and more, but, as we
said last week, it is premature, until he has ap-
peared in something besides a stale drama and a
flat farce, to sound the strain of heroic analogy.
How was the strain evoked at all ?
* * *
Well, Mr. Anson, although comparatively
a young man, Is both sensible and far-seeing. He
produced—or got someone to produce—a neat
biographical notice of G. W. Anson; had it printed
' on pink paper, and sent copies of it about town.
The sketch is short, but irradiation succeeds
i irradiation with such rapidity that the eye is kept
1 leaping from luminous aureole to luminous aure-
c ole until the optical nerve snaps. It is said that
(Ctusar’s “Gallic War” would have been twice as
Hong had he made mention of his defeats. Mr.
/Anson’s study of brevity is altogether Independent
rof such an imputation, of course, but the effect
1 has been to make some people hurry up with great
ipats of butter and labour to force them into the
rmodest actor’s mouth long before he can have a
ihealthy appetite for them. •
* * *
iMr. Anson is a Scotchman, and was born
itn'the latter part of 1847. He was educated for the
•Civil Service, and passed “several preliminary
•examinations with honours.” In 1865 he took to
t*he r stage in He next went to Liver-
pool-and passed .thence to London. In 1873, he
appeared in the comedy of “ Sour Grapes.” Right
*Uong, results Then he won triumphs
in fam Taylor’s and followed It up
by starring in (jUjpert's “ Hearts.” Every-
thing was lustreuS;fltraight on from here until, on
the 10th of AUiKiRt last, Patchett Martin got up at
the side of a table in the Criterion In London and
isaid that, “ having ha 4 the pleasure of witnessing
)Mr. Anson’s really powerful acting,’’ he felt sure
(the colonial Press would recognise his gift. Tnat
was the biggest and brightest jewel in jthe actor’s
crown.
• ♦ »
Looking at such a galaxy of corruscfttions
it was quite natural for the obliging critic to
chronicle, even though Mr. Anson merely came
out and stood on his head, that “we have at the
Opera House at the present time an actor of
Supremely tranacendant abilities.”
* * *
■Ot2 next Saturday, Mr. Anson will pro-
duces new play called “Noah’s Ark.” It is to be
hnneS ihat in this piece he will find opportunities
to show really the sort of stuff that Is in him. Two
or thcoe.o£ the company playing “ Grimaldi ” with
him must ba weary of the insipid business that
tails to tbesi. ” Noah’s Ark ” invites the title of a
i (live) stock piece. It should have some life In It.
l It used to have.
♦S * f
(Of “Court Cards” precedes
‘»<i Orpheus” at the Sydney Olympic It is hardly too
vmueh to say that if it contained some good jokes,
ibright dialogue, and ingenious puns, it would
rreally be as good a thing as we have ever seen in
iSydney, but, alasl in these “Court Cards” the
‘“ joker” seems to have been absent, The person
irjr persons who wrote the piece, with far-sighted
and judicious modesty, retrain from revealing
♦heir identity, but, from internal evidence, we are
inc'tned to fancy tnatJ. C. Neild (the Parliamen-
tary farceur ), the author of ” Box and Cox,” and
the late Joseph Miller, all had a hand In its com-
noß'tion. Especially the manes of Joe Miller.
Still we are willing to admit that the business im-
nroves with eacn presentation, and the audience
seem to like it a# it is, for they applauded even on
the first night, in the demonstrative it somewhat
mode affected by Independent members
in the new Parliament, The plan of “ Court
Cards” is good. It has been proposed by Welldone
Rosebery that there should be colonial peers.
Thev appear in “ Court Cards,” and we hope that
t t i lo only place where they ever will appear,
Harry Sullivan, as the Marquis de Crown-street,
hos a. role midway between that of corner man at
Christys and Gratiano in [the “ Merchant of
Venice ’—a hybrid character In which he shows
to some advantage. The court dresses are very
handsome, and the stage arrangement of the
afternoon tea-tables tends much to enhance the
snectacular effect. The minuet dance at the con-
Xsion gives a graceful finish to the “At Home,”
thesistersMartin (we like to put it that way, it re-
minds us of Sisters of Mercy and’lujah lasses-so
do the Martins-we don’t know why) being in this
the central figures.
* * *
« Orpheus,” now the Olympic after-piece,
draws very fair, and exceedingly noisy, houses—
encores, and sur-eacores, being voraciously de-
manded. Miss Barony plays with gay abandon
but is somewhat loaded wltn a couple of her songs,
which are not of e iual merit with others in the
niece. Miss Amy Horton au contraire has “ fetch-
ing ” songs, which she invests with their full force,
and*the avaricious crowd ask her for about 30
oocores altogether. This oannot be accounted for
altogether by the excellence of the songs them-
; selves, for if Miss Amy sang the “Old Hun-
dredth,” or “We’re marching on to war, the
house would yell for a repetition. But a
with you, Amy. Say “Karon, if you wish to be
'correct, “Charon” if you like it that way; but
-Con’t. please, say “Sharon,’ for really it doesn t
Bound nice. Dot Read does a very clever skip-
uiotf-rope dance. It would be difficult to bestow
urn much praise upon Mr. Dunn for his
actinß iu “ Orpheus; 99 there is a deep and bus-
iaimd pathos in his every moment, and though
iu appearance he is neither very beautiful nor
wonaerfuliy graceful, yet in him there is much
to admire, and in his art still more. He acts Cer-
berus, the triple-headed dog. There is genius in
every wag of his tail. “ The Maid and the Mag-
pie ” is to be put on on Saturday night. With
such a name the piece ought to contain muoh
dialogue.
• • • «
“Hamlet” drew a good house at the
Gaiety Theatre on Friday last, and is to be re-
peated on Friday till further notice. “The New
Magdalen,” the dramatic version of Wilkie Collins’
novel, was produced on Monday, and is to run for
some time. The story Is told on the stage in a
prologue and three acts. In the former Grac e
Rosebery, who is going to relatives to whom she is
a stranger, and Mercy Merrick, the girl oppressed
and persecuted on account of some former impro-
prieties from a continuance of which she was
rescued by the Refuge, meet. Each relates her
story to the other, find then the Prussians (for the
scene is on the French frontier in the war of 1870)
attack the place and a bullet lodges in Grace
Rosebery’s brain-case and she falls with much
effect. Mercy thereupon takes the name and
letters of introduction of her more favoured
friend, gets passed to England, and Is received joy-
ously by Grace’s relatives. But Grace, being a
blood relation of one of the leader-writers on the
morning papers, and, therefore, having a skull as
thick as the armour on the Nelson, is not much
incommoded by the bullet, and, recovering from
the wound, meets Mercy in England and knocks
the stuffing out of her In one round. The last two
acts show how Mercy, who is certainly mistress of
the position, yields to her noble nature and con-
fesses the imposture. Deserted by her former
flanci— Mr. Alfred Boothman—she readily responds
to the woolngs of Julian Gray, the curate, and they
decide to depart to another and a newer clime.
■ ■ *
Miss Myra Kemble has been specially en-
gaged to play Mercy Merrick, and upon her the
burden of the piece falls. She looked the
character thoroughly. The lines in her face, the
indescribable touches that denote the ravages of
age or trouble, were there, and her appearance
showed her willingness to conquer any womanly
vanity she may possess, for the sake of her art.
She looked exactly as one who has undergone and
suffered as Mercy has done; as one over whom
some 15 boisterous and troubled summers have
passed since she stood “ where the brook and river
meet.” This Indicates the faithfulness of her
make-up, for Miss Myra on “the Block” is
younger than when we saw her first. But yet with
all this, there were times when we did not like her
acting. A girl who could venture to do all that
Mercy did would have considerable power of self-
control, and would not act in such a way as to
raise suspicion in her every word, and netray her-
self in every look. Miss Kemble has a large fund
of intensity, but If she would administer it with a
trifle more judgment its effect would be consider-
ably Increased. Her dresses were “just lovely.”
In the first act she wears a dove-coloured satin,
reefed in with silk lace fringe and armour-plated
with a panier of beads in front, and In the second
she appears in crushed-Dlbbs-coioured silk,
flounced witharobeof grey cashmere cut decoUetti
at the bottom.
* * *
Miss Dam pier, as Grace Rosebery, plays a
smaller, though difficult part, with much success.
Her eppearance In the first act was too purely
healthful for that of a convalescent just recover-
ing from a protracted illness, but this must be
attributed to the bracing effect of the voyage
from Calais to Dover. Mr. Dampler, as the Rev.
Julian Gray, the exceedingly unconventional
curate, was more than usually natural, and very
larely spoke of “er-hlm”asd er-her,” It is
human to “ er,” but we always like Mr. Dimple
best when he “ er-3 ” least. Julian Gray has some
splendid speeches of the-maa-who-would-lift-his-
hand kind, and the gallery boys simply rise and
yell to these. This shows that virtue is still the
motive power of the masses.
♦ ♦ *
And, at the risk of offending the manage-
ment, we would advise those who sit in the circle
to get as far away from below the gallery as
possible, for In the third act the sympathetic
“ bobbers ” let fall great tears of sympathy, when
Mercy asks Grace for it and can find none,
* • • ♦
A matinee was given in the Alhambra
Music Hall, on last Saturdav, for the purpose of
introducing the Neiilson Family to a friendly
audience. The entertainment consisted of vocal
and Instrumental music. Madame Nelli on has
five interesting children, all of whom play the
violin and piano. The ages of the children would
appear to run from about six to 14, A gavotte, in
which the mother took the piano and each child a
violin, was a great success. The spectacle was
also pretty. But the best tblng in the entertain-
ment was a song called “Tit for Tat,” sung by
Gertie, a child of nine or ten years. The eldest girl
shows a very creditable amount of skill on the
harp, as well as on piano and vio in.
• • 9 •
Harry Rickards, at the Academy of Music,
has introduced some songs which will help to
make things hum. A new programme is pro-
mised for Saturday night.
* * * *
“Shadows of a Great City” is the name
of the new drama at the Melbourne Royal. It is
“ Atnurrlkan.” The great city is New Fork, and
the shadows fall, lift, gather again, deepen into
gloom, and finally disperse through five acts. We
won’t attempt to grapple with the plot. The
struggle would last too long. Suffice It to say that
a Jew pawnbroker and a dissipated young man
work a good deal of wickedness for the sake of
securing a million dollars Incidentally we ask—
who wouldn t ? They employ a " tough ” to
drown a little girl, and are Instrumental in con-
signing a virtuous sailor to prison. But villainy-
thank Heaven I—fails as It ever does fail—in drama.
Nemesis waits upon crime after an interval of 15
years. The dear little girl, now grown to
be the most delightful of big girls, proves
her claim to the million dollars, and weds
the virtuous sailor who had saved her
from a watery grave when the “tough ”
dropped her in. The dialogue of the “Shadows”
is neither impressive nor side-splitting, but the
incidents ape thrilling and the situations powerful.
For a work of this class, too, the story is closely
told, and the improbability lies not so much in
things that do happen as in things that don’t.
What the eye can’t see the heart won’t grieve, it
Is odd, of course, that an heiress to a million
dollars should reside at a boathouse with an Irish
washerwoman and the virtuous sailor for 15 years
without ever being unearthed. But then those 15
jears pass while the curtain’s down.
• ■ «
The scenery and stage management are
truly excellent. Nothing better has been seen in
Australia or anywhere else. The pawnbroker's
shop in the first act is so provokingly real that we
felt inclined to take “ it ” off the chain and a?k
“ uncle ” if be could do better for us than the man
we usually go to. The prison in the next act—in-
geniously shifting to show the escape of the
sailor and Jim Farren—with the child, and finally
resolving itself into New York harbour. Is
managed with much skill. A moving panorama
shows us the escapees making for some rock in
their boat. When they land, Jim Farren fulfils
his mission of giving the child a bath. “ Would
you drowp the little innocent ? ” asks the virtu-
ous sailor. “ Unless the little Innocent can swim,”
promptly answers the “ tough ’’—and in she goes.
There was ao much grim humour about the reply
that we must plead guilty to laughing even at that
awful moment. Other scenery was equally effec-
tive, the final “set” being a real triumph of car-
penter’s work.
♦ * ♦
There is a deal of good acting in this
drama. Miss Maggie Moore plays Biddy Honan,
the warm-hearted Irishwoman, who is a mother
to the young heiress duiing the 15 years that
elapse between the second and third acts. Thanks
to her, and not to the author, the fun never flags
while Biddy Is on the stage. The character is
made so refreshingly natural that improbabilities
of plot are forgotten when Biddy is about. As
the humbly-bred heiresss, MlsslKate Bishop makes
her first appearance at this theatre. There is more
stage room hero than at the Opera House, and
Miss Bishop is well “ displayed.” She plays
gracefully, and certainly Improves amazingly
from five to twenty years of age. As a child, her
hair was black.; As a young woman,»;he locks are
golden. But perhaps being dropped In the
water brought about the change. There may
P a , ye . iP® 611 some chemical works discharging
into that part of the harbour. Mr. Vincent is the
sailor and boatbuilder, who, after being wrong-
fully convicted, makes things all right again by
escaping from prison, and ultimately becoming
united in holy matrimony to a million dollars. The
part is an important one, but Mr. V. seemed rather
out of his element. One time and another he has
to do and say a good many foolish things. A
knowledge of this, probably, prevents him from
appearing at his best. Mr. Williamson gives a
really fine portrait of the vagabond Jim Farren.
In the first act he is no worse than a volatile
“prig,” a sort of Charley Bates; but the job of
popping the little innocent” In the water, fol-
lowed by a long series of sentences, transform him
Into an ugly, shambling villain in tbe third act.
His recognition of the ex-sailor and the rescued
girl is capitally dramatic, and the gods howl at
their old favourite with a horrible unanimity.
For the moment John Stoefel is quite forgotten.
Mr. Frank Cates Is appropriately melodramatic;
first, as the young man worn thin with dissipation,
and subsequently as the swell, whom villainy and
unlawfully gained dollars turn prematurely gray.
And Mr. Redwood, as the pawnbroker, makes a
pleasing companion In crime. Grand scenery and
£9 od .. playiD F ought to make “ Shadows of a Great
City draw well enough.
* *■ *• *
An agency has been opened in the Im-
perial Chambers, Melbourne, for the supply of
journals of interest to the theatrical world. This
is a line of business which has been neglected
hitherto and should prove a profitable spec.
*» m m
The New Zealanders are expecting a visit
from Miss Christian, who is very popular in that
colony, which she has not visited since she was
there with the Rev. Charles Clark 10 years ago.
** * •
George Augustus Sala’s tour through New
Zealand, under the management of R. S. Smythe,
has been, according to that astute individual, a
thorough success. Notwithstanding the depression
existing all over Maorlland, crowded audiences
assembled everywhere; and the author of “ Twice
Round the Clock ” went to some places where his
experienced manager did not venture with either
R. A. Proctor or Archibald Forbes. Sala will close
his Antipodean tour in Tasmania a few days be-
fore Christmas.
** * *
The beautiful Lingard is doing very well
in London. It was she who “ created ” the part of
Pauline In the original production of “Called
Back.” At latest advices our old friend had gone
in for a further creation of Philllppa In a kindred
production, “ D irk Days.” Both of these heroines
go crazy for a while. By the way, a London paper
falls foul of Miss Lingard’s Phillippa for showing
too much of the whites of the eyes. Beautiful
orbs, the writer seems to consider, were not made
to be cast up into the head.
** * *
Mr. Charles Turner and his wife (Miss
Annis Montague) have, according to letters re-
ceived by the last American mall, just signed an
agreement for two years at £6OO per montn. For
this little salary they will eacn have to sing three
times a week, and d oring the term will visit every
city of importanci in the States. The opera sea-
son does not begin till the first of January, but
concerts and festivals will fill up the interval. The
company Is an exceptionally strong one, contain-
ing, besides the tenors, sopranos, &o , 100 per-
formers In the chorus, 75 in the orchestra, and a
ballet of 70, the principals from Paris and Berlin.
Altogether, things are looking so rosy with our
old-time favourites that they are not Inclined to
leave the States, although they profess to yearn
to behold again “our beautiful harbour,’’ and to
live again beneath the temperea climate of the
Sunny South.
REFLECTED GLORY.
“ Grandpa, what’s reflected glory ?” asked a little
boy,
“ In my reading there are phrases which my
thoughts annoy:
Papers write of ‘England's greatness,’ and our
own ‘ reflected glory ’—
What Is that ?” he queried, puzzled, of his grand-
sire, bowed and hoary.
“ Sonny, take that mirror yonder, hold it in the
sun,
Mark the light reflected in it while five seconds
run;’’
Thus he did, and, quick returning, to the room
the mirror bore he:
“Grandpa Why , there's nothing in it!" —
“ Sonny, that’s ’ reflected glory.’ ”
In a recent number we commented on the
case of the man Hunter, who, at 73 years of age,
“dispatched” a fellow-creature somewhere near
Sandhurst. We suggested that his only motive
for indulging in such a vagary at his advanced
age must be a laudable desire to secure redemp-
tion and pardon in the piison cell. Later de-
velopments have proved the accuracy of our idea.
Mr. Hunter’s warrant has been signed, and he
now patiently awaits the happy day which will
bring him release from the troubles and vex-
ations of this wicked world. Latest telegrams
from the dungeon announce that “ the murderer,
Hunter, is still calm, and professes to have made
his peace with his Maker.”
OF COURSE.
How should he be ? He killed a man,
He shed another's blood:
Than that there's been no better plan—
No, never since the Flood,
For bringing sinful souls relief
(The “ true repentance ” balm)—
Let others suffer care and grief—
All murderers are calm.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Years ago we had a fierce longing to be
another Jack Bloodybones, the Marauder of the
Spanish Main. When older, we desired to be a
Napoleon. Now, our desire Is to be Mayor of
Llsmore, N.S.W. For this official is enveloped in a
halo of glory beside which the fame of John Davies
is but as the light of a glow-worm beside an 80-
candle burner. Lately, to add still further to the
repute of this official and bis fellows, it has been
ordered that any person loitering on the streets of
that cltjr and refusing to “disperse” when re-
quested by the Mayor, aldermen, officer or servant,
shall be cast into the burning fiery furnace, or, at
least, flned*“ten bob.” We would like to be In
Llsmore when his washup the Mayor makes the
first loitering citizen “disperse.” For wo have
never seen one person “ disperse ” yet.
• • v
Religion is a disease with some people—
they take It periodically with their winter cough,
their rheumatic twinges, and their chilblains.
And the disease, epidemic, or infection inlluences
various people in sundry ways. We know one
man who lately got religion. He got it badly. He
is a farmer and breeds cattle. A neighbour at a
1 ttle distance took a sudden fancy to a fine milch
cow. He wanted to buy, the farmer would not
sell. He offered £4, which was promptly refused
by the Bible-guided bucolic. In a day or two the
cow died, and the farmer straightway repaired to
his neighbour. “ I’ve altered my mind about that
cow. Brown,” he observed; “you can have her
for four.” The money was paid, and a rsceipt
given, the buyer announcing bis intention of
taking delivery in a couple of days. On calling,
with that object in view, he was informed the cow
was out in the paddock somewhere, and, with the
farmer, he proceeded to seek her. Eventually she
was found. “ By 1 she’s dead,” exclaimed the
purchaser. “ Bh,” deprecatingly observed the
follower of the meek and lowly Nazarene, “ don’t
swear.” “Swear be d d,” forcibly ejaculated
the owner of the defunct crummio; “ I don’t want
a dead cow; she's dead, she's no good to me.”
“ Ah I” observed the other, philosophically, “ she is
dead; well, well, wejknownot what a day may bring
forth. It’s unfortunate—for you,” “ You’ll give
me back the money." “ I’m d—eceived in myself
if.’l do” was the response; “ you bought her, she’s
dead, and that’s a’l about it. I must go up to the
house; there’s a prayer meeting at our place to-
night. Good day.”
• • *
Ttn shearers’ cook is a long-suffering indi-
vidual. His lot is a trying one. He has a hard
row to hoe in life. Each year, with the regularity
of Time, the shearers arrive, the board is filled,
the sheep mustered, the shears are plied, and the
wool is stripped from the backs of the Jumbucks.
Each year sees the same old faces in the same’ old
places; the “ringer” of last year is the “ringer”
of this; and the professional grumbler of ten
ya;rj syne is here to-day, chipping away, calling
for tar, cursing the boys, the files, the shears, the
fleece, the sheep, and, in fact, all and sundry with-
in his ken. At meal times the cook comes in for
his share of abuse, but, as be is Inured by custom,
he hears it but he heeds it not. The beef is boiled
too quickly, it is hard; boiled too slowly, It is rags;
the bread is doughy—a sod—it is not doughy
enough—couldn’t cut it with a tomahawk; the
potatoes are leathery; the tea wish-wash; the
“browny” black; and the cook a “- fool.”
And so it runs from year to year. A new cook
arrived at a river station one wool harvest. He
was very quiet, but did his work well. Ooe day
the grumbler arose in wrath. “Call this a feed
f ora man?” he bounced; “why, me if I
haven’t lived better on Staggerin’ Bob and strike-
me-bllnd (damper and boef), and if I couldn’t make
a better stoo than this out o’ blood wood chips
and horehound, flavoured with stringy-bark gum,
mo.” “ Don’t you like it ?” queried the quiet
cook. “No, I don’t.” “Well, don’t nag like a
blank old woman,” said Sojer; “come out in the
front. I’ll soon give you a better appetite.”
The cook did a Sullivan knock-out in three
rounds, and when the shearer was restored to con-
sciousness he was invited hy the quiet pannikln-
polishef to go inside and finish his dinner. Strange
to say, he grumbled never more during that cook a
tenure of office, and when shearing was over bis
name beaded the list for the cook’s purse. We
were that cook —[Or that shearer, which?—
Ed. 8.l
* * *
A traveller, tired and hungry, came to a
I shepherd's hut one evening. He had lost his way
and could not get to his destination by nightfall.
He applied for permission to camp. This was at
once grante 1, and, hobbling his horse, he entered
hut. Ills request for something to cat was
also willingly acceded to. “ There’s the flour-bag,
mate; help yourself.” “Bu I’, 1 ’, my friends, I am
hungry; I have eaten nothing since morning. Can
you let me have a cut at-the damper ? Of course I
will pay you.” The shepherd does not like baking.
Cooking beef or mutton Is not much trouble, that
simply means hanging the bucket and keeping the
fire going, but baking is a more serious task. Bach
shepherd bakes his own cake, and marks it with
the knife Into several triangular pieces, represent-
ing the days of the week. So much, and no more
Strickland’s Splendid Offer.


Is eaten, and when the loaf Is finished another Is
baked, at the expiration of the seventh day. At
length Bill consented to allow his damper to be
attacked. The stranger was hungry. He ate and
chatted, and occasionally prized off another sec-
tion of the cake while masticating a mouthful of
mutton, interspersing the entertainment with
humorous remarks, but never a smile lighted old
Bill’s leathern features. His eye was on the
damper, which was disappearing rapidly. Rising
at length he quietly removed It, and placed It in
the tucker-box. “Walt a minute,” said the tra-
veller, “ I have not yet done.” “ Done, be blowed,”
said the old fellow, gruffly, “why, confound you,
you’ve eaten right into Wednesday."
The Australian black probably ranks in
the lowest grade of intellectually endowed ani-
mals. He has no yesterday, no to-morrow, no
past, no future, no traditions, no ambitions, no-
thing beyond or behind to-day. And withal he is
a happy animal. There is no possible parallel
with the supreme and unadulterated contentmpnt
which reigns in a camp of niggers well lined with
’possum, snake, or iguana, disposed in various
attitudes of rest chatting and laughing in the
sunlight, and puffing voluminous clouds of white
smoke from clays as black and rank as are their
own ebony persons. It was our privilege to wit-
ness such a scene lately. King, nobles, peers, and
peasants of the Dyraabaroginnle tribe, numbering
in all something under a score, were In camp. But
little amusement was indulged in, the tribe were
resting after dinner. Old King Billy and another
were, however, seated a little apart from the
crowd amusing themselves with a pack of very
worn and ancient cards The (game was twenty-
fives, and the monarch’s “ mozzle ” was bad. He
lost without any variation from the time he sat
down. His tobacco was all won, then he staked
his pipe, then followed tomahawk, nulla-nulla,
keelaman, climbing vine, blanket, dllly-bag, band-
kerchief, hat, shirt, and pants, and, the game
ended, the king stood before us in all his wild un-
tutored loveliness, “stone broke,” and busted,
stark naked, but still undaunted, and from his
proud lips came the words, “You gib It bore ol’
Billy thixp snce, me bln bore ol’ now." And
we left to call upon a gentleman who is organising
a mission eeirvice for New Patagonia.
* * *
For ia sample of cool courage commend us
to the ad. of a Melbourne “ Intelligence Office.”
There is a reckless disregard of consequents
about itbe announcement that “original in rnc
moriam- poetry ’ is composed at this establish-
ment. Surely trouble must come of this. Ataay
moment a people’s long pent-up fury may burst
forth upon the office whence those old familiar
verses emanate. Hitherto none have known on
whom to empty the vials of their wrath, but now
it is different. When the populace are maddened
by a particularly excruciating obituary verse,
they will rush round to the advertised address and
demand the blood of the aggressor. To compel
him to “compose" his own In Memoriam, and
then hang him to the nearest tree, will be a work
of grim justice, flavoured with humour. For it
is noticeable that since this gruesome rhyme
factory started, In Memorla have waxed longer
and more incomprehensible. Here Is one of three
verses clipped from the Melbourne Age:—
“ Many a brother and dear sister
From their home has been cast away,
Wish they had their own dear mother,
Never more to go astray.”
The insinuation contained la tbo te two last lines
is a direct offence against the M jsaio taw which
bids us honour our father and our 1 mother. If the
poor lady did go astray, why dw ell upon the cir-
cumstance in poetrv ? Again, a re we to under-
stand, from the anxiety of the ad vertlsers to have
her back again, that she is still li able to go astray
In her present sphere? Or is ) 1 alt an uninten-
tional libel on the respectability o f the family, for
which the “ original poet" is liri loraotly respon
slble. Such verses as tnese are seri us raat'err,
provoking strong emotions aodU nhe ooaceol to„
world it were well if the address i of the possible
author were kept a close secret. Ve have spoken.
Joe Symes will think twice now before he
mounts the platform at the He [I of Science and
challenges the Deity. There’s a gentleman knock-
ing around Melbourne of whom wo would wish to
speak with every respect. The police call him
George Gibbon, but he calls himself “ the true son
of God.” Police evidence, as we know too well, Is
not always reliab'e, and JoeiSymes, ! Bays rumour, is
getting a bit nervous about this latest claimant to
divinity. We only hope “Gibbons” will look in
at the Melbourne Secular Association’s gatherings
and have It fairly out with their high priest. In
spite of all Mr. Joseph’s bravade, the chances are
he won’t like it if a real, solid, ttesb-and-blood
member of the Trinity jumps up one night and
announces his Intention of working a miracle on
Joe, or knocking “some of the unbelieving stuff*
ins’ nut of him." By the way, ’tis wonderful how
history repeats Itself. The Melbourne police use
identically the same argument s the Sadducees
of old. They say “ George Gibbon "is under the
Influence of drink.
« • a
“ What m ikes your nose so red ? ” queried
au 111-mannered free and unenlightened voter of
M'Derraott, at one of hi* meetings in the Alfred
Hal', Ballarat. *• Blushing foryour confounded ig-
norance, and want of good manners, sir,” promptly
replied the fl re-eater, amid the cheers of the
assembled mob. That individual questioned Mao.
no more.
Royalty and Loyalty.
AT A LATE MUNICIPAL CANVASS CHEERS WERE GIVEN FOR THE QUEEN A ND-JOHN DAVIES.


The proprietor of Wolfe’s Schnapps has
succeeded in making a spirit which is appreciated
by the whole world.
The sculptor’s skill may give delight,
So may the poet’s rhyme.
But suits from Summerfield are sure
To lit you every time.*
T Every year Wolfe’s Schnapps gains in
favour with a discerning public, while other
liquors are cast into oblivion.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket only.
TRTN BUSTS
PERFECTED.
OUR CORSETS ARE PERFECTION,
The “ A., H., and S. Corset, 3/3.,
The “ Emporium ” „ 4/9.
The “ Haymarket” „ 5/-
The “Universal” ~ 7<6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket only.
Beale and company,.
SOLE PROPRIETORS
of the
“BEALF” HIGH-ARM PATENT MACHINE,
specially designed and built under direct personal
supervision, to meet Australian requirements.
The “ BEALE ” High-Arm Patent Machine is a
triumph of mechanical skill.
The “BEALE” High-Arm Patent Machine has
a Patent Button-hole Apparatus, turning out un-
approachable work.
The “BEALE” High-:
_ arm Patent Machine will
hem, fell, bind, braid, cord, rulile, quilt, gather,
tuck, embroider, and make Crewtl-work, Rucking,
Frilling, etc., automatically.
The “BKaLK” High-arm Patent Machine is the
best for the Family, the Dressmaker, the Tailor,
the Bootmaker, the Saddler, the Coaonbuilder, the
Tentmaker— in short, the best for every class of
work that can be mentioned.
An early inspection is invited at any of our City
Showrooms. All information promptly given ia
reply to letters from our country friends.
BEALE and COMPANY
are Sole Agents for the
“ Wonderful Wertheim” Sewing Machine.
BEALE and COMPANY,
Sole Importers of
THE SWEET “HAPSBURG” PIANO,
Sweet “ Hspsburg ” Piano,
Sweet “ Hapsburg ” Plano.
A perfect Model. Strongest Iron Frame.
All the latest improvements.
Most gratifying testimonials reach us daily, in
strongest commendation, of this truly popular
instrument, out of numbers wo will publish two
or three, taken at random.
From HENRY GRANGER, Eeq,,
I have much pleasure In testifying to the su-
perior tone and general excellence of the HAPS-
BURG IRON-FRAMED PIANO I purchased from
you 12 montbs ago, and would cordially recom-
mend all purchasers to select from your stock of
Hapsburgs, believing them to be tho best pianos
in the market.
From JOHN SPEAR, Fsq ,
Glebe ±-olnt.
Twelve months ago I purohasea from you a
HAPSBURG IRON-FRAMED PIANO. It has
given tho most perfect satisfaction, and I shall
have great pleasure in recommending your instru-
ments to all my friends.
From ALFRED ALLEN, Esq ,
Fern Cottage,
The HAPSBURG IMPERIAL
got from you some two years ago, has retained all
its tone and sweetness from tne first, and it is
really a pleasure to play on an instrument from
wfiich so much real music can be got.
From W. CLEAVER WOODS, Esq,, M.D.,
Albury.
Some two years ago I selected from Messrs.
BEALE and COMPANY’S Stock of HAPSBURG
PIANOS an instrument which struck me at the
time as being an exceptionally good one. It com-
bined brilliancy with mellowness or tone, In addi-
tion to possessing an unusually sympathetic touch.
I am pleased to bear testimony to the satisfaction
It has always given me, as also to its apparent
nonsusceptibility to the effects of this very trying
climate.
SEND for CATALOGUES and LISTS
to
BEALE and COMPANY.
City Showrooms:
386 and 612 GEORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS,
161 OXFORD STREET
TRAVELLERS and BRANCHES THROUGHOUT
TUB COUNTRY,
Liberal terms of time-payment.
The world-renowned tonio and stimulant
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Almost every person has some form of
scrofulous poison latent la his veins. When this
develops in scrofulous sores, ulcers, or eruptions,
or takes the form of rheumatism or organic
diseases,the suffering that ensues is terrible beyond
descriptor Hence the gratitude of those who
discover, as thousands yearly do, that Ayeb S
SarsapariijTjA will thoroughly eradicate this from
the system.
, If out of sorts try TT'o7/c’s Schnapps.
BRIEF MENTION.
The port of Sydney has been declared
“ clean” by the Health Officer. Sydney Is the
place where they shunt the sewage Into the beau-
tiful harbour.
Tom Slattery says that Lord Loftus was
one of N.B. Wales’ ablest Governors. Perhaps.
But his ability, like Tom’s, lay In his success In
concealing It.
“ A little leaven levelleth the hole,” quoted
the wheelwright, as he stopped the cracks In a
dray-wheel with dough prior to guaranteeing It as
sound as Sir James Martin on the “ burning ques-
tion.”
N.B.W. grapes grown within 10 miles of
the Murray’s northern bank, are to be allowed
Into Victoria free. The discovery that N.B.W. is
only 9Hj miles from north to south will quickly
follow.
Holdsworth’s poetry has been praised by
the London Tablet. Let’s see. Doesn’t the Tab-
let think Sladen’s the most facile pen since
Shelley’s, and Parkes’ “ Murmurs of the Stream ”
equal to the “ Song of the Shirt ? "
Four hundred thousand signatures were
attached a petition to the Imperial Parliament for
the protection of girls. Prom the accounts pub-
lished we had not supposed so many men In the
United Kingdom favoured the cause.
An interesting advertisement appears in a
Melbourne paper resnectlng a calf. Someone left
it In a paddock at Campbellfield three years ago,
and If he doesn’t call and settle up, advertiser
threatens to sell that calf to defray expenses. We
trust that It won’t be sold as veal.
A well-known down-the-river J.P. was
asked to come to the court to adjudicate on a case.
“Go to Incarnadined Sheol,” was the reply, “I’ve
got to look after my corn. I only took the billet
of Justice of the Peace to get off serving on the
jury.”—Newcastle (N S.W.) Herald.
Owing to St. John’s Church at Parramatta
having been struck by lightning, the Botany Bay
Chinese, who were lately “ converted” and had
built a church, have relapsed Into Idolatry. They
say It Is usele.-s to beat gongs and let off crackers
to please one who cannot protect his own house.
In Adelaide a domestic servant has been
adjudged Insane. Wanting to marry a Bishop was
the scape her hallucination took. When asked
why she sought an alliance with a Church dig-
nitary she admitted It was for the purpose of
endeavouring to convert him to Christianity.
And they say she’s mad I
Thomas Hand, of Adelaide, wanted work
and wanted food, so he took three bricks ana
threw them through the plate-glass windows of
the General Post Office. By this simple device he
obtained his wants. They’ve given him six months’
good hard labour and enough “burgoo” to enable
dim to do it. Thomas probably thinks himself a
smart man over this Job he expects the public to
see a “ brick” in Hand because he took a brick In
hand. Do you follow ?
Mr. Copeland, M.L.A., has moved that
each member of the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly
who shall have served in that capacity for seven
years shall thereupon be entitled to receive a per-
manent railway pass as a recognition of his ser-
vices to the State. When a prisoner Is released
from gaol after serving his sentence he gets a free
railway pass to enable him to wander up-country.
We are glad to see that Parliament is to have all
the privileges of the man who gets Into Darling-
hurst.
It is not generally known that the Salva-
tion Army is dead against smoking. In a Sep-
tember number of the War Cry we read:—“At
the Holiness meeting of last Sunday morning were
several notable liberations from Satan’s power.
One of the brothers who broke his chain and
joined ouv ranks threw away his fetters, repre-
sented by many short pipes of three Inches long
The Lord was pleased to turn his stomach and his
conscience to grace and to take the debasing de-
sire away.” Bishop Moorhouse, of Melbourne, is
one of the greatest patrons of a short pipe. We
begin to tremble for his eternal welfare.
The Melbourne cable tramways are pro-
viding a little mild excitement for the good people
of that city. Tdey love to lino the pathways and
look «ut for collisions. Occasionally the public
hunger for excitement Is appeased. A boy slips
off the step and gets dragged along or a cab can’t
get out of the way quick enough. The other day
one of the cars ran violently Into a hearse and
nearly upset it. This contretemps aroused vast
excitement among the ladies. Not that any solici-
tude was expressed for the driver of the sable
equipage. As one plump matron explained. It
was tho “poor dear creature Inside they were
thinking about.
Cardinal Moran and suite witnessed the
performance of “ Marie Antoinette ” by the girls
of a Sydney R.C. school. We’ve often wondered
whether ecclesiastics themselves believed that the
Elizabeths, Marys, and Antoinettes of school
dramas were the historical ones—the ones who
swore like troopers, spat in men’s faces, conferred
their favours with delightful all-round liberality,
and wondered why starving peasants didn’t eat
bread and cheese I But. there I Such is the mutual
affection between throne and pulpit that no male
murderer or female wanton ever plagued poor
humanity whom a priest could not be found to
praise.
Melbourne has startsd a “Rotten Row,”
where the rank and fashion of the Southern city
meet to babble rcandal In bad English. Sydney
journals now cry for a similar parade where the
heau monde, and some of the half world, too, may
meet and exchange views uninterrupted by the
remarks of “ trades-people.” We strongly sup-
port the proposal. We go further, and offer a sug-
gestion ourselves. It is that the drive have a gal
lows at one end and a triangle at the other. This
would not only be in keeping with the present
penal code of the colony, but would call up plea-
sant episodes In the family history of some of the
leaders of fashion.
Sad tidings come from the Wimmera. The
parsons of that region are not the Aroadlau shep-
herds we had pictured them. Rum Is there as in
most other places, and alas I the parsons are Its
chief Idolaters. The Presbytery of the Wimmera
submitted a resolution to the General Assembly for
providing against the evil. It says, “ Scandal has
been caused by the ministers of our Church giving
way to this vice.” So it has—so It has. But if we
could only confine them to that one failing, there
would still be some hope for the cloth. Rum In
itself is a pleasant vice enough. It’s what they
get up to after swallowing the rum that the Pres-
bytery must keep Its eye on.
The Late " Josh Billings."
The average American humourist must be caught
young, although the record furnishes exceptions.
The name of Josh Billings is one such. “ I never,”
said Josh, in a well-rembered private conversation,
“ wrote a line under my nom de plume of Josh
Billings until I was 50 years of are.” Henry W.
Shaw, or (as he always signed himself) Josh Bil-
lings. was born in Lanesboro’, Berkshire County,
Massachusetts, and came from “ Puritan stock.”
His first contributions to comic literature were
published in a daily paper at Pouukeepsie, New
York State, where Mr. Shaw was then carrying on
the bus ness of auctioneer, and where he was said
to be “ a very business-like person, and wrote
articles for the newspapers, as well as sold pro-
perty by auction, and acted as agent for real
estate.” That Mr. Shaw occasionally made the two
trades play into each other’s hands, so to speak,
may be seen by the following paragraph, clipped
from a local paper of that time, in which he offers
“ To sell for elghteeen hundred and thlrty-mne
dollars a pallas. a sweet and pensive retirement,
Inka'ed on the banks of the Hudson, kontalnlng
85 aor< s. Walls of primitlff rock, laid in Roman
cement, bound the estate, while upward and down-
ward the eye catches far away the majesta and
slow grander ov the Hudson* As the moon hangs
like a cutting ov silver from the blue brest of the
ski. an angel may be seen each night dansing with
golden tiptoes on the green. (N.B.—The angel
goes with the place.)” ~ ,
Josh’s knowledge of the profession enabled him
to give the following correct diagnosis of Its chief
characteristics:
“ the auckshioneer.
“The auckshioneer iz an unfortunate Individual
who duz other peoples lielng tor 10 dollars a day,
and boards himself. He haz got az mntch jaw az
a wolf trap, and as mutch ctieeck az a 10 year old
mule. He takes up tha profeshun quite often on
the same principle that a horse doktor duz hlz, not
bekause he Iz fit for the bizzness, but just to hav
one in the naborhood. His gratest pride iz to
mingle what he calls humor with hiz talk whon he
iz on the block, but hlz jokes are gennerally az
level az a kold slapjax. He iz at the bight ov hiz
ambishun when he haz worried a laff out ov the
bistanders, and uses the same rhetoriuk, and simi-
lees, wben he sells out a line ov bank securltys,
that he duz when he closes out an old one-eyed
gelter, under a chattoll mortgage, in front ov the
ourt house. A kuntry auckshioneer and a
kuntry horse jockey are two wonderphull cusses,
in the rural detstrlkis. I hav beennn auckshioneer
and kno what i am talking about.”
His contributions to the local Press of his native
town attracted the attention of metropolitan pub-
lishers, and an offer was made and accepted to
contribute original matter under bis nom de plume
of Josh Billings exclusively to the New York
Weekly, an arrangement which continued to the
day of nis death. The publishers paid him band-
somely and found the “draw” a most profit-
able one. “ Josh Billings says ” soon became a fami-
liar phrase to newspaper readers all over the
country. The fact that Josh Billings wrote
“ exclusively for the New York Weekly ” was
made the most of by his publishers as a matter
of course, and the result was a greatly augmented
sale for the paper, and increasing popularity for
the Joker of Jokes. Bowing to the fate of nearly
all comic men in America, the now famous Josh
was sought out by the “ Lecture Bureau ” man,
and was Induced to accept a lecture engagement
for a season. He tried the experiment with suc-
cess, and has followed if up at Intervals ever since.
In his capacity of “ showman ” he has travelled all
over the United States. The lectures being for the
most part compilations of his printed “sayings”
strung together and delivered under different
whimsical titles. “Specimen Brlx,” “Sandwiches.”
“ What I kno about Hotels,” and “ Milk ” were
subjects catching enough when posted In large
letters upon the hoardings, and, especially when
coupled with the name of Billings, well calcu-
lated to All the “ hall.” No American humourist
has been so loyal to his own jokes or has striven
so much as Josh Billings has to get the most
out of them. Not content with reselling his
already printed wares by public vendue as it were
from the lecture platform, the auctioneer-humour-
ist must needs work off certain left-over stock,
rather the worse for wear, to be offered In book
form at greatly reduced prices. A publisher was
readily found In the person of Mr. Geo W.
Carleton—Artemus Ward’s publisher also. “ Josh
Billings, Mis Book,” was put through the press
with Illustrations to the text, and found a large
sale, and, as Josh was still rapidly produc-
ing fresh material through his weekly medium,
the first volume was followed by many others.
His greatest literary success, however, was the
publication of Josh Billings’ Farmers’ All-
minax, an annual complied expressly by Mr. Shaw
to Mr. Carleton’s order. Nearly 150,000 copies
were sold the first year, 1870. The “ Allmlnax ”
made its appearance annually for eight years
tnereafter, and although the retail price was only
a quarter of a dollar, the author received in
royalty from the sale nearly 5000 dollars the
first year, and over 30,000 dollars In all.
The “ Allmlnax ” was a sort of parody upon a
once popular style of almanac to which the staid
old New tmgland farmer pinned his meteorological
faith. While It must oe admitted that the effect
of Mr. Shaw’s wit was greatly heightened by the
quaint orthography, which was phonetic in the
extreme, whon the spirit of Josh Billings was in
possession, as witness the accompanying auto-
graph reproduction from one of his books.
Still this latter day Soltmon. who spelled
comic with a “k” from choice, could, and
did on occasion, spell correctly. That the force of
dls humorous writing aid not depend upon a
trick of orthography Is evldenc°d by a series
of short paragraphs wh'ch he latterly contributed
monthly to the Century magazine under the head
of “ Uncle Esek’s Wisdom.” Here we have the
sententiously ludicrous Tupperising of Billings
minus the bad spelling. It has been said of Josh
Billmgs that: “His wit has no edge to betray a
malicious motive, but is rather a Fiji club, gro-
tesquely carved and painted, that makes those
who feel it grin while they wince. All whom he
kills die with a smile upon their faces. , • . .
There is always a higher purpose than merely to
amuse peeping out trom among tho quaint fancies
of Josh Billings. Just inasmuch as America is
prolific of humourists and satirists, does she re-
quire them. The bane and the antidote grow in
tne same garden. Were It not for the satirists of
America, it is difficult to Imagine to what ludicrous
eccentricities the people would lend themselves.
Too self-sufficient to listen to argument, they arc
keenly sensitive to ridicule, and a little of Josh
Billings is more effective in doing good than all
the sermons a foreigner could preach them,” Th©
popularity of Josh Billings as a writer and lecturer
continued to the day of his death—which fact is in
contradiction to the oft-repeated axiom that a
comic reputation is the most ephemeral of all re-
putations. He died at about the age of 75 years,
leaving behind him a substantial fortune, tne
whole of which represents tho actual earnings of a
man turned humourist after the age of 50. And,
if we may take a man’s bank account as the
criterion of success, Josh Billings may be put
down as the most popular comic writer of his day.
THE TATE “JOSH BILLINGS.”
(HENRY W. SHAW.)
They shipped at the Circular Quay,
Huay and shuay.
For a sail o’er the dancing suay.
O’er the wavelets, which, sporciveluay,
Fumbled fruay,
Pull of gluay.
On the shore, ’neath a shady truay.
Whispered huay:
“ Say, sweet, will you my darling buay ?
This true heart beats alone for thuay.”
Murmured shuay:
“ Papa suay,
I’m on, you bet; come down tojtuay.”
OUI.


The success of Wolfe's Schnapps in these
Colonies has been unparalleled.
Why persist in drinking lemonade manu-
factured from imported mostly adulterated “OH
of Lemons,” If you can obtain a genuine article,
prepared from Australian grown lemons, at
Messrs Balm and Oertel, A3rated Water and Cordial
Manufacturers, 403 Pltt-street ?♦
Wolfe's Schnapps is a pleasant remedy.
Not long ago Harper Brothers received
from a married lady a contribution In the shape of
a story, which they were compelled to return.
The declined manuscript, accompanied by the
polite but pointed “ regrets ” of the firm, elicited
the following reply by return mall: “ You are a
mean set. I did think of naming my baby * Harper,’
and should have done so if my story cad been ac-
cepted ; but now no baby of mine will ever bear
the name of ‘ Harper.’ You are all a mean set.”
Titmouse in “ Ten Thousand a year” never
experienced such a violent change of fortune as
has come—possibly to bless or possibly to curse—
upon Mr. Robson, of Hexham, Northumberland.
This Robson, after chopping wood frr 60 lorg
years, will, on January -ltd, 1886, wallow i n a quar-
ter of a million of money. Tt is some satisfaction
to think that while there’s life there's hope.
son ally, we’ve had no tiding, of having come Into
untold wealth as yet, hut we shsll now chop our
wood with a more contented heart than of yore,
Mr. Zox. one of the members for Fast Mel-
bourne In the Victorian legislative Assembly, is
distinguished for the rffabillty of his manners, but
he is a Jew, and the huckstering spirit of his r»ce
occasionally crops out. The other evening. Mr.
John Woods, of tar brush notoriety, was inveigh-
ing against the practice of colonial soft
merchants importing “shoddy,” when Mr. Zox
expressed the opinion that the hon. gentleman
was not wearing a single garment of colonial
manufacture. Mr. Woods then offered to sell his
whole suit for 18s., when Mr. Zox brought down
the House by exclaiming: “If the hon. member
will conclude the transaction now, I will give him
a sovereign for it.” This Is probably the first time
on record of a Jew offering more money than he
was asked for in concluding a bargain.
It is said that Mr. Jacques, now “doing
his little bit ” all on account of Eliza Armstrong,
first offered the celebrated revelations to the
Morning Advertiser.. It is an unlucky circum-
stance for Mr. Jacques that the editor of that
journal didn’t take up the sensation Instead of the
Pali, Maud Gazette. The same Press which so
cruelly assailed Mr. Stead (purely on account of
nersonal unpopularity and the “Russian” lean-
ings of the Pai.l, Maud Gazette) would probably
have taken up the cause ot the Advertised, even
presuming that the Government had ventured on
a prosecution. The chances are, though, that no
prosecution would have been attempted, and that
the bald - h<»aded old patrons of Mrs. Jeffries
and her compeers would now bo shivering in their
notent-teathfr shoes Instead of laughing In their
silk-lined sloeves.
An American paper tells how a society
lady was deserted by one of her waiters within
ten minutes of the hour of her dinner-party. It
was Impossible to obtain another waiter in time,
so the coachman was promoted to the office dressed
up In the garments of the late departed, and
hurriedly coached as to his duties, being particu-
larly Instructed as to the impropriety of asking a
guest to have a second plate of soup. The guests
were seated and the soup was served. Presently
the coachman observed that one gentleman
pushed his plate of soup away from him. He
leaned over and drew the plate back again in front
of the gentleman, who in turn pushed it from him
again. This displeased the coachman. He thought
he saw a breach of decorum In the action. "Ate
your soup, sorrl” said he, in trumpet tones;
yez 11 get no more.” We believe this. Any yarn
imputing stupidity to an Irishman it is part of our
creed to accept without hesitation.
‘‘Home ” papers are much occupied with
what is called the Brighton romance, une James
Malcolm was charged with bigamy. This married
man, a meat salesman of London, aged 31, is said
to have taken a week’s holiday at Brighton. He
there met Emma Dash—a comely barmaid. Repre-
sent!•'iir himself as James M‘Donald and a sea can-
tain, he persuaded her to marriage after a four
days courtship. On the third day afterwards, his
week s .holiday belpg ended, he deserted her-to
go. he said, to his ship. He was identified by the
witnesses to the marriage by his handwriting on
the register and by a soar on his forehead. It will
be noticed that the initials of the real and assumed
name are the same. His defence was an alibi. The
number of witnesses to this quite bewildered the
jury, who, failing to make up their minds in five
nours, were discharged, giving no verdict. Great
sympathy is felt for Miss Dash, and a second trial
is not improbable.
“ Wanted, a young lady ( improper) for the
Fancy Drapery business. Comiortable home,”
runs an advertisement in the London mandard.
Messrs. Stead, Booth, and Co. were at once on the
track of the advertiser, who had some difficulty in
convincing them that the word “ Improper ” was
merely a misprint for “improver.” Even then
they further insisted on knowing what an im-
prover was.
Long Lost Brothers.


A CELEBRATEj SURGEON’S EXPERIENCE.
Sandgate, Brisbane, August 9, 1885.
Osntlemen, - My wife had a severe attack of
Rheumatism, wbloh flitted from Joint to joint, for
more than a week, when a friend (In my absence
from home) recommended St. Jacob’s Oil, and
after two or three applications according to the
last) notions gWen, she found herself, much to her
surprise and delight, entirely free from pain, and
now always keeps a bottle ot the Oil In the house,
I am, sir.
Yours faithfully,
M. T, GIRDLESTONE,
M.R.0.8., Eng., L.A.C., Lond..
The gates of all the marts of the world are
open to WoLPtc’s Schnapps, because It is the
purest spirit known. s tne
, h At P rev ‘ OUd time of the existence of
Bros establishment of Bray
Bros., 402 and (04 George-street, bav-, thev teen in
an equal posilio * to saflsty the many and varied
wsnts of the people of New cSoutb Wales At pre
just landed!* , ' te nn lnBpeution »o»7 noyeSlS
When purchasing Schnapps specify
Kapps CUNAPPS * a 8 lfc i 8 ‘he only genuine
Notice I—Reliable Old Australian Wines
uJK^B^^t >otinola * eUr8 ’
a c^ f p?fr. B a „,r^d h Tur^™a^
superior qualities. * appreciate its
Political Points
In Ireland, last year, there were 15,873
evictions or ejectments as against 14,744 In 1883.
Memorandum for Plain Bill and Aus-
tralian Jingoes in general“ Mr. uladstone rightly
admits that he committed errors in Egypt, and
that the Soudan war was one against nature. The
small hand of Radicals (prominent among them
Sir Wilfred Lawson and Mr. Henry Labouchere)
who, In season and out of season, denounced this
war, and who were reviled by the official Press
and the Ministerial henchmen In Parliament, are
now openly admitted by Mr. Gladstone to have
been right.”
A warm retort ! Mr, Abigail, speaking in
the N.S.W. Assembly the other night, made some
reference to the fact that the Attorney-General,
during the election contest at Gundagai, burned a
local newspaper at a public meeting bv way of
showing his contempt ot Plnkstone. “ It is a pity
you were not wrapped In the paper at the time,”
retorted Mr. Want. This comes of pleading In the
polite atmosphere of N.S.W. law courts! If you
cannot make legitimate answer to an antagonist,
floor him with compliments!
Professor Pearson has timely notice of a
contestant for his seat for East Bourke at the en-
buldk Victorian elections. The competitor Is Mr.
Godfrey, the Hebrew solicitor, who so lately sidled
Into the City Council without a contest It will be
no such easy matter for him In East Bourke, as the
Professor Is accustomed to electioneering, and has
stood many tussles for different constituencies.
Surprisingly few notices ot political motion have
yet been made, but a large infusion of new blood
Is expected to be heard of next month. Hebrew
blood Isn’t new blood.
Mr. Olllffe made a nasty thrust at Mr.
Garrett In the N.S.W. Assembly the other even-
ing. Mr. Garrett said the pr raise made by the
Government to introduce a Licensing Bill was an
Ingenious device to catch the publicans’ vote. “ I
hope that it will catch you to pay your debts to
the publicans,” interjected the small-voiced man
from Bathurst-street. The wily Camdenlte turned
off the thiust by indulging in a Robertsonian
“ ha. hal” and retorting: “ I arry my heart on
my sleeve for the daws to peck at; the hou. mem-
ber is one of the daws.”
Is it true that a successful candidate for a
Southern (N 8. W ) co‘‘Btttae.icy at the last elec-
tion—o e whn declared hims Jf to be in favour of
full Local Ootlon —was run into the ■* logs” during
the camp ii*n in such a glorious state of men»al
obfu-<e» i <n that n would pers>t in telling the
constable —a new chum whom ho had not seen
befor- —chat he would “square that long out-
standing k count, to-morrow ? ’ We don t believe
It. It ii a gross libel to even suggest that any
member of Parliament in N.S.W. . ,wes a long-out-
standing account, or, if be does, that, under any
circumstance*. no would console the creditor by
acknowledging the fact
A revolution is threatened in Denmark,
King Chrisi ian laas obtuse as was George 111. He
has flatly refused to dismiss an obnoxious Ministry
in compliance with a vote of the Danish Parlia-
ment, and when the Budget was rejected, he
simply ignored the Constitution and levied taxes
by Royal decrees. Mayors all over the country
refuse to obsequiously acquiesce in the Royal
decree, and, are refusing to put in force the
machinery for collecting these Illegal taxes. As
a consequence, In five months there have been
fifty political prosecutions, which Is at the rate of
one to every forty thousand of the total popula-
tion. Bismarck Is said to be quite an interested
spectator In the matter—hls interest being that of
a bird of prey In its possible victim.
Mr. W. Clarke told the members of the
N.S W. Assembly, the other evening, that since he
had “ ratted ” from the Government side of the
House he had had greatness thrust upon him.
“ Even my personal appearance has been photo-
graphed for the benefit of the admiring public.”
No punishment would be too severe for the man,
woman, or child who could see anything whatever
In the personal appearance of William of Orange
to call forth admiration. In a contest for beauty
even Sir Alec, or stubbly Jack M’Elhone could
afford to give Mr. Clarke many points. In the
course of the same speech Mr. Clarke talked about
hls “ fertile imagination.” Is It any wonder that
such a conceited man expected to be second in
command In the new Government ?
Tuft hunters love to talk of the broad-
minded views of the aristocracy. Certain of the
modern aristocrats are getting too discreet to
criminate themselves, but fortunately their wives
let the cat out of the bag at times. Lady Folke-
stone, speaking at a small English town, expressed
the sentiments of her order with charming can-
dour. The Primrose League, of w hlch her lady-
ship is an honoured member, has. It appears, three
great objects in view: “The maintenance of
religion, the Integrity of the Crown, and the rights
of property. Take away religion and the Crown
and the rights of property must follow, for If the
Crown and the rights of property do not derive
their authority from God, they have no right to
exist at all.” Here we have the blue-blooded
creed In a nutshell. The Queen is the Lord’s
anointed, and big landed estates (that’s what Lady
F. means by “ property ”) are special dispensations
trom on high By the same token, Governors of
Australian colonies must be regaroeu as minor
representatives ot the Almighty. Henceforth we
will gibe no more at the worship of Sir Henry
Loch and will cffsr up our midnight orayers to
Caring ton.
The throng of curious people who as-
si-mbled in Macquariu-street the other day on the
oocssion of me opening of the N.S.W. Parliament,
witnessed a scene, or scenes, which must have
produced some revolutionary thoughts in the
minds of those of me crowd who were capable of
thinking at al. The spectacle was nothing less
than that of two memben of the Upper House
wno were in such an inflrm condition that they
bad to be I’/tecioutof tneir carriages and carried up
the steps. In one case the task was performed by
a couple of policemen, who did not get even as
much as “ thank you for your trouble ” It Is to
physically and mentally debilitated men like these
that the important work of shaping the destinies
of the colony is partly entrusted. Out of the 60
members ot the Upper House there are not more
than 10 who can address '* Mr. President ” without
clinging to the bench in front of them or to the
table.
Victorian legislators are as progressive in
their oestrus as was Macbeth They have a free
library, and permission to borrow the books,
which are not always returned They have free
postage. Free use of the rad ways. Free news
papers and a free bii'lard-table. The keeper of
the Parliamentary restaurant knows well enough,
from nis unpaid scores, how many o? the M. sL A.
gat free drinks So many members owe huge
greg-scores at the Parliamentary refreshment-
rooms • nat steps are about to bo taken to deduct
the amounts of their unpaid liquor-bills from their
official “ screw.” These representatives ot the col-
lective wisdom of the country are now to have a
free tennis court provided for them in the grounds
of Parliament House. It is to be asphalted, and
no expense spared, of course. We forgot to say
that they have each the free use of three hundred
a year—though they would appear to have but
little need ot it with so much given them gratis.
Graham Berry has fallen foul of the Vic-
torian Trades Hall Council. He stated In the
House, the other day, that It was a body of “ no
political Influence,” and didn’t represent the work-
ing classes. If Graham really thinks that the
officious gentlemen of the Council wield no power
at tne hustings, his contempt is not to be wondered
at. But the Chief Secretary is ungrateful. When
the Trades Hall supported him In the hour of his
need, he was pleased to take pride In its homage,
and that body is naturally incensed with Its Idol of
1877. Several members of the Council have pro- i
nounced Graham to be a “fraud.” and there are
not wanting signs that the sons of toll will endorse i
the verdict of their delegates.—
London Echo, noticing the visit of the
Russian Imperial Family, the Prince of Wales, the
King of Greece, and representatives of the old
House of Orleans, to the King of Denmark at
rredensborg Palace, comments thereon thusly:—
“ What a satire on Royalty! The Orleans family
are Royal only when away from their own coun-
ry; the Russian family safe and happy only when
out of Russia. As for the King of Denmark, he is
at daggers drawn with the Danish people. He has
suspended the Constitution to keep an unpopular
Ministry In power, in fpltp of the huge majority
against them in the Folkethlng. Fredensborg Is a
palace to-day. It may be a prison to-morrow.”
And our contemporary might also have remarked
that. In spite of the prosecution ot Mr. Stead, of
the Pall Mall Gazette, Wales was as happy any-
where abroad as in England. Denmark now is in
just the same state as England was in 1640. Her
king, thwarted by the representatives of the
people, has levied a tax to supply bis royal re-
quirements. This the municipal autnorities are
refusing to collect, and the people strongly object
to pay. His Majesty, if he chooses to persist In hls
present action, will moat likely pay the penalty
which our own “ most Cnristian monarch ” Charles
the First did. That is, if Bismarck, who takes
great Interest In the bnsinrsi of his weaker neigh-
bours, does not annex the whole peninsul i f ir the
sake of proserviug order.
The Abous gives a long account of one
Thomas Farrell, an Bigllihonn woo his de-
nationalised himself. Sine? 1876 he has been
established as a planter In New B -Ital i. New Ire-
land and adjacent Islands, with head quartern at
Mioko. Finding himself prosperous, he applied
for British protection. He was informed in 1881
that as he ‘‘had chosen to establish himself distant
from any civilised Government, he mu-t expect
no recognition nor protection under the British
flag.” His wife was American, and Farrell has
now been to the States, sold his two British-
registered vessels and bought American ones,
transferred his property to his wife, and natural-
ised himself as an American. His German neigh-
bours lately appealed to the N.S.W. Government
to know if such proceedings were valid. Toe
N.S.W. Executive consulted the U S. Consul resi-
dent in Sydney, who said that Farrell’s doings
were legal and effectual, and that he was entitled
to the protection of the American flag, which he
has now hoisted on his many plantations. Mr
Pa»TeU is not the first one thus to settle la lone
Pacific islands and find himself prosperous. On
one of the islands lying between Java ana Singa-
pore, a Mr. Ross established himself long years
ago, and still reigns there a very success! ul
planter. The Dutch were jealous ot him, upon
which he hoisted the Union Jack, as the Dutchmen
refused him the use of their’s and any protecloa
Up to this he has rested quietly, though it has to
be seen whether Bismarck and Germany will not
want to annex what he looks upon as his own
property.
The cormorant-like capacity of lawyers
for fees has been the theme of satirists and re-
formers for ages, but recent events have revealed
the fact that In N.S.W. we possess a class of men
whose rapacity in this respect far exceeds that of
the average lawyer who claims the right to charge
6s. Bd. for saying “ Good morning ” to you on
your entering nls office, and “ ditto ” for politely
bowing yuu out. A lawyer’s bill of costs Is a
modest document compared with a N.S.W. land
agent’s account. This excrescence of the Robert-
son land law disdains to follow the example of
the man of quibbles and quiddities in the matter
of fees. Naturally euougn, perhaps, he considers
that to make a charge ot any fraction of a £
would be totally Incompatible with the ennobling
work of using backstairs and political Influence
to. In many oases, prevent justice being done to
some poor industrious fellow wno Is making an
effort to secure a home on the soil. One of these
precious accounts was produced In the Assembly
the other nignt by the Minister for Lands, and a
long drawn-out document It was. the items rang-
ing from £3 3i. to £4O. One of the members for
Wentwortn, Mr. Quiun, who maybe presumed to
know a great deal ou the subject, went so far as
to say that the Parliamentary land agenov busi-
ness was simply robbery of the public. Mr. Garrett
was forced to make an explanation respecting hls
famous circular, and for cool assurance the non.
gentleman quite out-Garretted himself on the
occasion. The fee of 50 guineas which he de-
manded was, he said, an annual retainer, and all
that he undertook to do tor the money was to
plead before the land court! in cases in which
parties paying tne tee might be Interested. The
cases would have to be prepared tor him Just as
brims were prepared for barristers, and the cost
of preparation would have to be a matter ot
arrangement with the persons doing the work.
Mr. Garrett’s assertion that the Issue ot the cir-
cular had been attended with highly satisfac-
tory results to himself, seems hardly consistent
with the announcement which he recently made
that he had retired from the business. If there Is
one thing more than another for which Mr. Abbott
deserves credit it Is the determined stand which he
has taken respecting the land agency business.
He said, the other night, that “ the greatest hos-
tility to the Land Act comes from the land agents,
who have found out that It limits their field of
operations, ann It I am permitted to remain in
office their occupation will soon be entirely gone.’
TO-ipJucky Minister might add another laurel to
his crown if he were to show an equal determina-
tion lu respect of the legal cormorants.
The Baby’s Bank.
A DOMESTIC TRAGEDY.
The man who led the working class—
Whom to the skies they loved to laud—
They worship now no more, alas!
The other day it came to pass
They branded Berry as “a iraud.”
STARTING A SAVINGS-BANK FOR THE BABY.
“We’ll open it in a year from now.”
“It’s very strange you don’t want to open the
bank, Henry. The year was up yesterday, and
it seems to be quite full.”
TEMPTATION.
“I need a little change
this morning—guess I'll
tap the bank.”
“Very well; if you won't, I will."
PECULATION.
“Going to the lodge to-
night; must nave plenty
small change about me.”
DESPERATION.
“Whew! only a sixpence
left! I must put some-
thing in to fill it up.”
THE OPENING OF THE BANK.
Large and varied assortment of trousers-buttons
carpet-tacks, stee pens, buir-pins, etc. Slow music
DEFALCATION.
"Got to have a few
pence for car-fare. Too
bad, but can’t help it."


GQMPAGNONI CATERING CO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ' *
THE oldest and leading Catering Establishment In N.S.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mayor,
Municipal Council of Sydney, the A.J.C., City Club, ate., &o.
The Dining Saloons for Ladles and Gentlemen are the Finest, Coollest, and loftiest In the colony.
FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY. Private Bar-Good Wine List.
BF" GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. (after the
Theatres. Select your own steak, Ac., and see It grilled in the room. This is one of tne acquisitions
or the city, and a long-felt wa> t. Inspection invited Club rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Clue
and City Club, upstairs. B> D. TOLLEMACHK, General Manager.
THE SYDNEY SPORTS
DEPOT.
889 GBORGB-STRBET SYDNEY
(Opposite Royal Hotel.)
B!CYCLE8 f TRICYCLES.
OUR
1885 Pattern Bicycles
and Tricycles
Have Kvemy impuoveuexmi
WOK SPECIALITY
New Cheap Roadster.
THE
UNIVERSAL
BICYCLE,
CLUB
fitted with Improved Ball Bear-
ings to front and bacn wheels.
Hollow Forks, Patent Head ana
Detachable Bent Handle Bar,
Easy Slide Spring, Hubs Plated,
Black Enamelled Spores,
1886 Universal «n.us. a thoroughly reliable and easy-running
machine. Ball bearings to both wheels, and Improvements.
Price, £l3 10s. At the price
we defy competition.
JAMES MARTIN A COMPANY, 388 George-st., Sydney.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
OFVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
.Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &o.
W~ Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Ceppersmithing, Blaoksmithing,
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE.” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &C.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Am Propellers, Exhaust Pan
Cowls, Gas Ernes, Heaters, Warmers, Ac.
BOM ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 8 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application
0
O 7
<s
60
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpasae
Crispness distinguish Wilson’s Ame
rloan “Extra Toast “BISCUITS. Fo
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert
nothing equals them. Delicious wltl
milk, superb with wine, and incoraparibl
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Street, Sydney.
FBANG’S
CHRISTMAS CARDS
AND
CHRISTMAS SATIN ART PRINTS.
ALL STATIONERS.
Sole Agents, ROBERT JOLLEY & CO.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
VHMHTU WWV 'E
PAUL LIEBEWii
UNLIKE OtHERS^^f U
DOES NOT^aTjlilr,
TL R. THOMAS
1 9 may be consulted on
Nervous Debility, Skin and Contagious Affections.
Medical Establishment, 203, Blizabetb-street,
near Bathurst-street.
Hours: 9 till 10 dally.
Dr. Thomas is the only medical man advertising
in Australia who has passed the degrees of an Eng-
lish Physician and Surgeon. Examinations passed
—Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians,
London, 18«4; Member of the Royal College of
Surgeons. London. 1869.
AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral.
No other complaints are so insidious in their
attack as those affecting the throat and lungs:
none so trifled with by the majority of suffer-
ers. The ordinary cough or cold, resulting
perhaps from a trifling or unconscious ex-
posure, is often but the beginning of a fatal
sickness. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral has
well proven its efficacy in a forty years’ fight
with throat and lung diseases, and should he
taken in all cases without delay.
A Terrible Cough Cured.
“In 18571 took a severe cold, which affected
my lungs. I had a terrible cough, and passed
night after night without sleep. The doctors
gave me up. 1 tried Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, which relieved my lungs, induced
sleep, and afforded me the rest necessary
for the recovery of my strength. By the
continued use of the Pectoral a perma-
nent cure was effected. I am now 62 years
old, hale and hearty, and am satisfied your
Cherry Pectoral saved me.
Horace Fairbrother.”
Rockingham, Vt., July 15,1882.
® Croup.—A Mother’s Tribute.
“ While in the country last winter my little
hoy, three years old, was taken ill with croup;
it seemed as if he would die from strangu-
lation. One of the family suggested the use
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, a bottle of
which was always kept in the house. This
was tried in small and frequent doses, and
to our delight in less than half an hour the
little patient was breathing easily. The doc-
tor said that the Cherry Pectoral had
saved my darling’s life. Can you wonder at
our gratitude ? Sincerely yours,
Mrs. Emma Gedney.”
159 West 128th St., New York, May 16, 1882.
“ I have used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
In my family for several years, and do not
hesitate to pronounce it the most effectual
remedy for coughs and colds we have ever
tried. A. J. Crane.’’
Lake Crystal, Minn., March 13,1882. ~
“ I suffered for eight years from Bronchitis,
and after trying many remedies with no suc-
cess, I was cured by tiro use of Ayer’s Cher-
ry p ectoba l. Joseph Walden.’’
Byhalia, Miss., April 6, 1882.
“ I cannot say enough in praise of Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral, believing as I do that
hut for its use I should long since have died
from lung troubles. E. Bragdon.”
Palestine, Texas, April 22, 1882.
No case of an affection of the throat or
lungs exists which cannot he greatly relieved
by the use of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
and it will always cure when the disease is
not already beyond the control of medicine.
* PREPARED BY fe
Dr.J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
. N Sold by all Druggists. N
ELLIOTT BROS, and 8. HOFFNUNQ & CO„
Wholesale Agents.
JJOLLOWAY’S PILLS.
A never-failing remedy in all Derangements of
the LIVER and STOMACH, they may be used with
perfect confidence by young and old.
Their world-wide fame for the last fifty years is
a guarantee of their efficacy. Thousands of testi-
monials, from princes to peasant o , attest their
marvellous virtues.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford-st,, London
Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-
street, London, they are spurious.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
HaveyourUmbrella I ramei
re-oovered, and your
Parasols re-Uned and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
iver]. 00l and Bathurst Sts.
arascls made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
(EtM.
UMBRELLAS
REiLOVIHE*
BULL DOG ALB.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—OATTßLL &
Sole Agents.
CO.
jf/tme }*ls
Jfctssier?
\\f ILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
ff of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, Ac.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues can be had gratis on applica-
tion.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, Ac., at lowest prices.
Printing.—lnvoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most Important Copying
Instruments ever Invented. The Trypograpn
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM ~BULL ARD,
842 GEORGE STREET.
ART IFICI ALT E ETH
complete SFT
MARSHALL BRO?
DENT IST S
133 ELIZABETH ST
CLEARANCE SALE. BONA FIDE.
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st., Sydney
(Established 1800).
FRONT PREMISES having BEEN CONDEMNED,
the
WHOLE STOCK MUST BE CLEARED
AT A SACRIFICE.
SALE CAN ONLY LAST ONE MONTH.
NOTE-ONE MONTH ONLY.
i r
MUST I
\ \
BEDSTEADS
BEDDING
COTS
GLASSES
FURNITURE
CHAIRS
BLANKETS
QUILTS
CLEARED.
STOCK,
£15.000.
J L
MUST BE CLEARED
to admit of
NEW PREMISES BEING ERECTED,
for which tenders have been called.
SALE CAN ONLY LAST ONE MONTH,
So Purchase Early,
BARGAINS I BARGAINS I BARGAINS I
at
J. Lawler’s,
60S GEORGS STREET, SYDNEY.
THE “PROFESSIONAL” AND PHARMACEU-
TICAL CHEMIST.
61 Bourkk-street East, Melbourne.
THE Toilet and Theatrical Requisites, manu-
factured by W. Ball, are composed of the
purest ingredients, and are guaranteed not to
cause the least injury to the most delicate skin.
There are few ladies now, either in private life
or of the Theatrical Profession, who do not look
upon the
BLOOM OF PEACHES
as the one article that is perfectly safe and satis-
factory to use either for the
THEATRE. BALLROOM, OR PROMENADE.
Our. Cupids Manufacturing Bloom of Peaches
“Dear Sir,—l consider your ‘make-up perfect,
and should never think of using anything else
while it is possible to obtain it.—Yours truly,
F.n Vinr uv
The following ladies and gentlemen have also
written, speaking in the highest terms of these
Toilet Requisites Mesdames Louise Pomeroy,
Alice Deorwyue, Myra Kemble, Eva Davenport.
Roland Watt Phillips, etc., etc.; Messieurs George
Titheradge, George Kignold, Sheridan, Henry
Hodgson. W. J. Holloway, Fred. Marshall, Brian
Darley, Frank Cates, etc.
NEUSTADT and CO..
SOUSE
FURNISHERS,
39. 154. 156, A 158 OXFOBD-ST
|r HOUSES FURNISHED fHROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
Either fob Cash or Thu Payment.
(REGISTERED)
ITo be obtained of all Chemists.
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
Wholesale Agents, N.S.W.:
Messrs. PROSSER & CO., Sydney.
COMPLETE
BTDNBT.
WORK GUARANTEED,
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers,
B. HODIBI,
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
G. B. M. further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms:—JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
don: J THOS. BLAND & SON., London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London ; CHAS. OSBORNE
CO., London.
AGENT for the eminent firm
BOSSY & CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, Ac., and all
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
802 Gsorga.sft., Sydney,
When- Inspection Is Invited.
Beei-i hunting for ease all my life, and found
last with the Argosy Braces at Gowlng Bros
ft
Sv
m
/ WY<Y\
/S
:n
i
Sr MU G-li*'
JulavY:
Y.
7i
GOWING BROS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy_Bracesl
Braces, Si. 6d.. as.. Ss. fld.,* 4s. O
GOWING BROS.,
MERCERS, HATTERS. OUTFITTERS, •
SIS and 491 Gee res- street,


F
URNITUII SHOW ROOMS,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
O'Connell and Spring atreetß, Sydney.
Hall furniture, hatstandb, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
Library furniture, centre and sidi
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
ALL CABINETS for Choice China, <fco.
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
EDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Gnat variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
171 IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
3i Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for RB. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
B
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tue back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d,; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 12fl. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s.;
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3105.: Clothes Horses, fromlOs.6d.; Writing
Tables, witn Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
I '-.A ;
OQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
oWUtJ strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Case. Free at rail or wharves for cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
ASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in any
material.
OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and restful,
a speciality. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O ’ Conneli-street.
RAWTNG-ROOM CABINETS.—EarIy English,
D
Anglo-Japanese, and Chlnnendale designs.
Just opened. BRADLEY, NEWTON. & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring & O’Connell sts.
DRAWING- ROOM EURNITURB.—The latest
development of fashion. ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Bxquslte examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of Inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Elegant novelties in bedroom fur-
niture. full suites. In SATIN WOOD, ROSE-
WOOD. and other CHOICE WOODS, richly Inlaid.
Will well repay inspection.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-st.
Folding-screens o and 4»old) for the Draw-
ing and Dining Rooms and Office. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
ARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah Chairs,
. INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
Y, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
ATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES. 203.; and
large variety of Chairs, &o.; special designs,
extra quality. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring & O’Connell sts.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for olubs, restaurants,
smoking rooms. &c.
Self-adjusting hammock ohaik-
Patented.
-Sjf*
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
Bitting to reellnlr
the i
construct , „
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It la superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort Is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ton pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches In thickness
when £c ided. Price 80s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
2s. 6d. extra.
FFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &o. Bradley, Newton
and Lamb.
RON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB, Spring & O’Connell sts.
COPYING PRESSES. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB. Spring and O’Connell streets.
AJLL MIRRORS and BRACKETS—Novelties
in plush and velvets and in all woods,
from 6/6. ,
T7ILEGANT VENETIAN MIRRORS, richly
111 enamelled In colours. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
COMMODE CHAIRS ; BIDETS, with PAN ;
Shaving Stands. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted with
pulleys and cords, 6 x 8. 9/6; BxB,ll/-; 9xB,
13/-; 10 x 8.14/-; 13 x 8,16/6; 12 x 10. 20/-.
BRADLEY. NBWTON, and LAMB.
CE CHESTS, with CUPBOARDS, all sizes, from
275. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Spring and
O’Connell streets.
T7IURNIT U RE—THE LARGEST BTOCK IN THE
r COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
Spring.and O’Connell streets.
SOCIAL
The reception which was held at Govern-
ment House by Lady Stephen, on the 18th Instant,
was very iargrely attended. The arrangements
were slightly different from usual, owing to the
alterations now going on In preparation for the
new Governor. Her ladyship received In the
drawing-room, where sociability reigned supreme.
Refreshments were served in the ball-room, and
the variety of colours worn confused the eye and
made the noting of many dresses a matter of
difficulty. Lady Stephen wore all black with
heliotrope feathers in bonnet. Miss Stephen, fawn
cashmere: Miss Mary Stephen, striped canvas
cloth, with dark green velvet bonnet; the Misses
Martin, very quaint costumes of dark twioe-
ooloured canvas, and pretty baby bonnets with
velvet ribbons. Mrs. R. Tooth wore a very hand-
some costume of floelle-ooloured satin duchesse,
peppered with tiny pompons of pink, ficelle and
dark green. A lady who accompanied her wore a
very rich dress of golden red-brown stamped
plush. Mrs. Wrench, an extremely pretty striped
costume. The Misses Throckmorton wore cream
dresses and remarkably stylish bonnets. Miss
Fischer, deep cream and ruby velvet; Mrs. Airey
looked very nice in cardinal satin duchesse
touched with Maltese iaoe; white bonnet and sun-
shade. The Misses Hardin coffee-coloured crepe
and handsome lace. Mrs. Kyngdon, white veiling
and handsome gold trimmings ; Miss Kyngdon
crushed strawberry taeso silk top over flaked velvet
skirt; Mrs. Darlcy, cream lace slips over golden-
brown silk; the Misses Barley, white Indian muslin
trimmed with handsome eidelweiss lace; Mrs.
George Monteflore, an elegant costume of copper-
coloured lace, and pale shot-silk bonnet to match;
Mrs C. J. Roberts, black and red; Mrs. James
White, cream cambric embroidered In blue; Mrs.
Bouverle, black and gold; Miss E. Burdett-Smith,
cream tasso silk and lace; Miss Manning, pine-
white dress, sailor hat with white birds and rib-
bons ; Mrs. Field wore a stylish green costume;
Miss de Lauret, pink costume; Mrs Trlckett, black
dress and bonnet relieved by yellow flowers;
Mrs. H. E. Lord, cream; Misa Metcalfe, steel-
blue towelling dross, black hat adorned with
pale-pink flowers. The prevailing shades were
coffee and white. Amongst the guests were;
Mrs. Septimus Stephen, Mrs. Plunkett, Mrs.
and Miss Fairfax, Mrs. Ernest Stephen, Mrs. Vil-
leneuve-Smlth. Professor and Mrs. Guerney. Mrs.
and Miss Belisario, Miss M’Leod, Mrs. and the
Misses Devlin, Mrs. Busby, Mr, Mrs., and Miss
Wilkinson. Mr. and Mrs. F. B. Joseph, Mr G B.
Labertouche, Sir Alexander Stuart, Consul Grima,
Mr. W. W. Stephen, Mr. Severn, Mr. M'Nauuhton,
Admiral Tryon, Sir John Hay, Captain Lake, Com-
mander Hoskyn, Lieutenant-Commander Marx,
Lieutenant Parkenham, Mr. G. R. Bibbs, Colonel
Bingham, Lieutenant-Colonel Airey, Colonel
Spalding, Captain Mellvard, Captain Bunbury,
Major Mackenzie, Mr. Nash, &o„ &c.
* • *
The good ship Cairnbulg was the scene of
a pleasant gathering on Wednesday evening, the
11th Inst., when a large number of guests assembled
in response to the invitation of Captain and Mrs.
Murray. The poop and part of the main-deck
were screened off and tastefully draped with
flags and evergreens, whilst numerous lanterns
shed a pleasant light over the dancers. The band
was stationed in an angle of the poop, and sup-
plied some pleasing selections. Atter half the
dances had been worried through, a pause was
made in order to afford the Mayor the opportunity
of proposing the toast of the evening, “ Captain
and Mrs. Murray.” This having received suitable
response. Captain Cromble, of the Port Jackson,
gave “The Mayor" in a manner which snowed
that a sad sea dog can make a speech as well as
sail a ship. Dancing was then resumed, and kept
up with great spirit till the “morning watch,”
when the company separated. All the delicacies
of the season covered the elegantly decorated
saloon-table, and were excellently served by the
various stewards.
* • »
The second annual ball of the Emulation
Social Club took place on Thursday evening in
Professor West's Academy. About 60 couples at-
tended, and spent a pleasant evening. Miss
Patrick wore blue satin bodice, with high collar
and sleeveless, over a blue skirt which shone
through white lace; Miss Lily Patrick, a handsome
dress of old gold and black lace; Miss Samper
looked pretty in a dress of black lace set off with
orange ribbons ; Miss Hankln, black velvet
polonaise over blue skirt; Miss Graham, entirely
in white; Miss Grant, cream lace dress, with red
and blue ribbons; the Misses Myers, one in black
and the other in white satin, looked neat; Miss
M'Nell, black grenadine over gold; Mrs. Walsh, all
black; Miss Walsh, white tufted tulle. Baumann
catered to everybody’s satisfaction.
* * *
In response to invitations issued by the
ladies of Braid wood, about 3* couples put In an
appearance on the 20 th Inst., at the Institute, to
a plain and fancy dress hall. Plain dresses pre-
vailed. A good programme, excellent refreshment,
tempting music, and general participation in the
gaiety ensured enjoyment for all.
• * *
Impromptu social “hop” at Lismore,
Wednesday, 11th inst. Bachelors, after being grace-
fully swindled into buying babies’ sox and bon-
nets galore at the Presbyterian bazaar. Invited the
fair stallholders and friends to an impromptu
dance at Protestant Hail. The bachelor parson,
owing to a previous engagement at prayer-
meeting, being unable to attend. There were a
few forlorn young maidens, but the rest seemed
quite happy In gaily treading a measure with the
lost sheep. , * *
The bachelors of Tumut gave a most
enjoyable dance at M’Kay's Assembly Booms on
Tuesday evening, 17th Instant. Between 50 and 60
were present, many of whom came a long distance
to take part in the last dance of the season. Many
of the ladles danced admirably and dressed to per-
fection. A Melbourne lady, who had been staying
at Talbury’s, was gowned most becomingly in
pink, and didn't seem to be in the background for
want of admirers; two sisters from KllerslK in
white, looked charming : the younger danced
dlvlnoly, as also did a Sydney lady now on a visit
to Gooup; the sisters from the Hill looked fresh
and sweet in pure white; the ladles from Green
Hills, whose admirers were many, danced Indus-
triously: a newly-married lady, in black, looked
delightlul; this can also be said of the amiable
wife of the local doctor: the Adelong representa-
tives (3) were decidedly nice, and the wife of one
of our merchants was robed magnificently. Three
o’clock saw the last dance. Music and catering
excellent.
m • •
The cricket match, Army v. Navy, which
was played at the Victoria Barracks last Thursday,
proved very attractive, and some very pretty cos-
tumes were to he seen, notlo p ably that worn by
Mrs. Wrench, consisting of cashmere of a dark
shade of fawn with very handsome embroidery
bonnet to match. The Misses Throckmorton were
attired in cream and white respectively, with very
stylish hats. Mrs. Airey in a white dress and dara
bonnet. Mrs. Bouverle steel-blue cashmere and silk,
cream bonnet trimmed with blue. Mrs. Mackei zle
a dark striped dress with claret cashmere bonnet
to match. The Misses Barley, one in striped can-
vas and the other m steel-blue spotted zephyr,
hats to correspond. The Misses Sonne In twine-
coloured canvas, with oriental stripe. Mrs Savage,
black and white striped dress parasol, and hat to
correspond. Mrs. Squier In pale blue. Mrs. H. E.
Lord in cream and deep lace flouncing. Miss
Kyngdon in fawn with velvet collar and cuffs, red
sunshade. Mrs. Busby in dove-coloured cashmere,
with striped silk vest Mrs. Williams in red-
spotted crSpe, with bonnet of canvas and red vel-
vet. The Misses Hurdle la red-shot silks. Mrs.
Penrose in all black. At 5 o’clock tea was par-
taken of In the mess-room. The match, which
was a one-sided fame all through, resulted in a
victory for the Army, with one innings to spare.
♦ * *
The nicest social of the season in Parra-
matta was a complimentary given by the Masonic
Lodge, No It, N.8.W., on Thursday, the 19th in-
stant, in the Town Hall. About 50 couples re-
sponded to the invitations. Dancing commenced
about 9, and terminated shortly after midnight
with a neat speech from Bro. Balllee for the w.M.
Bro. Forsyth earned the thanks of all present by
his capable management of things generally. Mrs.
Forsyth wore a neat black silk gown, trimmed
with black Spanish lace, set off with a cluster of
cardinal roses; Miss Little, black Spanish lace and
broche, with jet trimmings; Miss Dawson, Indian
muslin, trimmed with coffee lace, pink sash and
bows; Miss Moore (Bathurst), pink zephyr, flounced
with white eidelwelss lace; Mrs, Bolton, cream-
dotted muslin, trimmed with lace and ribbons;
Miss Lile, flounces of cream lace on cream veiling,
vest of cardinal satin; a Sydney lady wore pink
zephyr, trimmed with cream lace; and Miss Davis,
cardinal bodice over skirt of pink veiling. Bro.
Saintz was an efficient M.C. and Tunk’s catering Al.
• •
A Concert was given at Bookham the
other day in aid of the local cricket club. A hall
was built In the little township specially for the
occasion, and the entertainment was financially, as
well as musically, a complete success. The Misses
Julian, M’Laughlin, English, Harper, and Mrs. Rae
all rendered good service, and the best vocal
efforts were by Messrs. Brownhill, Rae and
Scriven.
* * ♦
On Wednesday, 18th inst., Miss Ada Booth,
daughter of Mr. John Booth, J.P., of Moore Park,
was married to Mr. J. J. Booth, eldest son of Mr.
John Booth, J.P., an old and respected resident of
Balmain. The bride looked exceedingly pretty in
an elegantly-fitting dress of cream mervellleaux
broehe, with long, flowing train. The whole front
of the skirt was composed of rich white lace
through which ivory broche glinted and shim-
mered magnificently. The usual blossoms adorned
her head, intermixed with clematis and lilies
of the valley, over which hung a long veil.
The bridesmaids were eight in number, the
four elder being neatly attired in dresses
of blue veiling, flounced with white lace, over
which fell bands of satin; three more were charm-
ingly clad in pink, and the youngest, in cream and
blue, made a pretty finish. The bride and each of
the maids carried baskets of flowers, and wore on
their left arms a tasteful bracelet. the gifts of the
bridegroom. After the ceremony, the guests,
numbering about 50, repaired to Sandringham,
where a recherchi breakfast was provided by Host
Rldgway. Honeymoon up the Mountains.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Bao Amateur Minstrels’ Social, Odd-
fellows’ Hall, Church-street, Wa-
verley November 37.
Messrs. Needs’ Juvenile Ball (plain
and fancy dress), Nithsdale December 8.
Wednesday, November 25.
Dear Peg,—l always Intended writing to you
about needlework and such like matters, but have
somehow managed to let the subject slip, partly
from lack of any fresh Idea to enlarge upon, and
partly because, where there are so many outlets
for one’s leisure and taste in painting, crystoleum
or wood-staining, needlework Is too often relegated
to odd moments, or to those who have neither
opportunity nor taste to employ In these more
ambitious enterprises. It is no longer the ae
resistance of our grandmothers’ davs; indeed, Its
life seems to be in such jeopardy just now that
societies at home are offering prizes for the more
homely sorts, in the hope of rescuing It from the
oblivion of “ Lost Arts,” which threatens it I
Oriental effects in draperies, chair-backs, and tea-
cloths are much in vogue, and gold, deep reds,
yellows, purples, and all manner of vivid colours
are massed togeth r with excellent effect. I saw
lately an aesthetic cretonne turned into an ortho-
dox Eastern cloth by merely outlining the pattern
with fine gold braid and filling in with shaded
silks, till the whole surface was a raised glowing
mass of colour. A common red and yellow hand-
kerchief treated in this way can be transformed
into a marvellously rich cloth. The process may
sound tedious, but when done in long skeleton
stitches, it is really not so. Then applique on
plush, velvet, cloth, or cotton, has quite sup-
planted crewels, and if done in a bold design
such as a spray of orange blossoms and
fruit—produces a large effect with small labour;
the leaves and fruit should be outlined with gold
thread. For the entire success of these efforts it is
well to have a foundation of some neutral
colour. If only crash is available, the prettiest
sachets and tennis-shoe bags imaginable can be
made by sketching a rough design of flags or
water-lihes—done In Turkey twill, veined with
coss ingrain cotton, and button-holed round the
edge.
Here are some Ideas for the use of the common
palm fans, to be had at one penny each and
upwards. Cover with gold or silver paper, and
paint bunches or sprays of flowers on them—pop-
pies look well—or arrange peacock’s feathers and
dried grasses on one side (the soft palmy pampas
grass looks well), then finish off at the handle with
a loose ribbon bow. This season it has been quite
the thing to discard the regulation fan, and use in
its place any quaint, stiff-looking one which is
trimmed up to the dress, or covered with natural
flowers to harmonize with the prevailing colours
worn. It is pretty work for deft fingers to make a
skeleton fan of wire in any shape—round or oval,
or like a shamrock leaf—then cover it with very
thin green silk or muslin. Two sides must be
made alike, and fastened together to do away with
the unsightly “wrong” side, though only one
side need be decorated. Flowers and ferns fastened
on lightly as a centre spray, round the edge, or
single leaves as a border, mahea pretty ephemeral
trimming, but it is easy to substitute lace and rib-
bon or feathers, which also answer the purpose of
ornamental hand-screens. Palm ferns make capital
wall pockets either for use or ornament, accord-
ing to the value you place upon your work or
material. Brown plush, with a sun-Mower worked
in the centre and lined with old gold, looks well.
This is a very satisfactory way of using up small
ends of material. Another novel idea is to fasten
two funs together with fine wire, push a piece of
folded tin down between the handles to make a
waterproof pocket, till it with loam, and plant a
fern; it will live very happily against a wall, with
an occasional visit to the outer world, only care
must be taken In watering.
The latest idea for flower-holders is to have
miniature wheelbarrows of gilt or silver wire,
bamboo, glass,or any fanciful material, the sides are
festooned with wreaths, and a spray is carelessly
tied to the shafts; or glass five-barred gates with
flower receptacles at each end—four form the set,
and may be arranged in a variety of ways. Table
decorations still lean to banks of flowers or sprays
laid In loose lines wherever they can he put. I
confess never to be quite at my ease when seated
at a table so arranged. It seems so cruel to let the
poor things wither and die in the heated atmos-
phere while they are giving us all their fragrance
and beauty. I rather wonder, in this semi-tropical
land, people do not cultivate more cactuses (cacti
is, I believe, the proper plural, but it sounds so
pedantic), solely for house adornment. The large
crimson ones look perfectly lovely on the table. I
once saw a dinner-table made most beautiful in
this way. The blooms were put singly into squat
glass buckets with an occasional spray of white
thorn. The effect against the white cloth and
silver was most gorgeous, and, in a room ot
Oriental rugs and massive oak furniture, carried
out the suggestion of voluptuous ease almost
better than any other flower.
The “ Mikado,” which, it is needless to say, is
Sullivan’s last all too funny creation, has just
begun its run at the Theatre Royal, and already
everybody has “done” or is preparing to do
It. The expression of the life-sized white birds
flying serenely across the voluminous back of
Plsh-Tush; the too deliciously ironical list ol
Koko s fated peoples; Yum Yura’s naive objection
to being buried alive, because “ it’s such a stuffy
death,” are all exquisite bits of fun. But the play
is purely spectacular, and owes its success entirely
to the novel dresses, scenery, and attitudes. Alice
Barnett, as Katlsha, looking like a she horse-dra-
goon, towers over the rest of the company, and is
a great “ hit,” especially when she confidently calls
herself a “ silly little goose.” The music 1s bright
and taking, but the composer’s name needs no
telling—one catches the familiar rhythm of 1 Ina-
fore ” or “ Penzan oe ” at every turn.
Last Tuesday week, 17th, 'was the opening of
Parliament. However, as the business was of a
purelv formal character, there was no ceremonial.
The 111 new members were duly sworn in, and the
proceedings terminated; but the following Wed-
nesday Maoquarie-street was much more animated.
About 11, there was the usual preliminary canter
of the Sydney Lancers on their irregular way to
Government House, to be in readiness to escort
his Excellency to the steps of the august Legis-
lative Council. Then came the sounds of martial
music, and a company of the permanent force, in
blue and gold, preceded by its red-coated band,
marched by to take its place in the enclosure
before Parliament buildings. Just before noon
the vice-regal; flag suddenly subsided from
its eminence above the tower of Govern-
ment House; and in a few minutes later the
gubernatorial carriage was seen approaching,
escorted by the Lancers as guard of honour. Sir
Alfred Stephen is a marvel of life and energy, in
spite of his frail appearance, and as he stood in
full Court-dress and order bowing his acknowledg-
ment of the cheers that greeted him, he looked a
perfect picture of the courtly old-world gentle-
man I Behind him were grouped a few brilliant
uniforms, worn by Colonel Bingham, Captain Bun-
bury, and Captain Milward, R.A.’s; or Colonel
Roberts, Major Mackenzie, or Major Taunton, and
other P.A.’s. You can Imagine the effect of the
blue and gold uniforms of the Royal Artillery
against the red and the gold of the Permanent
Artillery, thrown into strong relief against the
conventional black coats, white waistcoats, and
stove-pipes of various members. I shall not
carry you into the Legislative chambers, for
we went there together some weeks ago, and
there is nothing fresh to say, except that it was
more densely packed with ladies than usual, and
correspondingly hot. Nothing noticeably new
was worn; now and then one had a shook as some
f laring combination passed out, but, as it usually
ormed part of an unknown personnel, the shock
was transitory. At the conclusion of the opening
ceremony, the President, Sir John Hay, accom-
panied Sir Alfred Stephen to the carriage, the
band struck uo the National Anthem, the Lancers
re-formed, and the procession passed hack. Voila
tout I
Lady Stephen’s reception on Wednesday after-
noon was very crowded and most pleasant. So
many old friends rallied to the occasion that
there was quite an air of the ancien regime per-
vading everything, which is pleasantly nove. in
these days of nouveaux riches. It was not a pleasant
day, for the sky was one mass of those leaden
clouds which cause that peculiarly hard searching
light, when people and things look so unbecom-
ingly angular, and the water even reflects a sullen
scowl. Under such circumstances you will not be
surprised to hear that “dress” did not form a
strong feature in the programme. I came away
with the distinct impression that everyone was
properly clothed in garments that are quite fami-
liar, and no longer exceptional to the accustomed
eye.
But, altogether, it was a charming garden party,
wherein the bad tea and stale cake of other days
had no share, and were only remembered by force
of contrast, when one stood by the generously
laden tables in the ball-room, to eat ices and other
delectable stuffs. It was observed that Sir Henry
Parkes walked as through “a desert drear on
both those occasions, looking as if his brilliant
victory at 8t. Leonards was merely a will o the
wisp that has hurried him where he would not be.
Sic transit gloria mundi.
On Saturday afternoon people were drawn
divers ways. Two large water picnics, represen-
tative, the one of science and literature, the other
of wealth and fashion, disported themselves
across the harbour. Mr. and Mrs. Russell (of the
Observatory) gave the first; Mr. and Mrs. Wrench,
i of Caradon, Woollahra, the last. Science and
literature elected to enjoy itself in the brilliant
sunshine and freshening breezes of the afternoon,
returning to town, from Middle Harbour, about 6
p.m. Wealth and fashion got under weigh about
4 p.m., dined with sybaritic luxuriance at Clontarf
at 7 p.m., and enjoyed the sentimental light of an
exquisite moon till near 10 p.m., when their
votaries, too, turned their steps to rest and re-
flection. Both seem to have been equally success ■
ful, and as there was no conjunction, there were
no Invidious comparisons. Ashore, conflicting
cords drew tennis players to Lady Hay’s genial
Saturday gatherings, or to its local antipodes-
Miss Blox some’s tennis party — the Ranges,
North Shore.
H.M.S. Opal was sent off to New Guinea last
Friday, carrying, in addition to her crew, two
officers from the Nelson-Lieutenant iBroadly and
sub-Lleutenant the Hon. Boyle—with 30 picked
seamen. H.M.S. Swinger sailed on Sunday for the
same destination. The Nelson will leave Sydney
towards the end of the week for a cruise of some
months round New Zealand, while the Myrmidon
is preparing to go to Bass’ Straits on surveying
business. Thus, you see, we shall be nearly de-
fenceless when Lord Carington arrives. There
are all manner of rumours abroard concerning the
new Governor's residence. Negative evidence Is
stronger than the positive so far—as usual. Peo-
pie have decided he is not to live at the present
Government House, but there their unanimity
ceases.
Last night the Bar entertained the Hon. Alex-
ander Gordon at a farewell dinner, previous to his
departure for England, whither he goes by the
outgoing P. and O. steamer next Friday. He will
be accompanied by his wife and three daughters,
and Intends to settle permanently in England.
Mss. Gordon is well-known by her untiring energy
and Interest in all charitable movements, and her
place will not be easily filled.
CORRA LYNN.
Mr. Quong Tart invited a select company
to take tea In his new rooms opposite Christ-
church, Brickfield Hill, last Wednesday evening,
to celebrate the opening of the new premises.
This position for a tea-room was a happy thought
of Mr. Quong Tart’s, and will prove to be a boon
which those ladies who have spent a long, tiring
morning of “ shopping ” in Hordern’s Palace Em-
porium will well know how to appreciate. It has
always been the drawback of th < Emporium that
there has been no decent refreshment room within
easy distance, but now ladies can obtain their
refreshing cup of tea with small loss of time—and
tea of the very best quality, too, and civil attend-
ance to boot.


Wolfe’s Schnapps.—lt has often been
pirated, but never had a rival.
“I suffered for eight yearsfrom Bronchitis,
and after taking many remedies with no succass, 1
was cured by the use of -Vyer's Cherry Pectoral,
Joseph Walden. Byhaiia, Miss., April 5, 1882.
Wolfa’s Schnapps is sold by every respect-
able publican. Accept no other.
Health, life, hope, Joy, peace, love,
Six gifts from Heaven ;
Then Summerfleld gave pants,
To make these seven.*
Imitations of the genuine Wolfe’s
Schnapps are more or less adulterated fiery com-
pounds. Therefore shun them.
Wolfe’s Schnapps and water make the best
and most agreeable drink in hot weather.
HORDERNS
ON THB
Bric3s±ieldL Hill.
M STAY UI GOBSET lEPAETMEHT.
/(?
C D
v_v
f.
; |
%
uV
!W
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Pree oe Charge.
Nursing aid Riding Stays.
I Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),
as. lid., 3s. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4b. lid., ss. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 9b. 6d., 10fl. 6d., 128 6d
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS, 666 and 668 Brickfield H,H m
N.B.—Orders from the Country will recelre Immediate and earetul attention.
BY FLOOD AND FIELD .
The gentleman who umpired the rowing
races at the Balmain regatta has made a sad mess
of It over the decision in re the senior fours race,
and he, no doubt, by this time, wishes himself
Well out of the whole affair. Beyond being a local
man, we cannot imagine upon what ground the
Balmain Committee made choice of the gentleman
in question for the onerous, it unthankful billet
of umpire. Experience in boatraoing he has had
none, and we defy any man. no matter how well
versed in the rules of the road, to make a good
umpire unksj be has himself gone through the
Willi. Were he a practical oarsman he would have
kiown it is n;xt to an impossibility for two
boats of anything like equal calibre to round a
turn, scarcely three-quarters of a mile from the
start, without touching; and unless there is a
really deliberate foul on one side or the other, an
old hand at the game would use his discretion,
take the foul as an accident, and most
likely start the boats again from the spot
where the foul occurred. But It took this Bal-
main umpire two days to come to a decision, a lapse
of time unprecedented in aquatics, and should the
Balmain crew, as it is rumoured, take the matter
into court, they will gain their case for a certainty
If they have the luck to get a fair proportion of
“salt-water lawyers” on the jury. “Don’t pay
over any stakes,” shouted a Mercantile man to the
umpire’s launch, when the red-and-white rowed
up to her after the race; and on this remark the
whole thing hinges. There was money on the
race. “We don’t care,” say the Mercantiles, “ for
the prize, we only want the honour of the race, so
hand it to a Balmain charity.” The outsider will
naturally exclaim, “ This Is true love of the sport
if you like,” but those behind the scenes do not
go into such ecstacies, as they know that, in this
case at all events, the waaers will not ao with the
stakes, for while one finds its way to the Balmain
charity, the other will rattle in the pockets of the
lucky backers of the red-and-white. It is just 10
years since the never-to-be-forgotten by rowing
men row between the Sydney and Mercantile clubs
over the senior fours at the Balmain regatta, and
we suppose the unpleasantness on last Wales'
Birthday will open up the old wound with tenfold
severity. The Balmain crew have been very
harshly treated In the opinion of 99 out of every
hundred rowing men—who had no money on the
event—and they deserved the prize, if only for
their pluck in entering for a race which has
hitherto been prey for one or other of the
clubs which glare at each other across the couple
of hundred yards of pellucid sewage matter which
separates the red-and-white from the blue-and-
whita shed.
* * *
Bells’ Lute congratulates Mr. G. J. Bon-
nor, of cricketing fame, upon his appointment to
the post of Inspector of Runs of N.S.W, at a salary
of £BOO per annum. So will we when—but we
won’t put the long ’un away with the Britishers.
Bell says George “ has accepted the post,” but
they don’t mention the two posts of £lOOO a year
he refused before he " accepted ” this one.
* * *
Mr. Fitzhardioge has a beautiful and ser-
viceable craft in the yacht Blectra, which was
launched from Ford’s yard at Berry’s Bay on
Saturday morning last. She was designed for a
comfortable cruiser, but, if looks go for anything,
she will not prove a sluggard under racing canvas.
She measures 53ft. overall, 45ft. waterline, llWft.
beam, and draws 7ft. 9ln. She has five tons of lead
on her keel, and Vi tons of ballast inside.
• . • *
We have received a communication from
a correspondent who rejoices in the nom-de-plume
of “ Balmainiac.” Says “Bal.”:—“I have care-
fully summed up the reasons set forth in your
valuable journal (Nominate ;your poison, “Bal.”)
as to why a Balmain or any other constable should
not rank as a bona Me amateur sculler, and notice
that, although you put the case fairly well, you
have overlooked a poiot which will not allow of
any denial. It is simply this. Would the Rowing
Association accept Miller, Dlnnie, Victor, or other
professional wrestlers as bona fide amateur
scullers ? I venture to say not; and yet last week
I saw a Balmain constable doing a Graeco-Roman
up the steepest part of Darling-street with a list,
inebriate of the feminine persuasion.” " Bal-
manlac ” has, without doubt, opened up a reason
on which the Association can have but one
opinion. A constable receives a stated sum to
wrestle all comers, and we hold with our corres-
pondent that a Balmain or any other constable is
nothing if not a professional wrestler. “ Bal-
manlac ” has earned the good wishes of all who
have the welfare of the noble sport at heart.
* 9 •
The Sydney Carltons have secured a real
good one in the stick-keeping line in the person of
Burton, and, as he is about the only wicket-keeper
we possess, the selector of;teams would do well to
keep an eye upon him. By the way, we hear that
Teddy Tindall, so welljknown to Sydney and Mel-
bourne cricketers, has been'seriously unwell.
Tindall has done good service for his colony In the
cricket field, and a little help from supporters of
the game would, no doubt, be very acceptable Just
now. Cannot some of the Influential cricketers
this side of the line do something to assist him ?
In England, the benefit to the retired pro. is looked
upon as a matter of course.
♦ » *
More honours for Australia! The cham-
pion bicycle, doing the quickest mile on record
as yet, is called the “Kangaroo.” There Is a par-
ticular appropriateness about this, when you come
to think of it. There is much of the kangaroo
about the bicycle. The attitude of the rider’s
hands is exactly that of the fore-paws of the
kangaroo, and he relies upon his hind wheel quite
as much for all purposes as the kangaroo does
upon the tail. At the Inventions Exhibition
(“ the Inventories ”) the gold medal has been
awarded to this latest production, and it has re-
ceived similar honours in America.
• V •
The complete suppression of public sweeps
on racing events is now very noticeable. “ Miller’s
sweeps” on the Melbourne races had grown into
an Institution or as much so as 17 years of life
could help to that end. The little man should be
proud that it required several Acts of Parliament
to fully suppress his enterprise. We hear nothing
no w as we used to do about this time In past years of
the wonderful flukes of fortune of those who had-
drawn the thousand and the five hundred in each
of the 15 or 16 sweeps that were so got up. The
removing the locality of drawing them to Sydney
was of no avail, as the Postmaster-General at
Melbourne refused to forward any letter addressed
to a racing-sweep advertiser. So Miller, like
Othello, finds his occupation gone, but he Is,
nevertheless, a long way off the Benevolent
Asylum and doing well per latest reports.
* * •
We are well into the cricketing season of
of 1885 6, but, so far, the exponents of the game
have been unable to raise even a shadow of ex-
citement amongst the general public. The prac-
tice of the seniors for the international match
might be improved upon by knocking out several
players who have already proved they have not
a ghost of a show of remaining in the final selec-
tion, thus allowing more practice-time for those
who may be looked upon gs “certainties.” With
the number now practicing, many are debarred
from getting an Innings at all. The juniors could
also Improve upon the present method of select-
ing teams.' In the first place, the number of com-
mittee-men—seven—is absurd, experience having
proved that the smaller the number the greater
the chance of satisfaction. The practice adopted
by them of selecting as “juniors” men who
have been playing cricket for the past 10
years, is also at variance with all ideas of
representative junior cricket. In the coming
intercolonial, the junior association should
endeavour to bring forward as much new
blood as they possibly can, for It Is not from the
ranks of the “ tan-year-old” juniors that the suc-
cessors of Murdoch. Spofforth, and Company will
be obtained. Spofforth has made his debut as a
Melbourne cricketer, playing for the Melbourne
Club against Bast Melbourne, when he secured
three wickets for 43 runs. Under the Associa-
tion’s new rule stipulating six months’ residence,
Spofforth must play for Victoria if he takes part
In the forthcoming intercolonial; while Percy
M’Donaldwill probably form one of the N.B.W.
representatives. The removal of disqualification
fiomthe members of the late Australian Eleven
will considerably strengthen Victoria in the com-
ing struggle, and it will most likely lead to the in-
clusion of some of their number in the team to be
sent home by the Melbourne Club.
♦ * •
The latest about the champion pugilist:—
“ Mr. John L. Sullivan is paid 700 dollars per week
to appear with a minstrel company, and he forfeits
200 dollars every night be is drunk At this rate
tha management would make 1400 dollars a week
out of Mr Sullivan.”
m m m
Though lacking championship form, pro-
fessional rowing in England can scarcely have
reached quite such a low ebb as is generally sup-
posed, judging from the fact that for a recent
sculling handicap on the Thames 24 men entered
and most of them put in an appearance. No less
than 15 heats were gone through. The two most
interesting items were the meeting of Largan and
Godwin; and the final between Largan from
scratch, and one Green, with 24 seconds’ start,
which ended in an easy win for Largan. Nothing
succeeds like success, and the Britishers now
fancy they have in Largan a sculler who has a
show of regaining the championship for the
Thames, though how the defeat of Godwin (who
is now in the sere and yellow), with but three
seconds’ start, and some score of other outsiders,
could lead them to such belief, is beyond us. Says
Bells’ Life;—” It would thus seem that we have
at least one man in the old country that is capable,
if fit and well, of making a good show against
some of the Australian and American ‘giants.’
We scarcely go as far as several enthusiasts who,
on the first blush of Largan's victory, protested
that they had found a man who could be pitted
against the champion with a fair chance of success.
Largan is. nevertheless, a good, sterling sculler,
and if in the form he showed last Saturday, must
not be held too cheap, no matter who his opponent
may be.” Should Largan's fanciers think a second
trip to the Antipodes would be a good line, there
is plenty material to wado through before meeting
the champion. Matches would, no doubt, be
arranged with Matteraon, Pearce, Kemp, Mes-
senger, Laycock, and a few others.
• ♦ ♦
“Young Dutohy,” the Australian from
Ratcliff Highway, better known in the colonies by
bis photographs than by his fighting abilities, met,
and was “ put through ” by one Phil Dawe, with
small glovea, at Scuttle, U. 8., on September 20
“Dutchy ” went into the ring bold as a lion for
the first round, and knocked his man all over the
place, but at the end of the third round be was
carried out like a slaughtered lamb. Matthews,
the Yankee boxer now in New Zealand, we see has
“ knocked out ” another Maorilander, named
Burke, at the Thames. Matthews has now
“knocked oul" about 400 men in New Zealand.
It will be interesting to note how long it will
take him to perform In a similar manner on Foley
or Peter Jackson, when he pays his long-promised
visit to Australia.
• • •
Goldsmith Maid, the world-known Ameri-
can trotter, who held the record until the advent
of Maud 8, the present “ Queen of the Turf,” died
on 23rd September. Goldsmith Maid trotted her
first race of note at Newburg, on June 6, 1867,
when she made a record of 3 24That was not
lowered untU October 7,1868, when she trotted at
Mystic Park, Boston, in 2.21}4, At Buffalo, on
August 12,1869, see made 2 19>$. and 2.19 on same
course on August 11,1871. She lowered her record
two secs, at Milwaukee. Sept. 17,1871. Budd Doble
was then her owner, having bought her for £2OOO
In 1868. Oa the lowering of her record Henry N.
Smith bought her for £7OOO. Her record became
216 at Springfield, on August 19, 1874, and her
best tme. 214. was made the same season, Septem-
ber 2, 1874, at the Mystic course, she was then 17
years old. After that she trotted 2.14 at Belmont
Park, Philadelphia, on June 23, 1876; made three
beats at Buffalo on August 3, 1876, in 2.16, 2.15 Mi
and 2.15, and trotted in at Belmont Park on
November 4, 1876. Her last appearance on the
turf was at Toledo, on September 37, 1877, when
she tried to beat 2.14, and made three heats in
2.33 Hi, 2.21i4, and 2.32. As she was then 20 years old
her owner thought she had earned retirement.
She had trotted 132 races, of which she won 92. Her
earnings were nearly £48,000. Goldsmith Maid was
about 28 years old at the time of her death. She
was a bright bay in colour, with black points. She
was sired by Alexander’s Abdallah, dam by
Abdallah.
• • *
“Pendragon,” of the London Referee,
gives the best part of three columns on the
Cummings-George races, and endeavours to
throw rather a new light on the matter. Says
“Pen.”:—“As everybody is now aware, the third
and last of the series of foot-races arranged be-
tween Cummings, the representative pro. of the
pro’s, and George, who stepped forth to do battle
on behalf of the amateurs, ended in a very easy
and apparently very decisive defeat for the latter.
Although the seoret was so well kept that nobody
suspected there was anything wrong until the
ground itself was reached, or until the finishing
touches were administered to the betting-books at
the clubs on Monday morning, It Js now well-
known that George was by no means the George
of old. Cummings knew when he went to the
mark that he was about to run against a virtual
eripple. Nevertheless, I do not think, whatever
I may have thought before, that George at his
absolute best would have been able to beat Cum-
mings. at Cummings was prepared to exploit
himself on Monday. Cumming’s exhibition was,
under the circumstances, and when it comes to be
weighed up. nothing short of wonderful, and
there is no reason to doubt that, had George been
able to take him along at the beginniug, the pre-
vious record would have been altered out of all
recognition. After the paragraphs which had been
published as to George’s fitness, it was astonish-
ing to find bookmakers beginning at 6 to 4 against
him, and then, finding no business could be done,
raising their offers to 2 to 1 and 5 to 2, at which
price business still languished. Some little while
before the men came out to run, it was confided
to me by one of those who must have known
throughout what George was doing that it was
all over, and Cummings the winner, bar accident
or marvellous intervention. George, he said, had
broken down at Edinburgh, and had for a fort-
night done next to no work. The chief energies
of those connected with him bad been directed
to keeping this a secret; how well they kept it
those who went to the ground expecting to see a
close and exciting race know without my telling
them. 1 don’t know if there was much betting
on the rubber after each man had won an event,
but am told that a good deal whs done
at the clubs. If so, the knowledge of George’s
mishap must have been worth having. Another
man, a friend of George s, informed me that
George was all right, so far as health was con-
cerned, but that he was considerably upset by
something that had taken place between him and
his backers. This story not being sufficient to ac-
count for the s’s to 2 which were now freely on
offer, I consulted M’Glll, George’s trainer, and re-
ceived the information that for the last fortnight
George had been doing exactly as he liked. Na-
turally, it is not for me to say, but I should think
that no people would have been more astonished at
George s victory than M’Glli, Williamson, and the
one or two others who were supposed to be pre-
sent on behalf of the ex-amateur. About a quar-
ter-past 5 George and Cummings, partly stripped,
came forth—not a minute too soon, seeing that it
was already sunset, and that, owing to the absence
of wind, a slight mist was rising in anticipation of
the approaching twilight. Cummings's face was
thin, but his body appeared plump and well
nourished; be was jaunty, self-possessed, and full
of confidence. It is easy to say that a man who Is
known to be bad looks bad—the truth must, how-
ever, be told, and It is that George looked mom
fit to be in bed than engaged in sueh an arduous
task as lay immediately in front of him. He wi s
worn and haggard; I should not be at all surprised
to learn that in addition to ilia physical wea treesi
wherever that may have lain, he was suffering
from distress that was mental. George has rather
a refined face, parts his hair in the middle, and
looks very different from the typical professional,
who may be said to have all bis peculiarities
as well a« bis excellencies combined in the
person of W. Cummings. George led for the first
mile, which was covered in the remarkably slow
time of 3mln. 21soc. He held pride of place for the
next quarter, but half way round the next lap
Cummiogs was evidently unable to keep any
longer behind George. He dashed to the front,
and the race was from that point as good as over.
When the mile was finished an authority on foot-
race times offered 50 to 1 that no alteration was
made in the table; it did not then seem possible
that, after beginning at the tortoise pace of smin.
21sec- for the mile, and going on for another
quarter at much the same rate, either man could
run up, until at the completion of the distance
record was beaten. But one of them did; and to
was this remarkable performance on the part of
Cummings which alone prevented the affair frcm
having a very awkward appearance. Uls second
mile, notwithstanding that the first quarter of it
must have taken about 80ieo . was completed in
4 'jain. sisec , bis third in 4mio. 52sec , and bis fourth
In 4min. 59seo. This brought him fairly on the
way to do a good if not a big performance, pro-
viding be continued to the end, which be did, and
with smin. 7sec. lor the fifth mile, smln. 9seo. for
the sixth, smln. lOaec, for the seventh, smin. ITaec.
for the eighth. smin. 14ieo. for the ninth, and with-
out troubling himself at all unduly, smin. 6 3-ssec.
for the tenth, be got home for full distance, in
51min. 6 3-ssec—official—or 13 2 ssec. faster than
has ever) before been run by mortal man, no
matter whether professional or amateur. George
finished 425 yards behind.”
• • •
“ Looking at them as they stand, now that
they have become matter of pedestrian history, it
can hardly be said that the three matches between
George and Cummings ended very satisfactorily.
To begin with, George won the race which on pre-
vious public show should have been won by Cum-
mings, and Cummings won the two races which at
the outset it seemed probable George would win,
and whieb, after the mile race, seemed an absolute
gift for him. We are now told that the reason
why Cummings did not win tne mile was because
he was overwound; we know that George was
overwound when the time came for the last race
of the series. The only race which, on this show,
looks as though it were fairly run and won on its
merits was the four miles at Edinburgh—and yet I
feel certain that such a belief will be indignantly
repudiated by many who profess to * know some-
thing.’ That there wes something or other the
matter at Edinburgh is evidenced by the admis-
sion, as made to me by M‘Glll, that since then
George has been turned out of training. Three
weeks ago I stated that if Cummings won the
rubber, he would challenge for another race at a
mile. This he has now done; but, although the
prospects of a big * gate ’ must be as tempting as
ever, George has so far made no response. Parti-
sans are just where they were when the matches
were first made. George's people feel sura that
bis defeats were not on bis merits— I have beard
certain explanations of them, as given in good
faith by men who should be above that sort of
thing, which I certainly should not think of
putting Into print. On the other hand, the orofes-
sionalites who were so liberal in their offers of
odds on Cummings in the race which be lost, and
which it now seems he should of all things have
won, find reasons for his defeat which are very
different from the reasons which he gives him-
self.”
* ♦ ♦
The Whistler Memorial Fund has excited
a good deal of satirical comment. When people
are told that the dead gladiator left nothing be-
hind him, they are apt to question the utility of
wrestiiug for money stakes. Within a very few
months Whistler won three matches off the reel.
At the most triumphant moment of his career he
dies—pretty well p'-.miless. Then the hat comes
round. Some will say that the public should
willingly put their hands in their pockets because
Whistler was a " champion.” Pshaw! There are
hundreds of men in the world who would be
greater “champions” if they could be Induced to
waste time over training for the purpose of
throwing their fellow-creatures about. In the
same way there are men innumerable capable of
taking down Beach's number if they gave their
attention to sculling. Professional athleticism
should be a business, and if those at the top of the
tree can’t make money at it, why should the public
be expected to waste their money over keeping
such an unprofitable concern going ?
* * »
After his performance in the Wagga Cup
the public will be about “ full up” of Despot.
Considering how favourably he was weighted, and
the class of horsos opposed to him, the little grey
should have won easily enough if bo has any pre-
tensions to be as good as some people would make
out.
• * •
Since Munwyrtina ran Acme to a neck at
Caulfield no end of money has been dropped over
the colt. At Wagga, last week, he suffered two
defeats, odds on being laid in the Mares’ Produce
Stakes. The colt is evidently very unreliable, or
else the form with Acme was all wrong. Probably
the latter.
v ♦ ♦
Plausible, who was sold to Mr. Weeks a
few days back, has been re-disposed of to Mr.
Saqul and will not yet retire from the Australian
turf. Speaking of the horse last week, we said
that “ Teddy” Weeks had made a good bargain.
♦ * *
Fred Archer, it is quite refreshing to find,
refused to accept a retainer from the Prince of
Wales for next season. The wilv Frederick is
evidently no courtier, and the Heir Apparent
reckoned without his host when he made bis offer.
Acceptance would have meant, for Archer, the
giving of tlrjt claim on his services to a man who
would, in all probability, have put him up on verv
indifferent mounts, for it is not to be expected
that H.kt.H will And a Royal road to success on
the turf. In the races where he will run horses.
Archer will have pretty well his own choice of
mounts. If the jockey cinslders “ Tummy’s ”
(that’s what the scoffers call Albert Edward now)
representative stands as good a chance as anyone
else’s, he will condescend to ride it, if invited, but
he will not content to be bound down by a retain-
ing fee. Bravo, Archerl No doubt the Prince
was staggered to Had his Royal ” wish ’’ treated so
cavalierly. He is apt to presume somewhat with
those wishes of his, us some horse-owners are well
aware. We remember a case In which a book-
maker, who was running two horses in an impor-
tant two-year-old race, received an intimation
that “ His Royal Highness wished to know which
of the pair be fancied.” Looked at from a busi-
ness point of view, the message was a piece of
infernal impudence, and such was the “ book’s ”
oplnioa He sent back word that he fancied both
his horses.


It is admitted that no purer spirit is placed
before the public than Wolfe's Schnapps. Be
sure you obtale Wolfe’s.
Wolfe’s Schnapps the only genuine brand
of Schnapps in the world. Beware of imitation.
The “ sixpenny box” by the bookseller’s
door repays a little overhauling. Here lie side by
side the failures of the great and the small—for
your great authors will make mistakes in judging
public taste. Here are the three volumes of ‘‘Eady-
mlon" at 6d. each, aud one of Mr. Black’s failures
to be bad at same price Instead of the original
guinea and a half. And here, too, is Bob Lowe s
(Lord Sherbrooke’s) lately published volume of
poems—quite new to ’, and three copies of it. It
speaks badly for a second edition this getting so
Soon to the sixpenny-box.
On lOth December Matthew Fnske, for
murder on the C arence, will hang at Grafton
This somehow r other, recalls to hr the facts that
dear old Sir Alfred Stephen 1« gain Lieureaaat-
Governor of N S.W ; and that Sj dne h ,s a brand
new hangman 1 tn p >- an « i
who, when in the force, chiefly devoted his atten-
tion to catching vagrant dogs, and resigned bis
billet, much to the delight of his brother bobbles,
to become a man-butcher at the comfortable little
annual stipend of 120 pieces of gold. And in Vic-
toria they will, next Friday, hang a hoary-headed
man of over 70 years for stabbing a young man to
death. From all these things it is plain that civili-
sation is now a wonderful success.
“Alcohol” is a word of curious etymology
according to Captain Burton —that profound
Arabic scholar. In his "private” edition of the
‘Arabian Nights,” he tells us: "Women in the
East use a preparation of powdered antimony, or
one of sulpburet of lead, or another of lamp-black
for colouring the eye-lids. All are alike called
• kohl.’ This word, with the article (al-kohl). Is the
origin of our‘alcohol,’though the learned fail to
■how how * fine powder * (the meaning of * kohl ’)
became applied to such a liquid as snlrits of wine.”
He lays that be found this powder a preservative
of the eyes from ophthalmia in his desert travels.
Which recalls the fact that a certain very well-
known Australian politician has the queer habit of
Invariably wetting his eyes with the liquor he 1b
invariably about to drink.
A London journalist has been for a ride
upon the footolates of an express engine. H«
tells us that at 60 miles an hour he found difficulty
in putting his hand outside the protectlng-guard
enclosure His companions were the driver and
the stoker, who worked with the regularity of
machinery, and as silently. The return journey.
In the darkness of night, the most sensational
of his experiences tmeslgnal lamps ahead seemed
to be “ dancing all over the place,” a id the head-
long rush of toe train seemed as "going to des-
truction.” Twe o lolneas of his o imuantops alo>e
‘kept him up ’ in the trying ordeal He was
drenched periodically when the water supplies
were taken ia, and scorched every five minutes
when the furnace-door was opened for fresh coal-
ing. His conclusion is that those wanting a new
sensation, and a very lively one, may follow his
example If they don’t mind “ the spoiling of a suit
of clothes, and the risks of catching cold from
drenching with the water, and half-baking from
the fire.
Bir Frederick Napier Broome, Governor
of West Australia, has been prattling away art-
lessly on things in general during his stay in Mel-
bourne. First he expressed his admiration for
Victoria, reverence for the Cup, and lo>'e for Sir
Henry L ,ch, to the Heralds “own representa-
tive.” Then he played a strong band ia the all
round backscratchingat the Mayor’s dinner. And
last week the Herald had another go at the dis-
tinguished visitor. Sir Frederick, having spent
two days at Ballarat as the guest of Sir William
Clarke, warbled out bia “ impressions ” to the
Hebald man. He thinks of publishing them tn
the world soon, and we trust the happy day will
not be long deferred They are unique. It seems
that the good gentleman was profoundly im-
pressed with the public spirit of tbe citizens. It
struck him,fin fact—now, don't laugh—" that one
of the principal strengths of Victoria lies in the fact
that she possesses men like Sir William Clarke and
others, who are of largo fortune and busy occupa-
tion.” Great Soottl After that you will be prepared
to hoar that the West Australian autocrat “ really
thinks that these intercolonial movements of
Governors do a considerable amount of good.”
Perhaps they will In time. Let the dear creatures
only obtrude themselves sufficiently before the
w irld above all. let them only talk enough—and
f hey will do good They will dig tneir own official
graves. The time is not yet come, however.
Grovel abounds in the land. The Herald ex-
presses itself as humbly “thankful to Sir Frederick
for the courtesy with which he, like Lord Loftus,
has given us his opinion on these interesting sub-
jects.” For Gussy, we forgot to mention, has been
saying ditto to the other Governor. That circum-
stance alone is sufficient. Let us be sick.
It is curious to see a writer like James
Payn making blunders about matters of common
remembrance In his “ London Town Talk," con-
tributed to the Argus (and to two other papers
on the other side of the world), he refers to Green-
acre “ who murdered his wife.” Greenaore did
nothing of the sort—he never had a wife. He
murdered one Sarah Brown who was housemaid in
the establishment in which he served as coachman.
Now, all coachmen have curious ways. When
they are not fancied by the •* missus,” as has once
or twice been the case in the course of history,
they take fancies to their fellow-servants. The
family were away, and the servants idle and in
mischief about this house. The cook, going out
for the evening, left this message with Greenaore,
“Now, mind, while I’m gone, that you get those
garters I” The articles referred to were the pro-
perty of Sarah Brown, whose turn it was to stay
in that night. In the attempted robbery by Green
acre, which then ensued, the death of Sarah
Brown occurred. To hide his crime he out the
body up in several pieces, and with the as-
sistance of his paramour, Sarah Gale, distri-
buted them about in various places. Payn
Introduces the mistaken reference to Green
acre to get in an old joke that “he cut
her up because he didn’t like her altogether.”
Sarah Gale, by the way, was transported, and died
la a certain Australian city, not many years ago.
One day the writer, accompanied by a friend, went
Into a restaurant. An angular woman, who
tquinted, was behind the counter. " Who is that
bony woman with the shifting glances?” asked
the friend—" I have seen her before, and she has a
history.” After walking up the street some dis-
tance, the writer’s companion suddenly said—
“ Now I remember; that woman is Sarah Gale
whom I saw convicted of murder 30 years ago in
London. When she took our money, just now,
she was serving mutton-pies, and there was a pie
on the tray before her with the top off—leaving
the pieces ot meat exposed Was it some associa-
tion mysteriously formed between that mutton-
pie and the out-up body of Sarah Brown that en-
abled me to recall her name, and the circumstances
under which I saw her first?” This is a queer
world.
Salvation versus Ass-afoetida.
A Chinese Contingent.
An odoriferous martyr
Would anybody believe that there is a lady living
in Redfern so shockingly delicient in musical taste,
that when the “ Harry ” band passes the house it
takes two people to hold her down .
The Hallelujah nose-
shield. Warranted to
be 'an absolute protec-
tion against effluvia of
all descriptions, and to
fit every variety of nose.
A special pattern
with anti-kiss attach-
ment for " lasses.'
The defendant came up and said somebody was mad
or bad, and then emptied the contents of a bottle
alongside the drummer. The result was a smell which
was anything but myrrh and frankincense.
Mr.T. M. - Williamson.
tor the defence, said that a
mend of his had' success-
fully dispersed a meeting
by jumping through the
big drum.
This is the Army ver-
sion of the affair.
Mr. Abbott, S.M. animadverted on the cruelty displayed by the Army. Their bands did not, he said, play
well enough to justify the emptying of bottles of attar of roses at their feet. He dismissed the case.
“heartless PRoeEnoiNos of tfe army at redeerv.
“At the Red Corn Police Court yesterday, John-
Mills, chemist, manager for Mr. Ailihand, Botany-
street, was charged with casting offensive matter on
the footpath of that thoroughfare, done, as it after-
wards transpired, for the I CBp
///M purpose of dispersing a I
Salvation Army I)
ing.”— n*tiy p»t»r. fl /n\
It was a “ Harmy ” drummer boy.
Who left this world of sin.
Came to the straight and narrow gate,
And sought to enter in.
“ Why, certainly,” said Peter,
As the door he opened wide,
" You’re welcome, but I’ll trouble you
To leave your drum outside.
“Although we're musical up hero,
We don’t include the drum.
Upon a harp of thousand strings
Wc’JJ teach you for to strum.”
“ 111 stop at home,” the drummir cried,
“That’s all there is about, it,
A Harmy man without his drum !
Heaven would be H without it."


Never Travel Without It-
Qiticura
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Bcaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
l,DBs of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticuba Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticuba and Cutic-uea Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautlflers, externally.
Itching: and Burning: Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticuba Soap and a single application of
Cuticuba, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticuba Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticuba Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Austbalian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Geeat Skin Cube (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticuba, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
Eor Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticuba, 60 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticuba Soap, 25 cents; Cuticuba Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticuba Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Pbepabed by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
CHAS. OTTE& CO.,
Electrical Engineers,
113 Pitt Street.
Electric Batteries for surgical and household use, Electric Bells,
Private Telephones, Electric Lights, Lightning Conductors, Dyna-
mos, and all Electrical appliances fitted at the shortest notice, at
25 per cent, under usual price.
CHAS. OTTE & CO., 113 Pitt Street
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS
ALLNOXIOUS INSECTS.
FLEAS,FLIES. BEETLES MOSQUITOES
COCKROACHES.**^ 0 AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOGS
FOWLS OR OTHERS
ANIMALS
„ A’ O'
X .(& < P { <s
,,,
IN TINS
os> ’ /•
.v<^V^ ISVLJPyVAR DS
, CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS
</X V V ~ WHOLESALE
A' > CnrnKi.ADiuiKA nroi **nl
R?FELTON-GRIMWADEW.C?
O — MELBOURNE •
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
Wanted in Every House.
Wanted in Every House.
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE A MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER or CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Buckboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK
WILLI-a-M FLEMIMTGK Merchant A Importer,
82 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
(Jo A. BOBBRTB. R* J# ALCOCE# Go Co CHALMBRS* R, G» WATKINS)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
una, ui mra hems,
Importers of
STBAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MAPHTNUbt
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURALIMPLEMENT*
MINING, ™™HSo j[g^DlNO T P^ ? T b PDM S . gU-nSW""
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSHWABB
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPAOKB
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
5=
t
nth
rr
i nir
PORTABLE, FIXED
and SBMi-FliiD EN-
GINES
pomp” “ d ot '‘"
LATHES, PLANING,
a....,, SHAPING, SCREW.
£55 L n aV,"nV h,LUNO
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLED
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, *o.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.
Head Warehouse -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Oflot •
- M YORK STREET.
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR.
SYDNEY:
r • « H GRACECHUROH BTRJR,
CONQUEROR
.•d§9S-4£o.fr-„
„ COkqtje MR „
YftNKEE DOODLE
- l-:‘r
m
mmm
’rlmb&k z <^ & e|£S^
TWIST & PLUG
possess the larpest Factory, Manufacture more
Tobacco, and consume more American Leaf,
tban any factory in the southern hemisphere. . , _ . _ .
DOODLE, CONQUEROR, Sir )*c«er, Champion, and Dixson’s Cut Tobaccos.
OIXSOM & SONS, Sydney,
Darlin.gr HaiTsotir Hotel,
HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Railway Cates).
STEPHEN HOPKINS (Late of Wagga Wagga), Proprietor.
jar ESPECIAL ACCOMMODATION FOR COUNTRY VISITORS.
INVENT .POST FREE FOR Is. STAMPS.
Social Science.
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders, Cbronlc
1» Besses, Impediments to Marriage, &c.. How to
i >ioose a partner for life so as to live happy. How
r i Regain and Preserve your Health, &c.
Address—R. T. BBLBY, M.H., Devonshlre-street,
Sarry Hills, Sydney.
AMHOODcRESTOREDI
1 A Clergyman having tried every known rente*})
_ forth# CUREof NERVOUSEXHAUtJ.
r ION, PREMATURE DECAY, Ac., hn »l
discovered a simple SELF-CURE, which, fe*
sake of suffering humanity, he will send FREE
t.e Prescription which CURED him. Address)
mth self-addressed stamped envelope—
Or. E. A. CLARKE. P.O. Box WB, Sydney.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that It is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Pold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge: Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Boware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
>of the only maker,
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
street, Kedfern.
Xjixa.en. G-loss


W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON and SYDNET.
Catalogues Catalogue b
POST f RBI.
W. WALKER
and SONS
ue one of the
Largest
Stockholders
and
Maimfaeturm
■■Kh>eltM
FURNITURE
ENGLAND.
POST PEBB.
ALL STOCK
in their
SYDNEY
■(full
Supplied
DIBBOI
from their
London
Mann factor 5
and Latest
London Stylet
GO ARAB Till
SYDNEY BRANCH;
81 CLARENCE STREET, WTNTARD SQUARE.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
'* If you are suffering from poor health
‘or languishing on a bed of sickness,
• take cheer, for American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will cure you.
“ If you are simply ailing, if you feel
‘weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘ knowing why, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters win Revive you.
“ if you are a Minister, and have over-
• taxed yourself with your pastoral
• duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘ and work, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will Restore you.
“If you are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
‘ your avery-day duties, or a man of let-
‘ lers, tolling over your midnight work.
Hop Bitters will Strength.ten yon.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ordrinking, any indiscretion or dlssi-
• patlon, or are young and growing too
‘ fast, as is often the case, Am. Co. s
Hop Bitters will relieve yon.
“If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
‘ that your system needs cleansing, ton-
‘ ing, or stimulating, without intoxicat-
‘ ing, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters is what you need.
“ If you are old, and your blood thin
‘ and imnure, pulse feeble, your nerves
‘unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Am. Hop Bitters will give yon new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS, as made by the Ame-
‘ rican Co., is an elegant, healthy, and
• refreshing flavouring for sick-room
‘ drinks, impure water, etc., rendering
•them harmless, and sweetening the
‘ mouth, and cleansing the stomach.”
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in
bottle. Shun all others as vile poisonous stuff.
nriHß AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
X INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital £lOO,OOO.
Head Office: Melbourne.
New South Wales Branch : 171 Castlereagh-street.
Victorian Directors
John L. Dow, Esq., M.P.,
Chairman
Hon. J. F. Levlen, M.P.
Thomas Learmonth, Esq.
N. 8. Wales Directors:
Andrew Town, J.P., Esq.
Frank Cowley, Esq.
Qeorge S. Yeo, Esq.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs insured
against death from Accident, Disease, or Natural
Causes on land, rail, or at sea.
Marine Risks on Stock covering mortality or on
Merchandise accepted.
The only Live Stock Insurance Society in the
olonles.
Full particulars can be obtained from the under-
signed.
Active Agents wanted where unrepresented.
A. J. WILKINSON, Branch Manager.
Office, 171 Castlereagh-street.
£2
AU D B
4711
O O L O a N B,
4711.
Bstabllshed 17M.
G old Medal, Moscow, 1872; Prize Medal, Vienna, 1873
This Eau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 36 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
for its superior sweetness, strength,
Exhibition, , _
and invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
petitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the Sllte of
Europe.
The large and constantly increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Eau de Cologne, not only in
Europe, but also in North ana South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number—47ll changed into 7411,1147,4117, &0., &c.
The real genuine article which carried oft the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pltt-
street, Sydney.
To bo had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
and Storekeepers, in town and country.
SOLE IMPORTER 07
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
187 FITT STREET.
oUlijfi AQJLNT Fun
SMITH OHGAN.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
187 PITT STREET
ADVT
Some advertisers are marvellously “in
touch ” with the weaknesses of mortals. The ex-
hibitors (In London) of Bukovac'a picture, “ The
White Slave,” publish with their advertisement a
newspaper critique, part of which Isas follows:—
“ This is an Indecent picture. Nothing more nor
less, and, in my opinion, the public exhibition of it
calls for the interference of the police or the
Society for the Suppression of Vice. In the first
place, there is no justification for its title in the
work, which is a painting: of a naked woman play-
ing with pigeons. Nothing that vulgarity could
suggest has been omitted, and no detail of nude
humanity has been left to the imagination.” That
notice fetched lovers of art by the thousand.
Speaking of the Transvaal Boers, a writer
in the Sydney Fcho says:—” Fanaticism is the
national trait of the Transvaal Boers. They kill
piously; they plunder under the direct super-
vision of a deity of their own creation whom they
blasphemously call the God of Holy Writ; and when
they return from the most lawless expeditions
they devoutly return thanks to the God of Peace
for having blessed their arms in the Must’cause
in which they had been engaged.” If the Boers
act as the writer says they do, it merely shows
they know a good deal more about “ Holy Writ ”
than he. They do no more than the Jews were
commanded to do times without number. ;And as to
returning thanks to the “ God of Peace ” for hav-
ing blessed their arms, why there is not a nation
in Europe which does not sing “ Te Deums ” for
every victory—the vigour of the thanksgiving and
the quantity of incense expended being nicely pro-
portioned to the magnitude of the slaughter. In-
deed, in the case of battles in which both sides
claim the victory, such as that of Zorndorf, be-
tween the Russians and Prussians, or of Wagram,
between the French and Austrians, the spectacle
was presented of the priests on either side bawling
their thanks to the common Creator. Have not
we seen expeditions leaving the peaceful shores
of England to cut foreign throats, while priests
blessed their banners, and bishops begged the
“God of Peace” to lend His aid I We always
noticed, however, that the authorities, while re-
lying on the Lord, took care that each soldier had
his proper complement of cartridges. And did
not priests bless our own swashbucklers when
setting out for the Soudan to crush a struggling
people? Alas! it is the old tale of the beam in
your own eye and the mote In your neighbour’s.
A
A
for Infants and Children.
Castorla cures Colic, Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Diarrhoea, Eructation,
Gives healthy sleep and promotes digestion,
Without injurious medication.
Elliott Bros., Sydney, Agents.
“Castorla is so well adapted to children that
I recommend it as superior to any prescription
known to me.” H. A. Archer, M. D.,
11l Oxford Street, New York, j
Insist upon having the genuine Schnapps
which bears the name “ Wolfe’s Schnapps ”on
the label.
The best periodical for ladies to take
monthly and from which they will receive the
greatest benefit is American Hop Bitters.
Drink Wolfe’s Schnapps, the purest
stimulant in the world. Invaluable for the liver
and kidneys.
The best internal disinfectant is Wolfe’s
Schnapps, the purest spirit known. Beware of
imitations.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND
BISCUITS IHD EAEES, TREACLE ARE GOLSEH STEEP,
Self-raising /Erated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
for superiority oe quality and excellence. -OQ|
S. & A. Lave obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney 1.8., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4, '
*!*"» Agents: W. H. ADIEU. A CO., 343 and 343 Kont-strest.
Truth or Fiction.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Thus the editor spake to the poet old
'• Is the lyre In your hand a feeble thing.
That your music sounds to its lightest string i
We would listen, anon, to a song supreme,
To a grander, a braver, nobler theme;
And our raptured heart, as the music trilled
Impassioned and sweet, and our senses thrilled,
Would effer a tribute more dear than gold.
We would hear of the noble deeds of men,
The heroes of sword, and the braves of pen,
Who strive, in our midst, for the truth and
right—
Whose deeds may not hide from the searching
light.
Sing the noble aims, and the purpose great
Of the wisdom which steers the ship of State;
And your Muse, In a softer, sweeter key
May tell of our Senate’s purity,
Of Its truth, and its manly rivalry.
Of its spirit of noblest chivalry;
Now your hand may strike to a bolder tone.
As you sing of the falsehood there unknown.
Of its scutcheon stained with no dimming spot,
Of Its records free from Dishonour’s blot.
Their praises sing, in melodious key,
Who follow the Martyr of Calvary;
Tell softly the deeds of each purest life,
How they wage with evil a ceaseless strife—
How, ’mid toll and trouble, they long endure,
Contentedly working that all be pure;
Nor worshipping Mammon, nor gaining lands,
But waiting reward at the Master’s hands.
We would hear a song of our Southern land,
Of Its maidens fair, and Its manhood grand,
Of its wealth of earth, and Its wealth of wave,
Of Its soldiers bold, and its sailors brave—
Of its juries wise, and Its Judges grave.
Can you strike the chords with a master band.
And sing us thus of the free South laud ?”
To the editor spake then the poet old:
** Were the harp In my hand but an idle toy,
Would it mourn with grief and exult with joy,
Would its music ne’er on the senses cloy ?
I could sound, in a lyric, tunefully,
The praise of the country you deem so free;
I could tell of the Senate’s purity.
Could praise the evangels of charity,
Could laud our young manhood in numbers neat
(I have sung the charms of our maidens sweet);
I could strike a sharp In the key of C
In praise of our scribes who are fair I see,
I could make the souls of dead heroes groan
When chanting the deeds of the brave we own;
I could raise a howl which would scare old
Harry
Applauding our gallant military:
I could do all this, an’ I would, but. by
G. Washington’s hatchet, I cannot lie /”
M.D.


/CAUTION
NOTICE TO THE PUBLIC.
In consequence of an attempt to substitute In-
ferior and spurious articles for "Dr. Scott’s Elec-
tric,” the Pall Mall Electric Association, 51, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, desire to caution the public
against purchasing any counterfeit of the follow-
ing goods " Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets, Dr.
Scott’s Electric Belts, Dr. soott’s Electric Hair,
Flesh, or Tooth Brushes, Dr. Soott’s Galvanic
Generators, and Df. Scott’s Electric Insoles.’
Every genuine article boars the word " Electric”
and the name of Dr. Scott, as also does the bo±
containing same. The extent of our trade, and the
marked appreciation of the public having induced
certain parties to manufacture a line of worthless
goods, having something of the general form and
external appearance of ours, and variously styled
** Magneto-Electric or Electric Magnetic,’
we respectfully asa tfiat parties who have been
influenced by the many testimonials we publish,
all of which are strictly genuine, or the universal
reputation of our goods, to give electricity a
trial, will see that the name of Dr. Scott and the
word “ Electric” appear on every article purchased.
In addition to this, we have recently registered a
new trade mark—an oval label with our local
address, " Pall Mall Electric Association, 54, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, N.S.W,” in marginal lines,
encircling the device of a mailed band bolding a
group of thunderbolts.
ci£i£
%
m
TRADE IH
£
<65
As we are the only parties in Australia Importing
these goods direct from Dr. Scott, and are prepared
to guarantee the genuineness of every article
bearing this label, we advise purchasers to see
personally that this trade mark invariably appears
on any and every Electric Corset, Belt, Insole,
Generator, Hair, Flesh, or Tooth Brush, they may
desire to purchase. This borne in mind, much
vexation and disappointmt nt will be saved; and
we respectfully request th*t any person who has
been Induced to buy any of those imitations under
he impression that they were Dr. Scott’s Electric,
will at once communicate with us.
Dr. Soott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by ; he
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organ iaation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continenta
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give th&m a
trial f
&
St
ill
m
Dr, Scoffs Electric
Corsets and Belts
Axe universally approved oy leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &c., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all other remedies (so-
called) have failed.
The prices are as follows
No. 1
No. 2
No. 3
No. 6
Electric Belts..
8. d
6 6
8 6
10 6
15 0
15 0
We now ms.ke all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electric-Magnetic
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
uamed, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece ef common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque,
P. 0.0., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
m
B 4 Margaret-stroet,
SYDNEY.
P.O, Box 221.
A BOON TO THOUSANDS!
Manhood and Vigour of Youth
Restored in Four Weeks.®
DR. RICORDS
ESSENCE OF LIFE
Rwtorci manhood to th« moit ihaltered and dabilitatcd Ml
Ititntioa from whatever cau«* arising, in FOUR WEEKS,
Failure is jmpoiiibla if taken according to the printed di-
rections, which are very simpla, and require no restraint or
hindrance from business.
This invaluable remedy affords relief, and permanently
enris all who suffer wasting and withering of the nerves and
■tßchlar tissues, Indigestion, Lost of Appetite, Disturb
SbheatitiiU, Dlstineii, SpirinStoh-hift^,
urbed
tS, dll
ikbf,
SfcposiU, which cause incapacity and dej£ehif£ _
total and partial prostration, and ever j other exhaustive de
rangement of the system ; regenerating all the important
elements of the human frame, and enabling man to folffl Us
most sacred obligations.
In cases at is*., or four quantities in one for j6s.; If by
coach, ts. dd. extra.
NATURE’S GREAT REMEDY I
DR. RICORDS
SANATIVE PILLS
For strengthening the system, purifying the blood, regulating
tff* bowels, and removing all vitiated humours, bilistss due
LiVir Complaints, Rheumatism, Gout, _ Scorbutic AffcctlbiU,
CddtiVeness. Skin Eruptions, and all diseases of the nervous
system. This never-foiling remedy affords at once a now
lease of life to the sickly and aged of botk saxes, imparting
n beautiful and clear cmnplexioa, a sura sign of health,
strength, and vigour. Price, as. ;hy post, ad. extra.
AOBNTR FOR SYDNEY I
Messrs. W.BARCLAY & CO.,
, JfS OOVLBVRJf STREET,
Ohm Doon mom Onoxon Stkbbt Soon,
And may be had of most Chemist*. $
Forci/t paekti toeurely and froo from obioromtton, tint to
Queen .land, Now Zoo! and, or anujart of Iff# A nitration
NERVOUS DEBILITY,
Lost Vitality, &C.--A simple and positive
means of Self-Cure, by an eminent
I rench Hospital Physician- Sent Free
Medico, P.O. Box 706, Sydney.
CIEIiICB
or
life
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses may he
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur-
chase and read the new work issued hy the World’s Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
or Se, lf "reservation. A book for every man. young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be
renamed and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
W years is such as probablynever before fell to the lot of
anyphyslclan. 300 pages, bound in beautiful French cloth,
tun gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will bo refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
The Science of Life should be read hy the young for
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all. —London Lancet.
Addressthe World’s Dispensary Medical As- Mr* S I
sociation, or Dr. W. R. Parker, No. 69 Hunter Mt A L
Street, Sydney, N.S.W. The author may TUVOn F"
be_ consulted on all diseases requiring I fl I utLr
skill, secrecy, and experience. ”
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN,
The beet known remedy for RHEUMATISM.
tf.URALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHAC i.E,
RAINS, BRUISES, TSURNS, SCALD!, & c ~ and
taken internally cures DIARRHfEA,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other tutfcrnb aches
and pains. . .
Price, 3/ - Sold Everywhere,
G. E. MOULTON, sole PROPrr.roR,
MELBOUENH AND .o' i DNEY,
PAINT
Marshall:
v'M* V.
TONIC NERVINE
TRADE MARK—‘‘TONIC NERVINE.”
AdaC6, omcTAIN, & SPEED Y CURnror Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia.
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
Ac. By its tonic and soothing effects it at once
removes all craving for Alcohol. By Its richness
In phosphorous and other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives vigour to the whole system.
Price, is. 6d., or 265. a case Sold everywhere.
Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS, Registered
Chemists, 10* and 106 Market-street, near Hydo
Park. Sydney, and 6 Pltt-stroet. ;oiroui*v-miav.
NR.-All Imitations mvjrah TAKE NO BUBBTI-
Tpig.
s
CEWCT
ftCiSH
[MS
i » -r ->
U'Of ;
m
s
WAREHOUSES. SYDNEY.
Hit b Zealand Loan eel Mercantile dp; Cnajany
(LIMITED),
HEAD OFFICE ~ ... LONDON.
Capital - - £3,500,000.
THIS COMPANY WILL CONTINUE TO DISPLAY AND SELL
WOOL!
ON THE MELBOURNE SYSTEM,
At their Magnificent Warehouses,
BSSIDO-B ST EEET,
SYDNEY.
BP" EVERY LOT WILL BE CAREFULLY VALUED. AND SPECIAL ATTENTION WILL BE
BESTOWED UPON SMALL FARMERS’ PARCELS, WHICH WILL BE PLACED ON A FOOTING
OF EQUALITY WITH THE LARGE CLIPS.
If reserves are not reached, the nominal charge of one shilling per bale only will be made.
WOOL SALES, EVERY TUESDAY. SHEEPSKINS AND HIDES, EVERY FRIDAY.
Way Bills and all Information can be obtained on application, or will be sent by return of post.
H. H. LANG, Produce Manager.
Sydney Wool and Grain Warehouses.
V I
i
\ \
4 ■- :
m ■
V
J'J ■ ■I
< v\
. - Vi
NEW AND INGENIOUS READY-ACTING DOG-TAIL AND CAMERA ATTACHMENT, FO
TOURISTS.
A patent is now pending by the Inventors.
They claim the dog’s Jail and the instantaneous shutter, also the combination of the shutter and
dogs tail, also the whole dog, and the general application, in the manner substantially and for
the purpose described. 3 ur
Bray dc L lolitner,
32 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
Complete Photographic Outfits, In great variety, from £3. Catalogues post free.
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
SOLE AGENTS for BAKER’S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID in the Market,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies.
CALL AGH A N.
Caterer and Confectioner,
884 GEORGE STREET.
-« I -
Br WEDDINGS, BALLS, PICNICS, AND PARTIES A SPECIALITY,


To avoid mistakes ask for Wolfe's Schnapps.
Mothers with sickly, fretful, nursing
children, will cure the child and benefit themselves
by taking American Hop Bitters daily.
Wolfe’s Schnapps. The public should
demand and take none but the genuine Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Printed and Published by The Bulletin Mews-
aspsi Co.'Limited), 14 Pltt-st., Sydney, MW,
The silent and reserved Arab has, Captain
Burton tells us In his now “ Arabian Nights,” been
nurtured on such ancient proverbs as these:
“Keep thy gold, and it will keep thee. Save thy
gold as the best balm for the wounds of the
world.” “Be over intimate with none, nor
familiar with any—so Shalt thou be safe from mis-
chief.” “Security lieth in seclusion of thought
and retirement from society.” “Be silent in com-
pany, and thou wilt better observe the faults of
others, In place of shewing thine own.” “ Leave
the feast early, before tbe company tire thee—and
thou helpest to tire it.”
The 259th division and sub-division of the
Christian Church has lately occurred. This now
branch of the faith is started by the well-known
Rev. Charles Strong as the Australian Churoh. A
temple is building for it in Flinders-street, Mel-
bourne, at a cost of ;£14,000. We shall next have
the Victorian Churoh, and the South Australian
and the Queensland Churches, unless something be
done witn the religious question when we federal-
ise. The secession movement, if it can be always
made as fashionable and profitable as Mr. Strong’s,
is uound to be imitated. In little Tonga, for
instance, the Wesleyans and the Churoh of Tonga
have come to open war. The Churoh of Tonga is
founded by secessionists from the Wesleyan body.
The pastor or head minister of that body wished
to remain in Tonga, where he is, or was, virtually
king. His superiors desired him to change bis
quarters—as per Wesleyan usage. He refused,
and, d la Strong, seceded to found the Churoh of
Tonga and to drive away from the island those
who will not join it. The natives are expected to
bo much Impressed with what they see of Chris-
tianity, charity, love, and brotherhood is such
proceedings.
REPRIEVED.
A good many years ago, on a racecourse in
Queensland, stood two men. There were also
several others, but as this yarn is intended to
be conspicuous by the accuracy of its details, ana
as it may be discursive, we shall stand these two
men boldly before you. Because it Is a really un-
usual circumstance to mark two men standing on
a racecourse. Men do not generally stand in such
places. They do not stand with arms folded, eyes
cast down, and listless, uninterested expression.
Nor do they, as a rule, steal casual, half-scared
glances at some object in the distance (which, upon
closer inspection for the purposes of our itera-
tive, proves to be a spring cart with a strong, fast
norse harnessed thereto), varying this stealthy
glance with one equally stealthy towards the
saddling paddock. Nor d j they repeatedly apply to
their watches to note the flight of time. Our two
did all these things. Therefore they were remark-
able men. . ..
The maiden hurdle had just been run, and the
mud-stained jockey who piloted the « inner was
being escorted to the scale by the clerk of the
course, when the second horse was walked to his
side and its rider, leaning over, said to bis comrade:
“ So you’ve won ?”
“ Yes,” replied the other.
“Well, now, I want to tell you something. 1
watched you at the back, and the way you rode to
bring that bay horse down was as cowardly a piece
of work as ever I saw. If that boy had been killed
I would have accused you of his murder. You
hear me. Now, listen. Never you ride on the
same course with me again or by the Lord , I’ll
bring you down if I break my own neck, be It to-
dav, next year, or ton years from this.”
Very recently they met, and that long-standing
promise was faithfully kept, though neither horse-
man was killed.
James and Robert Jackson were brothers (we
warned you this would likely be a discursive
story); they were bora of poor, but honest,
parents in the little village of London. Their
education had not been neglected, and at the early
age of eight James excelltd in the branches of
study to which he more closely applied. At
“chuck farden,” “pltoh-and-toss,” and “headen
’em,” he had few equals In the seclusion of the
Seven Dials. Robert, the elder brother, studied
still higher subjects in his course—the classics of
the c jurse. At 11 he could “ fake a wipe” or “ cop
a super,” and with the little thimble and the lesser
pea ne had more than ouoe “taken a mug down
lor his bit.”
With the onward march of time they were borne
from the “ teens” into the “ ties,” and with the
growth of their years had arrived the wisdom-
teeth, which we assume they cut rather earlier
than the freckle-faced youth who prattles through
a young and interesting childhood at the knee of
a fond, frail mother, over which same knee he
later in life gazes earthward, and battles with the
empty air while the “ frail fond mother” beats the
first eight bars of “ Lannlgan’s ball” on the future
portion of his anatomy with a shingle. Ah Iwe
have been there, and mourned that our pants wore
thin and the shi nglo heavy and hot.
Our wisdom-teeth came into juxtaposition with
our anterior ivories, when the days of our years
were one score and one, and since that date we
have developed to the full all the germs of foolish-
ness which a beneficent Providence had im-
planted in the subsoil ot silliness that underlies
the verdure-olad surface stratum of youth. How
green one really is at .one-and-twenty. How ripe
Ihe thinks be is. Ah, me} we are never properly
foolish till the wisdom-teeth force their pain-
fraught passage through the lower jaw, and an-
nounce to us the bold fact that we are wise- vve
were one-and-twenty some years ago. Wewm
never be so again. This fact we beg respectfully
to submit to the strictest Investigation. But we
have dlsoursed. The disoursion was not object-
less. While we have been wandering and you
wondering the horses have been saddled for the
steeplechase.
We have not told you any more of the history
of James and Robert Jackson. Why should we l
W ould you like your history to be published ? If so,
contest the Cook constituency and the local editor
will lay bare the whole secret of your life. He
will drag the skeleton from its cupboard and the
grandfather from the orphan asylum to testily
against you. He will tell in large type the num-
ber of times you have been insolvent, and call the
attention ot the people to the serrated rim of
your left auricular organ, an awful evidence of
the number of times you were ear-marked in 63
for sluice box-robbing on Calumny Creek. And
then he will arise in his wrath, and, seizing
his mallet and chisel, reproduce your beaming
visage with this legend in bold type below, “ Be-
hold the man.”
J. and R. Jackson were the two men who stood on
that racecourse in Queensland, a good many years
ago. They had lett London, and arrived in Aus-
tralia. This fact is also unassailable. They owned
Red Lancer, the horse of his day over timber.
Red Lancer, on that particular day, owned them.
The four legs which bore the gallant chestnut
bore, too, the fortunes of James and Robert. They
had been unlucky through the year. They had
backed horses whloh did not arrive at the post
early enough to increase their wealth, and they
had laid against horses that shot from the crowd
like a catapulted stone from a small boy’s weapon,
and passed the judge some lengtos ahead of the
field. They had, in fact, done those things whloh
they ought not to have done, and left undone
those things whloh they ought to have done, aud
their gain was loss.
They were plucky sports, and had followed their
faithless Fortune till the fickle jade deserted them
entirely, and that day they stood on the course
with no possessions save the spring cart and cobby
horse. For Red Lancer, in addition to a lOlbs
penalty, carried a heavy mortage. Everything
else had gone to the hammer, and on him now de-
pended tneir future fate. Backed early in the
year at long prices, before he made his record, he
now carried enough to retrieve their fallen for-
tunes, If he lost, there was the spring cart ready,
and they would depart without beat of drum. The
Lancer would be all right, the man with the mort-
gage would look after him, If he won, they could
walk boldly on to the course and pat him in the
presence of the assembled multitude, and other-
wise comport themselves as became men who
owned the winner.
The horses are marshalled at the post, there is
much finessing amongst the jockeys, and much
shouting by the starter. Moments pass by, each
moment divided as ali moments, be they brief er
lingering, are divided into the minute portions
which make the hours, days, weeks, and years of
Time. Each is of the usual duration, the exact
subdivision of the periods of the past, whloh its
predecessors have represented, yet to the anxious
brothers these moments seem longer than any
they have before recorded. The' fljg falls.
“Tney’re off.” A famllar sound; who has not
heard those two words ? The first fence is the
toous upon which hundreds of glasses are bear-
ing—“ All over,” and jumping well. Then a grey
horse strides to the front and forces the running
to the next jump. He clears it alone. A couple
get safely over, then is heard a crashing of rails,
and a rattle of hoofs, and one gallant son of
Panic has made his last effort. The jockey, stunned
and helpless, is borne away. Red Lancer 1s lying
back, in the second division, j umplng well, but
making no effort to catch the leaders. The first
time round reduces the field to five horses, and
prominent in the rear is the chestnut on whom the
fortunes of the brothers depend. They have
spoken no word so far. flow James speaks, ‘‘Bob,
it’s all up.”
*" I think so, Jim.”
“Come along, let us get to the cart; I know
Jones will put the bailiffs in to-morrow, and I
can’t face that. Come on, old man.” They walk
slowly, dejectedly, towards the spring-cart, occa-
sionally glancing back at the race. There is a
crash, and the grey horse who was making the
tunning, hangs for a moment, and slowly topples
over. Red Lancer is still lying fourth. The jockey
shakes him up, and, going at the gap, ho strides
in his j ump right past the third horse, and takes
his position. The brothers are watching, each
standing by the cart. There is the stone wall
nearly opposite them. If the other two should
come down at this, the Lancer would surely be “in
it.” They race steadily at the wall, a cheer from
the crowd announces the fact that they are all
over safely. Red Lancer appears to be tiring; he
is not losing ground, neither is he gaining on the
leaders. There is much excitement on the stand,
on the flat, and the hill; shouts of “The Deer,”
“ Banker,” “ Banker for a pound,” “ I want to lay
the Deer,” can be heard even at the distance the
brothers are awaiting the issue.
“ They don’t mention him, Jim. Get up, and let
us be off. He’ll never catch that bay.”
They climb sadly and leisurely into the trap.
Bob takes the reins and shakes them up; the
cobby pony, wearied of standing in one place so
long, gladly moves on. Bob stoops to pick the
whip from the bottom of the cart, when suddenly,
as if one man had shouted with the force of ten
thousand lungs, comes to their ears the hoarse
cry, “Red Lancer!”
In an instant they are standing up in the cart,
and there, not four hundred yards from them are
the horses, Red Lancer four lengths ahead, pulling
the boy out of the saddle.
The race is all over, as far as the public are con-
cerned. “Lancer wins in a walk,” “Look at him,”
“He hasn’t taken the whip out yet.” And similar
sounds were now heard on ali hands. The cobby
pony still trotted on, neither brother thought of
pulling him up, l the reins had fallen over his rump
and were trailing on the ground, the whip was
half a mile back, where it had fallen from Bob’s
nerveless fingers. What mattered all this? Red
Lancer was winning. But there were yet two
fences ere he came into the straight, and the cup
was perhaps only held to their lips In derision, to
be dashed away. “Ho I ” comes from the depth of
each heart: he Is over the first, followed at a re-
spectful distance by the other competitors. Now
but one fence intervenes between their hopes and
the judge's box, and he is coming to it. One hand
of each brother is on the back of the seat, while
the other grips in a vyoe-like clutch the muscles
of his companion’s arm. The boy draws the whip
and shakes it, the gallant chestnut gathers himself
together and, bounding from the hoof-torn sward.
Hies it “like a buck.” And James, turning
promptly, “ hauled off ” and hit his brother in the
mouth, knocked four of his teeth out and knocked
him out also, and then, leaping to the ground,
asked Bob to kick him all the way to the grand
stand. They hugged one another in their excess
of joy. They placed their hats on the ground and
danced a Spanish fandango on the roof of each,
till the rim separated from the crown, and then,
entering the vehicle, they sailed in at a 2,40 gait to
the paddock, where the man with the mortgage
was affectionately patting Red Lancer. Bob
walked quietly to bis side and. without any com-
ment, bonnetted him and led the horse awav.
The race was over; they could pay up and look
pleasant; they oould receive and look joyful, and
if you should happen to be with us any time on
the biggest racecourse in Queensland, we will
show you two gentlemen amongst the cluster-
ing stars of diamond-decked, loud-voiced bookies
who can give you much further information
as te the chances of horse-racing and the fickle-
ness of fortune.
A BUSH IDYLL.
HIS LITTLE LIEDERTAFEL.
WALKER'S POEMS.
The verses in this book have been written
In various moods, on various themes, and with
various kinds of results. There are about 40
pieces in all, the longest of them going up to 200
lines, and the shortest resting at eight. The reader
who has applied ordinary tests to the short pieces
and has discovered no poetic virtue in them
should, before putting aside the book, read through
one or two of the long puces. This will enable
him to observe proportion in the distribution of
his feelings.
* • »
“Bush Pilgrims” is the title of the first
poem in the volume. Tn the author’s estimation,
this Is evidently the best of hts effusions. It
records the death of a shepherd in presence of his
wife and two children in an Isolated hut in the Far
Western plains. The shepherd died in the night.
Up till the next night the family watted for some-
one to come to them. No one came. The three
dug the grave, put the dead man In, and covered
him up. They then walked away through the
bush. They had neither food nor drink. The
next sunset came. Morning dawned, and thry
pursued their way. Night came, and between
then and morning the three died—
Three skeletons bleach in the sun and the moon-
light,
Where loneliness reigns; and the Summer shot
breath
Hath softened to Autumn’s ; they fondle to-
gether.
Enfolded in love, in the stillness of death.”
• • •
This suggests rather strange notions of the
way things are done in the bush, both by the llvlr g
and dead. Why did not that woman report the
death of her husband to the head station? Why
did she not go there or to some of the out-stations,
If she desired to leave the hut at all ? If she de-
termined to go at large, why did she not take some
provisions ? And what was done with the sheep ?
Were they left penned up, or sent adrift ? When
the ration-man arrived next week, scented the
new-made grave, and found the mother had bolted
without making a report, not more than half-a-
dozen hours would elapse before the police would
be after her. But the conduct of this woman,
while alive, is much aggravated by her conduct
after death. She and her children are there
now, it ifl said, bleached skeletons, but still
they fondle together in love. She hag
taught the children to be as eccentric as her-
self. Not even the stillness of death can stop
them. Mr. Thomas Walker, when he gets into the
heart of the bush, reminds one forcibly of Mr.P. J.
Holdsworth. Those two bards have several things
In common. Mr. Holdsworth shows smoother
training and neater skill. But his outlook is like
Mr. Walker’s. His fancy has the same love for
bizarre situations- He has the same thirst for the
gruesome killing of people. The old bush and the
old way of dying in the bush are unromantlo to
the brace of authors.
• • »
There are a few dramatic touches in the
“Tale of a Winter Night.” The details of tne
treatment vulgarise it, however. To the stratum
in which these details awake no revulsion the
piece reads well. We heard Mr. Walker and a
young lady declaim this piece from a Melbourne
stage one time, and sentiments In it appeared to
penetrate the mental epidermis of a great many in
the theatre. The "Hplrlt of the Glen” is, as
a literary performance, similarly vitiated. The
notion of nymphs coming to a naked man lying
on the grass wants handling by lighter flngc rs than
Mr. Walker’s. Unnecessary prominence is given
to the fact that his “ unclothed figure lay prone.
Unnecessary prominence is also given to the
feminine attributes of his visitors. Then the
whole thing is about-what ? At the very most,
an inartistic whimsy. Where this unhappy associa-
tion of ideas is absent, the reader often meets un-
happy association of words. One sees the author's
thought well enough. But just as it 1* about to be
taken into the mind it is found loaded with a word
or two that unfit it for keeping. The following,
in “Birthday Thoughts,” loses tone by the had
taste that allowed the word “ bleared ” to be in-
troduced:—
“The beaming eye in childhood set
A diamond seems.
Alight with dreams—
The dreams that manhood will forget.
“ Blpe manhood dawns, and age steals on—
The eye is bleared;
The man has neared.
Has reached the tomb, and life is gone.
The objectionable word is not alone in bad taste,
but is actually inaccurate. The contrast intended is
one between childhood and age. Neither in healthy
childhood nor In healthy age Is the eye bleared.
In diseased age it may be. But so also may it bo
in diseased childhood.
• * v
There is a little rhythmic ability iu
“ Weariness to Dreaming.” His reason says to
him:—
" When the shadows of night come o'er thee,
I’ll be there by thy side, I'll be there;
When the day has broken before thee,
I’ll be there by thy side, I’ll be there.
Mid joy and mid woo.
Wheresoe’er thou go,
I’ll be with thee everywhere."
Tn the first poem also, there is a picture thrown
out which is able to stand alone: —
“ Yea, vaulted above them the roof of a furnace.
High heaven did seem, and the landscape
around
Was glowing with heat, and each atone was a
mirror
Reflecting a myriad suns from the grouno.
But verses like these are rare, and are preceded
and followed by tawdry fancies, hashed reason-
ings. vapid sentimentalisms, and introspective in-
sipidities. It does not appear to have been Mr.
Walker’s good lortune to have settled with him-
self the exact meaning of the words he uses. He
does not hold his vocabulary under discipline. He
wants a thought carried out and at once every
word in the stable of his mind makes for the door.
The consequence is that the wrong words some-
times carry it off. Then the pursuit is hot. In
“ A Censured Love” he oroers gloomy clouds to
rise from out the seas and pace across the skies.
No sooner do they start to pace, however, than he
rushes after them. He demands that they spread
thick their ourtains on the breeze. Now, where
did he expect the clouds to get curtains ? They
had risen from out the seas to do some pacing.
They seem to have brought this difficulty under
the notice of the poet, for he does not insist fur-
ther on curtains. But he loudly orders them to
unfold their drapery and drive the iignt away.
That means that they are in a way to atrip. Tfce
image we now have is that of a lot of gloomy
clouds pacing in their nude across the sky and
belting off the light with their upper and nether
garments. But the poet is still after them. “ Wrap
up the world with gloom unfurled 1” he cries.
One must sympathise with any clouds of average
sensitiveness thus brusquely addressed. They
nave no time to accept any sympathy, however,
for the autocrat is hot on to them. He yells:—
“ Yet thicker settle in the sky.
For I can see
The fingers of the passers-by
Who point at me.”
That was a rough half-hour for these clouds 1
They should now be let settle. But he starts
* “ Bush Pilgrims and Other Poems.” By Thomas
Walker. (Sydney; Hector ftos»> low.
anew. “ Shake, shake yourselves," he cries, “ that
through the air your fleecy shadows may descend.”
He has robbed them of their peace, robbed them
of their apparel, and now he robs them of their
shadows.
• ♦ •
There is evidence of mental ability in the
book, but there is also evidence of deficient mental
discipline. There la talent, hut It ha* a ragged,
drabbled look. There are indications of sympathy
for the weak and of aspirations for the great and
noble. But sympathy and aspirations appear both
to be tired. Mr. Walker’s handicap is heavy when
ho runs with poets. On the platform muscle and
lung are factors. Success there is best achieved
by the abscence of a keen critical faculty. Where
poets run, muscle and lung do not count. Mr.
Walker has to strip himself and come out with a
heavy load of crudities in art, in science, and In
literature upon his shoulders. The road to poetry
of a high class is all up-hill The tablelands, from
which great visions are beheld, are higher than
the mountains. The laden man can’t reach them.
♦ * *
It is not so steep a climb to reach the
place of ballads. There is music in the incidents
FREE (and easy) SELECTOR: “HI, YOUNG ’OOMAN, WHEN YOU GET TO THE CORNER
OF THE TRACK, JUST SING OUT ‘PIG, PIG. PIG,’ ONCE OR TWICE, WILL YE, SO
THAT THIS BLOOMING WRETCH’LL THINK ITS MY OLE ’OOMAN, AND FOLLOW
YER.”
of daily life. Homely tears are warm and bright.
G. R. Sims sets them dropping in tbe sunshine, and
everyone stops to look, Gerald Massey knows
the potency of their ever-varying hues. There’s
music in the stroke of labour. Charles Maokay
sends the song abroad. On ballad levels Mr.
Walker may attain something. But even here he
must stick tightly to the meanings of words, and
he must stick tightly to faithfulness in rhyme. In
both respects this volume shows much caprice.
“What a curious bird!” exclaimed a
Prince of the Congo, upon seeing a lobster
for the first time: “Does it sing, I wonder?”
The Prince discovers that he has to
do all the singing himself.
