

THE BULLETIN
VoL 2.—No. 90.—New Series-
SATURDAY, JANUARY 31, 1885.
Price—6d.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 31, 1885.
We are very glad to see that, since we drew
attention to the immense power and in-
fluence exerted by Reynold’s Newspaper
(Lsndon weekly) on the arazan and labour-
ing classes in Great Britain, the Evening
News has commenced to quote considerably
from that journal. Reynold’s Newspaper
exerts more real influence on the future
course of domestic politics in Great Britain
than does the Times, which great capitalist
paper is also altogether put in the shade as
regards circulation by Reynold’s News-
paper. The Times may circulate 100,000
copies each issue. Reynold’s circulates over
600,000! It is encouraging, moreover, to ob-
serve that even the Times, since it has been
conducted by its new editor, Mr. Bdcklb, a
man not much over 30 years of age, has
awakened from the lethargy which so often
afflicts leading papers owned by bourgeois
proprietors gorged with unearned wealth,
and lusting for social recognition. The
Times now begins to admit that existing
social arrangements are unsound, and can-
not continue. Our London correspon-
dent not long age, wrote to us that
the Times, under Mr. Buckle’s editor-
ship, had commenced to coquette with
Radical and even with Socialistic ideas, and
that London Punch had begun to follow
suit; but he sent no extract! to illustrate
the change. We were able, however, a week
or two ago, to re-publish from Punch some
verses instinct with the spirit of the Socialist
reformers, and now we have an article from
the Times which, we are sure, our own
Sydney Mobninvs Herald would refuse in-
sertion to, as being calculated “ to disturb
people’s minds.” We invite the bootmakers
now on strike in Melbourne, and all other
working men, to read the following ex-
tracts, to realise that they are from the
London Times, and to draw from tl at fact
the brightest auguiies for the future, pro-
vided they will but take the trouble to in-
telligently study social science for them-
selves, learn where lies the remedy for the
wrongs they suffer aud letl, and put forth
their united strength to accomplish a great
but bloodless revolution. Thty can do this
if they will first learn and then act.
• * *
Here, then, is what the Times says
" Loud and excited as have been the debates on
the conflicting rights of capital and labour, the
whole question is new, and couli not but be new.
Capital, tilt vory recent days, was virtually free to
fix its own terms with labour. . . . Neither they
nor their men were conscious of a partnership be-
tween them, or of any natural right in the latter
to share in the gains of the former. Now it has
begun to be comprehended that capital and labour
are the same thing at different stages of develop-
ment. Capital is the store of surplus labour not
expended during the process of industry. Being
in hand and immediately available, it maintains
new labour while it is working, and before the
fruits are reaped.”
There is a strong point here, which the
Times writer has not elaborated. Capital,
he admits, is the store of surplus labour not
expended during the process of industry.
The store of whose surplus labour ? Obvi-
ously not of the capitalist’s surplus labour.
Then it must necessarily be the store of the
operatives’ surplus labour. How comes it,
then, that the capitalist holds possession
and enjoyment of the store ? The Socialist
writers reply straightforwardly—because the
existing conditions permit, encourage, and
assist a certain class of men, once in a
position of advantage, to cheat other men
out of their “ surplus labour not expended
during the process of industry.” There have
been, and are, plenty of millionaire manufac-
Yet no man earned a million a ter-
ling by his industry, no matter what
extraordinary endowment of natural talent
he had to direct his exertions. The million-
air e's riches, in all such cases, were simply
the “stor.i of surplus labour ” of the opera-
tives who worked with him; a store which
he had been enabled by bad laws and evil
customs, to appropriate to his sole enjoy-
ment, with the necessary result that the
first “rainy day ” found the people, whoso
surplus store had thus been embezzled,
totally unprovided, and exposed to misery,
disease, and starvation. Not because they
had not worked, mark you, but because
the “surplus store” resulting from their
labour had been appropriated by one man.
• * ■
But, let us continue our extracts from the
Times since they are so admirably sugges-
tive. The article continues to say:—
“ Capital in the absence of fresh kbour would
waste away and could not replenish itself. Labour
without capital would starve absolutely or
comparatively before it could earn its hire.
Of the two, labour is the better fitted to sur-
vive; as the world is constituted, capital can
sustain more easily the brunt of an ordi-
nary conflict. Formerly, on the rare occa-
sions on which it occurred to workmen to insist
upon their title to participate in the profits of the
joint enterprise they were almost invariably de-
feated. They had no laid-up products of labour
on which to subsist during the contest. Thrift
and co-operation h ive given them a stronger posi-
tion at present.”
We may interrupt the quotation here to ex-
pose an essential fallacy which lies right in
the track. Formerly when the writer says
that the working people “ no Jaid-up
products of labour,” and that thrift and co-
operation have now supplied the want, he
misses the true sequence. It should have
been “ co-operation and thrift,” for it is
trades-unionism which has prevented wages
from being kept down to mere subsistence
point, and if operatives are thrifty now, how
much more “ thrifty” must they necessarily
have been when, screwed down to the lowest
wage which competition among themselves
compelled them to accept, they could
barely keep body and soul together. It
always revolts us when we observe the
smug man of wealth preaching thrift to the
labouring man who has ten urgent uses for
every shilling he earns, let alone thinking of
indulgences or enjoyments.
• • *
Very well, let’s continue:—
• “ The claim of the labouring classes to share dl-
rectiy in the products of industry is no longer
merely an academical question. While they had
only their arms for tlv.ir capital, they and their
leaders might discourse as they pleased on the in-
justice of their exclusion from the profits they
helped to create ; a capitalist had to look simply
to the labour market; he could peremptorily re-
fuge to enter into reasons with his men on the
balance his books might show, provided there
were plenty of them wanting food, and dependent
for it on their weekly wages. Trades unions and
savings banks have changed all that.”
We merely pause to remark that had there
been no trades unions, the working classes
would not have had the opportunity of
troubling the savings banks. Now, again :—
“ The only thing certain on [the one side is that
a disposition coeval wjth ttye world, by which cer-
tain volitions lead in basinet? and the rest follow,
is too intimately in conformity with nature ancj
, circumstance? to he {radically reversed, The only
thiog certain on the other side is that civilization
must sooner or later grow loo conscious if the pal-
pable absurdity to suffer the perpetuation of a sys-
tem by which the inseparable associates in an indus-
try are always arming for a duel over the common
fruits, A compromise on the basis of compliance
with those two indbpensible conditions ought not
to be unattainable.”
Here we have a significant ad mission, and
a still more significant suggestion. The
greatest organ of capital in the world per-
ceives—what minor intelligences allied to
the same conservative dispositions, blankly
refuse, or are incompetent to recognise—that
a giant struggle is impending, and that, in
that struggle, monopoly will be worsted.
A compromise is offered to avert the con-
flict. The offer may seem a tempting one,
but to accept it, would be an obvious act
of folly. The working classes throughout
the world are not to-day without intelli-
gent, capable, and disinterested leaders.
They will know what to reply. Our rights.
All our rights. Or—the conflict!
PLAIN ENGLISH.
An Easy One.
The South Australian Register has published
the conversation at an interview between one of
its reporters and Lord Macdonald, a prominent
Skye landlord. From this aooount, it would ap-
pear as though bis Lordship were an unconscious
humourist. He owned himself proprietor of ex-
tensive deer forests, or shootings, as he called
them, and attributes the land agitation in Skve to
frequent changes of landlords, and to Irish emis-
saries, and "that fellow George.” “ The crofters,"
he declares, “are better off than ever before, but
are lazy. They go Ashing six month of the year,
and when they come back they walk about with
their hands in their pockets. There may be some
distress among them, but it Is due to over-popu-
lation. Hie land la held in too small holdings*
and If the population were decreased, the holdings
might be enlarged.” Thus the Scottish chief. So
large a population, holdings too small, and—ex-
tensive deer forests. “The landlords do not
derive a very large income from their rents, and
his lordship wants to know what would become
of them if their ‘shootings’ were taken from
them ? ” —to support population of men, we sup-
pose. Well, it Is strange that Lord Macdonald
should have to come ail tlie way to Australia to
learn the answer to so simple a question. What
would become of the Highland landlord?, if their
doer forests were taken from them ? Why, they
would have to work for their living, like men.
An easy one, when once explained, isn’t it ?
Confounded Condescension.
Among the new-ebums who have been interviewed
on the arrival of mail steamers at South Australia,
is Admiral TllYON, who, it appears, was conde-
scending enough to say that ‘‘if a Federal fleet
were formed, he thought It probable some ar-
rangement might be made by which colonial
vessels of war might receive the same status as
vessels of the Imperial navy.” This strikes us as
tolerably cool and impudent. What we would
suggest is this: that were a Federal Australian
fleet formed, the officers of that fleet should take
precedence. In Australia, over officers of corres_
ponding rank In any fleet whatever. What con.
cern would the Imperial fleet be to Australians
if, as Admiral Tkyon said, we “ could not
altogether rely on” it, as compared with the
Federal fleet, upon which we could altogether
rely to the utmost of its capabilities. The
“status” of a fleet should, to Australians, be
governed.by its Ultimate value for the purpose for
which it would be intended—in this instance, the
defence of Australia. Confound these conde-
scending puppets. They do more to create alien-
ations of feeling by insensate haw-hawisms, than
all the wisdom of real statesmen can repair In a
generation. We read not Jong ago, in a London
paper, that Admiral Trvon’s appointment to this
station was the result of favouritism, and involved
the passing over of many officers of greater ex-
perience and senior rank. Well, anyhow, if
Admiralty pets must be sent, care might be taken
that they should not prattle and disclose the mag-
nificence of thoir indiscretion.
Small Change.
Grank v sums ud a leader 90 the Kindergarten sys-
teaj"ttfUf |5:‘» It 1b to be toped that the matter will
MR. GRIFFIN, AMERICAN CONSUL.


Thb Rates or Subscription to The Bulletin
are—Fori one year, 24b.; half-year, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
Thb Advertising Rates are 6s. per Inch i
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
Inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions
16 per cent.; For 62 consecutive insertions, 86 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
b® made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent. If more convenient.
Annual Income exceeds One Million;
$0
00.
T* at g '£100.
e °Ve^ g e VceP etS
!f Llahtnlng and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9s.
Small Bottle, , 4s. 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET anJ OLD PORT WINK
FOR INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT
3s. per "Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts,
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN-iN FLASKS,
Is. 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke's Prize Medal Brand,
in stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST SIZE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
SYDNEY.
now be allowed to rest. Whilst keenly alive to all
progress being made In the art of educating the
young, It Is demoralising to be frequently agitat-
ing for radical changes and untrie 1 schemes.” Of
course, Granny! Radical changes are immoral,
even if they are changes for tho better: and the
true secret of progress is never to try an untried
■oheme. It was by a strict adherence to that prin-
ciple that the steam-engine was introduced.
Sunday Trains and Smashes.
Ir some Sabbatarian sky pilots do not “Improve
that railway smash at Cootamundra, it will be
very strange indeed. The thing has come so pat.
Here are a lot of winked people wanting a Sunday
train to the Blue Mountains, and a lot of good
people anxious to prevent them from going to
Mount Victoria, and hell at the same time, for a
little over a penny a mile. And whilst the wicked
people persist in saying that there is no evidence
of Divine wrath overtaking those who travel by
Sunday trains, thn God of the good people stops
la just in the nick of time, and, manifesting Him-
self by means of 10 Inches of rain, and a railway
embankment, inflicts a signal punishment on
Sabbath-breakers. As we have said, It would be
impossible that such an excellent chance should
be let slip by. Hero is very present proof that our
GoDlhas notohanged since He commanded cities to
be taken, and men, women, and children put to thn
edge of the sword. If the Reverends Am inidab
Sleek and Melchisidick Howler do not say
something about this next Sunday, they will not
be fulfilling their vocations as pious vessels. And
when they do say the something, they may as well,
at the same time, take the trouble to explain away
one or two trifling matters that, it left unex-
plained, would knock the bottom out of their
faith. In the first place, an experience of a few
years back showed how the place where the acci-
dent happened was subject to sudden and most
violent floods. Despite that experience, the rail
way department constructed their line with solid
embankments and small culverts, Instead of with
wide and frequent openings. So that Jehovah,
working through, and by means of, the rail-
way department, must have been making pre-
parations during seven years for this acci-
dent to come off. Or, as is much more
probable, the department are quite capable
of maklngfatal blunders without any Divine help.
And, as Messrs. Wbiqhx and Goodchap, working
la the great cause ot sham Christianity, are against
Sunday trains to the Blue Mountains, it is not im-
possible that they will recognise good work iu an
engineering muddle that has wrecked a Sunday
train and killed half-a-dozen people. In the second
place, we know that as the Lord sends His rain on
tho just and the unjust alike, so, in carrying out a
railway accident, He has no time.to discriminate.
No doubt all in the smashed train were equally
Babbath-breakers, but otherwise there was an ine-
quality in wickedness amongst them. And
heavenly vengeance. In the most unfair way, has
fallen upon a few otherwise Innocent railway em-
ployes and a woman and child, and has spared
those direct children of the evil one, the bet-
ting men. This is not at all as it should
be, and unless explained away, wdl lead to
scoffing by the thoughtless. For what are a bro-
ken leg and a crushed rib amongst a few book-
makers, when compared with six lives of decent
people? If the bookmakers had only been picked
up In bits, there would have been complete unity
and harmoniousness about the aocident, and the
wretches would have been properly turned into
hell. As It is, however, the thing at present has a
certain incongruity about it. This, no doubt, can
be set right, and the sooner It is set right the
better.
Paying the Piper.
MISMANAGEMENT OF THE TRAMWAYS.
NO NECESSITY FOR THE INCREASED FARES.
Mr. Qoodchap, in reporting on the working of
the tramways for 1883, regrets that they do not pay
interest on capital, assigning as reasons: 1st. That
the publie demands had made the sections too
long; 2nd. Letting children travel at same rates ss
on the railways; 3rd. The costliness of construc-
tion; 4th. Damages paid for personal injuries; and
5th. The wages of the employes. And to meet
these difficulties Mr. Goodchap suggests increased
fares. Mr. Goodchap’s report bears date the 10th
October, 1884, and since then bis suggestions as to
increased fares have been carried out. Had Mr.
Goodchap taken the trouble to look a little nearer
home he would have found that all these excuses
were simply “ fudge,” and that the real reason lay
in defective management. The following table
will show where the real mistake lies. The
two services, railway and tramway, are so similar
that the contrast will be; seen at, a glance:
Proportion of Expenditure per Centum to Total
Earnings, arranged under following headings:—
Railways. Tramways.
Locomotive'power 19*78 50 35
Carriage aud waggon repairs 3’90 5 80
Maintenance and renewal of
way 17’77 16 34
Traffic charges, coaching and •
merchandise 18’33 1719
Compensation for personal in-
jury ’15 I o - n
Damage to and loss of goods ’09 )
Miscellaneous working expen-
diture and general estab-
lishment 3 05 1 70
60’97 93'78
These [figures prove that the cost of working the
tramways, as compared with the railways, lies
wholly in the locomotive power part of the works.
We, therefore, in analysing that branch minutely
find that tho whole mistake lies in what is called
‘ Locomotive repairing expenses.” Contrasting
these expenses again, we find that the proportion
they bear to the whole expenses are as follows: —
BfAiLWAYg. Tramways.
Wages for repairs and renewals
of engines 13 74p.c, 23'27d.g.
Materials for ditto 3'87 „ 7’43 „
This is simply monstrous. Are the original ms-
terials of these tramway locomotives so utterly
defective that their repairs cost double what those
for railway engines do ? And why should the
wages paid for these repairs osst half as much
again as the same work would do if under railway
auapioes? If the tramways did their repairs as
cheaply as the railway does its, the saving on
these two Items, would be—ways, &c., as above
(per year), £8191; materials, £3593—or, in all,
£11,781. which sum, if added to the pet earnings,
would enable Mr. Goodchap to tell the head of
his Department that the tramways, besides paying
working expenses and interest on the capital, had
yielded £3308 to the good. So that the increasing
of the fares is a mistake altogether—the error
lying not where Mr. Goodchap says it does (we
except, perhaps, so far as wages go in repairs),
but in that awful engine infirmary - the tramway
locomotive repairing shop.
Mr. G. W. Griffin.
Our front page portrait is that of Mr. G. W. Griffin,
who succeeded Mr. <). Kahln as American Consul
in Sydney. Mr. Griffin comes irom New Zealand,
where for some years he represented his country.
His removal to Sydney is looked on in the light of
a promotion. Whether he will be left with us long
it would be hazardous to conjecture. The inau-
guration of the new Presidential rule takes place
on the 4th of March next. For a quarter of a
century, tho Republicans have had it all their own
way in American politics. Cleveland's election has
been the first blow to this long supremacy. And
as the principle of “the spoils to the victor” so
openly promulgated by a former President is still
recognised in American politics, it is by no means
improbable that the Republicans who now hold
office will receive their congi.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“Inquirer”: No reliance whatever can
be placed on the accounts given by the English
correspondents of the principal colonial papers re-
garding political opinion in Great Britain. Ques-
tions of tue first importance|to Englishmen, aud to
Democracy all the world over, are dismissed in a
few lines, while tho insignificant sayings and
doings of men, whom circumstances, not Nature,
pitchforked into prominency are chronicled with
dreary exactness. You see, it’s this way: Corres-
pondents shape their contributions to accord with
the views of the journals for which they write. And
as the “leading” Australian journals are owned by
capitalists, and are fiercely “ J ingoistic ” In tone, the
contributions are moulded accordingly “A.
Stewart” (Wellington): Whatever show you have
of obtaining a Christmas number of The Bulletin
for love, you have none at all for money. We
applieo, as you suggested, to Government
House, but His Excellency told us he had kept
only one copy, and declined to part with that
‘ Wharf Labourer”: Come on and damned be he
who hold on. We’re a little off. You object to our
Pictures of the “ Office-bearers of the Wharf La-
bourers’ Union.” You should kick up a row with
the photographer Qf with Nature, pot with us.
Send along your own “ photo.,”* and see what
we’ll make of it “ J. Andrews”: Received—
“G. W. Stoman ”: Your request staggers us a bit.
“Howto spend ten days agreeably in Sydney!”
Here’s an order! Grand Bieu! Well, you say
you’re an old subscriber, so we shall try to help
you out. But first we must know your age, sex,
social condition (married or single), social status
(monied or not), taste, habits, appetite, com-
plexion, appearance, and as many mental idiosyn-
cracles as you can think of. Then, If you are
young, rich, clever, good-looking, unengaged,
dark, and—feminine, call on us; don t forget that.
Otherwise, send your card “Artist”: “What do
we think of the Post-office carvings ? ” Well, you
know, it’s scarcely fair, but we think they are bas-
reliefs. Next “Briton”: You say Lord Loftus
was sent out here at Bismarck’s request, as his
Lordship was the only diplomastist the Prince
dreaded In Europe. This is news to us, but we
think it far from improbable. Even in his Excel-
lency’s casual conversation we have often noticed
flashes of subtlety which appalled us. Still, it was a
bit mean of the British Government to sacrifice such
a man at the request of any foreigner—however
powerful “W.C.P.”: Not good enough
“ Secretary ‘ Black Reds ’ ” : According to Cardinal
Wiseman and other distinguished scholars, the
word “Bobby,” as applied to your common
enemy, comes from the Italian Roberto.” In
former days, when truth was more generally used
than it is at present, the name was simply “ Rob,”
but this being considered rather too insignificant in
after years, the syllable “erto” was added for tho
sake of eupheuisra. Touching the word “Copper,”
opinion is divided, Theodore Parker held that
certain persons were so designated from the mar-
vellous amount of the brazen metal generally
found in their countenances, but Herbert Spenser,
on the other hand, is satisfied that the reason
these parties are so styled is simply because,
like an ordinary copper, they are generally
found in a kitchen. And what Is good enough for
a Spenser ought to be good enough for even a
Worshipful Past Master of the “ Black Reds.”
Bondi is a corruption of two Latin words, signlfy-
ing “Good G—d,” an exclamation much used
by offenders when they learnt the severity of a
sentence passed upon them. For a definition ot
tho word “ bug,”*pply Evening News— old office.
— “Free-thinker”: Have previously noticed this
matter. We should carefully weigh the coal
supplied by a dealer who borders his bills
with texts—“J. B.” : You say that payment of
members hasn’t kept bores, and—it’s your ®wn
word, J.B.—“ blackguards ” the Victorian
Assembly. Just so. Has non-payment kept them
out of the New South Wales Parliament, or (this
in your ear) out of the House of Commons?...
* * Artist ”: The fact is—this is entre nous— artists are
just like doctors. Ten doctors wlli say it is
chicken-pox, and give their reasons. Ten
others vote for small-pox. But if an un-
fortunate nurse, who has been atttending
both diseases before some of the medicos
were born, ventures an opinion she is incon-
tinently sat upon by all. So with artists.
Ten will plant themselves before a figure unfit for
a sign-board. If such a being appeared in the
streets, newsboys would follow to chivy. “There’s
a picture,” sav the cultivated ones. “There's
drawing for you, and tone and feeling.” “ And
light and shade,” howls a little chap at the end.
Then another mob of art people say: “Take it
away, and put it over a barn.” Odd, aint it ?
The Czar is a nervous man, and fond of
mushrooms. One day a line basket was left at the
palace, with the compliments of Mr. Ivan Scrat.
choutskl. But, as they were about to commence
the Czarina paused, with her fork in the air, and
said; “ By the way, Alexander, do you know this
Mr. Scratchoutski ?” “ Gracious I no,” said the
Czar, with a troubled look; “I never thought of
that. To be on the safe side,” he went on, pushing
the dish across the table, “ you had better eat some
of them first, and I will go and tell them to have
this man Scratchoutski ready for Siberia at a mo-
ment’s notice,’' * ' -
BRIEF MENTION.
“How is it you never smile now? ’ “ I try
to; hut it hurts me. I wont one night to see the
pantomime at the Royal.”
Judging by the number of ways Mr.
Shakespeare used to spell his name, he must have
been employed as a compositor on the Tribune.
“Mind you get a fur-lined overcoat,” said
Chris, to Alf., “ for in Egypt, even In Alexandria,
in the winter time, the glass is sometimes 10 de-
grees below Cairo.”
The Harmy held their initial performance
in the new barracks in Crown-street. We looked
in to see how they got on. Congregation: One
little girl of six, and a goat-ago unknown.
Th® Echo suggests that there should be a
bicycle corps established, trained to rifle practice
from the saddle The average bicyclist can “shoot
from the saddle” without any training.
“ The Emperor William is suffering from a
severe cold which still confines him to his bed.”—
(Cablegram). Well, what do people exqaect ? We
should not be surprised to learn that Billy was con-
fined to his coffin, and his cold still banging about
him. And we wouldn’t care, either. Murdering
old dog I They’ll have to get a plump young ballet
girl to warm him, like that other old rip. David,
did.
The sinful lusts of the flesh have beaten
the Salvation Army in Auckland, New Zealand.
One Salvationist has run away with another Sal-
vationist’s wife. A second has been committed for
trial for burglary a third for forgery, and a fourth,
a girl, was punished for dressing herself as a man,
and going among men. The gentleman who took:
off tho other man’s wife only pleaded one excuse.
He said that even in his errors he was faithful to
the Army.
When Mr. Barnet, the Colonial Architect,
was picnicked the other day, in replying to the
toast of his health, he said that 35 years ago b©
visited Gladesvllle Lunatic Asylum, and what he
saw there made a deep impression on his mind,
which had the consequence that not only ha<i
Gladesvllle been improved, but a great many
works of a kindred nature had since been exe-
cuted by his Department. This was the only re-
ference made to the Post Office carvings during
the picnic.
There is a wretched story going the round
of the papers, to the effect that a drunken father
(sober then) arrived at his garden gate, and dis-
covered his children playing at pa coming homo
paralysed. Here’s some of this abject narrative •—
The little son went for a bottle of water, and on
returning, nodded idiotically at the girl, and sat
down without saying anything. The girl looked
up from her work, and sold: ‘James, why will you
do this way?’ ‘Wlzzer way?’he replied. ‘Gettin’
drunk. Who s drunk?' ‘ You are; an’you pro-
mised when the baby died that you wouldn’t drink
any more,’ ” etc. What he did say, after watching
the performance, was, “ Not a jam bit like It;’’and
in order to Improve their efforts at mimicry, he
went out, drank sixteen rums, then came home
and knocked his wife’s eye out with the toma-
hawk.
These old people whose blood has become
thin, and steps feeble, are praising Hop Bitters for
the good they have done them. Bee.
Lessons of the Cootamundra Disaster, from a Sectarian Stana-pomi •
REV. MR. CHADBAND: “AND, OI MY BELOVED BRETHREN, IF THIS HAD OC-
CURRED ANY OTHER DAY OF THE WEEK, IT WOULD NOT HAVE HAPPENED
ON A SUNDAY!”


Woman Items
“The only cosmetic I have used,” said an
old lady, the other day, “is a flannel wash-cloth.
For forty years I have bathed my face every night
and morning with clear water as hot as I can bear
it using for the purpose a small square of flannel
renewed as often as it grows thick and felt-like.
My mother taught me to do this, as her mother
had done before her. No soap nor powder, nor
irlvcerine even, has touched my face, and this is
what my skin is at sixty,” she finished, touching
with pardonable pride a cheek whose peachy
bloom and fine soft texture gave effective emphasis
to her recipe.
We have made inquiries of a lady friend
who knows something of the way in which cert in
ladies in fashionable circles “ polish ” their arms
and necks before going to a ball. This is what she
pa vs-—“The polishing greatly beautifies the skin.
First the arms and neck are rubbed very thoroughly
with rose water. After this has been rubbed off,
the arms and the shoulders are covered with cold
cream, which is allowed to remain on fifteen
minutes. This is then rubbed off with a piece of
fine, soft, white flannel, and the arms and shoulders
are covered with * baby ’ powder, and rubbed very
thoroughly. This finishes the operation. When
this is completed, they look Jlfee polished Rumble,
and the skin seems to take on a wonderfully fine
and beautiful texture.”
At Hayes, England, a Mrs. Gibbons is
charged with having murdered her husband, on
whose body were found several revolver-wounds,
at least one of which, according to the doctors,
could not have been self-inflicted. But there is
much doubt as to whether the case is not one of
suicide after all. It is true that the sergeant of po-
lice says, “ She answered his questions readily, and
he thought that she was remarkably cool for a
person placed in her position.” Now, had Mrs.
Gibbons been flurried, instead of being “ remark-
ably cool,” the fact would haveffleen equally re-
corded against her. When a policeman arrests
you, it is dangerous to be calm; it is also danger-
ous to be excited. One cannot, except by long
practice, expect to comport oneself on such an oc-
casion, in a manner perfectlv satisfactory to a
policeman.
The power of opera-glasses is from two
and a half to five times that of the average eye.
That is to say, if you are forty feet away from the
stage, an opera-glass will put you on the same
footing with those who are eight or sixteen feet
away. There are several simple tests of the power
of the opera-glass. The most convenient one,
perhaps, is to pin a card on the wall and to look
through the right barrel of the glass with your
left eye. The difference between the actual dis-
tance as measured by your right eye, and the
apparent distance as measured through the glass,
will represent the difference between your eyes
and the glasses. Of course, this is only an esti-
mate, but a fairly accurate and sufficient one can
be made. The field glasses which many people
bring to the theatres range in power from six to
nine times that of the eye.
At an inquest held in London on the body
of a child aged three months, the mother deposed
that deceased was the last of seven children, all of
whom were dead. Inquests had been held on
three, and all had died of convulsions and kindred
disorders. She had been subject to epileptic fits
all her life, and the children inherited her malady,
a doctor having told her long ago that she had no
business ever to have been married. She went to
bed with the child at 11 at night, suckled it twice,
an<J on awaking at 9 found the child dead. As if
to lend additional weight to the argument of the
danger of such unions, the poor woman had a fit
immediately after giving her evidence, and the
coroner, in summing up, said it was pitiable to see
a woman bringing child after child into the world
only to see it die. Of course they could not blame
her in any way, but it was clear that the Legisla-
ture ought to step in and make it penal for persons
suffering under such maladies to marry. Epilepsy
was so closely allied to insanity that the children,
when they survived their infancy, carried the
taint on through succeeding generations, and, in
the interests ot the children, the parents, and the
State, such unions ought not to be permissible.
A noted American photographer recently
obtained by surprise a picture of a well-known
actress, just as she was stepping, dripping wet,
out of the sea to regain her dressing-box. A lady
of whom a mean advantage was thus taken had
refused to be photographed with a determination
that baffled the endeavours of New York photo-
graphers, her reason being that she objected to
see her likeness in every shop-window she passed.
Finding her inexorable, it was resolved to have
recourse to an expedient, and one member of the
profession ascertaining that she was spending a
few days for the purpose of bathing at San Fran-
cisco, followed her there with his apparatus, put
it In a bathing-machine, and obtained what he
wanted, unknown to the artiste. Shortly after-
ward sue received a polite note containing her
portrait as she emerged from the waves, and the
intimation that ten thousand of the same would
be put on sale the following day, unless she con-
sented to allow herself to bo photograped in more
becoming attire. She talked, in the first moment
of irritation, of appealing to the police, but On
reflection she considered it wiser to capitulate,
although her annoyance is extreme at the unfair
proceedings of her persecutors.
HER CAP.
Stiggins and his wife had been out at an evening
party—rather a swell affair, and in honour of which
Mrs. S, had invested in a brand new cap. It was a
ohef d’ouvre, this cap, and was duly admired by
everybody at the party, and Dinah stiggins was a
happy woman. Tenderly was this cap wrapped in
fhp bpest tjssqe paper wfoen tlje party was over
and it was time to go home, with just a bit of a
screw corner to catch hold by, with one finger and
a thumb. The dainty way in whichIMrs. S. made a
pair of tongs with her forefinger and thumb,
curling up the rest of her digits like so many fish-
hooks, with an airy grace, was beautiful to behold.
With all his 15 years’ of married life, John Stxg-
gins was still polite to the wife of his bosom,
and as soon as he had twisted his silk kerchiet
round his throat (he was a bit of a coddle, John
was, but a good man for all that), he remarked to
his wife that he would “ carry that, Dinah, my
dear.” “ Weil, take care you don’t squeeze it ;
just hold it by this corner ; see, like this ; that’s
right." All might have ended happily, but the
tramcar was pretty crowded, so Stiggins had to
haul his wife into on© compartment, whilst he had
to go into one right at the other end of the car.
And—now here comes the trouble —here he met
an acquaintance, with whom ho fell to yarning—
and the more he talked (subject—tha extra tram
fares) the more excited he became, and the more
energetic were his gesticulations. Whisky ? No,
not at all, it was only the natural earnestness of
the man’s character. But a man never can think
of two subjects at a time, and it’s a mournful fact
that m this case it was his wife’s cap that was the
one unthought of. He had already gripped it tight
with his two hands, despite his wife’s injunctions,
and crushed it into a shapeless lump, and finally,
after rolling it into a ball, he mopped his perspir-
ing brow with it, for you see his handkerchief was
round his neck. Tissue paper wrapped round a
piece of millinery, which is stuck all over with
feathers and ornamental pins, isn’t the pleasantest
of face mops—so John thought when one ot these
pins scratched him on the tempi©, and brought
him back to his senses- Good Lord! was this
crumpled up paper ball his wife’s cap ? Too true,
and a cold chill crept all over Johns burly
body. The only chance of any more happiness
that night, was that Mrs. 8. would forget all
about the blamed cap. But was ever a man so
young tnat he could for a moment imagine that a
woman, even if she is sitting twenty feet away,
will for a second ease off the vigilant watchfulness
which she is sure to bestow upon any article of
toggery she has entrusted to a man s care ? But
John bad his faults, and trying to make) believe
to himself that everything will be all right when
he feeja in big bones th$t it won’t, is one ot them.
It’s a species of moral cowardice common to many,
and John was but mortal. So when his wife kept
her lips firmly closed all the way home, alter step-
ping out of the car in sheer madness, and “nursed
her wrath to keep it warm.” he made believe that
she was too fatigued to talk, though he was bound
to confess to himself that it was the first time in
his life he had known her to be so silent for so long
together. When they got homo, John’s politeness
knew no bounds—in fact, he excelled himself, but
his heart sank when all his little attentions wore
received with such remarks as, “ Oh, never mind
me ; I'm of no consequence,” or this to herself, as
it wore, “ I might have known seme misfortune
was going to happen to me; it’s always so if I
enjoy myself; I am sure to suffer for it.’ The
fact of the matter was Mrs. S. was the worst kind
of mad—it had cut her too deep for an ordinary
rowing to suffice to heal the wound, and she felt
like a martyr of the first water. By this time
John was obliged to own to himself that
Dinah knew all about the cap, but, much
as he dreaded her chin-music, he could stand
that fifty per cent, better than these sighing
inuendos and martyr-like airs. So when he saw
tears silently trickling down bis wife’s cheeks, it
just finished him. and .albeit he is considered to be
m mild man, ho thus let forth :-“Now look here,
Dinah Stiggins, if its all along of that blooming
half-crown bit of head-gear that you’re snivelling
about. I’ll” With a wild shriek, which let off
a pint of pent-up passion, Mrs. S. exclaimed :
“ Half-a-crown! half-a crown did you say ? Why
that lovely cap cost, a guinea, if it cost a shilling,”
“ What! that bit of cobweb with feathers stuck in
it, which made you look just like a cockatoo on
the moult!" Now this was wrong of John, adding
insult to inj ary, but he still had his pocket full of
crushed cap, the thought of which bothered him
the worst kind of way, so he forgot his manners
for once Mrs. S. was the kind of women who
could faint at will—she willed now. If John 8.
hadn’t been a sterling fellow he would have dashed
a cup of cold water iu her face, and taken various
other cruel means to bring her to, but not he: ho
was possessed of a good share of discretion,
and these faints we e old friends. So, like
a sensible fellow, he pretended not to notice
that she waited till she was near the sofa be-
fore fainting, and was down on his knees
before you could sav “knife,” chafing her hands,
and calling her all the endearing names the prac-
tice of iitteen years had taught him. And he
“bully-ragged” himself no end, Just loud enough
for her to hear, calling himself a cruel brute and
all kinds ot bad names. He also muttered, 1 m
blamed if I don’t get her the very best cap in
Sydney to-morrow, see if I don’t.” That answered.
Mrs. S', wasted no time in coming to, and was con-
veniently unconscious of the odour of burning
feathers and lace that filled the room, and which
was caused by a little yellow tissue-paper parcel
which that siy dog John had taken the oppor-
tunity of throwing into the grate during the faint.
Indeed, such was the harmony restored after the
tragedy, that Mrs. S. went even so tar as to call
him “lovey,” which washer very best pet name
for him. But she never, never trusted him to
carry her cap home again, for, you see, it could
hardly be expected that he should show such
proper repentance for a second offence, and, any-
how, it goes against a woman’s nature to look
upon wilful destruction of her finery without a
feeling of wrath, so—Dinah carried her own cap
In future.
M'Neil and Williams, the “ black birders,”
have had their sentence commuted from the
penalty of death to penal ssrvitudo for life, the
first five years in irons. There seems to be a gene-
ral feeling of relief in Queensland that these men
have escaped the rope; but there can be little
doubt they were horribly cruel. We have seen a
lot of people hanged in our time, and the ceremony
always impressed us as having a decidedly comical
side. In the first place, the hangman is nearly
always drunk, and warders and visitors are also
“primed” for the ordeal. The last execution we saw
was when the yard of the prison was knee-deep in
frozen snow, and all the time the chaplain was
reading the burial service the prisoner was chew-
ing tobacco. That man was a bricklayer, and his
horrible crime was found out by an entry in his
wages book, which ran: —
“ Oct- 3rd.—Killed a little girl.
However, we were not so enthralled with the cere-
mony that, like Lord Tomnoddy, we wovU4 Ufce to
haye “ h§d maa bu D S o ver again,”
They do these things better in China—the
Insolvency Court business, we mean—for up there,
when a native politician falls to ante-up in full,
his creditors rally round to his house, provide
themselves with enough victuals, and pipes, and
opium to last them for a year, and then they take
possession of the place, and .stay there smoking,
swiping, feeding, and telling tunny yarns until the
whole debt is paid. If it happens to be a Christian
man that goes bung, his victims put a police agent
in charge, and then ornament the insolvent’s front
door with a huge placard, on which each creditor
chalks up tho amount due. On second thoughts,
however, the Celestial custom would hardly work
well here, some of our high-toned “ brokers ”
being so phenomenally long-winded that their
creditors would probably have to remain in pos-
session until the Day of Judgment, or, if showery
then, till the day after.
At a certain township in New Zealand
lately, a raw-looking man from the country
called at a jeweller’s shop, and asked the jeweller
to supply him with £15 worth of watches, rings,
brass taps, and other jewellery, at wholesale cost,
as he Intended to start hawking. The order was
accordingly supplied, and the hawker went away,
and In a few days returned, and bought more
goods. His business seemed to prosper, for, In a
very short time, he was in a position to buy on a
much larger scale, and the jeweller asked him one
day how much profit he charged on the goods ho
sold. The hawker said he charged five per cent.
This the jeweller considered too small a profit on
such goods, and told his customer so. “Well,’
said the hawker, “ I don’t know as I understand
exactly about your per cents., but when I say I
charge five per cent., I mean that an article for
which I pay you £L, I generally sells for £5.’
After all, there’s balm in Gilead—we mean gold
in New Zealand yet—but it takes a ’cute man to
get it.
What a difference a change of climate
makes in the consequences attacned to the com-
mission of certain crimes. An English officer, re-
siding in Brittany, reports that while returning
home the other evening along an unfrequented
road, he heard loud t creams from an adjacent en-
closure. Running In tho direction of the noise,
he found an English servant girl on the ground,
struggling H the grasp of a stalwart Krcnchman
To knock the parley vous party stiff, and then
land him before a June de purr to settle up for the
assault was a work or love to tho Englishman, and
the servant girl (whoso testimony was borne out,
by a medical man and other independent wit-
nesses) proved that she had been brutally ill^sed
—her arms being black and .blue, and her .dress
torn to pieces. But tho dear old June lie pair, wli h
a wisdom akin to that of some of our ownJ.sP,,
decided that, although the charge
proved, still it was only a p hxwanterie Franeawe,
after all-what might happen to .any of us, as he
naadidly remarked—and so he let the humourous
prisoner off with a fine of two francs.
As this is the age of revision, isn’t It just
about time some oulobawed person employeu
to fake a tour round the eontlnent and revise
some o 6 f the aboriginal names which now adorn
our stations, and occaslonally perplex and shock
those unacquainted with their derivation. This a
a truly serious matter, as the following"touching
little Incident will show: A few weeks ago, a
young English capitalist arrived at Queensland In
sea>-cn of much-wanted colonial exporlonce, aad
having letters of introduction to a friend of his
family, he spent a few days on that
Cloncarrv station. Time passed remarkably gay
at first, for his host’s daughter, a
thing of about 19 summers, was at borne lor the
Christmas holidays, and made a as
voung gentleman’s companion. One eye:
tae youthful pair sat out on the verandah waging
war on the six-inch mosquitos buzzing around,
The new-chum observed. “ I've been wondering
5J£ ” 8 “com-
panion. Jobbing his penknife into his ijgtoumke
sure he was wide awake and beard aright the
horror-stricken guest stammered out- i a x
say—I was wondering what was the of that
next station below us.’ Well,
sald tho lady, this time very slowly and distinctly,
and right there tho conversation « Mr. Nejjr
ahum ©loaned out at dawn next morning* and* no
doubt, when he strikes British soil agatoJwwiUa
tale unfold touching the ®°^®If a^°° f
Our Girls that will cause even thei mmnea of ol 1
England to blush U&e go many gchool gl$lg at a
christening.
More Carvings for the Post Office and Posterity-
THE RECENT PICNIC TO OUR MODERN PHIDIAS SUGGESTS THE ABOVE AS TYPICALLY AUSTRALASIAN.


Personal Items
When George Collins Levey (with an “ e,”
you know) first appeared in London this time, his
portrait, accompanied by a lengthy Christian bio-
graphy, was printed in that holy paper, tbe Chius
txan Commonwealth, which we all so carefully
read before we go to sleep on Sunday afternoons.
What a queer world this is!
Edison has struck another scientific patch.
This time, the bald-headed lightning thrower has
discovered that an exnlof ion of terrible force can
be obtained by introducing a platinum wire i to
each end of a hollow space, like a glass globe, half-
filled with water, and attaching a dynamo machine.
The electricity decomposes the water, wtfleh
Mashes into gas, just as nitro-glyoeriue does. This
explosive, by the wav, is as cheap as a thirsty
elector’s vote; but Mr. Edison does not intend
going on with his new discovery. He is a married
man, and consequents fully alive to the fact that
for all general purposes there is quite enough row
In this world at present.
Joe Cook has
turned up In California.
This is bowBierceof tbe
Wasp sums him up: —
“ The Rev. Joseph
Cook has been good
enough to corao all tbe
way to California to tell
us that no man lives
who does not in his
‘heart of hearts’ be-
lieve in religion. I do
not know what ‘ heart
of hearts ’ may have
the happiness to be,
but if no man's word is
to be taken as to what
he believes unless he
says be believes in a
certain way, how are
we to know that the
Key. Joseph Cook be-
lieves that all men be-
lieve in religion ? ”
Zorilla says King
Alfonso’s Illness will,
without doubt, soon
terminate fatally, and
then there will be
trouble in Spain, for
the heiress to tbe
throne will be a child
In the nursery, and
the Queen-mother, who
by law will be Regent
during tbe minority, is
a stranger, an Austrian,
who has no place in
the esteem and affec-
tion of tbe people. Some
would then wish to
restore the ex-Queen
Isabella, and others to
bring about an “in-
fantine” marriage be-
tween Alfonso’s babv
daughter and the young
son of Don Carlos.
Either of these rxpedi-
euts would mean a
revolution.
A son of Sir Wil-
liam Olarke has made
the Royal Navy re-
spectable if not illus-
trious, by entering it
as a midshipman. He
is on board H.M.S. T a-
mar, which has lately
arrived in the colonies.
It is beautiful to notice
the system of exchange
that prevails between
us and tbe home
country, extending
even to human stock.
We send home a strain
of blood two genera-
tions removed from the
soil to get hall marked,
and come back smelling
of Parisian perfumes,
and saying, “ Haw !
Deah boy I Bai Jove.”
They send out to us
slips from a stock that
has nobly done nothing
for several centuries,
to open oysters or
build dog-leg fences.
It is a fair deal. But
we were speaking of
maritime matters. Let
us conclude then by
placing as a set-off
against the instance of
young Clarke tbe case
of a young Right
Honourable who is now
following the sea in
New South Welsh
waters. Be Is first
lieutenant of a timber-
punt. And very proud
ne is, too, of the posi-
tion. Probably he is
the first member of bis
family, for half-a-dozen
generations, who has
earned a living by
honest labour. 8o that
after all there is no-
thing very strange
about his being proud
of it.
Sir Charles Dilke, the alleged English
Radical, who was once an avowed Republican and
known as “Citizen” Dilke, has developed Into a
scented personage who stalks along Piccadilly
shadowed by a gorgeous flunkey carrying a hand-
bag. Were a guillotine erected in Waterloo T lace,
the head of Citizen Dilke would, probably, be one
of the first to drop Into the basket.
At the general election Pat O’Connor and
John Davies will contest Kiama. Patsy is not
very well known, hut he really is a little wonder.
He only boars a resemblance to his brother in the
expression of his eyes, which are full of intelli-
gence. Pat lives in a pretty cottage, concealed by
a tall palm tree, in the classic giades of Woolloo-
mooloo. He has property, piety, and principle;
and is stated to be the only man la Sydney who has
read every book in the School ot Arts—the bound
volumes of the illustrated papers included. As
Mr. P. O'Connor is coming to the fore, it may
interest the ladles to know that he is single, and, in
point of gallantry, a perfect preux chevalier.
Count Staremberg, when he was in Eng-
land, used to play at tbe Union. His English was
not quite so good as his luck. Playing one night
trenteet un, the late Lord Barrymore was at the
table, and not much delighted with the success of
the Count. Hta Excellency was not verv nice in
person, and It was ludicrous to hear him proclaim
the state of his hand by saying. "I am dirty! I
am dirty! ” At last, when he had achieved thejbest
possible hand, ho was so • iated that he almost
embraced Barrymore, exclaiming: " I am dirty, I
am dirty-one, lam dirty-one." Barrymore, who lost
by the Cc at’s success, and had no liking for the
nasty embrace, said, ‘‘Damn it. sir, so you are;
hgt that’$ no reason why I should he dirty, too.
Madame Hugues, whose portrait we give,
is the wife of M. Hugues, the Radical member for
Marseilles. They were married la 1873. The
marriage was a civil one, and a journalist of re-
ligious proclivities having hinted at their living
ia a state of concubinage, he was promptly
“called out” by M. Hugues and sent to—let us
hope—a happier sphtue. As some one rather
flippantly phrased it- ho was “corpsed.” After
! this, the wedded life of Monsieur and Madame
was ilyliic U tramontane journalists who con-
sidered civil unices the latest dodge of the evil
one to entrap unwary mortals, left them severely
a'one. But trouble was at ha id. A Madame du
Tilled became susploiona of her husband, doubted
his const incy. and employed one Morin, a spy, to
confirm or dispjl hersusplcious. Morin set himself
to work after the manu-r of hia kind and discovered
—so he said—proofs of an amour between M du
Tilled and Madame Hugues. The discovery -if he
ever made it—c >st him his life. For the Hugues
traced the calumny to him, and prosecuted him for
defamation. A verdict was obtained against
Morin, but the law of France, like our ova, is
generous in the matter of appeals. These were
carried on with such wearying pertinacity that
Madame Hugues—tired of pursuing the traducer
from court to court—on leaving the court on the
39th November suddenly drew a revolvei from her
pocket and fired at Morin. She missed, and he ran
along the Salle dee PasPerdus. 8he pursued, and
mortally wounded him. After lingering some days
in great agony he died. Madame Hugues was tried
and acquitted. The Parisians now speak of her
conduct with admiration She is described as “ a
very handsome woman, dark, with classical fea-
tures, and of a very fine figure.”
The accident which has befallen George
Dairell in London turns out, we regret to hear, to
be a very serious matter, indeed. At latest, George
was laid up in the private hospital presided over
by Sir Henry Thompson and Dr. Fenton Jones,
whose opinion it was that he ran a not inconsider-
able danger of losing altogether his right hand,
symptoms of blood-poisoning having appeared.
In any case, they thought the patient would not
be able to go about for at least two months. The
trouble appears to have mainly arisen through
Mr. Darrell having, In the first instance, been im-
properly treated by a practitioner who endea-
voured to “patch him up,” so that ho might
continue to act, instead of dealing with the really
ugly wound in a manner befitting ils gravity.
Sara Bernhardt, is getting ready to deal
with the 8. A Advertiser which, on 9th Septem-
ber last, denounced her as an habitual and hope-
less drunkard. The sting of the libel consists not
only lu the fact that it has been extensively clrcu-
lated In Australia, which country Madame has had
several offers to visit, but that the calumnies
directed against her professional reputation,
though utterly baseless, have been started on
their journey round the universe with the impri-
matur of so distinguished an individual as the
moral ex-dragoon. Sara has done some queer
things in her life, and it need surprise nobody
should she tnru up one morning at Forbes’snug
little dea at Fulhim, and proceed to give exprea-
tier l t,aar d for h in as the Scottish analogue
ot the moribund Monsieur Morin. Archibalds
next lecture may be “Actresses I have met.”
Toenga Pen, an old Maori, who pride!
himsell on being a tohunga (priest), was sitting In
a canoe pa the Wangaapl Oliver one evening lately,
round for other amusement. This he found in
organizing a scheme for a four months’ “ pleasure
trip ” in the fine steam yacht, Tyburnia, which,
while Juba was loading her up with passengers,
was prominently brought under the notico of the
British public by the report of some police court
proceedings, resultant upon her pugnacious com-
mander having, on onra fine morning, ‘‘flattened
out,” and "stiffened,” and “shifted the ears,” of
a number of the crew and certain other people
who had behaved in what Juba was pleased to
c nsider an objectionable manner. At last the
Tyburnia left the Thames with her cargo of plea-
sure-seekers. A month or i wo elapsed, and noth-
ing was heard of her until about six weeks ago,
when it came out that Juba had been “up to
hi* games again” at the island of St. Vincent,
the port of which, it seemed, he made up his miuu
to leave without complying with certain absurd
formalities insisted upon by the black - muz-
zled Customs officials. The latter treathened to
fire upon the Tyburnia, but Juba laughed them to
scorn. Then they did fire, and Juba laughed again.
Then the fort opened fire, and Juba steamed right
under it, derisively dipping, every shot that
skipped round his smart craft and splashed up the
water, “ the flag that's braved a thousand years
the battle and the breeze.” We further hear that
“ the crew and passengers cheered loudly and
waved their hats and handkerchiefs at the artil-
lerymen.” From this we conclude that Juba has
succeeded in Imparting to his ships company his
own abnormal love of fighting and “ smashing”
people. Alter all, it’s a good thing to find that one
or t wo persons of the gay and frolicsome humour
of Juoa Kennerley still sail British en-
sign. It is also good to find that old John Hull has
still a few sons and daughters whose animal spirits
are so effervescent that they regard dodging Por-
tuguese shot au<J sued as tneir of pleasure.
along with a European resident, both being en-
gaged in the exhilirating occupation of fishing for
oels. The evening was warm, not a breath of air
stirring, when suddenly the Maori dropped his jaw
and his paddlo at the same moment, clawed the
air wildly with both hands, and then fell back in a
fit in the canoa. His companion, very much
i alarmed, paddled the craft ashore, lifted Toenga
out of it, and dragged him to dry ground, where
he soon recovered, after a pint of whiskey had
been poured into his mouth. “ What is the matter
with you, Toenga,” asked we, for it was our
whiskey that fetched him. “ My son.” said the old
mau, “listen to me; the spirit of Nga Kipene (a
young girl wo knew well, and a niece of Toenga’s)
has passed up the river. 1 saw it floating past me
when 1 fell down. She is dead! Alas, alas! Nga
Ripene is dead I” Toenga described the sensation
he felt, by paying that bis hair and flesh had moved
as if they were to leave him, doing a kind of obeis-
ance to the spirit as it passed on its way. The old
man left immediately for his settlement, which
was some miles up the river, Next day, sure
enough, a messenger arrived to inform i.s of the
death of Nga Ripene, which happened quite sud-
denly, after a feast of green gooseberries. Her
last request had been that she was not to be
buried iu the kari tupa paku (corpse garden) of
the missionaries. We attended the funeral, and
sa »v her planted among the tussocks. We often go
there to weep. [Yes, for the lies you send us.—
Ed. Bulltin.L
Writes our London correspondent:—
When General Maclvor arranged for his inva-
sion of New Guinea, it was agreed that his friend,
Captain Juba Kennerley, should command the
naval forces of the expedition, but as the project
came to grief, the gallant captain had to look J
We give this to our readers under the veil
of confidence. “ What will you take ?” enquired
Alfred of something In a fur cap; “ what will you
take to be my courier ?” “ Does he get anything
to eat?” enquired Garden Honey, doubtfully.
“Lashuns,” replied Alfred. “What’s he got to
do ?” asked Garden Honey, with a beaming eye.
“ Oh, only to look after the things, and tell every-
body I’m a prince In my own country.” “Any
wages?” faltered the aesthetic newsvendor. “Your
travelling expenses, ten shillings a week, and your
uniform.” And, xithaloud chuckle, Alfred ad-
vanced to a press, and speedily produced the fol-
lowing articles, all second-hand1. A bell-topper,
with gold band and cockade. 3. A marine's tunic.
3. A pair of fireman’s trousers, with broad blue
stripes. 4 An enamelled, cast-steel shirt front.
“And I’m to wear these, am I?’ asked Garden
Honey. “Yes,” replied Alfred, in high glee, “and
how nicely you will look when you’ve got ’em ail
on.” “Sir,” rejoined Garden Honey, "I’mgetting
an old man, and my final hiccup is not many
months hence. I do not feel myself ekal to the
task. I have lost, somehow, the cunning of lying,
and prefer to devote the my life to sell-
ing pea-nuts, about which,” continued Garden
Honey, with much emotion, “ there is no decep-
tion. Take Davies,” he resumed, after shedding
copious tears of rum aod water, “ that 'at would
suit him splendid.” He then filed sadly out, leav-
ing Alfred in a state of some perplexity. If
Withers would only wear the uniform, he would
be ver but, of course, that's hopeless; if the
present terms are—an extra five bob might—and
say an allowance of la. 6d. for the cockade—still,
vhen you’ve madeasuccess—however, wlthalittie
diplomacy it might be brought about.
A New Caledonian
named Ducrot, a ser-
vant, recently procured
through the influence
of M. Pallu de la
Barriere, a passage
home as an assistant
steward in theDupieix,
one of the boats of the
Messageries Maritimes.
He was given a letter
to the prefht at Mar-
seilles, and mistaking
the wording of the
letter, Ducrot was mis-
taken for being what
Henniker really is,a
prince in his own
country.” He was
feted ; provided with
spondulix ; sent to
Paris ; and, in short,
was offered all the de-
licacies of the season.
When in Paris he did
Mabille, La Closerie de
Lilas, L’Elderado, and
other giddy haunts ;
and was much sought
after by the ladies
generally. After a gay
old time he was sent
back first class by the
Sydney ; but, it is
noticed that chopping
wood with him now is
a lost art.
Mr. Matthews, of
Maloga, to whom we
have previously had
occasion to refer in
terms of eulogy, is once
more covering himself
with glory. He has led
a crusade of his black
proteges (our brothers,
you know), from pious
Maloga to sinful Mel-
bourne. The troop
num bers sixty or there-
abouts, and the whole
crew have entered
upon a wild career of
dissipation by encamp-
ing in the scrub near
Brighton. This is the
way to see life, if you
like I Mr. Matthews Is
to be congratulated on
his Spartan method of
plunging his charges
into the vortex of fast
living while still under
his supervision, thus
making them world-
worn and biasi, and
dead to the seductive
vices of civilization
long before they leave
Maloga. If it were not
for this salutary sys-
tem of timely inocula-
tion, there is no know-
ing to what depths of
degradation our black
brethren might de-
scend. Why they might
even become justices
of the peace! By the
way, it appears that
this raid upon the Vic-
torian metropolis is an
annual affair. It is
curious to note that It
should always occur at
the festive season of
the year. Doubtless,
however, Mr. Matthews
has his reasons for this.
Were it not that we
have made up our mind
to print no scandal
about Queen Elizabeth,
we should suspect that
the ladies of the ballet—
[No aspersions on the
ladies of the ballet in
this journal.— Ed. B ]
People who are not familiar with the
ecoentrloities of men of genius are marvelling at
the infatuation of Mr. Gladstone in keeping up
any kind of acquaintance with a person of Mrs
Tbistlethwayte s antecedents. This iady was the
beautiful and notorious Laura Bell, a “ pretty
horse-breaker,” who rode in the park before the
day of ” Anonyma alias Skittles.” When she mar-
ried Mr. Tbistlethwayte his position was that of a
younger son; but when bis brother, Captain This-
tlethwayte, was killed at Inkerman he came into a
flne i.u roperty \ 0f course, Laura, despite her
wealth, was not received at court, or in society, so
she tried piety, became a Sister of Mercy, took to
preaching to women of her former profession,
r husbapd* who also Preached, and
finally attracted Mr Gladstone, and, it is said, one
colonial bishop to her house. Piety having suc-
thus far, she took up art and modelled a
Gladstone. The extravagance of Mrs.
Tbistlethwayte in dress has led to all kinds of mis-
understandings between her, her husband, and
various tradesmen; but Mr. Gladstone persists in
lunch now and then on Sundays with the
I histlethwaytes. Truly, this great man is in many
things of the simplicity of a child. It is due to
him to mention that the lady retains no trace of
her former remarkable beauty.
“ And merry was the world though he was dead.’
This line exactly fits the case of Louis Raynor a
Ms mesbury miner, who died the other da/at the
S®.°] -“-He was the discoverer of the Queen’s
™nw y ,u K ? cf - a . Property somewhat famous in
Vf circles. It was too much giory for him
5® Th Wlth *?; lot of * 0 ° d tellowa' who had con-
the rather reprehensible habit of gazing
often upon the wine when it is red. Then he
to P°?; r d kt an inebriate asylum. But he soon
got tired of It and left it for the cemetery.
MADAME CLOVIS HUGUES.


GENTLE, BUT EFFICACIOUS.
Wyndham-street, Alexandria, Sydney, Feb. 14, 1884.
Gentlemen,—I bear to inform you that 1 have
used Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea In my household
with good results. My children have taken it aa
an aperient, and its action has been gentle but
efficacious.
Yours faithfully,
Joseph Linqard,
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
VERDICT OF A POPULAR BONIFACE.
I have tried Hamburg Tea, and my household
have proved it to be gentle but efficacious as an
aperient, and I can strongly recommend it.
G. A. BROWN,
Exchange Hotel,
West Maitland.
How common is the homely, but sweet-
comforting song of “ Wait till tte clouds roll by;”
and how many clouds come o’er the faces of ladles
as they are informed by their Mary Janes that
the jug of the chamber set, the soup tureen, fruit
or flower stand, or one of the handsome teacups,
is broken. What a consolation that any article
got from Bray Bros.. 402 and 404 Qeorge-street, can
be matched.*
We believe the cause ot the wonderful
success of our MURRAY and LANMAN’B
FLORIDA WATER may be found in the fact that
ihe principal aim In Us preparation bus always
been to give the simple NATURAL PERFUME
OF FLOWERS, without any chemical addition
whatever, and to avoid, by all means, the great
trrer of making a heavy, sickly, sweet perfume,
of a Lefaucheux revolver increased her weight
several ounces. He was subsequently arrested,
the bullets in ibegirl being abstracted at the Hotel
Dieu. But, as Mrs. Nickleby remarked: “ Jour-
neymen shoemakers are always doing this kind of
thing. Something In the leather, I suppose.”
Cornel Thi- is not the only wicked country in the
world. Do you see, we have a lot of ballast on the
side of virtue—John Lucas, Percy, Tom Garrett,
et mitres. Whoop!
From la hellc France comes a cheery little
story, which tends to show how excessive piety
and first class villainy go hand-in-hand at an easy
jog-trot. It also fairly illustrates the tenacity to a
criminal purpose, which a human being is capable
of. But we had better hurry up with the particu-
lars. Aveline, a man of middle age, and his wife,
who was slightly younger, were domestics in the
service of a maiden lady, Just turned 83 years of
age, and whose habitat was Pans. Aveline was
frugal, and with his savings, combined with a 1
small fortune which he inherited, he purchased j
some land in Normandy, whither he meant to re- |
tire on the death of his ancient mistress. In the [
same .house in Paris as that occupied by the
Avelines, resided a French general with his
orderly, by name Gamier, a sportive youth of 35.
Madame Aveline was somewhere about a dozen
years the senior of this gay young spaik,
and thslr acquaintanceship quickly .ripened
into love, her affection for the gallant son
of Mars being of the most violent and effusive
kind. After a while, Gamier left Paris with his
master, but their love was not allowed to grow
ctol, as a most endearing correspondence was kept
up between them, from which it could bo gathered
that they determined on the •‘suppression” of
Aveline, their object then being to live together
on her money, of which she had managed to save
a tidy sum also. It was then arranged between
Gamier and the woman that they should proceed
with the murder of A veline in September last, and
henceforth the letters exchanged referred to the
scheme as if it were one of the most virtuous of
human resolves. Thus, on the 19th of March, Gar-
nier writes: “ when we are united, we shall have
but one prayer, that God may preserve us thus for
centuries.” In a subsequent letter he says: “ I
shall go to Mass to-morrow, and pray heaven to
aid us in the accomplishment of the object we
have so long been fighting for.” The woman
wrote in the same strain on the 35th May: “ I went
this week to Notre Dames de Victories, where I
had a taper burnt for the realisation of our pro-
ject.” She wrote, on another occasion, of Aveline:
" He says he is ill (she had already begun opera-
tions), Ah I if God would take pity on me. When
there now, and probably will there remain till that
celestial boatswain, Gabriel, pipes the souls on
deck. This should act as a warning to younsr men
beginning the race of life, who set riches before
them as their goal. The too sudden acquisition of
wealth makes nine men out of ten eltner mad or
b id. The knowledge of this fact has all these years
restrained us from a massing money. Just now,
however, we begin to think that we should not
much mind makiag a melancholy example of our-
selves for the good of others, if somebody with
a few millions to spare would give us a chance.
The spirit of self-sacrifice has always been strong
within us. It is a feature of great minds. But we
can’t help thinking what a small percentage of
enjoyment this poor young miner got out of his
irood luck. He died in Malmesbury, and was tuned
there, when he might now have been lying close
by the burial allotment of Abelard and Heloise,
in Pere la Chaise. Butthepick-and-shovel intellect
never appreciates these advantages. Whisky is
all it wants. Whisky Is the centre of its circle of
thought. «nd whisky—like the sea round the
shield of Achilles-flows round its dim horizon.
And whisky—as a colossal friend of ours,
a miner himself, once remarked to us—will kill
the biggest man on the flat.
M. Edmond About, the great political
economist and distinguished litterateur of France,
is seldom about his old haunts now. In point of
fact, he is dead, but when he was alive he was very
much about, indeed. In a literary way, he was a
sort of Jack-of-all-trades—psychology, criticism,
history, fiction, satire, abstract philosophy, ethics,
polemics, and even war correspondence came alike
to the ready brain of M. About. But he was par-
ticularly “about*' when writing in a Voltalrean vein
against the policy and works of the Church of
Rome, and in this line even the driest subjects
were by him turned into the means of affording
the most trenchant pieces of irony Imaginable. In
his preface to the “ Official Statistics ” of the Papal
States for the year 1853, for example, the keen
Frenchman observed:—" The population of our
hapuy country has increased one third between
5816And 1853, in the space of thirty-seven years.
So good a result can only be attributed to the ex-
cellent administration of the Holy Father, and to
the preachings of 38,330 priests and religious per-
sons, who protect our youth against the deleteri-
ous influence of the passions.” The fact of attri-
buting this satisfactory increase in the population
to the preachings of 38,330 priests and religious
persons who protected the Italian youth against
the deleterious influence of the passions, is a piece
of pleasantry worthy of Rabelais in his best days;
but we are sadly afraid the devil has poor Edmond
in a warm corner just now in punishment of his
sacriligeous jesting. Or, who knows but Bab. and
Ed are now seated in front of a bottle of nectar in
the Elysian Fields, reciting little things of their
own against the common enemy, and laughing
most consumedly when the philosopher of Ferney
steps up and helps the worthy pair along with a
gall-tipped shaft of his own composition. Masses
will be said for the repose of the souls of this
sprightly trio when—Bradlaugh or Bob Ingersol
perches in the Papal chair at Borne.
By the 'Frisco mail, just in, we learn that
Mike de Young, who was shot at by young
Spreckels, son of the Honolulu sugar millionaire,
Is not dead. Mike is surviving partner of the de
Young brothers, founders of the San Francisco
Chronicle, a profitable and leading daily of San
Francisco. His enemies say that the progress of
the de Youngs, from the status of news boys to
the possession of wealth, has been one long dis-
grace. A noble building owned by de Young, in
California, is alleged to have been the result of a
blackmailing episode, characteristic of the genera'
habit of the proprietors of the Chronicle. Every
visitor to ’Frisco is struck by the mugniUcent
mansions, which on Nob’s Hill—an elevation very
much like Windmill Hill in Brisbane—dominates
the city. These are the palaces of the railway
kings—the originators of the Northern Pacific
transcontinental. Their owners are rich beyond
calculation. And they are of coarse antecedents—
saloon keepers, and such like. Well the story goes
that a daughter of one of these families was more
than frisky. Preserving, amidst her whims, her
original tastes, she numbered among her lovers
a car-conductor. He boasted of the favours he
had received. The scandal reached the de Youngs.
Then the father was permitted, somehow, to
understand that it was a question of payment or
publication. So the title deeds of a line building
in California-street changed hands. That Mike
de Young was not shot long ago is what
most people are surprised at. His brother
Charles, who is said to have had the brains
of the pair, was shot down by the Rev.
Mr Katlock, junior —shot down behind his
own advertisement counter, without having a
chance to draw his pistol, which he vainly fumbled
for underneath his buttoned top-coat. Kallock
was tried and acquitted; his father, ex-May or,
also a Rev., successfully lavishing money to cor-
rupt the cause of justice. The murder was a
cowardly one, but Charles de Young deserved
small pity. He had but a short time before tried
to assassinate, in even a more cowardly fashion,
the Rev. Kallock, senior, then Mayor. Driving m
a ooupd (a close cab) to the City Hall, he sent in
word to the Mayor that a lady desired to speak
with him. This bait drew out tne rev. gentleman,
as a matter of course. He was descending the
steps of the hall to approach the cab, when Charles
de Young shot him from within the cab, wound-
ing but not killing him, and was instantly driven
away at a gallop. In the Spreekeis case, it is doubt-
ful whether Mike de Young was not shot for
doing real public service in combatting the mono-
polist greed of the Spreckels, who have ’Frisco as
tight by the throat in regard to sugar as our own
Sugar Company holds Sydney and N. 8. Wales.
No one expects that young Spreckels will be put to
any serious inconvenience about his little exploit.
His father is more than a millionaire, and de
Young was only wounded in the arm and
shoulder.
The second council of war, in New Cale-
donia, has recently condemned eight men to death
for various offences; but the decision is a mere
farce, as President Grevy is deeply antagonistic to
capital punishment. In Paris, this clemency,
exercised by the Presidential prerogative, has been
productive of unpleasant results. Murder has fol-
lowed murder with startling rapidity; the tragedy
at Noaent-sur-Marne capping the rest of the assas-
sinations for dire atrocty. From the account of
it given in Gil Blas, we learn that a certain
Madame Cusslnet (a rluh widow) kept a wine-shop,
and was about closing at 13 o’clock, when five men
entered and called for absinthe. They remained
talking together for some time, when the leader
of the party exclaimed, “C'est le moment I” On
this, three of the party set on to the barman, and
stabbed him 37 times, while the balance of the ab-
sinthe-drinkers occupied themselves with drilling
holes through the landlady. They then appro-
priated all the bullion and “hopped”—the police
being doubtless, on the track. Another cheerful
tragedy occurred in Haris (at Clichy) on the same
day A man named Freysse, who was living with
(or married to) a ballet girl, grew jealous of a
fellow lodger named Garovaglia (whose cognomen
alone deserved a death accompanied with lingering
torments). About 0 o’clock in the evening, Freysse
waited for Garo. (etc.) in the passage, and did his
utmost to tickle his liver with a couteau de chasse.
Two miniature tunnels having been bored into
Garo (etc.) by Freysse, the latter commenced to
get annoyed, and drawing a polgnard, laid open to
the public gaze a portion of his adversary’s brain.
G, then, according to the paper, rassemhla see
forces, and darting over to a wine shop opposite,
sought refuge. The man who kept the place, how-
ever, attempted to close the door on Garo (etc.),
when that exasperated individual ventilated the
skin of the wine-shop keeper to such an extent,
that if he serves his customers at all, he has to
serve them from heaven. The two combatants
were arrested, and aiter a space of forty-
eight hours, were “ Klrby’d ” at the expense
of the Republic. Three days after this a young
plasterer (wno wished to acquire r'ches quickly
and without trouble) threw a miserly old man off
the fortifications, and assumed the r6le of a mar-
quis with the wealth of Avare. The cloudy colour
(bred in the bone) of his socks seems to have be-
trayed him, and ;he was arrested a few hours sub-
sequently to the old man having been discovered
in a aondition of raspberry jam in the fosse. Simi-
larly, a journeyman shoemaker, living In the Rue
Ppipeomere, bad a row with bis yirl, and by nmn#
for a Manchest r man’s phiz, fifty per cent more
than for that of a Londoner. A fortiori as regards
rich "colonials.” Having arranged terms, and
found that, in the words of Mr. Slugsby, the
price was well,” Simon saw the necessity of get-
ting as much glory as possible for his 3000 guineas
So after he had had a sitting or two, he asked
Millais whether he might arrange that the Austra-
lian colonists In London should, on a certain day
meet at the great painter’s studio, Palace
Gardens, Kensington, to view that most impressive
of all artistic and historical spectacles, the por-
trait of Simon Fraser. Millais said, "Yes, 'with
pleasure.” Then it struck Simon that there might
be a difficulty in getting the Australians together.
Ho held his hand on his fevered brow. Respite
and nepenthe 1 Henniker Heaton could do it.
Interviewed Henniker, who took his arm and led
him round to the Agents-General. They, one
after another, promised to " be there ” on the
eventful day. Saul Samuel alone remained to be
interviewed. He and Henniker are sworn foes.
When the pair arrived at the N.S.W. embassy,
Henniker said, "Simon, I think you had better go
in here solus, for Saul and I don’t hit it ” Simon
went in alone accordingly, and handed to Saul a
card of invitation. Saul smiled blandly, and was
just about to say -‘Yes.” when he looked out of
the window and saw his ancient enemy, Heum-
ker, standing on the pavement. Then it struck
him firstly that J. H. H. had a finger in the
Fraaerian pie, and secondly, that on the day
appointed he had very important public business
to transact. \v hereupon Simon iraser, who had
seen the shadow flit across Saul’s smooth visage,
even as the squall flits across the placid waters of
the tropics, went out and said unto Henniker,
“ Why the devil didn’t you keep away from that
infernal window ? If Saul hadn’t 86<m you bed
have come. I’m sure.*' Apropos, Walls, K.A ,
was, it is alleged, once waited upon by
a certain rich Australian sheep-proprietor
whose first success in life was not altogether un-
connected with a bush pub. The owner of jum-
bucks owned a face which was in itself pnnui/acic
evidence of horse stealing, and he told Watts that
“now he had been nominated to the Council, he
wished the greatest of artists to paint his portrait.”
Watts at once flatly declined. The gentleman
with the face expostulated. He would leave the
price to Mr. Watts, who. by painting his portrait,
would ensure his being handed down to posterity
in one of the great national collections of Aus-
tralia. “ My dear sir,” interposed Watts, R.A., it
is because I also wish to be handed down to pos-
terity that I do not paint the facts of such persons
as yourself. Door, Joseph.” Mr. Watts, it may be
he complains, I praise God in my heart. Aa re-
gards her relations with her husband, she had
nothing, as she confesses, to complain of. I
would,” she writes, “I could blame Aveline for
something, but there is nothing.” She made
several abortive attempts to poison her husband,
and at length it was resolved to shoot him while
enjoying holidays on his little estate in Normandy,
where It was his wont to spend a few weeks in the
shooting season, he being particularly fond of that
kind of sport. It proved a veritable shooting sea-
son for Aveline. Madame sent for her lover, who
came down, and they then concerted the measures
to bo taken. She fixed up Gamier In a convenient
position to shoot, and then beguiled her unsuspect-
ing husband into the trap. The first time, however,
Oarnler’s courage failed him, and he did not lire;
but on the next occasion he effectually sup-
pressed” poor Aveline. The Nemesis of crime was
speedily on their track, and the guilty pair were
subsequently found guilty of the murder, Gamier
trying to fix the whole blame on the woman, whose
behests he so blindly carried out. She, however,
did not retaliate, but, womanlike, wrote a consol-
ing letter to her lover during the trial, in wmch
she expressed a hope of their meeting and marry-
ing in New Caledonia. Madame Aveline was sen-
tenced to death, but her accomplice got off with
penal servitude for life. The extraordinary fea-
ture in this strange case is the thorough, and yet
almost unconscious depravity of both parties, es-
pecially of the woman, whose moral perversity is
almost unique in the annals of sane criminals.
The famous Mr. J. Everett Millais, R.A.’.
has just painted “the portrait of a gentleman.’
The gentleman is ai Australian gentleman, and is
about the first of that ilk whom J.B.M. has handled
professionally. In short, to come to the point, the
portrait is that of the most illustrious of Austra-
lian statesmen, Mr. Simon Eraser (have you ever
heard of him before ?), ex-member for Rodney, in
the Legislative Council of Vitoria. Simon is
wealthy, and just one shade prettier than M EJhone.
He is a lean, under-sized, dyspeptic-looking son of
“ Caledonia stem and wild,” the land o’ cakes, and
of the mountain and the flood, edmon has for a
great many months past been “touring” on the
” continoug,” and elsewhere. Alter partaking of
an especially bad dinner at the house of a wealthy
Australian in l.ondon, recently, it struck him (1)
that he was, afetr all, only mortal and must die,
and (2) that mere photographs were perishable
articles. So he went to Millais (who is a business
man, born in Jersey, and as clever as a french
shop-keeper) and Millais no doubt said; “Humph!
must make this man pay.” So ho charged Simon
3030 ijuiueas. He would probably have charged
explained, is almost universally admitted to be the
first of modern English portraitists; unlike Mil-
lais, he has ever been most particular in his choice
of subjects, and has not sold himself by becoming
a mere fashionable face-painter. He is a hand-
some man with the face of a god, and was the
original “ discoverer” and husband of Ellen Terry
(after all, the most fascinating woman of the cen-
tury), whom he married when she was but a child
of i8, and afterwards was compelled to divorce.
He is the intimate friend of Swinburne and of
Morris, whoso Republican and Socialistic views he
shares. He it was who first “discovered Mrs.
Langtry and sent her on the road to fame.
Albert Pel is a party who maybe reckoned
as quite a daisy in his own particular profession.
Unfortunately for society In general, and himself
in particular, Mr. Pel’s stay on this sublunary
sphere is apt to be rather limited, as he is just now
awaiting his trial for cooking the hash of his
female cook, with whom ho was on a sort of hug-
ging acquaintance, atMontreull, near Paris. Mr.
Pel is h gentleman whose acquaintance Eugene
Sue or Emile Zola would have been delighted to
cultivate-at a most respectful distance. He
would be just in their line. But the chances are
the novelists would have been caught entangled
in h>8 the first time they made a rise, and hence,
perhaps, it is just as well they never met. Born of
the usual number of poor but respectable parents,
young Albert began life as a clocbmaker’s appren-
tice, but being passionately fond of scientific
studies, he soon became a sort of Frenchified Pro-
fessor Edison. So rapid were the strides he made,
that, before he was 14 years of age, he inve ted a
singularly powerful electric apparatus, and as,
like all other great geniuses, the young Albert was
rather careless over paltry matters, he one
dav “accidentally” left this machine on the
kitchen table, and his mother, not thinking the
thing was loaded, touched the concern, and was
instantly struck as dead as Juliin Caesar. Nothing
daunted by the loss of the old lady, however,
Albert became professor in a college at Passy, and
found out an explosive compound, which the
French Governm ent authorised him to experimen-
talise upon at Cherbourg, where it tore the body of
an officer to pieces and nearly destroyed the arsenal.
This seemed to be so satisfactory to the Minister
o( War that he resolved to let others have the
benefits of Professor Pel’s services for the future,
and after a little dodging round, our hero took to
journalism as a means of livelihood, and he also
took to a certain actress (for what purpose is not
clearly shown) about the same time. His love for
experimenting, however, was too strong to allow
him to confine his abili Jes to writing up Police
Court pars, and slang whanging the “beggar op-
posite. 1 ,” so be fixed up a little laboratory, and,
strange to eay, his paramour died a tew days after
be bed discovered a new mineral poison. This
would have discouraged many an older man, but
Albert was still strong and hopeful, and so he
promptly married and settled down to steady life*
He had no family by this wife, but this was pro-
bably due, in some measure, to the fact that she
died in a most mysterious manner three weeks
alter their union. Still Albert kept up a bravo
heart, and taking a leaf out of the book of Ham-
let's ma, be went in for thrift, and so caused the
funeral baked moats to furnish forth the marriage
table of Mrs. Pel No. 2. This lady, however, seemed
to tire of her partner rathe’’ soon, for she skipped
off with her bag and baggage a week after the
nuptials were celebrated, having, it is said,
caught her experimentalising husband endea-
vouring to inveigle his respected mother-in-law
into hla private workshop lor the alleged pur-
pose of inspecting a new style of spring gun
he had invented for killing cats and burglars.
After thl#, Professor Pel settled down at his old
trade of a clockmaker at Montreull.and persuaded
one Marie Boehmer, who bad saved up 4000 francs,
to become his servant and, presently, his mistress.
She had with him but a short time when she
wrote to her sister, announcing that she was
dangerously 111, and that she had made up her
mind to give her tond admirer la hruthcr (as they
call a moonlight flit la France). Bhe certainly did
leave, but whetner her flight was facilitated by
any of Albert’s new Inventions or not has yet to
be discovered. The police, however, have the
proverbial clue rather tightly gripped at present.
A saw has been found bearing blood marks. In
tho drains was discovered a tuft of hair, the
colour of which was that of the deceased woman's,
in one of the roorai were bottles containing
arsenical acids. If convicted of this charge, it
wil be rather bard on the distinguished Professor,
as he will bo probably sentenced by the hireling
minions of the Uw to 157 years'imprisonment in
Now Caledonia. In duo course, ho may honour
Sydney with his presence. And if his experiment-
ing ardour tasn’t cooled, he may take a flrestlck
round to our Boat Island powder magazines, and
send us a 1 by the express route to the landing
platform of the New Jerusalem. We will en-
deavour to Interview Professor Pel should ho
favour this colony with a visit, and bring away the
result in a potato-sack and a bolster. We gener-
ally find the latter tho most convenient to carry
amputated beads in.
• • *
In this week’s War Cry there appears a
portrait block of Captain J. Blrkenshaw—whoever
the deuce he is I From the appearance of his
" mouf ” we should say that next to duff devour-
ing, lip-service was his peculiar / brte George
Darteil, when.'iast heard !of before the mall leit,
was slowly recovering, but wat not likely to
leave hospital for a month or so.
* * •
Besides his rape for cutting down trees,
Qladsto e has a mania for wearing baggy trousers
and abnormally high collars, which indicate his
approach long before his features are discernible.
Anew weekly, devoted to the propagation of
Socialism, has appeared In London, edited and
managed by Mr. Michael Davitt, Mr. Henry George,
and Miss Helen Taylor. The price Is one half-
penny.... Prince Albert Victor, eldest son of the
Prince of Wales, shortly to be entered as a stu-
dent-at-law at the Middle Temple. He will not be
the first distinguished lawyer who began life atsea.
The late Lord Chelmsford whs a midshipman, and
so was Lord Erskine, and both were Lord Chan-
ct Hors. Neither wil. he bo the first Prince who has
taken an interest In the science of law, if we are to
believe Fortescue s “ De Laudibus.".... Vanity
Fair says “ The Duke of Marlborough
1ms been entertaining a Urge and select circle
of friends at Blenheim duilng week."
Select! 1 Wonder where he selected them?
Ellen Terry, in contradicting repor s of a falling
out between herseif and Mr. Irving, says that if
such a thing ever should happen, It would be ail
her fault, us Mr. trving has too sweet a disposition
to quarrel with anyb-dy —At a supper given by
philanthropists to London thieves, one specially
sly gaol-biid proposed ‘ three cheers forSlrHenry
Hawkins ’—who Is known as the “ hanging judge. ’
Three cheers lor Sir A. humph! — Cornwall
failed to get a new trial of his notion against
United lnKLAND...,Mr. W. 8. Gilbert always
makes a good appearance when he responds to the
call lor “ Author!” at tho theatre If the perform-
ance is one of his operas, be Insists upon Sir Arthur
Sullivan going on the stage before him, and he,
following and with visible effort overcoming bis
constitutional shyness, smiles and bows with such
a hearty and genuine air of gratification, that the
geniality and sweetness of hit nature are manifest
to all Kaiser Wib elm makes to secret of
how he gut bis recent fall, someone speak-
ing of how “his horse fell with him," he
promptly Interposed: “Oh, no! (hat was not
the way it happened. I fell from the horse.”. .
Her Majesty, on the recommendation of the Pre-
mier, has granted a pension of £80 a year to the
widow of Michael William Dalle, as a mark of re-
cognition of the musical distinction of her late
husband Irvl"gs engagement In Ban Francisco
was broken on account of Ellen Terry’s disinclina-
tion to cross the continent—Forty-eight thou-
sand copies of Max O’Hell's “ Les Filles de John
Bull * were sold within seven days of publication.
Josh Billings writes half a column a week for
the New York Weekly, for which he receives five
thousand dollars a year Monsieur Blondin, who
many years ago walked on a rope stretched across
the Niagara Kapids from shore to shore, Is now
sixty years old, and a rope-walker still, at 500 dol-
lars a performance. His home Is in London, but as
the English law requires him to provide himself
with a net against a possible fall, be usually gives
his exhibitions on the continent.
NOT THAT SOHT.
ALICE (startled): “GOOD GRACIOUS, PA, HOW YOU SCARED MB. I THOUGHT IT
WAS A MAN!”


THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
First open date, Tuesday, February
24th, 1885. Terms on application to
J. B. HICKIE,
Lessee.
N.B. Only responsible managers treated with.
Academy of music
(Late Albert Hall).
i Adelaide Street, Bbtshanb,
The coolest and most comfortable Hall in Aus-
tralia. Seating- capacity, 1300 ; stage: depth, 46ft.;
width, 58ft ; height of grooves, 16ft ; proscenium,
28 by 20; dressing accommodation undiluted. Rent
or shares. For open dates, appiy to DUVAL and
SMITH, Lessees, Tattersall’a Hotel, Brisbane.
A N 0 I N G
PROF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &o. Leigh House Academy, 251
Castlereagh street, near Bathurst-street. P.S.—
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and Is superior in ventilation,
soring floor, &o. No decorations required.
REGBNALD TOMS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W, H. PALING & CO.
Royal Hotel,
Bungendore.
FIRST CLASS ACCOMMODATION.
J. McMAHON, Proprietor.
Department of Public Wonts.
Sydney, 14th January, 1885.
Tenders for public works and sup-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
_F. A. WRIGHT.
IN THE PRESS, and to be published softly, the
HISIORY Ob’ THE YEAR 1884.
A complete record day by day of every event of
interest to the colony, in town or country. Com-
piled with great care, and intended to fill, as a
work of reference, along-felt want.
Send 5s. (id. stamps to
JOHN WOODS AND CO, (Limited).
Bridge-street, Sydney.
SMITH & MAMN'ELL,
THE SHIRT MANUFACTURERS OF
AUSTRALASIA,
X X
298 George Street, Sydney.
E very description of Sh’rts made to measure
A perfect fit guaranteed.
NO MORE CORNS I
CORNS AND WAHTS removed without pain
by the use of Palmer’s Painless, Harmless,
and Effectual CORN AND WART REMOVER.
This preparation is the most wonderful ever used
for Corns, Warts, or Bunions. If applied accord-
ing to the directions, it will effectually remove
them in from six to eight days.
PALMER’S
FACILE CURA .'225*
For Neuralgia, either Chronic or Local.
I his most wonderful Preparation has surpassed
ail others in speedily removing this excruciating
and most distressing complaint. It matters not
how !ong or severe the suffering has been, a single
bottle has never failed in producing the desired re-
sults: and it can be most confidently recomme ded.
Sold retail by all chemists and druggists and
general stores: wholesale by Messrs Elliott Bros.,
Sydney ; E. Prosser and Co., Sydney ; Felton.
Hrlmwade, and Co., Melbourne; Kempthorne and
Prosser, Dunedin.
m
COMFORTABLE TEETH
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are three kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is Invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
fums, decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
reps in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each Label bears the name, “ Wilcox ana
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London .”
DE
ASTHMA.COUGH, BRONCHITIS.
One of these Cigarettes gives Immediate relief in
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitl
night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them Invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors,
Caution—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each box bears the name of “ Wilcox ana
Co., 339 Oxford-street, London.”
£o
1 nfa ntsand Children
What gives our Children rosy cheeks,
What cures their fevers, makes them sleep;
Castoria.
When Babies fret, and cry by turns,
What cures their colic, kills their worms.
Castoria. i
t '
What quickly cures Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Colds, Indigestion ; 1
Castoria. >
Farewell then to Morphine Syrups,
. Castor Oil and Paregoric, and
Hall Castoria.
“ Castoria is no well adapted to Children
that I recommend it aa superior to any medi-
cine known to me.”— H. A. Archer, M. D.,
Ill Oxford St., New York.
Elliott Bros., Sidney, Agents.
ASTE PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
T V Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, Bulletin
Office.
fTIRY BURGIS’ £3 3s. Suit?, to measure. Trousers
I from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 1,70 PITT-8TKBKT,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for at iVmeasuring
forwarded to any part of the colony
ALC0CK&CO.’S
CELEBRATED]]
BILLIARD
TABLES.
BOLE AGENTS:
cm 11 ui go.,
375 George-st., Sydney.
HT TIME PAYMENTS. IF REQUIRED
CHURCHILL’S SYRUP OF THE HYPO-
PHOSPHITES.
THESE SYRUPS have so thoroughly obtained
the confidence of the Medical Faculty that they
are now preferred to any other preparations as
Genernl Tonics.
The Svrup ot Hypophosphltes of Lime has proved
itself for many years most useful In cases of Con-
sumption and diseases of the Pulmonary Organs.
It is also most beneficial to debilitated constitu-
tions proceeding from any cause whatever, as it
contains two of the most necessary ingredieuts for
building up the Human Frame, namely, Phospho-
rus and Lime.
Churchill's Syrup of the Hypophosphite of Iron
is one of the best preparations of Iron and Phos-
phorus that has been offered to the public. As a
permanent tonic it has been found more service-
able than any other preparation of Iron, and is
especially recommended to those suffering from
the effects of a long residence in a hot climate.
Churchill’s Compound Syrup of the Hypophos-
phites contains Lime, Iron, and Soda, and as a
general Tonic has been found most useful. Deli-
cate children have derived the greatest benefit
from going through a course of this medicine,
which supplies nearly all the elements necessary
to develope in perfection the Human Frame. To
Ladies suffering from General Debility, any of
these Syrups can be taken with most beneficial re-
sults, but as almost every constitution differs, one
may give better results than the other. To be had
from all Chemists, and Wholesale from ELLIOTT
BROS., Pitt-street, Sydney.
Professional Directory.
TTISCOCK8’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spo-
XJ. clalty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
lies, apply F. E. Hisoooks..
W.
Sydney
HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks’ Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
TO AMATEUR THEATRICALS.—Scenery Sup-
plied or Lent. G. Pkrriman, Scene Painter,
No. 7, back of Academy of Music, Castiereagh-st,
m HEATRE ROYAL.
I Under the direct ion of
Messrs. Williamson, Garneh and MuaaROVB.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager—B. N. Jones.
LAST NIGHTS of
THE ONLY PANTOMIME IN SYDNEY
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD.
THIS and EVERY EVENING, at 7.15,
THE GRAND COMIC CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
entitled
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD,
or
HARLEQUIN BOY BLUE,
The Good Fairy and the Naughty Wolf.
PRICES: Dress Circle, 6s.; Stalls, 4s.; Family
Circle, 2s.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4 at Theatre.
N
B W
OPERA
HOUSE
Lessees & Managers ... E.MaJeroni & W. J. Wilson.
Treasurer and Secretary ... Mr. Joe Brown.
Stage Manager Mr. George Leopold.
MAJBRONl’and’ WILSON’S
COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
GIGANTIC SUCCESS
GIGANTIC SUCCESS
GIGANTIC SUCCESS
— of
Leoooq’s Famous Opera
LA FILLE DB MADAME ANGOT
LA FILLE DB MADAME ANGOT
LA FILLE DE MADAME ANGOT
LA FILLE DE MADAMB ANGOT.
The ORCHESTRA under the Baton of
Mr. LU8COMBE SEARBLLE.
Box plan now open at A. and C. Huenerbeln’s
Music Warehouse, 318, Georgo-street.
OF MUSIC.
Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
j^CADBMY
Lessee and Manager
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
in the FIRST CHANGE OF PROGRAMME.
The first part with beautiful ballet, wit. A humour.
Finale-” OUR OLD KENTUCKY HOME,”
by the entire Company.
The whole concluding with the successful
GRAND PANTOMIME In BLACK.
Admission, 4s., 3s., 3s., and Is.
T
HE AUSTRALIAN
WAXWORKS
Opposite the Cathedral,
Just added, a Portrait Model of
ARTHUR ORTON,
The Tlchborne Claimant,
Open daily from 10 a.m. till 10 p.m.
Admission, One Shilling; Children, half-price.
MADAME CHARBONNET KELLERMANN’S
CONSERVATOIRE DE MUSIQUE,
149 PHILLIP Street.
MADAME KELLERMANN, having secured a
commodious residence in a healthy position
two minutes from Domain, is willing to receive
pupils from the country or neighbouring colonies
as Boarders. Exceptional references given and
expected. Apply 149 Phillip-street.
ODDFELLOWS’ HALL, GOULBURN.
THIS handsome Bijou Theatr?, completely re-
modelled, is fitted with every convenience,
and has one of the best stages In the colony (50 x
GO), is now open for engagement on very moderate
terms. Seats comfortably in dress circle, 250; pit
and stalls, 500. The population of the city is nearly
9000, and the Hall, which is now the most popular
place of amusement, is situated In the most cen-
tral position of the main street. Mr. Charles
Turner, of the Montague-Turner Opera Company,
says:—“The Hall I consider second to none in New
South Wales. The acoustics are good; the stage
and dressing-room accommodation Is superior to
any Hall In the colony. Applications addressed to
M. E. PULLEN, Secretary, will receive prompt
attention,
Carnrick’s Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk
(Composed of about equal proportions of Pure Cod Liver Oil and Condensed Milk digested).
IT affords us much pleasure to announce to the Medical Profession and the Public that we have suc-
ceeded in combining these nutritive substances Into a permanent, palatable, and easily assimilable
form.
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk has the following advantages over the Plain Oil and the
Emulsions now in use 1st. Plain Cod Liver Oil is unpalatable to most persons, but in combinat on
with condensed ( digested) milk, as exhibited in this preparation, it will usually be taken by the youngest
child with a relish. 2nd. oils are prepared for assimilation principally in the duodenum ; com equently
Cod Liver Oil, when taken plain, often offends the stomach, The Oil and Milk in Peptonized Cod Liver
Oil and Milk are digested, and it will therefore usually agree with the most delicate stomach. 3rd
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk contains double the nutritive and flesh-forming nrineiples found In
the Emulsions of Cod Liver Oil. 4th. It is well known that the Emulsions of Cod Liver Oil usually
contain from 60 to 75 per cent, of water. Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk contains 53 per cent, of
best Cod Liver Oil. and in the place of water we use condensed milk, reduced in vacuo in our labora-
tory. 5th. The milk is condensed to the consistency of the Cod Liver Oil, and when combined, as in
Peptonized God Liver Oil and, Milk, it forms one of the mest pleasant and nutritious compounds that
can be conceived or produced.
This Preparation is acknowledged far superior to any of the Cod Liver Oil Emulsions ever
introduced, it being already digested, it may be retained on the weakest stomach.
We also manufacture the above preparation combined with HY p OPHOSPHITES OF LIME AND
SODA. To be obtained of the Principal Chemists and Druggists in the colonies.
The Maltiue Manufacturing 1 Co., Lim,, 24 and 25 Hart-st., Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Wholesale Agents in the Colonies Elliott Bros., Sydney; E. Prosser & Co.. Sydney; Kelton Grlm-
waJe,&Co., Melbourne; Kocke, Tompsitt. & Co., Melbourne; Duerdin & Sainsbury, Melbourne’- F H*
Fauldmg & Co., Adelaide; A. M. Bicklord & Co., Adelaide; Berkley, Taylor, & Co., Brisbane • Elliott*
Bros. & Co., Brisbane; New Zealand Drug Co., Brisbane. ’ ’
Samples and Full Particulars may be obtained of
W. T. PALMER, 104 King-street, Sydney.
The Victorians can now afford to treat
with supreme Indifference, if not with absolute
contempt, any threats of foreign invasion, and
the aggressive Russian, the grasping Teuton, and
the belligerent Gaul, are at present howling with
undisguised rage, because the citizen soldiery of
the “ cabbage garden ’’ has lately received such
reinforcements that the safety of the colony is
reduced to a moral certainty. And maybe, you d
like to know the cause of this happy state of
things ? Well, we don’t mind, “ now that it s past
the New Year,” telling you In confidence that a
rtfie club has been started in a village bearing the
euohulstio name of Nathalie, and we can solemnly
affirm that if the death-dealing rifle be as fatal as
the whisky of the country, an invading army will
at all times have our profound sympa'hy. And
we state this with a tear in our eye, even at the
risk of being stigmatised as disloyal. Not only
hare the Nathalian warriors banded themselves
together for the protection of their homes and
country, and the utter annihilation of all in-
truders, but they have gone the length of getting
some guns,fixing up targets, building fortifications,
and placing the hamlet under military rule. Then
came the opening day, and, though, as the local
paper says, “ there was a strong wind blowing, ’
It hadn’t all its own way, for Mr. Sam Trethowan,
the local auctioneer, clipped in too, and had
bis little say. His heart swelled with honest
pride beneath his manly waistcoat, as in
well-rounded periods he descanted on the
confidence that has been inspired through-
out Australia by the formation of rifle clubs in
general, and the Nathalia sharp-shooters in parti-
cular. Then, with grim irony (slightly at variance
with his otherwise genial nature), the ever-truth-
ful auctioneer remarked, “I hope that if danger
should ever threaten our country, the eificlency of
the rifle clubs will prove that the time and money
spent on them have not been thrown away.” He
could have said a lot more, but the warriors were
thirsting for glory, so the ball was opened, so to
speak, by the lair Miss Trethowan. who deftly
planted a bullet in the “ bull’s eye." after some
promiscuous shooting, at 50 yards’ range. The
riflemen, however, were not so expert with their
weapons, and when the firing became general,
there was no safe spot for miles around, except,
perhaps, in a Cornish boiler, or just in front of the
target, as some of the marasmen wore rather un-
decided as to which end of tho Martini-Henry they
should put to their shoulder. Thus it is that
several doctors and a few undertakers have
directed a business eye towards that hitherto
peaceful village, and the Live Stock Insurance
Companies have increased tho premiums on risks
In that locality. On the other hand, Bismarck has
started his colonization scheme in the South Seas,
so as to keep in check the rising aspirations of
these warlike Victorians, and Jemmy Service has
serious thoughts of declaring war, and calling out
the Nathalia contingent.


Waltham Watch Agency.
REVOLUTION IN THE POSTAL SYSTEM.
PRODIGIOUS efforts are being made by the
New South Wales Government to bring the
Postal Department up to the requirements of the
time. Once pledged to the introduction of the
parcels-post system, which has proved a national
boon in the United Kingdom and the United
States, the Sydney Minister is expediting the work
of making his Department a safe, cheap, and
speedy medium ot transit for all descriptions ot
portable merchandise. This means that goods
may now be despatched through the Post Office
and delivered as qu'oklv as a letter to any address
in either colony. 'J he significance of the thing is
that it virtually brings the most distant resident
down to the doorstep of the best and cheapest
establishment in the great free-trade metropolis.
The man who has led the way In encouraging this
new and beneficial system of trade, is undoubtedly
Mr. T. M. ALCOCK, Jeweller and Watchmaker, of
the Haymarket, Sydney, Australian Agent for the
World-renowned Waltham Watches. For the past
15 years Mr. T. M. Aloock has been doing business
with people who have never been in Sydney, and
who have never seen or entered his shop.
Thorough, straightgoing, honest treatment of
patrons hundreds of miles away has won him a
permanent hold on the entire inland community
of each colony, and he now does a larger parcels-
post business in jewellery and watches than any
other three houses of either city. The Waltham
Watch has given Mr. Alcock a further hold on the
Inland public. By personal negotiation with the
Waltham proprietors at their works, Massachu-
setts, Mr. Aieock secured concessions as the Wal-
tham agent which placed these famous watehes be-
fore the Australian public at manufacturer’s
prices. The parcels-post system completely links
the whole Australian public, as it were, on to the
great Waltham factory. Mr. Alcock forwards
these watches to any address in all Australia, pay-
ing the postage, and taking all the risk of sale de-
livery. By these means Walthams have gone
broadcast throughout these colonies. Mr. Aloock
handles every watch before despatching It, and he
alone executes the order. Ot upwards of 10,000
purchasers there is not a single customer who has
complained or expressed dissappointment at Mr.
Aloock’s treatment of their favours.
3 10 0
3 5 0
3 15 0
4 4 0
THOUSANDS In ALL GRADES to select from at
MANUFACTURERS’ PRICES.
Mr. ALCOCK gives a Three Years’ Guarantee
with every Waltham Watch, and, In addition to
this, issues with each watch sold the Company’s
Certificate, as follows:—“Watch. No. , and en-
graved with our Trade Mark, was manufactured
at our works, and is guaranteed by us to be made
of the best materials on the most approved prin-
ciples, and to possets every requisite tor a reliable
Timekeeper.”
For any defect in material, workmanship, or
performance under fair usage, we at all times hold
ourselves responsib'e.
General Agents, for the American Watch Co.,
ROBBINS and APPLETON.
R. ROBBINS, Treasurer.
T. M. ALCOCK, Agent.
673, George street. Haymarket, Sydney.
QENT.’S SILVER WALTHAM WATCHES,
In Hunting or Open Face, with Crystal
Glass Sterling Hall-marked Cases.
KEV WINDERS.
No. 1.—Seven jewels, steel balance. A
sound reliable timekeeper .. .. £2 10 C
No. 3.—Seven jewels, steel balance. Extra
heavy full size oases, specially
built for bush use ..
No. 3.—Seven jewels, good balance. Very
superior finish. Perfect time-
keeper
No. 4—Full jewelled, compensation ba-
lance. Very highly finished; suit-
able for extreme climates ...
No. 5.-Compensation balance, extra
jewelled. In separate settings ;
very superior movements ... ’ ...
No. 6.—Three-quarter plate hands, to set
at back, good balance, seven Jewels 3 5 0
No. 7.—Three-quarter plate, compensa-
tion balance, lull Jewelled. Spe-
cially rated 400
PATENT KEYLESS.
No. 8.—CELEBRATED RIVERSIDE, adjusted
key less fine movement", three pair extra fine jewels
in setting, exposed pallets, compensation balance.
In silver case, 7 guineas; in massive gold oases 15
guineas. Note.—Read Swiss Commissioner’s speech
re this watch, and If you are In want of a perfect
time-keeper, buy one at manufacturer's price of
the agent, T. M. ALCOCK.
No. 9.-CELEBRATED HILLSIDE, seven jewels,
compensation balance. Very highly finished, and
perfect time-keeper, £4 15s. and £5 os.
No. 10.—Full-sized extra stout oases, compensa-
tion balance, full jewelled. This movement is
specially built for hard usage, and is a perfectly
reliable time-keeper. In two prices, £5 os. and £5
10s.
No. 11.—Full sized, three pairs of extra fine
jewels, in settings. Adjusted. This Is a very
superior movement. £7 7s.
No. 12—Named ”P. ». BARTLETT,” Waltham,
Mass., four pairs extra fine jewels. In settings,
compensation balance. This watch is the acme ot
perfection. £7 7s.
No. 13.—Ladles’ very superior, full jewelled, com-
pensation balance. Engraved cases. £4 10s. and
£5 5s.
LADIES* AND GENT’S GOLD WALTHAMS,
In Hunting or Open Face, with Crystal Glass,
Standard Hall-marked Gold Cases, Of various
g Q £11 n 0 £i7 10 0
9 9 0 14 0 0 20 0 0
10 10 0 15 15 0 up to 75 0 0
A magnificent stock of every grade of Watch
made by the Waltham Company, Including a rich
collection of Presentation Watches, In plain and
fancy engraved cases, . . ..
Duplicate parts of every Watch made by the
Company kept In stock. Waltham Watches re-
paired with the Company’s Materials on the
THE 6 'ENGLISH PATENT LEVER WATCHES
ALSO COMPETE IN ALL AUSTRALIA.
Recognising the value of the better olass of
English Patent Lever Watches, T. M. Aieock,
while in England, visited the great watch factories
of London, and entering into large contracts,
arranged lor the manufacture ot a splendid and
superior class of English Patent Lever Watch,
the BEST and cheapest ever imported to Aus-
tralia.
No. 1.—Crystal Glass or Hunting Case ’ .. £3 10 0
No. 3.—Ditto, extra jewelled and superior
finish ..
No. 3.—Ditto, highest grade, full-jewelled
No. 4 —Ditto ditto, superior adjusted
No. 6,—Rotherham’s celebrated Levers .. -
No. 6.—Rotherham’s Compensated Balance 6
No. 7.—Rotherham’s Chronometer Balance,
highest quality 6 6
No. 8.—Rotherham’s Adjusted, compensated
balance, very superior '. . -
An unequalled stock of the above in 18-carat
gold cases, from £12 to £20; in keyless. £20 to £50.
4 4 0
5 5 0
6 6 0
4 10 0
6 0
7 0
SUPERIOR CHRONOGRAPHS.
T, M. ALCOCK is now in a position to offer to
the public generally the Cheapest and Best
CHRONOGRAPH for racing and timing purposes
ever made.
Illustrated Catalogues Forwarded Free.
All communications to he addressed,
T. M. ALCOCK,
Waltham Watch Agent,
6?3 Gcor*c-st., Haymarket, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Ifc
a cood start is not always a sign of success,
but it goes a long way. At any rate,
a fine commencement with Boc
” on Saturday at the Gaiety. A crowded
house and lavish applause put the on
their mettle. The cast was a powerful one, and
parts so well tilled, that the professional
yawners, it there were any, might have safely re-
ared to the nearest “pub.” with the assurance that
their absence would be unnoticed.
* * * *
The music of “Boccaccio” sparkles and
rioples throughout. It is full of quaint metrical
r,?ins punctuated with melodies deserving a far
richer setting than that usually afforded by opera
uouffe. Some of the solos could bold their heads
nt> U jn the company of many from the Barber,
or the “ Secret Marriage.” And yet It is oot m this
department that the chief strength of the Piece
nos It is in the concerted movements. These are
exceptionally tuneful-pleaslngly and
arranged. The scene is in Florence, and the Period
-fudging by the drcsses-any time bet ween the
Crusades and the going out of knee-breeches.
There are princes, students, mummers, and beg-
ffara. The latter can always bo relied on in an
Italian crowd. They are often lame, generally
bhnd, and always irritatingly happy. ,? b ® y
under a united Italy almost as wellas under a
Panal one, although the absorption of Rome and
Naples must have been a sad blow to them. Then
there is love-making to other men a wives, as
we have it in Sydney. Bocoaecip (Miss Ivanova) is
—according to the bills-“a student, romancer,
o,fd satirist.” Of this class we have manjr
representatives in Sydney also. Their 8a^®. 8 ,
“impromptus on seeing a tram-car collide
With a corporation cart.” reach us m rcams every
morning, with requests that the authors names
may not appear, as they are connected.withi the
best families, and deprecate publicity. They never
j n Than “ satires ” (written on one side only of
the paper) we know of nothing better for lighting
tires, or patching fractured window-panes.
* ♦ ♦
Between Italian and Australian students
/especially medical ones) there appears to be one
well-marked difference. The time devoted by the
Maccaroni-chewers to other people s wives is given
hv our boys to long beers, malodorous clay pipes,
and devil’s pool, so that the time frittered away by
foreigners in amours is more usefully employed by
nur lads in studying the effects of alcohol and
tobacco! Well, Boccaccio falls in love with Fia-
metta (Miss Annie Leaf) the adopted daughter of
™d Lambertucchlo (Mr, Appleby), whose orunken
vagaries kept the house in a pleasant simmer of
enjoyment when he was on the stage, and noade It
howl for his return when the exigencies of the
niece demanded his retirement to wollpp his wife.
And the old man’s wife (Miss Stanley) required a
ilot of watching, varied with constant caressing-
'with a crutch. She was a singularly aggravating
llady, with black cork-screw curls, a penchant tor
church-going, and a foot like——[Not this time.
IEd B.l This reminds us that although the princl-
’oals in “ Boccaccio ” supplied the voices, fke
• < i e{ r ” department (so essential in opera bouffe)
was almost wholly monopolised by the chorus.
But we must pause here to give you our opinion
mpon Miss Stanley. Von Suppe must have had
her in his eye when he wrote. And yet from a
musical stand-point the part is an insignificant
one. We doubt if she has half a dozen solo bars
from start to finish—we question if she has any.
Yet she was always provocative of mirth. Whether
voing to church with downcast eyes, objurgating
her marl, or making a recalcitrant lover (Mr. As-
ton) continue his attentions, she was equally at
home. That she had taken many moonlight walks
to some Florentine Clontarf or Bondi with this
Inattentive ami, that they had led to nothing, and
were unlikely to end agreeably were, of course, a
drawback to this lady’s happiness, but could not
repress her ardour, bhe made the most of an un-
important part-to make more would be to spoil
lt—and, for fun, fairly divided the honours with
Lambertucchlo.
• • *
Mr. Appleby, we have said,’ was Lamber-
tucchio. His eccentricities were laughter-provok-
ing When sober he was least effective, but, to his
credit be it said, he was seldom sober. Two
bearded Queensland squatters, or bushrangers,
behind ua, yelled when they saw him brushing
away imaginary spiders, or stamping on unreal
cockroaches. They’d been through the mill.
Whether he’d learnt his laugh from the hyena, or
the laughing jackass or they from him, may be
disputed, but. If they all laughed In concert, It
would be hard to tell which was the jackass. He
was the first favourite. Prim, severe-looking wo-
men. and bald-headed, claw-hammer-coated men,
who remembered the first Reform Bill, and were
grey-haired when Sir Henry Parkes beat a big
drum in front of a Chartist procession, nudged
one another and smoothed out some of the wrin-
kles that half a century’s successful money-grub-
bing had planted round their mouths. Drunken-
nees, as w© said, was his normal state, and while
seeing him on Saturday night, your first prayer
was that he’d never so far forget himself as to get
sober again.
• • •
Boccaccio’s love for Fiametta is'the peg on
which the whole piece hangs. But there are “ side
'shows” —such as Leonetto’s (Mr. Aston) liaison
with Peronella, and Pietro’s (M. Loridan) with
Isabella (Miss Deakin), to keep the fun going. And
there were flashes of wit In the dialogue also
'some piquant, some funereal. Soured with twenty
years of negro minstrel badinage, with constantly
I perusing the facetious columns in country journals
—particularly the leading articles —and with re-
porting the plaisanteries of circus clowns, it is
little wonder that some of the repartee in • Boc-
caccio” seemed gruesome. Yet the pleasure of
others gives pleasure to us; and so, when wo ob-
served young people around us enjoy jokes that
were petrified before Columbus started West, we
abandoned our intention of waiting at the stage
■door with a bludgeon. Still, In all friendliness, we
warn these strollers not to go too far. When once
thoroughly provoked, the long suffering man is
the most dangerous of all. Boccaccio’s love is
successful, and Fiametta turns out to be a prin-
cess. She (Miss Leaf) sang so well, looked so
dainty, and conducted herself so prudently, that
we knew she was a princess from the beginning.
Common people ape these things, but only cover
themselves with ridicule by their attempts. Bah I
It makes us unwell to hear the mouthings of
Socialists, Nihilists, and Democrats, who pitifully
affect to sneer at the mental and physical endow-
ments which it has pleased God to give to the real
■rulers of mankind —to the Romanoffs, the Bour-
bons, and the Guelphs. It makes us laugh to think
cf the puny efforts of De Stael, Martineau, end
Somerville when compare ! with the works of Our
Gracious Sovereign. If this sort of thing con-
tinues—[Oh, stick to “ Boccaccio.”—Ed. B.j
* * *
Some of Mr. Aston’s notes—from the C,
we should think, to the F-aro superb-sound,
free and resonant. If his whole register were
like those (assuming they are the right ones) he
would not be singing in Auttralia. The Prince
KM. Loredan) warbles well out of the right side of
his mouth. If he gave the whole orifice a show it
is hard to say what he could do; but—he knows
best himself. Probably he tried it all round, and
finds his present method the most effective. Any-
way, he gained the approval of the audience. But,
like other princes, he appears to have had too
much of his own way, and so his conduct ia light,
and his morals untrustworthy. The ladies—bless
them—directly they know he is a real prince, are
prepared to meet him half way in any proposal—of
course, strictly honourable —he is pleased to
suggest, just as our best-bred people met the Duke
of Edinburgh during his memorable sojourn
amongst us. Isabella (Miss Deakin) the wife
•of a drunken cooper, was his Lady Mordauut,
Of Mlsa Deakin it may be said that she looked,
acted, and sang well. Indeed, It may be remarked
of this campany, that if there are none tor whom
you would pound the floor with your umbrella
as for Tatti, in “ Lucia ” yet are there none
whom you are disposed to “ goose. Their stan-
dard is a high one, and if they seldom go above
it, they never sink below. Checco (Mr. Rattray),
a blind, woocten-iegged beggar, opened the ball m
a voice we could listen to oftener without com-
plaining; while, as the tipsy cooper. Mr. Llssant,
&howed an acquaintance with the ettects of alco-
holic poisoning, to be obtained by carelul analysis
only. Little need be said of Miss Ivanova, bhe
sings well, acts spiritedly, fences rawly, and loves
successfully. We would say a good word for the
chorus but for their odd persistence m marching
out of step. It is the left foot, mesdame s, not the
right, that should reach the ground on the tirst
note in a bar of common time. We ought to
know, fc r our nose Is still on one side, through a
beltserved out to us years ago by our front-rank
man—a truculent warrior from Seven Dials
whoso heels we persistently bombarded by step-
ping off with the right hoof.
« • » «
All shows but the Royal werecrowded out
on Saturday. Hisoock’s was brimming. Sketch
and songs wore new, but the pantomime was the
same. And this reminds us: Bent’s song, Little
Ah Sid,” marked “new ” in the programme, ap-
peared months ago In The Bulletin’s “ sundry
Shows” It was written by one whose facile pen
has given pleasure on both sides of the 1 acinc. On
Monday night songs and jokes met with a recep-
tion which-comblned with tbe greed taken at
the doors—must have made, In the dainty English
of the Rum, “ deep answer unto deep. Many ot
the vlaisanterics were fresh, or had grown so and
been improved so much since we first heard them
in eighteen-hundred -and-ever-so-long-ago that
they were as good as new. As a raconteur, there s
no doubt that Bent takes the cake. This is his real
line, and when he appears in It the others have to
sit ever so far back. Even Mr. Keenan suffers an
eclipse. The latter has a name associated m our
mind with the County Galway—with potatoes,
plarg, buttermilk, and blackthorns—and a mouth
[Ohl give his mouth a rest. You vo made
enough money eut of it already.- Ed. B.] [About
his teeth we were going to speak this time, inea-
trical critisism is coming to something when a
writer is insulted like this -Critic.] Amery s
song we consider the bonne bnuche. We always
watt for it, pound the floor with a borrowed um-
brella when he finishes, and do our level best to
swell the inevitable “ankor." He can sing
there’s no getting over that; and when a palsied
old “ sundowner ” sitting next us mopped his fore-
head, and observed, “Ah, you should ’a eerd im
when I ’eerd ’im lust, the night the news kern o
the battle o’ Waterloo,” we felt our loss in coming
into the world so late.
• * • •
Fresh locals and songs 1 continue to be
dovetailed into the Royal pantomime, so that
there is little wanting now to make it a gorgeous
success, but the attendance of the public, the
latter resolutely refuse to roll up, so that, ordi-
dinarily, a prayer-meeting could be hell in the
circle without fear of being disturbed by the
applause from the stalls or pit. Over the gallery
there has settled perpetual gloom since its change
of name. The gibes and flashes of merriment that
were wont to set the house in a roar are gone. It
is a wilderness.
* * * *
To say something fresh about “ Madame
Angot," at the Opera House, is about as easy as to
get 12 men to believe that Sir Henry Parkes
political character is above reproach. It is weTl-
attended nightiy, lavish applause is ladled out to
the principals, and undisguised admiration to the
market women. In the boxes are nightly to be
seen men about town—colonial representatives ot
the Sir Barnaby Jenks and Tom Noddy type—with
keen eyes for well-rounded limbs, and primeval
bouquets—which we recognise as old friends, and
which are beginning to show unmlstakeable signs
of decrepitude. Flowers, like men, have their
trials. And for a well-conducted daisy we know
of no fate more melancholy than being ravished
from her bed, tied up with gaudier blossoms who
sneered at her in life, and “ chucked,” for the
twentieth time, out of a stage-box by a fat man in
goggles to a bold woman la tights.
* * * •
Buxom Carmen, you are leaving us who hopelessly
adore you— . , , , .
But this life Is all too short, dear, to Indulge In
vain regrets— .
So, forgive us, love, for naming It, we beg, be-
seech, implore you, . , ,
Just to learn to bang the tambourine and play
the castanets.
• • •
The Turners wound up on Friday with
“Maritana.” It was Charles' benefit; there was a
full house, and the parting was uproarious. By
this time they are in Brisbane inciting the Banana-
landers—by means of “ Let Me Like a Soldier Fall
—to once more swoop on New Guinea with the
historical three policemen, and reduce the German
Eagle to pulp. There’s no doubt that the constable
is a much more useful member of society than the
mere soldier. His vocation is more honourable, his
uniform less belligerent, his pay better. But in
poetry, scant justice has been done to the force. No
person acquainted with metrical requirements has
ever arisen to lament in verse tne death of a
“bobby." Wo tried it once, and the force has
itself to blame for our failure. The first stanza
was scarcely finished when we found ourselves
en route to the watchhouse. “Let me like a
policeman fall.” Ciel!
• ■ ■
Don Caesar is probably Mr. Turner’s best
character, as Maiitana is Miss Montague’s. They
know it, ana so do the public. At the final per-
formance, Wallace's chef dceuvre was given in a
manner that lost notuing by comparison with
former efforts. For us, there is nothing lelt but
to say bon voyage.
* * * *
In stating last week that Mr. Harry
Hyndes was to make his debut at the New Masonic
Hall, on Thursday, the 5th February, we omitted
to say that the concert will be an invitation one.
We hear also that besides the Itadcliffs-they alone
would induce many who know them by repute
only, and all who ever heard them, to make a
scramble for tickets-mapy others ot the melodi-
ous “ perfesh ” will lend a hand. Besides all this
(hold your breath here) the Governor will probably
attend. We wish Mr. Hyndes success, and judging
by his credentials, we have no doubt he win at-
tain it.
* * * *
George Rignold did a sound stroke of busi-
ness in bringing over the “ Confusion.” which so
long reigned supreme at the London Vaudeville,
and spreading it abroad. At the Melbourne B|jou it
has started on its mad career with a run which is
not likely to subside into a walk for some time to
come. And tbe reason for ibis is a good deal
more easily arrived at than many other thiags-the
North Pole, for instance, or the gates of Paradise.
Confusion,” according to the bill, is a Laugh-
able Eccentric Comedy,” and it dorsn t belie its
title. (Being laughable and eccentric ourselves,
we speak with authority on these matters.) In
this age of unreality, this world of shams, Ms
passing pleasant to find anything that is wbat it
professes to be, so we reverently raise our hat to
“ Confusion,” and recognise in Its author—Joseph
Derrick— a kindred spirit.
■ • •
Sneaking Shakespearingly, and looking
at " Confusion ” from a “ Divine William point
of view, there ain’t much in it. There are
“creations” in it, but it’s decidedly lacking in
those elaborate and masterly * studies of charac-
ter 99 which send pros, into ecstnclos and
audiences into profound slumber. We nave a
newly married couple, a bachelor uncle on tbe
bride s side, a maiden aunt in the bridegroom 8
direction, a brace of lovers— bearing no particular
relation to anyone or anything, not even to the
plot—a pug dog, a baby, a doctor, and a brace of
domestics, male and female respectively. The
baby-bless itl-is tbe personal property of the
brace of domestics. This sounds shocking at first,
but it isn’t. The baby Is, in reality, a very right
and proper personage, because James and Marla
For continuation of “Sundry Shows,” see page 13.
Mrs. John Wood has recently made an enormous success as Mrs. Dick Chetwynd, in
the production of “Young Mrs. Winthrop,” in London. Mrs. Wood, who is fifty-six
years of age, was a great belle in California some thirty years ago as any pioneer will
tell and she was ihen a mature woman. She is as perennial as the immortal French
Dejazet; her toilets are watched for and reported, and she can make a song populai
London as quickly as the youngest burlesque actress in the profession. dr ®® 8 J
see her in here has a petticoat of pink satin embroidered in variegated beads, under a
long drapery of pale blue sicilienne; a bodice of pale blue broohe **atm, alsoem-
broidered in beads, and train of same looped up with pink ostrich feathers. The bodice
is cut en ccBur, and has flat folds of pink sicilienne and embroidery next the skin.


PEPPER AND SALT.
They are about to build a new museum in
It will be devoted to the storage of objects
of worship We should contribute. What should
we contribute ? Speak ing for the country at large*
ike belibve the prober thing to send would be a
thedallion of Her Gracious Majesty, with the j
legend, ** one sovereign, ’* in relievo letters around I
It. Not so ? If you think that, we would ask you j
if you have ever seen the face of a parson, after
the ostensible worship of the Lord Almighty is
oVef, when he finds the collection plates only half
full, and most of the contents small silver at that*
TFe have watched the expression on the face of a
fervent preacher when a collection-plate was
brought up to him full of coppers, and we can
safely say that Dor4 never dreamt of anything
more malefic. We are a great people. We can
carry our god in our pockets.
The editor of the Abmidale Chronicle is
a travelled thine. In a recent issue of his gor-
geous journal, he gave an account of how he had
been a fellow-pissenger to San Francisco with
Claus Spreekels, the Sandwich Islands sugar mil-
lionaire, whose son perforated the body of Miohae'
de Young, of the San Francisco Chronicle*
with a brace of revolver bullets a short time ago
We no longer wonder why the Armidalo man is so
haughty. It is not everybody who can travel with
the father of a homicide.
• * *
Here is a Boyle Rocher from Gunned ah.
It occurred at the settling meeting on Boxing
Night. A gentleman rose to respond to the toast
of “The Losers,’ and he did it in this way: —
“ Gentlemen, I rise to respond to tho toast. I thin k
I am the only loser present, with the exception of
Mr. Lloyd, and he's absent in Sydney!" Let no
man, in future, go around saying there’s no wit in
Gunnedah,
The gay Cathayan has been stigmatised
by Bret Harte as being peculiar “for ways that
j are dark, and for tricks that are vain.” There is
more truth in this accusation than is usually to
, bo found in American literature at a moment’s
I notice. Of a trick that was vain there is one in-
stance lately to hand. A letter from China was
recently received by an intelligent heathen dwell-
ing in Ballarat. It stated-did this document—
that naturalisation papers were a recognised
article of commerce in China. Those who bought
them intended, of course, to come out to Aus-
tralia, and also, of course, to evade the poll-tax.
Smart, wasn’t it ? But not so smart as the Chinese
Government which promptly beheaded 30 or 40 of
the astute fan-tanners, in whose possession the
papers were found. This action satisfactorily
settled the poll-tax difficulty as far as they were
concerned. Whether they will now come over
without their heads, and if they do so, whether a
clause will bo Inserted in tho Act to provide for
this contingency, is a question which calls for
some discussion in Parliament—or in the panto-
mime. Tt matters little which. There is nothing
to chocso between the two—except, perhaps, that
the pantomime is the more serious, if the less en-
tertaining. ,
♦ * *
lohabod ! Every paper says it We can’t
open one without noticing something to the effect
that the late festive season has been g t through
with abnormal sobriety. The glorious oid drunks
that made of life a reeling phantasmagoria and a
nest of snakes, are slowly but surely becoming
things of thi dim past, 'there is now little or none
of the—
“ Buvons! BuvonsI
Chantons tour a tour
Et Tlvresse, I'lvresse,
L'lvresse et 1'amour!"
It is a great pity that this should be so. There was
something picturesque, if not edifying, in thosight
of a church warden being carried to his on a
shutter, or a justice of the peace hustling home on
a hand-cart. But these are the days of little men
and lemon squashes. If it were not for the Fourth
Estate, we believe the fine old fashion of drowning
soul and senses In liquor and becoming indifferent
as the gods to a policeman, would die out com-
pletely. Let us, therefore, honour the Fourth
Estate, which, like Abdiel—of whom our organ-
mouthed old friend, John Milton, wrote, “ Faithful
found among the faithless, faithful only he”—
stands by its colours to the last.
* ♦ •
The Champion Antediluvian Dancers live
at a place called Belmont, near Geelong. The
Scotch inhabitants of that gay neighbourhood got
up a national rigadoon lately, and tho time that
they had is generally allowed to have been festive
in the extreme. But the chief feature of the af-
fair—the gem of the entertainment, as the pictur-
esque writers on the Echo would call it—was a
Highland reel, danced by a lively couple of 86 (the
gentleman) and 70 (the lady) years of age respect-
ively. To see these two old mortalities shaking
their light fantastic toes (beat that phra/e, if you
can I) must have been a vision of gruesome gaiety
not lightly to be forgotten. Talk of dancing on
I the edge of the grave! This courageous old couple
did more—thoy danced on their own coffin-lids.
♦ * ♦
This is the sort of thing little j g
treating the Newcastle Herald to, in his story,
“Tho Golden Cross ”Tho clergyman offered
up a short and simple, but touching prayer, stand-
ing in the centre of the room and speaking from
the heart, while his sister reclined in the arm chair,
with her face buried In her hands, and the three
children knelt down and looked their thanks tb
heaven, which their lips did not utter, but which
flowed with deep and pure religion {sic) from the
heart of the good minister.” More In sorrow than
(I was au fully gone in that quarter).
But she didn’t stay long upon earth;
The angels (let’s hope so) soon beckoned
Her up to the regions on high—
Though it’s years since I buried “ my second,’’
There still is a tear In my t ye.
When the “ might have been ” rises before me
(As it frequently does), at such time
I am sad, and seem, somehow, to glory
In throwing off lachrymose rhymes;
Then callers, with glances of pity.
Slink silently out of my room,
And murmur—” He’s thinking of Kitty,
The love who lies cold in her tomb.”
Well, well, that’s enough of this sadness—
I still And a soup<;on of zest
In life, and regrets are but madness;
’Tis, probably, all for the best,
For I’ve, somehow, a sort of misgiving,
That if Kitty and 1 had been wed.
And she, at this moment, were living,
I d bo in the tomb in her stead.
Recollections of tho Australian Glacial Period.
A RETROSPECT
(Of the pattern most in vogue just now.)
’Tis, nowadays, somewhat the fashion
To sing of the years that are fled,
And discourse of some obsolete pass'on
Once felt for some girl who is dead;
The poets delight in drear ditty,
And shroud every subject in gloom,
So, I’ll venture to sing about Kitty,
Who slumbers (let’s hope) in her tomb.
Helgho! even now, at this distance
Of time, how my pulses beat high
As I think of the days when existence
Seemed blissful,and heaven loomed nigh:
When I sauntered each morn to tho city,
A rose blushing bright in my breast—
The gift of my dear little Kitty,
Who, now (let us hope), is at rest.
We loved—ay, as ducks love the water.
Or waud’rerB the land of their birth


in anger, too, we ascribe these verses to the mis-
guided pa of Musidora:—
A correspondent who sorrows in the name
of Smith, and who appears to he as mad as a wet
hen just now, writes with a dagger’s point dipped
in gall to tell of a wild Tam o’ Shanter sort of ride
he enjoyed In the Far West a short time ago. It
appears he was travelling by one of Cobb's coaches,
and on passing a certain stage, the vehicle was
boarded by one of Cobb’s boss employes, who. to
out it mildly, bad evidently anticipated Christmas,
and had been where the golden c<>ra was waving.
Hardlv was this festive gentleman seated on the
box before a playful spirit seized him, and after
pitching the coachman's hat into a swamp, he
started to chaw off his ear-flaps. Being in a nasty
humour, however, Coachy objected to the opera-
tion, u -on which the boss snatched thereinsand
flogged the horses into a Malua gallop over ruts,
stumps, and all other obstacles, to the unbounded
delight of the sixteen passengers on board. On
reaching the dinner stage, our frolicsome friend
threw his dinner over the waiter, and then hoisting
his heels on the table, yelled “ Let us all have a
good pawing match, boys,” and in ten seconds'
time that room looked Use a crockery shop that
had just been struck by lightning. Getting under
weigh once more, the facetious gentleman jumped
on one of the leaders, and treated bis friends to
another unlooked-for steeplechase through the
bush, after which he undertook to ride the near
hind wheel, and came to grief at the bottom of a
blind lagoon, where he declared he would stop for
the night, as he wasn’t at all proud and would just
as soon sleep there as in a state bed at Government
House. Our correspondent thinks his eccentric
fellow-passenger ought to be sent to gaol, In order
to prevent a repetition of his frolics. We don’t.
Sad experience tells us there is nothing so weari-
some as the dreary monotony of a long coach ride
through tons of simoom sands and over miles of
sun-blistered plains; and, therefore, the man who
endeavours to make himself sociable and throw a
little life into a trip, deserves all credit for his
praiseworthy intentions. Some people, however,
are never satisfied, and we wouldn’t be at all sur-
prised to find that our indignant friend, Mr. Smith,
was the party who, when a flg fell Into his mouth
from a tree under which he was “bangeing,”
growled because “the dam thing didn’t come do #n
chewed.”
Six months in gaol, for the captain and
mate, wound up the Mignonette business Whether
they’ll ever go for the same dish again, or not, is a
matter of some doubt but it is a well-authenti-
cated fact that men having once tasted human
flesh, like the man-eating tiger, always hanker
after it with a strange pertinacity worthy of a far
better cause. Strictly speaking, cannibalism can
hardly be classed under the head of Christmas
themes, but there is a certain weird attractiveness
about the subject; a grim fascination in its grizzly
horrors that at times afflicts us all. None ot us
care to admit this, but it's gospel truth for all that,
and it seems to be one ot the faint links which
connect us with our “kiki” loving ancestors
The ancient Irish, in more recent than quarternary
times, ate tin Ir own dead as a wind-up to their
grand old wakes, and it is highly probable the
sanguinary Saxons did the same, as the word
manceta is frequently found in their literature.
And it is a well-known fact that in many parts of
the globe cannabalism is still practised with a vim,
that leads us to believe there’s something In It— as
the Rum reporter observed, when he fondly patted
bis paunch after taking an active part at a land
sale luncheon. Old Tbakambou was quite a canni-
bal epicure in his way, and never wholly lost his
taste for kiki, as was clearly shown when, on being
taken to view our Senate, he kept his eyes con-
stantly fixed on the Hon. John Lucas, and from
time to time muttered to himself, “grand roastin'
pieces there, by Jingo! ” The Battas of Sumatra
eat human flesh regularly, and show an amount of
culinary art in the preparation of this food that
would do credit to a Soyer as they broil the flesh
over a brisk Are, and flavour it with salt, lemon,
red pepper, and spicy herbs, until an onlooker be-
gins io feel he could wolf his mother-in-law, oven
if the old lady was served up in a similar style.
Even wo, ourselves, are only one remove from
cannibals, for Professor Tyndall in one of his re-
cent lectures says, * I b«ve seen cows, sheep, and
pigs, browsing on churchyard grass which sprang
from the decaying mould of dead men and women.
The flesh of tlie«e animals was merely a modifica-
tion of human flesh; the self-same molecules be-
longing to the dead bodies buried first, and to tb®
cows, sheep, and pigs, afterwards.” That’s *
“ blessed thort ’ of old Tyndall's, is it not ? Any-
one who has ever noticed the state of our country
honeyards must have seen hundreds of animals
fattening up on the grave vrass—these animals are
killed, and we eat them; ergo, we are all diluted
cannibals. There's the dinner bell now. But
touch not the savoury sucking pig, or the tender
little Jamb. They may contain the molecules of •
wretch who died, and owed money to his printer,
O, , who, we sadly fear
Art chosen for longevity,
Why thou hast shunned, it is not clear,
Thy patron goddess “Brevity; ”
We read no more those “ wheezes” small,
In which the spirit Gloom is,
Police court jokes, which do appal.
Whose savour of the tomb is!
Those gory-tinted pars, we lack
(And missed they’ll be for ages)
About “ Th’ Police are on the Track III”
And “Scandalous Outrages.”
But still, you had a second shirt,
A roof, too, you’d above you.
But story-writing in this land.
You “ mug,” moans “ shreds and patches; ”
You write one day, and understand,
The next you’ll peddle matches.
Colonial Commodore to English Middy: “After You, Sir.”
(VIDE PLAIN ENGLISH. “CONFOUNDED CONDESCENS ON ")
Where could a wight like you be sought,
In what fair clime or nation,
Who’d sing about the “ Juggernaut,”
And shriek the “ Circulation ? ”
We knew a man once, , who
(O tempora, 0 Mores!)
Resigned his sal’ry (two pound two)
And took to writing stories.
We met that man (this statement's plain),
He’d been a gorgeous “ cricket,”
And earnestly, in the Domain,
He begged for a soup ticket I
That you were hungry, you’ll assert;
We’jre sorry, for we love you I


A MARINE RESIDENCE.
We trust a discriminating public will re-
ceive this article in the spirit in which we write it
—an earnest, calm, and dispassionate one. we
cannot conceal from ourselves what is our present
sorrow, and will, perchance, prove our ultimate
despair, that items closely bordering on frivolity
occasionally appear in this journal. There will,
however, we trust, be found nothing flippant in
what follows; but, on the contrary, a serious, if
not somewhat sorrowful story. [We have long
wished for something in th s key, but, somehow,
we have our however, noun verrons, —ed. u j
♦ * *
There is only one thing to be procured on
earth that has any attraction for us now, that Is—
perfect quiet. We have drained to the dregs the
Ohallce of Folly, and the Goblet of Pleasure has
not a bead left in it. We have unravelled the
mysteries of Bondi Brown’s, and have (she is stay-
ing in the country with her aunt) “ basked in the
glow of an Andalusian eye.” It is no wonder we
are hlasi, when we have so surfeited ourselves
with life’s delights. We can walk into the Wax-
works as if it belonged to us, and arc on the tree-
list for the steam merry-go-round at 1 addy s
Market. The man with the peep-show about
Joseph and his brethren let us have a squint in
tor nothing, and the Assyrian fortune-teller tells
our fo tune (all wrong) on the same easy terms.
Once we used to consider it the acme of glory
to stalk, with haughty mien, free into the theatre,
whilst Ministers of the Crown were humbly
parting their ochre at tho pay-hole: and we were
in the seventh heaven while being escorted by a
military attendant (with his tongue in his cheek)
to the best seats of some dreary old circus. To
travel for nothing on the railway-line was Joy un-
utterable, and to take notes (with the tyes of the
world upon us) in a very large note-book, of a
roomful of crazy colonial daubs, was a heavenly
dream 1 And replying to the toast of “The Press, ’
after heavy afternoon dinners in some rookery of
a pavilion—how delicious I how sublime that was!
to watch, as you rose, every eye fixed (in a double
sense) upon you, and the solemn silence of the
awful moment being broken only by the vice-
chairman’s hlceup, oh, as poor Maggie, in “ Little
Dorrltt" remarked—“It was ho«pitally.” But
we have done all this to death ; we have footed it
at Botany ; for some time, too, we were the
reigning wit of an oyster-saloon ; and now it
should be no matter of surprise that we are
“ used up.” We want no more distinction—no
more glory! Any one can have our pedestal-
cheap; all we pant for at the present time, as we
before remarked, is “ perfect quiet.”
• • •
While scouring round in search of that
absolute repose for which we yearned, we chanced
upon a demure advertisement setting forth the
glories of a Marine Residence, situate in Dolphin
Bay. Boarding one of those magnificent steamers,
for which our harbour is so Justly celebrated, we
went out to see it. The Marine Residence was
visible from the landing-place, and was high up
an almost perpendicular path composed exclu-
sively of “ snags ” and boulders. The house was
unique. It was built of en rmous roughly-hewn
stone blocks,I and had a little, verandah, like a
parachute, running all roundflt. It stood in a low
comedy garden, which the last tenant had pro-
bably sown with jam-tin seeds, and a luxuriant
crop of pumpkin-rind met the eye of ithe startled
observer. The kitchen was detached from the
house, and upreared its weatherboard facade at
the extreme southern end of the grounds; and,
on a nail beside the door, swaying backwards and
forwards to the balmy Summer breeze, was a big
saucepan with some very evil-looking dripping
caked upon its bottom. At the bay end of the
garden, which ran almost perpendicularly towards
tho rocks, was a little green summer-house, that
was all on one side, and whose appearance
was typical of the festive season; and on the ver-
dure, down by the fence (which alone prevented
the unfortunate tenant from crashing down on
the rocks below) was enough broken crockery,
battered saucepan-lids, old gum bottles, brandy
flasks, and odd boots, to have enabled an ordinary
Bondi stone-throwtr to have held tho place
against a regiment of our Sydney infantry.
♦ ♦ *
On the landlady coming out, the following
conversation took place:—“Was the place ever
a lighthouse. Madam?" we enquired. She
looked doubtfully at the property, and replied,
“ Like enough, sir.” “ It might have been a lock-
up in the old days,” we hazarded. “I shouldn’t
wonder, tir.” “It’s too large for a sentry-box,”
we mused, “ and too small for a chapel. It hasn’t
the spruceness of a powder-magazine. We’ve got
it,” wo exclaimed, “it was a dead-house!” She
glanced at her property again (it was hor’s), and
asked, without the faintest shade of annoyance in
her tone. “ What reason have you, sir, for think-
ing that?” “ Well, ma’am, you see, the place is
only one story high. Dead-houses are always only
one story, because, you will observe, it would
fatigue tne corpses to have to mount stairs, alter
the long climb up this road, some carrying their
coffins unddr one arm and their tombstones under
the other.’ “And they were dead?” she said,
breathlessly. ” Certainly, madam; but that was in
the old times, when they gave a corpse a chance.”
“ Good gracious.”
m m m
The splendid audacity of a woman who
could put a tin shade round a dead-house, fence it
in with churchyard palings, add a plank kitchen,
and then call it a Marine Residence, so fascinated
us that we took the place directly. The prelimi-
naries settled, we said “ How do we get the papers
here?” “ The grocer, sir, he do bring ’em, if or-
dered.” "And wood, now?” “ The grocer, sir, he
do throw it down, if ordered ” “ How often does
the butcher call?’ 1 There was a Jong pause. We
guessed it. “ But,” she said, hesitatingly, “ when
the grocer do go to town, he —” “And where
does he live?” She pointed upwards. We gazed
up the dizzy heights, and came to the conclusion
that if the grocer resided there, he must cart his
things up in a balloon — Later: Installed. Around
us are our household gods: a bundle of sum-
monses, a bundle of slips, and a brown paper par-
cel tied with a rug-strap. We had nardly fixed
things for wrl ing, when the landlady entered
with a lamp, and commenced to look curiously
around. We laughed in our hat (you can't laugh
In your sleeve), for this reminded us so of “ Some-
body” in Dickens's story, whose eye rolled in
every direction in search of his luggage. Her eye
rolled in every direction, too; but it was in search
of ours.
• • •
When she was gone, it was pleasant, in
that grim interior, to sit upon a rlcketty Chinese-
made chair, and gaze on the prospect without.
The whole bay before was a flood of moonlight,
and the only sound to be heard was that of the
plashing of the wavelet* against the slumbering
oyster. Far away, thick as the stars, almost, were
the lights ot the great city—the elec rio lamps
casting a fairy glow over the dark waters of the
quay, and causing the giant spars ot the steamships
to stand out sharp against the sky. A pretty pic-
ture, truly: in all her dazzling beauty, that city
might have been the home of the gods. Yet we
know that amongst ad the glorious glow, Dave
Ingram is laying 4 to 1, bar 1, at Deebles’; that
V Horace Bent is telling the tale of the girl and the
plank with the nail in it; that John Lucas is nearly
through the second sheep; and that E. W. O’Sulli-
van is saying at the nyde Park Hotel, “Wewant
no rich upstarts in Parliament; we require men
of mind, men ot probity, men of mental weight,
men ot practice, men Ilk*' me.” There are two bed-
rooms in our Marine Retreat (it is called, by-
the-way “ Lilac Lodge there is no lilac 1),
one a gloomy cavern populated with familiar cock-
roaches; and the other a small bio jutting out on
to the road, with a broken window, and a door
that has to be fastened with fishing-line. The sit-
ting-room was embellished with five grievous
chairs and a consumptive sofa, while the carpet
was merely a ragged and dusty Insult. There was
a clock on the mantelpiece which was capital com-
pany. Though profe sedly an “ eight-dayer,” by
reason of some infirmity, it required to be wound
up twice a day, and well shaken every time; and it
struck with a sound like that of a bar of iron
falling on a dray-load of copper wire. At
3 o’clock it always struck 9, and honoured the
other numbers all round with six stcokes a-pieee.
As a time-indicator, it was not to be relied on,
in consequence of the eccentric conduct of fhe
big hand, which sometimes elected not to go round;
while at other periods it described the circle at
racing speed. If was a large clock in a big case
which we made a receptacle for tobacco, fishhooks,
and Cockle’s pills. Our predecessor seems, also, to
have made a cupboard of the elook-case for
when exploring its recesses for the first time we
lighted upon an old smoking-cap, a cake of Brown
Windsor, and a long lock ot hair tied lound with
blue ribbon. This last can be had on application,
and a choice assortment of the same article can be
shown at prices within the reach of all.
• * •
Dolphin Bay was a sublime spot, of a
surety; but what it possessed on the side ot the
romantic, it Jacked on the side of
the practical and common-place. As Mr. Weevle
remarked to Mr. Guppy, on thfir way to that me-
morable dinner at the City ‘ Slapbang : “ II fo
manger;” and it must be admitted that “ manger-
ing” satisfactorily was as difficult of accomplish-
ment at Dolphin Bay as putting a rich man through
the eye of a camel. As a matter of tact, we had to
put ourselves a new-born child in the hands of the
grocer, and, as his idea of luxury consisted ,jf pre-
served sheeps’ tongues and jam (both of which we
detest), tae Commissariat Department may be
written down a failure from the start. This mer-
chant used to swoop down on|the Marino Residence
at impossible hours, and, despite muffled expostu-
lations from under the bed clothes, he would
calmly replenish our stock of sheeps’ tongues and
jam (we had to oat either that or rocks), and go
whistling merrily away. One day, as a bright idea,
he brought us a piece of ling-fish that would have
made a splendid shield for a Zulu warrior; and, on
another occasion, when we had temporarily de-
serted the Residence to recruit exhausted nature
at the Diner de Madagascar, he left us a furious
fowl tied up by the leg to tho kitchen door, which
barked so at us as we approached, that we had to
entreat the landlady to boll the kettle; and also
had to bribe her (with sausages) to give us the tem-
Eorary loan ot her tea-pot. It got away, thank
eaven! during the night, so is now, probably,
well on its way to the relief of Gordon at Khar-
toum.
* • *
But if the grocer was eccentric, what was
the milkman ? He used to come in a boat loaded
with anathemas, and cursed himself all the way up
STARTLING ADYICE.
MEDICAL MAN: “AND, THEN, WITH REGARD TO THE SWELLING AT THE BACK
OF YOUR HEAD. I DON’T APPREHEND ANYTHING SERIOUS, BUT YOU MUST
KEEP YOUR EYE ON IT! I”
the hill to the Residence. There were plenty of
Jugs for him to put the milk in, but he appeared
fascinated by a big pudding-bowl and a bright
pewter quart-pot, and would leave it in those, even
though he had to go to the trouble of rinsing them
out. This man (we called him Pythagoras for
short) was pretty punctual when first we illumined
with our presence the Marine Residence, but he
fell off after a while; and thus it turned out we
not unfrequently got our breakfast milk at 4 in
the afternoon. The baker came and went like a
ghost; we never saw him. He was wont to enter
the kitchen, leave two enormou" loaves (enough
for a family of 10), and melt into thin air; the con-
sequence of this was that, as about two slices a
day is our quantum, in seven days’ time we had
nearly enough of the staff of life on hand to have
revictualled Paris after the siege.
* ♦ ♦
There was only one store in Dolphin Bay,
and that was kept by a man with the temperament
of an angel. He sold fruit when he could get any,
and toffee, brandysnaps, and a variety ot speci-
mens of the demon Tootache. He had also a
colonial wine license, and to this fact do we trace
the ultimate cause of ignominy having beon
brought upon our Marine Residence. Shortly
after taking up our quarters at Dolphin Bay, it
was intimated to us by a select circle of Intimate
friends that we ought to give a party. Acquiescing
in this, we determined (so far as a part of the cater-
ing was concerned), to give the local industries a
show, and in the carrying out of this idea pur-
chased our wine (red and white) at the toffee-shop.
A servant was also to come that day, and com-
mence her term of service by helping to prepare
the banquet. Eagle-like, from the pinnacle ot our
rock, wg saw her arrive, step ashore, cast a glance
upwards, and commence the ascent. She was a
smart young woman, in a crimson sateen costume,
and a tin locket. We encouraged her by gestures
and by glances. The sun now seemed truly to
shine upon the occasion. She mounts, she mounts,
until within fifty yards of tho Marine Residence,
when she stops abruptly I Then looking up at us
she cried: “ D’ye think I’m a bloomin’ goat,” and
made the best of her way back to the steamer.
• • •
The “party,” however, arrived in exuber-
ant spirits—in a boat. It had rowed itself over
for exercise. The day being very hot, the guests,
on arrival, dived deeply into the flowing bowl,
furnished by the local caterer. When they first
entered, tho visitors admired (sycophants I) the
premises exceedingly. “Rather hard to get at,”
they said; " but what a fairv prospect I” We then
adjourned to the banquet, which, though set
forth ’midst a splendid array of pewter cutlery,
and embellished with a jam-potful of ferns in the
centre of the table, was not such as might have
enthralled Catullus. Still there was a clean sheet,
on the “ dining-room” table, and sheep’s tongues'
coruscated (in tins) all over the festive board.
There was jam, of course, and there was cheese-
one grisly wedge, which seemed to be perspiring
in flakes. But the final crusher was this:—We had
been beguiled by the grocer into purchasing two
attractive pots of currant jelly. Wo had saved these
as a kind of honne-houche for dessert; and it was not
without some pride, when the guests had cleared
the board by the expeditious process of throwing
the sheep's tongues tins out of the window, that
we produced two prettily got-up jars, each em-
bellished with an elaborately arabesqued tin rim.
The advent of the jelly was well received by the
guests, and bread having been handed round, en-
joyment appeared to be on the immediate tapis.
The two jars were opened simultaneously; every
man sucked his spoon in delirious anticipation.
It was pretty-looking stuff in those lovely glass
jars; indeed.it looked, with the red sun glaring
angrily outside, a perfect nectar. The first guest
spread it on thick. We watched him as he took
his first big bite, and stood aloof to deprecate con-
gratulations of a fervid nature. All of a sudden
the expression “H — 1” welled out of the window,
and went echoing away along the rocks. In an-
other moment the table was in a chaos. We rushed
forward and faced the sinister countenances of
four infuriated guests. In a moment the secret
was out. The grocer had been Imposed upon by
bogus currant jelly, and the heat of the weather
had turned it into hair oil.
* * ♦
This circumstance had the effect of caus-
ing the company to devote themselves more
closely to the local vintage, the effects of which,
at a later hour, were appalling. The more they
drank, the more their natures got turned round,
and men, whose national hymn had been “God
bless the Prince of Wales,” now hoarsely chanted
the Marseillaise to an air compounded chiefly of
gurgles and hiccups. Two fast friends got up the
scaffolding of a death quarrel, and, when on the
lawn, one stabbed the other with a carrot from the
kitchen, which he confidently believed to bo a
dagger. That night a droll incident occurred. The
party, being in that state which precluded all pos-
sibility of returning before morning, were each
accommodated with either a couch, a bed, or a
stretcher in the large bed-room, the window of
which looked on to th« bay. The laws of hos-
pitality being sacred, each guest was provided
with a chair, upon which were placed books, in
languages bath native and foreign, a lighted
candle, and a foottle of the Dolphin Bay Chdteau
Margaux. It seems, on that evening. In some part
of Dolphin Bay which we had not explored, there
was a little chapel or hall, or something which had
advertised a concert by the local talent (they must
have lived in caves, it seemed to us, since no
houses were visible), for the benefit of something
which did not transpire. Well, it subsequently
turned out that the effect of our four-candle illu-
mination down at the Bay was something terrific
—“quite awful,” indeed, as Mr. Crummies re-
marked, when mooting his “magnificent display
of fireworks ” (at eighteenpenoe) on the occasion
of the “ last final farewell ” of Nicholas Nlokleby.
We were comfortably settled, when a knock came
at the door. Oblivious of the disgrace it might
bring upon the Marine Residence, the whole party
started to open it: and such a collection of
drunken demons in drawers and singlets was never
seen since the midnight demonstration at the last
Henley regatta. Th,i door opened, and a tall man,
in tweed pants, a black coat, and a bell-topper,
was “ discovered.” “ How much ?” he said, hand-
ling his purse. “ What for ? ” we enquired, with a
dazed glance. “ To go in,” he said. “ What’s the
back seats ? Hurry up; I don’t want to be late for
the concert.” “Oh, sir,” said one of the p«rty,
upon whom had commenced to devolve a faint
glimmering of reason, “it's higher up the moun-
tain—the sixth building on the left-hand side.”
“Thank you,” ho said, in a hollow voice, and
mournfully commenced his upward journey. He
was never seen again; so, we presume, iu search
of the concert, he mounted as high as the grocer’s
dwelling, and the grocer, not having tasted fresh
meat for several days, ate him.
* * m
The morning after the party, a council
was held (over sheep’s tongues), and a conclusion
was arrived at that the local vintage was so un-
wholesome that it unsexed one. The wine was
then at once christened, with great applause, “The
Unsexer,” and the vintage in question will be
known by this brand until the crack of doom.
Curiously enough, the proprietor of this beverage
was so good-naturedly indifferent to our opinion
ot it that when, in desperate case afterwards, we
entered the shop and said, “A glass of the Un-
sexer,” he would reply, “All right, sir; rod or
white? ’ And now a curious fact, in connection
with our Marine Residence, must certainly be
chronicled. All our guests, who had pre-
viously been gay and dihonnai/r, returned
home by the steamer waspish and moody.
Young men amonst them whose only novel
in their childish days had been ‘ The Life and
Adventures of Joseph,’’ flouted that good youth
in ribald song, on the steamer; and openly (also in
song) sympathised with Mrs. Potlphar. Another
of the company (who reads the lessons regularly
at some place of worship) openly scandalised the
moon by commanding it “in a loud voice” to
stand still. And, as he semi-collapsed in the stern,
ho proudly exclaimed: “ I might not have made it
«tand still this time, but, by jingo, I’ve made it go
round ”
* * *
We had many visitors at our Marine Resi-
dence, and we may tell you, in confidence, that
frequently their calls were to us pregnant with
embarrassment. Nearly everybody who came said
the same thing. This was the formula:—”Charm-
ing place; magnificent view—I thought that, per-
haps -you’ll excuse me, I know.” And he’d hand
over a bottle of rum. Five people came in one
day, and they each said it was a charming place,
bad a magnificent view, and they thought, per-
haps, we’d excuse them. And each brought a
bottle of rum. We could always rely upon having
generally one or more pressmen who were “ tem-
porarily pushed.” They came from all parts; one
even travelled from New Zealand—until we began
to suspect that pressmen got “temporarily pushed”
on purpose to come down to Dolphin Bay. One
day, a tall man with a very email red head and a
set of bulbous features, inserted himself through
our doorway, and said in quavering tones that
he wished to see us. We suggested that he
should first interview the sheeps’ tongues in the
kitenen, which he did with a show of great humi-
lity. When he returned, he stood up in the middle
of the room with sheeps’ tongue jelly coruscating
upon his beard and astreak of mustard scintillating
upon his eyebrow; and having, at our request,
partaken or a tumbler of the uusexer, which stood
upon the table, he said, “ I am a writer.” “ A sign
writer?” we enquired, mildly. “ No,” he replied,
exhibiting no feeling whatever: " I write for the
Press—poetry (then apparently as an after-
thought)—“ prose.” “Of course you are a com-
petent dramatic critic ?” we hazarded. “ Does that
mean going into the theatre for nothing and writ-
ing about the play? Yes; I should like that.”
There was bound, for obvious reasons, to be a
pause here, but ho almost immediately broke the
silence by saying: “Four pardon; I had forgotten
to deliver to you my letter of introduction.” We
took it, and, as James says in his novels, “ retiring
into an embrasure of one of tho windows,” we
perused the sealed missive. The note ran as
follows:—
“ The bearer of tf is would commit any crime.
His chief accomplishment is lying. Stay his
stomach, and give him the address ot your
greatest enemy.”
And so, of course, he was one of a long string we
sent to the Shroud, all of whom, we expect, are
employed in various capacities.
» * *
We are sorry to say that about a month
after our having commenced to occupy our Marine
Residence, it became, we fear, to be regarded in
the same light, at Dolphin Bay, as the Pavilion at
Brighton was during its occupancy by the First
Gentleman of Europe. It was notorious. During
our absence (at the Diner de Madagascar), friends
would arrive with a flag and musical instruments,
and, giving out, generally, that they were the
Salvation Army, sing ungodly songs, with a rum-
ti-e-tl chorus, in the garden; afterwards bivouack-
ing (on sheep’s tongues) before a huge fire, and
not unfrequently getting up an amateur corro-
boree afterwards. When these demonstrations
first took place, the landlady (a widow) was so
terrified, that at the first sound of revelry by
night at the Residence, she would crawl into her
late husband’s shoe. Becoming, however, accus-
tomed to these Residential eccentricities, after *
while, she would, when there was company, stand
upon a gin-case, look over the fence, and
lead the laughter with great heartinfss. [N.B.—
She subsequently told a friend that she considered
we were mad when we engaged the premises, but
harmless I]
♦ * *
Our latest recollections ef our Marine
Residence were of an appalling nature. It had
been represented to us by an obsequious agent
in town, that “ perfect quiet ” could be obtained
at Dolphin Bay. “I was.” he said—not without
emotion—“ once on the Press myself. 1 used,”
he mused, looking away up to the ceiling, “ I used
to canvass for the Bungohoobah Chroniclk.”
“And why did you leave that position ? ” we en-
quired. “Sir!” he said, lacing quickly round,
“lam an honest man. But I am modest, withal.
I did not wish to get rich too quick.” We believe,
even alter the last thunderstorm, he is still alive.
• • •
“ Perfect quiet ” at the Marine Residence
consisted, for a beginning, of the early oaths of
the milkman at, say 8 a.m. ; the blowing of the
ferry’s steam whistle at 8 15— three guests being
awakened by these noiSfB, sitting up in bed with
their eyes full of glue, and howling for the “ un-
sexer.” About 11 o’clock a picnic would arrive in
a big steamer, with a tremendous brass band, and
about 500 school children, their parents and
guardians, and male and female teachers. These
parties used to assemble on a plateau below, and
engage in prayer; after which tthe band began to
bray, the children to whoop, the adults to spoon,
and the old people to hide behind boulders and
take long “swigs ” out of rum-flasks. From what
we saw during our sojourn at our Marine Resi-
dence of these outings, we have come, after
mature consideration, to the conclusion that these
are the picnics which begin in prayer and end in
1 On picnic-days, just as we were “well set”
(God forgive us b at the writing table, 300 dif-,
ferent parties would come for “drink o’ water,
please, mister;” 50 for a “ teeny drop o’ hot water;'
out of the kettle, if you don’t mind, sir;” 25 would ,
come for bread (there was 'lenty of that!) having,
they stated, “run out; ” a fainting adult, who had.(
been having a row with her pupil-teacher, wouldj
t.e laid stark and stiff on our sofa, while 16 female,
friends rummaged tne bedroom in a state of great;
hilarity for remedies, but found nothing in that,
line except half-drained bottles of the “ unsexer.”’
We could have stood all this; we could have stood
even 20 children trespassing on our demesne and
being uncompllmentaryanent our personal appear-
ance as we wrote at the window, the cognomen of
Guy Fawkes being frequently bestowed upon us,
while we distinctly remember a juvenile nurse
saying to a crying Infant, pointing her finger at
us, “If yer don’t be quiet, I’ll give yer to that
great big hugly bogy; upon which the child went
at once into convulsions, and was carried into our
kitchen, where it was brought round (we presume
with sheeps’ tongues—and jam.
• • *
As the Summer advanced, things grew
rapidly from bad to worse at Dolphin s Bay. Ve-
nerable friends who had “ known us from our
boyhood.” climbed with difficulty up to our eyrie,
only to find us iu a condition of “unsexer,” and a
low comedian (in a similar state) in the kitchen,
eating sheeps’ tongues (and jam) out of a saucepan
lid, no washing-up having been perpetrated with-
in the fortnight. One day we were visited by a
popular member of Parliament, whom we regaled
with sheeps' tongues (and jam), and, such being
the deplorable condition of our crockery and
glass, he had to sip his “unsexer”out of a coffee-tin.
Our degradation was oniy complete, however,
when, one Sunday afternoon, a pnssc of ladies
from the various theatres fluttered into the kit-
chen, and olscovered us (in our shirt sleeves)
dining off tongues, and quaffing milk from the
quart pot before mentioned. “ Why, we came to
play lawn tennis,” explained the belle of the
party, “ and have ices and lemonade: refresh-
ments, in fact.” We felt mean and savage; but,
swallowing a mouthful of foam which had arisen
to our lips, we almost Instantly recovered our
equanimity. A happy thought had flashed upon
us— The Unsexer! “ What’s that in that round
tin? ” inquired a well-known soubrette. looking at
the sheeps’ tongues, curiously; “ is it alive.’ “ We
don’t know what it is.Fredegonda,” we replied,
gloomily; “ but it is probably alive.” “ What do
you do all day ?” inquired a well-known leading
lady. “ We will tell you, ladies,” we said, pushing
away, with a cUgagt air, the saucer upon wolch we
had been browsing: “The whole of our leisure is
taken up by giving drinks of water, telling the
right time, putting strange billies on the fire to
boll, showing the way to the ‘ Millingtery Road,’
pointing out where the waterfall is, keeping next


Continuation of “ Sundry Shows ” from page 9,
are married, and made happy parents previous to
entering the household of the Mumplefords, and
their only Indiscretion (apart from the baby) has
consisted in palming themselves on their new
mistress as single and separate individuals. How
they contrived to manage this, with the lynx eye
of a maiden aunt glaring around the premises, is
a question we can’t take upon ourselves to answer.
However, they did manage it, and that’s where
the trouble comes in. But of this anon.
* ♦ ♦
Mr. Mumpleford—more shame to him—
appears to be a man of somewhat unstable charac-
ter, inasmuch that, after being married but two
brief months, he is passing through a slow but
steady process of repentance (we’ve already men-
tioned that there Is nothing strikingly novel about
this piece), and makes himself altogether so un-
pleasant that his pretty little wlfey is sighing for a
pug. But, as the hard-hearted wretch of a hubby
grudges her even this small canine comfort, the
bachelor uncle arranges with his fair niece to in-
troduce clandestinely a sweet thing in pups which
he has had his eye on for some time, and thus re-
store sunshine to a young wife’s heart.
* * *
Just when uncle receives a telegram, ad-
vising the safe arrival of the pug at the nearest
railway station, James and Marla receive a tele-
gram, announcing that “ baby” is troubled in his
tummy, and—well, any far-seeing mortal can
about guess the rest. Maria accidentally drops
her baby telegram, even as all telegraph messages
have been dropped in tragedy or comedy ever
since the introduction of electricity, the
maiden aunt (who has marked Uncle Bliz-
zard for her own), pounces upon it as evi-
dence of his elderly depravity; the pug is
brought in secretly, the baby is brought in
secretly and obligingly left in a cabinet by its
anxious parents, the husband receives a little pink
note, begging him to “ accept the inevitable”
(which means the pug), finds the baby, rushes to
horrible.concluslons, and 4 •Confusion” is only ended
as the curtain falls.
• • ■
In spite of smart dialogue and many minor
complications too numerous to mention, “Con-
fusion ” might have died young under the treat-
ment of some hartistes that we could name, only
we won’t. But, at the Bijou, the thing goes mer-
rily. A dyspeptic corpse might easily smile at the
sufferings of Phil. Day as the husband, and of
Meta Pelham as the maiden aunt. Stirling Whyte,
too, as Uncle Blizzard, looks so unspeakably
naughty, that he can’t grumble at being credited
with baby’s paternity. There’s a twinkle in his
eye which would justify any intelligent jury in
committing him for bigamy on the flimsiest of
evidence. Sly old dog! Mrs. Marcus Clarke and
J. F. Cathcart play the doting parents so funnily
that you feel inclined to forgive them for conceal-
ing their offspring In a cabinet, when it ought to
be interviewing the bottle in the seclusion of Its
little cot, or partaking of liquid refreshment at
Nature’s font. After all, their carelessness is only
Just what you might expect of servants now-a-
days.
• • *
If ever our feelings prompted us to throttle
a fellow-man and then make love to his widow,
’twas at that moment when our enraptured gaze
first fell upon Kate Bishop as Mrs. Mumpleford.
How that man Mumpleford came to weary of such
a combination of charms in two months, passeth
all understanding. Such a fresh, comely, dainty,
arch-Bishop as it was, alas!
With love’s acutest pang we’re seized,
Nor long can we endure it.
Unless, to our noor heart diseased.
This gentle Bishop will be pleased
To minister— and cure it
We wrote that inside our hats during the dreary
intervals between the acts. But then Miss Bishop 8
beaux yeaux always did affect us In that sort of
way. Years ago. when we saw her trip on to the
Vaudeville stage as one of the Two Roses, we
placed our heart in her keeping, and though little
fragments may have been filched away at inter-
vals since, she still has the best and truest portion
of it. These reminiscences, however, are painful.
J. G. Joyce acted with spirit as the most
unprofessional-looking medico that ever bled a
patient s pocket, and the pair of rather interloping
lovers were nersonated by Brian Darley and a
Miss Fanny Montague. Brian looked as seductive
as his namesake—Boru, but there was a croupincss
about his windpipe which made us feel anxious.
His clothes flttt j him lumps better than his part,
too—but that was only natural. The part is
small, and Brian isn't. Mies Montague, we fancy,
is like old port—she'll improve with age. Take it
altogether, though, “Confusion” is about as funny
as they make ’em.
A great revolution in the use of spirits Iras
taken place— Wolfe’s Schnapps has taken the
place of the best brandies.
Young and feeble mothers with frail
children will both become strong by tue use of
Hop Bitters. Read.
“ Are you fond of rowing, MissSmithers ?”
Miss Smitners is a Balmain girl, and the twain were
out in a boat. “ O, very fond of it, indeed. I
think it such lovely exercise.” “ Have you rowed
very much this season ?” “ Yes,” Miss Sralthers
replied, with a little cultured cough behind her
hand;/ 1 1 have ridden a great deal.”
" THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondent is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession .]
J. C. Williamson has purchased the Aus-
tralian rights to “The Private Secretary.”,...
Grattan Riggs is doing excellent biz in Sandhurst.
When he (Grattan) was in Brisbane, a few months
back doing the “ Irish Detective,” he made a funny
little error on the stage which “took” amazingly.
Perhaps you don’t know that that most aristo-
cratic fruit, the “gee-bung,” is “chawed” with the
gieatest gusto by the Brisbane populace I anyhow,
it is, so you know it now. Well, however, when
Grattan came on in the character of the “ Fruit-
woman,” and had exhausted the names of all the
fruit he could twist his tongue round, from
aranges and schquinshes, Maggie Oliver-quick-
witted little woman—whlspertd in his ear “Say
gee-bungs next; It’ll take,” But Maggie mis-
calculated her stage whisper for once, and
when Grattan, who is ever ready to take
a suggestion, shouted at the top ot his voice,
“ Wail ye buy some cheese bugs, sor? ’
the house was one big convulsion — In the Grey
River Argus, we read that Miss Louise Crawford s
comedy and dramatic company loft rather uncere-
moniously on Saturday morning. Some of these
dramatic companies are troubled with such fine
feelings that they are unable to undergo the pangs
of parting, so make a practice of “clearing” un-
beknownst to the local tradespeople. Too bad,
isn’t it? The Marionettes are still going the
rounds, and never stay anywhere long enough to
tire people. Mr. Foster is their advance agent,
and we can’t miss this opportunity of congratulat-
ing Mr. Foster on his promotion from a muon-re-
spected Sydney musician to an advance agent for
a Marionette troupe. Ambitious, oh ?
r-.,We must get along slick; for we arc late to-day.
Hold > our breath, then, uugf nrle reader, while we
tell you that a party named Burge (who recently
died) is to have a ben. in Parramatta on the 4tn
ult., at the Victoria Theatre there; when we trust
enough will be realised to at least prepay his sub-
scription to the Shroud tor the ensuing quarter.
and. on a niece with this, we learn that Patti
tlist wt>ut on the stage in lc5l, when she Mas eight
she’s been 24 ever since we remember).. And—don’t
start!—but the Rev. J. Done gave at Kiama—but
here you get itl—“a magic lantern entertainment
in the Episcopalian schoolroom on Wednesday
night. The entertainment was giveh for the
benefit of the children attending the Sunday
school, the admission being free.” Poor old Judas
was again libelled, being represented with flaming
locks of vermilion, counting the pieces of silver,
while leaning against the post of a doubtful pub.
And (funny hpw things come to us I) we may
tell you that “very Little Hamlet,” by a Mr.
Yardley, is the latest success at the London Gaiety.
There was a great crowd at St. Paul’s Mission
Room, Parramatta, when Mr. Tunkssan' “Call me
back again! ” a request which was cruelly ignored
by the audience. Mr. Hock also recited a cheerful
piece called “Murder,” and from what we can
gather, this Hock whine was but coolly received.
And, listen! See what the Paris Figaro says
about Burnand:—“In a piece called ‘Just in
Time,’ produced at the Avenue Theatre, M. Bur-
nandlbas ‘borrowed’ the plot of his comedy from a
novel by M. du Boisgobey, called * Mdrindole.’
Being bowled out in this, the 100th literary appro-
priation be has been guilty of, M. Burnand has to
acknowledge - which he does with a very bad grace
—the annexation he has committed.” The author,
after a withering exposure of the sources from
which the editor of Punch has derived nearly the
whole of his dramas and comedies, closes his article
as follows:—” The writer is not the only one of h s
tribe which battens upon the brains and imagina-
tion of French playwrights: but the fact ot having
a quantity of imitators does not make Mr. Bur-
nand s case any the better. What wo ask is,
when shall we have a law which will pro-
tect intellectual property, in the same degree
as is protected soap and chocolate.” There is
gall in this We don’t know whether wo told
you or not that the Lyons’ Pleasure Party
had been at the Maitland Vic.; but it’s a true bill.
... Yes, and this brings us at once to the I act that
(so Gil Blas says) Bernhardt had a row with Vlc-
torien Sardou over the rehearsals of “ Theodora;”
and they only made it up during the last three
weeks of the repetitions. Then Sara went in lemons,
being on the stage daily from 12 to 6. Sardou used
to watch the proceedings muffled up in a stage
box; and finally professed himself " rempli de
jnie et d'admiration." Construe, Alfred? . We
have purchased several suits of black clothes to
attend Billy Barlow’s funeral; but he always seems
io have burst open his coffln-lld, and escaped from
the hearse before it entered the cemetery. Bar-
low was, wo learn, 120 last birthday, just a hundred
years younger than the “ Blue-tailed Fly.”
Billy’s troupe is to be called “ The Gems,” and
Emeline Fox is in it ; also some niggers ;
while Mr. Walter Dale will punish the piano for
the troupe We learn, with tears, that the
Marian Willis Dramatic Company have only been
appearing to “ appreciative audiences ” in Gunne-
dah, which means, of course, the caretaker of the
hall, and bis girl. We hide a little smile behind a
saucepan-lid, as we quote the following from the
Gunnedah Advertiser:— ”They appear for the
last time In Gunnedah to-night, in the drama of
“ East Lynne,” by special request, Miss Wfflla per-
forming the parts of Lady Isobei (sic) and Madam
(sic.) Vine.” “ East Lynne ” is fhe piece always
reded upon by a company to get them out of the
town. We wonder whether it got Keogh out I
— The Fair Emmah didn't do great things, after
all, in Pamworth ; but we can’t always
command success, though we may deserve
it; and certainly Madame Le Couteur's high
C is but the lady is going to play
here soon; so you can catch on. We mean to her
high C—And hero you are, hot from the press:—
“ A* 8t. Leon’s circus was being driven into Yack-
andandah last week, the horses in the tiger-car-
riage took fright at the camels and bolted, upset-
ting the carriage. A son of Mr. Freeman nar-
rowly escaped being killed, the carriage having
fallen on him.” By the aid of Mr. Freeman’s head,
however, the carriage was successfully levered up,
and the procession proceeded peacefully on its
way....Splendid education some of these “crickets”
have received. This from the Auckland Nickam :
—“ The Pantomime at the Opera House gave place,
on Wednesday iaftcr enjoying a very successful
season) to ‘Jane Shore,’ a drama in five acts,
from the pen of Mr. W. G. Wills, the author of
* ’Twlxt Axe and Crown.” As everybody knows
—or ought to know—“’Twlxt Axe and Crown”
was written for the late Mrs. Rously by Tom Tay-
lor. It was rather a bad play, but the fair dame
was a draw. The piece was produced under Mrs.
Labouchfere’s regime at the Queen’s, in Long Acre;
and t.*>e Londoners used to call it “ ’Twlxt Axe my
Eye.”
August Flower. —The most miserable
beings in the world are those suffering from Dys-
pepsia and Liver Complaint. More than seventy-
live per cent, of the people are afflicted with these
two niseases and their effects : such as Soul
Stomach, Sick Headache, Habitual Costiveness,
Palpitation of the Heart, Heart-burn, Waterbrash,
gnawing and burning pains at the pit of the
Stomach, Yellow Skin, Coated Tongue and disa-
greeable taste in the mouth, coming up of food
after eating, low spirits, &c. Go to your Druggist
and get a bottle of August Flower. This valuable
medicine has cured thousands and thousands
sufferers and is known in all civilized countries.
Two doses will relieve von. it costs only 3a. 6d. a
l otlle. Sample bottles (id.
door but one’s cow out of the sitting-room, watch-
ing the boat come in, entertaining a small but
select circle of drunkards .” “ You look thin,
poor fellow,” said Fredegonda; “why don’t you run
away ?” Our face suddenly lit up with a gleam of
delight. “ And come and have some dinner with
us?” said the soubrette, Pauline. “You have
meat,” we said, faintly—” hot meat ?” “ Yes,” she
replied,” and cauliflowers, and gravy, and pie.”
“ That decides us,” we said, in a whisper. “ But
this must be done secretly. Our landlady is a widow,
and .” “ Say no more,” they chorused; “we
understand!” In five minutes the picturesque
“ push” had rolled up the summonses, packed the
slips, and evolved a symmetrical brown paper par-
cel out of the advertisement-sheet of the Herald.
The luggage was divided amongst the ladies: we,
ourselves, electing to carry what remained of the
library, aChandos “ Shakespeare” much decorated
by round rims, formed by tumblers, the bases of
which had been lubricated by the “ unsexer.”
• «
We have not since returned to our Marine
Residence, but are now residing, owing to the
munificence of an editor, who*—We may remark,
in conclusion, that on quitting our Marine Resi-
dence “ for ever,” we left a note on the ormolu
dresser for the milkman to call at the office. He
called promptly—and left the milk.
1_* The remainder of this complimentary period
editorially struck out.— Ed. B J
In order to show the feeling of the French
authorities on the subject of cholera, we translate,
for the benefit of all our readers (except Garden
Honey, who has, doubtless, perused it In the
original), the last circular of the de Police
in Paris, to the Metropolitan and Country Com-
rnissaires“ You will be good enough to redouble
your vigilance respecting all sickness of an epide-
mic character which may manifest Itself in your
district. Execute, to the minutest detail, the in-
structions you have received from me in this re-
gard. You are to communicate with me, even at
night, respecting any fresh case that is reported
to you. Patients can be removed at any minute.—
Le Prtfet de Police, Camescasse.” We turn now
to the Herald, and quote a tew lines from their
reporter’s description of Prospect:—“After this
season cf drought the only waterhole adjoining
the Camp is situated at the bottom of a slope down
which the greater part of the sewage from that
portion of the Camp must necessarily flow. The
water here is of a colour and consistency more re-
sembling pea-soup than the crystal spring, and
which, as analysis has proved, is full of unutter-
able abominations.” Paris is the cleanest city in
the world. Every gutter and drain is flushed
daily. Supposing the cholera were to break out
in Prospect, or-what would be more likely, per-
BLIGHTED.
We were just clutching, you must know,
A sandwich of anchovy.
When, sirs, a voice sepulchral, low,
Moaned—” Hi, I want you, ‘ covey;’
You are connected with the Press,
At least, it’s so reported;
Come! succour me that's in distress,”
Quoth one with face distorted.
His eyes were wild, his form was spare,
And his complexion yellow—
And yet bedecked with diamonds rare,
Was this eccentric fellow.
“ Come here,” he said, “ the hour is ripe,
It ndver could be riper;
Sir, of despair I am a type—
Champagne Miss Bee (Sec) Piper.”
“OH I ALGERNON, ELY; I HEAR FOOTSTEPS. SHOULD MY
FATHER DISCOVER ” (He swarms the wall and disappears.)
‘‘THANK HEAVEN 1 HE IS SAVED.”
AND SO IIE WAS.
haps—in Woolloomooloo, where all the Messageries
Maritimes linen is washed, and that, too, close to
the foetid sewer which Hows into Woolloomooloo
Bay. Supposing but we won’t suppose. A
quoi bon 1
Early on Monday morning the weather
looked anything but cheering for the Anniversary
Regatta, but later on it cleared off, and remained
fine sufficiently long to tempt a big crowd on the
Zealandia, when heavy rain squalls set in from the
south-south-west, rendering matters anything
but pleasant for either onlookers or competitors.
The pressmen’s double sculls tell through. B.
P. Simpson made an easy win of the junior
amateurs’ race in outriggers. The Victor proved
herself the best 16-footer. S.R.C., R. T. Moppett,
J. E. H. Kennedy, J. A. Brodie, C. A. Bros., de-
feated the M.R.C. crew from the very jump for
the senior fours. The 14-foot canvassers fell to
the Young Walter. Only Brett and Middleton
started for the Laidley sculls, and when the race
was just becoming interesting, Brett ran foul of
some driftwood, leaving Middleton to row
over the course alone. The galiant little Nereus
fairly ran over the other 20-foot half-deckers.
S.R.C.—H. M’Lachlan, 9st. 101b ; D. Doherty, 10st.
101b,; J. Or. Kennedy, list. 10lb.; C. Dobson, list,
made an easy win of the maiden-fours; the Wai-
tangi made an easy win of the yachts, ten tons and
upwards; Messenger rowed in magnificent form,
and rather upset calculations by defeating the old
veteran Blias for the champion race; the Victor,
when leading down below, went into the gutter,
and the Dreamland carried off the 24-footers’
prize; Ives and Nelson made an easy thing of the
manual labour double-sculls; the half-deckers over
30 to 24ft. fell to the Butterouo; and over 24ft, to
the Asteroid; the Vision won the 14ft. dingy race;
the Alice carried off the open boat handicap, 20ft.
and upwards; “Footy” Pearce made small bones
of a 601b. impost, and won the all-comers’ light
skiff handicap as he liked; the S.K.C., that won the
maiden fours, made a like result of the junior fours;
and S.R C., E. P. Simpson and J H. Kennedy won
the maiden double sculls,the sec ior club thus carry-
ing off every race open for th.-m on the pro-
gramme, as was done by the Mercantiles last year.
The race for 22-footers, which promised last sea-
son to run the 24-footers out of the market, fell
through, owing to the idiotic handicapping, the
St. Crispin being allowed three minutes by the
Rosetta and vEolus. The Rosetta refused to start,
we understand, on such conditions, and if her
people had reason to complain, how much more
had the A3o1us, considering that the latter is a boat
sporting calico for the first I ime ? The Aeolus is a
beautiful-looking boat, built by Read, of Glebe
Point, and looks as much a flyer in the water as we
some time since stated she did in the shed, but ap-
pearances are often deceptive in the boating line,
and we certainly think her owner did the correct
thing in refusing to start her with such a ridicu-
lous impost.
Aside in that trim bower where
The gay pro.’s morning gorge is
(Familiar you’ll be with the lair
When w« tell you ’tls George’s).
“ Look on my face, where tortures teem,
And state to me, now, will yer ?
If In these lineaments does seem
A trace that Is familiar.”
We said, “ Some ugly men, ’tls true,
We’ve known, good sir,and sung them;
But we can’t recollect that you
Did ever rank among them.
You’re very, very, very plain;
Your face—why should we hide it ?—
Seems, with a kind of mystic pain,
To all have got one-sided.”
He clasped our wrist, “ I am a wreck.
My comfort but the bowl is;
I drink to you in Piper sec ;
My grief, sir, too much soul is 1
I live a live beyond this sphere,
Of poems I have some notion,
And I love Hst’ning, on nights clear,
To songs sweet of the ocean.
“ The stars, those scintillators pale.
With pictures bright are blended;
The moon o’ nights tells me a tale
Whose rhythm’s never ended.
With my sad fate, to you I vow,
I have an endless tussle;
I pen verse to the pensive cow—
See poetry in the mussle I
“ When all (this was at early dawn)
Was silent as fhe cloister,
I’ve heard the chirping of the prawn,
The sweet song of the oyster;
And deep in chasms, washed by the seas
Whe e hairy crabs are hiding,
I’ve heard their little histories—
Those crabs are so confiding!
“ My soul is loaded to the bung
With verse, which joy enhances.
Yet I may die and be unsung
Whose life ene fierce romance is!
Gaze in my face, and then you’ll say
You see naught but a frown, sir;
By thunder, how can I be gay I
I am a circus cloivn, sir."


The Referee.
SPOUTING FIXTURES.
We than be glad to hewe this index patted up by
secretaries of racing elubi and manager i of
eporttng events in general .1
RACING,
New England February 4, 5.
Burrowa J.O • February 6,6.
Cootamundra T.C • February 11.13
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) 1) ebruary 11,13,13.
Tasmanian T.C February 18.19.
Murrumburrah T.C. (Annual) February 18,19.
Glen Innes February 18,19,
Moree. February 35. 36.
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting Feb.28, March 5. 7.
Tumut March Sn, «6,
Hawkesbury R.0 March 26, 28.
AQUATICS.
Hanlan v. Clifford February 7.
Clifford v. Beach February 28,
Beach v. Hanlan . .March 28.
Hanlan v. Clifford (if Clifford beat Beach)... .April 18.
Newcastle Regatta January 1.
Intercolonial 8-Oar Race April
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
At Parkes, recently, J. Bowman and E.
Toms, locals, ran 150 yards for £50 a side. Bow-
man won by a bare foot. Bartlett, of Parkes, then
defeated Ferguson, of Forbes, for a tenner a side.
The English papers look forward to a quiet
cricketing season, owing to the absence of the
Australians. The fourth Australian eleven ought
to go home and make things lively for them.
Their occupation is gone in Australia.
Teenier has cut the painter from Morris
and Saulson, the backers whom he alleges played
him false over the recent race with Gaudaur, and
will in future manage for himself. Teemer states
ho is anxious for a race with either Ross or
Hanlan, over any course, and for any reasonable
stake.
It Iwas in the grand stand on Saturday,
when a ball glanced otfl a certain part of the ana-
tomy of an Australian batsman, and was handled
by an English fieldsman. “ How’s that ? ’ ex-
claimed an excited grand-stander, not sure whether
the ball was off the bat. " Base ball,” dryly re-
plied an amateur umpire In the front row.
The Moss Vale cricketers have rendered
themselves famous by reason of the lowness of
their score against the Englishmen, and had Dow-
ling had the interests of his district at heart, he
would have thrown his wicket away, and thereby
have scored a best, or rather a " worst on record, ’
for his 22. There is no patriotism about Mr.
Dowling.
From London Punch “ Essay by a Pupil-
teaeher.—Rector (reads) : Horse-racing is a fa-
vourite pastime of the aristocracy and other
blackguards. Jockeys are fed on gin from child-
hood, to stop their growth. The racecourse is a
scene of drunkenness, profanity,and vice,ruinous
alike to body and soul. The next Important event
Is the 8t. Leger. The favourite is Ratcatcher, but
father says the straight tip is Bluenose! ”
In England, J. Roberts, jun., has again
beaten the record for the largest break at epot-
barred billiards. In a match with Fred Bennett, he
left off the first day with an unfinished break of
160, and, on resuming play, ran it up to 360, thus
putting in the shade his two previous great runs
of 323 and 337, accomplished in a match against
North. There is a standing offer of £100 to the
player who first succeeds in making 500 without
the professional favourite hazard, and there ap-
pears a good show of Roberts ultimately running
it la.
At the annual meeting of country cricket
delegates at Lord’s, Lord Harris brought forward
a mos' sensible motion with regard to choice of
innings; but it was unfortunately received coldly,
and will remain in abeyance for the present. It
ran thus;—“In all home and home and county
matches the side which loses the toss in theflist
match shall have choice of innings in the return.”
This appears far more equitable than tossing for
choice each match, and we think Australian
cricketing authorities might well take a hint
from it.
Says a Yankee paper (—“Frederick Archer,
the celebrated English Jockey, now on a visit to
this country, is 38 years old, slim, short, of a quiet
and indifferent demeanour, and dressed in black.
He has mounted more horses than any other Eng-
lishman, and has won the Derby three times and
the 8t. Leger four times. His father also was a
jockey. He says that Mr. Pierre Lorillard’s Iro-
quois is ‘ the noblest animal I ever mounted, kind,
fentle, and winning. When I won the Derby with
roquois, Mr. LoriUard gave me $5000-which was
quite unusual.’ ”
6(A new rowing machine has been brought
out in the 8tates.»,There are no springs, weights or
cylinders in its construction. The principle is
simply that of friction. An iron rod, bent in the-
shape of an arc of a circle, is attached to the end
of the lever, and fits into grooves in a couple of
blocks at the end of the arm. When the oar is
turned as when pulling against the water the rodl
is pressed against the sides of the block, giving-
friction enough to make the stroke about as hardl
as when rowing in water, but when the oar is*
turned as in feathering, the bar slides freely in the
grooves of the blocks. The block is hung om
pivots so as to give the proper vertical component
of the motion. {
The New South Wales Rowing Associaiiomi
has at last made a sensible move, and we look florr
great things at the hands of its new secretany. j
Mr. P. G. Clark is the right man in the right place,,
and we feel sure his election will be well receivedi.
in all quarters. 8o far as the Mercantile Rowing; i
is concerned, it has estranged itself quite long* ?
enough from the Association, and in the face off
tbe acceptance of office by such a popular rowing
man, we cannot see they have any further excuse
for holding out, and would suggest that a very
simple plan of bringing them to their senses would
be for the various Regatta Committees to limit
their races to clubs belonging to the Rowing Asso-
ciation—a course they would be fully justified in.
carrying out in the interests of amateur rowing.
There Is another class of rowing men it is time the
Association take in hand—the professionals. Our
professionals all through are wonderfully
“ straight,” but there axe black sheep in every
Hock, who would bo improved greatly by the re-
straining influence of a body which held the power-
of disqualifying them from competing at
regattas. However, wo feelsuro our rowing men,.
both amateur and professional, could not be in
better hands than Mr. P. J. Clark, an identity in.i
connection with Port Jackson rowing, and from
this out we are in great hopes the grand old sport.;
has taken a fresh lease of life.
The English authorities appear to be re-
markably easy-going in the matter of boxing-
matches, and as the New York police are now
down on the sloggers, we should not be surpiised:
to see the “ fancy” change theirscene of operations,
from American to English soil, or rather stages.
A boxing match came off at the Recreation Ground,.
Salford. Eng., on December 6, which created no,
small amount ot Interest. The opponents were T
Gamble oi Manchester, and J. Fielding ot Salford,,
and the conditions were to box four rounds, three
of three minutes each and tbe lourth of four
minutes, under the Marquis of Queensberry’s.
rules, for a cun, valued at £10. Nearly 1000 persona-
were present. Gamble, who is the senior of the-
t*vo, and weighed 9st. or about 81b. more
than his opponent, was mane the favourite, ends-
of 6 to 4 beimr laid on him; but after the first
round, in which Fielding had certainly the best of*
it, the latter was the more fancied of the two, andl
the betting veered round in his favour. The*
*toon<H round wag stubbornly contested, and, al^
though Gamble stood up well, Fielding both hit
and countered In a superior manner. The third
round, however, brought the affair to an issue.
They had scarcely been two minutes together,
during which time both gave and received some
punishment, when Gamble landed Fielding a terri-
fic blow under the jaw, which not only knocked
him down, but rendered him senseless, and, being
unable to ocme up to time, Gamble was, of course,
declared the winner.
At the presentation of prizes won at the
recent Melbourne regatta, Mr. Justice Williams
said, amongst other things—” They had heard a
great deal of twaddle and rubbish about the
superiority of Oxford and Cambridge over colonial
rowlnv. He was an Oxford man, and had rowed
in an Oxford boat. Quite lately he had seen a deal
of Oxford and Cambridge rowing, and took leave
to say, as a matter of fact, that he saw what was.
In his opinion, better rowing on the Saltwater
River than from any Oxford or Cambridge eight
he had ever seen on the water. He witnessed an
exhibition of rowing the year before last by a
Melboun e crew stroked by Mr. Robert—more
generally known as Bob-Booth. They scored
victory after victory in the most perfect style,
and he considered them one of the beat crews he
had ever seen. It was a better crew than either
the Oxford or Cambridge eights last year, each of
which he had every opportunity of seeing. They
were not losing ground in the colonies, but were
progressing. With regard to the next intercolonial
race he had a few words to say. 1. Don’t hold
your opponents too cheap—iar this time, at any
rate. He remembered the occasion when they
went down the river with tears of pity for the
New South Wales’eight as they paddled to the
start. They all knew what took place ; he would
draw a veil over it—but don’t let it occur again.
3. Take time by the forelock; and this he thought
they were not doing. They should pick a crew at
once, get them together, and he believed they
would score another win.”
Archer told the irrepressible Yankee in-
terviewer, when asked "Will you ride any races
during your stay?”—" Please say that I would not
ride a r.<ce this trip for £5 000.’’ “ Will you again
ride upon your return to England?”—“ That 1 can-
not say now, but if all goes well I hope to appear
in the saddle next year in England.” “Of the 3,309
or more winners you have ridden, can you recall
any particularly sensational victory!” — “ I do.
My winning the Derby on the Duke of Westmins-
ter’s Bend Or, In 1880, you may properly term sen-
sational. A fortnight before the race Muley Edris
‘savaged’my right arm—that is, bit it to the bone,
cutting into the muscles and thoroughly disabling
it. A case was made for the arm, and a spring of
pecu iar cqatti vance arranged to support tha
hand. In that way I rode Bend Or, and it was nip
and tuck throughout the fight. It was only the
last few strides—the last try—that I rushed Bend
Or to the front and won, beating Robert the Devil
by a head. It was right out of the fire, I can tell
you, sir.” “ Any other race of that kind you now
recall ?”—“ In this connection you can note the
race for the Two Thousand Guineas in 1883, when
I won on Lord Falmouth’s Galliard. Fifteen came
to the post, and it was a * burning ’ chase from be-
ginning to end. Time and time again I was not
confident, but the colt did not fail me, and In the
last few strides I placed him a winner by a head,
and there was only a head between second and
third. A closer race and a more sensational one
probably was never ridden by me, though perhaps
the excitement was not so great as when I won
the Derby with Bend Or.”
Now that our Anniversary Day racing
roll-up is over, and the duly phlebotomised general
public has a chance to sit down in a cool spot, and
philosophise over the uncertainty of things in
general, we might as well point out that the prac-
tice of endeavouring to make a pile by watching
horses as they finish, and then backing them for
future events on the strength of their perform-
ances on the post is very like trying to coax a
weathercock down from its perch with a handful
of stewed corn—only a trifle harder, and as a rule
less successful. Good authorities declare that the
proper place to spot a winner of a coming handi-
cap, is to plant oneself down at the home turn at a
previous meet, and then note the gallant army of
"waiters,” or staff ’uns just sent out for a flutter
to fool all future handicappers. As a proof of the
soundness of this theory, it is an open secret now
that on the tlrst day of the last CaiHfleldCup meet-
in , two of the leading Flemington trainers strolled
carelessly down to the said turn, sucking the usual
straw, and in a quiet, unostentatious manner,
carefully noted wmt horses were really trying,
and what were merely out lor a little gentle air-
ing. And so well did they succeed, that they
picked out a noted "suspect, ’ backed uim heavily
for a coming event, .and then rased in quite a
plethoric pool of shiners. The same game was
tried at Flemington, and came off with a like de-
sirable result. Tnis is one of the million ways in
whlcu the gentle backers drop their money They
crane their necks at ihe judge’s post, and then lay
out their good old greed on w .at they, in their by
no means blissful ignorance, suppose to be a
horse’s genuine performance. He was a wise and
philosophical "book” who said, “ There s a fool
born Into this world every half hour; and, thank
God, the majority of them live.”
The Snail’s Bay Amateur Regatta, fixed
for February 14, is out with a very fair pro-
gramme, although we should have been better
pleased to see at least one oar race on the pro*
gramme, and the 23 footers and under best and
est, so far as number of hands are concerned.
There is far too much sculling done in Port Jack-
son, and we are of opinion the Regatta people
should do all in their power to foster oar rowing.
Why the limited crews are beyond us, unless to
suit some favoured boat or boats. On a light day
it may be right enough, but in a wholesail breeze
we cannot see any fun for crew or onlookers, to
witness a boat being shaken through it, half the
time with the sheet off her. Our centreboard open
boats, shallow, beamy flat irons, are built to carry
live ballast, and dead weight Is of little use to them,
except a hundred or two as a steadier. To men
wto sailed in the good old days, when Mont-
gomery, Colebrook, Ellis, Fletcher, and others
were in their prime, it is galling to see the manner
in whioh the amateurs are dragging open boat
Bailing in the mire, by limiting such boats as tbe
Rosetta, ASolis and St. Crispin to five hands, maybe
to suit some old mudhooker with a ton ot ballast
in her. We scarcely have patience to write on the
subject. The following is tbo full programme:—
“yachtsnot exceeding 8 tons, half-decked boats
(not exceeding 24 feet overall), half-decked boats
(not exceeding 20 feet overall), 24-feet open boats,
open boats not exceeding 23 feet (5 hands), oped
boats not exceeding 20-feet, 16-feet dingles, 14 feet
dingles, canvas dingles, senior scullers in club
skiffs, junior double sculls, maiden double sculls,
residents of Balmain double sculls (waterman’s
skiffs), coloured boys’ race, gig and dingy chase.”
When rogues fall out the chances of our
amassing wealth and marrying a Rothschild girl
are not exactly quite as slim as they are at pre-
sent. Just now, this is a particularly pleasing re-
flection, for we fancy we can see the dim dawn of
the day when honest men will get their due, and
when that blissful moment arrives it will be easier
for a whole caravan of abnormally humped camels
toUslither through the eye of a cambric needle than
for us to squeeze in with our wealth through the
front gate of heaven. However, we will not howl
very much over that. Considering that we have
been running a newspaper in some form or another
for the past century or so, our readers will at once
rightly conclude that the joys of heaven are be-
ginning to pail upon us, and what we hunger for
now is a couple of prime cuts off the Golden Calf
Instead. Why we think of this to day is because a
little bird of the order Raptores— hooked-bill,; long
tenacious ta'ons, &c.—who has just flown from
across the border, has lit on our chamber door, and,
like the poetical raven croaked: “ Shkin ’em agen ?
No. Shelpmegorl Never morel ’ Further commu-
nication |iniorms us that before long the much-
fleeced racing public will learn the whole truth of
one or two, or perhaps more, palpable turf “Jobs”
that have been *• put up” on them during the past
three or four months. It will then be fully ex-
plained how a horse carrying (say) 15st. could win
“ hands down” on one day, and bo badly beaten on
the next day, with a “ feather” Jup by the same
field. The carefully readied morning gallops got
up for the special mystification of newspaper and
other gullible touts, and the delicate business of
running a flyer with a “ thick rein,” will also be
amply ventilated, and, taking it altogether, this
will be a day for honesty to pull on its good clothes,
and put on style indeed. The cause of these dis-
closures being made is, we believe, a recent row
which a particularly smart racing combination
have bad over the division of the loot. That grasp-
ing avarice whioh insists on a fair division when
accounts are settled up Impelled one of the
talented members of the!crowd to declare that he
was by no moans satisfied with the share allotted
to him, and unless he received his Just due before
the month was out he'd “ turn dog, and put the
whole sanguinary lot away in the dally papers.”
A consummation as devoutly to be wished for as
even a change in our Water Commissioner’s De-
pa tmeut.
The following interesting remarks on
Lord’s Cricket Grounds are taken from “ The Quar-
terly Review “It was due to the efforts ot one
Thomas Lord, who was promised the support of
Lord Winchelsea, Col. Lennox, afterward Duke ot
Richmond, and others, if he would start a ground
at Marylebone in succession to the ground in the
White Conduit Fields, then probably being built
over. Lord was a descendant ot a Homan Catholic
family of Yorkshire farmers who had suffered
in the confiscation of 1745, About 1782 he was a
wine merchant, and a cricketer of great zeal and
some ability. Lord, who appears to have had
energy, closed with the offer, and established a
ground in what is now Dorset-square—not, per-
haps, we may opine, without some heln from the
Sackville interest with the owners of the Port-
man estate. On this ground, called Lords, a
match was played in three days in June, 1787, be-
tween 11 of England and five men of the White
Conduit Club withjsix men given. Lord Winchel-
sea and Sir Peter Burrell played for the latter, who
were easily defeated. Lord s efforts resulted in
the establishment of the Marylebone Club, who
revised the rules of their favourite game before
the season of 1788, on June 27 of whicn year they
played and won their first recorded match. We
say their first recorded match, because, owing to
the destruction by fire in 1825 of many of the old
annals of the Marylebone Club, their early history
is not perfectly traceable, and it is by no means
impossible that the club may have played their
opening match before. Lord stayed, and the
Marylebone Club stayed with him, at Dorset-
square, till 1810 or 1811, when, in consequence,
apparently, of a disagreement with Mr. Portman
about rent, he migrated to a ground called the
new or middle ground, near North Bank, Regent’s
Park. Three years later the Regent’s C inal was
cut through tne ground, and Lord removed to the
ground now owned by the Marylebone Club in
St. John’s Wood road. The original turf used la
Dorset-square was taken up, so says Mr. Lilly-
white, with each removal, and consequently when
the Marylebone Club played on June 23,1814, their
first important match, defeating Hertfordshire in
one innings, they played on the same turf as that
which years before had afforded foothold to the
moribund White Conduit Club. From 1814
’Lord’s’ has been a household word in cricket,
and so firmly is the Marylebone Club established,
and so widely is it supported, that there is every
reason to hope that the poet’s assertion,
‘ Princes and lords may flourish or may fade,’
is not wholly predicable in a cricket sense.”
Mashers.—The beat and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 653 Qeorge-street, Brickfield Hill.*
The caterers of ladies’ fashions are very
busy with orders for the approaching ball, to be
given to the gallant Commodore and naval ollicers,
who are shortly to leave our shores. When this is
past, it is expected many of (Sydney's creme de la
creme will be ordering some ot the new goods, in
china and glass, showing at old-established shops
403 and 404 George-strcet,*
Mr. DbCoubct Browne (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 62 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, ur Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, |3r Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
The world is made of atoms, the ocean of
drops. The air, the fog, the ice. and the snow—in
fact, every component part of Nature’s system—is
due to the adhesion and conglomeration of so
many panicles and minute quantities. Little
things are apt to get derided, small concerns are
likely to be consigned to the cold regions of neg-
lect; but to so many little things do the greater
and the greatest owe their being or existence,
therefore the littleness of a thing Is surely not a
reason for contempt. Where would the fashions
be without the humble nee le and thread ? Where
the shirt of civilization without the tiny button
that so bothers many a bachelor’s life ? Let us
also, in thinking of little things, remember that
good and bad qualities are apparent in small as
well as great matters, and let us gratefully reflect
that Anthony Hordern and Sons’ Haberdashery
Department receives equal attention, in its mani-
fold details, to that devoted to other and seemingly
more important branches.*
He was a bank, manager way up In the
wilds of the great Bananaland, and he went to
sleep—perchance to dream. And you better be-
lieve he did dream. First of all, he dreamt that
he was strolling along in the middle of an immense
sandy plain, when suddenly a mad bloodhound,
with eyes of fire and green, glistening fangs, tried
to scrape an acquaintance and interview him on
the annexation question. Not caring for the
maniac dingo’s attentions, the manager struck
right out fora telegraph pole about half a mile
away, and, although he sank to his knees in the
sand at every stride, he at last succeeded in climb-
ing the pole, just as the dog reached the butt.
Shortly after this the four-legged lunatic left, and
the banker was shinning down the pole, when he
was horrified to And an enormous rattlesnake,
with a crimson he«d, a green tail, and a mouth like
a folding bedstead, carefully swarming up after
him, and licking its jaws with epicurean gusto as
he wriggled close to the terror-stricken “ refer-to-
drawer’s ” heels. Up went the doomed man again,
and he was lust beginning to crawl along the line
when the wire snapped, and down he flopped, flat
across the back of the dog he had but a lew
moments before escaped from. Without waiting
to apologise for his intrusion, the banker at once
lit out for Wide Bay, which looked to be about
731 miles to the North-west. The foaming hound
still pursued him, like the villain in the play, and
he had barely time to throw himself among
the waves, when the howling heap of canned
hydrouhobia plunged in, and began to wade
after his panting victim. Just then, there wasn’t
a man in all Queensland who prayed harder for
more water than tb© unlucky banker, but at
length his pursuer went down, and the pursued
was just turning for the shore, when a bottle-
nosed shark took up the running, and the financier
felt sorry he had parted from tbe mad dog. Finally
he reached land, and throwing himself down on
the banks of a river, fell asleep. Hearing a sound
as of a mighty wind, however, he woke just in
time to find himself gazing Into the extremely
onen countenance of a 3i)-ft. alligator, who smiled
like a Spanish-Amerioan landslip, and after picking
his teeth with a spar, began to dust his interior up,
and make it look nice and comfortable for the re-
ception of a visitor. Just at that critical moment
when everything seemed complete, and the
"gator’s” jaws were about to close, the banker’s
I mot her-ln-la w appeared on the scene, and suddenly
nerving himself with the courage of despair, the
dreamer seized the doomed woman foro and aft,
and with a fiendish yell of exultation, threw her
with all his might and main into the yawning
abyss before him. This time, (he crash that fol-
lowed really did awake him, and as he sorrowfully
ga zed on the ruins upon his floor, the whole secret
of his trouble dawned upon him. He had been
preirented with a "pus’ of sovereigns and the
usuh t testimonial the night before, and in company
with that vague, mysterious, and ever-thlrsty
caravnn called the “ Boys," had not only damped,
but fairly drowned the enemy in foaming bil-
lows of Cooktown suaik-juice. The presentation
sovereign had been properly molted, ar d the
wrecked Liother-in-law proved to be the illumin-
ated address, which the hanker had taken to bed
with him tlmt morning. Sic-ve ry sic—e«t vita up
in Queensland.


COMP A GNONI CATERING CO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ~ _
THE oldest and leading Catering Establishment in N.8.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mayor,
* n pm. <•«.,■ th.
Theatres. Select your own steak, Ac , and see It grilled in the p r °Vlfred Y"aoht C?ub
SiS^uffJSiSJS;^ wat fc Inspectlon E E%ia&yo^w.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
CUE ID CUM,
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
TO
No. 3 Hunter-street,
SECOND DOOR PROM GEORGE-STREET.
X
*
8
[HEY have ARRIVED.
An immense delivery
YANKEE RUBBER
BABIES.
Goes in the waistcoat poc-
ket; blows out to life size;
is washable, durab’e, and
unbreakable ; resembles
life, for like the real article
it coos at pleasure and yet
SjgjEm*. screams awfully if smacked
Experienced fathers are deceived by these laugh-
ter-producing Infants, and no home is really a
happy one without their presence. Price (post
free): largest. Is. 6d.; medium, Is. 3d.
Also, just in, a large assortment of Conjuring
Tricks, i, atalog ues on appl ioation.
THE WIZARD CARDS,
changing from eights
to deuces, from black to
red, and back again at the
pleasure of the per-
former. Post free, with
full instructions, Is. 3d.
I’m a Daddy ; I’m In
Love; The Mother-in-law;
I’m a Farder; and Be
fore and After Marriage.
The funniest pictures ever issued, S in each set.
Price, 6d. per set, or 5 sets for 2s.; by post, 2s. 2d.
The Three Donkeys. The newest “ have ” out.
Hand for them, but keep It quiet. Price, Is.; by
post, Is. 2d.
The Sooner Dog—a wonderful little animal;
roars of laughter follow him wherever he goes.
Is. 6d.; by post, 2s. 6d.
Napoleon in Council, very rich, Is. 6d.; by post, 3s.
HORTON and CO., 401 George-street, Sydney.
Box 641, G.P.O.
4T
♦
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST,
Graduate in Medicine and Surgery, Registered
Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours : 10 a.m. to 4 p.xn., 7 to 9 on Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday Evenings.
Ladies’ Waiting Room. No. 10 ; Gentlemen s, No
11, 53 Castlercagh-street (upstairs.)
Send for Free Treatise on Vitality and Nervous
Debility, Du eases of Women.
Illustrated Works on Deformities, Electricity
and its Application. Hernia (ruptures), Varicocele,
Australian Medical and Surgical In-
firmary, Sydney : or B. O. HOLTERMANN, Esq.,
M.P., President. Box 130, G.P.O.
Consultation Free by mail or in person.
Deformities. Specific. Female, and Nervous
Diseases, a Specialty.
JAS. LAWSON & SONS,
ART-FURNITURE MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Corner of William-street, Hyde Park.
High-class Furniture
At Very Lowest Prices, compatible with the finest
workmanship and finish, for entrance halls,
dining-rooms, drawing-rooms, bedrooms,
and libraries.
CARPETS IN NEWEST DESIGNS AND
FINEST QUALITY.
WILTON CARPETS, BRUSSELS CARPETS,
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS,
With Hearthrugs to match.
j®- CORLICINE AND LINOLEUM.
BEDSTEADS IN BLACK AND NICKEL AND
black and brass,
la all 8izM and various designs*
Foster ’s Bugle Brand
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1873.
Capital--£100,C00 with power to increase to £1,000/00
BONUSES-20 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
OLD PLANTER A
PUREST AMERICAN TOBACCOS:
AND
£££ Qp yJJ are the Best Cigarette made
PURE TURKISH TOBACCO 1
J. NOAKE,
320 GEORGE STREET,
AND
PALL MALL,
33 Hunter-street,
{3P“ N B. Any gentleman wishing to see them
made are cordially invited.
<a- .
Head Offices.
First Fire Society established in the colony on
the Mutual principle, giving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Policy-holders are perfectly free by law from
all liability.
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums. , 2
Damage by lightning and explosions by gss paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
The BEST AT/Hi and STOUT in the Market
BOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WIN EM
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
»«Ri09R0S
IlSSENCEo^Llfl
I
e only mtauioie remedy for
//ER/oifsJjEBlllJYT
THIS Invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustive derangement of the system; regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 12s., or four quantities is one for
if by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
Btreet. On* Door from Georgd-street South,
T
all women
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
B*r- TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN. LACES.
FLOORS or WOODWORK, in either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERY
IN SOAP I
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with it;
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
pg* Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
6d. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers :
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
VENET1A WALTZ1
TV 4if to A* well mnrkjNl . PaEOUC* LqwtttiajI.
ppr’fnntabtU
Pod
Fed.
Fed
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC In the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &c.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Braes Band Music, In variety.
New catalogues will be ready in a few days and
Bent gratis on application.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &o,, at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Gags, Fans, &o.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
Subscriptions solicited to all the lead ng maga-
Cali and see the two most impertant Copying
Instruments ever Invented. The Trypograpn
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygt aph, the cost of
which Is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM - BULLARDp
342 GEORGE STREET.
W. R. DRAPE & CO.,
MINING BROKERS AND AGENTS,
Mining Exchange,
FITZROY STREET, ROCKHAMPTON.
Commissions entrusted to our care executed with
judgment and despatch Latest Mining Intelli-
gence from the surrounding fields.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Hoad Offices—PITT and KING STREETS.
SPECIAL NOTICE— ALTERATION OF AR-
RANGEMENTS at the
LAVENDER BAT
Swimming: Baths
(the »nly pure sea-water baths near Sydney.)
Open every day for Ladies and Gentlemen from
6 a.m. till dark. . ..
Admission, 3d.; Children, accompanied by adults,
2d.; 100 tickets, 21s.; Monthly Tickets, 5s.; An-
nual Tickets, from 1st September, 21s.
jsr SWIMMING TAUGHT by Mr. * redbrick
Cavild, the world-renowned swimmer, who swam
from France to England in 13 hours, 20th August
1877. Six Lessons, 21s. The North Shore ferry
Steamers leave the Circular Quay for the Baths
every quarter-of-an-hour.
Honesty Is the best policy.
kORE-E
It is of the utmost Importance that contents of
each bottle should be carefully compared, as largo
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will And a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORNE HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
J, MASSEY, Jtjn.,
PIANOS AM 055AM,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found Itat
last with the Argosy Braces at Gowing Bros.
V.
4/.
GOWING BROS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Arg;osy Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. Oil., 3s., 3s. lid , & 4s. Gd
GOWING BROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS,HATTERS, OUIFITTERS, &o.
332 and 498 George-strect.
SENT FREE, by POST ONLY, in an Envelope.
SOCIAL SCIENCE,
TREATISE on all Nervous DJsordeM^which
rKEATJoifi on an
/-■%, cause Impediments to Marriage, and all
Cmonlo Diseases; also, How to choose a partner
fnr life ro as to liv© happy and produce healthy
children *°arui how to regain and preserve your
health, &o, &o.
Address: B>. T. SELBY, Medical Herbalist,
Devonshire-street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
mason brothers,
LIMITED,
14 and IS Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, forBALB
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
▲KB
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS*
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELV IN and SONS’
Bdinbm-gn Pale £ie.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
gl m
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL-PLATED
BEDSTEADS,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRASSES,
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR,
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX,
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
&o., &o.
c0 lilt
BLEND
JMAfUt
[trade
Ai
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.-Thls is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
to and flavour. CATTBLL A 00., Sole
of taste
Agents.
SUFFERERS Afflicted with Nervous Debility,
Loot Vitality. *c.. be your own Physician.
The FRENCH HOSPITAL REMEDY will soon re-
store you to health and manly vigour Prescription
free. Send your address on a stamped envelope to
C. C. W„ Bo* 766. G.P.O , 8ydj ey.


F
H
UBNITUH1 SHOW ROOM
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring gtreeta, Sydney.
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, m exquisite
taate, the very latest fashion : well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o.
VERY ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley.
Newton, and Lamb.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &o.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Eight-pound bedroom suiTES.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and twe chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—W ARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and f CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 20s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s-
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
S
£
OQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
oWutJ strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, In handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs In Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also In Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
design's,
VO just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
CrConnell-street.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, lor
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens lor Are grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
WConn ell-street.
TThRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
JLi A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
Bradley, Newton. & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
T7IULL SUITES for DINING - ROOM — SIDE-
JP BOARD. DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Counell-Btreet.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
D
1 ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK OHAIL-
Fatented.
EH
m
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in Its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet Invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames aro of the best Eastern ask—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when ti Jded. Price 80s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
2s. 8d. extra.
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
B
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Framework for dining-room FUi&i.
TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
B
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
B
EDSTEADS, ail kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB. 1
Bell and Spring streets.
W
A8HSTANDS, with marble, from -
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMJ
st:
ARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah GIuuj
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
NEWTON, and LAMB, G’Connell-street.
HINT WOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
> Assortment ; best make, lowest prises.
SOCIAL
A numbers
Exchange, prior
reason why Mr, BflbWM \w*» it was to make
last week la not quite ciear, uu vovave home,
him feel happy and contented on the voyagencme.
anything very famous ,, Playfair occupied
«r ssss-nd-? w
high Government olfioials.
meat. aldermen, and r e R r ® 8 Selveg 6 ami
men filled the tables, and themselves, and
Austin’s band played during dinner. Mr. K. mr
ton. Speaker bf the who was whool
a straightforward legislator, and led a career wor
thy of imitation by young Australians.
• • •
An interesting wedding occurred at Wel-
lington. when Miss M. Bernasoonl, youngest daugh-
Mr Rflrnasconi. of that town, was united to
of Sydney. The ceremony,
performed bytlfe Kev. Mr! Fielding. took place in
St. John’s Church, which was A
greens-for the bride was popular the town. A
considerable throng crowded into church, ana
interestedly noted that the bride wore a pretty
white satin skirt flounced with^costly.lace,, a com t
train, and a broche bodice thereto. while the three
maids wore blue satin, and white satin ana lace,
respectively. The bride’s mother
Kiiw. nnHn and white bonnet; her aunt, Mrs. r. h.
Bernasconi, a plum-ooiourodsilkandcream bon-
net; Mrs. Chrystal, a grey silk and broche. Mrs.
Ryvate, black satin and pale pink bonnet, Mim
Rv crate a brown Bilk robe? and Mrs. I Kins on, a
handsome bkek broche and white hat looking
nartlcularlv nice. Breakfast was held at the
parents’ residence, Monteflores, on°to
for the mountains by evening mail, to come on to
Sydney a few days later.
♦ * •
Humming Bee has a sensible little article
on “ Women’s Allowances.’’ It i9 > ®bameful to
say, only true that women have constancy to beg
from their husband for that share .I 0 .® 01 ?®
which is actually theirs by right. What is the
meaning of those words in the most honourable
vow a man can make —“ With all my worldly
goods I thee endow?” It is no use to say that
some women are wickedly extravagant; we grant
that, and will even supplement it by saying that
some men are foolish enough to allow them. But
that is no excuse why reasonable women should
be deprived of their rights. Too many wives
know how every pound they need for raiment has
to be pleaded for, schemed for, and squeezed out,
as if it were something quite extra, and
above what they are entitled to, and is
only vouchsafed by an ungracious husband as a
lordly favour. Husbands, says Humming Bee,
cannot understand that wives have any right to a
Share of their income. They seem to think that
she, the helpmate, is ruled ny one idea only, and
that idea is. to scatter to the four winds of heaven
the money they so closely hug, the cheques they
so reluctantly sign. A man knows little of the bed
coverings, the table linen, the curtains and toilet,
trifles welch must all be kept neat and whole, and
in spite of repairs, have to be sometimes renewed.
He Imagines, in the innocence of his heart, that
every item in the drapery account means some
gorgeous addition to the wardrobe of his wife;
while she, perhaps a proud and spirited woman,
has really scarcely sufficient to wear, and
suffers the humiliation of seeing that all
her efforts at economy are unknown, and
unappreciated. At best, they meet but the dis-
couraging reward of a clouded brow, and a piti-
ful allowance doled out by a grudging hand. The
mockery of the wedding endowment often comes
bitterly home to the wife. We wish husbands
would read these few lines. How many hundreds
of little things, sir, are there in your household
that are matters of expense, of which you never
hear ? You like your homo to be natty, you take
pride in the way the little wife keeps it all so
dainty, and tidy, and clean; hundreds of things
are small anxieties to her, but do you ever
“ bother” yourself about what they are? No, you
don’t; and perhaps it isn’t right you should; but
it is right you should stop and think some-
times that there are such things to be at-
tended to, and bo considerate of them. If you
gave the matter a thought now and then,
you would not look so dark next time she asks for
money. The system of making wives a regular
allowance is an excellent one, and both wife and
husband And it the happier plan. It saves him
from troubling with details he can ne\ er under-
stand, and it gives her a feeling of independence
and pride in her own skilful management. But
it is especially in dress that the allowance system
is an advantage. A woman delights in small
economies; aud with an income, even though
small, of her very own, she will dress better than
if she spent a third moi e money got in dribs. She
can preserve the unities in her toilet, besides
buying cheaper, when she knows how much she
has and how long it must last. And then, if you
want to see her perfectly radiant, try a little
present now and then. But, at any rate, give your
wife an allowance —and daughter, too, when big
enough—it will not cost you any more, and save
lots of trouble—it may avert small jars ; she will
dress better, ana you will make the little thing a
prouder and happier, because a trusted woman.
And don’t think you are bending. You are only
giving what you promised her at the altar.
‘ * * *
In a magazine story, Hugh Conway tells
how a country curate one day called on his bishop
on a tricycle. For some moments his portly lord-
ship looked severely at the inanimate machine, as
if deciding its guilt or innocence. The nervous
curate hastened deprecatingly to tell how many
poor people he could visit in a day by its aid, and
showed the convenient little bag in which he could
carry books of devotion, or comfort for the aged
sick. Then, as he explained t ie innocent and
pleasant action of the machine, an unheard-ot
thing occurred. His lordship, gaiters and all,
gravely got into the seat, and, to the unutterable
delight of those near by, in a quiet and dignified
wav. as behoves a bishop, actually propelled his
sacred self down the gravelled path and up again,
with no further damage than cutting the edges of
the lawn, snd tearing a rent in his sacerdotal
gaiters. His lordship then gravely intimated that
ft might not be wicked to use a trioyle in the out-
lying districts. # 9
Mr. James Barnet, Colonial Architect,
after 24 years’ continuous service has just gone
home. His officers, being indulged with a holiday,
gave him a valedictory picnic at Cabarita Gardens,
also a souvenir of the occasion. His locuni tenens,
Mr W Coles, was chairman at the luncheon, to
which some 80 guests sat down, and a number of
toasts were quailed. Mr. Barnet, who left on
Friday in the Ballarat, has a commission from the
Government to look up the large &ud tamous
public buildings, on the Continent and elsewhere,
and to keep his eye open for carvings and things.
* * ♦
A ball was given on Friday night by a
committee of Sydney gentlemen to Commodoie
Erskine and the late officers of the Nelson. Nearly
400 persons were pr sent. The night .was, as the
day had been, most oppressively sultry, but, as a
great proportion of the company consisted of
ladies and gentlemen verging on the antique, the
dancing -floor was not very crowded. Decora-
tions, hastily put up. suited the purpose,
and the German Band provided music. Ail
the place was thrown open, and the up-
stairs rooms and corridors were favourite places
to get away from the crush. Baumann catered
supper in the large room at back; but, of course,
all the company could not get In at once to hear
the speeches. The two chief toasts were that of
“ The Commodore,” given by Sir John Robertson,
and that of ‘“Rear-Admiral Tryon and his Offi-
cers,” by Sir Alfred Stephen. Both these high
officials replied, and then a considerable section of
the company were able to go quietly home, while
the younger ones kept on the dancing for some
hours longer. Beauty was seen in some very at-
tractive forms; but, owing to the manner in which
invitations were circulated, the supply of eligible
lady partners was quite inadequate. It may be
right and decorous for elderly and representative
people to show on such occasions; but it was a
pity a little more care had not been given to the
matter of securing the presence of young ladies.
» • ♦
A very happy little wedding party as-
sembled at 8t. James s Church on Thursday last,
to witness the marriage of Miss Mary (Queenie)
Eaga>, only daughter of the Hon. Geoffrey bagar,
of Globe Point, to Mr. Nicholas Lockyer, of the
Treasury. Tho young couple were united in “holy
wedlock ” by the Rev. Mr. Whltcombe. Mr. Hector
M'Lean presiding at the organ. The bade, who was
given away by her father, looked charming in
white satin and orange blossoms; the four brides-
maids (two Misses Lockyer and two Misses Dibbs)
in cream, trimmed with cardinal bows. The wed-
ding breakfast took place at Elmsvllle, Glebe
Point, the residence of the Hon. Geoffrey Eagar.
Among the guests were the Hon. G. P. Dibbs,
Mrs. and the Misses Dibbs, Mr. John Nowlan, or
Bolah, West Maitland, Mr. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.,
and wife, Mr. and Miss Burdett Smith, Mr.
Criohett Walker, Mr. Thomson, Mr, John
Rae, Mr. C. a. Goodchap, Mrs Alexander,
Mrs. W. G. Murray, Captain and Mr. El-
dred, Mr. and Mrs. A. G. Eagar, Mr. Claude
Lyons, Mr. James Thomson, of Melbourne, and
Miss Thomson, Mr. E Greville, Mr. Waldron, Mr.
Powell, &c. The usual toasts were proposed and
duly honoured, and the happy pair left for the
Blue Mountains, where they spend a few days and
afterwards proceed to Melbourne. Among the
wedding presents, which were unusually tasteful,
was a very handsome service of silver plate, pre-
sented by the officers of the Treasury department.
• * •
On Tuesday, at noon, an influential
gathering of citizens met to assist in laying the
foundation-stone of Her Majesty’s Theatre. The
Mayor, Mr. Thomas Playfair, performed th * cere-
mony, and tho Artillery Band discoursed sweet
music. Both Mr. Playfair and Mr Dan O’Connor
(who is chairman of the Board of Directors), made
short speeches on the spot, and after considerable
cheering, the company adjourned to the Town
Hall, where a luncheon was provided as a fit finish
to the proceedings.
Perhaps it was fit Its Anniversary Day should be
grey, for the colony is getting old now. The per-
sistent wind, now steady, now gusty, was just the
thing to test the speed of the sailing vessels and
the skill of their crews; it was rather a bore to the
rowers. But the lurking, sinister aspect of the
weather, though it did not prevent the Zealandla
from attracting a large and fashionable crowd,
dimmed the glory or the usual toilet show.
It is suspected that in some cases ladies even
donned old dresses carefully put by on pur->
pose for such suspicious occasions. It was
only from the toilet view, however, that the
dullness made any difference; the day was a
very pleasant one on the big flagship, which was
in splendid trim. A convenient landing-stage was
erected, and, judging from the constant occupa-
tion of the chairs, the various little groups scat-
tered all over the Zealandla, especially on the up-
per deck, must have been very comfortable. The
Volunteer Naval Artillery and Vernon bands
flayed their best music, and a banquet, provided
jy Compagnoni in the cabin, gave oppor-
tunity for a tew speeches. The principal
one was Mr. Trickett’s, in reply for the
Ministry. It was a treat to notice all the
old humdrum platitudes discarded; he went
straight to the topic of the day. He is proud, and
well may be, of the way New South Wales cele-
brates her Anniversary on the water, where her
sons build op physique and nerve that must serve
them well in future days. The National Regatta
is an event that yearly, and deservedly grows in
national favour. Numbers of celebrities were on
board the Zealandla, and the brilliant gathering of
girls threw an air of brightness and charm around,
which even the doleful weather could not dis-
sipate.
* * * *
The City Band, under Sebastian Hodge,
performed some fine music on Monday at the
Cricket Match, including the pretty “ See-Saw ”
waltz, and Daphne’s new mazurka,‘‘The Waratah.”
... To-night, the Art Society hold their first Social
in the rooms, Royal Arcade, upstairs. Refresh-
ments, music, and art objects, also smoking
Next Monday, the annual meeting of the
Bachelors’ Assembly will be held at the
Cambridge Club, to arrange for starting It in
the coming season. Important business on hand.
Young ladies at Oberwye School, St. Kilda,
mada gifts for a bazaar which sold for £36, and
then sent the total sum to the Melbourne Orphan
Asylum as a New Year’s gift. These are good
girls The Foresters of Sydney laid the founda-
tion of a fine new hall on Monday, to cost £9000.
The large public room has capacity for 1100
people, and is 96 by 36ft., a splendid size for balls
and concerts. They celebrated it with a banquet;
and in the evening a dance was held in the Old
Masonic Hall.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Art Society’s Social (Royal Arcade) January 29.
Oxford Private Social Club Concert
(Protestant Hall) February 13.
Snail’s Bay Regatta February 14.
lirapers’ Association Picnic (Cabarita) February 2ti.
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hookings and
Co., 113, Pitt-street.*
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated witl
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 60i Hunter-street, Sydney.*
Think and Act.— After many trials,
Messrs. Dalm and Oertel succeeded in preparing a
most delicious Lemonade from Australian lemons.
They discarded imported, unwholesome Oil of
Lemons. Give it a trial. Alrated-water works, 403
Pitt-street.*
“ What Fools these Mortals Be.”
(Midsummer Night's Dream.)
Folly is not only foolish but short-sighted,
and in the acme of its thoughtlessness essays what
it knows must recoil on Itself. How weak and ab-
surd is the attempt of the petty, paltry vendors to
endeavour to foist upon the nublic the miserable
preparations of the shops for the genuine
Woura’s Schnapps I Be sure you obtain Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Sydney, Wednesday.
Dearest Belle,—Sydney Is miserable just now,
for it has two tremendous grievances—the In-
creased tram fares and the water supply—dry
subjects to write to a girl about, are they not (es-
pecially the latter); but they are the all-important
topics of the day, that must be my excuse for in-
truding them upon you. Of course, the tram-fare
trouble benefits the omnibuses, and, as a natural
consequence, the latter have become saucy. It Is
not because the omnibuses are cheaper that we
use them, but It is simply to spite the Government,
which is cutting off our noses to spite our faces
with a vengeance. For, of course, you know that,
as a question of comfort, there is no comparison
between the two modes of conveyance. But some-
times It costs a great deal to be spiteful—it cost me
a veil and a pair of gloves one day. I got Into an
omnibus which was supposed to carry about ten
people comfortably, but which upon this occasion
managed somehow to hold about twice that num-
ber, Now, patient, forbearing creatures .'(like me,
my dear) are always ready to suffer a considerable
amount of inconvenience in order to oblige
people. For instance: I have allowed a stout old
lady to plump her«elf upon my lap, and have held
her parcols until she fumbled in her purse for a
ticaet, which always takes about ten minutes to
find, and, when found, I have even split my dress
under the arms in my efforts to reach to the ticket-
box to save her the trouble—all this without a
murmur. But human endurance has its limits,
and when a child who is gnawing at a lollie-stiok
is thrust upon you without “ By your leave,” and
when the same terrible infant, in mistaken kind-
ness, Insists that you shall “ take a bite,” or even
goes so far as to try to poke the half-melted piece
of confection through your veil, and when you, in
your anxiety to protect the said veil from this
most aggressive lump of stickiness,, imprison the
dirty, dribbling, chubby little fist in your newly
be-gloved hand, thus ruining five shillings’ worth
of glove, isn't it enough to put one out? I
can tell you that for a few minutes’ space
my heart was filled with the bitterest hatred of
that innocent little offender s mother, who didn’t
seem to fret a bit at my discomfort as long as her
darling was happy. I mentally vowed that the in-
side of a'bus chould never see me again. And I
was still more disgusted when a gentleman gave
up his seat to a Indy, and said he would get out
and wait for another omnibus, to see that the con-
ductor Insisted upon him paying his fare. At first
the gentleman refused to do so, for, mind you, he
had but the moment before taken his seat, butthe
conductor was obdurate; so, I suppose in order to
avoid a commotion, the gentleman paid for the
ride which he didn't have, and that's how his good
nature was rewarded. Now, if he wanted to be
malicious, he could have that same conductor
fined for taking more than his licensed number of
passengers, and serve him right too. It is only
fair to say that this omnibus in question did not
belong to the regular company, for these latter do
show some consideration for their customers’
comfort, though the very best of them are but
slow rattling affairs; so i think we shall all come
to the conclusion in time that it is better to pay
one extra peony and take the tram, and thus let
the Government have its own way.
As for the water supply, we are even getting
resigned to that too, notwithstanding that four
days out of the week we are limp and languid, all
for want of our morning bath. After all, I think,
perhaps we are making too much of these petty
woes; when we hear of dynamite explosions and
railway accidents, it maket us feel just a bit
ashamed of making such mountains out of mole-
hills, at least it does mo, 1 know, and I hope every-
body else feels the same way, and that they will
cease to wear such long faces until they have more
just cause.
I am afraid poor Signora Fabris’s operatic ven-
ture has been anything but a financial success. It
was a great undertaking, and I think it was ex-
pecting rather much from a good-natured public
to ask them to pay the same money to hear
“ Maritana” performed by semi-amateurs as would
gain them admission to the Gaiety, where the
Turners were giving the same opera. True, the
Signora’s pupils’ friends would far rather listen
to them than to anybody else, but these same
friends, although numerous, were not sufficient
to cover expenses. I hear that at Parramatta the
acting and appearance of some of the troupe were
so ludicrous that even the phlegmatic orchestra
could hardly play for laughing. From this I
gather that they were giving a• burlesque of
“ Maritana,” and I should much have liked to have
been there in order to enjoy the fun. If there is
anything I like, it is a burlesque, although I
know I shock you very much by saying so, but
it’s a fact; and if I mas born with a strong sense
of humour, it is no fault of mine. Take,
for instance, the two pantomimes; although
the eye is pleased with the pretty dresses,
&o., at the Royal, give me the Black Pan-
tomime at the Academy of Music for real
screaming fun, so I am sure I missed a big
treat by not going to hear Fabris’s company do
“Maritana,” at Parramatta. When she gave it in
Sydney, although some of the members were
almost funny enough to join Hiscocks' minstrel
troupe, still there were others so good that they
quite spoilt the fun. They were so far past the
midiocre that I believe one or two of them have
been engaged by one of our most enterprising
theatrical managers here, and take part in the
next comic opera. This, at all events, should be
satisfactory to La Signora. The poor lady has
worked really hard, and I hope she will have
better luck if she attempts to run an amateur
opera company again.
Do you know, 1 fear the Sydney Liedertafel has
seen it’s last days. All the enthusiasm has cooled
down wonderfully, and, somehow, we don’t ex-
perience the pleasant anticipation of their concerts
as of old. There is a degree of sameness about
them, which is beginning to pall, and people seem
to attend them now more as a fashionable duty
than for any other reason. We have even given
up getting specially beautiful dresses in honour of
these concerts; in fact, they are becoming fiat—
there’s not the least doubt of it. I have heard dark
whispers about the want of harmony between—
well, between those who take a most active part
in the society; but I shall not tell you any further
until these dismal rumours are confirmed. It may
bo that all will come right again, indeed, it’s to be
hoped so—for, indifferent as the last few concerts
have been, we cannot afford to lose them until we
have something better to take their place.
I have attended to all your commissions, but
you will be disappointed when i tell you that I
cannot get any navy-blue sateen with the crimson
spot all over Sydney. I have walked myself weary
for the last few days in my endeavours to obtain
some, but all the shopkeepers have the same tale—
that there has been such a run on the spot-and-
stripe costume that they cannot supply their cus-
tomers. It certainly is a striking style of dress,
(Continued on next pape.)
’Neath a dull grey day does the harbour lay,
Where the yachts go shooting past,
Each lowering cloud is a sunbeam’s shroud,
And the sky is overcast.
From the decks of the great Pacific ship
The harbour is dull to view;
The shores are dark, and the scull-blades dip
Into waters of leaden hue.
In fitful blast does the storm-wind come,
Topping the waves with spray;
And the shivering ropes perpetual hum
In a dreary, plaintive way.
Inland, afar, the mountains loom
Through rifts of cheerless mist,
And the wavelets play in a kind of gloom,
By the golden rays unkist.
The clouds hamr down o’er the crowded town
With its rising smoke inwove,
For the Spirit of Rain hovers, like a bane.
To-day over Sydney Cove.


(Continued from page 16.)
but, even in your disappointment, take comfort,
dear, in the thought that It is rapidly becoming
fearfully vulgarised. Take my advice, and have
one of those new flowered cashmeres, instead.
They are not a bit too warm, being of the very
finest and lightest cashmeres, and one of a deep
cream colour, peppered with tiny red flowers or
spots, looks extremely neat and stylish. There is
also one with the same coloured ground, brtjthe
pattern, instead of being red, is a beautiful blue,
and, although they are rather expensive, they are
so really uncommon, and wash so well, that it is
money well invested. Shall I send you one?
And we are having another novelty in gloves.
Instead of buttons tney fasten with tiny kid straps
and buckles, which will prove quite a boon to
those who possess plump and shapely arms (rather
a rare feature amongst us colonials, by the way),
for hitherto the swell of the arm has not been
taken into account at all, and thus those poor
limbs have been squeezed most unmercifully. But
the straps are graduated so that the fit of the arm
part of the glove can be as perfect as that of fhe
hand, and comfort insured into the bargain.
Parisians have lost no time in inventing a new
word with which to designate the ceremony con-
sequent upon a divorce. A short time ago a de-
mariage (that’s the word) was celebrated by a
splendid dinner given by the liberated lady, and at
dessert, speeches were made congratulating the
lady upon obtaining her liberty, and one gentle-
man, after a few complimentary words, regretted
the absurdity of the law which compelled her to
wait ten mouths before taking another husband.
I don’t hear how the ex-husbands celebrate the
loyful event of their liberation, but it is to be
hoped they have better taste than to make a pub-
lic demonstration of it like the ladies do.
So you couldn't manage to solve the word-puz-
zle I sent you ? Well, no wonder, for 1 sent you
the wrong letters. I really did not mean to play
you a trick, but my memory did not serve me
truly. So I pray you forgive me. These are the
letters—R BYLAAST, Try again.
Yours, as ever,
MAB.
FACT AND FANCY Focussed
‘ Well, you see. sir, eight horses had been burned.’
Proprietor: ‘The deuce! (becoming interested)
but how did that happen?’ Coachman: “Well,
you see, most honourable sir, during the time the
body of the baroness, your mother-in-law, was
lying in state, one of the tapers fell to the ground,
and the castle was destroyed,’ Proprietor: 4 My
mother-in-law dead, rascal? How did she die?’
Coachman (showing the very faintest sign of in-
terest): ‘Well, your honour, she died suddenly of
apoplexy, when she heard that the honourable lady
your wife had e oped with the commandant of the
hussars. ..The Paris Petit journal with a daily
circulation of 800 000 charges 30s. per line for advts.
and for reading notices £3 per line.
Fred Archer, the crack English horseman
whose portrait we give below, was bora on
January 11, 1856, and by the time 10 years had
passed over bis bead, it was seen be was cut out
for a jockey, and he was duly apprenticed to
Matthew Dawson at Heath House, Newmbrket.
On September <8,1870, he was first given a mount
in a race which began such a brilliant career. It
was a winning mount, too, for he guided Athol
Daisy to victory in the Nursery handicap at
Chesterfield. The boy’s skill gradually brought
him into prominence, and bis first great win was
with Salvanos for theCesarewitchinl872at5st.7lb.
In 1871 Archer led the season by winning the Lin-
colnshire handicap with Tomahawk, and although
his personal weight was but little over fist., so
great was the demand for his services that at the
end of the year he was at the head of the list of
winning jockeys. It was during this same year
that Lord Kalmouth had such great confidence in
nis ability that he gave him the mount on Atlantic,
with which he won his first great three-year-old
race, the Two Thousand Guineas, riding against
such famous jockeys as H. Jeffrey, Fordham,
Chaloner, Cusiance, Cannon, Goater. Maidmont
and the two Osbornes. It was also in 1871 th«t he
won his first great two-year old race, the Wood-
cote stakes, with Ladylove, while be also won the
Great Cheshire stakes with Andred, the Stew-
ards’ cup at Goodwood, with Modena, and the
Clearwell stakes at Newmarket with the then Ke-
Sentance colt. Since this period Archer’s success
as been somewhat extraordinary, not only in the
classic events, tut in all sorts of contests, both at
short and long distances. Of the groat three-year-
old races he has won the Derby three times—in
1877 with Silvio, in 1880 with Bend Or, and in 1881
with Iroquois. The 8t. Leger four tiraes-in 1877
with Silvio, in 1878 with Jannette, in 1881 with Iro-
quois, and in 1882 with Dutch Oven. As to the
The latest way to commit suicide: Eating
h “ Rough on Rats” sandwich... .In the first half
Ot 1884, no less than 17,660 tons of tobacco, repre-
senting £7,449,308 revenue, were consumed in
France “If it had been a dog,” said a London
magistrate lately, “ I could have helped you, but
it is only a child.’’....There are now in Great
Britain 6,269,141 cattle and 26 068,354 sheep and
lambs. In 1874 the numbers were 6,125,491 cattle,
and 30,313,941 sheep. British farmers grow 10 per
cent, less corn than 10 years ago. Considerable
illfeeliug and several fights have been caused in
« Nebraska congregation by the pastor, who is
paid only £30 a year, and ekes out a living by
Bhoemaking, announcing from the pulpit that he
would mend soles better and cheaper than the
opposition cobbler....The London Metropolitan
Asylums Board have come to the conclusion that
“the nurses of some of the hospitals ought
not to be fed on native oysters at 3s. per
dozen, and washed down with champagne —
A “Commercial Geography Society” has been
founded in London. It will, we hope, dissipate in
time the gloomy idea, now so prevalent in the
British mind, that New Zealand is in Sydney A
man in England has invented a system of "Uni-
versal Visible Speech.” M’Elhone has seen it, and
says it won’t do for Parliamentary debate, because
one is not sufficiently often allowed by the inven-
tor to put one’s outspread thumb and fingers to
one’s nose Aaron Levy, who was poor and stole
some cigars in London, hanged himself in gaol
with a handkerchief, “ because he was disgraced.”
The example of sensitiveness shown by poor Aaron
is wasted on the average Christian thief—Ad-
vancement of Learning iSeries. For the aristocracy
of science only. The great work on British fossil
reptiles, upon which Sir K. Owen has been engaged
for the last forty years, is now completed. Only
170 conies have been printed, and the plates de-
stroyed. Rough on the poor printer and on
nineteenth century intelligence An English
writer asks how much over £1200 apiece the
Australian cricketers made by their trip ?—
The musket ball that, fired from the “ top” of the
Redoubtable at Trafalgar, killed Lord Nelson,
after having been for many years treasured up as
a priceless relic by Captain Hardy, Nelson’s
favourite captain, and who received his last in
structions, was mounted in crystal and silver as a
locket, and presented to Her Majesty the Queen
In a recent prosecution for criminal libel, the
Lord Chief Justice of England held, much to the
astonishment of the public, that the sending of a
libellous post-card direct to the libelled person
could not amount to such a “publication” as was
necessary to support the charge — 48,000 copies of
the French edition of Max O'RelTs “ Les Pilles de
John Bull” were sold in a week. The English
translation, “ John Bull's Wo nankind,” was sent
to press with a first edition of 15,000 copies,
which were so rapidly bespoken that the
number had to be raised to 35,000 An
English traveller in South Africa says that it is
no wonder that his countrj men dread the ritles of
the Boers. He was hunting with a Boer lately,
when the Boer fired at a buzzard flying 200 yards
away. The ball pierced the bird’s body, but the
buzzard continued to flap rapidly along the
ground, when the Boer again fired, and this time
cut the head of the buzzard clean off
At a recent Welsh Liberal demonstration, proceed-
ings were opened by the singing of this beautiful
little hymn:—
“ Egwyddor Rhyddfrydiaeth orwedda’n ei gwaed
Dyrnodlon Arglwyddol a’l cdrdw dan draed;
Ond ysbryd Gweriniaeth a floeddia yn hy,
Ein hawliau a'n rhyddid i ni .’’
“Gwlad I Gwlad!
Rhyddid gaffo’n gwlad,
Tra m6r yn fur i’r bur hoff bau,
01 byddedi rhyddid barhau.”
The banks of the Nile are 10ft. high. The
masts of the boats sent out by the Grand Old Man
are 4ft. high. We presume they will send the wind
to fill the soils as well. There is pknty at the War
Office Dr. Koller, of Vienna, has found that
one drop of cocoaine, the extract of cocoa leaf, if
dropped into the eye, renders it totally insensible,
thus enabling operations to be performed without
pain. It has further been lound that a drop of
the extract produces the same effect on the
larynx, a point of the utmost Importance in
diphtheria and other grave throat diseases
The average Hungarian peasant is not a brilliant
specimen of humanity, but his calmness under
trying circumstances is sometimes remarkable. A
Hungarian gentleman, who had been abt>ent from
his estate for a few weeks, was met at the railway
station by his servant, a man recently promoted
from the stables to the position of coachman.
During the drive home the following conversation
Oocuired;— Proprietor: ‘Everything all right at
home ? ’ Coachman: ‘ Everything is all right, your
honour: but (after a pause) Caro is dead.’ Pro-
prietor: ‘Caro, my pet dogl How was that?’
Coachman: ‘Well, your honour, he ate too much
horse flesh.’ Proprietor: * But why ? ’ Coachmao;
2000 Guineas, since bis boyish win with Atlantic,
he has ridden and won with Charibort in 1879, and
with Galbard in 1883. For the two filly stakes, he
won the 1000 Guineas in 1875 with Spinaway, and
in 1879 with Wheel of Fortune, with both of which
he al»i> won the Oaks, as he also did with Jannette
in 1878. Of the French races, Archer won the
French Derby in 1880 and In 1883 with Beauminet
and Frontin, and the Grand Pnx in 1883 with
Bruce. It is impossible to give a list of other im-
portant races won. He has ridden winners in all
except the Cambridgeshire, while it was not until
this year that he was able to add the Middle Park
plate to the list. Archer, at latest, was in America,
and it is not altogether off the cards that we may,
ere long, see the celebrated horseman straddling
pigskin on Australian racecourses,
The following verses should be read in
jonncctlon with our leading article in this issue:—
A Last Appeal.
Cnowing our needs, hardly knowing our powers,
fear how we cry to you, brothers of ours I—
Jrothers in nature, pulse, passions, and pains,
iur sins in you, and your blood in our veins.
(first in your palace, or last in our den,
iasest or best, we are all of us men!
lustice eternal cries out in our name,
What is the least common manhood can claim ?
“ .Food that we make for you,
Money we earn.
Give us our share of them!
Give us our turn I”
Landowners, bankers, and merchants, we make
Out of our lives this new wealth that you take.
Have we earned only such pitiful dole
As just holds worn bodies to desolate soul ?
When that soul is bewildered each day and per-
plexed
With the problem of how to get bread for the
next,
Is it uutter to end it, as some of us do,
)r fight It out bravely, still calling to you—
“ Food that we make for you,
Money we earn,
Give us our share of theml
Give us our turn I ”
Ever more passionate grows our demand;
Give us our share ot our food and our land;
.ive us our rights, make us equal and free,
Let us be all wo are not, but might be!
Our sons would bo honest, our daughters be pure,
[f our wage were more certain, your vices less
sure.
0, you who are forging the fetters we feel.
Hear our wild protest, our maddened appeal—
“ Food that we make for you,
Money we earn.
Give us our share of them I
Give us our turnl ’’
Hear us, and answer, while Time is your friend,
Lest we be answered by God in the end;
Lest, when the flame of His patience burns low,
We be the weapon He shapes for His blow;
Lest with His foot on your necks He shall stand,
An appeal that you spurned be new-born as com-
mand,
Ana thuuder your doom, as you die by the rod
Of the vengeance of man, through the justice of
God!
“ Fond that we make for you,
Money we earn
Give us our share of them!
Give us our turn! ”
E. Nesbit, in “ Justice.”
There are times when deafness causes a
deal of trouble; but then, again, as a set-off to this,
there are other occasions when it conduces to no
little amount of wholesome fun and innocent en-
joyment. For example. A worthy old Black-wa-
ter pioneer, who is phenomenally deaf at times,
called round to a friend's house the other day, and
asked if anyone had seen a prize heifer of his
that bad strayed away that morning. No one had,
and so the searcher passed along. A few even-
ings after this, a sociable little party of the Black-
water aristocracy were assembled at a leader of
fashion’s house, when one of the guests at the top
of the table shouted down to the venerable
pioneer to know where was his worthy lady, and
why she did not grace the party with her presence.
Just then the old man was particularly deaf, or his
mind was still harping on his heifer, as he roared
bach, “ Oh yes, thankee, she’s all right. Found
her tethered in front of the house when I got back
t’other day.” After which, the host endeavoured
to turn the conversation by telling of a kanaka
cook that once swam eleven miles, and carried a
camp oven on his head to save himself from sun-
stroke.
He was a man with a glass eye and n
brains, and as he shuffled up to a rear seat in the
Presbyterian Synod, he softly whispered that he
was the religious reporter of the Twilight
Twaddle. Upon which the bloated old Modera-
tor blow out his cheeks till they looked like two
mottled balloons, and thundered, “You newspaper
men do a very great deal of harm, sir; a very great
deal of harm indeed. You are always looking on
at the groat battle of life, but you take no active
part whatever. Your knowledge and habits of
thought must therefore be very circumferential
and superficial. I suppose, now, your idea of the
Day of Judgment is, that you will have a table set
off at one side of the Throne, and be allowed to
sit thereat and report the proceedings for your
evening paper ?” To which the guileless scribe
replied, “On dear no, sir; that’s not the way we’ll
do the thing at all. We will simply read the ac-
counts in the different morning papers, and then
blond all the salient points together, and dish up a
‘special reporter’s’ version of our own. That saves
a man, and the account will probably read better
than if we sent the whole staff.” “ Well, I’m
da—! delighted to hear it,” exclaimed the divine,
as he placed his gingham at the farthest end of the
hall from where the reporter eat, and proceeded to
wrestle with the prayers.
A CAUSTIC CONUNDRUM.
AUNT ( severely) : “DON’T YOU KNOW IT’S WICKED TO MAKE SUCH UGLY FACES?”
LITTLE NIECE ( innocently): “ WAS GOD WICKED WHEN HE MADE YOURS?”
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Song of Sorrow:
OR,
THE LAYMEST OF A NEW CHUM.
(After Burns.)
What is it that my wrath bespeaks—
What nips my hand and bites my cheeks,
And finds its way into my breeks ?
Mosquito.
What is it makes my neighbours laugh—
My friends indulge in gruesome chatt ?
The freaks of the too iree by half
Motquito.
If I desire thy friendly aid,
O Morpheus 1 in the sylvan shade,
Who dares my refuge to invade?
Mosquito.
And when, at night, I seek repose —
Unless I'm smothered with the clothes—
What beggar feeds upon my nose?
Mosquito.
On pleasure bent, I take my way
To Manly's beach, O, pleasant bay;
What blisters mo and spoils the day ?
Mosquitos.
My native land 1 upon my kneof
111 bless thy tings—embrace thy fleas —
(Joi-opared with demons such as these
Motquitos.
The Music Masters.
A (want of)
HARMONY IN BROWNS.
DEDICATED TO WHISTLERS.
I.
Once on a time—in the same town—
There came to live—quite accidental—
Two music-masters, both named Brown,
Both vocal and both instrumental.
One abort and rotund--liko a drum—
The other long and lean;
So rude boys dubbed the thin one
The fat one, Tambourine.
The latter was a timid wight,
Who in good living revelled;
While Bones was lierce, and full of spite,
Tney said he was ba-devilled.
u.
Each strove to make his talents known,
So when the shades of eve were falling,
Each called and left his card—in fact,
Each got his living through hie calling.
’Twas thus they met—and thus they found
Tney couldn’t both grow wealthy;
They wished each other underground.
Yet both continued healthy.
With grief intense Bones leaner grew,
W bile Tambourine got fatter;
Each swore—but in a different way—
“ The time will come no matter I!! ”
m.
Two rival opposites they lived,
While neither strove his hate to smother;
And, by a strange coincidence,
Tney each lived opposite the other.
They met—it wasn't in a crowd—
But at a door-step clean,
When Tambourine looked black at Bones,
B >ues blue at Tambourine;
And then a wordy war began —
In fact, ’twas very wordy -
Two mouth-organ* were rolled in one,
And made a Hurdy-gurdy.
mi.
Bones fluted Tambourine like mad,
And said, “ he bet an even tenor,
His rival fat would prove aflat.
Or guilty of some misdemeanour.”
“ You're Viol and Bass to say such things,
You’re crotchety, you know.”
“ Oh, fiddles icks! ” grim Bonos replied;
“You antiquated Bow.”
“ O-boe I’m not—of beauty’s horn —
Do not me flagellate.
These terms you use—by passion torn—
Are cymbals of your hate.”
v.
Says Bones: “No more; you’ll hear from me:
A minimum of time I’ll give you.
And then my second you will see—
I shall not alto, nor deceive you.”
“Oh! fife-ox shapipl why wax so hot
With such Inhuman lire 7
Why harp so long upon one string ? ”
Says Bones, “ You are a Lyre,
You Windbag I—for a second more
I never could have borne it;
I’ll go and for a second get
A man who’s been a Comet.”
VI.
“ Tambo’s” organism wasn’t strong.
And so the challenge made him quaver ;
But, still, he didn’t worry long.
For never was a coward braver.
“ His gam'ut balls I’ll try and stand,”
Said he, “If not. I’ll stump it;
He thinks to play a clever card,
But I shall try and trumpet.
There’s one policeman in the town,
So him I’ll tell, of course.
And if Bones forces me to fight,
I’ll tight him with ‘the force.’”
vix.
The morning for the duel came.
Bones, Pistols, Cornet—all were ready,
But Tambourine; he burned not.
Though sober quite, he wasn’t steady.
Bones fiercely frowned, and freely swore.
And lully spoke his mind:
“ I never knew a foe before
So blessedly be And;
He plays bis march to glory slow;
If I were at his back
I’d teach him more of Allegro,
And bring him in a crack.”
Vir.
At last brave Tambourine appeared,
Escorted by his faithful second;
But, ere be risked the fate he feared,
To bis antagonist be beckoned:—
“ To you our meeting may bo sport,
1 wish we’d never met;
I never in a duel fought,.
My forte is a duet.”
Then quickly throwing down his arms,
He used bis legs to clear,
At which the other took affront,
And shot him in the rear.
ix.
Poor Tambourine was in a fix,
Though now with kindness he was treated;
Before his foe be could not stand.
Before him, now, could not be seated.
For full three months affliction sore
He bore, but not in vain;
The doctor’s lance, it made him dance,' 1
But eased him of his pain.
A message came to Brown the Thin,
One day, from Brown the Stout:
“ This is the latest bulletin,
They've got the bullet out.”
Finale:—
Bach took a pupil for a wife.
Of children they had many;
No happier pair of Browns in life
E er made an honest penny.


Political Points
The Dublin Express, an Orange organ,
suggests i hat those Irish newspapers which have
abused the Lord Lieutenant, should be prosecuted
in England, as Earl 8i enoer could not get a ver-
dict In Ireland I This Is the sectarian idea of jus-
tioo As well prosecute at Berlin a Frenchman
who had “spoken disrepectfuliy” of Marshal
Manteuffel in Alsace-Lorraine.
The British Peace
Association has re-
solved “ that the prayer
that His Grace the
Archbishop of Canter-
bury has requested to
be publicly read on
behalf of our soldiers
and sailors in Egypt
and elsewhere Is at
variance with those
principles of Justice,
peace, and humanity
which form the basis
of true religion.” The
Peace Association Is so
foolish as to forget the
fact that the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury
la a mere State “ mum-
mer,” who is bound to
sanction any murder
approved by the ma-
jority in exactly the
same way as the Poet
Laureate” has to sing
the praises of any royal
roui who has died pi
alcoholism while hold-
ing in his band four
aces.
A simple circum-
stance, which occurred
in England just before
the maii left, consti-
tutes the bitterest
satire on the pretence
of real sympathy exist-
ing between the Queen
and her people which
we have ever met with.
The functloraries at
Windsor Castle were
thrown into a flutter
of anxiety and appre-
hension by the fact that
a party or four or five
suspicious characters
had been observed
within the precincts,
evidently examining
the exterior of the
buildings with interest,
yet appearing anxious
not to attract atten-
tion. The special Palace
police were all in agi-
tation. Extra military
precautions were Im-
mediately taken, sen-
tries being multiplied
and an extra guard
posted at the Mews
entrance, bywhlch the
intruders had gained
access to the place.
The alarm was tele-
graphed to the police
throughout the
country, and detectives
were set to work to
discover what had be-
come of the suspicious
visitors. The quest was
successful. The suspi-
cious characters proved
to be a party of four
or five harmless me-
chanics, who had
tramped from London
in search of employ-
ment, and visited the
Palace on their way.
Thus it appears that
her Majesty the Queen
is really so qlosely*in
sympathy with the
English people, that the
appearance of a com-
mon person in the
vicinity of her resi-
dence is so uncommon
as to startle the whole
Royal establishment
out of its senses. Be-
less ye, my people! But
keep your distance,
confound you. Pay
your taxes. Provide the
funds for grants for
my sons, and cousins,
and grandchildren, and
spare me the unpleas-
antness of your un-
graceful aspect and un-
savory presence.
Discussion about
German annexation In
the Pacific may now
cease. The Wallgett
News has pronounced
judgment against Lord
Derby and the British
Ministry. It has also
stated the administra-
tion of affairs is “ dis-
asterious.” After this,
there is no more to be
said.
Well, we certainly did not expect it of Mr.
Ryrie, but that does not make his fair statement
as to a land tax the less valuable. He is prepared
for the time, aud that soon, when the great estates
that have benetltted so much by the expenditure
ot our public debt should contribute more towards
paying the Interest on that tax than a tax unon a
few paltry articles of consumption. This is the
case in a nutshell.
It is a fact worth noting, that the attack
upon Henry George’s “Progress and Poverty,”
bv the Duke of Argyle, In the “ Nineteenth Cen-
tury Magazine,” has been republished, together
with Mr. George’s rejoinder, in the same magazine,
under the title of ” The Reduction to Iniquity.”
The two are reprinted together in pamphlet form.
Now, obviously, the reprint is in the interest of
the party which has the best of the discussion.
Well, the pamphlet is issued by the English nub-
lishers of Henry George I The title is “The Peer
and the Prophet.”
Who represent the people of the colony in
their opinions on the German annexation—the
newspapers or the Ministry ? The Ministry take a
calm and somewhat common-sense view of the
business, the dally papers burn with indignation.
But, as we don’t find the people burning to the
extent of a luclfer match, or more than the light-
ing of the kitchen fire with the papers, we must
conclude that somehow the people think with the
Ministry. And yet the Frew is a mlfhty-tWe
don’t want anything about mighty engines and
powerful organs—Ed. Bulletin.] Sold again—
“ Mighty advertising medium” we were going to
write.— Author.
The London Fabian Society has issued a
manifesto and appeal, from which we extract the
following, which we particularly commend to the
attention of the proprietors of the 8.M. Herald
in the faint hope that consideration of it may
tend to soften the asperity of tbe sneers which that
journal constantly flings in the faces ot the labour-
ing classes:—“You, who live dainty and pleasant
lives, reflect that your ease and luxury are paid
for by the misery and want of others I Your super-
fluities are the parents of their poverty. Surely
aU humanity is not burnt out of you by the gold
your lathers left you. Come out from your ease
and superfluities, and help us.”
Mr. Upington, the present Premier of
Cape Colony, who sides with the Boers against the
Imperial authorities and Sir Charles Warren, is an
Irishman, a member ot the Dublin bar. and glad of
this opportunity of manifesting his hatred of John
Bull. \s the pro-Dutch party are In a big majority
at the Cape—a majority which enables them at
present to return an anti-English ministry—and as
Bismarck is understood to have on the spot several
agents actively engaged In stirring up the Dutch
and others to resist England (the game being to
have all South Africa ultimately placed under the
“ protection ” of, or annexed by, the “ Fader-
land”), it is plain that it will henceforth be unsafe
to leave the Cape without a good British garrison.
In the event of the Anglo-German war,
which the Rum leaders are certain to cause, there
has been a debate amongst the staff of the paper
as to who should be war correspondent. The first
unanimous choice was Jack Scantlebury, and it
was suggested that he could escape danger by
making up as a New Guinea native. Then, on
Jack s declining, the news editor was suggested,
but he represented that the size of his feet would
prevent his hiding himself anywhere, even down
the barrel ot a cannon. Finally, the musical and
dramatic critic was pitched upon, but a protest
from the Liedertafal, Madame Novaro, and the
lovers of refined writing, prevented bis accept-
ance of the .post. In the end, it is thought the
Paris correspondent at Dubbo will have to go.
The New Zealand Government are think-
ing of forming a special settlement of Skye
Crofters. Some of those special settlements in
Maoriiand have been curious and expensive ex-
periments. Tde Scandinavians, for instance, in
the 40 mile bush beyond Masterton. That bush
is the thickest spot for mosquitos on earth, except
a station on the Fox ton-Wanganui railway. Well,
the Scandinavians, who have a natural antipathy
to water, as an external application, brought with
them insects. And it is said, that when they settled
down at Kkatahuna, the mosquitos for once had
to give the thing up as a bad job. Them was no
room for them. But when a stranger stopped a
night at the Scandinavian settlement, he had a
nice time. There was a fight for him, and though
the mosquitos sometimes won, he brought away
plenty ot both.
The Sheikh Said territory, on the Straits
of Bab el Mandeb, has been sold to a German house
for £160,000. Much disgust is already expressed in
Paris at the fact that the French Government
should not have interfered. The Ministerial Paris
declares that France's communications with her
possessions in the Indo-Chinese peninsular are now
at the mercy of England and Germany, and adds
that a heavy responsibility rests on those who
have forgotten their country’s interests. By the
way, a resumJ of the work accomplished by Bis-
marck, during the last year or so. In the direction
of founding a German Colonial Empire, is pub-
lished by the Times. It is the most impressive
piece of reading which has fallen under our eye for
years, and shows with what determination the
man of blood and iron is endeavouring to give
effect to his dream of universal German su-
premacy,
In some matters of social legislation we in
the colonies do at times get ahead of older
countries. Thus Mr. Arthur Cohen, M.P.,
by no means a political firebrand, but a
calm Jurist, quite startled an English audience
lately by suggesting legislation under which muni-
cipalities might be empowered to acquire land
in advance, aud so let It that, when the leases ex-
pired, the unearned increment should fall into the
bands of the municipality, and not into those of
the landlord. Now, if they did not go so far as
this In Dunedin, New Zealand, they went a good
way towards it many years ago. The Corporation
was endowed with some of the choicest building
sites la the city. These have been leased to citi-
zens to the benefit of the occupants, and with such
result to the city, that its rents paid the interest
on its municipal debt. When some of the leases
fell in in 1874, the unearned increment was a big
thing.
The Sydney papers have done more good
than they think to the cause of land nationalisation
and Socialism by publishing those opinions of
Lords Elphlnstone and Macdonald. It does seem
hard to these two that pestilent fellows like Henry
George should make the Skye Crofters discon-
tented with a lot that compels them to maintain in
idleness landlords who have as much real rights to
these lands as they have to the air above or the
waters around them. Ot old, it the Chiefs of the
Macdonalds took from tnelr people, they had to
give again In the way of food and shelter. Ihe
land and Its products were really communal in a
wav. Now, the Chief lets the land for shootings,
and the people food and shelter themselves as best
or worst they can. And, as Lord Macdonald put
it. “ If I did not let the shootings, what would be-
come of me?” The answer seems easy- 1 ’ Work
for a living.” And, before long, that is what ue,
and those like him, will have to do. The bkye
Uioftera’ agitation Is the beginning of the end of
land reform In Great Britain. If Lord Macdonald
will read “The Situation in Skye” by acorrespon-
dent of the Pall Mall Gazette, In that paper tot
December 13, he will find that strange things have
happened since he left England. The potters are
for the present masters of the situation, and
leaders are to be sent from Skye to organise the
Highland Crofters Into a compact body. They are
not to be bought off by emigration, nor will they
be content to see large tracts of land on whlon
their fathers lived, occupied by one man. or tne
fertile glens, on which they themselves uvea
twenty years ago, depopulated, whilst they ar
placf d on unsunned and barren ground for wmc
they have to pay a heavy rent in order to maintain
gentry of the Elphlnstone and Macdonald kidney.
• ♦ •
Two candidates have been chosen for
Canterbury, Lord Ernest Hamilton end Mr.
Henniker Heaton, and as yet no selection has
been made for the seat conferred by the Redistri-
bution Bill Under the new electoral Redistri-
bution Bill, London, will have 61 members.
The Forbes and Pabkks gazette contains
a par. alluding to the “ charming proprietress of
the Wowingragong Hotel. It takes all this. In
Forbes, for a newspaper man to be enabled to iook
upon his matutinal rum as a certainty. We have
been there; but it's a pleasant road so long as your
heels are level.
“ Great Expeota,,
tions,” Dickens’ “Great
Expectations ” we are
thinking of now—not
our own. And who,
that has read the tale,
does not remember Miss
Havisham, the lady
who, being disappoint-
ed on what was to be
her bridal morn, stop-
ped all tbe clocks at the
very Instant the news
of her lover’s faithless-
ness was received, and
allowed all things about
her to sink into dark,
dark ruin until she
died. Onoe every year
this poor monomaniac
used to tog out iu her
bridal finery, which had
grown yellow, mil-
dewed, and rusty with
the years, and so,
perched In the same
old chair, she would sit
and wait in the same
old spot for him who
never again returned.
They say Dickens ex-
aggerated. At times be
did—but not much.
And, In proof thereof,
we have just unearthed
a spinster lady, living
in a suburb South of
Sydney, who now owns
honestly up to the age
of 75. In the old coun-
try, she was engaged,
with the consent of her
parents, to be married.
A few days before the
one which was fixed
for the wedding cere-
mony to take place, she
was seated in her room,
putting the finishing
touches on her wedding
dress, when her father
entered, and, steadfast-
ly refusing to give any
reason for his action,
withdrew bis consent
and forbade her mar-
riage. Had this hap-
pened in sunny New
South Wales, ithe lov-
ing daughter would
have rapped the stern
parlent over the ear
with a chair, or told him
to go and soak bis head
in a tan-pit, as the nup-
tial hour was fixed; and
when it came, she’d see
that the bride was all
ready to ioe the lover’s
scratch. Our heroine
of 76. however, was evi-
dently not a girl of that
sort at ail, for she sim-
ply said, “Very well,
father; but remember
this, you’ll have to keep
me as long as ever I
live.” There and then,
she stuck her needle
into the unfinished
dress, packed it away In
a chest of drawers, (and
has kept it by her ever
since. Last Christmas,
it was taken out to
oblige a lady friend,
who describes it as the
remains of what was
once a rich white cam-
bric robe, which only
required a few more
stitches to make it com-
plete. Like Miss Hav-
isham, our forlorn spin-
ster never saw her In-
tended from that fatal
day, and now the once
snowy skirt has turned
a greenish-yellow, the
needle is covered with
rust, and the laoe is
warped and shrivelled,
even as the once joyous
heart of its unlucky
owner. Dickens could
not exaggerate worth
a cent.
When Solomon called out that all wag
vanity of vanities, his acquaintance with having
to turn out on a rainy morning, and bust up the
wood for the breakfast fire with a blunt axe was, we
imagine, considerably hampered by limits. Never-
theless, the old man was about three parts right
after all, for the best of things are apt to pall upon
our taste. The finest show In the world excites
but little curiosity in those who have seen it be-
fore, and, in like manner, honour, glory, love—ail
things, in fact—bar whisky—are at last brought
into contempt by undue familiarity. We met a
sad example of this on last Saturday morning. A
’bus was tearing along through a certain suburb,
and, as it happened to be bound for a land sale
shivoo, it was, of course, considerably crowded.
As it passed us by, the driver was hailed by a
youthful pair of antagonistic sexes, but, as there
was only one vacant seat Inside, the young man
pushed his fair companion through the door, and
was swarming up on the roof, when one of those
ruddy-oheeked, benevolent old gentlemen one fre-
quently reads of, but seldom sees in the flesh,
called out: “ Here, young feller, I’ll go up there.
You come right in here and sit beside your girl.
Ikaow you’d like a little squeezing; remember
when I used to go a-oourtln’ onoe myself.” “ Oh,
it don’t matter to us, ole bird,” replied the climber,
“ have a squoze yerself. We’ve bin married th'
last four months, an’ I’m off up here to have a
rest.” *• Great Heavens!” exclaimed the flabber-
gasted old party, “ this must be the result of our
‘ godless education system.’,”
When Doctors Disagree.
1 HE SLEEPS 3. THE ATTACK. 3. MORE TROUBLE. 4. HE GOES HOME. 5. FEELS UNWELL; SENDS FOR HIS DOCTOR. 6. WHO
■ reports THE CASE. 7. WHAT IS IT? 8. THEY DISAGREE; GHASTLY RESULT. 9. HE IS PHOTOGRAPHED. COPIES SUPPLIED
TO THE FACULTY.


EOGSJiLIE, LLOYD cSc CO.
l
4s. in the £, or 20 per cent. Reduction.
GREAT SALE NEW GOODS!
Disposal of the Balance of Spring and Summer Imports,
at a Discount of 4s. in the £.
PRIOR to our Half yearly Stocktaking, at the end of JANUARY, wc intend Disposing of all
SURPLUS SUMMER SEASON’S GOODS, at the very largo Discount of 4s. in the £.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD and CO. have not reduced the prices of their goods, but they make a
bond Me deduction of 4s. in the £ after the bill is made out. Hease note that you buy in the usual
way. thus : If your purchases amount to £6, you only pay £4 16s. This is the only genuine way of
selling off. *
LADIES WILL DO WELL TO INSPECT THIS MAGNIFICENT STOCK.
ORDERS ENTRUSTED TO US THROUGH POST WILL HAVE OUR BEST CARE.
& CO.,
354, Q-eorgre-street, S37-d.2n.e37-
(Near the Post Office, and directly opposite Wynyard-strcet).
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Robe Makers.
Trousers from 21s. to 40s.
N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Farmer and Co.
W. SnEAnsBY & Co., Albert Douse, Temple Court, Elizaheth-st.
W. H. ARIELL & CO.’S Agencies,
KENT STREET (near King-street', SYDNEY.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S Celebrated Biscuits, Cakes, Treacle, and Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MILLS Prize Victorian Oatmeal, Flour, and Pearl Barley
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S Prize Assorted Confectionery and Bonbons.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, in A- and 11b. tins.
SWALLOW & DERHAM’S Queensland Refined Sugars.
ANQL0-SCAND1NAVIAN t old Medal Condensed Milk, the best in the market.
R. WHITTING HAM & CO.’S London Provisions and General Merchandise.
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
VST LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.
BOTJEKB,
Is the largest and best-appointed Family Hotel In the Western district. The Table and Liquors
cannot be surpassed, even in the Metropolis. Private Suites for families. First-class Stabling.
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor.
Holiday Presents.
W
w •
PALING
Ut
AND CO. (Limited),
HAVE .tUST RECEIVED A MAGNIFICENT SHIPMENT OF
COTTAGE,
UPRIGHT GRAND
SEMI-GRAND,
CONCERT GRAND
PIANOS,
l y the
MOST RENOWNED
MAKERS
In the
M'.o*
‘ WORLD.
AMERICAN
ORGANS,
b
BELL and CO.,
PALACE CO.,
STORY and CO.,
at
PRICES to SUIT ALL
CUSTOMERS.
Th'se Instruments have been SPECIALLY SELECTED by Mr. W. H. PALING, who is NOW
IN EUROPE, and may justly be considered
ID MOST DECIDE
of Musical Instruments ever introduced to Australia.
Be Lowest Possible Prices for Gash ; or Easy Terms.
Mr. PALING has also FORWARDED a COMPLETE ASSORTMENT of
tm: bosses,
FROM TWO TO SIXTEEN AIRS.
These Goods will he Sold at Unheard-of Prices.
VH. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TACH THIOlvGIPSOIfcT,
AJ.C. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SALOON,
91 King:-street.
0* N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
READ THIS I
A Single Watch at manufac-
turing Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£3 lOa. each.
Warranted for three years,
CAN BK BOUGHT AT
269 Piit-sf., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER ANl) JEWELLER
Black Swan Hotel.
GREEN WELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, Ashing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
Sassed. The rnagnUlcient s.s. lilawarra, leaves
ydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o clock.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GENT.'S 50, Is. 6d.; 100, 2s. 6d.
LADIES’ 50, 2s. Od.; 100, 3s. 0d.
Address, 6d. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 3s. 6d.; 260, 6s. 6d.; 500, 109.; 1000, 15s.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
1®” Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
239 Pitt-street, Sydney,
I AAA domestic paper fashions
1UUU shown in our Illustrated Catalogue
Prick, Three pence ; by Post, Fourpknce.
CHAP PEL & CO.,
Late Johnston & Co.,
Paper Pattern and General Sewing-machine
Agency,
746 GEORGE ST., HaYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Machines repaired, and all Attlngs, &c., kept in
Stock.
H. A. BROWN & CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
260 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-street.)
From the Strand, London.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd's New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 354 and 356 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows tnat the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia.
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment.
Everybody is informed that this Studio Is carried on for the benefit of the late Mr
Boyd’s children, by his executrix.
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manasicr.
1
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS.
anil CO.,
R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
11 MB, ul Ulil HIS,
Importers of
STF.AMtF^GINES.ENG ine ERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES. WOODWORKING MACHINERY
RAIL Mm A « N Sp9t A^U^UIU^iMP^E^
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT,’ PUMPS, COACHBCILDEK6’
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ sbpPLIES, &c.
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSHWARE
FENCING WIRE,
WOOLPACK8
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED fl GIRDERS
ais^*aaea
PORTABLE, FIXED
and SEMI-FIXED EN-
GINES
VERTICAL and HORI-
ZONTAL BOILERS
8 T E A M and other
PUMPS
■sbATHES, PLANING,
SHAPING, SCREW-
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLED
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, & 0 ,
■ Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
Head Warehouse -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Office
- 54 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR
SYDNEY.
• m GBAOECHURCH


F ■
IW
lENNAfAF
Jus> opened by
54- & 5G Wi
LL
P v eff(eshnient F\ooiv| foiVLadies&Gen'
fye Pastry-. Tea, Cream
—■ “* are -unequalled. :
ENTIJj
The Cafe & Refreshment daily from S A M tallSQP.M
On Sund P o P M• —
Ohdef\s tct/Onx part orTown to II P M
Specially Established for Private Order Trade
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
HY* L
8
I
(P-°
m
Ue
ty
11
f
C V 1
r^u.
agents for
BAKER’
ORY PLATES
1 fnoj> »
7j
cf
Of,
f/
t’lL
HEAD XT ALL
It may Sava your Ufa.
bop bitten
AM
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARB COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchit, Mandrake, and Band e Ion.
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
• a nd Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
•and most effective curative properties
4 of all other bitters, being the greatest
4 Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘and life and health restoring agent on
4 earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Age
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
4 Men, Labourers, Ladles, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
4 irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
4 Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
4 Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
4 symptoms are, or what the disease or
4 ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don t
4 wait until you are_siok, but if youi o
4 feel bad or miserable, use the Bitter
, but If you only
•reel oaa or use the Bitters at
•once. It may safe your life. Hun-
4 dreds have been saved by so doing, at
4 a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
4 friends suffer, but use and urge them to
4 use Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
‘drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
4 purest and best Medicine ever made,
‘and no person or family should be
4 without It.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Mebourne, Australa, Rochester, N. Y., U. S.
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
WeakNenroysMen
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay
and failure to perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
THE MARSTON BOLUS.
Neither stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Kervonn Debility and
_ Physical Decay is uniformly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct methods and absolute thor-
oughness. Full information and Treatise free.
iddress Consulting Physician of
ARSTON REMEDY CO.. 52 Cistlemgh St, Sydney
ft
V
Christmas Presents and New
Year’s Gifts!
JUST RECEIVED, a Large Assortment of
Gold & Silver Jewellery,
SUITABLE FOB PRESENTS.
Ladies’ Gold Dress Rings, from 10s.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, from £2 10s.
Gent.’s Silver Watches, from £8 10s.
And other articles too numerous to mention.
c . a B A N T ,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER.
5§4 George Street, Sydney.
pr Country Orders promptly attented to.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
SMITH ORGrA.IT.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
nr«?» jr *
5g|
c*- :•..,
SOLE IMPORTERS OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSH!
A HONEST REMEDY. Prescribed by the BEST PHYSICIANS.
THEY WILL POSITIVELY
- M mm Nervous Headache in 5 minutes!!
fl I I rl L Bilious Headache in 5 minutes!!
I I K P Neuralgia in 5 Minutes !!
U U 11 L. Falling Hair and Baldness! !
** * * — Dandruff and Diseases of the Scalp I
Promctlv Arrest Premature Grayness, Hake the Hair grow long
and Glossy. Immediately Sooths the Weary Brain.
5-
Handsome
BRUSH
Crewkerne, Nov. 12,1880
Sir,— My patients have given
me a very satisfactory account
of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair Brush.
One lady assures me that she gets no j
neuralgia in her face if she uses it, and
others state that by a few minutes’ brush-
ing with the Electric Brush, a nervous headache,
or one arising from overwork or debility, is quickly
removed. The invention is, I think, very valuable.
I am, your obedient servant, q. F. Wills, M.D., M.R. C.S.B.
Unbreakable
Elegantly Carved & Mounted-
From Dr. Lemprirrk, D.C L.. *c.,8t. John’s College, Oxford. Dt f • 28, 1881.
_ r have known and appreciated the great advantages of your Electric Hair Brush for some time, and, as I find the benefits increasing,
gentlemen, ag pleasure to earnestly recommend it. No one who has not tried it can possibly magma how material its comfort is,
Ymfr Flesh Brush is only one more proof of the enormous future open to the scientific development of useful and beneficial domestic appliances. The
Brushes are indeed a wonder, and well worth the money. Yours faithfully, C- Lrmprieee, D.C.L., «c.
Their Royal Highnesses the FRINGE and PRINCESS of WALES, PRINCE
BISMARCK, and the KING of HOLLAND each use a pair of Dr. Scott s
Electric Hair Brushes, and a long list of Distinguished Patrons could be pub-
lished, and their Testimony added, did space permit.
The Brush Handle is made of a new odorless composition, resembling ebony; a combination
if substances producing a permanent electro-magnetic Current, which acts
immediately upon Che Hair Gland* and Follicles. This power can always be
tested by a silver compass, which accompanies each Brush.
PURE BRISTLES—NOT WIRES. Wire Brushes injure the Scalp,
and cause baldness and irritation.
The Right Honourable WILLIAM E. GLADSTONE, M.P.,
has written upon the merits of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair
Brushes, and lias added them to his Toilet.
Lady A. CHURCHILL -daughter of the Duke of
Marlborough (hero of Blenheim), and sister of
Lord Randolph Chiu«.hill, of Parlia-
mentary celebrity—uses them regularly
and thinks them unequalled for
the hair.
&sf Send for Circular of
Dr. Scott’s Electric Flesh
Brushes, Corsets, <Sc Beltt
for Ladies’ and Gen-
tlemen’s use.
direct to .
mifctaneee can be made in Cnemie
crossed Union Bank of Australia,
none are genuine.
I be forwarded
. added. Re-
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
54.MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
P.r* unv 09.!.
“ What we want to-dav,”.saysi a
Uten scribe, who knows 5j°"^h ° a 1 readable
Bench composedi of a gentleman who
amount of bralns. To tms. a K ledger, and
writes on a greasyleaf of •5% t^S c « exception.
signs himself ‘l^ t ®ifS 1 S2Sord i nw to tM» party’s
"What we wantto-day. stomaoh8
notion, Is a herd of J B ’Fh w but broken bottles,
capable of digesting anyrii ng mu. thecaae; “ on
for, as “ A »^ 1llh p K of bowlls is ekwll to
the Bench, a * f °° d re ii a £ Furthermore, our oorres-
eny amount of i n t Arpflta of Justice* no
pondent asserts that. Inthe uatereat*«« ntl f he
magistrate should be allowea y proof of
hw enjoyed a real P 0 f 1 a S»fp»tetio Noop,
this, he quotes the case or P« for ,. head . n .
f* en .Kart misfortune to be tried at noon, just
Si* SSsrttM
J-vea«- mawf
Burned his maioiai percu ju c j human
was positively 1 d ®J' l f?^ ] ,^T er was 6 the next culprit
billty iteelf, and lining »xr, apoUess
him without the « therefore, suggests
Prisoner’s Association should
that the Dlscnargou x aud run aS0 rt of
take the mattm up. and P v*« k q£ every Bench
anti-teetotal oaf 6 at Accepting our Indignant
throughout the land. c Uned to think
correspondents theory, uld be better served
that the interests of state of Black
by keeping p nr s P our hoodlums,
“ 6 lhle "’ 8 aQ<l
loafers of ancient Rome.
This is “rough on rats,” if you like. A
TIU Ji Tionifil has come to Judgment, In the person
8 f°Mr d Justice Molesworth. of Melbourne, who has
of Mr. Justice Jjxujc vagrant and without
meaM of support, despite his hav-
lawful \ s bank, providing the said money
l of crime and Immorality.” Quite
too Solomon, in his palmltst days, never
£j*dt, too. o gound er piece of Judgment. But
r E P f obtect to In this business is, that our self-
stvfed W “ respects ble portion of 1ffie Press^' over
?. tyl 5 a «rhnn commenting on Judge Molesworth s
H«nf«in^ h gleefuTly chips in the satisfactory mtel-
that it 1has “ cast a bomb-shell among the
“Sf^nhe• spielers.*” We admit that the new
ranks of the spie « r “ )read . and . chfcese and “ colo-
the light-angered talent, because the first
the delusive match-box proprietor or the
enterprising gentleman with the plctur oard
enterprising k , a da t, j 8 to lodge the cash
artf u I little game has pooled in a bank,
so estabfish a credit sufliolent to enable him to
the clouds roll by. and the atmosphere is
suited to his hyper-sensitive temperament.
Rutwhy select the gentle •• spieler ” as the one on
whom Judge Molesworth’s new departure will sit
most heavily? The law now declares that no
most neavi y proceeds of crime and im-
mo?«Htv W can be held P sufficient to establish a
“° ra “ ty - ca dlt _.‘ 80 says the bond; these are
ank words’’-and, therefore, we fall to
the Vhv the “spieler*’ Is the only one on
see w hyt . pJ hbaae Garden Daniel treads so
Fof efamplf. take the case of a highly-
roughly. -u.jrnb elder, who runs a store and
a Pile by bottling off diluted vitriol into
three-star flasks, and selling the same
real*8tingo!* That man’s banking account Is
r .®S. of as great a crime as was ever perpe-
and he is ipso facto a vagrant, and has no
means of support. Therefore do your duty,
WnfSan ; remove the contribution-box from
Mr. Pph _.„, n „ d hands, and give him a front seat
the side of “ Tom the Shooler,” and
J® tb ««^ < nf C tho noble band of deadbeats. After
thfa turnyour attention to Mr. Pecksniff,.the Hon
President of the Tract-hawkers Association, who
Preeiaent ux q{ poundB [ 0 t other persons
annvmHyfin hlsnoble endeavours to shake
on thl Uflnuw ufta- souls of the pore little heathen
xu A Rnccabuccanapoothra Isles* and who
9 f hi. own filthy nest by not only letting
festherths s tf) Aspasias and Travlatas
also conspiring with tlme-pay-
jobbers to stock the same with the
attractive fittings that can be raided. Run
in too for in spite of all his oraw-thumplng
5® T^aim snuffliD g deeris, hts pile Is [made up of
s crime and immorality.” and he is Just as great a
5 r likf the veriest “ bummer” or magsman in
7hf land Your health. Mr. Justice Molesworth.
•• It doth appear you are a worthy Judge, you
know the law. and your exposition hath been most
sound.” 1
MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
169 COLLINS-STREET , EAST, Melbourne.
r have tasted the Bavarian Hop Bitters;
.. i „ B iatable. and being aware of 1 heir com
r -hould say wholesome, and suitable for
t P hTe condltlona of the liver and stomach that
reoulre herbal stimulants.
req t n wma. M.R.O.8.. Inr.
J. H. WEBB, M.R.C.S.
Eng.


TTALIAN EMPORIUM
■** FANCY CHINAWARE,
comprising
TEA SETS, DESSERT SETS, VASES, ORNA-
MENTS. &c.
FANCY GOODS IN GREAT VARIETY.
Silk Fans, Ladies’ Belts, t-UNSHADBS, Dolls, &o.
The Latest Novelties always on hand.
Beat quality with reasonable prices.
B. MABMONT, 410 Geor^e-street.
PAINTS.
OILS.
cr
WALL
V> PAPERS
Office: 330 George-street.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
HT K.B, Patterns and Prices sent.
NEUSTADT CO.,
COMPLETE
FURNISHERS,
39, 154, 156, & 158 OXFORD-ST J
SYDNEY.
HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
Either for Cash or Time Payment.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers.
MANHOOD RESTORED 1
A Clergyman having tried every known
remedy for the Curb of Nervous Exhaustion,
Premature Decay, &c., has at last discovered a
simple Self-Cure, which for the sake of suffering
humanity, be will send FREE the Prescription
which CURED him. Address, with self-addressed
stamped envelope— _ „ ,
Dr. B. A CLARKE. P O. Box 202, Sydney.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strenghtens, and beautifies the hair; it con-
tains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most cool-
ing, healing, and refreshing wash for tho face,
hands, and arms, and is perfectly free from any
mineral or metallic admixtures ; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &o.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OP TYRE pro-
duces Immediately a perfect change in rod or grey
hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a r'.jsey and per
manent brown or black, whic'« colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 30, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents: Elliott Bros. E
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
HIGH - CLASS TAILORING.
WEST END HOUSE,
168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Two Doors from Compagnoni’s.)
fKTTTE undersigned, recognising the want of a
r |’ FIRST CLASS TAILORING ESTABLISH-
MENT have OPENED the premises lately occu-
oled by the Bank of Australasia, at 168 PITT-
STRBET (THE WEST END HOUSE) where they
Intend to carry on a High-class and Fashionable
Trade.
The public may feel assured that we shall be
able to maintain a high standard, when we state
that our Mr. Ward has had some yeais’ experience
in the best houses in London, Paris, as well as In
a ■ «t.clfl»s Sydney Establishments, namely, Farmer
and Co.’s and David Jones and Co.’s.
Our Mr. Wilson has had fully 20 years’ expe-
rience in the Australian trade, and has just re-
timed from England, where he .visited all the
nriaffinal Woollen Mills, including that of Hud-
dersfield as well as West of England and Scotch
Mills This will be a sufficient guarantee that the
tastes and requirements of the public will receive
the attention they deserve.
In conclusion, we desire to say that we hope to
obtain a fair share of in return for
which we guarantee first-class work, all hand-
made, well shrunk, perfect fit, and all in the latest
London and Paris styles.
Soliciting a trial, we remain,!
Very truly yours,
FREDERICK WILSON,
HUGH WARD,
Fashionable Tailors, Robe and Habit Makers.
West, End Donee.
i«a piU stittti, ?ydm;y.
■A--bra,la.a,aao.’s
Fill©
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy !
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they o»n be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidnejys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
immediate relief.
434, GEORGE STREET.
! JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
VCLEDPtffP:
mi
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGBN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL,
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
' MANUFACTURER OP THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE,
THE
The SIMPLEST, CHEAPEST, & BEST MACHINE
ever introduced into Australia.
EASY TO WORK, EASY TO LEARN,
EASY TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Machine in the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modern
Science, and of the Beat Possible Materials.
Sold on TIME PAYMENTS in Town and Country.
eg- Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE to
any part of the colony.
B. O. Holtermann & Co ,
Sole Agents,
674 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
J. TURNER ROBINSON i CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Georga-straat,
Established 1864,
HAB THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
W“ Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
A. & C. HUEHERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
318 6EORCE STREET,
Next Peapes and Shaw.
The most liberal house for Pianos and Organa,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
A. & C. Huenerbein,
318 GEORGE STREET.
W. H. CHARD AND Cd7
WOOL BROKERS,
MACQUARIE PLAGE,
SYDNEY.
LIBERAL ADVANCES made on WOOL Bt
other PRODUCE shipped to their London
Agents, Messrs. Redfern, Alexander and Co., 3
Great Winchester-street, E.C.
The Careful Personal Supervision of this well-
known firm is given to all conslgnmeats.
DENTIST.
Ca.
(Of America)
GUARANTEES
Mid Fit ul Media
PRICES MODERATE.
Corner George and Market Streets,
OVHB HUNTER’S BOOT PALAOP.
THU
IGNO
MW-*®
M)
HIM
IB Ml CL’S
FAMOUS
NEVER previously did any piano win such a hold
on the public as the Mignon has done since
its introduction. Our competitors have no doubt
don© their level best to rival us—blazoning forth
their bald imitations with , , a w U
of trumpets. What result have they to show,
excepting to point to the gradual death of all their
off soring? The reason is soon found. Inferior
instruments, with showy exteriors, have been
brought forth and attempted to be foisted on the
public. But the right-thinking public will have
none of them. The consequence is that the
Sales of the Mignon Plano
have Trebled.
THE MIGNON PIANO
has found its way into every town almost of aU
the colonies-in Victoria and New South Wales,
from north to south ; to the tar north of Queens-
land ; in New Zealand, from one end to the other
of the islands. In South Australia and Tasmania
THE MIGNON
can be found, and its name is really a household
word.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the people’s favourite.
THE MIGNON PIANO
for its size defies all would-be imitations.
THE MIGNON PIANO
guaranteed to withstand any climate in Australia.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the cheapest, because the best.
THE MIGNON PIANO
can be hadlon very easy TIME PAYMENT.
THE MIGNON PIANO
excels all similar pianos for first-class work and
richness of tone.
Illustrated Catalogue, with full description
of THE MIGNON and all other good instruments,
on application.
NICHOLSON AND CO.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
MOULTON’S
i.IVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON’S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and nr,
disappointments. MOULTON'S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSI A, promote DIGESTION, relievo distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
Btimnlate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURlIx
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price Is. 3d.
C. E, MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
i
RHQIBTBRBD. ..
A SAFE, CERTAIN. & SPEEDY CURB tor Ner-
3L vous and General Debility, and all complaints
hat spring from lack of nerve force, as
'oothache. Nervousness, Indigestion, Lessor
rppetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
lompiaints, Loss of Vital Power, &o. By Itstome
nd soothing effects It at once removes all craving
or Alcohol. By Its richness in phosphorous and
ther powerful vitalising elements, MARSH ALL o
’ONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
he whole system, rnoe, 4s. 6d., or 368. a case,
lole Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS, M.F.S.
lanufacturing and consulting Chemists, »no
OS Martet-dtreet. near Hyde «vdn©/, and
viti-strppf. Circular-quay. TAKB NO oL 381U
:ute,
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
5
\s
83
“
E£
W
S®
O
si?
UJ
.y
2wo
t
H WW
X ES •
o
*r»
U) 60 n
•£
o o-
CL •«
tft
r
3
o
&
*
%
O
S
<S)
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS^ENAM ELLED
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
CORNER OP CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING!, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)


A POPULAR MINSTREL MADE HAPPY:
OR, PROM JEST TO EARNEST.
“ For seven years," writes Mr. Horace Bent, of
the Federal Minstrels, “ I have suffered from an
acute neuralgic affection of the right knee and
rheumatic gout, which became so severe during
our season at the ‘ Gaiety ’ in September, ’83, that I
was obliged to relingulsh the active duties of my
profession and keep my room for a couple of days.
I had tried several strong liniments at various
times, some of which gave me partial relief. In
the course of my lecture and sketches I had fre-
quently mentioned, Jocularly, St. Jacobs Oil; but
it never occurred to me to apply it to my own ail-
ments until a friend who happened to be in my
room whilst I was complaining of intense pain re-
minded me of its claims, and sent out for a bottle
right away. I u?ed a little of it immediately, and
found in stant re ief, repeating the application
again later on in the evening. From that night I
have never felt either the neuralgic affection of
the knee or the rheumatic aout return, and I
would have sent you this acknowledgment earlier
but I thought it best to thoroughly establish the
permanence of the effect; and have to subscribe
mvself a ffrm believer in the virtues of St. Jacobs
Oil."
Sold by all chemists and druggists in N.S.W.*
price 3s. 6d. per bottle.
0J\)NTCASTL£3Sfl^
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
S YD N E.Y
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
Printed and Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), 84 Pltt-8t. s Sydney, N.S.W,
Wo have always liked the Herberton
Advertiser for the humour of Its leaders and the
earnestness of Its tin pars. An air of originality
has always pervaded the paper that was very
pleasing; and we can safely say r we have never
seen an Item In the journal In question that could
conjure up a blush to the cheek of the most modest
inald, or extract an anathema from the most sen-
sitive lubra. The latest production from the
Herberton Advertiser office Is an almanac
which looks as If something had disagreed with
It. The sheet Is printed in blue Ink of excessive
pallor, with a job lot of display type, evidently
portion of that formerly used by Caxton, when he
set up “ Ye Gaime and playe of ye Chesse. It is
printed with the Advertiser heading, and has
a jobbing-type border round it, which represents
a rope, with a hangman’s knot at every two inches.
What information can be derived from it in its
blurred and intoxicated condition consists in the
statement that the Herberton Advertiser is
“ sent to all parts of the world II” Altogether, if
the H. A. almanac is a sample of the progress of
printing as a science, we advise the Maytown
people to dig up the Father of Printing, and set
him going again with a £5 fount and a roller-
mangle.
■At a certain theatre which shall be se-
verely nameless for the present, the curtain was
recently raised after the close of a piece and dis-
covered the company standing round in a semi-
circle, evidently pretty well puzzled as to what
was about to happen nex 1 . The audience waited,
and the manager gravely called upon Mr. Brutus
Belphegor Blank, a young actor, who stepped for-
ward with, as Dawvid Buchanan would say, a
snorprise that bor-r-dur-red upon oon-stur-na-
shin.” Producing a loud-looking gold medal, the
manager then handed it to the gaping Thespian,
with the following well-obosen remarks:—“ Mr.
Brutus Belphegor Blank. Sir,—As a slight token
of the appreciation in which your heroic conduct
is held by the management of this theatre, this
valuable medal is presented to you. The self-
sacntloe and heroism of the deed which this offer-
ing is Intended to commemorate is unparalleled in
the history of your profession. Accept this, then,
as a small recognition of your praiseworthy ac-
tion. and that you may long be spared to grace the
profession you now so nobly honour is the sin-
corest wish of—the management.” The brave
young Romeo attempted to reply, but the hysteric
ball rose up in his throat, and his stammering pro-
test was drowned by the applause of the delighted
audience and his fellow-players, who now gathered
round him. The medal was then anxiously ex-
amined, and it was found to bear the name of the
recipient on one side.iwhilst the other recorded the
gallant deed for which he was rewarded —“ He
turned down the gas in his dressing-room upon
leaving it for the stage.” Exeunt omnea to slow
music.
One of these days some enterprising idiot
will undertake to revise the Bible once again, and
If he happens to be well abreast of the times, he
will make a certain pertinent passage read, *‘My
house Is a house of prayer, but you have made it
a knocking-out saloon, for the purpose of settling
up your little private animosities.” Up at 8t.
John’s, Wagga Wagga, a few Sabbaths ago, a cer-
tain lady went into her pew to pray, but finding
her lawful roost already tenanted by two female
“ creatures ” she went for them after the style of
a feminine Donald Dlnnle, and at last succeeded in
landing the annexers into the middle of the church
aisle, to the intense edification of the rest of the
pious worshippers assembled. Of course the two
usurpers Immediately “ took the law ” on their
fair ejector, and a nice old legal 15-puzzle was
raised in consequence. Imprimis, If a church is a
public place, how can a pew therein be private
property? And, supposing a pew is private pro-
perty, is it lawful to sling a usurper out like a dead
rat, or, is it not necessary to first serve an injunc-
tion ordering the party in possession to clear off by
a certain given time ? Then, again; is an aisle to
be considered in the same light as a public street,
or thoroughfare ? If it is, why is the owner of a
pet poodle, or even a pet goat, forbidden to allow
It to troop up and down the said aisle, if Its master
or mistress chooses it should do so ? All these, and
much more legal troubles worried the Wagga
Bolens, but they rose to the occasion, and out the
Gordian knot, as it were, by dismissing the case of
’saultaud battery. From Condobolin comes a some-
what similar tale. At appears that the daughter of
a respectable citizen up there attended the Church
of England service a few Sabbaths ago, and a
favourite little dog, unnoticed by his mistress,
followed her down the aisle. This so scandalised
the sexton, who seems to be a sort of diluted
Simon Peter in his way, that he at once seized a
chair, just as his choleric prototype seized bis
sword, and with one fell swoop, endeavoured to
drive the unregenerated little dingo, feet fore-
most, through the sacred floor. Being nther un-
steady in his aim, however, it came to pass that
the first time he hit the poodle, he missed nim; and
the second time he let fly be bit him in the same
place. The whole of his sacred energy was not
lost, however, for he succeeded in breaking the
young lady’s parasol, and also inflicting a very
nasty wound on her little sister’s leg. For both
offences the pugnacious sexton was duly hauled
up before the local Bench of magistrates, who,
with a Solomon-like discernment, dismissed the
charge of wounding the girl, but fined the man
of wrath for splintering up the parasol. This
looks as if the orthodox way to keep a congre-
gation in order now, is to belt it over the bead
with a chair; but as many of the faithful are not
yet quite prepared to quietly accept this innova-
tion, we may reasonably expect that our different
church services will soon partake of the nature of
the festivities which occurred during the memor-
able “night before Larry was stretched,” or when
Donnybrook was in the heyday of its glory. And
no doubt the time is close at hand when it will be
utterly Impossible to determine by appearances
whether a man is a devout church-goer, or only a
football-player who was accidentally overtaken
by a loaded tramcar.
When God created man He was labouring
under the impression that He had made all the
human race alike. The gigantic intellect that runs
the Richmond River Distress thinks differently
however, and instead of holding out bis paw, and
acknowledging his black brudder to be his equal,
he grabs his nose with bis fingers when the nigger
approaches, and philautropically “sools” bis
dogs on him. A few days ago several lords and
ladies of the soil on the Richmond undertook to
“keep it up that pfellor Krismiss like im white
man,” and, having filled their tanks with “tangle,”
they started singing inverted Psalms, and carrying
on in a delightfully opera bouffish manner in front
of the Walker-ftreet hotels. True to the Instincts
of their species, ihe “ mlmbers av th’ foorce ”
were conspicuous by their absence, and conse-
quently, a number of high-toned whites rushed
the pandemonium performance, and knocking
chiefs, and gins, and picanninies down alike,
danced the lancers ovtr the poor besotted
wretches, until they were cramped up beyond ail
recognition. In a plain, straightforward letter to
the Distress, a "Spectator” drew attention to
the disgrace!ul conduct of the roughs, and the
Inefficiency of the police on this occasion. The
letter appeared in due course, and, tacked on to
its tail, was the lollowing aristocratic appendix:—
“ In reference to * Spectator’s ’ letter, we Hod that
the primary cause of ail the trouble was grog;
but it also appears that before they were • kicked
and abused ’ by white men, some ot the blacks were
most insulting in their conduct aud language to
the decidedly superior race. We are certainly
averse to see the weak trampled upon, at the same
time these dark people ought to be made keep
thoir place—just as much as a baronet would
object to associating with his stable-boy.—Ed. Ex-
press.” Up to the present, we have always
Imagined that baronets rather courted the society
ot stable-boys, on the theory that most men love
to congregate with persons of congenial tastes to
their own, but as the Distress genius is an un-
doubted authority on matters pertaining to stable
life, we bow to his experience. At the same time,
however, we are of opinion that if a portion ot the
“decidedly superior race” respected the law of
the land, and declined to work up their banking
J dies by supplying the “dark people” with snake-
ulce, and fleecing them ol their bottom cents,
there would be no desire on the part of the latter
to offend the oulchawed refinement of the Rich-
mond River by theii- plbturesqiie language and
can-can behaviour, and there would be still less
occasion for a crowd of nearly one hundred Chris-
tian men and womea—we beg the baronet’s par-
don-ladles and gentlemen, to stand idly by and
enjoy the ennobling spectacle of a mob of white
rougns thumping and kicking a handful of their
helpless, unbleached brudders and sisters into a
pulp, simply because they attempted to amuse
themselves after the manner of the “decidedly
superior race ” they saw around them. But the
bulk of our sympathy is with the reduced baronet,
whom a cruel fate has compelled to run a Rich-
mond River rag, when he ought—if he had his
rights—to be sitting with folded arms on a Rotten
Row “kerridge,” decked out in all the pomp and
circumstance of a high-toned flunkey.
The usual placidity of tone which charac-
terises Thady O’Kane’s Chesterfieldian rag was
considerably upended in the New Year’s day edi-
tion, but the very strongest mitigating plea that
could be put forward is to be found in the fact
that the town was blasted the night before by the
fell simoom of an amateur entertainment. In the
bitterness of our soul we have frequently sat
down in front of a school globe, and endeavoured
to discover if there is any place in the known
world where a despair-driven man could pass at
least three weeks without being tortured by the
sight of a noster announcing that the talented
local Sims Reeves and Pattis would give a “ grand”
concert in aid of some harmless, inoffensive
charity that had been dragged in by the wool as
an excuse for the aforesaid talent to air their dia-
bolical idiosyncrasies. And we found thers was not.
From Greenland’s icy mountains to Croajingo-
long’s fertile plains there is not a single spot where
the pestilence does not rage, and hence it is that
we can sympathise in our soul of souls with the
maddened warrior of the Northern Miner.
Thady evidently suffered greatly during the con-
cert night, but he took it out of some of his inhu-
man persecutors. Starting off with the audience,
the old man goes for the aristocracy of the Towers,
who make it a practice to troop in just as the first
portion of a musical splurge is about half through,
and, in his own polished style, observes:—" It is
remarkable that on these occasions the ugliest and
worst-dressed women come late and get the best
places, female ‘ cheek ’ being too much for bank
management.” Having disposed of that crowd in
one round, Thady lets down a young lady and her
“ mate ” rather gently by observing the tuneful
pair “ had a pretty rough time of it, and got nearly
wrecked in “Whatare the Wild Waves Saying,” and
then, having lashed himself into fury, he tackles
the Town Clerk, who, we are told, ‘‘thinks he
is formed by nature as the funny man of
charters Towers, and strung together a lot
of doggrei for a farce, called the ‘ Ravens-
wood Railway Opening.’” Right here the fun
begins, for of this Miltonic corporation official
Thady remarks: “ Whether it was the exigencies
of his rhyme or the shallowness of bis brain we
know not, but he coupled individuals in an offen-
sive manner. It may appear the height of wit to
him to couple Green,the bellman, with Dr. Brown,
but it was not the less an impertinence. . . Ben
Green rings a bell, that is honest work, and no lair
object of laughrer; it is certainly a cut above
flunkey to a mayor.” After this, the belligerent
Miner gives a Mr. Walker a side-fall, by advising
him not to tempt Providence by an appearance in
the role of a comic vocalist any more, as he “ looks
like an undertaker at a wedding b ast, and will
most assuredly, damn any other concert ho ap-
pears in.” And then comes the special victim to
be slaughtered, a Mr. F. C. Brewer, who, having
essayed the part of the “Artful bodger,” is
politely Informed that the part must have been
written for him; in fact, “ he must have been born
in it, Inherited it from his illustrious dodger an-
cestors: it goes to bed with him, and tits closer to
him than bis patched coat. He acted the part of
the ‘Artful Dodger’—the bar loater, ready for any
shady wort—true to life, and his fitness tor the
character was at once seized by those in
the back seats, who loudly appiauded.” Rather
unwisely, however, Thady gives himself away
after this, by pointing our that the “drives ” made
by Mr. Brewer during the course ot his “gag,”
were solely In return for the “digs” the Miner
gave that worthy during the last elections. Tne
balance of the old man's critique then slides off
into electioneering topics, and, having delivered
himself on these, he fires a Parthian snot by ob-
i serving, " The present committee wants weeding,
and Ps tone raised.” Some of the bommlttee, how-
ever, declare it Is Thady who requires raising’, and
they have signified tbelt willingness to perform
the operation the next time they catch the Towers
Terror in a standing posture.
“In the midst of life we are in death,” is
a saying which we fear will be in great requisition
for some considerable time to come. Whoever
drew attention to the matter first must ha\ e had
our weakly dailies in his mind’s eye, for the style
in which these precious prints have recently
slaughtered the persons, and advertised the fu-
nerals of some of our public men, such, for ex-
ample, as worthy Solomon pere, of Horwitz-
divorce ca«e renown. Mr. Jehu Bowden, Inspector
uran, and Constable Stone, of the Battle of Bondi—
is something calculated to raise a full-sized panic,
even in the breast of a babe unborn. Atthe same
time, however, it is but ".fair to these veracious
journals to state that the fault is not wholly theirs.
As Campbell would say—only he happens to be
dead, and, of course, otherwise engaged at present
—“ the sunset of life gives them mystical lore, and
coming events cast their shadows before.” A sha-
dow—or rather, several shadows in the shape of
about four tons of rock —fell on Constable Stone,
for instance, at the Bondi picnic, and Immediately,
our prophetic gum-pot seers foresaw that he
would die at precisely 27 minutes to 13 next day.
Consequently, they buckled to work, and pave
him as nice a little literary sond-olf as any decent
policeman’s corpse could wish for. But was he
grateful for this? Notin the least. Anyway, if he
was, ho had a very queer way of showing his gra-
titude, for he resolutely got well from the very
moment his funeral was announced. In the case
of Mr. Cabman Bowden, the Nooze actually put
that person and *• his irreproachable career”—
these were the very words—through three editions
of one evening, and his obituary was well into the
“suckin-edlshun” of the next, when the subject of
the sketch called round, and swore if they didn’t
ease up on his “beloved remains,” he’d get an
axe and drive the whole staff feet foremost
through the cellar flooring. Another disgraceful
tampering with the sacred privileges of the Press
occurred in the case of a Herman named Petm
Schultz, a Bungwall Flat tailor, who was not
only killed by a section of our daily Press falling
on him, but was positively buried also, and it was
furthermore remarked as a singular thing at the
time that he “died respected by all who knew him.”
Schultz, however, simply under the miserable
excuse that he never felt better than he did at the
time the papers killed him, then bucked about
over this business worse than even Bowden did;
and this, we submit, is carrying the joke just a
trille too far. If a man who is not only dead, but
actually buried to boot, is allowed to pass himself
off as a live man, the public hereafter can have no
possible security that anybody is thoroughly dead
at all, and the consequence of this dreadful state
of i ffairs is positively too fearful to even contem-
plate until the weather cools a little. Take, for
instance, the case ot u respectable, but domesti-
cated, citizen who has just married his sixth wife.
What is there, now, to prevent his five former
wives torn putting in an appearance and blasting
his young life by means of a trumped-up case of
“ quinaragamy ?” And then, again, think ot the
atmosphere of the Water Police Court when, with
the thermometer at 176' in the shade, the five
defunts began to raise their objections to the sixth
marriage 1 Getting back to this Schultz again,
thousands ot men who never heard ot that com-
bination of sour-kraut and high-toned bolony,
gripped their papers and read that his untimely
demise had “cast a gloom over the whole com-
munity of Bungwall Flat,” and they (the readers)
then felt all the better for it. They 7 felt that they,
too, could leave their No. 9 tracks on the sands of
Time, providing that they lived pure, upright,
and Christian lives like the German did; but, un-
fortunately for the world at large (and in gaol
also), before these people had time to spit on their
bands and start off on their new career, up comes
this Bungwall Teuton with a cook-and-bull yarn
that he is as mu ch alive to- day as the oldest cheese in
Paddy’s Market. He brings uotulng to prove hia
statement, however, and yet be has the cheek to
expect us to believe his ipse dixit before the printed
statements of our metropolitan dallies, Bchultz’s
little game Is too thin, and we now call on
the Goverment to step in, protect the privileges
of real live men, and by so doing, uphold tha vera-
city of the daily Press. Bchultz is not the only
one who is dead and doesn’t know It.
Sleep, gentle sleep! Nature’s sweet re-
storer! What little attention have thy votaries
bestowed on the all-important matter of sacrificing
to thee with becoming solemnity and comeliness of
demeanour! How often have we seen thee wooed
by men who gave out an aroma worse than that of
a Limburger cheese manufactory on fire, or a
Water Police Court audience during the trial of a
Waterloo “Bummer” or a “Black Red,” and
whose sacerdotal garments would bring a blush of
shame even to the leery face of a 5th of November
Guy Fawkes ? How often have we seen church
elders, judges, and other rulers of the land jab
their heads into ash buckets, or dirt boxes on the
pavements, hoist their heels up against posts, and
then, In such disrespectful attitudes as these, call
upon thee to cool their heated brow3 with thy
dewy breath and assist, the fiery spirits within to
bury the boozed one’s troubles deeper than did
ever plummet sound ? How often, alas I have we
been there ourselves and profaned thy sacred wor-
ship in like manner? We give it up. Only
Babbage’s calculating machine could cor-
rectly figure out the total. Sad thoughts like
these have struck us oftener than the butt end of
a wet mop. And yet we have been married seven-
and-twenty years come next April Fools’ Day.
When we sacrifice to Jupiter, Mars, or Venus, or
any other deities, we don our holiday clothes and
deport ourselves in a becoming manner, but Som-
nus we treat with no more outward respect than
we would a Hindoo god that hadn’t a second change
of underclothing to his credit. Probably much of
this is due to the shady parentage of the sleep-
compelling deity, for Somnus was the son
of Nox, by Erebus; and Erebus, according to
different mythological accounts, was not only
Nox's husband, but her biother, and even
her son by Chaos; and Mors was a son of his
own brother Somnus, by that devil of a goddess,
Nox, the mother of his father and himself. That
simply Nox the entanglements of the Deceased
Wife’s Sister Bill clean out in one round, but it is
not of this that we would speak to-day. We would
draw the earnest attention of all to the fact that
yet another long-felt want|has been filled by the
head of a Young Ladies’Academy in Cincinnati!,
who, amongst other accomplishments, now teaches
her fair pupils the art of sleeping gracefully.
Speaking of the new art, the lady boss, on being
interviewed, said—“ Did you ever consider that a
third of your time is, or ought to be, spent in
sleep ? And if you did, it is highly improbable
that you have had a thought as to how you looked
wfcen sleeping. Well, it doesn’t make so much
difference in a man, perhaps, but a girl owes it to
herself to be at all times as handsome as she cad,
irrespective of her natural expectation of becom-
ing a wife. Therefore, I have introduced the study
of slumbrous comeliness.” Like “ mobled queen,
“slumbrous comeliness ” is good, and we are dead
sure of roping the sympathies of every married
man in the land when we say that one of the very
first female faults corrected by their Cincinnattl
benefactor is that of sleeping with the mouth d
la tiy-trap, or wide open. Byron has some beauti-
ful tines on the bliss derived from watching o’er
the face of our loved ones while they sleep, but
that little bit of sentiment was blasted out of his
“toonful” breast long before he became ac-
quainted with Mrs. Byron. Most girls sleep with
the lower jaw resting on their snowy breast, while
the upper one creeps up and forms a Swiss roof,
as it were, across the nose. Dreadfully unro-
mautio snoring is the result, and there are times
when the wretched husband believes that death,
or even the Nelson’s foghorn, would be preferable
to the slumbering lady trombone-player by
his side. Speaking of this, the Cincinnattl
Professoress says:— “I teach my girls to close
their lips snugly before dropping asleep, and to
avoid throwing their heads too far back on the
pillow, so that their mouths won’t fall open as
soon as the muscles are relaxed.” In cases where
moral suasion is powerless to effect a change, the
lower jaw is secured to the ceiling by a combina-
tion of pulleys and ropes which are calculated to
either stop tne snoring or break the patient’s jaw,
and the sooner this invention is patented and its
use made compulsory by Act of Parliament, the
better it will be for very many of our male ac-
quaintances. Another item which the Professoress
Insists on is the paying of proper attention to the
bed toilet. ” A lady a night-dress,” says the Cin-
cinnattt goddes, “ should be neat, well-fitting, and
adapted to their[individuality. Their poses on their
couch should no more be awkward than those of
their .walking hours, and L Instruct them to so
habituate themselves to gracefulness in bed that
it will become instinctive. That’s about all there is
of the system.” We are sorry that’s all, but, never-
theless, we are truly thankful for what we’ve got
already. Nothing becomes a woman more than
gracefulness. The chaste Lucreee was in bed
when her avengers came to hear the sad story of
her wrongs, and it is said that her refined deport-
ment and appropriate get-up on this occasion did
more to inflame the wrath of Brutus than even the
dreadful tale of Tarquin’s cussedness. Bed-clothes
adapted to the Individuality of their lady-wearers
is another matter.which enlists our warmest atten-
tion, and we sincerely trust that galvanised iron
garments will be a special feature in the nocturnal
costume of ladles, who, from delicacy or other
deserving motives, feel compelled to eat seed-cake
in bed. On the whole, we consider the new idea
to be the grandest in its way that ever struck
the world since the discovery of the steam-engine,
and the invention of shirts that button up the
back.
We English are inclined to give far too little attention to the wardrobes of our
young folk—we are too busy cogitating over our own. Now, in this the French are
different, for they expend just as much thought over their live dolls’ dresses, &c., as if
they were as important as their own. A glance at the above illustration will suffice to
show that even in their very pinafores the little ones enjoy a dainty care which is
almost foreign to the English child. And why not? Surely it is better to have such
pretty little pictures ornamenting our houses, instead of our all too often carelessly-
clad little ones, in their slovenly blouses or ill-chosen dress which just fits inhere it
touches f Of course, the English mother is all very well, but she can’t (or won’t) dress
her children a little bit.
