

THE BULLETIN
Vol 3 -No. 132 -New Series.
SATURDAY. NOVEMBER 21, 1885.
Price - 6d.
The Bull
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1885.
The projects of the Peer and the Professor.
AEsop tells us how one of the youngest and
most ingenious members of a council of
mice secured considerable applause by his
sensible proposal to hang a bell round the
cat’s neck. The joy at having at last dis-
covered a means of defeating the common
enemy lasted until the question arose as to
which mouse was prepared to earrv out the
council’s resolution. Some recent sugges-
tions made by prominent Englishmen and
by colonists possess this in common with the
proposals of the smart little mouse—nobody
seems disposed to put them in force. These
suggestions have reference to the “ necess-
ity”—as it is called- of strengthening the
ties binding England to the colonies; of
forming, in fact, a great English-speaking
confederation. Some of the more ardent
advocates of the scheme would even include
the United States, and thus give the Ameri-
cans a chance of once more enjoying the ad-
vantages of hereditary Government. It
never appears to occur to them that the
Americans would naturally reply, “Yes, we
shall certainly join 3 our confederation, and,
as we are by far the largest section of people
speaking the Saxon tongue, we shall, of
course, want the seat of Government at
Washington, and expect the abolition of
throne, titles, standing armies, State
Churches, hereditary rule, and many other
tags of old-world barbarism.” It is to the
pages of Swift or of Jules Verne we must
turn for a project equalling in wildness that
of trying to induce the free people inhabit-
ing the vast region between the St. Lawrence
and the Gulf of Mexico to play second
fiddle in any political combination, or re-
cognise as valid the claim of any man to
make their laws because his female pro-
genitors were strongly in favour of a modi-
fication of the seventh commandment.
• • m
Some time ago a British peer, tolerably
able, young and liberal, paid Australia a
visit, and returned home with his head full
of the confederation craze. Unlike many
colonists, however, who see no obstacles in
the track, Lord Rosebery perceived the
difficulties that required to be surmounted
before his wishes could be realised. He saw
that a federated Empire meant a Parliament
central and supreme; that this, in its turn,
meant representation according to popula-
tion of scattered states having few common
interests, and that general taxation for Im-
perial purposes would follow. He, there-
fore, approaches the matter cautiously, and,
as a first step towards the unity on which his
heart is set, proposes the creation of colonial
Peers. Following his lead comes Professor
Strong, late of the Melbourne University,
whose poor little suggestion that antipodean
Agents-General be ex-officio members of
the House of Commons was thought worthy
of being telegraphed across the hemispheres.
As an example of how difficult it is for even
a clever man to subject to a calm examina-
tion the traditions in which he was nursed,
Lord Rosebery’s proposal is instructive.
Being an observant man and a travelled, he
must have noticed that as education pro-
gresses the vigour of the hereditary prin-
ciple in government deoPnes—that, broadly
leaking, the intellectual status of a nation
be gauged by the popular views on
heredity. He must be aware that, to allow
the accident of birth to decide who is to
command and who to obey, is directly op-
posed to the natural law that pays
Bu °h little heed to the fact of one
child’s being fed on choice food while
another has to put up with garbage—that
allots to a strolling player the task of
writing “Hamlet,” and chooses a plough-
man’s brain as the medium for evolving
the “Cotter’s Saturday Night.” He is
surely aware that the principle he
champions is not only opposed to nature,
but is condemned by experience; that all
the famines and plagues which have
scourged mankind were blessings compared
with the evils attributable to hereditary
rule, and that the time is almost at hand
when the last vestige of the noxious
principle will have disappeared from Great
Britain. Considering all these circum-
stances, it is little less than marvellous that
Lord Rosebert should make the people of
Australia such a return for their hospitality.
They never did him any harm. To try and
foist on another country an institution
which, in your own, has been one gruesome
record of tyranny, vice, and crime—of
pitiless cruelty, combined with sickening
meanness—is an instance of gratuitous in-
gratitude. We already have and
rabbits to contend against. The introduc-
tion of a peerage will complete the trinity
of plagues. Still, bearing in mind the men
who are likely to be ennobled, if an assur-
ance could be obtained from the authorities
that means similar to those already in
vogue for destroying the other pests would
be allowed in the case of the new rulers,
we would strenuously support Lord Rose-
bery's proposal.
* ■ •
To those aoquait ted with the history of
Aristocracy in the British Islands, why the
people evu' suffered it to live so long ap-
pears extraordinary. From the Norman
conquest till to-day, the sufferings of the
EngHsh people at the hands of their heredi-
tary rulers would appear incredible to one
ignorant of the savage traits which are born
of privilege. Reading the dreary record of
murder, lust, greed, and cruelty makes the
blood surge with indignation, and prompts
one to dispute the claim to sturdy indepen-
dence put forward by the British people.
Speaking of the sufferings of the Irish,
Geobge breaks out: “ Were it not for the
enervating effect which the history of the
world proves to be everywhere the result of
abject poverty, it would be difficult to resist
something like aj feeling of contempt for a
race who, stung by such wrongs, have only
occasionally murdered a landlord.” Precisely
the same feeling comes over one on reading
of the sufferings patiently endured by the
British people from their “ Old Nobility.”
For four hundred years after the conquest
the nobility were simply foreign garotters
who had succeeded in throttling Saxon
England. The Conqueror’s followers were
Europe’s enfans perdns. By famine and the
sword one-third of the English were de-
stroyed during the reigos of William and
his immediate successors. Every noble had
his castle, from which he and his men-at-
arms would issue to murder, ravish, and de-
vastate, until, according to an old chroni-
cler, men said openly that ‘‘Christ and h's
saints slept.” Fortunately, the Wars of the
Roses divided them into two parties, which,
to the great relief of the country, destroyed
each other as effectually as the historical
cats of Kilkenny, but not before a hundred
thousand Englishmen had fallen in quarrels
with the making of which they had nothing
to do. During the n ext 200 years—down to the
Revolution of 1688—according to a recent
writer, ‘'there grew up an entirely new
order of noble fungi parchment-made
peers—base, crawling courtiers, perfect pro*
digies of avarice, cowardice, servility, lying,
forgery, plotting, and all the meaner and
meanest human vices. Henry YIT. and
Henry YIII. sent them to the block by the
score for any reason or none. The ‘Virgin
Queen ’ thought nothing of boxing the ears
of a great nobleman or even of spitting in
his face. ’ It is from ihese vermin through
successive trulls that some of the great Eng-
lish families of tc-day have their descent.
[ From the Revolution to the Reform Bill of
1832, the interest and reduction of king and
lord-begotten war debt cost Great Britain
over six billion « of money, while three
quarters of a billion remains jet to be paid.
Two millions of British lives v ere also
sacrificed, and America was lost. Since the
Reform Bill, it is only necessary to look
through Hansard to see that every measure
having for its object the education and
elevation of the people, the shortening tf
the hours of labour, the relief of women
and children from soul-destrojing toil, or
the repeal of religious disabilities, has been
fiercely opposed by the Lords. Can it he
that Lord Rosebery has taken the true
measure of the colonial sheep-breeders he
met at home and in Australia, by proposing
to make them members of a body whose
history is the meanest and bloodiest in the
annals of mankind '!
• • •
It is probable that the measure advocated
by Lord Hosibery was intended by him as
a first step towards that confederation of
the Empire on which he appears to have
sethis heart. But whether it rvould advance
his pet i reject is open to doubt. It is cer-
tain that onl> very rich men would secuie
the piiz/ > . English peers have sufficient
sense to know that without wealth their
blue blood would avail them nought—that
without a large balance their high-
sounding titles would arouse ridicule in-
stead of reverence. As the rich men of
Australia are not to be found amongst its
slattsmen, and as wealth would be an es-
sential factor in qualifying for promotion
to the peerage, it is clear that such promo-
tion would be the reward of euccessful
money-grubbing rather than of public ser-
vice. Suppose, then, that ten, or twenty,
rr fifty cf the richest men in Australia were
raised to the peerage to-morrow, such an
event would tend to snap the painter instead
of aiding a fresh strand to i». The Biitish
nobles would look with contempt on their
clumsy emsins. Should the newly-fledged
ones sit in the Upper Chamber, the British
people would demand to know why this
fresh disturbing element was introduced
just as they were about to sweep away the
old. The colonies would certainly disallow
their claims to form colonial Upper Houses,
while their very titles would secure their
defeat in contesting Democratic constitu-
encies. In a word, the new peers would find
themselves between the Devil and the deep
sea. The project then of strengthening, by
means of colonial peers, the ties binding
England and her colonh s is worthy of the
mind that respondtd “we 1 done” to the
news that New South Wales had accepted a
junior partnership in the weasand slitting
trade.
■ * *
Towards the consolidation of the Empire
the initial step recommended by Professor
Strong, if more modest than Lord Rosb-
bkrv’s is just as foolish. The Professor
M. ERM3T RENAN.


would have all the Agents-General made cx
officio members of the House of Commons.
These intelligirat officers would have votes
or they would not. If they had not, it is
bard to see what office they could perform
in the House that could not be performed
more satisfactorily outside. If they had
vote’s, and that an important question ever
came to a close division, the statesmen who
allowed the representatives of no place in
particular to interfere with the course of
British legislation would probably have to
pass through an exceedingly unpleasant
half-hour. We have heard of many projects,
from a peripatetic Parliament to a paltry
peerage, for tightening those troublesome
ties, but we can frankly say that the method
of Professor Strong is the weakest of all
And when we remember that the reduced
telegraphic tariff has not yet come into
operation, the reason why this crude pro-
posal was wired to Australia, is shrouded in
mystery. Even at a penny a word, the
message would be dear.
* • ■
It is now Lord Lymtngton’s turn. This is
what he says to his Devonshire (E ig.) con-
stituents:—
“ He had been spending a few months in Aus-
tralia, and he confessed that he was delighted with
the almost passionate loyalty of the Australian
people to the mother country. He felt prouder of
being an Englishman after what ho had seen: but
he could not help feeling, in regard to politics at
home, how essentially important it was to the
working classes that our colonial empire should
be maintained. They had been told by many that
the question of the colonies was not a question
which practically affected this country; but, he
should like to ask, was the question of the outlet
of our surplus population, the question of a
market for our home manufactures—were these
questions which did not affect, and vitally affect,
the industrial classes of this country? There
might be some who might tell them that all this
trade would continue, even if the colonies were
not under British control, but experience proved
the contrary. Our trade with the colonies during
this depressed time had stood the depression
better than tho trade with fore'gn countries.
Therefore, he maintained that in the future, look-
ing at the surplus population alone, it was of
incalculable importance that we should strengthen
the sympathies and bonds with our colonies.”
Thus, according to Lori Lyminqton, the
colonies, instead of being allowed to slip
away from the Empire, should be drawn
closer for the purpose of preserving Eng-
land’s trade and affording an asylum for the
surplus population of the British Hands. But
no disciple of his Lordship’s school has ever
attempted to explain how colonial independ-
ence would affect these desiderata. America
is independent, but she affords an outht
second to none for the overflowing popula-
tion not of Britain alone, but of
It Australia were independent to-morrow it
is certain that she would not put a poll-tax
on English immigrants, but welcome them.
The Englishman in the United States has pre-
cisely the same privilege as the native-born
Yankee. The only disability he labours
under is ineligibility for the Presidency—a
disability from which his children, born in
the country of his adoption, are free. But
if America had remained a British province
the same man and his remotest progeny
would be excluded from the throne whether
he remained at home or crossed the Atlantic
The Briton who emigrates to the States does
bo under the pressure of actual or of pros-
pective want In his new home he generally
finds the independence and well-being he
vainly sought in the old. What, then, does
he lose by going to the Great Republic?
His beloved Sovereign and his old nobility.
But it is remarkable how quickly a man
gets over such losses when he sees well-
fed instead of half-starved children around
him. His boys, bred in Republican schools,
learn to look on hereditary rule and its vul-
gar ostentation as the draff of a barbaric
past—the moribund survival of a rude age.
equally antagonistic to reason and to justice.
Even he himself, after a while, looks back
with amazement on the time when the
writer of “Leaves from our Diary in the
Highlands” appeared to him a superior
person to those who gave us “ Middlemarch”
and the “ Connection of the Physical
Sciences.” Except, therefore, the doubtful
advantages of having their houses sacked
because the French advanced on Belgium,
an independent Australia would offer the
surplus population of Britain the same ad-
vantages which she offers at present, and a
few others to boot.
« * *
So with trade. GotoaNewSouthWales mer-
chant who imports goods from San Francisco.
He is, say, an Englishman by birth. Ask
him why he does not import from London,
and he will probably say, “ The goods for
which the English manufacturer charges Is.
Id. can be obtained from the American for
Is,” If you. proceed further, and add,
“Surely your patriotism is sufficiently ro-
bust to stand the extra penny for the sake
of the old flag,” he would probably con-
tinue, “If I did so other people would im-
port from America and undersell me. To
live atall I must buy in the cheapest market,
whatever flag flies over it.” Thus we see
that it is profit, not patiiotism, that in-
duces Australia to trade with England.
For a generation English economists
have taught that to buy cheap and sell dear
la the basis of barter. And if it he said
that an independent Australia would ham-
per British trade with import duties, the
answer is that the colonies can do so at
present, that some have done so, and that
others are preparing to follow. The time
has surely come when the stupid cry that
exchange between England and her colonies
depends on the strength or weakness of the
political ties binding them should csase.
Martin's Morality.
Some of the foremost teachers of our time assert
that it is far more necessary that a hoy should
have a knowledge of the house he lives in, or, in
other words, of his body, than of reflective verbs.
But the judges of New South Wales think the
teaching of physiology, even to mature men, a
crime. According to them the ordinary man has
no right to know the positions or functions of his
bodily organs, and the person who endeavours to
teach him is guilty of an offence punishable with
Imprisonment. But if mar, in endeavouring to
learn the uses of his physical organs, is guilty of
obscenity, what is this but a charge of obscenity
against the Creator who made these organs ? For
the want of this knowledge unnumbered multi-
tudes have gone to premature graves, the victims
of qualified and unqualified quacks. Trying to
teach physiology or anatomy without diagrams is
like trying to teach geography without maps, al-
gebra without symbols, or drawing with the eyes
bandaged. The judges’ views were delivered in
consequence of one Thomas Walker using dia-
grams in his physiological lectures. He was
pounced upon, the drawings confiscated, and the
lecturer subj'cted to a smart fine. Against this
he appealed, and, on a technical point, the appel-
late court decided in his favour. And now comes
the curious part of the affair. The j udges, as if to
make up for being obliged to quash the conviction,
freely vented their opinions. It is these opinions
which are so instructive. Sir James Martin, for
instance, says:—
“ It is idle to say that those things were exhibited
for the education and enlightenment of the public,
or to compare them to illustrations used in a
lecture to medical students. There is no (?imi-
larity between the two cases. Toe exhibition of
tt ings of this character is per se an exhibition of
what is obscene. . . . Tne exhibition of these
drawings is of itself obscenity. It it is necessary
to teach medical students in that way.lt may be
done. In that case, the exhibition being necessary
loses the character of indecency. An exhibition
(auctioned by no such motive becomes obscene.
Here is a person, not a professor of anatomy, who
lelivers lectures to the public, not to any particu-
lar persons, but to any casual pisser-oy wno
chooses to go io and pay eighteenpenca. They
merely go to gratify a prurient curiosity. The in-
formation imparted is of an exceedingly objection-
able character. It is information likely to do in-
calculable harm; misleading young men, and in-
ducing them to mislead young women.”
Mr. Justice Faucett adds :
“ These lectures are not given for merely educa-
tional purposes, but to gratify a prurient curio-
sity.”
While Mr. Justice In nes follows with:
“ It is much to be regretted that a scandalous out-
rage upon public decency should ercipe—even for
i time—well-merited, though wh dly inadequate,
punishment, in consequence of a technical defect
in the imperfect framing of the information. The
mere exhibition of these diagrams or representa-
tions to the public for gain is an offence under
his Act, unless justified by the‘circumstances of
che exhibition, such, for instance, as to illustrate
m anatomlcftl lecture iu a class room of students.”
it is not too much to say that by the public these
opinions will bo received with amazement, coming
as they do from men chosen to interpret and ad-
ninister the law in a presumably civilised com-
munity. Had the judges contented themselves
with giving their decision without assigning rea-
sons, they would, perhaps, have been safe. But,
in au evil hour for themselves, they gave the
reasons which guided them, and, by so doing,
showed the contempt in which they held the
public intelligence. We submit that the Chinese
who burns down his house in order to obtain roast
pork, or the Papuan, who secures his neighbour’s
ffrength—and silence—by eating him, hes more
logic on his side than the judges who decided the
Walker case. Having failed ignomlniously in
ds crusade against religious heterodoxy—having
ihown an utter inability to grasp the tenor of
(peculations which he passionately condemned—
Sir James Martin now tries bis hand at suppress-
ing scientific heterodoxy. If his failure as a
mientiflo Thug can be gauged by the ineptitude of
che reasons he advances for his course of action,
His collapse will be complete. Let us see. Accord-
ing to the Judges of New South Wales a person
who has a diploma showing that at one time he
knew certain facts connected with the structure
of the human body, can, without being guilty of
obscenity, exhibit for pay certain diagrams to a
number of rowdy youths who intend, or say they
intend, to become surgeons. But if the same
person, wishing to enlarge the sphere of his use-
fulness by teaching what all should know—ex-
hibits for pay the same to a number
of mature men, who express no intention of
becoming anatomists, bo is a dealer in filth
Should he not be a legally certified teacher, his
offence is so much the ranker. Thus Professor
Anderson Stuart, when showing pictures of the
human frame to boys at the Sydney University is
a gentleman. But should he, with the same object-
namely, the instruction of the general public in
the highest of all knowledge—exhibit the dia-
grams to an audience of mature m m at the
Theatre Royal, he is a blackguarl. 16 is when wo
read judgments like this that wo echo the cry for
“ more judges” which is at present heard in New
South Wales. And if the adjective “ new ” were
substituted for “more,” our jjy would be un-
bounded. So far as we know, this troublesome
Walker is not a duly certified anatomist. But
he facts he set forth were, no doubt, obtained
from standard work'. That the femur is the
longest bone in the human body is just as true if
stated by a child as if vouched for by the Presi-
dent of the Royal College of Surgeons. To pre-
vent a man from teaching anatcmlcal or physio-
logical facts because he is not a surgeon is just as
stupid as to object to a person’s teaching that the
diameter of a circle Is its greatest chord, or that
the angles of a triangle are together equal t j two
right angles, because he is not a Cambridge
Wrangler. Every week or so lectures concerning
matters which all females should know, and Ulus,
trated byjdlagrams, are delivered in Sydney to
women alone. The New South Wales judges have
not yet got so far as to say that it is obscene for
women f o bear children or to learn the conditions
which favour the chance of healthy offspring, but
they are on the road. True to the policy which
has gained it a reputation for unswerving mean-
ness, the Press of Sydney screams at the ‘ miscar-
riage” of justice, and shakes its little rattle in the
lecturer’s face. The Telegraph says: ‘‘ln the
pure name of scienci he attempted to palm off
on the Ignorant and depraved the filthy imposi-
tion of a common char'atan,” But we challenge
the Telegraph to name one single state-
ment of Walker’s which is contrary to as-
certained knowledge. If there is filth in the
matter at all, it should be sought, not lu the
lecture-room, but in the prurient minds of those
who, if they had their way, would cover the
Venus of Milo with a calico skirt. The spuri.
ous knowledge.” the journal continues, "which
the quack doctor professes to impart at Is. Oi , re-
quires a lot of genuine knowledge to neutralise it**
poisonous effects.” But when people attempt to
impart the “genuine knowledge” which would
oblige the passed and the plucked charlatan to
take to an honest calling, literary and legal
garetters—liko Charley Bates and the "Artful”
—set up a cry of “stop thle f .” The tiny Echo
too pipes its little bleat as follows : -
“It —the court—declared that there was no
analogy between Mr. Walker’s lecture and that
of a professor to medical students ; the latter was
given to Impart necessary knowledge and to pro-
mote professional competency ; tne former, to
make money and gratify prurient curiosity. It
was announced last night that Mr. Walker in-
tended re delivering the obnoxious lecture in the
course of a montnortwo. Sir James Martin has
warned him rgalnst that course, and the Chief
J ustice is not tne man to allow any citizm to defy
tne law with impunity’”
Here again the changes are run? upon the differ-
ences between the professor’s motives and the lec-
turer’s. And is a threat, too. Sir James will
crush Walker, He his hand at crushing
Freethought and set all Australia tittering.
♦ » +
Thus we see that for a professor to exhibit, for
pay, diagram! to a number of foul-mouthed, to-
bacco-smelling youths, is pure, but for another
person to exhibit the same to men of mature
years, Is obscene. It will be observed that all
three judges agree that Walker’s lectures were
given to gratify prurient curiosity. How do
they know? Curiosity prompted us to attend one
of the lectures, and when we compared the earn-
estness and good behaviour exhibited there with
the rowdiness. filth, and obscenity, through which
we had years ago to run the gauntlet in claes and
dissecting-rooms, the contrast was startling. The
judges’ opinions ara qui*e in keeping with those
of the English profeesors, who, a few years ago,
behaved so scandalously towards female medical
students in refusing them entrance to class-rooms,
and asserting that no modest woman could be a
surgeon. As well might they have said that eo
mode st woman could be a mother. The fact Is,
English prudery has become a by-word among the
nations. It is only in c immunities whose lawyers
brand as obscenca the diagrams essential to the
proper teaching of one of the grandest subjects,
that the traffic in children for Immoral purposes
could rise and nourish.
Under the Lash
It la gratifying to those who desire the abolition
of the lash to witness the interest that is being
taken at present all ovor Australia in discussions
as to its usefulness. In the capitals, as well as in
bush townships, the question stimulates enquiry.
Facts are collated, arguments built up, and con-
clusions set forth. Sometimes there is a notice-
able queerness about the way the work is done in
each department. We have a newspaper from the
West of Queensland before us, in which a Mr.
Mills, of Aramac, derives faith in the lash from
the fact that Bt. Paul was five times flogged, and
that even our Saviour underwent a whipping.
It may be possible to draw some inference from
these facts, but in as far as Mr. Mills’ position
goes, the Inference suggests that crucifixion is the
legitimate complement of flogging, for the Master
was crucified head-up, and his apostle was crucified
head-down. No matter, however, what the argu-
mentative power of the disputants may, in certain
cases, be, if only each man bring to the question
the sum of bis knowledge, we are thoroughly con-
vinced that a cry will go up from the people of
Australia that will abash the barbaric blood-
drinkers who, by the fortune that so often sends
human scum to the top, exercise too often domi-
nant influence in the politics of the country.
Two centuries ago the oat was everywhere a
judicial weapon. Through the streets of Great Bri-
tain the police-carts went, with half-naked men and
women tied to the tail-boards, and as they slowly
stepped along the town-flogger left the marks of
his thong on their bare backs. Well, what was the
consequence? Why, that in a century later the
blind jurists of an unscientific generation, them-
selves brutalised by handling a brutal multitude
made more brutal by a century of scourging, de-
termined upon a system of wholesale hanging.
Thtir conclusion, after a century of flogging, was
that the lash was a failure as a repressive measure,
and that the rope was the only effectual terror
The study of phy iology and mental science in re-
lation to disease and crime had not then properly
begun. There was a measure of excuse, there-
fore, for these experimentalists In blood which
cannot be set up for those who blunder on in their
footsteps to-day.
♦ * *
Several writers in the colonial Press seem to fear
that if they express antipathy to tin lash, they
will be understood as expressing sympathy for the
criminal. In the abstract it is likely that there is no
criminal who should be totally shut out from sym-
pathy. Cases arise, however, in which the criminal
is very naturally stripped of every right to commis-
seration from his fellow men. In no case, how-
ever, is the objection to the use of the lash an
out-growth of sympathy. It is the out-growth
of knowledge scientifically and experimen-
tally acquired. By lashing a people it has been
entertained theoretically and practically that
a worse people is made. The occurrence of
brutal crimes among a community is evidence of
a low moral atmosphere. That is the atmosphere
that has developed the brutal criminal. The use
of the lash makes this criminal more brutal and
the general atmosphere fouler. Even though the
particular crime for which the lash Is applied be
washed away, In the denser, dirtier, murkier at*
mosphere left by the spectacle of flying flesh and
running blood other and still more vile and brutal
crimes will, as we have pointed out, grow up.
Thus, then, the lash is denounced, not through
sympathy for the criminal, but with the view that
he shall not be further brutalised than he has been
by his crime, and that society shall not be bru-
talised by It at all.
* * •
S iciety has a great claim on a man’s obedience.
That is a social postulate. A many refuses to
obey. Now, what is society to do ? In cases of
the nature we refer to, the man is brutish. Well,
society can restrain him, can detain him, can de
prive him of outlet for his dispositions. Instead
of doing that, if It be a flogging society, it tears
the flesh from his bon es, and lets him loose after a
while. Assume him to be married. He has as
just a claim on the obedience of his wife as society
has on his. She will not accord obedience.
What was the most salutary persuasive
society taught him to employ to secure obe-
dience? Degrading, physical violence. There"
fore he jumps on her with his hobnailed
boots, and breaks in her ribs and fractures htr
skull. He is a brute, but his notion of the way to
exercise a controlling influence has been lashed
Into him by another brute. Judge Lush, on cir-
cuit in England one year, ordered flogging for
every offence for which the law permitted It.
When he returned to London he boasted that he
had given crime a Draconian lesson, and great
results were anticipated. Judge Keating took
that circuit on the following year, and on his
return reported that there was an appalling in-
crease in the worst class of these very crimes.
• * *
The bushman, whose only means of breakings
horse to the saddle is by the whip, deserves to be
turned out with bis swag on his back. The legis-
lators whose only means of breaking a community
ta law la by the lash ought to he sent abroad-
statutes and all.
Charles Bradlaugh
Thanks, very considerably, to Tory persecution
and religious bigotry, no man,appears more pro.
minently before the world at the present moment
as a representative Englishman than Charles
Bradlaugh, With ability fully equalling that
of John Wilkes, and a patience and magnani-
mity which the Democratic leader of last century
was Incapable of manifesting, he has fought the
battle of C institutional right and liberty against
Parliamentary c'.iqueiemand oppression for nearly
six years, and now stands in full view of an early
triumph. The odds against him at the start
were enorpnous. All the estates of the realm
were opposed to him. The Court, the aristo-
cracy, the Church, the Press, and a narrow-minded
and illiterate bourgeoisie were for once united in
denunciation of the Atheist, Republican, and
Radical who would not concent to cloak his out-
rageous opinions, as did so many others who
share! them, in the conventional garb of social re-
ticence. Appealing simply to the sense of justice
which, in the masses of mankind, has but to b e
awakened to assuredly overmaster the prejudices
born of faction and faith, Charles Bradlauqh
has steadily fought his way to a position as a
popular leader which to future Parliament can
safely ignore.
« • •
Elected to the last Parliament by the Northamp-
ton constituency in February, 1880, Charles
Bradlaugh stood upon the legal right to make
affirmation which was conceded to him as a wit.
ness in a Court of justice. He never declined to
take the oath, never “flaunted his Atheism”in
the House of Commons, as has been asserted and
reiterated usque ad nauseam. He simply asked to
be allowed to affirm under the provisions of cer-
tain specified acts. After some controversy the
permission wes conceded, and he sat, spoke, and
voted in the House for nearly six months, approv-
ing himself during the time, as men like Glad-
stone and John Bright bore testimony, one of
the most capable and industrious members the
House possessed.
• • *
When the Courts of law declared that his posi-
tion was an illegal one, as there was no statute
exempting him from the oath, he resigned his
seat, and applied for re-election to his constituents,
informing them that, if returned, he would at
once comply with the law, although the conclud-
ing words of the oath were to him an unmeaning
phrase. Still, the declaratory portion of it would
be binding on his conscience the same as an
affirmation. From this position he has never
allowed himself to be moved. Spite of gigantic
efforts on the part of the Tories, aided by "Liberals”
who placed Christian dogma first and llbt rty second,
his constituents stood by him, true as steel, net
only on that occasion, but twice thereafter when
he foued it necessary to make renewed appeal for
their coi fldence.
• * w
The last House of Commons prevented Mr.
Bradlaugh from taking his seat by its simple
resolution. It called him the member for North-
ampton on its journals, addressed him as member,
admitted that his return was unimpeachable, yet,
by sheer brute force of a majority precluded him
from the performance of his duties to hia consti-
tuents And how was the majority constituted?
C nsistent with the traditions of their party,
the Tories sought to keep the House of
Commons as much like an aristocratic club
as possible. But with the Tories were certain
weak-kneed Liberals of the pious Samuel Morlev
type, and—the Irish brigade 1 This last fact was
one for gods and men to admire. Irishmen
loudly- demanding the right of self-govern-
ment for themselves, combined to suppress
the freedom of an English constituency—to with-
hold the just rights of an English Parliamentary
representative. And such a representative! One
who, fora quarter of a century, has demanded
liberty for Ireland; who, in 1866, was publicly
thanked at a mass meeting in Dublin for his effor s
on behalf of Ireland; whose first speech in the
House of Commons was in Ireland’s favour; and
who, in the absence of Mr. Parnell at the time in
France, himself moved the rejection of Forster s
Coercion Bill. It is a simple truism that the word
“ Freedom ” Is incapable of being spelt by m® o


AMUSEMENT J D °“ o o ™.
On receipt of the advertised price, any of the
following Tricks will be sent by return post :
THE DISAPPEARING CARD BOX.- A card
S laced In the box instantly vanishes, and the box
i shown quite oupty. Price Is., post free Is. 6d.
THE MAGIC CORK BOX.-A capital muttlpli-
cation trick. Three corks are placed in the box,
r hlc i^ Be ? n b y audience to be quite empty,
xne lid is placed on, and when removed there are
found six corks within. Price Is., post free Is. 6d
0F THE NORTH’S CHANGING
™ u-??? B ®. ® ards change instantly to other
eaj^ B ’ whilst held In the hand, in a most surprising
manner. Price Is., post free Is. 3d.
THE GREA3LHAT AND DIE TRICK.- A solid
die passes completely through the top of a gentle-
free and 8 found inside. Price Is. (id., ;post
ohown CIGAR CASE.—The case is
crimed full of fine cigars, which Instantly
yanjsh. Excellent trick. Beautifully made In
leather. Price 3s. 6d., post free 3».
THE MAGIC SNUFF BOX.—A most excellent
r* ? opening can be discovered anywbeie.
i?®*® Jast URe a solid piece of wood, and no
person can possibly open it but the owner. Price
35., post free 3s. 6d.
rlnna A^ QICI AN’S PACK OF FORCING
° c °oJoror with card tricks can pro-
perly perform without them. The most astound-
ing tricks can be performed with them. Very
superior cards, 3s. 6d„ post free 3s.
DEMON HANDKERCHlEF.—lndispensable to
S^H^T»2 O J?jl ur j r * batches, rin * 8 . coins, and any
articles placed under this handkerchief. Instantly
disappear, although the hand kerchief is thoroue h 1 y
and shown to the audience each time.
Price 3s. Od., post free 3a.
THE MAGNETIC PACK OF FLYING CARD?.
Can be made to run up and down the arm or
body, and elongated In the air two or three feet
apart in the most beautiful regularity without one
of them falling. Very astounding. Price 3s. 6d ,
pose tree os#
THE MAQ!C DIE AND HANDKERCHIEF.-
A solid wooden die is placed under the bandker-
cnief, and felt to be there by the audience, one of
whom may be allowed to hold it. The performer
exclaims. Presto I gone I ” and Instantly takes
the handkerchief and shakes It to show the die has
vanished, and exhibits it thoroughly, whilst the
d *®. n se^i-? 8 . f ou nd inside a canister or any other
article. Price 3s. 6d.. post free 3s. 6d.
THE WONDERFUL JAPANESE DRAWER
BOA.-The performer sends round aprettyllUtie
box to the company, which they fill with utgs.
gloves, coins, &o. Directly the performer ti k3B
it in his hands, without removing It from sight,
the articles Instantly vanish, and the drawer is
shown empty. Price Is. 6d., post free 3 9 .
THE MAGIC DISSOLVING PAOiv OF CARDS.
—A pack of playing cards are shown to the au-
diSnce and then placed Into a css© junt large
enough to hold them . One of the audience instantly
alter this is done, opens the case, and flnos it full
of sweets, and the cards vanished. Price Is. 6d.,
post free 3s. ’
THE MYSTERIOUS CANDLE AND BE-
WITCHED HANDKERCHIEF.—The' performer
brings forward a candle out of a tlght-litting case
and lights it. He then borrows a lady’s handker-
chief, burns It to ashes In the candle, and places
the ashes and eandle In the case again. The lady
is then called on to open the case, which Is handed
to her. She does so, and finds her handkerchief
restored therein but the oand e entirely gone.
Very excellent trick. Price 3s. 6d., post free 3s.
N.B.W. stamps taken at par, otaei colonies add
Id. to each Is.
Address all communications:
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT
BOX 611 G.P.O. 401 GEORGE-ST., BYDNEF.
Between King and Maraot Streets, opposite the
Royal Hotel, and no other address.
C. W. ROBERTS
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
\ Large Bottle, only |9r.
Small Bottle, , [4s.Bd.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS,
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
la. Bd. per Bottle.
HURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
Sa. P» Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT)
«*. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Price*.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
ls*od. each.
The Key Brand, and Henkegg Prize Medal Brand,
In stone bottles and square bottles,
LABQIBX BIZI,
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND ICBLLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
■YDNET.
No family should be with • ib.no remedy
is more reliable, none more inf an., o than Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
who allow themselves to be burdened with the
Incubus of priestly dictation.
* * ♦
Bbadlauoh appeals once more to the shoe-
makers of Northampton in the coming elcotion )
but the Liberal and Radical Association of the
borough of East Finsbury has also nominated
him as a protest against injustice and tyranny. He
will in all probability be elected for both seats.
His address to the Northampton electors concludes
with the following words “ Since the Conserva-
tive Government came into office I have once
more claimed your right to my voice and vote and
the Tory leader has declared that the question is
one which ‘ should be relegated to the constitu-
encies.’ At the general election the constituencies
will pronounce, but the pre-echo of the judgment
is already heard. Every Liberal candidate, almost
without exception, is declaring in favor of North-
ampton’s constitutional right. The electors of the
new borough of Erst Finsbury have generously
come forward to share your struggle, and have
nominated me as a protest candidate, and have
promised to elect me to vindicate your electora 1
right. But, as I have told them, it is your return
in November which I desire to carry to the table.
It is for your borough that I desire to sit. I have
fought for you a long and very weary fight. I ask
you to do as Middlessox did for John Wilkes,
more than a century ago : to the new Parliament
renew my credentials—to the new Parliament give
me your fresh return. In the new Parliament,
If life do last, I, proud in your continued confi-
dence, will vindicate your trust and reaffirm that
which Middlessex fought for, and which all
thought secure —‘ the right of the electora to be
represented in Parliament by their member law-
fully chosen and duly returned.’ ” In that new
Parliament, we believe, there will be no voice more
potent for liberty, and against corruption, than
that of this brave and out spoken tribune of the
people.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Ungaliant but True.
From time to time there appear in the newspapers
walls about the lack of sufficient openings for fe-
male labour. We do not wish to make the base sug-
gestion that the same craving for “genteel” em-
ployment which has taken possession of our young
men has also fastened upon our young women.
We do not wish to brutally point out that these
wails are a sort of weird running accompaniment
to the groans of lost husbands and badgered
bachelors 'about the utter unfitness for domestic
work characteristic of the young woman of to-day.
Still, it is a curious fact that the two complaints
should be synchronous. It also seems that a pos-
sible solution of that grievous problem to the
female mind, “ Why don’t the men marry ?” might
be found after a careful search, twisted somewhere
amongst these two skeins of trouble. If women
want higher scope for their assumed talents than is
offered them in the care of a house and the control
of a family, then they cannot blame the men for
not marrying them. It they are not educated up
to the pitch of washing a shirt or cooking a dinner
which does not give the eater thereof a desire to
He down with his fathers in the narrow tomb; if it
makes their heads ache too much to check the
milk-bill; if they cannot, when occasion calls, go
down on their own two knees and scrub their own
floors, then they may thank Heaven the men do
not marry them, for the last of these things
the average young woman who marries the
average young man will have to do sooner
or later, and the others she will have to
learn. When they are able to do all these
things; when their mothers make them spend
in the kitchen a little of the time that is now
given to the piano parlour, and see that they
have at least as great a knowledge of the possi-
bilities of the Dutcn oven as of the cottage-grand,
then all this cackle about the selfishness of the
young men of the present day will be heard no
more, and the wail about the want of openings for
female talent will die out with it, or be heard only
from those wry-minded virgins who were born as
if on purpose to refute the dictum of Locke—
with the fixed idea that their end in life is to jostle
aside the tyrant Man in every branch of his busi-
ness. These can be disposed of easily as school-
marms, or religious editors, or drunkard rescuers-
armed in the latter capacity with umbrellas hav-
ing an iron hook at the handle, which they can
irsert in the collar of the inebriate, and so lead
him home in triumph to the bosom of his family—
and the weary world will be at peace once more.
If none of these occupations suit them they can
take a hint from the French, and go out-as do
several females to Chantilly every year-and
make books on the races at Randwick and the
Melbourne Cup. If even this is not joy enough
for them, then there is a hard time in store for the
Devil. ■
The Sydney" Echo” on Foy.,’
The employes of the late-closing draper Foy
have tendered him their sympathy for the mis-
representation of which he has been the victim.
We do not question these servants’ sincerity. The
soft-goods trade possesses so many fascinations
that it may be possible to find persons brought up
to that attractive calling who would prefer tea or
twelve hours’ work a day to eight. Still the testi-
mony of citizens who have been used to three full
meals a day, and whose evidence might affect the
continuance of those banquets, should be received
with caution. Allowing, for the sake of argu-
ment, that Mr. Foy is, as he himself asserts, the
most considerate of employers-one who, by con-
stantantly treating his servants to trips round the
harbour after church, is criminally blind to his
own temporal interests-the fact does not settle
the matter, indeed it scarcely touches it. But, all
the same, the Echo bawls If Mr. Foy Is Baf-
fled, and his people are perfectly satisfied, what
right has anybody else to interfere.’ To this
we reply that not only have the early-closing
tradesmen a right to interfere, but the
whole community possesses a similar right.
This is a matter which is not confined to
the master and servant any more than a
theft is confined to the robber and the robbed.
The latter may have recovered »> j roperty
and be unwilling to prosecute, whll. .hj former
is quite content to let things be. What right then,
the parties being satisfied, has anybody else to
interfere ? Yet the police step in and say: “ You
must prosecute whether you like or no.” Even if
Mr. For had two relays of hands, so that no person
was employed more than eight hours a day in his
establishment, the matter would not be mended—
so far as the other master-drapers were concerned.
They would all be forced to keep open late and
employ relays of servants also. In time, most, If
not all, would fall back on the old long-hour
system, and so render nugatory the struggles of
years. Or, put the matter this way: There are two
factories. One has three shifts of eight hours—
the other, two of twelve. The master of the latter
may be quite satisfied, seeing that he can under-
sell his neighbours, and his employes infatuated
with their work—seeing they can find no other
But what of the other employers ? If they would
live at all they must increase the working hours
from eight to twelve. The difference between the
late-closing draper and the factory with twelve-
hour shifts is that if the latter were reduced to
eight, there would be Airplay allround; while,
as we paid before, if the draper, by means of extra
hands, kept no one at work more than eight hours
a day, still his neighbours would suffer—so long as
he kept open two hours a day longer than they.
Until the fallacious economical theories taught by
the middle-class economists of England—theories
to uphold which millions of young lives have been
sacrificed, have'passed through a short and joyless
existence—are superseded, and all labour organised
on the Socialistic basis laid down by Hyndman
and his school, greedy and needy men will be
found endeavouring to steal a march upon their
neighbours.
A “ Noble Offer,” Indeed!
Sir Edward Strickland, K.C.8., is president of
the Sydney branch of the G eographical Society.
He lately assisted in fitting out the New Guinea
exploring party which is said to have' perished on
the Fly River. Sir Edward is a professional war-
rior, although it is said that his military knowledge
was chiefly gained in the bread-wagon department.
His martial fame, however, induced the society
of which he is president to empower him to pur-
chase suitable arms for the party. Now, we learn
that the weapons were merely trading-guns worth
about £3105., and utterly useless for the intended
purpose. We say utterly useless-a bad weapon is
worse than none at al). These arn s'are now, we be-
lieve, in the Society's rooms in Sydney, as Captain
Everill —Heaven help him !—sent them back,
preferring to get sucn otners as might be obtain-
able in North Queensland. Possibly, Eir Edward
was misunderstood by those with whom he dealt;
they may have seat arms inferior to those ordered.
So far the matter has not been explained; there-
fore at present the military knight stands In the
position of one who has incurred a certain re-
sponsibility, and failed to do that which the posi-
tion demanded. Further, he is now, we are sorry
to hear, suffering from an illness which keeps him
indoors, and, if we mistake not, he has not been in
very good health for some time past. But this in-
disposition does not prevent his offering to lead a
party at once to New Guinea, “to ascertain the
truth of the whole tragedy, and punish the
murderers.” Our contemporaries go into raptures
over Sir Edward’s letter, and cill it a “ noble,” a
“gallant” offer. We don’t. If Sir Edward
wants to end his days in New Guinea, he is. of
course, at perfect liberty to do so, but volunteers
will not, wo think, respond to his “ noble offer’
until a satisfactory explanation is forthcoming
concerning those rifles, nor till Sir Edward’s
doctor is enabled to certify to his physical ability
to conduct such an expedition as that
Even that mightn’t satisfy some cynical people.
The Soudan Expedition is said to have originated
with Sir Edward. The object of that apotheosis
of folly was to punish the killers of Gordon; now
this military hero desires to punish the killers of
Everill. In each case, then, Sir Edward s de-
sire was not to rescue the living, but to ascertain
their fate and revenge their death. We doubt
the wisdom of permitting such a gentleman to
go on an amateur judicial circuit through New
Guinea. Our contemporaries laud the offer and
extol the man. These, then, be thy prophets, oh,
Israel!
A COMBINATION.
Loyalty and Royalty.
In commemoration of the 45th birthday of H.R H.
Jumbo, the Australasian contrasts Monarchy
and Republicanism, much to the latter’s disadvan-
tage. Here are a few of the matured conclusions
the Melbourne man fires Into his readers:—
“ Experience has convinced dpr -’v all thinking
men that a constitutional mona t > ■ > .ike our own
. , . with an hereditary presi-c. tas the visible
symbol of national greatness, the fountain of
honour ... is, in it? practical wording, the
best form of government that has yet been de-
vised. As compared with the republican systems
of France and the United States, it possesses ad-
vantages which they certainly lack. Chief among
these is the political stability It secures, and the
respect, bordering on veneration, which is
cherished for the highest personage in the realm.
. . . In the United States, the quadrennial
election of the President Is attended by a violent
convulsion of tin whole body politic, and an un-
settlement for the time of the entire machinery of
administration. ... A constitutional monarchy,
like that of Great Britain and Ireland, is free from
these dangers and defects. ... No sovereign
can occupy so high a place in the popular esteem,
or appeal so effectively to the imaginations and
affections of her people as one who is descended
from a long line of kings, and whose personal and
ancestral history is so closely bound up with that
of the nation over whom she reigns.”
If all “ thinking ” men are so much in love with
Monarchy, they have a singular way of showing
their affection. So far from that form of Govern-
ment being tho “ best that has yet been devised,”
it is so absurd in principle and has been so
pernicious in practice that the time for its
complete disappearance cannot be much longer
delayed. Millions of Englishmen make no secret
of their dissatisfaction with a system which, yes-
terday, found its “fountain of honour” in a
ruffian who should have been whipped at the cart’s
tail, and to-day, in tho arrogance of its nepotism,
finds high naval and military commands for in-
competent foreign paupers. In spite of all the
trouble taken to teach people that certain persons
should be honoured—not because they are honest
or talented, but because they took the trouble to
be born—heredity cannot hold Its own. Reason
revolts at the sight of a Faraday kneeling
to a Willtam IY. But let only one generation be
brought up in the Republican creed, and then
good-bye to Monarchy and all its tinsel accom-
paniments—its well-fed female faineants, and its
able-bodied male loafers. In late newspaper
literature we have come across nothing half so
droll as the Australasian man’s idea of a “ foun-
tain of honour.” Before William the Fourth’s
dining-room door closed behind the ladies, bis
Majesty began to drool bawd. George IV. was
such a lecher and a liar that even Wellington,
mender as he was of legitimacy’s crutch, admitted
that he could not believe a word the King said #
Fancy Mill, or Mart Somerville, going to such
fountains for honour! Indeed, such a perverted
idea do some persons possess of what constitutes
real honour, that they would feel flattered if their
daughters or their wives secured a libidinous leer
from the eoming king. We trust the Melbourne
man does not belong to this class, but he writes as
if h© did. He speaks of the “ respect, bordering
on veneration, which is cherished for the
highest personage in the realm.” This shows
how accurately he has gauged the tendencies of
the fast rising English Democracy. Why, even as
a “ fountain of honour”—we say it with all defer,
ence—our present Sovereign has been but a modi-
fied success. At all events, the best draughts from
the crystal spring were not reserved for these who
busied themselves in placing British science and
literature on the pedestals they occupy to-day.
No. The choicest libations fell to bare-legged
gillies and pert waiting-wenches. No more stupid
idea ever took possession of men’s minds than that
the well-being of society was best promoted by
placing a’pcssible’fool orjfribble at its head.»Tosee
wise men and women abasing themselves before
those who were unfit to tie the latchets of their
shoes is a sight to make the angels weep, if laugh-
ter would allow them. No one but a person ‘‘de-
scended from a long line of kings ” will satisfy the
Australasian person’s requirements. Considering
the loose ideas of morality possessed by some of our
former monarchs and their consorts, it is extremly
difficult to tell who is descended from a king and
who is not. Even the Melbourne man might
But enough. Still, it would explain his views.
It is probable that “ the violent convulsion of the
whole body politic" which occurs every four years
in the United States is advantageous in keeping
political life from stagnating. But, even allowing
that it possesses some drawbacks, what are they in
comparison with those attending the insensate
system which clothes a vulgar blackguard with
the attributes of a god ? The time is on the road
when, with a large population, Australia will de.
dine to hang to the coat-tails of any Power. When
that time comes, we guarantee that no stranger
from Europe will be invited to bring his family,
live upon us, and rule over us. Nor will descen-
dants of Mr. Service, Mr. Berry, or Sir Henry
Parkes be “ coronated ” in the Federal capital.
Should the Australians of that not very dis-
tant day require a “ fountain of honour” they will
probably be able to select one from the honest
citizen class. Instead of applying to that of the pro-
fessional mendicant.
A LITTLE GIRL. A GRBE PEA.R. COMBINATION.


Why do you drink Wolfe’s Schnapps? Because
I know from experience it does mo good.
“I was recommended to use Wolfe s
Schnapps by a medical man of large experience
who e\ ioently knew its value.”
Notice! —Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for invalid.; and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hookings, 143 Pitt-street.
Ask your medical attendant what he
thinks of Wolfe’s Schnapps as a means ot
promoting digestion.
When a genuine article such as Wolfe’s
Schnapps has earned a good name for itseu
nutations spring up.
Personal Items
Sir Charles Qavan Duffy, it is cabled, is
*' indisposed.” Some time ago an Irish paper
stated that he was suffering from Bright's disease.
A leaf from the English ABO Guide,
page 181;
“ Spofforth Yorks.”
Quite so. English batsmen are aware of the fact.
It is just about time someone handed over
to the police the drunken ‘‘earls son” who has
been asking alms in Macquarie-street, Sydney, and
elsewhere, for several months past.
Bam. Griffith, Q.C., the Queensland Pre-
mier, is working hard for a title. He loses a
couple of thousands a year of his bar-practico by
holding his present political office.
The S.M. Herald approvingly says that
the members of the N S.W. Government average
over Bft. high. The Herald evldenf.lv thinks that
Ministers—like Congregational tea fights—should
be long la body, even if short la mind.
Thus Thadeus O’Kane, of the Northern
Miner:—” We have to thank our friends for all the
farthings they have sent us We have a pile now
that will last for all the libels that may be brought
against us for the next thousand years ’’
We have been accustomed to look upon
the Waterloo veteran as of the masculine gender.
The other dsy, however, a debilitated old crone,
brought before a Southern Police Court as a
vagrant, pleaded that, as a soldier’s wife, she was
present at the battle of Waterloo.
Mr. Timothy Carew O’Brien, (he Univer-
sity cricketer and heir to a baronetcy, who during
the Australians’ last visltto Kngland, proved hirt-
mlt such an effective bat, was the other day
married to Miss Guadrede Annette de Trafford.
Just think of It I Gundrede O'Brien 1
The Melbourne “ Gordon Memorial Fund ”
is attaining its end with a sublime leasureliness
reminding one of the velocity of a rheumatic
snail. A concert given ia Its a’«i a few weeks ago
realised the handsome sum of £JOS 9j. 6 i ; but the
expenses amour.ted * 0 the almost equally hand-
some sum of £3OO ss. Hi.
Lieutenant Nathan, of the N.S W. Per-
manent Artillery (about whote appointment to a
captaincy, cai rying with It the post of a ‘infant to
the permanent staff of the Colonial Volunteer
Artillery, there has been, and is likely to be, much
fuss), obtained his promotion, we hear, through
the entreaties of Lady Augustus Loitus.
It is said that Mr. David Syme, of the Age,
refuses to sell his estate on Me. Macedon which
the Victorian Ministry had rclected as a site tor
the Governor's country residence. Considering
that the Age has persistently advocated the ex
pediency of purchasing a rural s< at for his Ex-
cellency, Mr, Byrne cjuld scarcely have done any-
thing else.
Public worship at the shrine of ihe Vic-
torian Governor has at last reached its rtduclin ad
abmrdum. The other day, at a hospital committee
meeting, an elderly, bald headed Scotchman arose,
chanted the praise of His Excellency for htlf an
hour, and actually wound up, did this unconscious
humorist, by suggesting that a certain new ward
la oource of construction should be n»med the
“Loch Ward.” Yegodsl
The first query made by any woman about
to appear In a case at a Melbourne Court is: “Is
Purves on the other side ? ’ An affirmative answer
steeps her up to her neck in wos, and rather than
suffer the eminent lawyer's badgering she will
Sham sick and stay In bed for a week. Purves says
that the oth’ r day an agitated femaie waited on
his wife, and fr rveetly begged her to persuade her
husband •• to let a poor body down gently.”
The other day we were reading that the
favourite amusement of the King of the Belgians
li watching the ladles bathing at fashionable ro-
sorls. What an admirer of the fair sex that
monarch must be; £3OO a year to "auntie ' Jef-
freys, and he can still snatch an hour or two for
looking at another lot of ladiei bathing There
must be little enough time to snate for ruliig his
kingdom. So much the betttr for th'? kingdom.
The Earl of Rosebery’s only unmarried
sister, Lady Maiy Pilmrcse, is going to be married
to Vr. Hope, of Lutfnees. His mother was co-
heiress of Waller Scott s friend, tie Ht< Lord
Montague, great uncle of the present Duke of
Buccleuch. Lady Mary Primn s > fnbeiited a con-
siderable sum on the death of brother. Colonel
Hon. Everard Primrose. Tae wedding will take
place at Raby Castle, the seat of her stepfather
the Duke of Cleveland.
- A new Melbourne evening paper, the
Daily News, has started its career Inauspicious! v.
Henry Brown, overseer of the compositors, has
committed suicide. This is the more ominous as
Mr. Brown had formerly occupied a similar
position on the World without once attempting
his life. We should have thought a man who had
successfully struggled against the suicidal in-
fluence of Mortimer Franklyn's deceased bantling
could have faced anything.
The late Henry Kendall is described by
Mr. Noel Conway, the Melbourne “ graphiolo-
gist” (who has been Inspecting some of the dead
poet’s handwriting), as having been a buq of "a
tenacious, obstinate, unreasoning will, and a quick
ardent, angry temper;” also as “ a man of detail
and accuracy.” If Mr. Noel Conway knows the
graphiology business perfectly, then Is graphio-
logy mere moonshine aad.bunkum. Kendall, un-
happily for himself, possessed rot one of the
qualities attributed to him by Mr. Conway.
“ Qinx’s Baby” has been lost eight of for a
long time. The little brochure of this name made
its author, Edward Jenkins, as nopular for a time
as “ Called Back” did “ Hugh Conway.” Jenkins
was lifted into the Legislature on the strength of
it, becoming M P. for Dundee. On losing his seat
for that Scotch borough ho became Agent-General
for Canada, and then we heard no more of him.
His other literary attempts proved but failures.
Lately he has come to life again by re-offerlng
himself to his old constituents, who hooted him
off the platform—so ephemeral is tame!
An oldman living in a shanty in the Huon
district (Tas.) greatly dreaded the prospect of a
pauper’s burial. By strict economy he saved
enough money to buy a really smart coffin, with
all possible comforts and conveniences. This he
fixed In a corner of the hut, and with commend-
able utility of space, dispensed with a cupboard,
the coffin doing duty as such pending the arrival
of the time when his body should form the cold
meat to occupy it permanently. But one never
knows what is going to happen in this world. A
bush Are reduced hut, coffin, and man all to undis-
tinguishable ashes.
The notion of poor Mr. Stead applying to
the late Home Secretary for aid In furthering his
enquiries Is too funny. Why, Sir William Har-
court's personal friend, the Marquis of Harting-
ton, was posted In print as being one of Mrs.
Jeffreys’ patrons. Other “Ministers of the Crown,”
were darkly hinted at. What was the Home Sec-
retary to do? If police assistance had been fur-
nished to the editor of the P.M G„ it ia terrible to
contemplate the disclosures that migh l- have re-
sulted. It is duo to the great cause of Liberalism
to say that up to the present no one has dared to
casta stone at the Grand Old Man.
Rachel, the famous tragedienne, appears
to have strutted in borrowed literary plumage
during her long lifetime. The beautiful letters
which earned for the actress a high reputation f6r
“soul,” were written to order by her secretary,
M. Cr^mieux—Rachel herself, so it is now dis-
covered, being incapable of putting two sentences
together grammatically. How many “stage
ladies yes, colonial stage ladies—have been
guilty of these harmless deceptions, goodness only
knows In “ Pendennls,” Mbs Fosheringay has to
r ut on another young person to write invitations to
her adorer. William Makepeace Thackeray un-
derstood these things as well as most men.
Lord St. Leonards, who is now playing
the role of O'Callaghan in Melbourne, is the si cond
baron, havirg succeeded his grandfather, who
rose fr.m the position of errand boy in a convey-
ancer’s ollice to that of Lori Chancellor, first of
Ireland, then of E igland. The Chancellor’s father
was a barber, and his shop is still to be seen in
Bmlington-street, London- The present baron
married a daugnter of General Dashwond, in
1870, but that lady obtained a divorce in 1883, re-
taining custody of her chili. Lady St. Leonards
had a private fortune of £IOO,OOO. This is one of
the little “ romances of the peerage ” which Sir
Bernard Batke is careful to say nothing about.
Said the Sydney Freeman’s Journal the
other day : —“ Poverty is, of course, no crime In a
Governor any more than It is said to be in any
other rn*n, butit is something very much worse—a
fatal mistake. A shabby Governor is by common
coLSent about the meanest of mortals, and very
properly so. Royalty should over be magnificent,
lavish, profuse, or it may as well be Red-Repub-
lican at, once and wear a blouse.” Apropos
whereof the other R.C. organ, the Express, very
properly remarks :—“ No more shameful lesson
could pt ssibly be taught to Australian youth than
that they should graduate their respect to their
Governors in accordance with whether those func-
tionaries are poor or rich.”
Mr. James Cowlishaw’s share in the Bris-
bane Telegraph was the other day said to have
bosn sold by him for £25 000. We hear that the
figure is considerably fkrger. Mr Cowlishaw has
taken something like £7OOO annually out of the
paper for some years past. Had Mr. Cowlishaw
r:ot concluded to sell out his interest to the other
shareholders, a penny morning paper would pro-
bably have appeared in Brisbane, under the aus-
nices of certain people (including the chiefs of the
local Liberal party) who understand the colony
they write in, and are rather sics of the Reverend
Woolnough with his everlasting editorial sermons
and Sydney politics. The reverend gentleman is
related by marriage to Mr. Cowlishaw.
Thus au English paper The Bishop of
Bathurst (Australia), Dr. Marsden, has resigned his
See after holding it sixteen years. He makes the
twenty-fourth colonial Bishop who has found the
retention of his episcopal office incompatible with
his personal convenience, this home-hungering
among the colonials is curious, and supplies those
who occupy the seat of the scorner with a well-
founded reproach. The Bishop had £OOO a year,
most comfortable surroundings, and exceptional
social considerations attached to his office ; yet he
found life not worth living in a well-established
Eaglishoolony. What encouragement does he sup-
pose his example affords to the poor missionary,
who has to throw in his fortunes, unaided and un-
friended, among savages and heathen? ”
Mr. A, P. Stewart got a libel-verdict for
£SOO against the Abmidale (N.8.W.) Chronicle
As the award carried costs, defendant might have
been compelled to pay a sum of £IOOO, damages
and taxed costs, but as plaintiff, who was not ire-
vengeful, heard that the exaction of the full
penalty would ruin the newspaper man, he agreed
to square the whole matter for £IOO (his estimate
of the amount of his costs), and an additional £IOO,
which he purposed devoting to charity. Mr. Ste-
wart now finds that his costs will amount to close
on £650, and that he therefore loses £l5O by Indulg
ing in the luxury popularly known as vindicating
one’s character. But having passed his word that
he would accept the £SOO, he means to stick to his
bad bargain. “ Put not your trust in lawyers.”
The members of the Australian Geogra-
phical Society’s Expedition to New Guinea are
said to have been massacred. A rumour, which if
true, bears strongly upon the possibility of the
alleged calamity, has not yet appealed in print. It
Is to the effect that the expedition’s eqilpment
was disgracefully inadequato-that most of the
firearms served out were of the South Sea Island
” trade-musket” order. We are not by any moans
yet prepared to swallow this uncorroborated
stoiy of slaughter; but. al. the same, we regret
that a loafer was not selected for the expedition
from am mg tho ranks of ihebuccaneeiioglabour-
traders-who thoroughly understand and piaci
little faith In niggers. If such a man as Captain
Wawn had been put at the head of affairs, there
might have been some slaughter-but not of
whius-on the occasion of an attack by tho
Panuuas.
Robinson Crusoe, of all pyople, has had a
monument erected tn him—a well-executed one,
loo—and 6it. high. It stands in front of h a cot-
tage, In the village of Largo, in Fife, where Alex-
ander Selkirk was born in 1670. He returned to
Largo alter his long exile at Juan Fernandez
Island, and all the world knows how Defoo im-
mortalised his story. The statue is the gift of a
local net-manuficturer—Mr. David Gillies. It is
recognisable at once, and by everybody, as Crusoe
’ln h s habit as he lived” when upon his is'and
the rough coat of goat-skins—sandals laoed with
leathern strips-undressed hair and beard, and
goat skin cap. The old Hint-lock pistol is seen in
the rough girdle, and the memorable old gun is
grasped in one hand, while he shades his eyes on
the look-out for a passing vessel. Toe cottage is
kept in good order by the people of Largo, who
arc as proud of it as those of Stratford are of
Shakespeare e.
There is trouble among the Christian Cru-
saders, of Adelaide. The bandmaster sued the
R v. Archie Turnbull, who leads tha modern
Knights of the Cross against the inflde's, for £l3
salary. The bandmaster avers that infidels only
dropped in to hear the “ mooalc,” and that the
subscriptions taken up by the Rev. T, were merely
graceful recognitions |of the cornet-solos. Any-
way, an order was made for payment of the £l3
tetore the parson had time to get away with the
loot. By the way, itiaremarkablehow frequently
dissension arises between tho religions and secular
branches of these organisations. Sanaey-a re-
formed negro melodist-once quarrelled with
Moody over the distribution of the ‘ greed,” so It
was said. Moodv roundly tol 1 h‘s partner that he
had nothing to do with shovelling souls Into the
kingdom. “ Perhaps not,” replied fra D, “but I
impart the musical education so necessary to suc-
cess In tho other world.” Moody saw the fores of
the observation, and the pair have been good
friends ever since.
General Maclver, who bas been given per-
mission to trade by the High Commissioner Is
organising an expedition to Now Guinea The
General a prospectus reaches us on the very morn-
ing that some kind of confirm atim is given to the
ghastly rumour that Captain Everill and the
other members of tho Australian Geographical
Society s Expedition have been killed and eaten.
We * 9A 0 R_ ur *f' Bllall at once pack up our traps a- d
go with the General We are now smoking a pine
given us in North Queensland by Mr. Ingham
who some years ago left Cairns for New Guinea
with a small party, who were all killed and eaten
We remember the Maria expedition, mod of the
members of which tound their way Into the pot
or on to the spit. All these things encourage us to
strongly recommend John Davies, who, wo are
pleased to notice, is getting nice and fat and sleek
again, to roll up his svag without delay and pro-
ceed to the realms of tho Hoki-Poki of our child-
hood. Ihen wo shall have a chance of sending to
New Guinea a Royal Commission to enquire
whether the dead arise from the flesh-pots of
Cannibal Land to vote for John Davies.
Some ingenious person, who wants to ad-
vertise Genevieve Ward, has started in the N Y
World this yarn:—“Miss Ward made such 'an
absolute conquest of the Maori King in New Zea-
land, that he was fairly mad to marry her. But.
it is added, as his sombre majesty had many wives
already. Miss Ward declined to join the troupe
Then the Maori King offered to kill all his harom,
•so that Miss Ward should have no cause for
jealousy. And yet she fled.” When shall wo h». r
the last of the matrimonial adventures of ihe
mature Genevieve ? Probably we are getting
pretty well down on the list now that unwarrant-
able liberties are being taken with the name of the
discrowned darkey who, when boarding in Russeli-
square. London, last year, used to “mash” tho
Alhambra ballet every night, and shock the ladies
of his boarding-house by walking into the draw-
ing-room arrayed in nothing save the nightgown
of an—to him—intolerable civilisation, Genevieve
should trot out again, for our edification, the
romantic yarn, told a year or two since in the
columns of that credulous paper, the Age, con-
cerning a recalcitrant admirer of hers and her In-
terview with the White Czar.
A night or two prior to his departure from
N.S.W., a banquet was given to Lord Augustus
L eftus by the Sydney Reform Club, and on the mor-
row there appeared in the 8 M. Herald a quarter
of a column of what purported to be an account of
the proceeds s. Considerably more that half the
space devoted by the Herald to the affair con-
sisted, however, of the slavishly adulatory speech
made by Mr. Daley in proposing the health of Sir
John Robertson ; not a single line of the reply
made by the late Governor in response to the toast
of his health was given. So that, judged by the
Herald report,the banquet must be considered to
have been one tendered not to the Governor,but to
“ o,d Jack,” t'le Reform Club " boss.” It is a pity
that toe public were denied an account of the de-
parting guest s speech, which, we hear, contained a
frank admission that though he had always done
his best, he knew his apDoiotment had been a mis-
take; for a colony like N S.W. needed a Governor
endowed with the freshness and energy of youth
—not one, who, like himself, was so far bowed
down with the we.ght of years as to be unable to
travel, or to perform the many other arduous
tasks Inseuarable from a position which, he was
glad to dad, would now be occupied by a man who
was younger and more after his hearers’ own
hearts.
When Mr. Andrew Young, of Wellington,
now one of its wi althiest citizens, was driving one
of Cobb’s coaches somewhere in the wilds of Otago
a few years ago, he chanced to drive up against
the late Mr. Anthony Trollope, then on his travels.
The place where the coach met Mr. Trollope’s car-
riage was in the middle of a narrow cutting where
there was no room to pass. The novelist alighted
from his trap, and with withering scorn addressed
tho coachman, ordering him to back bis horses to
let his own trap pass. “If you don’t back out of
my way in three seconds,” replied Andrew, “ I will
drive my coach and passengers right over you and
your rattletrap of a one-hoss sh »y.” “ Sir,” cried the
ferocious novelist, “do you know who 1 ham ?”
“No, Idon’t; who the h —J areyou?”said Andrew.
“ My name, sir,” replied the great novelist, im-
pressively, “my name, sir, is Anthony Trollope.”
“ Tes. I knew it was some darned fool or other
like that,” said Andrew. “ well, Mr. Trollope, my
name is Andrew Young, and I give you just one
second more, and if you don’t start to bacn out of
this cutting we 11 see your name on a tombstone as
soon as your relations take the trouble to put it
there.” Mr. Trollops for once met with ids match,
and, without any more attempt at bounce, he
quietly backed out of the difficulty, aad very
wis jly sail nothing about it in his book of travels.
“ Another Waterloo veteran, named Jes-
sup, who was wounded in that battle, died at Back
Creek, near Araluen, N S. NV., aged 93.”—Dally
Press.
Mr. David Sjme, chief owner and director
of the Melbourne age, must have shut his eyes
tightly tor half an hour cr so on the Prince of
Walts' birthday. The article occupying l front
place In the Age that morning was a social, his-
torical, political, and personal study in black and
white. It treats Her Maj.stv most handiotnely.
It discovers taat *’ Queen Victoria is more ex-
perienced in statesmanship tuan any of h.r ad-
visers.” Now, Gladstone and Salisbury have no
reason to resent the valuation implied here, but it
doess-emtobe a little bit wanting in considera-
tion tor Lord Randolph Churchill. But the Age-
thc Democratic A os—keeps up the handsome style.
It Uads that the money allowances the Queen gets
from the nation are very moderate, all things
being cjnside ed, and that “even a Republican
may he well content under the present Royal
family of Kngland, not only to accept the
fact of kingship, bat to be sincerely glad
that it exists, and is likely to last.” Whether
he will bs content or nor, depends, wo should
say, on the amount of property the Repub-
lican holds an 1 the degree of fa alUarlty with the
aristocracy he is ambitious of being admitted to.
At all events, Mr. 8y me is content. It is well. We
will not remind him of artie'es written in the by-
gone vears. The h mghty Democrat, would say,
like W Her, “ That was the time of fiction, this is
the time for truth.” Bat what we are anxious
about now is, that someone should obtain from
Her Majesty a K.C.M.G-shtp for David. We long
to be able to speak of him as the Honorable Sir
David dyme.
Auont the Baroness Burdett-Coutts and
Henry Irv,ng, an amusing paragraph is going the
round of the Australian papers. The Baroness,
wears told, hhs ’‘withdrawn her financial sup-
port’from the popular ac’or This is somewhat
amusing. Iho old lady’s financial support, we be-
have. has for some years been limited to the lean-
ing of r stage box at the Lyoeum Theatre, at a
liberal figure. Wnen Irving lirst took over the
management of his theatre from the family of the
lare Mr. Bateman, it was stated on good authority
that his weMthy patroness backed him up, but
whatever the nature of her support it is quite
certain that it couldn't have been long needed by
a man caoable of drawing houses averaging more
than £3OO a night in pieces running four to eix
months at a time If the Baroness, who has as
shrewd a head for business as the “groat Henry”
himself, became a sleeping partner in his big
undertaking, we should reckon that Irving is a
richer man by the loss of her “ financial support.”
That there has been a split-up is certain, because,
during recent alterations at the Lyceum, the
stage boxes, one of which we used to see
the aged Angola Coutts adorning about once a
week, were removed so as to give a better view of
the stage from the cheaper parts of the house. It
may be that the Baroness disapproves of cartain
things in connection with the giddy Eden Terry
but it is more probable that her husband, Ashmead’
Bartlett, has been the means of severing her long
connection with Irving. Before her marrlagw, the
Baroness ran after the actor, as ladies do when
love’s fever lays hold of ’em late in life. We re-
member that she took him for a cruise in the
Mediterranean during one of the vacations, and
undoubtedly she was largely instrumental in
making her pet “ the fashion.” If a certain Mrs.
brodnhb lrvings family name is Brodribb—
hadn t stood in the way, it Is even possible that
the Baroness would have tiung her heart and for-
tune at the feet of the Lyceum manager instead
ot the wily young Ashmead. For all this, Henry
Irving has been duly grateful. Ashmead, how-
always regarded him as a shadow in his
path. The fear that Irving might receive as a
legacy some of the money for which he (Ashmead)
had bartered his youth and good looks, has made
the actor distasteful to the house of Bartlett. This
jealousy had become quite notorious. The Baron-
ess's cook, according to a facetious paper, was
wont to tell the butcher and the baker that
“ master had his back hup against Hirving,” and
the cook is not a bad barometer when social storms
are gathering. So, again we say that if the
Baroness has “rounded ” on her old pal, the young
man who took to his arms a woman more than old
enough to be his grandmother is at the bottom of
the trouble.
* * •
Dr. N. J. Kennedy, of Charters Towers a
Melb. University graduate, well known in the
North, is dead. For some years he practised his
profession with success ; lately he had bees in a
lunatic asylum.
SOME "PERSIAN POEMS."
This book of poetry has been before the’
British publij for some years. It has not, we am
informed, received any notion so far from th«v
Australian Press Many phrases, many lines oi v
of it have, however, come into use, and as ih e .
volume is a high literary treat, it la with pleasure-
we introduce it to our readers. One lingers oyer
the verses. One catches oneself dreaming
them. Velvet-footed thoughts play about on all
sides. There Is no noisy rom-'ing, no clamorouj
riot, no squalling din. Hound and round the
fancies trip, velvet-footed, laughlng-eyed, puzzle-
worded. One looks and thinks and falls as'eep
Intellectually, and intellectually dreams. ’
• • •'
The works of two poets are included in
the volume. The lirat part contains the " Kubal-
yat” of Omar Khayyam, and the second the ‘ Sala-
man and Absal,” of Jami, Omar Khayyam isi
presented as an astronomer of the 13th coatury
and Jam! as a mystic of the 15th. There la not"
much need to concern oneself with the contro-
versy as to whether these particular individuals!
ever lived. The trick of offering to the world'
original matter la the guhe of a translation is not
new. When It la played without any intention of
Imposing upon the public, it is freely forgiven
Lander, Ireland, Allan Cunningham, Oieland
Chatterton, were Impostors. Clarence Maogan’
Father Front, and Ctrlyle were men who believed
the sentiments they uttered altogether too wise
to be associated with their homely patronymics
The writer of this volume is satisfied to tako rami
as a translator.
*O9
The “ Rubaiyat ” is an introspective
poem, not of sustained coherence in form but
thoroughly congruous in matter. The author was
born with a great deal of th« religious sentiment.
The fine touch for spiritual things is conspicuous.
He lived down his beliefs, but did not lose the old
touch. The pathos that is always found in a man
who has survived great hopes is present. There
were gods one time in the sky above him, tie
sings:—
“ Myself when young did eagerly frequent
Doctor and saint, and heard groat argument;
About It and about; but evermore
Came out by the same door where in I went.
“ With them the seed of wisdom did I sow,
And with mine own hand wrought to make It
grow;
And this was all the harvest that I reaped—
I came like water and line wind I go.
“ There was the door to which I found no key •
There was the veil through which 1 might’not
see ;
Some little talk awhile of me and thee
There was ; and then no more of thee and me,”
* * *
This cry of a man who ha* climbed up to
the tky and fotrnd his heaven empty has not yet
been put into prose or pootry He must remain a
little mad all tbe r>st ot his life. He must break
away eve- y now and again from the noise of men,
and sit down and think. It will be well for him If
he have enough philosophy to matte Into a basis
for laughter. The heartier he can laugh the surer
llnguarantee that he will not,die insane. Our
author does not succeed in Uug-.ing heartily. H-'
has been too sorely cut. He gets his head between
his hands and persuades himself that he is erioy-
ing himself:
* Waste not your hour, nor la the vain pursuit
Of this and that endeavour and dispute;
Better be jocund with the fruitful grape
Than sadden after none, or bitter, fruit.
“ And that inverted bowl they all call the sky,
Whereunder crawling cooped we live and die,
L’ft not your hands to It for help—for it
as impotently moves as y*u or I.
“ But if In vain, down on the stubborn floor
Of Earth, and up to Heaven’s unopening door
You gaze to-day, while you are you—how then
To-morrow, you when shall be you no more ?
“ For 'is’ and ‘ is not’ though, with rule and line,
And ’ up-and-down’ by logic I nellae.
Of all that one should care to fathom I
Was never deep la anything but wine.”
• • *
He amuses himself with the jugglery of
German philosophies, and strays about so purpose -
lessly through mystic that he is found con-
sorting with the old beliefs once more. Helsani
Epicurean, an Agnostic, and an Atheist in turn, and
then he expresses a belief in a despotic kind ot
god that w rks us as the master of |a show works
his puppets Great latitude has to bo given to him.
His mind cares noth! >g for log’cal sequence. Yet
his inconsequences are suggestive ol sequence in
the operation of his cardinal principle. He is re-
solved to be Epicurean. He will live for the hour
and enjoy himself iu it. Why, than, should he try
to hold the thread of the past hour's thought?—
“The moving finger writes; and having writ,
Moves on; nor all your piety or wit
Shali lure it bach; to cancel half a line.
Nor all your tears wash out a word of it.”
The poems are very tempting. They are, how-
ever, deficient in whole-hcartedness. The poetry
of Agnosticism is almost always deficient in that
quality. Out ot great belief, or great unbelief,
wings caa grow. Hesitation kills genius.
Throughout, however, the author's thought is
subtle, his huc-'our quaint, and his manipulation
of words dexterous. Allusions reminding one of
other writers, ancient and modern, are plentiful,
but with such a theme that could not well be
helped. Hich originality abounds in every page.
41 ■»
The second half of this volume is a trans-
lation from Jami. It has not tbe claims to at-
tention the “ Rubaiyat” possesses. It is subtle,
philosophical, and mystical enough, and the con-
tinuity of thought is better studied, but it does
not search and probe the intellect as its companion
does. Here is a well-told parable:
“ There was a branch that waxing
Wanton o’er the root it drank irom,
At a draught the living water
Drained wtierewith Itself to crown;
Died the root, and with it died
The branch.”
* The Rubaiyat of Omar KhaVyam. Salaman
and Absai of Jami. English version. London:
Bernard Quaritch, 1879.
Oil, worthy John, we must confess
We do not grieve for you—
Your sudden death leaves one the less
That fought at Waterloo.
You go to j jin a valiant host,
Dravn up in brave array.
Each man of which will proudly boast
He bled with you that day.
A million, John, you’ll meet at least—
O- (110 1 ul'.civ, toi-
Bach year the army has increased
That fought at Waterloo.
Old tim s you can with them discuss,
Ol I stories t waddle o er;
They never went down well with us
We d heard th'-m all before.
And shall again, for, sad to state,
Twere pretty safe to bet
ThT last, John, will not meet his fate
For many ages yet.
At length will come the grand review
Beaeath 3: Peter’s eye.
Then some he ll brand with “ Wa ter-loo,”
But more with “ What-a-Ue! ”


PE APES & SHAW’S
Smn SHOW!
IPEAPE 3 AND SHAW’t SPRING MILLINERY
PEAPE'S and SHAW’S SPRING COSTUMES.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING DRESS
FABRICS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING FABRIC
GLOVES.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT
KID GLOVES,
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING HOSIERY,
from J. and R, MORLB Y’B.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
LACE GOODS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
EMBROIDERY.
PEAPES and SHAW'S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
PARASOLS.
fcy SPECIAL NOTICEI
All the above goods are
Now Open for Inspection.
Large Shipments
for other Departments are
CLOSE AT HAND,
and a constant flow of
NOVELTIES
will be opened up
DC RING THE SEASON.
PEAPES & SHAW,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS,
324, 326, 328 George Street,
Allan’s Black Wingen Oils.
THEY WORK LIKE A CHARM.
TO those who have been suffering from Rheu-
matism or Sciatica, we come with glaa tidings
of the wonderful cures that have been effected by
CHAS. ALLEN’S BLACK WINGBN OILS. Num-
bers have been cured, and can attest to the great
and miraculous powers of these already famous
Oils.
There is now no reason why anybody should be
be racked with pain, when tor the small sum of
2s. 6d„ a bottle of CHAS. ALLEN’S BLACK
WINGBN OILS may be obtained from any che-
mist or storekeeper. On how many occasions,
when you have been laid up with a severe attack
of lumbago, would you have given anything to
get relief ; also, when you have been rendered
sleepless through neuralgia or toothache, have
you sought in vain for a cure. Suffer no more :
keep the balm by you—a bottle of Chas. Allen’s.
Black Wingen Oils. It is needless to further recom-
mend, as a simple trial will prove to the most
sceptical the merit of Allen’s Black Wingen Oils.
“TRY THEM.’’
COSTELLO & GREY,
68 KING STREET. SYDNEY,
Sole Agents-
ALLEN’S BLACK WINGEN OILS, stand un-
equalled for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
saddle girth, and wind Galls, Strains, Stakes,
Sprains, Bruises, Sweat Boils, Fistula, Wounds of
all descriptions No ’bus proprietor, carrier, or
stockowner should be without them. They will
heal any sore, no matter if freshly done or of
years’ No spell required to effect a euro,,
“TRY THEM,”
May he obtained.from Chemists and. Storekeepers.
COSTELLO & GREY,
08 KING STREET, SYDNET
Sole Agents,
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
T3"xa,d.erta,ls:er„
•4 HUNTER Ac PHILLIP STREET*.
rUNBiiALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
. N.B.— Mr. Kirby was In the employ of the
Mr. Jam 38 Curtis for sixteen 08) years:
Manager for over ten GO) veara.
READ THIS!
gippsland hop bitters.
Manufactured by
THE GIPPSLAND HOP BITTER 3 CO.,
SALE.
Certificate by Wm. Johnson, Government Ana-
lytical Chemist
Government Ana'ytcal Laboratory,
“Melbourne, July 11th, 1884.
food’s Hop Bitters (manu-
B j They are remarkably pleasant
r.f £ be pa A at 2* aD . d 88 , a general tonic and promoter
of appetite for invalids and young-people are no
omh nttS The ?° p Aro “ a ia delicately
®°“°}? e d with a fragrant fruit liavour, producing
a really elegant preparation, which may he relied
deleterfo e s flC ato healcb and frce frotn ar, y thin «
(Signed)
1 WM. JOHNSON,
“Analytical Chemist.”
nriHESE celebrated Bitters have boon proved by
j 8 8 to , be a Puro.del'cate. palatablecom-
p ?“° d * and are invaluable in alTordlng relief in all
etolBoro 180r^erj bo b^ood > stomach, liver,
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTfRS
wh^ n i^ e cf.« und a Perfect “ Balm of Gilead” to all
vho are suffering irom shattered nerves, an over-
worked hra-n, or lassitude; they are, in fact,
nature s brain and nerve food.
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
wm, 8 , 0 ? xc ®iicpt appetiser, and may bo taken
and^yoiing C poopfef thu moBt delicate invalids
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Enrich and purify the blood, and are an cxoulsite
Can u d . BtinjUlant - If are sick, no matte?
from what cause, use
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS.
The large and increasing consumption has
fuA2 ed i fo £ tbo Gippsland Hop Bitters Manu?
factunng Co. a wide celebrity.
Beware of Imitations,
Amt use only those manufactured by the
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS CO.
S a r» P f, onounced to be the best and on'lygenn-
ino Hop Bitters manufactured in the colonies.
THOMAS TROOD & CO.,
Sale. Nov. llih. Proprietors.
T^ obtB i n u ed /r o m aH the loading merchants,
chi-mists, and hotels in the colonies '
Sole Agent for Sydney—A. W. KBBSON. Pov’s
Chambers, Bond-street, Sydney.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING
COCOA
DE. BOYD,
53 CASTLKREAGH-BTREET, SYDNEY
(U pstairs)
GRADUATB IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
. , Office Hours;
10 a.m. to 4 p m. Monday, Wednesday:
„ * , and Saturday Evenings 7to 9.
Deformities, Nervous-, and female Diseases t
_ Specialty.
Box 130 G P.O.
RKWINGIO.V
1 YPE-WHITER.
ITS ADVANTAGE 1 ' OVEP THE PEN.
LEG I RILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE,
tONVuNi KNCK - , F.CONOMY.
ET- THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITRR savs
labour, stationery, and time, writir g much
faster than expert penmen, andcondensi- gmatter
to less than one-halt the space occupied by pen
writing r.ioautlful copies may bo tah<n in the
usual mnn r er ii the lettei-prefs. Merchants,
bankers, sulic-iiors, clergymen, edltorsand authors,
reporters, and all men of business should use the
type-writer, end save much valuable time.
Sold whoh sale and retail by 1 he solo agents,
IMKAY and CO..
85 Ciar^c-'i-sfrer f.
PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT—ELECTRIC BELTS
MESSRS. NEILD and CO., on behalf of Th«
Magnetlcal-Electric Appliance Company.
?“ desire to call the attention of the publfo
,a< ?t that, in consequence of the success
the sale of the above Company's Bleo-
Corsets, &o, a so-called caution has
gw+,P üb lished, emanating from an agent for
nVfefmn* articles, who, prompted by a motive to
attempt to monopolise the sale of such articles.
boirPt Ilc p e . 0f ..^ ,11 ch we emphatically assert has
Down to the world for at least twenty years
and are now being manufactured In Great Britain
by dozens ot firms, and variously styled lor the
purposes of a trade mark only, but avowedly par-
-Bam e. Dat H£®* belr, k an adapta-
tion of the element of Magnetlcal Electricity.
We ask, therefore, those who desire to adopt
the treatment of Electricity for constitutional
or local derangements, to compare our Elec-
trio Belts, Corsets. &c, with those of other
manufacture, as they are undoubtedly of su-
, E ect i ical . Strength, design, quality of
material, and elegance of finish. The 15s.
Gent, s Belt is the best ever offered to the public
tor ekctrical strength and quality. Gent.'sspecial-
power Electric Belts, 30s. These Belts are manu-
factured eipmsly for tropical climates, and are
very durable, as also are our Electric Corsets,
Lung Invlgorators, Spine Bands. &o.
THE
RSr MACNtjtiCALSi®
ELKr A p,,liano ° Company's
KLLtI RIC flhiLlb, Corset Luntr Invliroratom
Sp ne Bands, Kneecacs, insoles. Arc, &c, is the
only perfect method for generating the curative
properties of the continuous current of Eject™
tbo aid of batteri{, B or use of acids,
wimout Incurring any nek ot undue action upon
f at S ,nTalid .V and lm P art Health and
Vitality to all who wear them.
The MAGNETICAL ELECTRIC TREATMENT
is now admitted by Medico-Elootrlo Scientists, and
S l | J eadl OK Physicians, to be the most valuable
Electrical Remedial Agent for the Cure of all
Nervous Diseases, Affections of tho Heprt, Epi-
lepsy. Spinal Complaints. Rheumatism, Lumbago.
J arayfl ,, 8 - Go . ut * Ge "eral Debility, Indl-
*« at *° n ; Pemfik Complaints. &o„ &c, and Is now
adapted for the Successful Treatment of all Lung
Agency 8 ’ h tberto wlthout the domain of Electric
One of tho Special Features of this Treatment <■
the MAGNETICAL HLECTRIC COFSET. which
tv.r^oii U^ paS Ki d for curative properties In all
temale trouble*, and Is of superior shape and
manufacture. Piles, lOi, 15i, and 20i.
The Guinea Special Rower Bbctrio Belt Is the
same ss sMd In England for £3 3s Thousands of
people ot all ranks In the United Kingdom have
testified to the beneficial results of the MagneGcai
Electric Treatment; and Testimonials from lead-
ing Medical and Scientific Men are in our nos-
S'Aslon,
GENTLEMEN'S BELTS are manufactured of
superior material, In the shape of a riding belt,
and are very durable. Send size of waist, outside
Price, 15?, and 30i.; if mailed, Is. fid.
LUNG INVIGORATOFS. 20a ;
BP,NK HANDS, 10s.
. ANGLES, InyaluabJ- tor cold feet, chilblains, and
detective circulation, 5s 01. Send size of boot, or
p aper pattern of inside Ol. for postage).
All correspondence treated with the greatest
despatch. Pgst-ofiloe orders to be made payable to
a i » S - NEILD A- CO., J5B PIJET-STHEKT,
Sole Proprietors •• Magnetlcal Electric” Appliance
Company, London and Sydney.
n THE LARGEST AND ONLV LEGITIMATE
TIME-PAYMENT FURNITURE WARE-
HOUSE IN THE COLONY,
365 PITT
QUOD FACIMUS VALDE FACIMUS
(What we do we do well.)
TOUR PHOTO.—If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what Is but well-meant
counsel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
amyof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice In their favour.
. You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographera.
Prices—C-D-Y.,: Cabinets’ 30s. per dozen.
CEEEIoMAN & CO.,
IBURLINQTON GALLERIES. SYDNEY A RCADE.
Aiaal laws snorts am MUlitßi
HUNTER STREET. ■
Tjhrhtuln c mil tux plosion Dfimagi i Pain.
BEST !N
THEWORLD
OFFICE LOMBARD ST. LONDON.
LOWEST
I
IN PRICE
SCOTIAN -HORIZONTAL ENGINES,
ALBION” bONGSTROKE HORIZONTAL ENGINES.,,
■‘climax” Vertical engines s boilers.
“CLIMAX” PORTABLE -HOISTING ENGINES;
SX “BRETON”‘HORIZONT\LOOMPOUND LAUNCH ENGINES.
INVERTED COMPOUND MARINE ENGINES.
»• PORTABLE STEAM CRANES.
VERTiGA' CORNISH,® MARINE BOILERS.
itifi Ws
j^=±tL
LARGE-STOCKS;FOR.FULL,PARTICULARS AND PRICES APPLY TO
o.& W.ROBERTSON.Sydney,SoIe agents new south wales
J.W.SUTTtfN &C 0; BRISBANE,SOLE AGENTS
ROBISON CO.MELBOURNE,SOLE AGENTS -VICTORIA'
The Pills of Peace.
A physician in Lyons has discovered a
cure for all human passions. It Is Impossible to
over-estimate the service thus rendered to man-
kind, No matter what description of care op-
presses us the Lyons doctor can fix us with a pill
A simple little globule—nux-vomica-it appears, is
an infallible remedy for jealousy; sulphur cures
drunkenness in one globule, and belladonna is the
antidote for imbecility. This last is a recipe which
should be in considerab’e request as soon as
society gains confidence in the Lyons leech.
Meanwhile, we have pleasure in testifying to a
most miraculous cure. Painful domestic compli-
cations recently reduced us to a mental and phy-
sical condition which we shudder to remember.
Fortunately, the Lyons doctor he&rd of our caso
took it in hand. Let us explain;
The Pills of Peace.
■ln days’ of old, like other men’s, it grieves us to
admit,
*Our Hesh was sometimes weak, and we went
wrong a little bit;
A lot of naughty passions used to flourish in our
heart,
But, thanks to this good doctor, we have made
another start.
There was a time when jealousy—the monster
yellow-eyed—
Had got us in its clutches; for our pretty bonny
bride—
The wife who swore to love us-left our cottage
home in gloom
By bolting off one morning with a ginger-
whiskered groom.
We knew not any better, so we hastened for relief
To the pleasures of the table to alleviate our
grief;
In drink we sought distraction till in very little
while
Our face came out in blotches and our brain went
Imbecile.
Till now we might have lingered in that miserable
state,
But, 10l this Lyons doctor took compassion on
our fate;
For. hearing of our maladies, it—bless his heartl—
befell.
That he sent a box of globules, and we took ’em—
and we’re well.
A belladonna pillule first he ordered for the brain.
And twenty minutes later we were sensible and
sane:
lump* with sulphur, just a tiny yellow
ADd pump When are tblrBty we g 0 smiling to the
Nux-yomlca as quick as thought our passions
laid to rest,
And Christian love and charity reign rampant in
our breast;
e p?Hs Dd a panacea ’ when wo polished cff those
For envy, hatred, malice, and a multitude of ills.
bo now we wear the ribbon and our intellect is
bright
U wHte) iUB * 8 ap ’ }aTen^; i Q these verses that we
And j jalousy no more disturbs the current of our
lire—
Wo love old ginger-whiskers, and he's welcome to
our wife.


T 1
|HB ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL
jl. George-street, Haymarket.
Lessee and Director ••• ... Mr. Frank Smith.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING.
THE HOME OF MINSTRELSY and MIRTH.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
MINSTRELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
UNPARALLELED SUCCESS
Unparalleled Success of the
ALHAMBRA VARIETY COMPANY.
Refinement without Vulgarity.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 3s; stalls,"ls;
balcony, Is.
Artists of acknowledged ability disengaged,
please communicate with Mr. Frank Smith.
A OADBMY OF MUSIC.
/% Under the Management of _
RTONOLD. ALLISON, and HIBCOCKB.
Third Week. Unabated Success.
RICK ARUS-LEETE COM BIN ATI ON.
THIS end KVRKY EVENING,
The GREAT HARRY RICKARDS’ BRIC-A-BRAC
Lightning Cartoonist Sketches, National Local
Celebrities.
Prices, 45., 35., 3s , and Is. Box olan, Nicholson s.
No Free List. Manager lor Mr. Richards. Buchan
Hepburn. Acting-Manager for Rignold, Allison,
and Hi cocks, G. A. Coleman.
tt
f f
THE LYCEUM,
Newcastle,
SITUATED IN THE BEST PART OF THE CITF
It is capable of seating 500 people,
and suitable for
MUSICAL & DRAMATIC^ ENTERTAINMENTS
The Stage (40ft. by 24ft.) is furnished with
STOCK, SCENERY, Ac.
For Terms, apply
COLIN CHRISTIE.
•• The Lyceum,”
Newcastle.
NOTICE.
ART - UNION.
ON account of all the Books, &c, getting de-
stroyed in the late Fire at Mossvale, the
Committee have decided to refund the money.
Subscribers, by applying to the agent, will receive
their money on production of the t ghyAMS
TO Country Journalists.—Leaders, Telegrams,
and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man of long experience, on moderate
terms. •* Beta,” Bulletin Office.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 11th November, 1885.
TENDERS FOR CLEARING AND FENCING.
TENDERS are Invited for Clearing and Fencing
the Public School site at Drummoyne.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of i coder obtained, at the office of the Department
of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Clearing and
Fenc'.ng the site, Drummoyne Public School,’’
must be lodged with the Under Secretary, De-
partment of Public Instruction, at or before 10
o’clock a m., on Wednesday, the 35th November,
1885
The Minister does not bind himself to accept
the lowest or any Tender.
W. J, TRICKETT.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 13th November, 1885.
TENDERS FOR NEW BUILDINGS.
TENDERS are invited for the Erection of new
buildings for Public School purposes, at
Drummoyne.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and berms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for new build-
ing Drummoyne Public School.’’ must be
lodged with the Under Secretary, Department
of Public Instruction, at or before 10 o'clock
a.m , on Monday, the 30th November, 1885.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
O O K
T
FOR
O U
the
“SUNDAY TIMES.”
F.RBT ISSUE, SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 23nP.
Containing all the news of the world obtainable
up to Saturday midnight—Sporting, Theatrical,
Musical, Political, Social, and General.
PRICE-TWOPENCE.
Published every Sunday morning, at G o’clock,
at the offices, Printing House Lane, King-street,
Sydney, one door from George-street.
Intending agents should give In their orders at
once.
Christmas Presents.
N°
YELTIES
FOR GENTLEMEN
IN
PIPES,
CIGAR AND CIGARETTE CASE?,
MATCH BOXES,
WALKING STICKS.
A large assartment of CIGARS, in all size boxes
suitable for Presents. Also, every brand of
TOBACCO.
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES EARLY FOR
CHRISTMAS.
JOHN NOAKE,
TOBACCONIST,
320 & 446 GEORGE STREET,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
QUONG TART ft GO.
WILL OPEN their NEW TEA ROOMS
at
777 GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Christ Church),
ON THURSDAY, 19tli INSTANT,
and, in thanking the public for past favours, beg
to solicit a continuance of their generous
support.
QUONG TART & CO.
Professional Directory.
in BORGB PBRRIMAN. Seen® Painter. Theatre
fjJ - Royal, Brisbane. Disengaged.
B A T R B ROY
Under the management of
A L.
unaer tue maimgouiwui
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and MusobOT*.
essee, Mr. B. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
T.
Lessee.
‘WILLIAMSON, GARNER, a Q d MUSGROVE’S
' ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
THIS (THURSDAY)"EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
and until further notice.
THE MIKADO THE MIKADO
THE MIKADO THE MIKADO
THE MIKADO (THE MIKADO
THE MIKADO THE MIKADO,
or,
THE TOWN OP TITIPU.
Admission : Dress Circle. 5l; Stalls, 33.; Family
Circle, 3s. . _ . .
Tickets for all parts of the house
Hotel. Box plan open at the Iheatre aauy irom
10 till 5. No Free List.
N
BW OPERA HOUSE,
Under the Lesseeshlp and Management of
MAJBRONI and WILSON.
COMEDY SEASON,
Mr. G. W. ANSON A
Mr. O. W. ANSON I GRIMALDI I
Mr. G- W. ANSON f
Mr. G. W. ANSON, J
Miss FRORBNCE WADE,
Mr. HBNHY ALLEYNF,
and Majeroni and Wilson's Comedy Company, in-
clua ' n S^i r «ALfe-r, H * Ll ',; , . .
a comedy in 5 acts, hy Dion Bouc.cault, Esq., and
a written for Mr. Anson,
In preparation, a comedy-drnma, entitled,
8 Alvla.,
Prices as usual. Box plan at A. and C. Huener-
bem's George-street. Day Tickets at Book
Arcade, George-street. _____
Ga Tl 5 T Y THBA T R B •
ProDrletor .. .. •• Mr. John Solomon
USSSta Mr. Solomon. Mr. B. H. Jone.
Manager for Mr. Dampier, Mr. F. Quntner.
7th WEEK 7th, DAMPIER SEASON.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING,
until further notice.
Grand production of £^J erne ’ 8 great RuBBian
MICHAEL 8 L’ROQOFF,
The Courier of the Czar.
FRIDAY, November 30, HAMLET.
In preparation. SINNER (dramatised
2S” K r ‘E°ldY£*.’s.%"S “w
scenery by Klnchela.
Tickets may be purchased during the day at
Book Arcade. Box Plan at Nicholson and
Coi’s.
The Oly mpic
(late Old Masonio Hall, York-street).
Lessee and Manager .. Mr, Ba P. hae i‘ u
RtAflre Manager .. .. Mr. D Aicy Stanfield.
Another crowded house last night to wltD€S3 the
OLYMPIC BURLESQUE COMPANY,
in the world-famed burlesque,
- ~ “ORPHEUS,”
The Grand Limelight Effects.
APOLLO’S TSIMPLE.
Grand Transformation Scene.
The best array of
BEAUTIFUL ARTISTES on the
SYDNEY STAGE,
The finest Orchestra of the
BESC MUSICIANS in Sydney.
The coolest place of amusement.
The best and Cheapest Entertain-
OKU Reserved
seats, at NAJR, Business Manager.
N,8.-York-street is now open for traffic, and
carriages may drive to the door of the Olympic.
ORPHEUS
ORPHEUS
ORPHEUS
ORPHEUS
ORPHEUS
ORPHEUS
ORPHEUS
ORPHEUS
ORPHEUS
ORPHEUS
ORPHBDS
FRYER & CO.’S
FAMOUS CIRCUS,
EQUINE PARADOX,
AND TRAINED ANIMAL EXHIBITION,
Belmore Park.
tINPRECBDENTED SUCCESS. HUNDREDS
TURNED AWAY NIGHTLY, UNABLE TO
OBTAIN ADMISSION.
Pi-enounced hy Press and Public the most Novel
and Pleasing Exhibition seen in the colonies.
LAST TWO WEARS I
LAST TWO WEEKS 1
SEE THE GRAND MILITARY DRILL.
SEE THE RIDING GOATS.
SEE THE RIDING DOG 3.
The MARVELS OP PERU.
The wonderful performing dogs.
The EXECUTION OF A CANINE CULPRIT.
The FUNNY MUSICAL CLOWN, BHILLITO.
THE PONIES PLAYING HIDE AND SEEK.
THE CELEBRATED GYMNASTS—KARL,
DURAND, SAM WELLS, LEOPOLD.
Special MATINEES, for Ladles and Children,
EVERY SATURDAY, at 3 p m.
Doors open at 7 30, performance begins at 8
o’clock sharp ; carriages ordered at 10.
Admission—4s., 2s. 01., Is. Children—Chairs, 25.;
Stalls, Is. od.; Pitt, Is.
THEATRICAL MANAGERS.—Miss JENNIE
SHARPE is open to Engagement for Bur-
e. Opera Bouffe, &c., &c. Address Post
», Melbourne.
Alex. Borthwick. Glass.
WALLPAPER, PAINT, &c.
2SI O-eorgre-st., S3rd.ra.e3r.
“WORKS
like a charm." “AVOIDCOMPLICATED BRACES.
IB
6 t
li
ff
n
THE
CREDENT!
GREATEST EASE.
STRONGEST WEAR PERFECT COMFORT.
SIMPLEST & BEST.
WHOLESALE ONLY, ©
FINDLAY, READ &
MAN
URY.BIXTON&C
co
URN
k
ENGLISH ALES
Burton -on-Trenl".
Stores ail Agencies.
CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
London Agents: Messrs. Aethtjk Ai.lt & Co., "Wormwood Chambers, "Wormwood-stree ,


y9t*7&pf
•» 7:
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
triumph of musical invention is acknow-
I lodged on all hands to be the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It is a wonderful little instrument, which, while
it weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL-SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and executes its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 22 reeds, plays in three keys, and ail the
parts of most difficult music.
To Mr. H. 0. Lorton, the Inventor, the world
was first Indebted for the Orgaqette; but that was
too expensive to come within the reach of all.
After years of persistent effort and intelligent
study, he has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over ail
the difficulties of cost and crudeness.
It requires no skill to extract from it any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas, Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, &c., &c., &o. A child can
play any of these selections with perfect accuracy.
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that are sent with each
instrument, and are so plain that “ he who runs
may read.” It is b> st adapted to the kind of music
which suits an organ best, in which chords pre-
dominate ; but it has also wonderful power in
executing very lively pieces. It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card-holder for convenience
In singing. It will be found invaluable for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and
for DanclLg. Every shanty in the bush should be
supplied with one ; and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autophone. It will afford greater and better
entertainment than four times the price can pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Sole Agents for this marvel-
ous little instrument in the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
474 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the colonies. Orders have
come to us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonely
shepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the cities—from
everywhere, in fact. And one of the best argu-
ments we can offer as to the genuineness of the
instrument, is the fact that, in all our corre-
spondence, we have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they will recommend it
to their friends.
It is conceded by all educators and moralists
that music 1s the great refining influence, and
especially with children its effect for good is
boundless. The love for music which music in
the family engenders, is more potent in forming
dispositions and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, pnd parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm which renders an other
wise hard task an easy one.
The price of the Autophone Is 305.,
and where good music can be procured for such a
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
be without it. With each Autopho e for 30s. we
send three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
ah orders for music are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it oar
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogues of tunes at any time.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Solo Agents for Australia:
Oriental Gold Company.
4/74 George-street, Sydney, 474
Opposite entrance to Fruit Markets.
Th» Rat ns o» "casoaiPTiO-v to Th« Bulmti*
are-For one year, 245.; half-year. 18s. od.:
quarter, Bs. 6d. —In advance.
Thj Advertising Rates are ss. per Inch s
special positions In the paper 7s, Bd. per
Inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per Inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
aL-snts ordered for periods, as follows :—On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consscutive Inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive Insertions!
16 per cent.: For 62 consecutive Insertions, «>per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent
sortio.-v. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
b. made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
unler £l, postage stamps of any Australian
Ciolmv may he sent It more convenient
The wearied and anxious business man
should use Wolfe’s Schnapps-
What care I whether Dibbs or Parkes
Shall steer the ship of State,
Or whether New south Wales decide
Or not to federate.
The public should be no longer duped by
cheap fiery compounds imitations of Wolfes
Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is far and away
superior to all other spirits. Hence its widespread
popularity.
1 When we’re married,” said Kate, “I will aways
obey,
If you grant me one little request,
That is that you’ll always wear Summerlield
pants— , .
Vou will find them the cheapest and best.
Wherever Wolfe’s Schnapps have been
introduced it has by force of merit obtained public
confidence.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Taeatre ROYAL-" The Mikad0;. ........... P- 8.
GAiEtY Theatre—" Michael Strogoff *
Tfia OLYMPIC Otpheus’’ ... . •<••• »
opera House—“ Grimaldi” .. t.
AtHAMhßA—Variety Company ..
Ftyer’s Circus, Belmore Park •>
AOaHewV Ok MHsit).—Biekards-Leete Com-
bination ■ ■ * ••
The Sidney public gravitated to the
Theatre Itoyal on Saturday night with more than
average pertinacity. Talk of “ The Mikado had
got abroad, waves of air carrying the mysterious
title swept the streets, and wherever one went
one's tympanum was assaulted, and the genius of
curiosity aroused. That proved that those respon-
sible for the introduction of the Japanese monarch
were no Philistines in the matter of business.
They bought up not only the dead walls of the
city, but a considerable quantity of dense atmos-
phere. And they turned their purchases to profit,
a * *
Gilbert and Sullivan have joined heads
and hands so often, and the union has been the
basis of so much genuine pleasure to the
public, that the announcement of this, their
latest work, created lively anticipations. The
story is a plain one. Without tne accessories
purchased by cash it would be too plain to cast a
shadow. Nanki-Poo, the son of the Mikado, un-
consciously captivates Katisha, an elderly, ugly
lady of the Royal Court. She claims that he must
marry her. and her claim is supported by the
Mikado. Nanki-Poo accordingly runs away and
becomes second trr.mbone in a village band. Here
he encounters Yum-Yum, one of three sisters,
wards of Koko. This Koko, a cheap tailor of
flirting tendencies, falls in love with Yum-Yum,
and as he is Lord High Executimer of Titipu.he
possesses immense advantages to begin with. On
the return of the sisters from school, and just as
Koko has embraced his bride-elect. Nanki-Poo ap-
pears. He Informs her that he really is the son of
the Mikado. She allows that to affect her manner
considerably, but not to interfere with her engage-
ment to Koko. At this stage a message arrives
from the Mlhado demanding that somebody should
be beheaded within a ’.month. As Nanki-Poo, de-
spairing of winning Yum-Yum, comes in to com-
mit suicide, a basis of criminal pleasure and busi-
ness is arrived at. Nanki-Poo will offer himself
far execution in a month if he he allowed pre-
sently to marry Yum-Yum. The terms are ac-
cepted. Yum-Yum causes the next hitch. As-
certaining that if ithe husband be put to
death his widow must be buried alive, she backs
out of the contract. The advent of the Mikado is
announced. Koko thinks it is to find out if there
has been an execution. He, therefore, urges the
flight of the young couple, and, with his Ministers
of State, resolves to tell the monarch that Nanki-
Poo was the victim. The Mikado is glad his edict
has been fulfilled, but, learning that the victim is
his own son, ho remembers that those who com-
pass the death of the heir to the throne must
themselves be put to death. It becomes thus in-
dispensable to reproduce Nanki-Poo. But Nanki-
Poo won’t appear unless somebody marries
Katisha, and clears her out of his road. Where-
fore Koko marries her, and all ends happily.
• • »
Ihe part of Koko was taken by Mr.
Vernon. He was easier than as Lord Chancellor
in “lolanthe.” Although greater exaggerations
would have been tolerable under the romantic
garb of a Japanese dignitary than in the gown of
the first of England’s Judges. Mr. Vernon’s sense
of humour enforced moderation on Saturday
night. The patter business did not require so
much glibness of tongue, and he was thus able to
be satisfactorily distinct. The song ‘ On a Tree
by the River,” was well given, and accompanied
by capital acting. Mr. Benham was Pish-Tush, a
noble lord. The first piece cf business he got to
do created a slight prejudice against him. He
looked very jolly, very happy, and very Japanese.
But he seemed not to have breath enough for
several lints in his great song. Then, farther on,
he emitted a few bars in n way that made one
think he had too much breath. It was a case of
running out of stock, and then delivering in
wholesale quantities Mr. Woodfleld made an ex-
cellent Pooh-Bah. He held all the olflcial appoint-
ments at Titipu, except that of Executioner, and
carried himself with a due sense of his import-
ance. Insults, when they took the form of oaih-
bribep, offended him deeply, but he acted like a
sensible man, and pocketed them without raising
a scene, borne of the most humorous things in
the play fail to him, and in the spoken and acted
parts there is nothing lost.
* * •
Mr. Forde played the Mikado. He does
not make his appearance until midway into the
second act. The ceremonial of the entry is elabor-
ate. Possibly no such scene of dazzling and ro-
mantic splendour has ever been witnessed in a
Sydney theatre. The music given to the monarch
was not as attractive as that which feil to others.
Besides, his song was out of all proportion too
long. Nevertheless, he succeeded in making it
“go.” His son, iNanki-Poo, had, on the other
hand, plenty of opportunities. He had to sing of
love and despair, of joy and sorrow. Mr. Boyle
tilled the part. It was, of course, that of a young
and rather sickly lover, hut Mr. Boyle's rendering
of it was too spiritless. The quality of this tenor's
voice is already known. It possesses much sweet-
ness and clearness, and covers a liberal range.
But it is weak in sympathetic power, and his man-
ner of acting deepens the sense of disappointment
with the voice. It is true that Nanki-poo was
Oriental, and bad to be given with some of the
lackadaisical nerveless characteristics Western
peoples associate with Asiatic life. But they wers
carried too far by this substitute of the son of an
Rmperor. Besides, the rest of the company was
Oriental, and, men and women, they were free
irom lackadauical nervelessness.
• * *
The ladies jdayed and sang well. The
“Three little maids from school” was an ex-
tremely dainty morsel. Miss Stuart and Miss
Osborne were especially nimble, and their com-
panion, Miss Eorde, would likely have triumphed
with them through th? night had she got more ti
do. But the part that holds the strongest Interest
is Miss Barnett’s Katisha. This has power, pur-
oose, humour, and abundant sentimental bur-
lesquerle. She has her face spoiled considerably,
but she hardly makes herself old and ugly enough
to fulfil the meaning of the part. She says in one
place, “You hold lam not beautiful because my
face is plain. You know nothing. Learn that it
Is not in the face alone that beauty is to be sought.
1 have a left shoulder blade that is a miracle of
loveliness. People come miles to see it. My
right elbow has a fascination few can resist. It Is
on view Tuesdays and Fridays. As for my circu-
lation, it is the largest in the world.” No good
point given to Miss Barnett is lost,
* • •
We had purposed in the beginning to
quote some specimens of Gilbert’s drollery, and to
point out some resemblances between the music
of “The Mikado” and that of other of Sir Arthur
t uliivan’s compositions. But there is not room,
‘ The Mikado” is simply a Sulllvan-Gilbertean
production. It has the distinctive features of their
. ther intellectual children. This is as it naturally
should be. But it is not as robust or organically
sound as its predecessors. It is more richly
dot bed. It Is surrounded with scenery of extreme
beauty. The warm colour of the luxuriant foliage
clings to it. But. as a whole, it lacks sustained In-
tellectual significance. It stands out from the
other operas of these fortunate men as the apo-
ihtosis of the tyrannous twins, Hard Cash and
High Reputation.
•e • «
At the Sydney Gaiety, Mr. Dampier evi-
dently believes in change, and wirier the business
i quicsly as the Sydney Evening News and
E mo transfer their political allegiance. “ Southern
0(088,” “Hamlet,” “ Belphegor,” and “ Michael
Strogofl” were produced on succeeding- nights,
but the latter piece is to run till Friday. We would
hesitatingly couf* S 3 that we don't like Mr- Dam-
pier in the title role of this latter piece It may
have been that he had not time to fully study the
character, or else, possibly, was unable to shake
off thoughts of Hamlet and words of Henri Maur,
which perhaps still lingered in his entity. But
whatever was the cause, he seemed to en-
deavour to atone for want of depth in his imper-
sonation by excess of breadth, and the result was
that he played "Alfred Dampier, the Courier of
the C/ar.” But to this one notable exception
must be made, and that was la the Ural
Mountain scene when deprived of his eyesight by
order of the Btnir of Bokara, In this his act-
ing was forceful and attractive, IVan Ogarefl, the
Tr-r-r-altor, was represented by Harry Stoneham,
who covered the character with villainy as with a
garment, and made himself so odious to the virtu-
ous gallery that in the last scene an enthusiastic
youth (much to the amusemeat of Miss Dampier),
advised Michael, to “ stick a knife in ’im.” Joe
Stark as Alcide Jolivet, has a lot to do, and a Joli-
vet of doing it. He is correspondent of the
Sydney Morning Herald, and speaks enough
pigeon Eoglish and wires enough mis-statements
to prove his unique qualifications for the post.
Mies Russell's Sangarre is a clever presentation.
Mbs Merton is equally capable as the Mother of
Michael, and Miss ;Dampier was an intense Irene.
To Harry Weston the chief part of the comic
business fell, and he scored every time.
* * *
Hamlet” is to be put on again on Friday,
20th, and "Saint or Sinner” and the "New Mag-
dalen” are announced. Mils Myra Kemble accedes
to this company shortly.
*» • •
The attendance at Sydney Opera House
on Monday night to witness the performance of
" Grimaldi,” was only moderate. The play is one
of Boucicault’s comedy-dramas, with room in it
for a tine old man, a line young woman, and an
unmitigated villain. Some other characters are. of
course, introduced, to exhibit the resources of the
stage wardrobe, but they retain no hold on the
attention.
• ■ •
The villain is too mean every way to interest
anyone. The methods he adopts to possess him-
self of the little girl on the night of her debut are
utterly devoid of a single romantic feature.
Women have been run away with in real life, but
never by a character so prosy, dull, and dreary
as the abductor of Monday night. It is not pos-
sible for it ever to enter the head of a man like
that to run away with any woman. If accident
married him to a woman he could be fittingly con-
ceived running away from her. Men who run
away with women have a few bright spots in their
villainy. MaltraVers, the Villain here, must have
been drawn at a time when Boucicaulfc’s imagina-
tion was clouded by divorce-proceedings. The
original dreariness, however, is deeply driven in
by the personation of Mr. H. Alleyne. Running
away with women, indeed! Running away with
your studs or boots was, considered dramatically,
more in his line.
* ♦ *
Miss Florence Wade is a capable young
lady, with a variety of qualities to recommend
her. She and Mr. Anson, whose adopted daughter
sne is in this play, are acquisitions of decided
value to the Australian stage. Mr. Anson possesses
an excellent voice, with an excellent stage man-
ner. He can be passionate without rending any-
thing, and pathetic without lugubriousness. As
to the extent to which he can be either, it is, pend-
ing his appearance in a live play, premature to
speculate. The other members of the company
did their allotted parts well.
• • •
"Grimaldi” was followed by an eccen-
tricity called “Puppets ” There is a good deal of
fun in parts of this. Mr. Anson sings two long
humorous songs, however, which make one wish
one had gone away before the afterpiece.
♦♦ * ♦
As the Sydney Olympic rejoices in a classic
name, it is only right that dramas of the classic
age should be produced there. The new bur-
lesque, ” Orpheus,” not only deals with clas ic
places (such, for instance, as Hades), but the
dresses—very fine indeed what there is of them,
and enough of them to suit the cultured taste of a
Sydney audience—are in keeping, as far as length,
or rather shortness, is concerned, with the
Homeric age. The plot of the piece is like a
woman's last year's bonnet resurrected for eco-
nomical reasons for a second season-it is merely
used as a framework upon which to llx the thin
ribbon of dialogue and the flowers of melody
which cover it. Amy Horton is Orpheus, who h»>re
figures as a poor author. From the taste for Ac-
tion which Orpheus displays, we thought at first
that he represented a reporter on one of the
Sydney evening papers. The character is thorougly
consistent, for the author makes Orpheus, already
married to Eurydlce, sing a ditty announcing the
approach of his wedding with a girl called Kitty.
This matrimonial profuseness is, we regret to say,
a blemish on the literary profession. Miss Amy
Horton makes a bright Orpheus, and never, or at
least hardly ever, does anything which Amy
Horton't. (Thunder 1 why don’t we write a bur-
lesque?) Emily Fox, as Eurydioe, was more
“fetching” than in anything she has yet done.
Her enunciation was better, and her action more
appropriate and spirited. But she has one decided
fault, or habit, and that is her knack of smiling
like a pleased periwinkle just when she ought to
be in dread of her life. Were we merely one of
the audience, the more Emily smiled the more
delighted- we should he, but, as a critic,
we must protest against her mirth when a
black-hearted villain is abducting her from
home and husband.
• • •
Miss Fannie Sarony, as Proserpine,
showed dramatic action of a high order—so
high, In fact, that it was chiefly applauded m the
gallery—and as the piece progresses her erst ab-
sorbing Jove for the'prompter s corner decreases.
As Apollo, Dot Read had not much to do except
look beautiful. Did she do It? We should smile.
Annie Schrader lan a North Shore ferry boat con-
cern lor Charon’s wherry, and sang and encored
a dU'Jt with Eurydice. The company should de-
cide upon the correct pronunciation of Cnaron a
name. Either way will do, but, not being greedy,
we don’t want both. Minos, tne lord chief justice,
was a tome what disappointing character We ex-
acted to see a presentment of Judge Windeyer,
but not la a single feature or action dues Nel-
lie Howard remind us of that luminary
Greater praise than this for her appearance we
cannot give. Rcsie Johnson was messenger to tho
gods. Such a messenger we would always be
glad to s~e, although she brought news of tho
sudden death of our mother-in-law. The sisters
Martin were Jupiter and Juno. These ladles need
not fear the law. They will never, while on the
stage, be arrested for having no visible means of
support. D’Arcy Stanfield did not seem quite at
home in the part of Pluto, King of Hades, and was
not so successful as he hss hitherto berm. 1 er-
haps he is not used to life iu the lower realms; ho
will soon feel at home there—of course wc mean
on the stage, not in Sieol. Clothilda and Fred.
Dark suit each other right down to tho ground, and
tvo very clever tonicai songs go with the part.
Arlstoens had a ditlioult role, and did not do so
well with it as he might have done. We would
suggest to the management the elision of the
wooden-horse episode, for if this contains humour
it is of a gloomy order.
. * *
"Orpheus” is in two acts, containiog
seven scenes. The dialogue at first is somewhat
weak, but strengthens considerably in the second
sod. Occasionally word-torture of a merciless
kind is indulged in by the author. He writes a
word and then distorts it until at last it emerges
as bartered and unrecognisable as the reputation
of a N.S.W. Cabinet Minister after a general elec-
tion. But these blemishes are atoned for by the
bi tter passages. Very few of the songs escape an
encore, and the music, over which Rivers Allpresa
presides with wonteJ ability, is bright and lively.
At the close of the second scene in the second act
an effective transformation takes place. Ihe
staging all through is quite in keeping with the
requirements of me burlesque.
♦ tr •
Fryer’s Circus is having a ruu of good
luck iu Sydney, which makes up Jor its bad luck
In being warned off New Zealand. Well, It deserves
all its success, which is more than we can say for
a lot of things and people. I'he tumbling is ex-
ceptionally clever. The animals, toe, must have
undorgone a course of hard training. Until we
saw Fryer s goats we entertained a poor opinion
of this genus of animal. We connected him
chiefly with unprovoked assaults on small boys
and an all-round capacity for making himself of jeo-
tionable. But all this is changed. We now think he
is a mammal capable of high cultivation—of taping
taught how to conduct himself with propriety in
the most exclusive society. We always thought
dors were at their best when stealing a bone, but
a visit to Fryer’s completely dispels this no-
tion. To see a dog enjoy himself properly you
must watch him Jumping through a hoop or hang-
ing one of his mates. The show shortly goes to
Melbourne, but will give Sydney another turn by
and bye.
«» » »
DiPtna is the order of the night in Mel-
bourne. At the Royal the Williamsons played a
few of their favourite characters, previous to
producing a new sensation; La»t week we saw
them in “ Arrah-Na-Pogue.” AO nearly everyone
hid rushed to see the great Dion In the same piece
we were not surprised to fled only a moderately
well-filled housa. It was sufficiently appreciative,
however, to keep the performers warm. As
Shaun and Arrab, Mr. Williamson and his wife are
pretty well beyond criticism. There is an entire
absence of effort about their playing. We defy
the most rabid Orangeman to hear Maggie Moore
sing “ The AVesring of the Green,” without feel-
ing a sneaking desire to Join in the chorus and
strike one blow for the distressful country. No
stage song was ever more spontaneously rendered.
Several of the other characters were taken up by
the same people who lately supported tho Bnuci-
emits, and the remainder were satisfactorily filled.
The farcied trial scene was carried through with
excellent spirit. By the way, we wonder the Lord
Chamberlain, as licenser of plays, allowed the
English major to be called by the too suggestive
name of Coffin. It is not necessary to make the
programme an index to character. Yet they will
dolt. We remember shuddering through a melo-
drama in London, in which the heavy villlan
figured as Ransld Marraugh.
* • •
“ The Lights o’ London” is bringing more
giist to George Rlgnold’s mill than many better
pieces have done. Certainly the ** Lights” is a far
more live drama of its kind than ** Romany
Rye.’’ The hero talks in a somewhat milder
strain, and the vfflaln is not called upon to perpe-
trate such maniacal wickedness as in the latter.
Take it all round, ” Lights o’ London” is well
played. Mr. G. C '.rey, as the poacher, is a little
bit perplexing with his “ North country” accent.
We found ourselves wondering what northern
territory he hailed from. Alter profound rumina-
tion, we decided that perhaps Iceland was the land
of his birth, r. B. Appleby, too, puts on rather
too much colour—actually and figuratively—as
the travelling showman. The strongest situation
in the play is where the escaped convict pleads for
admission to the caravan. Here the comic element
should be kept modestly in the background, but
Mr. Appleby obtruded it somewhat. However,
ssthe gallery takes no exception to these small
delinquencies, why should we ?
** « «
A somewhat curious and pathetic hand-
bill fits reached us from the distant town of
Charters Towers (N.Q). Here it is, omitting
nam< s:-” To the Public of Charters Towers - we,
the ned, in order to exonerate ou sdvos
from any imputations of dishonesty. Which may
at first sight be attributed to ns, in connection
whu Comedy Company, do solemnly
aver that has not paid us our salaries in full
from the time of our leaving Brisbane, and that a
rough esi imate will show that. . . is still indebted
to us to tno amount of In the aggregate, £7O; fur-
th r, tnat. . . led us to understand that . . . was
r sponsible for our board and lodging, to be
d do t-d from our sa'aries, which are still out-
standing: and . . . bai represented to the hotel-
keepers ih it. . . had paid us up to date, and was
no longer responsible for our debts. These being
simply the facts of the case, it is our intention to
give a dramatic performance at the School of Arts,
on Tuesday, :Jrd, for the sole purpose of enabling
us to leave Quarters To « ers in a straightforward
and creditable manner. Any person requiring
further detailed information, the members of the
company, individually or collectively, will be only
too happy to supply it, either vi fbally or through
the Press. (Signed) . The performance to
consist of ‘Rather Su-picidus.’ To be followed
by the buriesque of ‘Medea,’ after which a ball
will be given to the holders of front seat tickets.
Young man, you who cast a carious eye on the
velvet coat and wel -oiled Hyperion locks of the
bejewelled Thespian; young woman,you to whom
the stage is a yet distant heaven, learn this hand-
bill, we beseech you. off by heart, and ponder
over it for a week. Just think of having thus to
publicly appeal for funds to enable you—not to
complete the purchase of the thousand-guinea
diamond ring or the elegantly-furnished villa of
your dreams, but to “ leave the to wn in a straight-
forward and creditable manner”—mother words,to
obviate the otherwise dismal necessity of lowering
at midnight from the hotel-window the shoe-trunk
containing your little ail, the melancholy accu-
mulation of the bygone years wherein the stony
road of the stage was trodden by your blistered
feet. Young woman, you who would "goon to
the stage and make your fortune,’ Just think ot
having to dance yourself (” with the holders of
front-seat tickets’) out of Charters Towers, one
of the Far Northern cities of sin, sweat, and
sorrow!
»* « •
Fleming Norton has just concluded a
season of a week at the Brisbane Theatre Royal.
The houses were not large. Fleming constitutes
a whole company in himself. For this reason the
season pivs him—dart’s Happy Hours have
gone to Brisbane again, and twinkle at the
Academy.... Harry Rickards will probably take
the Academy boards at Xmas— Pollard s kids are
at the Ttratro Royal, doing fairly.... Hickie. the
present lessee of the Theatre, has accepted
tenders for the erection of his now Opera House,
Queen-street. It is to be an imposing pile.


BRIE MENTION.
Motto of the Sydney daily Press—Sup-
press.
It seems the affairs of Egypt are always to
belnam°ss. Mukhtar Pasha has been appointed
Turkish Commissioner there. Mukhtar I
‘ Hullo, there goes Tom Slattery!”
“ Hould yer whisht, man—that’s the Annerable
Thomas Slatthery, Mlnlstherav Justloo.” Hurrool
When the very agnostic Mr. Thomas
Walker heard that St. John's Church, at Parra-
matta, had been struck by lightning, he observed,
“ That’ll teach ’em to let Free-thought lecturers
alone.”
Haggar was the name of the corespon-
dent in a Sydney divorce case last week, but a
D.T. compo. with a large sense of the eternal fit-
ness of things, presented it to an astonished world
as Huggar. That man will rise In his profeision—
upon the editorial boot.
From a recent Sydney Evening News
we learn, amongst other fashion notes from
Bathurst, that “dams are very low.” We have
known that all along, and may add that all kinds
of swearing are low-wloki d in fact. We haven’t
forgotten all we learned at Sunday-school yet,
you see.
Says the
opinion of a majority of men and women in this
district that Bega should have been spared the in-
fliction of Judge M‘Par land’s presence it Sessions
until the Standard's libals were proved or dis-
proved.’' How is it that the N.S.W. Attorney-
General allows the character of a Siipecfllary dis-
penser of justice to be thus assailed ?
From the Riverine (N.S.W.) Rerat.d,
10th November:—“A painful acoidenst Happened
on Sunday morning- ... A boy named
Williams, Td years of age, was travelling on a
reaping machine .... when he accidentally
fell off. and his foot was caught ia a cog-wheel,
inflicting a wound about 18. n in length on the
upper part of the left foot.’' What a hoot I
Some person signing himself “Sydney”
has written to London Truth telling the unadul-
terated truth about the N S.W. tl'ibusterlng ex-
pedition to the Soudan, and the Melbourne
Herald introduces him as “ A. contemptible cad
essaying toe part of the bird which.” etc. The
cou-teous old gentleman who wrote that phrase la
having a oicture representing our gifted and
gracious Queen in the act of conversing affably
with Plain Bill painted on his oyster-barrow.
The great double-barrelled conundrum,
“O Death. where is thy sting-0 Graze, where Is
thy victory I ” has been successfully solved at last.
In a Southern naper of Tours lay last we r£ad the
following:-' 1 Jones.—Er Eof am Anna, gyratgy
diwaddar barch. John Francis (Islwyn), Glyn,
Ynvaddu. Yr hon afu farw Gorphenaf yr lleg.
18S3, yn I'l Miwydd oed. Claddwyd hi yn Myaweat
y tJabelu Gorphenaf 15fed.” When we die, we
tru»t that some dear friend will add, as we sink
beneath the sod. ‘‘Knogsah eh boj doog mada.”
Titegrof uoytnoddna!
The other side of Kyneton (Vie.) there is a
racecourse called the Fig and Whistle. At this
place race) were held some time ago. A Mel-
bourne man entered his horse for one of the con-
tests, and his horse just got home in front by a
head. “ Dead heat,” exclaimed the judge. ‘‘Dead
heat, you call it,” Slid the irate owner; ‘‘why, my
• nag ’ won by a good head.” “ Oh, that be blanhod
for a yam,” shrieked the judge with the oer-
spi juoun eye; “hsads are no good here. Your
horso must win by lengths before he gets the prize
in this part of the country.”
Among events which hare been pulled off
'ately ha» been ” Bridg es Art Union.” It hung
fire for years, and was thought, for that reason, to
be a Government undertaking. People expected
to see the Melbourne Parliament Houses finished
first. They have now got to have the two bridges
built over the Yarra—which few will live to see
opened. This Art-Union Bridge has, however,
(rot through at last with his subscription list.
Prize drawers have mostly taken his offer to give
cash for the pictures if preferred. We took our
prizjinthe medallion form, though the picture
will doubtlessly find us buying it at double the
price when we are rich enough.
In South Australia there is a township
called Kurelia, pronounced lately Yoo-reelya, but
originally Yooreliar. “ This is Turner’s Fiat, isn’t
it ?” said a stranger, as he entered the township, to
a man working on the road. “ Yooreliar.” laconi-
cally replied the metal spreader. “ Whatl” ejacu-
lated the traveller, sharply. “ YooraJiar!” “ Oh, I
am, am I ?" s (id the stranger, dismounting. “ Now
then, come on here.” “ What the double blank’s
the matter with you ?” queried the navvy, this
Kory township’s named Yoorellar. I ata t got
time to fight about It. I’ve had two or three up
and downers over the sanguinax-y place already.
Go and punch the Town Council-they’re meeting
to-day.”
Says a Melbourne writer:—“l must say
that the crowd ox the lawn, at the Melbourne Cup,
was much less distinguished than usual. There
was a marked faiilng-off, too, in the ladles’ cos-
tumes. I never saw such a common lot of people
on the grand stand. All sorts of butchers’ men,
and vulgar buahmen, thronged the lawn. The
ladies were quite banished from in front of the
grand Ptxnd Nit that there was bad behaviour,
but the company was so ‘shy I’ Of course Byron
Moore could not helo it, if there was an infusion
of commoners. All he can do is to raise the
prices Wo seem to want a half-way place between
the grand stand and hill. I think the grand stand
will have to be raised to a guinea on Cup Day.”
Yts, let us hxve a hair-way place from which
tradespeople are excluded. Why should we cannon
against creditors on Cup Day ?
A Victorian law prohibits the writing or
printing anything on the backs of bank-notes. So
to do is, legally, to disfigure them. By such wel-
come regulation the notes, dirty enough generally
are likely to have a cleaner look. Oae has, how-
ever, reached us with an endorsement of poetry
upon it—written by some cheerful soul evidently
contemplating suicide. We hope he thought
better of it. This is what he has written on what
he calls his “last note.” —
“ P.S.—I was pbout to add ‘women,’ but they all
deserted me when my money was gone.”
Last Friday, a son of either Romulus or
Remus, L°opoldi Paninl by name, and an ice-
cream builder by profession, was, in Sydney, fined
half a sovereign, or threo days’gaol, for tooting
his little horn In classic Woolloomooloo, and
thereby disturbing the pesos of Her Gracious,
&o. A few nights before, a squalling squad of the
Salvation Harmy assembled at Reofern before a
house wherein a lady lay dying, and, in spite of all
remonstrances, persisted in blowing their Infernal
blasts until a good Samaritan, a local chemist,
sprinkled the howlon with some abominable asa-
fce'idan stuff that rmeit eyrn louder than their
“MY LAST NOTE!
“ Grimly gazing thro’ Life’s portal,
What’s to come I’d fain explore
Perhaps some part of me’s immortal ?
Lives on yet when I’m no more.
“ Howe'er it be I shall not alter,
Soon or late we all must die;
The Sydney Late-Shopping Question.
FHI the cupl I will not falter,
Fellow mortals-here’s ‘ Good-bye I’
“ Thus I quaff my last libation
To the things I call divine;
Drinking this larewell potation
To-money, smoking, sleep, and wine.
And doesn't the Oxford-street, man laugh in his sleeve at all
the gratuitous advertising he gets from his rivals Columns
and columns of correspondence in the dailies from "Constant
Readers ” is not a bad idea!
A Slate or the Counter.
Saleswoman: " Not one of the latest novelties! O! I beg
your pardon, our goods are all late novelties, at late as 11
o’clock every night, I assure you ' ''
1ST PARTY: 'Hallo! I What are you doing out at
this late hour ? Oh ! gay old dog, eh ? ”
2nd. Party : Not at all I've had a bad night
of it. Went to bed, could not sleep. Dressed my-
self about 2 o’clock, and took a walk up to the Ox-
ford-street shop, and-made a few purchases just to
help the night along. See ?" I
OXFORD-STREET PROPRIETOR : “ Now, then, Miss Skimpole, if
yon will be a good girl and attend to your work faithfully all the
week, from 9 o’clock to 11, I’ll take you out to the cemetery on
Sunday to see your grandfather’s grave, for ‘all work and no
play,’ you know——."
EXTENSION OF THE LATE-HOUR MAN'S SYSTEM
Road Agent “ Don't like my system, eh ? Well,
you see, as soon as I establish myself, I shall adopt
a different one. Meantime, “ fork ” over, or ----"
1st UNDERTAKER " I say, Mould. Whose funeral is
that?
2ND. DITTO "Funeral ! Why, bless your bones ! that's
not a funeral, it's that Oxford-strèt draper's picnic."
1ST UNDERTAKER. "Picnic, Eh? Weĺ I don't believe
It will be half as cheerful as that little yearly affair of
ours! "


then own hideous braying sounded. For this
charitable act the man of science was duly ar-
raigned. and he narrowly escaped being *• sent
up.” From all which It would appear that the big
drum that proclaims salvation is above the law
that silences the bugle proolamatory of the sale of
ice-cream. But the time will come when the Sal-
vationists lifting up their eyes from Sheol, will see
old Father Abraham afar off with Leopoldl Paplni
nestling in his bosom, and they will vainly asfe
that Leopoldl bo sent along with even one spoon-
ful of iced vanilla.
The Akgus, as might he expected, is vir-
tuously exultant over the result of the Pall Mall
prosecution. The respectable journal observes:—
“The cry that English mothers were accustomed
to sell their daughters was taken up greedily in
America and on the Continent, and now the stigma
is removed. The land was searched for such a
mother, and in vain; and in the end the confeder-
ates, in order to trumo up their story, nad to steal
a child.” What a comforting assumption, in the
face of Mr. Stead’s solemn assertion that he was
pestered with offers from mothers to sell their
children for 1 And on whoso evidence are we
asked to believe that “Lily” Armstrong was
stolen from her home ? On the evidence of the
child's mother, a disreputable old drunkard, who
a*fritted being beaten by her husband for letting
”Liy” go, »-nd furthermore, pleaded guilty to
the soft impeachment of getting "ccrewed” on
the bonus she received from the ex-procuress.
This Mrs. Armstrong, a habitue of the police court,
was the instrument chosen by Her Majesty’s
Government wherewith to silence the voice of
truth. But she's good enough for the Arqus to
preach a sermon over. It was not the stigma on
the mothers that the Arqus troubled about, but
the stigma o i the “ swells.” And it has been “ re-
moved” to the ent're satisfaction of the “ lead-
ing ” journal.
A Melbourne magistrate has decided that
one can pray standing up just as effectually as
when kneeling. Wo believe he is right in his de-
cision. It is absurd to lay down fixed rules for
worship. Some men pray best with their eyes
shut, while others prefer them wide open, and
directed straight at toe c loir-girls. A very con-
siderable cumber of people can never pray at all
until they get into the *• horrors,” and then they
unburden their souls of all sorts of praise and
thanafglvirg. O a the other hand there are people
who never turn their attention to prayer until
they have taken the nledge. But we are wander-
ing from the point. Farmer Johnstone, of Moonee
(Vic). dismissed bis housekeeper because she
‘•prayed standing.” As the only adults in the
house were himself and the fair domestic, the
farmer probably thought it would be nicer if they
took what the balvatlon Harmy calls “ knee-drill '*
in close company. i.He resented her habit o p fund-
ing as unfriendly. Not to be beatoa, F.rmer
Johnstone proposed marriage to his housekeeper,
In the delirious hope that they might kneel to-
gether at the same bedside. She was adamant.
Once he sang out, Will you be mine?” when she
was in bed. Quietly, but firmly, she replied, “ Hoi”
through the keyhole. Then the farmer peremp-
torily sacked the unyielding spinster, to whom the
magistrate granted damage*, on the grounds that
perpendicular prayer is quite admissible, and ac-
ceptance of sanctimonious ” offers ” by no means
compulsory. Hallelujah! we always pray standing
up.
Up to date, only one bookmaker has bolted
with Melbourne Cup backers’ money. There are
a good many sweepholdera yet enquired for—and
likely to be. It is carious that several of these
are ladies—or were dressed as such. There is no
need for sweepholders to disappear, however, as
several very successful ones ttood their ground
w-11, and did big business on the lawn each day.
Certain of these fascinating creatures appealed to
every likely-looking noodle for five shlilings-glv-
ing him a dip into a seal's-skin ladies’ bag for
chance of a horse. He was sure to draw a
scratched one, and had tneir sweet sympathy and
oondolerea as his solace. No one had a chance of
i v ing what tickets were in the bag, or it might
have been found that only the names of the dead
'uns had been placed there. Says Hudlbras ;
“ Surely the pleasure is as great in being cheated
as to cheat.”
The Southern World, a Brisbane paper,
says the Mosaic code of laws “ has never yet been
improved upon by man in any respect for dealing
with” offenders. It expressed that sentiment be-
fore, and we then said that the intelligent organ
was more phllo-judaic than wise. There Is no use
in bandying words about the general aspect of
Judaism and Christianity. Let us go to the cade
itself. It is laid down in Leviticus c. 20, v. 9. that
everyone that curseth his father or mother shall
surely be put to death; in v. 10 the adulterer
and adulteress shall surely hfi put to death •
in v. 27 a roan or woman that is a wizard
shall be stoned with stones, and so on In
c 24, It Is recorded that SheloniOh s son was stoned
to death for blaspheming The man must he
straitened in intelligence who holes that these
laws have rot been Improved upon in modern
times. Christ started the humanitarian system of
dealing with criminals when he set at lar.»e the
woman taken in adultery. The Southern World
should inform itself on the laws it talks about, in
the fl'th chapter, Leviticus provides punishment
for the man who sins through Ignorance. For
every such sin he must offer up a ram. If the
Mosaic cede be re-adopted, the Southern Wi irt/d
will want all the rams in Queensland.
The Man Outside.
PATIENT DIBBS (in terror): "THERE IT 18 AGAIN, THE FEARFUL FACE I SAW IN MY DREAM.”
NURSE N.S. WALES: “CALM YOURSELF. IT IS ONLY THE SHADOW OF THAT BOLD, BAD MAN, SIR HENRY, WHO KEEPS WALKING IN FRONT. BUT THE DOOR
]8 LOCKED.’*


To cure all kindaof symptoms use Wolfe 3
Schnapps. Be sure you obtain Wolfe’s.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—A. medicine for body
and mind—A time honoured preparation.
If von are ordered Schnapps your medical
attcndent naturally supposes you get Wolfe s
Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—Purchase the genuine
and repudiate all shams.
B
EACH’S
CONSULTATIONS.
SIR JOSEPH BANKS HANDICAP
1000 Subs , 10s. Each, Now Open.
Ist Pme
3id „
3.*d „
4th „
Starters
Non-starters
£3OO
90
50
30
(55
65
£5(O
Also, SUMMSR CUP-1000 Subs., 10s. Eanh.
Ist Horse £3OO
lad
3rd ~
Starters ..
Non-starters
TATTERSALL CUP
Ist Horse
3 id
3rd
Starters
Non-starters ..
11,0
s<l
£5OO
3000 Subs, at £1 Each.
£looo
4OO
3i 0
3OO
3Ol
£3OOO
Address—BEACH care of J. J. Deeble, Derble’s
Hotel, King and Ptt streets. Sydney Please
regiiter letters, and aoply early, with stamped
envelope for reply. And thanks for patronage
received.
J, TURNER RO3INSOM & <u.’s
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Goorgo-stroaf,
Established U6i
HAS THB LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OP
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT PROM THK MANUFACTURER*.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect lit
guaranteed. .
A Blessing in every Family. _
Holloways pills and ointment.
There is not a country in the civilised world
where the healing virtues of these grand medi-
cines have not been recognised by thousands or
sufferers.
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their
beneficent action is at once recognised.
Fullest directions are supplied for their use in
everv disense.
IP YOU SUFFER. TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxforu-st., London.
gay* Purchasers should look to the Lfthel on the
Boxes and Pots If the address Is not 533 Oxford-
street, London, they are spurious.
suffering’ from the
effects of youthful
errors, early decay.
TO W|AC MEN
lost vitality, premature decline, nervous weak-
ness, etc., I will send you particulars ©f a
certain, simple, and sure means of self cure,
Free or Charge. Address, in confidence.
Prof. M. B. TAYLOB,
68 Elizabeth St M
SYDNEY N.S W>
BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
The “boxing match” for “a purse, be-
tween the well-known Melbourne boxer, Mick
Nathan, and Jack Hall, came off on Thursday last
In a paddock near Melbourne. Nathan was looked
after by bis “oldpard.,” Newton, while George
Powell did a like service for the Englishman. For
seven rounds Hall looked all over a winner, but in
the eighth he collapsed in a most unaccountable
manner, and Nathan was declared the victor. The
men will most probably meet in another match
shortly for a larger stake.
* « «
The George and Cummings series of
matches as originally arranged ended, as was an-
ticipated by the bulk of the English Press, in the
ex-amateur winning the mile and the tcotchman
the two longer events; but there seems a prospect
of jet another trial of speed between these pedes-
trian celebrities, Cummings having challenged
George at the latter’s winning distance Cum-
mings is willing to run for from JEIOJ to £SOO, and
although George—prior to his victory at the mile
—publicly announced that win or lose these would
bo his last three races, he can hardly refuse to give
his late opponent hia revenge. Judging by the
enormous gates both at Lillie Bridge and Edin-
burgh, it would be a paying speculation for him,
even if he loses.
• mm
It seems a pity, now Sydney is able to
boast of being able to fill up a race at her
regattas, that the handicappera shoull use
their best endeavours to knock yacht-racing on
the bead. At the Double Bay regatta the birccco
was handicapped out of it, and it might have been
expected she would ha« e been given a show at the
Balmain regatta, but such was not the case, and
the Sao made a win with lire minutes to spare.
When boats reach the excellence of the Sirocco
and Sao, time for tonnage should be essayed, and
thoo, should it be found that the smaller boat has
no show, the handicap might be wcrked up in th?
endeavour to make the finish as close as possible.
But if a point is given in favor of either boat, it
should certainly be to the credit of the larger and
faster craft.
• « •
Wars and rumours of wars amongst the
boxers, but, unfortunately for sport, the gladiators
are more willing to talk than fight. Lees and
Peter Jacbsjn wore to have slaughtered each
other months back, but the paper and wordv war-
fare came to naught, though it is only fair to
Jackson to state It was not through any unwilling-
ness of his to toe the scratch. The recent affair
between Nathan and Hall may enliven matters a
bit, and should any pugilistic star be growing
rutty for want of a job, we understand he can be
accommodated by our middle-weight champion,
Laurence Foley, lor anything up to £SOO aiide.
♦ * *
It looked like “ old times, Rocks,” at Bal-
main regatta, to see the two Georges. Ellis and
Fletcher, at the respective tillers of the Sophia
and Our Bovs in the 18-foot dlcgy race for pro-
fessionals The Sophia was built some time since
by George Ellis, and is the young lady so
full of lun that she is never so happy as
when giving her amateur crew a salt-water
bath. Our Boys is Joe Donnelly’s last effort,
and showed on Wales’ Birthday that the band of
her builder has not lost Us cunning. Pi tcher had,
a comfortable lead when running for the flagship,
but it was seen bis masthead had carried away at
the bounds, and when he rounded up. hia mainsail
came down with a run, and George Ellis ihen had
It all to hlmsilf with the Sophia. Donne lly s last
20-foot half-decker, the Cljtie, was beaten by
Golding’s Nereus, but with amateur crews this
does uot bv any means prove which is the faster
host. Mr. Sd. Wilson, who sails tho Nereus, can
give hla opponents a long start In handling a boat,
and with changed crews and gear, we fev-1 pretty
sure the Clytie would beat the Nereus It is only
with professional crews a couple of b mts can be
tested, and as the Double Bay people are talking
about holdiugapurely nrufeestoa il r -gatta shortly
It would bo Interesting to tee the Nereus and
Clytie meet on best and best terms-say, with
Fletcher and Ellis in charge.
• * *
Another safety bicycle, called the “ Rover
Safety.” has come into tho field In England, and
In a recent ItO miles road contest, a "best on
record” was s jored by the new invention, which
covered the distance in Tor. smln. 27sec, beating
the previous best (made on a ** Kangaroo Safety ’)
by smln. Sfsec. Another performancs of note on
the road was made by T. it Marriott, captain of
the Noth. B.C , who, mounted on atricjcie, started
for Land's End Immediately after midnight, and
after riding 6 days 15ais. 25tnin , and havlog to
contend for a large portion of that time against
adverse winds, and snow and rain, reached John o'
Groat's House, Caithness, a distance of 950 miles.
This shows a daily average of 140 miles, and is the
fastest journey that has ever been recorded over
this now well-used (by cyclists) route by 48min.
A third great ride (the 24 hours’ tricycle race; was
ridden under very unfavourable surroundings.
Head winds and heavy muddy roads were encoun-
tered, and before half the distance was covered,
the field of 18 had really dwindled down to four.
Such an exhibition of plucky riding as that shown
by Mr. Adams has never previously been recirded
in the annals of cycling, and he was eventually re-
warded by gaining the coveted but barren honour
of being the tricvcle 24-hours’ record holder, by
covering miles in that time. Mr. Adams now
holds botn the bicycle and tricycle road-records
for 24 hours.
♦ ♦ *
This is one of the new rules of the Queens-
land Turf Club:—“lf any horse bo scratched
within four clear days of the running of any race
In which ho is engaged, the stewards or committee
may call upon him for an explanation of, or
reasons for, such scratching.” But suppose
tho beast of a horse won’t explain; what then?
The rule seems to Indicate that they are ignorant
concsrning tne innate obstinacy of horses which
are scratched within four clear days of a race.
m ■ •
The dead wrestler, Clarence Whistler, had
a big funeral in Melbourne on the Bth. The pall-
bearers were Miller, Victor, Christie, Jack Thomp-
son, 8. Isaacs, Gair, Curnow, and Tom Taylor.
Among other athletes present were Dinnle, Black-
burn, Thomas, Williams. Hlcken, Newton, and
Farnan. A muscular entertainment on a grand
scale la to be got up for the purpose of erecting
a handsome monument to VV hlstier s memory.
* * v
A few weeks ago information was received
from Mr. John Fieid that his blood marp, Queen
Mary, was dead. Alter the victory of her son,
Saeet Anchor, in the Melbourne Cup, Mr. Field
writes to the Launceston Examiner to say: “Ic
was not Queen Mary that I lost a few weeks ago
but Aglaia- I thought at first It was Queen Mary,
but in getting my marts together I| f ound it was
the other,” Considering that the value of Queen
Mary s stock would be much enhanced by Sheet
Anchor’s victory, we are glad to find that it was
“ the other mare ’ that died. At the same time, it
is a thousand pities that the mistake should ever
have been made.
m • •
Mr. Pearson’s Plausible, that ran third to
Malua and Commotion for l«st year’s Melbourne
Cup, was sold last week for 105 guineas. “ Teddy”
Weeks was tho purchaser, and the horse, we be-
lieve, goes to India with the next shipment.
Plausible was fancied by tho public for this year’s
Cup, but ran in such indifferent style as to make
It evident that he had seen his best day. All the
same for that, the son of Vagabond and Plaudit
was worth every penny of the money he fetched.
m * *
On the strength of his unexpected victory
In the Flying Stakes at Flemington, Blairgowrie
has been made favourite for the Derby of 1880.
One genius, it Is said, offered to take two thousand
to fifty about the horse for next year’s Derby and
Cup, and only wriggled out of his bet by demand-
log that the layer should stake his money. It is
impossible to realise that anyone could be so
idiotic as to ever think of taking forty to one
about a double twelve months in advance, and
under such oircumstances.it is not to be wondered
at that the “ books” can work at “ cut-throating”
prices.
The schooner, W ild Duck, starting from
Thursday Island to search for Captain Everlll*
Sir Edward Strickland—Hallelujah I—may now
stay peaceably at home and nurse himself to re-
covery.
Sir Alfred Stephen, Lieut.-Governor of
N.8.W., did not deem it necessary to be present at
the opening of Parliament. This shows that Sir
Alfred has at last gained a correct estimate of the
real importance of his exalted office.
Prince Henry of Battenberg is to preside
at a meeting of the Association for the Benefit of
Decayed Mothers-in-law. His Royal Highness is
expected to make a speech about the great ser-
vices rendered to the world by the profession of
mothere- n law.
Thus the Sydney War Cry:—“What do
the people who object to women preaching think
about the new thranslation of the 68th Psalm,
especially the verse that says, ‘The woman that
publish the glad tidings are a great host.’ Good
for the Salvation Army.”
Under the heading of “The Social Evil in
Brisbane,” and announced as being “published
under the auspices of the Social Purity Society,”
the Queensland Leader thoughtfully publishes
the names, ages, appearance, general habits, and
addreests of the Brisbane demi-monde.
Back-blocks doctor to patent with sore
throat: " Can you gargle, Mick? ” Mick: “Think
ol can, docthor.” “Can you gargle whisky?”
“ Can a duck shwim, docthor ? ” “Hero you are,
then, try.” Mick (after a deal of bubbling):
“Ob, lor. docthor, it’s shllpped.” “Try again,
Mick.” (More bubbling.) Mick: “ Begad, docthor,
it's shlipped agin.”
A quotation from the diary of John Wes-
ley, April, 1781 shows that John liked his whisky
much, and would as soon have thought of wear-
ing a wbio-snake in his button-hole as a piece of
Brother Booth’s blue ribbon:—“To-day I applied,
to a very large congregation, the case of the
Recbabites, I asked: (I.) Does it appear that these
owed to Jonadab more than the Methodists owe to
me? (2) Are they as observant of my ad-
vico (although both Scriptural and rational; to
instance, only in dress and rising early) as the
Reohabites -were of his advice (of drinking no
wine and living in tents, which had neither Scrip-
ture nor reason to support them." Good boy,
John. Kumanavadrlnk—as they say in Russia.
A great advantage will be given to travel-
lers by the alteration to be made in the homeward
route, via America A traveller, worthy of the
name, does not want to be carried onward like a
bale of soft-goods. Pope tells us that life can little
else supply but just to look about us and to die.
One of the sights of the world is at Honolulu,
where stands the biggest of all volcanoes—so large
that London itself might be within its crater. Tne
temperature of Honolulu Is an unvarying one of
70 degrees only, and the island well claims a week's
stay In it—lf not a fortnight. Yet travellers have
been hitherto limited to a fev hours only. This
will now be remedied, as Honolulu Is to be the
port of transhipment—the half-way house where
fortnightly steamers will be run from and to San
Francisco and Sydney.
Sir John Lubbock is one of London’s bank-
ing magnates. H« is known mostly as the
originator of the bank-clerks’ holiday, but goes in
for other claims to fame. As a naturalist, he, for
long gave his attention to ants and their ways
of life. He has now turned to dogs. At a
meeting of tho British Association, at Aberdeen,
he promoted a discussion as to the dog and its
great capacities for education. None of the
speakers on the subject seem to have recalled
Lord Bacon’s ideas on this canine matter. In
Bacon’s essay upon ‘‘Atheism ” he says: ‘ Take,
for example, the dog, and mark what generosity
and courage it puts on when assisting man, who
to It is instead of a God. Its courage is mani-
festly such as that creature, without that confi-
dence of a better nature than its own, could never
attain.”
The tedium of a journey by rail from
Melbourne, to Sydney alter the Cup, was relieved
occasionally by incidents of a comic nature. For
example, in the train with the writer was a real
live dude. It divested itself of its boots (which
we ;, e 18in. long, and of the darning-needle order
of t rchltec ure), and, procuring from its capacious
bag the necessary instruments, it carefully placed
its precious pedal coverings on the trets-the
boc t-trees. The performance of its toilet In the
morning was a treat to witness, although some-
wh it lengthy as to time. And here, again, the
writer’s execrable luck cropped up. In a delusive
moment he accepted a wager of a fiver as to
whether a tooth-brush would be used by the fes-
tive dude in course of operations. But the writer
lose the wager. The dude used no toothbrush,
The Rev. Mr. Patten, member of the Mel-
bourne Presbyterian General As.embly, has given
birth to a sparkling idea to “rake ” in the “ baw-
bees.” He scorns the existing plan of taking up
the contributions in a plate, or a little on the
end of a stick, into which a man can slide a
" thrum,” and look benevolent enough for a
guinea. “ Get them to put their names to paper,”
says the rev. diplomatist, “ the man who drops
five shillings into the plate would blush to put
down his name for less than a pound.” Thence-
forth the “ thrummer” is obsolete. A bank ver-
ger will prowl round our church with a sheet of
foolscap, and the eternal query, “And what will I
put ye doon tor the dec, Mr. Aiaderson? - ’ Then
we will gird up our suspenders and 11 ee from the
comforts of religion. Our exchequer neverspared
more than a bone button.
Let expectant brides go down upon their
knees and express gratitude that hydrophobia is a
malady unknown In this Sunny South. Way down
in San Francisco a happy welding party was
as enabled. Everything went merrily till the bride
and bridegroom retired to their chamber. Then
the bride commenced to soroam. Evidently the
father and his guests had reasons for believing
that she was not a girl who would scream, except
under most extraordinary clroum .tances, so they
broke into the room. There they found the un-
happy bride crouched in a corner, while the groom
was commencing bis honeymoon by barking like
a dog and ondeavouriig to bite his little topsy-
wopsy. For this unnuptial-like conduct his
father-in-law shot him dead. The unhappy young
man was suffering from the effects of hydro-
phobia, suddenly developed by the novelty of his
situation. The prematurely-widowed bride, we
ate happv to learn, is sufferiog from nothing more
dangerous than asute disappointment.
What looks marvellously like a case of
political indecency is recent appointment of
several magistrates at Dibbo. Among the num-
ber we notice R Booth, lawyer ; S. Phillips,
watchmaker; W. Carroll, baker; N Muller, lemon-
ade manufacturer; and R. Wilson, stock agent—
all, we are informed, members of Sir Patrick Jen-
nings’ committee It would be interesting to
know how many of these men would have been
elevated if the selectors' candidate had beaten the
colonial aristocrat. In one cise we are told that
the magic letters were prom sed as the price of
the present owner’ssupport Had this been done by
Sir Patrick himself, the election of that worthy
could be upset with the greatest of ease. Ihese
appointments all go to show that the time has
arrived when the power of elevation to the bench
should be taken out of the hands of Ministers and
political dodgers (this is a distinction without a
difference sometimes) and given to persons—if
any can be found—who are not amenable to poli-
tical influence, as the system is work»l at pre-
sent, the letters J.P., like the title K,C.M G . may
frequently denote nothing mor than the fact that
the holder at one time exercised his voting power
to very great advantage-to himself.
It is a poor game fooling with the Post
Office. Nobody knows that bettor than a German
leweller named Dotter who dwells by the Goulburn
iilver in Victoria. Placing his Dutch forefinger
to his Teutonic nose he said to himself once:
“Nowlveelhaf von leodle schoak mitder Bost
Offs ” So he wrapped a locket and chain in a
newspaper, and addressed the same to a friend in
Btvien. This was his little j ike with the Post
Office. But they found him out, and a police ma-
-1 gin‘rate, with no appreciation of the humour of
| aliens, fined him £2 and c ists, besides causing the
locket and chain to be confiscated, it is believed
i by the oracles of the district in which Herr Dotter
1 dwells that he is an agent of Bismarck, and that b e
1 played this game off upon t hpostal authorities
) lu order to be detected and fined, and thereby give
an excuse for the annexation of Australia by Qer
many. But the game must be a very deep one
that will deceive the wise men of the Goulbum
Valley. Bismarck may be able to throw sand In
the eyes of Europe, but he would make a poor
figure down there.
Thus the Melbourne D.T. on the Mel-
bourne Aqe:—“The question of doing without
feunday labour in a newspaper cilice Is simply one
of money; our contemporary does not choose to
pay the price required to avoid Sunday labour.
The pockets of the proprietors outweigh the
natural rights of the employes. But it does not
He In the mouth of the journal that compels its
own compositors to work 53 Sundays in the tear
to argue that the natural benevolence of news-
paper proprietors protects the Sundays of the
compositors so tenderly and completely that it is
an impertinence for the law to interfere. If em-
ployers in every trade acted on the business prin-
ciples of our contemporary, the working-man’s
Day of Rest would soon become a thing of history.
We sincerely hope that Mr. Anderson’s clause on
Sunday labour will remain in the Bill, and will be
applied to the composi ors’ room as well as to the
factory and shop.” Our own opinion is that the
question is decided in one act by this deliverance
of the D.T. That paper, like another Joshua, com-
mands the sun to stand still, and that orb has
but to obey. What matter if the business
world has to stand still for two days in every
week, and what matter if the compositor Uses
one-iixth of hfs present wage so long is the
sanctity of the fc'awbath is preserved in violate ?
But the D.T. should be more thorough. We hate
half measures. Why not bring the poor clergy-
men under the Sunday Labour Bill ? How sad it
is that they, alt?r working a 1 the week, should be
comcel'ed to pursue their duties on the Sawbath!
That the parson would be unwilling to lose the
profits! now resulting from h>s Sunday labour,
goes for nothing. Tee compositor would also ob-
ject, but we and the D.T, who know that the
keeping of the Jewish fourth command is above
all things necessary, will do all we can to see that,
for their own good, they are esch lorced to give
up this sinful Sunday toi 1 . That is one reason why
many people stay away from church-they don’t
like to encourage, by their example or their
“ thmm,” th's violation of the Day of Rest.
Louis Riel, the leader of the recent rebel-
lion in the north-west provinces of Canada, has at
last been executed. The sentence passed on him
by the local Court for the Saskatchewan murders
was upheld by the High Court of the Dominion,
and, on further appea', by the Privy Council of
England Any reader of the narrative of his ex-
ploits would be, if hot driven to think him insane,
at least forced to regard him as a “ crank.” His
whole life had been passed among the unfortunate
half-breeds of the North-west. These were suf-
fering sorely through the neglect of the Central
Government. That fact is admitted on all hands.
Riel was an enthusiast. For years he pestered
Government with letters on the wrongs of the
semi-civilised race, but his appeals were ignored.
In 1870, at the close of a season disastrous to the
crops, he headed a revol which is 'remembered
as the Red River Rising. Tne chief Instrument in
crushing this revolt was Colonel (now Lord) Wol-
seley. It was the first signal instance of the
possession of military power the present leader
of Eogland’s armies had given. Riel would,
at the close of that campaign, have been hunted
down and put to death were it not that the Do-
minion Government was afraid of further exas-
perating the half-breeds. Riel remained among his
people, holding an extraordinary power over their
minds, and still pressing for the removal of laws
that appeared to him to be. oppressive. Then
came the late revolt, the centra of which was at
Satkatchewan. Lives were taken at his instiga-
tion. General Middleton this time did what
Colonel Wolseley did in 1870. But Riel was cap-
tured. The pith of his defence, when brought
before the court, was that the had
not been on hla side, but on that of the Govern-
ment His friends wanted to establish a plea of
insanity, but Riel relused obstinately to assent to
the plea being set up.
Why he took Her.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Urn—pretty, well, no. she's not that,
My sweetheart's a trifle too fat.
Too chunky and squat; what a waist she has got!
Just the shape of a full sugar-mat.
Her mouth Is a size twenty-two,
One eye glances slightly askew,
Ked hair and red arms are but two of her charms,
But 1 think, all the same, 1 11 be true.
Don t sigh my old chum, and look glumi
* *f course, to the marriage you’ll come,
I’ll wed her, dear boy, for her tongue won't
annoy,
My sweet Mary is stone deaf and dumb.
COWSTADLE X (in his Summer-clothes): “ t ARHIJSTfiD HIM, SARGiNT, AND WITH MUCH
DIFFICULTY BROUGHT HIM TO THE STATION.”


Wolfe’s Schnapps—Buy original un-
opened bottles of the only genuine Schnapps.
The sculptor’s skill may give delight,
So may the poet’s rhyme.
But suits from Summerfleld are sure
To lit you every time.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps would not have stood a test
of actual trial for half a century were It not an
excellent spirit.
Counterfeits are lively but they have not yet
arrived at any successful imitation of Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
CORRESPONDENCE
[Corretpondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“ C. Jackson”: We have never said so.
We deny that a Government should he supported
merely because it consists exclusively of colonial-
born men. An Australian who has had no experi-
ence of the older civilisations is apt to be narrow-
minded and bumptious, and to think (like Mr.
Dailey, If you judge that gentleman by certain of
his speeches), that the rest of the world does
nothing but think about our country and its little
three or four millions of people. Why, the other
day, a prominent colonial politician stood up in
public in Sydney, and in the depth of his immea-
surable ignorance said that “ America was every
day becoming more and more like Australia 111 ”....
“ You write: “ There are some asylums for
Imbeciles in Victoria.” Only that, and nothing
more. Well, why don’t you act upon your know-
ledge? — “An Old Subscriber” (Orange): He
wrestled with alcohol, which got all the falls
“ A.D.”: Yes, we are “ too great a coward to pub-
lish your letter.” If we did, people would yearn
to kill you, and we do not want your blood to be
upon our bald head. It wouldn’t look well
“W. 8.”: As there is in the piece neither original
thought nor special neatness of expression—the
lines, Indeed, are clumsily modelled on the musical
metre of Shelley’s “ Cloud we must answer that
there is no poetical merit in the composition. It
would very likely be possible for the man who
wrote it to acquire such part of the trick of verse-
making as is purely mechanical; but “poeta nas-
citurnon fit.” “J. Martin” (Wagga): Even if
Sir Henry Parkes was returned to Parliament on
the pledge of a bridge, It is equally true that Mr.
Dibbs, his unsuccessful opponent for North Shore,
was returned for the Murrumbidgee on the pro-
mise of a railway. The Tumdt and Adelong
Times the other day remarked there was not a
pin to choose between the pair, except that Mr.
Dibbs is committed to the bigger political Job... .
‘•W.J.”: You can’t cure weak eyes if they are in a
weak place “W. J. Davidson”: Our paragraph
applied only to plumping. Plumping and plural
voting are alike bad. It is said that Benjamin
Franklin owned an ass in America by virtue of
which he was entitled to the franchise. The night
before the election day Franklin’s ass died, and
when he presented himself at the polling booth to
record his vote, the returning officer challenged
his vote. “On what grounds ? ” asked Benjamin
Franklin. “On the ground that your ass died last
night,” was the reply. “ I see,” observed Franklin,
“ then it’s the ass that had the vote; not its
owner.” It is the same here to-day. A man who
has the good forturne to hold property in half-a-
dozen electorates can vote in each. Either plural
votlrg or manhood-suffrage should be “put
down.” “A Draconian”: But you can’t get
over the fact that the man who thoughtlessly
smoothed the mouthplce of his pipe on the outside
wall of a Sydney public building, might, had the
magistrates chosen, been tied up and flogged, ac-
cording to law... “J.P.W.": The damper made by
your cook at the shearing must have been bad, or
else you would not write such vile stuff about it...
“ J.C.8.”: You say you have made a bet that J. C.
Williamson of the “Triumvirate” was born in
Sydney. The other man has won. No man born
la Sydney could know as much as J. C. Williamson
does “Ignorant Subscriber”: Nomde plume is
not well chosen. No subscriber to this paper can
be Ignorant, that is, it he reads it. Plermontls
correct....“W.S.” (Wentworth); We are glad to
notice that you manage to keep dellclomly cool,
although living in such a hot climate. How much
d’ye think the publication of your letter would
cost us? “J.W.B ”: As Dean Swift observed,
the fact of one being born in a stable does not
make one a horse. “The land wherein you are
prosperous is your country,” says Euripides So
that your friend is an Australian... .“T.R.W.”:
You say that “mankind is the occupant of the
planetary earth.” Just our thought, but we think
you ought to remain in a particular part of it.
We don’t say what part....“A Victim”: Screed
kept as a literary bonne bouche to be swallowed at
Christmas time. Any Christmas will do, except
next Christmas “R.S.” (Condobolin) : Our
artist grew green with jealousy when he saw your
sketch “Nemo”: Not much opening. Will
write you on receipt of address—“ Lloyd and the
Pharisees”: An idea with which we have met
before, in these words—
“ And this I know: whether the one True Light
Kindle to Love or Wrath—consume me quite;
One flash of it within the Tavern caught.
Better than in the Temple lost outright.”
—“Hotch-Potch ”: Please call on the editor
“Slysham”: If the old man could not tell why his
“gal” went out to meet "a chap with shinin’
eyes ” at the gate, he can never have attended
choir-practice—“Wagga Elector”: Your poem
is after Gilpin—a long way after. You say of your
member that: —
“ With his * h’s ’ and his ‘ glntlmln ’
I’m affraid he’d make a show,
As all on Murrumbidgee so
Very well oh know.”
Never fear. He will do very, oh, well if he does
not, oh, try to quote any of your, oh, verses....
“Wallaroo”: Nothing original about you, except
original sin “ Vox ”: The lines are good, but we
(suspicious mortals ll are haunted by the idea that
we have seen them before. Say, now, did you
write them with the scissors or the pen ? If you
send something of equal merit and with an
Australian flavour, we will gadly publish....
“E. B. Markwood.” Professor Jevons had to ad-
mit that on a computation of known items the
English worker with £4O a year paid 9 per cent in
taxation, while the man «ith £SOO a year paid only
77. He got out of the difficulty bv assuming that
many of the stamp license, and minor custom
duties, and the net revenue of the post office, were
chiefly defrayed by the wealthy classes ; but even
so he could only assume that the rich paid a deci-
mal fraction more than the agricultural labourer.
“J. S.”: The Bxteeetin takes quite the oppo-
site view. If the Roman Catholics charge for ad-
mission to their church on Sundays, they have
aright to do so. So has any other religious
denomination. So also have the Freethinkers....
“C. Yarnold”: Your metaphor is as mixed as that
of the N S.W. Minister of Education, who, the
other day, told the guesis at a public banquet that
his party had been “houndid down by a sea of
abuse.” As sir Boyle Roche observed: “We smell
a rat. But no matter; we will nip him in the bud.”
“James Jones”: Queen Victoria’s name isn’t
Guelph It is Wettin “J. Myers”; We agree
with you. The state of the N.fl.W. mining law
is a blemish upon our legislative system. Miners
are practically unrepresented, and no one cares to
introduce a Bill for their particular benefit. As a
proof of the low estimation in which their in-
terests are held may be cited the fact that the
Hon George Thornton has been placed over the
Mines Department. Any political nonentity is
good enough to boss the Mines. There is only one
remedy—miners must agree upon the amend-
ments they desire, and then submit these by pet‘-
tion. There are not three men in the House who
understand the present laws and regulations,
although any man who jumps the portfolio for a
week tninks ho has a heaven-sent knowledge of
the whole business, and Issues a list of absurd
regulations which evoke a howl of der'-
slon from every mining camp in the colony
“ G. Pine”: Captain Everill was a teacher of navi-
gation in Bydney. The story of the massacre bai
not yet been by any means confirmed....“ M. Jan-
sen :If Captain Everlll, as alleged, started from
Sydney for New Guinea with an expedition whose
firearms were only weapons of the ‘‘trade-musket”
order, that fact in itself would seem to furnish
sufficient evidence of his incompetency as a leader.
“TJllmba”: Your curiosity recalls that of the
man who put his fingers Into the horse’s mouth to
see how many teeth it had. Whereupon the horse
shut his mouth to see how many fingers the man
had....“T.M.”; Will keep your letter re Patent
Law on hand ‘‘Constant Reader”: Thai ks"
Will shortly appear ...“AJP.’ (Dubbo): Whatls
it all about ? Do you grumble because Sir Patrick
Jennings made a lotot hissupporters magistrates ?
Why, what else did they support him for?
His politics Duncan” : Your little lyric,
“ ihe Stockman on his Horse,” seems to have
been written by some “stockman off his head.”
When we want to publish ballads of this kind,
Duncan, we will let you know; but you need not
trouble to call for our letter for a week or tw0....
‘J«G— «•”: Name for us one paper of the same
kind and price in the world which gives more
reading matter.
We have received several letters—from “ C.H.”
and others—in regard to the case of Thomas
Walker. We have nothing to do with the conten-
tion that Walker is a humbug. We look at the
principle, not at the man. Sir James Martin’s
Judgment is utterly tyrannous and illogical, and
quite worthy of Hung Fat, who wt.s Chief Justice
of China 3000 years 8.C.; or of the leading judicial
dignitary of the facetious Papuans who have
just put the members of the Geographical
Society’s expedition Into the pot. Judge Innes’
pronouncement on the matter is intellectually be-
neath contempt, and shows his utter unfitness to
occupy a place on the Bench ol a free
country. The N.S.W. Bench condemns Walker just l
in the same way as it condemned The Bulletin
a few years ago. After The Bulletin had proved
the truth of its alleged facts, and incontestably
shown that the Clontarf article was written in the
public Interest, the Court upheld the plaintiffs’
plea that, though written in the public interest,
the article was not published in the public in-
terest. The judge who takes upon himself to
decide that a man's motives are bad, in face of
any reasonable evidence to the effect that they
are good, in a measure arrogates to himself the
omniscience of the Deity, which alone, we
are told, can search men’s hearts. If an
orthodox clergyman delivers in his Church
to an audience of young men such a lecture
as that given by Walker in the Theatre
Royal, nobody prosecutes him. The fact
that the young men so addressed, or their parents,
buy or pay for seats in the clergyman’s church,
either in a wholesale or retail way—by the Sun-
day or by the quarter or half-year—is not held to
be evidence of mala flcles. And properly so, too ;
but we claim that society should give to the
heterodox Walker precisely the same privileges
extended by it to (say) the orthodox Henry
varley when he gave his “ kotures to young
men” here some years ago. Judge Martin’s
observation that Walker is not a "recognised ” or
“ accredited ” teacher of anatomy only shows the
disposition which exists on toe N.B. W. Bench to
make all the professions close corporations. We
have pretty well “burst up” the priestly impos-
ture; but we are still slaves to the lawyer and
doctor fetishes. We hope, for the sake of the
great principle of free speech, that Walker will
not be deterred by any newspaper or other bluster
from lecturing within his legal right; and we
have sufficient conhdenceln respect for liberty en-
tertained by even the people of N S. W. to believe
that, should Walker be again hauled up for lec-
turing, as on last occasion, to an audience con-
sisting solely of men, on physiological subjects, he
will, In the event of nis conviction, be put pecu-
niarily in a position to allow of his asking the
Privy Council for permission to appeal. The
English judges, for whose intellects Sir James has
so hearty a contempt, will then have an op-
portunity-denied tnem in the cise of The
Bulletin, which had then not enough money to
appeal-of bringing to bear the lamp of modern
law upon the seventeenth-century opinions of the
Supreme Court of N.S.W.
“BREAD UPON THE WATERS."
Do not be alarmed, cheap reader (we
scorn to beslaver you with sycophantic affection),
at the title of this article, for it is neither a
Jernel subscription sermon nor a Salvation
Army tract, but only the short and simple annal
of the return from a holiday trip down the coast.
* ♦ *
It was one of those deliciously fresh mornings
which seem peculiar to Spring time in N S. Wales,
when mother earth puts off her wintry ulster and
warms her bare shoulders (so to speak) in the rays
of the young Summer sun (this metaphor is copy-
right), and the air is balmy and aromatic with the
scent from gum-blossom and yellow wattle-flower
and man’s heaven seems close at hand In an infini-
tude of loafing, that we stepped onboard;a craft-
designated in the advertisements (with an exercise
of imagination worthy of a Jules Verne) as "the
swift and commodious steamer Baudersnatch.”
While she was made fast to the wharf she was cer-
tainly "commodious,” as those who could not find
seats on board had the whole width of the con-
tinent to stroll about in, while her swiftness was,
to far, an assumption which emanated from our
guilelessness. When we cist off, however, and the
apotheosised sausage-m ichlne, which enabled her
to attain, at times, the mad speed of fully three
knots an hour with the tide, commenced to move,
the fact was gloomily impressed upon us that ship-
owners are frequently flatterers as regards their
own craft.
* ♦ •
Somehow we managed to aquae/,) ourselves in
between an old lady with a severe expression
and gold spectacles, and a newly-m irrlal couple
returning from their honeymoon, and prepared
ourselves for the prospect of a four hours’ sea
trip with all the resignation we could muster.
Everybody on board seamed full of spirits and
ohookfulof information on matters nautical, and
all were seized with a desire to Impart it simul-
taneously. Whilst the severe old laly, who had
relaxed a little, was recounting the perils she had
undergone during “ three trip 3 round the world,
young man I” (this to us) the young couple on our
left were gurgling their love into each other’s
sympathetic ears.
The bridegroom had fiery moustaches and a com-
plexion of the beetroot order, but the bride—still
fluttering heart!—was the daintiest combination
Imaginable of muslin and lace. It was the Satyr
and Nymph over again, and, as usual, the Satyr
had a long way the best of it. After gazing at
Hubby with a yearning, unfathomable look in her
limpid eyes, her rosy lips moved slightly, and we
said: “Now we sball hear one of those loving
speeches that seem to si well become the
pretty self-consciousness of a young bride. 1 '
♦ * *
“ What shall we have for dinner, Hubby, when
we get In ?” said the nymph (our Interest deepened
at once). “Wa shall go to Compagnoni’s,” said
the Satyr, with ajlovlng smile like the split in a
dried lemon, at the same time hauling forth an
hotel bill. “See what I paid, and all for you,
Lovey.” “ Lovey” appeared intensely gratified
at this evldenoe of generosity, and an Interval of
osculatory refreshment followed. We managed
to catch sight of the bill, which was “ all for
Lovey,’’ and were considerably edified on noticing,
amongst other things
To 3 bottles whisky at 5) TO).
1 „ schnapps 3s. 61
„ 18 cigars, at 61 9j.
‘ Lovoy” apparently partook of eight breakfasts
In four mornings, which proved beyond all doubt
that matrimony had not spoiled her appetite. We
presumed Hubby lived on love, as he did not pro-
duce a second bill for himself.
‘ We shall be In by four,” said he (a hope which
was subsequently considerably blighted).
By this time we had left the smooth waters of the
Bay behind us, and conversation began to slacken.
Moat of our fellow-passengers assumed a pre-
occupied expression, though the satyr and nymph
occasionally succeeded In raising a sickly smile•
* • •
Presently one man, who was sitting opposite us
and who had been gazing at us attentively for ten
minutes with a sad look In his expressive orbs,
rose, came towards us and placed his hand on our
shoulder. Our first Idea was that he wanted to
borrow a match and we put the question to him.
He promptly responded In some foreign tonguei
we imagine “ Red Indian,” as It sounded like
“who-o-op!” This was evidently a pass-word, as
beseemed to have confederates on all sides of
him. A chorus of “ who-o-op’s” came from every
part of the steamer—even the terra-cotta-
headed satyr seemed to be a member of the
same secret society, for, turning his face from his
bride (we presume to fix his teeth In firmly), he
leant over the side and repeated the same mysteri-
ous cry. We began to feel alarmed. Was this a
Fenian excursion? And was the Satyr the
lied Centre ? We asked ourselves this
with trembling lips. But, no ! they would
not take women with them, we thought,
and hoped revived. Our budding confi-
dence was soon to be rudely shocked, for the
Nymph began to look mealy, and turning her face
to .the heaving bosom of old Father Neptune,
"cast her bread upon the waters” with the same
dirge-like cry that was now so mournfully familiar
to us.
* • »
Suddenly a hissing noise attracted our atten-
tion, and a cloud of steam half - choked us
and wholly spoiled the scenery—the sausage-
machine stopped, and the steamer rolled helplessly
In the trough of the sea. The engine had brokrn
down; we were 15 miles from Sydney, with the
prospect of spending the night on the anything
but Pacific Ocean. We were further consoled by
the cheering remark of an old fisherman on board,
that “If a buster comes up, wo are all croakers.”
There was one leaky boat, which would probably
hold four persons, and the treasured relics of what
were once two life-buoys, so if the “ buster ” kept
its appointment, our creditors must have grieved.
♦ ♦ ♦
We wished the poet who sang about a "Life on the
ocean wave, and a home on the rolling deep,” had
been with us. If he could make himself at ‘‘home on
the rolling deep,” it was more than any of our
crew could, for the mysterious chorus went up to
Heaven with renewed though somewhat erratic
vigeur.the satyr leading in a slightly cracked tenor.
Indeed, his feelings got so much the better of him
that he abandoned‘‘Lovey ” to her fate, and lay
down on the deck to meditate, or something. In
the meantime “Lovey” had entirely exhausted
herself with unavailing lamentation, and eventu-
ally, in a fit of abstraction, leant her head in the
most loving style on our astonished, but by no
moans displeased shoulder, and calmly slept for
the remainder of the Journey. The satyr who was
still recumbent on the deck, assumed the colour of
Standard Paint, and glared helplessly at us, but his
other woe was too much for him, and be could
not, however much he wished it, obviate us.
However, now, whenever a red-headed man ap-
proaches us in the street, wo sidle with consider
able celerity round the nearest corner. By tbi i
time the orew had succeeded in setting a'sail about
the size of a tablecloth, and with half a ga'e behind
us we managed to drift through Sydney Heads
about midnight, and as we stepped ashore at
the Circular Quay, we breathed a sigh of gratitude
that we had not furnished the “fearful disaster ”
which is required to waken the Marine Board to a
sense of Its duly. Perhaps when the riauder-
snatch, or some similar craft goes down in mid-
ocean and a few hundred lives are lost (including
the proverbial bishop-who. by the way, never is
drowned) for the want of proper equipments, the
Rip Van Winkles of the Board will see that these
unseaworthy tubs are properly Inspected before
they are permitted to put to sea with their pre-
cious freights of human life. Our life is precious,
anyhow.
Of the Hon. W. B. Dailey, Mr. Kmlocti
Cooke, writing-In the Pact. Mat.e Gazette, says;
“ He is an Irishman and a warm friend of Kuglard,
and, strange tossy, one of the lew men in Aus-
tralia who supported Lord D?rby in/his colonial
policy. For all this, Mr. Daiiey is impulsive ana
erratic at times. His celebrated speech in New-
South Wales on the New Guinea question, which
was so much criticised in tbe colonies, c attained
statements which were scarcely correct, and ex-
hibited a lamentable cringing to tbe Germans.’*
Farther on he writes: *’ In answer to my Questions
about the Wolverene, Mr, Dailey said,’ Well, she
costs N‘-w South Wales £VOOO a year. We do tint
want the vessel just now, and it Is absolutely
necsrSi>y that General Scraic ileyhe was not
knighted then, another oversight Colonial
Office, who kuew what weight that son of thing
carries out in the colonies-‘should, as the repre-
sentative of the Queeo, arrive at New Guinea la a
suitable ship.’ So great was Mr. Dailey's feeling
in this matter that he said to me at parting, ‘ By
offering Gsneral Scratcbley the Wolverene I have
saved nim.‘ ” More glory, you see. First Plain
»»nllam pulled Kngland out of a carmine mess,
end then he did the same tor General Scratcbley.
Notice also the weight Mr. Kinioch Cooke sup-
p ses knighthoods to carry in NSW. Pos-
sibly he misinterpreted Plain Bill’s mollves, and
thought that the Soudan farce had been played
for the take of a knighthood. Many other people
made a similar mistake, except that they thought
a baronetcy the coveted guerdon.
OUR YOUTHFUL ARTIST.
“Oh, Well”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She is a little daisy, Is my laughing brown-eyed
Nell;
It would take up quite a column all her pretty
ways to tell,
But she has a little failing, and the fault I’ll not be
veiling,
She can never speak a sentence without prefixing
“ Oh, well ”
Without waving one fair little hani and saying
first “ Oh, well.”
My people often tell me that it sounds quite shock-
ing, and
I should really try to check her; but they do not
understand
That my Nelly is not swearing, but for speech Is
j ust preparing,
When she waves her hand, and says “ Oh, wall”
attention to command—
When my darling speaks her brisk “ Oh well,” and
waves her lily hand.


Beale and company,
SOLE PROPRIETORS
of the
“BEALE” HIGH-ARM PATENT MACHINE,
specially designed and built under direct personal
supervision, to meet Australian requirements.
The “B'LALB” High-Arm Patent Machine is a
triumph of mechanical skill.
The “ BEALE’’ High-Arm Patent Machine has
a Patent Button-hole Apparatus, turning out un-
approachable work.
Tne “BEALa” High-arm Patent Machine will
hem, fell, bina, braid, cord, ruffle, quilt, gather,
tuck, embroider, and make Crewel-work, Rucking,
Frilling, etc., automatically.
The "BEaLE” High-arm Patent Machine is the
best for the Family, the Dressmaker, the Tailor,
the Bootmaker, the Saddler, the Ooacsbuilder, the
Tentmak-r—iu short, the best for every class of
work that can be mentioned.
An early iospeclim is invited at any of our City
Showrooms -Jl informitini promptly given ia
reply to letters from our country friends.
BEALE and COMPANY,
Also Sole Agents for the
“ Wonderful Wertheim’’ Sewing 1 Machine.
BEALE and COMPANY,
Sole Importers of
THE SWEET “HAPcBURd” PIANO,
Sweet “Hapsburg” Piano,
Sweet “Hapsburg” Piano.
A perfect Model. Strongest Iron Frame.
All the latest iraprovorai nts.
Most gratify ng t stlmoniils reach us daily, in
str.mg so coiumruda ion, of this truly popular
instrument out of numbers wo will publish two
or thn e, tiken at random.
From Mrs Miles. Matron School of Industry,
Darllnghurat
“I have every reason to be satisfied with the
Hapsburg Piano 1 got from you two years ago.”
From E. C S. Chapman, B f q , Government Sur
veyor, ar. ,ards.
‘ The Hapsburg Iron Framed Piano supplied to
me has a pure,, sweet, and brilliant tone, and is.
most saiisfactoiy.”
From Mrs. Curtayne
(Dr. Curtayne),
Granville
‘ Vary much pleased with the Hansburg Piano*
Messrs. Beale and Co. sent her. All her friends
who have tried it praise the sweet tone of the in
strument ”
From the Sisters of St. Josog>b,
Cargo
“The Hapsburg Piano has been in our use for
about eight months, and gives great satisfaction.
From Mrs. Nelson,
Blue Bell Hotel, Newcastle-.
“I have use ’ your Hapsburg Piano lor the last
two years, and it gives me great satisfaction by ita
briliancy of to le. I recommend it to all my
friends.”
From E. W. Fenner, Esq ,
Rarawai Miff,
Fiji.
“ Having purchased an iron-framed Hapsburg
Piano, some months ago, I have much pleasure m
stating that up to the present It has given ever}
satisfaction.”
BEALE (STCOMPANY
Showrooms:
386 and 613 GEORGE STREET,
13 CENTRAL MARKETS.
151 OXFORD STREET.
TRAVELLERS and BRANCHES THROUGHOUT
TUB ooUNTUY.
Liberal terms of time-payment*
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a remedy for most physi-
cal ailment*. Vou cannot err by using K.
Wolfes Schnapps -Keep it always in the house
and then you will have a friend in time of need.
Almost every person has some form of
scrofulous pol ou latent in his veins. When this
develops in scrofulours sores, ulcers, creruptions,
or tak s the form of rheumatism or organic
diseases, the suffering that ensues is terrible
beyond deacripton. Hence the gratitude of those
who disc aver, as thousands yeany do, that Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla willthoroughly eradicate thisfrom
the system.
WotFE’s Schnapps is the purest and safest
medical stimulant that can be taken by enfeebled
invalids.
Mb. DbCohbot Browns (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the " Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ GuidV and "Manual of
Minerals,’’ Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land an:!
Mining Titles Agent, any be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Hereof ord Chambers, 62 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, «sr Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, &T Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a natter of record In the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
That Wolfe’s Schnapps is a medicine contain-
ing great virtues is undeniable.
Wolfe’s Schnapps. There are doubtless
other preparations typified as Schnapps but they
are as a counterfeit coin is to current motal.
Anything you require from Sydney for-
warded at cost pric«. No commission charged
for buying. In extending our country and later-
colonial business, which during the last three
years has made great headway, we are prepared
to purcluso and forward to country residents, free
of commission charge, goods of any description,
never mind bow small the value. No trouble is
spared to obtain for clients whatever they require,
at the lowest possible coat Lesters receive most
prompt attention, and the goods or answers to
inquiries are forward dby return. Our complete
knowledge of the markets of the city enables us
to extend to country bfiyers benefits which they
would not otherwise att in. Write for what you
reouire. and we will suit you Note the Address:
JOHN J. McINNES & C 0„
Commission Merchant*, 90 Pltt-street, Sydney.*
Recent exposures by the Customs Author-
ities show how the reputation of WOLfB S.
Schnapps has been trilled with.
Political Points
Chief Secretary Berry has brought the
Tasmanian Treaty before the Victorian Assembly.
Should they rigidly adhere to their proposals, the
Coalition Ministry will surely be defeated In the
country. If not in the House, as the Treaty Is a
direct and Insidious blow at the protective policy
of the Southern colony.
The true cause of Gladstone’s fall was his
desire to do something hi r for the Crown, after
the style of s India feat. The Queen
was to be crowned O’Guelph, Queen of Eriu, and
Empress of Tipperary, but she declined to add this
to her Koval autograph unless Parliament would
give her £3O 000 more a year for Ink. Of course
the matter was dropped, and Gladstone with It.
Here is the Lismore (N.S. W.) Chronicle’s
•Idea of statesmanship “We require a railway,
a jetty at Byron Bay, but the first call of duty Is
to improve the entrance at Ballina. Tf this be
obtained during the tenure of Messrs. Ewing and
Hogan's parliamentary career, we can pass over
their absence of a political creed and even the mani-
festation of some little egotism.” The “ first call of
duty.” Delicious I
Mr. David Qaunson said, in the Victorian
Assembly some time ago, that “the House would
be improved if forty of them did not come back
again alter the general election.” One name, to
head the list, trembled on the tongues of every
member, but stayed there. David Is an ugly cus-
tomer to tackle when it comes to a duel of invec-
tive. The silence was oppressive for several
minutes. You could have heard the Speaker
nod.
The Armidaie Chronicle alludes to the
present N.S W Lind Act as “the accursed
Dind Bill of 1884. which oade fair to depopulate
the country aid divide the people's heritage
amongst « few capitalists, and which was forced
through Parliament by ‘by-patha and crooked
ways’—through members selling their votes for
such fantastic schemes as the Grafton to Glen
lanes railway, tue Wagga Wagga-Tumberumba
ditto, and sued like.”
The appointment of that venerable gentle-
man, the Hon. George Thornton, as N B.W. Minis-
ter of Mnies, an office which should be filled by a
live man, is a terrible contesslon of weakness on
the part of the Government. That the portfolio
should go hedging and be knocked down so
cheaply shows that the rats are loavlng what they
think to be the sinking ship. Heaven help the
N.S.W miner under Thorntonian regime. The
Hon. George means well, no doubt, but he knows
nothing.
The bigots of the House of Commons will
this time most likely be unable to orevent Brad-
laugh from taking the oath and bis seat. The
astute member for Northampton will, In all pro-
bability, present himself to take the oath among
the first 40 members who attend. It takes 40
members to make a Hons j, and, when any dispute
arises, members ere sworn in alphabetical oraer.
Bradlaugh, who is too big to be jostled, will, there-
fore, have an exc allent chance of taking the oath
before a quorum consisting exclusively of his
enemies can be sworn in.
The Sydney Evening News, in a leading
article, says tbat “reasons are not wanting why
Mr. Targett (who, by the way, Is a member of the
News’ staff) should be elected without opposition”
to the N.S. W. Chairmanship of Committees “ The
Government,” says our contemporary, “ is bound
in honour to support Mr. Targett, for though he
paired off against the late Ministry on Mr Gar-
van’s motion, that should not release Mr. Dibbt
and his colleagues from an obligation to Mr.
Targett when It is considered the pairing off la a
similar way was not regarded as a s t-off against
the support Sir Patrick Jennings had given to the
Ministerial party, nor as a bar to his becoming
Colonial Secretary.” The News has of late been
so consistently on the wrong side in politics, that
It should oppose Mr, Targett if it really wishes to
befriend him.
A ’oute Sydney resident, who, to use his
own word?, •’ thinks It right that one paper, at
least, should know the truth about the Contin-
gent." writes to London Truth, giving the un-
varnished facts in connection with ” Australia s
first r-.lllta-y expedition.” He points out that
only 250 of the permanent force were sent the re-
mainder being taken “from all aorta and condi-
tions of men,” and that “ the officer?, selected In
the same hap-hazird manner,” wore. In many
cases, " as Ignorant as ihe men they commanded.
Further, he states that since the return of the men
*’ to Sydney the air has been thick with stories of
the Incompetence of officers and their unpopu-
larlty with th« men.” He concludes hia letter
thin:—” Had the campaign lasted there would
have hem dome tragic, ludicrous disaster, and the
whole affair tram the military point of view mu t
be looked upon as a complete fiasco. I hope Eng-
land does not really expect a contingent of any
value from Australia, for we have neither the
trained men nor the trained officers We have
enough for defence, and ever? sensible man ought
to do his best to decry flllbustlng expeditions
which cost £3iX),OOU from a peaceful population of
under a million. As a result, the colon?
which borrows eleven millions In a year basin
ourri'd a largo expenditure tor no appreciable
benefit, and wo have a crop of silly military ideas
turning us aside from tne true aim of Austra-
lians.” "a crop of silly military Ideasl” How
dors Plain Bill like the “ village criticism ’ of this
“ exasperating ” moralist ? ■
The Prussian Government his ordered
that every Polish-speaking individual, man.
woman, or child, not born within the boundaries
of the German Empire, thall leave the country
within a space of time varying in each case from
three days to six weeks. Among them is Count
Zamoyskl (who was in Australia during the Inter-
national Exhibition?), and who. according to the
Standard correspondent, * is kn >wa to bo an
enemy of Prussia and Germany. But he is only
one of 3)000, and his and the.r enmity consists
only in tne two lacts-that they speak Polish, and
that they were born out of Garmany /Ihe decree
has been enforced just before harvest Peasants
have to leave the lands they have tilled before
they can reap the fruits. Med'cal students
have to ouit in the middle of the
amination on whose results their future
career depends. A gentleman porssssmg estates
from which 309 labourers with their families
have been expelled went to Berlin to seek
redress. He told the Government that they had
ruined him. The rtply was, ‘Economical con-
siderations must give way to political ones.’ Two
young girls, not residing In the Grand Duchy of
Posen, but onlj visiting at a friend s house, were
summoned to appear before » magistrate, and
were told tbat If they did not leave by a certali
day they would have to thank themselves for the
consequences. The police would have conducted
them to the frontier as if they had been vagabonds
and swindlers Such are the proceedings curried
on under the first Act of the European Concert,
the Treaty of Vienna, and under the shadow of
the Holy Alliance in which, on the 26th September,
1815 the three Princes who had become joint
sovereigns of Poland declared that they were
members of one and the same Christian nation
which had no sovereign but the Lord Jesus Christ.’
Buoh are the people who Indict others for blas-
phemy.
“Editor Bulletin. Sir,— Advertising is
the soul of trade, but advertisements which con-
tain glaring misrepresentations lose half their
value. N.B.W. spends large sums upon a Govern-
ment Printing Office, and every book issued there-
from is de facto official. Two works thus issued
and advertised in the Gazette for sale (one of
them, at least, is distributed gratuitously in Eng-
land by the Agent-General) are designed purely as
advertisements, and. being issued officially, should
be truthful. ‘ N.B.W. in 1881 ’ and ‘i he Industries
of N.S.W.’ (by Mr. Charles Lyne) are the two pub-
lications referred to. If wo open the first-named
at page 67, we there find an account of a certain
ironworks, which might have been fairly correct
in 1881, but is an absolute misrepresentation in
1885. Readers are told that at this establishment
there is ’a blast-furnace capable of producing
from 100 to 120 tons of plg-lrsn per week,’ and
there are other statements calculated to lead any
one at a distance to believe that we had a really
flourishing iron Industry in our midst. At present
the iron trade in Britain is in a very depressed
condition, and what more likely than that many
ironworkers, reading such an account, and also
that iron, coal, &0., were found in such abundance
here, would seek our shores ? In fact, many have
done so, and with what result? On arriving at
the establishment which the official advertisement
had painted so brightly to them, they will
find the blast-furnace demolished and hardly
enough work going on to keep such men as are
already there employed at half-time. Nor will the
unfortunate immigrants b j able to find any place
throughout the length and breadth of N S W.
where iron is produced from its ore, though we
have such Immense quantities of It. Out of all
the subjects touched upon in the volume referred
to we select only one-regarding that in-
dustry wnich may truly be described as the
backbone of a nation, but if space per-
mitted, we might easily point out many others
in connection with sawmills, flourmills, &c,
&o. Thesecond work, ‘ The Industries of N.8.W.,
is simply a reprint of a number of articles written
by Mr. Charles Lyne for the 8.M.H., and dated 1883.
Its aim seems to be to paint everything couleur de
rose, and it is perhaps the most unfortunate at-
tempt at national advertising it would be possible
to find. The iron industry has the same gloss
placed on it, and every other Industry is spoken of
in a way calculated to persuade readers on the
other side of the world that they have only to
come here to find a perfect El Dorado* But the
Sydney Domain is about the extent of the Bl
Dorado they strike, and the character of our
national ads. and the faith of men who believe
implicit,y in anything official, is the cause of the
competition for warm corners in that Home of
the Unfortunate.”
THE END OF A HERO.
There is no necessity to dive into the
realms of fancy acd emerge with a shadow, clad
in scantiest robes of nothingness, and invested with
an invisible crown of laurels or hemp-seed to pro-
vide a story of heroism. That sort of thing is com-
mon enough in real life. The Dives, who lives
in luxury, diuing, supping, and suppering on the
fat of land, sea, and oyster-beds, wearing his Sun-
day clothes every day, and “soolmg” the bull-
dog on the Lazirus who looks over his orchard
fence, is not a hero. Ho is a slave, with a soul the
size of a threepenny-piece, and a cheek like a
Qosford model farm. He is centred in Ego. He
is a world of his own and the inhabitants thereof'
A self-made man, and the white-winged angels
weep for his maker. The heroes in life are
amongst those who bear the burden with patience,
who scratch, hand, tooth, and too-nail for to-day,
well contented if tho golden-haired, red-cheeked
toddlers at their feet, and the wife who holds her
babe to her bosom, but reward their efforts with
the smiles of love and tokens of affection, which
all the wealth in Grooms’ coffers could not buy.
The vagabond who tolls under his drum on the
Queen’s highway, and complains of the troubles
and injustice under which the working man
labours is not a hero. He is too often a
pocket, microscopic, bevel-edged, Dlanket-bound
edition of Dives. He would if he could. He
can’t. Therefore the world is a bad world. It has
degenerated. The men of to-day are not the men
of 20 years ago, the sun of to-day is less bright, and
the moon of last night less mellow, tho air is not
so healthy, nor the rainfall as regular, eggs are
smaller, and grog has more water in it than in th?
good old times of 'SB, and the world, taking it
“by and large,” is not much chop, anyway. These
men are not heroes. Jim Herbert was a hero—a
living hero. I knew him, and what I shall tell
you about him is as reliable evidence as any you
will hear in a Land Court. As a boy he was like
other boys; ho stoned Chinamen, robbed fruit-
trees, smoked roots, and very nearly blew a sec-
tion of his native goldfields township into frag-
ments with a half-k‘g of blasting-powder which
he and I stole from the All Nations’ Tunnel one
Christmas Eve. But otherwise he was a good
buy. He went to school, and eventually to col.
lege in Melbourne, and h's father dying, his
mother and aunt amalgamated their comfortable
fortunes with one object—the making of a man of
Jim. He came home occ isionally from the Gram-
mar School, and the Intimacy between us was
unbroken. On one of his vlsi’s we were strolling
across the langes, talking over school days and
schoolmates, when the whistle of the K ih-l noor
battery blew a sharp note and then settled down
Into a long hoarse scream. We rushed across—it
was not far, and at the engine-house door met one
of the miners.
“ What's up, George ?” asked Jim.
“ Number two drive’s cived in.”
“ Anyone below ?”
“ Yes, twoyouog chaps.”
“ What are you going to do ?”
“ We must wait till we get some help, and then
try and get’em out.”
"Wait be hanged 1 Here, come on, there 11 be
plenty people here directly; we’ll go and make a
start—come on, Harry.”
We three jumped on the cage and went below
A drift In the old ground had started to run and
forced the feet of one of the “sets” out. This
brought a strain on the set behind it, unfortunately
a weak one, and with two sets g -me a gap of eight
feet was left in the timber, through which the
settling earth broke and blocked up the drive. I
need not say that in a few moments any number
of men were below ready and willing to assist.
Jim, by virtue of that mysterious power which
places some men above their fellows, assumed the
lead and directed the operations for the recovery
of the poor fellows buried behind that wall of
debris, in an hour false sets had been placed in
position, the ground secured, and the last load of
mullock run out. The drive was as good as before
the accident. Yet the men were not got out. Foul
air h d possession, and the bravest miner present
would not v nture to the rescue of his comrades,
wno, we all know, were lying helpless and sense-
less poisoning in the foul gases at the face.
“What’s to be done now?” was the general
question. , , „
“We must rig n windsad above, said the mana-
ger, “and get fresh air do vn.”
“ flow long will that take ? ” asked Jim.
“An hour,” was the reply.
“Yes, and by that time those two poor fellows
will be stiff. How far is it to the face 7 ”
“ A hundred feet.”
Jim stripped to the buff, and stood before us a
grand specimen of lionhearted manhood. He was
a noted pad. and captain of his football team at
college, and strong as a bull. ~ „ , ..
“Now, you fellows, I’m going to the face, hold
your candles so I can see, I can run that distance
and back without breathing enough foul air to
poison me. But, if I do knock up coming back
some of you will have pluck enough to make a
dart for me.” . . .
This was guaranteed, and he started on his mis-
sion of salvation. The drive or tunnel was nearly
straight, being along the gutter, and halfway up
Jim stumbled over one of the unfortunates.
To pica him up and dash back was the work of
five seconds, and he staggered into the purer air
and fell, he and his burden, amongst us. He was
gasping and panting, but a few minutes sufficed to
bring him round, while the miner was promptly
sent up to the surface. Some of the others now
wished to go to the rescue of the second man.
“ No,” Jim said, “ you have wives, most of you,
and you couldn’t get there and back as quickly
as I. I’ll do it, never fear; if you hear me fall
come in and pull the two of us out.”
He made the run, got his man, and started back,
but was compelled to leave him half-way and rusa
out alone. The poisoned air overpowered him.
Shortlyrecovering, he returned. We could see
him coming back. Thirty feet from us he was
striding at a strong trot. I was watching him in
case he should fall.
“ Look out, Jim,” I shouted.
I had seen a set near him slipping- He threw the
Inanimate Dody of the miner over his shoulder so
as to leave one arm free, and through the drift,
which fell like a shower-bath round him and over
him, he fought his way to our feet, blinded with
earth, cut with tailing timber, and choked with
foul air, and while he lay as senseless and helpless
there as the poor fellow he had rescued, I marked
on my mental tablets the name of Jim Herbert as
a hero.
Years passed. I dropped across him again,
at the bar of an hotel drinking by himself.
The man who drinks alone drinks for the love he
bears the liquor. There is no cloaking garb of
friendship to excuse him.
I did not know him for a moment, but he spoke
to me. I walked home with him, and he Invited
me to dine. He was studying for the law, nomi-
nally for admission as an attorney, actually, judg-
ing by his mode of living, for a step higher—the
bar.
Business detained me some months In the town
where he was living, and I pulled him together.
We had been chums in boyhood, friends in youth
and young manhood, and my nature now was
stronger tnan his.- Pie was weakened by intem-
perance and disheartened by neglect. He had
estranged his friends, broken his mother’s heart,
and, but for her faithful love for him, his aunt,
too, had long since left him to his fate. I could
not get him to leave the bottle entirely alone, but,
securing comfortable lodgings, we kept a sufficient
supply of liquor at home to obviate the necessity
of seeking it elsewhere. Then he settled down to
work, to which I kept him with all the vigour of
a hard taskmaster, anfi had the pleasure ot seeing
him pass his final examination and obtain admit-
tance to the ranks of colonial attorneys When he
returned, over a social pipe and a friendly glass,
he told me his story:—
“ Three years ago, Harry, when I went for my
first year. I was in Melbourne for a few days after
my exam. I had always been fond ot amateur
acting, and knew a few of the pros. One night I
was asked to go on for a few moments, in a spec-
tacular piece, to air my muscles, and at the wing
I saw a very pretty girl. 1 spoke to her, and was
afterwards introduced. She was a daisy. I fell
madly in love with her, and in a week we were
man led. I repented it but once. That is ever
since. She was but the setting, the gem of
womanly purity was gone. In a month I was
disillusionised. She showed herself in her true
colours, and—why linger ever a wretched story ?
left me to go with the man she had lived with for
years.
“ I returned here to complete my articles, fell
in l->ve a second time with a woman, a big-
hearted, noble woman. She loved me fondly, too.
I was afraid to tell her the truth as to my position,
and started ‘nipping.’ I was never happy ex-
cept when loaded with whisky. She knew there
was so-nothing wrong. One day I told her all.
“ Ard sitting there by the old stone bridge, with
her band in mine, 1 saw the light fade out of her
eye?, and felt the hope die out of my soul. I begged
her to trust me, when I got through I would be
divorced and free to marry her. But her idol was
shattered. I had betrayed her love, while another
was legally bound to me I had dared breathe vows
of constancy to her, and—Harry, old boy—l’ll
show you her grave to-morrow.
•Do you wonder I took to grog? Would you
wonder if I took to it again ? lam hopeless. But
for your coming here I would have muddled
along a few years more, and then passed in-
gloriously away. I have the power to be some-
thing, and the will to be—nothing.
“If the heart that carried ‘big Jim Herbert’
through the foul air and the falling timbers in the
old Koh-i-noor still beat in this breast, 1 could
make a name which would not soon be forgotten.
Pass the decanter, o'd fellow; let’s have one more
and go to bed.’’
It did not surprite me, six months later, to read
the following telegraphic item in the Ahgus:—
‘ James Herbert, an attorney, lately practising
here, was found dead on the Bairnsdale road
yesterday. Deceased had been drinking heavily.”
or old it surprise me last week to see the woman
who had caused this inglorious ending to a career,
which might have been a bright one, tripping
jaunii'y through the Arcade, dhelswell known
to Australian concert-hall pa'rons.
An item on the Rosehlll (Parramatta);
sports programme reads thus:—
‘ 19.-TO STARE AT 1 4 45.
Highland Fling tor young ladies,
first prize, £1 Is.; Second, 15 j.”
After) full cjnsideratloo, we have concluded that
the foregoing is one of those ghastly Scotch jokes
only understandablelby those who love the bag-
pipes.
Peter and Paul.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Peter Lovell and hia partner Paul worked toge-
ther at the Inglewood (Vic.) diggings through
good luck and bid luck for over 35 years. They
were familiarly known as “ Peter and Paul.”
Peter died the other day. Paul was beside him to
the last. We can imagine a conversation something
after this fashion carried on shortly afterwards at
the Gate of Glory. But let us rather throw it la
the form of a little metrical narrative.—
The soul of the miner, Peter,
Went out in the solemn night,
On a pathway of mystic starshine
To the City of Crystal Light.
The gleam of its gates of glory
Shone over the deeps of space,
Beside them Peter the sainted
Sat, keeping the keys of grace,
“ Tby name?" said Peter the sainted,
“ Your own.’’ He unlocked the gate—
Enter!” the saint said, smiling,
“Your way through the world was
straight.”
But the soul of the miner, Peter,
Still stayed in the outer space
Nor moved; then Peter the sainted
Threw open the gates of grace,
A flood of immortal splendour
Through the open portals passed,
Witu the sound of a mighty music,
Like the rush of a rising blast.
And the soul of the miner, Peter,
Saw a vision great and fair
Of golden thrones, and amidst them
A high throne vacant there.
“Go up!” said the Great Gatekeeper,
“ And take thy appointed place
And a smile of beautiful meaning
Shone over his blessed face.
But the soul of the miner Peter
Moved not from the outer gate;
Then-tbe good old saint said mildly :
“ Dear brother, why do you wait ?”
And the miner's soul made answer :
“ I will go in never at, all—
Unless you’ll promise when he comes
To let in ray old mate Paul!”


T
COMPAGNONI CATERING GO, LIMITED.
■TT-n .. . PITT STREET, SYDNEY. *
MS “nn® a n d^f C ttf EatabUshment ln N.B.W. .Caterers to His Worship the Mayor.
imaDiisument In N.3.'
Th e i nWi , §l l CoUQC i l °t s J. dDe y* the A.J.C., City Club, &c.’, &o’
Din mgr Saloons« for L adxec land are the fo
npiT T „'FIKST-CLASB"MENIJ ** the ool ony.
Theatres,^o and^eMt^rmed^n^Z tlme fr( ?ft 8 11 P m - (after the
*“ "■ TOLLBMACHE, General Manager.
Universal clue, a thoroughly reliable and easy-running
machine. Ball bearings to both wheels, and Improvements.
THE SYDNEY SPOUTS
DEPOT.
389 GBORGB-STRBET SYDNEY
(Opposite Royal Hotel.)
bicyclesTTricycles.
OUR
1885 Pattern Bicycles
and Tricycles
Have Evert Improvement,
©UR SPECIALITY
New Cheap Roadster.
the universal club
BICYCLE,
fitted with Improved Ball Bear-
ings to front and back wheel*
felT !? rk fj Held anc*
Detachable Bent Handle Bar
Easy Slide Spring, Hubs Plated’
Black Enamelled Spokes, ’
Price, £l3 10s, At the price
we defy competition.
* wo uexy competition.
JAMES MARTIN & COMPANY, 388 Gaarga-st., Sydney.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DFVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Skip and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c
HOULTON’3 “FLUSH-OUT,” " “ VACUUM “ WATBK-WABTB
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers. Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 8 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application
m
o
or>
UNIQUE flavour and unsurpassei
Crispness distinguish Wilson’s Arn&
rican “Extra Toast ’’BISCUITS Wm
wlth’oof?eeor*cheeso! ie ' k,oomparlb l £
TURNER & CO.i
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Street. Sydney.
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALB, which is to bo obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTßLL & CO..
Sole Agents.
I/un* dlone }fi/s
the Latest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.— New eat Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety,
tlon catalogueB can be had gratis on applloa-
Statlonery.—Account Boohs, Letter and Note
o . papers, &0., at lowest prices.
Printing.—lnvoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
cards.
executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
.. ■ *l upward. Li beral discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &o.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Christmas and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock,
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
ZIQ6S*
Call and see the two most important Copying
instruments ever Invented. The Trypogranh
copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
8-nd and obtain full particulars of working.
william~¥ullard,
842 GEORGE STREET.
1
CLEARANCE SALE. BONA FIDE.
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st., Sydney
(Established 1800).
FRONT PREMISES having BEEN CONDEMNED,
the
WHOLE STOCK MUST BE CLEARED
AT A SACRIFICE.
SALE CAN ONLY LAST ONE MONTH.
NOTE-ONE MONTH ONLY.
BEDSTEADS
BEDDING
COTS
G LASSES
FURNITURE
CHAiRS
BLANKETS
QUILTS
MUST
fee
CLEARED.
STOCK,
£1 5,000.
J
L
MUST BE CLEARED •
to admit of
NEW PREMISES BEING ERECTED,
for which tenders have been called.
SALE CAN ONLY LAST ONE MONTH,
So Purchase Early,
BARGAINS I BARGAINS! BARGAINS I
at
J- Lawler's,
608 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
FRANCES
CHRISTMAS CARDS
AND
CHRISTMAS SATIN ART PRINTS.
ALL STATIONERS.
Sole Agents, ROBERT JOLLEY & CO.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
B y aBB3. D Sn jPEMELI/3
EXTRA SUPERFINE
. „ lE,? 8 made FROM THE BEST WHEAT
m a Mill replete with the newest and moat approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICBJg V RHYLO W, and the O'tJALITF
lOD.
is vn« i jliU w , and the i
Is GUARANTEED VERY GO
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL
BSI Reorare-street. Sydney.
EBlu
\SKi
oi
$
DR- THOMAS
_ _ may be consulted on
JNer J°)?f l and Contagious Affections.
Medical Establishment. 203. Ellzabeth-street
near Bathurst-street.
Hours : 9 till 10 daily.
. D /* Thomas Is the only medical man advertising
n Australia who has passed the degrees of an Eng-
lish Physician and Surgeon. Examinations passed
—Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians,
London. 18*4; Member of the Royal College of
Surgeons. London. 1859. K
Rev. Father Wilds’
EXPERIENCE.
The Rev. Z. P. Wilds, well-known city
missionary in New York, and brother
of the late eminent Judge Wilds, of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, writes
as follows:
“78 IS. 54th St., New York, May 16,1882.
Messrs. J. C. Ayer & Co., Gentlemen:
Last winter I was troubled with a most
uncomfortable itching humor affecting
more especially my limbs, which itched so
intolerably at night, and burned so intense-
ly, that I could scarcely bear any clothing
over them. I was also a sufferer from a
severe catarrh and catarrhal cough; my
appetite was poor, and my system a good
deal run down. Knowing the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, by observation of
many other cases, and from personal use
m former years, I began taking it for the
above-named disorders. My appetite im-
proved almost from the first dose. After
a n SlO time the fever and itching were
allayed, and all signs of irritation of the
skin disappeared. My catarrh and cough
were also cured by the same means, and
my general health greatly improved, until
it is now excellent. I feel a hundred per
cent stronger, and I attribute these results
to the use of the Sarsaparilla, which
1 recommend with all confidence as the
best blood medicine ever devised. I took
it in small doses three times a day, and
used, m all, less than two bottles. 1 place
these facts at your service, hoping their
publication may do good.
•. Yours respectfully, Z. P. Wilds.”
Ihe above instance is but one of the many
constantly coming to our notice, which prove
the perfect adaptability of Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla to the cure of all diseases arising
from impure or impoverished blood, and a
weakened vitality.
Ayer’sSarsaparilla
cleanses, enriches, and strengthens the blood,
stimulates the action of the stomach and
bowels, aud thereby enables the system to
resist and overcome the attacks of all Scrofu-
lous Diseases, Eruptions of the Shin, Jlheu-
malism. Catarrh, General Debility, and all
disorders resulting from poor or corrupted
blood aud a low state of the system.
PREPARED BY
Dp. J.C.Ayer&Co.,Lowell, Mass,
Sold by all Druggists; price §l, six bottles
for §5.
AYER’S
CATHARTIC
PILLS. " i
Best Purgative Medicine
cure Constipatiop, Indigestion, Headache, and
all Bilious Disorders.
Sold everywhere. Always reliable*
ELLIOTT BROS, and 8. HOPFNUNQ & CO-
Wholesale Agents.
iw- t rnmrnimmmmm
MOUSTACHE and WHISSEBS.
Boyd's Beard Elixir did thin,and
toill do it on either bald head or
bare face. Forces heavy Mona,
frtehe in from 3 to 4 iceekn and never
foils, 20,000 young men already
toear full beards, having used 1 to ‘v-
'J, easily applied, certain in effect. Packet* I*. 04
each, 3 for 3 s. 6*1., post paid. Bent under eoi'er , free from oh**** •
Addret*. Frank Oou«la», SuU Agent, Box 730, G. 8.0., *ydtu- (l M
after BEFORE
Copyrighted.
3 pkti. A b injuri
BEFORE AFTER
Mr. William Ball.—Dear Sir,—Allow me to say
that 1 find your‘Bloom of Peacbes’ superior to
anj thing of the kind that I ever used before.—
Yours truly, Bmblib Melville.”
“ Bear Sir,—l have never used anything equal to
your B oom of Peaches.’—Maggie Moore.”
“ Dear sir,—l have the greatest pleasure In re-
commending' Mr. Ball's ‘Bloom of Peaches’ and
rett-Puder’ as being Invaluable.—Yours truly,
Alice Bees.”
To be obtained of all chemists,
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
“ PKTT-PUDEB,” a delicate and Invisible
Powder J or the face. Beautifully perfumed.
White. Pink, or Cream, to suit all completions.
Price, 1/6 per box.
Manufactured only by
. WILLIAM BALL,
The Professional ” and Pharmaceutical Chemist.
61 BOUKKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale Agents for Sydney :
Mesrrs. E. PrtOSSBR & CO., Wholesale Chemists
G. F. PRIDDY ft GO.,
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS,
Beg to announce that, on and after APRIL 7th,
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Days
at 6.30 p.m.: Saturdays os usual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
BYDNBY,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
UMBB
Ri&OVEfiKd.
§3 TDD Y ECONOMY
5 and
a ve y ourUmbreila Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-llned and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
Ml George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
' turned Repairs neatly sx»-
enfcM
hla recent visit to London, "carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of 1 ™ 7
m“eS CtUrod b 7 the moBt celebrated English
onh?fact^hat h h« h®« r if 810 appplfle hls customers
B?Nck ? N ck L A 0 s n . do O^B^ B N E B PH
BffSSX «™
68 !’ Belts, *c., and all
jii B - 0 * Sportsmen s Requisites for the field
Ail Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at’
602 Gaorga.st., Sydney,
Where Inspection Is Invited.
Bewia huntln
last
w?*h n &£°I eaaea il mjr IJfe > nnd found
with the Argosy Braces at Gowing Bros
V.
yz.
■■■■
*/.
GOWING BROS.
H.v. W Open* Co^.
Argosy Braces I
Argesy Braces. 2s. 6d„ as.. Ss. Od„* 4s. 6
GOWING BROS.,
MIN’S MERGERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, ft
SSS and 498 Gaoraa.itraat:


p
H
DRHITUII SHOW ROOM P.
BRADLB T. NKWTON. and LAMB.
O'tionneU and Spring streets. Sydney-
n-nd
FURNITURE. HATBTANDB.
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT.
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES.
BEADING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, it. exquisite
taate, the very latest fashion ; 'veil worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, fee.
VERY ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Novelties in boudoir and bow window
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various wooos.
and very handsome designs, with 7-fe-jt
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Grtat variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
E
jiIGMT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
-ill Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-atreet.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 3 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMU.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 305.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 13s. 6d.;
Cheat of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s ;
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3105.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
\a
OQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed Bound
3000 strong, and durable, Trichord fu I
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, In handsome
Cese. Free at rail or wharves foi cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Hanasom® Vbenioa-
able designs in Blaek and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also In Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also elegantly finished in
Embroidery, Plush, &o.
/IHIFFONNIBR WHATNOTS, affective designs.
Just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
O’Conn ell-street.
JSAMELLED and JEW KLLED MIRRORS, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
■> Oonnell-street.
f^RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
JU A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13a 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR B BDBTEADB, forming CHAIR.
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, Q’Connell-at.
Toiler pairs. na^>’i
with swing GLA> S
narble top, (if* th< pair.
DRESSING-TABLE
and WASHSTAND,
BVULL SUITE 1 for DINING-ROOM-SIDE-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
[NG CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’CeuneU-etreet.
D
INING TABLED, with pat' nt extend"*
«*rcw. from 5 feet long and up to 80 feet.
i fciur -AIJJ DSTING WAMMi l <J K uU A i t.—
► Patented.
EE.
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
Sitting to reclining and vice versa, at tho will of
the occupant. It Is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, Instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort Is desired.
The frames arc of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ton pounds cqm-
nleto. and occupying only four Inches in thioknesa
when U ided. Price 80s. BRADLEY. NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
3 1. 8 d. extra.
Self-adjusting chair and couch for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
B
AGATBLLK BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for dra wing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in C’ ippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
RAMBWOBK for DINING-ROOM PURS!-
TURB, Handsome and Massive, In Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connoll-streets.
B
BDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lam b
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB. O’Con-
aeli and Spring streets.
~ ASH STANDB, with marble, from 365. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
T AWN and PARK SEATS 6 feet long. Rustic
1 j Cast-iron Standards, 15s. each. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb.
Bentwood furniture.—a very uompiete
Assortment; best make, lew *rt prices.
The enormous increase in the sales is a
proof of the growing popularity of Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
The public should avoid all imitations of
Wolfe's Schnapps. Be sure you procure the
genuine Wolfe’s.
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated will*
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
oonsummated. 6(H Hunter-street. Bydnav.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps—Beware of would-be rivals
of this great elixir— Always get Wolfe s
Schnapps.
No complaint is more general than that of
the liver for which Wolfe’s Schnapps is the best
antidote.
Wolfe’s Schnapps should bo In every Camp
Wherever you ko always ask and obtain the
celebrated Wolfe’s Schnapps.
SOCIAL
Nero fiddled while Rome was burning—
for demon-delight. There are hundreds who have
to fiddle away nightly for bread and cheese. While
others dance and flirt and eat and drink to such
music, these poor fiddlers starve and fret in their
efforts to keep awake in late hours, and avoid
fainting for want of refreshment. One Rosin
writes very strongly about it to the ABGUB. He
is one of the many who go to make up the fldad-
riile bands hired out nightly, and kept fiddling
away until morning light, he complains that no
rest or refreshment is ever offered to him and his
fellow slaves—not a quarter of an hour s interval
being ever given. Tom tells of a poor tired
flower-haw Ker that “ she hated the smell of roses.
Members of the quadrille bands are poor slaving
fellows, working a« clerks mostly from 9 to 6, and
really deserving of the consideration Rosin
claims from those who dance to their music.
* * *
Miss Tessie Chapman and Mr. Isaac Selby,
Frcethought lecturers, were married the other
day, at Auckland. The bride's dress for the
occasion was the gift of the Rationalistic .syndi-
cate. and consisted of cream satin and nuns-
veillng, resplendent with the usual blossom, and
pearl ornaments. A grand ball was given in the
evening by the Syndicate in honour of the
occasion.
• ♦ *
The return dance, given by the ladies and
the gentlemen members of the Petersham socials
came off on Wednesday, the 11th lost* Anout
were present and made the most of this, the last
gathering of the occasion. Amongst the many
pretty dresses worn, perhaps the most noticeable
was that of a Brisbane young lady, to whom
the honour of belle was unanimously given. The
dress was composed of a rich black lace, wltn
trimming of jet and gold, and diamond ornaments;
and, in compliment to. the members of the Wal-
laroo Football Club, who have lately visited
Brisbane, adorned with their colours. Miss Bean,
from the Shore, in cream veiling and lace, looked
charming.
* * *
The Tweed River folk feel hurt about a
notice which appeared in a recent issue of the T.
and C Journal relative to a bachelors hall
lately given locally. This notice says : The
pleasures were slightly marred by one or two
prosy speeches.” One of the infuriated ones, who
was probably ore of the speechmakers. takes up
the matter somewhat hotly, and avers that none
of these much-abused speeches lasted longer than
five minutes, that they were interesting and
appropriate, and met with much applause.
He goes on to say that the account given
by the correspondent was altogether too partial,
and morn than hints that h 6 was not
present at the ball. But the biggest cut
of all is when he says that *' a few were
very sore because not invited, a ‘ bobby among
the number,’ meaning, of course, to in-
sinuate that the bobhy and the correspon-
dent to the T. and C. Journal were iden-
tical. Now this is hard-on the ” bobby. The
secretary, Miss L. Hughes, looked graceful in
a pretty dress of cream figured tulle, and her
sister wore white nuns’ veiling and white satin
bodice. Conspicuous among the visitors was a
pretty married lady from Bondi, in a rich dress of
black lace and spotted tulle, with short sleeves and
low-cut bodice, across which was a beautiful
spray of Niel r ses. The dresses of two
sisters from Ashfield were much admired-one of
ivory satin and lacs with gold trimming, and the
other white lace with garniture ot popples.
Mrs. Maitland looked nice in pale blue silk,
trimmed with white lace and forget-me-nots;
and Miss Voucg, in cream, seemed to please
everybody. Regret was expressed by everybody
at the absence, through illness, of one of the most
active members of the committee.
* ■ *
The first attempt at a fancy dress ball, in
Forbes (N.B W.), was carried out successfully by
the 1( cal cricket club, assisted by friends, on the
9th Inst. Mostlof the ladles wore fancy costumes
Grace Harkaway, Nancy Lee, Cherry Ripe,
Lady Gay Spanker, and Oomin thro the Kye were
conspicuous for excellent taste. Among the men.
the Mahdi was the hero of the evening- and other
good characters were the Lord Chancellor, and
Max Harkaway.
* * *
The Parramatta-Cumberland Band invited
their late master, Mr. James J. Garland, to a com-
plimentary ball, at tno Masonic Hall, on Friday
last, to recogniso in some measure the value ot
services rendered by him as lesder for the last
dozen years. The guest was the founder of the
band?which, under his baton, achieved a certain
amounts of success, and was only beaten by the
Artillery Band in the musical contest held in Byd
nev some years back. Just a nice number were
present, and dancing, alternately to music from the
braes and string bands, which rivalled each other
for time and variety—was very pleasant and in
contrast to the crowded dr.nces held this season.
Most of the dresses were ot light materials, and
Amongst those conspicuous for good taste were,
ft’iaT Tavlor skirt of cream deatelle ds lalne, and
gjL and draperies of cream Pehinsstripedsabn;
Miss M’Lellan, pale-pink satin bodice and
draperies, overskirt of narrow flounces of white
/edelweiss lace; Miss Cox. cream satin, trimmed
with Dink and ruby flowers; Mies Bremmer, white
India muslin: and Mies Veneeß, pale-pink tarlatan
and pearls- >be refreshments of the local caterer,
ftijl were about the best that have ever been pro-
vided lor a public ‘'hop ; ' in Parramatta. Bar-
ing the evening several vocal and instrumental
selections were given by members of the band,
and Mr. Garland was presented wi'hanilluminated
address *
* * * -
a vt-rv nice picnic was given by tour
/skitorfl to their friends at Parramatta on 11 rlnce of
Waff s’ birthday, and was held on ‘ the old garden
5 theMspartVur estate, where old John
arthur fleeced the first merinos brought to the
colony- The "old garden ’ termed part of the
„ rounds belonging to the aide-de-camp in Go-
vernor Phillips time. About 80 guests
Most of the girls were in zephyrs and muslins, the
lair hostesses looking uniform and pleasant in
gr. yof the former material a lively I
girl was in checked zepnyr. trimmed with pale
blur, and her pretty companion graced a drees of
hottie-green cashmere, trimmed with pale blue
S A Granville damsel wore ptak draped
rvith ficelle India gauze; and two local belles ap-
peared in Tussore silk with garnet jersey, and grey
and chrcfcod z -phyr. A ve. y Jolly day was spent,
and tta was got through in twilight. One of the
young men had a camera, and took several but
this was not to be ed. #
•the annual ball in aid of t v e local hos-
b,'me off at Inverell on Tuesday, the 3rd.
fteSJ of its predecessors, it was an un-
qualified success. The music was good, the un-
wearying efforts of the pianiste being worthy of
t utmost praise.; while the wi fe ° r a
medico delighted the company with a few splendid
® [ra g. About JSO were present, and among the
fancy dresses Carmen. Folly, a Genoese Peasant
and a Scotch lassie may be ranked with the best,
mid thV usual collection of Gipsies, Bailors,
Flshwlfes, Cricketers. Saowstorms. Nights, and all
itmt heterogeneous mass of characters and ideas
generally found in conjunction, except at a
i&y Sfess ball, made the hall brilliant with their
varied costumes. The b.efle was a ady in evening
dress, the wife of a well-known railway engineer.
'The dress was of black tulle, with a low->ecked
blank satin body- A wreath of yellow flowers was
thro wnaqross thp front-of the body, while the
skirt was ,d6tted all over with tiny sprays of blue
iorget-me-nots. Pearls on her arms and in her
flair completed the meat perfect postume In the
room. Altogether the hospital ball of 18?1> will be
remembered as one of the most pleasant events
of the kind that have taken pi ce in the town.
♦' * *
The Brisbane Cup on the 9th of Novem-
ber. like its Melbourne predecessor, was favoured
with brilliant weather. The lawn was a mass of
vivid colours—every hue of the rainbow being
represented—green and flcslle, however, predomi-
nating. His Excellency tne Governor and Lady
Musgrave were on the stand until after the Cup-
race, when they departed to pay a promised visit
to the Caledonian sports. Her ladyship’s costume
was all fawn. Mrs. G. W. Gray wore an elegant
costume of white satin and lace mixed with black
velvet, and black lace bonnet; Mrs. Mein, brown
satin merveilleux, with cream lace bonnet to cor-
respond; Mrs. J. M. Phillips was handsomely cos-
tumed in chartreuse satin and coffee-lace; the cos-
tume worn by Mrs. E. C. Thomas was one of the
most effective on the lawn —it consisted of white
silk, striped with satin and very handsome lace,
caught up her® and there with crimson parrots,
white feather hat. and sunshade en suite. A beau-
tiful dress was worn by a tall brunette—of very
delicate heliotrope satin, almost covered with
white lace and ribbons, and hat to match.
• • •
On Wednesday, the 4th inst., the bachelors
of Orange gave a successful dance in the Odd-
fellows’ Hall. The floor was excellent, so was the
music. Some handsome dresses were worn, espe-
cially by Miss Saarratt, of Sydney, who shone in
white lace and white silk. Two sisters from the
Bathurst-road presented a charming appearance-
one in pink, and the other in fine white tarlatan
tucked to the waist. The sister of a recent bride
was irresistibly attractive in pale pink striped
with silver. The bride of a local brewer looked
superb In her wedding dress. The leading
M.D.’s wife looked queenllke in trailing black lace
dress and numerous gold ornaments,
* * ♦
Warwick, Queensland, was enfete on the
Prince of Wales’ Birthday, the combined Friendly
Societies and Cricket Association sports being the
one attraction. The bicycle events, the first of the
kind in that town, excited some enthusiasm, as a
number of the Brisbane cyclists had journeyed
thither to take part la them. The day being un-
usually warm, summer costumes were principally
adopted by the ladles.
• • •
The bachelors of Raymond Terrace gave a
grand ball to about 120 guests on the night of the
9th Inst, In the School of Arts The dresses all
round displayed excellent taste. A Raymond Ter-
race lady in a white dress with Swiss belt of ruby
velvet, looked very pretty, ss also did a demoiselle
in navy-blue velvet trimmed with old gold lace
and ribbons. Two beautiful sisters were taste-
fully attired In black dresses with rose - pink
jackets; and a brunette'in green silk, trimmed
with white silk lace, bore off a share of the
honours.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Woollahra and Waverly Horticultural
Society's Spring Snow, Oddfellows’
Had, Church-street, Waverley... Novfmber 18
Emulation Private Soda), West's
llooms, Thursday November 19
Picnic to His Worship the Mayor by
the citizens of Sydney, Botany.. ..November 34
THIS WICKED WORLD.
There is a young man of Ballarat who was
handed over to the police by his friends the other
day, on a charge of being “ eccentric.” There was
a slight foundation lor the charge. He believed
himself to be the Second Person of the Trinity.
St. Mary’s (EC.) Cathedral, Sydney, has
already cost £IIO,OOO, and as much again is wanted
to complete it Townsville (Q.) has already two
evening papers and one weekly. Another weekly
is about to be launched,... .Thady O’Kane wishes
to inform distressed damsels who ramble about in
the small hours that the Northern Miner pre-
mises are not th“s police barracks,... Some Tas-
manians complain because their Government,
while proposing an increase in the property-tax,
think of giving the four daughters of the late
Speaker, Dr. Butler, £SO a year each for the next
10 years. ..The Rev. Mr. Hutchings, of Young,
N.B.W , has resigned because the parish won’t give
him a guarantee of £4OO a year and travelling ex-
penses. A striking evidence of the value set upon
his soul by the average parishioner while he’s able
to eat his little eight square meals a day. Brisbane
lately prayed for rain. Down came the rain, ihe
Kavenswood Junction people won’t pray, and the
local drought is making them shift camp —The
writer of an article on “ Undesirable Hotels” in
the Age states that within half-a-mlle of the Mel-
bourne G.P.O. there are “ fifty licensed houses of
111-famo” Hebden andJCo., of Gogeldrie station,
N.S.W., recently turned out into their paddocks,
in one lot, 700 cats, bought at from Is. 6d. to 3»- 6d,
per head—to destroy the rabbits The N.Z.
Premier, who says he means to treat the Maories
as human beings" and not to parade armed men
before them while they keep the peace, has re-
duced the Armed Constabulary by over 50 per
cent Mr. Alfred Douglass, proprietor of the
Geelong advertiser (in which Graham Berry
once had a share), died the other day, aged
60. He was a very old colonist, emigrated
when a Jad from England to tasmanla in
1835, and came to Victoria, settling in Geelong
in 1850, He had a long and honorable career as a
merchant in years gone by, and in I*o3 became the
proprietor of the journal named.
♦ * *
Crinolines are ikely again to become
fashionable. Husbands will have then to hand
bank-notes to their wives on the point of along
stick .Little Bess, to caller: Then you re not
black, Mr. Smith.” "Black, child, why no: I should
hope not ; what made you think I was ? Oh,
nothing ’cept Pa said you was ?w f ully
....The annual revenue of the Lcndon Times
from advertisements alone exceeds £403,000.... six-
penny telegrams (now known as )
came Into operation all over (K»^Budd
1... .There are now in the world 390.T00 000 Uuda
hlst» 210 000.000 Mahommedans, 301 000,000 k. 0..
175 000,000 Brahmins. 106,000.000 Protestants 80.000 000
Confucians,Bl.ooo,ooo members of Eastern Churches
and 7,000.000 Jews. According to a Sydney reli-
gious paper, all will be damned, sure, except the
Protestants. When we attempt to P laoa Ake same
vro rata of the lost on the countless myriads of the
past, the mind Is shocked In utter dismay at the
Drodijfious failure of an Omnipotent tredtiye
Energy In speaking them into existence. In round
numbers, nearly nine-tenths of J llB . 8 a
miserable abortion.... General Booth owns a
" Salvation Army yacht,” the Bole. Ho found on
a recent morning that some facetious person had,
during the night, re-christened his vessel the
~ pMiya Armstrong,” which name w? 8 painted cn
both hois and stern. .The Freethinkers of Europe
at their International Congress, at Antwerp, have
surveyed the whole field of life and duty ano have
formulated their message to the ,^P r ld lo th®
single proposition: " MoralresponsibiWydoes nut
exist I ” So siys the Melbourne D. 1... ■•f he other
dsv at Stavelly, Eng., a man klllid a rat with
his y teeth and then ale it, skin and all, for a wager
of a quart of beer.
MISS FORrESCUP, WHO, WITH HER COMPANY, WILL, ACCORDING TO THE “ERA,”
SHORTLY VISIT AUSTRALIA.


NOTICE.
ADVERTISERS and others will please take
notice that Mr. FRANK A. HALL Is NO
LONGER CONNECTED WITH THIS OFFICE
as Canvasser, Collector, or otherwise.
W. H. TRAILL,
Managing Director.
The Bulletin Cilice,
Sydney, November, 1885,
A CHANCE to secure a first-class
Farm at Gosford, for £l5 per acre,
payable at the rate of 2s. per acre
per week and no interest, is an oppor-
tunity for a profitable investment that a
never allows
to pass. Dur-
ing the past
IUXU hy LKJL O. JJI VliUHiWiv
WISE MAN
month a large number of actual set-
tlers availed themselves of this liberal
offer by the Vendors of the Model Farms,
Blocks, and com-
menced improve-
ments on choice
lands, well adapted to dairy, live stock
and general farming purposes, from which
can be selected that
cannot be excelled
the Australias.
UUCI uy bUG » umiuioc
BOUGHT
lands, well adapted 1
and general farming ]
A FARM
FOR PARTICULARS, MAPS, ETC., WRITE TO
BOYD & KING,
AUCTIONEERS,
96 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
infants and Children
■ What gives our Children rosy cheeks,
I What cures their fevers, makes them sleep;
Castoria.
When Babies fret, and cry by turns,
What cures their colic, kills their worms. i
Castorla. )
What quickly cures Constipation, .
Sour Stomach, Colds, Indigestion ; I
Castorla.
Farewell then to Morphine Syrups,
Castor Oil and Paregoric, and A
Hall Castoria.
“ Castoria is so well adapted to Children
that I recommend it as superior to any medi-
cine known to mo.”—II. A. Archer, M. D„
ill Oxford St., New York.
Elliott Bros., Sidney, Agents.
V
LIMITED,
356 Gaorge-streef,
Faye the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
Of
FUNDS, ORGANS
"tod
MUSIC.
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
BAST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices cn Application.
W. H. PALING & Co.
850 Ckorge-street, Sydney.
A GOOD INVESTMENT
from every point of view.
No. 3 “PALACE” MANGLE,
94 inch x 6 inch Roller,
£3 3?. 03.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium, Hay market only,ll
CONTINUED SUCCESS
OF
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£S DRAPERY BALES!
PACKED in CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
|y Carriage paid by mail all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been In operation for 12
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent poet free.
£5 LADY’S BALE.
6 Ladles’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladles’ Camisoles
0 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longcloth. and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered Instead of
any of the above.
£,% MOURNING BALE.
05 yds. Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVES.
On receipt of 3s. In
stamps, we send, pest
free, a pair of 3 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For aocouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Kobe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £6.
IBs.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials - Silks, Velvets, &o.—with
prices, and full Instruction for self-measurement,
If applied to.
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
Originators of the celebrated £5 Bales of Drapery.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, November 17, 1888.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are Invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
wrtn.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Hatara of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received ist
this office.
Construction of Wnarf at B*i-I
ranald, Murrumbidgee River |
Erection of Station Buildings, I
&c, f at Cargo-road and Bore- |
nore, Orange to Molong Rail- I
way I
Erection of Station Buildings, I
and Gatehouses at Aina -1
roo, Orange to Molong Kail- I
way , I
Erection of Post and Telegraph I
Office, Waverley
Bridge over Barwon River, at
Brewarrlna
Bridge in approach to Moree
Bridge
Supply of Newcastle Coal for
Railway Department during
1860
Bridge over Flyer’s Creek road,
Bullahdelah to Upper Myall
Supply of Forase for use of
Shunt Horses at Newcastle.
Tuesday,
November 24,
at 11 o’clocK.
The celebrated Wolfe's Schnapps Is a pure
Invigorating beverage. Be sura you obtain
Wolfe’s.
Know ye all men that Wolfe's Schnapps has
no rival as a stimulant.
Time after all is the one grand test. Wolfe’s
Schnapps has been 35 years before the public.
With no wild Inigoistio hopes
My heaving chust will throb,
So long as Summerfleid and Co.
Sell pants for sixteen bob *
The celebrated Wolfe’s Schnapps is a
shield and safeguard against sudden changes of
temperature.
Smokers whose indulgence in the weed
is continuous should use such a.cordial as w olfe's
Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is now and has been for
many years a standard professional remedy.
Health, life, hope, joy, peace, love,
Six gifts from Heaven ;
Then Summerfleid gave pants,
To make these seven.*
Supply of Twelve Passenger
Engines
Erection of New Gates, Garden
Palace Grounds
Erection of Fire Brigade Sta-
tion, Sydney
Supply of Coal and Coke for
Tramway t ervlce
Tuesday,
December 1.
at 11 o’clock.
WILI.I4M BEiOH.TM CHAMPION
I ,PpCr^ M KiS“?sr;.r“ J h o o u^ t n,l S' l i
T 1 prßpar duriDß my training for the late con-
gest Hanlan. and think .t the
refreshing drink I have ever tasted. It does
m ° 8 ofVcni the head or make me sleepy, as a great
notallecttheneaQor advig9
ma o n rl m awho 18 go™* to train for a hard con-
test to drink the Anheuser Busoh Bt. Louis Beer.
(Signed) Yours truly. Wm. Peach*
Unpleasant dreams and general unrest
do not trouble persons who are wise enough to
use Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Repairs, &0., Telegraph Station, I Tuesday,
Murrurundi I December 8,
Additions, &o , Lockup, Cowra I At 11 o’clock.
Wednesday, November 18.
Dear Peg,—The chiefeat event this week was a
charming garden party given by Mrs. James R.
Fairfax, of Glnnagulla. Bellevue Hill. It was
both a welcome and farewell to her son, B.
Fairfax, and his sweet-looking bnle. Ihe day
was one of those perfect ones which
Sydnev after close heat and violent atmospheric
disturbances, such as had well nigh effaced us the
previous days; and which culminated in a strong
south-easterly gale the night before. All the
clouds were vanished by Wednesday morning, but
the cool wind still blew so freshly that some few
people were quite glad to unearth heavy
gowns, though the most part did v^® n ®® J 9
feelings and wore thin, cool dresses, evidently
fresh for the occasion.
Glnnagulla occupies a lovely situation far up
Ballevue Hill, and commands a floe view of the
harbour, with the hazy blue outline of Broken
Bay. quite in the dim distance. The garden is laid
out in broad terraces, with a fine tennis lawn; and
well-kept hot-house and bush-houses. Altogether,
a more delightful spot for a garden party could
not be found. Under a light awning, over the
entrance to the first lawn, stood the host and
hostess to receive their guests, who passed on
round the house to the other end, where was a
most picturesque marquee of striped canvas,
ornate with alternate red and blue drapings. It
was so thin, that one could feel the brilliancy of
the sußshine and the blueness of the sky above
It was softly carpeted, and contained long tables
laden with strawberries and cream, tea and cakes.
The programmes, presented to each arrival by
young Master Fairfax, apprised one that this was
not altogether a file champetre, for, while the band
in the garden rested, people were attracted to the
lofty-vaulted dining-room, which was, for the
nonce, a prettily-arranged music-room, where
guests, seats, and ferns disputed possesslon-and
where accomplished professionals played stringed
<niar ettes—"Tne Declaration, from The Mill, >(
, off. *'Evening Prayer, R-inecke; a Ssxtette,
Mendelßsohn-when>i ? 9 Gurney did her part as
pianist admirably. Ylolincello solo, Melanooho,
Corinne, by Herr Patek, and some vocal music by
Mr. Knight Aston.
Among the numerous guests were Mr. and Mrs
C. B. Fairfax, Miss Frazer, Uady Hay, Miss Hay,
Sir William and Lady Manning, Miss Manning. Dr.
and Mrs. Garran, Miss Garran, Mrs. Ornrcey. Miss
rinrnev non. B. Knox, Mrs. and the Misses Knox,
Hon A Campbell, Mrs. Campbell. Mr. Gerald
ramnbell Hon. 1. Josephson, Misses Josephson,
M«. and MIM Busoy. Mrs. and the Misses Barley,
Mrs (i Knox. Mr. and Mrs. Donkin, Mrs. A.
Bloomfield Mrs. H. Austin. Mrs. B. R. Wise. Mrs.
Kussri) Mi s Sbuffrey, Mrs. Chadwick. Mr. and
Mrs Cecil Barley, Captain Coskyn, Lieutenant
Heyman (H.M.S. Myrmidon), Dr. Anderson Stuart,
Dr. Bids. Mrs. Wilkinson, the Misses vVilkinson.
Mr 1 . M H. Stephen, Mrs and Miss Salomons, Mr.
and Mrs. Deffel. Mrs. A. Cox, Miss Cox. Mr. Con-
sett Stephen, Mrs. and Miss Pringle, Miss Burns,
Mrs. and Miss Hardy, Mr. and Miss Fosbery, and
Mrs, Trower.
Mrs. Fairfax wore a very handsome dark olive-
greengros-graln. with halt-hidden panels of cream
satin, with! raised velvet pattern in dark-green
bonnet to match, with lovely cluster of cream
velvet flowers on one side; Mrs. C. B Fairfax, the
bride, who is Sli'l slightly in mourning, wore a
lovely dresi of soft lace, bonnet and parasol to
match; Miss Fairfax, a perfect dress of soft cling-
ing white, brightened by white moire silk, bonnet
tn match- Miss Hay, an exceedingly pretty dress
of cTul-grey corded silk, with collar and cuffs of
a darker shade, straw bonnet, with velvet
trimming, to match ; Miss Josephson. white,
trimmed”'with large stiff rosettes of royal-
K velvel white straw bonnett. with rosettes
of velvet ; Mrs. Gurney, pale-blue broche.
trimmed with cream lace, large hat covered with
cream feathers; Miss Gurney, a complete cos-
tume of sheeny golden-brown silk; Mrs. Barley
andthe Misses Barley,were a striking quartette.in
biscuit muslin and red embroidery, Mrs. G. Knox,
a lovely fawn silk dress embroidered all over in a
trafllng brown pattern; Mrs. Donkin, a Pretty,
soft, bfue-green, tailor-made cashmere; Miss Fos-
bery. in a stylish, mediaeval-patterned llama, high
hatand upstanding trimming of flowers; Mrs. A.
Bloomfield a lovely figured material on a subdued
gree™ ground; Mrs. H. Austin wore handsome
brown velvet; the Misses Knox wore pretty
cotton crepes with cowslip yellow ribbons.
Alfred Barry held an “at home ”on Thurs-
day aßernoon last at Bishopscourt, Randwlok, in
hoLur of the newly-arrived Bishop of Brisbane
Tip Webber, when there was a large gathenng of
both clergy aad laity. The day was beautifully
fine and clear, but with a cutting south-east wind
blowing, which formed a sufficiently startling con-
trast to the intense heat of the previous Thursday
fenreoare a new comer for any vagaries of
climate The guests included the Bishop of Bris-
binefthe President, Sir John Hay, Lady Hay,
Ladv*Stephen, the Misses Stephen, Lady Manning,
Hnn Tohn Campbell, the Misses Campbell, Mrs.
?nd Mrs W Campbell. Mrs. and Miss Gurney.
Hon A. Campbell. Mrs. and Mis. Campbell. Arch-
deacon Ktnv. Dr. Corlette. Canon and Mrs. More-
ton Rev W. Langley, Mrs. Langley. Rev Mr.
Tackson. Mrs. Jackson, Rev. G. Norm Ast Mrs.
Aah Rev C Yorke, Mrs. Yorke, Rev. Mr. Hillyar,
xcra’ miTvar Mrs. Gunther, Mrs. O R Ally, Canon
Rich Mrs. Rich, Rev. B. Saltnlere, Canon Childe,
wiv W Pain, Mrs. fain, Mrs. O’Brien, Mrs. S. A.
sppo'hen Mbs Stephen. Mrs. J. R. Fairfax, Miss
Fairfax’Mrs. and Miss B. Busby, Mr. and Mrs. J.
b Donkin Mr. and Mrs. Russell, the Misses Kussoll
Professor and Mrs. Gurney Hon.
H Mort, Mrs. Mort, Mrs. Eustace Smith, Mrs.
Mnntetlore, Mrs. and Miss Salomons, Mr., Mrs. and
Fhadwick, Miss Shutfrey. Mrs. and the Miss s
Knox Mr. and Mrs. Harold Maclean. Mrs and Miss
Whitten Dr. and Mrs. Garran, Dr, Kyngdon, Miss
Kyngdon, etc. Altogether a most delightful after-
noon was passed.
An engagement is announced between Mr
Frederick IM-Idle. second smof the Rev. Charles
vrfddle and Miss Louisa Mackenzie, eldest
daughter ofMr. W. H. Mackenzie, of Cauloy
Vale, Liverpool.
CORRA LYNN.
Renan.
A portrait of Joseph Ernest Renan appears in
the present Issue of The Bulletin. His name
occupies a front place among those who have
battled for intellectual progress. To no man living
has so much of the mental struggle In its highest
aspects fallen I It is 23 years since his great
work, the “ Vie de Jesus,” was given to the public.
To sav that it made its mark, but poorly describes
its effect. It bored holes through orthodoxy.
Some then called him an apostate. But the fact is
that Renan, although educated for the priesthood,
had never sympathised wholly with the Christian
system. He had quitted Saint Suipice 20 years
before with the reputation of being an irrecon-
cileablo, and although he gave many succeeding
years to undemonstrative work in Arctueology,
Hebrew, Syriac, and cognate subjects, bin mind
was aggressive and his voluminous pamphlets
were a source of persistent apprehension. In 18V8
he was elected a member of the French Academy.
A year and a-half ago he published, under the title
of “ Souvenirs d’Enfance et de Jeunesse,” a book
dealing with the departures made by him from the
Church of h's early life He was born at Treguier
in France in February, 1823.
Sydney—Mid-day.
Hall, luncheon hour I Blest break In Labour’s day,
The hour In which King Appetite holds sway,
Who to his feet his clam’rous people calls
To still their murmurs in his banquet halls.
Now weary workmen lay aside the pick
And from their slavering chops the driblets lick,
Draw from some sheltered nook the ’kerchief red
And make tremendous gaps in beef and bread.
Out ’neath the lid of grimy pot and pan
’Scape odours palate-tickling unto man;
And bare-arm’d barmen spread out bread and
cheese
While onions scent the gentle dallying breeze,
Which, stealing back thus laden to the street
Like music gives fresh impulse to the feet
Of many a hungry, homeward-hastening wight,
Whose very emptiness delayed his flight;
And he whose purse Is small, but paunch immense,
In trousera-pockot fondles eighteenpence,
Debating inwardly where best he can
Deplete the purse to fill the Inner man.
Oh, Appetite I thy mates are surely blest I
Nature's own sauce I thou ever-welcome guest,
Contented aye to share the lowly lot
Of him who dwells in lonely low-roof’d cot;
Leading expectant him from work to meals
And seasoning all that o'er bis palate steals;
Shunning the gourmand’s board who’d treat thee
. beat.
And lending to his food no Joy, no zest,
For ho who lays on thee unwieldy loads
Will lose thee, as the wretch who harshly goads
A willing horse will quickly wear him out:
So he-and in exchange acquires the gout.
Forgive this slight digression—wa’ll proceed
To view tho Sydney Rest’rant’s mid-day feed:
All round the dining-room beside each plate
A tortured, twisted napkin’s doom’d to wait,
In whose contorted folds a skill’s display’d—
The high art of the Knife and Fork Brigade,
Whose blear-ey’d members, dress’d in shiny suits
And seedy, bulging, down-heel’d, rusty boots,
Scud round with steaming plates of soup and
meat.
And move quite nimbly on their bunion'd feet,
Dodging and twisting ’mong the ent’ring crowd
And making affirmations “ deep not loud.”
Now seated all, aid all on food intent,
All heads o’er plates voraciously are bent;
No grace is said, nor yet much grace displayed—
To etiquette small deference is paid.
(We own, of course, exceptions to this rule,
A gentleman’s oft elbowed by a ghoul.)
Seel here sits one; he bolts bis food in lumps,
For chewing scarcely suits those blacken’d stumps:
His teeth—those loop-hol'd; gnarled tusks that
stand
Like ringbark’d trees, but cumberers of the land.
Another near doth slobber up his soup
As feeds the goose Inclosed in fatt’ning coop;
Loud sounds betray his pleasure in his food,
Each spoonful with a smack he christens "good.”
Hard by ” a gent.” disdains a fork to use,
A knife’s the tool with which he scoops up stews.
Jugglers oft swallow knives to earn their bread—
He does tho same from choice whene’er he’s fed.
Full fifty knives one juggler may conceal—
One knife he swallows flfty times each meal.
Now “ Snob," who for delay a waiter rates.
Yet half a loaf has gobbled while he waits;
Determined to improve the hour that’s shining.
He eats enough for six and calls it dining,
And stows away enough of gratis rations
To feed his family and poor relations.
But, now the reign of Appetite is o'er,
We pay him tribute in the tavern score,
And some are much relieved while others fret,
Because their paid-for meal’s “ unsettled ” yet;
Distended stomachs mutely crave that one.
And that the waistband, button be undone;
While bilious men in ill-concealed distress
Wish to the Lord they’d eaten somewhat less,
For clammy sweat on cheek, on forehead, stands.
And Indigestion on them lays bis hands.
But Labour loudly calls, brooks no delay,
So for the present, Silve! and Good-day.
Sydney, 39th October, 1885.


Another Solomon
Mas arisen. Writing' to
an English journal a
returned Cockney says
“After a careful study
of Sydney life one Is led
to wonder why It is that,
inn city so thronged with
lawyers, men ever get
into gaol; why a city
overrun with doctors re*
quires a cemetery, and
why colonials are ever
short of money when loan
offices are as thick in the
metropolis as leaves in
Yallambrosa ” We al-
ways thought it was the
lawyers who stocked the
gaols; the “faculty” who
necessitated a boneyard
In almost every suburb;
and the “ shent-per-
shenters” who fleeced the
people.
All kinds of coloured,
labour are being tried for
the purpose nf helping
the Queenslanders. Wbite
men were never meant
for field-work beneath a
tropical sun, and can
never get acclimatised to
what the coloured skin
can well withstand. The
kanakas were tried as a
substitute for the Chink-
les, who were found to
prefer labouring on their
own hook to working for
others. Then followed
the importation of the
Cingalese, who were seen
to bs too fragile for the
hard labour required. It
Is now proposed to try
the Javanese, who are of
the Malay breed. The
Javanese are twenty mil-
lions In number, and have
lor many gen eratlons
worked as semi-slaves for
their Outch masters As
all their work is field
work—growing rice, cof-
fee, sugar, maize, pepper,
and spices, they are the
very men wanted, if their
Dutch owners will but
let them go. That's where
the trouble will be found.
There is no Iree-trade al-
lowed with Java. The
Dutch keep it quite
corked up against other
settlers than themselves,
and are not likely to let
their cheap labour go to
increase the wealth of
others.
Interesting to Sydney
“ underg round-engi-
neers.”—" Whoso enter-
eth not by the door into
the sh e e p-f oi d, but
climbeth in some other
way, the same is a thief
and a robber.” These
words of the Old Book
will be, no doubt, sarois-
tlcally applied to a gentle-
man who has “fluted”
himself into the Mel-
bourne City Council One
respected old councillor,
of many years’ standing,
forgot the formality of
renewing his uncontested
seat by putting down his
name, and getting, pro
formd, nominated and
seconded. This lapse on
his part was taken advan-
tage of by an aspiring
lawyer, of Hebrew blood,
who had often, unsuc-
cessfully, contested elec-
tions for a suburban
counclllorsnip. He got
himself proposed and
seconded at the moment
of the election, and eo
secured the seat without
trouble or a penny of ex-
pense. He is in now for
three years, and is one of
the twenty-seven eligible
for election any year as
Mayor. If he falls to get
fourteen votes for that
dignified office, he will
have the satisfaction of
wearing the official knee-
breeches, buckled shoes,
and collarless coat, which
aro so soothing to the
wearer, and aggravating
to the envious.
The cable-drawn
tramcars are just now,
and will be probably for
a long time to come,
quite curios with the
Melburnians. Every
passer-by must needs
turn to look at them, stay
for their passing, and
atop to stare after the
strange - looking things.
Ho visible m i an s of
draught or propulsion It
anywhere apparent. They
look, thus running along,
neither drawn or pushed,
as railway carriages
which haye started on
the line accidentally
without the engine, and
needing to be stopped as
runaways. Few compar-
atively have seen ttellne
constructed, and know
anything of the hidden
machinery buried in the
roadway. The carriages
run eo near to tho ground
—-within a foot of it—that
the “gripper,” in the
centre of the leading car,
which catches the wire
rope running in the nar-
row Inch-wlae opening or
slot between the rails, can
pot be seen from the side-
walks. This running rope
cannot be seen either, or
not easily, by those who
look for it down the cre-
vice. Those who first
saw steam-ships making
way against the wind
without sails were simi-
larly bewildered. The
horses shy at these mys-
teriously -dr a w n car-
riages and the dogs bark
at them. An American,
foreign look about them
adds to their novelty, as
also does the constantly-
clanging bell w*rnlig
other vehicles eff tho
track. Their nearness to
the ground, though con-
venient for passengers
entering or getting out,
is not elevating to the
feelings. The passenger
feels bumbled and mean
at being so low down in
the world, and as loosed
down upon by those pass-
ing on higher- wheeled
ye nicies.
Let us be loyal. This,
as It comes by cable, must
be true, and as it has
■cached us direct from
Osborne, we have got the
bulge on the papers
which chronicle such
items. But they may
copy it from us. We are
generous. Last Monday,
as Her Majesty was leav-
ing the royal kitchen,
alter checking the house-
keeper’s accounts, she
had occasion to pass by
a small pantry. The
yourg gentleman who
cleans the royal cutlery
had just accounted for
the white-handled fork
which wes missing since
the previous weea, and
was locking the goods up
in the knift-box. Turn-
ing, he saw Her Majesty
pasting the dnor, ana,
mistaking her for one of
the maias, called out
sharply, “11001” The
Queen turned, and re-
plied promptly, “Bool’
Bale with fear, when he
discover© 1 bis mistake,
he hastened to mutter
a confused apology, but
Her Majesty relieved his
distress by smiling gra-
ciously, and remarking,
“ Vou at least know the
Queen can say ‘Boo.’”
His error in mistaking
Her Majesty for a maid
was thus toe means of
proving that, even to her
humblest dependants,she
is ever the gracious
though sovereign lady.
It is this sort of thing
which endears Her
Majesty to her people—
this friendly, though dig-
nified, familiarity which
makes the great neart of
the nation throb . [Oh,
go to—Ed. B.]
“That’s a bob-tailed
cat," said the old bush-
man, pensively, as he
turned his quid, and
visited a fly on tne toe
of his boot with a minia-
ture repetition of the
Deluge. “ Yes,” replied
the stockman, “she’s cur-
tailed.” “Curtailed, why
she ain’t tailed at all.”
“ That’s it, my boy—cur-
tailed, cut short.” “ Yes,
almighty short,” said the
0.8 , "that ain’t fair on
the mice, they d’ know
which is the sate end of
her; like enough they
se© that chump end, and
reckon that’s the head,
then they makes a dart
astarn and she shut’s
down on ’em, I had a
bob-tailed dorg when I
was water-drawin’ on the
Cooper. One day a big
carpet-snake swallowed
him. I just looked round
in time to see his future
portion sticking out of
the snake’s jaws. I made
a grab, but there was
nothin' to hold on by,
and he passed away like
tbe last rose of summer.”
“ Very much like that,”
said the stockman; "did
you get him?” “No,”
answeied the 0.8 , as he
absently placed the stock-
man’s knife in one boot,
and a plug of Barret's in
the other, “I tell y’ he
had no tail.” “Gone as
a tale tnat is told,” mused
the stockman. “ Tail tnat
he stole, bed d; he had
no tail what he stole, or
got any other way. I
never see such a cov© for
moonin’ as you are. Lend
us yer knite.” “It’s
there somewhere, Bill.”
“I can’t see It; never
mind, I think we ll have
rain soon, my corns is
givin’ me pepper”—and
the old busnman hobbled
away to hide the knife in
a hollow log.
The miner who in
N.S. W. applies for alease
of any portion of aur-
iferous or other “ifer-
ous ” country, is required
to specify the number of
men he Intends to employ
theron. The pastoral
lessee, with his thousands
ot acres, is not so obli-
gated. That is because
the mining interest is not
represented in the col-
lected wisdom of the
nation as assembled in
Macquarie-street. That
is wny the squatter is
rich, and the miner is
poor. The largest areas
of pastoral holdings sel-
dom give employment
to more than two whites,
two yellows, and darkies
ad lib, these latter cost
nothing per annum, and
“ find themselves.” it is
a glorious thing to be a
squatter—s o m etlmes.
Over on the Victorian
side tha;e is a squatter
who owns racenorses.
Fast, too, some of them.
He trains them on differ-
ent principles to those
followed by Monaghan
Early In the morning he
has them brought up to
the yard, then they are
wheeled round and the
dogs “ sooled ” on. They
get an hour of this sort
of thing. Then the saddle
Is put on, and the boys
take them round the
course, half speed, for
half an hour, finishing
twice round at top pace.
There is no doubt about
their fitness, when they
face the flag they could
go for a man’s life. He
races for pure sport,
never betting a shilling.
Once, at a little country
meeting, he swept the
hoard, won every race.
The secretary asked him
to donate something for
a Consolation Stakes,
After some consideration
he consented, and gave a
pair of bullock-bells.
Then he entered one of
his horses, which had
been sent to keep the
course clear for a pad-
dock companion, and
won the bells. Tbatmaq
will not die poor.
An Australian Temparanca Sermon.—A Symphony by Whistler.
and lost the
last faĺ
Who at
last arranged
a match
with the
Rum 'un,
ThiS, If You Like, is
The World's
Champion
Wrestler,


Never Travel Without It.
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS
ALL NOXIOUS INSECTS
FLEAS,FLIES. BEETLES MOSQUITOES
AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOGS
FOWLS OR OTHER
ANIMALS
SOLD
PVUPWAROS
AND STOREKEEPERS!I
v WHOLESALE
FELTON-GRIM WADE. V.C?
- MELBOURNE -
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
Giticura
Wanted in Every House.
Wanted in Every House.
Disfiguring humors, Humiliating Erup- i
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures, 1
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching, a
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi- J
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with i
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by .
Cdticura Resolvent, the new Blood Punher,
internally, and Cuticitba and Cutic-ura Soap, the t
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally. ]
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases, J
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with CtmcURA Soap and a single application of
Cdticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated 1
daily, with three doses of Cdticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians ; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cdticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.
Australian Consignees,
B. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fler, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
md Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Dicers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, 1s
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, V.S.A.
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THB
AMERICAN CARRIAGE A MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MAROARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Blackboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Horchant A Importsr,
8S & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, and CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. Q. C. CHALMBRS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
IMS, HARDWARE, ail IB HIS,
Importers of
SING, and WINDING PliAlyT, finrs,
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, &o.
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED OORRU
GAT — '
IKO
GATED and PLAIN
iN
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSH WARE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACKB
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
([fop It*
£
TEAM and
spi:; pumps
alm
PORTABLE, FIXED
and SEMI-FIXED BN-
GINBB
VERTICAL and HORI-
ZONTAL BOILERS
other
PLANING,
SCREW-
BBftCUi ING, and DRILLING
LATHES,
SHAPING,
vi i nuu xj
MACHINES
STEAM HAMMERS
BNGINEBBS’ BRASS
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLL]
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, Ac.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
Head Warehouse -
Iron anl Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Offloa •
- 54 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR,
SYDNEY:
-6& gracachurch straw.
CHAS. OTTE & GO.,
Electrical Engineers,
113 Pitt Street.
Electric Batteries for surgical and household use, Electric Bells,
Private Telephones, Electric Lights, Lightning Conductors, Dyna-
mos, and all Electrical appliances fitted at the shortest notice, at
25 per cent, under usual price.
CHAS. OTTE & CO., 113 Pitt Street
CONQUEROR
YANKEE DOODLE
TWIST & PLUG
_ m . possess the largest Factory, Manufacture more
DIXSON & SOUS, Sydney, Tobacco, and consume more American Leaf,
Sir Roger. Champion, and Dixson’B Cut Tobaccos.
HHZ&XIOOIiX
HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Railway Bates).
STEPHEN HOPKINS (Late of Vagga Wagga), Proprietor.
yy especial accommodation for country visitors.
POST FREE FOR la. STAMPS.
Social Science.
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders, Chronic
Diseases, Impediments to Marriage, &c„ How to
choose a partner for life so as to jive happy. How
to Retrain and Preserve your Health, Ac.
Address-B. T. SELIi ?, M.H., Devonshire-street.
Surry Hills, Sydney.
ANHOOD.RESTOREDI
A Clergyman having tried every known remedy
a NERVOUS EXHAUS
TION. PREMATURE DECAY, &c., las si
last discovered a simple SELF-CURE, wmch, for
the sake of suffering humanity, he will send r Kto
Ike Prescription which CURED him. Address!
with self-addressed stamped envelope—
JOrTIS. a. ChARSE, P.O. Box rn. Sydney.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses flay that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and B.'Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge; Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTERFIELD. Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Street, Uedferu.
OrIoSS


W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON and SYDNEY.
Catalogues Catalogues
POST FREE.
W. WALKER
and SONS
are one of tbe
Largest
Stockholders
and
Manvjatiurtrt
&
Hi|h-elau
FURNITURE
ENGLAND.
POST FREE.
ALL STOCK
in their
'SYDNEY
HOURS
Supplied
DIRECT
from their
Loudon
Manufactory
and Latest
London Stylos
Guaranibid
SYDNEY BRANCH:
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ If you are suffering from poor health
‘or languishing on a bed of sickness,
‘take cheer, for American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will cure yon.
“If you are simply ailing, if you feel
‘weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘ knowing why, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will Revive yon.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
‘ taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘ and work, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will Restore yon.
“If you are a man of business or
‘ labourer weakened by the strain of
* your every-day duties, or a man of let-
* ters, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghten yon.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ or drinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
‘ pation, or are young and growing too
* fast, as is often the case, Am. Co.’s
Hop Bitters will relieve yon.
“ If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
‘ that your system needs cleansing, ton-
* ing, or stimulating, without intoxicat-
' ing, American Co.’s •
Hop Bitters is what yon need.
“If you are old, and your blood thin
* and imrmre, pulse feeble, your nerves
‘unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Am. Hop Bitters will give yon new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS, as made by the Ame-
‘ rican Co., is an elegant, healthy, and
‘ refreshing flavouring for sick-room
‘ drinks, impure water, etc., rendering
‘them harmless, and sweetening the
‘ mouth, and cleansing the stomach.”
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in
bottle. Shun all others as vile poisonous stuff.
THE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital £lOO,OOO.
Head Office : Melbourne.
New South Wales Branch : 171 Castlereagh-street.
Victorian Directors:
John L. Dow, Esq., M.P.,
Chairman
Hon. J. F. Levlen, M.P.
Thomas Learmonth, Esq.
N. S. Wales Directors:
Andrew Town, J.P., Esq.
Frank Cowley, Esq.
George 8. Yeo, Esq.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs Insured
against death from Accident, Disease, or Natural
Causes on land, rail, or at sea.
Marine Risks on Stock covering mortality or on
Merchandise accepted.
The only Live Stock Insurance Society In the
olonles.
Full particulars can be obtained from the under-
signed.
Active Agents wanted where unrepresented.
A. J. WILKINSON, Branch Manager.
Office, 171 Oastlereagh-street.
Eau db oolognb,
4711 4711.
Bstabllshed 1792.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1878; Prize Medal, Vienna, 1878
This Eau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 35 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for its superior sweetness, strength,
and Invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
petitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the Slite of
Europe.
The large and oongtantly increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Bf.u de Cologne, not only in
Europe, but also in North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number —4711 changed into 7411, 1147, 4117, &0., &o.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTH BBS, Pltt-
stmet, Sydney.
To be had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
end Storekeepers, In town and country.
SOLE IMPORTER OP
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 FITT STREET.
SOLE AGENT EUR THfi
SMITH ORGAN.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 FITT STREET
inwiwwiiir
mm
m
fiquKtfi
Depot for tie World’s Patented Articles
GEORGE ST., Opp. Wynyard St.
7 AMERICAN
NOVELTY CO.
FANCY GOODS
NOVELTIES
L'u
Bring your Wife and Children with you.
Nobody pressed to buy.
WANTED a number of Gentlemen who will have their
heads shaved as above, and guarantee to attend all
meetings and side-walk gatherings. SALARY LIBERAL.
TICTy DT?)IT)T rTMEWT for mending China, Glass,
Uofi rMtIL IMlMll Wood, &c., and everything
but Iron. Is. Bottle.
No more pain after one
application. Don’t be
afraid to use it freely. Nc trouble to the Teeth. Is. Bottle.
TOOTHACHE TINCTURE.-
Over four thousand, physicians have testi-
fied to the purity and excellence of Wo life's
Schnapps.
Keep the kidnejs healthy and unob-
structed with American Co ’a Hop Bitteis and you
need not fear sickness. Head
Wot.fji’s SCHNAPPS ia now Australia’s most
popular health beveratfe. Ask for Woehß’s and
accept no other.
OFFORD & CO.’S HATS
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
Next to Eoyal Hotel, and at 652 George Street.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW* AND ARIELL’S
EISCUIIS BUD CUBES, TREACLE BID BOLEEH SYRUP,
Self-raising AErated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
aor- FOE SUPERIOEITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE,
Q, & A. have obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney 1.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4,
Sydney Agents: W. H. ARIELL A CO., 343 and 348 Rent-street.
There is one fire-eating publican in Vic-
toria, anyhow, who is prepared to defend the
trade, not only with his pen, but, if need be, with
his sword. It appears that an opponent of com-
pensation to dispossessed hotelkeepers (they have
to be dispossessed first, but that :s merely a ques-
tion of detail) wrote to the Ballarat Star lately in
terms of disparagement regarding publicans in
general. Immediately, this particular publican
threw his gauntlet down in the columns of the
same paper. He is a Frenchman, and he says,
very justly, “Were such an Insult delivered at
homo, the sequel to It would be an inevitable
calamity either for the insulting or the insulted
man.” We have sinco heaid i hat the gallant Gaul
has been practising with his pistol down in his
cellar till he can knock the neck oil' a bottle at HO
paces without spilling a drop of the contents. The
temperance champion appears to have hoard so,
100, for we are also told—upon the authority of a
traveller for a brewery who has just returned
from Ballarat—that he escaped from the city a few
nights ago hidden in an empty water-cask.
In the Wylly will case at Melbourne, two
wills were brought forward as made by a com-
positor who died worth some seven or eight thou-
sand pounds. Mr. Noel Conwav, the new graphl-
ologlst, was examined as a writing expert. He
wholly condemned the second will brought for-
ward, and said it was all In the handwriting of the
deceased's brother-in-law, who produced It, ?nd
claimed under It. The other witness to It can tbe
found, nor can the woman "Ada,” who, the
brother in- law states, anonymously sent it to him.
Mr. Conway, who says his real name Is Charles
Fendelow, proves ibis anonymous note of
“Ada’s ”to be no woman’s writing. The lawyers
producing the first will, “got at” Boulton, the
brother-in-law, in a curious way. In somo other
matter he had to receive payment of money from
them. They got him to write the receipt in full,
and thus a specimen of his real writing was got
from him. This, when compared with the second
will, which he produces, smashed his case. The
court has given Judgment against the mysterious
second will. The compositor’s housekeeper takes
therefore all tho money.
Quite recently, at one of the Sydney sub-
urban police courts, a man and his wile were
qharged with having stolen a quantity of jewel'ery;
there was no evidence to Implicate either of the
prisoners in the actual robbery, beyond the fact
that the female pi isoner was recognised as having
pawned many of the trinkets, and the pawn-
tickets were found at the husband's lodgings.
The hu&band wms defended by lawyer F , and ihe
wife by lawyer G. The last named had the first
show, and confidently appesled for a dismissal, as
far as his client was concerned: “ Even on the as-
sumption that the man was the thief,” said he, “ I
contend that the wife was only carrying out his
behests, the which as a wife, the was bound to do,”
Lawyer F. was equally as positive on behalf of the
husband. “ Assuming,” said he, “that the trinkets
were stolen, and were pawned by the wife, In what
way can the man bo said to be Implicated? is a
man to be held responsible for the criminal actions
of bis wife? ” The stipendiary remarked that he
concurred with both: "On the assumption that
the man was the thief, I shall commit him for trial,
and, assuming that the woman must be h6ld re-
sponsible for ner own actions, I shall commit her
also.” And he did.
“BUST UP.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was jolly enough while It lasted—
One dream of sweet, varied delight;
As the Joys of the Present I tasted,
The Future I shut from my sight;
They toasted and toadied and flattered
The man whom for “ tenners ” they *’ stuck ”
And here I am, ragged and tattered,
Atoiling along with a truck.
Oh, to think of the “ fizz ” I set flowing
For fellows who smoked my cigars,
In the days when I thought it was “ knowing ”
To flirt with the girls at tne bars.
The price of a pint now I'd jump at,
For one who is down on his luck
Must wet his poor whistle the pumn at
As he staggers along with a truck.
I know it is useless repining—
’Gainst fortune we cannot appeal;
I’d much prefer dining to whining,
But who will provide me a meal ?
I sailed down the river of Pleasure
Till the rock of Misfortune I struck,
And now I can curse at my leisure
The labour of wheeling a truck.
Life is a race, and the prizes
Are not always won by the fleet;
*Tls full of upsets and surprises,
And the favourites often get beat.
I was up in the van for a minute,
But soon dropped far back in ths ruck—
A cove that can’t stay isn’t in it;
Here, give us a hand with this truck.


A BOON TO THOUSANDS!
Manhood and Vigour of Youth
Restored in hour Weeks.^
I
DR. RICORDS
h
ESSENCE OF LIFE
Rutorti manhood to the most shattered and debilitated CM
hindrance from business.
This invaluable remedy affords relief, and permanently
sores all who suffer wasting and withering of the nerves and
ssescuiar tissues, Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, Disturbed
Sleep, Trembling Sensations, Dirtiness, Spermatorrhoea, all
Urinary Deposits, which cause incapacity and degeneracy,
total and partial prostration, and every other exhaustive de-
rangement of the system ; regenerating all the important
elements of the human frame, and enabling man to fulfil his
most sacred obligations.
In cases at ns., or four quantities in for j6s.; If hf
coach, as. td. extra.
NATURE’S GREAT REMEDY I
DR. RICORD S
SANATIVE PILLS
For strengthening the system, purifying the blood, regulation
the bowels, and removing all vitiated humours, bilious and
Liver Complaints, Rheumatism, Gout, Scorbutic Affections,
Cestiveness, Skin Eruptions, and all diseases of the nervous
system. This never-flailing remedy affords at once a new
lease of life to the sickly and aged of both sexes, imparting
a beautiful and clear complexion, n sure sign of health,
strength, and vigour. Price, as. shy post, ad. extra.
AGENT* FOE SYDNEY I
Messrs. W.BARCLAY & CO.,
. 43 GO VLB VRJF STREET,
Omb Dook mom Oaojtax Stxbbt South,
And may be had of moat Chemists. ?
Parcels packet! securely anti free frent else r vat fen, sent te
Queensland, New or Australian
Colonies, on receipt of Nest Office Or
ttamps.
NERVOUS DEBILITY,
Lost Vitality, See.—A simple ami positive
means of Self-Cure, by an eminent
French Hospital Physician. Sent Free
Medico, P.O. Box 760. Sydney.
nst
r//£
CIEHCB
or
life
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses may be
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur-
chase and read the new work issued by the World's Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
or Self Preservation. A book for every man, young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whoso experience for
20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
anyphysician. 300 pages, bound in beautiful French cloth,
full gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will be refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author hy the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
The Science of Life should be read by the young for
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all. —London Lancet.
Address the World’s Dispensary Medical As-
sociation, or Dr; W, R. Parker, No. 69 Hunter
Street,Sydney,N.S.W. Theauthormay TUVOCI I
be consulted on all diseases requiring | || I vtLI
skill, secrecy, and experience.
m
MOULTON’S
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON’S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we nay. There are no failures and no
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cur?
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be. .
Mold Everywhere, In. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietorl
PILLS
Marshalls
TONit NERVINE
TRADE MAHK-“ TONIC NERVINE.”
Aoxiifit, OJoiKTALN, & SPEEDY OUKlsror Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss ol
Appetite, Female Disorders, Llvtr and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
&c. By its tonic and soothing effects It at onoe
removes ail craving for Alcohol. By Its richness
In phosphorous and other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives vigour to the whole system.
Price, 4s. fld., or S6O. a case Sold everywhere.
Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS, Registered
Chemists, 10* and 106 Market-street, near Hyat
P*»k, Sydney, and 5 Pltt-street.. ’Giron l*v-ouaT.
NJ3?-All imitations Illegal. TAKS NO 6UBSTI.
0 A U T lON
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO THE PUBLIC.
In consequence of an attempt to substitute In-
ferior and spurious articles for “Dr. Scott’s Elec-
tric,” the Pall Mall Electric Association, 54, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, desire to caution the public
against purchasing any counterfeit of the follow-
ing goods “ Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets, Dr.
Scott’s Electric Belts, Dr. scott’s Electric Hair,
Flesh, or Tooth Brushes, Dr. Scott’s Galvanic
Generators, and Dr. Scott’s Electric Insoles ’
Every genuine article bears the word “ Electric”
and the name of Dr. Scott, as also does the box
containing same. The extent of our trade, and the
marked appreciation of the public having induced
certain parties to manufacture a line of worthless
goods, having something of the general form and
external appearance of ours, and variously styled
“ Magneto-Electric or Electric Magnetic,’
we respectfully ask that parties who have been
influenced by the many testimonials we publish,
all of which are strictly genuine, or the universal
reputation of our goods, to give electricity a
trial, will see that the name of Dr. Scott and the
word “ Electric” appear on every article purchased.
In addition to this, we have recently registered a
new trade mark—an oval label with our local
address, “ Pall Mall Electric Association, 54, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, N.S.W,” in marginal lines,
encircling the device of a mailed hand holding a
group of thunderbolts.
%
SJ.
$
$
X
As We are the only parties in Australia importing
these goods direct from Dr. Scott, and are prepared
to guarantee the genuineness of every article
bearing this label, we advise purchasers to see
personally that this trade mark Invariably appears
on any and every Electric Corset, Belt, Insole,
Generator, Hair, Flesh, or Tooth Brush, they may
desire to purchase. This borne in mind, much
vexation and disappointment will be saved; and
we respectfully request that any person who has
been induced to buy any of those imitations under
the impression that they were Dr. Scott's Electric,
will at once communicate with us.
Dr. Scott's Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by; he
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continenta
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them *
trial?
&
lit
I
m
m
B
Dr. Scott’s Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Spinul Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Jebility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &0., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all other remedies (so-
called) have failed.
The prices are as follows
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electric-Magnetic
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece ©f common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque,
P. 0.0., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
URO BUD,
54 llargarat-straet,
SYDNEY,
P.O. Box 831.
w
5U
.
'VS.
--
m
■' ■ ? ", •
ss
'E-’
WAREHOUSES. SYDNEY.
Tin New Zealand Loan ui Mercantile Agency Company
(LIMITED',
HEAD OFFICE
LONDON.
Capital - - £3,500,000.
THIS COMPANY WILL CONTINUE TO DISPLAY AND SELL
WOOL!
ON THE MELBOURNE SYSTEM,
JLt their Magnificent Warehouses,
BBIDG-S STEEET,
SYDNEY.
~™^r„? VKRY LOT WILL BB CAREFULLY VALUED, AND SPECIAL ATTENTION WILL RE
BESTOWED UPON SMALL FARMERS’ PARCELS, WHICH WILL UK PLACED ON A TOOTING
OF EQUALITY WITH THE LARGE CLIPS. uuiihu
If reserves are not reached, the nominal charge of one shilling per hale only will be made.
WOOL SALES, EVERY TUESDAY.* SHEEPSKINS AND HIDES, EVERY FRIDAY.
Way Bills and all information can be obtained on application, or will be sent by return of post.
H. H. LANG, Produce Manager.
Sydney Wool and Grain Warehouses.
/
W
\\
— -■
m
s-
r
fy\
w
A\\
NEW AND INGENIOUS READY-ACTING DOG-TAIL AND CAMERA ATTACHMENT. FO
TOURISTS.
A patent Is now pending by the Inventors.
. They dal, m the dog’s tell and the Instantaneous shutter, also the combination of the shutter and
dog s. tall, also the whole dog, and the general application, In the manner substantially and for
the purpose described.
ray <Sc. U ichtner,
32 O’Conaell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
Complete Photographic Outfits, in great variety, from £3. Catalogues post free.
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOQRAPHY.
SOLE AGENTS for BAKER’S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID In the Market#
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies.
t
Caterer and Confectioner,
654 GEORGE STREET.
WEDDINGS, BALLS, PICNICS, AND PARTIES A SPECIALITY.


THE MELBOURNE CUP WINNER.
Sheet Anchor, who, by passing the judge first
gratified few and disappointed many, is a fine
upstanding aged brown horse, by St. Albans out
of Queen Mary, and owned by Mr. M. Longhlin.of
Ballarat, whose colours are white, green stripes
and scarlet cap. Ho has been engaged in many
contests, and at times has been highly popular
amongst the public, but this year’s Cup was his
first great win. At three years, in Tasmania, he
was second in the Garrick Plate, two miles and a
distance, with 7at. 9.b , being beaten by Stookdale,
carrying the same weight. At the same age he
was nowhere in the Launceston Cup, one mile and
three-quarters, with 6st. 91b., and was in a similar
position in the Turf Club Handicap in the same
year. Improving in his fourth year, Sheet Anchor
Vas second in the Campania Plate (one and three*
quarter miles), won by Barb; third in the Laun-
ceston Cup (one and three-quarter miles), won by
Rhesus; at Hobart he was nowhere in the Hobart
Cup (one and three quarter miles), won by The
Assyrian; second In the Consolation Stakes (one
mile), won by Don Quixote; at Deloraine he was
second in the Handicap (one and three-quarter
miles), won by Pride of the Hills; and second in
the Flying Handicap (three-quarters of a mile),
won by Bonnie Scotland. At five years he was
Still in Tasmania, and there was third in the Cole-
brook Plat'?, won by First Light. At Hobart he
was nowhere in the Hobart Cup, one mile and
three-quarters, won by King of the Vale; second
in Goodwood stake, won by Queen; won the Pre-
sident's Cup and Free Handicap at the same meet-
ing; won the Launceston Cup, beating King of
the Vale and Blink Bonny; was nowhere in the
T.G. Handicap, won by Hobart; third in the Birth-
day Cup, won by Blink Bonny; won the El wick
Handicap, one mile and a quaiter, beating Prodigal
and Queen. In the V.K.C. Autumn meeting, belcg
six years old, he was third in the Newmarket Han-
dicap, won by Coronet; second in the Australian
Cup, two miles and a quarter, won by Kiogwood.
At Kandwlck, in the Autumn, he was nowhere in
the Doncaster Handicap, one mile, won by or.
Lawrence; nowhere in the Sydney Cup won by
Norman by: nowhere in the City Handicap, one
mile and a half, won by Merlin; nowhere in the
Place Handicap, won by Moonshee. At Flemlng-
ton Winter meeting, he was nowhere in the Grand
National Hurdles, three miles, won by The Agent,
and at the Spring Meeting, 1885, he astonished all
but his backers by winning tne Melbourne cup,
eclipsing all previous performances, and beating
the record for time. In Sheet Anchor we have an
illustration of what stamina can accomplish , as
with horses so with the human family. A man
or womau with a good inherited constitution wid,
nine flows out of ten, pull through a cfisls. pro-
viding the proper aid ba at hand. In Warners
safe cure we have the aid—the sheet anchor—
which enables the afflicted one to ride out the
storm of sickness, and make the harbor of per
manent health in safety. It is no new thing, it
has been tried and proved in thousands of cases,
and stands to-day an exultant winner among a
field of discouraged competitors. _
Printed and Published by In jew#-
i gipii Qg, 'Limited). N rltt-*t.. Sydney, HAWf
Blotches Cured —Inexpressible Joy.
I used your Cuticuha Remedies for blotches, and
am completely cured, to my inexpressible Joy.
Cuticctra Soap is the best I have overused, and to
the proteslou it Is Invaluable for cleansing the skin,
thereby removing all “ oork t ”greise, paint, and all
the stuff used by them, leaving the skin pure and
white and soft. My greatlsc pleasure is In recom-
mending such an article. H. MACK, Champion
Comique Roller Skater, Youngstone, Ohio.
Among tonics with an alcoholic basis
Wolfe’s Schnapps holds the foremost place, and
is besides a good medicine.
At the change of life nothing equals
American Co.’s Hop Bitters to allay all troubles in-
cident thereto. See
Wolfe’s Schnapps. Be sure you obtain
Wolfe,s Schnapps as it is the only genuine
Schnapps.
MaoLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 Qeorge-street
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &o.*
Persons who suffer from sleeplessness
should use Wolfe’s Schnapps and they would
sleep well. .
Woman Items
A pledge of love—Pawning the engage-
ment ring.
The ugliest face I ever saw was that of a
woman whom the world calls beautiful. Through
Its - silver veil ” the evil and ungentle passions
looked out hideous and hateful.— Whittier.
He was the friend of the family, and he
had presented the two little daughters with a
lovely pair of ringdoves “Dear me, said the
fair mother, “ I never can remember the name of
those birds. What are they 7” "I know, mammy,
answered Ithurus (rising three). Dey 8 . ri R?"
worms.” And then they all went down to the
chemist’s shop and had drinks round.
A young woman of Ballarat named Matilda
Smith is likely to get into gaol for throwing oil of
vitriol on one Samuel Poole. Thus Is a sagacious
action, commended by the Scriptures, made a
cause of offence by an ignorant or irreverent
Bench.—
And now this poor Matilda Smith
Finds Scripture wisdom but a myth;
Finds she has been a fool
For following the text w Ith toll:
No more will she, you bet, throw oil
Upon a troubled Poole.
In Sydney Divorce Court, Elizabeth
M'Keohnie denied the authenticity of a confession
which her husband alleged she had written; where-
upon Judge Windeyer, to test her credibility,
asked her to write the words “ I have been guilty
of a very cruel action of adultery. She did so.
The judge then, after examining the writing,
asked her how It was that the word action had
been spelt “ axion” both in the few words she had
just written and In tho alleged confession. Oul
calmly quoth 811/.a. “ I’ve made a mistake; I
should have spelt it * axclon.’ ’
Tombstones are not often deliberately
selected as media for jokes, though we have seen
Inscriptions (upon the tombstones of certain de-
parted friends of ours) which, though written In
solemn earnest, were, when read with a full know-
ledge of the character of the deceased saint, fun-
nier than anything In the Protestant Standard
or In the Guilds’ addresses to Kyardmal Moran. A
tombstone may be seen In a cemetery near Hobart,
erected by a man la memory of his wife (Who com-
mitted suicide by severing her jugular with a
razor), inscribed thus:—
“ She was—words fail to say what;
Think what a wife should be—she was that.
Imagine suicide being part of a wife’s duty I
Feminine education is progressing. Miss
Elphlnstone Dick has been glvmg a ' Girls
Gymnastic Display, at Melbourne Town Had. Miss
Dick Is principal of a Ladles Gymnasium in
Colllns-street, and also a teacher of swimming at
St. Kllda Baths. To such accomplishments, as have
been hitherto taught by her she now adds fencing,
as learned by her from Professor Aubert. It may
be handy for a woman certainly to know single-
stick exercise, when we remember that It Is a
popular belief that a husband may thrash his wife
with a stick no thicker than his finger, but sword
exercise savours of the Amazons only. Miss Dick
is personally the plumpest of womankind, and
looks as if her exercises have developed muscle
and tissue at the expense of grace of contour.
From Geelong (Vic.) comes a story of a
younß lady who now commands the resceot, If
not the adoration, of the young men of that giddy
town. If you knew what scarcasm lies hidden In
that adjective, you would guffaw In your sleeve.
Many years ago, when we were youog, and danced
merrily down the primrose way, we took a trip to
Geelong to fill ourselves up with the glee which
we had given ourselves to understand had its
native home there. We stood at the window of
our hotel, in Malop-street, and watehel seven
funerals crawl past one after the other. As we
saw the eighth looming darkly In the distance, we
desperately dashed our luggage into our hat,
called one of the few cabs to be found, and bade
the man drive furiously to the station. All the
way there we were planning an elaborately sar-
castic adieu to the driver. When we arrived at
last, we played it off on him. “ Shake hands,” we
said, at the same time brushing away an imaginary
tear with our coat-sleeve. He did, with a dazed
expression. “It Is hard,” wo continued brokenly,
« for old friends to part. We have lived with you
a long time now, and the separation unmans us.
Forgive these tears.” Then we paid him his fare
and overheard him say to a comrade a minute after-
wards, “ Well, Bill, of all the dashed loonatlos I
ever see, that one,” jerking his thumb in our
direction, “ is the dashedest." But to return to tte
young lady. It seems that she was at a public ban
one night not long ago, and danced a good deal
with a certain young man who was aching to be
thought a Lothano, and he, wanting to commence
his career of conquest at onco, subsequently tried
to kiss her in the dark hall-way. She said never a
word, but shutting her lily hand shot it out like a
battering ram and smote him square upon his too
audacious “kisser,” and “the subsequent pro-
ceedings troubled him no more.” He fell down a
cellar-way, and-to quote the local chronicler—
“ besides losing several teeth by contact with
the steps, was plunged into a fresh water bath.”
We admire—who would not ?—the vigorous action
of this young lady, but while we admire, we can-
not help thinking that by it she has utterly ruined
her prospeets of marriage—ln Geelong, at any
rate. What husband would dare come home from
business at two in the morning without bis hat,
knowing that she was waiting for him on the
stairs? None. He would rather freeze in the
woodshed. She will probably emigrate.
“ Dr. Sarah Parker, from America,” has
been “ giving a sociable” at Wollongong. N S.W.,
the Mayor in the chair. Judging from the Illa-
warba Mercury report, Sarah ha« a tongue
which waggeth very freely indeed. Taking for
her text, “ Social Life in the colonies and else-
where : the cause and evil of poverty,” she re-
marked that in all probability it would bs expected
that she would siy some very hard things about
men, and in favour of “ Women’s Kights.” Such
would not be ths case, however. She had nothing
against the men, and, as for women’s rights, there
were no such things. Women, especially in thess
colonies—and in most British countries—had no
rights, and therefore their rights could not be
spoken about by her or anybody ehe. Of wrongs,
women, even in this fair land of Australia, bad
great numbers—they laboured und<*r many dis-
abilities of a most serious nature. For instance, a
woman could not obtain admittance and atten-
dance at the leading hotels in Australia unless she
had a man at her side. She had experienced this
herself more than once in Melbourne, N.Z., and
elsewhere. Why should any woman require to have
a man at her side, in order to bo admitted to hotels
or such other places ? She did not blama the men
for such a state of things. She blamed the women
themselves for being such “tarnation” fools as
to put up with such a state of affairs. Not
long ago she was going to an oyster-saloon to
have supper, after delivering a lecture, but was
told if she did so she would be scouted by all re-
spectable society. This was a pretty state of
affairs, sure enough, that a woman could not go
into an oyster-saloon without losing caste, as it
were! And this kind of thing prevailed In Aus-
tralia, with all itsb lasted freedom! How different
was It in America, which was her adopted country 1
She was sorry she could not call it her native
country, which happened to be Ireland. In Aus-
tralia women were mere drudges—slaving away in
their husbands’ houses all day and all night. After
the trouble of bearing, say half-a-dozen children,
a woman in this colony has to keep them in
order, and, in addition tothat, cook, wash, and do
everything else for her husband. The husband had
good pay, even as a workman, and could go about
and enjoy himself at all kinds of amusements in
the evening, and at different places of public re-
sort in the day time. All this while the poor wife
had to stay at home, without pure air or any re-
laxation whatever. And how little were women
cared for in this country ? Mothers, sisters, grand-
mother, and other female relatives, dependent
upon the man, were allowed to remain unprovided
for and uncared for. She had observed this until
her heart was sick. In India, where she resided
for some time, matters in this respect were very
different. There women, however distantly re-
lated, were carefully and delicately provided for
by their male relatives, and this was how it was
that the Indian Princes, with all their vast in-
comes, never became rich. Their wealth was ex-
pended on their dependent female relatives.
[Sarah is editorially requested to look squarely at
ner subject and deal comprehensively with the
mother-in-law question; also to say whether the
neglect of men to spend a lot of money on their
own comparatively uninteresting female relatives
isn’t fully compensated for by the “awful deal”
they spend on the female relatives of other
fellows.— Ed. U.] In Australia, in England, or
any other British community, with their
boasted Christianity and Christian instltut.ons,
such dependent women would be cast off and
allowed to starve. The Indians, though van-
quished by the British, were a far superior people
to their conquerors. They could, and did, study
the laws of nature most profoundly. In India a
mother could tell what was the matter with her
sick child, and could prescribe the requisite medi-
cine to cure it. [And yet, Sarah, we have fashion-
able old maids collecting in Australia for Zenana
missions, and so on.—Ed, B ] The Indians under-
stood a deal of what her audience that evening
would call soul. In regard to women, however, as
a proper treatment of them, India was far before
Australia, England, or any other British country.
Even in Algeria, where she (Ur. Sarah Parker) had
spent a year among the Mahommedans, women
were treated with far greater care, consideration,
and tenderness than in England or Australia. In
France, also, women fared far bettor than either
here or in the old country. There the Frenchman,
on going home to his wife and dwelling, helped to
prepare the required meal or do any other work
about the house. [Joy.— Ed, B.] There were
children there also, but not so many as in these
colonies for instance. French women were not such
Idiots la that respect as British women. After
the Frenchman and his wife had partaken of
the jointly-prepared meal, both went out together
to enjoy themselves. How different was it In
these colonies. The woman had to do all the
housework, and her husband had all the fresh air,
relaxation, and amusement to himself. What she
(Dr. Sarah Parker) wanted, was lo raise the Aus-
tralian women to an equality with their brothers,
sweethearts, and husbands. Now, men went to
the public-house in the evening, and got besotted
there with drink and debauchery. Why should
the woman remain at home while all this was
taking place; or, rather, why should not his wife
be the constant companion of the man, to prevent
him from sinking to such degradation ? In politics
she (Dr. Barah Parker) was an out and out Demo-
crat. These colonies would never be wnat they
ought until fraefrom England, English Governors,
and the English aristocracy and snoboeracy, alto-
gether. Tne matter of their rights lay with
women themselves. They should demand them,
and have them to the full extent without delay.
Far more social Intercourse was required among
the men and women ot these colonies. In America
social hotel life obtained to a large extent. Instead
of wives being isolated in private bouses, as was
the practice here. Scores of families lived in one
hotel having provision tor such a purpose. In-
stead, therefore, of those different families having
different housej to maintain, the one cooking,
washing. &0., did for all. Then thtra was enjoy-
able Intercourse between the inhabitants of
several such adj acent hotels. Bands at the cost of
the State played for amusement on the lawn, and
altogether life was made enjoyable, especially to
the women.-[Humph I—Bl. B ] -This was the kind
of social life sue desired tj see in Australia, and she
hoped it would prevail before long. At the close of
her remarks. Dr. Sarah Parker Invited any person
present to debate with her any point she had
touched In course of her addresi. But nobody was
game.
The Melbourne Age— in a leading article,
too —gravely alludes to “the halcyon period pre-
figured by the poet:—
‘ When the war-drum thrums no longer, and the
battle-flag is furled, . .
In the parliament of man, the federation of the
world.’ ”
Tennyson has had to put up with a good jnany
hard words of late, but what has he done to the
Age that it should put this insult upon him in his
old age ? He once wrote a poem, known to every-
body who has read anything worth reading, called
“ Locksley Hall,” in which occur the lines:—
11 When the war-drums throb no longer, and the
battle-flags are furled, , , , ..
In the parliament of man, the federation of the
world.”
There is something like congruity here, but in the
other—which is not a mere slip of the pen, eitner,
lor the shocking word “thrummed” is repeated
in the prose that follows—there is only malignant
imbecility. Nothing “ thrums ” or is “ thrummed
but a Jew’s harp. “The war-drum thrumsl
Pooh!
Maurice Weston, of Hobart (writes our
sprightly correspondent, “ Kurrajong ”), is enlist-
ing sympathy and compassion on behalf of the
prisoners sojourning in H.M. gaol in that city.
A sad case. They are insufficiently supplied with
flowers. No jardiniere brightens the felon’s cell,
no dsiitlly-arranged epergne adorns his dinner-
table—not even is there a “ button-hole ” for each
man's coat on Sunday. Obtaining permission
from Mr. Quodliog, Governor of the Gaol (singu-
larly appropriate name—Quodling), Mr. Weston
made arrangements for supplying the deficiency.
Addressing a Sunday-school of 400 children, he
requested each child to bring a vase containing a
bouquet, to be presented to the aforesaid
prisoners. However, only 40 vases turned up,
which, with innumerable bouquets, were duly
forwarded to the gentlemen in “ quod.” How re-
ceived, the chronicle sayeth not. From floral re-
form to diet may be the next step. But on the
first attempt to Introduce pate de foie gras and
guava jelly, the 11 powers that be ” must interfere,
or the present ocoupants would be uncomfortably
crowded by the would-be participants in these
favours.
A fisherman freely addressed as “ German
Bill ” by his intimates found a 30-foot shark lash-
ing himself to death on a sand-spit in the Wade
River (N.Z.), lately. The Teutonic intellect slowly
grasped the idea of a show at a shilling a head, in
which the chief exhibit should be—to quote the
quaint and novel phrase of the reporters—" his
sharkship.” Bill accordingly went round among
the neighbours trying to get them to go shares
with him in the shark and have it conveyed to
Auckland. He spent a week In vanity and vexa-
tion of spirit at this game, and then went down to
Auckland himself—or rather to Devonport, which
was nearer—and laid the case before a couple of
gentlemen widely famed throughout that district
for their enterprise. "But it is too late,” they
said. "Why?” asked the perplexed Teuton.
" Because the shark lifts up Its smell on high by
this time,” they replied in the figurative language
characteristic of men of a speculative turn of
mind. This was too much for Bill. “ Ach, mein
Gott,” he said, "so mooch de petter, de beeple vlll
not sday so long—dey vill go avay and make room
for de oders.” But, by the time he got back to the
Wade River the thrifty settlers down there had
nearly finished building a school-house and a lock-
up out of the odour of Bill’s intended exhibit. He
is now a taciturn and gloomy man with no faith
In human nature.
A cure for the drink evil has been found
at last. The credit for this Important discovery
rests with Mr. R, T. Booth, and, like all really
great Inventions, it is simplicity itself. Fathers
must give up drinking. " The new system,” says
Mr. 8., "is to educate the young in temperance.
He is a selfish man who cannot learn to abstain
for the sake of his son.” Qnlte so. Considering
the inconveniences men ordinarily suffer for the
sake of their offspring, the little trills of “ swear-
ing off ”is hardly worthy of consideration. To
such as already have their quiver full the new
doctrine may seem a trills harder, but those who
have not yet tasted wedded joys will know ex-
actly what to do. They must either give up
whisky and sola—or sons. And, after all, what is
the fleeting delirium of a drink compared with the
lasting pleasures of paternity ?
Another lunatic has escaped from the
Kew Asylum (neat Melbourne). The Melbourne
evening paper. In commenting on this fact, says,
that“oa a previous occasion a lunatic, taken to
view the Cup race, escaped, and was not re-
captured for over 18 months.” Probably he was
the tipster whose blood we thirsted for after the
succeeding Cup race. But, looking at the matter
calmly, we cannot help thinking that the man
who contrived to appear sane enough to keep him-
self out of the clutches of the Asylum authorities
for eighteen months, might have been allowed to
remain outside of the Asylum for the rest of his
life. Other instances of the escapes of inmates from
Kew and Yarra Bend, and their liberty for long
afterwards, makes us Inclined to speculate upon
the possibility that they are just as safe as those
who put them in. If the maxim that intelligence
and the highest sense is to be found with minori-
ties is true, then it is we, outside of the walls of
asylums, who are mad. But consider this thing for
a moment. The earth is now six thousand, or
six million years old—according as your views are
theological or geological—and during every year
of that time the multitudinous races on its sur-
face have been actively engaged in helping the
Dark Fate in the background by pitching each
other down the pits of Death and Oblivion. Not a
year has passed without the madness of Man
breaking out in some corner of tho earth. Civili-
sation has done little to prevent the recurrence o
wars. It has male them less frequent, perhaps,
but only to make them deadlier and more destruc-
tive. Two mighty empires are ready to lly at each
other and get drunk on each other’s blood—for
what? For the sake of some imaginary line in a
country remote from either of them being drawn
a few miles this way or a few miles that. But it
will be said that this matter is vitally important to
one of them at least. There is madness in tho
phrase. Nothing is vitally important to the units
of humanity but life. It Is lunacy—dignified by
tho name of patriotism—that stretches them out in
thousands, stark and bloody, on desolate battle-
fields. This is not all. Look around at every
thing that men do—their neglect of to-day, while
they struggle for to-morrow, their senseless hopes f
their groundless fears, i their self-made misery—
and say if a dim-defined but appalling conclusion
does not stare you in the face. What conclusion ?
It has struck us often enough, and it is that this
earth is the great madhouse of the universe. Let
us therefore jingle our cips and bells amicably
together, not jeering at the straight jackets of our
neighbours, while we strive to hide our own fet-
ters, and clank along the road of Llfo as merrily
as we may, till we come to the goal where the wise
and the foolish are one. LWe have had his head
shaved and shampooed, and have done all we can
for him. He Is getting calmer, but still insists he
is a whisky cask that has to be filled at once or go
to pieces. We have determined to risk his going
to pieces. This form of lunacy is too expensive to
be humoured.— Ed. B 1
Everything is seemingly to be done by
combination in the times that are coming. Hence
the success of the Executors and Trustees Com-
panies promoted wholly to provide for the
future, for they can only get business as deaths
occur in the cases in which wills have appointed
one of these companies as executors. The shares
of the three companies promoted in Melbourne
are all at a premium. Those of tho Sydney Per-
petual Trustees Company were eagerly sought
for there, and stand already at 3s. 6d. advance
offered by buyers. By-and-bye wo may have cause
to think about such matters, but just now who
shall be our executors is, as Mr. Toots would say,
•‘of no consequence.” By the way. we don’t
greatly wonder at the success made in floating the
Sydney Executors and Trustees Company, con-
sidering that the public have just been ‘’stuck”
for between £50,000 and £lOO,OOO in trust-funds.
HEARD IN THE BALLROOM.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
sit beside me, Gwendoline,
Let us talk, we two together;
Let us talk of days that have been—
Happy days of summer weather,
What my hopeful heart Intended,
When our childish lives were blended—
Day-dreams, all too rudely ended.
Heed not, Gwen., those “wall-flowers ” glancing,
With my wife your husband's dancing.
You were faithful, Gwendoline,
Till your frocks your ankles covered.
Then your best thought was, I had been
Useful while I near you hovered.
“ Brother, sister, true forever;
Faithful friends we should be ever,”
So you said, “ but lovers never.”
Seldom after that I kissed you-
Longer grew your frocks, I “ miss-d you.
I with the trailing dresses, Gwen.,
Passed my hopes away for ever,
You were sought bv long-moustached men,
In the dance I claimed you never;
B'en your smiles but hid derision,
Soon you passed beyond my vision,
Snubbed my love with prompt decision.
When I sought a reason truthful,
You replied I was “too youthful.”
Since that time, fair Gwendoline
(How It Is I’m sadly troubled),
Twenty springs we’ve seen the grass green,
flach of us our years has doubled;
Thlrty-slx past me has thundered,
You own but a quarter hundred.
Time has with your record blundered;
Must you go -my waltz remember
(Gwen. Is forty next December).
HYMN OF THE SYDNEY LANCE-AHS.
THE DEDICATION OF THE BANNAH.
(By Shortfellow.)
Take this baanah I May it wave
O’er Lvnce-ahs good and Lanoe-ahs brave,
When the Guv’nah lands in state
Be you near him and his mate;
On the twenty-fourth of May
Bear you proudly that great day.
Be not rash, make no mistake,
Use not your lances—they might break.
Take this bannahl and beneath
Your helmet-hat and pugg'ree wreath
Guard it I—till you’re safely home;
Plant it I—when to business gone.
In the dark and trying hour.
Under Mac.’s tyrannic power,
In the drill of steeds and men,
Hold fast to your saddles then.
Take this bannah I and when night
Comes, after the mimic fight,
If the p’lleomon p’lltely bow
Return It—as you best know how.
By our prayers and many tears,
By the mercy that endears,
Be not rash, make no mistake,
Uso not your lances—they might break.
Take this bannah!—and if e’er
Thou shouldst be oVrta’en with beer,
And the mazy, winding street
Prove too narrow for thy feet.
Then this silken flag shall be
Blanket, cloak, and bed for thee.
The Lanceah took that bannah red
And used it for his little bed.
A PRAYER TO PATERFAMILIAS.
Now, fathers, take heed every one,
Your duty before you lies plain.
As soon as you’re blessed with a son
From liquor you ought to abstain;
There's virtue, no doubt, in the vine,
In whisky and gin there is joy;
But these you will freely resign
For the sake of “ the boy.”
Our forefathers (Lot we might name)
Drank deeply ot liquors too strong,
And Noah himself was to blame
If Shem, Ham, or Japhet went wrong,
Which is all the more reason that we
Should force of example employ,
And take nothing stronger than tea
For the sake of “ the boy.”
So, fathers, take heed every one,
Tour duty before you lies clear—
If you’ve any regard for your son
You'll substitute water for beer;
Aid It in this lair, thirsty South
The demon of drink you’d destroy,
Why, forget Nature gave you a mouth—
For the sake of " the boy.”
