

THE BULLETIN
VoL 3.— No. 118 —New Series.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 15, 1885.
Frlo*-6i
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 15, 1885.
The Laud and Industrial Alliance
Platform.
“ Fair trade,” “ Repeal or amendment of the
Land Act,” and “ Payment of members” are
the principles to which the delegates to the
late Sydney “ Land and Industrial Alliance
Conference ’ signified their almost unanimous
adhesion. We are convinced of the justness
and soundness of all three. Had the first
two planks in the platform been christened
“ Protection ” and “ Land Nationalisation ”
our satisfaction would have been greater
still. But the struggle upon which the
people of New South Wales are about to
enter is too serious in its import, too far-
reaching in its consequences, to tempt us to
pause at the threshold to quarrel about
words. The capitalist Press of the colony
has met the proposals with ridicule. Ridi-
cule is a dangerous weapon. To be effective
it should be wielded by a master—should be
sharp and incisive, equally adapted for of-
fence or defence. When it leaps from its
scabbard at the bidding of a dunce it is a
gruesome sight, and suggests doubts
whether, after all, the invention of letters
has not added a new terror to life. No
raillery can upset a fact. All the irony of
Voltaire would be quite wasted in per-
suading a hungry man that eating was a
mistake, and that civilisation without vic-
tuals was the thing to be aimed at. When
you tell an English pauper that, owing to
Freetrade, his country is able to export
many millions worth of manufactured goods
every year, he rejoices at such prosperity,
hut would prefer to hear that y ou intended
giving him a loaf.
* • •
One of the speakers at the Conference
thought that “if Cobden himself had been
in New South Wales he would have been a
Protectionist.” Another believed in Free-
trade “for an adult people, or for those
who had reached the limits of their
markets,” while a third contended that it
was our fiscal policy that shut up local fac-
tories and threw men out of employment.
It is very probable that all these statements
are tine. It is certain that two of them are.
Whether Cobden would have been a Pro-
tectionist in New South Wales is a question
on which dispute is unlikely to end in agree-
ment. Nor is it a matter of great conse-
quence. But the nail was struck fairly on
the head by the speaker who said that “ for
an adult people, or for those who had
reached the limits of their markets,” Free-
trade was the true policy. The foregoing
statement showed that the speaker recog-
nised the difference between fully-developed
countries and those still in swaddling
clothes—saw that the fiscal policy that
meant life to one might mean death to the
other. It is here, just at the outset, that it
appears to us Freetraders get hopelessly
bogged. They would supply the infant and
the adult with the same food. If the infant
sickened and died under the treatment that
was Us look out. Recent English writers
soircely attempt to argue on the subject.
They accept the doctrines of the Manchester
school just as they accept a geometrical
demonstration. From serene heights they
look down on meaner mortals, and say, “ We
have preached our calico Millennium. It is
ours to teach and yours to accept. Free-
trade is good for England, therefore it is
good for the world.” And the world
hearkens for awhile, then hardens its heart,
and ultimately inserts its tongue in its cheek
and goes its way. So, after 100 years’ preach-
ing, and 40 years’ practice, England finds
herself to-day the only Freetrade country
in the world.
• • •
Some of the arguments brought forward
by Freetraders are delightful in their in-
genuousness. Even at the Conference, one
of the delegates deprecated Protection, be-
cause “there were not sufficient manufac-
tories in the colony at present to provide
goods for the whole colony.” It did not
seem to occur to this far-seeing representa-
tive that it was precisely because such was
the case that a high tariff was advocated at
all. He would continue Freetrade until
colonial manufactories were sufficiently de-
veloped to supply colonial wants. But he
did not explain how they were to develope
at all in the face of the fierce competition
resulting from the cheap labour, long hours,
and perfected machinery of old countries.
If the mountain would not come to him at
first, he would wait patiently until it did.
If, with a nominal tariff, he could not turn
our wool into cloth, we would wait till we
could. This style of reasoning bears a strong
family likeness to that of the Southern
planters, who would not liberate their
slaves because the “niggers ” were unfit for
liberty. It did not strike them that they
would remain unfit so long as they remained
slaves. There is another hoary sophism
which Freetraders cuddle with the fondness
of a mother for her ricketty child. It is
this. Suppose, they say, you put a duty on
an article—boots, for instance—mark the
result. Capital that should have been
devoted to the indigenous industries of the
country is diverted to the boot trade.
Everyone wants to make boots. The con-
sequence is that competition brings down
the price of boots and bootmakers’ wages
with it But, granting such to be the ease—
a-suming that men become infatuated with
the idea that in bootmaking alone national
wealth and greatness are to be found—how
does the desire to undersell differ from that
in a Freetrade country ? If English capi-
talists find that there is a market in Aus-
tralia for English boots or in China for
English stockings, then British capital will
be employed in producing those useful arj
tiohs until the markets are glutted and the
wages fall. Whether a country has high or
low imports a paying industry will attract
capital si long as a fair margin of profit re-
sults and no longer.
In a pamphlet before us by Mr. B. R. Wise,
the author refers to the tendency of Pro-
tection to create a number of small indus-
tries; while those resulting from Freetrade
“ are on a larger scale.” He then refers to
the employment of nine men and boys in
Ihe manufacture of curled-hair in an ad-
joining colony, and asks how they “ could
enforce their demands against an employer.
Let them strike! The master can still sup-
ply his customers by imported goods. He
loses, for a time, the extra profit which the
tariff gives him, and the interest on his.
plant, and that is all. But when a strike
takes place in a large industry of na-
tural growth, employers cannot execute
their orders by importing goods, because the
very fact of the industry existing in a Free-
trade country shows that goods can be pro-
duced in that country more cheaply than
they can be imported. Consequently, any-
one who imported goods to supply his cus-
tomers would do so at a loss. Employers,
therefore, have a stronger material induce-
ment in a Freetrade country to come to
terms with their men.” This is delicious.
Let us examine it. Owing, probably, to the
Victorian duty on curled hair nine people
are employed in its manufacture iu Mel-
bourne. The English article can be landed
for (say) Is. a pound, while the Victorian
costs Is. 2d. But 3d. a pound duty estab-
lishes the small industry i n Mel bourn e. The
men strike, and according to Mr. Wise, the
master “lets them strike.” He imports.
But he loses Id. a pound by it, and, if he
tries to recoup himself by raising the price,
some other person will go into the curled-
hair line and undersell him. Let us now
turn to New .South Wales. Here the industry
could not pehaps be established at all owing
to the absence of a duty. But, allowing—for
the take of illustration—that nine people
were employed on its production here and
that it cost lid. a pound. They stiuok.
What is to prevent the employer importing
the stuff just as the Victorian did ? It is the
same with a large industry. If the latter is
established in a protected country the em-
ployers lose by importing just as they would
in a Freetrade one. If not, they would not
have embarked in the affair. And, further,
by not coming to speedy terms with any
men on strike they run a far greater risk of
having their industries “jumped” by out-
side capitalists in a country with a Protec-
tive tariff than in one with none at all.. This
was well shown in the late strike of boot-
makers in Melbourne. Had such an occur-
rence taken place in New South Wales, ex-
tensive foreign orders would long since
have been filled up for the Sydney market.
In view of the natural advantages in terri-
tory, metals, and coal possessed by this
colony it is depressing to contrast our manu-
facturing backwardness and supineness
with the progress and activity of our less
fortunately situated southern neighbours.
And all on account of the insensate worship
paid to this Freetrade Mumbo-jumbo.
• • *
“Repeal or radical amendment of the
Land Aot of 1884,” is the second principle
enunciated by the Conference. But the
stoppage of further alienation, and ultimate
resumption of land already granted in fee,
is the tiue principle which should never be
lost sight of by those who have at heait, not
alone the good of this generation, but of
generations yet unborn. It is possible to
join issue with George in some of his specu-
lations, but his chapter on “ The injustice of
private properly in laud” (4th edit. p. 299
ctseq) stands unassailable, incontrovertible.
Until this incontrovertibility is acknow-
ledged and acted upon, all measures for the
fair distribution of comfort ard prevention
of pauperism rtruet necessarily fail. Until
the people are convince! that private pro„
perty in land is a great wrong, no more to
be defended than private property in air
or sunshine, the poor and hungry will
always be with us. Multiply labour-saving
machines a thousand-fold, d scover fresh
articles of food, draw cheap motive-power
from the tides and the sunbeams, but, so
long as a numerically insignificant body of
men can say to the myriads around them,
“ This land is ours, and you remain here or
not at our pleasure,” you but deepen the
misery of the masses—perpetuate the sys-
te'm of what Hindman calls “the able-
bodied paupers at one end of the soeial
scale, balanced by the able-bodied sybarites
who produce them at the other.” The
same writer goes on—“The sacred right of
property ia land was founded upon the
most infamous robbery of the peasantry of
their own. . . . Under the rule of the
Tudors England changed from a country
THE POET SWINBURNE.


Where, In the main, the mass of the
people lived on their own land, were
happy, contented, well-fed and well-clothcd.
producing and working up enough food and
raw material for their own use and thinking
little of exchange, into a country where
people were gradually being driven off the
soil, their ancient rights destroyed, their
means of production and land taken by
others, and exchange for profit was becom-
ing the rule of the time: a propertyless folk
—forced to compete against one another in
the cities for wages to keep body and soul
together—replaced to a large extent the
sturdy yeomen, craftsmen, and labourers of
old days. Pauperism became an integral
portion of the English social system, and
the lot of the many one never-ending servi-
tude under the guise of freedom.”
* * *
Such has been the result of land monopoly
in England, such it is fast becoming in
America, such it will be in New South
Wales in a generation or two, if not stamped
out while there is yet time. A letter on this
subject from Mr. George Ranken deserves
notice, if only as a literary curiosity. On
everything pertaining to land tenure Mr.
Ranken is an acknowledged authority. He
does not believe in land-nationalisation. He
gives his reasons in the letter now before us.
“The administration of the lands will, no
doubt, remain in the hands of Parliament.
Parliament will assign the duty to the
Ministry, and the Ministry will appoint one
of the body Minister for Lands. This
Minister would practically be the landlord
of the public estate. He could determine
rents and boundaries, either directly or
through boards and officials, and with his
political power he could make or mar any
tenant with a dip of red or black ink. . .
In fact, with our experience of the
Government as landlord, there can be no
worse state of things, and I do not see how,
by calling your scheme ‘Nationalisation,’
you will in tbe least change the tendencies
of human nature represented by Parlia-
ments and Ministers. ... If the forty
million acres now sold were resumed by the
Stale, would not the same influences that
sway the present Parliament act equally on
those succeeding it? Would we not have
Ministers anxious to conciliate politicians?
Would we not have political land-agents
anxious to earn the cheques from Melbourne
squatting companies ? Would we not have
hundreds of keen land-jobbers from the other
side of the Murray and elsewhere anxious to
dummy for any one who would pay them ?
And would not the same tricks be played with
leaseholds under ‘ Nationalisation’ as with
conditional purchases under selection ? ”
Mr. Ranken puts his signature to this. This
is his answer to George. In the adminis-
tration of the Victorian Railway Depart-
ment it was found that many abuses arose
from the interference of members and the
time-serving propensities of Ministers. But
large salaries brought out men of estab-
lished probity and experience. In their
hands, removed from the disturbing in-
fluences of political schemers, was placed the
control of this important branch. Has a
breach of trust been whispered '! Will Mr.
Ranken say that it would not be possible
to do the same with the public lands ?
Would it not be possible to find among the
judges, statesmen, or citizens of New South
Wales three or five men who could be trusted
with plenary powers ? If not, then no land
laws will avail to prevent knavery in a
society so rotten.
* * *
Of payment of members we have spoken
In a former article. The opinion of tho Con-
ference is ours “ That it is a mockery to
give the people the right to vote while they
are practically debarred from electing any
but men of independent means.”
PLAIN ENGLISH
The Melbourne Mutiny.
(tkERE has been a mutiny in Melbourne. So long
as soldiers and sailors exist, mutinies will break
out every now and then. Whether the discipline
Is harsh or mild matters little. Our sailors
“struck” at the Nore when insubordination
meant dancing on nothing at the end of the yard-
arm. A naval or military force that cannot point
to a mutiny or two In Its records is justly con.
Sidered an object of cohtbmpt, not fear. This
Conviction, combined with treatment of a pecu-
iarly irritating kind, induced a fatigue party of
the Melbourne Permanent Force to loll idly by in
their shirt-sleeves while the non-commissioned
Officers in command requested them—if only
hs men and brothers—to make the wheels
of the barrows in front of them perform
a few more revolutions before sitting down to
smoke. Threats and csjolings were alike unavail-
ing. The men had made up their minds t hat th( re
were higher alms in life than trundling mud. A
court-martial was the consequence, and it was
there that the real grievances of the troops and
the disabilities they staggered under were first
brought to light. Even now, with all the evidence
before us, it is hard to believe that some of those
complaints were not made up for the occasion-
hard to think that British officers know so
little of the colonies as to subject men to
hardships cruel and unnecessary. Ore poor
prisoner “ struck ” in conoequence of being
obliged to eat chops for breakfast three morn-
ings running. Another mutinied-not before it
was time-through having to make a meal off
pig’s cheek. The orderly corporal might certainly
Jjave provided this man with an entire pig. It
may be said that the men enlisted voluntarily, and
with their eyes open. But this is no reason why
they should be subjected to treatment like the
foregoing. To put chops before a man three
mornings running when poultry was to be had at
a fair price, and even game might be obtained
with a little trouble, shows that a sweeping re_
form is demanded In the Victorian military serl
vice. If you expect a man to be game you must
supply him with it. It says little for the training
of the lately-imported officers to find them en.
deavouring to develope discipline and com-
bativeness under a regimen of pigs’ cheek.
For, if there is one military fact more firmly
established than another, it is that more battles
are fought and won by the stomacb than by all
the rest of the system. The man who is a Pa-
rolles on “chops” becomes a Boanerges on
potted bare. This was well shown during the late
Franco-Prussian war. A regiment of cuirassiers
who had breakfasted on frogs met outside Metz a
corps of Uhlans who had just dined off roast goose
and plum-duff. Not a Frenchman escaped. Nor
could their bodies be found. So a ghastly sus-
picion arose that the Germans not only killed but
ate them. But we are getting away from our sub-
ject. The Victorian filibusters got six months*
each, and long odds are already offered by well-
known persons who derive a precarious existenqp
from backing horses, that before their term of re-
tirement is ended their views on chops and cheek
will have undergone a radical change.
Social Purity!
A new organisation is struggling for existence in
almost every British and colonial city. In some it
is already strong and lusty, while in others it is
still in long clothes, and has not yet begun to
walk. It is called the “ Social Purity Society,”
and aims at putting the relationship of the sexes
on a sounder basis. At present its members are
chiefly composed of parsons and their Immediate
hangers-on, who meet at stated periods, agrt c
that this world is a very naughty one, and return
home to beguile themselves with the belief that
they are doing something to make it better. But
it is doubtful whether, as society is at present
constituted, it is possible to appreciably abate
illicit intercourse. So long as a flero? struggle for
life is forced upon the mass of men owing to the
unequal and unjust distribution of wealth, young
men will avoid marriage, and vice will appear with
the same certainty that a tree casts a shadow on a
sunshiny day. So long as one end of the social
scale is occupied by faineants who do nothing and
the other by millions of workers who support
them, either celibacy or comparatively late mar-
riages will be the rule. Either of these means vice.
To endeavour to combat this vice by means of
Social Purity organisations or meetings where
weedy young men and jaded old ones meet to
drink weak tea and regret the initial mistake
of creating two sexes instead of one, is like
getting into a basket and lifting yourself up by
the handles, or throwing yourself across a river
by the sleeve of your coat. Have, then, these
societies no sphere of practical usefulness before
them? We are far from saying so. But their
hopes of causing any abatement of the social evil,
while leaving untouched the causes of which that
evil is the result, are doomed to disappointment,
and betray a Blender knowledge of human nature
A good deal has, with justice, been said of the
unequal punishment accorded the male and female
partners in sin. Indeed, so far as the man is con-
cerned, there is no punishment at all Whatever
suffering has to be borne falls to the woman’s
share. But women themselves are primarily to
blame for this. So long as a pure woman will
receive unhesitatingly in her drawing-room the
man she knows to have ruined one of her weaker-
minded sisters, the game of seduction will go mer-
rily on. The other day the London Social Purity
Society prosecuted a woman who kept a notorious
house of ill-fame. It is boldly stated In a journal
now before us—the London Sentinel, the recog-
nised organ of the British Social Purity Society—
and on the authority of Mr. J. B. Wook ky, secre-
tary of that association, that the King of the
Belgians and the Prince of Wales were among the
hahituts of the den in question. And yet the
cable, over which was flashed the announcement
that the Pall Mall Gazette was being perse-
cuted for having alluded in pretty straight terms
to the affair in question, has not yet informed us
that criminal proceedings have been taken by the
Prince against Wookby, the Society, or the
Sentinel. As society is just now constituted,
Princes can afford to despise such things. How
many English ladles have struck the name of
the Prince off their visiting-list because he, who
is publicly accused, both at a big public meeting
held under the auspices of a society “ run ” by
churchmen, and in the columns of the organ of
the British Social Purity Society, of having pre-
ferred the company of trulls to that of his wife
has remained silent and made no sign ? If social
purity societies should succeed in altering this
state of affairs—in persuading society to “boy-
cott ” the man, whatever his rank, as well as the
unfortunate woman, some good after all might
result from their establishment.
A Question of Good Taste.
It is openly stated that several men whose
names appear among the recently - created
crowd of J.’sP., are employes of Wright,
Heaton, and Co. Is this true ? If so, Isn’t it “ a
little too much of the monkey”—too “steep” a
dose for the stomach of the average elector?
We do not here mean to make any imputa-
tion against the honour of Mr. Wright, who
is at once Minister of Railways and part god-
father of the firm which does a very much
bigger business with the New South Wales
Railway Department than any other firm or in-
dividual; but all the same, we must be allowed
to hold our own opinion of the “ eternal fitness
of things.” It would, under all the circumstances,
have been very much better had Mr. Wright
never become Minister of Railways at all, and
we hold that Mr. Wright, now that hois Minister,
would be acting in the interests of good taste if
he refrained from exercising or allowing his
colleagues to exercise so much magisterial
patronage in the direction Indicated. V l 'hat
would the British public say were the firm of W.
H. Smith and Co. to carry on business as builders
of ironclads for the Imperial navy while Mr. W.
H. Smith, whence Smith and Co. derive their
name, but who had just sold out of the firm,
perhaps for the expresi purpose of assuming
office, occupied the position of First Lord of the
Admiralty? If Mr. Wright tells us he has sold
clean out of the firm of Wright, Heaton
and Co, we of course accept his statement;
but we maintain that while his name appears
at the head of the firm, hundreds of
thousands of the general public, and hun-
dreds of the officials of the Railway Depart-
ment will continue to labour under the base-
less hallucination that Wright the Minister
for Railways is also Wright the carrier, and that
as a consequence of the non-eradication of this
erroneous belief, the firm of Wright, Heaton, and
Co. will naturally be given at the hands of the rail*
way officials an amount of consideration denied to
other firms.
Lord Carrington's Ball.
In order to show the distinguished place occupied
by Lord Carrington (the new Governor of New
South Wales) and his wife in English society, the
Sydney Morning Herald copies from the Home
News an account of a ball given by the Carring-
tons (Smiths) and attended by all that was best
and brightest la the English capital. The Herald
does this, it says, in order to “give an idea of the
status of our next Governor and his wife in Lon-
don society.” The Prince of Wales, his wife, and
some of their children were there, while persons
belonging to each of the five orders of the peerage
struggled for places at the supper-table. If such
English men and women as Mill, Buckle, Har-
riet Martineau, Mary Somerville, or George
Eliot were alive you would never hear of their
being invited to meet the accomplished persons
who danced at Lord Carrington s ball. No
would their names appear in tho Herald-
But matters are, perhaps, as well as they stand.
For it all serves to show the standard of excel,
lence which the “Yellow-plushes” of the Prets
would have us admire. And the Prince c f
Wales “honoured” Lady Carrington by con-
ducting her to the supper-room, while Lord Car-
rington did tho same for his " missus.” And yet
H.B.H is the same man who, when publicly
accused In a clerical organ—which, we regret to
say, has been extensively circulated through the
post in Australia—of having been a patron of the
notorious Madame Jeffries, apparently does not
think it due to his position to at once “runin’ his
calumniator for criminal libel, and himself appear
in the witness-box of a court of Justice to deny
the foul aspersion on his character. When will
Englishmen, whose sturdy independence is their
constant boast, learn to estimate the “great”
ones of their race by their talents, the cleanness
of their lives, and the jealousy with, which they
guard their characters, instead of merely by the
vulgar standard of rank—when will Australian
writers cease to provoke the world’s laughter by
their grovelling flunkeyism ?
Brutality in Excelsis.
At last there are signs of progress In Adelaide—
they have begun to Improve even on New South
Wales. A man named James Callow was sen-
tenced to imprisonment for life and to be flogged
as well! “Prisoner’s cries from the third stroke
to the finish were agonising, and after the flogging
he had to be led away by the warder.” This is
how the telegram runs. To find parallels for
atrocities of this description we have to go back
to the bloodiest days of English penal legislation-
back almost to the time of Titus Oates. To set -
tence a person to imprisonment for life and to be
tortured as well is a piece of brutality as cowardly
as it is useless —an example of savagery whose
perpetration in Russia would send a thrill of
horror through Europe. Wo challenge Austra-
lians to name another civilised country in the
world where such an infamy would be tolerated.
During the worst days of the Prussian and British
military servlces-tne days when, according
to Macaulay, “merciless canings” were com*
mon, no man who was sentenced to death or
life-long Imprisonment could also be whipped.
Indeed, with the British, when penal servitude for
over five years was awarded, no flogging could be
added to the sentence. The reason was obvious.
It would be too stupidly brutal. But they know
better in Adelaide. Reading of this wretch's
punishment makes us hope that if there is an after
life the most ingenious torments in it will be re-
served for tho savage who frame
edicts under which such things are possible, and
the savage rulers who allow them to be put into
execution. We trost the day is not diitant when
their very names will be execrated. The same
spirit animates them tbat’aninmed James, Duke
of Fork, when he kept his seat stolidly in Edin-
burgh while steel wedges were crushing offenders’
leg bones. In view of the Adelaide sentence, it is
idle for Australian Judges to preach that it is to
suppress crime, and not to take vengeance, that
the law exists. Flogging this felon will not stop
his career of crime. That end has already been
compassed by his life-long imprisonment. And,
under the circumstances, the flogging not only
assists in brutalising the community which reads
of it, but shows to the world that, if a scraped
Russian Is a Tartar, a scraped Australian is not
unfrequeotly a brutal and unreasoning savage.
Windeyer versus Barry.
Judge Windeyer sends a letter of a column and
a quarter to the Sydney Daily Telegraph of
Tuesday last to explain his action in nominating
the Hon. W. B. Dalley as a candidate for the
vacant seat in the Sydney University Senate. The
raison-d’itre of this explanation is, no doubt, a
leader in the Freeman’s Journal, which insinu-
ates that he, himself, has a longing to obtain the
chancellorship of the University upon the resigna-
tion of Sir William Manning. This leader, which
is written with a red-hot lancet dipped in nitric
acid, opens nicely and pleasantly thus:—“Mr.
Justice Windeyer is a very fortunate man.
Starting in life with a very small capital in the
shape of brains, ho succeeded in reaching the great
object of ambition among junior barristers—a
Puisne Judgeship—at the time of life when most
of them are about half way to the distant goal.”
Then by easy and simple sentences, describing the
process by which that Judgeship was attained, the
disquisition is brought up to the nomination for
the Senate, and the supposed reason for Mr. Win-
deybr's action. We do not wish to comment
upon the underground engineering broadly dealt
with by the Freeman (It was owing to some
glneering of the kind, ascribed to the Wix D L 6n '
party long ago, that Sir James Martin and u
Dalley left the Senate), but would point out th F *
there is one man who must, in the opinion of 8t
sane persons, precede even the well-beloved r a
Windeyer as Chancellor; a man who Is as “ ge
superior to him in culture, as he is generally h
posed to be in law. That man is Sir v P
tin. To him, and to him alone, in the
the people and in right of his antecedent. 0f
ability, belongs the succession to the post
Sir William Manning threatens to rp
Dr. Barry, who has been nominated for
vacant University senatorship-the first st J .
feared by the Windeyerites. towards the att.V*
ment by the Bishop of the Chancellorship
eligible for the pest in all respects, save one- h' 1 *
an ecclesiastic. The State system of education *
which edifice the University is the crown, fa *
sibly secular. Bishop Barry is on this fZ't
just as ineligible for the University
as is Pastor Allen. When the present Cht C e, P
does retire, we hope the Bishop and hlssuppo* “ r
win have the good taste to make way, not f
Judge Windeyer, but for the ablest ml™
New South wale,, who helped to,o™"”’
University—Sir James Martin.
Among the Americans.
Didn t a London alderman die of grief when u
heard Robinson Crusoe was a fiction ? Xt V 6
terrible thing to have the bull’s-eye 0 f w
turned abruptly on some harmless belief y OU
hugged for years-to have the cataract J
from your mind’s eye. and discover, for the
time, that the faith you held so dear is
away or becoming so threadbare and ragged X
be no protection against the bleak winds of
tlclsm. Up to Saturday night last we
a few idols left-a few pet lambs, the eol !
survivors °f a once numerous flock. But
Hail f merican “eetlng at Sydney Tow!
Hall ruthlessly ripped our poor fetishes
showed that their stuffing was but bran and sai
dust after all. From infancy we had been told
Ih.i eVei * 7 f merican Wfls « »orn speaker- hit
while an EngLshman’s fingers would be nervously
twitching, and blood flushing his face at the nr L
spect of being called upon to say tht
Yankee would have delicately conveyed to I
crowd that any nation which could not produpp 6
George Washington, a Niagara a Barn™ 68
Smuhv had belter S7 quit? S 7
dslih 8 “ tur ' , * r . D '« ht ' 8 oiMtHw to lament Gal,,"
death completely burst up this and m *
other lllnaloo,. Men who pot them“lv„"™
ward as teachers, or sneakers nr » r '
tlves. should first get some elementary knSwTedt
of what constitutes correct speech The pln«
family relatlon.h,p exlatiue between the ",
Its subject should never be lost sight of. When
wnVfh 1 J :a u y ? maydepeDd upon jt pubhc
J" th £ k 8ic gular if the other is not plurU
also. Words are fastidious and monogamous
nanlnnl 6 PreClSe ab ° Ut cho08in * their com!
panlons. Marry a Singular, verb to more than one
nominative, and you never need expect concord
or happiness in that sentence. There will always
be disagreement. And the adverbs are Jus
ae particular Treat them iproperly and ft
is surprising how gracefully and evenly thev
I** 6 * r ° Und - But me too
many of them in the same team, and the first
chance they get they will upset the whole concern.
Unaware of this peculiarity, one representative
American citizen tried to drive “more” and
p r°uder tandem fashlon-the former leading.
He said he was more prouder to have known
G rant, &o. We wonder if the late General re-
ciprocated the feeling. We have always though
that when a person Intends to devote himself to
the service of a country, the initial step should be
to learn to speak the language of the country he is
anxious to serve. We have heard Ministers of the
Crown in all the colonies address Parliament
and public in the language of Mrs. Malapkop;
n , 8tr#D,re lands, we have experienced a rise
of 10 degrees in the temperature of our ears on
earing a representative countryman request an
ard bjled hegg, ’ at a crowded table d’hote. But
we must get back to the speakers. Dan was there.
Before now we have ventured tho opinion-come
to after much deliberation— that Dan must die.
Now, we are convinced that the public weal
demands his speedy decease. Towards him a mer-
ciful or forgiving policy is not alone useless, but
cruel. It merely hardens his heart, and tempts
him to turn on the tap of mixed metaphor, till we
Hy to drink for relief. And we noticed in him
lately, too, that a good deal of his Imagery
li mythological. Formerly he had but a bowing
acquaintance with the gods and goddesses. Now
he appears to live in the same house and speaks of
them with a familiarity suggestive of the good
understanding existing between him and them. It
is when Dan refers to Shakespeare, Cromwell 1
Milton, Horace Greely, and General Grantm
the great men of our race,” that every mouth in
the audience assumes a comical expression. And
Plain Bill Dalley —the Idol that of all others we
cherished with peculiar affection—was hopelessly
damaged. He is not the silver-voiced one we were
led to think. His delivery is defective-now loud
and harsh, now low and whispered. His organ has
but two stops, with no modulations between. The
speeches of the evening were those of Dr. Babbt
and Mr. M’Lauqhlin. Between them they divided
whatever honours were going. The Bishop’s was
fair matter, given in a pleasant, cultivated voice,
“ Mac.”— who, by the way, is a fiery Southerner,
and once wielded a waddy in endeavouring to keep
the Northerners on their own side of the Potomac
—said his say with genuine feeling, and in words
both forcible and well-chosen. This dangerous
fire-eater and pirate-subjugator, appears to have
bade a final adieu to fearsome deeds on the
Spanish Main—deeds of daring and reckless-
ness, the very recital of which possesses for us a
gloomy and terrible fascination—returned to the
various queens and princesses of Europe the locks
of hair they’d sent him as tokens of undying d(*
votion, and settled calmly down into domestic
happiness. In the palaces of Europe, from St.
Petersbugh to the Escurial, are broken hearts to-
day over bis absence. The way he marooned »
mutinous ship’s company on an ice-berg in Beh
ring's Straits, and captured whales himself during
the remainder of the trip, has often appeared to us
a deed of unequalled daring. Often in the middle of
tho night have we awakened bathed in clam®!


ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket only.
EASE
ELEGANCE
ECONOMY m
COMFORT
GRACE
QUALITY.
6/3
4/9
5/0
0A-
7/11
8/11
Department is well and favourably
known all over the colony.
The following are Corsets of singular merit
*&" Co™ 6 ** in white and drab .. 3/3
The Palace Nursing Corset
The Emporium ” Corset
The “ Haymarket ” Corset
The • City * ’Nursing Corset „
The “ Universal ” Corset
The “ Venus ” Corset, in white
and for Perfection itself we may mention
THE “ACME’’ C CORSET,
in white and drab, 9/6.
Of the manifold good qualities and peculiar ex-
cellencies of this latter Corset there is but ont
opinion; and, if we mistake not, it is sold at f
higher price than ours at other houses in town.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket only,
Near the Railway Station.
OSMOND’S
SWISS CIGARS
Have been recognised as the BEST for half a
century.
J. TURNER ROBINSON 4 CO.S
tailoring establishment.
MARKET CLOT a HALL,
*78 George-streot,
„ . _ , Established 1884,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BE8T-A8SOETEI
____ STOCK OP
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY.
IHRECT FROM THE MANUFACT
fashionable and First-class GAUmi
order, well made, well shrunk, and a ne'
guaranteed.
Amaai liwi ncwdi One ■iiiifM|
f\9»
oow
Lightning and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
C. W. ROBERTS
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’8 CELEBRATED UHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9s.
Small Bottle, , 4a. 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
Prom Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
PGR INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
la. 0d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT
Is. per Bottle.
RDM.
In Flasks, Bottles, end Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN-IN JTLASKS,
Is. 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke s Prize Medal Brand,
in stone bottles end square bottles,
LARGEST siaa.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
•TDNET.
Thb Rates or Subscription to The Bullitik
are—For one year, 24s.; half-year, 13a. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
Thb Advertising Ratbs are 5b. per Inch i
special positions In the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per Inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertlonsf
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 36 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under 41, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
In Spain, on 2nd July, there were 1500
cholera cases and 700 deaths.
Waisting time—about 10 p. m, when the
old folks have gone to bed and the light Is turned
down.
Ada Ward, at latest, was, according to
London Figaro, playing excellently the heroine’s
part In ‘,Tne Thirst for Gold” at London Olympic.
The Londok Times concludes its criticism
on Lady Archibald Campbell’s appearance In some
‘‘Pastoral Plays Lady Archibald plays an
amorous shepherd of the Orlando type, but the
other members of the oast assume characters
appropriate to their sex.” Caustic, veryl
Prince Albert Victor has parted with our
dear old friend, his tutor, the Rev. J. N. Dalton,
who has directed his Royal footsteps in the paths
Finch Hatton says in his recent book,
“ Advance Australia,” that on the first night of
his arrival he found a snake nine feet long curled
up in his bed. We’ve “ been there” ourselves.
The good people of Darling Point and
Toorak will read with much sorrow the depressing
announcement that "the speeches and addresses
of the Jace Duke of Albany, promised us this
month, will not appear, till late in the year Her
Majesty, who understands thoroughly the art of
correcting for the press, finds with her present
heavy duties, both political and matrimonial, no
time for looking over the proofs of the work.”
Edmund Finn, of Melbourne, better
known by his nom tie plume of “ Garryowen,” has
just retired from the Victorian public service on
account of falling eyesight. The old man has
passed through many vicissitudes since he landed
in Victoria. In the early days he was connected
with the Herald newspaper, and has, for the past
four years, been publishing in the columns of that
journal a series of interesting articles entitled,
Chronicles of Early Melbourne.” At one time,
Mr. Finn proved a great thorn in the side of the
Hon. John Pascoe Fawkner, with whom he
was eternally at loggerheads. “Garryowen”
enjoys the reputation of being a good classical
scholar, and it is an open secret that he, in con-
junction with the late Rev. Dr. G eoghegan, did a
kreat deal in the way of tutoring the late Sir John
C Shanassy. It was the politician last named
who appointed Mr. Finn to the position o f Cierk of
the Papers In the Legislative Council, whmh post
he recently relinquished. “Garryowen” is in
pretty comfortable circumstances, and two of his
sons, who are connected with the Melbourne Press,
inherit a fair share of the old gentleman’s literary
abilities. One of them, Mr. Edmund Finn, is well
known in hia capacity as a leading contributor to
Melbourne Punch .
I sat me down and thought profound;
This maxim wise I drew,
Those suits from Summertteld and Co.
Are more than quite too-too.*
of righteousness for some 14 years, and taken
unto himself an Equerry instead. An Equerry,
we believe, is a vastly more amusing companion
for a young man than a reverend tutor.
From a London fashion - paper “ We
were surprised the other evening when visiting at
a lady’s house, the Prince of Wales being present,
to see the young ladies smoking cigarettes. On
making inquiries we were still more astonished to
learn that it has become quite fashionable for
ladies to Indulge infragrant tobacco after dinner.’
This is how Sir Salmon Wilson is “ doing
it ” in London“ Lady Wilson’s reception in
Grosvenor-square on Wednesday last was a very
swell affair, being attended by an enormous num-
ber of the Hite now in town. Lady Wilson never
looked better. She wore blue satin trimmed with
gold and diamond ornaments, and her daughter
Miss Wilson was dressed in violet tulle and pearls.
Countess Sfeenbock wore a train of silver-grey
satin, the petticoat of grey broohe velvet in two
shades being trimmed with grey passementerie;
a pink feather in her hair and splendid jewels.
Lady Willoughby, cream satin; Lady Decles, hand-
some flowered satin. Lady Fitz warrfne Chichester,
train of pale-blue and white frise velvet, with
blue”—and so on.
sweat through dreaming of this lonely man reef-
ing top-sails and “ splicing ” the main brace away
in that chill Northern sea. Among the audience
were many American citizens whose facial eccen-
tricities called up pleasant memories of the county
Cork and the bog of Allen. Yes, and Canadians
were there who had never seen the St. Lawrence,
but who claimed to be American citizens. It is a
singular fact that every Canadian who comes to
Australia represents himself to be a staunch
Republican .from Massachusetts. It has always
puzzled us to reconcile this with what we hear of
Canadian loyalty. It leads us to suspect that be-
fore very long the Dominion will either go into
business on its own account, or drop like a ripe
peach into the Union.
TO CORRESPONDENTs
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“P.A.J. Yes, we do consider Dion
Bouclcault a clever man....“ William Browne’ :
We don’t know what religion Sir James Martin
professes. We are not even aware whether he
professes any. Wasn’t it Disraeli who said that no
wise man ever told what his religion was ?
" A.C.”: We’re afraid your “legend” is but the
medium of a hot libel “ K.C.’’ (Corowa): We
dare say everything you state Is quite true. But
your letter contains about 13 or 14 criminal libels;
and we’ll go in for criminal libel when four Vic-
torian Judges are appointed to the N.S.W. Bench,
and when we have succeeded to the estate of
Jemmy Tyson. ..." W.W.”: We don’t advise you
to consult that kind of man at all “ Rajpoo-
tana”: *You “ dined with the Governor.” With
the Governor of the Gaol “T.W.W.”: You are
not Shakespeare—not by a jugful. “To burn, or
not to burn?” that was the question concerning
your MS. We decided in the affirmative
•Dion” (Mackay, QJ: Received. Give us some-
thing a little more lively “Prince Journalisti-
koif ” (Adelaide. 8.A.) Not this time; have used
other pars—“T. M. Smith”: Thanks; very wel-
come “ E.C.” (Corowa): He may be all that you
say, and if we had ten millions or a lease of the
Supreme Court we’d say so “M.T.H.”; Your
weak point this time is verbosity. Condense
everything, if for this paper. The other verses
are really humorous and clever—“A Study in
Nomenclature”; Must keep “JM.” (Cairns,
QJ: Our artist says that if he puts a few more
leaves to your tree, which is a bit bald Jat present,
it will make a daisy picture. 1 hanks for the sug-
gestion— “G.R.H.” (Brewarrlna): Thanks. No-
ticed elsewhere “WH.E.” Much obliged
“Jassir” (Armidale): A nice, chatty, little libel.
There are several municipalities in the colonies,
where fat tenders are the reward of worshippers
of Billy the Usurper, Also there are many news-
papers which crack up the local magnates and
receive big advertisements as the price of adula-
tion, or silence “W.J.M ”: We can’t print your
address to the Devil. He does not take this paper.
Bend it to the B. News. Look at the start of it:—
“ What wondrous power dost thou command
O’er us poor beings here below I”
We have to ask you, dear boy, to speak for your-
self only In future “C.W.”: Clergymen and
old maids are cabby’s pet aversion. They are never
generous in the matter of an extra sixpence, and
are generally fussy and exacting. For these rea-
sons the two classes of individuals named get more
often actually defrauded than ordinary folk
“ P.O.J.” (Muswellbrook): It’s just the way. We
don’t ordinarily print "letters to the editor,” but
if you or anyone holding your views send us
something written so sharply and well that in our
opinion people are bound to go on reading it right
through as soon as they’ve perused the first couple
of lines, we’ll publish the letter with the greatest
pleasure. You can on those terms abuse The
Bulletin in its own columns as much as ever you
like. You can’t get a letter into Tub Bulletin
by commencing, “ Aa a constant reader of your
admirable journal.” That’s the kind of thing
which “fetches” the other papers. We aren’t
cajolable by such noms die plume as “An old Sub-
scriber.” That dodge was played out even
in the river-drift period of this planet’s history
“A Country Header”: Many thanks. . “C.E.J.”:
We have never heard fcr. Harry Levlen charged
with any dishonourable act “JBJ.”: Your
religious views aro lovely, but your spelling Is
awful — “ Petershamite ”: Yes, certainly we think
you are entHled to a platform between Petersham
and Stanmore. You ask why put one between
Summerbill and Petersham. Simply because it
will abut on some land wo have for s lie thf re
“A.J.” (Nymagee): We forgive you this time
“Oyster Johnnie”; Not up to the mark this time.
— "Alcohol”: No. Mrs Leavitt does not fry to
get “awful exam pk s,” or saved sinners ’’to go on
to the platform wh:n she leitures 3. Sir John
Robertson, Mr. William Neill, and a couple of
clergymen were the only persons on the platform
oo Friday last— “ Mirth ”: Certainly not. “ Plain
Bill” is the boss ventriloquist.
TURKEY-SHOOTING IN THE BACK-BLOCKS.
A MAN-HERO LAY.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
It was morning on Manaro— ■
Freezing, too, almost at zero—
When my dog (we called him Nero)
Gave a growl, and then a roar.
I sat, summing up my losses
And my profits, in the office.
When a form in the doorway
Threw its shadow on the floor;
“ ’Tis some customer,” I muttered,
“ Wanting something from the store—
That it is, and nothing more.”
With no little satisfaction,
Banished I this slight distraction,
And addition and subtraction
Soon possessed me as before;
Nothing else then occupied me,
<* But,” said I, “ now list to reason;
We, both in and out of season,
Called all opposition TREASON,
When you went in search of gore.
Dailey praised you and caressed you;
Bishops prayed for you and blessed you ;
E’en the Governor addressed you
Ere you left our sunny shore.”
Said he, “ They can go to blazes;
I am going there no more.
I have had enough of glory,
1 have had enough of gore!”
“ Not if you again were feted ?
Not if Grah’m again orated ?
Not if once again ’twere stated
Guards would welcome you ashore ?
Not if even Wolseley praised you
(That great man from Erin’s shore)—
He who would have smashed the Mahdi,
Had his eye not been so sore ? ’
“ Sir, the eye that troubled Wolseley
Was the Mahd-i— nothing more.”
Westwards to Atlantic’s shore!
On the battlefield victorious
( Though your deeds were hardly glorious),
Feted, cheered by crowds uproarious—
Would you, could you now, once more,
Live and work within a store ?”
“ Yes,” he said, “for evermore!”
‘ Now,” said I, “you’re a Soudaner,
And you fought beneath our banner
In a most heroic manner—
Yes, perhaps that banner bore!
Since you have been bravely through it,
Tell me not that now you rue it ;
Don’t you wish again to do it—
Strew the desert sand with gore ?”
Quoth the soldier, “Never more I”
“ By the glorious field of battle.
By the cannons’ deafening rattle,
By the captured goats and cattle,
By the donkey’s lusty roar,
Tell me truly, I implore I”
But he answered as before.
FIRST POSITION.
For the figures still defied me,
When a voice said just beside me—
“ Boss, I worked for you before;
Can you give a cove a billet
In the yard or in the store?”
This he said, and nothing more.
Much surprised at this petition,
I assumed a straight position—
Viewed my guest with some suspicion
As he stood inside the door;
Then dismissed all thoughts of danger,
For I saw he was no ’ranger,
Nor, indeed, was he a stranger—
’Twas but three short months, or four,
Since he’d gone to “ smash the Mahdi
He and seven hundred more,
Thirsting for the Mahdi’s gore.
“ What!” I cried, in consternation,
You, who made our land a nation I
Who created such sensation
From the lofty Ural Mountains
Then I tore my hair and swore,
And my dog ill-used that soldier
Ere he bolted through the door;
He will enter, nevermore.
M. T. HEAD
SECOND POSITION.


Personal Items
The son of an earl has been sleeping for a
few nights past in Sydney Domain. Whsn he
writes a book, the colony will catch it.
A man sent to gaol for vagrancy in Sydney
last week has in Melbourne a son who recently
married a woman with at least £25,000 a j ear.
That ex-Minister finds it hard to cash up
after all. He talks of letting the case come on at
the appointed date, and of going to Thibet a trifle
beforehand. What are Thlbetian husbands like ?
The Marquis of Salisbury is said to be very
cold and proud-almost as proud as that Duke of
Somerset, who, when bis second w ifo laid her hand
upon his shoulder, said: “ Madam, the first duchess
never dared to take such a liberty with me.”
The other day, up South, a .judge invited
to dinner the local French Consul. and sent him a
message to the effect that ha would much like him
to be present. The Consul made answer that he
declined to put his feet beneath the mahogany of
a man who, in his opinion, had acted unjustly to a
French citizen.
Sir Charles Dilke, a member of the late
Gladstone Cabinet, has, it is alleged, been assisting
Mrs Crawford to smash up one of the command-
ments. “ But then, you know, dear, it is sure to
be all hushed up. Interesting e flairs of this kind
always are.” This is what we overheard in a
suburban train.
Archbishop Moran, according to a late
telegram, is going to Ireland to pick out a con-
signment ot priests for New South Wales. Let us
hope those he selects will be reasonably bald of
teeth and measurable as to upper Up. We have a
sufficient number of specimens of the prehistoric
Irish aboriginal type here already.
The late eminent German surgeon French*
was a rather tough man to consult. Ho ote dey
examined a patient for an obscure malady, ano,
recognising the caso as hopeless, dismissed the in
dividual without a word. “ But, doctor,” said he,
“what’s the matter with me?” ‘’That, said
Frerichs, “ will be settled by the post-mortem.”
Sir John Robertson was chairman at Mrs
Leavitt Alone’s total abstinence lecture on Frldaj
evening. Mr. Neill also took an active pare in the
proceedings. This confirms the rumour lately
current that both these distinguished gentlemen
are now not only total abstainers, but have deter-
mined to work enthusiastically in the good cause
When Archbishop Moran was called upon
by the local Balak to curse the Mahdi he did so
with great joy. Balaam Barry was not a patch on
him. And the news of this performance reached
unto Ireland, and the Irish rose against him be-
cause of this curse, so that he was not made Arch-
bishop of Dublin. Thus speedily did Archbishop
Moran’s curses, like chickens, come home to roost.
The Sydney men who the other day
purchased the wreck of the Cahors for but a
few pounds expect to get her off safely, and to
make, say, £30,000 by the transaction. One of tl e
speculators in the matter is a plucky and inde-
fatigable Sydney man, whose ‘ luck” hss lately
been phenomenal, as his income from Sunny
Corner silver mine is, according to present re-
turns, something like £40,000 a year.
The pleasant face and venerable figure of
the white-bearded Mr. Samuel Bally Dowsett were
for manv a long day familiar eights at Sydney
Central Police Court, where he attended to report
tor the S. M. Herald. Then, after perhaps 35
years, he was, in his extreme old age, relieved of
duty, and became librarian for the same journal.
Now ho is dead and burled. For well nigh 00 years
he had been connected with the Press, which he
first joined in Tasma- la, the land of his birth He
was, perhaps, the oldest of colon! 1 newspaper
men.
The Melbourne correspondent of the Syd-
ney Mail [11 says of Sala’s letters on ‘ The Land
of the Golden Fleece Critical persons com-
plain that they have not the froahnets, the viva-
city, the sparkle, and the plctureequeness of the
sketches of character, scenery, institutions, and
occurrences he has been accustomed to contribute
to the columns of the London newspaper which
has so often sent him abroad * with the treatment
of a gentleman and the salary of an ambassador.’ ”
What a give-away I After the Herald, owned by
the same proprietary and published from the same
office, gave him the salary of an ambassador for
writing them, too !
Lord Derby draws £C00 sterling a day.
The Duke of Devonshire, £700 a day. The Duke
of Bedford £800 a day. The Karl of Lonsdale £1000
a day. The Duke of Norfolk £1000 a day. Th«
Duke of Westminster £2000 a day. And so on. A'
18 years of age, young Lord Dudley finds h mie i
master of an annual income greater tnan the c-IH
clal salaries of the Viceroys of Irtlmd, of India
and Canada, of the whole of the salaries of the
British Cabinet, of those of the ArcLbisbrps ol
Canterbury and York, the Speaker of the House
of Commons, the Lord Chief Justice of Ei gland
and the Bishops of London, Winchester and Dur-
ham all lumped together I
One of the N.S.W. Judges, the other day
handed a judgment of his to the Sydney D.T law
reporter with an intimation that while the laitei
was at liberty to supply a copy of it to the Kven
ing News, he was on no account to furnish it to
the S. M Herald It seems that the latter jjurna 1
some time ago omitted from its columns a judg-
ment in divorce pronounced by His Honour, or
the ground that the deliverance in question war
couched in terms that, though perfectly judicial
and adapted to a Supreme Court audience, were
hardly suitable for the column? of a “lamily
newspaper.” It is understood that the Herald has
very properly demanded from His “Nibs ’ an
explanation on the subject.
The rather notorious Lord Marcus Borcs-
ford has been appointed starter for the English
Jockey Club. Lord Marcus was never very Hush
of money (ho was charged at a London police
court with pitching into a Hebrew attorney over
some money business), but his nobie exchequer
must have got pretty low before the blood ol the
Waterfords permitted him to get a detachment
of light-weights into a straight line. However,
he’ll do very well according to all accounts. His
elder brother,-ff Charlie,” has earned renown by
blowing up the Arabs; his younger brother,
‘‘Bill,” got the Victoria Cross for mowing down
some Zulus at Ulundl, and now Lord Marcus
stands a chance of getting the Garter, or the Bath,
or something, for despatching a Derby field to a
•* magnificent start.”
Near Pyramid, N.S, W., is shown the grave
of a Chinaman digger who must have committed
suicide with the greatest sano froid and deter-
mination, Weary of.llte, he placed;his cctlin in a
pit he must have dug himself. The d sledged
earth he put into a “long Tom," actually
balanced near the yawning grave. To the end of
the “ long Tom” which contained the soil he at-
tached a rope. He bored an aperture in the lid of
the coffin large enough to allow the rope to pass
through. He then quietly lay down in the colfin,
drew the lid with the rope running through it over
him, and with ene resolute jerk killed and buried
himself. Some Europeans were attracted by the
sight of the up-ended “ long Tom” and the rope
passing into the ground. On digging they found
Chinaman, ropes, and coffin as described.
Mr. John De Poix Tyrol, who died recently
at Stanthorpe (Q.), sprang from a remarkable
stock. The family was French, the surname being
originally Poix. It was an ancestor named Gau-
tier who killed, while hunting, the Logllsh -king
Rufus. Another ancestor, Hugh, went with Peter
the Hermit to the Holy Land. An ancestress was
Lady-in-Waitlng to the great Queen Mane Therese
of Austria. John De Poix Tyrell, the lately de-
ceased man, was 20 years identified with Queens-
land. For six years he represented the mining
district of Carnarvon in the Legislative Assembly.
He was well known, and was very well liked on
public and private grounds. As a politician he
was not a success. He was sure but not strong.
At the time of death he was contemplating a visit
to the old land. Paralysis from cerebral effusion,
however, closed his career at 45 years of age.
The genesis of the English morning wed-
ding is said to be that “ our ancestors were, as a
rule, drunk after dinner, which was then at mid-
day. It was considered inexpedient for men to
marry when they were drunk.” In Australia,
people aren’t always so cautious. The other day a
certain gallant individual who had Just returned
from “the wars,” after prowling round a certain
public-house for a week or two, proposed to the
barmaid, and was accepted. The happy pair went
in company to the Registry-office and wanted the
knot tied right away, but the official objected on
the ground that the Intellect of the would-be
bridegroom was at the time much disordered by
soda-water and other thicks. Consequently, the
wedding did not take place. It was just as well,
for next day It suddenly struck the amorous one
that he d better look up his wife and four children
as soon as possible.
Re the mysterious Maxwell-Preller mur-
der, for which Maxwell was recently arrested at
Auckland, N Z , theS.F. Newsletter says:—‘The
latest theory about the Preller murder la that the
gentleman pot some other fellow to get murdered,
■o that his family could get SO.OCOdol. insurance
on his life. The idea evolves unusually brilliant
flashes of coruscation, scintillation and things.
The average American will hitch on and tie up to
the Idea of Insuring his life for all he can get, and
then putting some other carcass in a trunk. It is
a most skilful idea, and ought to be added to the
large number of privileges Issued by the Patent
Office in Washington. The only apparent trouble
is that after a man has collected 20,0G01ol. on
another fellow’s corpse, he has to stay dead, so to
speak, and perhaps depend on his mother-in-law
forkn equitable divy. This kinder throws cold
water on the scheme, but, with a reliable partner,
it ought to work seven days in the week.”
A venerable pedagogue somewhere in
Victoria has sent in to the Education Depart-
ment conscience money amounting to £35. In the
year 1863 he slipped up the Office by a dexterous
manipulation of returns to the extent of £4. Ad-
ding 10 per cent, interest he now gives £35. Go
forth, pedagogic soul, white and shining. But
wait. Many a poor long-haired man ciphered
away in the year 1863, and, though sorely pressed,
did not “ manipulate.” Take honour, but keep on
the other side of the street from these. Then,
again, don’t let your admirers make so much
noise. After all, you are a temptation to hard-up
men to “ manipulate.” You got off with the trick,
and so far from the ill-gotten notes being a
clog on your advancement the world and its goods
have thriven with you until you are able to act
now like a prince. Much poor honesty of 1863 is
underground without a tablet, without a news-
paper-paragraph, without any acknowledgement
that it ever had a conscience. Don’t let them
make too much noise over you, venerable peda-
gogue I
A deputation from both branches of the
legal profession in Melbourne waited upon Mr.
Service and Mr. Kerferd one day last week with
the object of obtaining an additional Supreme
Court Judge. The following very interesting
passage-at-arms is reported In the Aon:— Mr.
Kerferd said that it had been found necessary in
adjoining colonies to take authority to appoint
temporary judges. In New South wales. Judge
Wlndeyer was appointed in this way, and Mr.
Rogers, in Tasmania. Mr. Purves: ‘Would you
like to have a Judge Wlndeyer here ? * Mr. Ker
ferd: • I don’t say so.’ Mr. Purves: * He is one of
the worst Supreme Court Judges you could have »
Mr. Kerferd: ‘I am only discussing principles’"
There could not be a better illustration of the per.
sistent jealousy of this colony which actuates
Victorians. They know very well we would not
part with Judge Windeyer for any price, but
instead of recognising the fact, and bearing their
grief bravely, they, led by this bold barrister, imi-
tate the fox who could never climb up to the
grapes.
The people of Snake Gully (Victoria) had
a new sensation at their last tea-fight. The local
preacher had been wandering from Wesley’s
hymns and strayed among the advertisements of
the local paper. He often boasted that he never
read without “ bringing Andy something.” After
a speech, in which the swallowing by a colonial
swiper of a whole household of furniture was
graphically and ingeniously depicted, the preacher
made a powerful appeal to tne audience not to
fritter away their time or neglect their opportu-
nities; adding, “Remember, brothers and sisters
what the great poet, Dr. L L. Smith, tells you- '
“ 1 Lives of great men all remind us
We can make our lives sublime;
And, departing, leave behind us
Footprints on the sands of Time.’ ”
The younger branches of the Snake Gully famj.
lies, who had been to school, raised a shout of
laughter, which, however, was promptly sup-
pressed by a Scotch gentleman in the audience
who couldn’t see what there was in such beautiful
lines to make fun of. A few extracts from the
poet Smith’s blank-verse have been reserved by
Brother Jenkins for the next fuddle.
A Bohemian of the back-blocks thus writes
us:—“‘Are you a shee-wah ? Did you sheeah
heeah last yeeah ? Well, you don’t sheeah heeah
this yeeah I ’ This is a standing jokp, although few
know the real worth cf the man who first spoke
the words. He is now in a country where certainly
there are sheep, for do we not read of the drafting
out of the Angoras ? The reason of his ‘ down ’ on
shearers can be readily seen when you hear of the
little speech he made to the wool-chopners who
were signing the agreement: ‘Stand back, my
men—one at a time. I wost my gold wepeatah
this time last yeeah.’ Now, to show you what a
brick he was, I, »cotty the Wrinkler, junior, took
him up a fish (a 10lb. cod) which that blackguard
Sandy and I caught near the station. ‘ What a
beautiful fresh fish 1 What do you want for that,
my man ?’ With that tact that ‘ whaling ’ teaches,
I answered, ‘When I make a gentleman a present
of a fish, I don’t ask anything for It.’ ‘Ohl Hero’s
(err. gram.) five shillings for you, and the cook will
give you whatever rations you want.’ After he
had gone into the house, I made the old Derwenter
who was cook ‘ante-up ’ 501bs. flour, half a sheep,
Mbs. sugar, and 21bs. tea, but I never called again
at G during the life of ‘ Are You a Sheewah?’”
“ How Gordon died.” The 511th version
just to hand. Now, hasn’t the Christian martyr
had just about enough of deaths ? We are patient
and long-suffering, but this thing is gradually
wearing us out. We’ve had him stabbed, and
speared, and garotted, sufficient to satisfy any
decent man, and why in the name of reason doesn’t
be pass on while there’s enough of him left to hold
a pair of wings ? He might know that while he is
slinging round like this those newspaper corres-
pondents will whittle him up till he’s only fit for
boarding-house hash. No sooner is he drilled
through with a dozen spears, and we in our inno-
cence picture him attracting special attention in
the interminable. Whence, than along comes a
sore-eyed, scurvy Arab, with a disjointed four-
column narrative about the followers of the Mahdi
carting the white sahib into the interior, and then
making a great show of trenching his stomach
with a sword like a ploughshare. When we have
settled down to this version some meddling ass of
a correspondent chances on another unwashed
son of the sand, who has seen Gordon sliced up
like a cucumber, and portioned off among the
traitors. We have been bombarded with these
atrocities for the last month or so, and now we’re
getting angry over it. We want the question set-
tled so that we can get back to our work.
By the death of the Red Prince, remarks
an English paper, a notable, if not notorious,
figure is removed from German life. We do not
deny that he was a great soldier, but he was also
a drunken, brutal ruffian, so much so that bis wife
was compelled to live apart from him. His com-
paratively early death was due in a large measure
to his debauchery. It is said that he has left a
large fortune to his son, who is looking out for
an English Princess. The English Court has gone
into mourning for the dead warrior-glutton, who
is thus irreverently written of by a corres-
pondent:—“ Prince Frederick Charles was simply
a tun of mixed liquors. Beer, schnapps, cham-
pagne, and Rhine wine used to be imbibed by him
to excess ; alcoholic excesses broke down his
nervous system, brought out his native vices of
dissipation, rendered his body grossly corpulent,
and destroyed at the last his liver. Not long ago
his wife had to leave him, and wanted a divorce,
from him. When he had deVrium tremens her life
was not safe. The Emperor of Germany ordering
him to travel, he went to Egypt to see the field
of Lord Wolseley’s and the Duke of Connaught I
prowess. The hot, dry African climate Irritated
the unhealthy liver. When he returned corpu-
lence became a disease, and he went to Marienbad
to get rid of it. The waters there are not only
emaciating but very weakening. He was not
able to bear them, and returned to his residence
in Berlin the worse for the treatment. Old courses
were slipped into again. The cerebral blood-
vessels were not able to bear congestion, and gave
way. Paralysis ensued.”
Here’s a queer story, nearly as old as the
hills, perhaps, but not very well known for all
that. Years ago, when Sir John Young, of well-
loved memory, reigned at Government Houje,
Sydney, a certain foreign Consul, then newly-
arrived, attended one of his Excellency’s card-
parties. His success at loo was surprising, aid
so Impressed Lady Young that that not always
stiffly-conventional lady exclaimed, after an even
more than usually brilliant coup on the part of ner
visitor, ■* Well, you are aluckv c< gl ” The Consul
who understood but Utile English, was deeply
offended at being thus set down as a four-footea
beast; but on the idiom being explained, his auger
of course vanished, By-and-bye his luck left Dim
in favour of Lady Young; whereupon, anxious w
trot out his newly-acquired English colloquialism,
he (electrified the company by loudly exclaiming-
"Mon Dieu! your ladyship is a lucky (blana
Then there was a moment of terrible silence at®
dropping of jaws, broken at length by the bonsu
remarking: “ Yell, did not your ladyship callm®
a lucky dog; and Is not a (blank) a female deg-
Lady Young fairly screamed with laughter, a
unfortunate foreigner came to a dreadful en •
When the notorious Miranda arrived in Sydney n
ingratiated himself with the Consul, and got from
him certain introductions which ho used to soi
purpose In the carryfng out of his huge irau ■
The Consul, though quite unwittingly * n *“ e thB
tool of by Miranda, keenly felt his part
matter, and considered himself irretrievably
graced. His misfortune preyed upon his mi <
his health quite broke down, and one morning
was found dead upon the pavement in Macqmu
street, opposite Government House gates, na> -
thrown himself from the balcony of one oi
houses In the terrace at the corner.
Once upon a time, and that lime
very long ago, certain sections of t J )e .il_’dld
country Press used to extol, if. Indeed, taey
not go Into absolute ecstasies over, the carr
tomio eloquence of a certain brilliant.and ins
ous barrister, the last descendant in the or
of the Illustrious Frangipanis, and the pcs«
alike (according to the now-defunct Duoo
weekly classic) of the wit of Currani
forensic ability of Pere Lachaud. A good
current of this much-worshipped idol o M
bucolic double-demy. It was at horsc-
was defending a young man charged wltn do .
stealing, or something. Said he to tbe
“ Gentlemen, a picture comes before me oi » o(
embowered cottage nestling In a
the dear old land, where dwell the aged parenw^
the unfortunate prisoner at the bar. -tne 0 „
able father and mother of the y° u °£ tc*
whose behalf I confidently make to you
A HINT FOR LOVERS.
NEWLY-MARRIED COUPLES TRY AND HIDE THE RECENTNESS OP THEIR BLISS
FROM A CRUEL AND CYNICAL WORLD BY HIRING A TWO-YEAR-OLD BABY
BEFORE STARTING FOR THE HONEYMOON.
THE ALBUM NUISANCE.
<? F* NTTM F NT A L YOUNG PERSON: “AND, BY-THE-BYB, MR. DASHER, HERE IS MY
ai itrr\r wont you take ir and dash off something clever in it—a
rnru A ANYTHING I KNOW YOGR TIME IS VERY VALU-
ABLE,' BE SO DELIGHTED TO HAVE
SOMETHING OF YOURS ”
MB D • “AH-YES-THANKS. CLEVER-YES-THANKS-NOT AT ALL. ®[ME IS OF NO
VALUE TO MB. FEEL HONOURED, AND-AH-THAT IS—BUT— AH-WILL LOU
ALLOW MB TO SEND A VAN FOR THE ALBUM TO-MORROW?”


AND C. HUENER E
318 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
N,
m
A NEW BOOK.
Containing: over 250 Tricks
AND DELUSIONS WITH CARDS, DICE,
AND CONJURING APPARATUS.
Illustrated with blocks and diagrrams, fully ex-
plain d, simplified, and adapted for home amuse-
ment and social entertainments, forming: the most
complete collection of Its kind ever offered to the
Australian public. Mailed free to any address
ONE SHILLING.
THE WIZARD’S CHANGEABLE CARDS.
These cards change from Red to Black, from
eights to deuces and back again at the pleasure of
the performer, and elicit exclamations of wonder
and surprise from all who witness them. Post
free, with full instructions, Is, 2d.
THE YANKEE RUBBER BABY.
Goes in the waistcoat pocket, yet can be instantly
blown out to life size; screams awfully if smacked.
Even experienced fathers are deceived by these
laughter-producing infants, and no home can be a
really happy one without their cheering presence
Price, post free, Is.
Cut this advertisement out and post it to us, en-
closing 2s. in postage stamps, naming this paper,
and we will send you by return post,
THE BOOKS, CARDS, AND BABY.
Address all communications:
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT,
401 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DR. BRIGHT’S FHOSFHODYNE
Che only Reliable Remedy for Mental ana Physical
Depression, Nervous, Debility, Incapacity for
Study, Loss o f Energy Sick Headache, Indigestion,
Female Complaints, Premature Decline, and is a
marvellous medicine for renovating impaired and
broken-down constitutions. It operates on the
system without exciting care or thought unon the
individual as to the process. It moves the lungs,
liver, heart, kidney, stomach, and intestines, with
i harmony, vigour, yet mildness unparalleled in
medicine, and is the most powerful blood purifier
bf the present day. Sold by all chemists.
Agents— Elliott Bros.
TO Country Journalists.—Leaders, Telegrams,
and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man of long experience, on moderate
terms. “ Beta,” Bulletin Office.
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£5 DRAPERY UU!!
PACKED In CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
Carriage paid by mail all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
€5 WINTER RALE.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 Large Marcella Quilt
10 yards good Sheet b g
20 yards Strorg Calico
13 Strong t btton Tick
20 Wincey Dress Tweed
10good Welsh Flannel
0 yds. Strapping Tweed
All the above are gocd
wearing articles.
FREE SELECTORS’
BALE.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 White or Colored Quilt
5 yards Strong Sheeting
10 White or Unbleached
Calico
0 White or Red Flannel
13 yards Dress Material
13 yds. Cotton Shirtings
4 pair Good Stockings
1 pair Strong Stays
1 dark Petticoat
0 Strong Gambroon
0 Brown Holland
4 Large White Towels
3 yards Good Trousers
Tweed, Buttons,
Threads, &c.
MEN’S CLOTHING
BALE,
1 Suit Tweed — Coat,
Trouseis, and Vest
3 Crimean Shirts, large
size
3 Best Cotton Shirts,
large size
I Best Felt Hat, any size
6 pairs Strong Cotton
8 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or Pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, Ac.
*5 LADY’S BALE.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
0 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children's Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
For accouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant's Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
bo happy to forward patterns of tbo most fashion-
able dress materials-Silks, Velvets, &o.—with
prices, and full instruction for self-measurement,
if applied to.
The £5 Bale system has b?en in operation for 13
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
S YD N ELY
IMPORTERS 0FALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES. 1
fcy THE LARGEST AND ONLY LEGITIMATE
TIME-PAYMENT FURNITURE WARE-
HOUSE IN THE COLONY,
365 PITT STREET.
TEETH
(COMPLETE SET),
£5
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
&
DENTIST,
MARKET STREET,
One door from Goorge-atrcct.
VlBREllM
OTUDT BCONOM J
O and
HaveyourU mbreila Framei
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and mad>
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts
Parasols made to match cos
t antes Repairs neatly exe-
cuted
oo
CS2
UNIQUE FLA.VOUK and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wilson’s Ame-
rican “ Ertra Toast ” BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, suneib with wine, and iocomparible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Etheet, Sydney.
71
%
ti9%rci
&
&
a
%
SS
&
*fr*
W>
k.
yp.
w*
*•
o
/'.•
o
iS
/
3
s
*<£
<?
f
3s l
in
MAN
m
J
3URY.BUXT0M&C-
ENGLISH ALES
Burfon-on-TrenK
CO
URN
MUNZER^
FthJRNiSSEuRS OE 5 M
Border
If
>c
Si
J5»
uf
>
?
m
IM
wi>fWJ'iwg
absoiv);
OHNt
ZUbAlf
Messrs. HILT & CO/S Wilt ul Stint Stun ui tjtitit!
CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
London Agents: Messrs. Arthur Allt & Co., Wormwood Chambers, Wormwood-street, J3.C.
The Freeman's Journal says that 650
Maoris were, the other day, confirmed at Hokianga,
N Z„ by Dr. M'Donald, a B.C. Boclesiastic.
There are very few tradesmen who settle
down in Melbourne without joining a Trade
Society. The persuasions of the members of the
Society are generally too hard to resist. Two
gentlemen belonging to the guild of Tinsmiths
were lately charged at the District Court with
over-zealous proselytism by one Joseph Orton, a
tinsmith not in the guild. According to the state-
ment of the latter, they threatened to “ knock his
nose off, cut his throat, and drown him,” because
he would not become a convert to their views. It
seemed to be his belief that they would have done
all three if they had not been interrupted. They
were let loose on society with a caution. The
principle upon which these trades-unionists act
with regard to those outside their unions, seems to
be “Come in here and be protected, or we’ll in-
jure you beyond recognition.”
Many petitions have been presented to the
Victorian Parliament in favour of the new Licens-
ing Bill, but the only sect which has come forward
and boldly indentltled Itself with these is the
Wesleyan sect. No less than twenty-six petitions,
from twenty-six different Wesleyan congregations,
were laid before the House one night last week.
But these noble zoedone assimilators want much
more than is contained in the Bill. They want-
tor high moral reasons—no compensation to be
given to the publicans who will be deprived of
licenses if the Bill becomes law, and they set their
bilious faces agaicSi: the employment of bar-
maids. We should have thougnt that! heir virtue
would have been in no danger from the beguilc-
ments of barmaids, but there it seems we would
have been wrong. Even the godly, it appears, are
liable to fall. We have had a pretty large
experience of publicans, and we do not think that,
as a class, they aie much too good for this woil ',
but we co not think the majority of them would
lose much morally by comparison with most of the
local preachers we have met. And this is saying
about as lltlie for the publicans as wo can well say
without saying nothing. If these whey-blooded
petitioners have their way, no man will be able to
take his ease in his inn without running the risk of
being hustled off to the gaol or the lunatic asylum,
and the tea-tighter and mullin-worrier will reign
alone in the land. Well, we can stand it. Our
withers are unwrung.
Just give Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour a trial
when you are next cooking.
Thousands of physicians and analysts have
certified to the purity of Wolfe’s Schnapps,
flour stomach, sick headache, and dizziness,
American Co.’s Hop Bitters cures with a few doses
day an appeal which, founded on my belief
in his absolute probity and innocence, cannot
but find an echo in the breasts of twelve
gentlemen upon whose faces I see stamped a
Divine sympathy with suffering though perse-
cuted virtue, and an unswerving devotion to the
noblest principles of British justice-those vener-
able parents stand upon a lofty cliff overlooking
the wnite surges of the mighty Atlantic, in the
far h rlzon, the rays of the sinking sun shine
bright upon the white sails of the ship which now,
in the ghostly distance, is heading for their island
home, and should restore to them the long-absent
ann who has striven for fortune in this foreign
land. Gentlemen ’ [At this point the governor
of the local gaol stepped forward and informed the
Court that the parents of the prisoner weren’t by
any means gazing on the white surges of the
mighty Atlantic, but were safely under lock and
key in Bathurst gaol, next door to the Court/] The
story, as added to by a member of the Bar, goes on
to say that the jury having ‘‘in one act ” con-
victed the prisoner, the Judge proceeded to pass
sentence, and remarked that the eloquent ad-
dress of the learned counsel had stirred up
in his breast so profound a feeling of sympathy
that he would take much pleasure in restoring the
long-lost horse-annexing child to the bosom of the
sorrowing parents in the ancestral mansion with
the high wall-where, undisturbed by the cynicism
of a callous world, they could, in the intervals of
hard labour, commune in harmony for the maxi-
mum period provided by the Statute, But now
we see that an advocate, on whom, apparently,
has fallen the mantle of the dead Aspinall, has
settled amongst us, and that his abilities are
attracting the attention of a most Intellectual
section of the Press We read in the Sydney
Freeman s Journal:— “ Mr. Moriarty, the bar-
rister, who came lately from the old country, has
evidently been distinguishing himself at Glen
Innes. The local paper says that Mr. Moriarty
delivered a brilliant speech in defence of the un-
fortunate young man Wheeler, who was tried at
the Quarter Sessions. The tight from the first was
hopeless; nevertheless the counsel battled man-
fully, and delivered the most powerful speech
ever heard in the Glen lanes Courthouse. The
Judge praised the defence in high terms. As a
special compliment, a number of influential resi-
dents entertained Mr. Moriarty at a champagne
dinner at Tattersall’s Hotel. Mr. Kinsella, one of
the company, expressed the pleasure he had felt
that day in listening to his stirring eloquence. It
was similar eloquence, in long bygone days, that
made the name of Ireland and Irishmen ring
throughout Europe.” While cordially felicitating
the talented Mr. Moriarty on this no doubt spon-
taneous tribute to his genius, we must express our
deep regret that any member of the junior Bar
should have ventured on trying to "jump” the
pedestal which has so long been adorned by that
not less gifted orator, Mr. David Buchanan. It is
horrible to think that one day we may have a
Book of “ Flowers of Australian Oratory ’ ’ by Mr.
Moriarty, from Ireland,
That Banner.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Did he fold the banner round his manly breast.
Scorning from a conquering foe to fly ?
Did he sink down proudly to a soldier’s rest,
Dying as a soldier ought to die ?
Was be gallant soldier, honourable man ?
Did he fight the fight with courage high ?
Did he keep the banner ever In the van
Flying as a banner ought to fly ?
Did they raise above him, soldier’s simple grave,
Bough-hewn wooden cross and wild-flower
wrG&th ?
Showing how they love him, comrade true and
brave.
E’en the noble dust that lies beneath.
Will they tell his story In the future days ?
Will they keep his mem’ry ever bright ?
Will the lamp of glory shed its softened rays,
Lighting up the hero’s endless night ?
Scarlet tunic folded round his manly breast.
Like a red rag Satan to defy;
Badge of conquering army on his haughty crest,
Martial ardour in his rolling eye.
Standard-bearer is he of the mighty men
Marshalled ’neath his banner blue and gold;
From his great height dizzy, ’xactly four feet ten,
Proudly looks on us, without the fold.
Earnest motley circle, cold and stormy night,
In a sheltered corner of the street;
Flickering on their faces ghostly, fitful light,
Noses blue and chilly hands and feet,
Preaching to a little crowd of larrikins
(Water thrown on legendary duck).
Warning them to fly from follies and from sins
(Which they might if only they had luck).
Comes along a bobby from the Bmerald Isle,
Makes him mad to see the rival blue;
In he runs the banner, saying, with a smile,
“ Bather think the charge-sheet will be true.”
Fine of forty shillings, or a month in “ quod,”
Is the sentence passed upon the banner;
Says the “ beak,” “ You’re charged with having
worshipped God
In a very ' righteous ’ manner.”
EX-CAPTAIN WILL SYKES
(His Original Karacter).


THE SYDNEY BICYCLE CLUB.
FOURTH ANNUAL INTERCOLONIAL AMA-
TEUR CHAMPION BICYCLE AND TRICYCLE
RACE MEETING.
Under the patronage and rules of the New South
Wales ’Cyclists Union.
To be held at the
N.8.W. CRICKET ASSOCIATION GROUND,
Moore Park, Sydney, N.8.W.,
SATURDAY, 23nd AUGUST, 1885.
PROGRAMME:
1. One-mile Bicycle Championship of N.S.W.—
Special Club Trophy
3. Ten-miles Bicycle Championship of N.S.W.—
Gardiner Cup
3. One-mile Bicycie Handicap , .. ,
4. Three-miles Biiycle Handicap—The Ladies
Competitors In this race must be nominated by
ladies.
5. One-mile Bicycle Handicap, for Malden Riders
only
This race to be ridden on Roadster Bicycles.
Minimum weight, 351bs.
6. Two-miles Tricycle Handicap
GOLD MEDAL FOR FIRST SCRATCH IN
PAST THE POST. IN ADDITION TO THE
THREE PRIZES ALLOTTED TO THE HANDI-
CAP; ANY COMPETITOR ALLOT! ED A ST * KT
T» BE AT LIBERTY TO GO FROM THK
SCRATCH MARK IF HE CHOO KS.
THREE PRIZES IN EACH EVENT.
ENTRIES CLOSE AUGUST 10, AT 0 O'CLOCK
P.M , AT CLUB ROOMS.
7. 150 Yards Handicap Foot Race
8. 440 Yards Handicap Fort Race
9. Parade—Prize, Silver Bugle, for the Club ex-
celling in appearance and ma -oeuvres.
All events opeu to all amateurs.
E. H. McRaE,
Honorary Secretary.
All communications and enquiries to he ad-
dressed to, and entry forms obiMined Iron, the
Club Clerk, J. Copland, at the Club Rooms ai d
Headquarters, 85 Market-stree t, Sydney, N S W.
iET Oil!
Intending Investors ate invited to make early
application for tickets, «s the Drawing wi.ltake
Elace at an early date. Remittances may be mad©
y cheque, P.O.O.. or stamns. Agents for New
South Wales—SULLIVAN & JACKSON, 143 King-
Street, Sydney.
MECHANICS’ INSTITUTE.
GRAND ART UNION.
In rrlct accordance with the Act.
VALUE
FIRST FIRST
PRIZE dbOUU. PRIZE.
SECOND PRIZE, £200.
THIRD PRIZE. £100.
4 prizes, value £50 each. 100 prizes, value £5 each.
4 „ ., £35 each. 550 „ ,. £1 each,
40 „ „ £10 each. 300 .. 10s. each,
1000 PRIZES 1 1000 PUlZEf I
10,000 TICKETS at 10s. each, obtainable at most
business places m the colony.
N.B.—In proof of the value of the above, the
Committee undertake to tlnd purchasers for the
various nriz s at the prices named, and to hand the
winner full amount In cash, less 10 per cent, for
commission.
The drawing to take place In August, under the
supervision of the Mayorand Councillors of Eagle-
hawk and a Committee of Shareholders
T. H. TAYLOR,
Managing Secretary.
Bull-Street, Sandhurst, and
Mechanics' Institute. Eaglehawk.
SULLIVAN & J ACKSON, Agents.
Vaughan Chambers, 143 King-street, Sydney.
“THE LYCEUM,”
Newcastle,
SITUATED IN THE BEST PART OF THE CITA.
It is capable of seating 500 people,
and suitable fur
MUSICAL & DRAMATIC ENTERTAINMENTS.
The Stage (40ft. by 34ft.) is furniched with
STOCK, SCENERY, &c.
For Terms, apply
COLIN CHRISTIE,
"The Lyceum,”
Newcastle.
ODDFELLOWS’ HALL,
Goulbobn.
HIS Theatre, one of the best in the colony, Is
open for Engagement. Particulars from
M. K. PULLEN. Hall Secretary.
ALC0CK&CO.’S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS:
375 George-sL, Sydney.
tr TIME PAYMENTS, IF UEgUIREP
XjOda.-3D3a.TJ. dz Jc.
3-8tar 10-Years’ Old Whiskies. The Oldest, Purest, and Most Mellow imported. GOLD MEDALS—Cal
outta, N.Z. and 8. and W. Australia. HOLLAND & CO.’S OLD TOM GIN. G. H ADAMS. 119 Pitt-
street, Sydney ; and at Melbourne. Adelaide, and Brisbane, Agent. Kirker, Greer, & Co. (Ld )
m
lQANI
r
WAREHOUSES, SYDNEY,
Hit Dm hid Lou mi Mercantile ijsttj Compasy
(LIMITED),
HE LD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
... LONDON.
Capital - - £3,500,000.
THIS COMPANY WILL CONTINUE TO DISPLAY AND SELL
WOOL!
ON THE MELBOURNE SYSTEM,
At their Magnificent Warehouses,
BEID&E STREET.
ET EVERY LOT WILL RE CAREFULLY VALUED, AND SPECIAL ATTENTION WILL BE
BESTOWED UPON SMALL FARMERS- PARCELS, WHICH WILL BE PLACED ON A FOOTING
OF EQUALITY WITH THE LARGE CLIPS.
If reserves are not reached, the nominal charge of one shilling per bale only will be made.
WOOL SALES, EVERY FRIDAY. SHEEPSKINS, EVERY TUESDAY, HIDE?, EVERY FRIDAY.
Way Bills and all information can be obtained on application, or will be sent by return of post.
Sydney Wool and Grain Warehouses,
H. H. LANG, Produce Manager.
THE SYDNEY SPORTS
DEPOT.
389 GEORGE-STRBET SYDNEY
(Opposite Royal Hotel.)
BICYCLES^ICYCLES.
OUR
1885 Pattern Bicycles
and Tricycles
Have Every Improvement.
OUR SPECIALITY
New Cheap Roadster.
CLUB
THE
UNIVERSAL
BICYCLE,
1885 Universal Club, a thoroughly reliable and easy-running
machine. Ball bearings to both w heels, and improvements.
fitted with Improved Ball Bear-
ings to front and back wheels.
Hollow Forks, Patent Head and
Detachable Bent Handle Bar,
Easy Slide Spring, Hubs Plated,
Black Enamelled Spokes,
Price, £513 lOs. At the price
we defy competition.
JAMES MARTIN & COMPANY, 389 Georga-st., Sydney.
X3©liaTbl©
A
\
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE A MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OP CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons,
jgp- BEST manufactured articles only kept in stock.
um.r.TAM FLEMING*-, Merchant A Importer
22 & 24 Olarenoe-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
Professional Directory.
G
BORGE PER HMAN. Scene Painter, Theatre
1 Royal. Bri 1 ane. Disengaged.
A L
fTJ H B A T R B R O T
I Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Mubobove.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
Overture at 8 sharp.
PERFECT SUCCESS j IOLANTHB
PERFECT SUCCESS V of < 'OLA.NTHB
PERFECT SUCCESS \ ( IOLANTHE
The Libretto by The Music composed by
W. 8. Gilbert, Esq. Sir Arthur Sullivan.
ana interpreted by
WILLIAMSON. GARNER, MUSGROVES
ROVAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
IOLANTHE; or. THE PttER and THE PERI.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, at 8 o clock.
Prices of Admission: Dress Circle 5s.; Stalls, ds.,
Family Circle, 3a. , . „
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway s
Box plan open at. theatre from 11 till 4. No free
list. Doors open at" 15. Carriages at 10 50.
New opera house.
Under the Lesseeship and Management of
MAJERONI and WILSON.
TO-NIGHT and Every Evening,
THE GHKATEiT SDCCES3 OF THE SEASON
The Greatest Success of the Season
MIXED MIXED MIXED MIXED
MIXED MIXED MIXED MIXED
MIXED MIXED MIXED MIXED
A Farcical Comedy In 3 acts, adapted by w. 8.
Craven, and produced by the best Comedy
Company ever organised in the colonies,
including , _
Mr. Philip Day. Mr. H. N. Douglass. Mr. W. S.
Craven, Mr. J. C. Joyce. Mr. Charles Seagraves,
and
Miss Helene Valence, Miss Docy Mainwaring, Miss
Amy Horton, Miss Jennie Gwynne.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Huenerbein s Music
Warehouse, 318 George-street. Tickets for all parts
of the house may be obtained at Roberta , tobac-
conlst, next theatre. Carriages at 10.30.
SATURDAY, August 15,
MARRIED LIFE
G
A I B T Y
T H E A T RBI
Lessee Mr. B.N. Jones. Treasurer Mr. H.Musgrove
Doors open at 7.30. Overture at8. Carriages at 10.15
No Free List-Public Press excepted.
SPECIAL COMEDY SEASON,
under the direction of
Messrs. WILLIAMSON, GARNER, & MUSOROVE
Success most legitimate of the young English
comedian, Mr. FRANK THORNTON.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY,
Mr. Prank Thornton ai the Rev. Robert Spalding
A SPECIALLY-SELECTED COMEDY COMPANY
The furniture and appointments from Hamilton’s
Globe Furniture Depot, Park-street.
Admission—Parquette Stalls, 53.: Stalls, 33.; Bal-
cony, 8j. Box plan at Nicholson’s Music Ware-
house, George-street.
General Business Manager, Mr. H. R. Habwood.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager.. F. C. Hlsoooks.
Mr. HI8COCKS has much pleasure in announcing
THE ARRIVAL OF
AMERICA’S BRIGHTEST STAR*,
The LEON and CUSHMAN COMBINATION,
who will make their llrst appearance, In conjunc-
tion with the
FEDERAL MINSTRELS,
on MONDAY EVENING NEXT, August 17th,
forming the strongest and best array of talent in
the world.
HALL.
THE ALHAMBRA MUSIC
George street, Hay market.
[lessee and Director ... ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Unparalleled success of the
ALHAMBRA VARIETY COMPANY.
Pronounced by the press and public the most
refined Entertainment given In Sydney. Free list
sntirely suspended No half-priee. The only oom-
tortable hall in Sydney.
TO-NIGHT TO-NIGHT.
Mr, and Mrs. B. A. HART,
and
Miss LOUISE HART,
in the new and sparkling Comedy,
MY WIFE S RELATIONS.
Part II.-OLIO.
Terminating with the Soreamlng Farce,
THE PATENT EJECTOR.
Gentlemen ushers in attendance.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 33; stalls, Is;
aaiconey, Is. _
CHAS. AUSTIN, Business Manager.
Artists of acknowledged ability disengaged,
please communicate with Mr. Smith.
lyTASONIO HALL, YORK STREET.
INSTANTANEOUS SUCCESS
’ of
MILLIS, the MONARCH VENTRILOQUIST.
■FOR THRE8 NIGHTS ONLY.
Material Changes of Programme each evening.
NEW -ONGS. NEW WITTICISMS.
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, at 3. p.m..
MATINEE tor SCHOOLS and FAMILIES.
Miss Annetta Scar!
SAVING rested her voice for six months, after
a long and successful tour through New
oaland. would be happy to
RESUME HER PROFESSIONAL DUTIES ON
THE STAGE ONCE MORE.
Line of Business Opera Bouffe, Concerts,
Burlesques,
rausi-
a
This young lady artiste, being an eminent mui
olan, would have no objection to travel with
first-class company as Pianist.
All theatrical managers please address letters,
for the present. Post Office, Young.
U
G
B
E.
£100
SHEFFIELD HANDICAP
and
GOLD TROPHY, value £5 5s,
£100
Presented by the Proprietors
of the l, . 4
“ Mudgee Independent.”
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1885.
To be Run off at the New Showground, Mudgee.
Under the Management of a Local Committee.
First prize, £70 and Gold Trophy, value £5 5s.
resented by the Proprietors of the Mudgee
idependent”) : Second, £15 ; Third, £10 ; Fourth,
j. Distance, 150 yards.
Open to every ped. in the world.
Nominations, accompanied by the necessary fee,
> reach the Hon. Secretary at Mudgee on or
efore WEDNESDAY, August 13
Handicaps to be declared on or before WBD-
ESDAY, August 19.
Acceptances to close on TUESDAY, September 1.
NOMINATION, £1. ACCEPTANCE, 10s.
A LONG-DISTANCE RACE, CONSOLATION
STAKES HANDICAP, and other Races will also
take y lace.
GEORGE A. MOSS, Hon. See.
•‘Independent'’ Office, Mudgee.


V
W THIRTY SHILLINGS.
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
, triumph of musical invention is acknow-
I . lodged on all bands to be the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It is a wonderful little instrument, which, while
it weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL-SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and executes its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 33 reeds, plays in three keys, and all the
parts of most difficult music.
To Mr. H. B. Horton, the inventor, the world
was first indebted for the Organette; but that was
too expensive to come within the reach of all.
After years of persistent effort and intelligent
study, ho has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of cost and crudeness.
It requires no skill t® extract from it any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas, Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, &o , &c., &c. A child can
play any of these selections with perfect accuracy.
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that are seat with each
instrument, and are so plain that “ he who runs
may read.” It is best adapted to the kind of music
which suits an organ best, in which chords pre-
dominate ; but it has also wonderful power in
executing very lively pieces. It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card-holder for convenience
in singing. It will bo found invaluable for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and
for Dancing. Every shanty in the bush should be
supplied with one ; and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autophone. It will afford greater and better
entertainment than four times the price can pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Sole Agents for this marvel-
ous little instrument in the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
OF
474 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughput the colonies. Orders have
come to us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonely
shepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the citles-from
everywhere, in fact. And one of the best argu-
ments we can effer as to the genuineness of the
instrument, is the fact that, in all our corre-
spondence, we have never bad a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they will recommend it
to their friends.
It is conceded by all educators and moralists
that music is the great refining inlluence, and
especially with children its effect for good is
boundless. The love for music which music in
the family engenders, is more potent in forming
disposition and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, rnd parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm which renders an other
wise hard task an easy one.
The price of the Autophone Is SOs.,
and where good music can be procured for such a
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
bo without it. With each for 30s. we
send three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
All orders for music are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it our
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogues of tunes at any time.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Sole Agents for Australia:
Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-street, Sydney, 474
Opposite entrance to Fruit Markets.
Judge Windeyer explains his recent action
re the Dailey nomination to the University Senate
In the Sydney D.T. This is the first time in the
last three decades that a Judge has chosen any
other organ than our venerable contemporary the
Sydney Morning Herald for the purpose of
• putting in its proper light his action in any official
matter.
The state to which professional rowing has
fallen in England may be gathered from the fact
that George Bubear, recently champion sculler,
and considered by some to have a chance of re-
gaining] Britain’s lost prestige on the water, has
just repiled to a sculling challenge by a counter-
offer to play his would-be opponent at skittles for
£2-> aside, alleging that he has no time to train for
such a thing as sculling.
The premises are a lot too small to do
justice to the grand stock kept, and often novelties
are lost sight of in the multitude of beauties. The
latest speciality is the Combination Dinner and
Tea Set at 80s , only obtainable at Bray Bros , 403
apd 404 George-street.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
theatre Rotal-"lolanthe”... p. 8
opera House—" Mixed ”... ,,
Gaiety Theatre—" The Private Secretary ” „
olp Masonic Hall— Millis’Entertainment.. „
Alhambra— “My Wife’s Relations”
Academy of Music-" Minstrels ” „
Fred Millis, the Monarch Ventriloquist,
ond several other things, has the old Masonic Hall
(Sydney) during the present week. He began on
Monday last to an effusive crowd. It is nearly two
years since he was last here, but even before his
•‘rag” was hoisted, there was hilarity in the hall, and
. irurgle In the gallery. And when the mannikins
were introduced, the noise was like that of the Sou-
dan banqueters when the cup that cheers had been
thrice filled with the seething stagger-juice. Frede-
rick is funnier than Farnell, but we would hesitate
to say that his jokes overlap Harry Levien’sGosford
Performance. He is still devoid of whiskers, nor
can we wonder at this. That comprehensive,
to be-continued-in-our-next, annual smile, which,
like an Atlantic billow, perpetually rolls over his
ocean of cheek, must ever prevent the growth of
those virile adornments. What we admired
most in the second part of the perform-
ance was the intensely natural way in which he
fondled and nursed the baby. Whether he
is the parient of not less than 10 children, or
whether he spent some years as nurse at a baby-
farming establishment, we know not, but one or
the other alternative must be the case. Oh, and
ve8 his impersonation of the Dutch girl was im-
mense, but from the length, or perhaps shortness
of his skirts, we had no fear of his drapery catch-
ing fire from the footlights. Having said so much,
we would like to hint, that the first part of the
performance is much before the second, a remark
which may be taken in several ways, and is true in
each> * * « *
“ lolanthe” is the success of the season}
This is not to be wondered at considering what it has
to recommend it. There is no intimation yet as to
when it will be withdrawn. The last few nights
of "Mixed,” at Sydney Opera House, are advertised.
>• Married Lite” follows it on Saturday night—not
before it was time. “ Mixed” has been a killing
" frost,” which not all the ability of Phil Day
could thaw. “ Phil ” is about to leave us after a
sojourn of two years. His parting benefit is an-
nounced for next Thursday, 30th, when we hope
to see a scramble for seats. At the Gaiety, “ The
Private Secretary” keeps the public amused, and
the trumivirates’ pockets stuffed. And Remenyi
is coming amongst us again with a series of fare-
well concerts.
* * « «
The last time we saw Dion Boucioault in
the old country he affected jet black hair and a
quizzing glass—a large obtrusive Instrument of
the "penny pane” species. Since then the erst-
while raven locks have become even as the drifted
snow, and the pane has taken unto itself a partner,
and developed into a gold-rimmed pince-nez. The
transformation though is only "off.” On the
stage the author-actor-patrlot is the same old—or
Soung— Dion as of yore. Bouci. is doing big biz. in
lelbourne, and judging from the nightly battles
at the Royal pay boxes, and the high-toned aspect
of the circle, Williamson and his brethren must
be in the enjoyment of pure managerial bliss just
now. When the great man rolled on as Conn the
Shaughraun, our heart went out to him, and big,
bitter tears rose unhidden in our eyes at the
thought that he couldn’t live for ever. Yet we
have seen Conns who drove us to despair, because
they didn’t die in the first act and make that wake
a real, solid, matter of necessity. Yes, there’s a
wonderful difference in human nature—especially
among Irish comedians. Dion inspires us with a
love for the down-throdden counthry, and a lot of
the others set us sharpening our axe.
* * *
These, however, are but reveries. Dion’s
new play, "The Jilt,” followed "The Shaugh-
raun,’’ and “The Colleen Bawn”—the first parent
of “ sensational drama is the third oflthe Boucl-
cault series. He must have been a mere child
— certainly not much more than 40 years of
age-when he first sprang “The Colleen Bawn”
upon a surprised public, but it was an excel-
lent production for a juvenile, and we fancy-
only fancy, mind—that it will bring more Austra-
lian grist to the mill than “ The Jilt,” written and
produced when its author is, as he modestly puts
it. in the “ very zenith ” of his powers. However,
weather permitting, you shall see for yourselves.
You shall delight in Dion senior, rejoice in Dion
junior, and—well as regards Dion fils, it’s hard to
say what you will do. Fellows do such strange
things under the influence of Cupid, you know.
The Melbourne bank clerks, for Instance, are part-
ing their hair 13 times a day, and giving tithes of
all that they possess for bear’s grease and jockey
club. Gove and perfume are Inseparable. But
one word of advice. When you go to see Miss
Boucioault, put a bouquet in your pocket, and
leave your heart on the piano.
* * * *
George Darrell’s light hardly shone with
its wonted brilliancy during his late season in Mel-
bourne He played his own dramas, too. It wasn’t
as though ho had brought out a new and risky
Production of Shakespeare’s—then we could have
understood George’s thin houses. For they wore
occasionally very thin. A man might have gone i nto
the dress-circle at the Bijou one night when “ The
Squatter” was being played—a man miaht almost
have gone into the dress circle, we repeat (no one
Jfid’, and cut his throat without the crime be-
log discovered until the attendants came round
with a duster next day. It’s hard to say why
The Squatter” didn’t "gee.” The title was fetch-
ing enough, and the cast was composed mainly
°f 'native talent,” and George Darrell played the
chief part of the business himself—yet it did
not succeed as we have seen George succeed.
George is a leetle too beautiful for a squatter,
Perhaps. He certainly doesn’t walk like one, nor
talk like one, and in these days of realism people
*aat a man to fulfil the playbill in every particu-
lar. George did that in all save the walking and
jaiking. By-the-way, an idea strikes us here.
Back from the G rave ” is one of George's. Sup-
pose, now, he were to look a trifle beyond the
fftave and give us a new spectacular drama of
■the Crack of Doom I”
Dear Peg,—" Read me a riddle, I prithee: Why
should Academic honours fit so neatly, sit so
lightly, on masculine shoulders, while our ‘sweet
girl graduates ’ wear theirs so consciously ? In
the man we only detect such distinctions in
his greater refinement of voice, his sort
of ‘classical accuracy’ that peeps out even in
his ballroom conversation; his wider range
of thoughts—the broad margin of reason that
would sift the grain from the chaff before
drawing a conclusion; would have ‘fair-play’
as a motive power in the tangled paths of
life. In the woman, how different 1 It is an aroma
that ‘ penetrates, permeates, and percolates ’ her
whole being; flows over and is absorbed into all
her surroundings, forming a halo of tangible learn-
ing that finds additional strength in her lank
unkempt hair, her eccentric dress—here a button
wanting, there a soiled ruff; in her dreamy, intro-
spective eye peering through that modern defor-
mity, spectacles. Above all, in the ‘ stand back,
I am holier than thou ’ manner with which she
treats her less-favoured (?) sisters.”
Thus reads your last letter; and I, drawing a
deep breath, faintly gasp: “ What evil have I done
to deserve this calamity ?” I who would worship
with equal reverence a soft furry white hood or a
deep cardinal one 1 Dear Peg, your question
comes with a crushing sense of annihilation, for I
have just come upon a passage upon “ Ourselves,”
wherein the author theorises bitterly upon our
lack of balance. She says: "The first fault or
folly of us women towards men and common-
sense, this endeavour of ours to dwarf the mascu-
line life down to the standard of the feminine one,
to narrow under the name of refining, to weaken
and call it purification, to interfere by tb e
euphemism of influence. Our second fault is com-
prised in our excessive frivolity, our insane ad-
herence to fash ion, and our habit of judging by
the mere outside of things.” Pleasant types of
ideal womanhood are both yours and hers I Bother
your moral reflections I Thank goodness, there's
plenty of room for real earnest life between. Your
problem is beyond me, so it shall be duly laid be-
fore our grave senators, and they will solve the
mystery to your entire satisfaction. But, by way
of punishment for your share of a theory you
want to evolve, and cannot see how, I shall plunge
you straight away into descriptions of the foamiest
frivol I can think of I
Sydney is gradually working up to its climax,
race week, with the Australian Club ball at one
end, and the Union Club Bachelors’ at the other.
But the fun is by no means fast and furious yet.
This week we have prattled gaily over two parties*
a musical evening, and the Royal Naval Sports at
the Association Ground on Thursday afternoon.
These sports are a new feature in Sydney life, and
are got up entirely by the officers and men of the
war ships in the harbour now, who invite their
friends by cards of invitation, so that there is no
fear of “ mixing with the vulgar herd ’’ to a crush-
ing degree, although the invitations are so delight-
fully elastic—" So-and-so and party ’’—that it is a
field-day for npt-out maidens, growing juveniles,
and pretty babies with prettier frocks.
Thursday was a delightful day, bright and clear,
with just that suspicion of warmth which tells us
July’s rawest days are past and Spring is close
upon us. By 3 o’clock there was a goodly muster
on lawn and stand of society’s crime de la crime,
arrayed In best bib and tucker, greeting acquaint-
ances, chatting in groups, or promenading the
lawn, all quite ready to be amused or interested in
tbe failure or success of the sailor athletes. The
most amusing events came late in the afternoon—
the obstacle and wheelbarrow races. In the ob-
stacle, the man who first crept under a foot-high
board: wriggled through canvass tubes, like
bolster-cases Tong drawn out and fastened to the
ground by pegs: jumped a brush fence with a
wide pool beyond, into which they all fell, and
emerged dripping to crawl through some barrels
suspended from abeam, filled with coloured pow-
der and having the ends tied up with paper; then
on, dirty, dripping, and panting, to scale a wall of
unsubstantial canvas thrown over a beam 30 feet
high or more, all in the space of half a field;
finally through barrels lying on the ground at in-
tervals till the winning-post was reached-to that
long-enduring man was accorded all honor and
praise. How we laughed to see them wriggling
pell-mell through the canvas tubes, or tailing
helplessly into the water; and how we did not
envy them their toil! They looked such fine,
clean, jolly Jack-Tars in the beginning, such be-
grimed, dilapidated creatures in the end I Of
course the Admiral was there, with kindly smile
and courteous greeting for all, well supported by
the commandants, captains, lieutenants, doctors
and midshipmen of the various men-of-war in
Port Jackson.
Not the least attractive part of the day’s pro-
ceedings was the delicious tea and coffee thought-
fully provided for our refreshment in the mem-
bers’ pavilion, and soon after four there was a
general migration in that direction. To be sure,
the struggle to achieve it was sometimes lung and
violent, but, when once the goal was reached, tbe
"means to the end,” tbe squeezing and pushing,
were lost in oblivion over the right royal cup of
modern nectar that was handed you by fresh-
looking Nelson Bailors. None of your conventional
afternoon cups, holding a thimbleful!, but real
half-pints that invited to a long, deep draught.
Netta will like to hear something of tbe dresses,
so, if you don’t, you can skip this page. There
were several pretty gowns on the lawn, notably a
charming tennis-dress of fine red flannel, with
underskirt of striped red and white flannel in
narrow pleats; it was simply made, but the lit
was exquisite. A late arrival from England wore
an exceedingly ladylike Redfern of fine black and
white check, jacket to match, with velvet collar
and cuffs; a small close hat of red trimmed, with
red velvet and feathers, and a red parasol.
By-the-way, red parasols are very much "the
thing,” land are used with any dress. They are
usually of a uite plain silk of a cardinal tint, and
look exceedingly well while they are a novelty.
To my mind, one of the prettiest dresses at the
sports was worn by a tall, thin, handsome girl. A
dark shade of grey-blue cashmere, with no other
trimming but diamonds of velvet many shades
darker, placed at intervals on the wide box-plaits;
cuffs and collar of the same velvet; a small black
hat with a large red aigrette in front. To many
this would have be*n trying, but, for once.
Nature’s lavish gift of beauty defied criticism.
I wonder why people who have “ all the wealth
of Ind ” to choose a harmonious whole from
should be so determined to run the gauntlet of
criticism by rank violation of all good taste I I
saw another lady clad in an aggressive costume of
a sort of bilious yellow, trimmed with correspond-
ing plush; the style of the skirt was not bad. but
as one’s eye travelled up things grew worse. First
a cape of plush coming dangerously near the face,
which was a sort of minor chord between that and
the toque (?) of the fair wearer—which looked like
a much-battered jelly mould turned upside down I
The tout ensemble was striking to a degree.
Winter is too far advanced to expect anything
new in style or colour. Matrons encase themselves
in lovely mantles of seal-skin, velvet, plush, otto-
man-silk, or cloth, that reach almost to the bottom
of the skirt, and have for trimming an endless
variety of fringes in chenille, cords, tassels, furs,
or marabout; while jet enters somewhere into the
composition of everything. Tiny bonnets, carried
up to a high peak in front, with the back much
cut up to show the hair, and trimmed with
aigrettes to match the dress, are cle rigueur.
Strings are optional, though most people wear
them fastened in very small stiff loops under the
chin. Tailor-made dresses of cloth or tweed are
the happy possession of the few—the unsatisfied
ambition of the many “passing rich on £40 a
year. With them are worn high straw hats,
trimmed with velvet, and feathers to match;
they are so deliciously neat and ladylike.
There is a great leaning towarc's copper or
cinnamon tints in dress-materials for day-
wear this season; and as people wear thorn
without the slightest regard to complexion,
the effect is often trying Next in favour
comes grey in every shade, but especially
in the soft French-blue or steel tones which are
becoming to most people. As to the cut of the
gowns, there is one leading feature which is varied
ad infinitum, A deep-plaited skirt of narrow kill-
ings, ;or broad, deep double box-plaits; a long top
drapery caught up as high as possible on the left
side to show the underskirt; a very full back
plaited into three inches of waist, and so arranged
as to hang straight on the left side, and bouffante
on the right. A jacket body cut high on the hips,
a short-plaited coat back, a front made to look
like coat and waistcoat, which appears a marvel-
lous piece of dressmaking Ingenuity until ex-
amined closely, when the marvel is diminished
into the commonplace idea of double fronts, the
upper cut away from the neck, and hanging loose,
to show the underfront (which is usually of
another colour), and fastened with innumerable
small buttons. Close-fitting sleeves, with cuffs to
match the waistcoat, and a very high collar com-
plete the dress. Outdoor jackets are either black
or the colour of the dress, and are much trimmed
with braid d la militaire. So much for the out-
ward adornment of our persons. Next week, in
view of that swell dinner-party you talk of, I
shall hold a one-sided conversation with you on
the subject of table-decorations—which is a step
higher in the grade of Intellectual treats than
you generally suffer at my hands I
We have sojourning in our midst for a time Mrs.
Dr. Garrett Anderson, the leading lady physician
of Loudon. She came out with her husband and
family for a month or two’s visit to N-S.W., and
returns home within a few weeks. During this
last week she has been returning tbe many civili-
ties shown her by giving two vtx - y pleasant enter-
tainments at her residence, Bltham, Edgecllff
Road. The first was a musical evening on Wed-
nesday last; the second a non-chaperoned dance
on Friday evening. At the first she introduced the
very commendable London fashion of professional
Instead of amateur performers. The music was
entirely instrumental, consisting of string quar-
tettes and a violin solo by M. de Wllllmoff. The
guests included Sir William Manning, Judge and
Mrs. Wlndeyer, Judge and Mrs. Wilkinson, Mr.
and Mrs. A. Gordon, Miss Stuart, Mr. and Mrs.
Cecil Darley, Professor and Mrs. Gurney, Mrs. and
Miss Garran, Mr. and Mrs. Salomons, Miss Salo-
mons, Mrs. Austin and Miss Austin, Mrs. Brodrlbb,
Mr. and Mrs. Lingen, Mr. and Mrs. Chadwick, Miss
Chadwick. Mr, and Mrs. Sackson, Mr. and Mrs.
Weston, Miss Woolley, Dr. Wilkinson, Mr. Ollffe,
and many others.
On Thursday evening, Mrs. Arthur Macarthur
gave a dance at her residence, Plas-Newydd*
Upper William-street, in honour of her newly-
married daughter, Mrs. Charles Baylis. As usual
it was an unqualified success.
Madame Charbonnet-Kellermann gave her an-
nual matinee on Saturday afternoon. The perfor-
mance began at 2 p.m , and was not over till after
5 o.m. The attendance of the parents and friends
of her many pupils filled the hall to overflowing.
The early part of the programme was carried out
by Madame Kellermann’s younger pupils, who did
great honour to her merits as a teacher. It was
amazing to see with what skill she had trained the
small singers. Master Beattie, in particular, was
much applauded for his rendering of a valse, by
Widon. On Tuesday evening Madame Charbonnet-
Kellermann gives her soiree muslcale at tbe new
Masonic Hall, where tbe programme promises to
be exceptionally good.
How strangely intermingled are life and death,
joy and sorrow 1 A week ago. amid the merry peal
of wedding-bells, came the sad tidings of the mes-
senger of Death among us again. He has been
busy gathering in his harvest of both young and
old lately. The last to answer his solemn
summons was Mr. Henry Moore, of Carrara, Rose
Bay. A sharp attack of inflammation of the
lungs carried her off on Sunday, the 2nd, after a
few days’ Illness. Much sympathy is felt for her
bereaved family, while many among the poor will
sorrow for themselves as they miss her kind, un-
grudging charity. Full of benevolence, she was
especially Interested in the Infants’ Home, of
which she was one of the most active patronesses.
Her funeral took place at the Camperdown Ceme-
tery, the ceremony being performed by the Rev.
Mr. Saliniere, assisted by the Rev. Mr. Woodd.
The cortege left Carrara at 12.30 p.m., and arrived
at the church about 4 pm. Among the many
mourners who paid this last tribute of respect to
the dead and sympathy to the bereaved were
several Influential ladies—members of the Infants’
Home Committee—who also contributed one of
the most beautiful wreaths that were sent. It was
a lovely Ionic cross—the centre formed of white
camellias, the circle of violets and maiden hair.
Tell Annie I have not forgotten my promise
about recipes, and will try to send her some deli-
cious French ones by next mall. My hand is just
too tired to write any more than
Ever yours,^
CORKA LYNN.
THE LEADING LADY.
No, not a “ star ” with a big, big trunk
And a reputation shady;
We’ll sing you, with a single rhyme,
One who was a "leading lady.”
Ob. she could come the gay Pauline
Till wrecked by Fortune’s rudder;
And as “ the lady ” in “ Macbeth ”
She’d make a dead man shudder I
Though creeping years have passed since then
(Of hoary Time, the sands!),
We think we see her as she smells
The ber-lud upon her hands!
>Twas in the old times, mind you, this—
The date you’d vainly seek—
When all that leading ladies "copp’d ”
Was sixty “ white ” a week.
The tale of this “ loot ” caught the ear
Of one of social rank;
He kept a ledger—mum’s the word I—
In the Tom-and-Jerry Bank.
She fell a captive, and that spark,
He rubbed his hands with glee:
" My dream,” quotha, “ has come to pass;
Now no more work for me.”
He “ battened ” (that’s a good, good word I)
Upon that lady’s gold.
Till she grew sick, and pitted got
Like any waffle mold.*
And then he had to go to " graft
That elegant young man I
She keeps a little grocery,
And he—he drives a van!
*“ pitted like a waffle mold.” Mark Twain’s
i> Aurelia's Unfortunate Young Man.”
< « » <


If suffering from mental depression take
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
If you want good puddings use Kingsfordl
Oswego Cornflour.
Bret Harte Is well-known through the civilise
world
As a writer of humour and jest;
But the truest assertion that he ever made
Is that “ Summerfleld’s Suits are the best.
For Pies, Puddings, Custards, Blancmanges, &o->
use Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour.
Bodily irregularities*and weakness can be
remedied by Wolfe’s Schnapps.;!
Matthews, the N.Z. champion boxer, the
other night, at Hokitika, “knocked out” yet
another man, one O’Neil, who had contracted to
fight him to a finish. Matthews had great advan-
tage in both weight and condition; nevertheless,
O’Neil displayed remarkable pluck and endurance
and fought with spirit and skill. The seventh
round wound up the affair. There will be some
fun when Mr. Matthews shows up in Sydney.
Mr. William’s Dargin’s celebrated mare,
Parachute, is shut up at last for ever. Whilst
rambling round a few days ago, she was chased by
dogs into a water-hole, at Windsor, and slipping
down, broke her shoulder, and was drowned in
that helpless condition, before assistance arrived.
Parachute Is the dam of many well-known fivers,
including Jessie, All 811k, Umba, and Tim Whlfiler
who has been scooping the pools so well in New
Zealand lately.
On Saturday night last in Sydney a couple
of amateurs settled with the gloves a dispute
which had arisen early In the evening at a well-
known King-street hostelry. The conditions were
that they should fight until one won. In 20
minutes the heavier of the two, who held about a
stone’s advantage over his opponent and who
knew how to use his weight, had pasted his friend
to a complete standstill, and was awarded the
small wager that had been thrown in just to give
the thing an interest. The winner, who is the son
of an eminent lawyer, is as hard a hitter and as
rare-plucked as his respected “ governor.”
Some time ago, it will be remembered,
Tommy Corrigan, the well-known cross-country
jockey, on returning to weigh-in, received a very
unfriendly reception from a Randwick crowd
who felt displeased at his riding in the now his-
toric steeplechase wherein he and another pro-
fessional horseman mistook the course. Tommy,
unused to such demonstrations, and irritated at
what he considered an Injustice, resented the
hoots of the assemblage by slashing out right and
left with his whip, which happened to fall upon a
well-known Sydney gentleman who had taken no
part in the hostile ebullition, but who chanced at
the time to stand in the first row behind the rails.
The jockey, it ought to be known, has settled the
matter by a full apology and the donation of £10 to
a Sydney charity.
Amongst the late distinguished arrivals in
Melbourne from the old country, there are many
who will note with pleasure the name of Herr
Joachim F. Hagen, who for so many years ran a
high-toned grocery store in Collingwood. Mr.
Hagen was a passenger by the ill-fated train which
was crumpled up by the Oootamundra smash, but
fortunately escaped unhurt, although ho was sub-
sequently put to much Inconvenience by having
missed the ’Frisco mail In consequence of the acci-
dent. Taking his passage by another boat, he
arrived in London j ust in time to be arrested on a
charge of having skipped the Cabbage Garden
whilst indebted therein to the tune of £3000.
Detective-Sergeant Walsh accompanied Mr. Hagen
on his return trip, and succeeded in securing £2000
of the alleged plunder also. He now awaits fur-
ther results in the Hotel de Dwyer.
Looking over the glowing accounts given
in our exchanges touching the removal of the
“ martyr Johns,” we And that II country journals
drew blood, as it were, by their blood-curdling al-
lusions to the ‘‘dull, sickening thud ” which was
heard as the drop fell. Twenty-seven others
scored well off the “ convulsive movement of the
body ”; 38 went in for the “ thrill of horror ”
which filled the spectators, including Mr. E. Lewis
Scott, who attended the execution, we presume, in
his capacity of “ art critic.” Fifty-three journals
made their point at the words “All was then
over,” whilst the balance either stood to win on
the “averted faces” of the persons present, or
else came into the straight run with a rush on the
“ autopsy ” which was held on all that remained of
the “ ill-fated Johns.” Nothing like keeping in the
same oid groove as the mud-headed pressmen who
“ ran ” their papyrus prints in the days of Ra-
meses No. 1.
It happened in Wellington (N.Z.). Mr.
Charles Tatum is a commission agent in that windy
town. At the back of his premises is an outhouse
where he kept coal and wood for culinary and
domestic uses. At least he tried to keep them
there, but the neighbours liked a good fire, too,
and as there were several palings wanting in
Charles’ fences, fuel appeared to be one of the
largest items in his expenditure. To curtail his
outlay in this line, Mr. Tatum procured a blunder-
buss and filled it to the muzzle with split-peas.
Behind the vegetables were some ounces of blast-
ing power of a peculiarly active nature; and, be-
hind that again, some explosive which—judging
by the report following the discharge of the
weapon—was probably a compound of nitro-
glycerine and panclaslte. As an article of diet, split
peas have their advantages when served in the ordi-
nary way. But, served through ablunderbuss when
your back is turned they are apt to disagree even
with the healthiest systems. It was the Thursday
preceding Good Friday. Some boys called on Mr.
Tatum to get an order for hot-cross buns. They
were to leave them in the out-house very early in
the morning. The morning arrived. Mr. T.,
hearing a noise among his coals, and forgetting
his bud contract, took down his blunderbuss. The
uncertain light interfered with a correct aim, but
no person within a radius of some miles will ever
forget the concussion. It was thought that an
earthquake of a morbidly vindictive nature had
taken possession of the city, and that the report
was merely a mild sample of what it was prepared
to supply the public with when once it fairly
settled down to business. When the ] a dg
heard it they did not remain to ascertain the
cause. The space intervening between the coal-
shed and their homes was crossed with a celerity
for which wo can find no parallel except, perhaps
in a meteorollte. So the mother of one of them
brought an action against Mr. Tatum for shock to
her boy’s nerves. But a callous jury considered
that, if anything, the lad would benefit by the
adventure, as, to the end of his life, he would pro-
bably pause before going into a strange wood-
shed, even with hot-cross buns. But the real
reason why a verdict was given for the defendant
will be found in the fact that evidence was forth-
coming to show that, a few hours after the occur-
rence, the injured lad successfully struggled with
a full meal of Irish stew and duff. This should be
a warning to mothers whose children B nerve*
have been tampered with to keep the young
people on whey and tapioca till the case is decicuu
by the proper tribunals.
The Logical Conclusion.
A VERY HIGH-TONED VICTORIAN MILITARY SWELL THE OTHER DAY CALLED HIS MEN “D CURS.” AS AN OFFICER CAN’T REASONABLY BE EXPECTED TO
LEAD D CURS OR ANY OTHER CURS INTO ACTION, THE SOUTHERN WARRIOR WILL, ON THE ARRIVAL OF ADMIRAL PIDDINGTONSKY POPOFF, PRO-
BABLY TAKE THE COURSE DEPICTED ABOVE.


The Forlorn Hope;
ttr THE last parade of the n.s.w. contingent.
meat arZL t «Inv^th°^t e “ tW^? n , M K^* 3,t0kI ‘ 0 ” , “ were40bt ' giTen OoTerament employ, a, faithfully promised; for, wanting such employ.
* T condition. Mr. Dailey said he was and had been working very hard on their account, and that they
should be placed over others heads as vacancies occurred, but to create billets for them was utterly absurd and not to be thought of.”
A “Squeezed Orange.”
INSPECTOR BUCKET DALLEY (to "Poor Joe" the "touoh subject"): "NO*, THEN, HERE'S A RAILWAY" PASS FOR YOU. MOVE ON-UP THE
HON’T BOTHER US ANY MORE, LIKE A GOOD FELLOW. THE MINISTRY HAVE NOW GOT OUT OF YOU ALL THE GLORY POSSIBLE.’*


The purchase of the Gordon Diary cost
Kecan Paul no less than 5000 guineas, pouncs
having been offered by a rival competitor.
It is remarked very frequently, as the as-
sistants are showing visitors round the upper
showrooms of 403 and 404 Qeorge-street. that tney
are astounded at the extensive and elegant display
of articles for every kind of use in the Kitcner,
Dining, Drawing and Bed-room. Bray! 1™
Dinner, Breakfast, and Toilet Sets everybody
heard of. Go and see them.*
Political Points
Cardinal* Manning suggests that in order
to put down slavery, England should ‘ Congo the
Nile. Labouchere retorts that England, if she
wishes to put down slavery and multitudinous
murder, had better commence by Congomg
Queensland.
From the Tenterfield Stab:— “ As for the
disintegration of the N-S.W Ministry, and the
elevation of Mr. Farnell as Premier, it is only
another form of green snakes with pink tails and
yellow neckties.” What, in the name of soda-
water, does this all mean ?
The talented “ Mudgee Taylor,” M.L i.,
proceeds England-wards in a waek or two for the
purpose of fighting his Parliamentary case before
the Privy Council. It is said that a number of
members of the New South Wales Opposition find
the coin for the expedition.
South Australians borrow money in Eng-
land at a cost (say) of 4 per cent., lend it to the
banks at per cent. then express surprise that
their colony is iroio* to the dogs when the banks
lend this same money back to South Australians at
8, 9, and 10 per cent. Why, the first thing which
struck even George Augustus after a residence of
three months in the colonies was that Australia is
bossed by the banks.
A Tamworth paper has reason to believe
that the “feaiful public robbery,” which Mr.
Levlen has threatened to unmask when the N.S w.
Parliament meets, has some near or distant refer-
ence to the conditional purchases on Miller s Creek
Run, which formed the subject of investigation by a
select committee of the Legislative
during the session of 1883 4, and of which com-
mittee Mr. Levlen was chairman.
The Hon. J. B. Patterson is now an
avowed opponent of the Victorian Ministry. In
the debate on the new Licensing Act he declared
his intention of voting against the second reading.
This tricky politician and pseudo-Llberal aspires
to lead the Liberal party of Victoria, and de-
lusively buoys himself up with the hope that that
Sarty will unhesitatingly adopt him. In this,
owever, he is mistaken, as he is not the kind of
man for Kadicals to look up to or trust. His
whole Parliamentary career shows that J. B. P.
has always had a keen eye to No. 1, and he believes
more in Patterson than anyone else. Mr. Berry,
by-the-way, Is to he opposed at Geelong by Pro-
fessor Andrew.
Bent, M.L.A.. was unpleasantly con-
fidential a few nights back while the licensing ques-
tion was baing discussed in the Victorian Assembly.
Witness:—“ Mr. Munro, In speaking of grocers
licenses, said he served for several years in a
grocer’s shop, and whisky was put down as voods
sold to customers. He had instructions to do so
himself from his employer, Mr. Service Mr.
Service's exclamation was, “ But how long ago
was that?” If an anecote be interesting, it is
no matter how old it is. Mr Bent went on— ‘ Why,
I was told the Chief Secretary was fined for sly-
grog selling once.” And then the Brighton gar-
dener volunteered a forgotten little piece of auto-
biography:—” He was a publican himself once for
three months. He sacrificed his principles when
he took the hotel ove-, because there was no man
in the House who had drunk less spirits than him-
self at his time of life. He kept a good house—.
If experience be of any value. It would appear
that the Victorian Assembly, as at present consti-
tuted, is fully competent to legislate on the liquor
traffic.
The other day there were issued in the
N.S. W. Government Gazette two newspaper
columns of new magistrates—sure sign of an elec-
toral campaign being at band. We can picture the
interviews that led up to this publication between
the would-be Judges of Pigs and the member for
the district first, and the member and the Minister
afterwards. “ Do it. and you’ll have my support
and that of all my friends,” the expectant would
say to the M.P : “fail, and ,” here would come
a Burleigh nod. Ditto at interview between the
M.P. and the Minister. It’s the same old game,
and why it’s played we don’t know. Five to one
the J.P. will desert the M.P. when he s got what
he wants, and the M P. will sheer off from the
Ministry if he thinks that will put him in. And
the honorary justices, in most esses. are of no
value, except here and there to attest declarations.
In the country districts, only one or two out of a
dozen ever sit on the Bench; the others find it
interferes with business. In the bush towns, the
police are kept every morning hunting for magis-
trates. whde prisoners, litigants, and lawyers have
to dance attendance. Is this not true, O country
journalists? It s about time that the honorary J.P.
business was put into the political dust-bin, with a
lot of other “ inherited ” humbugs.
Dr. Phillips is an “ American Grange-
man,” who gave some of his experiences In Syd-
ney the other day. It appears there are 3o 000
followers of the defunct King Billy in the States,
but as there are 35,000 000 Protestants, just one out
of every thousand is an Orangeman. This can
scarcely be called a pronounced success. But why
the society Is kept up at all, especially in the
U.8, is a question well calculated to puzzle.
“ When the world a few months ago.” the doctor
said, “put out feelers to try old Eaglmd-when
the Continental Powers combined to crush Eng-
land—the American people decided to take their
place beside Britain.” People who put any faith
la this description of bosh will one day have a
rude awakening. No wilder Idea was ever enter-
tained than this of supposing that America will
put armies and fleets in motion to make a descent
on Continental Europe in England s favour. la
whatever else Uncle Sam is deficient, he has at
least a thorough appreciation of when he is well
off. The idea of his Interfering in quarrels with
which he has uo possible concern, could only have
arisen in the minds of visionaries whose wish was
father to the thought. When trouble arose be-
tween England and Russia the day, an
American firm took orders for 300,000,000 car-
tridges for the White Czar. And the Yankees
would be just as ready to take similar orders
from a Czar of any other colour. Uncle Sam is a
bu*iness man, and at least as keen as the Intensely
patriotic Australian merchants who wouldn t buy
English goods if they could land here American
goods of the same sort more cheaply by even six-
pence in every £1000.
Here is the opinion of a correspondent,
who writes from Suez, Egypt, concerning that
wretched Soudan expedition:— I have been a
constant reader of The Bulletin for some con-
siderable time, and entirely concur with you in
the fearless but just attacks on the poll w of send-
ing the troops to the Soudan. That tho British ex-
peditions both to Egypt and the Soudan have been
huge mistakes is now admitted on all hancs. and
time makes this more apparent. I should like a
number of the prime movers in the N a w. u,xpe-
ditlon to witness the state of affairs here; l am
sure it would make them regret the action that
they have taken. Our ship is being coaled, the
labour required for this is paid for at the rate of
10s. per ton. but out of this the Khedive
takes 3s. Then the Sheik takes another 3s.;
that leaves the poor labourer 0s. per ton for
carrying the coals from the hulk to the ship.
Fancy 30 loads of coal for 6s.! But this is not all.
Even then the labourer obtains only an on a
storekeeper to take the balance out in goods. We
can only imagine the utter poverty of these
people—even this labour is not obtained every
day. Their condition is truly deplorable. It was
to perpetuate this system which, prevails all over
the dominions of the Khedive, that the N.S. Wales
Expedition was despatched. I feel confident, sir,
that the generous-hearted people of that colony
were not Informed of the merits of the case. I am
sure had they been so, the idea would have been
scouted from one end of the colony to the other.
A number of villages have been surprised and
burnt, it Is true, but this is not a thing surely for
colonists to glory in. It is equally true that a
number of these surprised villages contained help-
less women and children, who, unable to escape,
were also burnt In after years will the colonists
be proud of this ? I think not. How can a people
who take part In expeditions such as these call
themselves lovers and champions of liberty? 1c
this question Is ever decided by an appeal to the
people of N.S. Wales, I have no fear of the result.
Mr. J. P T. Caulfield, th® “Boy Politician,”
writes us as follows from Melbourne:—“In advo-
cating a Parliamentary grant to Sir Henry Parkes
you are doubtless prompted by the purest au<i
best of motives.” [Let us leave out the balance or
J. P. etc's “jam” and get to business.— Ed. B.J
“You quote, as a precedent, the recent action
of the Victorian Legislature in voting sums of
money to the families of the late Hon. J. M.
Grant and Mr. Hugh M‘Coll, M. sL.A., and you
remark that Sir Henry ‘overtops’ them in a way
vou need not describe. He may or may not
‘overtop’ Mr. M'Coll, but he certainly does not
‘ overtop ’ Mr. Grant. Let us contrast the career
of the last-named gentleman with Sir Henry s
career. For upwards of 30 years Mr. Grant was a
leading spirit in Victorian politics. He had a
lucrative practice as an attorney, and he neglected
his profession in order to promote the advance-
ment of his adopted country. When he first
entered public life he allied himself With there-
formers and democrats, and when death seized
him he was still identified with the progressive'
party. As a land administrator he was par
excellence, and no man or men did more to settle
the people on the soil of the country than he.
When the Assembly offered to vote him £7000 he
objected, but the electors subscribed £3000 for the
veteran statesman. His unswerving integrity, un-
selfishness, and honesty of purpose shone out so
conspicuously that even his bitterest Conservative
enemies did not fall to detect and appreciate thcise
admirable features in his character, and he died
without a blemish on his private or political repu-
tation. Now, I ask, can Sir Henry Parkes show a
similar record? I reply emphatically, no Like
our present Chief Secretary (Mr. Graham Berry),
ho has been, from first to last, a
loir demagogue, a trontless political adventurer,
a politically unscrupulous mountebank. Ir any-
thin*. Berry has a cleaner sheet than At
one time, Berry did show some sympathy with tne
working classes, hut Sir Henry’s views have never
be->n much in harmony with the aspirations of the
democratic portion of the community. The
Parkis’ svstem of legislation tended to keeo the
people off the lands, and to stop the growth and
festering of colonial industries. It is quite
true that Sir Henry was instrumental in passing
an Education Act of which you approve, but even
that measure was conceived la a spirit or bigotry
and hostility towards a certain denomination. He,
In season and out of season, fomented religious
discord, raised racial animosities among dif-
ferent nationalities, and retarded the progress
of his colony in many ways. Under these
circumstances the people of N S. W. have nothing
to be grateful to Sir Henry for. You argue that
Parkes’ methods for winning recognition for his
land compare favourably with the methods
adopted by the artful Dailey and the blind vision-
aries with whom he is associated. But does any
one for a moment believe that if Sir Henry had
been in Mr. Dailey’s place and suddenly Inspired
by the same mad ideas, with the same prospect or
winning fulsome adulation, he would not have
acted as Mr Dailey did? If Parliament grants
a gratuity to Parkes, why should it not, at
some future date, treat in the same hand-
some way any other political charlatan who
may find himself in reduced circumstances
after having won a little temporary glory by
bamboozling the masses? You may desire to ne
charitable and generous, but, at the same time,
vou would affirm a bad principle and establish a
dangerous precedent If the people of N.8.W are
indebted to Sir Henry Parkes they will, without
any action on the part of their Legislature, recog-
nise his efforts in the same way as the people or
Victoria once showed their gratitude to the itiiv
Wilson Gray and James Macpherson Grant-two
of the staunchest advocates and exponents oi
Lberalism the country ever saw.”
‘•The English-Speaking Peoples.”
™ WS0DTB WALKS W/ ' er S.OAlTy 7-'" 10Ur ' 60BK ° W ' “


BRIEF MENTION .
The Liquor Question—“ Are you going
shout ?”
George Augustus Sala says he didn’t meet
single beggar in Melbourne. The beggar,
doubt, looted at G. A. 8. and saw it was no go.
A Woollahra man writes in the News th
the local police turn stray dogs into money. Noi
at all. Lost dogs are turned into pork sausages.
Despite the prohibitory ukase of th
ascetic Cardinal Archbishop, the R.C. citizens 01
Sydney will, this year, hold, as usual, the ball :
aid of St, Vincent’s Hospital.
At St. John's Church, Darlinghurst, th
plate is sent round while the hymn is going o
This is awkward. You can’t sing praises and as
for the loan of a “ bob ” at the same time.
“I knew a man up North,” writes a co
respondent, “ who, after canvassing for Bacoh
all night, opened his be Irootn-door, and, then car
fully putting his boots inside, shut the dooranc
camped on the mat outside.”
One of our leading financiers, who ha
travelled some, recently attempted to figure u
the annual profits of the Sydney Gas Compan
and declares he found the job far more dlfflcu
than climbing up the Pyramids. And yet the
are a godly crowd who run the business.
Says the Sydney Echo “ We may stud
ethnology to the end of our days, but John China
man is a social problem that we never shall solve
There is nothing remarkable about this, excep
that we cannot just now think of any problem
which that paper has ever been able to solve.
The Anglican authorities wish to sell an
disused churches in the Sydney diocese. Bu“
these churches were consecrated. Suppose, now
we were to buy a second-hand church and run li
as a liquor saloon, would any special sanctit
attach to our colonial-made Klnahan or Walker
We think not.
The “cussed drink” again. Speaking
the recent arrivals at the Zoo., the S.M. Hbral
says : " Amongst them is the zebra, an anima
obtained from Hindostan and the possessor of
large hump over its shoulder.” This was evident!’
written by the intelligent journalist whocouldn*
tell a training-ship from a lioness.
One of our exchanges gets up on its hint
legs over the proposed N.S.W. newspaper tax, an
gays that the Press of this colony does more t
educate the people than the Public Instructio
Act has ever done. But eheu! in the deliveranc
of this lofty thought “more” is spelt wlthtw
“o's” and “people” with three “e’s”I
We notice that a well-informed contem
porary says the lambing season is nearly over
This suggests to us—though why it should we ca
hardly see—a pastoral aphorism “ When th
shearing season is over the lambing-down seaso
begins.” Never go into the back blocks wlthou
gumming this slab of wisdom inside your hat.
At the Grand National Steeplechase a
Flemington, Sir Henry and Lady Loch and suit
occupied, of course, tue Govern r’s box. Dario
the excitement of the great-jumping event th
whole party stood up the better to see and eva
porate their excitement. “ Down la front I
shouted a plebeian from the back benches. Th
whole party sat down.
The mallee country in Victoria is aliv
with rabbits. There are many selectors In th
vicinity. They have to suffer. The lessees of th
mallee blocks have not yet expended a shilling i
the suppression of the rabbits. Why should they
The rabbits are their friends. They are doing the
work of dummy selectors for them. It is a grea
country, Allah be praised I
The editor of a N.Q paper tells his reader
of two gorgeous snakes from the Percy Hive
country, which he keeps under a glass-case in th
office. As times are a bit hard in the Par North
the editor can make good use of his pets Let him
drink a glass of water and look fixedly at th
reptiles, Thus will all the joys of D.T. be secured
at the lowest market figure.
“Mother,” yelled a Dubbo youth, “look
at my toe; I’ve cut it with an axe and it’s bleeding
like anything.” The fond mother looked up from
her washing-tub, wearily: “ Run, Fred,” she said
“and put your toe in the flour-bag; but mind you
don’t spill any of the flour.” But, that’s nothing
Only last week an inquest was held in N.S.W. as
consequence of a careful father in the baok-hlock
having used the family rice-tin as a safe for rat
poison.
At a meeting of the Collins-street (Melb.
Baptist Church Temperance Society, the Rev
Banning knocked the liquor-trafllc f-ndways in
one try. He called it “a ghastly, hemorrhage
which Is draining the life-blood of the people,’
• Come, O Dictionary-man Webster, and relieve us.
Now, how does it slide? “This liquor-traffic is
pale, ghostlike blood discharge, which is draining
the life-blood of the peoplel” Pass the hemorr-
hage, please. Rum.
“Knowledge is power,” and Solomon tells
us that we should seek knowledge even as men
seek for treasures. We read in recent Police
Court records that one John Balmsley walked up
to a Mr. Jesson and asked: “ Whatever made them
make such a fool as you a Mayor?” John
Balmsley was simply seeking knowledge. Did he
get it? Well, not much; but he got “40a., or seven
days.” Thirst for knowledge is (as bad as are
alcoholically hot coppers.
Referring to the recently-executed Frank
Johns in his sermon last Sunday, a certain C. of E.
clergyman said:—“I was horrified and disgusted
to learn that a gentleman of position was using
his influence for the reprieve of a criminal who
deserved more than he got /” Now, as Mr. Frank
Johns got hanged, we shall be glad if this precious
reverend exponent of the doctrines of love and
mercy will inform us what more, In his opinion,
should have been done to the unhappy wretch.
Fred. Morley, one of the Ivo Bligh
cricketers, died some time ago, and the Melbourne
Cricket Club forwarded £30 to the fund they are
raising in London for his wife and family. The
Marylebone Cricket Club acknowledge receipt of
the money, and in their letter, to hand last week,
say:—"No one, had he been alive, would have
been more appreciative of your great generosity
than poor Money nimself.” There must be clever
men on that committee. The notion that had
Morley been alive he would have appreciated the
fund raised on account of his death is beautifully
Greek.
The Sydney Echo goes into a little tan-
trum because Dan. O’Connor, M.P., and others
spoke at the Town Hall on Saturday before so
'worthy a people's representative as Dr. Barry.”
In what tense is that prelate a representative of
the people ? Did his election by a section of the
Anglican sect make him such ? With equal pro-
priety might Cardinal Moran bear such a title, and
the Hunter-atreet " push ” would hold up their
hands with horror at the very thought of giving
him that honour. Dr. Barry “ bosses ” a religious
sect of the community; of that sect he is the re-
presentative, and of that sect alone.
The Cohrt Circular (kindly sent us by
Sir Salmon Wilson) announces that “Miss Von
Bucsen has had the honour of submitting to the
Brince and Princess of Wales her own invention
of a patent starap-affixer.” It is now stated that
Lord Dundreary will shortly exhibit to Her
Majesty his patent potato-peeler, and that Prince
George of Wales (who is, a* everybody at Darling
Pomt, knows, or an inventive mind) will submit a
ressat for preventing trousers tram wearing in
the— knets. Prince Albert Victor is also about to
instruct Her Majesty in the use of a machine for
extracting: by mechanical suction the contents of
the homely hen-fruit.
The colonial Sala now employs his latent
Went in the ring-barking of native trees at Milawa
(Vic.), occasionally he drops the axe and gives a
iooio to his genius for the benefit of the Sydney
Jeknkl. This is from a recent letter:—“Our
township and venue, though segregated from the
metropolis, and the inhabitants being princl-
paUy devoted to geoponlcs and bucolic, they are
not so pachydermatous and Indifferent to pleasure
88 C w, y folkfl ecumenically imagine.” Weoounael
no bloodshed, but if the friends of this man wiu
Put him in a nice little bag. find throw him dcJwn
the deepest shaft in the colony, they will confer an
Incalculable benefit upon mankind; er an
At the Beaconsfleld Hotel, St. Kilda, Mel-
bourne, there is a learned cockatoo. But hi™
many other Individuals, he is not as temperate in
his habits as he Is wise in his philosophy? The
other day some gentlemen were having a brand v-
aud-spda in the bar. Cooky, who was looking de-
TOurely on, requested a drink, and, dipping his
beak Into one of the glasses, took a large and
copious draught. The gentlemen then leftfbut on
returning later for another “nip” they asked the
fSn^ a r < th 0 u‘ yet ' aboli9h *u Hebe what was the ef-
fect of the liquor upon the wise but intemperate
‘OP* 81r *’ 8h e replied, smiling sweetly,
. sooner had you gone than he commenced
talking about his rich relations.” oea
A weird story is told of one of our elderly
mashers, who has a weakness for that branch of
the drama the chief charm of which lies lathe
of anatomy-principally female The other
orderad a most “ rekerky ” supper
for a more than usually fascinating artiste, he was
“omeut reluctantly obliged to invite
8 husband. The supper passed off and the
wine flowed freely. However, just about the time
when the flow of soul” should naturally come
on, the husband leaned over to the viver of the
feast and murmuredWhen I am flushed with
wine, I go for my best friends.” The elderly masher
fr0I S the scene ’ carr yiug with
him the most sickly smile on record.
Here’s a record hard to beat. One ot
the gems in the curiosities of Darlinghurst Gaol is
the serio-comic photo, of a middle-aged lady,
who, had she lived in France when the “Little
Corporal howled for “ more mothers,” would
have been honored with a State pension. From
Information received, it appears that this enter-
prising lady has been six times convicted, and.
marvellous to relate, she managed to be “ sent
up each time In order to be confined. And what
is more marvellous still, on four occasions she was
delivered of twins, and twice of single youngsters,
making a grand total of 10 children born in Dar-
ao1 ’ a " d a11 t0 this date living, and
a^ d u r 5? red at the expense of the long-
suffering N. S. W. public.
It was an awkward mistake, considering
that the night was Arctic. It all occurred
through his forgetting the number of his own
house; those terrace houses are so much alike,
especially when seen through a glass doubly. It
strange, too, that he did not notice that the
half-tester in W ynyard-sq uare was already oocq-
pied. He just went to get the garment from
under his pillow when— Had the lady only
thought for a moment she would have allowed
him to wait to put on some clothes, for a shirt is
notasufflclent protection against the biting cold
01 a frosty night, and policemen are apt to be in-
quisitive as to the reasons which induce a man to
run through the streets in such meagre attire.
The lady now locks her door every night, and the
man is laid up with a severe cold. The trousers
may be had on application.
“A Bushman'’ writes:—“A cook for
travelling sheep got into the lock-up at Bagga-
iow’kinan, Q, and heard Paddy Tuckmore, the clerk
of the court, say to one ot the police: 'Do you
think that cove will out us some wood?’ The
trap answered: ‘If I can read his phiz, I’m
blanked well sure he won’t.” ‘Then,’ said the
C.P.S, you’d better go down town and run
Barouo in. He is drunk, I know, and will cut us a
load or two.’ ‘You just do your own dirty
work, said the peeler. Now comes Revenge, tor
revenge is sweet. This was told just as written to
an old selector called, say, Moriarty (but he wasn’t).
See me set Paddy down,” and he goes up to him
with: * So you’re a son of old Paddy Tuckmore, of
Yarramandown. A line man was your father. I
knew him well. I was chained to him in the same
gang, and he was cast for death.’ The cook was
there, saw, and conquered.”
A Hindoo taking great joy in the name of
Mungoomal Oodadhag, was a principal in a case
tried in one of the Melbourne Courts lately. It
was his fancy to be sworn on a glass of water, and
h tumbler of Yan Yean was promptly handed to
him by a constable. Mungoomal looked at it with
a puzzled smile for a moment, and then gently
handed it back and asked for a beaker from the
Ganges. He seemed prepared to wait till they
could fetch it. But they did not fetch it. There 1
was something the matter with the pipes, perhaps.
The presiding magistrate suggested that the Y'an
Yean might be made to do duty for the Ganges
once in a way. Mungoomal sullenly acquiesced, '
and swore. He lost his case Did he blame his
lawyer, or his witnesses, or the magistrate! Not
he. He blamed the water on which he was sworn.
And no one who has gazed upon this gruesome t
been worked. They are of a harmless kind, con-
fining themselves as a rule to general statements
such as “ It is not good tor man to be alone,” or
“The ways of transgressors are hard.” At first
sight It appears hard to understand how such
apparently simple information could set angry
passions on the boll. But the subtlety of the
clerical mind passeth all undestanding. “The
righteous shall prosper, and the wicked shall fade
off the land,” was worked in Berlln-wool on one
quilt. Came along a priest of a persuasion
chronically warring with that to which the person
belonged who did the job. He saw the text, and
smelt heterodoxy and proselytism. In his Bible
it ran “The righteous people will prosper and the
wicked will fade away.” And now that hospital
is divided into two hostile camps, and pitched
battles are as common ns hard-swearing in
the police force. And, while the clerics wrangle
at the bedside over the correct reading, and insist
that on your aecep ance of “ fade off the land ”
or of “ fade away,” as the true translation depends
whether you will occupy a rainbow in Heaven or
a gridiron in Hades, the patient whispers A.dsum
and stands in the presence of his Maker.
Mr. and Miss Wales, of the Blue Hibbou
Army, have been up in Tamworth delivering
addresses, and making collections. Wo never
heard of Mr. and Miss Wales before; but from the
manner in which they went straight at the pockets
of the hearers, it is pretty evident they are up to
their work. When the time comes to rake in the
loot, Miss W. is put up and makes a touching
appeal—Mr. Wales being more of a raconteur than
of a coin-extractor. Some of Mr. Wales’s anecdotes
are very touching. In one of them he says he was
driving with his daughter, one day, when he en-
countered a young man drunk in the gutter.
Much affected by this, Mr. Wales entreated him to
come out, when he replied,
“ Wait till the clouds roll by.”
That is all of it, so we are left in a state of uncer-
tainty as to whether the young man embraced the
gospel of the Blue Ribbon or returned to his for-
mer Bacchanalian existence. This is just the
style of all these temperance-lecturers. They
never, by any chance, tell you how the battle
waged, or what Maria did when they brought I
home her warrior dead. Peter Campbell used to i
get pretty mar to it. Ho always left an impression, |
which was, if you didn’t give him something you
were sure to go to hell. It wasn’t a pleasant im~
pression, because you naturally didn’t give him ]
anything, but then there was force iu it. Mr, j
Wales, in comparison with Peter, is but a feeble »
fluid in its unaltered state will wonder much We
would rather be sworn on gin at any R the
from the Melbourne
washing or cleaning, twice'weeWv® 0 welf rBoom-
mended. Apply — Napier-street, Fittroy ” 'Thin
lotm Vvh. to . tbe . fact that aR is not hoi-
tll0 are W© liv© itt, H©r@ at" Inaaf la a
true child of Nature. Not only ia* the plain un-
garnished fact placed before the world with a
sweet simplicity that smacks of inspiration, but
tint* fh de . 1C ?, C F 'laid aside by widow who states
that she is well recommended.” We should
W t 8 . R Y eriU wid who look as
if they would certainly not be the worse of a
ablution, and who are not possessed of
!h e * ck S rm, ?.» f canaour which informs the world
tnat they wa t washing ” twice weekly. But
d ° ,y e n)t RO too f«t ? (t is true that one
widow is respectable and “wel recommended.”
But she wants washing I Does she get itf These
be salient points, my masters, and before indulg-
ing in further nau“gyrlc of our widowed, and
perhaps still unwashed child of Nature, we will
await the next issue of the Age.
n Je.fjr 49 An fe lican clergyman, just from
hinnla u 1 * 1 was 8ent to eure 80u,s intheback-
yout3K and Z9al °u8. A house-to-
nnSLTlSL ltio ? waa . on ® of the first items on his
H Way in the bu8b * Dear bourke, he
stumbled one day on a cottage. In the yard was
* be , ® bate , laine ’' Reding poultry. With the work
of distributing food, she combined an exttmpora-
of °th 8 o a< hl r a 88 Vf a dosr l? bictl was charging some
of the hens. It was this address that fixed the
clergyman’s attention. The ingenious manner in
which profanity and warning were woven into it.
made him pause. The names of the most sacred
persons and things were bandied with a glib
fluency in presence of which both preacher and
dog stood abashed. Preacher (with emotion):
ily good womam this is indeed terrible. Have you
hoIrH ar A tbe l ,P r ® acbe d ? Have you never
heard of the Lamb. Lady (frankly) • “ Who’s
J? P Preacher (bewildered): “Never heard of
y b ®, a / V n . fen l e j^ _ ; lg . r ! t iV ant of the redemption! ”
Lady (dejectedly): ” No. sir. But that's the worst
of living out in the bush. You never see a news-
paper from one year’s end to the other.”
Down Braidwood way a serious religious
difficulty has arisen. On the counterpanes used
In the local hospital various Scriptural texts have
performer, though he exercises a wise discretion
in always “ putting up” Miss W. befofe “going
through ” the rustics.
At Ipswich (Q.), the other day, they tried
to “ wake” the wrong corpse, but the experiment
was a failure—partly, perhaps, because it was the
wrong body, and partly, probably, because it was
dead. A man named O Leary died in the local
hospital, and the pushing undertaker, Mr
Blank, was engaged to “ plant” him. With
professional promptitude he attended with his
tape, and quickly secured all the physical mea.
surements necessary to enable him to make a cre-
ditable fit. In the meantime, a man named Huggo
was admitted to the hospital, and, alter a sh rt
struggle, pegged out.” O'Leary’s remains were
removed trom the morgue-table to make wav lor
the new-comer. Came along Mr Blank, with
his cunningly-constructed piner.” As the
i.;ew body was some inches longer than the
old, Mr. Blank experienced some difficulty
and made some incursions into the domain
ot advanced profanity before he got it to take
kindly to its new lodgings. He thought his tape
had gone back on him, and threatened when
he reached home to destroy its power for future
deception by means of a pair of scissors and
hammer. Then he drove the tenanted coffin away
to the wake By the time the rite was half-wav
through and the alcohol in the lirst keg showed
signs of giving out, some of the relations of the d. -
fuuct Mr. O'Leary thought they would like a last
look at him. and for that purpose removed the
collm-lid. 1 here seems to be some confusion in
the records of the subsequent proceedings. Wo
only know for certain tuat an undertaker left
hastily without a coat or hat, and doggedly pur-
sued by a number of hsstUv-armed people whoso
patronymic! suggested a CHUc origin. The pur-
suers appeared bent on securing a fresh corpse
and a new wake. Mr. Blank is now about again
put persistently declines to enter into business re-
latious with any people whose names be*in
with O.
North Queensland is one of the few places
where meu are unencumbered by the burden ot a
too refined civilisation. Bead tnls brief excerpt
from a Cooktown paper, and admire the origin-
ality and freedom of thought and action which
makes that town the modern Utopia. It is the de-
scription of proceedings at a “Progress Associa-
tion meeting:—“ Correspondence inward. The
Secretary read a letter from the Town Clerk in-
forming the Association that their letter had been
consigned to the waste-paper basket. Mr. Dullln
moved, that the Council’s letter be carted out to
the Manure Depot, and that it be taken from the
cart with a pair of tongs, and deposited in the
filthiest spot which could be found. That the cart
bear a placard informing the ratepayers of this
motion. Seconded by air. P. Lauder and carried
unanimously.” How brightl How beautiful 1
How original I No wonder that so plain a resolu-
tion couched In such simple terms should find a
seconder in Mr. P. Lauder and be earned unani-
mously, And, spurred on by enthusiasm indue* d
by this motion, the cnairman said of some Council
that it was “notorious that one half of their
number gotdrunk and passed a voteof censure on
tho other half who were sober. Some of the
members said that they would not trust one of
their number round a corner with a de g’s dinner
and they then voted the same member a sum of
■to for cab-hire. Their conduct was Inconsistent
and unmanly Dignity they never p, ssessed.”
What a comprehensive condemnation I And
though we may bo inclined to think it incredible
that one half of the members of the Council
should be sober at one time, we can yet admire the
generosity of the man who made an extravagant
estimate of the sobriety of Uis opponents Did
we say that Cooktown is the modern Utopia? It
Is the Arcadia of the nineteenth century.
“The Fijian Blue-book which has just been
issued contains some rather startling revelations
as to the manners and customs or missionaries in
that festive dependency. The Wesle>am are the
leading religious body in the island, and the ec-
clesiastical tyranny which these gentry succeeded
in establishing over the natives, before the annex-
ation. was almost worthy of the Inquisition or of
Calvin himse f. Sir Arthur Gordon, the Governor,
naively remarks, that tho missionaries are not
tree from human infirmity, and proceeds to give
a few Instances of the manner in which they
abused‘a power almost absolute and practically
irresponsible. In one case, a man who on a Sun-
day killed, cooked, and ate a crab which had
crawled into his house, was brought before the
native magistrate by his spiritual guide and
whipped. la another, the Commissioner, Mr,
Wilkinson, was only just in time to save five
women irom being publicly Hogged for bathing in
a stream of water on Sunday. ‘ Mr. Wilkinson
had great difficulty in inducing the native magis-
trate to remit tne sentence, owing to the impor-
tunity of a Wesleyan minister for the Imposition
of punishment, an importunity which tho magis-
trate said, he dared not disregard.’ Since the an-
nexation matters have improved under the wise
rule of Mr Arthur Gordon; but each successive
reform has been bitterly opposed by the mission-
aries and their faction. Jtven so late as 1888, the
Governor had to issue a special ordinance dealing
with a ukase of some missionaries, which forbade
their congregations to afford any assistance or
sucooui to children born out of wedlock, or even
to grant their mothers the attention prescribed bv
common humanity. It is a striking but a melan-
choly fact that the most well-meaning individuals
are still capable of perpetrating horrible crueltv
in the name of religion.” Beloved brethren, let
us proceed to subscribe to the fund for the con-
version and flogging of the heathen, and for the
suppression pt nigger women who bear children
without having previously paid a “ fiver ” to the
island parson. The collector for this deserving
charity will be so good as to call at The Bulletin
office, whi-re a pound awaits him—a pound of lead'
at the business end of a shtick.
Wonders will never cease! The London
Times nas made its debut with several leaderettes.
By-the-way, we the otner day read in the first
;?.^u in 5 artlc .* e the (froat London Thunderer
( the finest journal on earth, dear boy, the finest
.on oarth ), these Miltonian words - —
There Is no fun to be got out of that sort of thing,
and there is always the danger of a great deal of
bother. Incredible, but true! The S.M. Herald
had better now make its debut with something.
We re tired of the tea-meetings. The dreary yab-
ber of Jefieris, and the even duller platitudes of
the rest ot them make us sick Lat them print
the Almighty intended people to road.
Telegraph, whose c inductors we
cordially congratulate on the appearance atd
general style of the.r new paper, which U a per-
fect Godsend to Sydney, may yet eat uu the
Herald even to the extent that ttie Age
has chiwed up that proud pretentious jour-
nal, the Argus. The U.T. people seem to
be trying to deal with subjects of human
interest, which for more than half a century tho
Herald has carefubv ignored in its matutinal
two pea'onh ot shuffling politic! and snivelling
hypocrisy. Kut even tho D.T. is not i ot an age,
which, all things considered, is the paper that Aus-
tralians have reason to be proud of, even us thev
have reason to hate the S.M Herald Irom the
bottom ot their hearts ss the friend oi Pharisaism
and the natura) enemy of Progress and of evtrv
Democratic sentiment Too long me money-bags
of the Hunter-street monej-bag organ have been
supreme in tho land. There is an idea abroad now
that Sydney is fully stocked, if, indeed, it is not
overstocked, with daily newspapers. Of these it
has three, for the alleged fourth is so insignificant
as to be unworthy of being taken into account
The Fairfaxes annually make £80,000 (or mor<u
emrnr? Herald; and the Bennetts bag, at least
£40,000 out ot tneir organ of •• public opinion “
And yet mere is in Sydney no Democratic d ifiy-
newspaper whose utterances or omissions do
not stamp it as thoroughly in sympathy with
capital and constituted authority of all sorts— nn
matter how constituted. Why, la San , F«mcls3o°
Population perhaps less than
that of Sydney, there are at least ten dailies, some
0 ‘1* v 111 ,93uu< *. from marble palaces. There wlil ~“
yc,t bo several more strong daily jour/iais ia
Sydney, where huge fortunes await men whu
anow their business.
" LIBERTY GIVING LIGHT TO THE WORLD.”
THE OLD FAMILIAR FAMILY BARTHOLDI STATUE, SEEN ONLY ON LODGE-NIGHT.


T
[0 THE ELECTORS OF THE WOLLOMBI.
Gentlemen,—
I beg to announce to you that it is my intention
to solicit your suffrages, at the next election, for
your district, which, I understand, will take place
not later than November next. 1 am induced to
make this early announcement as I find that a
rumour has been industriously circulated in the
district that I had abandoned my previously ex-
pressed intention of coming forward as a candi-
date.
Such is not the case, as if no unforeseen circum-
stances arise, I will certainly contest the election,
and the announced candidature of the Minister
for Lands, even when backed up by the member
for Tamworth (who seems to think he can make a
packet constituency of vour electorate), will not
frighten me from the held.
I say nothing of a Minister of the Crown going
into a district represented by a member who de-
scribed himself as a thick and thin supporter of
the present Government, who by his votes has
shown himself to be so, and who has not as yet
announced that he does not Intend again to come
forward—that is a matter between the Minister for
Lands and your present member. But I do pro-
test against Mr. Levien taking upon himself to
apologise for recommending your present member,
and at the same time trying to repeat the dose,
and, by the magic words “ Minister of the Crown
and “ coming Premier,” to foist upon you another
of his nominees, for such is really the case, the
fact being that he has for months been canvassing
the district In the interests of Mr. Parnell. Mr.
Parnell says, as reported that you do not want a
Roads and Bridges member only, but one who un-
derstands politics as well. Granted. But I say
that in your district, where good roads and im-
proved means of traffic are essential to the well
being of every family in it, one of the most im-
portant qualifications in a member is that he
understands your wants and grievances, and has
the practical knowledge to see that they are at-
tended to and remedied as far as possible. This I
calm to have, and though, perhaps, not born to be
a politician, as Mr. Parnell says he was, I think I
can, without egotism, say I have taken an active
part in most of the public questions of the day,
and can give an intelligent reason for my opinions
on them. . ,
I will add on this point that admitting as I freely
do Mr. Parnell’s services to the country, heisapoli-
tician only, and that his reason for rarely if ever
appealing to his last constituency Is the well
known fact that of all the members of the House
he has been the most remiss in his attention to
local requirements, and has most carefully neg-
lected them. This is why he is now seeking your
suffrages, as he is again in his former plight of
being afraid to ftfee his last electorate.
I am informed on reliable authority that Mr.
Levien stated, when an objection was made to
Mr. Parnell on this score, that he would undertake
to attend to all correspondence in connection with
local requirements, and do his best to see them
carried out.
This is dry-nursing a Minister of the Crown with
a vengeance, and even the well-known assurance
of the member for Tamworth could not go much
further. .
lam thankful to say that I am not, like Mr.
Parnell, afraid to undertake the task of visiting
you In the different parts of the electorate. I
know, practically, every part of It, and will do
myself the pleasure of visiting you at the various
centres of population, between now and the time
of the election, and explaining fully my views on
the questions of the day. , ,, . ,
I know that I can depend on the old indepen-
dent spirit of the men of the Wollombi electorate,
and that my friends will rally round me and show
that the member for Tamworth cannot foist on
them another of his nominees—even if he is a
Minister of the Crown, who promises in the present
Parliament to obtain large outlay for the district
as an inducement for them to return him to the
next Parliament as their member. Comment on
this is needless.
In conclusion I simply ask you not to pledge
yourselves, but to wait till the time of election
comes, and then vote for whoever you consider
tbe best man.
Promising to see you shortly,
I am yours faithfully.
LYALL bCOTT.
QUOD PACIMUS YALDE FACIMUS.
(What we do we do well.)
TOUR PHOTO.-If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
couusel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., whicn
for artiste execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
«r w ■ You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all tiQ
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices-C-D-V..: Cabinets' 30s. per dozen.
CBEELMA.N & CO., . „
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, 8YDNBP ARCADB
\
“ BEACH’S ”
ONSXJJjTATION
ON THE
Sir Joseph Bank’s 4th Grand Handicap.
to be run at Botany, August 23nd, 36th, and 39t ,
1885 ; also on
Hawiesbury Handicap, Metropolitan and
Melbourne Cup,
NOW OPEN.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10s. BACH.
First Horse, £250.
Address—
“BEACH.”
Care of J. Q. Dceble, a v Ane1
Hotel, King and Pitt Street, Sydney
Please apply early.
Wolfe’s Schnapps a powerful and whole-
some tonic. ...
Ladies, if you want your Pastry light, use Kings-
ford’s Oswego Cornflour.
Notice!— Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hookings, 143 Pitt-street.
Mpacra Sullivan and Jackson, of 14- King-
street intimate that the Drawing of the Eagle-
hawk Art Union (Proapectusofwbichappearsin
our adve. Using columns *ill shortly taae place,
and invite early application for tickets.
Love that loves for beauty only
Changes when the beauty dies,
Leaving both hearts stricken lonely,
Restless in unholy ties.
Love of heart and soul together
Dies not when mere beauty dies,
But still lasts for ever llte those
Suits which Summbrfxeld supplies.*
Kingsfords Oswego Cornflour made of American
Indian Corn, pure and unadulterated,
- Wolfe's Schnapps imparts healthful vigor
to the brain.
BARON GRANT.
This millionaire of a few years back only,
has, according to “ cables ” la the Australian daily
papers, collapsed again-for a time. He collapsed
some seven years ago, but got on his legs again*
though never upon the stilts on which he once
showed so much above the crowd. He is now on
his back entirely a bankrupt, and his end may yet
be as poor as that which has aforetime happened
to those like him. He was what Emerson would
call a “representative man” as distinguishing
the large class existing who go for getting money
anyhow, and as much of it as possible. In that
aspect of the man, Grant’s career is worth looking
at. We could point a moral and adorn a tale with
it—if the pressure of advertisements in our space
d id but allow it. And in these evil days advertise-
ments crowd out abstract morality.
His original name was Grantheimer. but it
looked more English and less German-Jewish when
shortened, and was easier to sign to scrip. He
began (like Mo Davis in the “ Flying Scud) as a
tobacconist. He found, as Mo did, that though
“the swindle was safe, the profits were small.
He reflected that it was as well to go for
tbeep as for lambs, but he did not reflect that it
does not do for little men to play the great game
“Big ships may venture more, but little boats must
keep in shore.”
He launched out as a promoter of speculations
-a getter-up of companies. Mahagony-fltted
cilice, with plate-glass, and a dozen clerks, looked
well for such business, and fortune favoured him.
As money came rolling in from shares sold in
companies, which were mainly like those of fjj.®
South Sea Bubble time. Grant s ideas expanded.
Money no longer satisfied him. He wouid be an
M. P , and spent £80 000 to get into Parliament.for
Kidderminster. Next he would seek knighthood,
nr d have a handle to his name. He anticioated Sh-
Sitnuel Wilson in spending £30 000 to that end.
The money was laid out in restoring
Leicester Square to its present good state. The
Prince of Wales, however, shied at opening it
vheu done, and the expected knighthood never
came Grknt. like Rothschild, then went to
Germany for his title, getting it there for as much
in silver or copper as he expended in gold oyer the
, ffort in London. On his coming out as Baron
Grant,” the following pithy epigram appeared in
the papers:—
“ Merit confers titles which monarchs can' t }
A title without honour is a barren grant.
Now followed the building of a mansion, to cost
half a million, at Albert Gate, Hyde Park. The
staircase alone cost £25.000, and the magnificence
throughout was all on the same scale. WotP,
Grant's marble stairs adorn the building in which
are shown the Tussaud waxworksl Ere thereof
was on, the trouble came upon Grant. It was
mainly due to the pertinacity of a returned Aus-
tralian, one Twycross, formerly of Latrobe-street,
Melbourne, whose brother Is still in Cabbage-gar-
denooolis. Grant had started successfully the
“ Lisbon Tramways Company,” in which Twycross
bad invested £700* Grant had, however, kept out
of the prospectus that he had “ snivelled £40.000
r a promotion money, and had paid a heavy bonus
tn P the Duke of Saldanha. For such conceal-
ments! as being contrary to the Limited Liabi-
lities Act Twycross sued him for a return
nf money invested. All the other shareholders
waited tL result to follow suit. Grant defended
the case in person, and spoke for'two days at
Guildhall. He lost the case, and had to refund
h Tr V olfbka a never m co D me alone. It was now found
that Mr Sampson, for 25 years the commercial
editor of the Times, had been “Induced” by
Grant to puff his many schemes. Sampson got the
“sack” from the paper, but Grant nobly set hu P
with the Echo an evening paper started at ahalf-
nennv The wits of London were again to the
fore! and out came the following pungent epigram
addressed to Sampson
“ Thy famous namesake of the gates of Gaza
Kor woman’s love was shorn;
Thou, for worldly pelf, submitting to the Baton s
but the echo of thy former self.”
Poor Sampson died in a year or two afterwards,
ipavlmr £25,000 to solace his widow and family.
For a pressman. It was thought wonderful that an
eplgrem Bb?uld have killed W. Grant’s mansion
was now pulled down and sold for building
materials, the grand staircase fetching but £500 as
marble slats. He started again some four years
hack with “ Zoedone ” - a temperance drink—
which. In the company he
facture, turned him in no Jess than £60,000. He
was again to the fore two yearsago withacom-
pany for working the Transvaal goWfields. Thia
nraia fhfl “ Lisbon - Ber yn Company,” in aOO.OOO
stmrea of £ I each, with “ Baron Albert Grant, of
Kinder’s Court. Lothbury," as chairman of
doctors 8 Of the capital no less than 300,000 shares
were to be “snavelled'’ as part payment to the ven-
der. land promoters). Floated in December, '83.
this 8 company has proved as little successful as
were the Indian gold-mining companies, and the
are no w worthless. What has been the im-
mediate cause of the Baron’s present bankruptcy
Sl. vit to transpire He has. perhaps, secured
himself a nest egg or two, and just as likely has not
d0 r rorPt was in appearance, as we saw him in
Guildhall in’’70, singularly like the late Albert
smith with alike head of curly auburn hair-a
d7io6king man of 35. or thereabouts. He was
ao charmed with his forensic efforts on the trial of
*» Twvcross v. Grant* tbat hn entered hiniselt as a
student for the bar. It says much for the man’s
power of concentrating his mind on any subject
Rrji bn successfully kept his three years terms at
ihl Middle Templei and passed examinations
which are no w “ teasers,” and not the mere matter
!pfnrm nt 50 vears back. The Benchers, however,
shy of him asdld the Prince of Wales in
ihe Leicastt r Square matter. They refused to call
h!m to the bar-as they reserve the unquestioned
IhMn do ii all eases. This Inn of Court had
dime similarly, years before, with Daniel Whittle
Harvev M P.lor Colchester and afterwards co m-
mlssloner of the metropolitan police. For a man
who ia building a house to cost a million and is
worried also with a thousand other matters ot
trouble to Had time to become a successful law-
student in middle life is all to Grant s credit. Un-
like Gambetta, he had not evidently become a
voluptuary, nor lost his head and the power of ap-
nlvlmr himself to difficult and dry studies. We
have probably not heard the last of a remarkable
man who has the Divine intellect of the Hebrew
race. _
THE OLD CONTINGENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I We have lately seen some 700 men in the
prime of life lay down the shovel, the hoe and
the yard-stick, and take up a bayonet, the cool
point of which was destined to explore the Interior
fittings of the Arab stomach, and disturb the
digestion there of the sumptuous date for which
50 generations of their forefathers—from Abra-
ham, Isaac, and Jacob down—have seen fit to
struggle. We sent them out to the sound of fife,
and trump, and drum-ecclesiastic; and we wel-
comed nearly all of them back through rain and
slush, filled them up with a luxurious cough, and
sent them back again to the pick and yard-stick
aforesaid; and now the gallant band, who would
have been immortal if they had only died, are
once more lost in the throng. We have prayed
for a blessing on them, and, doubtless, they have
got it, and are eagerly awaiting the time when.
In the order of Providence, It will be necessary
for them to go forth and ventilate the stomachs of
some other poor devils who fight for permission
to live on the scanty fruits of a hungry solitude-
But we have just seen the battered remnant of an
old Contingent, levied by thousands through long
years before we were born; and a few hundreds of
whom are congregated in the Liverpool (N.8.W.)
Asylum, to fight over again unchronicled battles,
and to face at last the enemy whose victories are
written In stone, and whose march no living thing
can stay. m * •
Mr. Quong Tart is a Chinese trader, living
in Sydney, and it occurred to him that it would be
a good thing to give the old fellows a “ tip-top
spread” and a grand entertainment. Quong runs
four or five tea-shops in Sydney, where, for a
modest sum, the weary travellers from the
counters next door can forget the hurry of trade
for a few minutes, and restore their exhausted
frame with the consumption of a steaming hot
scone and a cup of tea, which you stir withaspoon
shaped like a shoe-horn, and a mouthpiece to be
appreciated cnly when inserted in the mouth of a
minstrel corner-man. Quong has also figured as
an anti-opium champion, a programme which his
pagan countrymen vilely insinuate wm founded
on a desire to control the trade, but which insinua-
tion nobody else believes. There was Quonr In
gorgeous array, flowers in his tuitton-holo, flying
around from ward to cookshop, and smiling a
smile that reached all the way from Canton to the
desert of Gobi, and from theCbma ?ea to the most
threatened frontier in the West. When the old
Soundaners sat down for
ranged from dreamy amazement to deadly deter-
mination. What memories of dreary tramps of 50
years ago when the dismal jackshay hobbled over
the few scanty sticks in the heart of the Old Man
Plains I What hundreds of miles where the bill of
fare ranged from boiled mutton to roast and roast
to boil, until they couldn’t look a sheep In the
face; and then of the beef country whereroMtto
boiled and boiled to corned turned up month after
after month, until the sight of a buflook brought
on vertigo I What scorn of the old ‘ten, twelve,
two? and a quarter of beef, flour, and sugar,
and tea ” that was served out on Monday morn-
ings when the “drum” was dumped down
and the week's monkey-shearing commenced I
dome fancied they saw deep gratitude beaming
forth; but there could be no mistaking the vigour
of the knife and fork, nor the rapidity with which
gentlemen who had long since left tb®* r teeth in
bonco tough old forgotten wether, c " rie( l
tlot among the well-piled plates. Thet
kni e recalled the practised hand of the good old
lack-knife, that did duty for fork and spoon, and
rendered the latter a needless encumbrance.
Living them to carry the zareba, we pass Into a
room adorned with the presence of many ladles,
who had come to distribute lowers amongst the
veterans. The struggle of the recipients to fix
the.se Into a monkey-jacket button-hole a foot
long, and the final deposit of them in the side
pocket, alongside a fig of black tobacco, was also
a cheery spectacle. Then there were the gentle-
men of the Press, ranging trom the palatial Leo-
pold to the radiant J. G. O’Connor, whose achieve-
ments with the carving-knife on a leg of ham
have only to he hinted at to call forth the hearty
assent of all comers. J. Q. may not be the most
brilliant journalist in these lands, but we can for-
give the jerkiness of his periods for the finely
epigrammatic, Incisive, razor-slicing style of bis
argument, when a ham and cold fowl fall under his
critical eye. And, of course, there was that other
immortal scion of the house of 0 Connor,
whose beard is the envy of the sex, and
whose eloquence, if not always of the highest class,
Is at least frequent. As the janyll Dan nibbled a
sandwich, sipped a little Bodega wine, or nimbly
capered from room to room, spreading wit upon the
witless, and exciting the beaming smile of welcome
on the faces of the fair; or, as again, you came
across him in an out-of-the-way corner, lost In
deep meditation as to the best portion of the
coming speech wherein to bring forth a magnifi-
cent period on the pleasures of philanthropy —
everyihlng was suggestive of tho cheerful man
of the world, the friend of everybody, the only
possible man for Sydney—Bast, West, North, or
South —and Premier who will yet stand unmoved
amongst the wreck of Daileys, and the crash of
Parnells.
• • •
And now a change. V hilst the concert-
room is packed with the merry-laughing throng;
while Horace Bent and Sam Keenan are shaking
the old men’s ribs till their laugh turns into a
cough, and the tears run down their faces with
the atrocious absurdities of those veterans, added
to the stitch in their sides, we stroll quietly
through the scenes that end this strange eventful
history. Outside, old age, shaking its j ears away;
inside, hemmed in by bare, white-washed walls,
old age triumphant. For this is the ward wherein
who enters seldom again sees “ sea or sky.” Some
little dainties lie untasted on the plate of the hope-
less. ‘‘Sans eyes, sans taste, sans everything” is
the mark as you approach. On one bed is stub-
born old age that we saw years ago in the same
place. He has reminiscences of No. so-and-so,
who had* stiffened out ” as he called it. On the
next, another stubborn one with swollen knuckle-
joints that told of many a damp open-air sleep In
the good old days, when our aristocratic forefathers
got princely estates from cruel and corrupt
officials, who got their billets for services rendered;
or as prodigals, shipped off for their unearned
penalty of being sons or grandsons of long-sinoe-
forgotten princes, and hangers-on of a court that
failed to make the United States “ohuckers-out
for them. Some of them, however, were not with-
out hope. “ E’en in their ashes ivedtheir wonted
fires.” Men who couldn’t smell, still tucked the
bunches of flowers somewhere close to their pil-
lows, as if to recal what the colour of a violet once
meant. And a grizzled old man beside him, scent-
ing them, mumbled something or other you try to
catch, and his fellow tells you he is all but blind
On an opposite bed, another has drooped his bead
and is going the way into the old oblivion. You
walk quietly away, only to learn later that he is
gone, before half the revels outside are ended. A
few significant nods from one »nd another, only
tells that long use to this sort of thing is hut the
talk of an hour. The attendants remove the body,
the regulation hours come on; the visitors 1 vanish;
another will fill the bed, and second childishness
remembers it not.
• * *
But Lewis 8oott is singing, and the light
fantastic toe of Mr. Quong Tart is tripping the
sod of the planet in a gorgeous reel. Also, an
aged person, whose bluchers make up in magni-
tude what they lack in elasticity, fa the
Christian world with how they toed-and-heeled It
in the Old Soudan-Paroo, Buckera, Jumberoo, or
Corat gabilly, as the new Geographere write it
We confess we looked out hard for Lewis Scott s
music; and we are no loss bound to confess that it
goes beyond our dreams: and Is libel? f? „
yond it, for some considerable period. However,
owing to pressure on the institution, we failed to
secure n bed for a month, and may report, after a
week’s spell, that we are comparatively right
again. Mr. Quong Tart’s singing is entitled to a
new paragraph, but we can t spare the space. He
will Ufce the will for the deed. We have oaly to
Z.5 t hat Mr. Tart’s nationality will always standin
thu ■ vay of a stiff-necked generation appreciating
his musical powers justly, 'f®. b* v ®
remembrance of the old gamut that broke down
the monopoly of the Christian oat thatwe confeis
a dislike to Chinese vocalism, and Mr. Tart appeals
to know it. and takes his part in a duet 1“ <L u jb®. “
good a style as the best-dressed ?oung Chrl8tlan
soc iety-man that ever chirped In the Gloaming,
with a view to a drawing-room nmflb. In
gpeaklng of Chinese music here, there is no
opinion offered as to the merits of the instrumental
music of that ancient and conservative nation.
Wo have discovered that in boring the holes of
their clarionets, the practice is to let in the gimlet
at convenient intervals, where the softest spot is.
The effect is— the effect; when a full band is at
It.
♦ ♦ •
It is pleasant to have to say that the spirit
that prompts entertainments of this kind is one
entitled to every encouragement. It is cruel to
remind one that many of these men have no busi-
ness to be there; that some of them bear the in-
effaoeable marks of having been fools, and worse,
In their time. But Christian 1 eeling and common-
sense teach that “sufficient unto the day is the evil
thereof.” The old boys have long ago done their
evil, and suffered for it. If amongst them are
some whom age has only rendered more callous,
and if there is a sprinkling of astute old dogs who
are quite as well able to earn their living as many
of those who visited them are, there is still suffl-
cient humanity in this new and slightly frivolous
community to allow for all that; and it tended
to self-satisfaction for the visitors to return
to Sydney, as the party did, with the feel-
ing of having done all that can now be done
for men who havfe suffered and sinned, and been
sinned against, but who have now only to look
forward to a court which, they may be allowed to
hope, will square the old boys’ bills in the mercy
that God knows which of us may yet need. Selab.
There is no dispute about the distribution of this
patriotic fund, whatever there may be with the
other.
BUSTLE AND CONTUSION.
COUNTRY AUNT • “I HOPE THAT YOU WILL EXCUSE MB, VIOLET, BUT I TOOK THE
LIBERTY OF WEARING YOUR SUMMER BONNET; IT WAS SO COOL. YOU KNOW”
VIOLET: ‘‘GOOD HEAVENS, SHE’S GOT IT ONI”


GOMPAGNONI CATERING GO., LIMITED.
PITT STREET, SYDNEY ' 5
mHB oldest and leading Catering Establishment In N.8.W. Caterers to Hla Wnrahin
Municipal Council of Sydney, the A.J.C., City Club vc > aterers 10 ul8 Worship the Mayor,
TbS.. e ct/iu\ M owr,M,“'4t^d 1 s°t b Rrt“dVzv?„v t Thi, a s'SikVtr- ' a, ! e , r tI the
swagaasr" 1 *
® r ay Liclitne n, •
32 O CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
IMPORTERS OF SUPPLIES
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
(2j^
j*.
m
D
WV9
<5-
* *\ afii
I.
(a
<S>'SkTi J
’O-
SP
UP
s
m
&
%Krr>H'hr,
J 0 «.
:-890iAONio JB 'sfuatud/nbj onjdojBoioijj atd/dujOQ
sa/uo/oo aifi ui fsadoai/j pun
}S0lu ay; so pasiuBooaj sjd suo/fojodajd o/ifdoj6o;oi/j ung
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied
and Cheapest in the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments. , ithfu m„, ro ctiomfoi no*.*:
3T
BULL DOQ ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULLDOG
ALB, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTBLL & CO,
Sole Agents.
VENETU waltz: ...
, T>u Air to 6. m*0 mnrkwi, Ciiwuri LowxniAB,
Op raiuubiU
P«1
Fed
-r
-
Fed
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC In the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, fto.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues will be ready in a few days and
sent gratis on application.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &c., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed In best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums. Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &o
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga
zines.
Call and see the two most important Oopylni
Instruments ever Invented. The Trypograpl
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost o:
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies
Ssnd and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM - BULLARD,
342 GEORGE STREET.
0 T I C E
T 0
THE
TRADE
Now landing ex Late Arrivals.
HALF-TESTER NICKEL BEDSTEADS.
HALF-TESTER BRASS BEDSTEADS.
HALF-TESTER IRON BEDSTEADS.
STUMP BEDSTEADS.
FRENCH BEDSTEADS.
BLACK and GOLD BEDSTEADS.
BLACK and BRASS BEDSTEADS.
50 Cases of No. 14 A U3TRIAN CHAIRS.
450 Cases of AMERICAN CHAIRS.
760 Bales of BEST JAVA KAPOK.
10 Bales of COTTON FLOCK.
20 Bales of CURLED HAIR,
10 Cases of TOILET GLASSES (Assorted).
20 Cases of ROWCL1FFB SPRING MATTRE3SE i
15 Bales of BLACK CURLED FIBRE.
13 Bales of WHITE WOOL FLOCK,
J. LAWLER,
608 George*ftt., Sydney,
IMPORTER of FURNITURE. UPHOLSTERER,
and BEDD1N0 MANUFACTURER, I
O ALL W O M B N .
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
BT" TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES.
OOLD^WATElT ° 01^^ 0®®“* in either HOT or
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERY
IN SOAP I
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with It;
HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
W Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
6d. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers:
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE. STREET, SYDNEY.
Visiting Cards
WHILE TOU WAIT
GBNT.’B 50, Is. 6d.; 100, SB. 8<L
LADIES’ 60, 28. Od.; 100, 3a Od.
Address, 6d. extra.
Meat Business Cards.
100, 8s. 8d.; 860, 8s. 8d.; 600, 10a.; 1000, 15a.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
Orders executed and forwarded hy return
post.
TOE mi SUPPLY CO.,
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
AYER’S
Hair Vigor
restores, with the gloss and freshness of
youth, faded or gray hair to a natural, rich
brown color, or deep black, as may be desired.
By its use light or red hair may be darkened,
thin hair thickened, and baldness often,
though not always, cured.
It checks falling of the hair, and stimu-
lates a weak and sickly growth to vigor. It
prevents and cures scurf and dandruff, and
heals nearly every disease peculiar to the
scalp. As a Ladies’ Hair Dressing, the
Vigor is unequalled ; it contains neither oil
nor dye, renders the hair soft, glossy, and
silken in appearance, and imparts a delicate,
agreeable, and lasting perfume.
Mb. C. P, Bricheb writes from Kirby, O.,
July 3, 1882: “ Last fall my hair commenced
falling out, and in a short time I became
nearly bald. I used part of a bottle of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor, which stopped the fall-
ing of the hair, and started a new growth. I
have now a full head of hair growing vigor-
ously, and am convinced that but for the
use of your preparation I should have been
eutirely'bald.” p.
J. W. Bowen, proprietor of the McArthur
{Ohio) Enquirer, says : “Ayer’s Hair Vigor
is a most excellent preparation for the hair.
I speak of it from my own experience. Its
use promotes the growth of new hair, and
makes it glossy and soft. The Vigor is also
a sure cure for dandruff. Not withiu my
knowledge has the preparation ever failed
to give entire satisfaction.”
Mr. Angus Fairbairn, leader of the
celebrated “ Fairbairn Family ” of Scottish
Vocalists, writes from Boston, Mass., Feb, 6,
1880 : “ Ever since my hair began to give sil-
very evidence of the change which fleeting
time procureth, 1 have used Ayer’s Hair
Vigor, and so have been able to maintain
an appearance of youthfulness—a matter of
considerable consequence to ministers, ora-
tors, actors, and in fact every one who lives
in the eyes of the public.”
Mrs. O, A. Prescott, writing frem 18 Elm
St., Charlestown, Mass., April 14, 1882, says :
“ Two years ago, about two-thirds of my hair
came off. _ It thnnned very rapidly, and I was
fast growing bald. On using Ayer’s Hair
Vigob the falling stopped and a new growth
commenced, and in about a month my head
was completely covered with short hair. It
has continued to grow, and is now as good as
before it fell. ' I regularlyused but one bottle
of the Vigor, hut now use it occasionally as
a dressing.”
We have hundreds of similar testimonials
to the efficacy of Ayer’s Hair Vigor. It
needs but a trial to convince the most skepti-
cal of its value. .
, prepared by CH V.
Dr.J C.Ayer&Co,,Lowell,Mass.
' Sold by aH Druggists.
E LIOTT BROS, and B. HOPFNUNQ & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
* F Ii* MOUSTACHE ai d WHICZEE3. «Fon3
Boyd" t Beard T.lxir did thin,and
will do it oneit.ier bald head or
bar* /ac4 j. Foret* heavy Mans-
tachtin fronts to 4 weeks and never k
Jail*, 20,000 young men already
« , war full henrd*> having-toed 1 to
8 ft «n*ily applied, eertain in tffert, —
4aeh, 3 for 3*. 6 d.,pott paid, tent under co kt. free from observation,
iddrt**, Frank Do tgU» t Sole Agent, Box 7a,L G.F.O., Sydney ,N.S.W>
Copyrighted,
Copyrighted.
Packet*
frit LATEST Viu'iv! *Nfl PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTBOTAPUT.
_
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
B
AVARIAN
(TIERS.
HOP
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
Made of the best Bavarian Hops. Superior to any
other.
They take the first place wherever tried, and art
well authenticated by eminent medical men and
well-known analysts.
Read the reports and testimony which aocom
pany each bottle, and do not forget to make a
trial of BAVARIAN HOP Bitters.
P. KIRBY,
from the late Mr. Jajus Curtis,
TTn-d-ertsufeer,
»4 HUNTER A PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was In the employ of the
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) yenra;
Manager for over ten CO) years.
Been hunting for ease all my life, md touufl
last with the Argosy Braces at Gowinu Bros.
wSMti
■Lm
a
%
; Tn
m
U 1
m
fJt
GOWING BROS
Have Just Opened their Twelfth Consgn-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. 6d.. Ss , 3s 6d., A 4s. 6
GOWUkTbros.,
MBN’8 MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTPITT .:HZ, A
SS2 and 49S CtCorgc-stre«:>
- Mr. William Ball.-Dear Sir,- Allow me to say
that I find your‘Bloom of Peaches’ superior to
anything 1 of the kind that I <■ ver used before.—
Yours truly, Emelie Melville.”
** Dear Sir,—1 have never used anything equal to
your ‘Bloom of Peaches ’—Maggie Moore.”
” Dear Sir,- 1 have the greatest pleasure in re-
commending Mr. Ball’s ‘Bloom of Benches ’ and
‘Fett.Puder’ as being invaluable—Yours truly,
Alice rbks.”
To be obtained of all chemists.
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle,
“ PETT-PUDER,” a delicate and invisible
powder for the face. Beautifully periumed.
Wnlte, Pink, or Cream, to suit all complexion?.
Price, 1/6 per box.
Manufactured only by
WILLIAM BALL,
Th? “ Professional ” and Pharmaceutical Chemist,
61 BODRKB STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale Agents for Sydney ;
Messrs. E. PROSSER & CO., Wholesale Chemists
G. F. PRIDDY & CO.,
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS,
Beg to onnouncp that, on and after APRIL 7tb
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Day<
at 6.30 p.m,; Saturdays as utual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
IngUil Papers and Magazine ■ received by
•very Hall.
BOTAL ABOADV, GBOBGB 8T„ 4N STDNBT


Jjl URNITURB SHOW R Q O *
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and T.AMU
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
Hall furniture, hatstandb
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
T IBRART FURNITURE, CENTRE and 8IR»
JLi TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
RAWING-ROOM SUITE*,
stered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton un£
Lamb. • u
ALL CABINETS for Choice ChlmT 7TT
VERT ELEGANT. Just received. R^ d f
Newton, and Lamb. r '
Novelties in boudoir and bowwTndow
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7.fg5
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes forslngfi
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTon
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney '
171 IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward”
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table ant
glasst, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADf-Sy
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-strect.
EDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).- WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble ton
and tue back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE
with swing glass attached- pbohstut
BOARD, and 8 CANE 8F “
BRADLEY,
HEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, fromlik
6d.; Dining Tables, from 80s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands from 13s. gd •
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80al
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboards'
from £S 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets
3
jQQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
jyOU strong, and durable, Trichord full
lompass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Slack and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
sash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Ihelves; also In Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
SRADLBY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TAbLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also elegantly finished in
Embroidery, Plush, &c.
QHIFFONNIBR WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
/ vxmnell-street.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
I’orming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
* Connell-street.
ra RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
Lf A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
lenslve. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-gt.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRE8SING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
narble top, 80s the pair.
■71ULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM —SIDE-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARY-
(NO CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
natch, on view at Show Rooms, ©’Connell-street.
D
ININQ TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 6 feet long and up to 80 feet.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented.
sis
'sSft
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. Mew designs covered to order in any
material. _
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
s
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suit®9
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very extern
slve assortment in Chippendale, Early EBEhsn,
and other designs, which can be upholstered id
any materials to meet the taste and requirement*
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb. .
Framework for dining-room furni-
ture, Handsome and Massive, In Oafi.
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
1, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
ED8TBAD8, nickel-plated and black fed hrei»
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, ana uam»
BD8TEAD8, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb. ,
BDDING.—All iescriptions at lowest rates.
_ BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB. 0 Con
tell and Spring streets.
B
B
B
W
A8H8TAND8, with marble, from 85s. each
BRADLEy, NEWTON, and LAMB.
. AWN and PARK SEATS 8 led longpRuStio
I j Cast-iron Standards, 15s. each. Bradley. JNe
ton, and Lamb.
Bentwood furniture.-a ™ry «omP 1,M
Aaaortraant: boat mak* tow eat pvloaa
SOCIAL
We are sorry to hear that Mr.
has nit bean able to score a tin inolal, as well as an
ari:istic. succ»s with the nigh-olass ooncsrtB
v/hlch he recently gave. Tar Sydney Opera House
C uoerts weie ota'e ded as they deserved to be,
a i i at the ;pera Hi use on Thursday Ust, fully
O i -fhir i >f .he neats were vacant Why Herr
Krusa failed to draw, isRemenyi did, is a mystery;
but it’s a fact that be didn’t. His Ant solo on
Thursday vi< the ever-welcome Mendelssohn
Conoarto, which was splendidly accompanied by
Mr. Huenerbem. Later in the evening, he gave
Ernst’s “ Hi egle," every note of which was deli-
ciously round and pure. Mr/Harry Hyndes played
two pianoforte aolos, which wore hardly well-
chosen for a miscellaneous audience, though
admirably rendered. Miss Christie Fuller—a pupil
of Miss Christiau’t— is an unaffected singer, and
possesses a fresh, pure contralto voice, which she
uses artistically. BlumeathaTs “Requital” was
her best solo. Mr Hallewell was encored for “A
Brigand, still a soldier I,” and in response sang
the “Village Blacksmith.’ Mr. Morgan, who is now
almost a stranger on a Sydney platform, delighted
everybody with “Alice, where art thou?” and
was Induced to repeat the last verse. He was not,
however, so happy in “Tell me, Mary, howto woo
thee,“ as this Is a song which, if not sung with the
tenderest pathos, is insignificant. Young Beattie’s
pleasant singing would be pleasanter still if he
would learn to sing without his music. Burymg
the face over a music-book chokes the voice.
During the evening Mr. Dan O Connor, M.P., pre-
sented Herr Kruse, on behalf of his admirers,
with a rlonly chased medallion as a souvenir. Of
course it wasn’t presented without the inevitable
speech, which was addressed to “My Lord ” (the
Bishop was present) “and ladies and geatlem-n,”
and it told us all about Herr Kruse s good qualities,
and al-o that we ought to be proud of him as an
Australian—as proud of him as we are of our
Contingent. ana all the other noble fellows bom
under an Australian sun. Then Mr. HaemTbein
was invited to pin tne souvenir on to the breast of
the night’s hero, to which ceremony Herr Kruae
submitted with much complacency and thanked
everybody in words as few as they were effective.
♦ ♦ •
From London Societt:— “There was a
pretty wedding on 1st July at St Stephen’s, South
Kensington, between Mr. Henry S Calvert, late of
the 7th Dragoon Guards, and now an Australian
landowner, and a daughter of Mr. R. Murray
Smith, Agent-General for Victoria. The oppor-
tunity was missed of establishing a novel prece-
dent in London, for the bride s house, being oppo-
site the church, and the day lovely, a walking pro-
cession would have been far more effective than
driving a few yards.” The bride, we are told
by an obligiog correspondent, wore a body and
long Court train of cream watered silk over a
petticoat of cream satin, with bunches of orange
blossoms and lilies of the valley, and her veil was
fastened with diamond and pearl ornaments. Her
bridesmaids—the Misses Mabel Murray Smith, 8.
S;ella Smith, Agnes Murray, and Lilias Parbury—
wore effective costumes of cream Indian silk,
with maize sashes over white silk petticoats, and
their veils were fastened with maize aigrettes.
They wore brooches with the Initials P. and H in
pearls, which, together with their lovely bouquets,
were the gilt of the bridegroom The best man
was Mr. Leonard Calvert. The service was choral,
and the officiating clergy were the Rev. J Priestly
Foster, rector of Oxenhall, Gloucestershire, and
the Rev. Kenneth Dlgby Smith. Among those
present were Sir Saul and Lady Samuel. Sir Doug-
las Forsyth, Mr. W. Forsyth, Q C , Mr. and Mrs.
John Blackwood, Mr and the Hon Mrs Bright,
&c. The breakfast was at Bailey 8 Hotel, and the
bride and bridegroom left later for Leamington,
the brid? s going-away dress being of grey silk
trimmed with dark blue velvet and bonnet to
match
• * *
On Friday afternoon the Sydney Theatre
Royal was crowded by a fashionable audience to
hear Herr Kruse for the last time. This was a
subscription matinee, so every seat In the theatre
was taken, though they were not all occupied.
The programme opened with Wieniawsky s
“Legende. ’ in which Concert-Melster Kruse fairly
excelled himself. Every note was greedily listened
to by the enthusiastic audience—which was for
the most part composed of musicians—and at the
end the applause was deafening. Next was the
“ Kreuzer Senate” for violin and piano, Mr.
Buddee taking the latter instrument. This was
also received with muen applause, and each per-
former was recalled. Mr. Hal ewell was io t'xoel-
lent voice, and sang “Why do the Nations?” in
bis best style. Signora Fabrls was unable to
appear, so sent one of her pupils as a
substitute—a young lady in a brick-red cos-
tume, who was so extremely nervous that It
was hardly fair to judge her’. Perhaps she was
overcome with the honour done htr by Herr
Kruse playing the violin obligato to the “Sere
Data ” What a tremendous pull that will give
her over other Sydney girls who aspire to public
singing. Mr. Harry Hyndes played a pleasant
solo tne tiiie of which has escaped our memory;
and Master B attle sang “The Gang of tha
Wocdeu Sh-ion ” Herecame the presentation and
address. the latter was trad by Mr. Bush-T, and
the former, which consisted of a pretty satin bag
of sovereigns, was handed to the violinist by Mr
Kuenerbedn It must have been heavy, that bag,
•for {Jerr Kruse had to rest it on the piano when
Jie cai»a forward to deliver himself of a neaUittle
■pcecri prepared for the occasion. But he didn t
forget to re-possesi himself of it before he left
4he platform oh dear, no. Bach’s air on the G-
striog was the last item on the programme, but
an encore was insisted upon, and as the last de-
licious note died away wo felt savage to tbink that
Berlin had taken away from us one of the finest
violinists Sydney ha i ever seen.
c »
On the 2fith July, there was a pretty wed-
ding at St Michael s Church, Surry Hills. Mr C.
O. h’chulzo the bridegroom, and Miss Nellie lor-
syth the bride. The church was prettily decorated
for the occasion with a profusion of wreaths and
greenery. Midway up the aisle was placed a beau-
tiful lloral arch, from which depended streamers
of black, white, and red ribbons (German colours)
a tribute to the bridegroom. At 3 o’clock,
the bride, accompanied by her father, and at-
tended by eight bridesmaids, entered the church,
which was crowds d with spectators. The
bride, a tall, graceful lady, carried an ex-
quisite bouquet, and was elegantly attired
m a gown i omposed of ivory duchesse,
satin petticoat, flounced with silk edelweiss lace.
Jong sprays of orange-blossoms across the front
bodice, and long s juare train of plush; on her
head a wreath of biidal flowers, from which hung
a beautilul tul e veil fastened with ptari pins,
giving a charming finish to hu exquisite costume
'The bridesmaids were all dressed alike in pretty
simple frocks of on am nun s-veiling and lace,
touchei wica ruby-plush, hate to match, and each
earned a basket of dowers tied with loops ot
ribbon. The thief maid. Miss Sara Forsyth, earned
an immense bouquet of violets, tcross the centre
of which the letter “A” was formed with white
hyacinths, wh eh, upon the dark violets, was
very effective. This was a gift from the
gsaotain of the Albatross whose presence and
that of several other officers in lull uniform
Vdded not a little to the brilliancy of the scene.
Mrs Sander, the bride s sister, wore a dress of
of seal-brown plush and satin, with chenille trim-
mings. Another sister. Mis. G. Evans, an o'ive-
gruen brocade ana bonnet to correspond; M'S.
John Forsyth, claret satin and brocaded velvet,
small princess bonnet; Mrs Thornley, brown
satin and cream lace; Mrs. J. Woods, black satin
dress, the front widto of which was composed en-
tirely of a network of beads, bonnet of autumn
leaves. A recently-made bride from Manly looked
nice in a grenat ottoman Bilk, trimmed with
coffee lace. A Victorian visitor was charming
In navy and cardinal. A young married lady, a
“study in brown,” relieved by pink aigrette in her
bonnet; a seasonable costume was navy cashmero
with gold facings At t,ne conclusion of the cere-
mony, the “ bedding March ” was clayed, after
« hlch the guests, numbering about 50, partook oi
an • xcellent collation provided by Comoagnom.
B ides’ present numerous and costly, and honey-
moon near Moss Vale.
♦ * *
The dresses in the theatre-circles have
bean unusually gorgeous this week, Cast Friday
night, at “ lolanthe,” there was a magnificent ap-
parition in a brilliant red velvet gown, the splen-
dour of which shone scarcely undimlniahed even
through the dismal lights during the second art.
A dark lady, in a beautiful flowered silk dress, had
powdered her black hair so profusely with
dust that the supr-rfluity had escaped on to the
bare shoulders, looking almost like steel armour.
A pretty and popular musician was bscom-
insrly gowned la a soft white China silk,
and wore a pearl coronet on her head. Most taste-
ful was a sapphire blue plush zouave jacket over
a full vest of white brocaded satin and caught at
the ovaist with a large buckle set with brilliants.
The blonde hair was dressed high and adorned
with a single string of pearls. White dresses are
much in vogue for theatre wear; one night nearly
half the ladies in the circles were thus garbed. A
shining white satin had the half-long sleeves com-
posed entirely of crystal network—very striking,
but surely uncomfortable. A few—just a few—
are seen with their hair dressed in the “Catagon ”
style, the bunchy curls being generally confined
with a pin or brooch set with jewels, but occasion-
ally a bow of ribbon serves as a substitute.
• • *
“Surprise” parties seem to be gaining
ground this season; they have even reached Tam-
worth. Only last week a party of about 20 couples
proceeded to Irebertha, the residence of Mrs. B. G.
Cohen, and took possession of her house, having
previously ascertained that the lady and her hus-
band were out. Tables and chairs were quickly
swept out of the rooms, and dancing commenced
and was kept up till midnight. Upon the return
of Mr. and Mrs. Cohen, they heartily joined in the
fun, and if they wished their uninvited guests
far away, they certainly did not show it The
good taste of these " Surprise ” parties Is question-
able.
The Sydney “ Bohemians” gave their first
ball in Nithsiale last W«dnesfay ani never did
these favourite rooms look so picturesque as upon
the occasion. On the wall, at the “ band” end of
the main room, whs a bed of moss upon which
the words “ Bohemians’ Welcome’ were worked
out with various coloured chrysanthemums, but-
tercups, and other manageable flowers Notwith-
standing that the company numoered 300, the floor
was never inconveniently crowded, as not a few
couples, with a oonsiderateneas w htch cannot be too
highly extolled, chose, In preference to dancing, to
Unger la theshadeof the softly-lighted ante-romn
which was as if made for “ talking age and whis-
pering lovers ’’—especially the latter. One ol i he
best dresses was a pale lavender piush draped wit i
handsome white lace, and was worn by Mrs. Hall
Two remarkably handsome costumes were of
amber satin and black velvet. The plain velvet
japes were adorned with several bands of satin
taken from each hip and crossed in front of the
skirt. The bodices and pailers were composed of
tie satin, and with long amber silk gloves made
two pretty pictures. Another study in amber
satin and black velvet was worn by Miss Payne
The short-sleeved bodice was striped at regular
intervals with narrow black ribbon velvet, the
beautiful continuity of which was very pleasing.
Velvet loops and elaborations adorned tie skirt, ,
and the whole evidenced not a little thought aud
study for beauty and effect; a black net dress had
a handsome and costly drapery of old gold plush;
very prettv looked M'ss George in a pearl-white
satin, the flounces ol which were touched with a
beautiful rose-coloured satin, softened with white
lace—jewellery, pearls, and diamonds; Mrs Ram-
say, white Indian liaen, with beautiful white lace
draperies; Miss Butler, white satin, draped
with a handsome white crepe scarf, richly
embroidered with silk ; Miss Davenport, white
muslin and lace, garnished with white plumes,
heliotrope wreaths, and silver epaulettes. Miss
Phillips, white satin and tulle, caught up with
pink rose buds. Miss Wangenheim. blue satin,
covered with a network of black Spanish lace;
Mrs Eva, white skirt and pale-blue sarin bodice
and panier; Mrs. Smith, black net and silver
sprays; Miss Mandelsohn, cream lace skirt looped
up with old gold satin rosettes, gold satin bodice
and panisrs; Mrs. Catlett, black lace and cardinal
plumes: Miss Fogarty, blaca net dress, with
wreaths of violets and snowdrops; Mrs. Cole,
crimson satin, with black lace over-skirt; Miss
Sc itt, white satin and swansdown; Miss Josephs,
white satin; Miss Llpman, black velvet, with steel
ornaments; Mbs Ireland, rose-pink cashmere, and
her sister white muslin with lace flounces and car-
dinal scarf. A beautiful costume was composed
of pale-blue satin and deep cardinal plush. Ex-
cellent music was provided, and Mr Tollemache
secured some of Compagnoni s best skill for the
supper table.
• * •
Last Friday night, the Glebe Private As-
sembly ball was held in the local Town Had. and
although it was n t so numerously attended as
usual, it only made it the more enjoyable for those
who were there. Just as when Haudel, upon uelng
informed behind the scenes that there were only
about a dozen people lu the hall to hear one of his
Oratorios, replied: “Oh, never mind, de music
vlll sound all de p, tter; ’ so this night the dancers
comforted themselves with the consoling thought
that they could dance without having their
favourite corns crushed. And then the ladies
like to have room for tae display of their
dresses. Mrs. Reuss wore cardinal and white,
and Miss Kortf a rich dress of crimson satin
trimmed with handsome Maltese lace; Mrs. Sulli-
van, the tallest lady present, wore cream brocaded
satin garnished with pink poppies; her sister was
pretty in pale-blue and bertha of natural violets.
Mrs. Lomer, black, and Miss Lomer a becoming
dress of white veiling, with panlers and bodice of
white broche ornamented with natural pink roses;
Miss Samper, of musical renown, wore a
black lace dress with old gold ribbons, and
carried a handsome black and gold fan; Miss
K. Yeend, black, with the Club colours; Miss
Horne, pale pink veiling and white lace; Miss
Jessie Long, white llama, plain, full skirt,
low bodice, short sleeves, and broad pinksasn.
A fair lady wore a white lace skirt and satin bodice
adorned with sprays of buttercups. De Groen s
music was excellent. A young masher, upon
discovering a small hole In his black socks just on
top of the instep, conceived the brilliant idea of
inking it over; but, as soon as he commenced to
dance, the hole spread and the ink didn’t, the conse-
quence was a lovelv inkey beauty-spot was sur-
rounded by a large circle of bare foot, presenting
an appearance as unique to spectators as it was
embarrassing to the youth. Moral: Never use ink
as a substitute for darning-cotton. Further;
Marry at once.
m * *
The bachelors of Wingham, Manning
River, entertained their friends to a hall Fiy® n , ln
the School of Arts last week. A Bight lady,
dressed in pink satin jacket and white skirt, was
unanimously dubbed the belle; her sister was also
charming in white jupe and crimson velvet jacket-
Two sisters from the Woolla were costumed alike
in pale-blue satin, trimmed with white lace. A
Sydney lady, who danced like a fairy, was attired
in white and cream. A local favourite was sweet
in blue silk bodice and white skirt. A return
party, to be given by the ladles, is on the tapis,
» • •
Mr. and Mrs. Huntley, of the Mercantile
Bank, Gosford, gave a plain and fancy dress ball In
the Assembly Hall last Friday week. Mrs. Hunt-
ley looked charming as Lurllne, and her sisters.
Misses Florrie, Edie, and Eva donned the costumes
of Butterfly, Dolly Yarden, and Bohemian Girl re-
spectively; Miss Maitland, of Sydney, appeared aa
Red. White, and Blue; Miss Smith, of Goulburn,
as Folly; Miss Kingsmtll, Nancy Lee; Miss Scott,
of Coonamble, as Night; Miss Huntley, as Morn-
ing; Mrs. Parr, America; Miss Long field, Italian
Flower Girl; Miss M. Scott, a beautiful costume
as Snow; Mr. J. F. Carr, a Cavalier; J. J- Kings-
mill, an Irishman; Mr, Huntley, a costume of
Charles the First’s time; Miss Long, as Mischief;
Miss J. Scott, Good Luck; Miss Ranley, Lawn
Tennis; Miss J. Scott, Forget-me-Not; and Mrs.
Binley, as Afternoon Tea. The host and hostess
were untiring in their endeavours to make the
ball a success, and intend to repeat It annually,
a • •
The Oddfellows’ Hall, Goulburn, was un-
usually gay and festive last Thurday evening,
when the bachelors held their second annual ball.
By half-past 8 p.m. the dress circle of the hall was
tenanted by about 350 spectators—admission two
shillings—and shortly after, 50 couples started the
giddy whirl. A pretty cream satin dress, trimmed
with lace, was worn by a dark lady from Auburn-
street; and a fair lady was extremely graceful in
a black grenadine trimmed with pink satin; a blue
brocaded satin, with white lace drapings, was
effective; and a young lady, in white satin, with
head-dress of pearls and swansdown, was be-
witching. Two residents of North Goulburn were
dressed with excellent taste, one in claret satin
and fawn lace, the other in cream satin. A grace-
ful dancer from the same suburb was clad in
bl tck; and a fair lady in pink veiling and swane-
down trimming attracted a great deal of notice.
A costume of old gold and cardinal plush was
gorgeous. Messrs, M’Alister and Roby officiated
satisfactorily as M's C , aud the ball was a success
in every way.
» 4
Last Friday a fashionable crowd assembled
to witness the opening of the recreation grounds
ia Melbourne, known as the Victorian Gardens.
The Governor and Lady Loch did the opening
biz , the latter gowned in a handsome marone
plush and broche dress, with bonnet to match.
The Lady Mayoress, wore moss-green velvet, with
broche trimmings.
♦ * ■ *
Over 60 couples graced the floor of the
new Oddfellows’ Hall, Orange, In response to the
invitation of the committee of the Mercantile
ball, who wound up their most successful season
on Thursday evening last. Bathurst, Blarney, and
Moloug were each well represented. A Bathurst
brunette in white tulle was universally admired;
pink adorned, with the usual pleasing effect, one
who generally carries off the honours, whilst her
pretty friend in mauve and white was charming.
A visitor from March-street wore white llama and
satin, and an Anson-street beauty was graceful In
blue and white. Lord’s Place sent a pretty figure
in a white skirt and cardinal satin bodice; a young
lady in old gold and white was a favourite. Two
Molong sisters In black and cardinal were in much
request, likewise a blonde and also a brunette
from Blayney. Peisley-street turned out a hand-
some brunette in a pretty costume of cream, and
from Clinton a stranger came attired in white
satin and lace. A pet te maiden was “quite the
toff” lu white dress with swansdown “flxlns.”
The splendid floor and good music provoked the
dancars to keep up the fun till 4.30.
• * *
Newcastle was enfete last Friday evening,
it being the night of the ball given by some of the
leading uerohants and doctors to their friends.
About 200 invitations were accepted. Amongst
the many beautiful dresses, one worn by a young
and pretty married lady from Sydney was con-
spicuous, and was composed of old gold satin,
trimmed with handsome black lace; Mrs. Bales,
from Maitland, wore a handsome peach-coloured
silk, trimmed with old point lace; Miss Connie
Cross, very pretty in yellow Indian muslin,
trimmed with buttercups; Miss Teresa Cross, pale
(Continued on next page.)
PRACTICAL.
MRS. S.: “YOU’RE A HEARTLESS BRUTE—I DON'T BELIEVE YOU’D SHED A TEAR IF I
WERE IN MY GRAVE BEFORE YOU.”
MR. S. : "BRING ON YOUR GRAVE, AND LET’S SEE WHETHER I WOULD OR NOT.”


And now Mr. Bicknell throws cold water on the
story. He argues thus:—When a body 1« burnt,
the part which longest resist? the action of the Are,
after the base of the skull and one or two of the
most solid Portions of the bone, 1h the liver. The
heart, being hollow and smaller, is easily destroyed'
but the liver, a moist aad so id mag*, repelsintense
u, u l tim ately deposits an ash of pure carbon
which no continued ouruing or inertase of tem-
perature ean further change. As it is doubtful
whether Byron. L<=igh Hunt, or Trelawny knew
the difference between heart or liver, and the
reputed heart was given by Lvlgh Hunt to Mrs.
Dey, and n now at Bosoombe. perhaps it wou d
be as well, as Mr. Bioknell suggests that some
competent anatomist sh uld settle the vexed
question for ever. It is all very well to do homage
to a pout s heart, but the must devoted admirer
might object to bow before his liver though the
proper w king of th« latter may have had much
greater influence on his po< fr\ thao the first.
t3P“ PBICE LISTS POST FREE.
Twenty percent, under any Sydney
House.
V<
SvV,:
' '
£400 WORTH OF STEEL ANGLOS
To PICK FROM.
J. STANLEY,
CONCERTINA DOCTOR,
WILLIAM STREET, BATHURST.
r Herberton, Queensland, June 18th.Mgs
am v«rt 1 L^ l y °i Ur co , noer fina safe andsound. and I
n ent 7 11 ,s the beat
ILwi L 1 ever saw. I will never irv another nf
s ,or tbw ,re
Joseph Mitchell.
Melrose Station, Condobolin,
verr*won 0n i Cer^5 a safe on Monday laac[ and Tam
one y a7lver f“w. Wlth !t * 1 bdlleVe lfc M good a
Hk (mV Simpson.
nn«,hip^ U f of tbe An *lo-German concertina l
fcj? Purchased instruments from^someof“the
leadiogr houses in Melbourne and Sydney and can
to make what use youlike of thta note aait.7
only fair to the public that they should know
where a perfect Instrument is to be obtained.
Charles Williams, Hairdresser.
PEAPES &
SFfilHG SHOW!
PBAPE8 and SHAW'S SPRING MILLINERY.
PBAPE S and SHAW’S SPRING COSTUMES.
PEAPES and SPRING DRESS
PE APES and SHAW’S SPRING FABRIC
Gr L(J VES.
PEAPHS and SHIPMENT
PEAPES and SHAW 8 SPRING HOSIERY
from J. and R. MuRLhY s. ER1,
PEAPES and OHJW;| 8PW»a SHIPMENT OF
PEAPES .Ad SHA™ SPRING SHIPMENT OP
PEAPES .nd SHAW'SSPRINO SHIPMENT OP
SPECIAL NOTICE!
All the above goods are
Now Open for Inspection.
Large Shipments
for obher Departments are
CLOSE AT HAND,
and a constant flow of
NOVELTIES
will be opened up
DURING THE SEASON. 1
PE A PUS & SHAW,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS,
324, 326, 328 George Street.
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
AUCTIONEERS,GENERAL COMMISSION
AGENTS.
SALES of HORSES and PEDIGRPR STocir
held dally at the CITY HORSE and CATrfp
BAZAAR (lately occupied by Mr. Ktos) Also
TION YARDsf at H0MEBU «H and
Office-175 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
Department ox Public Worxa.
Sydney, 11th August, 1886.
TENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and 8UP-
PUE8.—TENDERS are Invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
Is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
Wltru
Th© Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
F. A. WRIGHT.
Department of Public Instruction.
Sydney, 10th August, 1886.
TENDERS FOR ADDITIONS, FENCING. AND
REPAIRS.
TENDERS are invited for Additions to the
leacher s Residence, and for fencing and
repairs, at the Tempe Public “School
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Additions. Fenc-
}“£• and Repairs, Tempe Public School,” must be
the Under Secretary. Department of
Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m., on
Wednesday, 26th August. 1885.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
for
Infants and Children
“What gives our Children rosy cheeks,
"What cures their fevers, makes them sleep;
Castorla.
"When Babies fret, and crv hy turns,
What cures their colic, kills their warms
What quickly cures Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Colds, Indigestion ;
Castorla. >
Farewell then to Morphine Syrups,
Castor Oil and Paregoric, and
«, Hail Castorla.
“ Castoria, is bo well adapted to Children
that I recommend it as superior to any medi-
cine known to mo.”—H. A. Archer, M. D..
Ill Oxford St., Now York.
Elliott Bros., Sidney, Agents.
Her head was pillowed on his breast, and
looking up In ashy, winning way, she said: “Do
you know, dear George, that ’’ “You mean
dear James, darling,” he Inte-rupted, smiling
roundly at her mistake. “ Of course, how stupid
of me. I was thinking It was Wednesday."
Nurse (to fashionable mother): “ The baby
is very restlefs, ma’am. I can’t do anything with
, F.M.: “She’s teething. I suppose.” N.:
Yes m. I think if you was to take her In your
arms a little while It might soothe her.” F. M.: “I?
Impossible. I haven’t time to spare. I’m just
P-f e Parlng to attend a meeting of the Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Children. Give baby
Some paregoric.”
■Earl Cairns—Gumboil that was—has been
appointed private secretary to one of the new
Ministers, the Duke of Klchmond, and a very use-
iul young man he is likely to prove to the Presi-
dent of the Board of Trade; that is, if toe latter
desires to know anything coming within the spe-
cial province of his amanuensis. As a guide to
•the stage doors of burlesque houses he is probably
more reliable than an official road map, and as an
authority on the best places to sup after the
theatre, he is perhaps to be more depended upon
than an hotel directory.
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated witt
S 4 * 411(5 floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance In display
consummated. 60t Hunter-street. Sydney.*
sale per day now exceeds 60,000lbs. Of Kings-
tord s Oswego Cornflour.
Mistress: “Have you gtven the gold-fish
fresh water, as I told you. Norah ? ” “ No, ma’am.
they havcTye't! " 1 ® they haven,t dranJl what
,l aw £ as keen passed in Denmark
providing that all drunken persons shall be taken
home In carriages at the expense of the landlord
rivi°li8atfon hem th6 la8t gla88, Tdia 18 what we cal1
In Wales, the other day, a bride-expectant,
? e r ay to ll ? e aJtHr > gave her intended
husband, xor some real or Imaginary dejinciuencv
a terriBc blow with her clenched fist He there’
upon declined to proceed with the ceremony. Th^
mUnna 1 ” n ? * lrl sbou * d dovelope Into “ the
mhsus before her proper time.
“Shelley’s heart or only his liver?’’—that
Ji 6 L„?!. 1 que8tlon wh l ch a matter of-fact correspon-
apiopos ofa statement in Mr. Jeffreson's
unfortunate book about Shelley. “All the world
andean Mr- Joflresonsays, “how Shelley’s torn
£.5 Q{fUre * d c ,°rp9e was reduced to ashes, and a
w ra n * 8 of ,i> one « (with the exception of the
heart, that would not be burnt), on the pyre,”
IDstrlingr HarTsoiix Hotel,
HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Railway Cates).
STEPHEN HOPKINS (Late of Wagga Wagga), Proprietor.
ESPECIAL accommodation for country visitors.
OFFORD & CO.’S
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest. I S
652 CrEORGrE STREET.
(Continued from page 16.)
blue Indian muslin; Miss A. Cross, pink muslin,
with pink feather trimming; Miss Leila Logan,
pale blue silk, trimmed with harmonizing lace and
net; Miss L. O’Sullivan, white muslin, elaborately
adorned with loops of ribbon; ;Mlss Brownlow,
from Sydney, wore a spotted white net dress; Mrs.
Orr, white muslin dress, trimmed with pearls.
The Misses Mann, Lovegrove, and Donaldson were
also charmingly attired, and the claim to bellesbip
was perhaps between Miss Annie Browi low and
Miss Lovegrove. Mr. G. A. (Clyde and his brother
bachelors may be congratulated on the success of
their ball, which was one of the best ever held in
Newcastle.
♦ * *
On Tuesday, the 4th lost., the Amazon
Quadrille gave their second annual
plain and fancy-dress ball at Mr. Giflitan's Aca-
demy. About 80 couples graced the floor, and the
ladles’ dresses were particularly tasty. Miss Annie
Ward wore a black lace dress over crimson satin;
Miss M’Carty, in the character of a Cigarette Girl,
made herself especially popular with the gentle-
men by her liberality in handing round her wares:
Miss J. J. Johnston, in H nlan s colours and a wig
looked, to say the least of it, unique. A Swiss
Peasant Girl was very agreeable, and a very pretty
dress as starlight made the wearer look charming
in the gaslight. Miss Dolly Simpson was a fashion-
able fairy In pink silk; and the Misses Merrld as
the Two Orphans were sad enough for anything;
a lady wore Beach’s colours (black and yellow),
and a pretty little Sailor-lass, with red hose and sash,
was one of the merriest in the room. Amongst the
fancy costumes of the gentlemen there were
a corpulent Hamlet, a Trench Dragoon, and a
cross between Dick Turpin and a Colonial Soldier.
At intervals during the evening a few friends of
the Club contributed songs, etc,, and a Mr. W
Reldel gained great applause for his singing of a
ditty of his own composition.
• • •
The Burwood private assembly eventu-
ated last Friday night, and was attended by about
130 people. The number of diminutive men
present was extraordinary; as they danced it was
almost pitiable to notice how the poor girls (who
were nearly all of decent height) had to stoop over
them, and spoil the grace of their own figures by
so doing. A small man dancing with a tall girl is
a comical sight, but especially when the man
can t dance, and has to be dragged round
by his partner. Miss Eva Thompson appeared
in a pretty cream satin dress trimmed with
lace and a long tulle waterfall back; Mrs.
Harry Thorn, a pretty coffee-coloured lace skirt
looped up with crimson roses and crimson velvet
bodice; Miss Moses wore a white Indian silk dress
and a pale-blue surah sash; Mrs. Pinhey, hand-
some black lace and surah skirt, with beaded front,
the bodice set off with small white birds; Miss
Field, black net skirt, crimson spotted sleeves
laced across the arm with narrow black ribbon,
like a fancy boot; Miss Levlen, conspicuous in
black lace and buttercups; Miss Cummins, pink
sateen, meagrely trimmed with pink-spotted net; ,
Mrs. Griffith Jones, very pretty white-corded silk 1
and white lace looped up with green velvet
leaves. Fun all over by midnight.
* * * «
A Rag-Taekers’ ball was given by Miss
Higgins, of Gunnedah, lately. Great success
The Mayor of Red'em was lest week entertained
at a ball by a number of Redfern residents The
second of the Goulburn Winter Parties took place
last Friday week. Several Burwood footballers
present, who succeeded in persuading their vari-
our partners to sport their colours at the match
the ensuing day....The Glebe Bachelors'Assem-
bly passed off pleasantly in their Town Hall last
Monday night.
ANSWERS TO SOCIAL CORRESPONDENTS.
[Note.— Social items, in order to ensure inser-
tion for the current week, should be to hand no
later than Tuesday.]
“ Towboy ”: Last week’s matter received, but
crowded out— *' C.H L.”: Who are you?
Can’t publish item without sender’s name*.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Lynwood Club Social, “ Lynwood ” Glebe
Point August 11.
Newtown Private Social August 14
Sydney Social (Nlthsdale) August 14.
Carrington Plain and Fancy Dress Ball,
West’s Academy August 18
Londoners’ Club Ball, Town Hall Augusts
Sydney Bicycle Club Ball, Town Hall. .. Auvust 34.
The Poet Swinburne.
Mk. Algernon Charles Swinburne, whose por-
trait—so strangely like that of Henry Kendall—
appears in the first page of this day's issue of The
Bulletin, occupies a prominent place among the
best poets In the English language. Passionate,
sensuous, spiritual, musical, he combines the in-
tellectual buoyancy that gave Shelley wings with
the physical force of words that gave Byron speed.
He is a man to man* enemies Hi- style is mili-
tant. He thinks for himself. Instinct with enthu-
siasm for the ancient simplicity of social inter-
course, for individual bernsms at Junctures of
political peril, for personal bravery at all ilous,
whether it be the body or the soul that is at stake,
he hurls periods fuh of blood and brain at the
hideous hydras modern hypocrites have mutually
agreed to tolerate. It is in this vein of work he 1#
at his best Of late he has largely affected gentle
themes, but, although genius is there, it is genius
with wings folded. The influence of Wait r
Savage Land ir had a sedative power over him In
some of his works Swinburne shows a tendency
towards Pantheism, but, practically, he may be set
down as an Atheist.
“ Though all men abase them before you In spirit,
and all knees bend,
1 k P ee ‘ not, neither adore you, but standing
look to the end.
, For there is no Sod found stronger than death:
and death is a sleep.”
In polities he is a Republican; not a man made so
by the Influence of Republican institutions, but a
man who, were there no such institutions in
existence, would conceive and project them. His
mind is essentially creative, not mimetic. He
faces Nature, and the forces of Nature, and aban-
dons himself to speech, as little mindful of con-
ventionalisms as the souali that springs from the
sea. No finer poem than his “Atalanta in Caly-
don is to be found in any language, ancient or
modern. Its choruses are as grand as those of
Sophocles, its rushing eloquence as elevated and
sustaipe i as that of His word-pictures
are sometimes thought too vivid, and he has
accordingly been placed by a class of people in
the front of the ‘'fleshly school.” “Chastelard”
is in prison, and is thinking of the visits of Mary.
He soliloquises:—
“ Ah, in my weary dusty space of sight,
Her form will come with heavy scents of hair,
And Are of subtl«?, amorous eyes; and lips
More hot than wine,-full of sweet wicked words
Babbbd against mine own lips; and long hands
Spread out, and pale bright throat, and pale
brleht breasts.
Fit to make all men mad.”
Swinburne is in hs 49th year. He is a native of
London and was educated in Oxford, which he
mft without a degree. He writes verse fluently in
French*in Latin and In Greek His prose is twin
to bis poetry, It not so poetical as Carlyle’s
prose, but it is more rapid, vivid, and exciting.
His Life of William Blake’ is starred with pas-
sages of extreme beauty. His father was Admiral
Swinburne and his motoer Lady Jane, daughter of
the third Karl of Ashburnham. It is said the poet
ismuch given to stimulants of a pernicious kind.
He is a little, fragile-looking man, and has most
unpoetlcally •' ginger ” hair.
HOME RULE5.
Mistress of the Situation: “No, Mr.
Gadabout, you will remain at home to-
night.”
“From the Gal owe to the Penitent-Form
“HE PREPARED TO HANG HIMSELF, BUT THE BAND
STOPPED HIM,”
Such la the heading of an article In the last Sydney
War Qky, which attempts to defend Salvation
ar ?j y bands and street processions against
the adder-tongued followers of the Evil One.
appears—but let them speak“ A poor drunkar
whose life had become a burden to himself, dete
mined to end his miserable existence. He pr
cured a rope, and, enterin/ar the coal-house in t le
back-yard, got a stool, or table, and, having p
the noose round his neck, was proceeding to t e
the rope round the beam, intending to kick aw
the stool* .Just at this moment the sound of t le
singing and playing of the salvation Army corp
as they came along in procession, fell upon bis a
and he hesitated.” No. Marshal Balilngton Boot
notwithstanding our child-like credulity, we ca
not recppciie ourselves to'this lot. Ifstoothl
“ a .. pston— far too thin. Throw your “slde-flapi”
well back, and listen. We would speak with you
No, Bailie, not If even you
Assured hs that this yam was true
would we believe it for a minute —
No. Balilngton, there's nothing in It.
We re gullible, we know we are,
But this IS going'mhch too far;
We really lail to understand
Howe’er your blood-and-thunder band
Deterred a wretched human wreck
Fi’om stretching out his seamy neck
And passing from a world of toll
By shuffling off this mortal coll.
No, Bailie, we have heard too often
The fiendish sounfs which you say soften
The flinty hearts of reckless mortals
Who strive to ent» r Heaven’s portals
And chirp amid the angelic choir
By using strong Manilla coir;—
We know, of course, dear Bailie Booth,
Music a savage breast will soothe;
Wo likewi?e have heard poets tell
How sweet sounds work a magic spell;
That, fit f( r strategems and spoils
Is he who's free from Music's toils.
Yes, we learn’d, too, while we were small.
How David soothed the ruffltd Saul,
And quick dis'eljed the old boy's Ire
By sweetly twarglng on the lyre;
But then a cone rd of sweet sounds
If vastly different—we ll lay pounds—
From those discordant sounds which greet
iMir ears when diwn the quiet street
Resound the brass and battered drums
To tell us that the Army comes.
Could ytu, dear boy, expect to see
Produced by that lot, melody ?
We tell you, oh I great sou of Booth,
We reckon it's-well, an untruth.
Many an honest citizen
(Kespected by his fellowmen),
Spurred by the Army's misplaced zest.
Sets out to gain a place of rest,
Sees at last his only hope
Lies la beam and pendant rope,
Jumos at chance, and, in his fury.
Shuffles off; and then a jury
Sit upon the “sulcider,”
Give their verdict, add a rider
Intimating that your drum
Makes more men mad than Queensland rum.
We can t Lelleve your yarn, ohl Bailie—
Pray, do forgive our little sally;
List to us now while we holloa It—
We’ll see you banged before we “ go ” it.
Men driven frantic by despair
Perform a pas sen I In the air.
But these men. Bally, understand,
Are driven to it by your band!


BEALE & COMPANY.
BEALE & COMPANY
Beale & Company.
SYDNEY and BRISBANE.
IMPORT NONE BUT THE
Sweet “Hapsburg” Piano,
SWEET “HAPSBURG” PIANO,
Which, by Judicious Selection and Addition of
all Valuable Improvements, they have raised to
the Premier Position among 1 Instruments in Aus-
tralia.
The Principal of the Firm is at present Visiting
the Continent, with a view to maintain, and, if
possible, to improve the
UNEQUALLED QUALITIES
of the
Sweet “ Hapsburg '' Piano.
MORE ARE SOLD THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY than of
ANY OTHER MAKE.
Ever Growing: and Widening: Popularity Attested
by High Testimony Daily Volunteered,
BEALE & COMPANY,
Will Deliver a
Sweet “Hapsburg” Piano
(CARRIAGE PAID)
To any Wharf or Railway Station in New South
Wales upon the most
LIBERAL TERMS OF TIME-PAYMENT.
BEALE AMO COMPANY,
Sydney Show Rooms,
386 and 613 GEORGE STREET,
13 CENTRAL MARKETS,
151 OXFORD STREET.
TRAVELLERS AND BRANCHES THROUGH-
OUT THE COLONY.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 4th August, 1885.
TENDERS FOR NEW BUILDING.
TENDERS are invited for the Erection of 8
Public School Building at Neutral Bay.
Plans and Specifications may bo seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Department
of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for new Building
Neutral Bay Public School;” must be lodged with
the tinder Secretary, Department of Public In-
struction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m., on Monday,
the 34th Augus r , 1885.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender. _
W. J. TKICKETT.
DR. BOYD,
53 CAS FLERE AG H-8TREET, SYDNEY
(Upstairs). „
GRADUATE IN MKD1CUE AND SURGERY,’
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday, Wednesday:
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and Female Diseases a
Specialty.
Box 130 G.P.O.
The satest and surest of regulating tonics
is Wolfe’s Schnapns.
Klngsford's Oawesro Cornflour can be obtained
In >61b. and 11b. packets.
Through cloudless skies, with silvery beams.
The clear cold moon looks down.
And notes that Summerfikld supplies
The cheapest pants in town. ♦
Art Union of Moss Vale, in aid of Widow
and Orpan Fund of Berrima Masonic Lodge.
Tickets, 30s. Will shortly bs drawn. Apply at
once for tickets. J. 8. Hyams, Sec., Moss Vale*
Wolfe's Schnapps, the grandest tonic in
the world.
The purity and excellence of Klngsford’s Oswego
Cornflour Is unequalled.
Woman Items
Will the hair grow after death?” is a
question that Is being agitated by scientific
people. This depends a good deal upon whose
death it Is. Wo have known a man’s hair to grow
right along after his wife was laid away In the
silent tomb.
Search for this epitaph in the Waverley
cemetery
Here lies a father gone to dust;
He got on but couldn’t get “ off the bust.”
At first his loss was a sad, sad blow,
But we’ve two cups in the family now.
From the Murrumburrah (N.S.W.) Signal:
—“ Matrimony.—Ah How, aged 30 years, would
like to take a partner for life. The lady’s age is
of no consequence—hut he would prefer one be-
tween 15 and 50-and she may belong to any reli-
gion under the sun. She must, however, be a
good housewife—clean, able to wash, cook, &e„ as
well as sober in her habits. Apply by letter, to
Ah How, Post Office, Cootamundra.”
The absence of mind belonging (we mean
to copyright this phrase) to the German professor
is proverbial. Professor Mommsen, having got
married, was about to start on his honeymoon,
amid the congratulations of his friends. As he
was stepping into a rail wav c image somebody
said; “ But where’s your wife, profesor?” “ Ach 1
mein Gotti” he replied, “I had forgotten her.”
And he rushed back to the wating-room to fetch
her.
A correspondent writes that an Auckland
lawyer has a female engrossing clerk. A very
engrossing clerk, no doubt. Our troubles! It’s h
peculiar thing that—not that we—But It Is
pecuharl Just think of the talk there would be
if we had a female clerk. Why, we believe that
the bishop would call a> d remonstrate. We are
alluding to the bishop who has chartered the two
“ peculiarly eligible ” slaves. His lordship, we are
told, Is a diligent reader of Thb Bulletin. It is
left for him regularly at the Sydney branch of the
Propagation of the Gospel In Foreign Parts.
By English law (which, we may mention,
is the perfection of reason) a wife has to prove
cruelty as well as adultery before she can gain a
divorce. Recently, Justice Fry refused the decree
because the husband (a country clergyman) had
been guilty of “ abominable ” conduct only, in
addition to the breach of the 7th Commandment.
The said conduct consisted in leaving his wife,
who was then near her confinement, in the house
without any money, and giving the cook (his
mistress) strict orders not to let her have anything
to eat. Such proceedings, the Judge held, were
not “cruel.”
Sarah Bernhardt recently received a
munificent offer from a German manager to play
a season in several German cities. She scornfully
rejected it, saying that “ the offer was an Insult,”
and further declaring that she “ would never play
on German ground.” Thereupon a number of the
inhabitants of Alsace, one of the conquered pro-
vinces, sent her a request to play at Strasburg
She accepted at once. Tne acceptance was signifi-
cant. So too was an order immediately issued by
the German Governor-General of Alsace-Lorraine.
The order forbade Madame Bernhardt to play within
those provinces This was one of the last official
acts of General the Baron von Manteuffel,
Governor of Alsace-Lorraine, who died the other
day.
The venerable and recently-" converted ”
Poll Cott, who used to be so often convicted of
drunkenness at Newcastle, N.S.W., has been hold-
ing forth again at public meetings. There are
portions of her addresses which entitle her. If not
to the courteous, at least to the attentive consid-
eration of the critic. “Sometimes,” she said, “I
bashed the traps, and sometimes they bashed me.
Now, I am full of glory, I forgive them. But
they’re a bad lot. I used to get drunk fives times
a day before I was saved, but now,” &o. &c. &o.
About the genuineness of this conversion few will
entertain a doubt; and if Poll travels on at this
rate In the path of glory, we shall expect one day
to find her prosecuting another hallelujah lass for
stealing her “improver.”
False teeth as a factor in conjugal disputes
are a novelty, hut a case of wife-desertion
revealed such a cause recently. The husband said
he left his wife because she would not let him klsi
her on the lips. The wife admitted the truth of
the statement, but refused to explain her refusal
to submit her lips to conjugal salutation. Being
pressed by the Court she whispered the reason In
the judge’s ear, and he ungallantly “gave it away.’
The lany had false teeth and she was afraid If she
allowed her husband to pres? her lips he would
discover her secret. “If he would be satisfied
with one kiss,” said the wife, plaintively, “I
should not mind, but he is such a man for kisses.
He never knows when he has enough ” But this
was evidently an unwarranted conclusion She
had never given him the chance, it Is said, to
record the fact, but the Court decided that the
man must pay his wife 13s. a week.
Just listen. From the N. Y. World:—
“ The recent introducton of bridal bathlag-dresses
promises to give piquancy this year to the shore
at Long Branch. They are worn en train, the
bridal veil being of delicate green and suggestive
of sea algffi Sponge trimmings and delicate
mussel-shell borders have been discarded because
they were found to be too heavy in l he water, A
very neat devise, however, has been Introduced
In the shape of an india-rubber underskirt and
chemisette, which Is admirably calculated to
protect the person from contact with the water
while bathing. These garments now come beauti-
fully woven and stamped in plctoral devices,
representing Aphrodite rising from the sea and
other aquatic sports of the fancy.” A " bridal
bathing-dress” Is indeed a novelty. And a rubber
dress which “protects the person while bathing’
is the most startling novelty of all. Why bath j V
We tried to put in a word for barmaids a
week or two ago when Victorian legislators were
threatening to abolish them. From our stand-
point we exhausted the question. But another
gracious and graceful way of handling the topic
is suggested by the deliberative Assembly of
which Mr. Gillies Is a Cabinet Minister and Mr.
Bent a leader of Opposition. Thus speeds the
dialogue, Mr. Bent, opening :—“ It was said that
some of the barmaids had gone astray, but some
ot their own daughters went astray. Mr. Gillies:
Speak for yourself. Mr. Bent; You have not got
a daughter. 1 am glad to say. Mr Gillies: That is
a most Improper expression. Mr. Bent: Yours
was most uncalled for. I would be Sony to have a
daughter of mine in the same street with you.
(Laughter).” It Is interesting to know that the
House was amused by the dialogue. It laughed.
We would do as much it the dialogue were less in-
decent or more witty.
There has been quite a revolution in the
manner of entertaining at Melbourne Government
House, since the advent of the charming Lady
Loch. In the days of the Marquis of Normauby,
dignified dulneas and “owlish solemnity” were
the chief fiatures of vice-regal receptions. The
Marquis was a pompous old gentleman who
pottered about, seemingly plunged in profound
meditation upon his own superiority to all things
living south of the Line. He carried this belief
out with him, and he carried it back with him.
He never lost grip of It; Yet he was a very dull
old fellow, even for a Marquis. But his rciga
ls over, and the first families of St. Kllda
and Toorak have ruled that it is once more de
rigueur to laugh, and not an unpardonable vul-
garity to make an occasional joke. The last At
Home in Government House settled the matter
effectually. There was waltzing-there was
sohottisohing—but. best of all, there was Highland
reeling A terrific figure in tartan skirled the bag-
pipes, and made the welkin (what is the welkin, by
the way ?) ring. Over 1300 people were assembled
in the ball-room. Many of the ladies wore plumes
in their hair—and it was a festive and exhilarating
sight to see these dancing up and down to the
music. No slow, somnolent strains, but—
“ Hornpipes, j ga, strathspeys, and reels
Put life and mettle la their heels.”
It was a magnificent rlgadooo. All the dancing
people of the Victorian capital (who could dance
the Hignland reel) were stamping their heels,
snapping their fingers, and hooting at each other
like owls, as Is the proper old fashion In reel-dano
Ing. All the belles were there encouraging them
in this exhibition of wild spirits We are sorry to
say there was no clog-dancing. Perhaps this omis-
sion will be supplied next time there is a party at
the Victorian Government House.
This is a Social Purity item. There is more
joy in the Melbourne Reformatory over one sinner
that repents than over ninety-nine just who
potter along piously all their lives. We have
adapted this statement from the Revised Edition.
It is thoroughly applicable. It seems that a De-
partmental inspection of the Reformatory was
made some time since, and four Inmates were
found good in the eyes of the inspectors. It was
resolved to move these four from any possibility
of contamination by the others. After some con-
sideration, It was decided that continuous virtue
would come easier in a villa with ornamental
grounds attached than in a plainer and cheaper
edifice. So a villa was purchased which had
spacious grounds and an orchard and flower-gar-
den that seemed to have been laid out with a
special view to the conservation of innocence and
the encouragement of virtue. In this delectable
mansion the four fortunate Magdalens with their
suite of attendants were established. And there
they are now—no doubt as good as gold, every one
of them. It does seem a curious thing, and rather
satirically suggestive withal, to see a Government
going to such expense to keep four young women
In the ways of virtue. It would hardly cost more
to keep them the other way. And in that case the
Government would not have to stand the racket.
We would hint to the Victorian Department which
has the control of such matters, that it will not do
to carry this thing too tar, otherwise there will be
too much competition. Bvery ooootte In the
colony will want to turn Magialen, and live vir-
tuously in a villa, with grounds, and an orchard,
and a flower-garden, If this policy is persisted la.
The humorous aspect of the matter is that, after
a certain period of revelling in all the luxuries,
the Magdalens will be expected to vacate the villa
and say farewell to the orchard and flower-garden,
and—forsaking the Primrose Way for ever—
delightedly seize the first opportunity of going
Into service as “ females ” that may happen to
offer Itself. If they enter Into the household of a
small shopkeeper where they will have to cook In
a cellar all day and sleep under the counter at
night, or engage with a comic journalist who—on
the rare occasions when he pays them—will borrow
back all their wages to buy rum with, they will
carol for joy of their new style of life all day long
and get up at night to pray for the good gentle-
men who took them out of the flower-strewn
ways of vice and set their feet on the blue-metalled
but blessed path of honesty. Oh, yes I That Is
just what they will do. It is their style. They are
tired of sin In satin. What they yearn for Is purity
in print. Well, we have no objection, but we may
be allowed to whistle softly and smile.
“A WOMAN’S LAMENT.”
THE WICKED WORLD.
A patriot named Morish writes to the Vic.
Lands Department offering to search for water in
the baok-blooks. His apparatus will be a divining-
rod. He wants “ two shillings per mile searched.”
... In the Old Colonists’Association, Melbourne,
there are at present 430 members. To be a mem-
ber one must have resided at least 20 years in the
colony. Those who arrived prior to the establish-
ment of Constitutional Government and their
male descendants are termed “pioneers.”... The
Nepean Times devotes a par. to the fact that two
brothers at Forbes, convicted of horse-stealing
were sentenced to 10 years each, and says this Is
too hot, considering that a bank clerk who steals
a couple of thou, only gets a year or two.
“Judges,” says our exchange, “are curious
cattle.’’ Does this mean that the Judge this time
has made a bull?....“ The members of the Mel-
bourne Presbytery despair of making prayer-
meetings popular and attractive.” This is gall
and wormwood, with a bilious attack thrown in.
Bear with us while we weep for the degenerate
tastes of our century. Alas 1 we fear we shall hear
next, that even hangings and funerals cannot
satisfy the mad hilarity of the age The early
maturity of young girls is said by an English
writer to be a characteristic feature of low
neighbourhoods. Wrong again. New South Wales
is not a low neighbourhood... . A wefl-known legis-
lator is certain that the Revised Testament will
never be popular. “ How can it ? he asks,
"Shoel is no word for a man to swear with. ....
The publishers of General Grant’s book say that
they have already received advance orders for
250,000 copies... .The London correspondent of the
Auckland Stab fears that Jennie Lee and her
husband have lost, at the Strand Theatre, some of
the money they made In Australia....During a
recent discussion across the border, it leaked out
that £400 a year is a common salary for Congrega-
tlonal ministers to receive. The divine who runs
the Toor'ak Church draws £800 and the Bishop of
Melbourne £1000 p«r annum. The doxolosry-
wrestler of the Soots’ Chur h rakes In a cool £1000
also, and the Rev D Jones Hamer, ot the Oollins-
street Independent chapel, tops the lot with a
screw of £1400 per annum.
An English paper says that the earldom
of “ Ktlgordon ” was offered to, but refused by,
Mr. Gladstone... A French paper says that a son
of Nana Sahib is at present an officer in the
Russian army, and that he is treated with princely
honours. He will have a bad quarter of an hour
if he is ever captured by Tommy Atkins
The Pall Mali, heads Its article on the defeat of
the Liberal Ministry, “Smashed by Jove I” As
the Tories are the War party, “ Smashed by
Jingo I ” would he truer and more appropriate—
Mrs. Mulvaney (the laundress)—“ Indade, ma’am,
an’ It’s miserable I am. I’m but jlflt on my feet
wid the pain in me back, an’ Jimmy, he’s as bad
off; he has a cough on ’im that sounds loike an
empty bar’l. Cough for the lady. Jimmy I ” —The
English girl who threw herself from Clifton sus-
pension bridge because of disappointment in a
love-affair, has received three offers of marriage
while ill in the Infirmary. The bridge Is now
guarded by the police, as fears are entertained lest
other maidens should try this royal road to matri-
mony.. The London Corporation, which form-
ally grovels to every Royal German loafer, has
just written Itself down an ass by refusing a vote
of condolence with France—proposed on account
of the death of Victor Hugo....Lord Ganaojle’s
accession to the Lords will neither add nor take
away from Its “ coliecdve wisdom.” One Imbecile
more or less will not greatly alter the average
mischievous feebleness of the Chamber... .General
M’NeiU, who is responsible for the disaster at a
zareba, near Suakim during the late Boudan war,
took the first opportunity on his return homo to
rush off to Balmoral, where he was received with
much effusion by Her Majesty. “It Is not ex-
pected,” says a London paper, “that he will be
censured, although a voice of complaint has been
raised in the matter. It will be hushed up, and
possibly Her Majesty will try to secure for her
favourite military flunkey some remunerative
post of honour. This is the way we manage
things in England.”....“The philosophy of one
century is the common-sense of the next.”
This would seem to indicate that the last
century was sadly deficient in philosophy
Marshal Bazalne Is reported to be destitute at
Madrid....A gushing London weekly gurgles
along In this style:—“It was quite a surprise to
the authorities at the Foundling Hospital on Sun,
nay to find themselves honoured by the presence
or the Prince and Princess of Wales, their three
daughters, and Prince George of Wales.” Why r
surprise ? The Prince Is often called the “ father
of his people.” Why should not a parent go to see
his children, even though some of them may be at
the Foundling Hospital ? A New Yorker wants
a divorce on the grounds that his wile, who was a
widow when he married her, said nothing about
her children, but had five whom he suddenly dis-
covered before the honeymoon had waned... A
youngster who had several teeth extracted was
comforted by the dentist with the assurance that
they would come again. Whereupon little Johnnie
inquired, “ Will they come again before dinner? ..
Geome Ohnet, the play-writer, is only 37 years oldi
He was first a lawyer, then a journalist, finally a
dramatist. When he had finisned ”Le Maitre de
Forges,” he was dissatisfied with it, and threw the
manuscript Into the fire, said he wouldn’t Ohn-et;
but his wife, who acts as his secretary, rescued It.
He is satisfied with It now. Some other people are
not....” It has always seemed a very curious thing
to me—” said a lady at the theatre, and then she
paused. “ Well,” said her husband, a little impa-
tiently; “what is It that has always seemed such a
curious thing to you ? ” “ Why, that bald-headed
men should care to sit so near the Hies.”... At a
recent wedding, according to a brilliant report In
a local newspaper, the jellies upon the tables were
pure amber masses of quivering translucence,
catching the wine-coloured prisms ot perfumed
light, and holding them lu tremulous mirrors of
rosy beauty.” As soon as Battenbergand Beatrice
settle down after honeymooning, the former is to
be made Private Secretary to the Queen 900
London cab-drivers presented a petition to the
Prince of Wales, against the passing of the De-
ceased Wife's Sister Bill. Why the petition was
sent to the Prince instead of His Royal ascendant
is not stated. Perhaps they thought he was more
conversant with all the Incidents of marriage....
The Crown Princess of Germany was strongly op.
posed to the marriage of the Princess Beatrice to
Battenberg, and the relations between the royal
mother and daughter are not so cordial as they
might be, in consequence. Ever since the
Princess brought the insolent Brown up with
a round turn in 1879, she has been a com-
parative stranger to her maternal relative...
The production ot “A Young Tramp,” by Mrs.
Langtry, announced for a recent week, has been in-
definitely postponed. In this piece, the Lily was to
have appeared In male attire, and the bald-heads
anticipated the exhibition with joyful yearnings.
. ..It Is said that Dionysius, the tyrant, singed his
beard off with hot walnut-shells. This would go
to show that barbers were as bad in ancient times
as they are now An American paper which has
twice recently erred in announcing the death of
people, announces that hereafter any young man
bringing news of a death must be accompanied by
the remains, not necessary for publication, but as
a guarantee of good faith—A Paris wine mer-
chant was heavily fined for adulteration. As he
left the Court, he asked the analyst why he was so
certain that the wine was a fabrication. “ Because
it did not contain an atom of bitartrate of potash,
which is to be found in all natural wines,” replied
the man of science.” “ Thank you for the infor-
returned the tradesman; “the next time
you analyse my wines you will find some!”... .Ac-
cording to statistics there will be a population of
193.000,000 of black people In the U.S. about a.d.
1985 The N.Z. barmaids are going to entertain
at a big banquet those local Ms.’F. who have es-
poused their cause.
MADELINE’S DAY OF REST.
“Madeline” writes to the Sydney D.T., denouncing the Sunday-closing clause of
the N.S.W. Licensing Act:—“ The Sunday prohibition to me . . . is an unmitigated
My husband dx inks on Saturday nights till the hour of closing,
an d brings with him into the household a bottle of spirits. But by
dawn of day on Sunday it, spirit like, has fled, and, consequently, I hare off and on
a semi-raving maniac for my Sunday companion.”


T-A- CZ THOIIPSOIT,
A.J.O. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRB88ING SALOON.
91 Zing-street.
N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSEHOLD a Canister of
Williams’ Australian Yeast Powder!
WILLIAMS'S
A
AUSTRALIAN __
/VST POWDER.
M wADp ! co.
Williams’ Yeast Powder
MAKES LIGHT BREAD, TEA CAKES,
and PASTRY,
HALF-POUND TINS, SIXPENCE.
Beware of Imitations.
TAKE ONLY WILLIAMS’.
This YEAST POWDER, the first manufactured
in the Australian colonies, has from the outset
maintained Its position as the Premier Yeast
Powder ; and. In spite of severe competition, its
radius of consumption has steadily Increased.
WILLIAMS’ AUSTRALIAN YEAS'?
(A POWDER Is the most economical of Bakin#
§ Powders, and sold at Sixpence the half-pound
canister.
Wholesale Depot:
VIR60E. SON, CHAPMAN,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY,
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 364 and 358 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest In Australia.
Everybody is invited to inspeet the Establishment.
Everybody is informed that this Studio is carried on for the benefit of the late Mr.
Boyd’s children, by his executrix.
Everybody should remember the address:
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manaobr.
and CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. E. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS.
, ail
Importers of
STEAM BNGDIES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
RAIL wAXx4 N Sd9X&?5^ CONTKACTOR8, PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS.
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COAOHBUILDSR8’
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. &o.
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSH W ABE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACK8
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
aim
PORTABLE. FIXE
and SEMI-FIXED B
GLNBS
VERTICAL and HOI
. ZONTAL BOILERS
TEAM and otfc
PUMPS
LATHES, PLANIN
SHAPING, SCRE 1
&r N v RILLlf
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRA
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLL1
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, Ac.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.
Head Warehouse -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Office
- 54 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR,
STTDUETT.
- - - 86 QRAOKOBUROH STREET.
Oiticura
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
tier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Itching: and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, la
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Bashes, Sun-
burn, and Bough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
Ror Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Prepared bt the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
I
7/,
a
e
LIMITED
a
0
¥
EasyTime. - i r
.ove*800ofr*i
pc
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
UT LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.


Itch I Itch! Itch!
Scratch! Scratch! Scratch!
®P©ci es of itohlng humours, baker’s,
s » grocer s. washerwoman’s itoii, Itching
Irritations peculiar to both sexes,
instantly relieved by a warm bath with Cuticura
soap and a single application of Cutictjra, the
U*L e at skin cure. This, repeated daily, with two or
}®?ee d °8es of Cuticura Besoevent. the new
1°. , kee P the blood coo), the bowels
liver and kidneys active, will
® nd Permanently cure itching tortures of
that have defied the best medi-
cal skill and all known remedies.
grocer keeps Kingsford’s Oswego Corn-
flour done up in and llb.-packets,
When a sudden noise or the least excite-
y ° Ur nerves ia a tremor, take Wolfe s
know that there is nothing on earth
Seine. Lookfor 00 ’’ 8 H ° P Bitters aS afamiIy
'Bristol’s Sarsaparilla is a certain cure and
remedy for every form of disease arising
from impure or poisoned blood. Give it a fair
8aVe your life * Be 8Ure you get
Nothing is so reliable as Ater’s Ohbbbv'
Fectorap for colds, coughs, in short for any and
derangements of the respiratory organs which
tend towards consumption. In all ordinary eases
»« a certain cure, and it affords sure relief for
asthma aud consumption even in advanced stages.-
. ANEW DISCOVERY.— Hoffman’s Eucalyptol
L r ®5l- tei ; ed) Mixture and Injection.” They will
?n 8 . 1 , t iiT,t 1^. cure *11 kidney diseases and disorders,
ar , y complaints and discharges, irritation,
scalding, inflammation, gravel, pains in the back*
Aj? 8 ®? incurable in nine months was actually
cured in eight days with Hoffmann’s Eucalyptol
Injection (‘ purely vegetable Hoffman's Bu-
oalyptol Mixture or Injection contain no mineral,
no sandalwood, no balsam, or anything injurious
to the most delicate constitution of either sex.
Ask for Hoffman’s, and take no substitute.
Whoiesale; B. Prosser and Co.; Elliott Bros. Re-
&e.^ n 6ttdt al 6d < ;? emlflt8 and 8t0rekeePer8
Neither trickery or competition has been
able to affect the reputation of Wolfe’s Schnapps
Wolf els Schnapps, removes the various
causes which give rise to dyspepsia and urinary 1
complaints.
A NEW CHUM’S LETTER HOME
The following delightfully high-toned
and instructive effusion has fallen into our hands:—
Melbourne, 30th July, 1885.
Mr Dearest Jennie,— To-day I set foot in the
land “where bright blossoms are scentless and
songless bright birds ” (this is a charming conceit
bt the colonial Whyte-Melville-Swlnburne, Allan
Lindsay-Gordon, but, like most poetic fancies, it
is. fallacious, for the blossoms are not particularly
scentless nor the birds peculiarly bright), and
already “ Bichard is himself again.” The journey
from the dirty docks at Williamstown is simply
hideous; the country one passes thropgh is only
equalled by the sweet-smelling meadows between
Fenchurch-street and Galleons Dock. Melbourne'
from this approach, is a one-horse place, the shops
are shoddy, and the dusty and dilapidated little
trees look as if they wanted washing. Yf)u will
And by reading this epistle that history is not the
only thing that repeats Itself, for the first thing I
did on reaching the city was to lunch at the Meb
bourne " Charbonnell and Walker “ Gunsler’s.’’
Th6re I made this great, grand, and glorious dis-
covery—oysters are cheap, only a shilling a dozen.
The product of this pleasant fact was poetry—(1
beg your pardon, doggerel):—
But, let me return to my muttons. I proceed to
relate to you, according to promise, some of my
sufferings for the last 46 days. I only stop here to-
night, going on to-morrow by the limited mail to
Sydney, from whence, week by week, I will send
you my impressions of the place, the people, their
hi orals, and thoir manners.
* * «
It is 34 days since we left Naples, Naples,
Where the oranges looked jaundiced, and the air
Was redolent of garlic, enions, and decaying garb-
age. Dolce Napoli, the 19th-century Nlrvanna of
epicene poets and hyper-resthetic young maidens
clad in sad-colouted gowns, who gaze with limpid
lackadaisical eyes across that violet sea which was
the scene of their whilom idol Shelley’s memorable
Journey “ through water to fire.” My memory of it
is more prosaic, but not less delightful. I fol-
lowed none of the beaten tracks, visited no pic-
ture-galleries, purchased no prurient photographs,
mooned in no mouldering palaces, meandered
through no musty museums. I flirted with no
dark-eyed flower-girls. Murillo-featured, and
With lips like a thread of scarlet; patronised
ho persevering laZzaronl, and scorned the
Syrens who strummed out "Mary Ann, I’ll
tell your ma,” on the merry mandolin. I
did none of these things. 1 owed a duty to my-
self, and, like Jem Bludso, “ went for it thar and
then.” I lunched, for the first time since we said
good-bye at Tilbury. I had a “ good square
meal” on the red mullet of Milo, the succulent cut-
let of the innocent and tender lambkin, with a
sauce indescribable but delicious, a salad, a bottle
of Geisler’s Brut (’74), a green chartreuse, a cup
of coffee (not ship’s concoction of adulterated
chicory), and a bunch of muscat grapes. Does
this dwelling on mere carnal delights seem flag-
rant Philistinism and gross animalism to your
new-born aesthetic ideas? If it shocks your sensi-
tive soul, think of the good suppers of oysters and
stout we used to have after your perfect por-
trayal of G. R. Sims’ starved heroines. There
was nothing inconsistent in that. After great ar-
tistic effort an actress requires porter like Ba
labourer in a corn-field. My efforts had not been
artistic, I sorrowfully admit, but still I required
sustenance; remember, also, that for four and
thirty days I have lived on the memory of tha
meal, satisfying the vacuum which nature ab
hors as best 1 could at the festive board of the
R.M.S. Natalushka. Thanks to the “Divinity
Which shapes our ends,” my purgatorial pains are
Over for the present. No more dreary dinners of
indefinable and faded fish, ill-cooked entries (canned
abominations), served by slip-shod stewards. No
more dismal days of melancholy monotony to kil
on board a floating prison, with the painful pro
babllity of drowning for its solitary excitation
Nol Cara mia, I shall live and die in Australia
the Advancing, probably wed a dusky maiden
With a ducal dowry—possibly a descendant of Bop
Gaultier’s cheerful convict and his bride—I meab
the one who poured into the grimy ear of the
Australian lady that sweet suggestion
tVe’ll meet the unwary settler,
As, whistling, home he goes,
And I’ll take tribute from him—
His money and his clothes;
Then on his bleeding carcass
Thou’lt Jay thy pretty paw.
And lunch upon him roasted—
Or, if you like it, raw I
This gentleman had a sense of humour which he
may have transmitted (a witty woman, it she has
wit, not pretty flippancy, or staggering preten-
tiousness is a treasure in herself), and, at all events.
With such advanced mercantile ideas he must have
made “a pile.” When you are sum 3lently rich, ante-
cedents matter nothing. You require no past but
your balance at your bankers. It is a necessity of
colonial civilisation to treat our fellow country-
men as the Florentines did their saint*, and only
tecognise them on a golden back-ground. Besides
I have the authority of your pet, Tennyson, for
suggesting “that the jingle of a guinea heals the
hurt that honour feels.” But, be that as it may*
never again will I trust my precious person on
that “ fair, green-girdled mother of mine.”
• ♦ •
The individual who, with malice afore-
thought, first promulgated the idea that sea-voy-
ages, even in mall steamers, were endurable, not
to say desirable, or pleasurable, was worthy a
better record than Ananias and Sapphira rolled
Into one. I had an Illusion, that these over-rated
■hips were palaces of sybarltlcal comfort, in which
the cuisine of the Caf6 Anglais and the culture of
a Count D’Orsay, cheered the weary wanderer
from a happy home. The spell is broken, and the
last of my illusions has vanished into thia air, v
will spare you all the ghastly details, but some of
ray fellow passengers and their cheerful charac-
teristics I must present to you. The women. I
expected to meet—
The girls who love Darwin and Tyndall,
The girls who love Polo and Rink,
The girls whom our Gladstone can kindle,
And cause them to think that they think;
The girls who are nice, and who know it,
The girls who are nicer, and don’t;
The girls who will flirt with a poet,
The girls who are wiser and won’t.
instead of which I encountered a crowd worthy
of the new rendering of the once-honoured name
of lady (there are nothing but ladles in Melbourne
—the lively laundress describes herself as the
“ washer-lady”). There was the giddy young thing
—gush, gabble, and giggle; hair in pigtail, and
the odour of bread-and-butter distinctly apparent.
The parson’s wife, both Maskelyne and Cooke
(her disposal of food at the many meals of ship
life was a phenomenal performance unequalled
even by that first-named prince of prestidigita-
tors), but more cook than masculine, with three
howling babies and a brat that walked the decks
at abnormal hours, shod with wooden shoon, and
minus the airy fairy tread of Ouida’s heroine.
Then the mystery of the ship (not the artiste
whose husband has, I learn, succumbed to the de-
bilitating effects of James Henneesy of Cognac),
a faded Delilah, with such a snobby Sampson for
cMrc amie. The Delilah, a lie-fle, florid, flashy
grass-widow, who flaunted her “ aureollne
tresses,” her powdered-painted cheeks, her kohl’d
eyps, and her plnched-ln waist on the quarter-
deck, on sunny Sabbath mornings, clothed in a
silk dress of uncertain whiteness, black shoes, a
bustle, a yellow hat trimmed with filthy red
feathers, and a fur mantle. The rest of the femi-
nenes were feeble uononties, but the men were, if
possible, worse than the women, being either cads
or snobs. All sorts and conditions of snobs, from
the snob commercial to the snob clerical, the snob
JiiSj ern *? n ’ ill® 8n °b provincial, and the snob pro-
fessional. The most striking specimen (perhaps
because he was now to mo), was a self-sufllcient
Salvationist snob, In whom Thackeray would have
found a perfectly fresh field. He affected
tne primitive piousness and posed as the good
Samaritan, which he was, minus the oil and the
tuppence. He amused me muchly ; he was a
second saloon passenger, and used to complain
testily In peevish accents of the heat and glare of
the sun, and to grumble at the rocking, rolling,
and pitching of the ship like a puling baby. He
nerer mortified the flesh by dispensing with the
many small luxuries which money can procure
(in order to put money in his purse for his poorer
brothers), but comforted himself with champagne
P® took medicinally, being a blatant Blue
itibbonlst), and preached extempore sermons of
the much-sound-and-llttle-sense order to the steer-
age people. Insulting their common sense with
texts, such as “Be virtuous and you will be
happy ’ (instead of you will be peculiar),
and others of the copy-book calibre, seasoned
by stale aphorisms or commonplace plati-
tudes; heralded by an acoordeon and delivered In
t 2 e .L a li prov J£ l Moody and Sankey style of vulgar
rhetoric. We were blessed with a doctor who
could not sing, but who would whisper in tuneless
tones that newest of nautical ditties, “Nancy
.Lee, and a mercantile Manfred (a creature who
carried a diary which he ostentatiously wrote up
dally); he was worse than the doctor, for he
strummed scraps from “Patience” and “Pina-
fore, minus touch or time, all the livelong day,
and In the evening warbled monotonous'y blatant
baHads of a baron-bold, “ who fought for love and
died; he also Informed us that his “ love was
young and fair,” and his dear “bad golding ’air”
I always said Thank you” when he finished, but
the singer saw not the suggestive sarcasm of the
remark. An Irishman with a pair of pince-nez, a
. ca * Joker possessing the charming peculiarity
of his species—f.e., that of never saying a good word
for ms fellow-countrymen. In this consisted his one
redeeming virtue, for his veracity was unimpeach-
able, otherwise he was an ill-conditioned person.
; Lever said an Irish gentleman was the most perfect
gentleman in Europe. This veneered hedge-man
with his boorish manners and offensive familiarity,
furnished a painful pendant to the picture of the
courtly “Knight of Gwynne.” Unfortunately, the
pendant is the stern reality, and the picture exists
only in the author’s imagination. Then there was
the rampant reciter, who raves and roars at you
like Irving in a fit, and the lamb-llke elocutionist,
whose lips move but no word issues from them
that is heard of mortal man (and the mortal man
scores 16 on the shovel). We had, of course, the
funny man who retailed “Joe Millers,” and the
serious man who discoursed on Divine inspiration.
We had perpetual prayers, but no amusement; of
course we had concerts, cricket matches, and
athletic sports, but they were so stupid that I
agreed with Sir George Cornwall Lewis, “ that life
would be tolerable were it not for its amuse-
ments.” We were all virtuous, and we all hated
it with a deadly hatred. At this point the only
pleasant reminiscence I have of the B.M.S. Nata-
lushka, I will drop the curtain, as I must dress for
dinner. Afterwards I go to the theatre; will tell
you all about it when I return.
* * •
11.30 p.rn. I have just returned from the
play. “The Jilt ’’was the piece, and the merry
family of Boucicault the attraction. The Royal
Theatre is a dull, dingy 'play house, possessing, I
thought, a minimum of acoustic properties, and
the most uncomfortable dress circle I have ever
sat in. It was well filled with what the theatrical
chronicler (I cannot so far stray from the paths of
strict rectitude as to call him critic) of the Mel-
bourne Jupiter would, with a touch of Family
Herald falutin, describe as “ a select and fashion-
able audience.” Law, Physio, Trade, clad in their
best garments, fresh from the Melbourne Whitely
(there was not a single well-dressed woman in the
house), brightened up Its barn-like appearance
into a colourable similitude to a London theatre.
A Government House contingent glorified one of
the boxes. A sprinkling of Semites, and a phalanx
of Civil Servants, a few Ritualistic divines and a
multitude of the ’orny ’anded sons of toll com-
prised the spectators. There was a certain air of
friskiness observable in the more respectable por-
tion of the community. They had escaped for the
nonce from the vigilant scrutiny of the “ Heavy
Fathers ' (a new rendering of “Patres Con-
scnpte ). For the Methodist, the Wesleyan, et hoc
omne genus, a very powerful section of Antipodean
society have not been sufficiently Inoculated with
enlightened opinion to forego their pet prejudices.
They look upon paint and powder on the stage as
the handwriting of that defunct bogey, the Devil.
They, however, evidently confine this antipathy
to the stage; they do not object to the puff in
select society. For the complexions of a large
portion of the feminines of the “ fashionable
audience were a mystery, that had not been
painted by God, and by God only. Nature had
been greatly assisted—indeed, as has often hap-
pened, had called in so powerful an ally as to be
overcome instead of aided. The; native hues
of the Melbourne syrens were very nearly lost
under the warm coating delived from the rouge
Pot—under the plentiful use of the powder-puff,
still evidences remained prompting unfavourable
ideas. Here and there under the white dust cer-
tain unpleasant rednesses were traceable, just as
you can discern the stars for all the white scud
veiling them.
♦ • *
Both the men and the women struck me
as being at once prodigal and avaricious, fond of
the show which can be made by lavish expenditure
—begrudging the expenditure which is necessary
tor show. The men, eminently shrewd, but not
much given to cultivate charity—if ever they lapse
into generosity, they take caro to be generous
wisely and profitably. No one would ever catch
them dispensing alms with only their left hands
*°L an audience. The women, small-soulr-d, self-
sufficient, but not self-sacrificing, the kind of
women one would find small difficulty in desniain
if one sets one’s mind to the task. Both
flittered with ornaments—rings, bracelets n 1*0*
laces, stars, pendants, crosses, all aglow with
filiations of dazzling light. I not only deplore h?'
bad taste, but cannot understand the
tlon these things possess for vulgar
Francillon, in one of his novels, formula®.? 8 *
a feasible theory to account for it.
no wonder that such men and women hoJ 8
a for precious stones, that to
philosopher appears to be one of the maddest
all mad passions. To place an exorbitant vli»£
upon a mere piece of crystal, merely because o
glitters and.is rare, to the wisest of us Is obvioi«
folly—and yet there are good reasons perfentul
natural, perfectly human, for such a proceeding
It is not only because precious stones are the onh,*
bright things on earth that never fade. There £
some poetry at the heart of every man and woman
in the world. Even avarice refuses to be nn£
prosaic. To one who finds beauty and poetry m
everything, a jewel Is but one more boautlfJfi
thing in a world of beautiful things. It to no taS 1
but, at the same time, no more beautiful than
sunbeam or a blossom. But to him who seea
beauty in the sunbeam beyond the suggestion
gold, none In the blossom, but Its presage
future marketable value, a diamond or o„
emerald contains all the beauty that his soul c 2n
conceive or desire. He can worship beautv ana
mammon at the same time, and become a mw
without ceasing to be a sensible and practical
man. ’ It is so very late that I will not orlH
the piece, but will reserve my judgment unto
they produce It in Sydney. It will suffice to
say that the “ Jilt ” is a dramatic resurrec?
tlon, its component parts have been furnished
by the author drawing more largely than usual
on other people’s ideas-Hawley Smart’s “ Post to
Flni , sl ?' ‘ The Flying Scud,” &c., being laid under
contribution. It is served up in the most approved
Boucicaultlan manner, and it achieved the succefS
it deserved, which was not much, but was bettor
than nothing at all. The merry family were not
well suited in their parts. The only really artistio
performance was that of Miss Agnes Thomas, who
has scored considerably, both in this new comedv
a ° d in The Shaugraun.” You remember how
she played Ned Owen in “The World,” at Drurv
Lane, fast year? She’s a pretty-eyed woman, with
a Sara Bernhardt Intensity in parts requiring pa*,
sion, and one of the most perfect vqice I have ever
heard on the stage. On ait that the great Dion
S’ engaged to be married to one of his compaav
She is a handsome woman, of the “ daughter of
the gods most divinely tall and most divlneiy fair”
style, with eyes that were evidently made not to
see with but to look out of, and she makes great
use of them. With kindest regards until next
mail, believe me.
Yours, as ever.
PHILIP.
She Bleeps, the mistress 1 adore,
Beneath the ocean billow;
With pearl her cell ia vaulted o'er,
And seaweed is her pillow:
She’s lullabied by wind and wave,
In rude, untuneful numbers;
Where seamen nnd a watery grave,
My peaceful mistress slumbers.
1 live but hoping once to press
My ardent lips about her—
She’ll not refuse me one caress,
But yield, I do not doubt her.
*Tls true, alas I wo ne’er have met.
My vows have ne’er rejoiced her—
She sleeps! I dare not wake her yet—
My own I my Melbourne oyster!
GENERAL KOMAROFF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
great Napoleon’s deeds grow small
And baby-like his name;
Let Alexander tear his shroud,
And Caesar blush for shame—
days are gone, to them no more
Historian hat shall doff—
They’ve had their day, so clear a way
For General Komaroff. 3
Our only General, too, must yield
His brightest laurels won;
His fame, once high, is on the wane
As slow descends the sun,
For now appears this dreadful foe,
A foe who dares to scoff,
And fields the diamond-hilted sword
Of General Komaroff.
He slaughtered Afghans cent, on cent.
Unbiblehke and tree,
And when they asked him to explain
He held corroboree.
His boss endorsed his action bold.
Which sent Sir Peter off,
a ht Y, ent t0 th e Grand Old Man
And told on Komaroff.
But Gladstone sadly said that he
No flght him ’long a Buss.,
* ° A r Hmdostan is not so straight
And Ireland’s in a fuss,
And the Sydney Seven Hundred
Have got the whooping cough
We, therefore, cannot go to war
With General Komaroff,
The Mahdi’s sleep is undisturbed,
The Koran is at rest,
Therailway there is left alone,
The goats are given best;
And Moslem, Celt, and Sydneyite
(The last between each cough)
Will always pray both day and night
For General Komaroff.
HARVEY BIRCH.
Mackay, July 21.
“NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS "


POISON
i
THE CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATION’S
i osr :d i usr t
CALC
Gradually, but surely, since the
davwhen the Somersetshire far-
mer’s wife— having received a pre-
sent of the “TEA.” that was then
an unknown Juxury, presented it
to her husband carefully cooked,
in the form of a plate of cabbage—
the said Tea has assumed the po-
sition of the most important, and
certainly the healthiest of beve-
rages, “the Cup that Cheers but
not Inebriates.” It is only of late
years, however, that tea drinkers
have been awakened to the fact
that there is danger even in That
Cup, and that the market may be
as readily filled with deleterious
compounds under the name of
Tea. as it may with spurious and
poisonous wines or spirits.
It is to remove the risk of these
impositions tnat the
UTTA TE
ASSOCIATION
and its objects are now presented
to the public notice for the pur-
pose of supplying consumers with
PURE AND UNADULTE
RATED INDIAN TEA,
beyond all suspicion of its being
in any way or in the slightest de-
gree tampered with. That there
exists a necessity for this project
to prevent consumers from the
risk of drinking what is nothing
more nor less than a Poison in its
most insidious and destructive
form, has been recently proved
beyond ail shadow of doubt.
“The Victorian Press has. from
tiino to time, pointed out that
large quantities of teas imported
into this market from China were
adulterated to an extent that ren-
dered them nearly as injurious to
the consumers as the deadly
Opium.
Read the following report of the
Chief Analyst of the Technologi
cal Museum, Melbourne, on 5435
half-chests, quarters and boxes of
CHINA TEA sold by auction in
Melbourne on last January: -
“All the samples are of very
Inferior description, and are, in
my opinion, unfit for human con-
sumption. They all contain rot-
ten and exhausted leaves, leaves
that have none of the general
characters of tea-leaves, dust (not
tea dust), gum, starch and foreign
colour, seeds of various kinds,
stalks, bark, sand and earthy
matter, hair and other matter of
animal origin.
“J. COSMO NBWBERY,'
“B. Sc., C.M.CL
Mr. Dunn, the recognised Tea
Analyst, reports on 975 packages
of China Tea received into this
market:—“It was difficult to find
a perfect and genuine tea leaf in
the samples, and that the stuff
consists for the most part of de-
cayed, exhausted, or foreign
(other than tea) leaves, foreign
stems, tea sweepings; held to-
gether in little nodules by starch,
paste and pieces of brick husk and
nut shells. Ail this rubbish was
laced with plumbago, to give it a
black appearance, and was totally
unfit for dietary purposes.”
EYou can now obtain
PURE TEA FROM INDIA,
A BRITISH POSSESSION,
without being dependent upon
foreigners in the first instance,
and being poisoned by them in the
second.
TEE CALCUTTA TEA ASSO-
CIATION has been formed for
the purpose of offering to the
Merchants, Grocers, and Con-
sumers PURE INDIAN TEAS,
chosen for us by the CALCUTTA
TEA SYNDICATE, and guar-
anteed Free from all Mixture of
Chinese, Japan, or other deleteri-
ous Tea, as shown by the fallow-
ing Letter from Messrs. James
Eenty and Go., a firm of the
highest standing, and agents for
the Calcutta Tea Syndicate, Little
Collins-street West:—
“TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
CALCUTTA- TEA ASSOCIA-
TION.
“ 86 King-street, Melbourne.
*t your request we have re-
peatedly inspected your large
stock of teas, and found same all
PURE INDIAN TEAS, selected
m India by the Calcutta Tea Syn-
dicate.-Yours, &o.,
.. D “JAMES KENTV and Co.
, ”-8.—We have also transferred
“9 stock and sole agency
or eibthorp’s Indian Teas, as sup-
Pood to visitors during the whole
of the International Exhibition.”
If stronger evidence be wanted
wl. can suPPiy it. Read the fol-
S ng: ~ There can be no stronger
testimony adduced to the unrival-
of our Indian Teas
over all other competitors. Messrs.
"®* b ery 8nd Dunn * the Govern-
Mfofiows a -- tiCal Cheml8t8 > r(J Port
“ OE P tK T m HR EE SAM PLES
tea RECEIVED
*Si T 4 xfo§ ALCCTTA TEA
npsfs ir
we m 1 BS^ L ?TBLY PURE, and
e may add that even the lowest
-
mh
llb-2/6
ZpA
immSm
, ,; 1 •
mmm
/0%
! i
s
ill
II m
m&M
§=
mm
§
WkmmmflMwmm
mr.
ami™
IP
ag;
l> : I — '"i
y5.‘<
&A
0-Sfe
iEE^i
j*
lillllll! M v/A A,>S4\
1
r?
.f‘KWI
iiiiniii
E
IF‘
%
1
4
%
<5!
%
? . -J.
tmM*
■»r.. \r
'
INDIAN. TEAtSIAlfc
I
as
3/
5
5
of
m
s
mu n
m
mm
s s
/6
5ii>
5
3/6
PURE INDIAN TEA
Will go much further than the ordinary Teas, and consequently less need he used. It Is well to bear this |n mind
alllst it PUre Indlan TCa 18 USCd t0 ° nlUC,, may be l ,llt ln tl,e l»«t, audits very goodness may create a prejudice
INDIAN TEA PROPERLY BLENDED,
As is so efficiently done by the CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATION, is purer, stronger, more palatable, more economical and in eve
aRafesas: 2af-_2a»S4SSs» A t j& »?•<£ ..w-m •« ,*iffiKS%fa£SB
7 ay suRei
J xavat. uivo tuo uuu a ainn AoouuiAiiuw o JLJbJAS a lair trial m the teannt miA.flili
ess for an Infusion than you would of China Tea. This means really a savin* of one shilling n three in the oriels Ask vo
rrocer for the CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATION’S PURE INDIAN TEAS, and *ive them an honest, unp™®udiced trial and we w
ake “ Lombard, strppf tn a Phi mi rvrantro ” thof nVw,in<, mill -.T-j’ . , , cu , If mi, null we w
groc
staki
Chin
.it c: tr ■ i aoouwaiiun o ruxir. uini, in.ao, ana give tnem an honest, unprejudiced trial and wc wi
rinaman?“Stwm in e future drink th| ng * e ' thatneVeragalnbyCh0iCeWlIlyOU revert to the ehad y> insipid, doctored teas of Job
Calcutta Tea Association’s Pure, Unadulterated, Fragrant,
Full-Bodied Indian Teas.
Made In the Indian Gardens of old John Bull.
SOLD BT ALL RESPECTABLE TEA DEALERS AND GROCERS IN ALL THE COLONIES,
quality of your Tea has a higher
extract than any Packet Teas we
have examined.
“ J. COSMO NEWBERY.
“ FREDERICK DUNN;"
It will be thus seen that the
highest and best authority pro-
curable pronounces even our
lowest priced teas at 2s. 6d. per
lb. to be superior In purity and
analysis to any of these above
mentioned teas at 3s. 6d. per lb.
Further comment is superlluous.
The teas of the Calcutta Tea As-
sociation are the produce of up-
wards of 50 of the most celebrated
Indian tea estates, wh:ch, blended
, together, make the most perfect
tea the world can produce. They
are blended by competent tfea
tasters, assisted by analytical
chemists of the highest standing.
Every inducement is given to
the merchants and storekeepers
throughout the colonies to keep
our teas in stock, but should con-
sumers not be able to obtain them
from their regular grocer, they
can purchase at our wholesale
warehouses, as a sample, any
quantity from half a pound up-
wards.
Those living at a distance who
cannot be supplied locally can
have sent direct from the Mel-
bourne wholesale warehouses acy
quantity from 101b. weight up-
wards,freight and carriage free,
to the nearest port or railway
station on receipt of bank draft
or post office order made payable
to the Calcutta Tea Association or
order.
Our teas are packed in and
Jib. packets, 5, 10 and 251b. tin
canister ; half-chests in lead of
401b and upwards.
The teas sent out by us, duty
paid in Victoria and New South
Wales, are of three prices, and are
sold in any of the above size pack-
ages, at 2s. 6d., 3s., and 3s. 6d. per
lb. Sibthorp’s mixture at 3s. ftd.
per lb., in packages of not less
than 101b.
On account of the difference in
duty the prices in New Zealand,
and Queensland are 2s. 9s., 3s. 3d,
and 3s. 9d„ per lb., duty paid.
When purchasing ask for
THE CALCUTTA TEA AS-
SOCIATION’S PURE
INDIAN TEAS. '
See that you are supplied with
them, Don’t bo prevailed'upQn
to take any other tea. If you can-
not be supplied in one store try
another.
i ie ware of piracy and imitations.
All our leas are marked THE
CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIA-
TION’S PURE INDIAN TEAS.
The price and weight, with in-
structions for brewing,are marked
on the end of each package.
Hitherto the Australians have
had no option, but were forced to
purchase trash called tea which
was shipped here from China and
other ports; now they have an
opportunity of purchasing the
8ure Indian teas supplied by the
alcutta Tea Association, whibh
is the most perfect tea that can
be produced-
There is no instance on record
of Indian Tea being adulterated.
We will, at the request ot any of
our patrons, send, or allow them
to send, a sealed packet of our
teas to an analytical chemist, and
If found to be adulterated we will
forfeit £600 to the charities.
We are sorry to say that some
of the storekeepers who sell our
Teas try to prevail upon custo-
mers to purchase other Teas, for
the simple reason that they make
a larger profit.
The Teas of the Association aro
all labelled “THE CALCUTTA
TEA ASSOCIATION’S PURE
INDIAN TEA,” and the prices
are mtrked on every package.
The public will please ask for
them, and take no others. They
are guaranteed pure and of fbe
highest class, ard such Teas can
only be supplied by an Association
having command of the produce
of not le?8 than Filty Tea Estates,
which are blended to as to pro-
duce the most perfect teas in the
world.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN
TO ALL PERSONS
Either [
PACKING or SELLING TEAS
With an
IMITATION OP OUR -
WRAPPERS
That they will be
P R OSECUTED.
And that this notice now given
will be used to prove a guilty
knowledge against all persons
either imitating our wrappers or
selling teas in any wrapper with a
colorable imitation of ours.
J. B. TAYLOR, Secretary,
CA LCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATION
26 KING-ST., MELBOURNE.
, TRY A lm - T ' N OF THIS TEA AND YOU WILL NEVER USE ANY OTHER SORT.
1,1 “ BOW " A,, CO - BeOS,, Dunedin,*.*., JOHNSTON CO.. Wellington, **.,
GEORGE GRIFFITHS and CO., Merchants, Bridge-street, Sydney, have been appointed
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales,


THBiKING OP MINSTRELDOM.
Mr. William Emerson, familiarly called “ Billy,”
who is justly termed the King of Mistreldom, was
born in Belfast, Ireland, In 1846. and when but one
year old “ moved” to Washington, tbo capital city
of the United States, and make his home there.
He then considered himself too young to accept
an engagement, but at 11 years of age made his
first appearance with old Joe Sweeney’s Minstrels
in Washington as a jig dancer. He next joined
Warden’s Minstrels, and showed In the Baltimore
Museum with them. Later on he attached him-
self to Kunkell’s Nightingale Minstrels, who were
then the oldest and generally counted the very
best troupe on the boards. His next appearance
was with Newcombe’s Minstrels, which was the
first Minstrel show that ever visited Germany.
The Germans took kindly to the “ niggers,” and
enjoyed their performance immensely, until one
night an enterprising saur-Uraut destroyer got
poking around the back of the theatre and saw
some of the boys blacking up. Prom that moment
the trcupe were branded as a set of imposters, and
they had to quit. The Germans thought they
were real American negroes when they first went
over. But we must get back to Billy Emerson.
We have not space to follow him through his
remarkably succesful career in the States with
various companies, but picking him up on his visit
to Australia in 1874 it is worth chronicling that
when he went back to’Frlsoo, after playing a few
brilliant seasons he joined Haverley’s Mastodon
Minstrels at a salary of £100 a week and expense!.
This company went over to London and played
for three months in Her Majesty's Theatre to
splendid business, the Prince of Wales and his set
favouring the show with their presence more than
once. Returning to the States, Billy engaged the
standard Theatre in California, and played there
for three years to the largest houses ever known in
the Minstrel business. Coming to Australia in
April last, he has “ beaten the record," in playing
to the biggest houses for three successive month!,
ever known on the minstrel stage, in both Sydney
and Melbourne. William is a host in himself. He
sings excellently, dances gracefully, is a wonder-
ful mimic, and a humorist in the best and truest
sense of the word. Like every other
travelling almost constantly, drinking all kinds of
water, expored to all varieties of diet and climate,
it Is not wonderful that the bossllaugh-maker is not
always at his best physically. A man occupying
his position is obliged to appear end be tunny
whether he feels that way or not. The greatest
aid Mr. Emerson has found for keeping health ana
spirits up to the highest attainable point, a
nothing less than the most successful medicine
before the public of three continents to-day, vnu
Warner’s Safe Cure. During a recent interview
with Mr. Emerson, he told our reporter that be
considered the medicine in question to baall mi
was claimed for it, and could from personal use
honestly recommend it to all travellers, i«
as stay-at-homes, especially those suffer*M
from impaired kidneys or liver. With a supply w
Werner’s safe Cure at hand, and Billy Kmewon
town, there is no excuse for ill-health, ill-will, or
ill-ness.
Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour superior to *11
similar articles in the market.
Persons who work behind desks and work-
tables to them Wolfe’s Schnapps is recommenoeo.
DbCoubot Brown* (late Deputy
--- ■ ~ ■ of New WW
.. _ ’ Hand/ Book,
‘‘Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and "Mann k
Mb. , .
Chairman of the Mining Board <
Wales), Author of the “Miners’
“ Mining Leaseholders Guide, ana j
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and b““very
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on
Mining Titles Agent, may oe oou £ u ‘V°“ ert0 D-
description of Land and Mining business ? rw
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, W «
reagh-street, Sydney, •»” Mining Titles,
proven speciality, Land Titles,
skill, a matter of record in the Departmen
Supreme Court.*
The Renner Manufacturing Co., olj j*
burgh. Pennsylvania, U.8.A., make an extrao
ary offer to agents, and those wanting
ment, to sell their Kenner Combined Aiar
Door Bell. In the different colonies and c °“?iVrt
Australia. It is endoreed by over-W P“iqO.OOO
la the United States and Canada, and by t
who are now using them on their doors.
never been sold by the trade, but hy *g®“ jUB
It will pay 100 per cent, profit, and sells mm* (
to »6 00 each. Agents In the UMted
taken as high as 22 orders In a single day. q
readily on its merits. General a & eat ® f the colo*
handle a number of counties, or one o gnl
nies, can secure those they want by trste®
to comply with our terms. Darge li8 r will W
circulars, containing terms and $, x ‘
sent free. Address: Renner Mancfac
Co , Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, U
Gloom and despondency remoV
Wolfe's Schnapps. the foil
Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour takes
flavour of every kind of Seasoning.
Wolfe's Schnapps a most comprehensive
preventive and remedy against all diseases.
Most popular amongst the ladles Is Kings ford’s
Oswego Cornflour.
Sedentary pursuits are enfeebling. Then
take Wolfe's Schnapps.
f invalids and children—give them Kingsford’s
Qswtego Cornflour,
The most delicious of all preparations for Pud-
dings, Custards, &o„ is Kingsford s Oswego Corn-
flour.
Persons whose avocations keep them in-
doors should take occasionally Wolfe's Schnapps.
The magistrates who sit in the Melbourne
City Court were much mortified the other day.
The doors of the court were opened at the usual
hour, but no crowd came in tot.ee the show, une
of the msgistrates-whose weakness is to be con-
sidered a wag—suggested that the prices a^mis-
slon would nave to be lowered. .. a
thing, the court is fairly filled with an audience
mostly made up of friends of the prisoners who
are to be tried. It is with them not so much a
matter of pleasure as of business to be there.
The prisoners have been partners with some of
them in various little speculations, and they have
naturally a certain Interest in their future. Be-
sides, there is the strange fascination that Police
courts always possess for animals. They attend
them as regularly (and, perhaps, with some of the
same artistic feeling) as an unengaged actor at-
tends the theatres. Police courts are a part
of their life. You may see a proof of this
any day at Darlinghurst, when there are a good
many charges not unconnected with robbery on
the sheet. If you look at the prisoners in the
dock and then at the audience, you will see no dif-
ference In the type. Leary and bleary are the
terms to describe them. We were passing this
court one day when a certain Judge was sitting on
the Bench, and two or three lawyers,whose namej
will keep, were defending, the prisoners brought
up for trial. A journalist with whom we are
acquainted was just coming out. Do you know,
he said to us, pointing at the court; do you
know what I would do if that was in Russia and I
was the Czar? ’ We replied that we were, unfor-
tunately, Innocent of such knowledge. Well,
he replied in a tone of grim earnestness. “ I would
send every man inside those walls—judge, lawyers,
prisoners, and spectators—into the' next building
for life.” We smiled at this truculent statement,
but the Court being adjourned just then, we
watched the audience filing out, and—as we knew
the Judge and the lawyers-we could not say a
word In contradiction.
“ Sir Saul Samuel has secured for the New South Wales Government two relics of
Captain Cook—one, the ship’s compass with which the Endeavour was navigated, and
the other a grog-bottle designed and used by the great navigator.”
CREMATION, A.D. 1930.
FLOWERS FOR THE DEAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Bishop of Portsmouth, in his charge
to the Diocesan Synod, spoke against the fashion
of placing costly flowers on yfflns, instead of pro
curing prayers for the dead, —Exchange.
O Guardian of erratic souls!
OLongstopof theetrayers!
Pounds, dollars, sequins, and pistoles
That should be spent in prayers
Are spent on flowers! Let words of wrath
From your —and all your sort’s mouth
Flow—be a lion in the path,
O dread Bishop of Portsmouth 1
Denounce at once in good set terms
These worse than ancient Vandals,
Who will not pay for holv sperms
Nor specially blest candles .
Where may it end ? O it was weak
To let them have commenced it!
O Bishop, you are far too meek—
You only “ speak against it!
Not thus, of old, with mere mild words
The Church would deprecate it,
But faithful hands with shining swords
Would soon exterminate it,
This baleful custom. Those were days
When excommunication
Was preface to the faggot’s blaze,
Which gave the soul damnation.
Not thus the Church of those days would
Have fought a growing evil;
Then shoals of true believers stood
In terror of the Devil;
Then heaven help the man who made
For the dead’s sake a purchase,
Whose profit, when the coin was paid,
was other than the Church’s !
Those were the days when trade was brisk,
Without much chance of losses.
When many an ancient Komaa Fisk
Upon job lots of crosses
Raked in his pot—when first-class beads
Were sold at million prices,
And all the souls’ most urgent needs
At monster sacrifices!
Those wi re the days when, in his den,
Brest in his shirt of horsehair.
Full many a saint, adored by men,
Lived gaily as a coisair
With nought to do but pray and snore—
A life of beer and skittles—
While humbly to his cavern door
Believers brought Lis victuals.
Alack! alack! those were the times
When rich old sinners, to shun
Eternal fire, spilled out the dimes
And found full absolution.
Full bravely then our dear Church fared
And reverend hearts beat gladly ;
Then all went well, and whoso dared
To beard the Church fared badly.
The coffers of the Church of Rome
Then tcarce could hold its money;
Then True Believers chewed the comb
And sent their priests the honey;
Then friars grew fat (while laymen stood
What now, in slang men call “ Sam ”)
Upon the strength of doing good
With preyer as well as Babam.
Right royal days they were, indeed,
Before that scorpion-hearted
Old Luther taught a different creed,
And cheerfully men “ pai ted,”
Or if they did not freely “died ”
The fare to Heaven’s high Eden
The Pope shook up the keys of Hell,
w Which always brought the “ greed in.
’Tis also said, if aught you said
Or did a friar offended,
Straightway upon your napless head
The curse of Rome descended ;
And then (though quite one-half one hears
About those things is fiction)
It took the hoard of many years
To get a benediction.
Then sacred things were sacred things
(They still are, though not so much),
And in our day the Roman kings
Don’t kiss the Papal toe much ;
In those times, too, the Popes wbbb Popes—
Now, life is not so gorgeous
For them—they don’t walk such high ropes
As erstwhile did the Borgias.
Then many a potent little thine,-
That would the powers of Hell lick—
A martyr's shoe, a hermit’s ring,
Or any sacred relic
That had the power to cleanse a soul,
Though black as any nigger—
Would always bring, upon the whole,
A very tidy figure.
Now —woeful is this heart of ours
And loud are our “ alas’s ”
To think that coin is spent on floweis
That should be spent on Masses,
For never from the verge of Hell
Did flowers a dear soul gather—
A fact that we know quite as well
As any fat-jowled Father.
What heresy is here ? What new
Disguise of Pagan fancies ?
’Twere bad enough a grave to strew
With buttercups or pansies,
But— costly flowers! Our bosom pants
With anger—rich calyxes
And petals of rare hot-house plants—
Not prayeis and crucifixes.
Flowers for the dead! We stand aghast.
Sweet flowers the tomb to wreathe in,
A barbarous vestige of t he past,
A practice Greek and heathen.
A remnant of a godless day—
A custom vain and Phrygian—
On flowers good money tnrown away,
Instead ot on Religion.
A pretty state of things, indeed,
No rising of incense up;
No kneeling, sore and weary-kueed,
No paying Peter’s Pence up,
Alas! alas! it makes us weep,
Such error we must cope with,
If flowers will do to feed, h is sheep ,
What tv ill we feed our Pope with 1
JONES, HIS FAMILY VAULT.
TOMES HAVING HAD A HOT TIME OP IT FOR YEARS, FINDS THE COOLEST PLACE IN
THE HOUSE FOR A QUIET PIPE IS HIS ASHEMBTERT.
NEVER MIND THE COMPASS, SAUL. BUT IP THE GREAT NAVIGATOR HAS LEFT ANY-
NEVER ou GR0 ’ G B0TTLE SEND IT T0 0UR 0FFICE for REVIEW.
Romance.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Under blue skies in a fair land was born
* Romance, the glory of heroic days;
Visions of castles and damsels forlorn
Dance before mine eye and my fancy strays
Back to the chivalry and courtly ways
That from the world these many years have gone.
Glory of tournament has passed away,
No more at morn the prancing steed goes by
Bearing the plumed knight In rich array,
With lance in rest to meet his lady s eye;
Contented for her favour e’en to die
Drawing his trusty sword in knightly fray.
No more a damsel on a castle wall
Walteth the advent of her own true knight,
Watching his waving crest among them all.
With glowing cheeks and eyes that smile delight
As, lance in hand and clad in armour bright*
He rides to rescue her from foeman s thrall.
Ages ago they faded out and died,
No more is heard the sound of bugle call—
Gates of a spectral castle open wide;
Deserted is the court, empty the stall,
Mould’rlng in silence in the ghostly hall
Banner and lance and shield rest side by side.
L. D.


A BOON TO THOUSANDS!
Manhood and Vigour of Youth
Restored in Four Weeks
i
DR. RICORD S
FSSENCE OF LIFE
Restores manhood to the most shattered and debilitated con
dilution from whatever cause arising, in FOUR WEEKS,.
Failure is impossible if taken according to the printed di-
rections, which are very simple, and require no restraint oi
hindrance from business. '
This invaluable remedy affords relief, and permanently
cures all who suffer wasting and withering of the nerves and
muscular tissues, Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, Disturbed
Sleep Trembling Sensations, Dizziness, Spermatorrhoea, all
Urinary Deposits, which cause incapacity and degeneracy,
total and partial prostration, and every other exhaustive de-
rancement of the system ; regenerating all the important
elements of the human frame, and enabling man to fulfil his
most sacred obligations. ...
In cases at 12s., or four quantities in one for 36s.; if by
Mach, 2s. 6d. extra.
NATURE’S GREAT REMEDY!
DR. RICORDS
SANATIVE PILLS
For strengthening the system, purifying the bleed, regulating
the bowels, and removing all vitiated humours, bilious and
Liver Complaints, Rheumatism, Gout,. Scorbutic Affections,
Costiveness, Skin Eruptions, and all diseases of the nervous
svstem. This never-failing remedy affords at once a new
lease of life to the sickly and aged of both sexes, imparting
a beautiful and clear complexion, a sure sign of health,
strength, and vigour. Price, 2s. ; by post, 2d. extra.
AGENTS FOR SYDNEY!
Messrs. W.BARCLAY & CO.,
- Jj.3 GOTJLBUBN STREET,
One Door from George Street South,
And may be had of most Chemists.
Parcels packed securely and free from observation, sent to
Queensland, Neuu Zealand, or any part of the Australian
V Colonies, on receipt of Post Office Order or Stamps.
NERVOUS DEBILITY,
Lost Vitality, &C.-A simple and positive '
means of Self-Cure, by an eminent
French Hospital Physician- Sent Free
Medico, P.O. Box 766. Sydney.
r//£
cm
or
life
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WOEK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses may be
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should ptir-
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled tho Science of Life
or Self Preservation. A book for every man, young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which i? in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
any physician. 300 pages, bound inbeautiful French cloth,
full gilt, guaranteed to he a finer work in every sense than
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will be refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
The Science of Life should be read by the young for
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all. —London Lancet.
Address the World’s Dispensary Medical As- U C A I
sociation, or Dr. W. R. Parker, No. 69 Hunter if t AL
Street, Sydney, N.S.W. Theauthonnay TUVOCI IT
be. consulted on all diseases requiring | || | OtLl
skill, secrecy, and experience.
MOULTON'S
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by ML/OLTON’S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and nc
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PERSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate tho LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit)
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, I*rlce la. 3d.
C. E, MOULTON, Sole Proprietor
PILLS
Marshalls
TONIC NERVINE
JdgQlBTMitJtU.
AbAr n, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURB lor Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaint*
that spring from lack of nerve force, as
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, Loss of Vital Power, Ac. By its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
for Alcohol. By its richness In phosphorous ana
other pc
TONIC
other powerful vitalising elements, MA.RSHALL’8
v NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, Is. Sd., or 26s. a ease.
Sole Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS, M.P.S.
Manufacturing and consulting Chemists Of and
IOC Market ntreat. near Hyde Park, Sydney, and
* Pitt-stmet. Clruuiar-quay. TAR.H NO SU hoTI*
TDTX
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1889.
INCORPORATED BT ACT or PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital. 4800,008
Reserve Fund 4150,000
Dibbotobs:
The Hon. Sir John Chaim
Hon. Hei
Mo
r»0 s.
i.Phlli
Goo
p Gi
Hon
ey
0. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.
M.L.O.
Auditors :
Jas. Scroggle, Esq. I Hon. H. B. Cohen, Br>
Gbnxral Manaoib:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Sbobbtabt:
Hector Allen.
Bbanohba nr Nbw South Walk ;
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gosford, Nyngan
Bourke, Manly, Byerook, and Parramatta.
Branch in Queensland ;
Brisbane.
London Branch : 168 Leadenhall-street.
Directors :
Edward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G I Geo. H. Alexander, Baq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
■, London Bankbba:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Flnan
olal Agency Business on the most favourable term ■
Bills discounted dally.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo.
end other produce shipped to England for sale.
NEUSTADT and CO..
COMPLETE
FURNISHERS,
39, 154, 156, A 158 OXFORD-ST]
SYDNEY.
I W~ HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERT REQUISITE,
ZTI Btthir bob Cash ob Tims patmbnt.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Gash Purchasers.
suffering' from the
effects of youthful
errors, early derny.
TO MM MEN
lost vitality, premature decline, nervous weak-
ness, etc., I will send you particulars of a
certain, simple, and sure iiipnnx of self cure,
Free of Charge. Address, in confidence.
Prof. M. B. TAYLOR,
68 Elizabeth St.,
SYDNEY N.S W.
JAS. LAWSON & SONS,
ART-FURNITURE MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
OABPBT WAREHOUSEMEN,
Corner of William-street, Hyde Park.
High-class Furniture
At Very Lowest Prices, compatible with the finest
workmanship and finish, for entrance holla,
dining-rooms, drawlng.rooms, bedrooms,
and libraries.
CARPETS IN NEWEST DESIGNS AND
FINEST QUALITY.
WILTON CARPETS, BRUSSELS CARPETS,
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS,
With Hearthrugs to matoh
ST COBLIC1NE AND LINOLEUM
BEDSTEADS IN BLACK AND NICKEL AN!
BLACK AND BRASS.
In all sizes and various designs.
USTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY
Established 1872.
Capital—4100,000 with power to Increase to £1,000,00
BON USES 20 per cent, paid annually since 1873
o d i n i p
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms .-JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
r° 4 D ,io Tf L 0^? T LA r ND & 80N - London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London; CHAS, OSBORNE &
CO., London.
nnisv^m 1 *? AGENT for the eminent Arm of
BUSSY & CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, &c., and all
“™.o f Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
802 Gaorna.st., Sydney,
Where. Inspection Is Invited.
Champagne
Hsldsleck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
Of ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS A Co., London.
■*o ; * Asrer tp for Heldsler.h & Co. Helms.
E use IPEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
FLOUR
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
new Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL.
8S1 Georae-street, Sydney.
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
The “LOUIS’ 8
VELVETEEN,
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of ** Louis.”
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
send patterns
post free on
application.
Vl?
>
DR. O COUITELL,
52 Castlereagh Street,
SYDFTEY, ZtsT.S.W.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases, chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient, to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effects .-—Ner-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Face, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., are
treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
manent, safe, and private. Symptom list free, and medicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, Itching, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of evqry kind, from whatever cause, promptly cured.
It is self-evident that a physician paying particular attention to a class of cases attains great skill,
and physicians in regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
this oldest office in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the great number of cases applying, the
charges are kept low—often lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and get a
speedy and perfect life cure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or
address DOCTOR. J. O CONNELL, <8 '
52 Castlereajfli Street (ground floor), Sydney,
m
m
■
mm
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Robo Makars.
Trousers from 21s. to 40s.
I*” N.B.—Mr. SHEAUVB7, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Farmer and Co.
W. Hheabeb* & Co., Albert Hwae, Temple Court, Elizabeth-st,
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
OWING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
.Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &o.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing
Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
Plumbing, Gaafltting,
OOULTON’B “FLUSH-OUT,”
of every description.
•VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOMETB,
PREVENTERS, &c.
•VACUUM WATko-w/sx.
to/e Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 3~& 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and one** on application.
BOTJBEE,
is the largest and best-appointed Family Hotel in the Western District. The Table and Liquo
cannot be surpassed, even in the Metropolis. Private Suites for families. First-class Stabling
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor.
r* .
Head Office*. «»»
First Fire Society established In me coiony on
the Mutual principle, giving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits ever/ year.
Pollcy-hc ders are perfectly free by law from
all liability
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire Insurance at lowest rates-
WALTER 0 URCH, Manager.
Head Offloea-PITT and KING STREETS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE.
MADAME ELIBE,
PARISIENNE DRESSMAKER AND SPECIAL
STAYMAKBR,
BEGS to call Ladies’ attention to her superior
FIT, TASTE, and exceptionally reasonable
charges. All orders receive her personal attention
and superintendence.
138 COLLINS STREET BAST.


Wolfe s Schnapps is greatly used in hospi-
tals for uiediciaal purposes.
No ki.oiea is complete without Klngsford’s
Oswego Cornflour.
MacLhughliu’s Bodega, 30G Georg e-street,
tear Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &c.*
When refreshing slumbers fail to visit
your pillow, take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
For Blancmanges. Kingeford’s Oswego Cornflour
cannot be surpassed.
BEST IN
THE WORLD
s
I
91 It
OFFICE-31 LOMBARD ST. LONDON.
k
EE
§
LOWEST
INPRICE
SCOTIAN+IORIZONTAli ENGINES. « !;JJ>«® «l£ 0
“ALBION” UONGSTROKE HORIZONTAL ENGINES;,'
“CLIMAX” \/ERTI CAL ENGINES S BOILERS.
'“CLIMAX” PORTABLE •HOISTING ENGINES.
*BRITON”+IQRIZONTAL ©OMPOUND LAUNCH ENGINES.
INSERTED COMPOUND MARINE ENGINES.
, PORTABLE STEAM CRANES.
VERTIGAL.60RNISH. & MARINE BOILERS.
I
LARGE STOCKS;FOR FULL PARTICULARS AND PRICES APPLYTO
D.<£ W.R 0 BERTSO N.SYDNEY, SOLE AGENTS">»NEWSOUTH WALES.
J.W. SUTTON &C0, BRISBANE.SOLE AGENTS '""QUEENSLAND.
ROBISON BROSJ. CO.MELBOURNE,SOLE AGENTS '“VICTORIA
OUR LONDON LETTER.
London, June 36,1885.
Dear Bulletin.—Is it not a singular coin-
cidence that in this, the month in which Glad-
stone’s Government floated out of power on beer,
one of your “moat popular” citizens—the leviathan
licensed victualler, and twice or thrice roayorised
C. J. Roberts, Esq, C.M.G, swam into Court to
the Very foot of the throne on the same esteemed
beverage, bearing his devoted and agreeable
spouse upon his back. If I might be permitted to
continue for a moment this figurative tone I would
add that Charles’—the old familiar name will out—
tankard of bliss is now full; that having put his
lips to the hand belonging to a crowned head he is
safe at anchor in XXX society, and that having
attained the acme of his ambition he is shouting—
for joy. He is now a very big pot. The retiring
Secretary of State, Lord Granville, piloted the
blushing Charlie through the shoals and quick-
sands of the Royal reception-rooms, his consort
the Countess graciously condescending to act in a
Similar capacity for Mrs. Charlie, who was gor-
geously arrayed in white satin. It is said that
having made his bow and executed the backward
movement without disaster. Charlie, in his excite-
ment and gratitude, seized his noble conductor’s
hand, and asked him to “ nominate his poison,”
but, tor my part, I place no reliance upon such
ostensibly jocular statements, which, no doubt,
originate from envious and malicious outsiders.
Here is an interesting query: Will C. J. Roberts
(bother the C.M.G.) cut Sydney and all hisjold pals,
remain in this country, buy a house—say ia Gros-
venor Square!-and seek election to the House of
Commons in the Conservative interest, or will he
return to the Southern city in which, and to the
people out of whom, he made his money? lam
awaiting the reply—and probably your readers
will join me—with no little curioiity.
• • •
Alfred Bennett — the only Alfred —is an
honorary member of the St. Stephen’s Club, West-
minster, where he may be seen dally—by anyone
of sufficient social standing. The St. Stephen's is
one of the chief Conset vative clubs, and Alfred, of
course, gained Its temporary shelter through that
world-famous ambassador bis brother-in-law, the
much abused Hennlker Heaton, Conservative can-
didate for Canterbury at the next election, who,
as you know, Is by many considered a notoriety-
seeker of the most virulent order, but is for all
that, a good man to have as a friend in a strange
country. It is surely not necessary for me to
mention that Alfred has also been presented at
Court. That momentous information must have
long since been flashed along the cable, bringing
pride and unspeakable joy to a very large section
of your community—tne Evenin’ Noose boys!
Several Australians at present in London, who
chance to be less favourably gifted— pecuniary, at
any rate—than Alf., complain with bitterness
that that gentleman is now aughty to a degree,
and that be has an unpleasant habit of admiring a
neighbouring church-spire when be sees an old
familiar face approaching him In the street. “ Why,
I knew Alfred Bennett many a year ago,” ex-
claimed one of the grumblers to me the other day.
“His father, who wrote that now scarce book, the
* History of Australia,’ Jived next to us in Camper
down.” “ That’s just the very reason that Alfred
doesn’t know you now,” I answered. “ Well, then
there's Heaton,” pursued the grumbler, “I knew
him well: when in the bush he wore moleskins
and a cabbage-tree hat.” “ Sxactly,”! responded,
“and he now wears Lincoln and Bennett’s twenty-
flve-sfailllng belltoppers aud camellias in his coat-
no wonder he fails to remember you I ” And so it
is, dear Bulletin. The Australian in Australia is,
taken altogether, by no means below the average
bipod, but be has not been here a week before he
has undergone a remarkable metamorphosis; and
the change is very much for the worse. His native
genial style leaves him; he cultivates what
e imagines to be a becoming and digni-
fied reserve. He discovers that enthusiasm
is bad form, and quenches it accordingly.
He studies, with painful anxiety, the costume and
manner of the London masher; he clothes his
hitherto honest brown hands in yellow kid gloves,
which he never takes off, except to eat and sleep,
and be adjusts a large bouquet in his button-hole.
He recognises no colonist, unless he be of equal
or superior fortune; but he trembles with delight
If by fortunate chance he is introduced to a well-
dressed Englishman, to whom he will, perhaps, talk
with assumed carelessness of Ooverment Houses,
and of his friends “young Loftus” and •• Reg.”
Bloxsome. He is ashamed, God knows why! of
his birth-place. No, sir I he was not born in Aus-
tralia, but was taken out there by his parents when
very young. Believe me, he Is a poor creature,
and he was a thousand times better fellow when
he was in the Lands Office (perhaps deep in Dick
Cousins’ boobs!) or behind his father’s c r uncle s
desk or counter in King or George Streets. But
what can be expected from the tmall fry when
Australians of position come over here and set the
ignoble example! Of course, to the class I am
endeavouring to show up, there are numbers of
exceptions—men slap-up and straight, with no
condemned humbug about them. To meet suci
as is occasionally my good fortune, is a rare
treat. It is men of that stamp who uphold the
dignity of the colonies and command resp.ct
where the other—and I am sorry to siy, more
numerous clsss-galn only contempt It these
remarks of mine take root in the minds of any
intending visitors to •* the old country,” and bear
good fruit, I shall not be “ sotry 1 spoke.”
* ♦ *
Up to the present the Honourable Thomas
Holt, M.L A, so far is my personal know-
iege goes, has betrayed no inclinations to
join the tuft-hunting, notorLty-s 'eking, c lonial
mob. I have not seen his name in the lists of pre-
sentations (perhaps he submitted to that question-
able dietlnction on a previous visit); I have not
remarked his photograph with a pedigree and
biographical sketch appended in any of the society
papers. On the contrary, the only occasions cn
which I have seen Mr. Holt's name mentioned
have been in connection with big, full-and-plenty
breakfasts a> d dinners he has given to starving
Saupera and folks out of aj ib and their luck, in
even Dials, Whitechapel, and other haunts of the
lowly. By a little judicious expendltuie, the old
M.L.C might dart from comparative obscurity
into fame-of a kind: see, par example, the last
Primrose number of England -a Tory weekly-
containing an admirable picture and the only
authentic printed life and history of the great
Australian millionaire, Sir Samuel Wilson, whose
great grand-uncle a mother-in-law—the legitimate
descendant of a race of kings—was the first to
welcome William of Orange to owld Ireland when
he landed at Carricktergus. Mr. Holt, however,
appears to have studied the life of Charles Gordon
more attentively than that of his big little—espe-
cially little—brother squatter of Grosvenor-square
and Hugheaden. When I was a little “jammy-
mouthtd ” chap, just breeched, I remember Edin-
burgh’s Duke being entertained by Mr. Holt at
his place, “The Warren.” So far, I have not
learned that this opportunity of returning the
hospitality has been taken advantage of by His
Royal Highness. Probably Alfred cannot bear
the sight of Australians; the memories of the past
they conjure up must bo very unpleasant.
• 9 *
Ye gods! what a little world this is ! Lis-
ten to a few of the familiar faces I have “spotted”
here at various times-a complete list would oc-
cupy all your columns. I saw the Rev. Mr. Baber,
of All Saints’, Petersham (this is some time since),
looking into a shop window—(no. not In “Book-
sellers’ Row”)-at the end of Cheapside. Mr.
Theodore Harden, the squatter, from Forbes dis-
trict—a white man every inch—I met, a few days
later, unon almost the same spot,. In one week
I noticed a well-known land- agent (from not a thou-
sand miles fiom the Sydney Exchange), a billiard-
marker from Grenfell, and a tall, elderly gentle-
man who occupies a tall position in the Post-
Office, ail walking in the Strand—not together, of
com89. On another occasion I remarked Reginald
Lake-the fortunate stepson of Mr. Paling—and
Billy Neale (City Banker’s son)—both hard-work-
ing medl al students, and of “masher” mien—
walking home, arm in arm, after the theatres were
out. By the way, all colonial medical students are
not a success. I was informed the other day, by
one who should know, that of the young men who
are yearly sent from Australia and elsewhere by
their too confiding parents a very large percentage
go to the Devil.
9*9
Quite recently, I was passing Charing
Cross Station, when I was attracted by a cab-acci-
dent. From the wreck I saw two people hauled
and taken away to the neighbouring hospital for
repairs. And who do you think they were? No
other, I give you my word, than a lady of “ Tam-
bour Major” fame (Oh, no; we never mention
her I) and a well-known woolbroker-man,from Mel-
bourne. 1 walked slowly up the Strand, meditating
deeply upon this extraordinary circumstance,
when I accidentally bumped against a stout,
elderly party. I stopped, of course, and began an
elaborate apology, but directly the injured gentle-
man caught sight of my face he turned and tied—I
couldn’t see his heels for dust. Now, it struck me
after wards that the elderly gentleman closely re-
sembled a man I once met in Melbourne—a
wealthy merchant with a weakness for opera
bouffe. What has been puzzling me ever since is
—why did he run away ? Perhaps that’s a little
way he’s got I
♦ * ♦
The debut of Agnes Consuelo in drama
at Croydon, in the piece “ Zina,” specially written
for her by a man named Appleton, was very far
from being a success. Every effort was made to
get the Loudon critics down there, but they either
diln't bite at all or they sent deputies. The
drama is certainly poor stuff, and Agnes betrays
no capacity for setting the Thames on fire. She
has plenty of confidence—too much to ever deve-
luoe Into a star-and she is well enough up la
stage routine, but she Is one of the most self-con-
scious, artificial, and withal pretentious actresses
I have ever seen strutting and worrying through
a leading role. A subsequent three months'tour
in the provinces has, I understand, been unat-
tended by a dazzling success, and she is now ap
rearing, “lor six nights only,” at the Standard
a season which* the London papers have s0‘far
sho wn a strong tendency to Ignore.
* w ‘ '4 . . m
Maurice Drew, or- Mbury, has qpt ,beeji
doing badly. He has just finished a very goqd
engagement with Harry Paulton in the provinces,
and has been re- ngaged by the same manager for
another lengthier tour. He says he means to stick
to Harry while he has a penny.
I ■ - • v ’ •
Nobody outside the War Office seems tjo
have been aware until very recently that SJr
Oeorge Willis was in the Egyptian Campaign in
1882, but with the laudable intention of not allow-
ing that Interesting fact io be lost to posterity, Sir
George has goi\e to considerable expense. He has
had a costly painted window placed in Sopley
Church with the following inscription:—" To the
glory of God. A thanksofferlng from Lieutenant
General Sir George Willie, Knight of the Bath, of
the Omanieb of the Medjidie, Grand Officer of the
Legend of Honour, &c„ commanding the
Southern Division, and Governor of Portsmouth,
1885.” Had Sir George gone into the slums and
spent the money among the starving, taking car£
that the action was not reported in the papers!,
God’s glory might have been extended. God—for
His little ones-asked Sir George for bread, and he
gave Him a stone. Tkuth says that “To the glory
of Willis ” would have been more appropriate on -
the inscription.
Tours over,
A. B. ORIGINAL.
Now, this is a reeling blow. We bad
hardly got through ft congratulatory par on the
streak of luck which bad fallen to the Bega
Standakd-s journal in high repute amongst the
original conductors of it, and a copy of which
they solemnly take back to the forest when thejy
have been up for the annual blanket We bad
commented on bis delirious luck in having seen .
Mr. Hergenban’s pie-mtlon, which weighed 471bs.,
and we were just musing how the editor had now
enough pie-melon on hand to last him nearly two
days and still let each of the typoj have a shovel-
ful for dessert; but we find him devoting a lengthy
and most ferocious diatribe to 1 he Bulletin
This should act as a warning to other country
editors. We know of no human digestive appar-
atus which is thoroughly qualified to deal with
47lbs. of melon-pie at onesitting and then be reck-
less as to how it is washed down. At least, a little
time should elapse after so generous a meal be-
fore resuming the pen. Brethren, while the plate
goes round, we will give out the hymn:—
Someone who has nothing better to do
has started a discussion on Insects as articles of
food, and an excellent recipe is given for beetle,
soup, which is stated to be a most palatable luxurv
We are getting on. In the street. First Street
Arab: Hullo; Bill I Had yer dinner?” Second
Street Arab: “Yes. I’ve had two blackbeetles and
a trfaatelcpe.” First Street Arab: “You are »
lucky cove; mother only give me half a cold
spider as father left from his supper last night ”
"Second Street Arab: “ Don’t yer feel hungrv ?*”
First StreetJArab: “ Yes, I do. I’m a-goin’ to see
If can’t catch a blue-bottle and have It for my
Ihe men employed wheeling bricks fof
Buzacott’s newspaper premises in Brisbane (0)
were waited upon by a deputation from the Brick
Labourers’ Association the other day. The men
let down the handles of their barrows and listened
The deputation explained that wheeling bricks In"
barrows was too expeditious a method of trans-
ferring them from one place to another, and that
• the men then wheeling should, under penalty of
expulsion from the Society, forthwith forswear
barrows and carry all bricks by hand. Our sym-
pathies generally carry us along in company with
trades-unions, but in this case we stick in the road
and kick if we are touched. How would the mem-
bers of this Brick Labourers’ Association like a
guild of publicans to decree that the long beer was
hot to be anymore given in the capacious pewter
but tendered in teaspoons ? It is very likely the
labourers have a grievance. But even though it
were the head and front of the Association thht
induced them to adont this method of-rectifying
it, they should cut olf the head and front of the
Association. The head and front is an ass, anyhow.
The latest sensation has the Maitland
trade-mark on it. The Salvation Army had a
“trades procession march” there the other day.
Bach warrior carried something symbolic of hig
trade, and the result was in the highest degree in-
structive. One man struggled with a string of
pumpkins round his neck, another had a necklace
of turnips, while a third meandered along with a
bar of soap. A saddler carried most of the imple-
ments of his trade—saddle, bridles, and bits. He
could not succeed in borrowing a horse, or he
would have carried that. Another man carried
some Coal in his hand, from which it was inferred
that he was something in that line, and probably
made 15 cwt. of that mineral go as far as many of
his” religious neighbours. Tnen came another
serious-looking saint bravely bearing along an
iron gooss which suggested that he followed the
useful avocation, of a tailor. The procession
passed off _quietly enough, till a farm-labourer
turned the corner carrying a barn. Then the
rough element in the spectators broke into the
assemblage, and to avoid trouble we came away.
Nbxtf morning appeared to be an unusual
addition to the number of black eyes in Maitland.
' There' is not much fear of some of the
Victorian- Tommy Atkinses flinging their lives
away for the joy of fighting for their country.
At least so an unprejudiced observer, who had
noticed a little scene which occurred a few nights
ago at the Orderly-room of the first battalion of
Victorian rifles, would be inclined to say. Eighty
members of a company had assembled for drill,
when suddenly 60 of them struck—not for their
tltars and their homes, but for their arrears of
pay. It appears that each man gets about £6
every half-year. The Government, doubtless too
much occupli d in voting grants to the families of
deceased members of Parliament—had overlooked
this lltfle fact. But the men had not. If
there w a s going to be no pay there would
bq no play. These were advanced moralists
oh the subject of glory. It would be curious to
spi culate what they would do under similar cir-
cumstances, with another circumstance added—
the Bust lacs at the Heads. It is but just, however,
to say that some of the mea have since denied the
itory of their Insubordination. This is weli.
’Who will guard the guards?” might otherwise
have been an uneasy question for the Victorian
Government. The point of this paragraph—if it
has any—is that our own warriors stand proudly
pre-eminent above those of other colonies in their
frenzy for fighting—their gluttony for gore.
Melbourne city watchhouse is getting to
be no fit place for a respectable inebriate. Time
was when a man could load up merrily, satisfied
with the assurance of a select compartment and
the all-sufficient shake-down, when his legs threw
up their billet, and the sonorous hlc-cup nigh
jerked his jaw off. He knew Constable X was
waiting to hump him to his cell, there to tuck
straw around his r eumbent form, and thought-
fully leave him to peaceful slumber. Those were
Indeed generous times. A man could get drunk
with some pleasure then. He felt that the watch-
house was a laudable institution, and a benefit to
mankind. Bit now they run him in smong a lot
of degraded sots, who cannot tike a drop of liquor
without becoming possessed of a mad desire to
wallow la gore. Ten to one, a few of these will
dream he’s the missus, and jump his face out of all
decency. That is how Carl B.-iohmann and a few
others have been treated, I itely. Carl appeared in
court with a face liae a beefsteak cut by an ama-
teur O le Fitzpatrick, who wears a boot like a
gun-boat, had passed his time kicking Carl’s head
all over the cell. Now, this Is treatment which
any of us am liable to, under the present state of
affairs, and we demand ioimsdiatc reform. We
are assured that wh*n the watch-house was insti-
tuted, it was meant for the advantage of respect-
able cit’z ms under the influence, not for such as
Fizpatrlck. A bunk In a gutter is gocd enough
for such people.
CHAIN UP THE SEWING-MACHINE UNTIL IT IS PAID FOR.
THE SEWING-WOMAN’S ONLY SAFEGUARD AGAINST THE IN 3TALLM8NT PLAN FIEND.
List, all ye scribes, who dab the paste, , I
And learned scissors ply,
To show the world your want of wit,
Beware of melon-pie.
Stick to the good old-fashioned hash,
And ever, when you’re dry,
Sand out the office pawter, but—
Beware of melon-pie. i
If vegetables, local fruits,
Are left for you to try,
Consume them, like a man, but, mind— '
Beware of melon pie. f '
You may be all the very pink
Of Christianity,
And turn a very devil if
You take to melon-pie.
Your loyalty will fizzle out.
And dynamite you’ll try'.
If forty-seven pound you risk
Of Herg'nhan’s melon-pie.
Tour sanity will all oOfce out.
For Gladesvllie you will slab,
If you begin to sell your “ ads.”
For tubs of melon-pie.
Take sample brandy, rum, or beer, ~
Strychnine, or hominy;
Take beef, bread, mutton, cheese—but, oh!
Beware of melon-pie.


REMEMBER THIS,
IF YOU ARE 810 K.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails.
If you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any of tho numerous
diseases of stomach or bowels, it is
your own fault if you remain ill. for
American Uo.’s
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will And a “Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of malarial,
epidemic, bilious and intermittent
fevers—by the use of American Co’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, American HOP
BITTERS will give you fair skin, rich
blood, the sweetest breath, health, and
comfort. In short, they cure ALL
Diseases ol the Stomach, Bowels,
Blood, Liver, Nerves, Kidneys, &c.. and
4S00
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
American Hop Bitters, costing but a
trifle.
Will you let them suffer T
• Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
American Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or dot-
tors’ bills to pay.
j See If the name of Dr. Soule Is blown
In every bottle, if not It Is counterfeit.
fflHB AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
4. INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital ... £100,000.
i ' Head Office : Melbourne.
Sydney Branch : Royle’s Chambers, Bond-street.
\T 4nf Arlo n TWranl-Ava • XT O I _ tv*.. _ i
N. 8. Wales Directors:
Andrew Town, J.P., Esq.
Frank Cowley, Esq.
George 8. Yeo, Esq.
. Victorian Directors:
John L. Dow, Esq., M.P.,
i Chairman
Hon. J. F. Levlen, M.P.
Thomas Learmonth, Esq.
| Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs insured
against death from Accident, Disease, or Natural
Causes on land, rail, or at sea.
f Marine Risks on Stock covering mortality or on
Merchandise accepted.
j The only Live Stock Insurance Society in the
! olonies.
ilgned Part * ICUlaEB CaD be obtained from the under-
} Active Agents wanted where unrepresented.
I J* WILKINSON, Branch Manager.
, Office, Royle’s Chambers, Bond-street.
P
A U D E
4711
COLOGNE.
4711.
Established 1792.
! 4 • *
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1872; Prize Medal, Vienna, 1873
This Eau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 35 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for its superior sweetness, strength,
and invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
petitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the dlTte of
Europe.
The large and constantly Increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Eau de Cologne, not only in
Europe, but also in North and South America.
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurloiis imitations with the genuine
number— 4711 changed into 7411, H47, 4117, &c., &c.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue-and-goid label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pltt-
. •" street, Sydney.
To be had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
and storekeepers, in town and country.
■ WALKER and SONS,
LONDON [and SYDNEY.
Catalogues
POST PEEK.
W. WALKER
and SONS
are one of the
Largest
Stockholder!
and
Monvf octureri
H<rh-ol«R«
FURNITURE
-,x>
ENGLAND.
Catalogues
POST FEES.
ALL STOCK
m their
SYDNEY
lOPII
Supplied
dibbct
from their
London
Manufactory
and Latest
3] London Stylos
GtTABANTMD
SYDNEY BEANCH;
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARO SQUARE.
SOLE IMPORTER OP
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
SOLE AGENT FOR THE
SMITH ORGAN.
—
WILLIAM BRUCE,
107 PITT STREET
===
HIS IMINENCE THE CARDINAL.
“Now then, Mister Moran, whatever have
you got in that there box, at all, at all ?”
‘Share,” says he, “an’ it’s only a foine
Kyairdmal’s hat what I’m a going to do the
block wid in Sydney.”
To make a good Custard you should use Kings
road s Oswego Cornflour.
Wolfe's Schnapps enjoys an unbounded
popularity unsurpassed by any other article In th<
colonies.
Lidles, when you are next cooking just glvt
Klngsford s Oswego Cornflour a trirl.
. your food tortures instead ol
Schnapps g y ° U ’ tben i9 tbe tlme to take Wolfe’f
5th Half-Yearly Sale
JULY, 1885.
HOSSALIE, LLOYD & CO
354 George-street, Sydney.
Wb beg respectfully to inform our numerous Customers and
our USUAL JULY SALE has commenced Th tbat
will no doubt remember what bargains they have purchased
therefore we venture to think that a great an d speedy clearnnce £ re l l< ° u « f alea f
sssvsvs: wen earned repu,atio " ,or jssare
T iT iO~STD dc CO
354 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
EBRATED
BISCUITS AND CAKES, TREACLE AND GOLDEN SYRUP,
Self-raising 4Erated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
*• & A. have obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals Svdnp-r r 17 issn- r , ,
and Seven First Awards. 188!; afd Two Gold Mcdah, cSta LE. 1883-4. " " G ° ld McdaJ
r ■ * f
l - Sydnoy Agents: ■ . H. ARIELL A CO.- 3*3 and 345 Kants*---*.
The Diamond Wedding.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To-day is our diamond wedding, old wife;
Some seventy summers, and more,
Since first we paired off for the battle of life
On thirty a year and the run of our knife—
What 1-you say I’m a blessed old bore I
Oh, yes! we are now, I admit, pretty right;
But still, to that hard-grafting time
My mind often wanders in quiet delight,
’Way down from the tree of Prosperity’s height
That our industry's helped us to climb,
And picture the day to the station we tramped
With our “ characters ” safe in the swag—
A long, weary walk, and, by George, you were
“camped”;
And, don’t you remember, the hands had me
stamped
As one of Ghlrt’s runaway “ lags "?
Well, welll now I wonder is ho living still—
The super, that then bossed the run ?
you know he was “ Captain ” and I “ Bos’un Bill,’*
In those happy old days when we lived on the hill
And scarcely knew life had begun.
A fine lot of fellows, now, wife, were they not ?
And genuine, too, to the core ;
And if they were not always quite “ on the spot”
In their speech, there is one ihing they never for-
got—
To leave the latch-string in the door.
But then we ne’er dreamed, as we worked straight
ahead,
What the future held for us in store;
Nor that thrift would build up, from our stringy-
bark shed,
A nice little, tight little cottage instead,
With enough in the stocking— and more.
We hidn't much then in the furniture line—
That's not to call gorgeous, you know:
But still, round it all there's a glow of sunshine
That makes the blood dance through this old
frame of mine
In a stream that nought else can make flow.
Some magic hangs round the old iron-hoop tongs
And the splutter the tallow-lamp made—
All seem to my mem’ry like beautiful songs, .
As they Boat on before me in numberless throngs
From the depths of a fifty-years’ shade.
But don’t you remember how proudly you’d bring
Home the cheque at the end of the year ?
Then you were a queen, lass, and I was a king—
Tho’ we usedu’t to lunch off a butterfly’s wing.
Or any of that kind of cheer.
Have those pleasures all vanished, old girl, did
you say?
What I tears in those precious old eyes.I
No, no; for you’re dearest and fairest to-day,
When the golden-haired girl has grown Wrinkled
and grey:
We’re together—and shall be for ever and aye
In our home up above in the skies.
J. P. B.


DR.SCOTT'S
Sti,
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by , ha
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continental
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
oost the ordinary goods of other makers
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial?
tt you have any pain, ache, or ill-feeling
from any cause; if you seem “pretty well *
yet lack energy and do not “feel up to the
mark;” if you suffer from disease, we beg
you to at once try these remarkable
tives. They cannot and do not injure like
medicine. Always doing good, never bam.
There is no shock or sensation felt in wear-
ing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results; electro-magnetism acts quickly
generally the first week, more frequently
the first day, and often even during the
first hour they are worn their wonderful
curative powers are felt.
The mind becomes active, the nerves and
sluggish circulation are stimulated, and all
the old-time health and good-feeling come
back. They are constructed on scientific
principles, imparting an exhilarating,
health-giving current to the whole system.
Professional men assert that there is hardly
a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily
practise the same, as your own physician
will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearance
from those usually worn, as we substitute
our flat steel magnetods in place of the
ordinary corset-steels. They are all equally
charged, differing only in quality and design.
They are elegant in shape and finish, made
after the best French patterns, and war-
ranted satisfactory in every respect. Those
who have tried them say they will wear no
others. Most of the above applies equally
to the Electric Belt for gents.
iffi
m
Dr. Scott s Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &o., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all other remedies (so-
called) have failed.
The prices are ai follows
No. 1
No. 2
No. 3
No. 5
Electric Belts..
s. d.
6 6
8 6
10 6
15 0
15 0
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Eleetrio-Magnetio
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece ©f common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque,
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
AT
54 Margaret-street,
SYDNEY.
P-O. Box 221.
Printed and Published by In BUMJrrnr News’
paper Co. (Limited), M Pltt-«t.. Sydney, NAW.
light pastry, cakes, &c., Just try Kingsford’s
Oswego Cornflour.
Ask tor Wolfe's Schnapps and take no other.
Klngsford’s Oswego Cornflour has no equal In
the world. »
The Victorian Radical who was caught
last week with his eye fixed, politically, on bar-
maids, Is caught this week with his eye fixed,
politically, on blankets Mr. Berry has found that
en the blankets supplied by contract to the lunatic
asylums of Victoria somebody has been making
a swingeing haul. Ho ordered two of them to be
brought up to him the other dav He felt them
carefully. It Is not stated whether he lay down
In them. But he announced their fair price to be
3s. 6d apiece. Still the St'ite has been paying av/av
this last eight years 13i. 61 and 17s 61. respectively
for these very goods. Mr. Berry sent a private
person to buy on* from tie contractors, and ste
brought back her parcel for 6j. As there are 600
blankets used annually in the asylums, the little
profit for the last eight years must have made
somebody believe that life Is well worth living.
Maitland has always been distinguished
for religious squabbles, not only between Catholics
and “ Prodestant*.” but especially in the Presby-
terian fold, ever since the day two belligerent men
In black saluted each other on the nose in the pub-
lic street and made the ruby gore How. That
rencounter occurred so long ago—before the flood,
11 \t is, the Maitland artlole-that we forgot who
were the combatants. The Maitland people would
die of monotony If these religious disputes were
not kept up. The latest Is the quarrel between the
holy men of the Free Cnurch. which was so uncere-
moniously dismissed by the Supreme Court when
It came before them In the Macpherson and
others v. Sutherland case. No one but a Free
Churchman and Highlander can make out what
the religious dlsnuto is, but even one of the un-
godly can understand the real battle is about pro-
perty. Trust a Highlander to stick to the “ gear.”
We have been looking over Mr. Macpherson’s
Fsee Churchman, puolished In Maitland, and
confess to have been delighted with the strong
language indulged in bv the saintly writers.
We though 1 ; Thb Bulletin was a vigorous paper,
and not given to watar-gruel, but we must con-
fess our contemporary la a thousand laps ahead of
us, and spurting vigorously. It appears the “Pope
of Castlereagh-street,” whoever he may be, sent a
“ Riding Mission ” up to the Clarence to persuade
the Highlanders there to oast the Macpherson
party aside, but they were not successful, except
in drawing down the wrath of the Fbbb
Churchman upon their heads. The aim of
the missionaries was to get the key of the church
so that it would revert to the “ Pope’s ” adherents
(the Presbytery of Bast Australia), but the local
elders and ministers were too cute and clrcum-
the holy pilgrims, retaining the church for
the free section. Having locked up the temple,
front and back, a humorous elder apologised to
the missionaries for the state of things by stating
the oburoh was closed to keep out the larrikins.
This was a bit of humour most unexpected, as
coming from a Highlander, and which must have
set the missionaries thinking. Probably they did
mt find out the hit until they were returning dis-
comfited and seasick to the Castlereagh-street
Pope. The whole hubbub appears to be over a
sum of £1000 left to the Church by Mr*. MacIntyre,
which is claimed by both sections. It seems ac-
cording to Mr. Macpherson, that the Interest of
this money is paid to the Rev. Mr. Donald, of
Clarenoetown, who is also one of the trustees, and
not devoted to the general pu poses of the
Church. , *
