

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 3.—No. 112.—new Series.
SATURDAY, JULY 4, 1885.
Prlo*—64.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JULY 4, 1886.
S ir Saul Samuel’s Party.
Governor of New South Wales, Lord
Cabington succeeds Lord Loptus. In any
walk of life it is a dangerous thing to suc-
ceed a man of acknowledged ability,
especially when that ability is combined
witbsooia. and domestic virtues. It is im-
possible to prevent people from making re-
marks, nor would it be wise to attempt it
prom what we learn, it would appear as if
Lord Cabington had some sense of the up-
hill work before him in succeeding Lord
Loft us. But the real magnitude of the
task will not be understood by him till his
arrival. Why he was appointed at all is not
quite clear. It is true, he is a ci-devant com -
rade of the Prince of Wales, and appears to
take a warm interest in horse-racing and
other out-door sports. Horse-racing is no
doubt a pleasant occupation, and it i
certain that the Prince of Wales is a pleasani
companion for persons whom he respects,
whatever their sex. But we submit th it
something more is required in order, as wi
hinted, that no invidious comparisons mai
be made by those the chief business of whose
lives appears to consist in fault-finding, ii
is too soon to deal with this matter at
present, nor would any reference be mad*
to it now but for the report which appeared
some days ago of the dinner given to Lord
Cabington by Sir Saul Samuel, K.C.M.G
our Agent-General in London. Stil
before his Lordship’s departure fron.
England, it is surely not too much t-
expect that Sir Saul, who knows th
reasons why Lord such a fa-
vourite in New South Wales, would acquain
our newly-appointed Governor with som<
of those reasons? Lord Cabington is a
comparatively young man, and it is poesibh
that his tastes and pursuits may not be et
firmly fixed as not to allow of addition oi
modification. If, for instance, he could be
induced to take an interest in market-gar-
dening or in the most approved methods of
poultry - breeding—whether by the some-
what old-fashioned way of allowing the
female bird to attend to the matter, 01 by
the artificial means which are said to be so
successful in the United States he would
find, on his arrival, that the time spent in
learning those useful pursuits was not
wasted. It would not be so difficult, after
all to, as it were, graft those branches on to
horse-racing, and so come prepared to con-
ciliate all classes of the community. We
trust Sir Saul Samuel will favourably en-
tertain this suggestion, which nothing but a
sense of the good understanding that should
exist between Governor and governed in-
duces us to offer.
* * *
It was on the 9th of May that the Agent-
General for New South Wales gave a dinner
to our new Governor. Many prominent
Englishmen who had made their mark in
politics, and many Australians who had
made their mark on sheep, attended. In
proposing the Queen’s health, Sir Saul
Samuel said the people in Australia “ are
more demonstrative in their loyalty than
you are in this country.” This is the hardest
thing we remember to have heard about
loyalty, and we are surprised that such a
cautious man as our representative should
say it. For it means that the closer you ex-
amine it the less you think of it. But it is
not alone distance from London that makes
the Australasian colonies so demonstratively
loyal. Besides this cause there is another
of even greater importance. They have not
to pay for it. If they had to pay their shave
of the eighty or ninety millions that are
yearly swallowed up in governing the Em-
pire, and in paying interest on loans ex-
pended to gratify the murderous caprices
of former monarohs, it is possible that their
loyalty would be less demonstrative alto.
At last Sir Saul, proposed the toast of the
evening—Lord Cabinqton’s health—and, in
accordance with the strange usages which
are still tolerated in society, told the guests
(hat his Lordship was, in the language of
the Pacific Slope, one of the “ whitest ” men
he knew. Had he stopped there no great
cause of complaint would have arisen. But>
while many men can go on without diffi-
culty, few know where to stop. Sir Saul,
did not, any more than his old world name-
sake, and so we find him saying,—“ Much of
the success of responsible government in the
colonies may be said to be due to the ability
and tact of the gentlemen who have held
the exalted position of Governors of the
colonies.” We doubt this. The various Aus-
tralian colonies have had some wise men
sent to govern them, and some very foolish
ones, ft is a question whether tlx 3 “ success
of responsible government ” was not even
greater under the stupid pilots than under
the abler ones. It is the same in England.
George 111, and the two sons who reigned
after h>m, had neither ability nor taot. One
racked his brains to discover how apples got
into a dumpling, the second invented a shoe-
buckle, while the third wasjknown as™. Silly
Billy,” and revelled in the possession of a
head closely resembling a pine-apple. Yet
it was under those monarchs that Constitu-
tional Government made its greatest pro-
gress.
* * •
Lord Carinqton’s reply was straightfor-
ward enough till, towards the end, he in.
dulged in what is known as “ patriotism ” in
a Briton, and “ spread-eagleism ” in an
American. He spoke of the Empire as “ the
first and the greatest amongst all the great
nations of the world,” There are many
nations which would be justified in disput-
ing the right of the British Empire to the
first place in literature, science, arts, or
arms. It is not so populous as China °o
artistic as Italy, so powerful as Germany,
nor do its citizens enjoy greater freedom
than those of the United States. Indeed, in
the religious sense, they enjoy less. Millions
of Englishmen are obliged to support a
Church in which they do not believe, while
there is not a representative body in the
Union which would prevent a duly elected
member from taking his seat because of his
views concerning a First Cause. It is surely
time that men with Lord Oarington’s op-
portunities should purge themselves of thi?
foolish national vanity, and be content with
a place equal to any in the advancing line of
progress, but notin front of all.
* * «
It was Lord Derby’s turn now. His health
also was proposed by our Agent-General, and
“received with cheers.” A few months ago
in Melbourne no man, unless recently insured
and anxious to provide for his widow, would
have proposed it at all. With the
at one time, of Sir James M‘Culloch, we do
not remember anyone whose name would
arouse all the worst passions in Victorians
breats sooner than that of Lord Derby.
Yet, even in him, Sir Saul Samuel found a
number of things to :;.dmlre. Lord Derby’s
speech contained more sound sense than all
the others put together. His views on Im-
perial federation, the fashionable fad of
Australians in England and Englishmen in
Australia, completely squelches the argu-
ments put forward by James, Bishop of
Melbourne, and the small fiy who paddle in
his wake. Did we not know the odd notions
which clever men occasionally entertain, it
would appear strange to see a man of Dr.
Moorhouse’s unquestioned ability embrace
this “ Imperial federation.” What possible
good could come to Australia by t ending
representatives to a legislature in London
is entirely beyond our ken. If the num-
bers were in proportion to the size of the
country, they would he to the Englishmen
as twenty to f one. If according to popula-
tion, the British would be to them as thir-
teen to one. We may be sure that the
latter would be the basis of representation.
And if taxation without representation be,
illogical, so is the converse—representation
without taxation. So that even at present
Australia’s Imperial tax, reckoned on the
basis of population, would amount to be-
tween six and seven millions a year. And
what voice would she have in Imperial
affairs? A little over half as much as Ire-
land !
• • «
Lord Derby sees all this, and a good deal
more, very clearly, while the London and
Melbourne dootrinaires are looking up at
the stars. He says, “Of course, in any repre-
sentative body including the British Islands
and the colonies, the British Islands, having
the larger population, would have the
greater power. Therefore, although the
colonies could not be taxed without being
represented, still it would come nearly to
the same thing. At any moment the colonial
representatives, however united, were liable
to be outnumbered and outvoted by the
inhabitants of the mother country. This
seems to be getting back again to the old
policy of Lord North and George 111.,
which, I suppose, is not what we want."
These words should be got off by heart by
the .Imperial Federationists. And Lord
Derby could have said much more with
even greater effect. He could have directed
attention to the American Union, and have
asked: “What would now be the result if
no separation had taken place between
Great Britain and her trans-Atlantio
colonies?” We need not go far for an
answer. England would now be the pro-
vince and America the parent state. Either
this or—which amounts to the same—the
Americans in the House of Commons would
be to the British as three to two. In fact,
they would leave their homes from New
York to San Francisco in order to go over
and govern England.
♦ ♦ *
It was once more Sir Saul Samuel’s turn,
This time he rose to respond to his own
health, and assured his hearers in words as
true as they were original, that for tho
defence of the old mother, the “colonies
were willing tq spend their Jqst man and
their last shilling." They were even anxious.
B[e said that Australia was nearly as largo
as fact Which nobody present
LORD RANDOLPH CHURCHILL.
Secretary for India in the Salisbury Ministry.


:
NO QUESTION A.BOTTT ITB UTILITY.
NO DENYING ITS USEFULNESS.
THI RATES of Subbobiption to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 345.; half-year, 13a. 6d.:
quarter, 6a. 6d.—ln advance.
Th» Advertising Rates are Bs. per' Inch i
special positions In the paper 7s. 6d. per
Inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per mob.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods- as follows :—On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions!
16 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 36 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
THE “PALACE” M
Will wring, will mangle, will sav
satisfaction, and will onlj
ANTHONY HORDERN & 5
Palace Emporium, Hi
QUOD PACIMUS YALDE
(What we do we do
Your ph
undecidi
obtain an artist
ful potograph
cept what it
couutel. rnd
the vestibule 1
lington Galler
Arcade. There
arrayof poilra
ed specimens,
work of Creeli
for artistic exe
Hnish, couple
in price, ougl
mine ycur cho
You will ther
ing the almost universal opin
foregoing excellencies C. and
unique position as potographert
Prices-C-D-V,,; Cabinets’ 395.
CREELMAN &
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, 8
J, TURNER
TAILORING ESTABI
MARKEi 1 OLOTI
478 Gaorga-i
Established 186
HAS THE LARGEST AND
STOCK OP
WOOLL
IN THE COLOI
DIRECT PROM THE MAN
|W° E’ashionable and Pirst-ch
order, well made, well shrunk,
guaranteed.
Annual Income exceeds On
Lightning and Gas Explosioi
C. w. ROB
Single Bottle Dc
KRUG’S CELEBRATED
Large Bottle, onl
Small Bottle, .
PORT AND SHERR
From Two Shillings ]
FRENCH CLARET and O
FAR ACROSS THE SEA.
England.— The Messrs. WEBSTER BROS., 26
Lombard-street, London, E.C., England, the India,
China, and Colonial Outfitters of Gentlemen's
Goods, than whom no house in Great Britain enjoys
a higher reputation, write: “ We have found great
benefit, more especially for the cure of Rheuma-
tism and Sciatica, from the use of St. Jacobs Oil,
and we have much pleasure in adding our testi-
mony in its favour.”
Germany. — Dr. RICHARD OBERLABNDEB,
Leipzig, Germany, Secretary Ethnological Mu-
seum. r.S.U,G.A,,M.6.8 , author of “ Fremde
Vcelker” (Foreign Nations), and a distinguished
llterateur, writes: “Having been troubled with
my o d chronic Neuralgic pains, I was advised to
use St. Jacobs Oil-the great pain-reliever. I tried
it and was entirely cured.”
Australia.—Mr. JOHN ROLFB, Champion Bi-
cyclist of Australia and England, says; “That in
the six days' contest for the championship, at
Melbourne, after riding eight consecutive hours
each day, he is positive he won the great race, and
was enabled to ride another one hundred miles
against time immediately afterwards, from the
wonderful effect produced by the use of St. Jacobs
Oil, in training and racing.”
New Zealand -Mr. EDWARD L. GREEN, Sheriff,
Auckland, New Zealand, writes; “I received an
injury to my shoulder and could not use my arm.
I applied to medical men without any benefit. I
have great pleasure in stating I used St. Jacobs
Oil for it, and in not more than ten minutes I felt
the beneficial effect. I can work as well as ever I
did, and recommend it to any one suffering pain. ’
Queensland.—Hon. R. C. PAYNE, City Alderman,
Brisbane, Queensland, Australia, writes: “ I have
been a great sufferer with Rheumatism for years,
and have tried every known remedy, including
galvanic batteries and Turkish baths. Finally I
tried 8t. Jacobs Oil—the great pain-cure—and can
positively say it gave me instantaneous relief. It
puts all other remedies in the shade.”
Central America.— Senor MARIANO MARA-
DIAGA. Ocotal, Nicaragua, says that he had suf-
fered with Rheumatism, and that he was instantly
cured by the use of St. Jacobs Oil—the great pain-
cure.
Cuba.— Dr. D. FRANCISCO GARCIA, member of
the Royal University. Havana, states, that in all
cases of troublesome Neuralgia arising from the
teeth, he used St. Jacobs Oil, and the most satis-
factory cures have followed.
Chili—Senor RICARDO STUYEN, a leading
commission merchant of Valparaiso, after having
exhausted all other remedies, has been completely
cured of Rheumatism by the use of St. Jacobs
Oil—the great pain-banisher.
Canada.— Among the leading and distinguished
citizens of the Dominion of Canada who have
given their personal testimony to cures derived by
them from the efficacy of St. Jacobs Oil, are
Alderman John Baxter, Toronto; Hon. Bilia
Flint, Life Senator of Parliament, Belleville; Mr.
J. C, O'Connor, Manager Royal Opera House,
Toronto; Dr. J. C Chanonhouse, Bganyille; Spr.
Q, r, Pre4«ope, Prescott.
appeared prepared to dispute.
read statistics showing that Australia now
does a trade of £115.000,000 a year, the half of
which was with England. This we believe
unhesitatingly, hut question the inference.
“Can I mention anything more significant
to show the importance of these colonies to
this country ? ’ His guests could not, or
would not, but we can and shall. It would
be more significant if he showed how that
trade would be affected if the colonies were
independent. How it ever entered people’s
heads that Australian trade with England
depends on the preservation of the political
bond between them is marvellous. It is not
patriotism that makes us trade with Eng-
land-it is the desire of purchasing in the
cheapest market. If Australia were a
federated Republic to-morrow she would
continue to purchase English goods so long
as she could get them no cheaper elsewhere*
That is just what she does now. But let an
American firm supply for HKd. the same
goods for which the English manufacturer
charges a shilling and see how long the trade
will continue with England. Again, it is
gaid that, if independent, the colonies might
exclude English goods by means of protec-
tive tariffs. They can do so now—witness
Victoria and Canada. Besides, high Aus-
tralian tariffs tell against French, American,
or any other goods as well as against British.
Another venerable error is the threadbare
one that “trade follows the fiag.” No dount
it does, so long as it can buy more cheaply
under that llag than under any other, but no
longer. We do not advocate the separation
of Australia. The time is not yet—may not
be for a generation. But whenever Agents-
Oeneral stand up to give reasons for follow-
ing a certain course they should not assign
the precise reasons why that course should
not be pursued.
PLA IN ENGLISH.
Our Ruler, the Rabbit.
The Victorian Premier has a high opinion of the
intellect of the rabbit. According to him the rab-
bit is a very Macihavee of animals. The fox—
which used to get the credit of much versatility
of guile—la simply foolishness on four legs com-
pared to it. These revolutionary ideas were pro-
pounded by Mr. Service to a deputation from the
Mallee country which waited on him the other day
to ask for Government assistance in fencing out
the small but wily quadruped in question. “ How
do you propesa to do this?" asked the Premier,
“ By erecting fences of wire-netting three feet
high around our runs,” replied the spokesman of
the deputation. Mr. Service smiled sarcastically, as
who should say: “ These good people seem to think
a rabbit is as simple as a selector." Then he de-
scribed with considerable quaintness some results
of his inquiries concerning rabbits. We quote:
.* The animals, he had learned, seemed to develope
different qualities, according to the character of
the country they infested and tho obstacles that
were put In their way. For Instance, in the early
history of the pest, it was never imagined that a
rabbit would swim across a river; but now it was
known that they did so. He was told, moreover*
that they had now begun to climb over these wire
fences.” There is a depth of wicked cunning for
you! Who would think,, to look at one of thoie
soft-eyed, silk-eared creatures, that such hardened
iniquity lurked under their innocent exteriors?
Who would think they were capable of adapting
themselves to all kinds of environments ? But so
it is, Mr. Service says. There is no use in building
fences against them. Build fences three feet high
and they will climb them. Build them 13 feet
high and they will fetch ladders to scale them.
Flood the country, and the new environment
will cause them to either develop tins or
build rafts. There is a devil of an animal
for you—cunning and malice combined with an
infinite adaptability. The rabbits may vet be the
ruling race of the world. The only thing to stop
them, that we can see, is the spread of country
newspapers. Where the editor lives the rabbit
must die. These valuable contributions of Mr.
Service to natural history will necessitate a
certain alteration in the school-book fables. The
true character of the rabbit must be concealed
from the rising generation no longer. He must be
exhibited before the infant mind in his real
colours. Thus will justice be done, and the young
taught to grow up to be men and women, and eat
boarding-house rabbit-pie as a duty, and the name
of Service wax great in the land.
The Truth about the Contingent.
When Mr. Dalley proposed armed interference
in the affairs of the Soudan we protested. We did
so for many reasons. The metropol'tan journals,
without exception, and the country Press with
few, declared that England was in sorest need. It
required but a moment’s examination to show the
stupidity of the statement. Indeed, if not a posi-
tive insult, it was not readily distinguishable from
one. For on one hand, wo had the oft-repeated
assertions that the British Empire was the most
powerful in the world, and on the other, the fact
that a few thousand half-naked and badly-armed
savages were a menace to it. To prevent dismem-
berment of this puissant dominion, 700 imperfectly
trained soldiers were offered by Mr. Dalley and
their services accepted. A fortnight had to elapse
before their embarkation, and they were not yet
enlisted. This of Itself shows the curious idea
entertained by some of what constitutes a soldier.
The Germans, the present authorities in military
matters, say a soldier tit fdr service in the field
cannot be turned out under three years’ hard work.
This period is required, not alone to perfect men
in their various duties, but to habituate them to
that discipline without which an army, however
armed, is a mere mob. But Mr. Dalley and the
newspapers knew better, and so the men were
sent. Talented “ war ” correspondents accom*
panied them, and sept hack pleasant accounts of
bon Bfitieb Generis, who had seryed with dis
tinctlon in every continent, complimented
the Australians on their hearing and discipline
But this thing could not last for ever. The
return of the men, and the receipt of late English
papers, have completely dispelled the illusion.
Contrast the following from Tkuth with the ful-
someness which filled the Sydney journals:—“ Pri"
vate letters from Suakim report that the enthusi-
asm with which the Australian Contingent was
received has quite died away, and, indeed, they are
now viewed with very different feelings. Sir
Gerald Graham was much disappointed and dis-
gusted when he inspected them the other day, as
their drill was deplorable, and their driving even
worse, although they were supposed to have been
hard at work for more than a month, in which
time they certainly ought to have attained to a
certain degree of proficiency. The men are very
noisy at drill, and their language is very rough
and coarse.” It is little wonder that they were
“noisy” at drill, and that their evolutions were
“ deplorable.” Little opportunity had been given
them of learning better. And evidence is now
coming in from many quarters to the effect that
the few opportunities given them were almost
wholly lost through the glaring incompetence of
their officers. On what principle those gentlemen
were chosen for posts of such responsibility it
would be interesting to discover. It is unlikely
that any information on the subject will be forth-
coming. But that it would be highly entertaining
few will doubt who reads of one of them neglecting
to “ tell off ” his company, and getting over the
omission by the novel command to “form two
thick.” Such a command may have its advan-
tages, although General Graham and his staff
mkht be of a different opinion. Still Australian
colonists have shown the way in so many things,
from sculling to torpedoes,that a little latitude ©von
in military matters might be allowed them. No tra-
ditions, however time-honoured, are sacred to
them, so that in time it is possible that the order
to “ form two thick ” may be accepted by the
authorities as eminently suitable for campaigning
in a wild country. And if the War Office people
<?ould also see their way to incorporating the com-
plementary command to “ form two thin ” in the
drill books, the officer’s ingenuity, under rather
trying circumstances, would not have gone with-
out reward. To the complaints of recently-dis-
banded soldiers, it is not wise to pay too much
attention. But the marked unanimity of all con-
cerning the palpable inefficiency of their officers
cannot be entirely overlooked. Their silence
when asked to give three cheers for one of the offi-
cers was unpleasantly significant. After all that
has been so drearily iterated concerning the pro-
minence and glory that Australia had attained
through sending this 111-advised expedition, the
truth at last begins to leak out. At the beginning
we thought it was unnecessary—even ridiculous.
Now we are certain.
Warrnambool Speaks.
The Town Council of Warrnambool (Vic.) have ex.
pressed the admiration entertained by them for
the patriotic spirit shown by New South Wales in
so promptly and willingly sending a Contingent to
aid the grand old mother country in the Soudanese
war, and which has, in such a marked degree,
raised the prestige of the Australian colonies—
“ And now,” the letter continues, “that God, in
His merciful Providence, has allowed them nearly
all to return, the Council think it only right and
fit that their hearty congratulations should be
conveyed to them.”— Sydney Morning Herald,
page 8, column 6, Juno 37, and it the year
of our Lo —, no, in the year 1885. If ever
there was a time when old laws relating to
blasphemy looked right, it is this time. Thanks to
the spread of knowledge, we are quite able
to allow every latitude for opinions concerning
I the policy of this or that war, and to allow Lord
Randy to howl when in opposition and to cave in
judiciously when responsible for his words. But
this way of lugging religion in, and showing that
God Almighty approves this, that, or the other,
is a dead anachronism. Men of the world know
well that the greater part of the affairs that God's
blessing is asked upon are determined by the
necessities of political parties and the vanity of
men who wish to lead. The average Cabinet
Minister cares not a rap to what extent his coun-
try or another is likely to be pledged so long as he
keeps his place. His first ambition is to keep him"
self conspicuously before the eyes of the voter.
By a dumb instinct he goes to save himself. To
keep in office means dignity, power, money, or,
what is the same thing, the position to get
money. And money means good furniture, and
“ fair round belly with good capon lined.”
To.bring in, therefore, the name of God in connec-
tion with the the recent buccaneering expedition,
projected by the over-weening vanity of a politi-
can ever eager for display is, to our thinking, about
as near an approach to blasphemy as can well be
conceived, and it is none the less so because so
august a body as the Warrnambool Town Council
has given it forth. Warrnambool, to our thinking,
is not exactly the place where the plans of
Divine Providence are likely to be first revealed.
Its theology is shockingly bad, but no one will
deny the excellence of its potatoes.
An Official Banquet.
A Good deal of undignified indignation has been
exhibited towards Lord Loftus owing to his recent
action. It appears that on the evening of the day
the Contingent landed, His Excellency gave a
dinner at Government House to the officers of the
Contingent and the colonial representatives who
came to welcome them. The Governor wished
the speeches reported. Why he did so is the only
singular thing in the whole affair. We happen to
know most of the representatives—have watched
their careers for over a quarter of a century; have
seen them gradually rise from the counter, the
desk,and the bench to the positions they now adorn
But if anyone can show that a single person at the
table that night, from His Lordship to the gentle"
men who waited on him, ever said or wrote
a thing that had not been said or written belter by
some one else, then the desire to have the speeches
preserved will appear sensible enough. And this
is why we wonder at a man of His Excellency’s
penetration desiring to have them reported. The
reporters went. When they left for Government
House they were jocose—homicidal when they re-
turned. His Lordship had left orders that while
the racy badinage appropriate to a good dinner
was going on, the newspaper people should stay
outside and content themselves with an occasional
peep through the keyhole. But when the cloth
was removed, and the real business of the
evening—the speeches—began, the door was
to be slightly ajar, so that the pressmen
might miss nothing. If, even with this con-
cession, the words were imperfectly heard, a
flunkey might be persuaded to open the door a
little wider. And it is against all this that the
dailies pretend to be indignant I That is, they are
indignant with the creature of a system, but not
with the system itself, which permits such crea-
tures to be.
The T. and Kuntby Jebnil publishes a
portrait and sketch of Sir Donald Stewart, and
asserts that he will now be advanced to K.C.B.
Alfred is behind the times. General Stewart was
created a baronet and G.C.B four years ago, for
his services in the Afghan War, and he then re-
ceived a cheque for £13.500 to wet the dignity
with. He is now Commaader-in-Chief of the army
in India.
Mr. Henry O. Forbes, whose labours in the
South Seas nave gained him high honor in the
scientific world, is the son of the Kev. A Forbes,
of the Scotch Church. During the last ten years
he has been engaged in the cauee of natural his-
tory, most of that time having been spent in
Sumatra, the Keeling Islands, and Timor; and
he has lately started with an Expedition for the
Exploration of New Guinea. His recently-pub-
lished book. “ A Naturalist’s Wanderings in the
Eastern Archipelago,” is a most valuable and in-
teresting work. An unfortunate accident in his
youth destroyed the sight of his left eye, and pre-
vented the completion of his University course.
He is 34 years of age, and his wife, whom he
married in 1883, is said to be devoted to the cause
of science, for which she has already undergone
very great privations and dangers.
MR. H. O. FORBES,
The New Guinea Explorer.


The Wentworth Advocate apologises for
having said that during a late picnic way off in
that region, some people playod at kiss-in-the-
ring. It humbly apologises. So much for sending
an inexperienced reporter. He was sure to think
the thing a mere game.
The prayer composed by the Archbishop
of Canterbury for use in all Eaglish churches
during the present national crisis begins as
follows “ O God, who callest peacemakers Thy
children, and hast declared that Thou wilt scatter
nations that delight In war,” &o. Is not this a
farce? The clergy all over, the world have been
howling for war and preaching slaughter, but now
remember that their God loves peace and threatens
to mash up warlike nations. Closely allied with
the Jingoes in England, the Bishops have ever Jen
the war party, and yet now they attach the above
preface to their prayers to the Almichty. xnoso
be tby prophets, O Xisraj I 1
My medicU exponent. J C iaiif s mo that WOL1E S
Schnapps is an excellent bijajuiiint.
THE TWINS.
The mother of two sons, twins, met one of the
brothers in a field one morning-. “ Which of you
two boys am I speaking to?” asked the mother;
“ is it you or your brother ? ” “ Why do you ask ?”
inquired the lad prudently. ‘ ‘ Because if it is your
brother I will box his ears.” “ It is not my
brother; it is I.” “Then your brother is wearing
your coat, for yours had a hole in it.” 11 No,
mother, 1 am wearing my own coat.” “ Good
heavens!” shrieked the mother, looking at him in-
tently. “ You are your brother, after all. Go at
once to Summerfleld and Co., and get a new 10s.(ii.
suit.” He went.*
Unsolicited testimonials from medical gentlemen
testify to the merits of Wolfe s Schnapps .
A fashion journal saysThe new under-
skirt pretends to be full when it really is not,”
That’s where it differs from the man coming home
from the lodge. He is full, and pretends that he is
not.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the only genuine
(schnapps— Avoid all counterfeits and imitations.
Lord Randolph Churchill
lobd Randolph Churchill, the Secretary of
State for India in the new Conservative Ministry
in England, is, under many aspects, the most re-
markable man in the Cabinet A few years ago
his ever sitting in Council with the Marquis of
Salisbury and Sir Stafford Northcnte appeared im-
possible, Yet he has not alone secured a weighty
portfolio for himself, but is believed to have
dictated the terms on which Bir Stafford North-
cote holds a place In the Ministry. He is a youner
man of varied parts, great readiness, and
daring impudence. Few things are sacred
to him. Most things are contemptible. But
his contempt is of the acuter order. He
plays with it as If politics were a game
and he were determined to lead the fun. He
has not given any proof that he possesses a public
conscience. He claims to be a Tory, but the
majority of Tories fear him as much as the
liberals do. Like old Moulinet in Majeroni's
“Foundry Master,” he might call himself an
“Antagonistic Conciliator.” Able, industrious,
fearless, unscrupulous, with a quick fancy and a
wicked tongue, Lord Randolph is a valuable
man to support or to throw down a cause. About
eight months ago he anticipated being soon in office,
and he talked airily then about raising the national
expenditure to £100.000,000, and beginning a course
of domestic policy founded on Bismarck’s lines.
He fights for fair-trade, and calls it the strongest
card in the hands of the Tories. He will tax corn
aod reduce the duty ou tobacco and tea. He will
overhaul the tariff generally. He laughs at the
notion of Imperial federation, and dubs the dis-
tinguished colonials who advocate the measure as
“fussy people who represent nothing.” He will
rout out the Admiralty He will open up extensive
public works in Ireland. He calls Dublin Castle
“a nest of political corruption,” and will sweep it
away. That is the queer sort of Minister that has
taken his seat in a Tory Cabinet. There are lively
times ahead. Lord Randolph’s soul is Liberal.
His body was born Tory.
THIS WICKED WORLD.
At present in Victoria, first-class State
school teachers draw higher pay than first-class
State school inspectors, and the majority of the
inspectors are paid less than second-class teachers!
...The Cumberland (N.S.W.) Chronicle ap-
peared for the first time on the 13th June. The
leader, “Ourselves,” was about up to the usual
standard, announcing the intention of the pro-
prietors to give Parramatta now what it has so
long required—that is, a really good representative
journal quite abreast with the progress of the times
in the matter of news. Consistently with this re-
solve an account (by special wire most likely) is
given of the last charge of Waterloo Memo, for
Melbourne (and Sydney Judges): At Bristol (Bag.)
County Court, Moore, usurer, sued one Cle-
ments for £3O due on a loan effected at 130 per
cent, interest. The Judge ordered payment to be
made at the rate of 61. per month. It will be 10
years before plaintiff receives the amount
paid in Court fees, and 70 years before the
debt is worked off. This would make Aaron
Waxmau and Marks Hermann sit up...*.,.
A Sydney life-assurance society have sent Profes-
sor Simon, the mesmerist and phrenologist, etc.
to lecture for them. The Professor now only
needs to catch the gift of the second-sight man in
James Payn’s “Office Secret,” who could tell how
long any applicant would live, to have all the
companies in Sydney running for him....lt was
found no easy thing to get the kidnapped island
labourers out of the hands of some of the N.Q.
planters. At the plantations the niggers were
locked In the sheds, and the managers at first
refused to give them up to the officers. The
Police Magistrate at Ayr then gave instructions to
break open the doors of the sheds.... Mr. Speaker
Lalor has decided that no person shall take notes
in the V ictorian Assembly except recognised re-
porters in the Press gallery....“ Well, my man,”
said Dibhs, to a disbanded bombardier, “I don’t
want you to go away destitute; what would you
like ?” “ Please, sir, I think I should like a public-
house,” was the modest answer.... Mr. Robjohns
says that Queensland subscribes much less, pro-
portionately, to the British and Foreign Bible So-
ciety than the other colonies. This accounts for
the prevalence of long droughts in Queensland....
A popular Consu', resident In Sydney, was very
indignant on seeing a donkey led with the Con-
tingent through Sydney. He, with many others,
thought that this was done to cast ridicule
on the Contingent; whereas, the fact is that
the animal was the property of one nf
the offleers-who wished for company
Dr. YouJ, the Melbourne City Coroner, when being
examined as a witness by the Lunacy Commission
atfew days ago, stated that “ numbers of people of
lunatic tendencies were sent out here by their
friends.” No surprise was expressed at this
startling statement. Most of the members of the
Commission had attended the opening of Pania-
™ent New evening paper proposed in Mel-
bourne. Trades Hall Council pledge themselves
not to purchase local Herald, which employs
boys, and thus injures journeymen. One member
proposed that tradesmen should be Instructed not
to enter any coffee tavern or hotel in which the
Herald was taken. That was done with the Lon-
don Sun under similar circumstances years ago
According to Col. Smith, ithe Victorian volunteers
are badly treated down at Queenscliffe. The men
are put in sheds. The officer who drills them has
luxuriously-furnished rooms, and is allowed five
private secretaries Half the people in Mel-
bourne are announced to lecture on the late
General Gordon. In the city, in the suburbs, far
into the country, laics and clerics are seizing the
opportunity. There is a little of the same thing
in Sydney, but the most ambitious of our local
orators are holding back. They are reserving
themselves for a yet more notable opportunity.
Wait till Burdett dies 1..,. Melbourne detectives
complain that vacancies in the force are not filled
up in an expeditious way. It is not the expe-
ditious way of filling up a vacancy the public
yearn for, but an expeditious way of filling up the
detective... Sydney Evening News slated for £3OO
and costs, forlloei, by M’Cromble, the hotelkeeper,
in whose house in Lower Gaorge-street small pox
appeared some months ago. We are of opinion
that the verdict was against evidence.
• * •
“By special command,” says a London
paper, “a figure of Prince Henry of Battenberg is
to be placed shortly in Madame Tussaud’s.” In
the Chamber of Horrors, we suppose.... “ Are you
going to take the speech verbatim?'’ said a guest
at a recent banquet to a reporter, as a gentleman
rose to respond to a toast. “No,” was the reply;
“lam a friend of the gentleman.” A “ Circulat-
ing Picture Loan Society ” is the latest English
idea. Pictures are to be lent to subscribers for
three months at a time, in the same way that books
are lent from the libraries Christine Nilsson is
prosecuting an action against the family of her
late husband, M. Rouzeaud (who died a lunatic),
for the recovery of £9,960 sue tad advanced him
during his lifetime. M. Rouzeaud was a stock-
broker’s clerir without fortune when he was
married, in 1872, to Nilsson, who had saved £33 000...
A company has been formed in America, entitled
the “ Elopement Parental Compensation and De-
serted Insurance Association.” Object: To com-
pensate parents for loss and grief sustained through
the elopement of their daughters, and suitors for
blighted affections and disappointment through
the desertion and marriage of their fiancies. Pre-
miums moderate, hut clauses graduate the indem-
nity — Here is a chunk of a little hymn:—
“ Welcome, sweet day cf rest,
. That saw the Lord arise,
Welcome to this reviving breast
Aud those rejoicing eyes."
This is how the interesting pale curate gives it
out:—
“ w aw-kaw, swaw, daw, aw, waw,
Thaw saw, thaw law aw waw,
Waw-kaw, taw, thaw, raw-vaw-vaw braw.
Aw thaw raw-jaw-saw aw.”
Xhere is a Temperance lecturees in the States
named Mrs. Leavitt. This is good, but would be
better If she were called Mrs. Leavitt Alone The
Aylmer baronetcy has just changed hands three
times in six weeks ...It is asserted that modern
photographs are fugitive in character, and that
the majority will have completely faded in the
course of a few years. This is joyful news for the
mashers of the day. Their photos., like their
lovers ink will be as evanescent as their affec-
tions, and valueless as evidence in an action for
breach.’. In April last, the Paris morgue
received 15 bodies in a day, and that was
pot much over the average It is stated
that the Pope has this year privately sent
the golden rose to the Empress of Ger-
many At Ballinasloe some evicted farmers
literally made it hot for the bailiff. They made
him drunk, and then held him before the fire. He
died two days afterwards. Ballinasloe is (of
course) in Ireland Prince Bismarck, in the
German Reichstag, strongly opposed the Bill pro-
hibiting Sunday labour, and related that in Eng-
land (it should have been Scotland) he was
reproved for whistling on the Sawbath
The Chicago News learns that Mr. Phelps, the
new U.S. Minister to England, is the proud
possessor of a family coat-of-arms. It is not in-
formed as to the design, but supposes it represents
a pickled codfish rampant over a cake of maple
sugar dormant, vert, and surrounded by aborduro
of huckleberry sprigs, under which appears the
legend, “Darn it.” Joseph Biggar, the Irish
member of Parliament, slept soundly all through
Gladstone’s last great speech. Gladstone’s voice
seems to always act so on Biggar —“What Is it
you like about that girl?” they asked him. “My
arm,” he replied.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
His Excellency of N.S.W. tells the Press to
dine in the ante-room. Lord Augustus thinks he
is still in Russia.
“ A man named
Browning,at Fentonbury
Tasmania, died on 39th
ult., aged 105 years*
In his hundredth year he
walked a distance of 10
miles to record his vote.”
There was a lot of perse-
verance about that old
gentleman! But it is not
stated how far he walked
some three years later to
get a drink, and how he
squared up to the inn-
keeper when he said he
didn’t see his way to put-
ting any more down on
the slate.
From the Grafton
Argus The speaker,
the Kev. I. F. Becher,
alluded, in very caustic
terms, to the question
of precedence in the
Churches raised by Arch-
bishop Moran, and
thanked God that in
N.B.W. no ecclesiastical
body could take prece-
dence of any other. He
also directed the atten-
tion of those present to
the last page of a recent
Bulletin, in which two
reverend gentlemen are
depicted tossing for pre-
cedence.” Mr. Becher is
evidently a conscientious
man. There are some
Kns who steal our
, borrow our lan-
guage, and then say nasty
things about us.
Says Life -.—Sir Saul
Samuel’s dinner to Lord
Carington, at Bailey’s
Hotel, South Kensington,
was a great success, as
the means of Introducing
a number of prominent
colonists to their Viceroy.
Lord Derby, who was
present, was the cynosure
of every Antipodean eye
in the room, but It
would be affectation to
aver that bis health was
drunk with any enthu-
siasm. He, however, de-
livered a very carefully
prepared speech, shortly
after which he left the
banqueting-room, while
Lord Carington, who
made a very favourable
impression, remained,
and chatted with bis new
acquaintances for some
time.”
And this is fame!
We blush. We sob 1 Says
London Life, a horgan of
the haristooraoy “ Mr.
Henniker Heaton, who is
to be the Conservative
candidate for Canterbury
is alluded to in some parts
of Bast Kent as Lord
Henniker. He has, how-
ever, no claim to title of
any kind. Mr. Heaton is
an immensely rich Aus-
tralian. He married a
daughter of Bennett, the
proprietor of a colonial
paper called The Bulle-
tin, an organ conducted
on * cow-hided again ’
lines, half the staff of
which have from time to
time been Immured in
dungeons for libel. He
would probably find some
of his colonial Press
friends somewhat useful
in the event of a contest.”
Perhaps General
Gordon’s Journals, &c.,
which are to see the light
immediately, will be con-
siderably “toned-down”
(after the fashion of the
Sydney dailies’ reports of
the landing of the Contin-
gent.) If not,it is extreme-
ly doubtful whether his
reputation will survive
the revelations made in
his papers. Gordon’s
theological views and
spiritual life, though em-
phatically sincere and
earnest, were strange and
incongruous. Not a few
of his orthodox admirers
will be considerably
shocked at some of the
anecdotes recorded in the
forthcoming “ Diary,”
and many of the more
worldly will find rich
food for entertainment
in its pages. Hero, and
even saint, as Gordon un-
doubtedly was in practical
life, his theories are little
better than the dreams of
a fanatic. Gleams of in-
telligence Hash from
them here and there, but
they present no orderly
system to the mind, and
are dominated through-
out by a crude and
puerile credulity. For
instance : Gordon be-
lieved that the “fruit ”
“ Of that forbidden tree,
whose mortal taste
Brought death into the
world, and all our woe,”
was a real apple, such as
may any day be bought
in our markets, but an
apple of such remarkable
properties that its poison
is materially present in
the blood of all the chil-
dren of Adam, whom it
infects by a process
somewhat akin to that of
the multiplication o f
bacilli in M. Pasteur's
system of inoculation.
He had strong faith, how-
ever, that its influence
could be counteracted by
a spiritual antidote, the
particulars of which he
fully describes. Gordon
was in short a crank. The
cranks of the world work
much good and much
evil.
has gone to Melbourne for a Jennings
giously tho Evening NEw«*r>hmJinii ee i.? ow re ‘'
ments. This comes of belnu- Jut* m f o at'
Gregory’s Powders ° D IDJr a ni H b t of St.
Does anybody ever rmtmmhor - „
heard in lejrw circles of Edward oin^;I er bj,vin K
V iu ox Clarke, qqw named
as Attorney-General of England ? Of a verity this
is the age of mediocrities, when barristers of no
note get elevated, like Clarke and Gorst—the lat-
tor. by the way, was once In N.Z. and studied the
Maori language to such purpose that he was able
CoQverBe wlth King Tawhiao during hlB recent
y to the land 0 j the Pakeha—into the positions of
Attorney and Solicitor-General, supposed, to be
lurly o b ® p . riz ®® of their profession, and popu-
,>eaCwh ? n yby thoae o£ th(3 bi khest eminence In
it. What nonsense we are taught to believe! The
most namby-pamby barrister or tho biggest fool
at the Bar, to whom no solicitor would think of
Flying a brief, has only by wealth or accident to
get a seat in Parliament, choose his side in poli-
tics, and bide his time. We shall teach that much
to our children for the future as a surer way to
honours and emolument than any hard work done
or rrh llll w ta '® nt developed. .
The late Earl Dudley’s life was insured
for £300,000. He had half a million a year, and
was afraid that the Qountees and his sons would
be embarrassed on account of his funeral ex-
penses.
It is well known that the great Alexander
Dumas had African blood in his veins. His father
married a Haytian negress. The Haytians are now
going to raise a monument to the father. There
seems to be a doubt whether the monument is to
be raised to him because he married a negress or
because he had such a son. Either way he da,
served it. But this idea of honouring a man
because he had a famous son, shows that in some
regards the African intellect is capable of some
feeble strivings towards the full flower of Hiber
nian logic.
Thomas of Beaufort,
tenth Lord Lovat, was »
fine old Scottish nobi©
of the seventeenth cen-
tury. With his sons,
Alexander and Simon, he
lived upon the fair es-
tates which had belonged
to his family from tho
ninth century down*
wards, all of them lawless
after the manners of
their timfs, but living
openly and fearing none.
There was a wedding on
the barony of Lovat in
the day on which of*
story opens, and I a the
evening a ball was gives)
to celebrate the event.
Young Alexander,
flashed with daneing and
with wine, was moody
and grievously incensed,
for he had heard a piper
playing a tunc whi<?h ho
anew to have been writ-
ten In derision of his Ularf.
Suddenly he made up hisl
mind. Striding up to the
insolent piper, he drew
bis dirfl and struck a
blow at the bagpipe, in-
tending to slit itj but the
stroke was lusty,and pa6s->
ing through the bag
pierced the piper’s heart.
'JLhen Alexander fled for
his life, and took refuge
in Walt# There be
found an old schoolfellow
in Lord PowiS, a large
mine-owner, who hid t*»«
fugitive in a lead mine.
Nothing being heard of
Alexander at home, a re-
port spread that he died
young, and by most
people he was soon for*
gotteu. In the meantime
Lord Lovat died, and to*
a time the title and
dignltyof Lovat remained
la abeyance, for bimon
had developed into a law-
less robber, as he wag
Idtsr to become cele*
brated la history as a
traitor, and was now an
outlaw in Franc?. But
Simon was a clever nlsu
of the world, and
schemed for his return
with such success as to
gain a free pardon for
all his crimes. Then ha
returned to h:’s native
heath. Being unable
to prove his elder bro-
ther's death, he swore
that he was nlmself his
father’s eldest Son, and
was so allowed to tmtef
upon the title. As Lord
Lovat he continued his
career of vllalny, until
at last he reaped bis re-
ward as an aich-traitor
on Tower Hill. Thus tho
estate wts forfeited to
the Crown. But Simon
left a son, who, as
General FrtSer, did yeo-
man’s service to King
William 111,, who in re-
turn there for restored to
him the Barony, which
continued in the pos-
session of his heirs. But
what was Alexander
doing all this time? He
lived and died a Welsh
miner. Before his death,
however, he married and
left his sad story to a son
John. This John made
good endeavour to prove
his title to his birthright,
but he was poor, and no
one believed him. He
died as poor ss he was
born; but his son and
son’s son each cherishd
the hope of coming one
day into his own. Ro-
mantic as this is, this is a
true story, and Alex-
ander's lineal de
one John Fraser of Car-
narvon, now claims the
barony against the
present Lord Lovat, who
is said to be entitled only
upon the supposition
that Simon, and not Alex-
ander, was Timings of
Beaufort’s first-born.
John Fraser has suc-
ceeded in raising a suffi-
cient fund to prosecute
bis claim, and has duly
petitioned Queen Vic-
toria for what ho asserts
to be his right. Her
Majesty has, la the or-
dinary course, referred
his claim to the Com-
mittee of Privileges of
the House of Lords,
and it is expected that
the case will be tried next
term, when it will be the
talk of London. Mr.
Fraser alleges that he
can prove ah that has
been said above, and it
seems that he has a strong
case. An informal
petition to the Crown by
his grandfather may now
be seen in the Record
Office in Fetter Lane,
where it was duly shelved
after the manner ci
officialdom; and Simon’s
sworn declaration that
he was Alexander s elder
brother may also be seen
in tne Record Office at
Edinburgh. Mr. Fraser’s
difficulty will be in the
matter of evidence; for
necessarily in such a case
a great deal must be tak-
en on hearsay; and it is
quite certain that the
title of the present Lord
Lovat will not be dis-
turbed except upon the
very clearest evidence.
Amongst Mr. Fraser’s
counsel are Sir Hardinge
Giffard and Mr. Charles
Russell, and both of these
have expressed them-
selves favourably upon
the merits of the claim.
In any event, the trial
will be the cause celebre
of the London season.
The Reverend George Walters, not cor-
tentwlth his pulpit fulminatlons, is aboutto call iu
the aid of the Arkemeejiau lever. Ha is adver-
tised as the editor of a new paper, which Is to
appear in Melbourne In a day or two, the title of
which will be Modern Thought. Um! Our ex-
perience in those matters is that the most thought-
ful man la the end is generally the printer.
A Bush Wedding.


DR.SCOTT'S
'set
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by the
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continental
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial ?
If you have any pain, ache, or ill-feeling
from any cause; if you seem “pretty well,"
yet lack energy and do not “feel up to the
mark;” if you suffer from disease, we beg
you to at once try these remarkable cura-
tives. They cannot and do not injure like
medicine. Always doing good, never barm.
There is no shock or sensation felt in wear-
ing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results; electro-magnetism acts quickly,
generally the first week, more frequently
the first day, and often even during the
first hour they are worn their wonderful
curative powers are felt.
The mind becomes active, the nerves and
sluggish circulation are stimulated, and all
the old-time health and good-feeling come
back. They are constructed on scientific
Erinc’ples, imparting an exhilarating,
ealth-giving current to the whole system.
Professional men assert that there is hardly
a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily
practise the same, as your own physician
will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearance
from those usually worn, as we substitute
our flat steel magnetods in place of the
ordinary corset-steels. They are all equally
charged, differing only in quality and design.
They are elegant in shape and finish, made
after the best French patterns, and war-
ranted satisfactory in every respect. Those
who have tried them say they will wear no
others. Most of the above applies equally
to the Electric Belt for gents.
&
m
■M
Dr. Scoffs Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &0., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all other remedies (so-
called) have failed.
The prices are as follows
No. 1
No. 2
No. 3
No. 5
Electric Belts..
B. d.
6 8
8 6
10 6
15 0
16 0
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Eleotrio-Magnetio
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece ef common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque,
P. 0.0., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
mm m,
54 Margaret-street,
SYDNEY.
P.O, Box 221.
The literature the N.S.W. Premier takes
the most Interest in now is that which comes by
post on the back of his envelopes I
The R.C. priest at Bourke is called Father
Huggard. It seems a pity that a rev. gentleman
with such a name is doomed to celibacy.
Memo, for the S.M. Herald. Call him
plain Mr. W, A. Duncan, not “Mr. W. A. Duncan,
C M.G.” Let us speak no evil of the Dead.
Baron Yon Manteuffel, the late Governor-
General of Alsace-Lorraine, acted well up to his
name. The French found him a man-devil in
1870.
Mr. J. G. O’Connor is now sole proprietor
of the Sydney Express. It is notified that M’Crory
has left, and that Weale has left. But where is
Woe?
“After life’s fitful fever he sleeps well,”
was written of Marcus Clarke. He would if they
would let him. And now it is proposed to move
Henry Kendall’s remains. Why can’t the bones of
poets be allowed to rest in peace ?
“ The sudden death of Lord Dudley was
quite unexpected by his own family; for of late,
his bodily health had improved—usually the case
when the mind fails.” Which theory fully ac-
counts for the assimilative powers and fatness of
the members of the N.S.W. Legislative Council.
Any members of the Soudan Contingent
who are of opinion that their officers should at
once die, will please hold up their hands—
An ad. in the Herald of Friday announces
that there is wanted by the South Australian
Registry Office “several generals.” We wonder
where fori It is about high time this war fever
abated. It was really inaugurated by General
MTver, who will probably—being several generals
—answer the advertisement.
We read in the Sydney Echo that the
present Pope (who, by the way, isn’t a sovereign
at all) “ is the only European Sovereign who
doesn’t take a morning bath.” Edward Fairfax is
at present in Europe. It has been found necessary
by the stall to provide him with an excuse, how-
ever mean, for declining to kiss the old boy’s toe.
The Hon. F. A. Wright roared out in
public but a week or two ago that anyone who
said Mr. Dailey was a Jingo, was a liar, flow was
it that when, the other day, Mr. Wright heard Mr.
Dailey publicly denominated “ the Beaconsfleld of
Australasia,” he enthusiastically applauded the
sentiment? What was Disraeli if he wasn’t a
Jingo?
It is said that a certain well-advertised
Sydney clergyman will soon retire from the official
service of his Creator. One of the religious papers
gires us to understand that “ pressure of profes-
sional duties ” will be the cause assigned. It is ex-
pected that the Creator will initiate a testimonial
in appreciation of the rev. gentleman’s services, or
write a letter, or something.
Thirty years ago the principal London
makers of Old Tom gin were persons of the names
of Burnett and Booth. A contemporary wonders
whether Burnett and Booth, the temperance lec-
turers, are descendants of the Old Tom manufac-
turers. Why not ? The odds are in favour of the
supposition that they are. If the Devil married
and had children, they would all probably be
missionaries.
“ A Humble Carpenter,” writing to a
London paper, expresses his surprise that General
Gordon should have died worth less than £3300,
whilst the late Bishop of London left more than
£7O 000. He considers it inconsistent that bishops
should heap up riches. We don’t. We reason
thus: “Money is the root of all evil;” bishops
should strive against evil. Therefore, they should
clutch the root of it. Which is money.
The cable informs us that “ The Agents-
Qeneral had a farewell interview with Lord Derby,
upon hid retirement from the Colonial Office.’’ But
it does not inform .us whether his lordship bade
adieu to them from behind an armour-plated par-
tition, or whether Colonel Frederick Arthur
Stanley has since Succeeded to the title or not.
There is something wanting here, but whether it
is in the cable, or in the Agents-General, we can-
pot yet learn.
i Speaking of the Parliamentary manner of
Colonel Smith, of Ballarat, a Melbourne paper
says:—“Thepositive air with which he formulates
charges which, it true, would send the culprits to
kentridge, is inimitable; and the way in which his
conviction, that most of the people he is denounc-
ing are jolly good fellows, shines through his
assertions, is truly comical.” There is a great
deal of the all-rogues-together style about many
politicians beside Colonel Smith.
Lord Binning is to be aide-de-camp to
Lord Carington. This is nice, for—
Australians feel a joy intense
When each new knight’s created,
And every lord that seeks cur shore
Makes us the more elated.
Adowm the ringing grooves of change
Peers keep the great world spinning,
And so with maddest ecstasy
We pen this news of Binning.
The statement made by the Tory papers in
Stoglard to the effect that Stephen Bulmer, the
Atheist, left £IOOO to Bradlaugh, and only 13s. a
week to his own wife is quite untrue. Bradlaugh
only has the reversion of the amount, Mrs. Bulmer
having a life interest. It is to be presumed that
the Tory journals were misinformed, but since the
truth has become known we have not noticod any
retractation of the charges against Bradlaugh “ of
robbing the widow of her existence.”
Prince Bismarck is reported (in a late
memoir) to have said, during the Franeo-Prussian
war;-“It I did not believe in a Divine govern-
ment of the world, which had predestined the
German nation to something great and good, I
would abandon the trade of diplomacy at once, or
rather I should never have undertaken it. I do
not know whence my sense of duty should come
except from God.” Just sol But then you see
Bismarck believes God to be a German.
■RUFFLED.
Oainty figure passing by,
On her swell’s admiring eye;
i Oh, such dainty boots to look on,
Swell says straightway, “ I must hook on.”
Swell comes back, with rapid pace,
Much confusion on his face;
Friend says, “Splendid figure, Haw I”
Swell groans, “It’s my mother-in-law I”
The energetic secretary of the Melbourne
Y.M.0.A., who, in the course of an extended term
of office, spouted more sulphurous nonsense than
any unordained man in the South, is quitting his
Kerch. Mr, Marsh has taken “orders” under
Bishop Moorbouse, and is to go forth as Field
Marshal of an organisation called the Church
Army. This is a cross between Anglicanism and
Salvation Armylsm, and is the latest fad of the
enthusiastic Bishop. On the ffth Instant, there
a great ado in the Town Hall, and Mr. Marsh
shunted into tbe new realm of work with a
.2h(^,y' e for £SOO between his joined hands.
•In a speech at Oxford some years ago,
t to an article in the Saturday Review,
.‘expressing inability to understand how any gentle-
man could be a Liberal, Lord Carington said “ he,
-{or one could pot give any explanation to the
• Saturday Reviewer; ’ for, although he was cer-
famly a Liberal, ho could not lay any claim to
oelng a gentleman, since his grandfather was only
“ banker, acd what was worse, his name was
• i’mith l ’ ” This Is worse than O’Mara’s celebrated
allusion to his name; but tell us, ye gilded -freshly
gilded—members of Maequarie-street aristocracy,
what apes the only Burdett think of this insinu-
ation, that no Smith can be a gentleman ?
A London newspaper informs us that
the Duke of Norfolk’s infant son shows “no
• r K i? 8 improvement in health.” In plain Eng-
lish this means that the heir to the premier duke-
”<10111 of Eagland is a hopeless idiot. The poor
little beggar—he’s three or four years old now—
has had all sorts of experiments tried with him, to
no purpose. The Duke and Duchess, devout
Catholics both, went on a pilgrimage and be-
sought the Virgin to do something for their off-
spring—but she didn’t. It’s highly probable that
the child will live to become a peer of the Eng-
lish realm. We’re sorry for tbe afflicted creature,
and sympathise with his parents. We also venture
to sympathise with the ” realm.”
Dr. Walsh is to be Archbishop of Dublin.
Dr. Moran must feel happy that Errington and the
Pope did not compel him to put on the Nessus-
shirt of spiritual jurisdiction over a flock in Dub-
lin. It was rumoured, as here, that Dr. Moran
was to be transferred from Sydney to Dublin.
Thereupon the National journals initiated jere-
miads, and headed columns of comments wiih
“ Bad News.” Why was Dr. Walsh excluded ?
“ Because,” said the Nation, while the rumour
was rife, “ he is a patriotic Irishman, as well as an
eminent cleric, and Ie .v ill not become an instru-
ment for carrying out fie dirty work of Dublin
Castle.” Dr. Moran will agree that whatever be-
comes of him, he is well out of “ that lot.”
The 8. M. Herald wire that the Prince
and Princess of Wales decline to be present at
Princess Beatrice’s wedding with our Bat’s
brother, is probably bosh. They were quite con-
tent for the Princess Mary of Cambridge to marry
Prince Teck, who hasn’t got a cent., and who has
been “ heading them ” ever since. Why, then,
object so strongly to this other princely and sym-
metrical sausasre ? Probably because they are
aware of the Princess being such a splendid catch;
the richest heiress, perhaps, in Europe. However,
if the Prince of Wales succeeds in breaking the
match off (which Is not impossible), we don’t want
to see the girl going begging. If she’ll hang back
a bit until we fix our matrimonial affairs up out
here, we’ll take her. Thunder I What a dream of
port-wine, hot, every night, in a flowered silk
dressing-gown, and no hitch on Saturday about
the sending home of the washing I
Herr Johann Secwndus Kruse is the present
idol of the Melbourne musical world. Herr Kruse
left Melbourne in 1875. He was then a promising
youngster. Now he Is Concertmeister in the Ber-
lin Philharmonic orchestra. Himmel! Yah! Pots-
tauzend teufelsl (We deem it right to throw in a
little of their native tongue in compliment to our
German readers.) Herr Kruse is the son of the
well-known analytical chemist of that name in
Melbourne—author of the famous Insecticide. He
has had a brilliant career since he left Victoria for
Germany. Genius does it—genius and German.
He was serenaded by the Turn-Verein and the
Liedertafel the night he arrived. The air opposite
the Oriental Hotel was sweet with music and
savory with liverworst. There was much glory.
Thou they adjourned to the hotel. More glory.
Herr Kruse made a speech, in the course of which
he gratefully acknowledged that everywhere he
had been he had made friends. He had even been
patted on the back by the Crown Prince and Prin-
cess of Germany. The gifted musician maintained
a discreet silence as to what they had patted him
with. The company respected his secret. Auf
wiederschen! Vorwarts!
Thus the Melbourne Age, in reviewing a
new book called “Society in London”:—“ By the
side of Grenville Murray’s productions in the same
line, such as his 4 Sidelights on English Society,’
it shines with the glimmer of the glow-worm, but
it is incomparably superior to the hebdomadal dish
of inedible trash that Mr. George Augustus Sala
has been in the habit of serving up to the readers
of the 4 Illustrated London News ’ these many
years past.” By the Lord Harry, when George
Augustus sees that he’ll kick backways and front-
ways at the same time. 44 A hebdomadal dish of
inedible trash I” Why, with the exception of a
few books of description, the fame of the distin-
guished journalist rests wholly on his contribu-
tions to the 44 Illustrated London News.” His
leading articles in the Daily Telegraph are
unrecognisable from Mr. David Anderson’s. Yet
this is the man Civic Corporations met and Minis-
ters of the Crown toasted! Our own Plain Bill
called him the intellectual host of this great
colony, nay, of the English-speaking world these
many years past, and said that the letters “G. A S.”
at the toot of an article made every pulse throb
with anticipated pleasure. It is all resolved into a
44 hebdomadal dish of inedible trash.” Thus doth
mighty Csesar become a bung.
George King, L.L.D., writes:—“ I walked
out one morning into the Australian bush, and
found 18 aboriginal children in the wilderness in a
state of absolute nudity; the most debased in
habits, and the least happy of all the creatures
which the forest contained.” George, with the
consent of their parents, took them and had them
reared as Europeans. After seven years’instruc-
tion in the mysteries of religion, he had satis-
faction of “leading three several couples of those
educated blacks to the altar of God, and hearing
them pledge their vows of fidelity to each other
In the presence of the Bishop of Adelaide, who
performed the marriage ceremony of those six
educated blacks.” There are hero many things
we would like to have cleared up. We doubt, to
commence, whether the 18 little naked niggers
were 44 the least happy of all the creatures which
the forest contained’’—considering it contained
swagmen and itinerant preachers. We believe
their real unhappiness began only when they
shoved their little black limbs into pantaloons,
and tried to grapple with the mystery of buttons.
We question, now, if their temporal or spiritual
happiness has been enhanced by being married by
the " Bishop of Adelaide,” instead of by means of
a waddy. Too much has been said of tbe felicity
conferred on savages by civilising them. We have
seen civilised blacks, and we have seen wild ones.
If the choice were ours, we would prefer to be
wild.
From the Moruya (N.S.W.) Examiner:—
44 Ourselves.—We have respectfully to direct the
attention of our numerous patrons to our special
advertising columns, from which they will ascer-
tain the joyful intelligence, that on Thursday the
18th of June, In the year of our Lord. 1885, the
Editor of this journal was presented with a 4 dear
little lump of connubial bliss,’ in the form of a
real live baby—a daughter, too, by simmony.”
The announcement, is unique, and although the
par. drifts into an ingenious appeal to subscribers
to part their shekels, it marks, nevertheless, an
era in rustic journalism. Hereafter, we may
expect to see the editor’s baby noticed in the
locals with the four-eared calf, monstrous goose-
berry, and mammoth egg; a welcome addition to
rural news, for editors’ babies are published
annually. One notable circumstance in connec-
tion with the par., is that this is not the first time
that such “joyful intelligence” has emanated
from the journalist’s cottage; no, the intelligence
has come so often that we should have thought
that its joyfulness had departed. By this time, the
editor has learnt that 44 dear little lumps of con-
nubial bliss” must be supplied with eight square
meals a day, therefore his gaiety under this
trouble is a credit to him. But will he kindly
Inform us what in thunder he means by “a
daughter, too, by Simmony.” Is 44 by Simmony I ’ a
Moruya cuss-word, or, we ask in fear and
trembling, is 44 Simmony ” his own name ?
The Wentworth Advocate has interviewed
Rodney, ex-king of the Tarooola blacks. Rodney
is scarcely so old as the average E. News joke,
but still his life has extended through the present
century and a part of the former one, and his
memory is good for 80 or 90 years. He was a youth
when Oxley traversed the Lachlan In T 7, was with
Sturt’s party in ’4l, and was of some little assist-
ance to Burke and Wills in their ill-fated expedi-
tion to Cooper’s Creek in ’6O, the former taking ad-
vantage of his guidance and information to a cer-
tain degree during their sojourn in his territory
while he held the royal sceptre of his tribe. Rod-
ney is of ordinary stature, and, notwithstanding
his age, bears a figure as erect as a young man of
30, and almost as nimble; and his countenance Is
more humane than the majority of his confrires.
He is as prolific of anecdote as Sala, and has tra-
versed the greater part of Eastern Australia. He
has a lively remembrance of the pioneer white of
the district, “one big fellow fat,” as he lucidly
explains, who, travelling down river, managed to
get near where Wentworth now stands before he
became a victim to the cunning spear and light-
ning stroke of the boomerang. Concerning the
introduction of civilisation to the Far West, he has
some Interesting, though super-ghastly anecdotes
Although of such an advanced age, he asserts that
he will live for five years longer. These facts
should be of much use to the suburban Pitts and
Buckles who love to pitch about the 44 savage and
civilised man.”
The Lord Chancellor of the newly-fledged
British Conservative Ministry must be astonished,
indeed, at his sudden elevation. All our school-
book maxims about industry and the rewards of
merit may be blotted out. In their place might
be written what Byron insists upon—“He was
lucky and luck’s all! ” Hardinge Glffard, we re-
member, as of yesterday, haunting with us, and
with better men, the nightly-held debating
societies of London. In ’4B and ’49 ho was reading
for the Bar—an impecunious young man, of no
pretensions to face, figure, or fortune, and not
apparently to a good suit of clothes at all times.
He was “called ” in ’SO, and went the South Wales
Circuit, and attended Middlesex Sessions. Ten
years ago, when we met him in London, he was
doing only similarly. By the help of Conservative
relatives, he got recommended to the notice of
Disraeli, who had known old Giffard of the
Standard. He was made Solicitor-General, but
for nearly all the time of his holding that office-
-10 months only—he was without a seat in Parlia-
ment. His superior officer—the Attorney-General
of the Conservatives—appears to have died to
oblige him, and to afford to the Middlesex Sessions
barrister the opportunity of stepping with one
foot to the office of Attorney-General, and then,
immediately with the other Into the highest office
which Great Britain has to offer to a subject—the
Lord Chancellorship. How the Bar generally
must feel disgusted by this freak of Fortune I
Giffard never held an equity brief, never wrote
on law, or made a name for legal or political
acumen I and yet Fortune flukes him to the top
of the tree. He will get, as retiring Lord Chan-
cellor, a pension of £SOOO a year, whether he
sticks in his curious elevation for a month, a day,
a week, or a year. We give him a month at the
outside, and then there is £IOO a week for him and
a peerage for lifel How James Hannay, William
Carpenter, Lowe (of the Examiner), Bronterre,
O’Brien, Ernest Jones, and others of the 44 cogi-
tators,” wouldjsmiie at such a fluke, had they lived
to see it. Yet, to a long memory, they all seem to
have been with one but as of yesterday.
Mr, William Augustus Duncan, who died
last week at Petersham, Sydney, was well
known throughout N.S.W. and Queensland, as well
as in the other colonies. In Queensland, while it
was yet Moreton Bay, he spent 13 years as Sub-
Collector of Customs. In 1859 he became Collector
of Customs for N.S.W. In 183 L he retired on a
pension. Mr. Duncan was a Scotchman, being a
native of Aberdeenshire. He was brought up for
the ministry of the National Kirk, hut even In his
young days he was not a man for holding to beaten
tracks. He took an active part in the discussion
of religious questions, and surprised his friends by
abandoning the Kirk and entering the Koman
Catholic fold. He had a design about this time to
become a priest. He dropped it, however, and
started as bookseller in his native town. He gave
this up and took to teaching and presswork. He
was as ardent in polities as in religion. Although
he worked hard, he found himself at the age of 37
with unsettled prospects. He therefore sailed for
Sydney. He began here as bookseller and pub-
lisher, but soon drifted into journalism. He edited
the Australasian Chronicle. He started a paper
of his own called the Weekly Register. In this
latter paper some of the best evidences of his
literary power are to be found. In politics he
was a pronounced Liberal. After eight years of
this kind of work he entered the public service of
the colony, and went to Moreton Bay, as already
stated. Altogether he spent 35 years in the ser-
vice of the Government, and throughout the
period bore the reputation of a fearless and ener-
getic officer. He was highly accomplished In
many respects. He understood half-a-dozen
languages, possessed extensive acquaintance with
several literatures, and was a very superior judge
of good music. He wrote a variety of pamphlets
on current topics, and it is understood that he
has left behind in manuscript a history of the
colony. He was a member of the Council of Edu-
cation and a trustee of the Frbe Public Library.
He was born in 1811, and was therefore in his 75th
year when he died. He has gone now. Nearly 30
years ago Sir Henry Parkes, then untitled, but
making up in poetic ambition what he lacked in
social distinction, addressed to hi m the following
sonnet, which we quote from “ Murmurs of the
Stream
“Mr. W. W. Culcheth, C. E. (of Victoria),
has framed a scheme of national irrigation, which
is very interesting.” It would be—naturally—
culcheth and interesting.—[BoohI— Ed. B.T....
Writes Life:— “Mr. Stuart, the more prosaic Pre-
mier of the N.8.W. Ministry, whose ‘foreign
policy’ apparently belongs solely to his more
imaginative Irish colleague, is also expecting
titular recognition. Lord Rosebery, now that he
is in the Cabinet, will not be lightly forgiven by
his Australian friends IE they are overlooked.”
• • •
“Hugh Conway” had almost recovered
from his attack of tyhoid, when he was induced
to take a drive. This brought on a chill, and killed
him.. 5000 guineas is reported to have been the
price paid by the publishers for the copyright of
General Gordon’s Diary. The story is briefly told,
and will not, even in General Gordon’s digressive
style, All more than an ordinary one-volume book.
The editing and eliminating of the original manu-
script has been undertaken by Mr. Egmont Hake,
General Gordon’s cousin. The net proceeds are to
bo handed over to the National Memorial.
THE LATE MR. W. A. DUNCAN."
“ It seems as I had chatted long with one,
With a warm heart and hoary head, who knew
Sydney when all beyond their ships was new
To its self-cheering founders 1 and the sun
Through the green depths of a ‘ thick wood ’ had
shone
On us, in leafy nook, the while he drew
His unglossed pictures of that motley crew;
Who, more than Britain’s flag planted upon
These shores—her arts and virtues. And tho’
much
Of crime and sorrow darkened the wild scene,
Brightening there spread from the rough
painter’s touch,
Heart-lines of goodness, o’er the faoo serene,
Which pale hope showed untrembllng beauties,
such
As good men gaze on long when ages intervene.”


Professional Dire
G
EORGE PE < HUMAN, Seem
Royal, BrLimne.
HJ. SAMUELL. Advanci
• “Fun on the Bristol C<
gagement. G.P.O, Sydney.
Theatre
Under the managem
Messrs. Williamson, Garner
Lessee. Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer.
Doors open at 7.30, commence at
Twenty-first week, and last ti
ROYAL DRAMATIC C
THIS EVENING at 8 1
Last Night but one
SILVER KIN(
/
SATURDAY JUI
there will be given, at the Theai
of a SERIES OF GRAND
by the
BRILLIANT YOUNG
Kruse
kkusb
CONCERT-MEIS 1
Prices will remain a?
Box Plan now open at tt
N
E W
OPERA
Under the Lesseeship and Manas
jeroni and W. J. Wi
Stage Manager, Mr. A.
Doors open at 7.15; curtain ri
carriages 10.50.
THIS EVENING (for this
the great triumph of dramal
JEALOUSY J
JEALOUSY J
FRIDAY, JULY
GRAND COMPLTMBNTAR
tendered to
SIGNORA MAJEP
under the most distinguish*
Box plan at Huenerbein’s, 318
Owing to the great demand for
pf the stalls will be reserved at c
The Vice-Regal Party will occ
stalls.
N
B W OPERA
Lessees Messrs. Ma
Sub-Lessee .. ~ .. Miss
WARD-VEBNON SI
Miss Genevieve Ward. Mr. W
their Specially-selected Compan;
a Four Weeks’ Farewell Season.
SATURDAY, JULI
The first production will be tl
Merivale and Gro
FORGBT-ME-NO
in trhich Miss Ward and Mr. "V
scored such a pronounced
STEPHANIE DB MOH
and
SIR HORACE WE
During the season will be pro
Ward’s greatest succ
Handsome Furnishing by Davi
Magnificent Ornaments and
Sands and Co., Qeorge-street.
Prices as usual.
LtD£>Y, Agent. Signor Aqrati,
G
AIB T Y
T H
roprletor and Manager
FOURTH WEEK of the present
11th WEEK 1
in Sydney of the great t
AMERICA, ENGL.AND. IRBLA
AUSTRALIA, TASMANIA, & I
FUN FUN FUIS
on the
BRISTOL. 1
Truly « world's unpreced
Where can you equi
Weill No wonder it Isa
We have A NOVEL ENTRRTAI
We have A SPECIALLY SBLEC
We have THE BEST COMEDIAI
We have n HE NEWEST 80NG8
We have THE BEST OF EVERI
and that is why the WORLD AT
ceded our superior
3 Hours of Rapturous M<
No long waits between the
enough for the gents to go out
Don’t miss seeing
D AVIBS, THE VBNTRILOQUIS
his boys TOM and JOB. I
MARY JONES. DAVIES,
ODDFELLOWS’ B
Qoulbtjrn.
THIS Theatre, one of the be
open for Engagement.
M. E POLLEN,
THE SYDNEf BICYI
FOURTH ANNUAL INTERO
TEUR CHAMPION BICYCLE
RACE MEETING.
Under the patronage and rules i
Wales ’Cyclists Ui
To be held at th
N.S.W. CRICKET ASSOCIAT
Moore Park, Sydney,
SATURDAY, 23ad AU(
PROGRAMME
1, One-mile Bicycle Champion!
Special Guh Trophy
3. Ten-miles Bicycle Champlor
Gardiner Cup
3. One-mile Bicycle Handicip
4. Three-miles Bicycle Hand
Bracelets
Competitors in this race must
ladies.
5. One-mile Bicycle Handicap, f
only
This race to bo ridden on R
Minimum weight, 351bs.
0. Two-miles Tricycle Handicap
7. 150 Yards Handicap Foot Race
8. 440 Yards Handicap Foot Race
9. Parade—Prize, Silver Bugle,
celling in appearance and n
All events open to all a
E. H. MC
Hot
All communications and enc
dressed to, and entry forms ot
Club Clerk, J. Copland, at the
Headquarters, 85 Market-street,
I FIREWORK 8. FI
4th July 4th
THE DAY WE CELE
Look out for the great4thof Ju
Garden Party at Botany. Banqr
Miss Genevieve Ward will rea
of Independent
G. W. Griffin, U.S. Consul,
Hon. W. B. Dailey will propose
President of U.S
Carriages will leave the Am
1 p.m. prompt. Return by sped)
Tickets are very near all taken
late.
Tickets can be obtained at the f
American Consul’s Office, Spring
and Cool’s Stamp Factory, 8
Nicholson and Co., Music Depot.
American Novelty Company, 3i
Huenerbein’s Music Warehouse,;
W. H. Paling’s Music Wareho
street ; Godwin’s Jewelry Esta
Arcade; and from any of the Coi
J. B. BBA
BILLIARD TABLES, CLOTHS
POCKETS.
Tables New Cushioned and
THOMAS’S FACTORY, 153 Ba
HEY WILL LOOK BETT
HEY WILL WEARBET/T
1885 Universal Club, a thoroughly reliable and easy-runmni
machine. Ball bearings to both w heels, and improvements.
JAMES MARTIN & COMPANY, 389
a
AVOID COMPLICATED FOIU
66
CHEDEI'
SIMPLEST AND BEST FOR M
■WHOLESALE ONLY AT
ie «SC I*7 CHEAPSIDE, JLm
And of W, PENNY FINDLAY & K
ALLAN A. MARSHAI
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTI
OWING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plal
.Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and
tsr Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work,
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Elect]
of every description.
BOULTON’S "FLUSH-OUT,” "VALVE,” & "PAN” CLOSET
PREVENTERS, &o.
Sole Agents[for Verity Bros. Patent Air
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Wt
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Maeqi
Full particulars and price on app
BOXJRKE,
18 the la
cannot
rgest and best-appointed Family Hotel In tbe Westei
,be surpassed, even in the Metropolis. Private Suites
THOMAS HUG
T3a*© *
cam


ORIENTAL G 1
BEG to inform the public th
of the
EXPIRATION OP
of their present premises, the]
their
OEAN
m
Which will
LAST FOR A FEW W
The Goods are all mar
as will be seen by Usl
PRICE LIS
Ladles’ Handsome Oriental Gol
17s 6d, and 30s each
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 4
Ladi;s’ Choice Necklets, 5s each
Ladies’ Choice Necklets, best A
each
Ladles’ Elegant Bangles, 4s, 6s, i
Choice Lockets, 5s each
Handsome Gem Rings, 4s and 8s
Wedding and Keeper Rings, It
each
Ladies’ Handsome Lockets, 10s <
Ladles’ Elegant Crosses, 4s, ss, ai
Ladies’ Brooch and Earring Sets
Thimbles, warranted Sterling SI
Gents’ O. G. Watches, Hunt!
Crystal Glass, and patent 1
warranted 3 years
Ladies’ (same as above.)
W These watches are
order, and stamped with ojp
movements are of the highest fl
throughout, and rated to perfec
Celebrated English Patent Level
and fully jewelled, in hunting
faced crystal glasses ..
Celebrated English Patent Levi
jewelled, and compensation b
Rotherham’s celebrated Bngllsl
Levers
Ditto ditto, compensation balan<
The celebrated Waltham Watch,
Ing or open faced crystal glass?
Ditto ditto, compensation balanc
A written warrantry for thre
performance is forwarded with i
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chroi
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the
grade
Ditto, in hunting cases, oompensi
full Jewelled, with Oriental Go
and Locket
We import our watches direct
facturers, and give our custom?
of all the saving thus effected-
as compared with prices when i
BEALE & CO]
BEALE & COA
SOLE IMPORTI
of
THE SWEET
HAPSBURG
Hapsburg Piano, Hap
BEALE and COMPANY hav
in announcing that they are dai
with gratifying testimonials to t
ties of their
Sweet Hapsbur
from purchasers residing: in all x
from the driest and hottest part
Territory to the wettest region c
BEALE and COMPANY prom
satisfaction of publishing the*
early date. In the meantime
happy to show them to anyone '
them.
ncti c Alin rn
SUNDRY SHOWS.
XBBATB* ROT At - “ Silver King ” p. 8
Opbba House—“ Forget me Not” „
Academy of Music.—Hiscocka’ P. Minstrels.. „
Masonic Hall.—Lynch Family of Bellringers „
Gaiety Theatre -“Fun on the 8ri5t01”..... „
Alhambra Music Hall —Minstrelsy „
“ Marie Antoinette ” was to have, for this
season at all events, passed over to the great
majority at the Opera House last Friday night.
But she was there again on Saturday night. The
gifted Signora worked out the fate of the self-
willed and hapless Queen once more. Someone
said that there were in France at that wild time
only two men—Mirabeau and Antoinette. The
Queen of the Opera House was beautiful, exhibited
some splendid audacities, and was guilty of a few
divine imprudences, but this characteristic of
starry, woman-tempered masculinenees, which the
name of Antoinette raises before the eyes of the
student of history was toned down, refined away,
left merely, and even then rarely, perceptible.
Poor Antoinette, one likes to linger in her pre-
sence. The unfortunate ghost, sitting grey-
headed, widowed, in the centre of that epoch of
ruin, has not yet met with a full measure of the
world’s tears.
• • •
What we want to do now is to say a few
words about the minor parts of the play. The
world makes all its talk about its kings. The
dramatic critic gives all his line writing to the
principals. Paupers’ bones are rattled over tho
stones. The players of minor parts are bulked and
buried. Yet all have hearts, all have worth, all
merit recognition. Paupers hope to have it made
up to them in the great Hereafter. They will get
the bugles with the biggest mouthpieces. But the
poor players of minor parts m a theatre don’t ex-
pect any reward in that quarter. Quite the re-
verse. They are regularly informed that as soon
as they go there they will be damned.
* * m
Notice those poor sans culottes in the right-
hand corner of the stage. Some of them ate
fishermen, some of them are washerwomen. They
look a dirty lot. Miss Marshall tries to distinguish
herself. Miss Martin also wants to be an Indi-
vidual. They snarl in an unlovely way. Then
they are lost in the dirty crowd. Notice the fel-
lows in red caps, playing cards on the hearthstone
and smoking white clay pipes, Mr. Rodney, as
Simon the cobbler, is one of these. Dirty fellows
they are. Yet they peep up at the spectators now
and again, and the unnatural way most of them
hold the pipes shows they are thinking of some-
thing besides smoking. Each Is thinking if his
manner of playing this little part will win ap-
plause, and lead to a step higher. But nobody
wants to know their names, or to read a descrip-
tion of their performances. Who, thinking of this,
does not feel disposed to go round to the back of
the stage and, separating Mr. Rodney, who is
glorified by name in the bill, from the others, ad-
dress them thus: “Poor fellows! You are doing
all you can. but such is life. Only one out of a
million of you makes fame. The rest are doomed
to eternal oblivion. Your reward is small. Otas
drunk on it as you can Try to be cheerful till
you die. Then, as holy religion and Burnand
teach, be damned I ’’ Then, turning to Mr. Rodney,
and remembering the way In which he did Simon,
would not the person address these simple words
to him: "Don’t you wait fo die. Obey holy re-
ligion and Burnand now.”
* * *
Miss Florence Lewis made a very gentle
and pleasing Madame Royale. She appeared a
little too old for so girlish a part. She dreams
well. She prays very well. On the first night she
had a game of ball with the Dauphin. She did
right in letting it alone last Saturday night. Mrs.
Edwin Palmer as Madame de Campan spoke her
part with great earnestness. Rosalie, the little
girl who waits on the. Queen in her last days, was
taken by Miss Jennie Gwynne, and was simple and
effective. She did not appear conscious of the
warmth of Lebau’s feelings towards her, and when
that soft-hearted guard was pounced upon, did
not exhibit as much concern as retained interest
in her.
* * *
The executions were, of course, performed
off the stage. Accordingly Mr. T. Williams, in the
character of Samson tho Executioner, only shows
nlmaelf when the Queen wants pinioning. He
makes himself up to scare. Samson, Simon, and
oanterre are the Trinity of Terrors in the play,
mat is why people enjoy them so. Mr. Reynolds
was Garat. As Minister of Justice he had to be
cold, but bis coldness suggested deficiency of
power. As the Abbe Edgeworth, Mr. Wavor made
the most of a small part. He was well made up,
and was minuteJy accurate in the way he sup-
ported the cleric character in the last scene with
the King. And as “ Marie Antoinette ’’ will not
thS e J°H? a aB-ain for a OD B' time, it may be added
tnat Mr. Boothman was not a bald, but a bold and
chivalrous Lafayette.
*# * *
It was to assist tho “Goodenough Royal
Plaee«^ 8 i?” t , h , at * a b T illia P* gathering took
Place at the Royal last week. “ Press,” we bawled
c °bwebbed towards the door and had our
neoa 40 * 8 barred by a proud official, the gorgeous-
uess of whose uniform was a little relieved by a
an D ? y Doda ” bat. Then we learnt that it was
for a charitable purpose,
inßiHo hat .. a^i he rank and fashion of Sydney were
gin, 8 ’ ,W\at publication? ’ said the meretri-
loiisofflcial haughtily. “Behald,” we replied,
a n' l “„ cand our. “Herald’s seats occupied,” he
mis»?« d ’ War Cby <” we ventured, not without
that 1 , ‘‘Already three representatives of
bin \ e . rful or «an in attendance. Four came,
the bl * drum carried by the fourth stuck in
Peres be said. “ Bulletin,” we whls-
LenthflU l JaB > hen he beckoned to Inspector
an p whenever during the performance
hnn«L a Pbened to let our eyes wander round the
fi «dstla e dil? upon d uB tbat ° fr,Cer ’ 8 BearcbiD * * azo
• • 0
8e ba f was a fashionable night was easily
in thfi^H 011 K Vi iD P lde - ° nJy the highest circles
Hne?n i a 0 d .o ould Bh ow such eccentricity of out-
off 8 and noBes - Away in front, railed
the R^ he reBt * were the Governor, the Admiral,
eompar«d P L^ d a I nmaber;of lesser lights-" dips ”
Wltb those we ve named. Then there
Dattv°Bh.?n r ? every variety of uniform, from the
Rent tn vi'jachet ot the recently-arrived Contin-
Wge lookin * tunic of the Forest
erf anm b -? 8 ~ the death-or-glory-lads. There
the AcirnPP„i BaiiorB on duty too, prooabiy because
one of was Present. “ Were are yer off ter,”
fihgeronH 86 ®oa-dogs said to us as he crooked his
chewed ♦ BCOO P ed some ounces of imperfectiy-
Possiblv paiifS 0 . 0 , from a cavern that his mates
ar egon^ e iy 9 “ oBt b- This nettled us. “We
inakimr f I? sit beside Loftus,” we answered airily,
°n. forward. “Ef I was you,” he went
sooner „ k were I was for a bit, barring you’d ‘
,8y thio • You see the Governor's engaged.”
karninJh 118 an °tber sailor-lad had come up, and
fl adabLi ' 7 mat ters stood, putln, “ Wouldn’t the
Bishop ? you for to-night, or, if not, the
8 tough J b . ey nr ay (this with a wink) he can pitch
,®ariner B „ ’ . We Bat down. It was clear these
[ate vestal treatln l? us with cruel irony. Of
.Ve beeni.® * l P a ? erial comforts of our sailors
that at ,‘ kreatly improved. It is their manners
?h°ui(j thnv B hP* require looking to. Especially
heating tt y b8 D tauß [lt to avoid the bad habit of
g ine Press ” with scorn.
The • • 0
Bt nateur P n^ formauce ’ as we BR id, was an
&ost exclusi ’ a ? d 1 the £‘ ayer 9 belonged to the
? rl tten to nf 98 rcl ,? B, They opened with “I've
«i ett ain thr ß h?n Vn n dee(J ribed as a one-act come-
- Bna kiiii™ 0 b'll. By leaving out one of the acts,
before the curtain rose, an
*otB the men “ IRht be Bffected - Tho pices repre-
ss his eng^,m d J 3Ylce ® adopted by a man to break
?arry the £,. wlt b one of two sisters and
* eBut y, atirt *p Mis . B Efc bel Labertouohe was the
“ow. Whv ? 3tts (Mr ’ Stupart) tha-we forget
uy any person of the proper sex- 1
unless one born stone-blind, deaf, tongue-tied,
bald, and with pronounced spinal curvature-
should desire to break off an engagement with
Miss Labertouche it is difficult to say. In his
efforts to invent some low excuse for his conduct,
Dotts frequently approached the footlights
scratching nis head. If the children selling “ but
ton-holes" in the pit bad turnips to vend, he
would now be covered with a hot linseed applica-
tion, and breakfasting on arrowroot. Browne
(Mr. Holmes) is Dotfs friend, and the funnyman
of the piece. It is he who Invents the excuses by
which D. hopes to upset the engagement. He
pretends to be robbed in a wood by four men, and
wonders why ‘’there were no policeman at hand.’’
This shows his crude Knowledge of the world.
Why, even in populous w o olloomooloo, hook-
nosed, black-eyed, thiek-sticked men break into
our house every Saturday, and make a clean sweep
of everything they see. They never see anything.
Before being robbed, Browne looks decent enough,
but, afterwards, he is scandalous. Indeed, it is
doubtful whether it is conducive to a high stan-
dard of public morals to allow a man-whether
he's robbed or not-to come before the highest in
the land with his clothes as if he’d had a stand-up
fight with a billy-goat. The end of it all is that
Dotts marries the other sister (Miss Fischer, who
was almost as attractive as Miss L , although having
less to say), and the wily Browne is fired out for
being too smart. Miss Labertouche looked superb
with the solitary exception of that disfigurement
which women so strangely think an improvement.
• • *
“Garrick” —a three-act comedy came
next. In it our old friend, George Labertouche,
appeared. Do we know George? Get out. Do
we remember the night in Melbourne when he
cime on as Don Jose with poor Lyster’s gang ?
Beau comme le soldi was George that night as he
strutted bravely on in ruffles and laces, and a
cocked-hat that would make a drum-major in the
Guards curl up with envy. There were three
rounds of applause, and then the silence of space.
This strained attent'on lasted for about half a bar.
Then came ominous rumblings of insubordination
from the gallery. When the bar was over there
was one universal howl for cabbage-stalks. We
saw Lyster further on In the night, and never till
then knew the resources of our language. George
. had to keep out of his sight for a week, and even
then took a loaded stick with him while going for
his dinner beer. Ah! ces beaux jours. Now that
our hand is in wo would advise him to change his
quarters and come live with us. He’s getting too
stout for frivolity. Yet he went through his part
remarkably well, and showed real signs of what
the Evening News calls “ histrionic ability.”
♦ • ♦
Mr, Flemming was Garrick, and the
character of his performance made very ap-
parent the wide gulf separating the profes-
sional from the amateur. The play showed us
what splendid fellows actors’ are, and how readily
they part with anything but honour—and money.
And so modest, too I Why, we've seen them star-
ring through the “bush,” and it was pleasant to
see how some of them would leave a country
public-house in the middle of the night so as to
give the people no trouble. That’s the reason
why rural publicans are always so anxious to feed
travelling combinations. And it’s the reason, too,
whv advance agents never travel without sticking-
plaster and splints. But to proceed. Mies Laber*
touche appeared in this also, and Flemming's luck
made us murderous. There was a Miss Orr, a rich
citizen’s spouse, who was a study in colours and
weight. Her latitudinal development was on the
most generous scale. You could see that when
she approached, but it was in retreat that her taste
and her avoirdupois were set off to best advantage.
And Mrs. (Professor) Smith (the Smiths are going
to “ boss ” this country if people don’t mind) was
there, too, as a sour old maid. She hopped about
the stage with a mincing abandon that was plea-
sant to see. When she bowed, too, with her back
to the audience, she didn’t behave like one of
those “stuck-up” things who think they’re not
dressed except their heels are covered.
* ♦ *
Outside the door we loitered for awhile to
see the people depart, but a brutal minion of the
law from the county Sligo chivvied us so roughly
and broke into such a coarse guffaw when we
proudly told him we belonged to The Bulletin,
that we started home at a run. We know that
policeman, and, should he ever be told off for duty
in Crown-street, his first duty to himself and to
society will be to call on Kirby and get measured
for a coffin.
•• « «
The number of decent-looking, bald-headed
men who crowd Hiscocfcs front seats on Saturday
nights is alarmingly on the increase. Neither Go-
vernment house festivities, picnics down the har-
bour, nor the delirious excitement of the School
of Arts debating society keeps them away. It is
hard to account for thb. If the performers were
1701 b. fairies in tights one could understand it.
But, with the exception of his really phenomenal
mouth, we fail to see where Mr. Keenan’s physical
attractiveness lies. Warner started at scratch but
is now even with the best of them, and appears to
be gradually forging ahead. The peculiarities of
the others are too well known to need notice.
Nick Feulllade never reads the daily papers,
let alone the weekly ones, so that (so far
as he's concerned) it is all one whether he's
beslavered or blasted. It is useless to tell a
man how much he’s loved if he’s stone deaf. Still,
if we could only make sure that he'd now and then
relax his rule—so far as The Bulletin s con-
cerned—we’d whisper to him that since he came
to Sydney, the price of fiddles has gone up 50 per
cent, and is still rising. Every bushman that gets
as far as Sydney with his cheque returns to his
Western wigwam with a fiddle, and in the silence
of the night breaks in upon the stillness of the
plains with imitations of the bag-pipes.
* ** *
At the Alhambra, Gilmore and Shipp (cor-
ner-men) keep things pretty lively. The songs
that appear to be best liked are those of Farley
and Miss Herbert. The Amazonian march was
received with approving yells till the ranks
opened too abruptly and disclosed a maiden in the
rear blowing her nose in the Union Jack. Then
gloom of a pronounced description settled on the
house. There was some good clog-dancing, and
when Miss Jenny Nye, deoollett6e at both ex-
tremes, came forward with “Go away, naughty
boy,” there was a general movement of elderly
mea towards the—front.
m• « «
Thauma still doing well at the wax-works.
When the bell rings for her appearance, all the
staid, serious people, who were inspecting the
Royal family, or wondering why Moses didn’t
bring a larger stream from the rock-now the
Botany dams are full—make a mad rush for the
stairs.
** * *
There’s nothing fresh to be said of “ Fun
on the Bristol.” The same laughable tomfoolery,
the same crowded houses. r
** * *
It is one thing to dance, but another to
pay the piper. Donald Dlnnle found that out the
other day. Harlow, the tiddler, went up to the
Hunt Club Hotel, Little Collins-street, Melbourne
with a summons demanding £6 for fiddling while
Donald was “ flinging.” Donald simply assaulted
him. The District Court shook its head over the
case for a few minutes, and said it would give
Harlow £3 tor fiddling, but nothing for being
assaulted.
** * *
The writer of The Bulletin notice which
represented Mr. H. N. Douglas, when playing
Gretch ’ as remaining with head covered in
presence of the Princess is now certain Mr. Doug-
las took his fur cap off. At a distance, however,
his face in that part looked so very like a fur cap
that the writer took it for that article. Mr. Doug-
las would effectually prevent all mistakes it he.
when in pres nee of the Princess, would take the
whole head off,
** * *
The Rev. David Smith, of Chalmers
Church, Sydney, thus lets out in the Presby-
terian of last Saturday at the pacers of the comic
and tragic stage;— ‘ Allowance must be made for
exceptional instances, but as a rule the profession
of an actor Is on a sunken level. In heathen
Home he was denied the right of citizenship. In
countries where he has flourished most, he has
been looked down upon; in our day ho is instinc-
tively distrusted by the best society.” That is
severe upon the poor player. Cannot some poor
player fill himself up with Christian grease and
crass ignorance of what he is talking about, and
let gallantly out at this rich player ?
«* * «
A clever and well-known Southerner
writes us as follows:—“You will have ‘lolanthe’
in Sydney shortly. I envy you. It is the
greatest hit against the aristocracy I have
ever seen, and the author has made the
curious discovery that arms (mainly feminine)
are more beautiful and eloquent than legs. In the
whole piece arms are used in every situation with
wonderful effect—of course the critics here haven’t
twigged it. Vide the eloquent groups of three, all
with vocal bands, in da Vinci’s ‘Last Supper.’ A
modern painter, if he thought of arms at all,
Y 0 . ha Y e the apostles grabbing at the grub.
And this discovery of the eloquence of arms versus
leg?, spectacularly, is really a dramatic revolution
—more power to Gilbert, who makes Sullivan
suppress the‘Sir’in the libretto books. We have
gone mad on ‘ lolanthe.’ Hard Scotchmen of my
acquaintance go every night.” All this is very
terrible.
** * *
The Clara Stephenson company have been
in Cootamundra doing “The Snaughraun,” and
the rest. For one thing, the local editor is pleased.
He says, “It is needless ’-the remainder of the
sentence is standing-matter in country oflices....
Miss Louise Crawford is playing “ Hamlet ” out
in Bourke. This, she observes, is Shakespeare’s
great tragedy. The next thing the Bourke people
will want to know is where is Shakespeare now.
“ is well, however, to be told by “Briarroot”
that the girl that did Hamlet” only wanted a
moustache to make her look a regular man.. . Miss
Gracio Plaisted is ambitious. She appeared in the
title-roie of Maritana, in the Melbourne Bijou, the
other day. Everyone was not in a congratulatory
m00d...1t is from Lahore we hear of Tommy Hud-
son and his “ Surprise ” friends. Thirty days they
played at Rawal Plndi, while the Governor-
General and the Ameer were at their game of
brag.” Tom is looking out for fresh talent—
-52 n %. dano “’ aad knock-about men....At Temora,
the Clara Stephenson mob were pleasing severely
critical audences. When “digging ” audiences are
not noisy, they’re critical. They’re often both....
Oa Saturday (4th), Vernon and “Genevieve ” start
a month s season at the Opera House, with “ For-
get-me-not.” Forget you ? Never—while memory
- [Oh, get out.—Ed. 8.]....And now Boucicault
is with us. His stay will ne short, as he leaves by
the October mail. At the Melbourne Royal he first
opens. We long to see “ Dion ” —to feast our eyes
on mm who wedged “Danny Mann” and the
Shaughraun ” into dramatic literature.... Lon-
don is rolling up to see the “Lily’s” Lady
Teazle, We rolled up once. Then we rolled
home, constructing intricate forms of profanity on
the road ...The Newcastle Herald describes the
advent of Miss Ward as “a most remarkable and
happy event in the annals of the drama in New-
castle,” Hurrahl.... Annie Mayor’s benefit at the
Royal on Friday (3rd) Tho Echo man calls the
lines Coeval with man,” in Vogrlch’s “Captivity,”
scarcely one remove from doggerel,” and prob-
ably translated from “ German or some other
language.” It was the author of the “ Vicar of
Wakefield ” who wrote them. Nothing can escape
these Echo men.... But it is to Wentworth you
must go to find the critical faculty. The local
Musical, Literary, and Dramatic Association
the farther you get in the “ bush ” the higher the
title—gave “ Our Boys ” last week. The overture
to the Caliph of Bagdad,” was rounded up in a
corner and severely handled by a fiddle and piano
—the fiddle being noticeably vindictive. The
loGaleditorwas in a private box, and regretted
that Miss Ada Breton didn’t show “ a little more
hauteur and contempt towards the butterman.”
That s the worst of an editor and a butterman
going for the same girl. Ho thinks it would be
better if Miss Breton “ would look over instead
of at the audience.” The dorgl Ada couldn’t
have looked his way all night. Mr. Burnett is re-
proved for-as young Middlewick—being unable
to control his features, and abstain from laugh-
ing. ’ But he introduced some side-splitting “ im-
promptu by-play.” Probably stood on his head,
i es, critics flourish in Wentworth.... For “Awfully
awful,” by the Tamworth Amateur Minstrels, Miss
Lily Flynn received an “enthusiastic encore.”
Mr. J. F. Flynn gave “Don’t marry a man if he
drinks. ' The remainder of the performance
was lost in the riot that followed Clark
and Ryman in Bendigo. It is hazardous to
play ' Sandhurst just now when the goat and dog
questions leave the citizens little time for frivol-
ous pursuits....lt is reported that Schuler has left
Chiarmi and gone into the patent-medioine Hoe.
His specific is said to be infallible for ring-worms
in elephants. There are four of these animals in
Australia all free at present from this loathsome
disease.... Billy Emerson’s crowd are packing St.
Georges Hall, Melbourne Plaisted, Saville,
Harding, and Leopold are the “draws” at the
Bijou (Mel.), Grade is said to be putting on beef.
IL",Q, a Saturday (4th), George Darrell’s new and
thrilling drama, “The Squatter,” was down for
rendition ”in Melbourne. Greville is in it. He’s
a success at everything but fishing. At that he is
a huge failure. We’ve known him to sit all night
at the Saltwater River with a rod, three night
lines, and a net, and then buy a barracouta at the
market to show off when he grot home. Directly
the fish see Greville coming, they laugh. More
about George’s drama in our drama.


PEPPER AND SALT.
THE ISLAND PRINCESS.
There were ripples, like smiles, on the water,
Which sang as it kissed the bright shore:
And we’d plenty of corned-beef and porter—
Of shandy-gaff also a store.
O, the lovely, luxurious lapping,
Which lulls you to sleep when afloat,
When the water comes tapping—comes tapping
Against the bright sides of the boat I
’Twas a bay where perfumed quite the air is;
All purple and golden of hue;
It the home might have been of the fairies,
So lovely that bay was to view I
* There’s a booth, sir,” she murmured, half-crying,
“Up there, where they sell ginger-beer.
I’m so thirsty and hungry—since morning
I’ve fasted for breakfast, and all;
For without, sir, a wee word of warning,
At dawn, I climbed over the walll”
(We were young, we remarked—but no matter)
We led her above, quick as thought;
Whirrool how the coin we did scatter—
We can’t tell tee good things we bought;
But she could—we were young—and thus duly
We loved her in our heart of hearts—
’Tis a heart that ’twas always unruly
The quicker she “ fisted ” the tarts.
We could not of her hand boa holder
(Though we-being young—were not loth,
Gerald Massey would seem to have, to all
intents and purposes, joined the staff of the
Sydney D.T.; and It does not seem to have Quite
agreed with him. Look, now, at this—one of
his stanzas in “The Welcome Home”:
“ Let no Cur bark, or spirt (sic)
Defilement, trying to tarnish this fair fame;
No Alien drag our Banner thro’ the dirt
Because it blazons England’s noble name.”
Probably this is the poetry of the future. If so,
let Gerald give us some poetry of the present. In
the meantime, we will sit down on a doorstep, and
wait. Then, again, see this, lower down, in the
same piece:—
“ To-day is the Women’s day I
farms and for ever leave a House which he had
condescended to adorn. He watched the effect of
this devastating threat, and—the House roared.
Ah, leave us not, the House Implored,
Stay with us yet a while;
Without that giant brain to guide
We ne’er again can smile.
Where shall we ever hope to hear
So eloquent a talker,
To spout on nothing half a night ?
Pray, don’t go, Mr. Hawker.
We’ve loans to float, and lands to sell,
And schemes of irrigation,
With which not one of us can deal
Without your commendation.
The Last of the Soudan Fizzle.
DAILY PRESS: “GOOD NIGHT!”
On a bank that sloped down to the water
Reclined—you will quick understand
Our eye was the first that had caught her,
And straight we elected to land.
Did they growl 1 Why, of course, it’s a wager I
(The prow tipped the sun-glinted rock),
And the manner those fellbws did gauge her
Was much calculated to shock.
For they couldn’t, those chaps, find her “ charm-
ing,”
“ ’Neath fish-scales her beauty was hid I”
They did not think her figure alarming—
But there I—we are young—and we did.
On the sward at her feet we were lying;
We balled her a love and a dear:
We were growing with love a bit bolder),
For “wolfing” she wanted them both.
Her bright head was a sea of red glory,
They were (we were young) lovely locks . . .
But, before she could tell us her story,
A boat grounded—crunch I—on the rocks.
“ Oh, love, save me I” she cried, as it grounded—
Fear pallid had stamped her sweet face;
And—oh, horror I— to see, we’re astounded,
A policeman approach at quick pace I
He produced straight a great big blue paper:
“ A warrint fur yez, miss, I’ve got;
Well, and that was a curious caper
To cloimb the war-11 of the de-pot!
There’s you’re mistress below by the water,
She'd track yez to Proossia, no less
* You can say, sir, if you’re a reporter,
She’s one of the kind * G.F.S.’ ”
With them there’s no more need o’ the proud dis-
guise
They wore when their yourg heroes sailed away
Soft smiles the dewy fire [II] in loving eyes I”
This shows that Gerald knows very little about
his subject. If he will allow us, we will submit to
him something that we consider far more appro-
riate :
To-day is Women's day I
Red-shawled they go to welcome their lords back.
They ponder o’er the crock’ry, with dismay,
With eyes blue, brown, and gray—which erst were
black.
• * *
When the division was taken which put
out the Colton Ministry in Adelaide, the Hon. G.
Hawker threatened to retire to one of his little
Suppose old England fights with France,
Or Russia tries to baulk her,
We’d feel the need of that great head,
And that great heart, O'Hawker.
Oh, fly not yet—your little farm
Let hirelings go and till;
Tour absence planting turnips, sir,
A country’s hopes would kill;
Suppose that typhoid through the land,
Or phyllox’ra, should stalk, or
A drought come on, a railway smash —
We’re lost without our Hawker.
But, If the turnip you prefer.
You’ve surely lost your head—
Don’t mind, we’ll stick a turnip on,
’Twill do as well instead.


Dr. Taylor, the scientist, has been lectur-
ing in Melbourne on (among other things) “ Car-
nivorous Plants.” A correspondent informs us
that the doctor gave descriptions of monsters of
the vegetable world, which -‘smelt like slaughter-
houseBj” and could suck in and assimilate a bullock
with the greatest ease. Our correspondent has
hitherto been truthful, hut wo are inclined to
pause at this statement of his. However, we shall
say nothing till Dr. Taylor comes to Sydney. Then
we will hand in our resignation and let him edit
this paper till he is tired, if he can describe to us a
plant capable of swallowing a produce reporter.
The Northern Territory Times sees,
“ with satisfaction,” that another lawyer has ap-
peared In the field. They had only one lawyer
there before, and so things, tor litigants, were not
very lively. As soon, now, as the i ew arrival
shall have issued, on behalf ot irate subeciibers,
his firs' little batch of half a drz n writs, th* legal
rentl-m n will probably e honoured v 1th anoth. r
paragraph, which, it is a bundled to one. will
commence as tollows:-social Strife —We little
thought when we we e- od in our i.dost. ton e
few weeks back, a new arrival, we should discover
in so short a period that we gave an aecueil to one
who has turned out to be a legal vampire, whose
mission Is to suck the blood of the community, <to.
We might then, sometimes, get some sense,
To spice the silly caulker.
!f not. then go. We 11 rub along,
So Hookey Walker, Hawker.
I* ¥ *
A member of the Victorian Assembly has
Just given notice of a motion that is calculated to
Spread dismay among his fellow-citizens, and—
Why disguise it—cltizenesscs ? The ascetic gentle-
man, Mr. Harper, Intends, on an early date, to
“ask the Premier if the Government will, this
session, introduce a Bill to give Judges and magis-
trates power to hear divorce and other cases
privately, and also to give Judges and magistrates
power to forbid the publication by newspapers of
Think, ruthless man. what burning bliss
It Is to read of squeeze and kiss
Bestowed on co-respondents
By flirty wife, or naughty hub.”-
The joy that lurks (ay, there’s the rub)
In published correspondence.
respondent drop her veil
f 6 respondent drop ner veil,
Giovanni’s visit * 9
unctuous glee
xo now wun wnai an unctuous giee
The servant-maids are begged to be
‘‘A little more explicit.”
Tea, pause awhile, and, prithee, thinh-
These cases are the food and drink *
means for providing a building in which a Christian
Church may carry on its work.” We. too, have
often experienced a similar sensation of sad sur-
prise on perusing those ads., and think it’s about
time something was said. Eccentricities of genius
are all very well within bounds, but the “ per-
fesh” ought to have a little respect for them-
selves.
A GENTLE REMINDER.
As stickers-up for “ caste,”
There is little need for stating
That we often look aghast
When we find co-operating
A clog-dancer with a clerk,
Or with C.M.G. a-drinking—
Of the lot to whieh you’re born
Have a care for your good breeding,
Drink your rum and smoke cigars
In super-i-or society;
Don’t make free with church bnaaars
Nor be bracketed with piety '
Tol-dc-rol.
Vice-Regal Hospitality.
LORD AUGUSTUS LOFTUS (to Reporter): “I CAN’T ASK YOU TO TABLE, BUT I CAN RECOMMEND THIS WHISKY. YOU CAN DRINK IT IN THE FOWL-HOUSE. WHEN THE
CLOTH’S REMOVED YOU’LL BE EXPECTED TO TAKE THE SPEECHES.”
(His Excellency is still expectant.)
the details and evidence given on such cases.”
Bring the smelling-salts, and oblige us with a
banjo—
DON'T!
Ohl Harper, hear our little prayer,
And, ere it be too late, forbear
From urging on this measure:
If such a charge as this were made,
Our life on earth, we’re much afraid,
Were shorn of half its pleasure.
Suppress the details I Clear the Court I
We faint with anguish at the thought—
Not long could we survive it;
The very notion, sir’s, absurd.
Of letting “spicy bits ” be heard,
As you suggest, in private.
Of many poor reporters;
Nor press a measure which deprives
Of literary treats our wives,
And (keep it dark) our daughters.
* (Chiefly drink.—Ed. B)
The Melbourne D.T. calls our attention, in a
leading article to a little matter which wants seeing
into-badly. Spt-akin/of the fashionable devices
for bringing griat to the mill of many charitable
societies, the D T. remarks:—“ We are, lost In as-
tonishment to see in a public advertisement a
* comic clown ’ and a ‘ champion clog and pedestal
dancer,’ called forth to co-operate with church-
wardens and decorous church members to find
Still, we oftimes remark,
“ Oh, he dees It without thinking .”
Tol-de-rol.
But a comic cloven, you know,
Fills a decent sort of station,
And, in playing down so low,
He deserves our condemnation;
His tent he ought to fix
On the sunny side of Jordan,
And not swim across and mix
With a parson cr churchwarden—
Tol-de-rol.
All “ pros.” herewith, we warn:
Be not careless and unheeding


A JU i GB TRADING.
“Arrested for stealing an umbrella, was he?”
asked the magistrate of an officer, referring to a
gentleman who had just been arraigned. ‘ Let me
see the article.” It was handed to the judge, who
examined it and asked, “ Where did you steal it
from ?” “ Summerfleld and Co., Pitt-street Sydney.”
replied the prisoner. “ How will y r ou exchange?”
said the judge, Cringing forward his own. xake
20s. to boot ’ “ All right; 1 11 fine you one round.
That makes us even.” Those 16-nbbed silk um-
brellas at Summerfleld and Co.'s, only IQs 6d
e ach, are wonderfully cheap.*
Englishmen, Scotchmen, Irishmen, and Ameri-
cans all drink Woope s Schnapps.
Art Union of Moss Yale, in aid of Widow
and Orpan Fund of Berrlma Masonic Lodge.
Tickets, 30s. Will shortly be drawn. Apply at
once for tickets. J. 8. Hyams, Sec., Moss Yale.*
BRIEF MENTION.
Are the Arabs nomadic ?” asked an
enquirer of a Contingd. “ Not half so mad as you
think,” was the veteran’s reply.
The Western Champion (Q.) chronicles
the birth of a calf with four ears. Happy calf; it
can never be mistaken for a masher.
In Peru the inhabitants are fighting among
themselves like Kilkenny cats. And yet, in the
face of this, we have disbanded the Contingent.
Two Chinamen have been elected life-
governors of the Melbourne Benevolent Asylum.
This Is a graceful compliment to the country press.
Some of theN.S.W. “Naval” Brigade who
went to the Soudan were so terribly sea-sick that
they didn’t show on the Iberia’s deck for three
days after leaving Sydney.
They are about to run a milk-train from
Glppsland to Melbourne. This is not in accord-
ance with the fitness of things. Milk should be
carried by canal. Deep, this.
“Pass, friend, and all’s well,” he mur-
mured in his sleep. “ That dratted euchre again,”
she cried; and, leaping out of bed, proceeded at
once to go through bis pockets.
Their style of advertising the “Patriotic”
Fund:—“June 27-total, £5OO, 10s. N.8.—£505 of
this sum was advertised in the Herald on March
2nd.” [IIIJ Our italics. Whoopi
“ What would you like to join now ? ” en-
quired Dibbs of a dejected member of the Con-
tingent, whom he met two days after the pageant.
“ A sausage, sir,” was the gloomy reply.
There was a white sparrow shot at Fold-
ing (Vic.) the other day. The recording angel had
to work overtime to make a note of the fact in all
his ledgers. See the Scriptures passim.
A man in the Adelaide L.V. Gazette says,
solemnly, “ Never curse whisky.” This is the kind
of fellow who only curses for the want of it, at
those periods at which the publican is pensive.
The force of habit—A cabby goes into a
shop to buy a pair of gloves. “ Driving gloves ? ”
“ Yes, sir.” “ What number ?” “ Five hundred
and eighty-seven.” The shop-man stood aghast.
At the Barracks. One Suakim warr or to
another, at parting—" Well, good-bye, old stock-
ing! If I should want to see yer, where’s yer (hie)
address ? ” “ The Domain for the present (hie).”
“Theßev. Mr. Osborne” said the Sydney
D.T. “takes his farewell of the Christian platform
to-morrow night.” Having left the “ Christian
platform,” John will likely now take up with
Christianity.
A new butcher has started business in
Carcoar, and the local paper, in trumpeting the
news says it is always pleased to see young Austra-
lians coming to the front. But butchers come to
the back, don’t they ?
They say that John Hurley spent over
£4OOO in his attempt to get In for “the Shore.” We
almost believe that. When two of his canvassers,
during election time, used to get on poard the
ferry, they had that side all to themselves.
The Hons. Dibbs, Dailey, and Wright fol-
lowed the funeral of Private Perry, who died of
‘ the Soudan.” Noticing the Ministerial party, we
were, strangely enough, reminded of the old story
of “ the tailor carrying home his own work.”
The Sydney D.T, says that George Au-
gustus B*l* at the Mayoral banquet responded in
aspeech tull of anecdote, epigram, and patriotism.
Why thus distinguish his remarks ? Were the
other speeches full only of beef, whisky, and
turkey ?
“Well, here’s a nice thingl ” cried Private
M'Quffln, of the Contingent, looking alarmedly
round, as ho landed at the Circular Quay—“ Plowed
If, while I’ve been away bleeding for my suffering
country, someone hasn’t been and took away my
boiler! ”
Now that we are doubled up with cramps
and bitter reflections through attending the Con-
tingent’s return, what is our final opinion of the
matter ? It Is, that no other body of men will ever
be found to volunteer for service beyond Wool-
loomooloo
“Don’t make such a noise, John Henry
Rilkins,” cried the wif e of the warrior returned,
gs he sprang over his threshold, and embraced
er. “Why?” he not unnaturally asked.
“Hem!” she replied with a blush; “you might
Wake our new first-floor lodger.”
A Sydney advertisement agent sent a para-
graph to the Bourke Watchman, offering terms
Which seemed to that paper too low. The Watch-
MAn says, loftily; “ We simply replied we would
Bee him d d first.” That shows that some
country editors must be accustomed to eat beef.
The Inglewood (Vic.) Borough Councillors
have decided to erect a Gordon memorial in their
own town, instead of sending their subscriptions
to Melbourne. They will have to be careful, or
strangers visiting the town will be wanting to
know what the Mayor has done to be hung in
effigy.
They are no respecters of persons in Bo-
livia The President of that free and easy Re-
public was lately fined 50dol. for careless riding
through the public streets. We wonder what they
would do with the Dictator Dailey it they bad him.
They would probably make him beat the big drum
in the van of combat.
Gravely says the Sydney E. News “ The
young man who fell through the roof of the Royal
Arcade yesterday, is In very low spirits.” This is
intelligent Journalism. But for this announce-
ment, one would expect him to be larking with
the monkeys at the Zoo, or gaily sporting around
at a suburban muffin-scramble.
“Forfaiting to satisfy a fine of £5, Mr.
Dowie was sent to gaol for a month; yesterday,
for failing to satisfy a fine of £24, he was sent to
prison for a week!” says the Melbourne Daily
Telegraph. Truly the vagary is great. Next
time Mr. Dowie should fall to satisfy up to a figure
that would secure a summary discharge.
The Sydney Evening News reports that
Mr. Allred Bennett attended the last levde in
London.
The Roman plunged his sword in’s breast,
When of life’s cup he’d drained the dregs;
“ Alf.” drains the cup with equal zest,
But trails the sword between his legs.
While the Sydney Banco Court was sitting
.ast week, a member of the late Contingent
strolled in, and as he seemed to have something
on his mind, he was interrogated as to his business
He said he had come “to see gory Justice dine."
Doubtless he th mght Judge Windeyer bossed that
Court, or else he would not have asked for “ b
Justice.”
“ It’s very plausible, very plausible indeed,
Marla,” he said, as he prepared to leave his resi-
dence two hours after arrival. “ It’s a good story,
and well told, but you see—anyhow, good-bye!
You’ve got a little livin’ by the boarders, and,
while I quite believe every word you say, Marla,
I prefer to don again my martial sword.” And he
skipped.
Last year the London Society for the
Conversion of the Jews, spent £3B 21)3 in pursuit of
their worthy object. But no Jews were converted
It used to be reckoned it cost £5OOO to convert a Jew,
and on this scale seven and a half Hebrews should
have crawled out of the bosom of Abraham in
i>B4 Some Jews have been known to be converted
twice in one year.
A man out his throat in the Arrowsrailh
Hospital recently. He had £lOO in his possession
at the time. The jury returned a verdict of tem-
porary insanity. We should think so. He ivend
how the immortal part of that man will cu’se
when he sees somebody else slinging that hundred
around! The moral of this is—never commit sui-
cide till the law persuades you.
More glory! Listen to this: “The Warr-
□ambool Town Council have decided to forward
to the Premier of New South Wales, through the
Victorian Government, a letter of congratulation
on the return of the New South Wales Contingent
from the Soudan.” Astute Town Council I The
"turn of the Contingent has brought back 800
able-bodied men to eat potatoes.
Queen Emma, of the Sandwich Islands, is
dead:—
B t° od on the crown of his head,
* I l * l6 horns of a painful dilemma,
were the words he repeatedly said:
Ihe Queen of the Ham-and-beet Islands Is dead;
Woe, Kmmal
Wo—o—o—o—o—o—o—oe, Emma I”
The wail of the Cooktown Independent
is one of the most solemnly true lamentations of
tne day. Cooktown, that tropical section of
Queensland, has no prison. Prisoners are sent,
tnerefore, to Townsville. Where prisoners are,
tnere they work. “Now,” cries wailing Cook-
town, we are entitled to the cheap work. We
create the crime, we should have its advantages.”
What can be truer ?
In May town (N.Q ), a man named Davies
hammered the local editor—one Crozhur (I)—and
was fined £5. The money was collected within
the precincts of the court In 20 minutes. What
troubled the editor was that the persons who gave
the largest subscriptions towards freeing his enemy
were those deepest in his books And the ring-
leader of the collection, to make things worse, was
a man who had paid his last quarter’s subscription
with a long-handled shovel —and then stopped the
paper.
A man got fined at Cowra, the other day,
for saying “ Quack, quack I ” to another man. The
other man, disapproving of this quack-quacking
(which is comparatively unmeaning). “ pulled” the
quacker, and he was mulct in the sum of 10
* white.” The only defence set up was that when
young fellows got together in Cambewarra, they
always said ‘Qumk, quackl’” Tais decision is
rather severe treatment on the whole; the more
so, when it is taken into consideration that the de-
fendant is not an advertising doctor.
They were two burly bushies from the
back Barcoo, and had dumped themselves down in
the same tram-compartment as a Redfern lady
w “ oB S_' ,Coae^aian ’ 8 seat,” or improver, stuck out
as stiff and fierce as a snub-nosed man in a hot
theological argument. It was their first acquaint-
ance with the implement, and, as the lady skipped
out, the first man leaned over to his mate, and
wh'snered: “By thunder, Jim I they goes in hot
fur the pastoral Interests here. Bust me, if they
don t wire-fence th’ back-blocks of their wiminl ’
The officers of the N.S.W. Contingent and
the colonial delegates who welcomed them, were
entertained at Government House. Representa-
tives from but two metropolitan journals attended
—the Protestant Stand ard and the War Cry—
and were received with unusual warmth. We re-
gret, however, that the report of the affair to
hand from the P.B. man, la too Incoherently
trenchant for republication. Judging by the odd
movements of the War Cry correspondent when
last seen on the Vice-regal fence, it would be also
prudent to receive his report with some reser-
vation.
Sir Edward Strickland’s address to the
New Guinea Exploring Expedition was an affect-
ing thing. He told the men to obey their leader,
never interfere with the native women, and
to eschew collisions with the natives.” And he
particularly urged upon them not to get drunk.
And yet. once In New Guinea, Sir Edward should
know all that becomes most dear to the heart of
the most conscientious explorer is not to obey his
leader, to “ Interfere with native women,” to
quarrel with the niggers, and—above all—to get
drunk. We don’t know how to account for it.
Something In the climate, perhaps.
At an inquest recently held in Melbourne,
Dr. Youl remarked that drunkenness was the
most difficult thing in the world to prove; in fact,
it had never been satisfactorily proved to him in
his whole career On one ocosion, two well-
connected gentlemen in the Civil Service were
charged with habitual drunkenness, and a board
was appointed to Investigate the charge. The
evidence was overwhelmingly in favour of the
strict sobriety of the pair, and they were, of
course, honourably acquitted. “ But at the very
same time*” pertinently remarked the Doctor, ‘‘l
was attending both these very men for delirium
tremens!”
When the Melbourne Eastern Market was
opened for business the other morning a small boy
W4B found curled up In a box. On being ques-
tioned as to what brought him there he stated that
Sis mother had told him to get into the box and
remain there quiet until he was found, and he was
not to tell anything about her. Poor little devil I
He Is evidently marked out for a poet
Thus the world mocks
All its joy-brlngers,
All the sweet singers
Of lyric and carol—
They live in a box,
And die In a barrel.
Calling on the Sydney D.T. “special,” full
private Michael M’Cue said;—“ My own company
officers were Major Jekyll and Lieutenants Bourn-
slde and wrench. Please say good-bye for me to
the officers, non-commissioned officers, and men. I
never fought along with better men.”
Away wld you, Mick M’Cuel
A truce, sir, to this stuff;
You never fought with anvthing
Unless you fought with duff.
The troops that you slew. Mick M’Cue
(God save you for your sins I)
"Were those old silent vet’rans that
You get iu 21b.-tins.
That pious 1 ittle paper, the Evening
Fairfax, that Is to say the Sydney Echo, can
boast of a man who threatens to run Emile Zola
pretty close as a realistic writer. The following,
evidently springing ab imo corde, is clipped from
last Friday’s issue;-” Never had I seen Grace
Campbell Jook so handsome as now. She was in
the act of drawing a glass of beer through the
Eli? 1 ?. B ,’ grasped by her
beautiful white band. The author is not explicit
enough. He has omitted to state whether it was
the beer or the pump ;that lent the additional
charm to his heroine’s countenance, also whether
she was drawing the beer for him, and if he was
expected to “ cash up,*”
These lines are from “ A Fragment ” in the
Sydney Town and Kuntry Jkknel:—
“Oh 1 What is life ? Oh I What is death ?
He saw that form breathing; in a moment It was
still.
He heard the words it uttered, and remain they
will, until
His latest breath, within his mind. He mused
u pon this latest act of man, and grot confused.**
It is needless to point out the comprehensive
brevity of the last words. He “got confused.”
Milton would have used at least a dozen words
without expressing more than this elegant state-
ment conveys. Viewed as a whole, the Fragment
is as good as any original verse we have ever seen
—ln the Jernel.
The vestry of Shoreditch, England, has
decided to re-opeu the disused onurchyards of
the parish as recreation grounds. This is a good
idea, although it may seem at first to be a strange
commingling of gaiety and gloom. Something of
the same sort was tried at a happy little Southern
town m N.S.W, A paternal Government had de-
dicated an ample space for a cemetery. Time
went on, but, as there was no doctor in the place,
no one ever died, and weary of seeing such a fine
block unoccupied, the inhabitants held a public
meeting:, had the place converted to purposes of
recreation, and now sportive youths and amorous
couples are accustomed to tread the sod which
had been originally set apart as a waiting-room
for the passengers about to sail by the universal
balloon to the realms of futurity.
Great Esau! to think that it never struck
us, often as we have clung around them and
watched the giddy stars reeling through the
heavens in the stilly night after the hotels were
shut. Telegraph poles I—A Melbourne man has
laid a scheme before the Postmaster-General for
utilising the telegraph poles throughout the city
and suburbs as advertising media. He proposes
to fix ornamental boards on them at a height of
Bft. from the ground, paying a certain annual
rental to the Government, and let them out to ad-
vertisers. And the proposition will probably be
carried into practice. If it is, that man will And
it harder to go through the eye of a needle than
for a camel to enter the Kingdom of (Heaven. He
will be rich, poor fellow. While we-malediction I
we are too rich in ideas to be ever rich in pocket.
Gadzooks! we would be better off if we were a
writer on the Echo with only onefidea annually,
and that one borrowed.
The S.M. Herald states that “The Minister
for Justice, with the concurrence of the Minister
for Works, had sanctioned the release of Messrs.
Williams and M'Qregor (imprisoned for riding in
a tramcar;, but this was rendered unnecessary by
the defendants having paid the fines, amounting
in each case to 40s. and costs.” This is indeed
news. When, we may ask, was the Royal Preroga-
tive of pardon allowed to “the Minister for
Justice, with the concurrence of the Minister for
Works.” If the Minister for Justice (with the
concurrence of the Minister for Works) can pardon
these alleged criminals he can also pardon and re-
lease Johns, now under sentence of death. If
Messrs. Cohen and Wright can reverse judicial
sentences, why divert Vice-regal attention from
the incubators to the Executive Council ? Or why
have a Governor or Magistrates If their several
powers can be used by tho Minister for Justice
with the concurrence of the Minister for Works ?
A man went to Geelong. He lived there
three weeks. Then he died. Suicided. They
always do when they go there. His name was
Timothy O’Rourke. He is believed to have been
an Irishman. This makes it strange. Irishmen
very rarely leave this life of their own accord.
There is too much whisky in this world for them
to quit It abruptly for the next. The national
feeling in this matter is beautifully expressed by
the Quid Irish Jintleman,” who is recalled to life
by the smell of the whisky at his wake—" M' hon-
nom on dhioul, when there’s shtuff like that gon
about, who the divll do ye think wud be such a
fool as to be dead ?” Timothy would probably be
alive now if he had not, in an unhappy moment of
weakness, decided to shift his residence to Geelong.
The Melbourne undertakers now advertise “Out-
fits for Geelong.” They are very comfortable-
looking articles of their kind-but have rather
much German silver about them to please a quiet
taste.
The following advertisement (writes a
regular correspondent of ours) has met with no
response: “ Wanted. A good boy, with more than
ore brass button, and who washes as soon as he
gets up. Must bring proof that he combs his back
hair as well as the front, and that his trousers
pocket has never, at one time, contained more
than a top-string, three buttons, a glass marble,
four nails, a fishing line, and the buckle of a strap.
A parent’s certificate must also be forthcoming
that he always provided kindling wood before he
went to bed. and jumped out briskly at six every
xrosty morning, and prepared a cup of hot coffee
for his poor feeble father, who was just able to
crawl home at 3 a.m, from his arduous labours at
the lodge or the club. Also, he must be prepared
to make an affidavit that he has never smoked a
new clay pipe till he was sick, and is utterly inca-
pable of opening a jam-tin or a tin of sheep-
tongues with a pocket-knife, and never went an
errand to the grocer’s and kept back part of the
change under the plea that butter had riz. Any
boy possessing these qualifications, together with a
presentation Bible from his Sunday-school
teacher, may call on Messrs. Abrahams, and work
his way up to fame and fortune. But he won’t do
us. (Signed.) Isaacs & Co.”
This is the last we have heard of the Wan-
garatta tiger—the brute that is chawing up calve#
and making rural policemen in Victoria wish
they d volunteered for the Soudan. It comes
through the Bendigo Independent, a powerful
Liberal journal, whose proprietor has made a scin-
tillating name for himself second to Angus
Mackay alone—in the republics of letters and
oratory. It appears that the Victorian Chief Com-
missioner of Police demanded a report from
country constables on the appearance and appe-
tite of the strange animal that was keeping the
Wangaratta: people from church on the first day
of the week, and from work on the remaining six.
And this is what one observant “peeler” reports-
— ‘ I saw something in a paddock, but don’t re-
member what it was like.” This is serious. One
certain—it was not a drunken digger, with
a £5O cheque on him. We, ourselves, have seen
many things in paddocks. There was the free
banquet given to the Duke of Edinburgh in Rich-
mond paddock (Melbourne). We saw that—and
enjoyed it. When we first caught sight of the
assembled thousands we were hungry and ragged
We were dirty, too. When we retired in the
evening, we were wearing a tip-top slop-made rig.
had a sucking-pig under our left arm, a fair
amount of alcohol coursing through our system,
and a clean race, irradiated bv a smile of low
cunning, seasoned with imbecility. And this is
what makes us mad. To think that we help to
pay a man who “saw something in a paddock, but
didn’t remember what it was like.” Mart de notre
vie! It couldn’t have been a public house. He
could tell what that was like fast enough.
Before Archbishop Moran left Sydney he
subscribed £lOOO for a school in Devonshire-street,
contingent on a Temperance Society being formed
in connection therewith before his return. Devon-
shire-street runs along one side of the old ceme-
tery. There ought to be names enough on the
tombstones to fill up a list to satisfy the Arch-
bishop. But, of course, he will never return. Not
much. Scarcely. But that is not the point. The
point is that this matter reminded us of am in-
genious scheme of one of our French uncles. He
was a marvel—a prodigy—but— helas!— a sad sceptic.
His scheme was to get up a company to build a
composite structure, the body of which should be
a church, and the two side wings a bar and a
skittle-alley respectively. Doors of communica-
tion to connect these with the church, so that such
of the congregation as chose could adjourn dur-
ing the sermon and the collection. He (benighted
man I) never knew Alfred, but he stated it as his
opinion that such an arrangement would “ give
pleasure to all.” But he forgot the pastor. See
how he was punished. One day he was drinking
his wine ordinary in his usual manner, out of a
dipper, when a spider fell into it. That spider was
the Devil. There was no doubt about it. He
himself said it was the Devil. Since then he has
never been able to look at wine without seeing
spiders. Consequently he has had to intoxicate
himself with the beer of the country ever since
Wise wert thou, O Guicciardini, pupil of the wise
Machiavelli, when thou saidst unto the Florentines
“Fight not against the Church-for she is too
strong.”
iwm the Sydney Echo people kindly read
this, cut from Reynolds’, an English Journal
Rriff o e h Of r^ 00,00 ° copie ? are circulated among the
British Democracy .--“The Irish people will be
thV g mL 8 «f prB ? d and greatly amused to learn
w ? i h the columns of the Press that the Prince
omi^rl? 8 *l. de ' , # ll(:ed with his reception in their
«°?ntry We, however, give the Prince credit for
th? a ' ° od S 8? t 0 tblak that his) views on
this subject are fairly represented, or that he can
be labouring under so extraordinary a delusion.
*Kof n Vi B *u hav^i? ee ? l enou^tl of the world to know
that all the enthusiasm displayed was of an official
“° d i.m n,B9d t? l3 . 8, At railway stations all wore
excluded except those who, for reasons of their
own professed loyalty, and shouted whatever the
authorities ordered them. On the estates of large
landowners addresses were presented by tenants
and others dependent upon the good-wiU of their
landlords. If commanded to give three cheers for
Beelzebub they would have obeyed quite as
readily as for the Prince of Wales. The authori-
ties proclaimed ’—that is, suppressed-gatherings
such as the monster one contemplated at
Tralee, Intended as demonstrations against British
rule. And at Omagh, where the recaption Is de-
scribed by the Times as enthusiastic, we read In
the same journal that ‘ a group of men and boys
numbering about 200, was seen approaching with
a number of small flags, and accompanied by a
drum and fife band,’ and were dispersed by a
charge of the constabulary! Despite, however
the silencing of the multitude by aid of bayonet
and bludgeon, there was quite sufficient of
national spirit shown during the Prince’s tour to
have convinced him that the Immense majority
of the Irish people do not care a dump for him-
self, hk mother, or her belongings, and that if
left to himself, he might have been greeted with
rotten eggs and other unsavory mi-jsiles in the
place of shouts and cheers. But if, as stated
the Prince of Wales is really gratified by the
demonstrations he experienced in Ireland, we can
only liken his delusion to that of some poor devil
who, after having been in the pillory for 24 hours,
pelted, hooted, hissed, and execrated, returned
thanks for the splendid reception he had met
with I”
Portraits of Mrs. Langtry at 18 and at
present are given below. Between that of
the girl and of the famous "Lily” of to-day
(From a Jerse photo.)
the difference Is almost as great as between young
Tlchborne of a generation ago and the lately-re-
leased “ nobleman ” of Dartmoor. It will be seen
that the friend of “ Wales ” and of “ Freddy ” was,
at the age of 18, a rather commonplace and oro-
=?. ediy />W y° un * lady, giving no
PL 0 ,™ 1 " 6 , of . * he gorgeous flower into which she
ultimately blossomed.
THE GOVERNOR’S SPEECH TO THE CON-
TINGENT.
Down from his carriage—see, he comes,
With courtly mien, and takes hla stand,
Then, with a few vice-regal hums!
•> o 4?, d ha . w . Bl “your Ex.” his speech began:
Soldiers, he said—and this Is all
That reach’d that band of noble follows,
For over Gussy, like a pall,
Came twenty shelt’ring umbrellas.
It’s all the same to Madge.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
The Thargomindah (Q.) paper reports that a
man named Mudge had been drowned in
the river; that where the body was dis-
covered, a week afterwards, it was taken up
above high-water mark and there buried
without coffin or inquest. Thargomindah
was greatly excited over the affair, but, for
our part, we think
It’s ALL THE SAME TO MtTDGE.
The world spins round now all the same,
And seasons come and go;
And millions live, and millions die,
Just as they used to do.
Some live in luxury all their days,
Whilst others toil and drudge;
And millions weep and millions laugh—
It’s all the same to Mudge.
Above his head the tieecy clouds
Fly drifting through the sky;
Birds warble in the rustling leaves,
The river rushes by;
Though he owns nothing in the world,
lie bears the rich no grudge,
The poor and rich may fight it out—
It’s all the same to Mudge.
Not his the giant pyramid,
High piled with sacred stones,
To mark where of some nameless king
Are laid the crumbling bones;
He sleeps as well within his cell,
Just lightly wrapped in sludge,
As men in rich-carved marble vaults—
It s all the same to Mudge.
when th 3 last loud trump shall sound,
That bids us all arise,
And some must tramp it down below,
And others mount the skies,
He’ll answer prompt as any Pope,
When Michael bids him budge—
“l’m here, dear Duke,’ where shall I tramp?”
It s all the same to Mudge.
MRS. LANGTRY AT IS TEARS OF AGE.
MRS. LANGUY, NOW.


Department of Public In
Sydney
TENDERS FOR NEW I
CiniENDERS are ioyited for tl
JL Public School Building at C
Plans and Specifications may b
of Tender obtained at the office c
of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender 1
for the Croydon Park Public
lodged with the Under Secret
of Public Instruction, at or befo
on Monday, the 13th July, 1885.
The Minister does not bind bin
lowest or any tender.
W
Department of Public
Sydney
TENDERS FOR ADDITION.
TENDERS are invited for t
Additional Building in co:
Glebe Public School.
Plans and Specifications may I
of Tender obtained at the offl
ment of Public Instruction, Byd
Tenders, endorsed “ Tende
Buildinar, Glebe Public School,
with the Under-Secretary, Dei
lie Instruction, at or before 1(
Wednesday, the 15th July, 1885.
The Minister does not bind hin
lowest or any Tender.
W
Department of Public
Sydney.
Tenders for public w
PLIES.—TENDERS are in
lowing Public Works and Suppli
oulars see Government Gazett
is kept at every Post Office In thi
Tenderers may be in attendanc
are opened, and the name c
tenderer will te announced, if p
duties of the T 0 \rd have termir
No tender will be taken into
less the terms of the notice are
with.
The Government does not bh
the lowest or any tender.
THE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital £lOO 000.
Head Office : Melbourne.
Sydney Branch ; Hoyle’s Chambers, Bond-street.
Victorian Directors:
John L. Dow, Esq., M.P.
Chairman
Hon. J. F. Levien, M.P.
Thomas Learmonth, Esq.
N. 8. Wales Directors:
Andrew Town, J.P., Esq.
Frank Cowley, Esq.
George S. Yeo, Esq.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs insured
against death from Accident, Disease, or Natural
Causes on land, rail, or at eea.
Marine Risks on Stock covering mortality or on
Merchandise accepted.
The only Live Stock Insurance Society In the
olonles.
Full particulars can be obtained from the under-
signed.
Active Agents wanted where unrepresented.
A. J. WILKINSON, Branch Manager.
Office, Royle s Chambers, Bond-street.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1872.
Capital—£loo,ooo with power to increase to £1,000,000
BONUSES—2O per cent, paid annually since 1873.
I prefer Wolfe's Schnapps to Brandy or Whisky
—It Is a more wholesome spirit.
Thomas Boyd, the first man who crossed the
Murray (with Howell and Hume) died near Tumnt
on Saturday, 27th inst. He was 87 years old, and in
utterly destitute circumstances. It will he re-
membered that at the Albury railway-opening
festival the poor old man was trotted out as a
curiosity, and shown to the assembled magnates
and—mob. And when they had all satisfied their
curiosity, they turned him adrift again with £50,
metaphorically hit him a thwack with the bridle,
and sent him off to die in his hut. Melancholy*
indeed, are the last days of such an old Identity.
It Is satisfactory to know that someone guaran-
teed his funeral expenses before he was allowed to
die.
xWolfe's Schnapps is particularly free from
fusil oil as it is well aged before being bottled.
ORUOISTD’S
SWISS CIGARS
Have been recognised as the BEST for half a
century.
“ BEACH’S ”
CONSULTATION
ON THE
Hawiesbury Handicap, Metropolitan and
Melbourne Cup,
NOW OPEN.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10s. BACH.
First Horse, £250.
Address—
“BEACH,”
Care of J. G. Dceble,
Hotel, King and Pitt Street, Sydney
Please apply early.
Magic
Mirth
Mystery.
A NEW BOOK.
Containing over 250 Tricks
AND DELUSIONS WITH CARDS, DICE,
AND CONJURING APPARATUS.
Illustrated with blocks and diagrams, fully ex-
plained, simplified, and adapted for home amuse-
ment and social entertainments, forming the most
complete collection of its kind ever offered to the
Australian public. Mailed free to any address
ONE SHILLING.
THE WIZARD’S CHANGEABLE CARDS.
These cards change from Red to Black, from
eights to deuces and back again at the pleasure of
the performer, and elicit exclamations of wonder
and surprise from all who witness them. Post
free, with full instructions, Is, 2d.
THE YANKEE RUBBER BABY.
Goes in the waistcoat pocket, yet can be instantly
blown out to life size; screams awfully if smacked.
Even experienced fathers are deceived by these
laughter-producing infants, and no home can be a
really happy one without their cheering presence
Price, post free, Is.
Cut this advertisement out and post it to us, en-
closing 2s. In postage stamps, naming this paper,
and we will send you by return post,
THE BOOKS, CARDS, AND BABY.
Address all communications:
AUSTRALIAN ICAL DEPOT,
401 GEORGE STREET, 8YDNEF.
MECHANICS’ INSTITUTE
GRAND ART UNION,
In rtrict accordance with the Act.
VALUE
HB <£500. tm
SECOND PRIZE, £200.
. . THIRD PRIZE. £100.
4 prizes, value £50 each. 100 prizes, value £5 each
4 H I, £35 each. 660 ,, „ £1 each
40 •• , ,, £10 each. 300 „ „ 10s. each
1000 PRIZES I 1000 PRIZES I
10,000 TICKETS at 10s. each, obtainable at mos
business places m the colony.
N.B.-In proof of the value of the above, the
Committee undertake to find purOhasers for the
various prizes at the prices named, and to hand the
winner full amount in cash, less 10 per cent, for
commission.
The drawing to take place in June, under the
supervision of the Mayor and Councillors of Eagle-
hawk and a Committee of Shareholders.
T. H. TAYLOR,
Managing Secretary.
Bull-street, Sandhurst, and
Mechanics’ Institute, Eaglehawk.
To love and be loved is the greatest happiness
on earth.
TO procure the above valuable secret (which
has never failed during Madame Sleeman’s
ten years’experience) send 3s 6d. Orders addressed
to Madame Sleeman, Box 955, G.P.O., Sydney.
s**3 Head Offices. ***3
First Fire Society established In me colony on
the Mutual principle, giving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits e'-ery year.
Policy-holders are perfectly free by law from
all liability. „ . ,
Fifteen days grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums. . ..
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates*
Nature of Works and Supplies
WALTER CHURCH, Manager,
Hoad Offices—PlTT and KING STREETS.
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received at
this office.
Construction of about i% miles
of Wrought Iron Water Pipes,
Sydney Water Supply
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Nymagee
Bridges Nos. 1 and 2 over Back
Water Creeks on road Balran-
ald to Swan Hill Ferry, Mur-
ray River
Construction of Wharf at Wau-
chope, Hastings River
Construction of Aqueduct Piers,
Sydney Water bupplr
Superstructure ot three (3)
double line Girder Bridges,
duplication of line Goulburn
to Joppa Junction
Tuesday,
7th July,
at 11 o’clock.
mo
Infants and Children
"What gives our Children rosy cheeks, /
f 'What cures their fevers, makes Vtem sleet?;
t Castoritu
► "When Babies fret, and cry by turns,
What cures their cOlic, kills their worms.
» Castorld;
What quickly Cures Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Colds, Indigestion ; .
CaStorla, >
Farewell then to Morphine Syrups,
Castor Oil and Paregoric, and .. .
H ail Castoriat
“Castoria is so wdl adapted toChildreil
that 1 recommend it as superior to any medi-
cine known to me.”—Hi A. Akcheu, M. D«
HI Oxford St., Hew York.
Elliott Bros., Sidney) Agents.
JHi
»X 8.8. BALLARAT. EX. S.S. BALLARAT;
IBAPES and SHAW PBAPES and SHAW,
H
I
AVB OPENED a large SHIPMENT of
GLOVES.
NCLUDING Gents’ Chevrettes, Ladles’ Chev=
rettes.
ADIE3’ Four-botton Tan Florentine GLOVES
R
F
W
ÜBY, Bronze, and Black ditto ditto,
OUR-BUTTON or Clasp Tiln KID GLOVES,
ITH Ingrain Twist Points, Black dM Self
Colour. „
LSO, Eight-button Length Tan MosqUetaitrh
r| HE LARGEST, most RELIABLE, and
X est
STOCK Of LADIES’ and GENTLBMM’§
GLOVES
N THE AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
ADIES’ and CHILDREN’S GLOVES
JN EVERY LENGTH SIZE, a t d COLOUR.
JJEAPES and SHAW, PEAPBS and SHAW.
EG RGB-STREET, GBORGB-BTREBT.
WEATHER REQUISITES ’ '
jyjT PBaPES and SHAW 8, GEORG B-STKKET.
| 1 TAILOR-MADE ULSTERS,
l AlilEa' MACINTOSH OVERALL!!. '
ADIES’ UMBRELLAS. GENTLEMEN’S
I UMBRELLAS.
s
PLBNDID VAKIEiY and EXiRAORDIN-
ARY CHEAP.
GENTLEMEN’S WINTER OVERCOATS, from
255. eacn
MA'fINYoTh liS sewn stamf,
■JJ O U BLE TEXTUttE MACINTO3a kY.Yos . Ja’ch.
VERY VARIETY of Warm WINTER
HOSIERY. R
a ADIES' and GENILEMF
JU GLOVES.
WINTER
JJBAPES and bHAW, PEAPEd and SHAW.
EOKGK-STKBE l’, GtO tCi E-aTKEET, ~“
Construction and Supply of 10
5-ton Cranes for Goods Plat-
forms
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Adelong
Supply and erection of an Iron
Lattice Girder Bridge over the
Paterson River near Paterson
Township
Additions and Alterations to
Wentworth Wharf
Retaining Wall, Lightkeeper’s
Quarters, Newcastle
Erection of Passenger Station,
&e.. Petersham
Erection of Morgue, Newcastle
Erection of.aßoom.Courthouse,
Jerilderie
Bridge over Brundah Creek,
road Blayney via Cowra, to
Grenfe l !
Bridge over King Creek, at
Wauchope, road Port Mac-
quarie to Walcha
Erection of Station-buildings at
Muttama to Coolao and Coota-
mundra to Gundagai Railway
Erection of Lockup at Lochin-
var
Erection of Gallery, Court-
house, Wilcannia
Construction of 3rd Section
Railway, Mlchelago to Cooma
Tuesday,
4th Aupus* - ,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Timber Jetty at Tuesday,
Byron Bay 25th August,
at 11 o’clock.
F. A. WRIGHT.
LICENSES UNDER THE REAL PROPERTY
ACT.
IN reference to the notice In the Government
Gazette, dated 18th February last, re Can-
cellation of Licenses, under the 100th Section of
the Real Property Act, on or before 30th June,
1885, it Is hereby notified that the date of cancella-
tion of such licenses has been extended from 30th
June, 1885, to 3lst August. 1885, inclusively.
(Signed) P.F. ADAMS,
8urveyor-Q eneral.
Surveyor-General’s Office,
Sydney, 30th J une, 1885.
ALCOCK& CO.'S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS:
375 George-st., Sydney.
W TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED
TO CORRESPONDENTS .
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“j, W. Marshall You’re wrong. Queen
Victoria’s name Isn’t Guelph. It’s “ Wettin.” ...
•*P. D. J.” (Sandhurst): Thanks. To wire-clip
The Bulletin through from the middle inside, is,
we are sorry to say, Impossible. Such a method
would take four or five times the trouble, and the
extent of our circulation forbids this ‘Mac
(Dunedin): Don’ttouchit—a big swindle.... Agri-
cola”: It was the British chlet, Caraotacus, who,
being led captive through the streets of Imperial
■Rome, exclaimed, “ What arrant fools, these
neople, possessed of such magnificence, must be,
to covet my humble home in Britain! ’ Had the
Soudan Jackass captured by our Nanny-goat
Contingent been one of Balaam’s breed, he would
have probably opened his thistle-crushing appara-
tus and fired off a neat little speech to the
same effect....“A microscopic joke,
uninteresting to strangers.... “ Bill J ones ”: Your
lines on "Our Warriors Bold ” only has one pair of
rhymes to sixteen verses. This is not enough
C Caswell”: We don’t see why the committee cf
the so-called “ Patriotic ” Fund should deal In such
a miserable manner with the mother of Gunner
Lewis. They have plenty money, and if they but
give to the old lady a paltry annuity amounting
to the deferred pay of her dead son, they’ll do one
of the very shabbiest things ever recorded. Mrs.
Lewis—as perhaps the only claimant on the Fund
—should be substantially provided for—“P.S.”;
Xf we had here a Prohibitive Act, the druggists,
etc., would at once be largely patronised. In
Maine, where the sale of liquor is disallowed,
brandy and whisky are discovered to be at once
an unfailing specific for corns, and matchless for
the hands and complexion —“Penrith”: Mr.
Lackey’s son, we believe, receives £4OO a year and
quarters from this bleeding country for seeing
tnat nobody steals the reservoir... “C.C.J.”; Of
course there are some good points about conven-
tional religion. Didn’t Mr. Marsh, of the Mel-
bourne Y.M.C.A. get a cheque for £SOO the other
day? “E.M.V.”: Please call on the editor
“Iron Bark” (Townsville, Q.): Your pars, are
welcome; you will see that we condensed them.
W. Oaston”: The D.T. is wrong. The Ash-
inead-Bartlett who has been appointed one of the
Lords of the Admiralty is not the husband of the
Baroness Burdett-Coutts. He is the brother of
that distinguished individual. The Baroness’ hus-
band does not call himself Bartlett. His name is
now Coutts. He Is merged in his wife, just like
the husband of the average brilliant actress, or of
any other woman who has a lot of money or other-
wise finds dollars for her poor husband. Prince
Battenberg will be practically Mr. Beatrice Wettin.
.... “ C.S.”: What General Graham said, we believe,
was that If the Contingent had proper officers
they would be a serviceable lot of men.
“ C.B. (Glen Innes): The News is in error, but
every-day ocurrences of this kind are not worth
space “Mark”: From all we can hear it seems
very likely that had they gone into action some of
the offleers would have been shot by their own
men....“M.5.”; You might as well ask us whether
it is true that a couple of prominent officers, on
arriving at Handoub, piled boxes and chests round
their tents, so as to make a sort of “ Zareba for
one” as defence against the Arabs “Bia.”
(Roma, Q ): We could not use any of your pars.
The chief trouble up your way seems to be that
men won’t pay their grog-scores. Down here,
editors of local pubs, wouldn’t let us run any
“Old N.S.W.”: A baronetcy is rarely, if ever,
given for political services. In this respect it
differs from a knighthood. A colonial baronetcy
-teste Cooper and Clarke—is but the apotheosis of
dross. Now that the Conservatives are in, Salmon
Wilson will get his baronetcy, sure. But it is
understood he wants a dukedom, at least... “E.G.”
(Grafton); Thanks for excerpt. Shall be glad of
"Fancy Fair” par—“C.Makinson”: It what we
hear is true, tne Minister for Public Works and
his family were the very first people to be caught
by the new regulation prohibiting the receipt of
cash payment by tram guards.,,." H. Wooils”:
How was it that when, just before disband-
ing, three cheers were called for Colonel
Richardson, not a member of the Contin-
gent seemed to respondC.” (Klama): What
wp are all panting to hear, now, are tne exploits of
Mr. Blank in the sun-parched desert. His ap-
pointment, we believe, was brigadier-general of
the rum cask, with a brevet rank of full general of
the medical-comfort dray. We applied for this
billet ourselves, but, as we were known to have
once trumped our partner’s best card at the Aus-
tralian Club, we were written down ineligible
“Hiram Abifl”: Thanks for your clever letter.
We could hardly print your suggestion without
excising a material portion. But, joking apart,
don’t you approve of the sleeveless ball dresses ?
W e have posted you a letter to Walgett P.O
• E.M.V.”: We have little against the men of
the Contingent, dear boy; our only quarrel is with
those who sent them to the Soudan, How can
you expect us to publish a pome addressed to the
700 brave Cornstalks, and conceived in this spirit—
‘ What would you have? Come, tell us now at
once.
(If we'd the settling, you’d get each six months.)”
We’d gladly see the men given six months’ pay.
We’d gladly see some of the offleers given
&c “W, Marsh” : Yes, mental strain may
perhaps account for the pallid, just-returned-
from - the - Soudan appearance of more than
one Sydney daily paper editor. One man
can’t advise Gladstone and run a paper also.
....“ Wascoe”: Your essay is unsuitable for our
columns. You take four pages to say what Sterne
said in two lines:—Courtship consists of a number
of quiet attentions, not as pointed as to alarm, nor
so vague as not to be understood ...“Charles
Jackes”: So you think the Contingent affair was
" a big advertisement,” do you ? To be hanged is
a big advertisement for any man...." W. Malse ”:
The mere fact that you have had a picture hung
in the Academy doesn’t give you “a position in
European art circles.” “ P.J.8.”: In too Revised
Edition, Joshua still commands the sun to stand
still, and the sun does it—“ Mark Hayes”: Yes,
the poor man’s beer and the poor woman’s gin
“ J.J.” : One of the Cogills has a tenor voice. The
other (the great Cogill) has no voice at all, but
more than makes up in other ways—the mouth-
line for instance.... “ G,J.” (Brisbane): Thanks, we
are glad to hear from you that it is so much ad-
mired in Brisbane....**A.J.H.” : Zee mow sas
aqapo,” “My life I love you.” It is all very well
for you to say this is to decide a bet. We know
belter; your girl has sent it you, and you want to
know what it all means " Marco ”: John Thomas
Smith, who imported the first donkey into Vic-
toria, has been honoured by special mention of the
event in every pantomime that has sine’e appeared
at any Victorian theatre. As Colonel Wells was
the first to import donkeys from Egypt, we hope
that mention of the fact will be made at every
Sydney pantomime for the next hundred years.
Palmam qui meruit ferat “ Indignant ” :
We do not know whether the new tram
regulation will be overcome by the Supremo
Court, but we think it will. The Tramway Act,
sec. V., under which it was framed, derives its
power from the Railway Act, sec. 111. which
clearly says, “If any person travel .... in
any carriage on the railway .... without
having paid his fare, and with intent to avoid pau-
wient thereof he shall, &c,” In the section provh ing
for the making of by-laws it is also stated tnao
such by-laws must notba repugnant to the law of
thcland. It is clear, therefore, that the intent to
defraud alone constitutes the offence, and that
this intent must be proven before a conviction
can ba obtained. Further, the by-law seems re-
pugnant to the law of the land, as it has bean laid
down by the present Master of the Roils and many
other eminent judges in England, that a man who
travels without fraudulent intent without a ticket
la not a criminal, and that any regulation which
purports to make him tq is ultra vires. But it you
take pur advice you won’t test it in the supreme
court. First try how you feel after a goods train
nas gone over you. If you can stand this without
damage, you might then try the Court. But not be-
fore. ...“5.H.8.” (Melbourne); There is some merit
in your verse, but your muse is too free for cur
taste. Study the rules of usetre, and you may uo
better. Try your hand at epigram on passing
events—‘*M. Ward.”; Of course there should be
an official enquiry into the death of Private Weir.
If the statement of the Sydney B.T. correspondent
concerning the case Is'true, Weir was simply mur-
dered. ...“P.C.H.": Not quite up to the mark. We
have seen it elsewhere, in another and better form,
“ J.G.M.”: Thanks. But a Minister is not com-
pelled to give either money or ticket, as he is
passed free over the lines—Take to
Mauritius either British or French money. The
Comptolr d’Esoompte (of Paris), which has offices
in Pitt-street, will set you right “P. and P.”:
Thanks for the suggestion. Will you csll on the
editor?


There is no better judge for what is good than
Germans—They always drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES
MF« »haU be gUut to Have thee inaem immc t up «n.
ueretariet of racing c lube and managert of
norting events in generaL]
RACING.
Elsternwlok (V.) July 4
Brewarrlna J.C July 8
Walgettß.C July 8, 9
Clarence River J.C. July 8, 9
Meonee Valley (V.) July 11
Rosehill 8.0 July 18
Charters Towers J.C J uly 23, 24
Canterbury Park R.C August 1
Tam worth SO August 5,6
Rosehill R C August 8
Townsville (Annual) August 12,13
Canterbury Park R.C September 6
Hawkesbury (Spring) September 10 12
A J.C. (Spring) September 10, 22, 24, 26
Rosehill R.C October 3
Canterbury Park R.C October 17
Canterbury Park R.C .. December 19
A.J.C. (Summer) December 26
Rosehill R.C December 28
AQUATICS.
Glebe Rowing Club Malden Pairs July 4
Clifford v. Kemp. July 11
Newcastle R.O. Regatta September
M.R.C. Outrigger Race September
M. Branch Regatta October 10
ATHLETICS.
Kelly’s International Handicap.. .June 27, July 1,4,6
Quirlndl Handicap ...Augusts, 6
Sir Joseph Banks Fourth Handicap August 22,
22, 36, 89
Mudgee Sheffield Handicap September 1
’CYCLING.
Balmain and Burwood B.C.’s Joint Race
Meeting, Association Ground July 18
N. ’Cyclist's Union Race Meeting July 36
Sydney Bicycle Club (Annual R.M.), Asso-
ciation Ground August 22
SPORTING AND ATMLBTIC MEMS
Alfred Greenfield, the English boxer who
has been some time in America, sailed for home on
April 25.
Beach promises to row at next autumn
regatta should the Sboalbaven people make up a
£5O handicap.
H. 11. Ball, the ex-quarter mile champion,
left for Australia last month, at least, so says
London Echo
The leaden keel run into the Galatea, an
English yacht likely to compete for the American
Cup, cost little short of £BOO
“Professor” Miller must be himself again.
He is out with a challenge to wrestle Dona d
Dinnie a fair mixed match for £lOO aside.
During the present racing season the
Dunedin (N.Z.) Jockey Club has htmded £271 odd to
the local Benevolent Institution, proceeds of the
Totalisator Benevolent Gift.
It is rumoured Chailey Messenger will
shortly pay England a visit. Should bo do so,
Perkins may get on the match he some time since
Stated himself anxious for.
Melbourne v. Carlton footballers met on
Saturday at the Melbourne Cricket Ground in the
presence of some 7000 spectators, when Carlton
defeated their opponents by six goa's to one.
R. Matthews, who, by the way, intends
sbortly to pay Sydney a visit, is keeping the game
alive in NZ. At latest he was matched for £5O to
knockout an “unknown” in four Queecsberry
rounds, full-sized gloves.
The principal football matches played in
Sydney under Rugby rules last Saturday were
University v. Balmain, won by the former by 10
points to nil; Redfern v. Newtown, won by Hed-
fern by 22 points to nil ; and Wallaroo v. Burwood,
which resulted in a draw of 5 points a side.
On March 28, Howell and Lees, the English
professional bicyclists, ran a dead heat for the 20-
mlle championship; and on May 9, the pair met at
Belgrave Road grounds for the run-off. Howell
made the running ail through, and although
rounding the last corner Lees looked like getting
upon equal terms, Howell, riding all out, won by
three yards In Ihr. 7mln. 23see.
Mr. M‘Martrie has at last parted with the
32-footer St. Crispin, and has, we understand,
given Donnelly and Sullivan an order for a new
boat of the same class. George Fletcher has also
given the same builders an order for a 16-
footer. and as he generally handles the tiller for
Mr. M’Martrie, he will have two new flyers to try
his hand on next season.
In N.Z, articles have been signed for
three walking matches between A. Hancock, the
Englishman, and J. Scott. The first is to come off
on the 27th July, over a distance of 60 miles. The
second is fixed for the 10th August, and takes the
form of a 12hours’ walk; and the third a 21 hours’
walk, comes off on the 28th and 29th August, the
stakes in each case being £5O a side.
St. Gatien, the dead-heater with Harvester
for last year's Epsom Derby, and who subse-
quently won the Caejarewitoh under the biggest
weight ever carried by a three-year-old, has given
further proof of his excellence by winning the
Ascot Cup. St. Gatien, as is well-known, is the
property of a certain Jack Hammond, a man who,
very few years since, was a tout at Newmarket.
The Victoria Amateur Turf Club meeting
at Caulfield, on Saturday last, was well attended by
the public. Huntsman won the Handioan Hurdle
Race in a canter; Dundee, with Mr. C. Glasscock
up, made an easy win of the Victoria Gold Cup,
from Blackthorn : Hannibal won the Ladies’
Trophy; for the Open Steeplechase, Llzette de-
feated Old Soul by a bare half bead. Native a few
feet away, third; and Country Boy secured the
Richmond Handicap.
The English papers look upon it as a cer-
tainty that Beach will visit England. Their
biggest bid so far has been that a sum of between
£3OO and £5OO will be added by a few London
patrons of rowing to a sweepstakes of £lOO or £2OO
each (for the Championship of the World), if
Hanlan. Beach, Ross, and Teemer are amongst the
competitors, from Putney to MorMake. Not quite
big enough, we fancy, when the Yankee offers are
taken into consideration.
Colonel French, of Brisbane, proposes that
the colonies unite in sending to Wimbledon, next
year, a rifle-team, constituted as follows: N.B.W.
three men, Victoria three, 8. Australia two,
Queensland two, and Tasmania one. The cap-
taincy of the team would fall to each colony in
turn, and each colony will be required to pay the
expenses of its representatives, with, in addition,
about £2O per man in aid of general expenses.
The scheme is favourably received.
Farnan is now over in Sydney, but it
appears there was some verbal agreement that if
beaten by Lees, the match, or rather set-to, with
Foley was off, so probably we shall hear no more
of it. However, if Farnan is anxious for a shy at the
N.B.W. champion, we do not suppose he will have
much difficulty in arranging a meeting. It is on
the cards that the pair will meet in a bout towards
the end of the week, but up to the time of writing
this, nothing definite has been settled.
Bell’s Life says: “It is stated on good au-
thority that W. G. George, the amateur champion,
and W. Cummings, the professional champion,
will ere long test their relative powers of speed,
either at a mile, five miles, or ten miles Cum-
mings, who will shortly leave England for Russia,
to fulfil what is to be hoped will turn out to be a
lucrative engagement, challenged George to run
him any distance up to ten miles, for. If the ama-
teur crack chose, £lOOO a side. Arrangements are
being made to bring the two together.
Charles Richardson, the coloured pugilist
who has been demonstrating freely In Melbourne
this while back, was to have had a benefit In cr e
of the theatres there on the night of the 33nd of
June. He hadn’t it, however Constable Dunlop
had him. A traveller lost some money in Stephen-
street, and the intelligent officers of the law
thought it a good thing to arrest Richardson
among others wfien the case came on next day
at the City Court, the prisoners were discharged.
The Rugby Football Dnion Sports, to
come off on the Association Ground, next Satur-
day, promises a good day’s fun. The half-mile
Steeplechase, with its 10ft. water-jump, with 3ft.
hurdle on the take-off, should prove even more
exciting than a football match, and the Handicap
over three distances. 150,330, and 140 yards, to score
by points, will no doubt bring forth some of our
best amateur peds. After the sports are over, a
start will no doubt be made in the picking of a
team for the Queensland tour.
The final heat of the light skiff race be-
tween sculling aspirants from Saunders’ quarry,
Pyrmont, eventuated on Saturday last over a
course, in Johnston’s Bay, from Ferry-road round
boat off Young’s wharf, and back to starting
point. Power, Gardiner, and Marks were well
together at the turn, when the latter pair fouled,
and Power get away with a commanding lead.
Gardiner made a big but unsuccessful attempt to
overtake the leader, who won by a couple of
lengths, Marks bringing up the rear, a like distance
away from Gardiner,
John Roberts, jun., the billiard champion,
appears to he just now in the position of a Com-
motion or Malua, and can't get a match on without
giving a trifle too much weight away. In a plucky
endeavour to concede 3000 in 6000 to “ Davy
Richards ” (spot barred), the champion suffered
defeat by 109 points, but against such an accom-
plished opponent, Roberts must certainly be said
to have made a magnificent failure. Richards, by
the way, is brother to little “S. W, Stanley/’
another famous cueist; and the proper name of
the brethren is Digges.
It is stated that the next effort to make
men holy by Act of Parliament will be the Intro-
duction of a Bill in the English House of Commons
penalising betting, and forbidding the despatch of
betting telegrams. The last prohibition would be
useless, for if cypher were not used codes would
be quickly adopted, so that such an innocent mes-
sage a*. “ Wife better, baby dead,” might mean
“ Poolscooper improving, back him for a place.”
It is not likely that any such measures would put
an end to betting. The old Roman was about
right when he inquired : “quid leges sine moribus."
H. hutehens, the English professional
sprint champion, on May 11, made his attempt to
alter the records at 130 yards. 140 yards, and 320
yards at Li'lie Bridge, and succeeded in obtaining
credit for upsetting the last-named by covering
the distance in 314-ssec. In his essay against the
140 yards best time, namely 14 seconds, accom-
plished by W. G Scarlet at Newmarket as far back
as 1841, he was understood to have only Just
equalled the performance, although several clock-
holders made him out to have beaten it quite
three yards. Seward’s 130 yards in , how-
ever. still remains untouched, Hutchens getting
ba ly away, and losing by fully J4sec.
Freddie Qebhardt, the devoted admirer
and cavalier of Mrs. Langtry during her first tour
in the States, is just now having his little fling at
horse-racing in England, and his horse, Eole, ran
second to the famous St, Gatien for the Ascot
Cup. Both Freddy and Eole are firm favourites
with tte Jersey Lily, though the biped, probably,
stands best in tho betting. It was over one of
Eole’s American victories—at Jerome Park—that
the much-photographed lady displayed such
unwonted enthusiasm as to clap her fair hands.
If the gee-gee had pulled off the Ascot Cup, the
world might, perhaps, have witnessed the spectacle
of the ‘Lily* kicking up her dainty heels in exuber-
ance of joy.
Lovely weather and big prizes drew a large
number of spectators and ’cyclists to the Excelsior
and Humbtr bicycle races on the Association
Ground on Saturday last. The fields were un-
usually large, as were the prizes; but, of course,
as it was an amateur meeting, the one could not
have had any influence on the other, although it
di 1 seem strange that, at to is particular meeting, in
spite of the extraordinarily large fields (composed
partly, by the way, of men who never raced before,
and who will never race again except pianos and
chronographs galore can be provided for competi-
tion), in not a single instance were more than
three scratchings announced. The race of the
day, so far as prizes were concerned, was looked
forward to in the three - miles’ intercolonial
handicap. Bennett was stated to be in poor form,
and gave up after going some two miles, leaving
Wood (80 yds.) to pass all his men and win with
plenty to spare in 9 min. 56 1-5 sec., from
which it will be perceived that the fat hen—the
Brinsnoead planner—came home to roost. Foulkes
of Victoria (380 yds) was second, and A. Fry
(415 yds.) (who has suddenly developed great
form), third. The mile maiden handicap fell to
C. Cutbush; W. Boyd (10 yds.) won the 190 yards
handicap ; J. S. Foulkes carried off the live mile
scratch race, Bennett and Wood excepted ; F. S,
Passau won the one mile handicap, and E. Begg
won the boys’ half mite.
The Melbourne Herald has been cham-
pioning the cause of the overworked omnibus
drivers. It prints a letter of gratitude from one
of these, in which the writer, after expressing a
hope that the profession to which he belongs will
be put on a footing with the other eight-hours’
men in time to be represented at the next Friendly
Societies' rigadoOn, suggests that the banners of
the ’bus-drivers should have the word Herald
blazoned on it in letters of gold, and concludes
recklessly I would stagger under one side of it
if the day I did so was the last I had to live.” The
full force of this remark can. perhaps, only be ap-
prt dated by reporters. But that one sentence
marks out tne writer as one who has an almost
supernatural insight into the fitness of things.
A Mt. Montgomery, of Belfast (whether of
Ireland or Victoria, we cannot say) has been deli-
vering a lecture on Australia before the Porta-
ferry (Ireland) Band of Hope, and discoursed most
learnedly on the beauty and wealth of the cities of
Melbourne, Ballarat, Sydney, Sandhurst, and Pen-
rith. We gather from the Down Record that “ he
concluded hfs lecture with a hearty round of
applause.” Now, this is the sort of lecturer we
want. You can get from ordinary books of geo-
graphy some idea of the wealth of the other cities
referred to, but how can printed matter do justice
to the enormous resources, the wealth, and the
whirl of fashionable life that have only to be seen
once in Penrith to be remembered for ever?
Where are there goats that can compete with the
Nepean goat in scaling a fence to get at your prize
camellia, or wedge through a back gate and absorb
the dish of peeled potatoes waiting for dinner 1
Where will you find the champion pewterist, if not
in the corner of Hall's bar. at the Australian Arms
when the coach comes in ? And as for bazaars and
tea-fights, if we leave out Queanbeyan and Tam-
worth, there isn’t a place in the country that can
hold a wet tandstickor to it. 0 yes; the other
cities for industry and population, but for down-
right accumulation of wealth and ’‘go,” let our
brethren of the county Down rowdy-do w make
for the city of Penrith.
To invigorate the system and rectify irregulari-
ties of the bowels, drink Wolee s Schnapps.
It is impossible to remain long sick or out
of hea th where American Co.’s Hop Bitters are
used. S 3e another.
Another public want supplied by those
caterers, whose continued study is to march with
the times. This time, sets for dinner and tea use, in
new shapes and patterns, only 80s., at Bray’s China
Shops, 403 and 404 Deorge-street.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a standard medicinal beve-
rage, and is highly recommended by medical men.
"THE BULLETIN " TO THE
CONTINGENT.
JUNE 23. 1885.
So you’re back from your baptism of glory,
And you bring a few spots on your hands.
That our country may change her glad story.
To the wall of the blood-guilty lands!
Though we bid you, as countrymen, welcome,
Yet we utter no word of acclaim;
Only—seeing the Kingdom of Hell come
To us by your deed—we cry “ Shame!”
Once again, in your faces, we cry it,
Even as on the day you enrolled.
When a loudness of light tongues ran riot.
And brass rang a note like to gold;
When the land was one howl idiotic
Of falsehood from lip-loyal frauds,
When Plain Bill’s orders—blandly despotic—
Were almost mistaken for God’s.
Once again, and, perhaps, not as vainly—
For now; there is somewhat less noise,
And we think you can hear us more plainly—
We speak, and in just the same voice;
We repeat all we said, half unheeded
In the fury and dust of the time,
And we say, though your swords are undeeded,
You have helped in a national crime.
Though grim War’s front was not enough wrinkled
To lead to much slitting of throats,
Though the few drops of blood on you sprinkled
Are mostly—let's whisper it—goats’.
Just, to our mind, as guilty the will is
As though chance permitted the deed,
And the death-bleats of poor slain plain billies
For the souls of slain Arabs may plead.
You’ve had honours upon you strewn thickly,
You’ve had big wages carefully banked,
You’ve been treated with eulogy sickly,
And after w ards publicly thanked;
You’ve been slavered by General Graham,
And sent to the front with the Guards—
Now, ponder the words and well weigh them,
Of one of The Bulletin bards.
Now, you’ve been welcomed back and disbanded,
To seek, we trust, manlier ways,
Halt a moment, and stand there, red-handed,
And do look us straight in the face;
You’ve been praised by the great Lord Augustus,
But ours is a different task—
In the fair names of Reason and J ustloe.
We have one or two questions to ask:
When you hastened to buckle the sword on,
And thirsted to uo and away.
Was it all on account of poor Gordon,
Or—did you oo> aider the pay ?
Did you go—having heard duty bid you—
A bidding you could not refuse;
Or did you—but no!—er—well, did you
Have our own sad experience of Jews ?
Did you know that the Soudan existed
Before Dailey’s voice made it boom ?
Did you ask yourself, ere you enlisted, t -
What right Gordon had in Khartoum?
Did you say, “ After all, England maynot
Be just to those swarms by the Nile ?
Did you think it ? Well, no, we should say not;
And knowing you well, we should smile!
No, you did not go steady, or do things
1 he way men of sense would have done;
And we think you are one out of two things—
Yes, we darkly suspect you are one:
Either bravos, at so much per diem
(And that we can hardly believe), "
Who would brain the bald-head of old Priam,
Or cheerfully scalp Mother Eve;
Or men, almost equally shameful,
Who, saying “ We’ve guides; let them think
What is right—none can hold our acts blameful;
Here’s a fountain of Fame—let us drink;
We’ve been here—may be here, too, for ever,
With no chances of bloodshed or strife;
Let us break this calm spell—let us sever
These ties, and take somebody’s life!
“ Let us taste the delirium of spilling
Some blood, lest the chance should go by;
Let us revel in hacking and killing—
Our names will be heard if we die;
If we live, life will be something larger—
Not a mere life of blissful eclipse—
Bring the sword, and the gun, and the charger!
Lift the blackfeliow’s blood to our lips!
“ We have prospered, and grown to a nation,
Set in seas undisturbed, and alone —
We have heard of War’s drear tribulation
From afar-let us make it our own!
Let our hand lift on high the bright dagger,
And shake it in all the world’s face;
Let us rwirl our moustaches, and swagger,
And wear epaulettes and gold lace!
“ England calls—why she calls is no matter,
But this is the hour of her need—
Give us wails to demolish and shatter,
Give us Arabs to hew and make bleed!
Let ‘ Australia ’ in blood-stains be written—
It matters not much where or why—
Let her sons always cling to Great Britain,
And let somebody instantly die.”
So you rushed off uncaring—unthinking;
Fierce for glory at any price -daft; >
Mad with War, as men madden with drinking,
And England accepted—and laughed.
And champagne corks made sound with high
laughter.
In a wild week when all thought had fled;
That has left us to front the Hereafter
Indelibly stained and made red.
Yes. the large gift—the glory unmeasured
Of a past with no record of pain:
This, that should have been sacredly treasured,
To us has been given in vain;
And the great land God hid from the ages
Of woe and blind rage that are past
Has the stain set at last on its pages—
Has the brand on its forehead at last I
Shame upon you I All manly men’s anger
And scorn be your portion for aye;
You, who, deaf ts all voice, save the clangour
Of War, and the cries of a day—
You, who, yelling in concert such lingo
As should have been cackled by geese.
Have destroyed at the altar of Jingo
Our world-old fair heirloom of Peace.
We are English, and ten times more loyal
Than soft-mouthed liars, who bow
In the dust to what form has made Royal,
Though a crown hide Cain’s mark on the brow;
We are English—it makes our cheek redden
To say it to-day, knowing you.
Is the spirit of Runnymede dead in
Your breasts that ye do as ye do ?
And we love England well—nowhere better,
Saving this bright young land of our own—
Still, we would not assist her to fetter
Black wrists iron-worn to the bone I
Dear we bold the land mighty and stately,
Isledfar in the grey Northern Sea—
We are English, while England acts greatly,
But thereafter her enemies we.
We have said out our say. You can miz^le^
March along—disappear. We have done:
We are glad the thing turned out a fizzle— •
That your medals were easily won;
For it seems that the leg of poor Lambie
Was hurt worse than anything else;
Though your soldiering not worth a d- be,
They say that your scrub-cutting tells!
Off you go, turn to plough or to peddle,
Or to hang round the threepenny bars,
Wearing each his particular medal—
Telling each his own tale of “the wars”—
Telling each how he managed to kill his
Five blacks, ”ged, sir, treacherous dogs!”
As, on the tramp, you may boil your plain billies,
And squat round and smoke on the logs.
Understand, we have not meant to flout you
For aught, save being sent off your stroke;
If a foe sought your shore, we don’t doubt you
Would show your descent from the oak;
But, for God’s sake, be men, and not bullies,
Don’t roar to the ends of the earth—
All you’ve done only lowers and sullies,
Not brightens, the land of your birth.
Little Bobby, Again.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Herb is an obituary verge above the ordin-.
ary flight of the Muse of elegiac advertise—
ments. We take it from the Melbourne*
Age— which journal, by the way, seems tft,
have secured a genius of no common depth,
of gloom to fill its Death’s column with his
darkling verse.. Why this should be so, we,
can hardly say. Perhaps the rum they give,
him is stronger, or there is more of it. How-,
ever that may be, the following is a speoU
men of his lighter style:
“ This lovely bud, so young and fair,
Cilled hence by early doom,
Just came to show how sweet a flower
In Paradise can bloom.
In those bright and happy regions
With its pearly gates so fair,
He is with his little brother:
Yes, there’s room for Bobby there.”
Considering all things, this is not so bad.
The writer, of course, never saw little Bobby
in his life, and, therefore, the first four lines
must be admitted to partake of the bold
and imaginative. Probably the sight of
little Bobby in the flesh carting mud in the
family frying-pan, or drawing cobble-stones
in his father’s Sunday-hat, would have
dimmed the poetic impression of him as a
“lovely bud.” But, whatever vagueness
there may be about the first four lines is
amply compensated for by the last four.
The conception of there being room in
Heaven for little Robert, and a bold asser-
tion that he is with his small brother, con-
jure up a charming picture which we are
tempted to put in verse ourselves—follow-
ing afar off in the footsteps of The Age
mourner. We will call it:
Littue Bobby and Littb Freddy.
Little Bobby, when he died, he
Up to glory gaily floated,
Where he met his brother —vide
The obituaree quoted.
Bobby’s brother’s name was Freddy—
He had died a good while previous;
Dying, to his pai ents said be,
“ I believe I’ve got to leave yez,”
They considered it a terrib-
Le bereavement, and they said so;
But it—now he was a cherub—
Didn’t strike their little Fred S 3.
Howsomever, little Bobby,
Floating upward in a rare way,
Met his brother on a lobby
Somewhere on the golden stairway.
There they perched, these kids, and, maybe,
Flapped their wings in manner antic—
In appearance like two baby
Owls of a new class gigantic.
Perching there upon the lobby,
Freddy says unto his brother:
. “Ain’t you glad you’re up here, Bobby;
No more smacking now from mother.”
With a voice somewhat unsteady,
Little Bobby answers back now,
“Don’t care mother was here, Freddy—
Ain’t got anything to smack now.
“ But I’m glad none of these gauzy
Saints a little feller hinders
’Cause he tears his clothes, or ’cause he
Has a game at breakin winders.
“ No more beastly mornin’ tubbins,
No more school in Hevvin—eh, Fred?
No more sope-and-water soruobius—
Nomore nothin’, now, but play, Fred!”
Fred, then, with a comprehensive
Glance at harps and trumps so gay here,
Shawms and timbrels, answers pensive;
“ Yes, there is a lot of play here;
“Some of them there saints is too sick
For a oirkiss band; but—golly !
Though we has sich heaps of moosick,
Ain ? t the golding streets just jolly V”
With an accent melancholy,
Quick replies the “lovely bud ” here,
“ Golding streets is very jolly,
But—you ain’t got any mud here.
“ I’m a saint; what fun’s a saint got ?
Gets an old trump; has to toot it—
If I had a pie I ain’t got
Any stummick where to put it.
“ As for bein’ a chernb, I would
Sooner be a big muskeeter ;
What’s a cherrib good for ? Why would ? ”
“Scat!” says Fred, “here’s ole Sin Peter.”
Questions.
[A SONNET.]
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Soul, dost thou shudder at the narrow tomb ?
Heart, dost thou dread to moulder in the
dust?
To meat the late that all things mortal
must;
Strength in its pride, and Beauty in its
bloom?
What have ye done to merit nobler doom?
How used one life, that'ye for more should
lust?
Time, in his course, doth all things down-
ward thrust:
The unborn generations wait for room.
Blind we were born, blind die; yet we must
still
Take God to task with Whither, Whence,
and Why.
What if God, giving us our wish and will,
Said “ Judga thyself ” to each!—who dare
reply ?
He knows the end, who made the perfect
plan :
Hell were too small if man were judged by
man.
VICTOR J. DALEY.


GOMPAGNONI CATERING
PITT STREET, SYDNEY
fTIHE oldest and leading Catering Establishment 1b NSW
J. Municipal Council of S— 1 - tl -- * T ~ -°' vr *
The Dining Saloons for ~
39 O CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
IMPORTERS; tOF SUPPLIES
©\
e
%
9
€
Co
s,
c o
gs-g
ft
Q> ,C
C; Co
CJO
S Qi
S.
5^
5*
U4
a.
. u
C
a
a.
H
Pi
c
a.
&0
5*
a.
s^s
a.
a.
hj CT5
CD
<o
0
CD 2
& o
33
£
%
Jk
2. %
5
%
pr <
Catalogues post free
■TccTan y"part of
~-' r ~' AUSTRALIA.
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied *\best,
and Cheapest in the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments, wlth JnstnlotloM for NotloM , :
BULL DOCt i
FIRST AWARD, GOK
CALCUTTA EXHII
THE sparkling-, healthful, ref
quenching properties of th
bottling of Bass’ Ale have ot
Robert Porter and Co. the high
the Calcutta Exhibition. Conn
Beer may obtain their favour!
choicest possible condition by oi
ALE, which is to be obtained
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—
Sole Agents.
JAS. LAWSON
ART-FURNITURE
UPHOLBTERI
AND
CARPET WARBHC
Corner of William-stree
High-class Fi
At Very Lowest Prices, compat
workmanship and finish, fo
dining-rooms, drawing.roo
and libraries
CARPETS IN NEWEST
FINEST QUAI
WILTON CARPETS. BRUSI
AND KIDDERMIN BTBI
With Hearthrugs tc
m~ CORLICINE AND
BEDSTEADS IN BLACK A*
BLACK AND Bi
In all sizes and varloi
A. & C. HUENE
Royal Piano & Mush
SIS GEORGE «
Next Peapes and £
rp 0 ALL 1
HAVE YOU U
LEWIS & Wl
Borax I
HT“ TRY IT for FLANNBI
FLOORS or WOODWORK,
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL
IN SOAP I
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whlteni
washed with i
HEAL SCRATCHES, (
and make the skin soft
ONE TRIAL WILL C
|y Sold by every Storekeei
fid. per Ba
Sole Manufaotu
Lewis & 1
CLARENCE STREET
[IVHOODandtheVIGI
• ESTORED INFOI
ESSENCE©t
feonly infaliioie
//er/oi/sJjee
This invaluable and ac 1 :n
affords relief and pcrmar
suffer wasting and withering
muscular tissues, sperm atorrht
deposits, which causes incapaci
total and partial prostration, i
haustive derangement of thesj
all the Important elements of
and enabling man to fulfil his i
tlons. In cases at 135., or four (
Ms.; If by coach, 2s. 6d. extra, i
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and
street. One Door from Georgs
AYEB
Cherry Pe
No other complaints are sc
attack as those affecting the
none so trifled with by the n
ers. The ordinary cough c
perhaps from a trifling or
posure, is often hut the bej
sickness. Ayer’s Cherrv
well proven its efficacy in a
with throat and lung diseas
taken in all cases without d>
A Terrible Cougl
“In 18571 took a severe co
my lungs. I had a terrible <
night after night without sl>
gave me up. 1 tried Ayei
toral, which relieved nr
sleep, and afforded me tii
for the recovery of my si
continued use of the Pec
nent cure was effected. I
old, hale and hearty, and (
Cherry Pectoral saved
Horace F
‘Roekimrham. Vt... .iulv 15.
THE LATEST W0 a KB AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
(Sl
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
WILLIAM E
THE “PROFESSIONAL” AN
TICAL CHEM]
61 Bourke-street East,
THE Toilet and Theatrical
factored by W. Balt,, ar
purest ingredients, and are f
cause the least injury to the mi
There are few ladies now. e
or of the Theatrical Profession
upon the
BLOOM OF Pi
(REGISTERED
as the one article that is perfec
factory to use eithei
THEATRE, BALLROOM, 0
S 5
Our Cupids Manufacturing I
“Dear Sir,—l consider your *
and should never think of u
while it is possible to obtain it.
The following ladles and ge
written, speaking in the high
Toilet Requbites Mesdames
Alice Dourwyue, Myra Kemb
Roland Watt Phillips, etc., etc.
Titheradge, George Kignold,
Hodgson, W. J. Holloway, Fr
Darley, Frank Cates, etc.
To be obtained of all
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6
Wholesale Agents,
Messrs. PROSSER & C
Bavarian i
itters. I
Bavarian Hop
Made of the best Bavarian Hoj
They take the first place whei
well authenticated by eminent
well-known analysts.
Read the reports and test in:
pany each bottle, and do not
trial of BAVARIAN HOP Bi
P. KIB
TJn.d.ext<
84 HUNTER * PHILL]
FUNERALS NEATLY B
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the (
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen
Manager for over ten QO) yean.
Been hunting for ease all my II
last with the Argosy Braces s
other.
From the late Mr. Jam.


jpUSNITUKS 81
BRADLEY NEWTON
O’Connell and Spring st
H
ALL FURNITURE, I
CHAIRS, LARGE ASS(
Library furniture,
TABLES. BOOKCASE!
READING and LOUNGE CHi
RAWING-ROOM SUITED
stored, at all prices. Bi
Lamb.
ALL CABINETS for (
VERT ELEGANT, jus
Newton, and Lamb.
Novelties in boudoir s
SUITES. Bradley, New!
Bedroom suites compie
and very handsome de
wardrobes, or with smaller v
rooms. Grtat variety. BRi
and LAMB, Spring and O’Conm
BEDRO.C
E Economic Bedroom Suite
robe, chest drawers, washstand
glass, and two chairs. The lot 1
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Conn
Bedroom suites (Fashio
Designs).—WARDROBE,
plate-glass door; WASHSTANI
and tile back and Towel rail
with swing glass attached:
BOARD, and 3 CANE SEAT Cl
BRADLEY, NEW'
HEAP FURNITURE.—Pin
6d.; Dining Tables, fr
Dressers, from 375. 6d.; Washs
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; W
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.;
from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, fr
Tables, with Drawers, from
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring am
i?QK PIANOFORTE, gi
strong, and durabl
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant i
Black and Gold Case. Free at ra
cash only. Bradley, Newton, an
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, H
able designs In Black and
Shelves; also in Oak and Wall
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LA»
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all
variety of designs; also ele
Embroidery, Plush, &c.
WHATNOTS
V just received. Bradley, Ne
O’Connell-street.
NAMBLLED and JEWELL]
Wall and Table Jardlnle
forming Summer Screens for i
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWT*
O Connell-street.
TV RA WING-ROOM
JJ A GREAT VARIETY ol
Prices, from 13s 6d. Bradley, Ne
CHAIR BEDSTEADS,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very
pensive. Bradley, Newton, &Lt
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DI
with swing GLASS ant
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dinini
BOARD, DINNER WA
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASS
ING CHAIRS and DINING
match, on view at Show Booms,
D
,ININ6 TABLES, with
screw, from 6 feet long a:
d ELF-AD JUSTIN G HAMM
SOCIAL
The Sydney Theatre Royal looked gay on
the evening of Wednesday last week, packed, as it
was, In circle and stalls, with the bon-ton or Syd-
ney. All the beauties and fashionables for miles
around were to be seen there, and the Governor
and Lady Loftus actually came in good time, and
sat out the whole of the performance. Other
notables we noticed were Admiral Tryon and
captains and officers of Her Majesty's Australian
squadron, members of the Ministry, Colonel
Richardson and officers of the Contingent, Captain
Hixson and officers of the Naval Brigade, besides
others too numerous to mention. And what came
they all out for to see ? Nothing less than a thea-
trical performance by fashionable amateurs, In
aid of the Commodore Naval House. The Go-
vernor and his party were comfortably seated in
front of the stalls, consequently everybody wanted
stal’-ieats for that night, and couldn't get them.
The performance opened with a one act come-
dletta, called “ I’ve written to Browne,” which
was amusing, and fairly well played. Miss Ethe.l La-
bertouche, who took the part of Mrs. Walsingham,
was arch and pretty, and wore a becoming cream
dress, with twine-coloured lace flounces, and high
drapery of old gold satin; coquettish straight
brimmed sailor hat, trimmed with lace and
flowers. Another pretty costume she wore, was a
biscuit-coloured silk, relieved with pale blue
ribbons, and on her head was the tiniest mob cap,
composed of lace and blue ribbons. Miss Gerty
Fischer acted her part prettily and gracefully, and
wore a simple but charming dress of pale blue
material, with deep cream silk Spanish lace
flounces, lace jabot, adorned with blue chenille
cord, and high hat, trimmed with handsome blue
plumes. Both ladies received beautiful bouquets
at the close of the act. In the second part of the
performance “Garrick,” Mrs. “Professor Smith
managed to disguise her pretty shoulders and
face so effectually that even her mother
couldn’t have recognised her, and was very
funny as Selina Sowerberry. Miss Orr, as Mrs.
Bumbelow, was equally grotesque. Violet
(Miss Labertouche) was beautifully attired
In a pure white satin dress; train of broche
satin, and draplngs of exquisite white lace on skirt
and bodice, the sole colour being shown in the
spray of violets worn on the corsage. This lady so
pleased the audience by her acting that nothing
less than repeated calls before the curtain would
satisfy them, and many floral tributes fell to her
lot. Lady Loftus was robed in black satin, and
wore a lace cap covered with rather sombre-look-
ing leaves and flowers—handsome embroidered
pale blue satin opera-cloak. Mrs. Glllis was con-
spicuous in a superbly handsome crimson plush
cloak which reached down to the hem of her dress.
Miss Gurney also wore a crimson plush tippet.
A ruby chenille tufted grenadine was worn by a
young fair lady. The bodice was of ruby velvet,
with yoke of black satin, and adorned with small
silver sprays An old-gold plush sleeveless bodice
was worn over a black lace skirt, and was very
handsome. A young lady in a cream veiling had a
gaudy-plumaged bird perched on her left shoulder.
Many ladles wore leather tufts in their coiffures,
and long lace armlets were almost universal. The
performance ended sometime before 11 o’clock,
and those who were fortunate enough to be near
the doors reached their carriages sometime before
midnight.
• • • i
As was expected, the Sydney bicycle sports
on Saturday afternoon attracted a brilliant crowd,
and there wasn’t a single colour of the ralnbhw
unrepresented in the ladies’ costumes. Most
gorgeous and assertive was a bright pickle-green
satin, worn with a light straw hat adorned by a
magnificent sulphur-coloured plume, which hung
half way down to the waist of the wearer. A red
brown plush petticoat had an overskirt of satin
in the same shade, and very rich and conspicuous
costume. A daughter of a George-street pho-
tographer wore a costume of the most dismal
shade of crushed strawberry, and a small tinselled
straw bonnet. A pretty, fair girl shivered in a
cream veiling, relieved by heliotrope satin panels.
Much admired was a black serge dress, with high
drapery of black satin spotted with amber balls.
A harmony of discords was a deep green costume,
pleated skirt, the pleats being lined with pale blue.
The jacket of the green opened over a pale blue
waistcoat, and was very effective. A Balmain
laoy wore a neat and tasteful costume of stone
grey. The redingote-shaped polonaise, which fell
nearly to the hem of the skirt, was edged with
gray fur ; small grav straw bonnet to match.
A startling, yet effective combination, was
green and pink. The dress of green velvet
had pink ribbon bows plentifully scattered
over skirt, sleeves, and bodice, and the green
velvet muff was tied and otherwise ornamented
with the same contrasting colour. A handsome
chocolate-brown cashmere, made with a finely-
kilted skirt, had high turned-under drapery of
same material, picked out with crimson chenille
spots—a brown velvet Tam O’Sbanter, with crim-
son wing. An elaborate costume, of moss-green
brocaded velvet, looked very seasonable. The
parasol, which was also of the brocade, was lined
with crimson satin, which threw a becoming glow
over the wearer’s face. An extremely tasteful
dress was of plum-coloured plushette, and fawn
cashmtre. The skirt was of the heavy material,
and the graceful pointed apron and jacket of the
cashmere—fawn straw Medicls bonnet, with plum-
coloured plumes. Warm and comfortable-looking
was a crimson cloth, trimmed with silver fur;
skirt plain and full, and jaunty, well-titling
jacket, opening over silver gray plush waistcoat.
The edge of jacket and skirt were both surrounded
by the fur-gray plush hat in the new *qua#h shape,
with crimson plumes. Wraps of all descriptions
were worn towards evening, the most beautiful
being of seal-brown velvet brocade, lined with
cerise satin, and tied down to the front with
cerise chenille cords and tassels.
♦ • ♦
The bachelors of Glen Innes gave their
second dance on Wednesday evening, the 17th.
The room was comfortably filled, and dancing
kept up with great spirit for five or six hours. A
tall lady with a good figure, who came from Wel-
lington Vale, looked well in mauve silk, richly
trimmed with white lace, body cut low and laced
down the back. A lady from Deepwater looked
nice in black, with chocolate trimmings. A pretty
dress, worn by a lady from Strathbogie, was white
Bilk and lace, with tulle waterfall. The most sty-
lish and effective costume was worn by a railway
surveyor’s wife, who was the belle of the ball, and
consisted of a plain black silk bodice, out square,
and edged with a row of pearls, long black gloves,
and pearl biacelcts worn above the elbow A
graceful dancer in pure white came from Bolivia
The wife ot the local doctor was charming in black
and scarlet: and a youcg married lady wore pale
blue aud * hlte. Some extra aanoes were skilfully
played by a lady in pink satin. Affair very eu-
joyable. * * *
For tho first time since its birth, the
Sydney Lledertafel experienced the sight ot empty
chairs last Tuesday night, upon the occasion of
Its 21st concert The rain had a lot to answer for
that night, for, worthy as the concert was la
almost every respect, there’s no denying the fact
that the best items were oomplet ly spoilt by the
noisy patter on the tool of the Exhibition Build-
ing. Excepting to those quite close to the stage,
the pianissimo passages in the B flat concerto,
played by Herr Vogricb with string accompani-
ment, were completely lost, his was aggravating
to those who had braved tho wind and rain in order
to hear something specially good. Those who
were fortunate enough to hear the concerto, were
loud in their appreciation, and recalled the
talented pianist. Some disappointment was felt in
Madame Vogrich’s first solo, the “Polonaise,”
from “ Mignon,” but her second effort “ The
Post,” with cornet obligato, satisfied everybody,
and obtained a hearty encore. Perhaps Daddie
Hallcwoil’B Hue wgtw baa uinde ua hypercritical
In the way of baritones and basses, butcertesit
passes our understanding what claims Mr. Fried-
man could have to justify his being selected for a
Lledertafel soloist. His voice is pleasant, but
small; his style good, but commonplace—we want
more than this now-a-days. It may be unfair
to judge a new comer under such disadvantage-
ous circumstances as presented themselves this
night, but that’s how he impressed us. A few
familiar faces were missing amongst the chorus,
but the way the choruses were sung without the
aid of the absent ones, induces us to fancy
that the latter go to these concerts more for
the sake of showing themselves than to sing.
Mendelssohn’s Hymns of Praise were a grand
treat, and “Always More,” a delightful item. The
scrap from Herr Vogrich’s unpublished oratorio,
“The Capltlvity,” sung by the second basses,
whetted our appetite to hear the whole work. We
heard just enough to satisfv us that there’s some
good music In this Oratorio. “The Huntsman’s
Chorus” terminated the concert, and was sung
with the true Lledertafel vigour and precision—
Sydney Lledertafel, of course, we mean.
* * *
A wedding, interesting to the residents of
Narrabrl and surrounding districts, was celebrated
on Wednesday, the 17th, in the local Church of
England. The bride, Miss Alice Maud, daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. J. T. Everlngham, then and there
joined hands and hearts with Mr. A. Stafford, a
popular member of a local business firm. The
bride’s fine figure was embraced by a beautiful
ivory satin gown trimmed with edelweiss lace.
The exquisite bouquet, veil, and wreath were in
accordance with the dress. The dresses of the
bridesmaids—sisters and cousins of the bride (no
aunts, dear reader)—came in fora share of general
admiration. Miss Everlngham was in pale pink
cashmere trimmed with coffee lace; Miss Ella,
cream, with gold and cream trlmmingp; Miss Lina,
pale blue and coffee lace and wreath to oorres-
I)ond; Miss Hannah, cream cashmere with cream
ace and cardinal ribbons. With the one exception,
all wore caps to match the costumes. Breakfast at
Ivanhoe, the residence of the bride’s parents, to
which about 40 guests were bidden. The travelling
costume of the bride was ruby Indiana cord, with
trimmings of plain and figured ruby velvet.
Honeymoon at Sydney.
♦ • •
The Fraternity of Mutual Imps gave a
ball in Needs’ rooms last Monday night, to cele-
brate the anniversary of the formation of the
lodge. As no strangers to the fraternity were ad-
mitted, the affair was more like a private gather-
ing than a public ball, and the Imps were most
assiduous in their endeavours to make things
pleasant to everybody. The handsomest dress was
worn by Miss May Livingstone, and consisted of a
pale pink brocaded satin skirt, the front width of
which was handsomely embroidered in white
crystal beads; bodice and drapery of brocade in a
slightly deeper shade, adorned with magnificent
long pink plumes; pink beaded straps hung from
the sleeveless bodice, and a handsome diamond
necklace pendant encircled the neck; fan com-
f»osed entirely of pink plumes. Mrs. Keenan
ooked pretty and graceful in a nut-brown satin
skirt, with brown tulle draperies, low sleeveless
bodice of brown brocaded velvet and satin, slightly
touched with pink satin; long brown silk gloves.
Miss Annie Taylor, black broche with long tram.
Mrs. Kva, wife of the principal Arch Fiend (1), wore
cream veiling with deep lace flounces and crimson
ribbons Miss Butter, pale-blue veiling; square-
out bodice, filled in to the neck, with gathered
ivory satin, and garniture of cream lace and
flowers. A pretty little maiden with close-
out curly black hair, had a novel trim-
ming of gold coins on her white satin dress,
which tinkled merrily through the dances.
Miss Toogood was pretty in pink veiling and
cream lace, and Miss Pain wore a tasteful costume
of white India muslin, trimmed with coffee lace,
and a broad, pale-blue silk scarf, tied over the hips
A tall, slim young lady, in white corded silk and
pink roses was attractive, and a bridal-looking
dress of rich white broche satin, with long train,
and much trimmed with white lace was admired.
Miss Woodbourne wore salmon-pink broche with
black lace sleeves and jet ornaments; and a flame-
coloured satin, with Spanish lace draperies, was
striking. Brothers Hart and Skinner varied the
entertatnmet with a couple of songs, and Mr.
Sneridan caused great diversion by his eccentric
dancing. Music and refreshments (Compagnonl)
were alike excellent, and the 34 dances were
finished in time to allow of suburban people
arriving home in time for an early breakfast.
♦ * ♦
The ball given by Mr. Q. W. Ta>lor in the
Prahr n Tow;, H ill, M Ibourne, on the 25tb June
was a most brilliant affair. All the luxuries of the
season, and many besides, were to be found in the
refreshment rooms. The prettiest girls in Mel-
bourne and 30 tip-top musicians were in the ball-
room. Graham Berry, C.M.G., and Mr. Mlrams
found a quiet room where they could play 100 to
their hearts’ content, and the genial mayor must
indeed have been delighted at the manner in
which his hospitalities were appreciated. A high-
clußs concert was amongst the amusements pro-
vided, and Miss Stevenson, who was in great de-
mand with the officers of the French man of-war
Lescarf, was, a correspondent alleges, the belle
Last Friday night the Sydney Socials
“ socialled” again at Need’s rooms. Tne dancers
were mostly pretty and some even handsome.
Miss Chapman in white satin skirt, cardinai plush
bodice and bertha of white feathers, was very
enticing. Miss Whitfield wore pale blue silk and
white lace trimming, Miss Garrett black satin and
lace with jet trimming and cardinal flowers. A
graceful dancer wore white chenille skirt, bro-
caded bodice and pearls, Very tasteful was a
white llama skirt, black velvet bodice trimmed
with gold lace, a la mllltaire. From William-street
came a pink satin, with deep lace flounces, also a
brunette in pink silk trimmed with lace and
berries. Becoming was a blue satin with coffee-
coloured lace; and a white lace skirt adorned with
ruby pompons, worn with white satin bodice, was
tasteful. Dancing was kept up till midnight.
♦ * *
St. Andrew’s Lodge, No. 501 S.C. Grenfell,
celebrated St. John’s night by a ball which was
carried out with great success. The ladies dis-
played unusually good taste in their toilettes for
the occasion—especially the married ones. The wife
of a local bank manager, who was dressed in an
exceedingly becoming pink satin, was accorded
the belleshlp by all. About 60 sat down to a good
supper at 13 o'clock, after which dancing was re-
sumed and kept up with great spirit to the wee,
ana 1 hours.
• * «
Last Friday night the Rover Cricket Club
and friends assembled at the new Masonic Hall to
celebrate their second annual social. The atten-
dance numbered upwards of 150. The proceedings
were opened by a concert, and the songs rendered
by Misses Holmes, M'Glll, and Hell, Messrs
Arnott, Costello, and Landers were well appre-
ciated, also a recitation by Mr. R. Costello. The
President’s trophy was then handed to Mr. W. G.
Thomas for highest aggregate, also the club's
trophy for batting average. Mr. E. Costello re-
ceiving club’s trophy for bowling average, and
Mr. C. Woodley a silver cup for second place.
After this chairs were cleared,when more brilliant
and exciting scenes were commenced. Miss
M’Neill, of North Shore, wore a handsome dress of
cream satin and lace, and Miss Byrnes a black
spotted grenadine ; Miss Lynch, cream satin and
cricketing emblems ; Mrs. J. Lowe looked exceed-
ingly nice, as also did a young lady in black Spanish
lace with the Club’s colours on the right shoulder.
Many green dresses were worn, one in a very dark
shade being the most pleasing. Half-past two saw
the end of a very enjoyable time.
♦ 9 •
A number of ladies and gentlemen, prin-
cipally from the Eastern suburbs, hold a private
assembly in Tattersall’s Hall last Thursday even-
ing. The ladies, as a matter of course, were all
charmingly attired. A Paddington belle wore a
blue broche trimmed with cream lace, pearls, and
swansdown; another attractive maiden, from
Miller's Point, was attired in pale-blue silk, with
over-skirt of blue ponpon net. Two sisters from
Glebe Point, in black and gray, looked very nice;
and from the same locality came a pair in pink.
The wife of a handsome medico near Crown-street
wore her wedding garment of cream satin and
lace. A young lady from Killarney was attired in
cream and red, and the wife of an official in the
Legislative Council in pale-blue gros-grain silk was
very charming. So much enjoyment attended
this gathering that it was there and then arranged
to hold another at no distant date.
** * *
One of the most active clubs in Melbourne
is the Bohemian. During last year their public
performances enabled them to distribute £6OO
amongst local charities. They are now booked
for a perfermance in aid of Miss Sutherland’s
Gutter Children Mission Mr. G. A. Sala was
entertained by the Mayor of East Maitland and
other leading residents at Fulford’s Hotel last
Saturday —The Temperance people entertained
by a tea and concert the Good Templars of the
N SW. Contingent at the Temperance Hall last
Friday night. Between 20 and 30 members of the
Contingent, who had resisted alcoholic temptations
during the campaign, were present The Tam-
worth Philharmonic Society gave their first con-
cert last Thursday evening. Great success
German Club Concordia gave a masked ball in
West’s Academy last Friday night The Mayoral
ball at Prahan, Melbourne, was given with great
success last Thursday night. Over 1000 present
Mr. F. R. Peel gave a complimentary concert last
Thursday evening in the Glebe Town Hall, but
more guests having been invited than the room
would accommodate, many could not obtain ad-
mittance.
ANSWERS TO SOCIAL CORRESPONDENTS.
[Note. —Social items, in order to ensure inser-
tion for the current week, should be to hand no
later than Tuesday.]
“Vic.”: Sorry we couldn’t strain a point even to
oblige vou. but our points don’t give ... “ Occa-
sional Contributor”: Much obliged, but notice
of the affair already to hand.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Masonic Lodge of St. Andrew’s Social, ves-
tibule of the Town Hall, Thursday July 2.
Petersham Social, local Town Hall, Friday.. July 3
Social of La Socleta, Nlthsdale, Friday July 3
Newtown Private Social July 3
American Garden Party, Botany July
The New York Daily Graphic of July 14th, 1884
contains illustrations of the Wolfe’s Schnapps
establishment at Hamburg
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated wltk
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 604 Hunter-street, Sydney.*
Newspaper men are about the best judges of a
good drink. They one and all appreciate Wolfe’s
Schnapps,
LADY CARINGTON.


Sydney, Wednesday.
Dearest Belle,—lndeed, dear, you need not
bemoan the fate which willed that you should not
down to Sydney to witness the return of
the Contingent. It would have made your tender
heart bleed had you seen the poor fellows looking
weak and ill, wearily draggle# their limbs through
the drenching rain, and all lor what? Simply to
tbe Sydney public. In my humble opinion,
nmnl a W) i :k u d riak of human life to allow this
a ° d . ho 7 those who were comfortably
seated in their close carriages could unfeelingly
the tight is beyond my conception.
d ? r the-t, after such a morning, the men
freely in whisky as soon as ever they
ah e nnt a thft b^i+ ty ’ ? nd tbe - Bight of them reeling
fo ont w « s disgusting, we recalled
the if Bu ff erl ogB of the morning and
ut 1 a:a Klad you weren't here,
. B e ,? r ’ e Y bcd ® P B^eant would have made you
be t n ? r ! es day lfc was for the cabbies to
Ki ? ut l - learnt one good thing that
memorable day, viz , that sometimes even a cabby
mir f n " We hud been waiting and waiting
our chance of a conveyance, when I espied an empty
cab making for our direction, but my heart sank
mi h T n fhX n °hV oe *t tho dnver refuse fare after fare,
there was small chance of cur pre-
rioi'iim Vf*°ri Iflf 11 1° take uB< But to my intense
hnr^ r ' Cabby drew up and said that although
i b /L b ° WdB dead -tired, ho didn’t like to see a
lady getting wet, so he would stretch a point and
rwh^o o^! 6 u 4‘ .^. hen we had *e a ted ourselves,
h^ Q hlBpe r, ed to *f ed that this cabby must certainly
u e iJ;S a ® nt lemßn in reduced circumstances. He said
IH 14 ® P° BBl ble, as he once knew a young
r h » n e h ?T b( i Ci f me t 0 the colonies, and soon
bld for tune. and when he found him-
m*°?®y ’ and ! aB a natural consequence,
tthnnt l him b ' friend8 t he was compelled to look
foi i employment. Nothing suitable
nrfatnorii P ’ 80 ’ ir f flt of desperation, the young
aristocrat accepted the post of cab driver! Ned
and e ho bl day n £ o,r eDjoyed his new life,
and he replied. Oh, as for the cab-driving. I
t mind that a bit, but it’s the (the adjective
r t v?° ° a ughty to repeat, dear) cads
L? a J? to dr ? ye a hcut that stick in my throat.” I
wern believe all the way home that we
be«n Sn /.rt 1 T en K by a /ouDg lord, and if it hadn’t
been 80 da rk, I should certainly have taken the
number of his cab; but strain my eyes as I would
make out the figures, and I didn’t care
mo k Men Hnn t “i 16 mi g ht have la ughed at
“vilitflnd kindness 0 dear * hOW we appreciate
t a fl? n a e H o ff°wL Pa^ ty Y? nt , ed t 0 g 0 t 0 the Lieder-
vm? a Y aB t r? bleakest and wettest night
LUn nf 6 Lw ff r xft was then I was quite cer-
f? ld of ba * have lQ ng suspected, and that is
that most «iris go to these concerts simply to
show their dresses. Edith declared she wasn’t
gb lD * td wear her new white silk, as there would
5° few people there to see her, and as
she declined to don a costume which had twice
before seen the inside of the Exhibition Building,
the only alternative was to stay at home. For
once I was quite sorry that I was bern with such a
™™ ou * nd 1 j V ® of g ° od music, but when I put the
«nS C « r n m^ an n unfrcBh sown against a cosy Are
and an interesting novel, the former weighed
down the scales, so I and a few other foolhardy
enthusiasts braved the elements and went. But,
to our astonishment, when we arrived we found
fbat many hundreds besides ourselves had been
tempted to the concert; still you may be sure, dear,
there were hardly any nice dresses to be seen, and
fn iw„ a ? d watched the girls walk up the room
f? Abdr dowdy attire, I realised what a vast deal
there is in dress alter all. I .couldn’t help
snulmg as one tall gawky girl in cream
passed us, and who had put on her im-
prover too much on one side, making the
most comical figure I ever saw. It wiggle-waggled
®J® r 1° “?? b - juBt as if it were trying to right It-
A??f® remained, looking for all the
world as if the wearer had an exaggerated hip-
disease. But Madame Vogrich looked as nice as
she always does, in a rich Ivory silk, with a tre-
mendous train. The front of the skirt was covered
and
You may have heard all about the grand amateur
performance given at the Theatre Koyai by some
of our best amateurs here, yet I must just give
you my opinion that the ladies far surpassed the
gentlemen In their acting. Mr. Stupart was funny
sometimes, but I wonder why, when he wanted to
show emotion he threw himself full length unon a
sofa and kicked his little legs, just llke a chUd m a
fret, pome people seemed to ihink it very funny
this and a few other eccentri-
cities, however, he wasn tso bad. Mr. George La-
bertouche has some °t the right stuff in him, but.
as I said before, the ladies hold things together.
o Wo H ldn 4 believe, dear, what a number of
thl « 8 a . d »® nt j e men came in late, and quite spoilt
* b ® Part ot the performance by tueir noisy
and bustling entrance. Why, even the Governor
was punctual upon this occasion, so surely every
body else might have been. But, apart from
fbfae minor annoyances, it was a delightful night,
the theatre looked quite fresh and pretty
with all the bealitlful floral decorations. &o.
Oh, dear 1 these bishops and clergy are lust
worrying us to death about our marriages, confir-
mation gowns, and the like. My poor friend
roa^J^’i^h 08 ® nodding is Axed for next month, is
f? ally distressed about the new rule laid down by
be *-C ; Archbishop of aydney before he went
awa y . I mean the rule concerning marriages in
churches. And she waslloo king for wtird with such-
weil, anxiety to this biggest event of herlifo. You
a ?°^*, dear ’ the one great show a woman takes the
centrßl place in, in her life, is her wedding. Here
she has no rival—no disputant; she is queen, sove-
reign, and alone She naturally, therefore, wants
te ?i t that Bu Preme moment.
Now, this is what ails the poor little girl. Her
Bho C K’. as y< ff k now, isChurch of England, and
a Homan Catholic, they cannot be mar-
ried m the church. It must be done privately In
dnL 6 ?f nctUary ; i ? 9ked Ned a &out It. but/he
doesu t unuerstand her feelings. He said. ‘‘Can’t
she go to the Protestant Church ?” But. of course!
mnJi gl r 1 iBov-e.Bn,t 0 v- e . 8n,t g 0 au ywhere, just as a
r Q | d0 ® 8 ’ ai M l/ old hl “ 8 2- “ Why, then, doesn’t
fffij l ':® Melbourne ?’’ ho said. It seems, it she
i\T ed u m Melbourne, she could get married in
® bdrob ‘ I Bat that strange? “But,” continued
i® 1 ber n< ? t S° to Brisbane, or she can’t
get it done even in her sanctuary.” Now. I want
in t hS°/ ho ,l ali these things can be so different
wfint e^ Ba ? e li. It she goes to Ireland,” he
Went on to say, and talks of marrying a Protes-
tant, the Bishop will call down the ma'edictione of
-intf*!® 11 on ?°tk their heads. Matrimony is grow-
' lon» nL 8e s ioUB ® vofy day > and the mmy restric-
tor ?h P i??, d n pon U 8 ar ? quit ? enough to account
dav i?,/ / per deata k e of marriages nov-»-
uay. But, after, ali, why can’t your friend hi*
arned in the house ?” This is certainly au easy i
CaMn after tbe remarks
t/Hnon wnice made, the other dav. at thp Amriinan
Synod, at Newcastle, how can any sensitive irirl
brine herself to be married outJt Sch ? He
Sbid. A wave of immorality is pacing over the
a P d that . is a £ reat reason for people keep
uig outof church vi hen being married. ** Minnie
44? church on account of the
BO6 marrl ‘ B ° Ut of churcb-
drtsses ab lt l ipp t e b a l ?B thf submisfi™ rnffins™fthe
Wnts°whioh I ho nCh h Bter + , K dioctBe have taken the
fv, w - ioh ,. have been thrown out to them regard-
ing their all-too-elaborate toilettes for the con-
eersmony, and presented themselves for
the dtsired blessing In blank garments. His Lord-
ship, though a little startled by the sombre effect
limented the candidates upon their wis-
wlS drPs S e e « C 0 lQ P rovidiD * themselves
dresses which would prove useful for
other occasions. But, now, look here, Belle How
ridic l uJous B at7i?B t ? hy r men like us to criticise ' th *ir
riaicuious attire? In my eyes a bishoos irarh in
setoff a comedy, and especially when the gaiters
too ? ff wl, t 0 flre ton k«- And the hat,
too ? Why should they wear such monstrosities ?
thought I had done talking to you about
m h^H heB a ° d marriages for this time, but I just re-
member not having mentioned the baby-wedding
ht?do7? 8 s° i lBmilized at Ashfleld the other day
rbride 17, bridegroom 19. And, oh, in Maitland
a bank clerk with £93 a year proposed to
the daughter of a rich storekeeper’s widow. He
Mo B r. aCCe ? ted .l 4 then demurred on account of
his poverty. Oh, never mind,” said the daughter
* bh afraid -Ma and I can easily keen
T h anl i y °, u< ” be gasped, and cramming
return* hlB head h ® WaS » one ~ never . never to
There is a beard-growing epidemic amongst our
men just now, dear which, I hope and trust, will
not live long. Not that I much object to beards,
when the growing is over, but at the bristling stage
they are anything but attractive-looking. They
are all at that unbeautiful stage at present, so I
love them bettor at a distance. Oh, if they only
knew the confusion and embarrassment 1 once
saw caused by the long busby beard, they would
think twice before running the risk of the same
experience. It was one night at a party. Several
couples had been promenading on the verandahs.
aad upon re-entering the ball-room to join in a set
of qufidriUes. one gentleman who was escorting a
pretty fair-haired girl, was observed to have a
most unusua! ornament clinging to his beard
8 £b a u an earring. Of course all eyes
turned *rom this to the girl who hung upon his
arm, who, sure enough, was minus one of her ear-
pendants. A suppressed titter rippled round
?be room, and it was only when she turned
,£° ber partner that the reason of
their mirth dawned upon the girl. To ciap
band over her earnngiess ear and rush from
the room in the deepest confusion was the work of
hit C o o^f’ bearded one being left in misery to
brave It out alone. Moral: Don’t wear earrings
*° Promenading with a bearded man
after a dance. And this advice, dear, comes at an
opportune moment, for fashion has decided that
earrings are to be worn no more. A golden oppor-
tunlty now offers for someone to amass a fortune
ears' 1 VeDt D? a wa F Btop up tbe boles in the
. X? 8 is quite true that women are now taking
h r a i™ r - 88in8 lP ro f e BBlon. And why shouldn't
Sul i l n*s.iV U si th M y wiU prove to be Quite as
skilful in that direction as men, and far, far less
tiresome. Ot course, when the pretty harberesaes
L£? G ma , le P° rtion Of the town
will easily persuade themselves that it is necessary
to have their hair dressed every day instead of
better
From all I hear, the American Garden Party Is
l° be a 7 er y Krand affair this year. Mr!
s?nn le^^H 9 to . makea speech on the occa-
sion, and Miss Genevieve Ward is to read the
Declaration of Independence. We are all wonder-
ing what the new Consul, Mr. Griffin, will have to
?orin D h thi Bpee £ h- We know what nice, kind, tiat-
tering' things he_ can say of our country and us
-ben he isn t trying, but how he will deliver him-
SUSSftSSSfSf Sf 4 hl ‘ ““"“y
Ever yours,
MAB.
I News comes by the mail that Hush Con-
way Is really dead. Men of g6oias have a wav of
departing-. Hke Kirke White, whin fill is Tn the
Hhm?f r r'Jl ere “ unusually sad, though,
about Conway s death. For years he had toiled
on in obscurity, and then, just as his “Dark Days ’’
had passed away, and riches, honour, and fame
3w. al i? 8 own * he was taken to that land from
h « caa never be “ Called Back.” It la said
that Mr. targus was indirectly indebted to a for-
oflf* 0 a 088 u or f hterary success he
achieved. He had been asked to write a story for
Arrowsmith’s Annual but had declined, when the
need of money resulting- from a sudden loss in-
duced him to alter his determination. He set to
wo ,k and wrote “Called Back,' 1 which must have
earned him several thousands of pounds.
A great revolution in the use of spirits hns
s.^o?Kr£s 1 s B,,ipps -■»
MaeLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 George-street,
aear Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
mppliod. Cold Luncheons, &c.*
The exceptional increase in the sale of Wot.ke-'s
S^v”o“*Jr l SpK. b “ t ' d ,0l “ «„!
Political Points
“RABBIT-MONEY:”
OR, A SMALL SLICE OF THE TRUTH.
Jnder .the above heading, a pessimistic cor-
respondent sends the subjoined doleful jeremiad,
which our readers may chew over for themselves.
It would be well, perhaps, to read, in connection
with our talented contributor's mournful effusion,
the following paragraph from Vanity Fair
which may serve as a kind of sauce:-“It is re-
am t 0 tbe enormous
fns m fliv o hv m f?a 5 which have been scattered pro-
English Government on account of
wifi d!tion, t.he people of Upper Egypt
H-o a kJe for the first time in history, to pay
Rntt! 8 in mo ? ey instead of in kind. But John
o>o- I^ U ehJ emei f b f rt, l at ? ll this money is wrung
out of the pockets ot the tax-payers of Great
nand Ireland ft forms part ot the £lOO 000 000
i-nioaf r Retrenchment Government have spent
in the last twelve months. The tax-payers of this
FVvnt r^ f >, VirtU u i pa ?ipE the taxes of Upper
Rgypt, and through them the usurers of Europe.”
The N.S.W. Minister for Mines, who has been
touring our distant interior, dilating on the
beauties of his own Rabbit Act, and pointing out
the iniquities of Mr. FarnelTs Land Act, till he
has made himself seriously ill, told the Wilcannlans
the other day that “some people looked upon the
rabbit pest as a blessing. Many storekeepers had
told him that but for the rabbit expenditure, the
towns in which they carried on business would
have collapsed.” This candid and truthful state-
ment appears to have surprised and, in no small
degree, disgusted the honourable Joseph. But can
Mr. Abbott name a town or city in the colony
that is not in a rapid state of collapse where t
“rabbit money” (or rather borrowed pub:
money) is not doled out with a shovel? Can N
Abbott so much as tell what the colour of an
other money is like, or where it comes from
There are blit two places for it to come from—th
pocket of the money-lender, or the ground w<
stand on. And what is this ground producing i
return for what we are spending on it and con
Burning? Simply some 30.000 tons of coal weekly
on which about 3j. a ton is cleared—the balance
being used in and around the colony, cannot be
regarded as an export. The other mineral
we raise, when we level mines all arounc
cost more than they realise. Grain, whic
shninS ho Ikerthis, to be considered prosperous
dbe ex P°rtmg, we are importing. Nor ca
?r, u +^ armerB P roduce any one species of it and sel
in the same market, even though this market b
?^f? h wn i be9idG the foreign grower, withoutsuffer
of his labour, and hence we have ou
saf“5 a f“® loughs growing rusty, whilst they them
selves havegone in for their share of the “ rabbit
We find them in the North, West, and
roilway-making. The butchers' meat tha
to Smith Held, is not produced alive here
cost nf 6 riri U JL f * or i? 88 thar ? d - P er lb- When the
ahfn the coas i- Slaughtering, freezing
storage, and commissions are de
ttV rom . what tbe article realises, the pro
ducer, in most eases, so far, has found that be has
for beiagr Permitted to give away his
m ? y ’ with safety, say almost the
same thing of wool—never was its price lower, and
t-b avo squatting properties done more to ruin
their owners than during the past live years. Ant
hnnH J? t * H very face of all this that our empty-
headed office holders squandered one-third of a
million of money in sending men to the Soudan
to siay unfortunate human beings who have
been goaded to reoellion by brutal rule I All
?™*^ ors ?~ aQ<l 7® sa y it most emphatically-
for the colony and the children we are rearing if
these men have succeeded in Imposing on the
h«iiSl e o ?h ®;^ laDd -succeeded in making them
believe that the colony is naved with gold. The
truth must out some day. The money-lender will
want his “pound of flesh”—and no blame
ho ! so °u er or later, and if what we have stated
to onof<.T£ nd we openly challenge any man living
I a wnrd of lt; —may we ask how far re-
“°^® d our own position will be from that of the
wretched Soudanese ? Blood from a stone can-
SoJ o. >me V no . r 9, aa money from a country that
has it not. And will “ Old England ” send her
Rtfv i nt rB Q l t n tv, her h !?f. n ' of '^ ar here> a 8 Bhe did t 0
B 'f?ypt, at the bidding of the money-lender, to
Jwo/k us J 0 accomplish an impossibility or, in de-
fault, butcherus? The colonies are all rotten to
the core, and not one of them more so than this,
p f. r oent - °L the Population live, directly
or indirectly, upon the State, and the balance, with
not morfr than coat, exception, live on the
lianks. Somebody may meet, us with the asser-
tion that thousands are employed railway-making,
andtha t these railways, so far as they have been
™ ed a? ay intere Bt, at least, on the money bor-
°°nBtruct them. This we giant, but can
anybody inform me where the money they earn
5® 1 ?® 8 from ? Ifc i9 ’ ln P rin cipal part, this borrowed
p i* °P c , mon ey revolving; the remainder is made
T^L borTO *. e 2 fro P the Banks. Close the public
£ thfV ry :.? nd bartb9 doors of the banks-which
fh«o *ilf tlm u ate ,ight t 0 view the question in-and
Wm thit 8 h( i w m L ucb theBo railways will earn.
w!dm?hH? r i for the coal and oil they consume ?
nniv^m l t ’i?- v ew of tbe P rj ces ruling for the
we are 168 we to carr y- I he fact is
end a nf tl 1 J ,1 7!5 g oa rahhit-money.” From end to
brain f to t d«tS?i 0 - ny eve T 80ul In UiB racking his
attf Th d e Tm a ™ eaDS t( ? get a grab of some so-1
renr'psJnlaHDM^ lB ° ne glgantic scramble, and our
ness the ars put forward as wit-
Mr. lyes-not because of their
ntness to frame laws, but because of their ahilitv
in the struggle and seize hold of, as they
ft wt ? bl iS c f’ haadtulB of ‘he plunder, and sling
it back t® their supporters.
fn The i,. Ca^ coar Chronicle has the right
ncsa- gh “ right way of Putting it, as wit-
nf C frv,“ a °, ding armies are not for the protection
thoi£ e ,’ o but + 0f Property. No inradtr will kill it
bulfn j n< D propolty to seize as the reward for the
tteiefore, should », ,or tt.
According to the cables in the dailies.
BuBBla are still fencing. Should they
hoaSfnfii y Jm h° Tn r ’ an ioforesting feature of the
M 08 will be the praying-contest between the
Archbishop of London and the Metropolitan of St.
cifrtv o U p r fi, each aBBiBted by the full force of the
thttVh«-Ai t ™f r v./' e 8- The belief
that the. Almighty takes a hand In the fights of His
18 apparently as strong to-day la the
th a l gh . te ? ed ,P^ tlonBaBitiB among the blackest
and thickest-skulled tribes of Africa"
There is a dispute between Victoria and
hnrior Au w^m ia a n ol i t a piece of territory on the
» r W Wll,lam Bode BayB nothing, but “lies
10-- There may be biood spilt yet. The Little
,w y H a i^ la S y heepa dark, but there is a smoulder-
ing fire in his eye-the sound one. The other, our
readers will regret to hear, was bunged up lately.
w^M^ ncOU i nter ?r ith a Bmall Btreet Arab from
Woolloomooloo. He-the Little Boy-has been
heard to express bis determination not to be oar-
pfP away by false visions of glory, out remain a
Plain Little Boy to the last.
There have been many short-lived British
Ministries, and the new Conservative one will
th< ? nu mber. The first one which
to lowed the passing of the Reform Bill was some-
friP^jOf-fb6 s°rt of the present one—coming to
birth before it was ready, and not strong enough
F? ,l ve when born. Looking to such puny efforts
in the way of Cabinet-making, it seems a pity that
things are not kept better prepared for the hap-
pening of the event. Everything is left to chance,
ana when the time comes nobody knows what to
i do, where to choose, nor whom to choose.
- r i Alfred Miller exhibits upon a modest
p e ]R?n uni r n a y o nin S J erB i on of the speech which
Plain Bill Dailey did not make to the Contingent.
verse runs about as easily as a Bondi tramcar,
and is replete with satirical allusions. Some of the
latter, mmed at the men of the Contingent, should
have been omitted. For the rank and file of the
force have been the victims from the start. Be-
fooled by the Ministry and deluded by the dally
Press, many of them made a great sacrifice iu
going, and now find themselves not only poorer
in circumstances but also the subjects of ridicule
to a majority of our citizens. You should take
pattern by your namesake the “Professor,” Mr.
Miller. He never hits a man who is down.
Patriotic poetry is not generally of very
b J, gb ll . torary excellence. The patriot bard appar-
ito bec ° me inebriated with the too
aa L w Jj cb hiB subject supplies, and,
therefore, gives birth to nothing more than a suc-
fat^? n T°rfn^ te i hi ? cu & 3 -.. Th ® first verse of the
latest London Music Hall war ballad is hardly
above the general run of such national songs.—
“ Wbat though the Powers the world doth hold.
Were all against us met ?
We have the might they felt of old.
And England’s England yet.”
™ 8 Btyle of jerse,” says Max O’Rell, “calls to
d r. tbe anecdote of the witty French dramatist
who once l ft id a wager with a friend that at the
fi. 1 a P‘ay that was to be per-
one of the boulevard theatres, he would
get an encore for the following patriotic quatrain :
“ Napoleon, tra la la la la la,
Napoleon, tra la la la la lair;
Oui, la France sera toujours la France;
Les r ran 9ala seront toujours les Franyiis,
fist won h hls d bet n ” he b ° UBe ’ aQd the French drama ’
Ihe battle of Tamai was not even a minute
circumstance compared with the struggle now
between the Separationlsts and Liberals (or
Government party) at Townsville (Q ). When the
Premier visited that town lately, agorgeous drama
A*™*? af Ct w ?f ar . ra nged for the delectation of the
Anti-8e Duration "push.” It consisted of a livinir
th 9 old Wed E® wood Anti-slavery
representing a nigger in chains,
drtssedlnasble giiiWtD a region of perpetual
summer, and holding up his fettered hands to a
fl »^ upon the approach of the Premier,
struck off the gyves. The nigger then caught up,
r eld * a front of himself, probably as a substl-
tute for trousers, a placard adorned with an ap-
,Thu war 18 an expensive one,
for the Sepaiatlonlsts have to pay sixpence apiece
for signatures to their petition, white their oppo-
nents had to shell out £4 each for the banquet. And
°f “ llquld fire ana distilled
6 bke Pleased oysters, for m
Townsy iHe the consumption of rum increases in
proportion to the political feeling.
The P. M. Gazette states that the colonies
and Egypt together will ask for loans aggregating
not less than thirty millions within the next few
months. .Of the Queensland loan floated last
month a correspondent to the P. M. Gazette
£> r wi B nm’i. R f f f rriQ f th ? Proposed loan for
i~,000,000 just issued, intending investors should
not forget (1) that the objects for which the loan is
out by tbe Bpeecb of the Minister
Introducing the measure, are to keep up large
b ao k - balanceB to assist advances to squatters and
others—presumßbly supporters of the Govern-
ment—and that even the • railway objects ’ are to
please every little place in the colony where they
want votes; and (3) the enormous amount of debt
per head as compared with the other colonies
This ne w loan of £9.980,000 will make the debt of
Queensland about £B3 per head I” Floating loans
Isa nice game, while it lasts, but John Bull appar-
entiy is getting inquisitive as to the nature of the
security. Already Australia, New Zealand, and
las mama, owe close upon £133,000,000 between
them, which is surely not a too modest total for a
population that, all told, does not much exceed
three million souls.
■ • -
Tord Randolph Ghurohill writes thus to
the Times. In N.S W , anyone who was not a
lord, would get tor such a letter (adouta lord) at
SHr,iT n -. ye f arB ' “The process,” writes Lord
Randolph. of sneaking down to the House of
Lords and making there without notice a variety
ot deliberate misrepresentations., deliberate mis-
quotations, and false assertions Is quite In accord-
ance with the little that is known of the public
career of Bari Granville. Ki.igbt of the Garter
and, to the mistor uneof his country, her Mates tv’s
Prin T C^ a L SeC T eta^r of Sta ’? tor foreign Affair*.*
....Ihe new Land Laws in Ireland aro not co suc-
cessful as was anticipated. During the first three
months of this year 730 families, numbe-ing 3446
persons were evicted. ° IUS
Brandies and Whiskies ar* not at all j v fc i.
adapted tor this climate as Wolfe's dCHNAi’PS.
Not more than about *0 people were
■h^QiOet^v^fftrirwS? 1 ! intentions when
stepped Into church, the other day,
Lord se“£w£’ gr^n ,velvet * an d got married to
*1? trVey. No woman ever kept a secret
her t weddiDg dld thli celebrated beauty the date of
THE LATE F. J. FARGUS
(“HUGH CONWAY”),
Author of “Called Back,”


The deepest shaft in Victoria (at the Mag-
dala gold mine, Stawell) is down 2to9ft., or 3ft.
deeper than the lowest level reached In England—
at Dolcoath. At Lansells 180 mine, Sandhurst,
good gold is being got at 2041 ft.
Our dear old friend, Lord Harris, of
cricketing notoriety, is to be Under-Secretary for
India in the Salisbury Government. What a pity
it is that we should ever have known the idols
before whom we are now expected to bow downl
The Wagga Wagga Advertiser sees the
approach of the abolition of tho death penalty,
and asserts that it would be better to do away
with capital punishment altogether than to
perpetuate it under the present circumstances of
its administration.
“ A Sufferer,” writing to the Pall Mall.
complains of “ the gross irregularity and serious
mismanagement in the mail service between
England and Australia,” wnich he affirms to be “a
disgrace to the postal authorities.” He further
states that no end of papers and letters are lost in
tram It to Sydney.
statistics, are about as follows:—Tasmania, £lO per
head; Western Australia, £l7 per head j New South
Wales, £3l per head; Victoria, £35 per head: South
Australia, £3B per bead; New Zealand, £59 per
head.
Not long since an article appeared in The
Bulletin on “Official Offences.” It was con-
tended in that article that the ordinary run of
medical men, especially in the bush, should not be
accepted as authorities on mental disease. In his
evidence before the Lunacy Commission In Mel-
bourne, Mr. Graham Berry, the other day, advo -
oated that only practitioners with the M.D. degree
should be appointed to positions in lunatic asy-
lums. Mr. Blackett, a member of the Commission,
stated that doctors with the M.B. degree of Mel-
bourne University attended no lectures en mental
disease.
Some of the newly-appointed chairmen
of local courts are reported to be in hot water.
One of them was severely censured by Mr.
Wright, and his finding reversed. It appears that
a selector, after residing 29 months with his wife
Comstock mine has been producing, say £3,500,000
in silver annually, for a long time, and yet we can
get just as big a drink as ever for sixpence.
The Revised Bible is said to be the biggest
piece of literary and publishing work the world
has ever seen. Of the 16 members at first appointed
for the work of revision only six are now alive.
The committee sat altogether for 793 days of six
hours Most alterations were made in the New
Testament, but the most important ones in the
Old. To prevent competition by American pub-
lishers, not a single copy was Issued until some
millions were read y. for sale. When the New Testa-
ment was published an American firm brought out
a cheap edition within a week of the English issue,
but the Home publishers have spoilt the market,
scored a march, in fact, this time. Thus, even
with the most godly men the spread of the
Gospel Is made subordinate to monetary consider-
ations, and it is quite too sad to think that for the
sake of clutching eighteen pence for themselves
the Bishops may have caused many an erring
sinner to miss salvation, and that, perhaps, only
by a week 1
An Irish immigrant was hired by a Dubbo
storekeeper to act as porter. One of his first
duties was to put the horse (already harnessed)
Into the spring cart. He did this. Put the horse
m with his head looking over the dashboard.
When the boss came out, Molke was holding up
the end of the trace, and asked, “ Plaise, sor,
fwhat the divil does this hook on to ? ”
Actuated by “ pure generosity,” men gave
cheques for four figures to the Patriotic Fund.
When the appeal was made on behalf of the
orphaned Capel children (whose present distressed
condition is a direct consequence of the Contln-
only could be raked in from
ail N.B.W. The publicity surrounding donations
to the former fund, and the obscurity attending
subscriptions to the latter, had a lot to do with the
totals realised. What a fizzle it all is I
Queensland, the youngest of the Austra-
llan group, is already the largest borrower In pro-
}°a population. The present debt of
millions, or an average per
other colonies, ao-
cording to the last published volume of llayter’s
and family on his selection, had to repair to Eng-
land on important business. He was away seven
months, but left his wife and family on the land.
The chairman ordered the selection to be for-
feited for non-residence. Another chairman, who
is a notorious Draco in his severity to selectors,
was recommended by Mr. Wright for dismissal,
but the influence of the other members of the
Cabinet mollified the penalty to a reprimand only.
Thus, when a strong Minister does design to act
up to the mark, his colleagues sit upon him.
The Sunny Corner (N.S.W.) silver-mine
has yielded since January last 283,9030 z. (8 tons
140 wt.) silver, which, allowing for a slight admix-
ture of gold, was worth ss. per oz., or £70,725 15s.
This was 1 all produced by two furnaces. Four
additional smelters are now going up and will far
more than double the yield. The company have
just divided £IO,OOO, and put £SOOO to reserve; they
will again divide a largo amount In July. The
other day a five-horse dray laden with 26owt. pure
silver' from Sunny Corner got bogged on the
road to Rydal. All this is magnificent, and augurs
splendidly for N.S.W, But people needn’t fear
that the price of silver will go dOHU yet. The
There are a lot of stories told about the
food old pioneer days of the Australian diggings,
ut for simple-minded faith in the wise dispensa-
tion of Providence this one takes the cake. Three
miners out prospecting somewhere in the North
got bushed, and, after having wandering for two
days without striking the track, they decided to
separate—each to follow in the direction that the
points of their knives should indicate after being
thrown carelessly In the air. The first thrown
pointed northwards, the second south, while the
third came point-down and stuck in the ground.
The first man went north, struck a rich patch and
became wealthy; the second followed a south-
westerly direction, “ struck oil,” and also became
wealthy; but the third—opened up right there and
became wealthy, too ? No; he knew thundering
well that he could dig till he got to the other side
of the globe, and find no gold in that sort of
ground. He decided that digging wasn’t his fate,
so made straight back for civilisation, and, after
many changes of fortune, settled down and died,
rich and; “ respected by all who knew him.” So,
you see, dearly beloved friends, that knife was a
fruud-ftltbpugh it vm suggested, apropos of no-
once speedy and emphatic. There was no rum,
and, therefore, we are floating about in a sea of
indecision. And this, too, at a time when the
N.S.W. army has only just returned from the East,
and is only occupied, at present, in wringing the
rain out of its clothes and the beer out of its
whiskers.
Exhausted nature signifl's “by symptoms that
she needs aid and succour. Use Wolfe'S
Schnapps.
Notice!—Reliable Old Australian Winofl,
selected vintages, for Invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Blockings, 113 Pltt-street.
An invitation is extended to the members
of the late Contingent to visit, together with any
lady friends, the China and Glass Showrooms of
Bray’s, 103 and 401 George-street, and see the many
articles there provided to make homes comfort-
able.*
Wolfe's Schnapps.—No nervous suffeaer ever
I tried this wholesome stimulant without being
[ thankful,
thing, by a few of his fellow-townsmen that the
knife pointed to an after-state. Let us hope not.
Amen I
It is said that Sir Peter Lumsden and his
suite took with them to Afghanistan “300 dozen of
champagne, 150 dozen of claret, 100 dozen of other
wines, 100 dozen of brandy, 75 dozen whisky
(Irish), 75 dozen whisky (Scotch), 200 dozen beer
(English), 200 dozen beer (German), 15,000 Manilla
cigars, and 12,000 Beehive cigars.” This is a goodly
list, is it not ? But go through it as carefully as
you will, you will not find there one single drop cf
rum. According to the late Oeneral Burnaby, on
the frontier of Russia vodki is about a kopeck a
quart, but toujours vodki, like toujours perdrix. Is
rather apt to pall upon one; and we are sure that
both the Russians and the Afghans would have
viewed the arrival of rum in the light of a happy
relief. It 1s evident that, extensive as Sir Peter’s
cellar was,his “loading-up” of the two nations
failed to keep them in good humour. This comes
of judging others by one’s own delicate palate.
There is one thing about rum. In whichever way
it may be looked at, it is decisive. Its action Is at
Tho Fungus Crop.
N.S.W. (as Free-Selector) loq.: “ONLY FOUR MONTHS SOWN!! SUCH CROPS GROW QUICKLY. AND NOW I’VE TO CLEAR THE GROUND! ”


Oitici
TUSdv^^SGOSsf,
A.J.O. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SALOON.
91 King-street.
N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
RAW VASELINE
B
r*ii
A
mm
Sr- :
ftOFTBNB and Preserves Horses’ Hoofs, Kills
rv —r •NiMuw, miu prevents tnelr growth. In-
s(vft a nii«w 0 a Leather Preservative, rendering: It
and waterproof, and prevents it
From lto antl-oorroslve qualities, un-
tor keeplnv free from rust and in
perfect order all metal roods, firearms, machines,
Bo1 ? material U8e d f or the above
Austrian and German armies.
Sold by all Saddlers and Storekeepers.
SOLE AGENTS ;
BLACKBURN & CO..
WHOLESALE SADDLERS’ IRONMONGERS,
MB Tork-street, Sydney.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GENT.’S
LADIES’
•* ... 60, la. 6d.; 100, 8a. 6(1.
60, 2a. Od.; 100, Bs, 0d.
Address, 8d. extra.
Moat Buslnoss Cards.
100, Ss. 6d.; 860, 6s. 6d.; 600, 10s.; 1000, 16a.
NO CHARGE TOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
W Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
TIE HIM CO.,
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
SITIVE CURE
r,„ a 'WITHOUT MEDICINE.
One box will cure the most obstinate case, acute
_ _ or chronic, in four days or Ipm
DR. BAYLEY’S SOLUBLE MEDICATEII
BOUGIES (BUCALYPTOJL) ™
” °hi^ 8<?0 i ls .u d ° 8ea °* °ubebs, capalba, or oil of
BiMSar SMT
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Coathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Boss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticuba Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticuba and Cuticuba Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers , Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticuba Soap and a single application of
Cuticuba, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of CuticuiTa Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood:
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
ho /elief until I used the Cuticuba Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Austbalian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
— 1
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Purl-
tier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
r Cuticura, the Great Skin Cube (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re*
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Boautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and Kew
Cuticur a, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Siiav-
ino Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Prepared bt the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston. U.8.A.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
■"TSSiSR -
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only StudiT
knowB l he y ery Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
kn °* b tbat the best assistance only is employed.
GrMdMtin
"«««*«■«»•>«*« of to. ** Mr.
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 366 George-stfeet, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manaobr,
ea
J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
W mm, d IK 1BMTS,
Importers of
“is WU"
galvanised corru-
gated and PLAIN
IRON
8 5?J.'J. ai V? perpo-
PLifm“ K0: TIN
PIG IRON and t.eati
“BE&SHwiM 8 -
f ®ncing wire
WOOLPACK8
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
Us
at
-r e
P0 ?'E^ BL *i_EtXEl>
VERTICAL and HORI-
ZONTAL BOILERS 1
'M* team and
pumps
other
L «wa»tL B A PLANING.
SCREW-
pUKBW.
g* 1 ” 1 m%h“nV ,wllin0
STEAM HAMMERS
B ?0 G tJ I^?B E / 8,BBA8S
P 8 A hV^ 0 R0L1ED
QUICKSILVER, & c j.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.
Head Warehouse -
Iron anl Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Office
- 64 YORK STREET.
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS
• habboub STREET, 1 dJbSnq harbour.
SYDNEY;
8 ? » GRAOBOB OROH STREET,
31
El
GS
S'
PIANOS/ORGAN
EVERY. INSTRUMEN


W. WALKER am
LONDON (and ST]
Catalogues
POST FBSB.
W. WALKER
and SONS
are one of the
Largest
Stockholders
and
Manufacturer*
mm
READ IT AI
It may Save yi
AMERICAN C
Sop Bitten
▲S3
The Purest a\
Medicine ever mi
THEY ABB COMPOTJNI
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake, i
“The Oldest, Beat, most
• and Valuable Medicines li
‘and in addition contain
* and moat effective curatii
‘ of all other bitters, being
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD
•and life and health restori
‘ earth.”
They Hire New Life and Vl*
and infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawy<
• Men, Labourers, Ladles, i
•whose sedentary employ
‘irregularities of the Bio-
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or wl
• Appetizer, Tonic, and mil
‘these Bitters are inval
-jjand
■ Hu*.'”, T , ™ u your
• symptoms are, or what t
• ailment is, use Hop Bitl
• wait until you are sick, bi
• feel bad or miserable, use
•once. It may safe your
‘ dreds have been saved by
‘a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or
“Do not suffer yourself
• friends suffer, but use and
‘ use the American Co.’s
“ Remember, these Hop
•no vile, drugged, dnink
‘but the purest and be
‘ever made, and no perse
• should be without it.”
See that the name Dr.
in every bottle, none other g
WeakNervm
Whose debill
pewers, premi
failure to perf<
properly are
cesses, errors
will find a per
restoration to
and Timorous ]
IMPORTER OP
-framed Pianos I
i i mi
niiininHnKiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiii
WILLIAM I
107 PITT BTK
AUTUMN SEASOI
HAVE RECEIVED THEIR NEW MILLINERY from Paris a
A most charming little Bonnets at 215,: and Hats at 18s. 6
iudglng fro-n the enormous variety and the magnificent quality
that their home agent has spared no time or trouble in carryini
We are showing upwards of 1000 imported HAT 3 and BO
extremely low prices hitherto unequalled in Sydney.
IN OUR LACE DEPARTMENT, wo are second to none in tho
and prices are so much less than we have ever had to ask at any o
IN OUR RIBBON DEPARTMENT, we have every possible s
best qualities only. , ,
nfr/vfrw DEPARTMENT, we have a large stock of c
Mashers. —The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 662 George-street. Brickfield Hill.*
Bodily comfort is the accompaniment of health-
ful vigour, and it will return when Wolfe’s
Schnapps is employed.
The greatest nourishing tonio, appetizer,
strengthens, and curative on earth. Hop Bitters
made only by American Co. See.
Mb. PbCoubot Bbowni Gat© Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 62 Castle-
reagh-strect, Sydney, «■ Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, Hr” Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
a kill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supremo Court.*
Murray and Lamnan’s Florida Water is
prepared t xclusively of the very finest and purest
floral ingredients, all of which are selected in the
best markets, and we are safe in saying that it 1s
impossible to produce a fragrant water of a better
quality.
Ateb’s Pills are effectual in a wide range
of diseases, which ar;sa from disorder of the
stomach and digestive organs. They are a con-
venient remedy to have always at hand. They
are sugar-coated, easy to take, effective to operate,
sure to bring relief and cure.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is an agreeable remedy for
debility, biliousness, &c. Be sure you obtain
Wolfe s.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW ANDTrIELL’S
CELEBE ATED
BISCUITS AHD CAKES, TREACLE ill GOLDEN STRDP,
Self-raising /Erated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
MS- for superiority oe quality and EXCELLENCE. M
(?, & A. have obtained Pirst Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney 1.E., 1880; Special Gold McdaJ
and Seven Pirst Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4,
Sydney Agents: W. H. ARIELL & CO., 343 and 345 KCent-street.
Nine Years Ago.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mb. Edward Alfred Stra.tfobd is a very
pretty fellow in his way. But the way is a
bad way. He petitioned at Melbourne, the
other day, for a divorce from his wife.
Perhaps the particulars would pan out
better in rhyme. Here you are, then, fresh
and foaming,—
Nine years Bgo,
In April, seventy-six,
Coming home in a cab from the races,
Edward Alfred Stratford met her,
And was vanquished by her airs and graces,
And registered a vow to get her
To let her heart and his change places.
He did that so,
By the old, old tricks,
In April, seventy-six—
Niue years ago.
Nine years ago,
In July, seventy-six
(He played the old, old game—and lost it),
She was smart enough to make him marry
her
In the end, but the fee and all the cost it
Was paid by her. Ere this, a tarrier
At hotels was he and she till exhausted
Was her coin, you know ;
Then he was in a fix,
In July, seventy-six,
Nine years ago.
Nine years ago.
In July, seventy-six,
The very morning after the wedding,
Without a word to his bride of warning,
This sprightly youth was for Sydney head-
ing.
So exceedingly early in the morning—
A thing his wife was by no means dreading.
But it was so,
He had out his sticks
In July, seventy-six,
Nine years ago.
Niue years ago,
In the year seventy-six,
She was a poor, hard-working slavey,
Earning money for him to scatter —
Which he did like a prince. He could not
save, he
Told his friends—but it didn’t matter;
Plenty where that came from; so brave he
Was, you must know,
With his Toms, Dicks and Micks,
In the year seventy-six,
Nine years ago.
Nine years after,
In June of eighty-five,
Never a farthing having sent her,
Back to Victoria comes this “shicer,”
There a claim for divorce to enter,
Because she had been unfaithful!! “ Why,
sir
Th© wonder is that you didn’t rent her!”
Said the Court. With laughter
They chucked him out—alive!!
In June of eighty-five,
Nino years after.
And now we think you’ll agree
That, as the story appears,
He should not have got the divorce,
But he should have got seven years!


NO MORE CORNS I
CORNS AND WARTS removed without pain
by the use of Palmer’s Painless, Harmless,
and Effectual CORN AND WART REMOVER.
This preparation is the most wonderful ever used
for Corns, Warts, or Bunions. If applied accord-
ing to the directions, it will effectually remove
them in from six to eight days.
PALMER’S
SKI FACILE CURA
For Neuralgia, either Chronic or Local.
This most wonderful Preparation has surpassed
all others in speedily removing this excruciating
and most distressing complaint. It matters not
how long or severe the suffering has been, a single
bottle has never failed in producing the desired re-
sults; and it can be most confidently recommended.
Sold retail by all chemists and druggists and
general stores: wholesale by Messrs. Elliott Bros.,
Sydney ; B. Prosser and Co., Sydney ; Felton.
Grimwade, and Co., Melbourne; Kempt-home and
Prosser, Dunedin.
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 HUNTER STREET,
Opposite Tramway, Elizabeth Street.
PHYSICIANS’ PRESCRIPTIONS carefully pre-
pared with Drugs of the purest quality.
French Indiarubber Goods, Ladies’ Abdominal
Supports and Pessaries, Syringes and Enemas of
every description, always in stock.
Country Orders promptly executed.
H. P. 9ABIEL, M.P.S., Mgr.
NEUSTADT and CO.,
COMPLETE
HIOTTSE
FURNISHERS,
39.154, 156. & 158 OXFORD-ST]
SYDNEY.
iar houses furnished throughout
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
“Eithxr for Cash or Tim Paymint,
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers
REMEDY FREE.
ful Errors, Early Decay, Lost Manhood, etc., will
learn of a simple and certain means of Self Care,
Free of Charge, hy addressing
M. B. TAYLOR, Esq., Box 891, Sydney, N.S.W.
v ? YEN ETTA WALT%
TU Air to to wtO martmC- Omour* lovTnur
fin \tabJA
Pad V .
\\T ILLI AM BULLARD has the Largest Stool
VV Of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, Ac.
SChuroh Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
iPart Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
■New catalogues will be ready in a few days anc
sent gratis on application.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Not*
Papers, &0., at lowest prices.
Printing.—lnvoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards
engraved or printed. Ball Programmes, Mens
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, hi parcels
£1 upward. Llbeial discount allowed.
Albums. Purees, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, Ac
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever Invented. The Trypograpb
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 GEORGE STREET.
DENTIST.
(Of America)
GUARANTEES
111 I II II
icaui
PRICES MODERATE.
Corner George and Market Streets
OVER HUNTER’S BOOT PALACE.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE.
MADAME ELISE,
PARIBIBNNE DRESSMAKER AND SPECIAL
STAYMAKER,
BEGS to call Ladies’ attention to her superior
FIT, TASTE, and exceptionally reasonable
charges. All orders receive her personal attention
and superintendence.
128 COLLINS STREET EAST.
Nervous debility, lost vitality,
Weakness, and Premature Decay.—A simple
and positive means for Permanent Self-cure, by a
very eminent French Hospital Physician, sent
free to any sufferer. Send your address, on a
stamped envelope, to C. C. W., Box 766, 6.P.0.,
Sydney.
r
UMBBELUSS
R£-JLOV£fiE^„
TUDI ECONOMY
and
veyourU mbrella Frame*
re-oovered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Mill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match oos-
tum e«. Repairs neatly ex*
rated
rfH
B FRESH POOD AND ICE COMPANY
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AX
No. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &o„ with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
“KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
Fresh Food £ Ice Co., Limited,
Head Office..
Stables
Factory
21 Harbour-street.
Liverpool-street.
Mittkgong.
Of
LIFE
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MSBIOAL WOEK on MANHOOD,
fcxhAAsljyd Vitality, Nervons and Physical Debility, Pre-
Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
WiSbrles resulting from indiscretion or excesses maybe
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pn
chase and read the new work issued by the World's Di
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
or Self Preservation.
middle-aged, and old.
regained pud retain! ‘
A book for every man, young,
lost health may be
shows ho'.,. w
tkffltfilllS 12a prescriptions for
all acntO And tKHMrtic disbhSbft, each one of which is in-
VablAhta SO fd * ‘
— fOiihd by the author, whose experience for
M years is buehhS probably never before foil to the lot of
K
ilciAH. 300 pages, bound in beautiful French cloth,
guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
Wy&ther sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will be refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the Officers of which he refers.
The Science bf Life should be read by the young for
Instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
Lancet.
Address the World’s Dispensary Medical As-
sociation, or Dr. W. R. Parker, No. 60 Hunter HEAL
Street, Sydney, N.S.W. Theallthor may TUVOCI C
be consulted on all diseases requiring | |“l |qN f
shill, secrecy) and experience.
AST L£ £
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
S YD N ELY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
muLTOirs
FRUIT
COMPLAINT positively cured by MGULTON’L
uoii PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
Provo what we say. There are no failures and no
m TTrr VX™ muuuiui, o muii nLLS also cure
I-TOcT^ lOt;SNESS > CONSTIPATION and DYS-
hp™*” P romote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
lt l3 t ea tmg correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
knrm,.Y' C ' ,‘ - Tile Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
Thpw o’ purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
' ara as nearly perfect as It Is possible for a Pill to be.
Bold Everywhere, Price la. 3d.
C. E, MOULTON, Sole Proprietor ■.
PILLS
ADC Lj A I i ’ '
mn o i im. i v
NERVINE
_ RBOIBTBKBD.
\ SAFE, CERTAIN. & SPEEDY CURB for N<
thT? joy* *pd General Debility, and all oomplali
*nat rartag from lack of nerve force, aa Neuralg
«P he \, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss
appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kldn
Jttf 1 Power, Ac. By Its tor
for e S eo }? itatonce removes all oravh
it* richness In phosphorous a
TONi^whbvti^ 1 * 111 -? elements, MARSHALI
the oourlshes and gives vigour
S/n-2L hole . By stem. Price, 4s. «d., or 255. a oat
Si 1 ® Proprietors, MARSHALL Bk6tHBRB,NNLP,
and consulting Chemists, 1(H ai
Hyd « p “ k » Sydney, ai
TUTBf t ' eet * Clrcul *^ u * y - TAKE NQ SUBBT
C. B. Ml OD I Nl p
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
G. B. M. further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms:—JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
don; THOS. BLAND & SON., London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London ; CHAB. OSBORNE &
CO., London.
G. B. M. is also AGENT for the eminent firm of
BUSSY & CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, &c„ and all
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 Georoe.st.p Sydney,
Where Inspection la invited.
Champagne
Haldslock & Go's.
DRY MONOPOLE,
07 ALL WINK MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS A Co., London.
Bole Aarente for Heidsieck & Co„ Retm«,
EVhOULDUSB iPEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
FLOUR
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE Is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
881 Geor pre-street, Sydney.
T Are you going to Bourke ?
; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
Ned Warmoll.
The “LOUIS’*
VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
lor all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of “ Louis."
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
L ' send patterns
POST FREE OC
application.
WANTED IN EYEBY HOUSEHOLD a Canister of
Williams’ Australian Yeast Powder!
four
s>
WILLIAMS'S
CO
, AUSTRALIAN
§|X.Pp.Ejp£ R '
Williams’ Yeast Powder
MAKES LIGHT BREAD, TEA CAKES,
and PASTRY,
HALF-POUND TINS, SIXPENCE,
Beware of Imitations.
TAKE ONLY WILLIAMS’.
This YEAST POWDER, the first manufactured
In the Australian colonies, has from the outset
maintained its position as the Premier Ysasfc
Powder : and, in spite of severe competition, its
radius or consumption has steadily increased.
WILLIAMS’ AUSTRALIAN YEAST
POWDER is the most economical of Baking
Powders, and sold at Sixpence the half-pound
canister.
Wholesale Depot: 1
VIRGOE, SON, and CHAPMAN ,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY,
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Hobo Makers.
Trousers from Sis. to 40s.
|ar~ N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Farmer and Op.
W. Sheajlsbt & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabeth-st.
“VICTORIA” OFNER BITTER-WATER,
The Best and Strongest Natural Aperient,
A Natural Fluid Magnesia, as a safe, ordinary, and gentle aperient in Inflammation
and Congestion, in Rheumatic and Gouty Disorders, against undue tendency to Fftt,
against Hsemorr holds, in Bilious Attacks and Disorders of the Liver.
Nature’s Aperient Remedy during Pregnancy, and in many Female Diseases; for
Habitual Constipation, in Organic Diseases resulting from fatty degeneration, to removo
the consequences resulting from excess in diet, &c.
One wineglassfui will usually relieve the most distressing headache.
ONE BOTTLE OF “VICTORIA” IS EQUAL IN ITS EFFECTS TO TWO OF OTHER BITTBR-
WATERS, HENCE IT IS MUCH CHEAPER.
In cases of Indigestion, Stomach and Liver Affections, Constipation, and other Derangements of tin
System, as a Family Medicine this has no equal.
Sold in Bottles at /s. od, and 25.,
And may be obtained of any Chemist or Patent Medicine Vendor in the United Kingdom l


Disfiguring Humors,
humiliation eruptions itcbiug and burning tortures
salt rheum, eczema, psoriaglp, barber's itch, sore
eyes, scall head, dandruff, infantile or birth
humors, and every species of itching, scaly*
pimply, scrofulous and copper-colored diseases
of the skin and scalp, with loss of hair, are posi-
tively cured by the CotiCura Resolvent inter-
nally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap ex-
ternally, when all other methods fall
Wolfe’s Schnapps Is a tonic and stimulant
which cannot be surpassed. Ask for and obtain
Wolfe's.
A NEW DISCOVERY.—Hoffman’s Eucalyptol
(registered) “ Mixture and Injection.” They will
positively cure all kidney diseases and disorders,
all urinary complaints and discharges, irritation,
scalding. Inflammation, gravel, pains in the back,
&o. A case incurable in nine months was actually
cured in eight days with Hoffmann’s Eucalyptol
Injection (“ purely vegetable ”). Hoffman’s Bu-
calyptol Mixture or Injection contain no mineral,
no sandalwood, no balsam, or anything Injurious
to the most delicate constitution of either sex.
Ask for Hoffman’s, and take no substitute.
Wholesale: B. Prosser and Co.; Elliott Bids. Re-
tail : All principal chemists and storekeepers
Price, 2s. 6a. and 3s. 6d.*
The celebrated Wolfe's Schnapps Is a pure
invigorating beverage. Be sure you obtain
Wolfe’s.
Printed and Published by Tun Bullwih News*
oaner Go. (Limited), 34 PltMt.. Sydney, NJ3.W,
STUARTVILLE.
We don’t know whether this article will
turn out to be humorous or not; but we
shouldn’t be surprised If It didn’t, since, in
order to gain materials for the sketch, we had
to reside for a term next door to an honest
lawyer, and next door but one to the pound-
There is not a large choice of residences in
Suartville, for most people who have to re-
side there for business purposes generally build
for themselves on arrival—constructing residences
out of either very dirty calico, or those pictures-
que materials—pine planks and galvanised iron.
Sbme of these persons work with singular unani-
mity while erecting their buildings in (say) Fairy
Meadows. We watched the last family with much
interest. They were extremely methodical. While
the father and son were hammering the last of the
roof on the mother (who had tuckrd up her petti-
coats) was painting the front door!
• • *
Situated, as it is, on the South Coast, you
can go to Stuartville either by train and coach, or
by the boat. And, in connection with this, you may
regard it as a certainty that the moment the
steamer has got outside Sydney Heads you will
wish to heaven that you had gone by train and
Coach; and it is equally sure that after the coach-
man had cracked his Infernal whip for the third
time and given you the second bump on the “ syn-
cope” end of the spine, you will think of the
luxuries of a velvety bunk—and groan aloud. For
a man who is fond, as the pill-advertisements say,
of the “ pleasures of the table,” a night journey
by this coach from Stuartville to Campbell
town would act as an admirable corrective.
We took this alluring Journey onco. We were in
a hurry to reach the city early In the morning.
We were probably going to be married. As we
had previously made the acquaintance of the
coachman, and gauged his powers of conversation,
we elected to forego this intellectual treat, and
consequently hoisted ourselves up on to a ridicu-
lous perch at the back of the coach—a place which
we had to ourselves the whole of the journey. On
reaching Campbelltown, at about three In the
morning, we borrowed a travelling looking-glass
from a lady who was shivering at the station, and
surveyed our features with the aid of a vesta.
They presented an appalling spectacle. Involun-
tarily we recoiled from the reflection. There
Were the scared, blood-shot eyes of the detected
murderer, the mottled nose of the habitual
drflnkard; burglary was in every line of a
Wrinkled and lowering, forehead; and the mouth
Was d ifaonument of idiocy In its every chatter. The
appearance of the other male passengers, though
not murderous, was far from being attractive, and
nearly all appeared to be lovers of that solitude
afforded by extreme ends of the railway platform
—where they could suck unseen from fearsome
flasks a terrible brandy I We shall take tho boat
when next we travel from Stuartville to Sydney*
whether we are going to be married or not, We
are not, In future, going to let a trifle like wed-
lock interfere with our comfort before the cere-
mony; however it may be doomed to affect it
afterwards.
♦ ♦ *
About the picturesqueness of Stuartville,
there can be no doubt. With its mountains at the
back, and the ocean in front, there is much about
It which, at a first glance, would strike you as
Idyllic. There is a mean little mountain of coal
facing the town, which, by day, is an Inveterate
smoker, and, when night comes, illuminates itself
in a pleasant and unassuming manner. The feeble
volcano 1s a source of great pride to tho in-
habitants. “ It has been burning ever since this
place was established, and has never once gone
out yet,” they will say; and when you ejaculate
“ Fancy I ” they are greatly delighted, and suggest
immediate refreshment. When we became a resi-
dent, we adopted other tactics. We would button-
hole the unwary stranger, tell him that it had been
burning ever since the place was established, and
had never gone out yet; then we would pause.
But It seldom came to anything. Stuartville may
be said to consist of two streets proper, all the
rest of the town being flats. And we may remark,
that while we should hesitate to class the flats
under the heading of improper, they cannot be
said, for some reason or another, to possess a very
good name I We have known reserves in this
city to bear an equally shady reputation. But that
was long ago—when we were young.
* * ♦
Crown-street, Stuartville, boasts two bar-
bers, four hotels, and one Council-chamber. It
has also fruit shops innumerable, and a structure
of unspeakable dreariness called the Temperance
Hall. Entertainments are occasionally given here
by strolling players; and with Monologue Enter-
tainers—those sworn torturers of the public-the
nlaoe seems to have been popular. One “ Selwin
Legate,” who had played before “ crowned heads,”
seems to have given an entertainment In this
barn (measuring by the bill) a yard and a-half
long. We had never seen or heard of Selwin be-
fore, but his name, at once, made us hate him
violently. So far as we could learn, Mr. Legate
rather glided in and out of the town than other-
wise, and failed to make an impression. Unless,
Indeed, he made one on the printer. Many ven-
triloquists do. Stuartville tolerates rather than
loves the drama. However, 10 niggers and a
goat would draw the whole town if the
company had only the sense to bill “ Bast Lynne,”
and engage the two local barbers (themselves
minstrels) for an olio. There is another place
where entertainments may also be given, but the
fact of its being built three-quarters of a mile
from town militates considerably against its popu-
larity with the profession. This is the School of
Arts. It is a large, two-storey touildlng, of rather
pretentious aspect—its architecture being of that
picturesque order which appeared to have been so
popular with Governor Macquarie. At a distance
it might be anything—except, perhaps, a water-
works or an oil-mill. In the time of the Governor
alluded to, it was doubtless a powder magazine or
a hospital; and, but for the white ants, at the
present period, if it behaved Itself, it might come,
in time, to be a cathedral—or a grotto. When we
went to subscribe to this noble Institution we
found the place “fast shut” in front, so we
travelled round to a little wooden house, where
there was a middle-aged lady washing greens. “ Is
this the School of Arts, ma’am?” we enquired,
mildly. “Yes; oh, this is the School of Arts.’ 1
“ The librarian,” we suggested. “ That’s me,” she
replied, resuming her occupation, which our ad-
vent had tor the moment interrupted; “there’s
only me here; I’m everything.” Then she called
a strapping young woman of 17 or so, and told her
to show us over the building.
* m *
First into the large hall, where, near the
door, was a magnificent ruin, in the form of a
grand piano; while, at the other end, near the
platform, was a new cottage one and a harp. “It’s
not much of a place, is it ? ” she said, looking
dubiously round. “ Fine large hall,” we said; “but
what are you going to do with that grand piano ?
Tell your mother she should turn it into a
mangle.” “I’ll tell her,” said my guide, carelessly;
“ but It’s not much of a thing, is it ?” Up a steep
flight of stairs led into the library and reading-
room, This was fitted up quite in the orthodox
manner, but the whole, too, bad an aspect that
was startling. Although the floor was scrupulously
white and clean, the table and books carefully
dusted, nothing in the room appeared to have been
handled for years I What reading-room of ghosts
was thltl We ttoi up a magazine and dropped It
with a start. It was ten years old! How many
subscribers have you ?” we enquired of the young
lady. “Oh, only one now,” she replied; ‘lt snot
much of a place, Is it ?”
* * ♦
When we had strolled some distance in
the direction of the port, we looked round. The
middle-aged woman was still washing greens, and
the girl, from the manner in which she was sur-
veying the structure over which they reigned, was
evidently saying to herself that It wasn’t much of
a place.
• ♦ •
The harbour, court-house, look-up, and
the gaol of Stuartville are all close together, and
viewed from a distance, they remind you. In a
laughable degree, of the buildings that Gulliver
saw in Llllput. The gaol Is comically small, and
attached to It is a legend. It seems that one raw
morning, a passenger had, somewbile after six,
disembarked from the steamer, and was waiting
Impatiently for the Bellevue Hotel—an hostelrle
which Immediately faces the gaol and court-house
—to open. Pacing up and down in the sullen dawn,
he suddenly came across something with a blanket
thrown over its bead, and possessing a bright,
clean-shaven countenance. “ Hullo 1” cried the
traveller, starting. “ Pooh, don’t be alarmed; I’m
only (pointing to the gaol) from yonder. The
others don’t get up till seven these dark mornings,
and I can’t wait till thenl” “ Why, who are you,
then?’ enquired tho astonished traveller. “Me?
Oh, I’m only the prisoner. Ah, here we are.
Come and have a rum-and-surrup.” A lot of the
people of Stuartville, whose business pays better
by their not attending to it, are enthusiastic
fishers, and may be seen, all weathers, fishing off
the Government wharf; and on Wednesdays,
which a local Act of Parliament has declared a
general half-holiday, it presents, sometimes, quite
a gala appearance. Bait being scarce in Stuart-
ville, the first thing you’ve got to do. when you
want to go fishing, is to scramble about the rocks
and catch a crab. When you see a little crab flit-
ting along the rocks, you arm yourself with a
bonnet-pin tied to a stick, and trip gaily after him.
There is lots of sport in this alone, and It is an
amusement which is much encouraged by the
local tailors. When you have got a crab, you peel
him carefully, and then have only a nice sharp
little ten minutes’ walk to fetch you round to the
wharf. You then begin to fish for black bream
without a sinker, and as the flsh can see you on
most days better than you can see them, they are
much amused at your feeble efforts. We never,
the whole time we were there, saw a flsh take a
bait, except once—and then he took it away.
* * *
The court-house down by tho Bay is about
a quarter the size of Pastor Allen’s Cathedral and
about twice as clean. But yet it is complete In its
every detail, even to a pen tor the reporters of the
usual comfortable proportions and luxurious ap-
pointments! Up on the hill, however, facing the
Church of England, the Government have re-
cently constructed a gorgeous building of enor-
mous proportions and chaste design. This struc-
ture is surmounted by an imposing clock-tower,
so ingeniously designed that none of the shop-
keepers in the lower end of the town can see the
time by it—and are thus reduced, as before, to the
necessity of either consulting their watches or
subsidising the baker. To these persons who re-
quire to know the time at sea, however, the
Stuartville clock-tower will prove a source of
considerable convenience I In respect of hotels,
Stuartville is well provided, and each hostelrle
maintains on the premises a special draught which
roars at you from round the corner as you enter
the bar. Perhaps the principal one Is Her Ma-
jesty s,i kept by the captain of the Stuartville
Light Horse. This noble regiment was to have at-
tended the procession, but circumstances com-
biped, in an untoward manner, to crumple it up.
At first Colonel Roberts, as delicately as possible,
hinted that the presence of the Stuartville dra-
goons in the procession might, since the corps had
been formed such a few days, be provocative of
Some confusion, but consented to the warriors
coming to Sydney and forming part of the pageant
if the corps would be agreeable to ride
either a quarter of a mile In front or a
Quarter of a mile behind the procession.
Ihls humiliating proposal, however, was met with
such a torrent of indignation from the Stuartville
cavalry, that, at length, the Colonel-Commandant
was induced to accede to the wishes of the gallant
corps to embellish the procession. " But the
villain still pursued them I ” The steamer which
was to have landed this glittering body of eques-
trians and their horses was unable, through stress
of weather, to put into Stuartville, and so they are
now again relegated to the necessity of caracoling
in the streets of Stuartville, to the supreme delight
of the townspeople and to their own unmitigated
disgust. The corps really make a fine show, and
every man has a seat like a trooper.
• ♦ *
Stuartville, it is generally known, is cele-
brated for its milk, butter, and eggs, and for its*
coal. There are times at which you can’t get
milk, butter, and eggs in Stuartville, but you can
always get coal. On windy days it is especially
plentiful! All down by the harbour, where the
shoots are loaded by the trucks, there are lumps
of it everywhere; and It is one of the industries of
the youth of Stuartville to go coal-gleaning, with
bags, in the silver-grey of coming dawn. It would
seem, however, that this juvenile coal-lumping is
scarcely recognised by the authorities as a legiti-
mate pursuit, for one morning, we remember,
near the convent, beholding a heavily-laden
youngster come almost face to face with a con-
stable, upon which the youthful tradesman incon-
tinently dropped his bag and “shoved.”
♦ • ♦
Since it is understood that Stuartville’s
present knightly member will not stand again, a
semi-retired lawyer there will, if he outs up, go in
easily. This is the gentleman to whom poor old
Bechet took the safe the night his place got on
fire. If things had turned out otherwise than as
they did, there would have been much humour in
this Incident. It’s a splendid joke, mind you, to
burst upon a man about 6 o’clock on a rainy morn-
ing with a No. 3 smile and a two-ton safe which
hadn’t been ordered; wish him the compliments of
the season, leave the safe on his doorstep, and re-
tire. Another candidate spoken of, however, is
Mr. M’Court, who, of late, has been residing in
Stuartville and loading up the “ free and indepen-
dent.” Mr. M’Court, in a check suit, was considered
to look “quite the gentleman” by the Stuart-
vlllians when in the act of ringing the bell for the
“ fourth round.”
There is a lot about Stuartville that is
healthful, and a great deal, doubtless, that is in-
vigorating; and this, coupled with the fact of its
picturesque little cemetery, naturally attracts the
invalid. The place. Indeed, is admirably adapted
to the requirements of a sick person whose malady
has placed him beyond the power of enjoying, in
this world, pleasures in any form; but our advice
to the sick man going there, who wishes to enjoy
mild recreation and agreeable social converse, is—
to take his tombstone with him.
The Recent Rain.
