

THE BULLETIN
VoL 2.—No. 104 —New Series.
SATURDAY, MAY 9, 1885.
Frloe—6d.
The Bulletin.
SATE EBAY, MAY 9 1885.
What the Cables Mean.
Tne siguiflea ion of the cablegrams which
were being received during last week ap-
pears not to have bean generally compre-
hended. It some instances interpretations
contrary to wh?t we conceive to be their
import were given. Thus, for instance, a
cablegram was thus published in the
dailies: —
“ Constantinople, April 2!). It is generally under-
stood that tho Great Powers are urging upon the
Turkish Government to observe neutrality la the
event of an outbreak of war between Britain and
Russia. The Porte, however, is increasing the
<lefehces of the Dardanelles, and is also fortifying
Therapia, on the western shore of the Bosphorus.”
Our readers are to understand that the
message as cibled consisted only of the
words print-d in italics, the rest being
aided in Melbourne to amplify and explain-
By one word thus inserted, the true sense
of the message has been, according to our
view, perverted. That word is the “how-
ever” whichfollows the words “ThePorte.”
We believe that “ accordingly ” should have
been inserted in place of “ however.” And
the message would then signify the Powers
are urging Turkey to observe neutrality,
and the Porte is accordingly increasing the
defences of the Dardanelles, and for.ifying
Therapia on the Bosphorus. On the follow-
day it was cabled that “ The Powers are en-
deavouring to have the Baltic declared a
neutral sea in the event of war between
Russia aud England.” And on the same
date that
“ It Is reportel that a British Military Mission will
bB immediately dispatched to the Court of Teheran
with the view of inducing the Persian Govern-
ment to observe a strict neutrality in the event of
hostilities breaking out between Great Britain and
Russia in Central Asia. One of the chief objects
of this mission will be, If possible, to induce the
Shah to prepare an expedition in Mahad for the
purpose of watching the Persian frontier and
m“intaining the inviolablenees of Persian terri-
tory.”
These are all suggestive items, but the two
former, when read together, are peculiarly
so. In the first place, let it be remembered
that tho Dardanelles and the Bosphorus are
two sections of the straits which connect
the Mediterranean with the Black Sea. Ac-
cording to an international treaty, Turkey
is bound, in case of war between European
Powers, to close these straits against war-
ships of the belligerents. The Powers conse-
quently are simply demanding that Turkey
shall observe an existent international agree-
ment. But compliance with that agreement
at the present juncture would give an enor-
mous advantage to Russia, and inflict a cor-
responding disadvantage upon Great Britain.
The latter Power being completely su-
perior on the sea, Russia has no desire to
send a fleet from the Black Sea to be
smashed up in the Mediterranean ; but, on
the other hand, it is of vital importance to
England to be enabled to send fleets and
perhaps an expedition into the Black Sea,
Were such a resource available, the corn-
paiatively paltry fleet of Russia in these
waters could not keep the sea, and, while
the important route from Southern Russia
across the B!a~k Sea to Batoutn, and thence
by rail to Tiflis, and so to the Caspian,
would be rebdered ui available, the fact
that the coasts of the Exuine were open to
the operations of a British expeditionary
army would involve the detention in those
regions of very large Russian forces. The
insislance of the Powers that Turkey should
maintain the neutrality of the Hellespont
is, consequently, indicative of an antagonism
to Great Britain ; and this view is strength-
ened by the cablegram next quoted, that the
same ii licences are being exerted to require
the neuiralisa’im of the Baltic also! If
the Black Sea and the Baltic were both
to be prohibited to the British fleet*
the effect would be practically to para-
lyse that arm as a means of offensive
operations. It would be equivalent to in-
sisting that Great Britain should fight with
one arm—and that her strongest—tied be-
hind her back. The direct result would be
that Russia and Great Britain would be left
no point of contact save on the Afghan
frontier, and that Russia would be free to
concentrate almost her entire forces on that
point. Considered together, these alleged
instancfs of the direction given to the in-
fluence of the Great Powers seem almost to
indicate a general conspiracy against Great
Britain. And when we shift the view to the
sole point of contact which would be left
available—that is to say the Afghan frontier
—the prospect is scarcely less disturbing. It
may be remembered that, at an early stage
of the crisis, a cablegram was received
to the effect that the Persian Shah
had offered to put 50,000 troops in
the field against the Russians, a step
which, as we pointed out at the time, would
have so utterly compromised their extended
line of advance from the Caspian to the
Afghan frontier, as to render any campaign
waged by that route utterly impracticable
in a strategical sense.
* * ♦
But the more recent cablegram quoted at
the commencement of this article shows the
earlier one to have been unreliable. In lieu
of Persia mobilizing the promised 50,000 men
she is being diplomatically implored to
main neutral, and to merely defend her own
territory—in other words, not to permit the
Russians to advance through Persia to the
attack. And when we come to Afghanistan
itself, the situation is not a whit less compli-
cated and disquieting. The Ameer, who wa»
our very pood friend and ally up to the
moment that the Russians crossed his fron-
tier, and crumpled up his advanced troops,
suddenly turned round, and declared that
Biitish ai tnies should not advance through
his cauntry, even to defend it against the
Russians. He was willing to accept arms
and munitions, and professed an intention
of employing them against the Russians, but
hii first exh.bition of duplicity was certainly
not an encouragement to place reliance
upon his good faitn. Thus two possibili-
ties presented themselves at this point. The
Amc-r may have resolved — with v£ry
giod grounds—that inasmuch as there has
been no instance of the British ever
THE LATE MARCUS CLARKE.
MRS. MARCUS CLARKS.


J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.'S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKEx' CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLEN'S
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANDFACTURERB.
I* Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guaranteed.
Annual Income exceeds One
Llorhtnlng and Gas Explosion]Damages Paid.
C. W. KOBEKTS’
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,*!
Large Bottle, only 9s.
Small Bottle, • 4s. fid,
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
A J8TRALIAN PORT WINE,
la. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDQEE PORT,
?s. per Battle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT
2s. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
Is. 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke s Prize Medal Brand,
in stone bottles and so.uare bottles,
LARGEST SIZE. *
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
SYDNEY.
letting go their friendly grip of a territory
once they get a footing in it on any pretence
whatever, and as the same is equally true of
Russia, he would—since fate seemed to have
placed him between two equally formidable
blades of a pair of shears —push back both
with equal vigour, and if he were doomed
to perish, perish defending the independence
of his kingdom. Again, it is possible that
he is secretly leagued with Russia, having
accepted from them better terms, or more
sugary pledges than we have offered, and
that he intends to assist the advance of the
Russians against India. In the first case the
action of the Ameer, combined with the
action of the Powers in regard to the Black
and the Baltic Seas, would leave no possible
point of contact and conflict on a large
scale at all between Great Britain and
Russia, and there would be only a war with-
out battles. If, however, the Ameer be
acting in the Russian interest, and the
Powers be resolved to enforce their recom-
mendations relative to neutralising the Dar-
danelles and the Baltic, Great Britain is face
to face with a struggle such as she never,
in the course of her existence, has had to
confront. It is not to be expected that the
Government of the United Kingdom would
tamely assent to tho neutralisation of the Bal-
tic, or surrender, without the extremest dip-
lomatic tension, her desires to have free pas-
sage through the Dardanelles. Should she
refuse the former proposition, she might
have the whole of the Powers, even simul-
taneously, to combat by sea and land ; and,
In order to secure the latter, she would
probably require to drag Turkey into the
war as her ally, accepting whatever conse
quences might follow—that is to say, the too
probable likelihood of setting other nations
in motion likewise. In order to secure the
co-operation of Turkey a complete reversal
of the recent dealings with Egypt and the
Soudan, especially the Rid Sea littoral,
would be necessitated; and already there
are indications that negotiations in that
spirit were in advanced stages before the
recent pacific arrangement was arrived at,
as the total abandonment of the operations
from Suakim appear to require a larger ex-
planation than the necessity for providing
troops to confront Russia in Afghanistan.
“Disloyal” England.
One of the most striking features of the
Jingo mania, now happily abated, which
was inaugurated by Mr. Dalley and
fomented by the Sydney dailies was the
virulence with which all who objected
to the despatch of a New South Wales
Contingent, unnecessarily to participate
in an immoral war, were stigmatised
as disloyal. There is now abundant
evidence that if opposition to the war
were evidence of disloyalty to England,
half the people of England are disloyal to
themselves. As a matter of fact, no denun-
ciation of the war as one repugnant alike to
the principles of Christianity and the prin-
ciples upon the observance of which our
native land bases her claim to be truly great
among the nations, which has been uttered
in New South Wales has been more tren-
chant than the censures .’and remonstrances
of English Liberals. The policy of massacre
and revenge was not the deliberate policy
even of the Government which undertook
it. It was forced upon them by just such
a Jingo lunacy as has afflicted our own
population. As our own S.M. Herald
admitted, the other day, it was a “passing
bloodthirst and discreditable desire for re-
venge which had made temporary seizure of
England as of Australia.’' The London
Echo thus treats the position of Mr. Glad-
stone’s Cabinet:—
“Think of it. Hera are sixteen men, Liberalg
and Radicals, most of them capable mer, some of
them extraordinarily so. They believe in peace;
they do not want to extend the responsibilities of
the Empire; and they can find nothing better to
do than to repeat the mad exploits of Totumes
and Cambyses, wasting the resources of the
civilized North In conquering the wastes of the
savage South. Twelve months ago they told us
and proved to us that such a policy would be mad
and futile. Said Sir Charles Dilkb, ‘I protest
against it withjall my soul.’ Now, Impelled by
the Tories, the officials, and the Clubs, they are
going to undertake it. Twelve months hence you
will hear no voice but the voice of regret that
■uch a policy was ever proposed by a Libera 1
Government and accepted by the Liberal Party.”
So, then, it was loyalty, not to the British
nation, but to the Tories, the officials, and
the swell clubs, that some people in New
South Wales were tricked by Dalley and
his abettors into displaying, and it was lack
of loyalty to the policy of “the Tories, the
Officials, and the swell clubs,” that dissen-
tients were guilty of. We say the swell
clubs, because the peoples’ clubs sing a
very different tune. The people of England
have been saying exactly what The Bulle-
tin has been in New South Wales addressing
to the people of Australia. Thus—we
quote:—
“A crowded meeting of the clubs forming the
Hackney Radical Federation took place yesterday
morning at the United Radical Club, Kay-streeb
Hackney-road. Mr. Frederick Rogers, in propo-
sing the following resolution, spoke eloquently
•gainst the war policy of the Government, stating >
amidst sympathetic cheers, that if the Soudanese
were rebels, then those who followed Washington
were equally so. The resolutions, which were
carried by acclamation, ran as foUows:-(l) ‘That
this mass meeting of the members of the six Hack-
ney Workmen’s Clubs strongly deprecate the ap-
parent intention of Her Majesty’s Government to
forcibly occupy the Soudan, in gross violation of
former declarations, and at the cost of English
blood and treasure, believing, as we all most
earnestly do, that arrangements could and should
be negotiated by which the native Arabs might
be; allowed to govern themselves;’ (3) ‘That as
peaceable, industrious citizens, we solemnly pro-
test against all wars of adventure, irasmuch as
they are waged at the cost of the sacrifice of all
domestic legislation, and serve to further impo-
verish an already poverty-ridden people.’ The
Battersea Branch of the National Secular Society
have passed the following resolution:— ‘ That this
meeting strongly condemns the warlike proceed-
ings of tho Government of this country against the
Soudanese, “rightly struggling to be free,” and
calls upon the Government to withdraw Her
Majesty’s troops as soon as practicable, leaving the
Soudanese inhabitants to manage thei own affairs;
and copies of the resolution to be sent to tho Prime
Minister,’ &c, &c.”
And again :—
“ The working-class Radicals of London are
beginning to take action in several districts
against the further prolongation of the war in the
Soudan, and several of the Clubs are already
arranging meetings. The London Patriotic Club
is organising a demonstration on Clerkenwelj
Green .... and solicits the co-operation of
all Clubs and Associations in the district. Several
members of Parliament have been Invited, and
the following have already consented to take part
in the demonstration: Messrs. F. A. Ford, Joseph
Leicester, W. R. Cremer, A. Callow, and James
Rowlands.”
The London Patriotic (.') Club. Phew! There’s
a mistake somewhere. Dalley and his
crowd insist that it is unpatriotic and dis‘
loyal to England to object to the very policy
which the Patriotic Club of London de-
nounces! Once more: —
“Let us do the Government the Justice to re-
member that not only were they hounded on by
the Opposition, but unmoved bv the resignation
of Mr. Bright. The Liberals never applied Liberal
principles to the dilemma in which we were placed.
A few Radicals, like Sir Wilfrid LaWdON and Mr*
Labouchere, raised up their voices in Parliament,
and meetings of working men were held, to which
the upper classes did not listen. We lost ourselves
in a cloud of big phrases about the honour and the
glory and the prestige of England. It is convenient
now to take advantage of the disaster in the
Soudan, because the upper classes care much less
for Englishmen than they do for Egyptian bonds
and military glory.”
Here’s another :—
“Speaking last night at an anti-war meeting,
Mr. Henry Richard reminded his audience that
the tropical truce imposed by the sun gives the
Radicals six months’ breathing time. The delay li
precious, and the opportunity must not be allowed
to slip. Hitherto those who disapproved of the
forward policy of the Government at each succes-
sive stage have barely had time to utter a protest
when the movements of fleets and armies made
further action appear hopeless. It is other-
wise now. The feeling of disgust at the Soudan
campaign is wide spread, and will probably increase.
The Radical Clubs of London are passing resolu-
tions against the war, and even at ordinary Liberal
meetings every denunciation of it is loudly ap-
plauded. The anti-war meeting at the Memorial
Hall was followed up last night by similar meet-
ings at the Westminster and Holborn Town Halls.
At Hampstead, Mr. Picton denounced the expen-
diture of millions of money in slaughter abroad
while thousands of the poor were starving at
home. Even the Nonconformists arc at last be-
ginning to move. [Heyl Dr. Jefferis.] At the
meeting of the Lancashire Congregational Union
yesterday a resolution was unanimously adopted
calling upon the Government to bring the war in
the Soudan to a close as soon as possible, though
the value of the resolution was greatly diminished
by an expression of opinion that the present Go-
vernment is best fitted to bring about such a
happy result. Those who wish to bring the war to
an end will best promote that result by simply for-
mulating their demands; it will be time enough to
renew votes of confidence when the Government
does what is asked of it. If men would only speak
out firmly during the next six months, putting
Principle before Party, the Government would be
able to disregard those who have urged it on to
disaster.”
Next Ve have the Pall Mall Gazette,
which, with keen instinct, appears to have
comprehended how little the Jingoes of
New South Wales comprehended the true
significance of the step they were precipi.
tated into approving; -
“ If any one imagines thatafter allowing colonial
contingents to fight tho battles of the Empire we
shall be able to go on any longer on the old plan
of settling our foreign policy without taking
counsel with our kin beyond the sea, he makes a
very great mistake. Witness, for Instance, the
address of the Governor of New South Wales to
the soldiers of that colony on their embarkation.
‘ You are going,’ ho told them,‘to assist the Im-
perial forces in a bitter struggle for the suppres-
sion of unspeakable cruelty and for the establish-
ment of order and Justice in a misgoverned country.’
It is evident they know nothing in New South
Wales of Sir W. Harcourt and his butcher-and
bolt policy, and, what is more, if it is ever prel
sented to them as a reality, they will have good
reason to declare that they have been swindled.
The very idea that the England of Elizabeth and
of Cromwell and of Pitt, which colonists we-
vere, might possibly be also the England of Sir W,
Harcourt and his like, has not yet penetrated
the colonial mind, and for the sake of the unity of
the Empire it is to be hoped that knowledge of
that fact may never reach tho Antipodes.”
Truth contributes its reflection, Mr. La-
bouchsre thus expressing his views;—
“ My own impression Is this : wo shall possibly
send a force to occupy Sinkat up in the hills near
Suaklm and perhaps build a railroad up to this
point. The heat will prevent us from doing any-
thing more until next autumn, and by that time
the absurdity of going to Khartoum or of over
turning prophets will become so transparent that
we shall hear nothing mors of this tomfoolery.”
And Vanity Fair, a Conservative organ,
remarks—the basis of its complaint being
that ihe Government refused—even when
yielding to Tory clamour to the extent of
making preparations to “smash the Mahdi”
and Osman Digna —to undertake a per-
manent conquest:—
“ Of all the wanton wickedness perpetrated by
this disgraceful Goverment, nothing so wanton
an* wicked has yet been done as that which is
now being carried out in the attack on Osman
Digna. There is absolutely no ulterior purpose
sought, absolutely no object to be gained by it ;
and every man—English or Arab—killed in this
battle, will be as truly murdered by Mr. Glad,
stone and his Cabinet— [Vanity Fair apparently
does not recognise the equal talents of our little
Ballet] — as though they had pistolled him in
Dowling-street. Surely there ought to be found
some public man with public shame enough to
denounce such a crime, and to insist on its punish-
ment.”
And if more instances of the gross “dis-
loyalty” of the English people be needed,
here is a scandalous reflection by the Birming-
ham Daily Telegram, on the “spirited”
oration delivered by our own sacred Gover-
nor to the departing contingent. After
quoting Lord Augustus’ deliverance, the
Telegram comments :—
“ The weak point comes out when he ventures
on the reasons of the war. ‘ Suppression of un-
speakable cruelty I’ On which side, pray ? On the
side of the Egyptian Pachas, supported by Turkish
soldiers—those same precious Bashi-Bazouks that
Mr. Gladstone used to denounce so eloquently
for their • Bulgarian Atrocities,’ or on the side of
the down-trodden Arabs, the poor tenants of the
desert, who, man, woman, and child, were taxed at
the rate of £3 per head to support the harems of
Cairo ? And we are going ‘to establish order and
justice ’ are we, by ‘smashing ’ the only man who
can keep the tribes in check, and by killing
them at the rate of two thousand an hour
for the dreadful sin of ‘fighting for their
freedom I’ Well, we have not ‘smashed’ him
yet, and it is our opinion that we never shall-
With a temperature of 108 degrees in the tents in
February, the military reasons for withdrawal
down the Nile are strong enough, but far stronger
are the reasons that the men of conscience are bring-
ing to bear on a Ministry intoxicated by past suc-
cess, and supported so far by the old party cry of
Peace, Retrenchment and Reform.”
Thus we are enabled to perceive by refer-
ence to English journals that the argu-
ments heretofore employed by The Bulle-
tin are not “disloyal” arguments, but the
arguments of all true Liberals in England
itself. We who protest against a war
against patriots are not, as the Dalleyites
would have people believe, pestilent dis-
loyalists, but what in England itself weuld
be termed “ men of conscience.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Peace Prospects.
We can conceive nothing nobler than the mag.
nifieent resistance which Mr. Gladstone— the
morally grand old man—has opposed to the in-
sens ite clamours of the Jingoes in Great Britain,
who have been striving by every art and every
species of insult to hound him on to precipitate
the nation into a war with Russia; and we can
imagine no victory more glorious than that high-
principled statesman has achieved in conquering
the inducements which would have prompted a
frivolous politician to achieve a gaudy popularity
at the expense of the true Interests of the nation
which has entrusted its guidance to his care.
Even the second Napoleon, when the rottenness
of his governing system had sunk him to the
deepest abasement of contempt in the regard of
the French people, was, in one moment, re-exalted
to the highest pinnacle of popular favour when
he declared war against Prussia. Any mounte-
bank invested with power during such a
crisis, can secure a fleeting deification if
ho will but) hearken to the clamour of the ex-
cited and delirious multitudes, and, careless of re-
sult, hasten them forward to their own undoing.
In such periods of excitement reflection is over-
whelmed and lost. Passion and folly are rampant.
The rational councillor is in a minority, and when
he raises the voice of warning and wisdom he is
howled down as a coward and traitor. War is
shrieked for a« though it were the greatest bless-
ing that could bo granted to a nation, instead of
ihe bitterest curse. But, when the crisis is over’
men recover their reason and, in due time, regain
the faculty of distinguishing between the charla-
tanic fribble who sacrifices a people to gain
a temporary exaltation for himself, and
the devoted and self-sacrificing friend, who
aocep'.s contumely sooner than permit the people
to be l ;d to suffering and sacrifice by the clamour
of the vain and thoughtless.
Militia or Volunteers.
Some of the public appear puzzled to account for
the cold welcome which the offers of volunteer
corps have met with at the hands of the Govern*
ment. Instead of meeting the various patriotic
bodies half-way, the Government simply accords
them a cool recognition. Simple people wonder
at what seems to them a contrast between the
feverish activity with which everything, from the
Constitution to the tram traffic, was turned upside
down to equip and dispatch a force to help in the
slaughter of patriots, and the supercilious negli-
gence with which the proffers of service for the
patriotic defence of our own land is received.
There have been no enthusiastic letters of de-
lighted appreciation from the Colonial Secretary,
such as were showered on creatures of the Little
Boy at Manly calibre when the aggressive opera-
tion was in question; no scouring of the colony
to provide drill-instructors; no politic haste
to stimulate and encourage the movement by
issue of commissions, by distribution of rifles, by
wholesale orders for uniforms, or by lavish pro-
vision of ammunition for practice. In this cflse
the people have done everything on their part,
spontaneously and with true loyalty and pa-
triotism, while the Government have done no-
thing but fold their arms and look askance*
Possibly they fear the effect of a confession that
in their madness they have stripped the arm ouries
and depleted the magazines, and have actually
neither rifles nor cartridges remaining to equip
the willing patriots who come forward to defend
their country. But we believe the true reason is
deeper. The 'Government hates the notion of a
volunteer force. The arbitrary spirit which has
grown up among its members in consequence of
the humble endorsement by Parliament of its first
contempt of contemns
the idea of a volunteer force. Arbitrary Govern-
ments invariably crave for military bodies
which shall be as distinct as possible from
the people to be governed. The beau-ideal
of despotic government is to find support
in foreign mercenaries. It was in that spirit
that William of Orange strained every nerve
to induce the House of Commons to permit
him to retain, after the revolution, the battalions
of his Dutch Guards. And it was in that spirit
that the Tory Minister of George III. suppressed
the first assemblages of Englishmen to demand
reform, by brigading Hanoverian troops in the
northern counties. It is thus that Ireland, India
and Egypt are ruled by Great Britain, Poland by
Russia, Alsace and Lorraine by Germany. It was
thus that the Roman Emperors held their vast
dominions in control. Next to this, a standing
army is the favoured expedient. A military caste,
ever craving forj excitement and action, can gen-
erally be trained to regard themselves as separate
from the civil population. And next in order
comes militia, a sort of approximation to a stand-
ing army. A volunteer force cannot be depended
upon for anything—except to fight desperately
for the defence of their country, its liberties and
rights. Therefore, Dictator Dalley turns a cold
shoulder against the volunteer movement, and
therefore the Government designs to introduce a
Militia Bill.
For continuation of “ Plain English,” see next page


The Ratvs or Subscription to The Bulletin
arc—For one year, 34s ; half-year, 12b. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
Thb Advertising Rates are 6s. per Inch •
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per incb.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions!
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 36 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
(“ Plain English,” continued from page 4.)
A Pretty Pickle.
The force ot the objections which we urged
against the annexation of New Guinea at the time
when the annexation craze was the prevailing
form of Jingoism, can at the present time be
easily recognised. Suppose that Australia had
undertaken the annexation of that island as a
responsibility of these colonies, what a pretty fix
we should be in, any time during the ensuing 50
years, in the event of a war. We should require
to maintain an army in New Guinea, and to keep
a powerful fleet off its coast; and, in order to be
adequate to hold the country, these forces would
require to be at least equal to any expedition
which might probably be sent against them. In
other words. New Guinea would have required to
be occupied by as strong a defensive force as New
South Wales. And, mark this, the same would
have been true of every group of islands annexed.
We don’t think the force of bombastic folly could
have gone much farther than that displayed by
the Annexation Jingoes.
We received last week, just after going to press,
a budget of letters from our special correspondent
with the New South Wales Contingent. These
are excellent letters, hut, after all, the whole
affair has been such a fizzle that there has been, so
far, nothing of any consequence to write about,
and we don’t propose to Inflict upon our readers
mere chronicles of smill beer, however well
written.
TO CORRESPONDENTS
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“ Roquefort Something is the matter
with you. You write as if you were still keeping
up Ash Wednesday “Marcus Dean”: Must
decline to decide your wager. But we may say
that we have often seen the word spelt “ Wol
verine”—notably in Will Carleton’s poem “The
Army of the Dead’’—Sampson Lowe’s edition—
“Native ” (Sandhurst): Thanks, tor your letter—
“C.C.”: We don’t print your “Ode to Nothing,”
In this column we want something —“ B. Dyson”
(S. Melbourne): Excellent, but held over
“Marso”: Nonsense. If General Grant really hss
extensive cancer of the tongue then he must die.
....“Brands”: We don’t know that there Is any
Civil Service regulation expressly directed against
knocking down an old lady and blacking her eye.
“A. W. Barton”: Your letter is too long and
too discursive. Mr. Dailey Is the man who, having
had a chance of federating Australia (by joining
with the other colonies in putting pressure upon
the Imperial Government with regard to New
Guinea annexation) stood aloof, and alike alienated
the other colonies from England and from N.8.W..
“Marcus”; Whatl Do you really think a girl
should be sent to nurse every warrler we have In
the Soudan? “ 0. G. M‘G.’: Thanks for your
paragraphs. The subjoined is neat and smacks of
the bush :—
“ A reed was the plan of the old god Pan
To soothe the mind of the satiate man;
But sweeter, far sweeter, to the hungry man
Is the frizzling sound of the frying-pan.”
But why, O friend, sh uld a man sing the praises
of that hideous instrument of torture, the frying-
pan, when he could just as easily screech a poem
to the grid-iron ? Have you ever eaten a grilled
steak, old man? “ H.M.” (Goulburn): Much
obliged.but cannotuse—"T.B.M.” (Bllgh-street):
Clever, but too giddy —“ W.S.B.”(Duhbo): “The
new Governor ot N.S.W. spells his name with one
‘r,’” does he? How can a man whose name is
Smith spell his name with one ,l r”?—“Pialba ’
(Q): Nothing novel in your Idea. Kangaroo skins
are even now used extensively for such purposes.
By and bye, if the N.S W, Legislative Council and
their relatives go ahead with the Hogging system,
there won t be enough kangaroos, bullocks, wom-
bats, and horses in Australi i to supply leather for
cat-o’-ninc-talls “ P.Q Not a registered prac-
titioner “Omicron”: Decidedly good. Is the
short one original ?....“Q.”: Yes, you're right as
to the Incident. As to the illustration, our version
we think the better one Hang Greek; It looks
good, and few know better—“ J.A.B.” (Waratah):
Promising for a boy. Lots of work needed yet
before practical utility can be attained... “Prac-
tical Hadical”: No; we are fully supplied ...
“E.P.”: Very neat, but must hold over
♦ B. Florence”: 'fhe matter Is now stale “A
Native” (West Melbourne) writes to express his
full concurrence with The Bulletin s views on
the Soudan Contingent. He affirms that the Pre-
sident of the Australian Native Association in
Melbourne had no authority to send Mr. Dailey
the congratulatory telegram which was de-
spatched, as neither the Board of Directors nor
the society had empowered him to do so... “ In-
ftflix” (Brewarrina): Consult privately ary of the
physicians of the Alfred Hospital, Sydney
•* h.Y.” (Narrabrij: A good idea Many thanks ...
‘ Subscriber”: Trickett lost the championship of
the world to Hanlan on the Thames, 1st of May,
1883 ...“ H.E.”: The 1000yds. Challenge Cup at the
Eastern Suburbs Amateur Sports last year was
won by D. D. Middleton. On Saturday last, Mid-
dleton was beaten by J. Ferris in 3mln. 33sec
“ Marie J.”: With you (as, by the way, with Lady
Durham, so you err in “good,” even though
cranky company) everything is “nice” and
“ pretty.” “ The English language,” once said Mr.
Pinto, “consists of two words, ‘nice’ and ‘jolly,’
and some grammarians add ‘bore.’”
“Navvy.”: Will attend to It... “It.” (Silverton):
The excerpt, we believe, is from Moonshine, a
Tory satirical weekly. Marco ’’ (Warregoj: (1)
Wo. (8) It all depends on the'ccndltlons or the
policy. One of rhe Victorian Insurance offices in-
timated to a sergeant of police, who had offered
to Join a defence corps, that It would not pay his
life policy In the event of his being killed Inaction.
• Mrs Pater Yes, you have every qualifi-
cation for an obituaiy bard. and;>f jou once got a
Start In business would easily keep going. Per-
sons who read your verses would kill themselves,
and then you c mid sell soma nu re deadly odts <o
their executors . .."G. C. Hood”: Only repelveu
a moment betoregoing to press.
The young Lochinvar has gone out to the West,
And in all the back country bis clothes are the best,
would you ask where he got them V With glad-
hess I tell
That ’twas Summerfleld made this young squatter
a swell.*
Every homekeeper in setting their furni-
ture and appointments does so with the view of ob-
taining the best effect. Futile will be the efforts
°{ all who strive to do so without such articles in
glass, or earthenware, as are to be had at Bray
" r os., 403 and 404 George-street.*
Mrs. Marcus Clarke.
We make no apology for reproducing in £Bia Issue
the portrait of the late Marcus Clarke—Austra-
lia’s premier litterateur— since it serves as com-
panion to the likeness of his widow, who is now
in Sydney, striving, by the exercise of the pro-
fession which she quitted to wed her distinguished
husband, to support and educate his six children.
Of the talent ot Marcus Clarke, as the first of, we
hope, a long series of Australian authors, every
colonist must be proud, and it is gratifying to
know that a number of the leading men of New
South Wales are interesting themselves to or-
ganise a substantial benefit performance, the re-
ceipts of which are to lighten the honourable
efforts his widow is making to bring up the children
who constitute the only legacy bequeathed her by
her talented but too thoughtless husband. At the
initiative of Sir Patrick Jennings, a committee is
in course of formation to insure the complete
success of the benefit performance, which is ex-
pected to he given in little more than a week, and
already among the names of the gentlemen who
have associated themselves with this excellent
work are those of Sir John Robertson, his Honor
Mr. Justice Windeyer, the Hon. B. Wisdom, Mr.
Edward Wrench, Mr. Slattbry (M.P.), Mr. D.
O'Connor (M.P), Mr. Hugh George—who was In-
timately connected with the late Marcus Clarke
while managing the Melbourne Annus and Aus-
tralasian—Mr. J. K. Clarke, Mr. 8. Cook, and
the French and American Consuls, while additional
volunteers are pouring in.
With the Contingent.
[BY CABLE.]
(FROM OUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT.)
. Suakim, 4th May.
The Australian infantry, who are learning
camel-riding, were reviewed to-day by General
Graham, who, while praising them, expressed an
opinion to the effect that they required much
more practice.
From Wide Bay News, April 31 “ We
notice that a non-spiritualist healing medium will
come off at the Cnurch of England Schoolroom
this evening, at which Christian sufferers from in-
curable ailments are invite r.”
Captain Reid, R.A., and Mr. J. C. Neild,
are raising a purely volunteer infantry guerilla
corps in Sydney for skirmishing service, in the
event of the visit of a foreign enemy. It is sug-
gested that the equipment should be something like
that worn by some of the Southern States troops
in the American Civil War —lace boots, stockings,
knee breeches of grey tweed, leather gaiters.
grey tweed Norfolk Jacket, brown felt hat, with
small bunch of blactc ooektul feathers at side,
rifle, bayonet, revolver, and cartridge bolt rather
than pouch. The corps will provide Its own uni-
forms, &c.
It is extraordinary when, by accident, the
wrong old lady is laid on to do a special article in
our Sydney MohnInQ herald, what a bungle
the old thing gets in when not severely edited by
a younger old lady than herself. The article wo
alluae to was on the subject of those interesting
ladies, Mesdames Keep and Burton. It will be
remembered that the relations between the pri-
soners were that of step-grandmother and step-
grandchild; Mrs. Burton, while comparatively
young, having seduced to the altar one of Mrs.
Keep’s grandfathers. Now, listen to the Holy
joey;— “The prisoners, It will be remembered,
wore charged with murder. They were mother
and daughter. The daughter was charged with
murdering her husband, the mother with murder-
ing her son-in-law. it was a fearful family tra-
gedy.” So it was, old girl—a fearful family
tragedy; but not quite so bad as you make it I
[We are sorry to have once more to Impress upon
this journal to avoid, so far as possible, dealing,
for tne sake of affording amusement to a few duU
vicars, in the morbidly sensational.— Ed. B.J
Mr. Nathaniel Dear “stood” the Captain of
the Prahranholy howlers, the other day, lor assault
and bat r ery. Nat complained that the Salvation
purveyor had Jostled him on the footpath, and
given Uim a severe back-fall, breaking off a brass
button, and putting a kink in bis head. The
Captain in defence stated that Nathaniel had
broken the rules of Harmy etiquette by dragging
the forms round, whistling, ana howling for grace
in a pewter, in short, by behaving in a manner
calculated to disturb the sweet calm of a Harmy
corrobboree. So, acting in his office of general
“ chucker-out,” the captain left off wrestling
with the Devil, and, seizing Nat by the vest, he
dropped him out on his back hair. A short-sighted,
long-eared justice dismissed the case. Upon hear-
ing tnis the Howlers neoame uproarous with de
light, and “amens” wore as plentiful In court as
groans at a soul-saving social. And one regener-
ated old reprobate in a red flannel so far forgot
himself as to invite a brother soldier out to the
nearest pub., there to absorb “tanglefoot” “on
tne strength ot it.” Upon leaving, tne Capting
spread his bands over Nathaniel, and, with h;s
fingers bent up the wrong way, said, “ uawd bless
you, Mr. Dear.” The Herald reports this In all
Its u "ictuousness.
The undergraduates of the Melbourne
University had, as Addison would say, a high old
time at the annual commencement. Tuey hooted
at the Dons, bayed at the Bishop of Melbourne,
and cat-called at his Excellency the Governor.
There seemed to be a general impression among
them that they would not be much exceeding
their ancient privileges if they were to use all
these dignitaries as Aunt Sallies or Guy Fawkeses.
But this was the error of youth. Six of them
wore brought before the Board, charged with dis-
orderly conduct. Four were softly but decisively
invited to carry their exuberance outside the
gates forever. The remaining two were ordered
to prepare a defence and show cause why the
same late should not happen to them; the
end was that one of them was ‘•publicly”
reprimanded — la private. The festive days
of undergraduatehood are evidently over. We
are reminded by this of an anecdote told us by
a friend of ours—a Trinity College man.
During his residence at the College there was a
devil-may-care, happy-go-lucky student there by
the name of Brasser Blake. This gentleman had a
genius for getting into scrapes, which was allowed
by all his friends—no bad judges, either, in those
days—to border on the miraculous. But one day
he did something which surpassed all his previous
efforts in this line. We forget what it was-killed
his tutor, perhaps. Anyhow he was brought be-
fore the Board. When he came out his fellow-
students crowded round him to know what had
occurred. “Well,” replied Brasser in a tone of
gloomy resignation, “I wint before the Boord,
and the Boord said to me: ‘Brasser, we’ll let ye
all this time, but the next time ye come here
agin, we’ll knock hell’s blazes out of ye,’the Boord
did.”
The anglers in and around Ballarat are,
perhaps, as peaceful as those of any other place.
But they are only human, after all, and there is a
pitch of provocation which would make even the
mildest-mannered Museum mummy burst its cere-
ments and either kill its keeper or get drunk. By
the way, what an Interesting study it would be to
observe a drunkeu mummy pleading with a publi-
can to “set ’em up again ” and "put it down ” to
Amenophls the Third, receiving the inevitable re-
fusal with a volley of oaths in early Coptic, and
winding up with the usual seven days I Speaking
of mummies [This is no place for a discussion of
your family matters; get on with your paragraph.
—Ed. B ] Well, the Izaak Waltons in question are
now prosecuting a vigorous search for an ingeni-
ous pot-ilsher who drained oil’ a hole in William-
son's Creek, and took all the trout out of it to the
number of 14-14 beauties, too, weighing from
21b. to 4lb. each. It appears that a number of fine
trout were placed in the creek some years ago by
a lover of “the gentle art,” who did not foresee
what a mighty fisher before the Lord would arise
in the after-time to literally “ scoop the pool.”
The most merciful proposal of the anglers as-
sembled in council was to pitch the pot-flsher into
the pool he had drained and then 1111 it up again
with water, and fish for him with harpoons. This,
however, did not obtain so much favour as a sug-
gestion made by another angler (who is also the
elder of a local church) to the effect that the pool-
drainer should be sent down to tho Portland
fishermen and cut up for shark-bait. It would be
interesting to know which proposal the gentleman
himself favours. Anyhow, though it might have
taken him longer It would seemingly have boon
cheaper in tho end for him to have fished for his
trout with a piece of twine and a bent pin.
At Darlinghnrst, right opposite the gaol,
there is a “ Church Home for Discharged
Prisoners” under the auspices of the “Sydney
Gospel Army.” For the reverend gentleman who
has organised the Army we have much respect,
in that we consider him to have sacrificed money
and what the world is pleased to called social
position, in order that he might loss restralnedly
work out his task of charity. But as he, like a
good many other clergymen, is too much of a
man of the next world to be much of a man of
this world, perhaps he won’t mind our gently
pointing out that it’s rather a mistake for him to
label this “Home” as he has done. At the corner
of York and Burton Streets he has had painted
up, in big white letters on a glaring blue
ground, tho name of the establishment, and a short
statement of Its objects. We feel a personal In-
terest in this matter, for when we saw the big
sign we asked ourselves how we’d have liked (had
we, when wo got out of gaol that time, been
dreadfully hard up), to have been taken by the
head of the Gospel Army and lugged off across
the street to live beneath the shadow of that aw-
ful blue sign proclaiming to all the pretty girls of
Darllnghurst Road, who saw us picking our teeth
at the door after dinner, that wo had just been let
out, and were waiting for something to happen.
If the Gospel Army started a Home for Fallen
Women, surely they wouldn’t write up over the
door “ Magdalene Asylum ? ’’—and why should
they write up the words “ Fallen Men ? ”
Besides—let us whisper it softly—the Home is in
Belgrave Terrace, and it will be pretty rough on
the numerous dapper Civil Servants and others
who make the terrace their residence should the
blue label be allowed to remain, and the idea get
abroad (as it easily may, and, in fact, soon will)
that the whole row of buildings belong to the
Army, and that the lodgers have all just emerged
from the “Jug.” We Invite tho Gospel authori-
ties to chew the matter over for a day or two.
None but professional ruffians of the deepest dye
would, on leaving gaol, consent to reside in a place
so labelled—any more than a man who wanted to
reform would, on being released from prison, walk
down street with the broad-arrow on his back.
Alecky is a Queensland aboriginal. He
wouldn’t give evidence against some black
troopers who had been shooting niggers near Her-
berton, so the authorities “ scruffed ” him down
to Townsville, heedless of the wild outbursts of
profanity with which he filled his native woods.
On reaching Townsville, ho was clapped into the
Barrack yard—and quickly Blithered over the
SgBfflSsas
Alecky bwJ™ £ but Rave ln at last. and now
meets. 7 t0 boome rangr the next cobbler he
quI^t Nr on Y tno T nnf a T? ° Ur total 109863 co “ 36 -
Wolselcvin C a 9° s com menced by Lord
isaii£S2“-a
West had mirohoV baJ lock-puncher8 of the Far
watches a watch, and, like most of the
waion, but the mother of this man
h2 d n 2?. ce „f, ee 1 a J plcture of t p e lake of Genevas
be „?i aliU1 i a y I 1 ad an Instinctive quickness of ner
ceptlon in matters relating sSthoulh
tr> e fl'n!i an< V ed i, 0 ?® befor e. It didn’t take
dim lonff to And out what was wronir. He uri/ed
open 1 he case with his “dover,” and hla eve glit-
‘‘°Ho 1 y W Frost h ff 2f ! riu “P b as he exefaimed,
n n init f 08t ; l f . tbere at ?* a horsehair pot twisted
too ” D hJ Jhoh my u atb ’ ,tfl stuck pretty tight,
twee/erif d n Jv. 8 be £“»?ed at It with his
tweezers. But she ought to go right now ” he
* 8an . other ,pu 1 l tore the balancesprlnl
hai> * fc was , that Worsted hnrse-
nairinma that teas stopping her.” He has since
started business in Sydney as a watch-repairer.
Ho^ e HmJ e l n Au9tralia a waterfall which, in
mnltei wtSi 8ur Pa8ses in magnificence even 1m-
iff" th0UBa nd miles north of Brls-
Barron Ulver meets the sea; less than 30
thi°s 8 t^a^H e ooa8t ’. on fch esea-elde of the last of
the stream s deep waters, where the Barron enters
Lsf r t K h 6 e?r V by mou ° taln8 2000ft. high, Which
cast their shadows on a long dark dooI whero
fn ( he 1 wnte^fa i’i V h c e slope culminating
cent Rrnm f fhL be / lD8 V *? he fcener y Is magnifl-
rhn m,!ml“i heed * e of tbo water to the summits
inni»iS 0 o^ aiC8 are co y ertd with dense tropical
u 2 bet ween you and the sky
tower gigantic pine trees, that look as if a breath
l°fn d *h„ e °ll be K m , plu °King down through swoS
rfiiQ 0 l!l e £ ocb ? b ? ow ’ Splendid trees, those dark-
™1l8iHed kau ri Pines, the colossi of the vegetable
fh^ d S ro £ nd y* 6111 ' kiants among lesser giants,
though whose far-spreading branches the spectral
Sif^ 8 f^i m 1 ourn .f ull . y: .J one va8t Pollan harp of
®I olvln ff an;old and solemn harmony,”
such as the poet heard amoug the pines In the
?hnio e B ° f , Arv , <5 ’ Tbe . to P of the falls is 1100 feet
abo^ G sea-level; and In llood-ttme the Barron Is
MOyds. wide end 40ft. deep. This enormous wall of
water tumbles sheer down over a tremendous pre-
cipice between 400ft and 500ft. In height (Niagara
Is but 164ft. high), and Is dashed into foam 1 if the
rooky abyss below, upheaved a/aln In one boiling
hell of water, in front of which is a stupendous
w^°-.® hap6d / av ne - not SOft. wide In the bottom,
with sides rising to 3000ft., and down this terrific
chasm, the pent-up water, hundreds of feet
}u uepth, rushes deliriously and resistlessly.
The Cairns and Herberton Hallway will com-
mand some of the grandest scenery In the
wor j<l- a After rising.' a couple of hundred feet
on the first ascent at the foot of Mount Williams,
the passengers will behold the Pacific Ocean not
five miles away, and remain in full sight of it for
eight miles gradually ascending, and each mile
revealing new glories among the Islands, the Bar-
rier reef and the Indescribable beauties of the
ranges from Capo Grafton to the toworlog’ sum-
mits of the Bellenden Kerr, For some miles
further they will wind along the face of the range,
looking down across a field of treetops Into the
rushing waters of the Barron In the gorge far be-
low, and then, emerging suddenly from a short
tunnel In a steep !«pur. come In full view of the
Barron Falls, not 200 yards from the train,
one of the wildest and most glorious scenes
that ever the human eye has gazed upon. Prom
the top of the Falls the river falls nearly 1000ft. In
a mile, and In flood time, rocks, weighing hundreds
of tons, are rolled along like pebbles. All fish are
killed going over, and tons of dead fish came down
with the river In March last year. No living
creature could survive that fearful descent. Logs
and trees are dashed to splinters among the rooks.
About 20 000,000ft. of cedar has been cut on the
Upper Barron in the expectation of Its going over
these falls In flood time, and thence downward to
the sea. None of It has ever yet reached the Falls.
The railway Is the only agent that will ever take
that cedar to the coast.
Spurgeon, the younger of that ilk, is
evidently a genuine switch of the old supple-jack.
As a climber and parasite ecclesiastical he has no
rival this side of the line. He Is a skilful shepherd,
planting his antipodean footsteps opposite to, but
on a similar basis with, the old man's at home. At
Auckland (N.Z.) he has been busy gathering the
lost sheep Into the fold, where he clips them with
his Gospel shears in due season; dips them In his
patent devll-killing sheep-dip; brands them with
his own brand, and sends them forth new creatures
to graze on tbo green tussocks by the wayside.
Having exhausted England of its spare coppers,
and drained Scotland to its last bawbee In aid of
his tabernacle fund, and finding on his return to
New Zealand that he was still short, he looked
round for fresh fields to glean. He knew there
were thousands of Freethinkers about, whose
pockets had not for a long time been touched for
church purposes. The chief and head centre of
these emancipated thinkers is Mr. Btout, Premier
of the colony. To him, therefore, to begin with,
he got a lady of hla congregation to write a fasci-
nating letter, begging for a subscription for the
tabernacle. He judged, probably with good cause,
that If he got Mr. Stout to subscribe, a substantial
sum could be collected from the rest of the fra-
ternity. ** Dear Mr. Stout,” wrote. In effect, the
bewitching correspondent, “the Baptist oongre-
?atlon of Auckland has completed a handsome
abernacle. It has cost thousands of pounds,
and we are resolved it shall be opened free
of debt. If enough money is not subscribed
after the opening ceremony, we shall shut
It up till the necassary funds are found.
I am oulte sure that you, my dear Mr. Stout—[Oh
Stout I Brown Stout 1 how covld you resist this heart-
searching appeal ?] -will be anxious to aid us In
this laudable resolution, and will. In answer to this
note, send me a subscription to the building
fund.” The letter concluded with a third posses-
sive endearment, but Stout, sly dog, never
divulged the contents of the postscript, alwavs
(and undoubtedly In this case also) the most vital
part of a lady’s letter. And what sort of an
answer, think you, the Hon. Brown Stout made to
this lovely request ? Hero are his own hierogly-
phics addressed to the lady, translated Into honest-
print word for word:-“Dear Madame,—Your
desire to open the tabernacle, which has cost so
many thousands of pounds, free of debt, may be
laudable, but I do not see that any outsider
of your body can participate in it. Although
not intimately acquainted with ecclesiastical
affairs. I yet happen to be aware that a great
many good people worship God in churches on
which some debt rests. I do not ;see that
It would prevent your adoration even If the whole
cost of the tabernacle were not defrayed. To my
idea your action looks as if you regarded your-
selves as being on a much higher pinnacle than
other Christian bodies. I decline, therefore, to
give any subscription to enable the tabernacle to-
be opened free of debt. I, however, enclose &
subscription for the poor of the Church, but not
to be applied to the tabernacle fund.”
The dark-browed warrior leaped upon
His fiery Arab steed,
And rode with haste to Summerfleld’s*.
To see their stock of tweeds.*
The Late Mr. B. O. Holtermsnn, M.L.A.
wo wrote, Mr. Bernard Otto Holter-
mann, M.P., has died, in his 47th year, of dropsy
attendant on organic
disease. The public
knew the bright,
cheery,resolute little
German chiefly as a
successful g o Id-
miner ; but they
were aware of few
of the circumstances
ot his chequered
career ere fortune
smiled upon him in
earnest. He arrived
in Sydney in August,
1858, from Hamburg
—a foreigner, who
spoke no English ;
failed to get work;
went to sea again as
a ship’s steward; re-
turned, and bent his
steps westward to
Tambaroora with
his late mining part-
ner, Mr. Lewis
Beyers, whom he
twice brought back
to the famous bill
that la the long run
gave huge fortunes
to them both. Hol-
termann, Arm in his
belief that untold
wealth lay buried in
the claim, toiled as
few men ever toil,
to realise his dream
—taught school, rowed a ferryboat, started a little
store-all to keep his mine going ; and yet he
found time to tight many a good battle with
officialdom on behalf of his brother-miners. Seven
years’ toil brought gold to the surface and a for-
tune to the man who thus persevered, and
four years later Byers and Holtermann had
taken £110,000 out of the ground, which they
afterwards sold to a company. After two
or three defeats, which he bore with the
utmost good humour, and in the intervals between
which he employed himself ns an amateur photo-;
grapher, he at last attained to the coveted dignity
of a member of Assembly, and entered Parlia-
ment as a representa-
tive of St. Leonards.
During his latter
years he engaged in
commeree, with, we
are sorry to hear,
such lll-fortuno that,
af ter all, be has died
a poor man. When
he was raining at Hill
End, his resources
ran so low that the
storekeeper refused
to give the party
any further credit.
Holtermann told
him to take either
his horse or cart,
or his share In the
mine, for these were
the only two assets
he had. The store-
keeper preferred the
horse and cart, and
next week Holter-
mann and party un-
earthed the famous
cake of gold, which
alone brought £13,000
to the plucky and
despairing proprie-
tary. It Is rumoured
that Mr. H o 11 e r-
mann’s death was
accelerated by grief
at bis recent heavy
pecuniary losses.
A fortnight before his death he confided
to a friend the intelligence that he had
been so victimised by a trusted friend (whose
misconduct he . could not bring within the
clutches of the criminal law) that when all was
found out and wound up, he would have to begin
life anew. He Intended proceeding to the Lakes
to renew his health, but business cares prevented
him, and death put an end to the sufferings and
grief of as brave a man as ever trod Australian
soli. Vale, friend Holtermann I


Personal Items
The Czar was 40 on the 10th March.
Lord Derby’s nickname is “Waverley.”
Sir George Grey, “ the great pro-Consul,”
Is 73.
Dr. Diamond Boaney, of Melbourne, has
been very ill and thinksof going to England.
Mbs. Dudley, who shot Ilossa, is said to be
the daughter of a gentleman of Auckland, N Z ,
well-known all over New Zealand under a sporting
sobriquet.
John B. Gough has delivered over 8500
temnorance lectures in 42 years. And the liquor-
trallic has more than doubled itself during the
same period. Cause and effect ?
Mr. Alexander Britton, for many years
the trusted sub-editor of the Melbourne Argus.
will, we hear, shortly assume a literary position of
responsibility on the 8.M. Herald.
The N.S.W. Colonial Secretary, who has
returned from N.Z , Intends going to work at once.
The doctors say that, should he do so. it will be at
the risk of an intensification of his paralytic ten-
dency.
The friendship of Lord Carington for the
Prince of Wales has led to the deduction being
drawn that Lord Carlngton’s acceptance of the
Sydney Governorship will lead to a visit from the
Prince and Princess of Wales.
Sir Alfred Stephen’s life has been so long
Insured that the bonuses due to him exceed the
amount of his policy. What makes the outlook
tolerable to the A.M.P. Society is the cer-
tainty that the ex-Chief Justice will never dle-
while bis pension lasts.
Miss Mary Anderson’s example is spread-
ing among her kinsfolk. Miss Virginia Griffin, a
cousin of “our Mary,” and niece, we believe, to
the American Consul in Sydney, has “gone on the
stage,” meeting with quite a success at her home
la Kentucky recently.
While Bismarck was Prussian Ambassador
at Paris, ho stood one evening on a balcony with
a brilliant circle. Some one remarked on the
beauty of the Dome of the Invalides tinged with
gold by the setting sun. “ It is like a Prussian
helmet,” said Bismarck.
There are some grim humorists in Ger-
many. Dr. Weigert, a distinguished Jewish
physician, recently discovered, on his appointment
to a chair in the Leipsio University, that it was a
condition of his appointment that he should un-
dergo baptism and embrace Christianity.
We notice that Mr. Arthur Somerset (the
young gentleman who learned his boxing from
Mr. Larry Foley, of Sydney, and who afterwards
won the heavy-weight Queensberry Cup in Eng-
land), has been fined £10 at Trinidad for having
thrashed Lord Howard de Walden. It was, of
course, all about a woman.
In consequence of publishing his volume
of poems. Mr. P. J. Holdsworth, of Sydney, has
awakened and found himself famous. Last Friday
seven brother poets, all as distinguished as himself,
way'aid him on his way to the W oollahratram, and
tried to borrow sixpence. Advice, and the offer of
a tram ticket, was in turn declined by each bard
with contumely.
Mr. Gerald Massey believesin thereotifying
of all wrongs, the removal of the reproach of
women, the fair distribution of the profits of
labour, and the nationalisation of the land. His
father entered the employ of a great firm at 16s.
a week, which, as he grew old, was reduced to 6s,
and after he had served three generations, he was
pensioned off with fourpence 1
Cable advices state that experiments
have been made in England with the ‘ Brennan’ tor-
pedo, a Victorian invention, which has proved
successful. The inventor, Mr. Brennand, is a
young and ingenious Australian, who went home
some years since to ventilate his ideas, and has
contrived by his talent to put himself on excellent
terms with the War Office authorities.
The late Mr. C. J. Stone, of N.Z., in the
course of his career, invested £50,000 in mining
without receiving more than £100 on that large
sum. The Auckland Stab observes that “the
deceased gentleman must have exhibited very
remarkable shrewdness to have embarked so ex-
tensively without greater loss.” The Stab
man waxes savage. He surely must have been
hard hit lately.
It is currently reported that the informer
who put the police on the tracks of the bush-
rangers, Thurston and Angel, was a relation of
Thurston. He refused to give his relation up for
£200. but on Sergeant Burn? promising him the
whole of the £100 reward, he rode up with Angel
and Thurston to Stewart's store, where the police
lay in wait, and after seeing them to the door, rode
off again. The promise has been kept, and the
whole reward paid him.
From a London-written theatrical critic-
ism;—“Mrs. Langtry’s personal charms are evi-
dently dwindling—and so is her whole physique.
Mrs. Langtry is not a whit like any of her photo-
graphs—as happens sometimes with beautiful
women—not even the most recent ones, and per-
haps little like her former self. If she continues
to consume her strength through devotion to her
profession she will soon be able to rival Sarah
Bernhardt for slimnee 11 , if not for dramatic art.”
A story is going the round of the Anglo-
Indian Press without contradiction that the Ameer
of Afghanistan has lately suffered much from
toothache, and that he was desirous of obtaining
the assistance of a well-known dentist in Upper
India; but although the dentist was willing to go
to Cabul, the Indian Foreign Office would not
allow him to accept the Ameer’s invitation. The
story, the Times says, seems incredible; but there
is no doubt that these trilling matters are often
productive of grave consequences. Just think of
it I “ England lost India because the Ameer had
toothache.”
“Sergeant Corbett, of the Hothatn (Mel-
bourne) Police Station, has forwarded io his
superintendent a cheque for 100 guineas as his
contribution towards the Patriotic Fund. It is
from this quite plain that the patriotic sergeant
has risen from the ranks. The question now is, ol
course, what reward we shall give him. Dan.
Cooper got a baronetcy for a patriotic thousand
or two, and W J. Clarke got a similar gewgaw, also
for a patriotic thousand or two A hundred
guineas should make Sergeant Corbett, if not a
sub-inspector, at least a C.M.Q. and a brother
belongah John Davies.
Squire Beulow, a fruit dealer at Welling-
ton, N Z., left his shop one evening lately to go
home to tea. He had not gone far till he heard
the flrebell, and looking about him, saw smoke
ascending from a large drapery place, in Cuba-
street. The usual impulse to rush to the rescue
seized him, and la a few minutes he was in the
thick of It fighting the flames. Suddenly a pile of
burning drapery tell down in a cloud of smoke
and flame. Those who were assisting him fled for
their lives and saw him no more alive. After two
days’ search among the ruins his remains were
found burnt beyond recognition.
H. H. Hayter, C.M.G, of Victorian statis-
tical fame, has written a patriotic poem for the
Melbourne Herald, in which he urges upon Aus-
tralians the necessity of spending their last shil-
ling in opposing the landing of a hostile army on
our shores, and adds:—
“ Inexpedient the time is the cost to be summing
Your homes at all risks you must safely de-
fend.” (1)
This Hayter man is evidently related either to the
late Butcher-Bard, M'Carroll, or to the American-
hucket poet, Sladen. But what better could you
expect of a C.M.G. ?
Professor Kirkland, lecturer on chemistry
to the Melbourne University, has been summoned
to appear at the next meeting of the council to
explain why he did not deliver certain lectures
lately. It appears that the Profess ir sent a letter
to the council, stating that the omission occurred
through illness. It was alleged that when asked
to forward a medical certificate, the Professor re-
plied that he was his own medical attendant. A
gay old bird of a councillor thereupon remarked,
"That may help to explain his illness.” This is
pretty nearly as bad as saying that “the man who
is his own lawyer has a fool for a client. It
strikes us here with the force of an inspiration
that even a professor is mortal.
The neatest thing we have read for a long
time In any Sydney daily is this, apropos of the
murder by Barnes of the unhappy litigant Slack:
—“Fancy the indefatigable and untiring Slack,
mentally and morally the same Individual as
when clothed in flesh, awakening in his ethereal
body to a knowledge of the fact that he had
been robbed of his earthly life by a ruffian, and
that his old antagonist, the law, had crowned its
series of injustices by attaching the brand of
suicide to his name! Why, when he was in the
flesh, so brave a man as the late Mr. Justice Barry
would close his eyes and perceptibly shudder when
the well-known form, loaded with law-books,
appeared at the door of the court.”
M. Ludovic Halevy, the author of vaude-
villes, novelettes, opera-bouffes, and almost every-
thing else worthy of note in the domain of drama
or of literature-except, of coursa, what has been
done by Julian Thomas and Lewis Scott—has been
elected a member of tho French Academy. You
remember the epitaph Piron wrote for himself:—
“ Ci git Piron,
• Qui ne fut rien—
Pas mime Academicien."
Which might, in Sydney, ba localised after this
fashion :—
Here lies Tommy Dalveen,
Who was nothing—
Not even a member of Parliament.
If this is true, it is not with the official,
but with the Government the fault lies. At
Bourke there is a police magistrate. He was old
and rather feeble 13 years ago, when we were
there, and so he is probably not much younger
and stronger now. In fact, he has to be wheeled
about in a chair. This, of course, is more his busi-
ness and that of the man who wheels him than
any other person’s. As far as the public are con-
cerned, he might go in a lorry or a hearse, so long
as he gave clear and common-sense judgments.
But physiological processes are inexorable, and so
the court has to be cleared occasionally during sit-
ings. This,on crowded court days, la—oh, call it what
you like. There’ll be a regiment of troopers re-
quired to quell Bourkeriots if this thing continues.
Tho unfortunate P.M. at Bourke should be pen-
sioned off.
On analysis, Sir James Hannen’s decision
in the Durham case is about tho meanest judgment
on record. It strikes us that his lordship couldn’t
have ever been married himself; or, if so, couldn’t
have been married often. Why, if we'd have had
Lord Durham’s experience of the commencement
of the honeymoon, we should have calmly left the
lady at the public house, and probably have mar-
ried somebody else bn the road back. That re-
minds us that we knew a compositor up Rock-
hampton way oneo, who espoused a lady who sub-
sequently went insane. The first intimation he
had of aberration of intellect on part of the lady
was having the carving knife drilled through ids
liver, just as he was enjoying his Sunday after-
noon’s siesta. She belonged to the Anabaptists,
and some of the brothers had persuaded her
that she was Jael, the daughter of Sisera. The
husband was an unassuming young man, and much
respected amongst the publicans.
Mr. A. G. Jones, of Ipswich, having en-
tered an action against the Queensland Commis-
sioner for Railways, on account of collision in-
juries, the Allora Guardian courteously ob-
serves:—“We do not know the extent of Mr.
Jones’ injuries, but he estimates them at £6500.
We have seen better men sold for a twentieth part
of the sum, and it will no doubt come out in the
end that Mr. Jones sprained his index finger. Miss
Mulrooney is on the trail also—damages £2000.
People set a big price on themselves down Ipswich
way.” We are glad to notice that the editor does
not openly state that the lady with the liquid name
of Mulrooney is not worth £2000. To allay the ir-
ritation caused to her feelings by the ungallant re-
marks of our uncivilised brother of the Guardian,
we proceed to state that we are quite sure chat
one of theso days some man quite as good as the
£6500 Mr. A. G. Jones will be glad to give even his
life for Miss Mulrooney.
Lord Durham should, says the W orld, have
been granted a divorce from his mad wi fe. Husband
and wife are correlative terms which have no
meaning except in reference to the possibility of
offspring. What, therefore, has been now affirmed
by the Court is that if after marriage a husband or
a wife becomes incurably mad, the wife or the
husband, who does not, is placed in the dilemma
of being compelled to run the risk of bringing
idiots and maniacs into the world, or, while avoid-
ing this risk, to choose a condition of permanent
celibacy. If mental sanity is a necessary condition
for entering Into a contract, it must be a necessary
condition also of executing that contract. If a
man and a woman are disqualified from mutually
agreeing to live together as man and wife unless
they are both sane, a fortiori, they must be dis-
qualified for living together when one of them has
become hopelessly insane. The prohibition is in-
stituted, in the first instance, because of the results
which may follow. When It is absolutely certain
that these results must follow, is not the obligation
of the law to prevent them infinitely greater?
Unless English people lived under the domination
of the beadle but one answer could be returned to
these questions.
Jack Heaton—the J. Henniker Heaton of
the present day—has been writing in Vanity
Fair about the Colonial Office, particularly to ex-
plain that Codlin (Sir R. G. W. Herbert) is the
friend, not Short (Mr. John Bramston). As usual,
Heaton shows his ignorance and impudence. He
writes of Herbert: “ I have watched his career in
Queensland at a critical period.” Why when Her-
bert was Premier of Queensland Heaton was
scouring the back blocks with a sore-backed nag
and an iron cheek, canvassing shepherds for sub-
scriptions for the Town and Country Journal.
and exercising all his ingenuity when he rode un to
a head station to save himself from his freque * f ite
of being ordered to go down to the men't b i to
pass the night. He holds up Herbert to admiration,
as compared with Bramston, Decause Herbert has
had colonial experience, whereas he would have
known—had he “watched the career” of the
former—that nearly all the time Herbert was in
Queensland as Premier, John Bramston was there
also as Attorney-General, and further that not
only were the two men colleagues in the Queens-
land Ministry, but close friends and chums,
actually keeping house together for a long time.
Both men left good reputations in Queensland as
men of talent and honour. Herbert was the abler
man, certainly. But we suppose Bramston has
snubbed Heaton in London.
In England one scandal follows another,
all too quickly. The latest relates to a Miss Sum-
ner, with whose case a London banker named
Hoare, Lord and Lady Cholmondeley, and various
other high and mighty personages are unplea-
santly mixed. Mr. Hoare is now being “ had up”
for ‘‘interfering” with Miss Sumner, notwith-
standing a Chancery agreement that he should not.
Mr. Hoare is a London banker and a married man,
andMlsi Sumner’s parents had monetary dealings
with him, Sumner pere apparently being always in
need of coin. What the Cholmondeleys had
to do with the Sumners is not clear, but
when yctiag Loard Cholmondeley was Earl
of Rocksavage he lent Mrs. Sumner £200.
It soems Miss Summer’s appeal resulted in Mr.
Hoare lending her father £3DO0i Now comes
the mystery. It is alleged that Mr. Hoare deliber-
ately set himself to destroy the girl from the time
she wore a pinafore, and eventually succeeded, but
not until she was of age, when, in spite of the
most ligid guardianship—so says the prosecution—
she added to the population of the country. Prom
the money-lending transactions and various other
things that have crept out the most unpleasant
inferences can be drawn. The queer point of the
affair is that Mr. Hoare declares he did keep the
contract, and did not In any way interfere with
Miss Summer, Who is to blame for the trouble is
thus left an open question. The wealthy classes in
England seem to be becoming as immoral as those
of ancient Rome.
South of Australia is an island called
Tasmania. It has some thriving towns. Launces-
ton is one. This boisterous city has a Mayor
named Button. What sort of a “ button” he is—
whether brass or bone, shirt or trousers—we can-
not say positively, but fancy he must be brass.
He owns one junk of the Launceston Examinee,
a puissant organ of public opinion, and Major
Aikenhead the other.. With his literary calling,
the Msjor combines the command of the “ Laun-
ceston Rifles,” a corps of dare-devil veterans,
whose prowess had been proved in many a pub-
lic-house scrimmidge and hen-roost foray. Tas-
mania had an Bister Encampment of 500 of these
butchers, and Button, the Mayor, emulating
Napoleon, sent an address to the army. The
Commandant refused to read it, but Major
Aikenhead read it to his portion of the force.
Lest it mUht be lost, Button published it in the
Examines, and these are a few of the things it
said:—“ I desire to convey to you an expression of
my admiration of the spirit which has impelled
you to surrender your holidays for the hardships
of camp life. . . Those who voluntarily under-
take the privations and fatigues incident to the
profession of arms, are worthy of all esteem. . .
We recognise a common brotherhood in the whole
human race. . . These [the calamities of war]
can be averted only by the sword when it is wielded
by the invincible bands of virtue, truth, and jus-
tlce. . . If a foe should dare to desecrate our
soil, God helping us, he would quickly repent of
his temerity. . . He would find that the brave
spirit of our forefathers lives in Tasmanians to-
day. . . You would rise to the proud position
attained by your brother volunteers of New
South Wales, who are now winning deathless
laurels on the burning plains of Egypt. Soldiers
farewell.—H. Button, Mayor of Launceston.”
This is hut a little of what the desperado, Button,
says. That “Soldier's, farewell!” is more than
genius—it is inspiration. When the Launceston
lambs heard it they gave a wild hurrah! and
stormed the canteen, upsetting the officers in their
headlong fury. “The brave spirit of our fore-
fathers ” is good. The little island could always
hold its own for patriotism and leg-irons. Just let
“Haughty Gaul” or “Tyrant Russia” try it on!
Let the “Tasmanian Tearers” get a sight of the
proud invaders, and (God helping) the foreigners
would fly before the Tasmanian “Devils.” But
suppose Providence didn’t befriend those Island
sleuth-hounds — suppose He took the other
side I He knows better. What would the
Examiner be doing? From being a religious
organ it would change to advanced Agnosticism,
and, perhaps, invite Joe ISymes over to run it.
The “ privations and fatigues of volunteer camp
life ” have broken down many strong constitu-
tlons. We underwent some of them at the Middle
Head encampment the other day, and have never
been “off it” since. We forget the regiment to
which we were “attached.” We only know the
bugles blew for two hours before the Sergeant-
Major got his boots on, and that the next corps
had to turn out with shovels and dig our lads out
for Commanding-Officer’s parade. As for the
“ deathless laurels ” being won in Egypt, it’s well
known that, so far, there have been but three
casualties among our boy s -a spent bullet hit one,
a camel hit another, and one died of dysentery,
(| The fate of that accomplished and expert
Melbourne burglar, Mr. William Barnes, should
be a solemn warning to budding poets and inci-
pient versifiers. Billy was eminently successful
in several branches of the “ burgling” profession,
and, though he sometimes got Into temporary
trouble—a little stretch of six months or so occa-
sionally—was amassing wealth as fast as our old
friend, Mathew Burnett, who rakes in his little
“ puss of sov’rlns,” with tho utmost and unfail-
ing regularity. Barnes’ last exploit was when he
artistically slit the jugular of the greatest liti-
gious crank that ever set foot in Melbourne—the
late lamented J. B. Slack—and ho finished the job
with such neatness and dispatch that in all pro-
bability his honourable name would never
be tarnished with the faintest breath of sus-
picion, had he not, during an enforced visit
to Pentridge to expiate a little house breaking
effenee in Oollins-street, given rein to his poetic
muse and consequently got into trouble, i’his
disciple of Anacreon, in the solitude of his dun-
geon cell, poured forth his soul in verse that would
do-credit to the brilliant hard of the Even Noozb,
or run the Australian “ pomes ” of the gifted,
though modest, Holdsworth very close for first
place in a lyric tournament. However, we’ll let a
discerning public judge for themselves. This is
how the versatile burglar puts it:—
“ Billy Barnes, he is here-
in Pentridge gaol at the end of the year.
He is lying in the cell on the broad of his back,
Because he murdered poor old Slack,”
Not only did Barnes slab up the sides of his
well of poetry with this kind of thing, but he
“gave it lip,” so to speak, as he paced the floor
of his prison house. The rumble of the metre
soon attracted the attention of Warder Bren-
nan, who at once flapped an ear as large as a
flitch of bacon against the grating of the cell door,
and, awestricken, listened to the Homeric recital
of the terrible crime. “ Begorra, that looks like
murther, anyhow,” mused the astounded turnkey,
and he stored up the effusion for future reference,
or, as he quaintly expressed it, he “ got it off by
heart.” We need not reproduce the trial scene.
Suffice it to say that an intelligent jury found the
prisoner guilty, and a grave Judge told him that
he must prepare to meet “poor old Slack ” on the
other side. Let the inspired poets of the evening
pacers beware. A suffering public may stand
immortal verse of the “ There-was-a-young-man-
of-North-Shore ” kind for a while, but at the hands
of twelve good men, they must expect the fate of
Barnes.
• • •
Mrs. Butler, a Ballarat lady, passed away
at the ripe age of 105 years. The deceased lady
was a colonist of some 37 years....The Ireland
Scholarship, still perhaps the blue ribbon among
Oxford honours, has just been awarded to Mr.
George Murray, an Australian undergraduate (son
of the late Sir Terence Aubrey Murray, formerly
Speaker of the New South Wales Legislative As-
sembly), who, a few weeks previously, also took
the Hertford.” Mr. Murray is a native of
Sydney Aid. Seldon, of North Shore, made a
speech at a banquet, and immediately afterwards
fell dead of heart-disease.... Mr. Robert M‘Jan-
nett, who in 1840 came to N.S.W, with tho 11th
Regt,, and who in 1848 was appointed chief con-
stable at Yass (where he resided 23 years), is dead.
....Private Weir, of the N.S.W. troops in the
Soudan, whose death from dvsentry is cabled, was
a cornstalk, and only 22 years of age. Had he left
a widow she would, so far, have stood entitled to
the whole of the sum collected in this colony for
the “ widows and children of those of the Con-
tingent who might die in the Soudan.”
* ♦ *
The young Nizam of Hyderabad, who will
attend the Colonial Exhibition in London next
year, is fabulously wealthy, and ought to be wel-
come in the world’s metropolis. While at the
Calcutta Exhibition last year he spent at the rate
of t* 1000 per minute. However, he only stayed
twenty minutes....Edmund Yates, of the World,
won the libel action brought against him by
Legge, ex-editor of the “ Whitehall Review,” of
whom he had spoken thus: “By tho way, it would
seem that the man Legge, who invented that
delightful phrase Society Journal/ and applied it
to the newspaper which he persuaded the poor
egg-merchant to produce and carry on at the Jose *
of so many thousand pounds, is now conduct*-
Life on Board the Iberia.
[FROM ROUGH SKETCHES BY OUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT.]
Our own Correspondent enjoys exceptional op-
portunities for observation—of the cockroaches.
The band was a great boon.
Sharpening the Commandant’s sword.


-A/bralisaacL’s
Fills
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy I
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
Serienoe. They overcome the worst form of
•iseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
Immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
THE
lev Dam Saving Machine.
The SIMPLEST, CHEAPEST, & BEST MACHINE
ever introduced into Australia.
EAST TO WORK, EAST TO LEARN,
BAST TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Machine in the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modern
Science, and of the Best Possible Materials.
Sold on TIME PATMENT8 in Town and Country.
1 Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE to
any part of the colony.
B. O. Holtermann & Co.,
Sole Agents,
674 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DENTIST.
(Of America)
GUARANTEES
Ml I 11 I I
icauon.
PRICES MODERATE.
Corner George and Market Streets
OVER HUNTER’S BOOT PALACE.
G. F. PRIDDY & CO.,
HAT manufacturers
and IMPORTERS,
Beg to announce that, on and after APRIL 7th
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Days
at 6.30 p.m.: Saturdays as usual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Roya Hotel and Market-street.
. — .
A. & C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
SIS GEORGE STREET.
Next Peapes and Shaw.
Iar* The most liberal bouse for Pianos and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
Jl. St C. Huenerbein,
818 GEORGE STREET.
Bavarian urm
itters. nur
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
Made of the best Bavarian Hops. Superior to any
other.
They take the first place wherever tried, and are
well authenticated by eminent medioal men and
well-known analysts.
Bead the reports and testimony which accom
pany each bottle, and do not forget to make a
trial of BAVARIAN HOP Bitters.
jiaaE|LLAS
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have yourUmbrella Frames
i re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to Now, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
i Parasols made to match oos-
"tumes. Report neatly exe-
cuted
The fresh food and ice company
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Coooa, &o„ with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
“KOUMISS,” so highly recommendedln pulmo-
nary complaints.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
THE MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS FUSE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Butter.
This is manufactured from cream, extracted
by the uee of cream separators, at their Mittagong
factory.
Deliveries of milk twice dally, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
Head Office 21 Harbour-street.
Stables Liverpool-street.
Factory Mittagong.
Infants and Children
1 What gives our Children rosy cheeks,
"What cures their fevers, makes Viem sleep;
A Castorla.
When Babies fret, and cry by turns,
What cures their colic, kills their worms.
Castorln.
What quickly cures Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Colds, Indigestion ;
Cantoris.
Farewell then to Morphine Syrups,
Castor Oil and Paregoric, and
Hail Castor la.
*• Caatoria is no well adapted to Children
(hat I recommend it ns superior to any medi-
cine known to mo,”—H, A. Archer, M. D.,
HI Oxford St., Now York.
Elliott Bros., Sidney, Agents.
Allen’s Black Wingen Oils.
THEY WORK LIKE A CHARM.
TO those who have been suffering from Rheu-
matism or Sciatica, we como with glaa tidings
of the wonderful cures that have been effected by
CHAS. ALLEN’S BUACK WINGEN OILS. Num-
bers have been cured, and oan attest to the great
and miraculous powers of these already famous
Oils.
There is now no reason why anybody should be
be racked wi h pain, when lor the small sum of
2s. 6d„ a bottle of CHAS. ALLEN’S BLACK
WINGEN OILS may be obtained from any che-
mist or storekeeper. On how many occasions,
when you have been laid up with a severe attack
of lumbago, would \ou have given anything to
get relief ; also, when you have been rendered
sleepless through m uraigia or toothache, have
you sought in vain for a cure. Suff' r no more :
keep the balm by you—a bottle of Chas. Allen’s
Black Wingen Oils, it is needless to further recom-
mend, as a simple trial will prove to the most
sceptical the merit of Allen’s Black Wingen Oils.
“TRY THEM.”
COSTELLO & GREY,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
ALLEN’S BLACK WINGEN OILS, stand un-
equalled for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
saddle girth, and wind Galls, Strains, Stakes,
Sprains, Bruises, Sweat Bolls, Fistula, Wounds of
oil descriptions No ’bus proprietor, carrier, or
stockowner should be without them. They will
heal any sore, no matter if freshly done or of
years’ standing. No spell required to effect a cure.
‘•TRY THEM,”
May be obtalned.from Chemists and Storekeepers.
COSTELLO &TGREY,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
BEWARE OF SPURIOUS
WATCHES I
WHY be foolish, and buy a bad watch, which
is dear at any price, and gives no end of
trouble. If you buy one of
ROTHERHAM’S COMPENSATION BALANCE
AND JEWELLED WATCHES
from C. GRANT, you will never want another, as
they are,-without doubt, the Best Watches in the
market.
Guaranteed for 6 years. Price, only £6 10s.
Sent post free to any part of the country. Special
attention given to country orders.
C. GRANT, Watchmaker,
184 George Street, Sydney.
Established 1880.
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 HUNTER STREET,
Opposite Tramway, Elizabeth Street.
PHYSICIANS’ PRESCRIPTIONS carefully pre-
pared with Drugs of the purest quality.
French Indiarubber Goods, Ladies’ Abdominal
Supports and Pessaries, Syringes and Enemas of
every description, always in stock.
Country Orders promptly executed.
H. P. 9ABIGL, M.P.9., Mgr.
DR.SCOTT'S
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by the
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continental
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial ?
If you have any pain, ache, or ill-feeling
from any cause; if you seem “pretty well/’
yet lack energy and do not “feel up to the
mark;” if you suffer from disease, we beg
you to at once try these remarkable cura-
tives. They cannot and do not injure like
medicine. Always doing good, never harm.
There is no shock or sensation felt in wear-
ing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results; electro-magnetism acts quickly,
generally the first week, more frequently
the first day, and often even during the
first hour they are worn their wonderful
curative powers are felt.
The mind becomes active, the nerves and
sluggish circulation are stimulated, and all
the old-time health and good-feeling come
back. They are constructed on scientific
an exhilarating,
bo the whole system,
b that there is hardly
a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily
practise the same, as your own physician
will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearance
from those usually worn, as we substitute
our flat steel magnetods in place of the
ordinary corset-steels. They are all equally
charged, differing only in quality and design.
They are elegant in shape and finish, made
after the best French patterns, and war-
ranted satisfactory in every respect. Those
who have tried them say they will wear no
others. Most of the above applies equally
to the Electric Belt for gents.
Dr. Scott’s Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &o., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing oases, after all other remedies (so-
called) nave failed.
The prices are as follows
No. 1
No. 2
No. 3
No. 5
Electric Bolts..
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electric-Magnetic
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece ef common string, which send with
your order.
s. d.
..6 0
... 8 6
.. 10 6
.. 15 0
.. 15 0
Remittances can he made by cheque,
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
MM BUM,
64 Margaret-streot,
SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 231.
WILLIAM BtTLLARD has the Latest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Soups, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Church Musifc, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues will be ready in a few days and
Sent gratis on application.
Slarlotiery.—Accpunt Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &c., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &o.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The Trypograpn
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygiapb, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
S-nd and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 GBOllGE STREET.
A Bazaar & Art Union
IN connection with the Union Masonic Lodge
of Berrima, 981 E.C., in aid of the
WIDOW AND ORPHAN FUND,
hnderthe patronage of the District Grand Master,
John Williams, Esq., of the District Grand Lodge,
English Constitution,
47000 Worth of Works of
Art, Pictures, &C-,
to be disposed of in Shares of £1 each on the Art
Union Principle, and to be drawn for at Moss Yale,
time and place of which will be given in public
Press, and the drawing will be under the super-
vision of the following gentlemen, who have
kindly offered to act :—
John Williams, Esq.
I. 8. Ponder, Esq.
Jas. Taylor, Esq,
W. McCourt, Esq.
1st Prize—Picture, &c., valued at £3t00
2nd— „ „ „ 1300
3rd- 700
4th— „ „ „ 500
5th- ., ,. 370
6th- „ „ „ 300
7th- „ „ 300
8th- „ „ 800
9th- 300
10th— „ „ „ 300
nth- ;; ;; „ 130
12th— „ „ loo
18th— „ „ „ 100
14th- ,. „ ., 100
From 14 to 34—lO prizes of £30 each.
100 Prizes—Pictures, valued at £3 each.
Tickets will be forwarded by the Secretary, on
receipt of £1.
jTs. HYAM3,
Hon. Secretary,
Moss Vale.
ALCOCK& CO.'S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS:
CU CODEC!’ ul CG.,
375 Georga-sv., Sydney.
time payments, if required
jhg a trtlde organ for fishmongers. Excel-
lent welll Legge, always well named, has got
into his right place at last. His Connection
with things fishy is extensive and peculiar.” ...
A sequel to the Prince of Wales’s curt answer to
the Pope’s letter on Freemasonry is the Initiation
of Prince Edward of Wales into the mysteries of
the craft Lord Durham, the petitioner in the
recent great nullity of marriage case, has £70,000 a
year, is Lord Lieutenant of a county, and has been
well black-balled at two leading London clubs. As
he is a parsimonious man, he must groan at the
expense of the trial, for it has cost him over
£12.000. He intends taking the case to the House
of Lords. There is a rumour that Lady Durham is
much better, and that hopes are entertained of
her ultimate recovery ... The rumours as to Dr.
Trench, the ex-Archbishop of Dublin, having
’verted to Rome, are revived, and added to them
is the extra assertion that Miss Trench is following
her father’s footsteps by receiving instruction in
the doctrines of the R.C. religion The Earl of
Durham, the petitioner in the celebrated divorce
ease, is a twin. He came into the world Just one
hour before his brother, the Hon. Frederick Wil-
liam Lambton, M.P—Although it is alleged that
the present Duke of Marlborough Is the father of
the little son of Lady Aylesford, the child has been
made a ward of Chancery by her ladyship, and is
registered as “ Lord Aylesford ” at Somerset
House...General Grant is suffering from an ulcera-
tion of the soft tissues of the roof of the mouth,
with a soreness at the base of the tongue. It is
with difficulty he opens his mouth, and he is in
great pain from neuralgia.


G A 1
T Y
T H B A T RE
Proprietor and’Mtoager i
Business Manager ..
... B. N. Jones.
Wm .Emerson.
Wm, A. Jinkiks.
“This Theatre appears to'have taken a new
lease of public favour, for ever since the Minstrels
commenced their season the other week the house
has been crammed every evening, standing room
very often being accepted by many, to the disap-
pointing alternative of being lefhout in the coM
altogether.”
Emerson’s ICinstrels!
“The whole performance literally teemed with
enjoyable comicalities, local hits, &c., and as for
the dancing, it is hy no means exaggeration or
fulsome puff to nay that the Emerson s Minstrels
are second to no other troupe In either England or
America, Mr. Emerson’s laughable impersonation
of ‘ Moriarty * is undoubtedly one of the strongest
features in the entertainment.”
&T SPECIAL NOTICE.
Our Popular Prices: Orchestra Stalls, 4s.; Stalls
3s.; Balcony, Is. _
Doors open at 7; overture at 8.
Carriages may he ordered for 10,30 p.m. Box
Office now open at Nicholson and Co. 8, w ere
seats may he secured six days in advance.
C A D B M Y
Lessee and Manager
O E MUSIC,
— Mr. F. E. Bibcocks.
48th Week, and still Crowded Houses.
HTflfnfJKS’ FEDERAL MINBlitHiLD
I8C and SPECIALITY UNION
Every Evening in their Refined and Amusing
Entertainment.
H.M.8. (HOPPER BARGE) P1N-A-4.
Admission, 4s., 3s., 3s., and Is. Box Plan at
Paling’s. Carriages at 10.16.
ST. GEORGE’S
Melbourne.
Clark and Byman.
HALL,
and Rj
OPEN ALL THE YEAR ROUND.
First-class Artists, Novelties, Combinations—
either Musical, Dramatic, Minstrel, or Operatic—
treated with.
Silence a respectful negative.
This popular place of amusement is now in its
full tide of success—houses packed to the doors
nightly. Pronounced by the Press, public, and
profession to be the best entertainment ever seen
in Melbourne.
Notice.—The title of “Bed Stockings” has
been duly registered, and anyone infringing this
title will he prosecuted according to law.
JOHN FANNING,
Business Manager.
ORIENTAL CRICKET CLUB.
Third annual excursion to tenny-
SON, Parramatta River,
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, 9th May, 1885.
The Pyrmont United Brass Band engaged (for
dancing).
The fast and commodious steamer Telephone
will leave Circular Quay, foot of Philllp-street, at
3.15 sharp. Tickets Is. 6d. each, to be had from
any of the members, and on the wharf.
J R. A. WARREN, Hon. Sec.
JQAGLBHAWK MECHANICS’ INSTITUTE.
GRAND ART UNION,
in strict accordance -with the Act.
VALUE
FIRST O FIRST
PRIZE o&OUU. PRIZE.
SECOND PRIZE, £300.
THIRD PRIZE, £100.
4 prizes, value £50 each. 100 prizes, value £3 each.
4 „ „ £25 each. 650 ,, „ £1 each.
40 „ „ £10 each. 300 „ 10s. each.
1000 PRIZES ! 1000 PRIZES I
10,000 TICKETS at 10s. each, obtainable at most
business places in the colony.
N.B.—In proof of the value of the above, the
Committee undertake to find purchasers for the
various prizes at the prices named, and to hand the
winner full amount in cash, less 10 per cent, for
commission.
The drawing to take place in June, under the
supervision of the Mayor and Councillors of Eagle-
hawk and a Committee of Shareholders.
T. H. TAYLOR,
Managing Secretary.
Bull-street, Sandhurst, and
Mechanics’ Institute, Eaglehawk.
Nervous debility, lost vitality,
Weakness, and Premature Decay.—A favour-
ite Prescription of an eminent French Hospital
Physician for simple self-cure. Sent free to any
sufferer. Send your address, on a stamped enve-
lope, C. 0. W., Box 766, Q.P.O., Sydney.
L E B E
ROWING
CLUB.
SIXTH ANNUAL BALL
(PLAIN AND FANCY DRESS),
WEST’S ROOMS, FRIDAY, JUNE 5, 1885.
Tickets may be had from the Committee.
H. R. COX. Hon. Sec., 108 Pitt-street.
F. C. WILLIAMS, Hon. Treasurer.
N
ORTH SHORE ROWING CLU
THE FOURTH ANNUAL BALL
(Evening Dress.)
will be held under
DISTINGUISHED PATRONAGE,
at West’s Rooms, on
FRIDAY EVENING, 29th May, 1885.
B.
Tickets—Ladies, 12s. 6d,; Gentlemen, 31s.; Double,
30s.; may be had at the principal shops, or from
H. H, ROBEY, Hon. Secretary,
No. 11, Bridge-street.
HIRCULATES EVERYWHERE, NOW READY.
THE TRUE PRINCIPLES OP POPULATION,”
Only Threepence.
“ The diseases of society can, no more than cor-
Eoral maladies, be cured without being spoken of
i plain language.”—J. 8. Mile.
The above may be had from the undersigned,
28 Riley-street: and at George-street Markets on
Saturdays. J. DUNNE.
Professional Directory.
BriSCOCKS’ FEDERAL M e^Noveh
L olalty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel
; apply F. B. Hlflcocks..
Sydney
n AMATEUR THEATRICALS.— Scenery Sup-
plied or Pkrbiman, Scene Painter.
No. of Academy of Music, Caatlereagh-at,
rp H E A T R B B 0 Y A L .
I Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and MnsoROva.
Lessee. Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer. ' i0 o-L ; ®°odman.
Doors open at 7.30, commence at 8. Carriages, lU.w.
Thirteenth Week of the Royal Dramatic Company,
who have accomplished another P re^ a oner’s
Triumph in their performance of Falconers
** ' Comedy of _ .
EXTREMES ; or, MEN OF THE DAI.
THIS EVENING at 8 precisely.
EXTREMES ; or, MEN OF THE DAY.
with a
SPLENDID CA ST E an ?i N|W SCENERY by
Furniture and appointments from !i a “ . t ] P d
Co., Globe Furniture Warehouse, Park and Castle
re prices r of^Admission: Dicss Circle, 5s.; Stalls,
parts of the house at Bastway’s
Hotel. Box office open daily from 11 tui 4.
NIC w OPERA HOUSE.
Lessees, Messrs. B. Majeronl and W. J. Wilson.
Under the Management of Blgnold and Allison.
Stage Manager Mr. J. 1. Cathcart.
Uau..omcd,. AscBAp
A SCRAP OF PAPER.
Miss Jeffreys Lewis and Rignold and Allison a
Powerful Company.
Plan at Huenerbein’s. Treasurer, G. A Coleman.
cm £
or
LIFE
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
miseries resulting from Indiscretion or excesses may be
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur-
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
or Self Preservation. A book for every man, young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may bo
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in.
valuable. So found by the author, whoso experience for
80 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
any physician. 300 pages, bound in beautiful French cloth,
full gilt, guaranteed to bo a finer work in every sense than
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will be refunded In every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
The Science of Life should be read by the young for
instruction and by the afllictod for relief. It will benefit
all. — London Lancet.
Address the World’s Dispensary Medical As- U C AI
social ion, ot Dr. W. E. Parker, No. 6'J Hunter IILML
Street, Sydney, N.S.W. Thcauthor may XII WOP 1 1 P
bo consulted ou all diseases requiring | M I OLLl
skill, secrecy, and experience.
CO
If
3
MARTIN 1
389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite the Royal Hotel.
2ZSsc
MARTIN’S Specially-selected TENNIS NETS.
Steam-tarred, Tanned, Wire-hound, &o.
TENNIS POLES—Cavendish, Cyprus, Champion.
BALLS—Ayers, Champion, undersewn and cemented.
—Cypress covered Regulation Balls.
—Enamelled Regulation Balls, red and white.
BACKETS—Buchanan’s, Ayers, Jefferies, Wesden’s, &o,
FOOTBALLS-
GILBERT’S Rugby and Association Balls.
MACINTOSH’S Regulation Bladders for do.
YOUTHS’ FOOTBALLS, all sizes.
Clubs and Schools should write us for our prices and particulars
of our stock. *
JAMES MARTIN & COMPANY,
389 GS-eorge-street.
oo 5 *
T~r^r m^r t r t? t y~r 'r y * f * f" r~r
w>-
4 A. A. A.
A A, A. -A. A. A.
tf-''
. i.
/ :")
AROMA TIC SCHIEDAM
Buy it In Bottle.
YOU WILL NEVER TAKE ANY OTHER SPIRIT.
A


Important Aniouwit!
THE
ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
BEG to inform the public that, in consequence
of the
EXPIRATION OF LEASE
of their present premises, they have commenced
their
GRAND
CLEAH1 SALE,
Which will
LAST FOR A FEW WEEKS ONLY!
The Goods are all marked at an
as will be seen by list below.
PRICE LIST.
Ladies' Handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 10i, 15s,
J7s 61, and 30 j each
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 4a and 5a per pair
Lafli s’ Choice Necklets, 5s each
Ladle?' Choice Necklets, best American Plate, 30a
each
Ladies' Elegant Bmgles, 4s, 6a, and 10a per pair
Choice Lockets, 5a each
Handsome Gem Rings, 4a and 8s 01 each
Wedding and Keeper Rings, in Eolld Gold, 7a 6d
each
Ladies’ Handsome Lockets, 10a ero’i
Ladies’ Elegant Crosses, 4s, 5s, and 6a each
Ladies’ Brooch and Barring Sets, from 5i to 16a
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, 3a 61 each
Gents’ O. G. Watches, Hunting, Open-Faced
Crystal Glass, and patent Keyless, 30a each
warranted 3 years
Ladies’ (same as above.)
f3T“ These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movemvnts are of the highest finish, and Jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully Jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses £4 0 0
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
Jewelled, and compensation balance .. £5 0 0
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levers £4 10 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance ..£5 0 0
The celebrated Waltham Watch, In hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses.. .. £3 15 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance.. .. £4 16 0
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance ia forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph, £6 0
Ditto, extra Jewelled, of the highest
grade £6 0 0
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £8 10 0
We Import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantaga
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £6
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £10.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 4a
each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Rings, half round buckle
flat broad buokl°, engraved, good luck rings
3s 6d each. 1
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Solitalra
and Link Suites, 3s, 4j, Gs, and 6s 6d per set.
Same as above, only half sets, Is 6d, 3s, and 3s per
set.
Best American Patent Spring Solitaire Suites,
5s per set.
Gent's elegant Seals, 4 s each.
Gent’s Elegant Compasses, 4s each.
Gent's Oriental Gold Alberts, 6 1 each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold handsome Scarf Pins, Is, If
6 3j, 3j 6d, 3s, 3j 6d, 4?, 4; 6d, 5s, and 5s 6deaoh.
Very best American Pencil Cases, 3j 6d each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Match Boxes, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Sovereign Purses, 4s each.
Rlchiy engraved Bracelets, 6a each.
Handsome Bracelets, beautifully jewelled, 8s, 10s,
13s, and 14i each.
Broooches, Brooches, Brooches, Is 6d, 3s, 3s 6d, 3s,
3s 6d, 4s, 4s 6d, 5s, 5s 6d, 6s, 6s 6d, 7s, 7s 6d, 8s, 8f
6d, 9a, 9a 6d, and lOi each.
PLEASE NOTE.
All goods will be sent post free, with the excep-
tion of the watches, orders for which must be ac-
companied with an extra amount of two and six-
pence to defray postage expenses. Send In your
orders early, as the goods must be sold, and no one
should miss this chance of procuring the beautify
gems at less than cost price.
Note the Address :
The Oriental Gold Co.,
474 George Street,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS,
HAYDN ORGANS,
Manufactured in America solely for and
Imported by
BEALE AND COMPANY
Show Rooms—
SYDNEY:
386 George-st., between King-st. and Post Office.
613 George-street (Brickfield-hill).
• 151 Oxford-street.
Warehouses—371, 373, 373, 377a, Pltt-street.
THE
HAYDN ORGANS
Am manufactured to the order of Messrs. Ileale
and Company expressly to suit the Australian
climates. They are in advance of all others In the
respect of complete efficiency combined with per-
fect simplicity of construction. Under no ciroum*
stances will they ever require tuning, therefore
buyers should not allow any person to tinker with
them in any way. By removing two screws at the
back, the mechanism is laid bare. It will at once
be seen that the method employed is scientific,
direct, and simple, whilst the materials are
throughout of the very best. Durability is the
object sought and obtained. The makers have
produced over one hundred thousand organs, and
enjoy the highest celebrity for excellent and faith-
ful workmanship.
We have just landed, ex the Saint Mildred, a
large shipment of these fine instruments, includ-
ing a new line at a lower price than we have
hitherto been enabled to offer them.
For the sum of Twenty Guineas cash, or on
easy terms, we can now supply a genuine
HAYDN ORGAN,
of full power; sweet, clear, and sonorous tone;
constructed in the most substantial and durable
manner; of bold and tasteful design; and forming
a tall and elegant piece of furniture. Each instru-
ment has two sets of Reeds (61 in all), and five
stop?, viz.: Diapason, Harmonic, Sub-bass, Cla-
rionet, and Dulciana; in addition to mechanical
sub-bass, octave coupler, and grand organ knee
stop (throwing on the full power of the organ).
LIBERAL TERMS OF TIME-PAYMENT.
BEALE &TcOMPANY
SYDNEY and BRISBANE.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Th*atb« ROTAL-“Extremes” P- 8
Opera House— “ A Scrap of Paper ” ••
Gaiety Theatre— Emerson’s Minstrels <•
Academy or Music.—Hiscocks’ F. Minstrels „
Lite Skuthorpe’s yarns, the ways of the
Royal people are past all comprehension. For we
forget how many weeks “ Haunted Lives ’ —a
niece containing more stilted flummery than
even the worst of “Surrey” sensationals—
was ladled out to three boozy bushmen in
the gallery, a goat in the stalls, and a
noliceman in the dress-circle. But Betsy, ’
which—rather clumsy adaptation as it is—has at
least funny situations and sparkling dialogue to
recommend it, was bundled off at a week’s run.
Friday was the last night, and the house was
crowded. This is an additional proof of the manage-
ment’s keen business aptitude.
* * *
There was another gorgeous house on
Saturday night to see “ Extremes.” The bills
call it an “ evergreen comedy.” We cannot say, as
we’re not sure what an “ evergreen comedy” is.
What we can say is that it is billed for six nights,
that a person could sit it through for one night
without any expression of feeling one way or the
other, but that anybody who could attend during
the whole week from start to finish should be
shown no "mercy—should be marooned on an ice-
berg or tied on a raft and towed south. “ Men of
the Day” is the other name for “ Extremes,” and,
if many Englishmen resembled those represented
la the play, it’s no wonder the Russians want to
get at them. # +
The piece may be said to commence with
the reading] of old Hawthorne’s will. The old
man himself doesn’t appear—probably because he
is dead. He was one of those hard-headed, close-
fisted fellows, who, as lads, tramp 50 miles to the
nearest big town, with a penny in one pocket and
a sausage in the other, get a job polishing door-
steps or white-washing stables, join a temperance
band gradually rise till they wed the boss’s daugh-
ter and, when the old man himself invests in a
six-bv-two foot freehold, fall in for the whole
‘‘pile.” His wife died, leaving him childless.
Then he adopted a Lucy Vavasour (Miss Mayor),
whose mother (Mrs. D’Arcy Read) had the manners
of a Vere-de-Vere and the brain of a paddymelon.
When he “went dead,” the question was whether
he left all the money to Lucy or remembered that,
in Lancashire, there were a lot of relatives of his
who were good enough for him when he was
scrubbing out-houses, but seemed vulgar when he
could afford to wash and put on a clean shirt every
other dav. All the characters assemble, including
the flunkey (Mr. Brown) who had lived with a
“Book” and a “Markis,” and (to whom half the
gallery would have given Bondi if they d
caught him outside.
• • •
To Frank Hawthorne — the old man’s
nephew—and Lucy Vavasour the bulk of the
property is left, conditionally on their getting
married within six months. Should she turn her
nose up at him or he his at her, the estate was to go
to the one refused. Should the nose-elevation be
mutual, it was to go towards building poor-houses
or something. Lucy was frank and open-hearted,
but she knew the value of money for all that. So,
although she didn’t care a button for Frank, she
wasn’t such a fool as to reject him and lose her
grip on one of the stately homes of England,
where the trees were ancestral and the game pre-
served. And so a see-saw of badinage, recrimina-
tion, elucidation, explanation, and da — goes
on between them. But everyone knows what the
end will be, and the most conscientious critic can
safely go down to East way’s bar and see the
« crush ” wrestle for the lettuce and radishes.
* * *
pi In the piece are many subordinate charac-
ters, scruffed in for the purpose of showing the
wide gulf separating the high and low English.
Sir Lionel Norman (Mr. Flemming) and the Hon.
Augustus Adolphus (Mr. Phillips) are aristocratic
loafers of the usual type. They start with the
best cards—hold the leading trumps and all the
honours—but somehow, lose the game. Flemming
is a sound actor—a little pompous, perhaps—but,
if he continues to develops in the centre and else-
where, there is nothing before himbut long years
of the “ heavy-father ” business. We say this diffi-
dently, but we’ve known a course of water-cress
and “ stirabout ” to temper the tendency to un-
due protuberance and restore the original lines of
beauty. Phillips (in the piece, of course) is a well-
bred idiot, in whose direction any Woolloomooloo
larrikin would be justified in starting a paving-
stone without stopping to ask questions.
* * *
Titheradge is Frank Hawthorne. It is a
hard part—hard in this way, that the least false
step, tho least departure from naturalness, either
in voice or action, would make it ridiculous;
would change the applause into sarcastic allusions,
if not into yells for gore. We heard no howls on
Saturday night, but we heard a good deal of
noisy approbation. The sentiments to which the
author obliges him to give expression are, no
doubt, worthy ones (we noticed some of the
greatest rascals in Sydney loudest in applauding),
but if we had a friend like him, we would be the last
seen in his company—and that in the neighbour-
hood of a well or a deserted shaft. Miss Mayor
appears to far greater advantage than in Betsy.
Miss Claiboume should either swap voices with a
bos’n’s mate, or by removing a tooth, or putting
one in, or anything, learn to pitch her words at
least into the front seats of the stalls.
♦ * *
Mrs. Wildbriar (Miss Taylor) and her son
(Redwood) were at their best. _ Not that they were
people you’d like to know. A week s visit to them
would certainly end in both being murdered and
their house burned- Solomon a court,in all
glory, was a “one-horse affair beside the old
woman. All the primary and most of the second-
ary colours were represented in her rig-out
some before —many behind. Her cap was a marvel
of “loudness.” It was a block chipped out of a
gorgeous rainbow, with a junk of mirage for lin-
ing. And her manners! TubalCatal They were
of the very advanced school. Shed think no
more of shoving her shovel into an aristocratic,
group and “ busting ” it up than the LiUle Boy
at Manly ” of subscribing £50 to anything. Her son,
Robin, was one of Nature’s noblemen. You could
tell that by the cut of his clothes and the colour of
his hair. When this cultivated young man wasnt
pursuing rats up sewers he was eating. His choice
lay between dumpllags and duff, to guess
how much of those invigorating dishes he could
put away at one sitting, but, j udging by his mouth,
a bag of flour might satisfy hma if he wasn t too
hungry. In the best society he spoke of his
“stomach.” even rubbed it and laughed. When
Nature can turn out noblemen hkc Robin it s
almost time for Art to give up the job.
* * * *
We got as far as the door to see Emerson’s
new programme. Then we made several notices
of motion, but couldn’t carry them out. The fact
is, the people were being spilt into the passages.
At last we found a seat next a fat, grumpydooking
man in a hand-me-down thirty-bob suit. We men-
tion this person, because what happened to him
might happen to anybody who wears cheap, slop-
made clothes and goes to Billy Bmeraon s.He
was a morose-looking man, too—evidently from
the country—and had dropped into the place out
of pure ennui. He looked first at E Person and
then carried his eye methodically round no
apparent emotion in his face, except a deeper
shade of gloom, till at last it reached the other
corner man. Cogill. There it rested. T he:fountains
of it’s owner’s great deep was stirred. He gave an
involuntary shudder that made us skip °u onj
seat and beg to be allowed to stand. We looked at
Cogill, too, and don’t wonder at his attracting the
stranger’s notice. We’ve inspected every lunatic
asylum in Australia, and most European ones,
sometimes as a visitor, but mostly as a patient,
yet, in all our we 5 darings, we cannot call to mma
any face which so easily and naturally expressed
hopeless imbecility as Cogill’s. If ’twere possible
to represent in one face the concentrated idiocy of
a large asylum, we would still back Cogill’s to beat,
or, at least, tie it. This was what was evidently
agitating the stranger also.
♦ * *
After the overture, Holland sang “ Jolly-
Jack Tars” in a pleasant fashion. Then Walsh
and King—song and dance men—gave us “ Swim
out for glory.” They are clever—very. They sing
in unison, and dance in a way that has caused us
(who, certainly, never did them any harm) a lot
of annoyance. We live at the corner of a street,
and on the flags outside our windows, larrikins, of
all ages and sexes, assemble at 6 o’clock on Sunday
mornings, and from that till midnight W alsh and
King’s steps are imitated by these touzle-headed
citizens. The wretches don’t even knock off for
meals, but bring them with them Farther on in
the Gaiety programme we again saw these artists
in “ The Old Kentucky Home,” and we still stick
to the opinion that, in their line, they’re the best
we’ve had. Cogill (Chas. W.—the end bandit)
gave us “ The Boarding House,” and as the gallery
was mostly filled with young men who lived in
lodgings, a description of what forms the staple of
the food supplied at those establishments was
received with the wildest excitement. We looked
towards ourjat friend, and found that he also was
moved—probably with the horrible suspicion of
the number of cats for which he’d provided a
receptacle during his bash-house wanderings.
■ • ■
Following one Cogill came the other with
a nicely-given song. Then the “Napoleon”—
Emerson himself, warbled. Everything he does is
done well. Clark was next with “When the
Robins Nest.” What did we call his voice?
Lovely ? So it is—some notes good, some superb.
When the first part of the programme was finished
we saw that an entire change had come over our
fat companion. He was smiling, and the two
lower buttons of his waistcoat were gone. We
looked again when Stanley, Pixley, and the Cogllls
were through, and saw the seams of his coat going,
while his nether garments appeared by no means
saf e. At last “ Billy ” meandered on as Moriarty. It
was the Anal straw. We heard one short, ominous
tear—like when the main-tops’l reefs in a gale—fol-
lowed by bowls of “ Turn Mm out.” We looked
The unfortunate man appeared as if he’d just
come out of the Corporation baths and couldn't
find his towel. He was quickly surrounded by
minions of the law, a blanket was mercifully
thrown round him,land he was brutally “ run in. ’
This conveys a serious warning. I f you will insist on
wearing cheap, slop -made clothes, at least don’t go
to Billy Emerson’s with them—especially if you're
fat—unless you’re lost to all sense of public
decency.
♦ * *
But what of William himself ? We’ve told
you pretty well what he is. Still, till we saw him
in “ Moriarty” and the “ ankors” which followed,
we weren’t quite sure that he wouldn’t break down
and have to get his head shaved. Now we're satis-
fied. He’ll “ break down” certainly, but with his
hoofs not his head. One friendjof ours, to whom
we’ve paid enough money to add to his already
numerous terraces (he's an old “ perfesh”). said to
us: “ Emerson be . Where’s his quartette
party ? Wen I was in the ‘ push ’ there was me
an’ Rainsford an’ .” “ Oh, shut up,” we said,
courteously; “we ain’t talking of prehistoric
times. Our opinion is that Billy Emerson is the
best all-round * nigger,’ and his mob the best all-
round mob, that have come our way. If you don’t
like that lump It.”
• • « «
Over the Opera House there is a settled
melancholy. Men come to the doors, look in,
snort, and start off to sacrifice at the shrine of
Bacchus the money they’d borrowed from their
wives for innocent amusement. We counted 37 of
these tantaUsers on the King-street pavement
after the first act. Three had paid their money,
gone inside, and come out rebellious. In the
group were a few who desired to know what the
h the Jew pawnbroker near meant by
putting up his shutters so early, when they were
prepared to buy him out. This 37 mob interested
us, so we watched it, saw it split up into various
sections, go home, and smash it’s wife forjsuggest-
ing the Opera House on Monday night.
• • •
And this Brings us back to the piece. It
was “A Scrap of Paper,” one of Sardou’s
“brilliant” comedies in three acts. In the tran-
slation, the “ comedy ” appeared to have been left
behind, and the stupidity alone humped along.
We’ve sat out many things. Once at Balmain
(this, of course, was an extreme cise) we retained
our seat during “ Box and Cox ” for the purpose
of shoving along a Methodist picnic. This was
partly because Box owed us money, and partly
because we couldn’t trust ourselves to stand-
much less walk. The only real remembrance wo
have of that startling success is that Cox, towards
the end, missed his step and shot into the orches-
tra, to the manifest disadvantage of the “Blue
Danube” waltz, while Box disappeared in the hub-
bub, and has never turned up since. And this
brings us back.
In “A Scrap of Paper,” there is a plot.
We didn’t discover it, but a person next us did.
There’s a Colonel Blake (Phil Day) who has been
everywhere, from Whitechapel to the Southern
icefloe. There’s a Susanna Hartley (Mies Lewis),
who hasn’t been so far, but knows just as much.
The Blakes, with whom we were once acquainted,
came from Galway, rode horses thirty-three
hands high, and, by means of horse-pistols fifteen
Inches long, made themselves universally agree-
able. But we digress. This Blake, after three
years’ absence, returns to England, and discovers
many things—among others, that his old sweet-
heart— Miss Novaro-(we don’t know what her nee
is. and don’t want to) is now Lady Ingram. Sir
James Ingram (Whyte) is shortly run on -Apropos
of nothing—and appears with gaiters and a
double-barrelled gun. These command respect—
especially the gun. Before going to China to
study the “small-foot” question, Blake had
stuffed a billet into a mantel-piece Diana, or
Pschye, or Aphrodite. Novaro never got it, and
so when Sir James came along, she collided with
and stuck to him. We saw Sir.’James, and believe
him to be an Impossible creation—a figment. No
man possessing his linguistic and facial attributes
would be suffered to live in the England of to-day,
while there was a brick handy. He couldn’t face
a “fierce democracy” with such a mug.
* • *
But where does Miss Lewis come in? She
comes just when she’s wanted, and not before.
Blake has collared the compromising letter. It is
her office to get him to burn it and then marry
her. She does both, and the curtain descends to
music, which is made doubly doleful by the con-
stant obtrusion of Allpress’ back hair. The person
sitting in front of us had a turnip in his handker-
chief pocket to present to the artist, and nothing
but the known presence of Coleman in the behind
bar kept him from spinning it to the footlights.
• • *
What do we think of “A Scrap of Paper?”
It’s hard to say. Give us Sardou’s original, and
we’ll tell you. What we can say on the spur ot the
moment is that, in its English garb, it f’ese'-ves to
live—to live as an example of what dr nkoan do.
Sardou probably drank absinthe, and he muse have
cleaned out Paris before he started “A Scrap qt
Paper.” The dialogue (we speak of the English) is
tedious, and nothing but the presence of Sir James
shot-gun kept the pit from mutinying. The pit
consisted of one “dead-head,” whom we heard
afterwards sending the most opprobrious remarks
after a retreating policeman. The thin# was no
doubt Intended for a drawing-room trifle-one of
those things that the maidens of St. Germain and
of Mayfair go through when there s no man on the
horizon. Why it should be produced to a rough-
and-tumhle Sydney audience is one of those thing's
that no one but the “ Brevity 19 man of the Even-
ing News could solve.
• • ■
And the actors ? Miss Lewis scarcely did
herself justice. Miss Novaro appeared bowed
down with a longing to catch somebody-she
wasn’t particular—by the hair and hang on. The
four other females looked stolid while the pit was
yelling. The men seemed anxioui to circumvent
alcohol, while the orchestra fiddled and blew away
with touching indifference. Mr. George Forbes
was Archie, a young man in short Jacket and
check trousers. We’ve been on the stage our-
selves, and had characters like Archie to personate.
We’ve also broken stones. Of the two, we prefer
stone-breaking. Mr. Forbes has one comprehen-
sive smile, which carries him over every obstacle.
Still there were men in the stalls who would have
liked to kill somebody. “La Bdle llusse” lain
preparation.
* * * *
Sala’s house was not a good one—at least
inside. He told an audience of broken-down Civil
Servants and attenuated dowagers what he’d seen
during a life-time of adventures. We’ve seen ever
so much more, and could back a man who has
lately started to cater for the public to wipe
George Augustus out the first round. Still, G.A.S.
has seen many things. He remembers the girl
Victoria Guelph riding by to be crowned Queen of
the Empire, whose drum-beats —[Oh, call to-
morrow.—Ed. B.] Well, at any rate, he remem-
bered "Albert the Good.” We, too, remembered
Albert. He was good for a lot of things—among
others, for looking after what is vulgarly called
No. 1. During the Irish famine, when hundreds
of thousands were rotting on the road-sides, or
raving deliriously of Munster valleys while their
lives were ebbing away in fever-ships, Albert
came down like a man with his £500. And, at this
time of day, G.A.H.—whom Ben Butler would have
swung, righteously, too, Irom the topmast steeple
of New Orleans—comes to tell us of this good
Prince.
• • •
When we get on this “here” grievance of
“princes” there’s no stopping us. George saw
Louis Phillippe go down, and Louis Napoleon go
up and down. But he had no word to say of
Hugo’s histoire d’un crime; nothing of the bastard
who sat on a dung-hill outside Sedan and bartered
France; nor of the drunken soldiers who shot
down women and children In the boulevards pour
passer le temps. No. It wasn't in his programme.
He came to tell us how good monarchs were and
how thoughtful.
♦ ♦ »
Was Sala’s lecture devoid of interest? Far
from it. It was full of anecdote. But he, or those,
who “ run” him. have just the same awry notion
of things as he had when he visited America 30
odd years ago. Successful grocers, butchers,
drapers, and litterateurs (Eheu!) go from amongst
us and tell Englishmen about Australia. When
the Englishmen come amongst us it slowly dawns
upon them that they've been sold. But, enough.
It was pleasant to see how the audience
cheered when they heard that no less than eight
cream-coloured horses drew the Girl Queen to a
house where an old man la tights put a eurloasly-
constructed metal thing on her head. All the elite
of England was there, but that elite hasn't, so far,
given us another “Cotter’s Saturday Night,” nor
even a “ Song of the Shirt.”
• • *
Soyer taught Sala to cook—Nature taught
him to eat and drink. He has followed Nature.
At the opening of the Glass Palace in '51, toe
Archbishop of Canterbury—so G. A. 8. tell us—
was there in full canonicals, Invoking the blessing
of Heaven, and almost demanding “ peace in our
time.” Let’s see. What have we had since then ?
Russian war, Franco-Austrian, American, Prusso-
Austrian, Franco-Prussian—where will the list
end ? No-there’s nothing for it but to shunt
Canterbury; he’s not up to his work.
• ♦ •
Sala went up in a balloon once. Of course,
the blamed thing burst, but why the car didn’t
breakaway isstiliamjstery. However,ho went up
ever so many thousand leet, and was a fair-com-
plexloned man ascending. He came down an equal
distance, and was then dark-red on tho nose, with
transverse streaks of ultra-marine across the
cheeks. And Sala is a man who sticks to his
colours. But, after all, Sala has seen a lot, and
tells it—well.
We suppose ere long it will be high treason
to use Russian bear's grease, treason-felony to
wear Russian leather slippers, and a high crime
and misdemeanour to read a book bound in Rus-
sian calf. Rather awkward for those who have
large stocks of these useful, comforting, and in-
structive things on hand, but public opinion must
be respected, and, if wo have war, good patriots
will taboo all things Russian, and how about
marketable commodities of all kinds in case of
war? Prices will certainly rise from very scar-
city, for we cannot hope that all our trim-built
wherries will escape the Muscovite pirates—at
least, it will bo wherry odd if they do. Under these
circumstances, we should advise people to buy
while prices continue low. Let one and all, both
great and small, young and old, rich and poor pay
a visit to Anthony Hordern and Sons’ Palace
Emporium, Haymarket, and sort up everything,
not only for the present but also for the future, in
cise the war-time and the famine prices do come.*


PEPPER AND SALT.
M. Palisa, an astronomer of Vienna, has
made the interesting discovery of six new planets,
and this artful reader of the heavens offers to
name the last one after anyone who will contri-
bute £50 towards fitting out a certain scientific ex-
pedition. It must have been the tfflco-boy who
left this poetical wail upon the editorial table
after he had finished dusting: —
What the Sydney Girls’ Friendly Society
ought to be made do—disgorge. Then, perhaps,
we’d have a show for a parlour-maid with a lace
cap and cherry ribbons, instead of the kind of
half-scrubbed “Mother Gum,” whd at present is
slowly devastating the buhl and raarqueterlc. Talk-
ing of parlour-maids reminds us that wh'Qwe were
poor and had no pink wrapper, we had the good
fortune to secure a splendid specimen of a parlour-
maid fresh from the ship, with the salt pork aroma
still about her. We inquire 1 whether she had six-
pence, and finding she had, we put her into the
’bus, and giving her our written address, told her
to wade in until we came home and glory awaited
her. We arrived home about 5 p m., when the
young lady accosted us in the passage. “ Sir,”
said rhe, with picturesque composure, “you en-
gaged me, I believe, as parlour-maid ?” We nodded
absent. “ Well, sir, I’m afraid I shan't suit. I’ve
been here all day, and I can’t And any parlour.”
. . . She was a smart girl, that. She is now a
lady much respected for her munificent acts of
charity, and reported (o be in love with her coach-
man.
The Rev John Alexander Dowie has got
the bailiffs in at Melbourne, we see. When he had
the bailiffs in in Sydney, they found him on their
arrival discussing iced coffee and water-melon.
We had a little biz. with John Alexander on that
day, and we are bound to state that he courteously
gave ua all the information we required; but made
no allusion to the water-melon. Iseemedthat,
somo time before, Dowie had had a dream of a
bright angel with basket-hilted corkscrew and
halo complete, floating through the walls with the
rent money. John A. imparted this dream to the
landlord and invited him in to s c e the apparition.
He, being much interested, accepted the invitation;
but on that day the angel, having to barber St. Peter
(or something), didn’t turn up. A few days after-
wards the landlord happened to mention tha*
having a bill to meet, &c., he—but Dowie told
him not to grieve, for the world was to be de-
stroyed, in a cloud of smoke, just 18 hours before
quarter-day. On hearing this the landlord girded
up his loins, and (seeing things were serious) hied
him to Shiloh for the “ two strange men.” Dowie’s
creed seems to be that everybody will go to hell
but himself and his adherents. And we learn by
wire from Victoria that they just number 30 soula
Hell will have to be a pretty big place!
* * *
Now that Milner Stephen, the prayer-cure
or mind-cure, or touch-cure man, has returned to
Sydney, it would be a good opportunity for all
his paying patients here to get up a testimonial
for him, or Invite him to an inexpensive gorge
The occasion also presents itself to those who are
dissatisfied to ask for their money back.
Especially as they would be so certain to get it*
There will, however, bo one of Milner’s old
patients, who would be really glad to see him.
For this patient (who suffered from a drawn hand)"
Milner magnetised not only water, but a big tin
billy, which was then warranted to magnetise on
: its own account, in the absence of the apoqtlc.
The patient, who had unbounded faith in old Mil-
ner, took this to bed with him every night, and
when in pain he used to bathe the limb until he
howled louder than the dog of Damascus. He
was very careful of the tin, always hanging it
over the knob of the bed on his side, but one
night, happening to take a sleeping draught, he
left it hanging on the operating hook in the centre
of the iron work at the head of the bed, and that
night it so happened his wife was taken with a
nervous fit, and when all was silent sat up in bed
with a shriek. Striking her head against the
bottoih o.f the billy, it came down in one icy cas-
cade. It was very dark, and the matches were all
swimming—but she didn’t seek a light; she sought
the billy. ... That is why we think that the
patient would be glad to see Milner. If, however,
LINES TO LAURA.
(By one who can’t raise the “ fifty.”)
My senses whirl, my heart rebounds
In madness at the very notion
Of boasting but those fifty pounds
With which to prove my firm devotion.
service were the married men of the Contingent.
In fact, the rumour may be put into rough-shod
rhyme after this fashion—
Ere they would meet their wives again
The married men would—well
Not only go to India,
But also go to —[Exactly.—Ed. B.]
But we believe this to be a calumny.
Something Seasonable.
Ah, me I Ah, me! the lack of gold
Has made me more than ever poorer—
Why, I would lavish wealth untold
To name that little planet Laura.
My guiding star, my lady love,
My little loving, lively Laura,
You then might, from the skies above,
Look down upon your fond adorer.
If I that fifty pounds were worth—*
Now stars come out soon alter seven—
I’d squeeze your lissome waist on earth,
And kiss my hand to you in hekven.
L*He gets five shillings a week.-»ED. B.]
PERHAPS!
“News has been 1’eceived that the Austra-
lian troops serving: under Sir Gerald Graham in
the Soudan have offered to go to India in the
event of hostilities between England and Russia.”
—Telegram to daily paper.—
’Tis line to hear our “ boys "-we do not scoff—
So much for blood and glory thirst;
If they should meet with General Komaroff,
He’ll be a Komaroff the worst.
But against this gallant nows is the ill-natured
rumour that the most eager volunteers for further


Dr. Duhcamilner thinks of calling, he’d better do
so on one of those occasions when the missis is
out buying the cabbages.
* * •
“ All of them are disgusted with the inac-
tivity to which they have been condemned since
their arrival at Suakitn, the heat being severely
felt.”—Special correspondence from Egypt.—
Directly he heard the P.M. at Blayney was
ill, he polished his hat with a sponge, and having
carefully polished the front of his boots, went to
call on the Minister for Justice. “Are you the
JP,” said the Minister, “who has been writing
me all these letters ? ” “ About the P.M.-ship— ah,
yesl ’’ “ You have a glowing style,” remarked the
of J. “Thank you—thank yeu ” “ Oh^
you’re welcome, Mr. — , but the billet you are
enquiring for is, unfortunately, promised.” “ May
1 ask to whom ? ” said the disappointed suitor in a
hollow voice “Yes,” replied the Minister, “cer-
tainly ; Mr. Ah Bun, a near relation of Quong Tart <
Peq.'s, is the lucky man. In legal acumen, and ail
that, you know, Mr. , you can give the Tart
family points; but, you fee, socially, as things go t
they are a bit your superiors. You see, I am often
Placed in a d < ffi'’ult position h< re For instance, in
thia very case, of course I would rather—should
the vacancy unfortunately occur—confer the ap-
pointment upon a European; but, my dear sir,
when this Celestial gentleman comes to me, armed
with papers to prove that it was not only through
his instrumentality and a carpenter’s file that awell-
known junior Supreme Court Judge cut his first
tooth ; but that he has for several years been
bunion-scooper to Sir Alfred Stephen, I must not
shut out from myself the fact that the person
who brings these credentials is not without hav-
ing a claim of some importance on his adopted
country. Good afternoon. You—you never
washed for Sir James Martin, I suppose ? ” “ Sir
—I am a Ju-justice of the Peace I ” “Just so,’’
pursued the Minister, “ but, my dear sir, you seem
to have forgotten that you can’t make a living
out of that now. In the old licensing days a J.P.’s
vote was always worth half-a-crown, a cab-ride,
and three rums if he voted with the Good Temp-
lars, but—pooh, now! ” “ Good-day, sir,” said the
applicant, faintly, “ Good-day to you,” rejoined
the Minister, “ I’m sorry your application has been
unsuccessful, but before you apply again, take
my advice —do something for a Judge—if it’s only
to grease his whiskers.” This concluded the in-
terview; and the applicant, having composed his
feelings with a threepenny “ bath,” tripped away
to see If there was any truth in the rumour that
the chief clerk of the Water Police Court had
fallen off his bicycle and broken a knee-cap.
• • •
Since we were informed by the Wollon-
gong Argus that “ Mr. Christopher Bonnett is now
beginning to take an active part ” in the conduct
of the Sydney Evening News, we have scanned
that paper rather more closely than before, with
the melancholy result of discovering the Insertion,
of late, of local verse of a rather alarming charac-
ter. Here is a specimen of it, and the reader will
□•t, probably, be surprised that it has inspired us
to take it down once more and sing the bard, who-
ever he may be:—
“ The sargint here now smells a r?.t,
And Fosbery does suspecks, (sic)
So pleaso to mind wot you are at
Don’t split on P’leeceman X.”
Lines for an Album,
What drivel’s this, and what’s its awful gist ?
Can spiders write, and yet the world exist ?
Or is it now the day—it must be—lud I—
Of brains of putty, and of souls of mud ?
Can Luna rule the sphere, smile but on men
With soap-sud fancy and a beery pen ?
Does Dulness triumph ? Shall each offal knight,
Fresh from the slaughter-house, sit down and
write ?
But, stay! True honesty we can't despise;
So, if Chris, wrote it, we—apologise.
The Gundagai Times said a while ago that
he had been shown a bucket of hailstones as “ big
as pullets’ eggs.” He wrote a long paragraph
about them. If they Lad only been eggs ami had
been left with him their praisea would have
formed the theme of his leading article and filled
his Sydney letter. But, on the other hand, if they
had been eggs he would only have been allowed
to look at them through an iron 7 barred window
or across a fence set with spikes The gentlemen
who write so eloquently about the joys of litera-
ture and the delight of giving nights and days to
Addison never edited a country paper.
BRIEF MENTION.
Oo Monday a man named Tim O’Brien
was stabbed by a Chinaman named George Ah
Fong. These Chineseare always quarrelling among
themselves.
“ What did the hooting of the Prince and
Princess of Wales in Cork Imply ?" yells the D.T.
Probably that fat, middle-aged, bald-headed men
should work for a II v ing.
It used once upon a time to be the British
Lion and Sthe Russian Bear. Mats nous avons
changi tout cela; it is now the Russian lyin'and
the British (grin and) bear!
The S.M. Herald’s commercial man is an
unconscious humorist. He remarks that, in view
of the possibility of hostilities, “ there is already
a strong demand for brandy! ”
Mr. Thomas Walker has been heavily fined
for exhibiting alleged indecent diagrams. Why
doesn’t Inspector Bremner indict P.-M.-G. Norton
for the carvings on Sydney Post-oflioe?
Here is a notice of birth in a contemporary:
“ At , the wife of Victor Lemme, of a son.” If
we might blush to suggest a name we should advise
the mother to call her son Victor Lemme Alone.
It was only when he found the toe of a
strange stocking in one of his sausages that a
newly-arrived young Scotchman was fully able to
realise the meaning of the colonial legend—" All
meals sockspence.”
“Broker’s men ” have invaded the chapel
of our old friend, the Rev. John Alex. Dowie.
The. Evening News labels this, “Bailiffs in the
Tabernacle.” John Alex, would call it “Money-
changers in the Temple.”
“So you won’t serve your Queen in
India?” said Major Poonah to Corporal Dive, of
the Paddington Patrols. “ I think not, this time,
Major,” replied the Corporal; “ye see, when tra-
veiling on land, yer meal hours is so confounded
irreg’lar.”
At Hay last week a coroner’s jury found
the fire was the work of an incendiary, but
whether wilful or accidental they declined to say.
The jury was composed of rabbiters—or rabbits:
the terms of the verdict leave us in uncertainty
which.
A certain N.S.W. member of Assembly,
who was badly beaten in a libel case against a
newspaper (this happened ever so long ago) al-
most immediately after the verdict received the
following telegram from one of his constituents:
No matter; ye swore well.”
“ A Tasmanian” writes to a Melbourne
Eaper a three-quarter-column letter to explain
ow it is she would rather remain an old maid
than not. It is nicely written, but the signature
is unfortunate. One suspects on coming to it that
she might have given her reasons in a line.
The Moruya Examiner is getting to be
ferocious. “ Read this,” quoth he to the dead-
beat advertisers, “ or abide by the consequences.”
We, as in duty bound, go straight into training to
abide by the consequences. A family-man has no
business to get cocky and take the alternative.
N.S.W. pikeman, at dinner time: “Now,
let’s see—Here’s my pound and arf of bread—that’s
right; here’s my two-pound tin of ‘ bully’—that’s
right; here’s my pound and arf of taturs—that’s
right; here’s my pound of jam roll—that’s right;
here’s—hullo, call this a full ounce of butter I No,
no. I swore at the Paddington Barracks to do my
duty to my country, and tell the cook I must have
a full ounce.”
A young lady wrote to the Australasian
a week or two ago for directions “ how to look
pale.” She didn’t get them, but received instead
a moral lesson. If she had written to us we would
not have treated her in this way. We would have
simply told her on hazard that Julian Thomas is
understood to be engaged on a new work. If that
wouldn’t make her permanently pale the fear of
death wouldn’t.
Christian Vost, a Pialba (Q.) farmer,
chopped his right hand off with a tomahawk. He
was suffering from religious depression, and, for
the purpose of making peace with Heaven, pre-
sented his hand. Whether the offer was accepted
or not he will probably know shortly, as the
doctors say nothing but a miracle can save him,
and Ingersoll, Bradlaugh, and Joe Symes have
stopped the supply of miracles.
“ Tasmania,” naively remarked the Mayor
of Sydney at a luncheon given to Mr. Davies, the
Mayor of Hobart—” Tasmania was an old ally of
New South Wales, and they had more in common,
perhaps, than any other two colonies.” They had,
indeed, alas! The festive board, we notice, was
appropriately graced on the occasion by the pre-
sence of the Sheriff of Sydney. In the name of
hemn, thunder, leg-irons and cowhide, what did
Mr. Playfair mean ?
CELA VIBNDRA.
(Inscribed, with emphasis, to W. S. Tar-
gett, Eaq., M.P.)
Oh, what a lot of toil and trouble!
They’ve banqueted a little bubble!
Soon must the line be drawn, though, lest
Light Nothing comes to be the guest.
Mosquito-perjuries die hard this season.
From Riverina we hear that a gang of the frisky
phlebotomlats recently attended a Sunday school
picnic, carefully tapped the whole assembly, and
then sat down and howled because there wasn’t a
ball and supper given the same night. And up in
North Queensland an enterprising publican bags
the "skeeters” over night, carefully removes
their nippers and wings, and then dishes them up
next evening as best curried prawns.
“ What! not volunteer for Injer ?—you’re
afraid!” said Full-private Josler, of Riley-street,
to Bombardier Biter, of Ultimo. “It ain’t so
much that,” chuckled Bombardier Biter—“ but I
want to get) home immediate; I’ve come into a
property.” “ What’s that ?” inquired the other.
“ Well, you needn’t put it all over the camp that
I’m in luck,” said the bombardier, confidentially,
“ but the fact is it’s been wrote out to me that my
missis has been and married our baker.”
On Thursday night a Russian offered him-
self as a recruit for the 2nd Regiment of New
South Wales Infantry. He took the oath and was
accepted. So feverish is our military zeal and so
spurious our loyalty, that we actually enlist Eng-
land’s enemies in our ranks. What would the
British say if General Komaroff offered himself for
enlistment in an English regiment ? No doubt our
Russian volunteer knows what he is about, which
is, perhaps, more than can be said of those who
enlisted him.
After reporting a case of Hoffnung and
Co. prosecuting some label-forger (who was fined
10 bob *’)» the D.T. says on the following morn-
* j our re P OI> t of the case which appeared
on Thursday, Mr. Marks was erroneously referred
to as the defendant, a mistake for which we have
to express our regret.” Pooh, what nonsense,
taking all this trouble I Why, when Mr. Marks
read the correction, he laughed, and said he
thought himself lucky at Its not having been
stated that he was “ with difficulty removed from
the dock,”
In Townsville, we read, an old gentleman
called at the newspaper olllce complaining bitterly
ot tne treatment he received (“an unpleasant
shock, he called it) fr*m a cask outside Hoff’s
buildings. This vessel was apparently a bully of
the most dangerous description, and quickly had
, .9 ld cha P °n his back, his feet fighting the
welkin. We often get a shock from a cask, too—
from keeping our mouth too Jong at the bung.
But to be up-ended by an empty barrel is more
than hard. It Is humiliating.
To a plaintiff named Field, who made £1 a
day by vending tripe. Judge Dowling said that bis
calling was a “good field for unemployed capital.”,
We protest against this reckless snirit of drollery
which is now invading the Bi nch, and which, if
npt checked, may at last reach Government House,
del! Think of reading in the morning papers:—
At dinner last night. Lord Loftus was cheerfully
communicative and put all others in the ebade by
his wjt gpd esprit. His conundrumswcfbsingularly
AN UNFORTUNATE CONTINGENT.
Alas I ’twas but the other day,
To beat of drum and hoarse “ hooray,”
Our sons from Sydney sailed away—
Athirst for blood and glory;
All burnished bright their bayonets gleamed—
With radiant light their eyeballs gleamed-
And, heads upright, they fondly dreamed
Of valiant deeds and gory.
Oh! as our warriors rode the main,
The dailies —b’.esi ’em!—waxed insane,
And sang, in wild, exalted strain,
Of England's honour saving;
While special “specials ” on the boat
Sent letters home from lands remote,
And sniggered, doubtless, as they wrote
How “ well they are behaving,’*
Then, when the small, heroic band
In good condition came “ to hand,”
And trod, at last, the desert sand,
All eager and perspiring,
With what a conscious pride we read
The words the good Commander said -
How troops so worthy to be led
He could not help admiring.
The Citadel of Herat.
But now another day has come,
When men, who cheered the martial drum,
In dark misgiving bite the thumb,
And talk of sabres rusting;
For, oh I the cable brings the news
That Australs’ sons have changed their views,
And (what a cough-drop for the News!)
Now think that war’s disgusting.
Alack, how most dreams of glory fade!
The troops, in new rig-out arrayed,
Who sailed away so undismayed
To help those dear Egyptians,
Seem fated not to meet the foe
(Not spears, but heat will lay them low),
And Dailey, with a wall of woe.
Thinks—“How about subscriptions ?’


neat and happy, particularly the one—What pieces
8 laced Tom Walker in check ? Book Dailey, and
le Bishop.”
The Wab Whoop asks “ How long will
it last f” As long as coppers are plentiful and
men are foolish, of course.
The Mixed Commission, te the German
claims in Fiji, has awarded £9000 to the chief
claimant, Mr. Carl Sahl, of Sydney.
The Gundagai Times, on the 21st ultimo,
advised Gladstone to declare war, and yet matters
art still In suspense. The G.O.M. grows more in-
tractable every day.
During last Afghan war a native regiment
In the British service lost its head and fired un-
nomfortably near one of our line regiments.
Suddenly an officer saw one of his soldiers turn
right round and deliberately fire into the native
battalion. “ What the deuce are you about, man ?”
said the officer; “ you're firing into our own men i”
“ Well, sir,” said the man, not in the least put out,
and continuing firing, “ the beggars is a-flring into
us.”
The Mayor of Sydney has just issued a
circular to consumers of water, recommending
them to abolish the use of “ plunge-baths,” until
the existing drought was passed. We understand
that nearly the whole of the aldermen have—
purely with a view to setting a good example-
refrained from bathing for years. One thing is
certain—that if the aldermen don’t tub until their
drought has subsided, not a man Jack of them will
ablute till the Day of Judgment.
From the Herald: “Gentleman wants
permanent residence in Darllnghurst.” Not at
DarUngburst, mind, but in It. This should bo
easily obtained. Let the gentleman have an
Indictment drawn against himself for arson; then,
if he be defended by a barrister whose name we will
furnish on application, an infuriated jury will
certainly find him guilty. Or he might obtain an
exchange. Many a “ lifer ” engaged in the manu-
facture of road-metal, would willingly exchange
with this gentleman who wants permanent resi-
dence in Darllnghurst.
According to existing arrangements, the
New South Wales Field Artillery, if it went into
action, would be horsed on the contract system-
ic., the authorities, if they wanted gun-mokes,
would hire them from the livery-stables and so
on. The drivers and horses, up to the very mo-
ment of action, would be utter strangers to each
other, and the horses would be unaccustomed to
the din and noise of warfare. In fact, at present,
we haven’t the slightest guarantee from those
who “ boss ” our warriors that melancholy, pen-
sive horses wouldn’t be taken out of Kirby’s
hearses and hitched on to the field guns.
“What!” said the oounter-olerk to au
engaging young widow of some eight-and-twenty;
“You keep a boarding-house, and have buried
three husbands. You are even awaiting here the
arrival of the person who is seemingly to be your
fourth; I really should consider, Madam, whether
it is advisable to enter into a speculation that at
present has turned out so disastrously.” “ What!”
shrieked the widow, “ not marry again ? ” “Well,
really,” be.-tn the clerk, “I am certainly of the
op ” Not marry again?” repeated the lady
with amazement—” then (loudly) who the dickens
do you suppose is to clean the boarders’ boots ? ”
Writes a New Zealand new-ehum scribe to
the editor of a London journal:—“ I will give you
a wrinkle to grow on your editorial born, as bam
Slick says, and it Is this: Never believe a New
Zealander, for of all colonials he is the biggest liar
on the face of ;the earth, whether by tongue or
print, although the clumsiest at the job. New
Zealand is completely behind the age in everything
but rascality and lying.” This poor fellow has
evidently got ’em badly. He dates his letter from
Wellington, where Porirua whiskey, distilled in
the bush from fern-roots and cabbage-tree bark. Is
extensively retailed to new arrivals and native
landowners.
There is great excitement among the high-
heeled tobacco-juice-squirting young gentlemen
of Maryborough (Vic.) Collections of blue-metal,
rotten apples, bricks, and other missiles are being
rapidly accumulated, and dead cats are In great
demand. Two hundred Chinamen, dressed in
characteristic costumes, are going to parade the
streets in procession at the forthcoming Friendly
Societies’ sports. It is a pleasant thing to see an
alien race offering to cater for public amusement
in this generous way, and no doubt, if it does not
altogether cement the friendship between Mongo-
lian and Caucasian, it will at least help to brick-
and-mortar it.
Abridged from News telegramsMr.
Singleton, mesmerist, of Melbourne, has filed a
petition in divorce against his wife. Though liv-
ing in the same bouse the pair have not co-habited
together for five years.” ...” The Singleton
divorce case (mentioned yesterday) has been
settled. When the petition was served there was
a tearful scene, which ended in forgiveness and
reconciliation.” When the friend of the family,
who was present, saw this, he took his hat
thoughtfully, and begged to be excused. Ah,
he said, as he walked away, I know what tats
will lead to. Awhile hence, I may not be so well
off as J anj at present-yes, I will-” So saying, ho
entered a jeweller’s and made a purchase, which
he ordered to be delivered at the house im-
mediately. Guess what it; was, eh? A silver
spoon, and fork, and cup, complete! Silly thing,
wasn’t It ? We hardly see the j oke ourselves.
At Dubbo, tbe other Sunday, a Presby-
terian minister held forth on the idolatry of the
Church of Rome. Then he went on to observe
that the High Church of England approached too
near to her observances, and declared that fully
one-fourth of the C. of E. ministers were preach-
ing Romish doctrine and adoration of the virgin
Then, in a voice of thunder, followed the announce!
ment that (thank God) she was receiving her
punishment for it. The Russians harassing her in
Asia, and the Arabs in Egypt (he omii ted the
defeat of M'Blhone, the election of Parkis, and
other minor calamities), were dispensations of the
Divine Hand in punishment of her idolatry.
“No, thank you, I drank yesterday,” was
the reply of an Arab to one of Lord Wolseleys
boys who offered him a drink. The benighted
Bedouin of the desert drinks only once in two
days, and will not imbibe oftener, because he
fears that more frequent libations would diminish
his power of enduring thirst. Unhappy Arahi
benighted Bedouin I What a lost'condition com-
pared with that of the intelligent Par Northern
reporter, |who drank yesterday, is drunk to-day,
and will be drunker still to-morrow. Fancy any
literary genius declining an Invitation of this sort
on the same idiotic plea. Why, the very fact that
he had drunk, and was drunk yesterday,!is a -W n.p.
argument in favour of drinking, and getting
drunk again to-day, to-morrow, and the day after.
We now own up Dailey had reason as well as
religion on his side when he sent the N.S.W. con-
tingent to wipe these withered, joyless, dnna-
declining skeletons oft the ffico of the earth.
The Grand Old Man.


PROPOSAL FOR AN ARMY OF
DEFENCE.
Let us, as suits the subject, marshal our
statements in a handsome method.
Statement 1.—The spirited policy of the Warlike
Bede has left us (practically) without
an army.
Statement 3.—The fact that our warriors in the
Soudan have volunteered for service
in India renders them useless to us—
except, perhaps, at some future time,
' as relics or anatomical studies.
Statement 3.—As it seems to be certain that war
will be declared, our need of an army
is immediate and impressive.
In the face of these facts, we beg (modestly) to lay
before the Government the following scheme for
the formation of an Army of Defence, with the
humble expression of our opinion that those who
say there is no material left in N.8. Wales for such
an army are asses and the sons of asses. Here is
our scheme:—
Kirby to be undertaker-general to the army.
His contract to be the burial of all officers and
non-ccmmiSBloned officers killed. Also all re-
porters slain in single combat with the canteen.
Rosewood coffins with silver handles to be .sup-
plied to odicers; common piners to non-commis-
sioned officers: gin-cases to reporters.
Ordinal y rank and file to be supplied with spade
and lantern with which to go around after battle
was over, and search for their bodies and bury
them.
In case of the lack of other material, the mem-
bers of the Celtic Club to be required to lend
themselves for the formation of barricades—heads
to be turned outwards.
There is your army complete. We could make
ths scheme more so if we had time and space.
But we have neither. Such as it is, however, we
offer it to the Government, convinced that if it is
not accepted for any reason, it will not be re-
jected for any suspicion of want of earnestness or
patriotism on our part. In fact, if it were though*
at all well of, and the direful necessity should occur
we would be willing to overlook the operations or
the army from any convenient culvert. Weean 1 *
say anything fairer than that. In the meantime
wo will try to gird ourselves up to bear the glory
The Chinese Corps.
To be composed of Chinamen who could not pay
an exemption fine of £50 per head. The fact of
placing these immediately in front of the Larrikin
Legion would excite the latter to the requisite
pitch of frenzy.
The Larrikin Legion.
This body would be formed by conscription
from Surry Hills, Woolloomooloo, Waterloo, Sus-
sex-street, and all the localities In which the true
larrikin Is found. Also from every city, town, and
township in the country. They would be placed
almost in the van of the battle, immediately be-
hind the following corps
The Blackfellow Brigade.
To be made up of all the remnants of tribes still
roaming about the back-blocks, hanging about the
townships, or living in inglorious ease at the mis-
sion stations. The total annihilation of these three
divisions would, at the worst, decisively solve for
us some of our hardest social problems. The other
troops might also find their bodies useful for the
construction of zarebas.
The Money-Lenders’ Company.
This company to be composed of the money-
lenders of the colony. The exemption fine to be
£500 per head. This more as a means of replenish-
ing the exchequer than as a serious addition to the
fighting force.
The Land-sharks’ Section.
Same remarks apply to this. Same exemption
fine.
Note.—All these troops could bo hurled at the
enemy in a mass—and no great barm done if he
ate them.
The Liverpool Laugh-at-Danqer Boys. ! 1
To be formed from the Old Men’s Asylum and
erysipelatous Pocketaroo selectors at Liverpool.
Officered by Hughey Taylor and members of the
Legislative Council.
THE REGULAR FORCE.
The Grass Widow Warriors.
These to be incorporated from the wives of the
Soudan Contingent, and to receive the place of
honour in virtue of proved valour—it standing to
reason that, as their husbands would rather meet
the Russians than meet them, so would the Rus-
sians rather meet their husbands. To be armed
with flat-irons and fire-shovels. Drilling in the
use of their weapons to be considered superfluous.
The Parliamentary Phalanx,
To be composed of the whole strength of the
Legislative Assembly; to be led into the fray by
the Hon. W. B. Dailey and out again by the gallant
aad well-known undertaker, Melville, M.P.
The Salvation Army.
En bloe. Professing, as it does, a Joyful alacrity
to meet and worst the Devil at all times, this body
will hardly be afraid to meet the Russians.
The Waterloo Immortals.
This band of veterans to be composed of all the
survivors of that famous fight scattered over the
country. There could not be lees than a battalion
Sf those at least. It would be interesting to note
whether modern arms would have any effect on
them Anything, even their extinction, would be
better than the present uncertainty regarding
them.
The Press Gang.
To be composed exclusively of reporters, and
stationed in the remote rear as a guard upon the
canteen. As this body would be the flower of the
army, it might bo desirable to serve out a ration
rum to it every five minutes or oftener, as the
authorities might deem expedient. Also, ham-
■andwlohes and saveloys every half-hour. The
pen, being mightier than the sword, requires
more refreshment.
The Pouch
To be placed In the rear so as to be In a position
to arrest all soldiers who evinced a disposition to
go home to see what the time was or to get their
tobacco.


“ BEACH’S ”
CONSUIiTAl ION
ON
Birthday Cup, May 25.
soo sov*.
1000 SUB3CK1B® .IS, 10s. £AC11.
Address-
•BSACH,”
Caro of J. G. Decble,
tel, King aud rut Street, Sydney
The Referee .
SPOUTING FIXTURES.
W* ihall be glad to have this index pasted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general.!
RACING
Western Downs J.C.(Tambo, Q.) Annual..May 13,14
Canterbury Park R.C May 16
Rosehill R.C May 23
Wollongong T.C. (Autumn) May 25
Walkers ton (nr. Mackay ,Q.) R.C. Annual.. .May 25
Blackall R.C June 4,6
Rosehill R.C .June 20
Walgett R.C.. July 8, 9
Rosehill R.C ..July 18
Canterbury Park R.C ..August 1
Rosehill R C • • • August 8
Canterbury Park R.C September 5
Hawkesbury (Spring) September 10 12
A.J.C. (Spring) September 19, 23, 34, 26
Rosehill R.C .October 3
Canterbury Park R.C October, 17
Canterbury Park R.C December 19
Rosehill R.C December 28
AQUATICS.
Matterson v. Messenger May 30
ATHLETICS.
Astafleld Amateur Athletic Club May 16
’CYCLING.
Sydney Bicycle Club (Annual R.M.) August 23
Suburban Bicycle Club (Annual R.M.) May 9
THE RING.
8.A.B. Club Competition June 1
Foley v. Farnan June 30
SPORTING AND ATHILBTIC MEMS.
Joe Goss, the pugilist, lies dangerously ill
at Boston, of Bright’s disease.
Edward Sutton, at Newcastle, matched to
run B. W. Power for £200 on 30th June.
J. Noud and C. Donoghue to run 100yds.
at Tenterflold, on 37th May next, for £35 a side.
Football olub meetings too numerous to
mention. Grand prospect foi the arnica-vendors.
An Australian toast.—Here’s to the ship
that may never leave our waters—the champion-
ship.
Latest advices from England said that
Fred Archer’s principal food each day was a
seldllta powder.
Johnson, Moppett, Simpson, Brodie, the
Brothers Kennedy, Gaden, and Bros. Holy Moses
what a club crew!
At Dunedin, N.Z., on April 15, the glove
fight between Pettengell and Scott resulted in an
easy victory for Pettengell.
At Auckland, N.Z, on April 15, J. A.
Stewart won the 10-mlle amateur bicycle
championship in 40min. 21seo.
Hugh M'Cormaok, an American skater
has lowered the mile record by 14)4900. The best
previous time was 3min. lOJ^sec.
A hint for Bur wood footballers. Don’t
play up too strong this season, or your occupation
will be gone. The Union will bar you altogether.
The subscriptions towards the aquatic tes-
timonials amount to nearly £1800 for Beach, £565
for Hanlan, £410 for Messenger, and £47 for Lay-
oock.
The village church of Huoknall, Forkard
(Eng.), is famous as the resting-place of Lord
Byron, and in its shadow is the grave of the giant
pugilist, Ben Gaunt.
George Perkins offers to row Largan or
Dubear, or any other sculler in England, over the
Thames Championship Course for £100 or £300
a-side. Poor old England I
The Brisbane cricketers, before leaving
Rockhampton, where they lost their match, pelted
the people on the wharf with eggs, coal, and stones
a s the steamer was leaving.
Both Wallace Ross and John Teemer, the
Yankee oarsmen, have gone into the saloon busi-
ness, about the quickest plan we know of to clear
them out of the rowing business.
That greatest of English racehorses, St.
Gatien, will never be seen on the turf again. He
has been suffering from a disease, something like
pleuro-pneumonla, that was first taken to New-
market by the American horses.
A private letter from John L. Sullivan
fixes the date of his departure for England for May
35. He acknowledges that he has been living
loosely of late, and asserts his determination to
turn over a new leaf immediately.
Jackson is anxious for another shy at
Taman, and says he will box him in private for £50
or £100. Our opinion is Farnan will beat Jackson
whenever they meet. The Melbourne man is too
great a glutton for the darkle, and fights for Jack-
son’s weak spot—the ribs.
In a recent 13-hours’ walking match at
Auckland, N.Z , between Rayner and M’Cune the
former covered 64 miles 17 laps to the latter’s 61
miles 32 laps. M’Cune entered a protest on the
ground that the Australian broke, and was upheld
by the judge. Rayner has taken the matter into
court.
Says a N.Z. paperBraithwaite, the
Wanganui sculler, refuses to accept a challenge
from Hearn, offering him half a minute in three
miles. He says the original offer made was to row
three miles, giving him half a mile, or two minutes
start.” The Italics are ours. A mile in four
minutes I Beach will tremble when he sees this.
The recent six days’ go-as-you-please in
N.Z., between Swan and six local men, came to a
conclusion on Anrll II, when Swan had covered a
shade over 484 miles to 479 milts by the combined
six. Swan says the poor attendance had a most
dispiriting effect upon him. We are sorry for this.
We were in hopes the long distance men would
receive plenty encouragement in Maoriland. They
might have stayed there.
Says an English paper :—The Oxford Uni-
versity Boat Club, with its old gallantry, is about
to acknowledge the very useful steering of the
eight by a lady, at Bourne End, during the ab-
sent of tho coxswain, Mr. Humphreys. The fair
lady is the most graceful gondolier either in Eng-
land or on the Continent, and has already dis-
tinguished herself at the oar under the able
tuition and in the company of her husband.
At a recent benefit in Melbourne, Farnan
wound up the proceedings with Keegan. The
Sportsman says:—“ Farnan pursued his old tac-
tics of boring right in, and taking his punishment
smilingly One improvement in his last two or
three boxing bouts he has exhibited—namely, the
use of both hands; instead of doing all the work
with his heavy right, he every now and then puts
in a hot one with the left—a decided change for
the better.”
The Wollongong people are going to give
Beach a buggy and pair. This is the reason. When
William first beat Hanlan, and was accorded a
similar demonstration to that of last Wednesday,
he was driven to “the little Dipto home” in a
drag and four horses. Having, however, business
in town next morning he came in
This is the sort of man who wants a pood deal of
coaching. It’s no wonder that Deeblo never
leaves him: but even at night either stretches in
his slipper, or ouris up in his tar.
It is rumoured that the first time Beach
was being escorted to his picturesque littie Dapto
home hejordere i the c-river to rein up the milk-
white team within three miles of his residence.
Then fiestyod up aud ligtc-.J. “I thought so,”
cried he, with a radiant face, after half-an-hour’s
eager attention; “boys, she’s athomel” “How
d’you know, Bill ?" asked a “ a well-known sport-
ing gentleman who was understood to have,” etc.
“ I hear her a-frying,” replied the champion,
aglow with pride. “ It ain’t,” be continued, “ so
decided when It’s mullet, but when It’s beef sau-
sages you can hear ’em singing fur over as the
Woolloomooloo courthouse.”
The Surrey Bicycle Club, of London, have
written to the Sydney Bicycle Club, congratulating
it upon its splendid financial position, and stating,
la connection with the handsome trophy with
which the Sydney Club recently presented them,
that it has been decided to institute a one-mile
scratch race, open, to be run at their race meet-
ings, the trophy to be a perpetual challenge
prize to be held by the winner; the Surrey B.C.
giving at the same time a presentation first prize
value five guineas, and a second prize value three
guinea?. Some time since the Surrey Bicycle Club
sent the Sydney Club a couple of medals to be
competed for, and the Sydneyites reciprocated by
presenting the trophy under mention, an emu egg
very handsomely mounted by W. Kerr.
The great feature in the new “ Challenge ’
safety bicycle Is the large amount of rake It pos"
pessee, and its almost absolute impunity from
croppers. To prove Its capabilities, bricks in pro-
fusion were placed on the floor, over which it
went with ease. A step-ladder was then laid
down, and this was run over continually from one
end to the other, until a couple of the rungs
broke, when a large box, which happened to be
lying near, measuring some 131n. or 13ln. square
and some 8ft. in length, perforated with a number
of holes 6in. or Sin. in width, was called into requi-
sition, and riding on to the top of this by an inclined
plane, the rider successfully negotiated the series
of drops in the holes, and quietly dropped down
over the other end straight on to the floor without
the machine showing the least tendency to go
over.
Football will soon be in full swing again,
and the coming season promises to prove a
merry one. The Southern Rugby Football Union
held its annual meeting at the Exchange last week,
when, amongst other matters, the matches for the
coming season were fixed up, and office-bearers
were duly elected by the delegates. Upon look-
ing over the list of honoured ones, we were
knocked all of a heap upon discovering
that the Burwood Club, the winners of last
year’s Gardiner Cup, are left out in the
cold, while several junior clubs, and no less than
three members of the club which last year played
second fiddle to the Burwoods, are placed upon
the committee. It certainly jjeems an anomaly
that the premier football club should not be repre-
sented, and to outsiders it would appear as if the
Southern Rugby Football Union is a union in
name only.
Granville secured a double-barrelled vic-
tory in the Handicap Steeplechase at the late
V. A.T.C. meeting. At the first attempt the horses
took a wrong turn early in the race, and, though
all the Jockeys discovered their mistake and
jumped into the proper track before a mile had
been covered, not one of them was crafty enough
to go back and remedy the original error. Con-
sequently, when Granville had polished off his
field comfortably, his supporters had the mortifi-
cation of finding that it was "no race.” For the
second journey, which he landed Just as easily,
Granville was not such a good favourite as Clar-
ence, who carried another 341b. in the saddle. One
more Instance of the terrible Jack of brain power
in the noble army of backers. Even If the pair
had run a dead heat in the first race, it should have
been at least two to one on the lighter-weighted
horse, when their journey of two miles bad to be
repeated the same afternoon.
Seven pairs competed for the Glebe (Syd-
ney) Bowing Club scratch double-sculls on Satur-
day last. The course was from the Abattoirs to
Ferry Road—a good three-quarters of a mile—and
the race was rowed off in three heats and a final.
The first heat was between Maitland and Cock-
biirn, Robertson and Williams, and Fairweather
and Elphinstone, who finished in the order named
after a good race for most of the distance between
the first two; Ickerson and Brlerly defeated Flan-
nery and Farran for the second heat; and the
third resulted in a win for the brothers Cox, who
defeated Burrell and Amess after a good contest.
After a spell, the final was rowed, resulting in a
w n for the Cox brothe s by a few feet from
Maitland and Cockburn; Ickerson and Brlerly a
bare length away third. The final was a great
race. Opposite the club shed Maitland and
had fully a length’s lead, but then
commenced to overhaul them, and, pulling a
de sperate race, won in the last half-dozen strokes
by a few feet.
Under the heading of u A la Courtney,”
the Turf, Field, and Farm says;—“John Teenier
has heard of Edward Haulau's recent victory in
Australia. The M’Keesport youth, who claims to
bo the greatest sculler in tho world, Is not alto-
gether happy over the Canadian’s success. In
defeating Clifford, the paragon oarsman demon-
strated the opinion of old boating men that
Hanlan In proper form can fool with any corn-
stalker. Had Clifford defeated Hanlan, it Is very
probable that Teemer would have flooded the
Press with challenges addressed to the vanquished,
but the Canadian’s success in the Antipodes was
the signal for a general break-up of Teemer’s
health. The day following the race in Australia,
advices from Pittsburgh stated that Teemer 1 is in
poor condition, owing to an injury to his back, sus-
tained in his last race with Gaudaur at St. Louis.’
Teemer’s friends now fear that he will not be able
to row next season. The man who will receive
this Intelligence with the greatest disappointment
Imaginable Is Edward Hanlan.” It will be inte-
resting to watch for Turf, Field, and Farm’s
opinion upon Hanlan’s second “fooling” with
Beach.
The Miller-Foley boxing competition drew
crowded houses to Chiarinl’s show at Sydney on
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday evenings. The
light-weight competition, which extended over
the three nights, resulted in a draw between King
and Hall. On Friday evening a lively bout took
place between the middle weight—“ Dubbo” and
Seymour—the latter exhibiting good science and
taking the lead all through; but the best bout of
the show, so far as the lessor lights were con-
cerned, was between Williams and Thomas, on
Saturday night, the latter proving to Williams
that he is possessed of a very effective right. On
Thursday night, Miller and Foley wound up with
a couple of playful rounds, and on the following
evening, Foley and Jackson had a lively three
rounds, when Larry, though in want of condition,
displayed to the crowd a little of the wonderful
science he is possessed of. The darkey made a
8ood set-to, but was outfought on every point,
n Saturday night Miller and Jackson had a
rough go-in. Jackson has evidently been doing
a lot of work lately, and looked as fit as a fiddle, in
great contrast to Miller, who Was terribly short of
condition.
Blue-Ribbon |Booth had scarcely opened
his mouth in New Zealand when tidings of the
happy effects of getting drunk were flashed from
one end of the colony to all the other ends, begin-
ning at Patea in the North island. During a race
meeting held there lately, a horny-handed har-
vester got extensively “ corned,” and while
struggling gloriously with the laws of gravity,
he collided violently with the totalisator and
very nearly shook that Concern and the offl-
oial in charge on their respective beam-ends.
The official was wroth, of course, and called
the police. The inebriated one, however, was
profuse in his apologies, and, taking a bunch
of notes from his front pocket, handed it over as
a peace offering, and said—" Put it on the best
boss, and—hie-don’t say no more-hie—about it,
that 1 a good boy.” The sum thus treated
amounted to £33, and the clerk, to punish the
beery one, put it all on a rank outsider. Then the
unexpected happened, the rank duffer came in
first, and the Bacchanalian swain staggered to the
front and claimed his dividend, amounting to £300.
Then, to the utter disgust of all the crowd, both
Jew and Gentile, who were waiting to swoop down
on the lucky one and divide the spoil, a charitable
“ Robert,” who had come on the scene when called
for, but had not, till now interfered, stepped for-
ward and ran him into the lock-up, money and
all. Next morning he was fined 5s., and got his
£300 handed over to him all correct. This is the
biggest knock Booth has had for a long time.
Poor old Bill Sparks put on the mittens
with another old ’un at Chiarinl’s Circus, Sydney,
on Saturday night, and the circumstance naturally
brought to mind Sparks’ celebrated battle with
Nat Langham, the only conqueror of Tom Sayers.
Sparks went to England in 1847, and, in place of
having a shy at a second-rater, he must needs fly
at the top of the tree, and under the patronage of
Johnny Broome—who, by the way, some six years
previously had defeated the Australian “ Bun-
garee”—Sparks was matched against the celebrated
Nat Langham. Sparks at that period was a muscu-
lar fellow, 27 years of age, and scaling 10st. 121b.,
just a couple of pounds under Langbam’s weight.
Langham had a long way the pull in height and
reach over the Australian, who seemed to puzzle
him with the left stuck straight out from the
shoulder and his body bent backward in an extra-
ordinary' degree. Langham feinted, and led off
with tho lightning left with which in later days he
closed Sayers’ eyes, but to the suprise of the
ringgoprs. Sparks stopped him twice and returned
on the jaw with hia left, again stopped Langham’s
left, received a light one on the nose, and closing
with Langham delivered two heavy body-blows.
The second round ended with Sparks knocking hia
man clean off his legs, which performance he
repeated in the 7th, 13th, 14th, 36th, and 50th
rounds. In the 63nd round, Sparks threw his man,
and getting his right arm underneath, Langham
fell heavily on it and broke both bones of the fore-
arm. Sparks came bravely up till the 67th round,
when Broome stepped into the ring and stated be
should fight no longer, Some idea of tbo fast
flghting may be gained from the fact that 19
rounds were gonb through In 14 minutes; and the
67 rounds were fought to a finish in 63 minutes.
Up to the time of the accident it was an open
battle, and the general opinion of the “ fancy ”
was that a gamer or more fearless fighter than
Sparks never entered a ring. This was Sparks’
only fight in England,.
A fight for the championship of the North
of England took place recently near Barnard
Castle, between Johnnie Robinson, of Shields, and
Tom Johnson, of Sunderland. The championship
has been acknowledged to have been held by Rob-
inson for some time, and both men were of un-
doubted qualifications, and had figured promi-
nlnently in the ring. The stakes were for £25 a
side. Robinson (a labourer) is about 5ft. 9in., with
a shorter reach than bis opponent, and scaled 10st.
81b. Johnson (a fitter) is about 29 years of age,
scaled 10st. 101b., and first came out at Newcastle
as a scientific boxer about two years ago. Robin-
son, the acknowledged champion of the North,
won a championship belt in London two years ago
in a glove competition open to all comers, and
about six months ago he fought with a Sheffield
champion named Clynds, whom ho beat in 12
minutes. The ropes ft id stakes were fixed at 8
o’clock, and the two men stepped Into the ring
with an air of confidence. There was no interrup-
tion on the part of the police. In all there were
about 40 persons present to witness the fight.
From the start to the finish both men fought with
great determination. The fight lasted 43 minutes,
during which time 29 rounds were fought, John-
son’s party, considering he was a beaten man, then
threw up the sponge. Robinson was punished
severely, about the body in particular, and John-
son showed his injuries in the face. Both were
sufficiently strong to be able to return to their
training quarters with but little assistance from
their friends.
Tile N.S.W, Rawing Association people
complain that a section of the Sydney Press does
all in its power to discourage them in their efforts
to promote the Interests of amateur rowing. So
far as we are concerned, w« stand, out that, when-
ever they have deserved if.,we fiavb dbne all.id
our nowbr to alsiSt Ibbm, blit we tfiost decidedly
think it would be misplaced kindness if, when wb
see glaring niatters inimical to the furtherance of
amateur rowing, we,buttered therii up in tfie
“ everythlng-passed-off-satisfactOrily ” style of the
daily Press. As a case in point we w:ill tftke tne
Balmain Rowing Club. This blub numbers on its
roll mbn wfio could not, by tne longest stretch
of imagination, borne under the definition of a
bona fide amateur, and who have been disqualified
by regatta committees. But In face of all this, the
Association, which is supposed to do all in its
power to maintain strictly amateur rowing, takes
the Balmain Rowing Club and its £5 per dunum
under the Association .wing, well knowing tflat
several of the Bftlmain men are. not feligible.to
start at Association regattas. ThCre cannot be a
doubt the Association is very poorly supported, in
a pecuniary sense, considering the aquatic pro-
clivities of the Sydney people, but we fancy a
little judicious canvassing In the right quarter, as
was recently mooted, would soon place the body
in a satisfactory position, so far as funds were
concerned. Without a doubt, it is a big handicap
for the Association that such a powerful club as
the Mercantiles should not be connected with
them. The Mercantiles suffer in a corresponding
degree, and we have an idea that if the matter
were put to the ballot, the members of the
M.R.C. would vote two to one in favour of re-
joining the Association. We were in hopes the
new captain of the Mercantiles, who joined the
olub, if we mistake not, after the deadly feud had
been started, would have made an effort to heal
matters, but it seems there is no show of such a
desirable event coming off. The very fact of the
Association managing the Intercolonial race,
which this year was carried out in such an admir-
able manner—and in which the Mercantiles had no
objection to two of their members taking a seat in
the eight—should go a long way towards healing
the breach, but If they still hold out in their
endeavour to cripple the Association, then let the
regatta committees step in and assist the premier
body, by limiting their races, as we have before
suggested, to clubs subscribing to the N.8.W.
Rowing Association.
We saw that genuine sport; Charlie B.$
the other day, had a soda straight, and settled
down comfortably tb an exchange bf pferjuries.
A second Soda straight soft of likened Charlie up;
and we gleaned from him that he had been to
Moreton Bay in search of a little sport, and, after
careful inquiry as to whether we had ever been
there—to which we, of course, said no, as a know-
ledge of the situation cramps him up a lot—Charlie
started. “Grand sport,” said Charlie, “feel strong as
a lion, dolngsomuch pulling after the kangaroos.”
“ Pulling after kangaroo ?” “ Oh. yes! we always
hunt them in boats, you know. Y’see Stradbroke
Island runs along the mainland for about 60 miles,
and the tripods swim over to the mainland and
back, so you watch for them in boats and take
them in tow. They take a terrible lot of pulling,
too—unless they are going your way, and then
they tow you.” “ Do the sharks never go for
them ?’’ “Rather; there are any amount with only
one leg, but they sometimes rip up the sharks in
fine style. Good sport, too, dugong-oatching.
The> are very shy, and take a lot of coaxing
before you get near enough to harpoon
them. They call them sea-cows, you know,
and they suckle their young, of which they
are very fond. There was a boy down there
used to sit on a rock, and cry like a young ’un. till
some old fool of a sea cow would come up and
take him in her flappers, and press him to nature’s
fount, and afterwards the father of the young
deceiver would pot the old lady. Shark-hunting
is good fun. You get a fellow about 17 feet long
in one of the creeks on a mud bank; half a dozen
young fellows jump overboard and rush and
splash until the shark is bailed up in a corner, then
all hands jump on his back, and he is lifted
tenderly ashore. Oh! no I they never get bitten.
Fine crabs, too, at Moreton Bay, some of them
over two feet across the back. We tested the
crushing power of one fellow’s nippers at 584->4lbs.
How did we get the exact weight. Oh I simply
enough, we tied bis lower nipper to a rock, and
the upper to a hook on the steel-yards, and as he
closed his nippers we shifted the weight along
until it opened, and that was the strain it took.
The way the boys get them is by putting a hand
under a shelf or hole in the rock. Presently the
human face divine assumes that peculiar expres-
sion caused by sitting down unexpectly after
treading on a banana skin, and screwing up the
mouth to say Oh I The hand is gently drawn up
with the crab banging on to the finger, when a
smart rap on the back with a stick causes the crab
to let go In a hurry. Glorious spot Moreton Bay.
Glorious sport I” Glorious legends.
The Sydney daily papers, writes the Car-
coar Chronicle, are all down on their knees
eating dirt by the truck-load over their advocacy
of the Soudan Contingent business.
George Augustus says that to understand
America you should visit the country three times.
He didn’t think so 23 years ago when he went over
there for the first time and wrote home more —
[Copy here illegible.— Ed B ]
BOY ON ROOF {suddenly): “IT MUST BE HORFUL STRONG LANGUAGE, THIS.”
GENTLEMAN ON LADDER: “WHY?”
HOF ON ROOF: “CAUSE IT TAKES THREE OF US TO HOLD IT ONI” (Drops
behind parapet, and dodges hammer.)


COMPAGNONI CATERING CO., LIMITED,
PITT 8TEEET, SYDNEY - " "
to HM *<•** tho *«or
GRILL ROOM now open- A Grill can be had at any time from 8 am to 11 o m. rafter the
QnH Q 1 Arw* frt 1 *• mn 4- TnnnnnitAM rP thO room. This is one of the acquisitions
Theatres. u oinTtTTi
or o®x a’long’-felt wa t.
and City Club, upstairs.
Inspection Invited
Ej
Ciub rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Cluo
». TOLL E MACH E, General Mannccr.
Bray <S& Liclitner,
32 O CONNELL STBEET, SYDNEY,
IMPORTERS OF SUPPLIES
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
ZS4
m
UP
'.V
I'A
a
V^ntoc/n
0 ‘0
73)
•B30JAON ioj snowonnsnninj q»m 'sfUOU/d/nbj 0llfdoj6o^0lj J d}djdLUOJ
•sa/uo/oa a if i m tsadoai/j puo
‘}saq ‘pauDA jsolu aqt so pas/uSoaaj ajo suo/fDjodajd Dii/dojffo}oi/j jnp
AUSTRALIA.
Our Photogrcphic preparations are recognised as the most varied, best,
and Cheapest in the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments, with mi instructions for Novices.
MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY'
_ Established 1872.
C ktIv<^9P ,ci00 with P° wer t° increase to £1,000,000
BONUSES—20 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
T
O ALL WOMEN
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, In either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDiRFUL DISCOVERY
IN SOAP 1
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with It;
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
%W“ Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
6d. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers :
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
mRmms
-rr,|
J .
He only infallible remedy for
• //ERybifs JjebiLijyT
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures ail who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustive derangement of the system ; regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 13s., or four quantities is one for
Me.; if by coach, 2b. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,*
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from George-jtreet South.
AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral.
No other complaints are so insidious in their
attack as those affecting the throat and lungs;
none so trifled with by the majority of suffer-
ers. The ordinary cough or cold, resulting
perhaps from a trifling or unconscious ex-
posure, is often but the beginning of a fata\
sickness. Ayeb’s Chekuy Pectoral, has
well proven its efficacy in a forty years’ fight
with throat and lung diseases, and should bo
taken in all cases without delay.
A Terrible Cough Cured.
“ In 18571 took - a severe cold, which affected
my lungs. I had a terrible cough, and passed
night after night without sleep. The doctors
gave me up. I tried Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, which relieved my lungs, induced
sleep, and afforded me the rest necessary
for the recovery of my strength. By the
continued use of the Pectoral a perma-
nent euro was effected. I am now (52 years
old, hale and hearty, and am satisfied your
Cherry Pectoral saved me,
Horace Fa i i:brother.”
Rockingham, Vt., July 15, 1882.
t
® Cronp. — A Mothei-’s Tribute.
“While in the country last winter my little
hoy, three years old, was taken ill with croup;
it seemed as if he would die from strangu-
lation. One of the family suggested the use
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, a bottle of
which was always kept in the house. This
was tried in small and frequent doses, and
to our delight in less than half .an hour the
little patient was breathing easily. The doc-
tor said that the Cherry Pectoral had
saved my darling’s life. Can you wonder at
our gratitude? Sincerely yours,
Mrs. Emma Gedney.”
159 West 128th St., New York, May 1C, 1882.
“ I have used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
In my family for several years, and do not
hesitate to pronounce it the most effectual
remedy for coughs and colds we have ever
tried. A. J. Crane.”
Lake Crystal, Winn., March 13,1882.
“ I suffered for eight years from Bronchitis,
and after trying many remedies with no suc-
cess, I was cured by the use of Ayer’s Cher-
ry Pectoral. Joseph Walden.’
Byhalia, Miss., April 5,1882.
“I cannot say enough in praise of Ater’8
Cherry Pectoral, believing as 1 do that
but for its use 1 should long since have died
from lung troubles. E. BRAODON.”
Palestine, Texas, April 22, 1882.
No case of an affection of the throat or
lungs exists which cannot be greatly relieved
by the use of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
and it will always cure when the disease is
not already beyond the control of medicine,
PREPARED BY <?
Dr.J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists.
ELLIOTT BROS, and 8. HOFFNUNQ & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
Bullish Papers and Magazines received by
every MaiL
ROYAL AB0AD1, GB0RG1 ST., (90 8YDNBY.
THE LATEST WO"K« AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.!
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
.cks Head Offices.
| First Fire Society established m tne coiony ou
| the Mutual principle, giving policy-holders back
, part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
j profits every year.
Policy-holders are perfectly free by law from
, all liability.
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Hoad Offices—PITT and KING STREETS.
INTENDING VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
.Should Carefully Preserve this Notice.
“THE IVD'JDER” COACH
CARRIED 1920 PASSENGERS LAST SEASON.
Mr. P. J. Rumney. of “ RIDGE’S FOOD ” fame
Is again running hi* celebrated four-hoise Stage
Coach, “THE WOND3R,” between London and
St. Albans, bavin? Hctcheifs Hotel, in Piccadilly,
London, every morning at 10 45 returning to Pic
cadilly at 0 15 p m.
Ample time is allowed at St. Albans for lunch
and for passengers to inspect the CATHKDR AL.
which is one of the FINEST and OLDEST IN THE
The trip is one of the most delightful that can be
taken, and the price charged for the return faro Is
fifteen shillings.
For Time Cards and other particulars apply to
‘WONDER” Coach Office, Hatchett’s Hotel,
Piccadilly, London, England.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
I10ETEB of 111
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL-PLATED
BEDSTEADS,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRA88ES
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR,
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
&o., &o.
BLAKE’S IMPROVED
STEAM PUMPS.
H. P. GREGORY & GO.,
17 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE ABOV E,
and have In Stock and to arrive—
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULATING PUMP
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING PUMPS
8RND FOR PRICKS AND ALL PARTICULARS
CATALOGUES FORWARDED FREE.
AFjttn before 1rO"CTAIH£iziWHISSEES.
Dmjd's Beard flixir did thie.iimt
mil ds «1 onci./ter i)*ld hei.d or
Lore /net. for. rn henry JJoui-
tarhein Frrm'J 1° 1 icetk s an |
SSL Jails, %<JMO young wen mreuay
Copyrighted. mar full beardt, having used 1 to Copgreg .
.of h3/f' 0 inJ ' irV ’ eari, » <JT" oburvatioH.
liddrttt.
r*'
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST,
Graduate In Medicine and Surgery, Registered
Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours : 10 a m. to 4 p m , 7 to 9 on Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday Evenings.
Ladies’ Waiting Room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.
11, 52 Castlerc-agh-street (upstairs.)
Send for Free Treatise on Vitality and Nervous
Debility, Dir esses of Women.
Illustrated Works on Deformities, Electricity
«md its Application. Hernia (ruptures), Varicocele,
&o., &c.
Address—Australian Medical and Surgical In-
firmary, Sydney ; or B. O. HOLTERMANN, Esq.,
M.P., President, Box 120, G.P.O.
Consultation Free by mall or in person.
Deformities, Specific. Female, and Nervous
Diseases, a Specialty.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Air. James Curtis,
■U"3a.d.erta,lc©r,
■ 84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was In the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen
Manager for over ten GO) years.
.6) yean; also,
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found It at
last with the Argosy Braces at Qowlng Bros.
ft
%
m
%
89
GOWING BROS.
Have Just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces!
Argosy Braces, Zs. (Id . 3s , 3s (lit., A 4s. «
GOWING~ IBROS.,
MEN'S MERGERS, HATTERS. OUTFITTERS, A
832 and 498 Georse-street.
Watch and Clockmaker to the Victorian
L Government. “
T. GAUNT
Watchmaker,
GOLDSMITH.
297 and 299
George Street,
BLEND
JMAR*
TRAD
COLLIE BLEND WHTSKT.-Thls Is a B T END
Of tbe PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
omlng fuine?s of body, with plonancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTfiLL & CO., Bole
Agents.
W
Office.
AST® PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, Bdlutip


Jjl URNITUK1 SHOW HOOK
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES.
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, <feo.
VERY ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
ARBLB-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, lor clubs, restaurants
smoMng rooms, &o.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Gnat variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
fjl IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWyoN, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
• Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing |lass PEDESTAL CUP
B
BOARD, and
iiacueu ; risujiaiaij UUJf-
SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
HEAP FURNITURE,—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 20s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d,;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s-
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboards,
fr )m £310s.; Clothes Horses, froml0s.6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
3
as
OQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
pwOll strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
/AVBRMANTBL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashloa-
able designs In Blaek and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
in
O
CCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &o.
/"IHlPFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
Just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
CrConnell-strect.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for Are grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Q Connell-street.
T\ RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
Jj A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
HAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Veiw handy and Inex-
penslve. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND.
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-strcet.
ININ6 TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
D
[ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK ClAIIf-
Patented.
'A
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
Sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in Its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of h e body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort Is desired.
The frames aro of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four Inches In thickness
when ft Jded. Price 80s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
2a. 6d. extra.
AGATBLLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
F" RAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered In
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
RAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNJ*
TURE, Handsome and Massive, In Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
r.AMB, Spring and O’ConneU-streets. .
BDSTEAD8, nickel-plated and black amf brass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamp
BD8TEAD8, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
B
B
B
KDDING.—All descriptions at lowest rate;.
, NEWTON, and LAMB. O’Coa-
BRADLEY
aell and Spring streets
W
ASH8TANDS, with marble, from 2Ss. ea<*
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
a:
ARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment; heft make, lowest priest
AN OCTOGENARIAN’S GRATITUDE*
A FACT.
Qeorge-street, Sydney, September 1,1884.
Messrs. Myers and Solomon.
Gentlemen,—It Rives me considerable pleasure
to tender you my best thanks for your kind re-
commendation of St. Jacobs Oil. Acting upon
your advice, I tried it, and am happy to say the
very first application brought me Instant relief;
and, by following it up for a couple of days, I felt
completely cured. Before using St. Jacobs Oil I
suffered severely—more especially from swollen
knees—and had tried many other remedies without
the least effect. However, I have to thank it for
making me myself again, and shall be careful to
recommend it.
I may mention that I shall be 80 years of age In
October, and believe that through its use I shall be
able to spend a pleasant birthday.
Yours lalthfully,
JOSEPH HENRY.
Sold by all chemists and druggists in N.3.W.;
price, 2a. 6d. per bottle.
SOCIAL
A fair crowd assembled to witness the
Sydney Eastern Suburbs sports on Saturday last,
though the University affair undoubtedly claimecl
a good many who would otherwise have favoured
the Association ground. A few scores of ohairs,
which had doubtless been placed upontheiawn
for the tennis pets, came in handy for those who
found it chilly sitting in the stand. It was pro-
mised on the programmes that. Immediately after
the lady’s bracelet race, the winners should Pre-
sent their prizes to the ladies who had nominated
them, but the dear fellows were too shy to come
forward, so the fair ones had to be the
gratification of publicly receiving their awards.
This was too bad, and we don t believe girls think
one whit better of a man for being shy; a man has
no right to be shy of anything-not even a pretty
girl, nor his mother. But, however, the gentle ones
had to crush down their impatience the best way
they could, and wait to receive their bracelets
when nobody was looking. Even yet, there is a
good deal of Indecision shown in the ladies cos-
tumes—some try and persuade themselves that
we are still having summer weather, so
go clad in their muslins and other light ma-
terial, and are chilly and miserable all the
time; whilst others show more sense In dress-
ing in comfortable velvets or homespuns, which,
perhaps, at midday are somewhat oppressive, but
as the shadows deepen on the lawn, are fully ap-
preciated. Two very suitable costumes wore worn
by sisters and consisted of navy serges with vests
of crimson and navy striped cloth, filped Tam o
Shanter caps with a crimson wing fastened on one
side. A pretty lady was tastefully clad in a long
slate-coloured mantle with a few Inches of a pink
llounoe peeping below the hem; the hat, which re-
peated the colour of the mantle, was witch-shaped
and had one pink tuft to relieve the monotony of
the colour. The faint touches of pink wore very
artistic, and the combination made one of the
prettiest pictures on the lawn. Miss Day wore a
neat costume of black, and Mrs. G. Jones a long
ottoman silk mantle with small grey felt hat and
feathers. Miss Butcher looked well In a pale elec-
tric blue silk with drab hat and feathers. Miss
Thompson wore a bronze green satin trimmed
with cream lace, a green straw hat and pink
feathers. A beautiful dress worn by a tall lady
was chlefiy composed of a golden-brown plush.
The back draperies were of satin in the same
shade. A pretty but rather chilly-looking dress was
a cream nun’s veiling with vest and sleeve-cuffs
of deep green plush. The wearer of a handsome
rubv velvet dress carried an elaborate fawn broche
sunshade. It is wonderful what a vet y unbecoir-
ing colour that of the bright royal blot) is to those
who cannot boast of a perfect complexion. It has
often puzzled us to know why ladles have so long
discarded the really beautiful colour, but we saw
a whole costume of it on Saturday—hat and all—
and now we perfectly understand and appreciate
their scruples. No coleur makes a better back-
ground for showing up a sallow; or pimploy com-
plexion—so all we say Is, keep to the pale or dull
tints, ladles; they are kinder to you by far than
the more pronounced ones. The chief interest n
the sports was centred on the bicycle race, in
which, of course, Bennett knocked all the rest to
nieces— handicapped though he was. The come-
dian in the walking matches was almost too funny
to talk about. He kept everybody In good
humour by the cheerful and dogged way in which
he came in last in every race, and looked ever so
much more satisfied with himself than the
champion walker. He is about the best loser we
ever saw. The sports were all over In good time,
and on the whole were very good fun.
• • •
The Newtown people held their first
»'social” in the Temperance Hall of that suburb
were in training and thus unable to attend, the
nffftfr would have been quite a success. As It
WM the ladles out-numbered the gentlemen,
whlih made the little fringe of wall-fiowers inevi-
table Messrs. Wildman and Freeman worked very
hard in order to make things run along smoothly,
and must have been amply repaid for their efforts
hv seeing, as they must have seen, that everybody
went away well pleased with their first “ social.”
Miss Qlendennlng looked pretty in a cream Madras
nine with black velvet peasant bodice and a
crown of pearls. Miss Freeman wore a pretty
d£ess of pale-blue satin trimmed with white lace
and swan’s-down. Mrs. Wildman’s dress was
com wised of black Spanish lace; the bodice was
of olTgold satin covered wlth;a net-work of black
face Miss Haslington wore black lace with a
crimson satin fedora; her younger sister, whose
face everybody admired, chose white with
X g ndVnt loops andbSws of crimson and pale-blue
ribbons? Miss Goslett wore a pale-blue muslin
i rimmed with black velvet, and wore ornaments
of silver beetles in her hair and also on the skirt
r f the dress A tasteful dress was of black velvet
wRh hip draperies of pure white India muslin.
The sole colour was shown in pink plumes worn
* « ti,a°f.?rsace 'A dress more striking than taste-
pfle-green flounced skirt, over which
was at right red velvet polonaise, with a very high
EfizabetbV collar edged with pearls. The young,
fresh face seamed to demand a quieter and
Rimnler costume. A coral pink satin skirt
WM worn in conjunction with a deep claret jersey,
Zaannt altogether unpleasing, though jerseys
a ru e figure at a danoe-but when the
figure is good and the face pretty all these things
Miss Munro looked graceful in a
fnfi cream ?ndl“ muslin pipe, and pale heliotrope
much trimmed with cream lace. Light
b0 S weresoryed during the evening, and
Tail- of the dances. The next social
|3 ,J0 saw the 1 » this month, and if things
continue to be as porous and agreeable as they
«ndm.btedlF were last Friday evening, the New-
town “Social* ’’ Should become popular, and see a
good season. # •
Madame Cfiarbonneb-KeUermann has just
j haw lout Vftlae de Concert 4 Myosoli* It
chased at Blry’s or Bullgrd s.
• * *
The Petersham Private Socjajs hold their
first dance on Friday evening next. Messrs. Her-
llrst nance ourr » supply the music, and the
comraRtee^hav IndJfatTg able in their efforts
to make the affair a success.
* * *
On Thursday last, the first Intercolonial
Town Tennis Tournament was begun on the
Lawn I en Ground in the presence ot a
voVTsmill bSt" hSh-toned ” gathering. The day
be “made to order,” and why the
ladles did 1 not muster strongly is impossible to
iacies a that the game of lawn tennis
imagine, unless nt is i exce £ t ln certain circles.
Chairs were ranged on the lawn close to the fence
i.round from the lawn, and the fair
diVld ..unfo when once settled, did not disturb
fSaelrts for the remainder of the day, and con-
s complete rendering of the toilets
Cfrn The prizes to be competed for
S itfBsome and unique, and were exhi-
y -he admiring, covetous competitors,
bited to the aamirmg, y the centre of
being . P' ftCod Th ° e Now South Wales Contin-
’Jjh* looked very pretty with light - blue
•? 9 nans whilst the Victorians wore their
jackets and wnuat luo the ladies wore
N?S.W?MisaM‘Phlllamy appeared
a green riding habit, and a masher hat set
off a nrhity innovation. Miss Stella Metcalfe wore
2^Mimon-coloured costume with brown sprays,
and brown velvet trimming and lace completed a
most handsome costume. Two sisters were attired
la navy-blue, the bodies and draperies of a blue
and cardinal shot material. A Ficelle costume
looked very graceful on a tall young lady. The
Misses Dibbs wore dark-green dresses with mili-
tary braid trimmings. Mrs. Fred. Orr had on a black
dress with cardinal imitation waistcoat. Miss Moore
wore a dark slate-silk costume, dotted with brown.
Frauiein Schultz appeared In a black silk, with
black velvet brocaded overskirt. The Misses Fox,
of Burwood, were habited in navy blue and brown
respectively, and Miss Ridge wore a chocolate-
brown costume with a seal-brown velvet hat.
Amongst the assemblage were Lady Allen and the
Misses Allen, Mrs. Judge Docker and others. The
proceedings were very quiet, and the only en-
thusiasm displayed was wnen Mr. Colville, one of
the scorers, fell from his elevated position and em-
braced Mother Birth. Some wicked person stated
that the game was so slow that the scorer fell
asleep, but on enquiry this proved to be false. Mr.
Forster, the caterer, kindly supplied tea, coffee,
and biscuits all the afternoon to the ladies, gratis,
and if a band had been secured, it would no
doubt have been acceptable to the majority of the
visitors.
* * «
The wedding of Lady Ermyntrude Rus-
sell (the Duke of Bedford’s daughter) with Sir
Edward Malet, which took place in Westminster
Abbey last month, has been quite the wedding of
the London season. The ceremony took place in
the middle of the choir, and not at the altar, and
40 little choristers sang an anthem which had been
composed by Sir Arthur Sullivan specially for the
occasion. The bride’s father endowed her with the
trilling little sum of £150,000, besides a tiara of
diamonds costing £7000, and her wedding costume
was something superb. Listen: The train and
bodice were of a rich brocaded velvet, embossed
with roses of fine sliver wire, and picked out with
exquisite pearls. The petticoat was of white
duebesse satin, richly trimmed with point d’Ale9on
and dotted over with small sprays of orange blos-
soms. The veil was also of point d Alev'on, and
was fastened to the hair by a spray of diamonds
and surmounted by a small wreath of orange blos-
soms. The Queen sent the usual Indian shawl as
her gift and a couple of vases. With her path so
strewn with diamonds and pearls, surely the Lady
Malet has all that heart can desire. Wonder if she
knows anything about the London poor ?
* * * «
Alderman William J. Ferris was married
at Parramatta last week to Miss Eleanor Jamieson.
The bride looked very nice In cream satin and
broche, with wreath of orange blossoms....The
Mayor entertained the various elght-oar crews at
toe Town Hall one day last week. After a mutual
pelting of compliments, “ Auld Lang Syne,” and a
concerted piece called "God Save the Queen,”
were sung lustily, and terminated an enjoyable
hour or two—About 50 members of the Art
Society assembled in their rooms at the Royal
Arcade, Pltt-street, the other night to sing, smoke,
drink, and be merry. Mr. Hoyte, the vice-presi-
dent, bossed the affair.
ANSWERS TO SOCIAL CORRESPONDENTS.
[Note.— Social items, in order to ensure inser-
tion for the current week, should be to hand no
later than Tuesday.]
“Grafton”: You couldn’t have read your Bul-
letin very carefully last week, or you would
have seen account of the fancy dress ball.
Thanks for your thoughtfulness, all the same.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Petersham Private Social, Petersham Town
Hall May 8.
Oriental C.C. Picnic, Tennyson May 9.
Bicycle Sports, Association Ground May 9.
St. Kilda Socials, School of Arts, Balmain...May 15.
North Shore Bowing Club Annual Ball May 28.
Newtown Social May 22
Glebe Rowing Club Annual Ball June 5
Sydney Owl Club Ball, Town Hall June 18.
Sydney, Wednesday.
Dear Belle,—I am writing you quite early in
the day, because after lunch we are going to see
Miss Alice Berry married to Mr. W. J. M Garvey.
The invitation cards are very pretty in sliver and
white. If I have time before posting this I will
tell you something about the wedding, but If not,
look out for it next week. And so Blanche is
going to take the irrevocable step tool Well, 1
hope she has considered all the pros. and cons, of
the case, and will never have cause to repent of it.
I suppose she knows that, amongst various other
duties, she will have a collar to button round a
masculine neck every morning and innumerable
buttons to sew on to shirts. How do I know?
Well, as to the buttons, everybody knows about
them, and I am quite sure about the collars, too,
because one evening when I wa* dining with a
six-months’ married friend of mine, her lord and
master said in my hearing. In tones of deep re-
proach; “ My dear, you forgot to put my collar
on for me this morning.” And the silly thing burst
out crying with remorse for being so forgetful,
and sobbingly wondered what everybody at the of-
fice would think at seeing her dear one collarless. So
I am quite convinced it Is usual for a wife to act
the part of a valet. But it isn’t the collar part of
the programme that I fear will Provelrksometo
your soon-to-be-married friend—Indeed, I think
that, provided she loves her lord (and notwith-
standing what those horrible cynics say, I do
believe there are cases where mutual devotion
lasts even long after marriage). It must be,
as the Yankees express it, ‘’kind of nice; but
sewing on shirt-buttons is so uainteresting, and
pricks the fingers so fearfully, and what looks
worse than pricked flngers ? One would need to
love very bard indeed to become reconciled to
them. I know a girl who got fl*ed up for Ufe just
because she thought it time she did so, but she
entertained no particular affection for the man
she married, and if a certain other fellow with a
bigger income and nicer moustache had come for-
ward first, she would have been all tne better
pleased. But, as I said, she took the first, and now
1 more than suspect she chafes at putting on the
collars, and neglects the shirt-buttons, lor there
are rumours abroad that they lead a very dls»-
oordant life. But I don’t think Blanche is the
kind of girl to give up her fun and her liberty
unless she felt perfectly satisfied that the lose of
them would be out-weighed by what she would
gain in a good, true, and loving husband. So con-
vey to her my beat wishes, dear, and don’t say a
word about the collars and shirt-buttons it might
frighten her, you know, and that would be cruel.
Besides, she’ll find it all out in good time.
I see by the home papers that Dr. Anna Potts
has been lecturing in London, and what is more,
her lectures have been well received. I conclude
from this that we here are far more squeamish
than London ladies, for when the doctress was
giving her lectures our people were horrified at
her plain speaking, and mothers wpuldn t allow
their daughters to attend the lectures on any
account. I don’t know what she said to shock
them so much, but at all events we must be lar
away .behind the times-qulte old-fashioned, in
faotf Perhaps if she took it into her head to pay
us another visit she would find that since our Lon-
don cousins have set us the example, we should
not only attend her discourses, but should profit
by them—yet 1 do not think ste would ever p«r-
suade us to cast off our corsets-so few, so very
few of us could stand that, youlknow, dear,
I read the other day that a “ beet man ” dt a
wedding is more ornamental than useful, and Is
simply supposed to hold the groom’s hat and pay
the fees, &c. Just apropos to this, a friend of mine
told me, last week what a best man’s duties at a
Royal Russian wedding consisted of. It seems
that during the whole of the ceremony a crown
has to bo held high above the Royal pair by the
two best men. At the Duke of Edinburgh’s
wedding with the Russian Princess, the Prince of
Wales and the Duke Of Connaught were the ctown-
holders; but, you know, dear, a Royal arm aches
at much slighter provocation than a Commoner’s,
so they held the crown up by proxy, and Just for
appearances’ sake tipped it now and then with
their Royal and pampered fingers. My friend, who
was one of the spectators, tells me that it was
really comical. I suppose, however, it’s tip-top
form to be so Indolent, but it doesn’t seem manly,
does it ? I expect we shall hear of Royalty shaking
hands or smiling by proxy next!
At last there is a chance of a good musical
society being formed here, in which ladies can
take part. It is to be called the Philharmonic
Society, and It Is believed that Herr Vogrlch will
be appointed conductor. It will be quite novel
for Sydney girls to be under the conduotorship of
a young and popular musician, and I shouldn’t
wonder if the application for performing mem-
bership will be greater than can be accommodated.
One great diffioultylconduotora have Invariably to
contend with in their lady singers is that, be tneir
voices ever so alto, they will persist in singing
soprano. They have a foolish and ignorant Idea
that an alto singer savours somewhat of a second-
class article, wnereas. If they would only believe
it, the very reverse is the case. Anyone who has a
particle of ear can follow an air, but it needs a fair
knowledge of music to sing an alto part; and,
consequently, a musician has more regard (musi-
cianly, of course, I mean) for a girl who possesses
that rarest of all voices—and contralto, a sings alto,
than if she persisted In spoiling her voice by
screeching soprano. It Is this truly absurd aver-
sion to singing alto parts that tends to spoil nearly
all our mixed choruses—indeed. It is quite rare to
hear the soprano and alto evenly balanced. I do
hope, tben, that girls will show more sense In this
new society and sing the parts they are suited for.
I did hear that two ladles were going to Join the
orchestra—both play the violin. If they do it will
be quite a fashionable society, for I had It from a
musician lately from home that In the best musical
societies ladies were always to be seen in the
orchestra. We are all much interested In this pro-
bable Philharmonic Society, and 1 trust it will not
fall through.
i You don’t want me to tell you about the Lawn
Tennis Tournament, do you, dear ? Oh 1 it was so
fearfully tame that it frets me to talk about It,
and I have so little patience with men (?) who
spend so much time over the effeminate pastime.
It’s all very well for a man to be able to join in a
sociable game of tennis, but to spend hours daily
In practising it—a game In which there is a total
absence of danger—Is only suitable for the noodles
whose brains wouldn’t fill a thimble. I don’t
think they would be the kind of beings who would
oome forward and help defend the country from
warlike invasion, do you, dear 7 You think I am
hard on them ? Well, perhaps I am, but I cannot
help feeling contempt for men who give a big
slice of their lives to practising a game which re-
quires no courage and only a certain amount of
skill. Lawn tennis is a graceful, sociable, and
ilirtable game, but not altogether manly.
Emerson’s Minstrels continue to be verypopular,
and the only fault to be found at the Gaiety is
that some cruel person has removed the foot-
stools. People with long limbs won’t miss them,
of course, but when the chairs are high enough to
prevent the feet of less fortunate people from
touching the floor, it gives on© such an uncom-
fortable sensation of unrest, which not even Billy
Emerson’s comicalities nor Cogill’s funny songs
can entirely dispel. The last time I went I had to
make use of a great coat doubled up—it wasn’t
Ned’s; you won’t find a brother spoiling his great
coat for his sister, no matter how nice she Is—but
in case nobody should be there to extemporise a
foot-rest for me next time, I will ask Mr. Jlnkins
(who is civility Itself) to let us have the stools back
again. Chas. Coglll is the funniest dancer I ever
saw. He can put himself into all sorts of shapes,
from a zig-zag line to a mark of interrogation,
and apparently with the utmost ease. There Isn’t
an unfunny thing about these Minstrels, unless
it’s a sentimental song or two, which are Intro-
duced now and then Just to bring us “to, you
know, before presenting the next piece of absur-
dity. “ Extremes ” at the Royal is another of the
week’s attractions, where the inimitable Annie
Taylor keeps everybody amused. Time to dress
for the wedding, dear; so, good bye,
Ever yours.
MAB.
Spofforth is going to settle in Melbourne.
The British militia is just now, says
Truth, 26 000 men short of its establishment! In
1889, says the same paper, the recorded cases of
sickness in the navy were just over J00 per cent,
of the average strength of the service. The
natural inference is that, besides being under-
manned, tne navy is chiefly manned by crews
of confirmed valetudinarians. The most startling
revelation for those who believe in the British
tar is that 5000 of the recorded oases arose from
“ disease of the digestive organs,”
We know Hop Bitters are above and be=-
yond all as a nutritious tonic and curative.
Genuine made by Am. Co. Read thoroughly the
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated wltir
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 601 Hunter-street, Sydney.
To dress well with a very small outlay is
easier said than done. A little, judiciously spent,
either on dress or furniture, can make a good ap-
pearance. An unequalled choice, at fair prices,
of sets for breakfast, dinner, or tea, or washstand,
is to be had of Bray Bros., 403 and 404 George-
ttreet.*
HER ANSWER.
I would not cause a shade of pain
To overspread a face so fair;
Nor would I load your manly brow
With gloomy weight of anxious care;
I would not have those eyes so bright
O’erclouded with a passing frown,
But fain would say, “ Do get a suit
From Summerfleid, when next in town, *


Department of Public Works.,
Sydney, 5th May, 1885.
Tenders for public works and sup-
PLIE8,—TENDERS are Invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
Is kept at every Post Office In the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of tho Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration un-
lessthe terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
Supply of Circular Saw Bench
and Saw, also one Patent Fret
Scroll Saw
New Superstructures for
Bridges at 23% miles 40 chains,
28 miles, and 34 miles 10 chains,
Great Southern Railway.
Erection of Gallery, Court-
house, Wllcannia
Erection of two Dwelling-
houses, Albury Water Supply
Erection of two Dwelling-
houses,Bathurst Water Supply
Erection of two Dwelling-
houses, Goulburn Water
Supply
Repairs, &c„ old buildings, Cal-
lan Park Asylum
Erection of Public Wharves,
Tweed River
Erection of Engine Sheds and
Pits at Wellington
Erection of Lock-up, Balranald
Repairs, &c.. Police Barracks,
Tuesday,
■12th May,
at 11 o’clock.
Department of Public Instruction,
TENDERS FOR RKPAIH3 VB-
MENTS
flTENDERS are Invited for Repairs and Im-
provements at the Banks’ Meadow Public
Specifications may be seen, and Forma
obtained at the office of the Depart-
m ept of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Repairs and
Improvements. Banks’ Meadow Public School,’’
mont T? d Ku d the Under-Secretary, Depart-
Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock
a -“;> on Monday, the 18th May, 1885.
, • Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender. .
W, J. TRICKETT.
PRESS NOTICE.
WH. L. BAILEY, tho well-known Queens-
• land and New South Wales Journalist,
Vr«M t i5^ nno^ I 5 c ? that hafl relinquished country
Press life, and intends for the future devoting his
*™on to a CITY AGENCY, In which hisexten-
r 111(1 J aned experience in Journalistic, Mining,
Land and general affairs, may be utilised for the
public advantage and to his own benefit.
... Commissions executed In all branches.
Address; 44 CASTLE HE AQH-STHEBr, SYDNEY.
opposite City Mutual Life Society.
WH. L. BAILEY, Journalist, Newsmonger,
• &c., 44 Castlereagh-street.
W
W
H ' L Mining and Land Agent
44 Castlereagh-street.
H. L. BAILEY, Musical and Theatrlca
Agent, 44 Castlereagh-street.
W
W
w
H. L. BAILEY, Land, Estate, and Minim
> Agent, 44 Castlereagh-strret.
H. L. BAILEY, Press Writer. Spioj
Articles supplied to Country Papers.
44 Castlereagh-street.
H. L. BAILEY, Parliamentary and De
putatlonislng Agent. 44 Caatlereagh-st.
H. L. BAILEY, Hotel Broker, 44 Castle-
reagh- street.
W.
H. L. BAILEY, Land, Estate, and Pro-
perty Agent. 44 Castlereagh-street.
WH. L, BAILEY, Insurance Broker. Life,
- h ire, and Marine Insurances effected. 44
uastiereagh-street.
W H L. BAILEY, the well-known Pressman,
• offers his services as secretary to Ball,
Banquet, Plon.o, or Entertainment Committees. 44
Castiereagh-street, Sydney.
W.
H. L. BAILEY, Rent and Account Col-
lector, 44 Castlereagh-street.
WH. L. BAILEY offers his experienced
• services to directors of mining and other
companies as secretary or manager. Office pro-
vided. 44 Castlereagh-street.
yy POSITIVE CURE WITHOUT MEDICINE.
Registered.
One box will cure the most obstinate case, acute
or chronic, in four days or less, Dr. BAYLEY’s
SOLUBLE MEDICATED BOUGIES (Eucalyptal)
No nauseous doses of cubebs, capaibs, or oil of
sandlewood, that are certain to produce dyspepsia
by destroying the coatings of the stomach. Price
£1 Is.; mailed on receipt of price. Address PJJ
Box 833, Sydney.
RAW VASELINE.
B
A
FOR Softening and Preserving- Horses’ Hoofs.
Kills parasites, and prevents their growth.
as a Leather Preservative it la invaluable—pre-
vents It cracking, and renders It waterproof.
From its anti-corrosive qualities, unequalled as a
metel protector, and for keeping in perfect order
Firearms, Machines, &o. It is the sole material
used for the above purposes in the Austrian and
German armies. Sold by all Saddlers and Store-
keepers.
SOLE AGENTS;
BLACKBURN & CO.,
rWHOLESALE SADDLERS’ IRONMONGERS,
125 Yurk-street, Sydney.
Woman Items
Young men marry for money; young
women sometimes marry for alimony.
At Sydney University Commemoration,
when one of the lady candidates for a degree had
been handed by Professor Scott to her place beside
a successful male competitor for introduction to
the Chancellor, and whilst that gentleman was
bowing over the pair with a benignant smile, that
a wag called out in a sepulchral voice—“ I will.”,
The other day, at Parramatta, a young
couple appeared in court, the wife being the com-
plainant and seeking a maintenance order. In the
middle of the case the magistrate said:—“If I
make an order, it may cause you to be separated
for life. Shake hands and go home.” First the
couple sniggered, then they considered, and finally
went off together “as loving as possiole.” But
when they turned the corner 111
Caution. When the mother-in-law of one
Adams, arrested in England for murdering a
golice-inspector, heard of her son-in-law’s appre-
ension, the implacable woman exclaimed:
“ Thank God, my prayer of the last five years is
answered—my daughter will now be a widow.”
This old girl was just one shade less bad than the
ancient nag who, at Maitland, the other day,
assisted her step-granddaughter to poison the hus-
band of the latter so that she might marry again.
At Philadelphia Miss Mabel L. Hearne has
obtained a writ of capias for the arrest of J. B.
Stockhausen, on the ground of the injury, dis-
grace, and scandal brought upon her by his for-
cibly putting her off the dancing platform at the
ball of a society called the Young Maennerchors,
because she had on a low-necked black velvet dress.
On affidavit plaintiff declares that the dress was
cut square-necked back and front; that it was
according to fashion, and was not lower than is
seen at fashionable gatherings.
An unhappy husband waited the other
day upon jMr. D’Eyncourt, the London P.M., and
asked for “ an order ” to see his wife. He was, he
said, a seafaring man; he had come back from
Australia with £8000, and had got married. His
wife had appropriated the sum In question, and
was “living at a West End hotel like a lady.”
When he attempted to gain access to her, he was
ejected by the menials. He was in extreme
poverty, and had to earn his living by the precari-
ous occupation of selling baked potatoes. Mr.
D’Eyncourt informed the applicant that he him-
self had no jurisdiction, and referred him to the
Divorce Court.
“ On one occasion,” says the correspondent
of an American paper, “■ I was to dine with Gene-
ral Gal'flet at the house of Madame Edmond Adam,
the editress of the Nouvelle Revue. General
Galitfet was late. He arrived finally at a quarter
to 8, and advanced toward the hostess, who was
standing near the mantelpiece. Madam Adam
wore a beautiful dress of black velvet, with a very
decollete corsage, above which her brunette
beauty shone like a marble of Pradier’s. Galiffet
advanced, bowed, and said with admiration:
‘ Sapristi! Those beautiful shoulders I’ And then,
in too stiff and soldierly a manner, perhaps, he
bent over and lightly printed a kiss on her right
shoulder. Madam Edmond Adam grew rosy with
indignation, and slapped the General’s face. This
did not trouble him in the least. He bowed again
with infinite respect, and, with a gesture of ad-
mirable fatuity, said: ‘Since I know the price I’
And kissed the other shoulder.”
“As funny as a Jewish breach of promise
case ” has now, with us, at any rate, passed into a
Eroverb. The very latest is the one in which Miss
Ilian Benjamin, of Kingston-upon-Thames, Eog-
land, sued Mr. William Charles Siddall for not
having toed the hymenal scratch. The airy, fairy
Lilian was a barmaid, aged 19; William Charles
was 31, and a florist by trade, and he had to answer
for seduction as well as for having broken his
plighted troth. In one of the letters read in court
he had written that Lilian was “ his dearest,
duckiest, sweetest, loveliest Llll,” whom he ten-
derly besought not to believe what others said, for
there was not a girl in the world he loved half as
well; he loved her with his whole heart and soul.
In another of his epistles be expressed his regret
that she was not by his side, gazing at the moon
and stars, adding— -
“ The stars never rise without seeing the bright
eyes,
And the moon never beams without bringing me
dreams,
Of beautiful Lilian Benjamin.”
Which was, no doubt, a decided improvement on
Edgar Allan Poe, barring the trivial circumstance
that “ Lilian Benjamin ” hadn’t half so melodious
a “monniker ” as Annabel Lee. Verdict for £300 and
costs.
Our old friend, Mrs. Dr. Potts—or Dr.
Mrs. Potts—who has just finished her course of
lectures in London—is a staunch opponent of
marriage de convenance, and considers that women
should have the right of asking in marriage as
well as men. At her last lecture she Related the
case of a lady who had asked her advice as to the
kind of man she ought to marry. The lady re-
ceived two offers of marriage from gentlemen of
good position, but did not know which to accept.
When asked if she loved either she replied in the
negative, but on being questioned as to whether
she loved any other man she replied in the affirma-
tive. On being asked why she did not marry the
man she loved, her reply was that he had not
asked her. Mrs. Potts advised her to propose her-
self and not to accept either of the two offers:
but the lecturer did not inform her audience
whether the advice was followed. Gentlemen
were told by Mrs. Potts not to marry ladles with
small waists. With a view to the abolition of the
corset abomination, it was suggested that an anti-
corset society should be formed, and that gentle-
men should wear on their breasts a piece of white
ribbon when visiting, to show their condemnation
of the practice of tight-lacing. Young ladies were
advised not to marry non-abstainers, and to form
a Temperance Society. Anna is evidently trying
to minimise lovely woman’s chances of wedlock.
■ • •
“Yes, brethren,” said the clergyman who
was preaching the funeral sermon, “ our deceased
brother was cut down in a single night—torn
from the arms of his loving wife, who is thus left
a desolate widow at the age of 34 years.”
“ Twenty-two, if you please,” sobs the widow in
the front pew, eme r ging from her handkerchief in
an instant A lady applied to a magistrate the
other day to give her a summons against ber hus-
band for squeezing her in his arms. Some people
are never satisfied. There must be a good many
wives who wouid like their husbands compelled
to squeeze a little harder. Not too much squeeze,
but just squeeze enough Prom a Manchester
*aper:-*‘ General servant wanted ; best refer-
ences; intelligent;person will meet good home; one
wishing to investigate spiritual phenomena prr-
ferred. State wages, &o.”....The extremities of
■nan after birth grow more rapidly than the trunk.
It is not so with the woman. Her trunk grows
faster than anything else. If you don t believe
this, ask any railway porter ..In the Canadian
House of Commons out of 311 members there are
118 bachelors and 13 widowers... Mrs. Bonanza
Mackay boasts the possession of a fur mantle, the
envy of the Paris belles, which cost 80,000 francs,
being made from the choicest bits of 10,000 black
fox skins; and Judio wears a mantle la “La
Cosaque worth 40,000 franca; but the Duchess of
Hamburgh inherited one from her mother, the
most costly in the world, being valued at no less a
sum than 300,000 francs. The reigning Czarina has
the counterpart of this, and Adelina Patti has
* set of sable worth close on 300,000 francs
It is alleged that Mary Anderson’s kisses remind
an actor who plays with her of the time when, as
a boy, he put nis mouth to a frozen lamp-post
A few days ago a woman was tried in Parle for
illegally practising medicine and swindling.
Among her remedies were a decoction of puppies
nine days old and red worms stewed for three days
and three nights, and an ointment of badgers’
dung. Had she lived a couple of centuries back
She might have been tried as a witch, but sorcery
is not now a penal offence, and it would not have
been complimentary to the profession to consider
such treatment as the practice of medicine.
But as she had extorted 1600fr. from one
of her victims for a promised cure, she was
condemned to three months’ imprisonment
A Liverpool woman called to see a lawyer, and
having reminded him that 13 months before he
had been instrumental in procuring a divorce for
her, explained that she had since become engaged
to her late husband, and that she wished to sue
him for his breach of promise to marry her a
second time..Enfant Terrible: “ I say, Mr. Snobby,
can you play cards?” Snobby: “Why, no,
Johnny, I can’t play very well.” E.T.: “Well,
then, you’d better look out, for ma says if
Bmma plays her cards well she’ll catch you
A somewhat scraggy spinster was at a dance the
other night in a rather decolleti dress. “ What a
good view Miss Clavicle gives you of her chest,”
said someone. “ Yes,” was the reply, “ quite a
bony vista.”.... How happy the lawyers engaged in
the Durham divorce case must have been I They
had something like £500 a day to divide in counsels’
fees... “ Have you had a round dance with Mrs.
8.“ Yes, and by Jove, it was a round dance;
why, she measures 40 inches at the narrowest
part.”....Ladies who wear “dress improvers”
should not stand with their backs to the fire. A
girl has been burnt to death in England by her
dress catching light in consequence of the pro-
jection of her "improver.” Trouble at Christ-
church (N.Z.) University, where the lady under-
graduates decline to read the poems of Terence
for examination, on the ground that they (the
poems) are immoral. But the Board of Ex-
aminers decline to give way. Beasts I
At Hamilton, Vie. (volunteer movement
meeting), a stalwart Celestial, James Le Hong,
who speaks English well, and asserts that he has
served as a man-of-war s man, and understands
fighting, made his way to the piatfonn, evidently
bent on being the first to volunteer in defence of
his adopted country. His appearance and proce-
dure was the Signal for an immense burst of cheer-
ing from the amused and delighted assemblage.
Taking no heed of the applause, the object of it
ascended the platform and asked the Mayor for a
pen wherewith to fix his signature to the official
document. But, as he had not been naturalised,
the chagrined Celestial had to resume his seat
amid tremendous cheering.
At Masterton (N.Z.) the captain and lieu-
tenant of the local Salvation Harmy paraded the
streets at the head of their ever-victorious con-
tingent, taking spells between the shafts of an
ancient wheelbarrow, In which sat a party with a
placard on his back setting forth the good news
that this was the Devil, bound hand and foot for a
thousand years. One wild, exulting yell from the
pipes in commemoration of this great event.
Hush I here we are:—
Satan-we ‘ give it lip ’ at last—
No more our souls you’ll harrow;
No more to cinder heaps you’ll blast
Our very bones and marrow;
F«r now we see you trundled past
In a Salvation barrow—
Bound hand and foot, the spoil of war.
You grace this grand triumphal car!
Shoo! Don tall the boys who are out at
the elbows at Tlmaru (N.Z.) just gloat over the
defenceless condition of the town, and the fatal
facility with which it can be shelled from the sea ?
At a public meeting lately, where all the monied
men wore gathered to consider the situation, the
landless and moneyless democracy present simply
yelled with delight at the long faces pulled by the
purse-proud aristocrats at the prospect in front of
them. “Oh, begorral when the Kooshns come
ye’ll have to shell out at last,” cried a patriot from
the back seats. “The Rooshns wull tak’ them a’
on board ship an’ hang ilka mlther'sson o’them
attheyaird airm,” cried another. “If all these
bankers and money-lenders were sent to Siberia
there would be plenty of work for us and good
times again, boys,” said a third, and so on. The
sympathy expressed by the Timarufflan sons of
toll was on a par with what they get from their
betters when they carry their swags from one end
of the colony to the other, looking in vain for a job.
An old station hand, who had grown tired
of examining his inner consciousness, and finding
nothing there-if the paradox is permissible—
hirpled into a northern township the other day and
replenished himself with the beverage of the
district—which it would be affected supererogation
to state was rum. Then he zigzagged down the
street in the gloriously reckless manner character-
istic of country gentlemen under similar circum-
stances, and was promptly “ run in ” by the local
force in an equally characteristic style. When the
force arrested him he bad—with a forethought
born of much philosophic musing in the lonely
bush-a square faced bottle full of he same brand
of tribulation. This was promptly confiscated
in the name of her Majesty. When ne had
paid his fine the next day, and was leaving
the Court he asked tor his bottle, which was
handed to him. It would only be insulting the
Intelligence of our readers to inform them that it
was returned empty. It would be no less an Insult
to the intelligence of the force to say that it was
returned in any other condition The infuriated
bushman went away saying if her Majesty wanted
to drink rum she should buy it, and that if he
didn’t get that bottle filled for him again he would
make the Barcoo run with blood. As we have not
heard that the force filled the bottle for him, we
are waiting anxiously for news from the gory
Barcoo.
Recent Poetry.
The Irish and Australian World is a
powerful journal, published at Narrabrl. It has
now opened business In the *’ poetry ” line. In a
late number appears a piece celled “The Belles,”
which, for originality and Idiocy, could give fifty
yards In a hundred to Sladen’s best. We laughed
when we read It, but It was a wild, uncanny laugh
—a cachinnation 1 hat brought all the other lodgers
up to our door with palings, sticks, and fire-irons.
One naval volunteer, passing in the street below,
ran homo and put on his uniform when he heard
it. It was suggestive of a longing to wade in gore
—to take life. The writer describes looking
through a ball-room window (from the outside) on
Easter Monday, and what he saw inside. He has a
talent for rhyme and rhythm. But let him speak
for himself:—
“ Mr. F. C. Smith was the M.C.,
And Sohroeter the musician—
The former, no doubt, is a G.T.,
The other a bad Christian,”
Schroeter probably manipulated the trombone.
We never knew a man to take up this Instrument
without becoming a confirmed sceptic before he’d
half learnt the scales. The very first blast makes
him a doubter and his neighbours wanderers. We
are glad to see that Smith is a G .T. The author
was a G.T. once, perhaps, but resigned in order to
become something else :—
" Each lady wore a terrible bustle—
Many a partner cut his shin.”
“ They so very languidly dance,
And cruelly tighten their stays.”
But if the girls were “ cruel ” in hitching them-
selves so tight, the writer is just as cruel In not
going more into details—in not telling us whether
twas on the bustles or the waists the unfortunate’
shins were lacerated:—
“ The cream and blue was the richest dross,
And many a one did envy her;
All night she danced with ‘ the Press ’—
And, faith, she wore a pretty improver.”
“ In figure she was far the superior.
In slender form, stylo, and chat;
Perhaps in dress she was a little inferior,
But her other charms counteracted that.”
“ Of course, every man has his taste—
Some preferring tall and thin to short and fat;
But give me the slender waist
And ‘ the beauty ’ who wears her hair In plait.”
We have given enough to show that, as one poet
retires from amongst us, another takes his place.
But we prefer the present one to any of his prede-
cessors. He appears to us to have a greater grasp
of things, and a racier way of putting them. He
is observant, too, and unprejudiced. If some men
like “ tall and thin ” while others prefer “ short
and fat,” that’s their business, not his. The one
who plaits her hair satisfies him. He doesn’t say
whether he prefers the plait hanging down or
coiled up on top—whether he likes a frizzled fringe
or one plastered over the ears. He leaves us in
doubt, too, about the “ Press ” to which the fairy
in the “pretty improver” attached herself all
night. It was probably the giant whose leaders in
the Irish and Australian World have done so
much to solve the question of trunk-lining.
“ Fatty degeneration of conscience,” is a
new phrase used to express an aggravated form of
moral disease.
When we saw In the papers that the
Reverend Dowie had been fined £30 and costs in
Melbourne for making a street disturbance, we
thought the eccentric little man had gone mad.
But now we perceive that there is much method
in this madness. It came out in evidence that he
had settled his money on his wife.
A bit of E. News reporting:—“ . . The
whole party bobbed up serenely in the place where
the formal reception was given. This over, it was
announced that the party would be driven round
the town. That night the party were,” etc.—
Whene’er you boys a trifle pen
It savours of the dullard;
He owns up he’s a fool, this one,
He is so party-coloured.
—[Very “ wholesome.”—Ed. B.]
T. S. Reed, of South Australia, advocates
flogging for wife-desertion. If he would only go
a step farther and introduce the cat for getting
married at all I A reed shaken by the wind I What
pleasure could there be in marriage at all If you
didn’t know you could run away when you liked ?
At one time we thought we could die happily if we
only once saw O’Donovan Rossa or Skuthorpe’s
Leichhardt diary—but now nothing save a good
look at Reed will fill the void in our nature. In
New South Wales the hereditary convict division
and their odious entourage have so extended the
flogging system that when a man sees a woman
or child by themselves on the seashore or In a
tram-car, railway Icarriage, or garden he had
better give them a wide berth if he doesn’t want
to risk the skin of his back. By-and-bye we will
include petty larceny, drunkenness, and doodle-
em-buck. In time we may get to Parliamentary
obstructionists, amorous clergymen, and the bat-
ing ring. But still Reed is ahead of us. It was
reserved for him to discover how happy married
people could be made it only the husband could
be had up every now and then and accommodated
with a couple of dozen to keep him at home
Happy Reedl Happy S.A.I New South Wales, so
far, is the only ostensibly civilised country in the
world where the cnt-o’-nine-tails Is coming in in-
stead of going out. And why ? Can it be, as the
Mayor of Sydney sententiously remarked thejother
day, because New South Wales and Tasmania have
more in common than any other two colonies ? Gall!
Chill is the touch of Winter’s ley hand,
And chill her stamp, with which each pond is
sealed;
But we are warm, e’en on the winter plain.
When warmly clothed by H. L. Summerfleld.*
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
That Sydney Torpedo.
(Air—OLD JOHN BROWN.)
Fast from the strand at Cobbler’s Beach
They silent rowed, and (credo)
When all the camp was hushed in sleep,
They planted that torpedo.
Down in the deep full fathoms five,
’Mid rocks and rank sea-weed, oh,
No babe at breast seemed calmer than
That treacherous torpedo.
Then stoutly these determined men
Pulled off with furious speed, oh—
They quick placed many miles between
Themselves and that torpedo.
A hostile cruiser swept ath wart
The fatal spot, where she’d no
Suspicion that beneath the wave
Lay Walker’s big torpedo.
The wily Walker coldly sneered,
“ You will not take no heed I Ho I
Quick, send along your biggest spark—
Bust up the great torpedo.”
That reckless rover sacked the town,
And “scooped in ” all the “ greed,” oh!
Then Walker seat a diver down,
Who three days afterwards succeeded in exploding
this dread engine of destruction, thus snowing
that torpedoes laid by Walker are the safest means
of defence.


Political Points
Fossil Norton, who shares with Methusaleh
the honours of protracted longevity, Informed the
Wellington squatters last week that he has been
of some service to the present Government, as it
has increased wonderfully in strength since his
accession.” Mr. Norton is a nominee member who
never had the courage to face the ballot-box.
Old age, orthodox respectability, and money-bags
procured him a portfolio when the Ministry feared
to offend their supporters by singling any one out
of the ranks of the 13 members of the Assembly,
when each thought Providence designed himself
for the vacant portfolio. Before his appointment,
not ten electors knew anything about him or his
politics. Now, fully a score know him, and hun-
dreds know that he has no politics at all.
In 1854-5, the unredeemed State loans of
Russia did not exceed £35 000,000 the half-yearly
interest on which was less than £2,000.000, and was
regularly paid. Then began that long series of
railway loans which, with the State bonds, results
in an indebtedness to Europe at the Present
moment of about £305,000,000, nearly two-thirds of
which is actually held by Englishmen. Our
Yankee cousins, shrewd and far-seeing, note that
we are living in a fool's paradise. Their common
sense shows them that India is the objective of
Russia’s dreams, and they gaze In wonderment at
the spectacle of a nation of presumed business-
men hoodwinked by the superficial jargon of
Mr. Dibbs has assured the Grafton people
that their railway Is safe, because the proposal Is
embodied in an Act of Parliament. Mr. Dibbs is
surely not Ignorant of the liability of Acts of Par-
liament to reversal by repeal.
It would be interesting to know out of
what advance account the expenditure of the
Soudan expedition is being met. It is openly
hinted by those who ought to know that several
public trust funds are being pawned to the banks
for this purpose.
Mr. Abbott has collected together his No.
13 bluchers and his memoirs of rabbiters, and is
now cn route for the back blocks, gaining such
experience in the working of the land law as will
stand him in good stead when he retires from his
portfolio to the office of Abbott and Dodds, at-
torneys, &c.
Mr. Cohen describes Mr. Dailey’s Jingoistic
freaks as “ the inspiration of genius.” Rothschild.
Roseberry and Co. hold the same opinion, and
perhaps It is only in accordance with the eternal
fitness of things that the views of the effeminate,
lackadaisical Henry Emanuel Cohen and those ol
the European bondholders should Hebraically har-
monize.
“ Have the Press and public men of Eng-
land conspired to slander the Irish people ? ” the
D T. asks. No, they have not; we can honestly
say. The Press, particularly, could always be re-
lied on to tell the truth about Ireland and the
Irish. And as for British monarchs and states-
men, how they have loved Cinderella, j.. nd how
she doats on them I
The Minister of Justice predicted at Wel-
lington that the despatch of the Contingent to
India would be endorsed by Parliament. 80, then,
the relative positions of Parliament and the Ex-
ecutive are, of late, strangely and unnecessarily
reversed. The Cabinet legislates, and Parliament
condones. And if Parliament fails to forgive, the
mischief is still irreparable.
It is rumoured that Parliament will be
asked next session to deal with Parkes’ slander
and M’Elhone’s misconduct. The only question is
as to “who shall bell the cat.” The problem is
easily solvable. Let him without sin, &c. The
difficulty then is that, as there is not one M.P.
above suspicion or slander, the cases will have to
get the go-by for want of prosecutors.
Lord Derby, on the Federal Council Enab-
ling Bill, said—“ He regarded the opposition of
New Zealand as immaterial, but that of New
South Wales as a much more serious matter.
Let us never forget in our morning orisons, nor
in the dead waste and middle of the night, when
we rise up to prayerfully assault the mosquito, to
give thanks to Providence for bestowing upon us
a Dailey. While wo have him our memory will be
green among the nations —very.
Mr. Humphries and Mr. Ferguson have
both been banqueted, though why—no sane man
has yet solved. Both men appear to have clung
religiously to the Governmental coat-tails. Both
voted straight for the Land Bill and for the
Soudan expedition, but neither exhibited much of
the qualities essential to politicians Mr. Ferguson
never opened his mouth, but his constituents,
finding R. H. D. White the recipient of a banquet,
decided that their Dave had equal claims.
“ After all the enthusiasm that was re-
ported to have been aroused throughout the
entire Australasian colonies on hearing that Eng-
land was in need of help in the Soudan, and the
prompt offers of assistance that came from all
parts, the news that two important Australian
papers, the Melbourne Aoe and the South Aus-
tralian Advertiser have now pronounced
themselves as opposed to the despatch of con-
tingents from their respective colonies comes very
much like an anti-climax,” remarks London
Society.
The £1,300,000 which the British taxpayer
has to provide for the late, or rather too late ex-
Ipedition to Khartoum, will give an average cost
of about £1000 per man for every soldier
who marched against the Mahdi. What, on the
other hand, is the cost of the training and equip-
ment of their Arab opponents ? Nothing a day,
and find themselves a piece of calico round their
loins, or the Mahdi’s uniform, which seems con-
spicuous by its absence of all uniformity a plun-
dered rifle or a spear, a tomtom, and a flag made
of a Manchester cotton pockethandkerchief.
The London correspondent of the Daily
Chronicle says that before the British retreat
across the desert from Gubat our camels gave
out so utterly that we had to leave behind
for the Mahdi rations enough to feed 10,000 of
his men for a week, and that, too, after our men
had spent 34 hours in flinging into the Nile or
burning all the food, medicine, powder, and arms
that they could dispose of in that summary fashion.
The moral effect of that wholesale holocaust and
subsequent abandonment of our stores must have
been exceedingly bad. The Mahdi probably found
more loot at Gubat than he took at Khartoum.
It is uenerally anticipated that the per-
sonnel ot the present N.S W. Parliament will be
visibly altered next general election by the
wholesale rejection of scores of the present in-
competent time-servers and hireling babblers.
Old politicians concur In the opinion that the
present Parliament Is the most degraded and in-
tellectually attenuated since the advent of respon-
Bible Government. Many ot the dumb dogs
who feel that the next election will toll their
funeral knell, are reported to be making hay while
the sun shines. So sunken is the general individu-
ality of the members that the nick-name among
the yokels for a member of Parliament is one
of Billy Dailey’s parrots.”
A fair idea of the ‘.esthetic spirit of our
masher Ministry may be gleaned from a speech
made by Mr. Triokett at the late Shoalhaven ban-
auet. Said he: “Our population was generally
stated to be le*s than that of Victoria; but he
thouKht we now exceeded her, and he hoped for
the sake of certainty that Mr. Dibbs would cause
an early census to be taken.’ Certainly, Mr.
TriokettI Mr. Dibbs, who is notorious for re-
garding the Public Treasury as his own personal
property, will expend £10,000 to oblige you by
ascertaining whether our population exceeds Vic-
toria s The next census is due in 1891, and till then
let us wait. We already know what was the
population of the colony before the war.
Opposition members of Parliament are
loud in their lament that, whenever they attempt
to interview the Acting-Colonial Secretary on
public business, they are forbidden an audience
either because an emergency war meeting is being
held by the Cabinet, or else Mr, Dailey is busy
dictating to the reporters of Granny and the Rum
those inspired eulogies of Mr. Dailey with which
those papers have lately saturated each issue. On
a recent occasion Mr. Angus Cameron was unable
get a word with Mr. Dailey during public office
hours, and at 1145 a.m. the/’ Big Boy from Manly
was denied to Mr. Fletcher, whom the messenger
assured that Mr. Dailey was just having break-
fast. Such is the luxury of life under a despotic
Dictator I
Lessars and Novikoffs Into holding £200,000,000 of a
natural enemy’s stock at a price far above its
proper value.
Mr. William Qaunson is rather a notable
character in—or rather out of—Victorian politics.
He has contested eight elections, and has been re-
jected with every mark of enthusiasm every time.
Six times out of the eight he lost his deposit. And
now he has lost it again like a patriot and a hero
in the late Avoca election. Master William is to
his brother David much as William Redmond was
to Ms brother John. Possibly when age has
grizzled his chestnut curls and wrinkled his fair
young face—when a little hoard of saws and pro-
verbs, waifs and strays and crumbs of wisdom has
made its home in his bosom—he may be wheeled
away from the polling-booth in a bath chair a
winner at last. There Is no reason why he shouldn't
be. He has as many qualifications for a represen-
tative as the ordinary legislator. He plays not un-
skilfully upon the fiddle.
Thus Mr. Gladstone during the great
Midlothian crusade in 1878:-’* The vainglorious
boast which Ministers (aware that there could be no
reply) have inserted in the speech of her Majesty
in the prorogation of Parliament, as to aid which
the colonies would have given in a war that might
have been, can only excite ridicule. No man of
sense believed that the colonies are likely to be-
come in a serious manner parties to any great
European war. Handfuls of men or even of
money may be supplied by individual zeal; but it
is hardly to be desired, for their own sake or purs,
that they should become real parties to contests,
over the inception, conduct, and conclusion of
which they can have no effective control. Osten-
tatious proclamation to the world of the military
aid they are to give us is much more likely to
check than to develop any disposition of that
kind, and savours strongly of an age of imposture.
The manifest unpopularity of the Soudan
scare is well demonstrated by the pitiable dodges
resorted to in order to add fictitious lustre to the
servile exploits of our noble “ zareba-architects ’
in Africa, At the banquet at Wellington to Dave
Ferguson, the N S.W. Minister of Justice said: It
was with feelings of loyal pride that he had the
privilege of announcing that since his arrival he
had received a telegram stating that a movement
would be made that day in the Soudan for the
purpose of capturing Osman Digna, and that the
Australian troops would form a part of the divi-
sion to be sent forward.” Of course, this heroic
bunkum elicited the usual round of cheers from
those of the provincial cow-custodians who were
too drunk not to cheer; but what tickles our
fancy is the childishness of the Government in
wiring to an absent colleague the glowing details
of what our brave boys intend to do—if Osman
Digna only consents to allow them.
Burdett Smith, M.P., the Cupid of the
Macleay, is, we read, to be entertained by his con-
stituents •* on a scale as magnificent as, perhaps,
has ever been done before by any to
its representative. Altogether, the bon* nc J®J5P®J[
will be entertained a dozen tlmesat banquets or
luncheons” We do envy Smith! Why, here is his
relative, the other Smith, who hides his ihustrious
patronymic under the tlnssl title of Lord Caring-
ton, coming to rule over us and to {five Burdett S.
the run of his teeth and toes at Government
House-here are the odours of the
tary luncheons and the still mote
tary dinners wafted towards our pinched and
bloodless proboscis from the land of the Macleay,
here are the team of white horses and the trium-
phal arch looming right ahead; here are the crowds
of worshipping yokels who hu “^ * y , Pi;
themselves in the Kempsey mud as the car of
Smith, Burdett Smith, rolls by in its majesty on
its three-weeks’, tour among the grovelling
adorers of the oleaginous King-street mock Ches-
terfield. Booh! Likewise yah! Heaven help ye,
ye human crayfish—yo bucolic cripples wuose
political history is but the history of a slowly-
progressive intellectual locomotor-ataxy.
How polite they are in England! Vanity
Fair begins a paragraph thus;—"I am greatly dis-
appointed to learn that the man Kimberlev. who
was hanged at Birmingham, was not a Cabinet
Minister, after all. For a moment a bright hope
dawned upon me that, at any rate, we had got rid
of one of them. But it seems that the Secretary
for India had nothing to do with the murder of
the woman named Parker. He has hitherto only
been convicted of complicity in the murder of the
man named Gordon.”
This is how it is managed. Squire Sheep-
skins, or Mynheer Moneybags, is a solid supporter
of the Government. His vote is with them, right or
wrong, and he is rewarded by being allowed to
choose his own half of bis divided gquattage,
and by various other devices known peculiarly to
the present fluky Parliament. But Sheeepskins
and Moneybags are both weak in their electorate,
and likely to be superseded at the next general
election by Oppositionists. To restore them to
first favour with their constituents a banquet is
arranged, and one or two of the glibbest-
tongued among the Ministers (accompanied by a
small drove of satellites, such as Government
whips, expectant police magistrates, &c.) immedi-
ately rally round their faithful supporter. After
pledging their Ministerial word to the bush-
whackers that but for Sheepskins and Moneybags
there would be no statesmen at all in the House,
the Minister publicly announces that, at the re-
quest of these two almighty politicians, £500 will
be set down for a new bridge at Deadman’s Hol-
low, £300 for a new Hospital for the Insane, £7000
for a gaol, £800 for a reserve, and perhaps, half a
million for a railway in the distant future. The
inhabitants are enraptured, and the Ministry grin
in their sleeves at the certainty of their sup-
porter's re-election. But surely this thinnest of
their dodges will not deceive our country cousins,
who are not all idiots of the first water.
The following verses are not “ written for
The Bulletin,” nor are they, as might at first be
thought, dedicated to Dailey. We found them in
a Birmingham Liberal daily of the 8th of March
last:—
“ The Soudan Butchery.
“ Go, soldiers, storm the desert I
Your country sends you there
To shoot down men by thousands
And make our cupboards bare I
“ This Christian land of England
Sends forth her martial bands
To butcher those who harm us not,
To redden Egypt’s sands!
“ If, faint with thirst, you linger,
And prostrate lay you down,
’Tis England points the finger,
For glory of the Crown I
“ Good God I is this our country ?
The * land of peace and bliss! ’
Where can we look for guidance ?
Has Gladstone come to this ?
“ Though Muntz speaks fair and plainly,
Our good men are so few!
John Bright, what keeps you silent ?
Where, Chamberlain, are you ?”
“T.H.B.”
Speaking at Litbgow, Mr. Wright “had
no hesitation In saying ” (original this) that “ any
force attacking Sydney would suffer an ignomini-
ous defeat. They had 4300 men ready to be called
to arms. ... He did not believe there was a
man amongst them [the Soudan Contingent! who
would refuse to go [to India].” These are brave
words, are they correct? They are not. No
force that Sydney could put forward would stop
the advance of 5000 properly disciplined men of
any European nationality, and there are certainly
many men in the Contingent who, carried away by
false enthusiasm and a false notion of England’s
danger, have had their fervour cooled and would
gladly return to Sydney to-morrow. It is
exceeding improbable that such a force of
trained men as we have mentioned will ever be
detailed by any foreign nation for service in
Australia. But this is no reason why our
leading public men should so jauntily make state-
ments which any military officer—not in colonial
pay—would at once contradict. They are no true
friends of New South Wales who persuade her
that her raw levies would stand against regular
troops. They talk of “ fighting for hearths and
homes,” a “just cause,” and “moral power.”
What good was the “ moral ” sympathy of Europe
to Poland 20 years ago ? It did not save the naked
backs of Warsaw ladies from Cossack whips.
What did it do for the South ? It did not keep
the Federals out of Richmond, nor did it much
avail the raw levies of the Loire against the
legions of the Red Prince. If invasion is feared,
let us be prepared to meet it with properly trained
men —give us a chance of meeting our foes on
an equality, and keep the “just cause” and the
“moral force” business for some more fitting
occasion.
*
Apropos of Mr. Proude’s remark that “ the Aus-
tralian Agents-General whom he had seen
didn’t strike him as having the capacity of
statesmen whose words would command atten-
tion.” Sir Francis Dillon Bell, the New Zealand
Agent-General, writes to the Argus:— “ Whom
had he seen? Tupper has never met him,
nor Blyth, nor Samuel, nor Murray Smith, nor
Garrick, nor Mills (save once), nor 1 since I came
to England as Agent-General. When the im-
mortal Llllyvick was told the French for * water,’
‘ Ah,’ said hr, ‘ I don’t think anything of that
language.’ It must have been on the same prin-
ciple that Froude felt impelled to give us such a
character among our own friends, with so much
good taste and generosity. But then Llllyvick
never said that he knew French.”
* m *
One explanation offered by the Russians
for their failure to meet our Afghan Boundary
Commissioners was that there was an understand-
ing that the Commissioners were to be accom-
panied by very small escorts, which was violated
by Sir Peter Lumsden having 1300 men with him.
On a recent night in the Commons, Lord
Hartlngton said that £3,500,000 would before long
be laid out on defences, and £1,500,000 on naval
guns. Surely Ministers anticipate that Armaged-
don cannot be far ofll.... United Ireland esti-
mates that Mr. Parnell will have 85 followers in
the next Parliament—83 from Ireland and two
from English boroughs The Tonquin war cost
France 10,000 men.
The great Mount Morgan (Q.), mine paid
In dividends for the quarter £18,000, and carried
forward a stiff sum to reserve. The machinery
now being erected will multiply the weekly gold
yield by five. When Mount Morgan has been
developed B1 Callao will be eclipsed.
Four thousand guineas was the price paid
for Louisbourg, a yearling, at the break up of
Lord Falmouth’s celebrated stud, last April. The
voungster was certainly well-bred enough for
anything, being by Hampton-Cherisaunce (own
sister to Lord Lyon and Achievement). However,
if Louisbourg is ever to get back for his owner
one penny of that purchase money, it will require
to be in some handicap or weight-for-age rate on
the golden shoah—as he is a “ dead horse, in tne
strictest sense of the word for the man who
bought him. This same gentleman, a Mr. Brodrick
Cloete, paid 5000 guineas for Paradox, who stood
first favourite for the English Derby until a few
weeks back, and has now been supp anted in the
betting by Melton. It is to ride this latter that
Fred Archer is bringing all sorts of strange devices
to his aid in order to melt the “ too, too solid flesh
accumulated during his recent American trip-
About 18 pounds is the quantity which the
demon ” require* to work off. By the way. hark-
ing back to this Brodrick Cloete, he would do well
to bear in mind the fate of Sir John Willoughby,
another dashing sportsman, who was paying un-
paralleled prices for blood stock at Lord rai
mouth’s sale. One of his “ bargains was Har-
vester at nine thousand. Well, Harvester suc-
ceeded in running a dead heat with St. Gatien for
the Derby, and for the moment Sir John dldn t
appear to be such an ass as the auctioneer no doubt
wrote him down. Yet before the end of the sea
son, the dashing baronet was transformed into a
‘• broker,” and if the bold Brodrick doesn t follow
, suit very shortly, it certainly won’t be the fault oi
1 his over-priced gee-gees.
THE BRITISH-! NDIAN SENTINEL KEEPiNG WATCH ON THE STEALTHA
ADVANCE OF THE RUSSIAN BEAR.
But where is the Bear?


r.v-vuuv
.Eczema on Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
from
•t-
5s
•9*
Uu
>s
Scrofula on Neck.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
rvISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
J / lions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Boathsome Sores, and every secies of Itching,
Beidjv Pnupiy, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
htm Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
J uisa of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
(JmccHA Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautitiers, externally.
pUTTCURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
'jSF 9 1)i . ure M c > -Aperient, cleanses the Blood
ana lerspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Ifehing and Burning: Skin Diseases.
Bakers , Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
iichmg Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Hates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
i epeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
ha\ o been obliged to slum public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and loft my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, 1 ‘ How to Cure 3kiu and Blood Diseases.”
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
.Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
bores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Remedies arc the only real Blood
1 mi hers and Skin JBcnutitlors free from mercury*
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutory
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
Australian Consignees,
R. Totvns & Co., Now South Wales.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beantifier
and loilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
ZoaUiud. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Uoap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Oc. , Boston, U.S.A.
356 George St.
mm
cm
Mjjjjncjjjiil!
Established
SYDNEY
185rkk 1
infill!! II
mtL
PAi-/ N C. Zr
G-9
im? 'I
5 \ :r' -M
MV . I ' !
\m
II
0
1 111.
t
PIANOS/ ORGANS
est Makers
v
ERY
EVERY INSTRUMENT
MODERATE
PRICES:
/'The Most Liberal
TIME PAYMENT
SYSTEM.
0
\ C
0^
0^
OVER
800
j
Instruments
r ON VIEW
To Selechfrom.
r
&
SYDNEY.
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.
T -A.CK
A.J.C. CIGAB DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SALOON.
91 King-street.
N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
READ THIS I
A Single Watch at MTanufao
taring Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
jewelled,
Lever, capped and jonouru,
with the latest improvements,
£3 IOs. each,
Warranted for three years,
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 Pitt-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER
PUBLIC NOTICE.
Marshall’s Artificial Teeth.
Marshall brothers, Dentists, owing to
the great increase of their dentistry prac-
ELIZABETH STREET, Hyde Park. They still
continue to mseit teeth at the same enormously
reduced price as before, namely, €s i»er set
upper and lower which are precisely the same
& r 51n e , al a, t ° etb advertised by other 11, ms.
Marshall Brothers gurant.e these to be equal in
every way, both for quality, flit, and appearance,
to those Inserted by hundreds of dentists (with a
limited practice), who charge double and treble
this amount. The public may doubt this hut
r ar hall Brothers offer £.500 to any person who
can prove this statement untrue. Consultation
free. Painless extraction by the aid of nitrous
oxide gas. MARSHALL BHOTHBBS, American
Dentists, 133 Blizabeth-street, Hyde Park and
Market street. N.D.-A11 trams stop at the dcor?
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GENT, 8 50, Is. 8d.; 100, as. 6d.
LADIES’ 50, 2s. Od.; 100. 3« Ort.
Address, 6d. extra.
Meat Business Cards.
100, 3s. 6d.; 260, 6s. 6d.; 500, 10s.; 1000* 158.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLAT*.
Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
THE MCI SUFPL7 CO,
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
M. A. BROWN & CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
260 QBORQE STREET
(Corner of Bond-street.)
Prom the Strand, London.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 354 and 366 GEORGE STREET.
[ Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
yyerybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in AnaiT-niic
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment U amlest in Australia.
EV % b „°^. 1 'cSfa^ m n! d b r th h i !, t e t “ u S t r 018 Ca,Tie " “ ,OT fo .ate Mr.
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manager,
? —'”7 W9M f
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.) '
u AX A IV1 a,}
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
IN ■■ A A Mann a —. __
, aJ ICE
Importers of
STE JLULWAV N ANcT OTHER 11 CONTHAPropa?BQDISITES, WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN'
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC; TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
and
OILS, PAINTS.
BRUSHWARE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACK8
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
v
m
BN
VERTICAL and HORI
ZONTAL BOILERS
|l| PUMPS* and Oth0
L <fw T planing
$S£ PI(S; ° t settfiw
r- wxiArxw;u. OUKEV
“ ffiPdHrN a B3 DKILUN
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRAS
FOUNDRY AB
PATENT ROLLE
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, &o.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO,
Head Warehouse -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
- 54 YORK STREET.
’ ENGINE STREETS,
~ HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR.
SYDNEY.
London Office
86 QRACECHUROH STREET,


B.EMEMEER THIS,
IE YOU ARB SICK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails.
If you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any of the numerous
diseases of stomach or bowels, it is
your own fault if you remain ill, for
American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to American Co s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
In Gilead ” in the use of American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of malarial,
epidemic, bilious and intermittent
fevers—by the use of American Co’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, American HOP
BITTERS will give you fair skin, rich
blood, the sweetest breath, health, and
comfort. In short, they cure ALL
Diseases of the Stomach, Bowels,
Blood, Liver, Nerves, Kidneys, &o., and
JB500
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure ot inju-
rious round in them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can bo made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
American Hop Bitters, costing but a
trifle.
Will you let them suffer 7
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
American Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
See If the name of Dr. Soule Is blown
In every bottle, If not It Is counterfeit.
WeakNervousMen
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay and
failure to perform life’s duties
properly are caused by ex-
cesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
'The Marston Bolus.
Neither stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment
of Nervous Debility and Physical Decay is
uniformly successful because based on perfect
diagnosis, new and direct methods and absolute
thoroughness. Full information and illustrated
treatise sent free (sealed).
Address—Doctor J. O Connell,
P.O. Box 166. 52 Cactloroagh St., Sydney.
CONSULTATION FREE.
E
A U D B
4711
COLOGNE,
4711.
Established 1792.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1872; Prize Medal, Vienna, 1873
This Eau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 35 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exnlbition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney Internationa)
Exhibition, for its superior sweetness, s rength,
and invigorating qualities, excelling all ether com-
petitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the dlite of
Europe.
The large and constantly increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Eau de Cologne, not only in
Europe, but also la North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number- 47H changed into 7411, 1147, 4117, &c , &c.
The real genuine srticle which carried off the
Prize Medalat the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pltt-
etreet, Sydney.
To be had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
end Storekeepers, in town and country.
W. WALKER and SOUS,
LONDON and SYDNEY.
Catalogues
POST FREE.
W. WALKER
and SONS
Mi
are one of the
Largest
Stockholders
and
Manufacturer!
no
II •gh-clit'>
FURNITURE
J i i hTTCy" -
MS?
ENGLAND.
Catalogues
POST FREE.
ALL STOCK
in their
SYDNEY
H .fi SK
Suuoli.d
DIKCCr
f rouu thoir
London
MaaafAjtjry,
and Latent
- London Jtjrles
GDAKA*T£BD
SYDNEY BRANCH:
81 CLARENCE STREET, NYNYARD SQUARE.
SOLE IMPORTER OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
SOLT /.flRXT K*>P TRIP
smite: ohgau.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
H
*r\> KU
It-
BARGAINS! BARGAINS!! BARGAIN:!!
Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale.
BOSSiiLIE, ZL.XjO*3T3D <Sz CO.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO, ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.
tS?" Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale, Last Week of Sale.
Ladles should secure the
CHEAP LACES AND UNDERCLOTHING AT R08SAUE, LLOYD & CO.’ j f ALE.
4s. In the pound taken oft' your Bill.
Thousands of Remnants of Laces. Remnants of Laces. Remnants of Laces.
Remnants of Ribbons. Remnants of Ribbons. Summer Millinery. Summer Milli- ery
A MAGNIFICENT STOCK ALL T HB SALE.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.
Umbrellas. Umbrellas. Parasols. Parasols.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.,
NEAR THB GENERAL POST OFFICE.
m
Hi
Iliilii*
•I*
arcs*
sM
' M '
v3
fflRY BURGI8’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
I from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-8TKKKT,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for scft-measurlng
forwarded to any part of the colony
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
BISCUITS AHD CASES, TREACLE ARE BOLDER STEEP,
Self-raising >Erated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOR superiority of quality and EXCELLENCE,
J9, A. obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney I.E., 1880; Special Gold M dal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I-F, 1883-4,
On dit that a London defaulter has de-
frauded the Q.N.B. of £30,000.
From London Punch “ Quod (H) erat
Demonstrandum I—Herat Is held to be the Key
of India,’ a key which the foe at its gate must not
be allowed to hold. Perhaps the best key for India
is the ‘ qui vive /’ At any rate, that particular gate
cannot be kept secure by 1 bolting.' ”
On a Chinese witness being called at
Townsville Circuit Court the other day,he stumbled
in with his pigtail furled. Judge Cooper at once
said that suen action showed as much disrespect to
the Court as if a European came In smoking with
his hat on. He would not allow Europeans to act
simiiarh, and ordered the police to enforce his
remarks. Every tall in Court was at once let down
and remained pendant for the balance of the day.
If the Sabbath law is a curious thing, the
notions some people seem to have about it are still
more curious. John Pratt, of Malvern (Vie.) was
charged before the local Bench the other day with
leaving a horse which had fallen down on the
road exhausted, on a Saturday, without food or
water. The consequence was that the animal died
the next day—almost digging a grave for itself in
its agony. The defence offered by Mr. Pratt was
that “he was afraid of shooting the horse on Sun-
day lest he should be prosecuted.” And yet some
men, with the very same belief, would go home
and dance upon their wives, and leave them for
dead on the same day, without being afraid of
breaking the law. There is a lined! crimination
about Mr. John Pratt. The Bench lined him £3
and costs. In the good time coming we hope to
see such heartless scoundrels killed instead of
fined. We may not be great authorities on spiri-
tual matters, but may the next horse we mount
fling us as high as the planet Saturn, and wait for
us with his mouth open when we come down again
If we would not prefer to exchange futures with
the soul of John Pratt’s horse rather than with the
soul of John Pratt.
A book is out, entitled “ Usury and the
English Bishops,” with a preface by Mr. Kuskln,
who says:—“I rejoice to see my old friend Mr.
Sillar gathering finally together the evidence he
has so industriously collected on the guilt of
Usury, and supporting it by the always impressive
language of symbolical art; for, Indeed, I had my-
self no idea, till I read the connected statement
which these pictures Illustrate, how steadily the
system of money-lending had gained on the nation,
and how fatally every hand and foot was now en-
tangled by It. I place side by side the ancient and
modern versions of the seven verses of the New
Testament which were the beginning, and are in-
deed the heads, of all the teachings of Christ:—
Ancient.
Blessed are the poor
la spirit, for theirs Is
the kingdom of heaven.
Blessed are they that
mourn, for they shall be
comforted.
Blessed are the meek,
for they shall Inherit the
earth.
Blessed are they which
do hunger for righteous-
ness, for they shall be
filled.
Blessed are the merci-
ful, for they shall obtain
mercy.
Blessed are the poor in
neart, for they shall see
God.
Blessed are the peace-
makers, for they shall
be called the children of
God.
Modern.
Blessed are the rich In
flesh, for theirs is the
kingdom of earth.
Blessed are they that
are merry and laugh the
last.
Blessed are the proud,
In that they have In-
herited the earth.
Blessed are they which
hunger for unrighteous-
ness, in that they shall
divide Its mammon.
Blessed are the merci-
less, for they shall obtain
money.
Blessed are the foul In
heart, for they shall see
no Qod.
Blessed are the war
makers, for they shall
be adored by the child-
ren of men.
Now that the Russian bear is shewing ils
teeth'.It should be Interesting to know what den-
tist looks after that very tine set. Mr. John Bull
appears anxious to extract the lot without the use
of chloroform. But If it were desired to have the
operation performed gracefully and painlessly,
somebody should advise Bruin to visit Messrs.
Marshall Brothers, the well-known dentists, at
their new premises at 133 Elizabeth-street, Sydney,
to which they have just removed.*


GOOLALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 Greorge-street
(Beneath Paling’s.)
NO MORE CORNS I
CORNS AND WANTS removed without pain
bv the use of Palmer’s Painless, Harmless,
and Effectual CORN AND WART REMOVER.
This preparation is tbe most wonderful ever used
for Corns, Warts, or Bunions. If applied accord-
ing to the directions, it will effectually remove
them in from six to ei> ht days.
PALMER’S
SSSSK FACDE CUBA |SS£
For Neuralgia, either Chronic or Local.
This most wonderful Preparation has surpassed
all others in speedily removing this excruciating
and most distressing complaint. It matters not
how long or severe the suffering has been, a single
bottle has never failed in producing the desired re-
sults: and it can be most confidently recommeoded.
Sold retail by all chemists and druggists and
general stores: wholesale by Messrs. Elliott Bros.,
Sydney ; E. Prosser and Co., Sydney ; Felton,
Grim wade, and Co., Melbourne; Kempthorne and
Prosser, Dunedin.
NEUSTADT and CO.,
COMPLETE
SOUSE
FURNISHERS,
39, 154, 156, & 158 OXFORD-STK
SYDNEY.
iar houses furnished throughout
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
Eithkb fob Cash or Time Pay jekt.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers.
gflAWHOOD RESTORED!
A Clergyman having tried every known
remedy for the Cure of Nervous Exhaustion,
Premature Decay, &c , has at last discovered a
simple Self-Cube, which for the sake of suffering
humanity, he will send FREE the Prescription
which CURED him. Address, with self-addressed
stamped envelope—
Dr. E. A CLARKE, P O. Box 292, Sydney.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
Hr 308 GEORGE STREET.
’CELEBRtffP:
0i &9fdcljW(|i$>
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLRAGBNT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
HAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION
MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATE!
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING.
WEST END HOUSE,
168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Two'Doors from Compagnonl’s.)
rHE undersigned, recognising the want of a
FIRST-CLASS TAILORING ESTABLISH-
MENT, have OPENED the premises lately occu-
>ied by the Bank of Australasia, at 168 PITT-
1TBBBT (THE WEST END HODSE) where they
ntend to carry on a High-class and Fashionable
C'rade.
The public may feel assured that we shall be
ible to maintain a high standard, when we state
hat our Mr. Ward has had some years’ experience
n the best houses in London, Paris, as well as in
Irst-claes Sydney Establishments, namely, Farmer
md Co.’s and David Jones and Co.’s.
Our Mr. Wilson has had fully 20 years’ expo-
ience in the Australian trade, and has just re-
urned from England, where he visited all the
>rineipal Woollen Mills, including that of Hud-
lersfield, as as West of England and Scotch
Mills. This will be a sufficient guarantee that the
astes and requirements of the public will receive
he attention they deserve.
In conclusion, we desire to say that we hope to
ibtain a fair Phare of patronage, in return for
rhich we guarantee first-class work, all hand-
aade, well shrunk, perfect fit, and all in the latest
.ondon and Paris styles.
Soliciting a trial, we remain,’
Very truly yours,
FREDERICK WILSON,
HUGH WARD,
Fashionable Tailors, Robe and Habit Makers.
West End House.
168 Pltt-streei.
Sydney.
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
G. B. M. further desires to apprise his customers
of tha fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms.'— JuHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
don: THOS. BLAND & SON.. London: JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London ; CHA8. OSBORNE &
CO., London.
G. B. M. is also AGENT for the eminent firm of
BU8SY & CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, &o., and all
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 George-st., Sydney,
Whore Inspection is Invited.
FOB OLD
and
young.
AUSTRALIAN
MAGICAL
I DEPOT.
Magic, Mirth, and Mystery.
. onniC CONTATNINgToVER 350 TRICKS AND
A B !?EMJSIONa WITH CARDS. DICE, AND
CONJURING APPARATUS,
illustrated with wood blocks and diagrams,
firming the most complete collection of its kmd
offered to the Australian public. Mailed free
to any address in New South Wales for Id, stamps;
“-THS VANISHING EGG BOX—To make an egg
at pleasure. 3s 6d, post free 3j.
MAGIC CASK AND FAIRY BELL—A
vooiitlful trick, 3s, by post 4s. . „ ,
b THB GOLDEN EGG-An ordinary egg is first
•riided, then disappears, and is finally restored to
fta original purity. 3s 6d. post free 4sibd.
THE DISAPPEARING CARD BOX-A very
-lever little trick, so simple that a child five years
Pftn manipulate it, price Is, post free Is 6d.
0l THB GREAT HAT AND DIE TRICK-A solid
2 inches square passes completely through a
ffintlc-man’s hat and is found Inside. A very clever
friek Price Is 6d, post free 2s. ,
1 THE MAGIC DISSOLVING PACK OP CARDS
_ A nack of playing cards are shown to the audience
and then placed in a case just large enough to
bold them. One of the audience, instantly after
this is done, opens the case, and finds it full of
gweets and the cards vanished. Price Is 6d, post
fr THE GREAT NOSE AND TWINE TRICK-
The performer first bores a hole through a gentle-
man’s nose with a bradawl and then passes a piece
of twine through in a frame. Very laughable.
Price 3s, post free 3s 6d.
THE WIZARD
OF THE NORTH’S
CHANGEABLE
PACK OF CARDS.
The Cards change from
Bed to Black, from Eights
to Deuces, and back again
at the pleasure of the per-
former. These tricks elicit
exclamations of surprise
and wonder from all who
witness them. Post free, with FULL INSTRUC-
TIONS. Is 2d.
The “Multiplex” Puzzle contains no less than
50 distinct entertaining and instructive problems.
In handsome case with diagram; Is 6d, post free.
Pharaoh’s Serpent’s Eggs, the size of a pea, from
which a fiery serpent 3 feet long uncoils, Is per
doa , by post Is 3d,
I’m a Daddy; I’m in Love; The Mother-in-law;
I'm a Farderl and Before and After Marriage.
The funniest pictures ever issued, 5 in each set.
Price, 0d per set, or 5 sets for 2s, by post 2s 3d.
American Comic Pictures, 14 x 18 inches, Sport-
ing Scenes, &o., &o, very funny, highly coloured,
Is each, by post la 2d; or 8s per doz.; post free,
8s 6d. ,
Oleographs, 24 x 36, beautifully coloured. The
Lord’s Supper, Rock of Ages, Faith, Hope, and
Charity, Beatrice de Cenci, The Little Pete, Uncle
Tom’s Cabin, Sherman’s March to the Sea. and
many others, all reduced to 5s, post free. Original
cost, 10j6d.
FINE STEEL ENGRAVINGS.
Life’s Morning and Evening, The Orphan’s Res-
cue, Lead Me to the Rock, Woodland Hours,
Homeward (A. Stein—copied), These are .My
Jewels, The Faithful Wife, An Ai-mrul, The First
Love, Spring Time of Life; 3s 6d each, post free
3s 8d. These Engravings are really first-class and
worth twice t';e money asked.
Also, a great number of Trick?, Novelties, &c., a
full description of which will be found in the
book
MAGIC, MIRTH, and MYSTERY.
N.S.W. stamps taken at par.; from other colo-
nies, add Id to each shilling. Post office orders pre-
ferable. Address aT orders plainly, AUSTRALIAN
MAGICAL DEPOT, 401 George-street, Box 641,
G.P,0., Sydney. .
V
ASTLE# SONS
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SVD N EY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
SHAPES.
MOULTONS
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MGULTON’E
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and nc
disappointments. MOULTON,’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it Is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price Is. 3d.
C. E, MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
Marshall’s
TONIC NERVINE
BBQI8TBRBD.
ABATE, CERTAIN. & SPEEDY CURB for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia-
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, Loss of Vital Power, &c. By Its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
for Alcohol. By Its richness In phosphorous and
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4s. 6d., or 25s. a case.
Sole Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS, ‘M.P.8.
Manufacturing and consulting Chemists, 104 and
106 Market-street, near Hyde Park, Sydney, and
BPltt-street, Circular-quay. TAE1 NO SUBSTI-
TUTE.
Champagne
Haldsleck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE,
OF ALL WINK MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS ft Co., IiCudoH.
Sole Atrents for Beidsleck & Co.. Heims.
E V MOm?D > 'USE jPEMELUS
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill repk to with tho newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW. and tho QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
sail Georffc-street, Sydney.
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
The “LOUIS”
VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
v Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
3?
may be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of “ Louis."
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
' send patterns
POST FREE OH
application.
“VICTORIA” OFNER BITTER-WATER,
‘The Best and Strongest Natural Aperient.
A Natural. Fluid Magnesia, as a safe, ordinary, and gentle aperient in Inflammation
and Congestion, in Rheumatic and Gouty Disorders, against undue tendency to Fat,
against Hfemorrhoids, in Bilious Attacks and Disorders of the Liver. •
Nature’s Aperient Remedy during Pregnancy, and in many Female Diseases; for
Habitual Constipation, in Organic Diseases resulting from fatty degeneration, to remove
the consequences resulting from excess in diet, &c.
pT” One winegiaasful will usually relieve the most distressing headache.
ONE BOTTLE OF “VICTORIA” IS EQUAL IN ITS EFFECTS TO TWO OF OTHER B1TTER-
U WATERS, HENCE IT IS MUCH CHEAPER.
tn ea-es of Indigestion, Stomach and Liver Affections, Constipation, and other Derangements of the
System, as a Family Medicine this has no equal.
Sold in Bottles at /s. 6d. and 2s.,
And may be obtained of any Chemist or Patent Medicine Vendor in the United Kingdom.
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Robe Makers.
Trousers from alls, to 40s.
pr N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Farmer and Co.
W. Sheaksbt & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabeth-st.
ROYAL HOTEL
BOXJRKB,
Is the largest and best-appointed Family Hotel in the Western District. The Table and Liquo
cannot be surpassed, even In the Metropolis. Private Suites for families. First-class Stabling
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor*
□m.© 13©li©rtol© Sugrgri©©!
x
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE A MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
CORNER OP CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
SXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)


To Cleanse the Blood
of scrofulous, inherited, and contagious humors,
and thus remove the most prolific cause of human
suffering, to clear the skin of disfiguring blotches,
itching tortures, humiliating eruptions, and ioath-
some sores caused by inherited scrofula, to purify
and beautify the skin, and restore the hair so that
no trace of disease remains, Cuticura Resolvent,
the now blood purifier, and Cuticura and Curr-
CURA Soap, the great skin cures and beautiflers,
are infallible.
Mashers.— The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 652 Goorgo-street, Brickfield Hill.*
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hookings and
Co., 143, Fltt-street.*
The vigour of youth given to the aged
and infirm by using Hop Bitters made by Ameri-
can Co. Try it. Bead.
Which is the best perfume? There are
some " open Questions” with regard to the toilet,
but this is not one of them. The ladies have
settled it-wisely and finally. As there are
counterfeits, always ask for the true Florida
Water prepared by LANMAN and KEMP, New
Cm Bono? For the good of humanity
smarting under the pains of indigestion and dys-
pepsia, heartburn, rheumatism, gout, gravel, in-
flammation of the bladder, and irritability of the
kldneyf, loss of appetite, general debility, impair-
ment of the main organs of (he body, Wolfe'S
Schnapps Is the best remedial agent known. Al-
w ys ask for Wolfe's schnapps.
is the science of the beautiful.
The meed of merit for promoting personal {esthe-
tics is due to J. C. Ayer and Co. whose incomparable
Hair Vigor is a universal beautifler of the hair.
Harmless, effective, agreeable, it has taken rank
among the indispensible articles of the toilet. To
scanty locks it gives luxuiiance; and withered
hairs It clothes with the hue of youth.
Mb. DbCoubot Browns (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,!’ Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Cham bers, 52 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, tar Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, lar* Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
SKill, a mutter of record in the Departments and
Supremo Court.*
A new discovery.—Hoffman’s Bucalyptol
(leglstered) “Mixtureand Injection.” They will
positively cme all kidney diseases and disorders,
all urinary complaints and discharges, irritation,
scalding, inflammation, gravel, pains in the back,
&o. A case incurable in nine months was actually
cured la eight days with Hoffmann’s Bucalyptol
Injection (“ purely vegetable ”). Hoffman's Bu-
caiyptol Mixture or Injection contain no mineral,
no sandalwood, no balsam, or anything injurious
to the most delicate constitution of either sex.
Ask for Hoffman’s, and take no substitute.
Wholesale: E. Prosser and Co.; Elliott Bros. Re-
tail : All principal chemists and storekeepers
Price, 2s. 6a. and 3a. 6d.*
Printed and Published by Th« Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited). 24 Pitt-at., Sydney, N.8.W.
A MILITARY MEETING.
Wfe live in “a favourite marine suburb. *
Wo are just sufficiently adjacent to Cockatoo
Island to see the hair fly at Biloela on washing
iays, and near enough to the Vernon to behold
the gallant Commander giving his orders (in
Slippers) on the quartet-deck. The last advantage,
perhaps, goes some way towards making our
marine suburb a “favourite one;” for the fact
lies in our remembrance that the springy young
officer in question gained for himself a cheap im-
mortality by volunteering (slippers and all) for the
Contingent. Our residence is a one-storey villa
standing in its own grounds. The front garden
was elaborately laid out in beds and gravel paths,
the borders being neatly contrived of porter-
bottles. There was a certain sort of originality
about this that fascinated us when we first saw the
place, but we could have wished that the plants—
fortified by porter—had not grown such a height.
Our heliotrope, alone, topped the butcher-boy by
two Inches, and there was a six-foot geranium of
sinister appearance at the bottom of the middle
walk, which. If you incautiously unbolted the
front gate, nearly poked your eye out. At the
back was the “ orchard.” This was a noble waste
with a peach tree in the centre, which had been,
months before, considerately ring-barked by a
neighbour. Upon the wash-house wall grew a
fierce vine of the passion-fruit species. We
cherished great hopes of this homely climber for
many years, but now we are willing to back it for
hard-earned gold to give the aloe points at not
blossoming. The orchard, if it grew nothing to
speak of la the fruit line, bred in the hen-house a
remarkable number of native cats. When we first
went to reside in the villa with the orchard, we
used to amuse ourselves by catching these savage
little brutes with traps, over-night, and killing
them by means of a greyhound In the morning.
When this entertaining sport had lasted some
three weeks or so, the neighbours conceived an
idea that we were subsidised by Government to
destroy the cats, and our credit grew shaky
directly. To such an extent did our prowess in-
crease as vermin-destroyers, however, that an old
lady who lived in a big mansion In the immediate
neighbourhood, sent round one morning request-
ing our attendance, as her house, ran the note,
“ was invested with rats.”
♦ ♦ ♦
It was while in the occupation of this
desirable residence that on opening the morning
paper at muffin time the following announcement
—labelled “ municipal "—attracted our attention:—
“ Borough of Kopnorhim.
“ Having been requested by a deputation of
citizens to convene a meeting to consider the
advisability of at once forming a volunteer re-
giment la this borough, I hereby convene a
meeting for that purpose, to be holden at the
Kopnobrlm Town Hall on Monday, April,” etc.
“ Timothy Wanders, Mayor.
“ Tobias Pike, Town Clerk.”
A sardonic smile came over our countenance as
wo read this. Personally, wo were on cool terms
With his Worship, The fact is, there was little of
an intellectual nature In the Mayor, while, unfor-
tunately, there was room for a good deal. Of
vast proportions was hU Worship, though trie
majesty of his stature was chielly developed in
front, which gave rise to a vulgar and slanderous
rumour amongst the youih of the borough that
the Mayor “carried hia belly In a basket. ’ His
Worship was a produce dealer by trade, and the
magic change that had taken place in the quail'y
of hia potatoes and greens after his election, was
the subject of general Indignant comment.
« * *
It was indeed owing to a refusal on our
part to accept, in fulfilment of an order, a oru 1
portion of a Warrnatnbool batc'i, that first the
coolness we have alluded to sprang up between
us. We, however, veiled this feeling to a large
extent when we met at the butcher's “ him-
days.’ so our quarrel was by no means generally
known througuout the borough. With the Town
Clerk, however, was another affair. Toere was
no concealment about the quarre’, for Mr. Pike
carried his animosity so far «s to bite his thumb
at us on the Queens Highway. The Town Oh rk
couldn’t stand us at any price; and yet all we had
ever done to offend him was to canvass lor 15
solid days when the billet was vacant, In order to
obtain the position for our girl’s brother, a pro-
mising young woolsorter, with more than enough
education to swear by. We were, however, beaten
by nine votes, 13 of our incipablo supporters being
carried on stretchers into the enemy's camp, and
allowed to record their votes by the Mayor, under
the pretended delusion that they were hospital
patients. A protest waa entered, and an appeal
case came on in due course; but the appearance
of the plaintiff in the box securing his instant
committal by the Judge, the proceedings, of
course, lapsed. Otherwise—however, to re-
sume:—
• • •
The meeting was called for 10 o’clock, but
•we hied us thitner somewhat before thut hour in
order to test, so far as we were able, the feeling
of the citizens before the meeting commenced.
There were lots of people outside the Town Hall,
and you had only to approach within 50yds. of
them to know that there was a public-house in
the Immediate vicinity. Some of the citizens were
in gesticulating knots, others walked up and down
before the Town Hall In two’s and three s, audibly
wondering how “old jelly’’—such was their ex-
pression—would shape to-night. The more spor-
tive of the company, however, we grieve to state,
did not, considering the gravity of the question
about to bo deeided-at a moment when the un-
godly Russian might swoop down upon the
country and pervade even the sacred preclude ol
the Kopnobrim Town Hall Itself—evince that
sedateness of deportment which the critical state
of affairs would seem to have demanded. On the
contrary. The more juvenile portion of the com-
munity, commingled with not a few ungodly
adults, had formed themselves into two separate
armies—one representing the Russians and the
other the Kopnobrlm contingent. The Rooslans—
they were always called Roosians—being the in-
vading party, the Kopnobrims formed themselves
nto a square to await the charge of the enemy.
The enemy deploying to the right, where they
new the square was drunkest, and throwing out
a few unwilling skirmishes to lightly shell the
sauaro with oyster shells and old bools, charged
—led by a Sunday-school teacher—with a wild
halloo Both parties were armed alike, with split
tubings and broom handles, and so the effect of the
shock you can imagine, was terrific. The
Roosian commander broke the square every time,
and he would have been perfectly victorious had
he had a roar-guard (of even twoj to follow up his
successes; but as it was, the moment they broke
the sauare his troubles began. Once he and
hia army got Inside they kept him there
iintil the Russ commander agreed to “cry a go.”
it he cried “ a go ” (which he hardly ever did) he
could retreat to his former position on the battle-
field. with bands playing and colours flying,
otherwise, the Rooslans were quickly surrounded,
and forced, at the paling’s point, to beat a retreat
under a heavy fire of clay balls, pebbles, old boots,
and fish cans, to the demoniac boating ot a derisive
Jkerosene tin) drum. After each repulse, applause
tor the Kopnobrlmmers was very enthusiastic,
and although this niqued the Roosians, it was not
until the admirers of the other side brought them
a bucket of beer from the pub, that the Invaders
commenced to show considerable signs of irrita-
tion. Holding a hasty council of war, they once
more formed to the attack, each man, however,
this time laden with ammunition, and very savage.
This time the angry invader only advanced half
way, when, stopping suddenly, it poured forth a
murderous volley into the square, with such effect
as momentarily to paralyze the defenders, who
expected to be charged as usual. The General of
the Kopnobrirns having received half a fossilized
loaf plump on the “ponum,” hastily ordered an
advance along the whole line. This time it was the
Russians lime to form, and form they did, resolv-
ing to die rather than be conquered, when the
enemy, making a feint of advancing, basely
shelled the Russian square with sixpennyworth of
crackers. Under cover of this volley they ad-
vanced, and fought furiously until the arrival of
the police, when the Kopnobrirns had again con-
siderably the best of it. Just, however, as they
had begun to crow over their victory, they dis-
covered that the Russians had, during their ad-
vance, basely sent a skirmisher into their camp,
under cover of darkness, and kicked over their
bucket of beer. At this stage of these interesting
military marueuvres, a voice from the direction of
the Town Hall cried—“Now then, gentlemen;”
upon which wo all trooped In.
* • •
Tbe Town Hall of Kopnobrim was an
edifice which possessed many peculiarities. The
interior was a large hall, vaulted like a church,
lighted in the day by two rows of little windows,
only to be manipulated by the aid of patience and
clothes-lines. The four dark grey walls were gro-
tesque in their dampness, some of the blotches
(having evidently been touched up with a crayon)
forming rough representations of octopi, tomb-
stones, and a donkey. At the far end was a hideous
yellow proscenium, with wings all complete, and
the open country let down anyhow to hide the
boxes of the company who played last night, and
had been unable to ante-up for the hall. The top
of the proscenium appeared to have broken out in
little medallions—like portrait porous p'asters.
Our old friend Shakespeare was in the centre.
We recognised him chiefly* "by his wearing the
usual infant’s collar fastened with a stay-lace.
We say this, for we don't want the artist to get
proud and ask too much for his work; or else we
should never live to see him in the Art Gallery I
We think, £60, anyhow, just about enough for his
idea of Shakespeare. Next to William, on the
right, was Milton, who was drawn so blind that the
moment you gazed upon him you involuntarily
put your hand in your pocket, and looked around
for his dog. Sheridan came next, with such a high
forehead that they had to make his hair tumble all
over his emerald shoulders; and facing him was a
half-finished portrait of a hectic youth, in the last
stages of phthisis (though only seventeen), which
the artist had, with a splendid confidence in his
imaginative powers, boldly labelled “George 8.
Simms in honour of “ Bagonet.”
♦ * ♦
Seated on the stage (in the centre of which
the scene-painter.had upset a huge bowl of “ back
ground”), in three rows of chairs, were "thegen-
tlemen who took an avowed interest in the
movement ” (they had been advertised for). They
numbered seven, exclusive of his Worship; while
those down below, who (It may be assumed) didn’t
take an avowed interest in the movement, were
considerably over 60. There were some rows of
forms for the general public, but that Independent
body preferred either to stand on them or behind
them, which gave the meeting quite an informal
aspect. As the Mayor rose, and as the legend con-
cerning him flashed across us. we could not help
thinking that, if It were not true, his Worship
must have contracted, for greater freedom, a
habit of wearing his ribs in front—there was a
solemn silence. r ‘ The Town Clerk,” he said, “ will
now read the advertisement.” Pause of half a
minute, and no appearance of Mr. Pike. “ Good
gracious I What can have become of the Town
Clerk ?” cried his Worship, becoming conscious at
once of his helpless condition. “ He'll be here in a
mlnnit,” said a voice; “he’s on’y gone round to
say a word to Bridget Budgen.” (Laughter.) “ I
move,” said something on the platform inside a
long check ulster, “that the aderttee-ment be
took as rode—leastways .” At this moment the
Town Clerk burst into the room The meeting
parted like water before him—for he looked red
and fiery. Stepping quickly up on the stage, he
said in a loud voice: “Some scoundrel, I under-
stand, has when he was interrupted by the
chairman, who said, not without dignity, “ Mr.
Council Clerk, I cannot permit you to address the
meeting.” "Whatl” cried the reproved one boil-
ing over at once, “ Ain’t I a citizen ?” (Shrieks of
“No!" and uproar.) This was enough. Mr. Pike
darted in front of the Mayor’s table and began:
“The journeyman saddler who owes me a couple
of half-crowns and started that lie needn’t hide—
(“Ohl” and disturbance) I’ll have my say, for
this meeting has libelled me,” went on the T.C.,
red-hot with passion—“for this meeting has
libelled me I I consider this meeting not a meeting
of men—(“Lay in, Pikeyl” and laughter)—but a
meeting of ninteeners— (uproar)—and the snidest
and ugliest nlneteener in all this snide and uglv
meeting—(prolonged uproar)—is —is —the party
with the entrails—daughter)—in the chair.” (Sen-
sation; during which his Worship hastily vacated
it, and a voice: “Never mind, old chap; hug
Biddy B. again,” resounded through the hall.) On
hearing this, the Infuriated Town Clerk could only
shriek, “You wretches!” rush off the platform,
and Ding himself out by the back door. Order
being partially restored, though much hilarity
still ;prevalled, tde wood-andcoal orator in the
check ulster, voting hlmeelf into the chair, moied
the first resolution:i hat this meeting of the
rate payers and residents of nopnobrim. recognis-
ing the extreme peril the borough of Kopnobrlm
might be placed in ehould hostilities break out be-
tween England and Russia, agree to co operate in
the formation of a regiment of volunteer infantry,
and to use its utmost endeavours to bring the for-
mation of such regiment to a successful and speedy
issue.”
• * *
The resolution, on being put to the meet-
ing, was carried in a whirlwind of shrieks, bowls,
curses, and cat-calls. “ But how about a drill-
instructor ?” cried a loyal snob iu the body of the
hall, whose face was curiously arabesqued by
shoemakers’ ink and tallow. Here his *Vorship
rose with a pl cit smile upo i his considerable
countenance, which seemed to point to his imme-
diate triumph. “ I am glad,” commenced his
Worship, “ that this quevestion has been harst. A
drill-instructor has neen secured by the Council.
He ” (pointing to the occupant of the 4th chair in
the second row) “ i? here.” (Applause.)
» * *
As the Mayor took his seat with the air of
a man who was so used to successes that they
rather bored him, a man behind him in a linen
jacket and blue spectacles bobbed up, and said;
■* I move that Brigade-sergeant Bagnetbuster ad-
dress the meeting.” The meeting, which had been
for some time longing for something definite,
seconded and carried this in a wild whoop. Then
Sergeant Bagnetbuster levered himself on to his
feet, and prepared to commence. But ere he had
spoken a word we knew him I
m m •
He was a cadaverous specimen, buttoned
so tight in a threadbare frock-coat, that his body
resembled a gasplpe, and exhibiting at the neck a
jannty piece of blue ribbon wound round a collar
that would last him until he fluttered up to sing
over little Joseph’s shoulder at the eneral
Chorus. No need for him to draw out the band-
*®fchlef from his breast and mop his heated brow,
W1 in his left arm akimbo I No need to stretch his
mouth out into a smile and show the solitary front
rang which reposed upon his distorted lower lip.
No need to turn towards us, in evident alarmed
rec psr n iti°n. that bulbous eye I Our gaze had not
rested on him a moment betore be was a monu-
ment in our recollection I Who was he ? [Slow
music please.] We will tell you. Me was the
anointed miscreant, who, when they were enroll-
ing the Contingent (and would have enrolled a
cockroach those days if he had smelt of beer strong
enough), used to stride up and down In front of
the Paddington Barracks, and, dragging at his
grisly moustache, cry: “ I’ve bled for my country
before; thank heaven, I’ll now be able to strike
another blow for the dear old land before I die.”
He was, for days, the prince of the privates-the
the canteen—and he had never gone to
tight after all I His martial words had flashed an
electric thrill throughout the country. He was
u re Ported” (all wrong, of course); he was given a
email-cap ’ heading all to himself-in fact, at the
period at which he burst upon the public he may
have been stated to have divided the popularity of
the city with the Little Boy at Manly. Yet there
he stood, straight as a ramrod; his face one
ignoble smile.
♦ ♦ •
“Mr. Chairman and gentlemen,” he said,
i 1 am , £ [ sol .dier. I do not deal in words. I deal in
hax. (Applause.) The Russian Heagle is at your
gates, and it absolves upon every one of ye to
defend yer arths and yer romes.” (Enthusiasm.)
[ro our confusion he had got the public ear,] “It
seems, ’ the demon of imposture went on in a low
V0 J, c f- • s® 6 ™ 8 hut yesterday since this ’and (bus.)
and this art hacted in concert again the very same
henemy. But I’ll never regret that I, at the siege of
Sebastopol, led the forlorn ’ope after six had been
busted, and captered the Agricola [?] at the point
u 8 Y ord h* the mouth of the hunger. (Loud
cheers; the local for cannon being well received.)
Since I am to drill ye, drill ye I will; and I can tell
you, gentlemen, that no platooner that ever I oper-
ated on ever fired off his ram-rod after the first
ten lessons. (Loud cheers) When on the field
you will find me strict. I do not believe, gentle-
men, ' he said, reflectively, “ I do not believe that
i? tue excitement a complicated manoeuvre even
the offer of a pint of English ale would seduce me
from, for a moment, my duty in the field. (Sympa-
thetic murmurs ) Now, gentlemen, i have done;
hall I ave to ask of you is to come for’ard and tip
us your names.” Then, before I could stop them,
before I could expose the grinning counterfeit on
the platform, the whole meeting had rushed to its
doom - Wh ? res the Town Clerk to take these
names? cried the Mayor, looking round, as the
candidates for glory closed upon him. At this
moment the Town Clerk re-appeared. He be-
trayed suppressed signs of emotion, but wore a
generally calm exterior. Marching slowly up the
steps to the stage, he handed the Mayor, in a
ghostly manner, a paper. 'J he Mayor perused it,
and started. Composing himself, however, he
passed the document on to the magnificent im-
postor behind him. We watched the effect
narrowly. Brigade-Sergeant Bagnetbuster turned
flvidl The Mayor then rose. “ Gentlemen,” he
said, with the very ghost of a sad sick smile, “this
meeting is better timed even than wo could have
hanticipated. Mr. Pike brings news that war has
been declared between England and Russia. Three
cheers for the Queen —hip—hip—hip.” But there
was not the shadow of a response I But a man
with a light suit here broke away from the other
aspirants for military fame, and commenced scut-
tling across the hall towards the big door. “ Here.
® 1 *1’ cried the Town Clerk, “I want your namel”
Name be bio wed I’ cried the man “slewing ’
angrily round; “afore I does any blessed thing
Imagom to dig a moat round my little ’ouse.”
This was the signal for a general stampede. In
two minutes we were, with an indignant counten-
ance, alone in the body of the hall. In the con-
tusion even the cadaverous sergeant had escaped I
• • •
“ Well, what names have you c-ot, any-
how, Mr. Town Clerk?” inquired tne Mayor, ril-
ing, preparatory to tsking his departure “ Only
*.? our Worship” was the reply. “ Who is
that? enquired his Worship, trying the catch of
bis umbrella. The Town Clerk read it savagely
our. 1 he explosion of a shell could not have
rstonished us more. It was —our own.
Fig. 1. Morning dress of figured pink surah. It is a princess dress, pleated back
and front, with a pleated Fedora plastron. Bows, belt, collar, and parements of grenat
velvet. Pink satin shoes.
Fig. 3. Diessing gown of grey alpaca, pleated at the back. The corsage is pleated
in front. Alpaca pelerine and jacket. Balt and bows of navy-blue faille ribbon.
