

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 3.—No. 108.—New Series.
SATURDAY, JUNiii 6, 1885.
Frloe—6d.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JUNE 0, 1886.
A Philsnthropist—by Proxy.
An amazing letter, from the pen of Mr.
Henry C. Danqar, was published in the
8. M. Herald of May 27th. Mr. Dangar is
concerned about the strike of the boys in
the colliery at Newcastle, New South Wales,
named—with singular infelicity, considering
that the hired boys are on strike—the Co-
operative. While his mind has been oc-
cupied with this strike, Mr. Dangar has
chanced to read in the St. Jambs' Gazette
■—a high-Tory evening newspaper of London
—a letter by a Social-Democrat, describing
the misery occasioned by over-production,
and consequent cutting down of wages and
employment, in the “Black Country” of
the North ®f England. The picture pre-
sented in this Socialist’s letter would move
the heart of a granite statue, and Mr. Dan-
gar’s first sensation would appear to have
been one of commiseration for the unhappy
wretches whose lot is described. The de-
scription, he allows, has a ring of truth
about it, and he is affected to the point of
admitting that it raises in his mind “the
question whether something cannot be done
to alleviate the sad condition ” of the suf-
ferers. The familiar vagueness of this in-
quiry, however, is subsequently dispelled.
Mr. Dangar sees an avenue for benevo-
lent and charitable action. He conceives
a stupendous scheme of levelling. From
the redundancy of the comparatively
Wealthy he proposes to make deductions to
confer competency on these poverty-
stricken wretches of the old world. That
Mr. Dangar should have so rapidly arrived
at such a revolutionary conclusion will,
doubtless, seem startling and improbable to
those who best know him. But before con-
demning the worthy man for his first at-
tempts to think out a problem in political
■economy for himself, to apply it to practical
and local conditions, and to formulate a
project of “confiscation,” it will be pru-
dent to learn the extenuating particu-
lars. Mr. Dangar is by no means
a convertto Socialistic ideas. He does
not throw himself into the rapidly-filling
ranks of those revolutionary reformers who
profess to perceive means for the abolition
of the conditions of extreme wealth and
bitter poverty. He has no conception of
advocating that the rich shall contribute a
Patriotic Fund for the relief of the starv-
ing millions in the grand old country. Still
less does he propound any system which
would perpetually operate equally to re-
duce the superfluities]©! the over-rich and to
augment the share of the producers in the
fruits of their labour.
* ♦ ♦
Mr. Dangar’s great and noble suggestion
Is that the miseries of the under-paid mining
population of the North of England should
be relieved at the expense of the—as he con-
siders—over-paid miners of Newcastle, New
South Wales. This conclusion is so grimly
grotesque, considered as the result upon a
man’s mind of perusing a heartrending
account of the deplorable condition to which
thousands of people have been reduced in
England by the lack of adequate payment
for their labour, that to leave no room for
tnistake, we quote Mr. Dangar’s own sen-
tences. He writes
“ I know I am traversing oft-trodden ground,
and can do but little towards the solution of this
difficult problem. When, however I read such a
letter as that which T ask you to publish, and am
■confronted by the fact that enterprise is paralysed
in these colonies by the cost of labour, which in
England is reduced well-nigh to starvation point,
there Is surely much need for something to be
attempted.”
And his very first sentence runs
“ In the St. James’s Budget of the 4th of April
appears the following letter, to which I am Inducedi
partly by the strike of the boys In the Co-operative
Colliery, and by other reasons, to ask you to give
Insertion. I shall merely say, so far as the strike
Itself Is concerned, that, as I understand It, the
young gentlemen who are throwing a large col-
liery Idle, and who exhibit such a Russian deter-
mination to have their own way, are offered
higher average wages than appear, by the follow-
ing letter, to be earned by colliers themselves —
fathers of families—In the Black Country in Eng-
land, and doubtless in most of the coal districts.”
There is here no chance of misconstruction-
Mr. Dangar is shocked certainly by the
facts slated in the letter he quotes, viz , that
in the English Black Country “ the wages of
the highest paid miners do not now amount
to more than 13s. 4d. a week, and many get
no more than 9s. or 10s.; the average for all
being about 11s.” But, on the other hand, he
is equally shocked to think that in New-
castle, New South Wales, boys are offered
higher average wages than grown men in
England, fathers of families—starve on I
• •
It does not occur to this gentleman to look
at the thing the other way round. He feels
apparently no pang of heart at the thought
that in England grown men, fathers of
families, are sunk in unfathomable misery
by being compelled to accept a rate of wage
which, in a new country where the expro-
priation of the people from the land is yet
only commenced, mere boys regard as in-
adequate return for their labour. Mr.
Dangar’s point clearly is that the colonial
boys are demonstrated to be exorbitant in
their claims, because they are not satisfied
with what fathers of families are paid in
England. It does not seem to strike him
that he is thereby begging the essential
question. In order to establish his proposi-
tion to decide the fairness or otherwise of
the demands of the Newcastle boys by com-
parison with wages paid elsewhere, he must
show first that the wage he adopts for com*
parison is a fair wage. If the colonial boys
demand as much as the fair wage of
an English adult occupied in the same
industry, then certainly, making due allow-
ance for any differences in cost of living in
each place, the boys are unreasonable. But
if the wage earned by the Englishman be a
starvation wage, obviously miserably inade-
quate to decent livelihood, the boys may
claim the same amount, or double the
amount, and still be in the right. In this
case, Mr. Danqak’s argument is that lie. a
week being the average earning of an Eng-
lish adult coal-miner, it is sheer absurdity
for a colonial boy to claim as much. And
an inevitable corollary must be, that it
would be just as absurd and exorbitant to
demand more than that wage, and some
addition equivalent to the higher cost of
living in Australia. At this rate, about 16s.
per week would be a fair wage for a grown--
up miner here.
• • •
The whole argument is founded on a otue
and cold-blooded fallacy, to wit, that 11?; is
a fair standard wage for an adult coal-
miner in England. Mr. Dangar is not, we
think, conscious of the quagmire into which
his defective faculty of reasoning conducts
him. No sane man would deliberately ad-
vance so preposterous a statement, and
accompany it by publication of so withering
a commentary ns that furnished by the ex-
tract supplied to the S.M. Herald by Mr.
Dangar himself. From the extract we
learn what effect upon an industrial class is
wrought by limitation of their wage to tha
standard by which Mr. Dangar proceeds to
try the reasonableness of the claims of the
boys at the Newcastle colliery. Here are a
few of the most graphic sentences
“I have just returned from a visit to the Black
Country; and if any one wants to understand why
we Socialists are determined to do our utmost to
hasten on the inevitable change in our present
system of production and exchange, I do not
think he could do better than to take a trip to the
same region A few plain statements
of fact may possibly stir some of your readers to
think of the matter. I will say that never among
any tribe of savages, with which T am acquainted,
have I seen women and young girls in such squalor
as they arc to be seen in in this Black
No doubt equally distressing sights are to be seen
in London and other places, but that does not
alter the case But it may be said the
women work. So they do, at nal'-making, and a
miserable pittance—not more, certainly, than 3s. a
week—can a woman earn at this, to the neglect of
her household duties The condition of
the whole population is desperate, and the appear-
ance of them is quite enough to tell the misery
they are suffering. I scarcely saw a really power-
ful, hale-looking man in the place; while the ap-
pearance of the women and girls at work in the
forges forced from my companion, an
the remark that the men deserved to be kicked for
allowing their wives and daughters to work in
that way Here again the deterioration
of the physical strength of the people was most
noticeable. Out of two or three hundred men
whom I addressed not one could be called a power-
ful robust man. The workers are overworked and
underfed, and the excessive toil for the women
engenders weakness, which deteriorates their off-
spring, who in turn are subject to the same pro,
cess. The housing is miserable.”
♦ • *
“A few plain statements of fact to set
your readers thinking,” truly. The few
plain statements have set Mr. Dangar think-
ing, as we see. And the result of his cogita-
tions is that it would be a benevolent deed
to fetch along a lot of these starving colliers
—to reduce the wages of colliers here, bring
the Co -operative Colliery boys to their knees (
and—enhance the profits of mine-owning
capitalists in New South Wales. We infer
that Mr. Dangar is interested in coal mines.
The result of his plan would be quite simple,
depending merely on the number of miners
he transported from the North of England
to New South Wales. If he only brought
enough, wages would here fall to the Black
Country level, and we should here have re-
produced all the entrancing effects des-
cribed in the statement which set bis
masterly intellect in motion. It he imported
a few hundreds only, wages would fall to an
extent approximately proportionate to theif
numbers as compared with the number- of
the present hands. Thus they would bC
supported by the coal miners now in New-
castle, New South Wales. Say that one-
third more hands than at present employed
were brought out, wages would fall about
one-third. Therefore, the colliery-ownel'
would get one-third more work for the same
money, the colliers would each get
third less wages. Profits would be in*
creased in like degree, and those pestilen
THE LATE VICTOR HTTGO,
Poet and Radical,


THE “HATMARKET” CORSET,
Our Own Make.
*
ave
3
8ft
u9
A
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium,
Haymarket (only).
QUOD FACIMUS YALDE FACIMU8.
(What we do we do well.)
YOUR PHOTO - If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful photograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
counsel, and pay first a visit to
the Vestibule leading to the Fur-
lirgton Galleries In the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
array of portraiture,not of select,
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, coupled with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost rnlversal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as photographers.
Prices—C.-D.-V., 15a.; Cabinets. 30s. per dozen.
CREELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNB 5T ARCADE
J. TURNER ROBINSON A CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-streot,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OP
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT PROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
0T Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
Annual Income exceeds One MUllsin
Lightning and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9s.
Small Bottle, , 4s. fid.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. fid. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
Sp. par Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT
8a. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
lp*fld. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke s Prize Medal Brand,
in stone bottles and square bottles.
LARGEST SIZE.
IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
I7DNE7.
j oung dogs, the Co-operative Mine boys,
would be brought to their bearings, and the
groat attraction of this enterprise would be
that Mr. Dangab would have become a
great irhilanthropist—by proxy. For the
cost of bringing these colliers here to share
bur (that is to say, the Newcastle operative
miners’) plenty would be defrayed out of
the immigration vote —that is to say, chiefly
out of the pockets of the industrial classes.
So that the Newcastle miners would ex-
perience the joy of contributing to the out-
if requisite to reduce their own wages!
Who can wonder that the working classes
are opposed to the vote for immigration?
They have long had an instinctive
hension of the purposes which that vote is
devised to serve. But never before, we be-
lieve, have these purposes been confessed
with so much blundering frankness as now
by Mr. Hfnry C. Dangab.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Precedence.
It is a matter of superlative indifference to us
whether “'Ills Grace’’the Roman Catholic Arch-
bishop, or “ His Right Reverence’’ tbe Anglican
Bishop, bo granted first pop at kissing the sapona-
ceous hand of Lord Augustus LoYtus. The two
prelates might Jostle each other for the highest
seat at the feast, until all the cocks in the viceregal
fowl-yard had crowed themselves hoarse in the vain
effort to remind the competitors that they were
denying their Master, and we should contemplate
the strugg'e with composure. The presumption
of priests presents nothing that is novel. But
the alio red existence of a code of precedence
which recognises these parsons at all, as such.
Is a matter which concerns the community.
The peiple of New South Wales have deli-
berately framed their system of government
On certain ines. And prominent among their
decisions is one that no sects shall be recognised
by the ti to in this colony. Yet it appears that in
absolute a tagonism to this Constitutional rule
the flunk jys of the Imperial offices have laid
down for the Governor whom we hire a
code of p. credences in which the “digni-
taries” of at (raft two sects are formally recog-
nised. Thus Government House Is made
guilty of a co iltmpt of our Constitution, and
becomes practically, as regards official receptions,
a sort of Alsatla, having its own laws, and these
being of a character which, outside that sanctuary t
have been pronounced injurious and demoralising.
In any other part of New South Wales except the
Governor’s house the Roman Catholic Archbishop
Is known to the laws and to the rulers of New
South Wales simply as Dr. Moran, and similarly
the Anglican prelate is plain Dr. Barry. Once
Inside the doors of Government House, it seems
that our Constitutional principles are set at
naught, and certain of our citizens take a prece-
dence before others of our citizens, which, as a
community, we have decided not to countenance
or recognise. This is nothing less than the
establishment of a foreign rule In our midst,
and the simplest relief from the spectacle
of one priest of a foreign Church in con-
temptuous repose, supported by the Governor
In pretending to higher position in Australia than
another priest of another foreign Church, would
be by our lay citizens of every station and condi-
tion of life refusing to present themselves within
the precincts of Government House on official
occasions until this slight upon our unsectarian
form of Government were knocked In the head.
Bishops and Brothels.
The publicans of Sydney, like the slaughterers of
the Soudan, may plume themselves upon having
been taken under the protection of no less a per-
son than his Holiness the Primate of Australia.
Dr, Barry has not yet, Indeed, proceeded to the
extremity of appointing a special service of inter-
cession and prayer for the poor publicans, endan-
gered as the vital interests of these are by the
heathen animosity of the Local Optionists, but he
has declared himself so essentially on their side
that It would be unreasonable to conceive that he
omits to mention them in his prayers. It is, con.
sequently, not beyond the bounds of possibility
at the Right Reverend will some Sunday pub-
licly present petitions at the Throne of Grace for
the preservation of the grog-seller from the wrath
of the ungodly abolitionist. The circumstance
which has won for the dealers in Intoxicants this in-
fluential Intercession with the Most High appears to
have been that the Local Optionists, with sinister
unoonscientiousness, repudiate the idea of compen-
sation being granted to ex-propriated publicans.
This is an insidious attack upon the rights of pro-
perty, and It goes without saying that to a prelate
of the Church of England the rights of property
appear the most sacred article of the official reli-
gion of the wealthy classes. If you begin by grant-
ing that public n has no right to compensation
for deprivation of a license, simply because it may
tee shown that the exercise and enjoyment of that
license as a property is fraught with injurious
results to the community in general—or, in other
words, to mankind—it will be obviously impossible
to maintain that compensation Is justly due to the
holder of any sort of property, or vested right,
the maintenance or perpetuation of which can be
demonstrated to be prejudicial to the well-being of
the human race. Thus, by allowing the publican
to be sacrificed to a mere principle of abstract
morality—however vital—you would compromise
the defence of rfiofiopoly of land and a variety of
other institutions. The consequence might be
that the mouths of willing advocates of property
and privilege In every degree would be closed by
inconvenient quotations from their own conces-
sions, and the sacrifice of the trade in drunken-
ness would Involve In one common ruin the
Throne, the Peerage, the landowners, and—yes-
and the Church 1 Dr. Barry’s claim of compen-
sation for the publican is, therefore, but one link
of a logical chain which has a pot-boy at one end
and a Prelate at the other. But logic Is an
awkward system to adopt in an absurd and ano-
malous cause. If the dispensers of liquid intoxi-
cants be entitled to compensation when refused
renewal of their license to deal in these dangerou
goods, the proprietors of opium hells are also en-
titled to get full value from the ratepayers should
their little well-conducted establishments ever be
by law abolished. And we would point out, for the
comfort and strengthening of the Bishop, that if
the principles he enunciates be sound, then, in
countries where brothels are recognised by the
State—In the way of licenses purporting to be
issued for the sake of regulating the establish-
ments—the abolition of such licenses by legisla-
tive authority would be unjust, unless ample com-
pensation were paid by the public to the dispos-
sessed proprietors.
The British Army.
Speaking of the return of the Contingent, the
“ T own Talker” of the ECilO refers to the British
troops In Egypt as “the first soldiers of the
world.” This is the sort of slip-slop in which
French writers wallowed before Sedan. And it is
doing something to force England on to a Sedan
of her own. We have quite as high an ap-
preciation as most people of the British bull-
dog's fighting qualities. But it is notorious that,
with the exception of a few corps d'elitc such as
the Guards, some Scotch regiments, and one or
two Irish ones, the bulk of the line is composed of
weedy lads under 20, sections of whom would fall
out on a week’s forced marches. Nor could it
well be otherwise. It is essentially a volunteer
army. Unlike Continental armies, the men are
not drawn from all sections of the people, but,
with trifling exceptions, from the lowest class of
all—the canaille of the nation. In the ranks all
classes above the country labourer out of work,
and the town loafer out of beer, are, to all Intents,
unrepresented. The consequence is that, in order
to keep the regiments up to anything like their
proper strength, mere boys have to be ac-
cepted who, in Continental States, would be left at
home with their mothers some years longer. This
is due to the deep-seated repugnance of the Eng-
lish people to anything even savouring of con-
scription. We are finding no fault with the
British people for their unconquerable aversion
to enforced military servitude. We are merely
pointing out that, on the face of It, it is absurd
and misleading to say that men so recruited are
superior to the German legions drawn from every
class of the people and subjected to a discipline
compared with which that of the British is mere
playing at soldiers. It is for Englishmen them-
selves to say whether it is worth while to put
themselves in the training necessary to become a
military Power of the first class. There is no
doubt that from the position, population, and
wealth of the United Kingdom it could become a
fighting Power second to none. It is when we see
British and colonial writers, in deference to a
spurious patriotism, claim for their country the
first place as a fighting Power and for their
troops the first place as a fighting machine, when
they know that the country has not, so far, ac-
cepted the sacrifices necessary to become so, that
we tremble to think of the rude awakening. The
true French patriots were not the Parisian gentle-
men of the ravi who shouted d Berlin, They were
the men who knew the real state [of affairs, but
whose voices were drowned in the ignorant
clamor.
Marano on Monarchs.
There was a so-called “ consular dinner ” in
Sydney, the other night, and the Vice-Chairman,
Signor Marano, the Italian representative, pro-
posed “ Reigning Monarchs.” Of these interesting
persons the Signor observed that selfish ambition
was not their aim, but rather “ the interests and
welfare of those nations over which they ruled.
. . . Their object now appeared to be to encour-
age with their money, position, and lives, every
aim that ennobled and elevated humanity.” How
these people must have improved even in our
timel Why, we remember when, if one of them
could not obtain a wife from among the female
relatives of another, he would put 300,000 men in
the field to prove what a good husband he would
have made if he had only got a fair chance. Yes,
and would think no more of wheeling a park of
artillery to one end of a long, wide street and
sending grape plunging among the pedestrians,
just to remind them that it was time to go
home, than a work-house undertaker of am-
putating a dead pauper’s legs in order to
make him fit. But now all is changed. Modern
monarchs live but to “ ennoble and elevate
humanity.” We believe this. Still, there are
various ways of elevating humanity. And when
we read of a dozen gently-nurtured men and
women dangling at the ends of ropes in Russia on
account of their stupid preference for representa-
tive government, we at once see that the ruler of
that favoured country is just as good as Dr. Ma-
bano says he is. How humanity is ennobled by
them it would be quite unnecessary for us to
point out, considering the evidences we have
around us of men who struggled manfully through
all the vicissitudes of public houses, butchers’
shops, and Orange lodges, to at last meet their re-
ward in being ennobled by a grateful sovereign.
We would diffidently suggest to Signor Mahano
that, in the hurry of the moment, he omitted one
powerful point in favour of modern and recent
rulers—their pure marital and social relationships.
There, for Instance, was Alexander and Isa-
bella, and—but we digress. You are right, Sig-
nor. Reigning monarchs are not the bold, bad,
crafty persons their immediate predecessors were.
Fools and Flatterers.
The delight of the Tories and Jingoes In England at
the action of Mr. Dalley in having betrayed N.S.
Wales to these classes, which have long looked
with a malignant and uneasy eye upon the contrast
offered by the peaceful and prosperous lot of
colonists as compared with the war-and-military-
tax-racked people of the old country, has overshot
the mark. Only in New South Wales among the
Australian colonies are people able to preserve
their gravity when they read that General Boom
‘ highly complimented ” the Contingent for some-
thing or other. Even in New South Wales, only a
minority are insensible to the fact that the bounds
of reasonable compliment have long been over-
stepped, and that the Queen and the Generals
alike are too frankly showing that they take colo-
nists for boobies, who not only run theli necks
voluntarily into a noose, but can be dosed
with flattery by the ladleful, without discovering
that they are being wheedled to their undoing,
and secretly derided as sawnles, The last compli-
ment cabled, is the only one which should ever
have been uttered—we believe it is the thirteenth
by the same General. In this instance he applauds
the spirit of the men of tbo New South Wales Con-
tingent. Now, all the pap about the excel-
lence of their evolutions, and giving them the
place of honour in the battle (when no battle was
expected, for when a fight not foreseen suddenly
appeared inevitable, the General was in a hurry to
Swallow his promise and explain that he couldn’t
take the Contingent out to fight at all, because—
they hadn’t breakfasted) have been laid on so thick
as to excite derision. The Victorian journals
openly laugh at these blarneyings, and have
shown them in burlesque. But the spirit of the
men, as fighters, was good. They wanted to
fight, and we believe would have stood bet
ter than raw troops generally do a first assault.
Reduced to common-sense, this was their one
military virtue. Capable or well-disciplined
troops they were not, nor could be expected to be.
And they knew it themselves. Hero, for instance,
is part of a letter written in Suaklm by a member
of the Contingent:—“ Our fellows are extremely
anxious for a really good brush with the rebels.
They may have their wish realised ere you receive
this. I speak now of the infantry. The artillery,
of which I am not so proud—merely looking upon
them as fifth-rate fellows to the above—h?ve not
yet had a show, and, as far as I can see, aren’t likely
to. They are growling like bears, wishing to get
back, although no campaign hardships have yet
been experienced by them. I do not wholly
blame the men for this, who, I believe, are good
enough, but their officers. Our re-arrival
in Sydney will convince you of my opinion being
genuine. Had I the time, I could well criticise
some of the many faults apparent dally. How-
ever, as time is very limited here, I must content
you with the fact that since we landed none have
been so heavil y worke as our fellows (infantry).”
In another letter from a different member of the
Contingent we read that, in the opinion of the
writer, four months’ constant drill would be re-
quisite before the Contingent could attain a state
of genuine efficiency as a disciplined body. Never-
theless, fulsome compliments have made our Con-
tingent the laughing-stock of the army. “You
are the finest troops we ever saw,” cry the Tories
and generals. “ Bravo, Australians! Come along
every time, and dance to our piping. (Aside) How
easy it is to tickle those fools In Australia!”
A Grand Advertisement.
We are being 1 continually reminded by our
Jingoistic Press of tbe great benefits we may ex-
pect to derive from our recent Interference in the
Soudan. The notice now taken of us in England,
we are told, is something to be proud of. The
following extract, however, may exhibit matters
In another light—a different light to that which
the Morning Missionary wishes to shed on the
subject: . . . “ I sold out my place in shire
for £3500. Opportunities of * getting on ’ are too
few here to suit me. My ambition is to make a
fortune, but I could not see my way clear to do
so as an English farmer. Indeed, I have long seen
clearly that the first step towards the fruition of
my hope is emigration. A ‘ good living ’ I, no
doubt, could manage to secure here, but 1 am too
restless (too energetic, may I say V) to rest satis-
fied with a condition of life-long mediocrity when
I feel I am capable of better things. It was at one
time my half-formed intention to make New South
Wales my future home, but recent events have con-
vinced me that such a step would be injudicious,
it not actually dangerous. I refer, of course, to the
action of your Government in sending troops to
Africa, to take part in the iniquitous Soudan
operations. You have jumped to the front as a
fighting nation, and every future ‘complication’
between England and foreign nations must of
necessity affect you. In the opinion of many
thinking men here the action of your Government
was of the maddest, the sentimental phase of the
question wholly unworthy of a presumably hard-
headed, practical people, and the effect on your
material prosperity will surely be evil. Judging
by the warlike tone of your Press, you will shortly
have a standing army to keep, and we know what
that means, especially to a small community
like yours. Fresh taxation will assuredly have to be
resorted to for the purpose of paying for your
recent stride towards military renown, and we all
know the effect fresh taxation is likely to have.
No; all things considered, I conclude that Canada
or the United States must furnish my future
home. Probably the latter, as a reasonable secu-
rity for my property is, naturally enough, a first
consideration with me. Such security, I am sorry
to say, does not appear to be obtainable with you,
as the hare-brained irresponsible action of your
Government on a late occasion plainly shows.’*
Now then, Jingoes, what have you to say to this ?
Feast the Contingent, eh ? Another public holi-
day, and unlimited fuss in its honour, forsooth 1
Quietly take their guns from them and whisper
them to go back to their legitimate trades or call-
ings without more ado.
“Catholicua” on Crime.
As'AN authority on Irish archaeology, Dr. Moran
may be a giant. As a man of the world he is a
child. Judged by his public utterances since he
came amongst us, he possesses little of the savoir
faire of the courtly ecclesiastic who was equally
at home in the confessional and in the boudoir.
His Botany address particularly has stirred up a
chorus of threats—from the dignified bark of the
Herald to the shrill squeak of the Protestant
Standard. But it is not of this we would speak.
Our business at present is with a letter written by
“ Catholicus ” to the Daily Telegraph. In it the
writer makes statements which are by no means
new, but which have not, to our knowledge, been
yet satisfactorily answered. That the accusations
are not new matters little, after all. The real
question is, “Are they true,” and, if so, “have
their true causes been assigned ? ” It matters
nothing to us that the proof of pons asinorum is
old, so long as it is perfect, and cannot be gain-
said. And now for “Catholicus.” He says that
the Roman Catholics of Australia “supply a
very much larger number of criminals than
their numbers [in proportion to the rest
of the population] would justify.” He gives
a list of noted bushrangers, and adds that “the
first four men flogged at the Woolloomooloo lock-
up during last year were all members of the same
race [Irish] and faith [R.C.].” We have no means
of checking these statements, so we shall admit
them without reserve. It is the inference we
challenge. That inference is, that the Protestants,,
English, and Scotch—the foreign clement can be
left out as being too small to disturb—are morally
superior to the Catholic Irish, and that the moral
inferiority of the Celt is due to his race and his
creed. It cannot be due to his race, for, if so, the
Welsh, the Highlanders, and the people of Brittany,
who are quite as pure Celts as the Irish, would be
the most unprincipled of scoundrels. It cannot
For continuation of “ Plain English,” see next page


Ask for Wolfe’s Schnapps and be sure you
purchase the genuine article. Beware of Imita-
tions.
Sweet is the hour that brings us home
Where all will spring to meet us,
Where hands are striving as we come
To be the first to greet us;
When the world has spent Its frowns and wrath.
And care has sorely prest,
You’ll surely find that Summerfleld —^
Can fit your form the best.*
Wolfe’s S impps— Look for “W.A.S.”
in a Diamond aj wrapper. “ Wolfe’s Aroma-
tic Schnapps, 1
(“Plain English,” continued from page 4.)
be due to their religion. So far as ail the attributes
that go to constitute morality—temperance, chas-
tity, honesty, &c —are concerned, the Spaniard or
Bavarian will compare favourably with the Eng-
lishman or the Scotchman. The number of per-
sons passing through the hands of the police during
a certain period is too crude a test of a com-
munity’s morality to rely upon. It takes little or no
account of illicit sexual intercourse, and It is
notorious that, in this respect at least. Catholic
females need not fear comparison with their Pro.
testant sisters. Even Including agrarian crime, it
la doubtful whether the number of grave offences
committed in Ireland during the past decade
equalled—in proportion to population—those per-
petrated in Great Britain. How, then, are we to
account for the preponderance (assuming it to be
true) of Celtic crime in the colonies ? “ Catholi-
cus” suggests “race” and “creed.” We show it
has nothing to do with either. But we shall go
further, and show with what it has to do. Its roots
are to be traced in the fact that a greater propor-
tionate number of Irish were “ sent out” than of
their fellow-subjects across the Channel. This
was due to causes which will suggest themselves.
In those bad old days the terrible life of
convictship and settlement soon changed a
comparatively innocent man into a beast.
Then, again, a century of enforced ignorance
under the penal laws reduced tho Irish to a
semi-savage state. A race can be trained down, as
it were, as well as trained up. Any physician will
kllow the Impossibility of curing in a few days a
Patient whose disease has been the result of years.
So with a nation. You cannot remedy in one
generation the lamentable results of centuries of
oppression. Among us are living those who were
young men before the passing of Catholic eman-
cipation. Thus the Celt—not from race or creed,
but from the poverty and ignorance due to op-
pression-settled down into the poorest stratum
of colonial society. It is this stratum that in all
countries is the recruiting ground for criminals.
A man does not steal a leg of mutton when he
knows there’s a sirloin of beef on his sideboard
at home. Oppression—poverty—ignorance-crime.
There you are, “ Catholicus.” Why maunder
about “race ’ and “creed’’when the real causes
are straight before you ?
The authorities of the University of Sydney are
profoundly discussing the question whether their
instruction in French and German shall not be
confined almost exclusively to the literature,
leaving the grammatical training to the schools.
This should undoubtedly be done. A young fel-
low who has acquired ordinary facility in transla-
ting from a strange tongue into English, should
learn all the remaining Idiomatic and rhetorical
turns incidentally. Professor Blackie knew this,
and in teaching his beloved Greek, he insisted on
the students speaking it. They certainly did not
all score first in examinations on tho rules of cer-
tain grammars prescribed; but nearly every man
of them who followed the course has shot far over
the heads of the grammarians. The laws of gram-
mar are drawn up by a number of gentlemen
who can see only as far as the numskulls who
taught them grammar. The forceful men of any
literature known are the makers of the standard
tongue. The literature contains the grammar,
not vice versa. G. H. Lewes said the examiners on
English literature set questions to his eon that he
himself [would utterly fail to answer. And
Shakespeare would bo pluckod to-day in a public
school teachers’ examination. Therefore—gram.
mar in the schools j in the University, literature*
the higher grammar, only incidentally.
Why is heaven a most lonely spot ? Be-
cause there's not a damned soul there.
Mr. J. C. Williamson is a passenger by the
Incoming ’Frisco mail boat, which reached Auck-
land on Monday.
Mr. Critchett Walker, the N.S.W. principal
Under-Secretary, is recovering from a shan at-
tack of scarlet fever.
Believed that a resumption of the Franco-
China war is certain. France is said to have landed
6000 troops at Tonquin.
Gerald W. Massey thrown out of a cart
and killed. This is not the poet, but the deputy
electoral registrar at Eohuca (Vic).
The Emperor William of Germany is now
in better health. Since the N.S.W. Contingent left
Africa he has felt less anxiety concerning the
integrity of his dominions.
Mr, Willoughby Smith, the manager of
Mr. Barton’s Moolboolaman station in the Burnett
district ot Queensland, died about a fortnight ago.
He was a young man of high abilities and pleasant
manners. He was related to the Smiths that
turned Caringtons.
Two divorce suits will, it is said, be heard
next term in the Melbourne Courts. In one, the
wife of a Geelong tradesman will interview their
Honors, and much interest is attached to this case,
although the Issues are only cruelty and desertion.
The second suit is expected to erase the memory
of the Malpas case, as the injured husband, it is
said, intends to call upon at least a dozen gentle-
men (and one of them the inevitable parson) to
explain their conduct regarding his missus. Just
fancy a dozen co-respondents! Happy Melbourne!
Happy lawyers II Happy Herald] Happy Even-
ing News I
Dr. Power, lately of Maryborough,
Queensland, has obtained £300 from a jury up
there for damages done to his character by Patrick
Lill's. It appears that Lillis, who is a leading man
in that quarter, called him a swindler on several
occasions during the last seven years, and used
other language injurious to the doctor's reputa-
tion. The trouble began when Dr. Power was a
member of the firm of Power and Lyons. Twelve
years ago, the firm borrowed £700 from Lillis. Ic
afterwards went Insolvent, and though Power
offered to pay £350, Lillis would not give
an acquittance. He said he preferred to
brand him as a swindler all over the
colony. This he started to do Dr. Power
has lately come to regard himself as a coming
man, politically and socially, and on the advice of
his brother, another coming man, ho entered an
action for slander, and claimed £10,000 as a solace.
There was practically no defence, Mr. Arthur
Rutledge, the Attorney-General, who appeared
for Lillis, exerting all his talent to show that the
word “swindler,” as used in modern times, is a
quite unobjectionable epithet, and that if there
be any particle of offence in it the most fastidious
would overlook it when volleyed from the mouth
of “an excitable Irishman.” This sounds a rum
way of winning the favour of a jury. Yet it
saved Lillis a possible £9800. In Northern Queens-
land arum argument has great potency.
A Dry Subject;
OB,
NOTES ON THE WATER FAMINE.


Personal Items
A home paper tells us that “ the Mudir of
Dongola has gone through a ceremony of purifica-
tion to wipe out the contamination he supposes
himself to havo received from being decorated
with the Order of St. Michael and St. George.”
Supposes! Happy partial ignorance I
At the Alexandra Palace, one day lately,
the Tiohborne Claimant was relating his woes to
an enormous svudlende. He bad been vilely per-
secuted by everybody. He was undeniably Sir
Roger Tichbome, but every man’s hand had been
against him. The vast audience were moved till
oqe of the crowd, an inhabitant of tho gallery, a
man who had gazed on much r/ine that was of all
colours, sonorously remarked—“ 'Ornpipe, Orton I”
Then it was all over, and whatever his wrongs
and grievances were, tho possessor of them was
gracefully guyed off the stage.
“ Queen Victoria’s
favourite novelist is
George Eliot.” George
Eliot’s favourite queen
wasn't Queen Victoria.
Mr. George J Sly, of
Sydney,writes to the Bega
Standard, and on behalf
of Judge M’Farland, de- "
mands an instant apology
for statements said to
have appeared in that
paper. The Judge de-
clares the statements to
bo “ base, malicious, and
cowardly.” The Stand-
ard says no such state-
ments as the Judge refers
to appeared in its
columns. Someone has
slid off a log.
London Life, in re-
ferring to the Coota-
mundra railway disaster,
out of which Joe Thomp-
son and his friends es-
caped so luckily, makes
ud a category of people
whom a special provi-
dence looks after.
Children, drunkards,
idiots, and Australian
betting men, are the
quartette. It is always
well to be saved, but it is
particularly gratifying
to be saved In good com-
pany.
Thenewepaper death-
watch on General Grant
at latest was being re-
lieved. It is no secret
that the newspaper men
consider themselves
rather ill-used. They had
paid rent for a room
close to the Grant man-
sion for weeks, and they
had sat night and day
waiting for General
Grant to die, and yet he
died not. When Garfield
lay on his death-bed the
reporters waited night
and day in an adjacent
room lor the fatal hour.
They also hired a room
opposite Vanderbllt’s
house when he lay dying,
and there they kept up
the death-watch for seven
months. Charles O Con-
nor, too, put the Frees to
much trouble and cost,
and ended, as Grant may
do, by turning out again
astrongand healthy man,
for the N.Y. Sun states
that bis disease is not
cancer, and may, alter
all, be cured.
Irishmen are not all
sentiment, it would ap-
pear. Mr. J. A. Blake,
now on a visit to Austra-
lia, tells that in canvesi-
ing a country district la
Ireland, he saw on the
side of the road one of
his bold supporters in
deep converse with a very
pretty girl. The member
thought he saw how the
land lay. Soon he heard
of his supporter’s mar-
riage, and in a while he
dropped into the country-
man's bouse to thank him
for his vote and congra-
tulate him on bis change
In life Oh the hearth,
however, where tho
pretty girl should have
been, there was a tllled-
nosed, battered-faced
personage, with a dhu-
deen between her teeth.
The member whlsperid
to the husband: “Why
didn’t you marry the
Sretty giri I iaw you
liking to?” “Well, ye
see, sorr,” said t he m atte r-
of-fact countryman, “she
had only two cows. Tier
there had three cows. It
wud tako a purty lot of
beauty to aqual a cow.
There isn’t that much
difference between any
two women I tver saw.”
The American papers say that Mark
Twain works half of the year and plays the other.
The half year he works, his writings are accom-
plished in an imitation pilot-house, and he sticks
at it for Qye hours every day. It takes a lot of
lies to kill a man, or Mark Twain would be dead
long ago. Carlyle has told us, and Lewis Scott can
tell us that you can’t work without inspiration.
Why, it took a certain genius so long, once, wait-
ing for the vein to arrive when he had received an
order for a drama for Spencer’s Polytechnic,
Sydney, that before he had completed it poor
Spencer was dead, Alice married to a circus man,
Clara and her mother keeping a restaurant
amongst the ruins of the departed “ Vic.”, and the
Polytechnic, itself, ignobly turned in a tailor's
shop. No, nol If Mark Twain work in this man-
ner (which we don’t believe) he writes all his jokes
during his holidays, and when in his pilot-house
evolves all his “ padding.” His latter works only
average one Joke that he hasn’t made before, to
every three pages, anyhow.
They say that the lecture lately delivered
** up the line” by William Webb, Parkes’ friend,
concerning the latter's “ life and character,” was
one of the funniest affairs ever heard or dreamt
of. Firstly, Webb “ diatrlbed’’ Sirenree for half-
an-hour. When ho had lost his wind he sat down,
and during the Interval Mr.Blodgkins favoured the
audience with the “ Wind that shakes the barley,”
and what looked like an impromntu jig. Then
Webb took another 20 minutes at Parkes-skinning,
and when Henry’s “life” had been metaphorically
«* taken,” and what remained of his character had
been worried into oakum-like shreds, the remorse-
less Webb wiped the perspiration off the front of
his thinking-box and squatted down for a spell
while Miss Patmore “ obliged ” by sweetly
warbling “ Don’t be angry with me, darling.” We
are sorry for Webb. He is so grimly lo earnest
and so utterly destitute of humour. Why Parkes,
who really can see (and feel) the point of a joke,
should have thought it worth while to prosecute
William is one of those things that no fellow can
understand.
“Australia still lacks her poet,” remarks
London Figaro, apropos of the pieco (by Douglas
B. W. Sladen) quoted below descriptive of a rab-
bit-drive:—
“ At lunch the shooters quenched their thirst
With various liquors. Bear was first
In favour, claret next. But Will
And Mr. Porte prepared to All
With oatmoal water, which they said
Was the best drink for health and head,
When one was hot. While Phil endured
Water with only whisky cured, & \ &o.”
It Is true that Australia still lacks her poet, but it
is also true that London Figaro lacks a member
on its staff who knows anything of the respectable
attempts made to supply the deficiency. Literary
beer, and very flat beer, indeed, must be “first in
favour” with a writer who has kept him-elf from
hearing of Gordon. Kendall, and Stephens, and
comes forward with his welcome, his “hearty
welcome,” to Douglas Sladen, the Bird of the
Rabbit-drive, as the representative poet of Aus-
tralia.
Judge William*, of Victoria, if he has not
—in the undying phrase of tho one Al/rcd -given
pleasure to all, has at least put money in his purse
by his “ Religion without Superstition. This little
work—feeble enough la its way—a very rushlight
in the infinite gloom—would probably have pene-
trated no further than the freethinking and
spiritualistic circles of Melbourne and Sydney, if
the Press had not damned it off-hand, and the
chivalrous Bishop of Melbourne drawn his (unfor-
tunately) two-edged sword of argument against
the author. As it is, the book has run through
two editions, and the third is in course of prepara-
tion. In his preface to the second edition, the
Judge relates, not without some dry judicial
humour, how, since the book first appeared, he
has been in constant receipt of tracts headed—
“The fool said in his heart there was no God,”
“ Thou fool, even this night thy soul shall be in
hell-lire,” and other statements to the same cheer-
ful and reassuring effect—all of which makes us
think that if the next world is a madder one than
this, it is given only to the lew choice spirits who
howl for war in the morning journals to have any
real forecast of what that world is like.
This is what the Pall Mall’s interviewer
says of O’Donovan Rossa’s appearance: - “A well-
built man is Rossa, with good shoulders and fine
limbs. His gait is not good, but bis attitude when
standing is somewhat striking. A broad, high
forehead, topped with dry, iron-grey hair, im-
mense shaven jowl, rounded off by a weak and
tremulous mouth, deepset eyes that never rest
more than an instant on one object; blunt, power-
ful nose and softish cheeks-is the sum of Rossa's
(aclal items.” And the reporter sums him up
thus: If you ask what I think of Rossa, I will
say that he is a man of great power, singular
fascination, and strong eloquence. He was meant
for big things, but he has become degraded.
Noble ambitious are dead in him; alcohol has
sapped his will and ruined his nerve. He is a
wreck of a remarkable man, and since his nature
demands some strong motive for action, he has
given himself over entirely to drink and avarice.
The stupid, freckled Irishmen whom I saw sneak-,
ing in with reports love him like loyal simpletons
as they are; but he fees his own degradation
bitterly, and he solaces himself with collecting
coins. I saw his floe house-yroperty, and I was
sorry to think that a man, originally a sort of
leader, should have sunk into a cowardly, drunken
plunderer of the poor.”
The London correspondent of the Age
thus sweetly discourses concerning that colossal
colonial nob, Sir “ ?altnon” Wilson:—“Amongst
the specialities of ‘ Primrose Day ’ in London was
the issue by the St. Stephen s Rrview of what
is styled a ‘primrose number.’ There would be
nothing very remarkable in this, and its publica-
tion might be allowed to have some interest as
picturing the haunts pourtrayiog some of the
most important incidents in the history of a very
extraordinary mao and extrem°iy talented leader.
Judge of my disgust, on opori’ig the bro-
chure, to find bmeath the ‘ arms ' of Lord Beacons-
tteld, which form a sort of fror-tbpiece to the
primrose numb’r, the brand new regalia of Sir
Samuel Wilson, surmounted by that worthy’s
name. It is surely somewhat out of place that
because Sir Samuel Wilson pays the magnificent
sum of £300 a year or thereabouts for the deceased
statesman's late habitation ho should, therefore,
be lifted to the same niche in the tnnule of fame
as his illustrious predecessor. In the preface, too.
Sir Samuel is spoken of in terms which infer that
he is the * owner ’ instead of the mere ‘ renter ’ of
Hughenden. The loving care with which Sir
Samuel and Lady Wilson have refrained from dis-
turbing the relics of Bop.consflell still remaining
in the house is also referred to as a great service
rendered to the nation, when, as a matter of fact,
the Wilsons have no choice in the matter, the
terms of their occupation compelling them to
leave the furniture and appointments of the
* manor' entirely undisturbed during their ten-
ancy. Further on in the book, amidst portraits of
the ancestors of Lord Beaconsfleld, a full-page
engraving of Sir Samuel Wilson is inserted, sit-
ting In Burke's chair in Beaconsfleld’s library.
And, as if to prove to what lengths the force of
effrontery can go, we are treated to a rehash of
the glorious muniments by which, as I told you in
my last, the descent of Sir Samuel from the blood
royal of England is put forth with all manner of
suppositious proof. If Sir Samuel thinks this kind
of blundering puffery is likely to do him good in
the quarter to which he hopes soon to be indebted
for a barony, or at least a baronetcy, he is very
much deluded.” By the way, St. Stephen's Re-
view is a rag which, when it started, was under-
stood to be in recept of a subsidy from Wilson of
the (lamv-coloured beard, If, indeed, he was not
actually one of Its proprietors. Such are the
miserable creatures whom Royalty delights to
“ honour.” Let us now ennoble a toadstool and
proceed to sing the praises of a muckworm.
Our hero Gordon’s reputation will receive
rather a shock from the ghastly accounts published
In several of the papers last week of an execution
of some traitors, which he superintended and
apparently watched. The details are not fit for
publication, and are enough to sicken anyone, and
we must say we could wish that the “Christian
martyr ” had not gazed unmoved from the roof of
a house on this piecemeal chopping up of live
men, which, it appears, is the Turkish notion of a
proper execution for military offenders How
ever, we it was hla “duty.” Subscrip,
tions to the London Gordon Memorial Fund are
coming in but slowly.
Mr. Rogers was engaged by the late Arch-
bishop Vaughan to Inspect the R.C. Denomi-
national schools of N.S.W, The salary agreed to
was £500 per annum. We hear that Archbishon
Moran, soon after his arrival, determined to
“ have a change,” and intimated that he was about
to dispense with the services of Mr. Rogers The
latter claimed compensation, and gave notice of
an action at law. Negotiations were opened up
and both agreed to submit the claim to arbitra-
tion. Mr F. J. M Carthy represented the Arch-
bishop, Mr. Sly the inspector, and Mr. Frank
Rogers, the barrister, eat as referee. A verdict
was given for £3500. At this stage the Archbishop
discovered that he aid not really want to dispense
with the services of Mr. Rogers at all He inti-
mated this pleasant discovery with all friendly
Ingenuousness. Mr. Rogers was highly gratiffra
but also insisted with friendly ingenuousness
that he wanted that £3500-which he now has in
his pocket.
When we go out to
a dinner party we are
divided in opinion as to
which we like to sit next
to best. The gentleman
who has retired from
business and makes im-
mediate cash advances to
persons on their note of
hand, alone, and at an
extremely low rate ; or
(an American) the philan-
thropist, who guarantees
an income cf from £f to
£5 a week, to whoever
will send him a penny
stamp There is just es
much Jew about the one
as there is jewellery about
the other, but they ere
both agreeable rattles
Perhaps, the ugh, the
Mellcan man, whoso
dupes are principally
officers’ wives and
daughters, has a Gillette
palm. But it's almost a
toss-up, arj way.
The Freeman, in an
Indignant f ader, uiges
that “ Plain BrlJ Dailey ”
should have been made a
member ot the P/lvy
Council, tod a KC.B.at
least. Of course, to have
conferred tt of e argnrtits
only upon the WarJViinls-
ter would have emailed
upon the Queen the
necessity ot conferring
equal honours upen Sir
Alexau- er. Bern 1 this
reminds us that when the
matter of knighting
these good people had
been settled by the Queen
and Lord Derby — the
latter, before taking
leave of the Presenci,
said, with a smile-hu,
pld smile:—“Tour Ma-
jesty has, this day, mace
a remarkable appoint-
ment. You have
knighted, madame, a
freak ot nature.” And
then he went cut back-
wards, gingerly holding
the three knightly skew-
ers in under bis coat-tail.
They are on the road,
Despite the prayers
of the falthlul, to ktngs,
as to humbler and
honester people, the
rainy day sometimes
comes. Even Tawbiao,
the Maori king, is out in
the downpour now. A
little while ago he was
lifting jewelli d flrgers to
his lips, and i ubbing noses
with the highest in the
land. Now his own will
not know him. Revisited
the Northern trim sa lew
weeks a*o. be showed
them his white cuffs and
white collar, and told
them aneoootes about
the great men and beauti-
ful women ot England.
He assured them he had
kept his pledge, and,
thinking by this time he
had mollified tho bitter
feelings ot the listening
chiefs, he determined to
play his best card lor the
Crown of Maoridoro. He
produced from the tac-k
pocket of his coat a
prayeibook and a bottle
of gngtrbeer. But,
scientific though the play
was, he lost the trick.
They cast him out, and
pasted a unanimous re-
solution that he would
be king over them no
more. He is there nowf
in the downpour. Does
nobody want a gentle,
inoffensive king with
white cuffs, white collar,
a prayer book, and a
gingerbeer bottle ? Out
Of respect to the great
institution of Royalty,
somebody ought to fetch
him in out ot the rain, or
lend him a gingham.
The Auckland Star learns from a corres-
pondent in London that Prince Albeit Victor is
urging his father to visit the colonies, but that his
straitened old man is scared at tbe-expenses. The
Star should squelch the scare by telling hew
Edinburgh made a really good thing out of a
similar trip. When the Duke got to Auckland, he
was all on Are to see the Thames and Shotover
gold-mines. He was brought down, ot course,
among speculative directors and flattered mana-
gers. He was ecstatic in admiration, and button-
holing one and another, kept saying “ I vish I vas
a member of dese companyes.’ The directors saw
in it a Euiopean advertisement. They stuffed
parcels of scrip into the Royal pockets. The Duke
said, “ Thankee; I sail keep it alvays in memory
of oor sparkling gold-mines.’’ Then he went
straight back to Auckland, and sold out at top
prices. Why should the Prince of Wales be
frightened at expenses? There are plenty of
dodges to his Royal hand." Let him talk to Edin-
burgh.
Need we say that the subjoined is quoted
from the 8. M. Herald? It appeared in the
“leading” Sydney Journal one day last week,
without italics. We nave put in the Italics out of
pure cussedneas. There is but a step between the
sublime and the ridiculous. In the Herald the
Paris sublime:—“The following interesting Utile
paragraph, from a. letter received by Mrs. Bagot
from her daughter Mrs. Elliott, supplements the
news received through our London correspondent,
with reference td the presentation ot flowers to
Princess Beatrice, on the occasion of the anniver-
sary of her birthday, and whilst Her Majesty and
the P.inoess were at Aix les-Balns: When we ar-
A Chapter on Carington.


DR.SCOTTS
s et
'I'".
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by the
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continental
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial ?
If you have any pain* ache, or ill-feeling
from any cause; if you seem “pretty well, fl
yet lack energy and do not “feel up to the
mark;’’ if you suffer from disease, we beg
you to at once try these remarkable cura-
tives. They cannot and do not injure like
medicine. Always doing good, never barm,
there is no shock or sensation felt in wear-
ing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results; electro-magnetism acts quickly,
generally the first week, more frequently
the first day, and often even during the
first hour they are worn their wonderful
curative powers are felt.
The mind becomes active, the nerves and
sluggish circulation are stimulated, and all
the old-time health and good-feeling come
back. They are constructed on scientific
price pies, imparting an exhilarating,
health-giving current to the whole system.
Professional men assert that there is hardly
a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily
practise the same, as your own physician
will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearance
from those usually worn, as we substitute
our flat steel magnetods in place of the
ordinary corset-steels. They are all equally
charged, differing only in quality and design
They are elegant in shape and finish, made
after the best French patterns, and war-
ranted satisfactory in every respect. Those
who have tried them say they will wear no
others. Most of the above applies equally
to the Electric Belt for gents. 4 J
v ’
c
m
Dr. Scott’s Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for bjpinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &o., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all other remedies (so-
called) have failed.
The prices are as follows
XT , *• d-
No.l .. .. .. 8 B
No. 3 .. .. ... 8 6
No. 3 ; 10 6
No. 5 .. .. .. ]5 n
Electric Belts.. .. .. 15 0
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electrio-Magnetio
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece ef common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque,
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
liTl,
64 Margarcf-straet,
SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 331.
Headaches, lowness of Spirits, &o , show
that the Liver is out of order— In Wolfe's
Schnapps you have the best remedy.
DENTIST.
(Of America)
G UARANTEES
Psrfttl Fit mi Mastication.
ST" PRICES MODERATE.
Corner George and Market Streets
OYER HUNTER’S BOOT PALACE.
PROGRESSIVE BOOK STALL.
“Reply to Rev. De Witt Talmage.” 6d.
“ What must 1 do to be Saved,” 6d.
“ Moses’ Mistakes in God’s Book,” 6d,
“ Take a Road of Your Owd,” 3d.
“ Which Way.”
“ The True Principles of Population,” 3d.
Country orders, 28 RILEY STREET : or,
GEORGE STREET MARKETS every Saturday,
J. DUNNE.
VENETTA WALT7T.
Tht Air to !>• woil mnrlml. Ca.ro (j ru lotmiui.
caSitabdk — * 1
m
Fed
t- ;
mm
I-*-
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Sc o.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues will be ready in a few days and
sent gratis on application.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &c., at lowest prices.
Printing—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed. Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &o.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most Important Copying
Instruments ever Invented. The Trypograpn
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM ~BULLARD.
342 GEORGE STREET.
r lved at the villa where the Queen was residing,
we found that an English deputation, with a
present of flowers, was waiting in the room.
Presently General Sir Henry Ponsonby came
Id, and up jumped the English clergyman, and
said, ‘The blnglish people are to present their
flowers first, are they not?’ and Sir Henry
said, * No, the Australians aro to do so first,” and
then he walked over to us and began to talk to me,
(uid asked if I had read the Sydney papers with the
list of the men who had gone to the Soudan. I said
No, and then he said that the Queen had had one
gent to her, and he would see if she had finished
with It, end he went away and shortly-afterwards
returned with it, and told me that- 1 might take it
away with me, which I did. He then took us three
ladies {Mrs. G. li Elliott. Miss Darchy, and Miss
Rose Darchy) to the end of the room near the door
the Princess was to come in at, and when she
entered he Introduced us as the three Australian
ladies, and we gave our flowers and made our
speeches. She said it was most kind, &c„ &c., and
then the clergyman brought up the English girl
who had been elected to present the flowers for
her party.” “Most kind, &o.” Humph I
The hard and fast rules laid down by the
banking institutions of Victoria, which condemn
their junior employes to single cussedness until
their princely incomes are booked in treble
figures, are directly responsible for providing the
materials for an interesting society drama, the
main features of which will be presented to the
dwellers In the “Cabbage Garden” through the
medium of the Supreme Court in the course of a
few v eeks. Some five or six years ago an impres-
sionable youth, who held a junior position in one
of the leading financial marts in the modern Baby-
lon of the South, fell deeply and violently in love
with a gushing young creature from the arcadian
district of Mansfield. He had the malady so badly
that nothing short of running in double harness
couli effect a cure. The banking regulations,
however, proved a formidable barrier at first, but
love laughs at locks and things, and so in this case
It smiled at regulations. In order to secure a wife
and at the same time keep his billet, it was ar-
ranged that the marriage, which came off in due
course, should be kept a profound secret. Shortly
afterwards, however, the bank authorities had a
suspicion that the hitherto gay young financier
had either tied the nuptial knot or contemplated
such an atrocity, so they generously gave him
the choice of expatriation to Bananaland, or of
sending in his resignation. The young Benedict
chose the former, but the gentle bride quietly but
firmly refused to accompany him, preferring the
comforls of her ma’s home at Mansfield to the heat
and mosquitoes in direct contrariety
to the accepted rule that “absence makes the
heart grow fonder.” the young and erstwhile fond
wife found her affection for her absent lord and
toaster gradually but surely wilting, and one fine
morning in the month of May, some four years
ago, she sent him a charming little note, in which
she enclosed her wedding ring, informing him
that she had no further use for the golden
circlet, as her love for him was a thing of the
past. Having got rid of her marital responsibili-
ties in this free and easy fashion, she lost
no time in fixing up things for another, and
three months afterwards she was led to the altar a
second time as a blushing bride by a dashing and
enterprising youth who boarded with her ma.
But husband No. 1 docs not look so complacently
on the young lady’s method of effecting a dissolu-
tion of partnership as she expected, and he is now
about to get Judge Moles worth to fix the matter
up, so that, should she not change her mind in the
meantime, she can go through the interesting
ceremony (which she seems to be so fond of) a
third time in proper legal form.
The latest Parisian success is Claretie’s
drama, “ Prince Zilah,” the representation of
which has points of interest, apart from and
additional to the merits of the play, albeit these
are said to b? very great. The two leading rOles
are filled by a couple of artistes whose success
must plant the jaggedest kind of thorns in the
scrawny bosom of the divine Sara. Madame Jane
Hading:, whose portrait Is now given, is at least
iO year’s Sara’s junior, and has been accorded
by the French Press and public, simply on her
splendid abilities, a place on the stage which points
to her as the immediate successor of Bernhardt
Madame Hading, who lately appeared in London
with great acceptance in the rtfte of Fddora,
contributed greatly to the success of the
original representation of “The Ironmaster,”
by enacting the part now so well filled by Signora
Majeroni, at the Sydney Opera House. The other
leading artist is no less than M, Damala, the young
elor, whom Mdlle. Bernhardt chose to marry
coff? ex Periment In the conventional. M. Damala s
evB* e i Ijent to act as prince-consort was not, how-
8erJ- of * onar duration. Sara dispensed with his
after even a shorter period than she
Mr»rl * y retained a lover, and turned poor Damala
n to hide his horned temples as best he might,
his elevation by the aid of his own
a fading position cannot but be worm-
inutk- 0 the fttir inconstant. We don’t see that
her rem ains for her to extricate herself from
&8ain ° rtlfying plight unless it be to marry him
in^° Uls Riel, the leader of two successive
by half-breeds—that is to say, Euro-
CarQH ■ lodian half-castes-in South Western
iosiirr now 0E > bis trial for treason. His first
lown w?“. on was suppressed by Sir Garnet (now
revnu'u 018 ? but Kiel escaped; and his second
lt haf< just been quelled and himself captured.
An impartial review of the circumstances of both
risings leads to a conviction that Riel is one of the
human sacrifices to the inevitable revolutions of
the wheels of Time. He seems to have been
actuated by the same spirit which in Wallace,
fell, and K skiusko is recognised as heroic patriot-
ism. The Canadian Government has been pushing
forward surveys on a principle destructive to the
pre-existing principles upon which the half-
breeds held their homesteads. To all protesta-
tions and appeals the authorities were—and per-
haps were obliged to be-deaf. The half-breeds,
seeing no choice but to submit to be deprived of
their homes long held without dispute or question,
took up arms under the leadership of Kiel, and
thus exposed themselves to martial law and the
penalties of treason. It is to bo hoped that Kiel will
be shot. Under happier auspices he might have lived
in history as the saviour of a nation. His spirit
is lofty, although his cause may look to us losig-
nificaat. Imprisonment would be too mean a fate
for such a man. Let him be shot by all means,
and let simultaneously a C.M.G -ship be sent to
our own Cup'd Smith, so that a wretched
worm (Kiel, of course) may meet its deserts, and
a man of qualities rhiy he recognised in the
usual way of the world, es a double lesson to
mankind.
• * »
One of the London illustrated pvpers used
an old portrait of W. G. Grace as that of the
Ameer of Afghanistan —The accession to the
peerage of Lord Qarmoyle is the reductio ad ah-
surdum of the hereditary legislation principle. A
few weeks since it appeared that the only points
on which the idiot Garmoyle had any opinions
were the cut of a waiscoat and the shape of a
ballet girl's ankle. Now he is legally competent
to deal with matters affecting the highest interests
of the State and the happiness of millions
From the London Times: —“An English gentle-
man wishes to recommend his tutor, a German
clergyman, M.A , Ph D , who prepared a boy for
Eton, and wishes for a re-engagement as private
or travelling tutor in an English family; cannot
be too highly spoken of in all ways; he Isa won-
derful linguist, speaking about twenty languages,
and is a first-rate classical and mathematical
scholar. Apply to—Yet people will continue
to say that knowledge is power, when a person of
such acquirements needs the recommendation of
“an English gentleman,” in order to obtain a living 1
...From a London paper:—Scene; LateDrawlng-
room. Marquis of Lome and his wife at the open
door of the family apartments. The Princess
enters, but the husband is stopped by the attend-
ant; the wife very properly then declines enter-
ing, and both husband and wife retire Most of
European sovereigns congratulated Bismarck on
his birthday. Queen Victoria did not The revo-
lutionary spirit of the late'President Barrio's, of
Guatemala Urst broke out in 1867, and, after six
years of intermittent fighting, he had carried
everything before him, and become President of
Guatemala. For 13 years he had been an absolute
Dictator, crushing revolts with merciless speed,
and suppressing all forms of opposition with a
strong, ruthless, and terror-inspiring hand. Bar-
rios had no money 13 years ago when he became
President, and his legal sa’ary was only £5000 a
year ; but now that he is dead he is found
to have accumulated £3,000,000. He had mag-
nificent houses in Paris and Mexico, and
recently paid £50,000 for a house in New York
The main reason why Lord Garmoyle was induced
to cancel his engagement with Miss Fortescue was
a polite hint from the Queen that she could not be
presented at Court, the reason given being that
she had danced on the stage....The son of Count
Glelchen (one of the German pauper pensioners of
the British people) who is in the Grenadier
Guards, had a very narrow escape at one of the
Soudan battles. He was struck and rendered in-
sensible by a spent shot, and was laid out with the
dead to be buried. Coming to himself in half-an-
bour, ho searched for a wound, could find none,
and had the satisfaction of re joining his regiment
and striking bis own name out from the list of
killed. The Prince Imperial had his baptism of fire
and endured it. Count Gleichen’s son has had his
baptism of fear, and he, too, has survived it ...
Dion Boucicault baa ceased to use hair-dye, and
“ with snowy locks and moustache, presents a
venerable but rather distinguished appearance,”
Herr Dion (Hair-Dyeing) Boucicault... Colonel
Robert Ingersoll, the American Freethought ora-
tor, is meditating a European tour. A N.Y. paper
says:—“We feel a bit sorry for Europe. Bob
Ingersoll is going there for a three years’ visit,
during which he will bring to public attention the
coolness which exists between him and his Maker.
Terms, 3s. per head, and no half-price.”.. .Marshal
M’Mahon la writing his memoirs. It is said the
product of the Marshal’s pen is to be kept strictly
private, not only during his lifetime, but even
after his death — Sir Peter Lumsden has beautiful
wavy hair, and it curls nicely over the forehead.
Events on the Afghan frontier are calculated to
cu.l Sir Peter's hair ...It was in Dublin during
the recent visit of the Prince of Wales; “ Give me
a copper, yer honour,” pleaded the poor man; “a
copper to help to buy me breakfast ?” “Impudent
fellow I” said the pompous Baronet. “You beg,
and yet you don’t take off your hat while address-
ing mel” “Ah, yer honour, you must excuse me
for this time,” said the ragged one, “ for if I take
off me hat, that policeman standing near the gate
will suspect me to be a tramp and arrest me; but
if I keep me hat on, he’ll think we are only two
friends talking over our family affairs, and he’ll
walk away.” — The Queen has sent to the soldiers
and sailors now serving in Egypt, 4301b. of tobacco,
which will amount to about a single pipeful a
piece. Her Majesty has also given £50 to the
National Aid Society. There must be some mis-
take here. It should be £50.000 The Earl of
Huntingdon has been made bankrupt by his boot-
maker, and his goods and clothes have been seized
to satisfy his creditors ... Read this. It is as
sweetly sarcastic as anything we ever saw in the
P.M. Gazette:—“ The Duke and Duchess of Con-
naught have left for Simla, where they will remain
for a week before returning to Meerut. The
Duke will then take four months’leave and pro-
ceed to England with the Duchess, but will return
to India at any moment on his services betnu re-
quired in the event of complications.” The italics
are ours. If His Royal Highness delays his return
until his services are required, India will see less
of him than our soldiers in the Soudan have seen
of military glory — The favourite old song, “ My
f retty Jane,” has been a fortune to the publishers,
t is calculated to have brought them £3000 a line.
The words were by Edward Fltzball, and the music
by Sir Henry Bishop. Neither author nor com-
poser thought much of the piece. The original of
“Pretty Jane” was the daughter of a Cambridge
farmer. She died while still a giil.
The late Mr. W. S. E. M. Charters.
The late Mr. William Scelton Eubang Melbourne
onarters, of whom we give a portrait below, came
°i the family of Charters, well-known in the North
pt Ireland as cotton spinners. He arrived in Aus-
[f® years ago, and was in the service of
ine N.p.W. Government ere he proceeded to
Queensland. In 1866 he became Commissioner at
the Cape River (N.Q) goldfield, and remained
there, as far as we remember, until the gold out-
ereak at the locality then known as the “40-mile,”
which was afterwards named in his honour by
Mo8man , one of ihe prospectors of the
“® ld « Charters Towers ” Of this goldfield, Mr.
Charters was the first Police Magistrate and Com-
missioner. He was subsequently, for a time,
warden at the Etheridge and at Ravenswood, and
about three years ago retired from the service on
a pension. At the time ot his death, which occurred
on 16th May, in the paying-pationts’ ward of the
Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, be was 53 years ot
age. His end, up to which a somewhat rapid life
id the far North indirectly led, was brought about
bf what at first seemed a trivial accident to his
foot, sustained while out riding some years ago.
Mr. Charters was an impartial and capable magis-
trate, and a good-hearted man. He owned a small
station outside the Towers, and at his homestead
the swagsman found welcome equally with the
highest in the land. Bishops and Judges, and
Crown officials, stayed there, as well as the
poorest tramp, and they were all received—
as a sorrowing German friend ot the deceased,
who has obliged us with his likeness, remarked the
other day—“ in the same brotherly manner.” Mr
Charters, who died a bachelor, has left the bulk of
his property to his brother, Mr. Adolphus Charters,
and he has also mentioned In his will a couple of
poor children whom he took off the street and
adopted. Shortly before he died he expressed
his gratitude for the kindness and attention shown
him by the staff of the splendid hospital wherein
his last hours were spent. And so has passed
away the godfather of an Australian city.
LOUIS RIEL.


8
MECHANICS
Glebe Rowing Club.
I X T H ANNUAL BALL
(Plain and Fancy Dress),
WEST’S BOOMS. “ LEIGH HOUSE,”
FRIDAY, 5th JUNE.
Tickets may be had from the Committee.
H. R. COX, Hon. Sec.. 108 Pitt-street.
F. C. WILLIAMS, Hon. Treasurer.
INSTITUTE.
GRAND ART UNION,
in strict accordance with the Act.
VALUE
FIRST O KAA FIRST
PRIZE obOUli* PRIZE.
SECOND PRIZE, £300. mAA
THIRD PRIZE, £100.
4 prizes, value £50 each. 100 prizes, value £5 each.
4. „ „ £35 each. 550 „ ,. £1 each.
40 „ „ £10 each. 300 „ u lOs.leach.
1000 PRIZES 1 1000 PRIZES I
10,000 TICKETS at 10s. each, obtainable at most
business places in the colony.
N B —In proof of the value of the above, the
Committee undertake to find purOhasers for the
various prizes at the prices named, and to hand the
winner full amount in cash, less 10 per cent, for
C °Th™drawlng to take place in June, under the
suner vision of the Mayor and Councillors of Eagle-
hawk and a Committee of Shareh^Mer^
Managing Secretary.
Bull-street, Sandhurst, and
Mechanics’ Institute, Eaglehawk.
A BOOK CONTAINING OVER 250 TRICKS AND
DELUSIONS WITH CARDS, DICE, AND
CONJURING APPARATUS,
all illustrated with wood blocks and diagrams,
forming the most complete collection of Its kind
ever offered to the Australian public. Mailed free
to any address in New South Wales for 7d, stamps;
other colonies, 8d.
On presenting our goods to the public, we beg
to say that they are, in their own way, the best
ever offered. The tricks are nearly all new, easily
manipulated, and are especially adapted to draw-
ing-room entertainments or amateur per-
formances. In the limited space of a newspaper
advertisement it is simply impossible to give a
full description ; we content ourselves, therefore,
with the names and prices of a few
s. d. s. d.
Disappearing Card Box ... 1 0 post free 1 0
Wizards’ Changeable Cards ... 1 0 „ 1
Magic Cork Box 10 „ 1
Great Hat and Die Trick ... 16 „ 3
Wizards’ Egg and Bag 10 , 1
Nose and Twine Trick (laugh-
able) 3 0 „ 3
Magic Cask and Fairy Bell ... 3 6 „ 4
Demon Handkerchief... ... 3 0 „ 3
Magic Dissolving Pack of
Cards 3 0 „ 3 6
Mysterious Hankerchlef and
Candle 16 „ SO
Magic Handkerchief Case ..80 „ 3 10
Glass Goblet and Vanishing
Coin 3 0 „ 3 8
Mystic Secrete Vase ,. ..3 0 „ 3 6
Gilding and Vanishing Egg ... 3 0 „ 3 6
And many others, a full description of which will
be found in the book, “Magie, Mirth, and Mys-
tery.” Full instructions are sent with each trick.
N.8.W. stamps taken at par.; from other colo-
nies, add Id to each shilling. Post office orders pre-
ferable. Address all orders plainly, AUSTRALIAN
MAGICAL DEPOT, 401 George-street, Box 641,
G.P.O., Sydney.
INSURE YOUR LIFE with D. A. Vindin and
Co., 9 Hunter-street, agents for all Offices.
INSURE AGAINST ACCIDENT with D. A.
Vindin and Co., 9 Hunter-street, Agents for
all Offices.
INSURE YOUR PROPERTY with D. A. Vindin
and Co., 9 Hunter-street. Represent the best
Offices.
CAN'T GET MY MONEY IN.-Then send us
particulars, and WE SOON WILL. D. A.
Vindin and Co., 9 Hunter-street.
MY PROPERTY IS A TROUBLE, FOR THE
TENANTS WILL NOT PAY UP.-We un-
dertake the collection of Rents and Management
of Properties at moderate rates, and guarantee
that all rents will be kept paid up. Security fur-
nished. D. A. Vindin and Co., 9 Hunter-street.
DA. VINDIN and CO., House, Land, Ejtate,
• Insurance, and General Business Agents,
9 Hunter-street, near George-street, Sydney.
CITY AND COUNTY INVESTMENT, LAND,
AND BUILDING COMPANY,
LIMITED.
REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES’ ACT.
Capital, £100,000, in 100,000 Shares of £1 each.
OFFICES—16 ROYAL ARCADE.
Directors:
Jacob Garrard, Esq., M L. A., Chairman
Fred. B. Bretnall, Esq , Vice-Chairman
Thomas Lockwood. Esq.
Charles F. Wymer, Esq.
John C. Hamilton, Esq.
F. W. MIDDLETON, MANAGING DIRECTOR.
SOLICITOR—EDGAR LUCAS, Esq.
Bankers:
English, Scottish, and Australian Chartered Bank.
DEPOSITS received at the following rates:—
For 13 months, 7 per cent, per annum
6 ditto, 6 ditto ditto
AT CALL,
withdrawable at any time,
AVITHODT NOTICE.
5 per cent, per annum.
F. W. MIDDLETON,
Managing Director.
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSEHOLD a Canister of
Williams’ Australian Yeast Powder!
WILLIAMS'S
a*
•HI
3
no
>
H
m
H
■v V"
AUSTRALIAN
AST POWDER.
AND PATENTEES-
pON, CR1 MWADC& CO-
EteS»S5RiS#ifs?»Suss^e
Williams’ Yeast Powder
MAKES LIGHT BREAD, TEA CAKES,
and PASTRY,
HALF-POUND TINS, SIXPENCE.
Beware of Imitations.
TAKE ONLY WILLIAMS’,
This YEAST POWDER, the first manufactured
in the Australian colonies, has from the outset
maintained its position as the Premier Yeast
Powder ; and, in spite of severe competition, its
radius of consumption has steadily increased.
WILLIAMS’ AUSTRALIAN YEAST
POWDER is the most economical of Bakinjf
§ Powders, and sold at Sixpence the half-pound
g canister.
Wholesale Depot:
V/RGOE, SON, and CHAPMAN,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY,
CO
I*
•3
MARTIN
389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite the Royal Hotel.
O
3
MARTIN’S Specially-selected TENNIS NETS.
Steam-tarred, Tanned, Wire-bound, &o.
TENNIS POLES—Cavendish, Cyprus, Champion.
BALLS—Ayers, Champion, undersewn and cemented.
„ —Cypress covered Regulation Balls.
—Enamelled Regulation Balls, red and white.
RACKETS—Buchanan’s, Ayers, Jefferies, Wesden’s, &o.
FOOTBALLS-
GILBERT’S Rugby and Association Balls.
MACINTOSH’S Regulation Bladders for do.
YOUTHS’ FOOTBALLS, all sizes.
Clubs and Schools should write us for our prices and particulars
of our stock.
JAMES MARTIN & COMPANY,
389 Greorge-street.
“AVOID COMPLICATED FOREIGN BRACES.”
THE
“CREDENT A,”
SIMPLEST AND BEST FOR AND BOYS.
WHOLESALE ONLY AT
1© AC 1T7 CHEAPSIDE, LONDON, E.C.
V And of W. EENNY FINDLAY & PRO., Melbourne k Sydney.
mnSCOCKS* FKDBRAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
|~f olalty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. B. Hisoocks..
Fi ofmiontl Directory.
W HORACE BENT, with Hisoocks’Federal
• Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
Sydney
G
EORGE PE < bIMAN, Scene Painter, Theatre
' Koyal. Bri bane.
A L
fpi HEATRB R O T
Under the management of
Messrs. WillIamson, Garner and Mubgrovb.
Lessee. Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
Doors open at 7.30, commence at 8. Carriages, 10.40.
SEVENTEENTH WEEK
ROTAL DRAMATIC COMPANY.
THIS EVENING at 8 precisely,
last Night but One of
IMPULSE.
IMPULSE. IMPULSE.
Special Notice —Saturday next, June 0. will be
revived the most perfect and successful drama ol
the age, THE SILVER KING.
Furniture and appointments from Hamilton aud
Co., Globe Furniture Warehouse, Park and Castle-
: Dicsa Circle, 5s.; Stalls,
3s.; Family Circle, 3s. . _ .
Tickets lor all parts of the house at Bastway s
Hotel. Box office open daily from 11 till 4.
N
BW OPERA HO US B .
Lessees, Messrs. IB. Majeronl and W. J. Wilson.
tor^WRWHiTMmd“nccES B 8° w °-
of the .
Graceful and Distinguished Dramatic Artists,
SIGNOR and SIGNORA
MAJBRONI MAJBRONI
in their beautiful play,
THE FOUNDRY MASTER
THE FOUNDRY MASTER.
Box plan at Huenerbein’B. Prices as usual.
Academy of music,
Leasee and Manager .. Mr. F. E. Hisoocks.
53ad Week, and still Crowded Houses.
HISOOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and SPECIALITY UNION
Every Evening in their Refined and Amusing
Entertainment.
Enthusiastic Success of the Burlesque Opera,
MARY TURNER.
Friday, Anniversary Night of the Federal*.
Special Programme.
Admission, 4s., 3s., 2s., and Is. Box Plan at
Paling’s. Carriages at 10.16.
B T Y
T H B A T RBI
. B. N. JONES.
J. F. Sheridan.
W. Hughes.
J. H. Samuel.
G 4 1
Lessee ..
Proprietor and Manager
Representative .. ...
Advance Agent ..
MONDAY EVENING, JUNE 8tb,
the laughable season commences, when
JOHN P. SHERIDAN,
the original and inimitable
WIDOW O’BRIEN,
supported by his famous Company of American
and English Artistes, in the funny concoction,
entitled
FUN 1 FUN I FUN I
on the
BRISTOL I
will re-appear at the above popular place of amuse-
ment, whore some months ago they achieved the
Greatest Success ever known in the same theatre.
Comment is unnecessary. Everything presented
in detail as when first produced.
New songs, new music, and the old favourite
gem retained-” Nora, why doant you trow out
your chist whin you’re slngln’.
Popular Prices: Orchestra Chairs, 4s.; Stalls, 3s.;
Family Circle, Is.
Box-office at Messrs. Nicholson and Co.’s. George-
street. Carriages may be ordered for 10.30 p.m.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Lewis s, to-
bacconist, opposite Gaiety Theatre.
THE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George street, Haymarket.
Lessee and Director Mr-
cfgtvp Manager •• ••• Mr* Edwin Shipp
Musical Director .. ... ...
Scenery by Klnchela. Mechanist, Mr. Quinn,
Established Success of the
MINSTRELS VARIETY BURLESQUE COMPANY
Our Programme This Evening and every evening
until further notice:
PART 1st—MINSTRELSY.
PART 2nd—OLIO.
The whole to conclude with the Screaming Farce,
me wuu WOMAN’S RIGHTS.
Popular Prices : Orchestra chairs, 2s ; stalls, Is.;
balcony, ud, CHAS _ AUSTIN, Business Manager.
T
IHAUMA, AT THE AUSTRALIAN WAX-
WORKS, opposite the Cathedral.
The Greatest Success.
NO MYSTERY I I I
Found to be real.
ALL THE SAVANTS PERPLEXED.
The Knowing Ones Sold.
Illusion Reigning Supreme.
The Old Worll Still in Doubt.
TH AUM A, at the Australian Waxworks.
NO EXTRA CHARGE.
Open Daily from 10 a.m. till 10 p.m.
T
ODDFELLOWS’ HALL,
GOULBURN.
HIS Theatre, one of the best in the colony, is
open for Engagement. Particulars from
opou ic m p[JIjLBNi Hall secretary.
S
Lessees
T. GEORGE’S HALL,
Melbourne.
., Clark and Ryman.
OPEN ALL THE YEAR ROUND.
First-class Artists, Novelties, Combhaatlons—
either Musical, Dramatic, Minstrel, or Operatic—
treated with.
Silence a respectful negative.
This popular place of amusement is now In its
full tide of success—houses packed to the doors
nightly. Pronounced by the Press, public, and
profession to be the best entertainment ever seen
in Melbourne.
Notice.—The title of “Red Stockings” has
been duly registered, and anyone infringing this
itle will be prosecuted according to law.
JOHN FANNING,
Business Manager.
Sydney Owl Club.
FOURTH ANN U A L BALL
I (Plain and Fancy Dress),
’ TOWN HALL. THURSDAY, 18th JUNE.
(Compagnoni Catering Co. Caterers).
rickets—Double, 30*.; Ladies’, 15s.; Gent’s, 21s.;
n be procured from Mr. A. N. Jonsen, Mr. B.
ntor of King-street; Messrs. A. and C. Huener-
in Mr. T. L. Clarke (F. Lassetter and Co.), Mr.
DeGroen, of Qeorge-street; Mr. R. J. Demford,
Oxford- street; Mr. W. Stewart, of Pltt-street;
)m any of the Board of Management, or
MORRIS MBNSER, Hon. Sec.,
384 George-street.
BEWARE OF SPURIOUS
WATCHES I
W
HT be foolish, and buy a bad watch, which
is dear at any price, and Rives no end of
trouble. If you buy one of
BOTHBRHAM’S COMPENSATION BALANCE
AND JEWELLED WATCHES
from C. GRANT, you will never want another, a*
they are, without doubt, the Best Watches in the
market.
Guaranteed for 5 years. Price, only £6 10s.
Sent post free to any part of the country. Special
attention given to country orders.
C. GRANT,"Watchmaker,
Ul George Street. Sydney.
Established 1880,
THE
AIDS.
The SIMPLEST, CHEAPEST, & BEST MACHINE
ever introduced into Australia.
EAST TO WORK, EASY TO LEARN,
EASY TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Machine in the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modern
Science, and of the Best Possible Materials.
Sold on TIME PAYMENTS in Town and Country.
fW Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE to
any part of the colony.
B. O. Holtermann & Co. P
Sole Agents,
674 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
G. F. PRIDDY & GO.,
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS,
Beg to announce that, on and after APRIL 7th,
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Days
at 6.30 p.m.: Saturdays as usual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street-
\ USTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY'
Established 1872.
Capital—£100,000 with power to increase to £1,000,000
BONUSES—20 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
Head Offices.
First Fire Society established in tuo coiony on
the Mutual principle, Riving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year. , „ , , ,
Policy-holders are perfectly free by law from
days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
n^D£nnage 1 by 1 lightning and explot ions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement tor fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
WALTER CHURCH, Manasrer.
Hoad Offices—PITT and KING STREETS.


Important Amntgt!
THE
ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
BEG to inform the public that, In consequence
of the
EXPIRATION OP LEASE
of their present premises, they have commenced
their
GRAND
Which will
LAST FOR A FEW WEEKS ONLY!
The Goods are all marked at an
as will be seen by list below.
PRICE LIST.
Ladies’ Handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, IQs, 15s
Ks fid, and 20s each
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 4s and 5s per pair
Ladies’ Choice Necklets, 5s each
Ladies’ Choice Necklets, best American Plate, 30s
each
Ladles’ Elegant Bangles, 4s, Gs, and 10s per pair
Choice Lockets, 5s each
Handsome Gem Rings, 4s and Ss fid each
Wedding and Keeper Rings, in Solid Gold, 79 fid
each
Ladies' Handsome Lockets, 10s each
Ladies’ Elegant Grosses, 4s, 5s, and fi3 each
Ladles’ Brooch and Earring Sets, from 5s to 199
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, 3s fid each
Gents’ O. G. Watches, Hunting, Open-Faced
Crystal Glass, and patent Keyless, QOs each,
warranted 3 years
Ladies’ (same as above.)
f3T* These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jo veiled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses .. .. .,£4 0 0
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
jewelled, and compensation balance ..£500
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levers £4 JO 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance ..£6 0 0
The celebrated Waltham Watch, In hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses.. .. £3 15 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance.. .. £4 16 Q
A written warrantor for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each wa‘ :h.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Ghronograp b, £6 0
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade £3 0 0
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £8 10 0
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus wo can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £10.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 4a
each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Rings, half round buckle
flat broad buckle, engraved, good luck rings
3s fid each.
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 3s, 4a, 6s, and fis fid per set.
Same as above, only hatf sets. Is fid, 2s, and 3s per
set.
Best American Patent Spring Solitaire Suites,
5s per set.
Gent’s elegant Seals, 4s each.
Gent’s Elegant Compasses, 43 each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberts, 63 each.
Gent's Oriental Gold handsome Scarf Pins, Is,
fid, 2a, 33 fid, 3s, 33 fid, 43, 4? fid, 5a, and 5s fid eao
Very best American Pencil Cases, 2i 6d each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Match Boxes, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Sovereign Purses, 4s each.
Richly engraved Bracelets, fis each.
Handsome Bracelets, beautifully jewelled, 8s, 10s,
13s, and 14s each,
Broooches, Brooches, Brooches, Is fid, 3s, 3s 6), 3s,
33 fid, 43,43 fid, 5s, 5s fid, 63, 03 fid, 7s, 7s 6d, Ps, 8s
fid, 9s, 9s fid, and 103 each.
PLEASE NOTE.
All goods will be sent post free, with the excep-
tion of the watches, orders for which must bo ac-
companied with an extra amount of two and six-
pence to defray postage expenses. Send in your
orders early, as the goods must be sold, and no one
should miss this chance of procuring the beautiful
gems at less than cost price.
Note the Address :
The Oriental Gold Co.,
474 George Street,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS,
Wolfe’s Schnapps is imitated. May this
caution be serviceable. Avoid all imitations.
All men revile the tyrant king,
Though his domains be wide;
But all men praise the winter suits
By Summerfleld supplied.*
Wclfe’s Schnapps is imitated “ Your
Rogue loves a shining mark.” Bo sure and obtain
W olfe's.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre ROTAt— “Impulse” .........p. 8.
Opera House—“ The Foundry Master „
AdACEMt - at Music.—Hiscocks’ P. Minstrels „
AtttAMfiBA Music HALt MinstrelSy „
Gaiety Theatre „“Fun on the Bristol” „
But for society plays, society novels, and
society people, how pleasant life would be. This
was the way our thoughts were going as we went
towards the Royal to see “ Impulse.” “ The con-
founded things,” we thought on, “ contain the
most elaborate plots, intrigues, and situations—
unknown to the older play-wrights. And the
intricacy of the plot is mostly accompanied by
stupidity in the dialogue, till the one becomes un-
intelligible and the other turgid - relieved by
occasional flashes of brazen double entendre."
These were the charitable things agitating us as
we tripped over a frowsy Domain loafer and
hurried on, unmindful of the Gulf-stream of pro-
fanity that was sent after us with a promptitude
suggesting that it came from the most sacred
corner of bis heart.
m * •
We were disappointed with “ Impulse
disappointed in finding it ever so much better than
we thought. It is emotional, to be sure, and we
have as great a “ down ” on weeping pieces as on
weeping books. But it doesn’t go to extremes,
doesn’t get lachrymose, and makes up for any
tendency in that direction by strong situations
and felicitous dialogue. In “Impulse” there are
two charming sisters—the elder, and stronger-
minded a widow (proof of her mental power) ; the
younger, and weaker-minded, a wife. Both live
at their father’s house-one because she is a grass-
widow—the other, because the old man is safely
planted six-feet under the grass. The husband is
away in India or the Cape sticking Afghans or
Zulus, but is expected homeldally. In the mean-
time, an old love of his wile’s keeps hanging about
—she “skips” with him, and down goes the cur-
tain to “ Strangers yet.”
• • *
But the erring woman was not suffered to
consummate her crime. Her sister—the wide-
awake widow—is determined to save her. And
she does, too. Hanging after the widow is a Cap-
tain Crichton, one of those well-to-do boobies who
Inherit a stupid face of 10 generations, and appear
anxious Ito perpetuate it for another 10. He is
sent after the flighty woman, and succeeds, by a
ruse, for which you’d never give him credit, when
first he appeared, in getting her away before any
real harm was done. But she is in her intended
paramour’s lodgings. There her husband finds
her—there he upbraids her, tells her what he
thinks of her, and a number of unpleasant things
that make the poor woman squirm. A French-
man-Victor de rtlel—was her “mash.” Her hus-
band takes her home, but they are man and wife
in appearance only. Of every second play we’ve
seen for the last 10 years this estrangement of
man and wife is the raison d’etre. But de Biel is
not to be bluffed. With a pertinacity which would
have brought him wealth in the “book-agent”
line, he pursues the unhappy woman, always
managing to drop in just when husband and wife
are on the point of being reconciled. It is here
that Crichton for the second time brings down his
“joker” on de Beil’s “Jack,” and once more
cleans the Frenchman out. So there continues a
sec-saw between virtue and vice till at last virtue
gets a good start ahead and keeps it to the win-
ning-post, while vice (in the person of de Biel)
shirks away limp and cowed to drown its cares in
Margaux and Mabille.
• • ■
Miss Watt-Tanner was the up-to-snuff-and-
a-pinch-over widow, and Tltheradge was Captain
Crichton. Long before “apples, oranges, and lemon-
ade ” were cried for the first time, you could see
she’d marry him before the black rag fell. She
was the potter and he the clay. After all, it’s the
best thing that can happen to fellows like this to
be taken in hand by a smart woman, so that their
maddening powers of “ boring ” may be confined
to the domestic hearth. Only a widow could stand
the irritating way in which he “ran round ”a pro-
posal when she’d led him adroitly up to it. Any
other woman, sitting at wool-work as Watt-
Tanner was, wouid have run at least one blade of
her scissors into him, if not handle and all. She
caused some diversion by saying when he was
gone, that “ no man ever got so many chances as
he did.” But it was during his interview, with
the villain de Riel (Vincent) that Titheradge was
his best. In those he appeared with a stolid in-
souciance, half natural, halt assumed, and wholly
funny. We don’t know what the denouement
is in the book, but we know that It can’t
be the same as in the English stage adapta-
tion, where de Biel crawls off like a whipped
mongrel. No French audience would stand it. He
would either have to shoot himself or somebody
else. From the beginning to the end he was a
consistent scoundrel, and should have had a dra-
matic “send off.”
• • •
As Mrs. M'Donald, we at first thought
Annie Mayor was overweighted, until we remem ■
bered that it was a commonplace, weak-minded
woman—like nine out of ten of those one meets
every day—she was supposed to represent. In her
tearful looks under Mac’s (Flemming) objurgations
there was no tragic element# She wrung her
hands, glared at the cymbals in the orchestra, and
fell heavily into a 35s. arm-chair, but it was easy
to see that the being found out, and not the being
S'-rrv was at the bottom of It. From first to last,
Flemming carried himself well—creditably—ad-
mirably, if you will. Sir Harry Auckland (Mr.
Redwood) the girls’ father, is a Dorsetshire baro-
net, who drinks, hunts, raises prize pigs, and, no
doubt, thinks that without baronets the world
would be a “one-horse” affair. Dorsetshire
horses are taught, when they want to throw their
riders, to throw them soft. And so, when the
neighbours ran up and saw Sir Harry standing on
his head outside the lodge, they knew he’d get all
right again. While he was sick, and supposed to
be deaf and blind, he saw and heard everything
that went on in the house. This should be a warn-
ing to people to restrain their feelings while
there’s a deaf and blind elderly person sick on the
premises.
• ■ •
We’ve left her till last—poassibly because
she was best, or at least caused more laughter
than all the others rolled together. It was Annie
Taylor. She was one of those delightful people
who visit your house and let nothing escape them
that occurs there. No dog spun through the vil-
lage with a tin-can at his tail; no village lad and
lass—who should have been married, you know-
no love-child whose father had enlisted, but Annie
knew all about. See wanted to catch old Auck-
land, but he was a widower and “ fly.” Her allu-
sions to some things were just enough to “ sug-
gest” but not to “offend.” But it was when she
visited the Aucklands at Paris and brought with
her a cough that would start a quartz-mill that the
house lost its balance.
* * * «r
“The Foundry Master” is successfully
closing its second week at the Opera House. The
title of the drama does not suggest emotion, but
the main incidents in it claim at reaching thote
sensibilities which, more than reason, govern
life. Love, and its shadow jealousy, with hate,
nride, passion, and repentance, have free reign.
Signora Majeroni has, it is well known, made a
special and valuable study of a class of tortuous,
intricate, tremulous lemale minds, that alternate
between ecstacy and despair, and are in rapid
succession capricious, despotic, cruel, but withal
generously noble and self-sacrificing. In her
Clair de Beaulieu, daughter of the Marchioness de
Beaulieu, and wife of the “ Foundry Master.” she
is presenting us with one of her most oaref ally-
finished types.
* * *
Clair is affianced to the Duke de Bligny.
A disastrous lawsuit ruins the de Beaulieus.
Gambling ruins the Duke. A parvenu named
Moulinet offers the Duke money on condition that
he will marry Athenais Moulinet, the parvenu’s !
daughter. Bachelin, a notary, breaks both items
of news to the Marchioness and her only son. Oc-
tave, but prevails on them to hide the financial
rum from Clair. This they nearly succeed in doing,
but in the first outburst of the Marchioness,
Hachelin introduces the name of Phllllppe Der-
blay, the owner of a large iron-foundry, and inti-
mates that the latter would make a highly suitable
husband, as he is a profound, though distant, ad-
mirer of her daughter. A little harangue about
the aristocracy of lineage and the aristocracy of
talent takes place here, but it is barely relevant,
and is executed in a rote-style that makes it sound
hollow. The effort to hide matters from Clair
is made vain by the arrival of Moullnet and
Athenais. Athenais takes Clair into her con-
fidence, and informs her she is about to marry the
Duke de Bligny. This creates for the first act the
title of Ruined and Forsaken. It is not till the
end of the play that Clair learns she has lost all
her property, and thus the expression ruined and
forsaken, and it is made fall from Clair's lips, is
not Intelligible.
* ♦ •
When it is mentioned that Clair and
Athenais attended the same school, as children,
and that there the daughter of the Marchioness
looked down on the daughter of the commoner,
and that a mutual hatred was the consequence, it
will be perceived that the resolve of the latter to
avenge the past, is the keynote of the drama.
The character of Athenais is well conceived.
She exults in having robbed Clair of the Duke.
Clair, to dull the triumph of her rival, gives her
hand to Phillippe Derblay. The Foundry Master,
who is a fine type of the self-centered man, full of
grave, strong, earnest feeling, does not think that
Clair acts from sentiments less serious and single
than his own. The marriage takes place at mid-
night. The bride, a semi-conscious ghost, when
alone in her husband’s house, realises that to reta-
liate on her rival she has surrendered her freedom
for ever, and to a man whom, in the circum-
stances, whatever his qualities, not to love was to
hate. An arrangement Is made, whereby they are
to live separate, but to public appearances as man
and wife.
♦ ♦ ♦
Athenais, who has married the Duke,
moves again. She Induces her husband to visit
the Derblays. The Duke, seeing the joyless face
and weary manner of Clair, knows she is unhappy,
and his affection for her returns. Derblay, who
hates the Duke as the instrument that blighted
his life, does not discourage the visits. He be-
lieves his wife will say something which will give
him a chance of having satisfaction from his
rival. Athenais makes herself pleasing to M. Der-
blay. To her also he accommodates himself with
the view of goading his wife to extremes. Subtle
skill is manifested here in relating the characters
to one another. The four figures are kept pro-
minent. The occasion arises. Clair orders Athe-
nais from the house. The husbands arrive. Der-
blay accepts responsibility for his wife’s words.
* * *
The plot is now practically over. Clair’s
eyes, which have been gradually opening to her
husband’s greatness and nobilltj of soul, are sud-
denly flooded with love for him. He has stood
between her and Athenais, her degrading persecu-
tor. She cannot avert the duel, however. But,
rushing on the ground, she faces the Duke’s pistol
and the bullet lodges la her arm.
• * *
The play is an adaptation of one of the
novels of M. G.u go Ohnet. Some parts of it
were likely hastily put together, and some parts
even thoughtlessly. The talk about democracy
and social distinctions is merely rant without any
of that glow of enthusiasm that makes rant
moderately tolerable. Old Moulinet, the parvenu,
could be quite as funny, and a little more like
reality, were his mouth stitched up one half the
time. It is hard to see what part of the audience
Clair was wanting to impress when she told the
Duke de Bligny that he wanted a woman but did
not want to marry. It is harder to know why
Baron de Prefont should, in reference to wedding-
days, exclaim: “ I felt the day of my marriage
very long and very weary, but the night .”
The, apotheos s is the Baron’s. The piece is full
of interest, however, and the magnificent acting
of the two principals makes up for any blemishes.
9 * • *
This stupid desire to tell the truth is at
the bottom of all our troubles. But for it we
might now be an alderman, or, at least, a bush-
missionary, But we shall persevere to the end,
certain that those of the “perfesh” who admire
veracity (in others) will etch on our tombstone;—
Ci git.
The Bulletin Man,
Who never told a lie.
And this brings us to Billy Emerson. He and his
freebooters were “off it” on Saturday night. This
was due partly (largely) to the fact that Billy him-
self was not himself at all—hadn’t half got over
his sickness. Then there was no change of any
consequence in the programme, and, with the
number of “ shows ” running now, it is too much
to expect a “ nigger ” bill to clean the pool for a
fortnight. Even the artist sitting nexfCogill—the
“ dummy ” whose efforts to appear interested in
what’s going on around him are usually so mirth-
moving—was depressed and morose. The leader
of the orchestra, perched behind on an empty
candle-box covered with a piece of tarpaulin, had
his legs crooked under him —for comfort, of
course—and looked for all the world like the pic-
tures of “Auld Clootie” fiddling away in the
church’s niche as O’Shanter peeped through the
window and saw the "cutty ” one “ footing it ” up
the aisle.
• ♦ ♦
The best thing we heard at the “ niggers ”
was from one of the audience, and unrehearsed.
It was when Walsh and King were dancing. They
are dressed precisely alike, but one is somewhat
taller than the other. An elderly man with a
breath like a brewery and speech of intricate
incoherency zig-zagged along the passage till the
full glory of the stage burst upon him. Then he
stopped, leant against the wall, blew his nose,
mopped his head with a red handkerchief he'd
taken from under the lining of his hat, looked at
the stage, then helplessly round the house, and so,
back to the stage again, where he saw two men, so
nearly alike, dancing, when he expected but one.
He waited gloomily till ’twas over, when he shot
towards the door, muttering, “I knew I was bad,
but d if I thought I was as far gone as that.”
• • *
The contortions of the brothers Cogill
caused some amusement, but nothing like that of
the week before. " Billy,” as we said, was “ off,”
and even Clark was not up to his usual form.
Altogether, the performance was the least success-
ful that has yet been given.
* * * *
Thauma, at the wax-works—those oppo-
site the Cathedral—is worth a visit. It is a very
clever optical illusion, but, although the managers
say it is new to the colonies, such is not the
case. We saw it in the bar of the Commer-
cial Hotel, Sandhurst, two or three years ago.
On a board hung just in front of you
there is the bust of a good-looking, blonde young
woman. You speak to her, she answers you,
shakes hands, winks, and would probably kiss you
if nobody was by. At least, that’s our impression,
and we intend to try next time we find her by her-
self. She is nice enough to talk to, but not to
court, whether your intentions are serious or not.
Even a mermaid would be preferable. For
Thauma, like a cherub, stops short long before she
reaches the waist. What has become of the rest
of her is a dark mystery. It might be in the lock-
up or in bed with lumbago, for all you can tell.
The fun of the thing is when a horny-handed,
touzle-headed countryman comes along. He has
probably been in the Chamber of Horrors for the
last hour, and through his mind are running
thumb-screws, racks, scavengers’ daughters, and
weeping virgins. He sees Thauma, stops and
snorts. Then he approaches timidly—not in a
straight line, but in a roundabout way, as if such
frivolities didn’t interest him, was too used to
them in the bush-and by-and-bye gets as far as to
hang over the rail and ask a question. Hours
afterwards you might return with the certainty
of finding him standing near Thauma, scratching
his head, and wishing he’d never left the back-
blocks. He’ll go back to his gunyah on the far
Barcoo, and one morning the boundary-rlder'll
find him banging from a gum tree, his left hand
grasping a piece of paper, with “Put me in the
wacks-works. Ef I spend a year there, He cypher
it out.”
* * * *
Chiarini’s was well attended on Saturday
night. The announcement that he was ending up
afflicted many. But his elephants were growing
dyspeptic with the quantities of sweets thrown at
them, and the Signor himself, seeing the bags of
money stacked up in his tent after each night’s
entertainment, was beginning to feel too fat. Be-
sides, two Sydney aldermen kept spending half
the day talking about the little lady with the
Timor ponies. When citizens are famishing for
water, absorption like that could not be tolerated.
It is to be hoped the Signor will come back again
and not forget to bring Miss Stoodley with him.
When Sir Tb'”’ -*i M’iiwralth said lately in Bris-
bane that t>»- i . reduction of kilts would have a
charming eh c on Queenslanders, we did not
understand. But when Miss Stoodley. in this pic-
turesque garb, gave the Highland Fling on a
cantering steed, we knew Sir Thomas was right.
One thing in particular we hope the Signor will
do when he determines to come here again. We
hope he will bring his clown out on a dark night
and throw him down a well, and then fill it up
with stones. Professor Jackson, with various
other boxers, showed off in some glove contests at
the close of the evening.
* * * *
A ftrand matinee performance is to be
given at the Theatre Royal on Saturday, the 13th,
for the benefit of the favourite actress, Miss Jef-
freys Lewis. An attractive bill of fare is promised.
* * * *
Our, and everbody else’s, friend J. F.
Sheridan, opens at the Sydney Gaiety on Monday
night with “ Fun on the Bristol.”
“THECONTINGENT SUFFERED ON THE MARCH FROM THIRST, CAUSED BY DRINKING
ENGLISH BEER.”— Special Correspondence to the D-T.


PEPPER AND SALT.
We felt there was something of extra-
ordinary beauty and sweetness about this last
month. We had not time to raise the green sar.
oenet flap or steady our wobbling nose to ask
what it was. At last we have a few minutes. The
Wagga Advertiser, of May 14, is before us. It
contains a gorgeous advertisement of a marriage >
and a still more gorgeous local notice. It looks
like the union of two full-sized races. That's
what was in the air this last month. The numbers
dazzle us. We call for the Wagga editor. Our
mediumistio skill can bring editors in spirit to our
Bide when we choose. The editor in spirit arrived,
and said, "Mr. W. H. Williams and Miss Anna
Marie de Thlbeaudo are married.” That made us
happy. We can’t marry everybody ourselves, and
are glad of spirited assistance. Our felicitations
are more than cordial. "But who are these
others?” we ask. "They’re dead people,” say 8
the editor in spirit. "And having gone before the
bar, why do they return ?” The editor in spirit
says: “We had great looking for them. We
lowered up ’ three generations of the groom, but
It was In the bride’s shaft we struck oil. The bride
la the eldest daughter of Mr. Oliver Drout de Thi-
beaudo.” "Drout I” we interrupt, "Any reia-
tion of Baokblook Drought?” “No,” says the
editor, smacking his lips. " After ‘ lowering ’ him
up, we‘lowered’ up Joseph Ansell do Thlbeaudo.
Then we put in cross-drives, and ‘ lowered ’ up two
brothers: then bottomed on Grandfather Joseph.
Twig what we did with him I We laid him out with
the gallant General Wolfe in his arms and! pasted
on his noble brow a record of his grandest achieve-
ments. He was a soldier, an aide-de-camp, and
a Governor of Quebec. When a man rises to be
Governor of Quebec, there is only one step higher
for him to take. To the everlasting glory of the
family, Grandfather Joseph took it.” “ What was
it?” “Small-pox. Then he died. Think of that
for a record I" “ Why,” wo ask, “ didn’t you lower
up some more?” "After capping the climax! No,
sir. Glory is complete. A man can’t do more than
have small-pox and die.” “ Is the writer of your
advertisement and ‘local’ an ambitious man ?” we
ask. “ He is, sir,” says the editor in spirit. “ Well,”
we say, letting down the green sarcenet flap again
and putting our nose In the pewter, ‘' he ought to
go away at once, have small-pox, and die t”
• • •
Anent the case of Claud Dendy, who was
refused admittance at the Melbourne Hospital,
although in a dying state, and hustled off to the
gaol as the only place left for him to die in, the
Melbourne correspondent of the Sydney Daily
Telegraph thus espouses the cause of the Hospi-
tal authorities:-"They would have acted far
differently if they had known all the circumstances
of the case; and they declare there was really
nothing to show that the young man was a highly
respectable stranger In a strange land. By the
strict letter of the rules they were, perhaps, justi-
fied in refusing admission to such cases as that of
poor Dendy; but the impulses of Humanity should
be allowed to operate in their bosoms occasion-
ally, so as to prevent the scandal of respectable
strangers beUg dismissed from their doors and
left to die in a prison hospital.” Ye godsl We
have been Christians for 1890 years, and yet we are
only anxious to soothe the dying moments of
" highly respectable ” strangers. It i? clear enough
that this scribe only blames the Hospital authori-
ties for refusing to take in a man on the point of
death because he was heir to £35,000. In the
Heaven of the future will they refuse admission
to any but “ highly respectable ” souls ? If they
listen to this D T. man they will.
♦ * *
An aboriginal lady was observed walking
along Richmond-street, Maryborough, Q, the
other afternoon with her dress-improver and ad-
jacent millinery ablaze. A citizen rushed up, ap
prised the iady of her danger, and tore the burn-
ing garments off her ample form. Turning her
sable face to her rescuer, and her equally sable
and now bare nether portion to the fence, she ex-
plained: “ Baal me know, suppos’m pipe belong-a
me make him fire long-a pocket bigod.”
• » *
A simple-souled clerio got out the length
of Silverton lately and lost a horse in a desolate
part of the bush. He advertised his loss, and
bound himself to pay the flnder a handsome re-
ward. In a few days the animal was brought
home, and the thirsty bushman held out hig hand.
“ Where did you find it ?” asked the cleric. “ Away
off among the ridges,” replied the bushman*
" miles, miles away from where anybody would
be likely lo come.” The cleric raised his eyes, and
said mildly: " Bring me a written statement from
two residents in that place showing that it was you
who found my horse, and I will b3 happy to pay
the money over.”
* ♦ ♦
From the S.M. Herald : “ Nestling.—I will
be very thankful to hear how you are.—Never has
or ever will be any change in Matthews.” How
do you know, Matthews ? We’ve been all that way
ourselves, and more; and there was a time when
we wore a signet ring and kept our hair greased,
that wo felt just like you do. Our confidence in
ourselves was splendid. But where are we
now? Why, it took but a gust of wind
Dangar’s Philanthropy.
H. C. DANGAB (to distressed Enulieh Coal-miner); “ HEBE, My POOR FELLOW, I FEEL SO FOR YOU, THAT I’M WILLING TO MAKE THIS AUSTRALIAN MINER SHAKE
HIS LAST SHILLING WITH YOU.”
(See Leading Article.)


to burst up the whole arrangement! She
had a velvet dress on that we implicitly
believed in. The sportive zephyrs, however, re-
vealed the fact that every part of the robe you
could see was velvet, and every part you couldn’t
see was pink calico. Subsequently, when we en-
countered each other on social evenings at the
dancing saloon over the ham-and-beef shop, she
used to curl her Up scornfully; and we were wont
on those occasions, to wonder audibly what was
the name of the apparition in tho thirty-nines.
There is no change in us, though, in one respect.
And that is what Dean Cowper is getting sick with
deploring.
William Jones, of Woolomin, N.S.W., has
been looking Into his moral duties. Somebody
out Tamworth way wrote to the papers saying
that William and other choice spirits are in the
habit of congregating at Mr. Mark Mill’s public-
house on Sundays. “ This I do not deny,” says
William in the local Observer; ‘‘and sometimes
we do play cricket on Sundays. Strictly speaking (
it may be against tho law of C, -J, but I think our
Inspector-General of Police docs not wish his offi-
cers to enforce it.” William, William, when you
get into a police district where the Insp.ctor-
General and the Almighty pull together like a pair
of brothers, you will be sorry for having thus
publicly thrown over the senior partner of the
firm.
“A little boy, fully three feet in height, was
charged by a six-foot policeman in the Newtown
Police Court, on Thursday, with having whistled
in LOnnox-street on a Sunday evening, Tho
urchin said that he had been to St. Joseph's Church
that evening, and was probably whistling for joy
out of the very fulness of his heart on his way
home. Mr. O’Malley Clarke thought that whist-
ling, even on a Sunday evening, hardly constituted
a riot, and he consequently dismissed the case.”
BRIEF MENTION.
This brief appeal comes from the Herald :
—“ Wanted, a woman to wash.”
A haul of headless fish was taken by the
fishermen of Portland (Vic ), th*» other day. Since
then every man of them has signed the pledge.
“What,” asked a visitor at a Sunday
school, “what is meant by salvation?” The
answer came at once. “ Please, sir, I know; a big
drum, and lots of women in rum bonnets’ollarlng.”
Exclusive of officials, Bar, and Military, just
95 persons attended the N.S.W. Governor’s levea on
the Queen’s Birthday. But the house of Loftus
never did care for the people when they were not
saleable.
A Hay jury lately returned the following
extraordinary verdict:—“ We are of opinion that
the fire was the act of an incendiary, but Whether
‘ wilfully or accidentally’ there is no evidence to
prove.”
The cows in Maryborough (Vic.), have
been eating something that disagreed with them.
The result is that the milk smells and tastes badly.
The cows have probably been eating some mem-
bers of the Salvation Army,
In the horticultural column of a weekly
contemporary it is stated that the odour of the
pyrethrum (a Dalmatian wild flower) is fatal to
insects. It is a flower that never bloometh in the
bedrooms of certain Sydney boarding-houses.
The Melbourne Daily Telegraph editors
defend the Chinese who were lately lined for
keeping fan-tan parlours and establishments for
the playing of similar improper games. After
this, who will say that blood is not thicker than
water ?
It is some matter for congratulation
amongst those interested in military matters to
know that though our soldiers don t bring back
any warlike trophies to speak of, each man can
be depended upon for returning with a splendid
thirst.
A new Society paper is to be published
up South shortly. The title is to be Table
Talk. If the literary style of the prospectus may
be taken as a sample of that of the paper, we
would advise the promoters to lengthen the title
to Under the Table Talk.
The Soudan Contingentist, whose letter
was published in the Evening News on Friday
last, chose bis paper with the truest instinct.
Only in the News would it be published that ‘‘Ail
Osman Digna’s men are leaving him, and he is
slaughtering the rest.” Horrible outrage, eh ?
Advt. from London D.T.: —“ Chambers
unfurnished (F. A. Lewty’s), 11 John-street, Bed-
ford Row, W.C. Seven rooms, lift, &c. Rent
£75 per annum. Gas extra. Pub. (good. Mrs.
Price) and pamns/iop handy.— Apply to J.A.W., at
Lewty’s, next door to Liwyer Landlord Evans, as
above.”
A weekly contemporary mournfully asks
what will become of the young “ if they be loft to
their evil courses almost unrestrained, and if
morality and religion be made unfamiliar to
them ? ” It is a sorrowful conundrum. They
can’t all become bush missionaries or editors of
religious papers.
A late London Court Journal says:
“Rabbits have become such a nuisance in Aus-
tralia that the Bishop of Melbourne has ordered
prayers to be offered lor the prevention of their
increase.” We were only waiting until the reward
for the discovery of a method of exterminating
rabbits had been definitely named at £70,000, and
then we were going to take out a patent for rab-
bit-slaughter by prayer, and hire John Dowle and
Peter to take the Job at so much a day. Now our
patent wouldn't be worth praying for.
We understand that a young lady, of
either Florence or Dubbo— thp latter, probably—
has Invented a new process of vaccination. She
takes her lymph at night from the hen. We don’t
guarantee, however, that we will accept this as
an excuse if we should discover her fossicking
about our fowl-house.
They were to fire the Mudgee gun directly
war was declared. When this became known in
the town some regret was expressed at the absence
la England of their senior member. It had been
considered probable that, in honour of the occa-
sion, the lengthy Augustus would have volun-
teered his service as ram-rod.
Replying to an address from Trinity Col-
lege. Dublin, the Prince of Wales said: “I can
bear testimony to the value of a training within
the walls of a college." He referred, of course, to
tho mtraLaswell as the mental value, and the
grim professors looked at one another, and then—
wipea their spectacles to look again.
“ Two aldermen wanted at once. Apply
to the Returning Officer, Patea, New Zealand.”
For some weeks past the Returning Officer has
been advertising for them, but the residents don’t
seem to hanker after the honour. Counsel’s
opinion Is to the effect that goats cannot legally bn
nominated. Good thing that the law isdiffereit
here.
An American who was asked the other
day in Sydney what he thought of Australia, gave
no flattering opinion, specially dwelling on its
dryness, thin population and lack of society.
•* Ah,” was the reply, “ but we’ll soon have plenty
of water and good society.” “ Those things,’
replied the ’Murkan, “areail hell needs to ma> e
it hospitable.”
The “ eye” of Miss Louisa Paulkeis again
being diligently advertised for in the Herald;
but nothing seems to have met it yet. This dis-
appearance is mysterious. We remember disap-
pearing as mysteriously ourselves when we were
young, and we have a distant recollection of what
met our eye when we returned fascinated by the
advertisement which bad, we considered, made us
famous.
Some sprightly vegetarian makes these
alliterative statements : “ Immorality lurks in
mutton-chops, nrutality in beef, perverseness in
poultry, and villainy in veal.” To this we can add,
from personal observation in boarding-houses,
that in hash lurks homicide, in sandwiches self-
disgust, and in sausages the seven deadly sins.
Our article on bacteria in this issue goes to the
he'artof this matter.
The father of a Soudan exterminator was
pressed for payment of his son’s debt. He refused
on the grounds that he was not liable, and that the
young fellow was away chasing hostile goats for
Her Majesty in Africa. The fellow tried to push
his way into the house, but the old man seized
the boy’s carbine, knocked h’m down, lied b1a legs
in a knot, and flung him down the steps, roaring
“ Every man’s house is his z ireba.”
The people in Gundagai don’t want Mr.
James Watson, M.L A. to resign. There’s nothing
like sticking to a good thing when you get it.
Why, hang it! there are about 17 electors in his
district who haven’t received their little post-
offices yet; and it is well known that the ads. the
hon. member paid for in one paper, last election,
have kept the editor of it barbered, clothed, and
shaved ever since. And sober, too, we hope,
A Victorian weekly paper says of our gal-
lant Goatioides now on the way home:—“They
will form a sort of Cm jar’s legion in the forces of
the oolonhs.” This Is bitter irony. If the forces
of the colonies were to be employed solely on
rabbit raids the statement might, perhans, be
taken seriously. But wi h the face of War—a
skull with pits of blood for eyes—grinning at us
it is merciless mockery. Gods I that we Walers
should be gibed at by a Cabbage I
The direction to Timothy to take a little
wine for the sake of bis little tum-tum, has been
often distorted by temperance advocates, but Mr.
R. T. Booth explains the matter nicely. He says
that “external application only” was enjoined.
Of course that must be it, and the water, which
Timothy was to drink no more of, was merely
applied externally. It is said that if a man drinks
beer, he thinks beer. Judging by Mr. Booth’s elo-
quence, It seems true that if a man drinks water,
he speaks water.
In a certain Victorian city there was a
stern collector, the terror of laggards and the
pride of the council. He paid his own debts, why
shouldn’t people pay the council ? was hit argu-
ment to tho poor fellow out of work who couldn’t
raise the rate. Came a day when he was rough on
the wrong man. The wrong man had the rate-
books overhauled, and Mr. Bumble Shylook, who
owned a lot of houses, was found to be just seven-
teen years in arrear with his rates, and was com-
pelled to shell out on the spot.
The Bourke Standard proclaims that
“Mr. Farjeon, author of ‘Cal'ed Back,’ Is dead ”
When aman gets as far up as Bourke he can’t with
much reason be expected to know the difference
between Fargus and Farjeon. Rum and water
being the same price there it takes a man all his
time to consider, as he goes through life, whether
he will call for a quart of water, or ring for a
quart of rum. It Is. at Bourke, easier to get
loaded up with rum than with literary recollec-
tions. As long as the Bourke public know that
Chaucer Is reported to be missing, they rub along
all right, bless you 1
There was an exciting duel between an
officer of the Salvation Army and the Marybor-
ough (Vie.) town bellman the other day. The
duel was fought with bells. Aided by the Evil One
—as the officer subsequently asserted—the town
bellman won. But between them they had the
volunteers out. Everybody thought the Russians
were advancing in force upon the town. Under
the circumstances, it was curious to note how
small the muster of the volunteers was. Subse-
quently. however. It was satisfactorily explained
by the fact that most of the corps were confined
to the house with severe colds
The Ballarat School of Mines was made a
present of a monster beetle lately. It was sent to
the gentleman who presented it, by a friend, with
the following note:-“If good enough, give to
School of Mines. Itisabigone. Heard it walking
on the roof of the verandah. Got a ladder and
went up and captured it. Thought it was a bird.”
This remarkable beetle is still growing. Its
strength is enormous. A few days ago the huge-
footed Colonel Smith playfully harnessed it to one
of his shoes- and it moved theshne perceptibly! Its
intelligence, too, is wonderful-for a beetle. Many
persons, considered good judges, seeinth s Ballarat
beetle the future Minister of Education.
The Tamworth Nbavs said of the latest
demands of Russia, that they would have to be
considerably modified, and if the Gladstone Minis-
try acceded to them, it would not live a week
after doing so. This threat on the part of the
News did not reach home in time. The demands
were granted, the Ministry have not been turned
out, the Empire has, from a Tamworthian point
of view, been humiliated, and the Tamworth
News placed in a false position with the diplomats
of the Continent. It remains to be seen what
steps Josephs will take to re-establish his status
In London, Paris, Petersburg, and Berlin. Mean-
time Consols show a downward tendency.
A boniface on one of the Northern rivers
of N.S.W. has devised a now form of distraint. A
man and wife boarded and lodged with him lately.
After many vain attempts to obtain what the poet
Holdsworth musically calls a quid pro quo, boni-
face took the bit out of his mouth and gave him-
self head. He let the husband out, and then
rushed to the wife's belroom and lucked her in.
With the key in his pocket he bossed the passage.
A couple of days of that brought the husband to
paying point, and now the publican lifts himself
up as a first-water genius. When, however, some
bush-mifslonary brings round his wife and gets
boniface to keep her under look and key while he
bolts with the publican's wife and a gallon of
whisky, the first-water genius will let himself
down again.
BUNKUM RHYMES FOR THE TIMES.
Stick a dulcimer before us.
And a saokbert, then we’ll chorus
Out a little simple ditty to the praise of Peeler X
Who, we’ve confidence in stating,
Is a model elevating—
A shining light and lesson for the youth of either
sex.
He is meek, and also lowly,
And one Sunday evening holy
He was walking very slowly, very slowly down
the street.
On the Gospel meditating
(Or for some fair cooky waiting),
When he heard a sound of revelry polluting of his
“beat.”
And still the strains resounded
In his ears—he was dumbfounded;
’Twas the blessed Sabbath evening, when mankind
should be at peace.
All his marrow turned to gristle
As he beard again- a whistle,
And he murmured sadly “This’ll be a ease for the
* perleeoe.’ ”
(Confessions of a returned Volunteer.)
“ Volunteer, so stern and haughty, nourishing a
youth sublime,
Art thou Dalleyian hero nourishing what’s
worth the time?
Art thou wasting precious hours in a vain and
futile task ?
That is, volunteer undaunted, just the question
I would ask.”
“ Tye, G.P., thou Bunkum Rhymer, let me fix you
with mine eye,
And the question I shall answer as you put it, G
P. Tye.
“In a village I was nurtured—caught the wild
goat by the hair.
Hunted through the primal forest the fierce
'possum to its lair;
I was but a child of nature, and would but have
been so still—
G.P., bear with me a moment ”—for that volun-
teer was ill I
“ To continue. I had ventured into Maitland’s
flooded town
With no other fixed intention but to do some
stranger brown;
’Twas about a horse—but let me not a subject
sad pursue—
Ohl if a heart is broken,’tls when done where
you would do I
“ I was caught! the traps were on me, and in eye, 8
quick twinkle ran
Yours most truly in for doing what does well
become a man;
When released. I wondered vaguely what I’d do
upon this sphere,
When, great godsl I saw the legend ‘For the
Soudan volunteer. I
“All my patiiotio being seemed to swirl within
my soul,
And I swore to serve my country to the regions
of the Polel
When I reached where Afrio’s waters run right
up to Afrlc’s strand,
(G.P., tell me not in numbers that my words arc
secondhand);
“ When I reached, as I have told you, Afrio’s shore
of coral fair,
Nothing struck me more sublimely but that coral
was not there;
This was my first disappointment, but not yet all
hope had fled,
For I dreamed of dusky beauties that without
delay I’d wedl
“ Bear with me, oh, Tye, most noble, pity, pity my
hard lot.
When the news to me was broken that the
Mahdi’d bought tae loti
“ Then I fainted, but a bayonet, run into a tender
part,
Told me that I still had feeling, though, alas, I’d
lost all heart;
Nary coral—not a maiden dusky-browned ’neath
Afrlc’s sun—
Polygamous-hearted Mahdi, you might just have
left me one.
“ Then, indeed, a brood of urchins, double-
jointed, as their dame,
Might, as years would come upon them, have
pronounced a sire’s name!
,« Fool, again the dream, the fancy—noble Tye, it
will creep in.
But I might have been the husband of dark
Afric’sglossy gin!
“ But to arms, to arms they call me, arm me for
the bitter strife,
Place a plate, a cup before me, In my hand a
carving-knife!
“Heavens! how the tempest lowered, and the
wind began to tear,
As my comrades, brave, undaunted, placed an"
other soup plate there 1
“ There before me, and I trembled with an ecstasy
sublime,
When I saw the pots of Egypt emptied on those
plates of mine.
“ Better, cried I, in my passion, as I watched the
sinking day,
Better fifty tins from Europe than ten thousand
from Cathay 1
“ Chicken, grouse, and apple tartlets, sparkling
flizz and British beer,
Tye, oh, Tye, transpose thy being, and be thou a
volunteer I
“ Serve thy land! Go for glory, see in mo what
war has lent me.
For again I’m in my country, fatter than the man
who sent me!”
The Show of the Future.
WHAT WE MAY EXPECT, SHORTLY.
Casting round his optic searchin’,
Soon it lighted on an urchin
Who was also walking slowly, very slowly down
the street;
And our “ bobby’s ” tresses bristled.
When again that urchin whistled
(And he breathed a prayer to Heaven, which we
couldn’t well repeat).
Ohl consider well his feeling,
As he beard such anthems pealing
On that blessed Sunday morning, and from such a
sinful source;
And you cannot help confessing
That it really was distressing
To a man who loves his Saviour with the fervour
ol “ the force.”
In a moment (no one’s bolder
Than a “ bobby ”) on the shoulder
Of that boy he put nis finger, and he led him in
For this Sabbath desecration.
To the very nearest station—
Where the sinful cease from troubling, and the
boozers take their rest.
But you’ve read the sad finale,
How the Magistrate, O’Malley,
Took a singular compassion on that wicked little
boy:
How ho harkened to his story—
That an overdose of glory
Had attacked his little “ tummy ” till he whistled
out "for joy.”
Yet. although the “ beak ” decided
That this urchin, so misguided,
Wasn’t dang’rous to his fellows, and that whistling
out a hymn
Didn’t constitute a riot;
Ohl we hope he will keep quiet
When he walks near ‘ Peeler ’ X, and h?.vo a little
thought for him.


The Yass (N.S.W.) Tribune, in a recent
Issue, said that it was again Its sorrowful duty to
ohronlole the demise of Miss ■ .
Hon. J. P. Abbott attacked with illness
brought on by over-heating. (Yes. we meant to
out in the “ h.) We said last week that he ought
to be ill to prove his right to a place in the Ministry.
Very shortly Sydney will be visited by an
alleged male professional pianist, whleh has long
golden curls, wears corsets, powders its face,
blackens Its eyebrows, and, before starting to play,
leans its chin on Its hand, and looks Heavenward,
as If looking for Inspiration. This fascinating
creature is at present in Melbourne.
From the D.T.’s Soudan correspondent:—
“As you pass the mosques on a Friday—the Ma-
hometan’s Sabbath—the man at the door of each
spits on the ground, to show his contempt for you
and your religion.” We are sorry to find that the
Sydney D.T., Its creed, and its staff, agp in such
bad repute among the sons of Islam.
From the St. Arnaud (Vic.) Mail:—
Wanted, an active girl as general servant. Master
milks the cow; piano on the premises. Apply by
letter. Address * Constance,’ Mercury Office.”
Now, Constance, dear, one word shows that you
are behind the times. Don’t you know that no
“ girls” go out to service now; they are “ladies”
or occasionally young “ persons.”
The Silverton correspondent of the Wil-
oannlaTimes asks this absurd question:—“ What
are our ministers of religion doing that they do
not Interest themselves more In the management
of our cemetery ?” As if a corpse could pay pew-
rent or had any money to put in the oollection-
plate! This correspondent is evidently a very
young or vary thoughtless person.
From Tuesday’s S.M. Herald John
Moyse Rowe was fined £5, or 2i;days, for having
broken a broomstick across the head of Ellen
Machin, a woman with whom he was living.” The
invention of this new crime—“ breaking a broom-
stick ’’—supplies a long-felt want. For years we
have been strongly of opinion that proper respect
has not been accorded to broom-handles.
MELBOURNE “ PUNCH” POETRY.
LINES ON A WAIST RIBBON.
“ That which her slender waist confined
Shall now my joyful temples bind;
No monarch but would give his crown.
His arms might do what this hath done.”
Our advice to the bard : —
Take It, dear friend—’tls lying loose—
At one end tie a running noose,
The either round a beam fast twirl.
You know the rest—we’ll mind the girl.
As the committee have threatened to
knock him down and Jump on him, individually
and collectively, next time he offends, there is a
prospect of h's reformation. Whose reformation ?
Why, that of Rev. G. Walters, cf Melbourne
Unitarian Church. He will keep saying things
which disarrange that holy rigidity of countenance
which is proper in the “ House of the Lord. ’ He
said (in effect) people were too much given to
addressing their Father in Heaven, yet ratling to
recognise His presence in daily life m the human
heart; and, thus localising Him, they resembled
the little American boy, back West, who ended
his prayer with, “Good-bye, God; I’m going to
Boston to-morrow morning to stay a fortnight.”
The correspondent of an English upper-
ten journal, who accompanied the Royal progress
through Ireland, says in one of his letters:—” The
Royal guests left Lord Llstowel’s seat at Conva-
more and proceeded on a short visit to the Mar-
quis of Waterford at Curraghmore. . . The only
disagreeable incident was a demonstration of some
evicted tenants.” We suppose it Is not neces-
sary to inform you through a fog-horn that the
italics are ours. The correspondent evidently
looks with severe disapproval at the bad taste of
these hungry and homeless phantoms making their
appearance in the path of H'-yilty on a journey to
eat game with Rapacity. I r, a d '“agreeable in-
cident! Now, the Devil and all t 1 C jurt-journals
be thanked for that comfortable phrase. But what
would this correspondent call dying of starvation
In a ditch ? A disagreeable Incident 1 That would
depend upon whether the Royal party witnessed It
or not.
At the Sydney University Commemora-
tion the other day an undergraduate came pre-
pared with a delicate little compliment for His
Excellency. He brought it in a bag under his
arm. It tells well for the loyal and resneotful
spirit of the rising generation that the tastes and
predilections of Her Majesty’s representative are
so diligently studied. When His Excellency seated
Mods )lf, the undergraduate began to open the bag.
A minion In authority, however, seeing a red
comb, seized on the bag, and carried it away. It
was a pity, for the offering the student was about
to present fitted right into the groove in which
the lofty thoughts of Lord Loftus move. The
offering was a rooster.
Recently a squatter near Oamaru (N.Z.)
imported a prime lot of live dnnkevs. which he
turned loose on his run on the Waitaki River. A
few days afterwards a 15-year-old native of those
parts, who had never seen a four-footed ass in his
life, came running home to his mother, the wife
of a Scotch settler, and with extreme terror de-
picted on every freckle of his brosy countenance,
exclaimed, “Eh, mither, mither, there’s a lot of
big rabbits doon by at the watter side ilka ane as
big as a coo, and they lat oot a fearful roarln, like
the fog-horn o' a steamer, and they’ve nearly
frlchtened me to death. Mercy on us! they hlv
lugs as lang as my leg.” The imaginative young
porridge stuffer thought the donkeys were rabbits
of a gigantic breed.
In the Forbes Times, P. L. Buddivent sug-
gests a distinguishing badge and motto for the
volunteers at present being enrolled throughout
the land. He hasn’t quite made up his mind about
the badge, but his motto is Defensio non Provocasio
(defence, not provocation). We think we can Im-
prove on this, and throw In a badge as well. Our
badge would be a wooden platter set in stirabout.
On the obverse a billy-goat rampant—a sphinx on
the reverse. Under the latter might appear the
sensible and appropriate motto “ KCep dark,”
while on the other side the famous Latin collo-
quialism Non compos mentis would find a fitting
place. It is with some diffidence we offer these
suggestions, which, we trust, will meet the views
of Mr. Buddivent and of the Government.
Many years ago, in the early days of set-
tlement on New England, two pioneers accom-
panied by a dusky son of the soil, who rejoiced in
the name of Jackey Jaokey, were camping for the
night. Jackey had formerly been under the rule
ot one Duncan M‘Tavlsh, who was a perfect terror
to the darkies in that part, and, as Jackey had
sometime previously “cleared” from the station
on which Duncan was king, he was in great dread
of meeting him again. As the travellers lay by the
camp fire, Jackey, who was an inquisitive sort,
asked questions about the stars, etc,, and his com-
panions, thinking to do something for his spiritual
welfare, informed him as follows:—“ Suppose you
f ood boy, Jaokey, by-an’-bye you go along a that
ella Star—you fly about like It a bird, plenty
pratta everything, you good boy. White fella and
black fella all a same there.” "YasI” exclaimed
Jackey, after a pause, “Duncan M‘Tavlsh go
there, too ?”
The opening sentence of theS.M. Herald’s
second leading article of Monday last, thus out-
Heralded the Herald: —“If Reuter’s telegram
does not overstate the case, and If there should bo
no further retractation, and no attempt to make
another point in diplomacy, then the Afghan
frontier difficulty has been, for the present at
least, settled in a manner which, If not entirely
satisfactory, is as satisfactory as could be expected
under the circumstances.” Now, if this passage
is from a Herald leader, and If the man who
wrote it considers that the guarded assertion put
forth is correct under existing circumstances —
which, so far as we can see, are not at present
likely to be disturbed—then we consider that this
deliverance Is fairly satisfactory; that is to say,
satisfactory to the writer himself, snould events
not happen In the near or remote future to make
matters somewhat different from what, in our
opinion, they are likely to be In a greater or less
degree. And why, we ask, in the name of thun-
der, should the Herald thus feebly have shaken
hands with itself on Tuesday over the alleged
settlement, In the face of the fact that in the very
same issue a Reuter’s cablegram was printed dis-
tinctly stating that no settlement had been made ?
Kavanagh, the informer against the Phoe-
nix Park assassins, said to be confined in a South
Australian Lunatic Asylum.
Before these lines are the property of the
public the Wagga banquet will have become a
matter of record. It is a pleasing evidence of the
popularity of the N.S.W. Ministry that invitations
Should thus be extended to them from so many
important centres. These banquets prove also
the disinterested generosity of the donors. In
proof of this we turn to a leader from the Riverine
Evening Star of the 31st May. It Is stated there
that Wagga wants a member for the town alone,
and that this subject “should certainly form,
next after an expression of our appreciation of
the Ministry’s patriotic action, the most important
matter to be brought up at the banquet it Is pro-
posed to tender to the members of the Govern-
ment. When they are with us we can more
warmly advocate our cause, and place it In a better
light, than we could by all the second-hand repre-
sentation, howsoever good, in the world. Let us,
therefore, see this public meeting to night a pro-
nounced success; the banquet, to which it Is in-
tended to be the prelude, a greater, and we can
readily count upon the certain realisation of our
purposes.” What a nice little programme I The
Ministry will obtain an expression of appreciation
for their patriotic action. Wagga will get its
member, and the people of New South Wales will
admire the eloquence of Dailey and the open-
heartedness of the entertainers, and be unaware
of the holy fraud which is being enacted.
The Commander-In-Chief of the French
forces In China is one of the most famous soldiers
of France. There is a strong opinion that the
defeat which secured the immediate downfall of
M. Perry occurred in spite of General Briore de
I’lsle. who has not done anything to merit the re-
probation of his country. It was predicted months
ago that the forces at his disposal were insufficient.
If the deposition of M. Ferry by the French
Chamber were unreasonable. It is certain that any
condemnation of the intrepid commander would
have been both unjust and ungenerous. General
Breire de I’Isle will probably be able to give a
good account of himself when he returns to
Europe, which, if peace has really been concluded,
will be very soon.
Our old friend Tennyson is on the ram-
page again with another lot of verses in his later
prose manner. They are printed in the London
Times, and amble along as best they can in this
fashion:—
“THE FLEET.
“(On its reported Insufficiency.)
“ You—you— if you have fail’d to understand—
The fleet of England Is her all in all—
On you Will come the curse of all the land
If that old England fall,
Which Nelson left so great—
“ This Isle, the mightiest naval power on earth,
This one small isle, the lord of every sea—
Poor England, what would all these votes be
worth,
And what avail thine ancient name of ‘ Free,’
Wert thou a fallen State ?
“ You—you—who had the ordering of her Fleet,
If you have only compsss’d her disgrace,
When all men starve, the wild mob’s million feet
Will kick you from your place—
But then—too late, too late 1”
We should say quite soon enough for the parties
to be kicked. But this is sad stuff to come from
such a hand. Let us see what we can make of the
metre:—
The Laureate.
(On his Reported Sufficiency.)
You—you— if you have failed to understand
Your failing powers and your fading fire.
It is quite time you did—quite time the wand
Of magic, and the lyre
You laid down once for all.
Think what you were—what you have come to
be—
You were, In Poetry, without a Peer,
You arc—a Peer without the Poetry;
If we could drop a tear
We would, at such a fall.
Have done! The men with newer songs
Full of new music for this newer age
Press past you ever in triumphant throngs:
The curtain rises from the stag?,
And Sladen has the call!
“After life’s fitful fever,” let us hope “it
sleeps well.” We refer to the defunct Wohld, a
Melbourne evening paper that departed this life
on Saturday last, deeply regretted—by Mortimer
Franklyn. Some four years ago the World wa
started with a flourish of journalistic trumpets
to supply a long felt want,” and just about the
same time the Argus proprietary launched a frail
little barque at one halfpenny, with the laudible
idea of educating’ the Victorian Democrat up to a
standard of Conservatism. The latter gave up the
ghost before the desired end had been accom-
Pi.* 8 t, • in fftet, it had hardly been commenced as
the worrukinmen” refused to accept the little
sheet at half the usual figure, and the unfortunate
weakling was strangled in its infancy. The
World had a good start under the original pro-
jectors and bid fair to be a live paper, but in an
evil hour for the publication, Mortimer Franklyn
set his eye on it, and having secured the property,
he commenced to run it on high-toned squatocratlo
lines. Mortimer would have a paper that could
be read in the shepherd’s hut as well as in the
palatial residences of the aristocrats of Toorak
and St. Kilda—a paper that would please alike the
peasant and the prince. But somehow he failed in
doing either., The plebeian would have none of it,
and the support of the princelings was so pre-
carious that, notwithstanding Mortimer used to
send out hourly editions with job-type crossheads,
the paper.; which was to set the sweet-smelling
Yarra on fire, fizzled out on Saturday last. In ltd
departing gasp it mumbled out something about
not being able to compete with the night-cart
literature of the Herald ■( we presume the dying
speech will not reach the Toorak readers), but the
fact of the matter is that Winter, of the Herald,
had the whip-hand of Mortimer from the start, so
that the latter could neither frump nor follow
suit to the Herald’s lead.
The Sunday Question.
THE UNCO-GUID IN MELBOURNE KEEP THE ART GALLERY THERE CLOSED ON THE SAWBATH, BECAUSE, THEY ALLEGE, TO OPEN IT WOULD LEAD TO ORGIES OF THIS KIND
1 ET THE UNGODLY IN SYDNEY DANE 1RE\ AILED, AND THE MUSEUM IS ODEN ON SUNDAYS. AFTER ALL, THE PIOUS CAN ALLEGE NOTHING MORE HORRIBLE THAN
THIS AS THE RESULT.


Mr. DbCottbot Brown* (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 62 Castle-
reagh-street. Sydney, *r Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, 0T Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Courts*
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“Honesty”: We don’t want to print
second-hand verse. We are obliged to you for
bowling out our talented contributor—“ J.D.8.”:
Apply to Mr. Wallace, bookseller, Pitt-street
Arcade....“A Resident” (North Willoughby):
Cannot undertake to attend all such affairs, but
shall be glad to make mention of same if brief re-
port be forwarded “ C.W.W.”: Your drawing
is, in our opin’on, as ugly as the chimney of the
new A.J.S. Bank, Sydney... 44 Mark T.”: The
South Australian Attorney-General’s action in
joining the Adelaide volunteers wasn’t an original
idea. It was probably borrowed from the late
Mr Justice Lutwyche, of Queensland, who, when
Attorney-General, during the outbreak of mili-
tary ardour up North in 1860-1, joined the
ranks at Brisbane.... 44 C.W.H.J.” : You lose
your wager. The Fargus of whom you speak
was a man of TO years. J. J. Fargus (“ Hugh
Conway”) was a-young man.... 41 J. Horsley”
(Prahran) : Many thanks — “F.T.”: Shortly—
44S.W.”: 60,COO Britons perished from cholera and
shot during the Crimean War, which cost England
120 millions sterling.... 44 P. Surtoine ”: It is not so.
The Bosphobe was suppressed before 44 for pub-
lishing atrocious stories about Queen Victoria,”
who, by the way, seems now-a-days to be exten-
sively libelled.... 44 Rococo”: Thanks for your
verses. But we can’t print them. Judging from
your writing, you are very unwell, and if you died
suddenly just now and they planted violets on
your grave the innocent little flowers would
insist on smelling violently of Scotch whisky....
44 Patrick W.”: Yes, we do consider it rather sug-
gestive that 44 St. Joseph’s Building Society ”
(Sydney), should reserve a niche in front of their
new offices for a statue of their patron saint. We
don’t like financial organisations under the patron-
age of the saints and clergy. We remember the
Union Generate of Paris “E.J.W.”; It hasn’t
come off yet, but we hear that a lot of old
gentlemen have made their wills in favour of
Sydney University, which, in a few years, should
be endowed to the extent of £500,000 or so....
44 A.M.M.” (Hay): We sympathise with you, but
cannot take the matter up. In the present state
of the libel law in N.S. Wales, a paper—if it doesn’t
want to be ruined—has to keep silent, or—which
is almost as bad-speak in general terms while
obvious injustices are being perpetrated.. ,. 4 ' G.C.’
(Woodburn): Yes, it was mean. But, bless you,
these are the people whose sons and daughters
will, by-and-bye, come to Sydney, buy villas at
the North Shore and Woollahra, be known in
society as leaders of ton, and never allude to the
sharp parents who sanded the sugar, watered the
milk, stuck suet to the bottom of the scales, or
put plugs of tobacco in the rum. We’ve plenty of
them in Sydney. They go home occasionally and
get presented at Court. Yah!.... 44 Timothy Tug-
mutton ”: Excellent. Shall be glad to have name
and address.... 44 H.C.” (Coonabarabran): Thanks
for your poem, of which we print a verse, just to
show there’s no bad bl®od between us:
44 Nearly every newspaper that now comes to
To bush townships throughout our fair
But their 44 Jingo ” ideas bewilder us Quite
Tba.t rarely we can tell the wrong from the right
Since W. B. Dailey he „
Shipped off our boys for to smash the Mahdl.
We suppose you’re the bard who was formerly the
poet-laureate to the dowager aboriginal queen of
Croajlngolong.... 44 Louis W.”: We think 44 en-
thronement ” a much neater word than 44 enthroni-
sation.” The difference in point is a mere matter
of hair-splitting.... 44 Massa ”: Mr. Dailey’s refusal
of a knighthood reminds us of the gitana who
grumbled at the offer of Don Jose, because it was
44 too little, yet too much.” Just as the gallows is,
in the opinion of some people high up in N.S.W. f
the proper remedy for all offences, from stealing
a fourpenny loaf to cutting up your grandmother,
so a C.M.G.-ship or K.CM.G.-ship is the reward
prescribed by the ignorants of the Colonial Office
for all political virtues and political crimes on
the part of Australian parliamentarians. Mr.
Dailey’s action was a very big thing. We
deny that* it was a good big thing. Anyhow, it
calls for either a baronetcy or the block
44 E.L.8.”: But you can’t get over the fact that at
a representative meeting of a representative insti-
tution—the Sydney School of Arts-150 people
-more than one-third of the whole assemblage-
voted in favour of Mr. Jos. Symes.... 44 W. Crooks-
ley ”: (1) Thanks. (2) By no means. To buy with
N.8.W. public money statues and busts from such
an artist as Woolner would be a stupendous joke
were it not so expensive... “Scindia”: Hardly
any married man dare refuse a title. Broadly
speaking, all women are title-worshippersI ...
4 *j j ”■ The creature is an impostor and a
thorough-paced hypocrite, and L«°t® stant
Standard people know it.... I S. • xnanas....
41 w Frookslev” (Q.): You don’t know the inside
running of this little affair. Miss Elizabeth Thomp-
son is an estimable and rather clever lady, who, a
few years ago, by painting a pretty decent picture
—“ The Roll Call ’’—managed to attract the atten-
tion of the Prince of Wales, who, by giving or
withholding bis precious patronage, unfortunately
has, in England, the power of ‘‘making’ or
“breaking ” an artist, who may not be or may be
a genius. Miss Thompson has now painted another
picture of a somewhat similar order— Tel-el-
Kebir”— representing the ruthless slaughter of a
lot of half-armed wretches by the British army,
one of whose officers (Miss Elizabeth Thomp-
son’s husband) is duly immortalised on the
canvas. Miss Thompson and her wprks are now
being most industriously advertised in the colonial
papers by certain relatives of hers who puli the
strings as, London correspondents of leading
colonial papers. So if the thing should be
engineered'aright, it may yet happen that the
N.8.W. public will pay an extortionate price in
order that future generations of the Australian
democracy may gaze upon the not too beauti-
fully painted representation of a tyrannous
Infamy. The people who control the Sydney
Art gallery are not democrats.E.J. (Mel-
bourne) : Lord Rosebery has a son. Anyhow, we
have often seen the youth alluded to as
“little Lord Dalmeny.” “ W.W.B. : This
paragraph as to Napoleonic corruption has
already gone the round of the papers. The
Countess de Montijo, you will find, on looking
the matter up, was the Emperor’s mother-in-law.
Under the circumstances, it’s a wonder she didn t
get more than £270,000 out of him. ...“Humbug
(Ultimo): Thanks ..“George Wood”: Wo have
not seen the name of Lord Wolseley’s brother, who
is a squatter up Walgett way, on the Patriotic
Fund subscription list. Probably he has better
use for his cash....“J. W. Sullivan” (Lucknow):
You are wrong. The Day Dawn gold claim,
Charters Towers, has paid £267,000 nett in three
years and a half.— “J.B. (B.)”: Thanks.....
“ An Old Subscriber” (Launceston): Our constant
readers all think with you anent Australian Jingo-
ism. Their wit made them constant readers, or
the constant reading gave them the wit- Items
attended to—“R.J.” (Green Valley, N.Z.): We
can’t answer for their respectability, wed
strongly advise you to consult some good reput-
able practitioner in N.Z. If you come to Sydney,
consult privately one of the Alfred or Sydney
Hospital physicians....“W.G.”: Many thanks....
“Non Haec in Foedera ” (Sllverton): When un-
bridled speech and inspiriting kerosene quit and
parsons and private bottles come in, existence is
not the same. This is especially true on the Far-
rier. The only thing to do is to change with the
times. Be a parson, and have your own private
bottle. Gently—did you plant the horse?....
“ stetso”: We don’t print your par. To say the
Jews are cowards is bosh. The Hebrew is a good
soldier, but he has too much brain to fight if he
can help it. If all Jews are cowards, how does it
happen that a Jew has at least once been cham-
pion puglllst'of England,’and that Jack Thompson,
the bookmaker, can thump so hard and so long ?..
“Decimals”: London cabmen spend the night
hilariously drunk, and towards morning go home
and “ wollop their wives.” Men like you enjoy
yourselves at a picnic, and when it is over write
poetry about it, and try to make the public read
it. Here you go;—
•• Mick Fleming took the left hand wing, quite
eager for the fray,
Trying to make his clothes fit him, I should
rather say; ,. . . .
Dixon, Doyle, and Mason were scattered in be-
tween,
Eating, drinking, saying nothing; wolfing s what
I mean;
Orchard sat in front of me
What we wish is that Orchard had sat on top of
you, and that all the rest had sat on top of Orchard.
.... K.C.B.” (Yass): Don’t trouble to write to us
any more about such things. J ust keep on strip-
ping wattle-bark, old fellow.
The Late George Portescue, M.B.
The commanding figure and handsome face of
George Fortescue, M.B., will be seen no more, for,
on Monday morning last, after a severe s traggle
with the destroyer, “the doctor” succumbed at
his residence, Wyniston, Parramatta Kiver, to
typhoid fever. A most accomplished surgeon and
thorough man of the world. Mr. Fortescue was
possessed of gifts that, in the long and arduous
exercise of a profession to which he was entirely
devoted, gave him an Australasian fame and popu-
larity: but the esteem in which he was held by thou-
sands of patients, and, better still, by his medical
brethren, had its foundation as much in the attri-
butes of his big heart as in the uncommon powers
of his clear intellect and expert hand Though
not a “ sporting man ” proper-for he had, we be-
lieve. never made a bet in his life, and he heartily
disliked the unsavoury association of what is com_
monly called sport-he loved a fair and manly con.
test of any kind, ever manifested a strong feeling
of the national importance of physical develop-
ment, and took a not unprofessional interest in
the cultivation of the men aana in eorporesano. Mr,
Fortesouo was born at Falmouth, Cornwall, in 1838
and was In Infancy taken to Tasmania. He re-
turned home In 1855, and entered King s College,
London, In 1857, for his medical course, which ter-
minated in his taking the M.B. degree of London
University (first division) in 1861; but he was
obliged to leave England before he attained the age
entitling him to be admitted for examination for
the one higher degree of the College and Univer-
sity. Mr. Fortesoue landed in Sydney in 1803, rapidly
acquired an extensive ipraotice, and has almost
ever since been attached in an honorary capacity,
to one or other of the hospitals. That the deoeased t
with his boyish spirits and thorough knowledge
of human nature, should have died in the prime
of his career, is sad indeed; for, with him, the
possessor of a rare and brilliant medical Instinct,
there goes to the grave an accumulation of pro-
fessional experience which a country cannot sparer
and which books can never teach.
The editorial chair of the Brisbane Ob-
Seuveb, vacated by the death of William O’Car-
roll, has been filled by the appointment thereto of
Walter J. Morley, who wrote us on the appearance
of our notice and portrait of the deceased
Journalist, that he is “ proud to be ranked as one
of O’Carroll’s boys.” Walter Morley was an
apprentice to the type-setting business on the
CouaiEB of Brisbane, and having energy and am-
bition, taught himself shorthand in his spare time,
and on the expiration of his indentures, instead of
becoming a compositor, he sought and obtained a
position in the establishment as a reporter. A
painstaking and conscientious youth, he steadily
made his way to a leading position, encouraged
and aided always by the ready guidance and appre-
ciation of William O'Carroll. It was Morley. by-
the-way, who but a month or so ago, when a man
fell overboard from a steamer in the Brisbane
River—which abounds in sharks-jumped over-
board and saved the man’s life. Another of
“O’Carroll’s boys” who commenced exactly in
the same way, and at the same time with Walter
Morley. is E. Barton, now sub-editor of the Bris-
bane Courier, another worthy disciple of the
man whom all young Journalists who knew him,
styled “ The grand old man.”
Mr. Thadeus O’Kane thinks the Townsville
community is now of a mixed and low type. There
is an admixture of Chinese. Cingalese, Kanakas,
and New Guinea men. Mr. O’Kane also holds the
impression that the three papers in Townsville
form a trinity of liars unsurpassed in the colony.
LESS, THE PUGILIST.
FARNAN, THE PUGILIST, DEFEATED AT MELBOURNE BY LEES.


RAW VASELINE.
B
as
A
S 0F p™ aEd Preserves Horses’ Hoofs, Kills
n»M r 8lte8 V an l 1 . prevents their growth. In-
soft a nHaWn 8, Le » tner Preservative, rendering it
c?acVw b p;nm n l 0 wat ?f proof ’ and Prevents it
emnllof' f Prom its anti-corrosive qualities, un-
equaile t for keeping free from rust and in
perlecc order all metal goods, firearms, machines,
nnrnn» M in h ?h» 0l A material used for the above
Sold P h 8 v 8 nii Austr l a 2 i and Germ an armies,
ooia by all Saddlers and Storekeepers.
SOLE AGENTS ;|
BLACKBURN & CO..
WHOLES VLE SADDLERS’ IRONMONQli RS,
12o York-street, Sydney.
9
mm
“ Mr. William Ball.—Dear Sir, —Allow me to say
that i; find your ‘ Bloom of Peaches’ superior to
anything of the kind that I ever used before.—
Yours truly, E me lie Melville.”
“ Dear Sir,—1 have nover used anything equal to
your Bloom of Peaches.’— Maggie Moose.”
"Dear Sir,—I have the greatest pleasure in re-
commending Mr. Ball’s ‘Bloom of Peaches’ and
iett-Puder’ as being invaluable.—Yours truly,
Alice Kefs.”
To be obtained of all chemists.
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
“ FETT-PUDER,” a delicate and invisible
powdar for the face. Beautifully perfumed.
White. Pink, or Cream, to suit all complexions.
Price, 1/6 per box.
Manufactured only by
BALL.
The Professional” and Pharmaceutical Chemist,
61 BOURKB STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale Agents for Sydney :
Messrs. E. PROSSERCO, Wholesale Chemists,
A POSITIVE CURE
WITHOUT MEDICINE.
One box will cure the most obstinate case, acute
or chronic, in four days or less.
DR. BAYIiGl’S SOLUBLE MEDICATED
BOUGIES (EUCALYPTOL).
No nauseous doses of cubebs, capaiba, or oil of
sandlewood, that are certain to produce dyspepsia
by destroying the coatings of the stomach Price
£1 Is ; mailed on receipt of price. Address P.O. 1
Box 823, Sydney. (Registered).
*10 1* 2
Infants and Children
I What gives our Children rosy cheeks,
; What cures their fevers, makes them sleep;
Cantoris,
When Babies fret, and cry by turns,
. What cures their colic, kills their worms.
* Castoria. )
What quickly cures Constipation, j
Sour Stomach, Colds, Indigestion ;
Castoria, a
Farewell then to Morphine Syrups,
Castor Oil and Paregoric, and
Hall Castoria.
“Castoria is so well adapted to Children
that I recommend it as superior to any medi-
cine known to me.”—H. A. Archer, M. D.,
Ill Oxford St., New York.
Elliott Bros., Sidney, Agent*.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE.
MADAME ELISE.
PARI8IENNE DRESSMAKER AND SPECIAL
STAYMA5ER.
E L^ dies ',, atterition to her superior
n Ab J E ’ and , t ‘ xc ®P t, onally reasonable
marges. All orders receive her personal attention
and superintendence.
138 COLLINS STREET EAST.
In Germany shaft-sinking through quick-
8 ? n 5? 8 , is carried on by means of freezing. One
shaft has been put down through 70ft. of hitherto
Impracticable quicksand.
Here is a story about a church hedgehog.
Some time ago, Bishop Moorhouse, of Mel-
bourne made a gallant effort to have private pro-
perty in church pews abolished. The need of
money was too great, however, and he gracefully
backed out. The next stage the subject reached
was, when in a town of the interior, the whole
congregation of a respectable little church had to
let up on the prayer-book, and take a hand in a
set-to between an intruder and the legal owner
of a front seat. We observe that the subject has
now advanced to a third stage. A thoroughly or-
thodox and divinely illuminated worshipper
leased a pew in a fashionable church near the
classic Port Macquarie. The pew was well
situated. A man who sat there two Sundays
would be seen by every individual of the congre-
gation, and would thus with very little expendi-
ture of time and trouble, acquire a booming repute
for sanctity. The lessee rose consequently in the
estimation of all in his neighbourhood, and, had
he been one of those who turn their piety into a
cash Or credit capital, there doubt that he
could have been as wealthy as he liked. Hearing
of his reputation, however, and coveting a share
of it, several people, impecunious and otherwise,
found their way to that church, and arriving early
strode up the floor to this particular pew and sat
down in it. The lessee took a reasonable view of
the matter. He paid for a godly repute—why
should others get it for nothing ? Further, god-
liness, like everything else, if possessed by every-
one, would cease to carry a special value. He,
therefore, decided to keep those trespassers away.
Experience told him that talking or any other per-
suasive addressed to their heads would be thrown
away. He had also heard of the set-to in another
church, and saw effort in that direction would
also fall. There remained a part of the bodies
of the intruders hitherto overlooked. To
this part he applied his ingenuity. He got
cushions prepared for that pew. The cushions
he filled with formidable thorns skilfully pointed
outward and upward. The cushions were placed
in the pew, and the sensible lessee stayed away for
a few Sundays. We approve of the plan very
highly. Those people who go about seeking a
character for godliness on the cheap deserve to be
brought to their senses. Their heads are invul-
nerable. As taey hurry out of the pew, however,
and slip over to the aisle and rub themselves, you
recognise that their seat of reason has been got at;
and you remember the poet’s words that wisdom,
though it comes slowly, is sure to come at last.
For years the world has accepted Wolfe’s
Schnapps cordial tonic and invigorant in its
market.
Robust and blooming health in Hop Bitters,
(American Co.’s) and no family can afford to be
without them. Read
Though Russia tries to gain Herat
By stratagem most clever,
You’ll find that Summerileld’s Cork Tweeds
Are just as cheap as ever.*
Fair skin, rosy cheeks, sparkling eyes,
charming expression, and an elegant figure, com-
mand the attention of most parsons: and so does
the very pretty powder sets, dinner sots, tea ser-
vices, and china and glass, showing at Bray’s, 403
and 404 Gcorge-street.*
Be not deceived by specious representa-
tions—see that you get Wolfe's Schnapps. Accept
no other.
“ BEACH’S ”
CON SILLTAI ION
ON
Contingent Stakes, June 6.
500 toys.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10r. EACH.
Address—
“BEACH,”
Care of J. G. Deeble,
Hotel, King and Pitt Street, Sydney
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
Iff than be alert to have thit index potted up by
teeretariee of raeina club* and manaaert of
iportina event* (n aeneraL]
RACING.
Coonamble J.O..... June9,10
Blaokall (Annual) June 4, 6
Tattersall’s (Winter) June 6
Auckland R.C (Steeplechase) June 6
Moonee Valley (V,) June 6
Copmanhurat J.C. June 6
Liverpool J.C June 13
Rockhampton June 18,19
Rosehiil R.C » June 20
Birdsvllle J.C. (8. A.) June 23, 25
Lower Clarence J.O June 24
Victoria A.T.C June 27
Bairnsuale R.C. (V.) — July 1
Elsternwick (V.) July 4
Brewarrlna J.O July 8
Walgett R.C July 8, 9
Clarence River J.C July 8, 9
Moonee Valley (V.) July 11
Rosehiil R.C July 18
Charters Towers J.C July 23, 24
Canterbury Park R.C August 1
Tamworth R.C August 5,6
Rosehiil R C August 8
Townsville (Annual) August 12,13
Canterbury Park R.C September 5
Hawkesbury (Spring) September 10 12
A .J.C. (Spring) September 19, 22, 24, 26
Rosehiil R.C October 3
Canterbury Park R.C October 17
Canterbury Park R.C December 19
A. J.C. (Summer) December 26
Rosehiil R.C December 28
AQUATICS.
St. Ignatius’ College R.C. Regatta June 20
Glebe Rowing Club Malden Pairs ....July 4
Newcastle R.C. Regatta September
ATHLETICS.
Kelly’s International Handicap. ..June 27, July 1,4,6
Royston College Sports June 17
E. Sutton v. Power, 200ydSi £400, Wallsend..June 20
Quirindi Handicap Augusts, 6
Sir Joseph Banks Fourth Handicap August 22,
23, 28, 29
’CYCLING.
Newcastle B C. Race Meeting Juno 6
N.8.W. Cyclists’ Union Race Meeting, As-
sociation Ground June 27
Balmiin and Burwood B C.’s Joint Race
Meeting. Association Ground July 18
Sydney Bicycle Club (Annual R.M.), Asso-
ciation Ground August 22
SPLATINS AND ATHLSTIC MEMS.
Donald Dinnie is said to be losing weight
This can't matter. Donald can pick up weight
easier than anyone we have seen. Hundredweight
A Leeds (England) man induced a news-
paper to state that he had carried a hundredweight
over a mile In 7min. Splendid lie I
F. Archer at latest bended the English
jockeys’ list with a total of 10 successes out of 46
mounts, followed by J. Woodburn and J. Snowden
with 9 wins each, Wood fourth, with 8 wins out of
40 mounts.
Mr. W, J. Innes, on behalf of George Per-
kins, of Uotherhithe, England, has Issued a chal-
lenge to John Teemer, the American sculler. The
English oarsman to accept a start of 20 seconds
over the Putney-Mortlake course for £200 a sido.
A handy little sportsman’s volume is
Oxenham's “Monthly Turf Register,’’ the May
number of which i* to hand. In a simple and clear
manner it give the placed performances of some
800 horses who have performed at all race meetings
of note in the Australasian colonies.
Harry Hutchens was matohad to make
the attempt, on Monday, May 11, to beat the
following three records —namely, 120 yards in
HWseo.; 140 yards in 14seo ; and 220 yards in
22Mjsea, a gentleman backing time. He was to
run e*ch race separately at Llilie-brldge Grounds,
West Brompton (Eng ),
Another link of the good old days of
pugilism has passed away in the person of Jack
Macdonald, who died recently in England, in bis
72nd year. As a second he had no superior, and it
will be recollected that he rendered Heenan good
service in this capacity in his great fight with Tom
Sayete, at Farnborough.
E. C. Danels, the well-known English ama-
teur swimmer, died in London recently (a month
or two after his marriage) of rheumatic fever.
Danels was one of the best all-round swimme-s of
his day. He won the 500 yards championship five
years in succession, and the 220 yards champion-
ship in 1880,1881, and 1882. In 1383 he became mile
champion.
Where is Matterson’s next opponent to
coine from ? Clifford comes from the same
*• stable,” so it is not probable they will meet just
yet. As they seem anxious to have a race on that
“ traditional” course, the Thames, how would it
do to send the youngster home, and challenge all
England ? We verily believe It would not be mis-
placed confidence.
The Sydney footballers were hard at it on
Saturday last. At Sf. Leonards, the Burwood
Club defeated the local team, after a rather rough
match, by nine points to nil; University met Red-
fern on Moore Park, and played a draw, neither
side scoring; Wallaroo defeated Arfoma, on
Moore Park, by four points to nil; and the New-
towns and Balmain played a draw.
Perfect weather but moderate attendance
at the Sydney Turf Club’s Amateur Meeting at
Rantjwlck on Saturday last. Storm defeated
Bumda by a head for the Plying Handicap; King-
ston carried off the Corinthian Cup; Drummer
Boy won the S.T.C. Amateur Cup; the Two-year-
old Selling Plate fell to Phaon; and Raven de-
feated Wanda by a length for the Ladles’ Bracelet.
F. Bonnor, atone time a resident of Single-
ton (N.8.W.), has been distinguishing himself in
the fistic line in India. A recent letter from India
says:—“ He has won seven matches and is one of
the most promising light-weights of the world.
He boxed a match privately for 500 dollars a side,
and won easily. His opponent’s weight was 12st ,
and Bonnor’s 10jt. 20,000 dollars were won on the
match.”
“ A writer, in reviewing ‘A New Book of
Sports.’ says it used to pass as true in Toronto that
Miss Hanlan could lick any oarsman, let alone
oarswoman, for 20 miles around. So she could,
and, indeed, she was a real good match for Hanlan
himself. When Hanlan beat Ross, the former's
sister challenged Ross to row over the same
course, and we thought at the time that Ross was
wise in declining the challenge.” Sly Ned. We
suppose he has gone home to bring his little sister
out to put our William through his paces.
A simple method was shown at a recent
American exhibition by which a kicking horse
could be shod. It consisted in connecting the
animal’s bead and tail by means of a rope fastened
to the tail and then to the bit, and then drawn
tightly enough to Incline the animal's head to one
side. This, it is claimed, makes it absolutely im-
possible for a horse to kick on the side of the rope.
At the same exhibition a horse which for years
had to be bound on the ground to be shod suffered
the blacksmith to operate on him without attempt-
ing to kick while secured in the manner described.
The respective Mercantile Rowing Clubs
of Sydney and Melbourne are trying to fix up an
annual four-oared race to come off turn and turn
about at Melbourne and Sydney. Melbourne wants
the first contest to come off on Victorian waters,
and the Sydneyites are desirous It should eventu-
ate on the Parramatta. The Intercolonial eight-
oar race will probably come off in Melbourne next
J*- ar < wbicb it would seem desirable this
year s club race should be rowed in Melbourne, as
of tbe Sydney Mercantiles, if all goes
"T 111 be L represented in both races, and it is
highly improbable they would be enabled lo leave
their colony twice in i2 months.
The Surrey Bicycle Club, England, in an-
th x ir SPjing - Meeting, on April 25, stated
", i e ?try of any amateur cyclist in the em-
or retained by, any maker or makers
would not be accepted unless such amateur cyclist
agreed to ride a machine other than that manufac-
tured or supplied by the maker or makers by
whom he is so employed orretalned.” We have all
along stated our opinion that cyclists who make
their living out of the sale and-ln some cases—
repair of wheels should not be allowed to compete
in amateur races. Bravo! Surrey Club, you de-
serve the thanks of all lovers of the sport for thus
putting a spoke into the wheels of these quart pro-
fessionals. Let both English and colonial clubs
follow suit, and the “ makers’ amateur” will soon
become a thing of the past.
On Wednesday evening, 27th ult., a well-
contested Queensberry match, to a finish, for a
trophy, came off in “ Tom Cribb’s Parlour,” at
Larry Foley s White Horse Hotel, between Jack
Hall, a recently-arrived Britisher, and a novice
who has been under the care of “Professor”
Jackson. Hall at once took the lead and did pretty
well as he liked with bis man, but the “novice”
proved such a glutton for taking punishment, that
it was not till well on to a score of rounds bad
been gone through that Hall gave him his quietus
with a well-timed left-hander on the mark, and
right-hander on the jaw. Hall has now been
matched to box George Powell, and although the
latter will have to give away a big lump of avoir-
dupois. Hall will, of course, find the little bantam
a vastly different opponent to the novice.
Another “ procession ” was gone through
in the match between Matterson and Messenger
the former winning in the most hollow manner
by any number of lengths, in 33min. 52seo. The
pair dashed off at 40 to the minute, Matterson at
once taking command, and leading his man by a
length past Uhr’s Point. A little further on the
men got into some steamer’s wash, Messenger, if
anything, getting the worst of it, and then Mat-
terspn rowed over in front of his opponent and
washed Messenger severely with his right hand
scull. At the Mile Point, shot in 6min. 30sec,
Matterson had further increased his lead, and
when approaching Putney he put in a round dozen
at top speed, and then coolly rested on his sculls
and wiped his perspiring brow. From this out
Matteraon aid not seem able to scull slow enough,
taking a rest every now and then, and eventually
finishing with a spurt, some 10 lengths ahead of
his opponent. Prom first to last Messenser pulled
in perfect form, but he was clearly outpaced
from the first stroke. The Inflexible carried the
umpire, and the Prince of Wales, no doubt, on
the strength of the recent police-court decision,
accompanied her over the whole of the course.
The conduct of the master of the latter boat was
simply disgraceful. His boat at one time almost
overran the scullers, and then actually scraped
sides with the umpire’s boat for a couple of hun-
dred yards at a stretch when approaching the Hen
and Chicks. Friday’s work satisfied us as to the
desirableness of Mr. Dlbbs’ one-boat arrangement,
and it is to be hoped that before next race the
Marine Board will wake up for at least a couple of
hours, and work out similar regulations on their
own account. Had Mr. Dlbbs not “ bluffed”
the steamboat proprietors with his so called regu-
lations, the odds are our William would hav* been
robbed of the credit of his hard-earned victory
over the Canadian.
Hanlan must evidently have had an eye
to paving the way for an excuse for a probable
defeat when he wrote the following to a friend in
America, dated February 25:—“ The river here,”
says Hanlan, “is no place to row a boat-race on;
certainly not one on which there is much money
at stake. You can never tell how it is going to go
until you are past the winning-post. One does
not know the moment a steamboat is over you or
rowboat runs into you. . . I have felt the heat
of the last few weeks very severely. It has been
the means of bringing me down a shade lighter
than I had intended, and to get away from it I
Boent as much time as possible in a cellar Jat
Gladesvllle; and I used to He there and think of
tilings.” In another paper—a Canadian one this
time—which prints still another private letter,
Hanlan, although he has beaten Clifford, appears
very cast down, and admits that he had no easy
task, and that at one part of the race he thought it
was all over with him. The English papers make
the most of these letters, and have rather amus-
ingly come to the conclusion that nothing but a
race on the Thames will satisfy them as to Beach's
superiority. Says one paper: “ If Beach is to keep
his title of Champion, this must happen, and then
I expect the tables to be turned.” From all this,
it would appear the Britishers do not quite
realise the position which they at present occupy
in the aquatic world. If Beach did take it into his
head to hawk the championship across the Herring
Pond, is it likely he would fly to the “ traditional ”
Thames and find his own stakes when K. K. Fox,
of New York, offers £1000 to be rowed for in
America, and £100 for expenses ? As for Hanlan’s
objection to the Parramatta course, had he not
been paid to row on the Nepean, and had he
defeated Beach, we have no doubt he would have
declared our champion course to be the best the
world could produce. Beach Is now out with
challenges to row the world and allow liberal
expenses, and we trust, for his own sake, he will
have the grpod sense to stick to the water which
has made him. However, should he ever be foolish
enouRh to try his luck elsewhere, the “derned
Britishers ’ will find that the countries that raise
the scullers can also And waters for them to row
on.
“THE REASON THAT IS IN HIM.”
UP-COUNTRY PARSON: “I AM GRATIFIED TO NOTICE THAT TOU ARB BECOMING
MORE REGULAR IN YOUR ATTENDANCE AT CHURCH, MR. POTTLUCK.”
MR, POTTLUCK (candidly): “ WELL, FACT IS, PARSON, THE PUBS. WON’T LET A PEL-
LOW IN. ON SUNDAYS, NOW.”


GOMPAGNONI CATERING GO., LIMITED,
„ PITT STREET, SYDNEY. " "
T^&vi?corx c irdSf, eaacawaw 4 ? te ™ 10 “• •*<***“>• mwot
Tbe^°™ L ct K r ?2r“™”tSS‘ST t“m« G g?m W 8“m“to 11 p m. (after the
j;datf(Sub?W.MS' feltW * U; I“VIM Ceb ro?£?of ,be Prlecc AIf'red VT“ C?u“
"• TOiLEMACHE, General Mannrer.
Bray <S& tiiclitner,
32 O CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
IMPORTERS OF SUPPLIES
©\
0
L
a
%
9
V,
4
«0 ,<u
O •*«
SR
• S.
S'*
5>
ki
•■'2
.<j
s>
K
9)
C
■C
5^2
<y:'/•'■'■ >
#'22*
£
A
rS- :
Catalogues post free
TO ANY PART OF
AUSTRALIA.
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied, best,
and Cheapest in the colonies.
Complete f hiiographicEquipments,
3T
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition, Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULLDOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTELL & CO.,
Sole Agents.
A. A C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
SIS GEORGE STREET,
Next Peapos and Shaw.
feR The most liberal house for Pianos and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
A. & C. Huonerbein,
818 GEORGE STREET.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
uim if he.
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL-PLATED
BEDSTEADS,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRA88E8
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR,
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
&0>, &0.
BLAKE’S IMPROVED
STEAM PUMPS.
H. P. GREGORY & GO.,
17 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
ARE SOLE AGENTS TOR THE ABOV E,
and have In Stock and to arrive—
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULATING PUMP
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING PUMPS
BEND FOR PRICES AND ALL PARTICULARS
CATALOGUES FORWARDED FREE,
/p o ALL WOMEN.
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES
FLOORS or WOODWORK, In either HOT 01
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERT
IN SOAP I
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everythin?
washed with It;
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
W Sold by every Storekeeper and Orooer at
6d. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers:
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sj
»*meoR*Fs
ESSKNCEofLIFIJ
[He only infallible remedy for
JjebiLityT
THIS Invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all whc
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes Incapacity and .degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustlve derangement of the system: regenerating
all the Important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga
tions. In cases at 12s., or four quantities is one for
<6s.; If by coach, 3s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney/
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from Georga-street South.
THE LATEST W0«K8 AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGSAPHY.fc
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
) Travers Vegetable Compound]
DR. BOYD
_ SPECIALIST,
Graduate In Medicine and Surgery, Registered
Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours : 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., 7 to 9 on Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday Evenings.
Ladles’ Walling Room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.
U, 53 Castlereagh-street (upstairs.)
Send for Free Treatise on Vitality and Nervous
Debility, Diseases of Women.
frustrated Works on Deformities, Electricity
and Its Application. Hernia (ruptures), Varicocele,
&c., &c.
Address—Australian Medical and Surgical In-
firmary. Sydney : or B. O. HOLTBRMANN. Esq.,
M.P., President, Box 130, G.P.O.
Consultation Free by mall or In person.
nSSEZ?S5.^er ul °- »°' i
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
XT xxclertsQxox,
KI4 HUNTER Mi PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS neatly executed.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was In the employ of the late
(18) y
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen
Manager for over ten CO) years.
years: also,
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found it at
last with the Argosy Braces at Qowlng Bros.
%
VA
X
yy:
&
'#1
Kif. i J
H
4/.
GOWING BROS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. «d., Os., 8s. 6d.,£ 4s. 6
GOWINGBROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, ft
882 and 488 George .street.
Watch and Clockmaker to the Victorian
Government.
T. GAUNT
Watchmaker,
GOLDSMITH,
JEWELLER MI OFTICIAK,
297 and 299
George Street,
Bavarian linn
itters. nur
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
Made of the best Bavarian Hops. Superior to any
other.
They take the first place wherever tried, and are
well authenticated by eminent medical men and
well-known analysts.
Read the reports and testimony which accom
pany each bottle, and do not forget to make a
trial of BAVARIAN HOP Bitters.
Nervous debility, lost vitality
Weakness, and Premature Decay.—A simp *
and positive means for Permanent Self-cure, by a
very eminent French Hospital Physician, sent
free to any sufferer. Send your address, on a
stamped envelope, to 0. C. W., Box 766, Q.P.O.,
Sydney.
&
COPYRIGHTED.
COPYRIGHTED.
“THOUSANDS OF LADIES
Can gladly testify that Mrs. Travers' Compound
does all that it claims to do.”
CS-IU purpose is Solclv fir ths ledHmtto healing of disease
<md the relief of pain. It is prompt in nc.ion,
LOUISA R. TiAVERS
VEGETABLE COMPOUND
IS A POSITIVE RTM'.DY
For all those Complaints and Weaknesses so common to
our best Female population.
Price, 10s. 6d. per Package.
(Kv* Ladies, it will under nil circumstance?, act la harmony
with the laws that gave n y ur system.
i C3“That feeling of beat lag down, causing pain, welgfet, and
backache, is always permanently cured by its usu.
IT IS A GREAT MEDICAL DISCOVERY
£v*Itis a Blessing to overworked women, and its sales are
unprecedented. 1 1 removes faintness, flatulency, nil craving
for stimulants; and relieves weakness of the st nnch. Periods
passed without pain.«£$
Physicians Use it and Prescribe it.
revives the drooping spirits, invigorates and har-
monises the organic functions, gives elasticity and firmness to
the step, restores the natural lustre to the eye, and plants on
the pule cheek o f woman the fresh ros s of life’s spring and
early summer time.
ITS MERITS KEEP UP THE SALE.
CS*For the cure of Kidney Complain to of .either sex this
Compound i sunsurpassed..£$
Mrs. Travers’ ‘ ‘Guideto Health” will be mailedffrcoito any
lady sendinar stamp. X**tters~ofinquiry,confidentially answered.
Packets Mailed f oe from observation on receipt qf jpnice.
Address, P.O. Box,907, Sydney.
MRS. TRAVERS’ LIVER PILLS cure Constipation, ‘Bil-
iousness, and To-pidlty of the Liver. Price 2s. UU.
ELLIOTT BROS, and S. HOFFNUNG & CO..
Wholesale Agents.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
Enillih Papers and Nagazlnn received toy
every Mail
ROTAL ABO ADS. G BO ROB ST- 49C 8TDNBT
SSSBSS38K
after eiFORB MOUSTACHE and WHISEEBS. wona after
Boyd' 9 Beard F.lixirdid thin, and
unit do it on either bald head or
hare fare. fo\ rea heavy Mons .
tache in /rom2 to 4 toeeks atui never 4
/ails, 2«»,000 young men already
Copyrighted, wear full beards , having used 1 to
3 phis. JS"o injury , easily certain in effect,
each, 3 for 3*. 6 d.,post paid. Bent under cover , free from observation .
Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent , Box 730, G.V.O., Sydney
fey TiyfAgy yjr *2
Copyrighted
Packets 1«. 6d.


Jjl URNITUK1 SHOW BOOM
BEAD LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
Hall furniture, hatstands and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
IBRART FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES.
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS. *
RAWING-ROOM SUITES, In XQU18ITB
taste, the very latest fashion : ’veil worthy of
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o.
VERY ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley
Newton, and Lamb.
ARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND.
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, Ac.
EDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
71IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.-The
24 Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-stieet.
EDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tfle back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10e.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 30s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.:
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s-
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
OQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
obOtl strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs In Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished In
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &o.
jpiHIFFONNIBR WHATNOTS, effective designs,
\J Just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell-street.
Tk BA WING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
J J A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Coanell-street.
ININ6 TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
D
IBLF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented.
r"
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of h e body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort Is desired.
The frames aro of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four Inches in thickness
when ft Jded. Price 80s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
2s. 6d. extra.
AGATBLLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
B
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A veryexten-
sive assortment In Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
XjIRAMBWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
7. THE VERY BEST BEAL
JD TUI
Walnut, a __
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Conneil-streets.
BDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
B
B
BDSTEADS, ail kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
aell and Spring streets.
W
a
ASH STANDS, with marble, from 28s. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ARDEN SEAT®, 20s; Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment; best make, lowest prices.
SOCIAL
The tenth annual ball of the Sydney
Mercantile Rowing Club will be held on Thursday,
July 23, but owing to the great expenses attendant
on the decorations, Ac , at the Exhibition Build-
ing, the ball this year will be held in the Town
Hall- number of tickets limited-so that over-
crowding will be avoided; and as the tickets are
to be sold principally through members of the
M.R.C, the presence of objectionable characters
will be reduced to a minimum. We cannot too
highly commend this decision, as great complaints
are abroad anent the sale of tickets to “all
comers,” which makes a man think twice before
he takes his sister to a rowing club ball.
An entertainment, which terminated with
a dance, was given by La Coterie last Friday night
in the Petersham Town Hall. La Coterie origi-
nated in a periodical gathering of a handful of
friends, at the bouse of one of the members, but
as the society grew more popular and numbers
began to swell, it was found necessary to hire a
large hall in order to meet the exigencies of the
crew, consequently the local Town Hall was
selected, and wo had a fair sample of the capabili-
ties of La Coterie on Friday night. To begin with,
a small programme of songs, duets, &c., was credit-
ably rendered, but the farce was spared us, owing
to the indisposition of one of the performers. The
Misses Alderdice sang a duet very well, and Miss
Peate gave “ Thee only I love ” so charmingly that
an encore was demanded, which she answered by
singing “ For ever.” This young lady knows how
to sing with true pathos, and, as she struggled with
no music and was entirely unaffected, she has our
complete approval The gentlemen vocalists were
not so successful. Mr Jenkins did abitof the Mao-
cabe and Sam Keenan business which was amiably
applauded by the good-natured audience Mr. Shep-
pard accompanied well. Willing hands made a
short job of clearing the room for the dancing,
and now we had a chance of seeing the dresses.
A bevy of beautiful girls was chaperoned by a
lady from Manly, who might well be proud of
her charges. One wore a pink veiling draped
with rich broche, pointed bodice laced up the
back. Her sweet-faced sister wore white fecille
muslin over pink. Over the baby body was worn
a black velvet Swiss belt laced with pink cord. A
petite cousin also wore pink, black kid gloves,
with lace armlets. Miss Kelly wore black lace,
the skirt of which was dotted with salmon-coloured
plumes. Miss O'Connor looked ever so nice In a
cream satin skirt, with broad panel and bodice of
coral pink velvet, which was adorned with cream
plumes. The belle of the party was attired In
white tulle, relieved by a gold zone, tuberoses, and
maiden-hair fern sprays. Several black dresses were
worn, one decked with bouquets of violets, being
amongst the best. Miss L. Haslington, who danced
with great energy, wore pale-blue with white lace
over-skirt, looped up with ribbons. Miss A.
Hamilton’s dress was a cream veiling skirt with
top of same colour peppered with cardinal che-
nille spots. Another cream skirt had a purple
velvet bodice, which suited the handsome wearer
admirably. Light refreshments were partaken of
and the entertainment terminated in time for
visitors to catch the last train. The band consisted
of harp, violin, and flute, but the time was so
eccentric that it was frequently wished that the
fentleman who contributed the extra waltz would
eep his seat at the piano. Without being too
ambitious, “La Coterie” give a very creditable
entertainment, and we wish the society a long life
and a merry one.
• * *
The fourth annual ball of the North Shore
(Sydney) Rowing Club, was held last Friday night
at Leigh House. The room was prettily decorated
with divers flags and flowers, and the dingy
colours of the Club asserted themselves here and
there. We aren’t good at counting, but should
guess that about 250 were present, the sterner sex
predominating. This was hard on the poor little
middies, who had to be content with what dances
they could get on the end of the programmes, if,
indeed, they got any at all. A remarkable feature
about the ladies’ dresses, was that there was a
decided tendency to curtail the skirts; in some
cases they reached barely to the ankles, which, by
the way, didn’t look half as pretty as it sounds.
A tall, good-looking girl in blue, with a blue
feather in her hair, hadn’t a dance to spare for
anybody before she had been in the room ten
minutes, and her sister or friend wore a
handsome pink satin skirt, with a band of
ruby velvet round each flounce, a ruby velvet
basque trimmed with pink lace and pink plume in
her hair. Everybody admired a costume of cream
face and heliotrope satin, and if the dark-blue
satin, relieved by white lace, had been a few
inches longer in the skirt, it would have looked
very nice Indeed. A young lady in “ all white ”
bad pretty drapings and waterfall-back over a
white satin ground, and a bertha composed en-
tirely of white plumes. Another white net was
studded with small sunflowers, and one single
large flower of the same species was worn in the
hair. It wasn’t a fancy dress ball, but one little
maiden wore a sailor costume of white and blue,
and danced very prettily. A queer costume which,
If not tasteful, was certainly uncommon, was a
straight black velvet petticoat with bows of rib-
bon all colours of the rainbow, thrown on at ran-
dom as it were, and a steel-gray satin polonaise,
which might have fitted somebody, but certainly
didn’t the wearer. A stagey-looking damsel wore
a loud costume of pink and ruby velvet, elabor-
ately trimmed with gold fringe and numerous
clusters of gold flowers-a profusion of pearls in
the hair, and long pink gloves. Black dresses
were much in favour, and, after the white, cer-
tainly looked the best. One with low-cut neck
and short sleeves, laced up the back with crimson
cord, was worn by a young lady whose hair was of
two colours, black at the back with front looks of
light chestnut—a strange freak of Nature, if it was
Nature’s doings. Twenty-two dances were down
cn the programme, but, as a matter of course,
some extras were insisted upon, so what hour it
was when all was over we cannot say, as we did
not remain to see. Music and catering were both
good, and, on the whole, the ball was fairly suc-
cessful.
* * *
Tbe Masonic ball at Dubbo, the other day,
was a great success, decorations of flags and
evergreens very effective, and catering satisfac-
tory. Mrs. Warren looked graceful and pretty,
and Mrs. Gill in pale-blue and pink broche
was much admired. Miss Moffatt chose pure
white, and Miss O’Qorman a combination of blue
nun’s veiling and satin. Miss Butters’ costume
was cream and cardinal, and steel hair ornaments.
Mrs Fitzgerald wore cream satin skirt, ruby plush
bodice, and steel ornaments. Miss Marsh, from
Wellington, had many admirers. Mrs. F. Phillips’
dress of pale-blue brocho, with tiara of pearls in
ber hair, suited her to perfection. The Misses
Tibbetts wore pale pink dresses with swansdown
trimmings, and Miss May Tibbetts looked well in
white and cerise. A salmon-coloured material,
draped with net, suited well Mrs. Ryan’s tall form,
and Miss B, Campbell’s dresss of pale pink, covered
with net, was very tasteful. The most uncommon
dreaa was worn by Mrs. Greaves, and consisted of
black net, over which were scattered birds of gay
plumage.
* * ♦
There was a miniature wedding In New
York last month, being that of the widow of
General Tom Thumb and Count Primo Magri.
Thirteen hundred guests attended the ceremony,
and the bride with her 36in, of height, was robed
in a becoming gown of a delicate lavender colour,
and. despite her forty years, looked very hand-
some I Her court train, which was three yards in
length, was of a flowered frlsf brocade, and the
entire front of the dress was of heavy white lace
covered with pearls. Long lavender kid gloves,
and tiny lavender satin WipperA completed her
toilet. The count wore a full dress suit of fine
broadcloth, a diamond solitaire glistened in his
shirt, and his feet were encased in patent leather
shoes. He is 39 years old. and is known as Count
Rosebud, and speaks four languages.
♦ ♦ •
The 14th anniversary of the Loyal Tumut
Lodge, I 0.0 F., M.TT., was celebrated Mommy
last, and proved a great success. Ball in the even-
ing in Oddfellows’ Hall was well attended, and
most enjoyable. The belle was a pretty blonde in
white China silk, relieved with deep white lace
and pink satin bodice. A charming brunette from
Adelong wore a combination of white and cream,
with plentliul clusters of brilliant flowers. A
dark-eyed beauty from the golden town looked
her best in white and cardinal, and a graceful
blonde from Tumut had many admirers. The
belle of Bomborolee wore a striped grenadine
costume with white ribbon trimmings and large
chatelaine. Musie good, and supper so-so.
* v *
The School of Industry ball was held in
the Sydney Town Hall one night last week, but
owing to the considerate thoughtfulness of the
secretary, who sent no tickets (knowing, no doubt,
how occupied our evenings were all last week), we
did not attend. Therefore, all we know is that the
hall was so crowded that dancing, Instead of being
a pleasure, was a punishment—and some of the.
ladies’ dresses suffered terribly in consequence.
• • *
There was a grand minstrel entertainment
given last Friday night in the Temperance Hall,
North Willoughby, to celebrate the first anniver-
sary of the Young Britons’ Cricket Club. We were
sorry that, through pressure of engagements, we
were unable to attend, as we are quite confident
we missed a treat—but it’s just our luck.
• • *
A pretty wedding took place on the 11th
April, at Christ Church, Lancaster-gate) London,
when the nuptials of Mr. Sydney James Learmonth
Gilchrist, son of the late Mr. John Gilchrist, Dor-
chester-terrace, with Miss Amy Margaret Young,
daughter of the late Mr. Matthew Young, of Syd-
ney, N.8.W., were eelebrated. The bride wore a
handsome train of pearl-white satin Duchesse,
over a petticoat of Brussels lace, looped up with
sprays of orange blossom and white acacia; her
wreath and bouquet were composed of white gar-
denias. lilac, lily of the valley, and orange blos-
som, the veil being of lace, fastened with diamond
ornaments, gifts of the bridegroom. The bride
was accompanied by seven bridesmaids, Master
Douglas Fraser, in full Highland costume, acting
as train-bearer. The bridesmaids wore white
muslin dresses, trimmed with Valenciennes lace
and insertion, looped up with bows of daffodil
velvet; white straw hats, trimmed with lace, and
bows of daffodil velvet and ospreys. Each wore
a gold cable bangle, the gift of the bridegroom,
and carried largo posies of daffodils tied with vel-
vet of the same colour. During the afternoon the
newly-married pair left for Paris. The bride’s
going-away dress was of dark grey cloth, hand-
somely braided with gold, and hat to match, her
long cloak being of grey cloth, trimmed with silver
fox.
■ • m
On the 25th ultimo the Bendicta of Wal-
bundree entertained about 50 couples. Some of
the Walbundree Benedicts are entertaining enough
to m<>ke a funeral mute laugh bis teeth out. The
floor was in tip-top order, and good music was
provided by Messrs. Connors (violin), Kidd (cor-
net), and Otto (’cello). Opinions were pretty evenly
divided as to belle, two young ladies. Miss Driscoll
and Miss Dirties, seeming to dispute the palm.
The former was dressed in pale Indian muslin,
trimmed with blue satin, embroidered with pearls.
Miss Booth wore pale-blue, trimmed with satin and
lace. One of the nicest dresses of the evening was
worn by Mrs. Bntwlstle-black satin. Mrs. Quinn
worn fawn, trimmed with old gold satin and lace.
A good dancer wore pale-pink, and amongst the
others nicely dressed were a satin ruby, with satin
trimmings, a claret and velveteen, and one all
black,
♦ ♦ *
One of the nicest little balls of the season
was that of the junior pharmacists, held in
Nlthsdale rooms, on the 28th May. It was virtu-
ally a private ball, only a few outside friends being
favoured with tickets, consequently there was
ample room for all to dance comfortably. Pro-
ceedings oommmenced at 9 o'clock with a polka,
and went on till about 24 dances had been com-
pleted by 3 a.m., and it may be noted, the pro-
grammes were a departure from the ordinary
style. Instead of the usual flimsy material which
breaks up the fold, they were a single thick solid
card, like a little slab of ivory tablet, which could
be handily slipped in the waistcoat pocket, and all
voted them an improvement. Mr. B. Needs and
assistants provided music, and Compagnoni the
supper-tables, which were open at an early hour,
and this prevented the guests crowding one
another. But the delicacies were very nice, and
if anyone chose to crowd himself, of course, that
was quite a private matter. Ladies did full honour
to the occasion, some of their toilets being exqui-
site. One such was a white satin daintily fitted to
a slender form, with deep red flowers here and
there and a long train; it was worn by an orna-
mental sort of girl from Newcastle. Another
was a white satin and tulle worn by the queen of
a trio of sisters from Paddington, who was well
looked after by an amateur pedestrian. The
wearer of an old gold satin covered with black
lace, from Quambie, looked particularly graceful;
and two Regent-street sisters, in pink and blue,
were vivacity personified. From leading estab-
lishments respectively in King, Oxford, William
and Regent Streets, came four married ladies
tastefully attired ; and two sisters of the vice-
president wore pretty costumes of pink and white,
The daughter of a sub-inspector, of Darlinghurst,
proved particularly obliging in playing three ex-
cellent extras; while a pretty Balmain girl, who
dodges through life under the mellifluous pet-
name of Winny, came in for admiration in a
quiet slate satin dress. Black net and popple
garbed a smooth dancer of rather substantial
symmetry. Two young sisters from Ultimo flitted
talry-like, in cream India muslin. The officers of
tha Association, Messrs. B. C. Towl, A. 0. Watt, H.
Israel, and 8. J. Parke were all present, and their
efforts to make the ball pleasant were seconded by
the committee, Messrs. Whelan, Munkert, Loney,
Scales, and M’Guffln. The greatest amity pre-
vailed, and as we sat in a flower-pot, and took
notes behind the ferns, we couldn’t help scratching
—on the marble floor, with a hair-pin—three
ephemeral little verses about the jovial young
pharmacists:—
On Thursday last, about 90 guests re-
sponded to the cordial invitation of Dr. and Mrs.
Clarke, of Erstville, Darlinghurst, to celebrate the
21st birthday of Mr. Ernest Clarke. Dancing was
kept up till the small hours of the morning in the
spacious ballroom, which was prettily decorated
for the occasion with ferns, flowers, and bunting.
The ladies, as usual, vied with each other as to
whose toilette should be the most beautiful. We
give, for the benefit of our readers, a few of the
most notably pretty ones. The hostess and her
daughter-in-law both wore nice mixtures of amber
satinland black broche; two Balmain belles, in mar-
vellous combinations of pale-green and cherry-
pink surah, looked well and were indefatigable
dancers. Miss Grey in cream and cardinal, Miss
Foucart black and old gold, and Miss Upton white
and pink satin, all looked well. A Maoquarle-
street lady wore a nice toilette of black Spanish
lace over petticoat of old gold satin; old gold
gloves and ribbons of same colour. Miss Cross, a
dainty little dancer, looked very pretty in an ex-
quisite dress of white tulle, pleated in graceful
folds over an under-skirt of ruby satin, and with a
dozen rows of narrow satin ribbon run round the
edge; bodice of white satin cut square, with a mag-
nificent scarf of lace falling, flchul-ike, from the
shoulder to the waist, where it was held by bright
Valois roses, emerging from thence in well-draped
folds over the left nip, to be caught up at the back
with ruby ribbons and roses; a bunch of Thea and
Valois roses at the throat completed the prettiest
and most tasteful toilet in the room. One dress
attracted much attention on account of Its neat
simplicity. It was of white cashmere, the skirt of
which was trimmed around the bottom with rows
of purple velvet; waistband of same shade, and a
beautiful bunch of violets—which made the air
heavy with their perfume—completed a charming
effect. Miss Broomfield looked extremely well in
a costume of white faille and point d’Alencon lace;
two sisters from Ash 11 eld Love- ly in pale pink
nun’s veiling and point lace. A Jewish lady, hail-
ing from Potts’ Point, wore a pretty dress; the
skirt was composed entirely of tiny flowers of soft,
creamy lace on pale-blue foundation; pale-blue
bodice trimmed with lace and sprays of forget-me-
nots, constituted a splendid whole. The Misses
Phillips danced well, and looked very nice in
superb costumes of pale-pink satin and Spanish
lace, with wreaths of daisies around the skirts and
necks. The Misses Martin wore Indian muslin and
cornflowers; Miss Hay, white tulle trimmed with
violets, and caught up with ribbons of same
colours. These, with many other pretty toilets,
and pretty faces above them, made the room a
bower of beauty.
♦ * *
The first Tamworth Winter Assembly for
this season was held in the Oddfellows’ Hall, on
Thursday, 28th May, and was one of the most en-
joyable dances ever held in Tamworth. The
honours of “ belleshlp ” were divided between a
New England girl, and a daughter of a member of
the local Land Board. The former was dressed in
black velvet, cut square, and autumn leaves; the
latter in pale pink, profusely trimmed with cream
laces and dark maroon ribbons. The sister of
the latter was much admired in a costume
of cream and spotted nun’s-veillng, lace,
and crimson ribbons. The best dancer came
with the New England party, wore black,
with a plaid scarf, and danced a great deal
with the u giant ” Bonnor. A dashing little lady
from The Glen, attired In heliotrope satin and
white lace, attracted much attention. The widow
(Continued on next page.)
GENERAL NKGR7ER, LATE COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF OF THE FRENCH FORCES IN TONQUIN,
Thls evening, satisfaction fills
Each face with smile so placid,
They think not now of soap or pills,
Or essences or acid.
To-night no potent drugs they pound
With pestles in their mortars,
But work their arms, instead, around
The leading chemists’ daughters.
They banish from the mind each jar
Inscribed with mystic Latin,
They’re mixing now—it’s nicer far!
With pretty girls in satin,


Department of Public Works.
Sydney, 2nd June. 1885.
Tenders for public works sup-
plies.—tenders are Invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For fuU parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
NEW SOUTH WALES OYSTER COMPANY,
Limited.
To be incorporated under the Companies* Liability
Act.
CAPITAL : £8000 In 2000 SHARKS of £3 each.
(One Thousand of these Shares are to be retained
by the original Shareholders.)
Half to be paid on Application, and balance on
Allotment.
Directors to be elected by Ballot.
A member bolding Ten Shares will be eligible foi
election as a Director.
Provisional Directors :
DAN. O'CONNOR, Esq., M.P., Palmer-street.
W. C. PROCTOR, Eeq., M.P., Klng-st., Sydney.
WALTER COONAN, Esq., M.P. Phllllp-st., Sydne’
JAMES HUNT, Esq,, Oxford Hotel, Sydney.
Bankers :
CITY BANK.
Solicitor :
Secretary:
W. H. L. BAILEY, 44 Castlereagh-street.
The Ground of the Company consists at presen
of over 10,000 yards of tne best oyster-bearing
foreshores and beds In the famous bays of Por
Stephens, the Hawkesbury, and other ports, am
has been selected by men of over 20 years’ expe
rlence In oyster-culture and collecting.
The Proprietors are now In legal possession of i
large quantity of these foreshores under Infcerln
permits from the Government, leases for whicl
are now being drawn up for fifteen years’ ocoupa
tion, with the right of extension for another siml
larperiod.
Work has already commenced in Port Stephens
under the superintendence of experienced hands
and in less than two months six men have lai«
down over 1100 bags (equal to 3300 bushels) o
oysters on suitable beds for fattening. Some havi
already been sent to the market, which have ob
tained high prices.
The quantity of oysters taken from the oyster
beds of New South Wales, and In respect of whicl
royalty has been received by the Governmem
during the year ending January, 1883, according tc
official returns, was 73,053 bushels, or 24 331 bags
the average price realised during the same periot
being 30s. per bag, representing in valus a sum o:
about £40,000; and It is notorious that the quantltj
of oysters was much less than that taken by illega
dredging, a condition of things which necessltatec
the passing of the Act referred to, and which 1
has fortunately put a stop to.
New South Wales is noted as being the fines!
climate in the world for oyster culture, and now
that the beds and foreshores have had such Iona
rest, with ordinary care the supply may be lookec
upon as inexhaustible.
It is unnecessary to make any comments on th<
wonderful returns from oysters.
In London alone over £4,000.000 sterling wortl
is consumed yearly; and In America It is estimate*
at nearly £5,000,000 sterling, with an exportation ol
over 40,000,000 of tinned oysters yearly.
It Is estimated that over 30 per cent, will be f
return for the first year, and the following yean
increasing in a much larger proportion.
The present proprietors are still working tht
beds, laying down and (in culling) sending down
marketable oysters to keep down current expenses.
All moneys paid in for Shares applied for will be
immediately put to the credit of tne Company for
working expenses, and a receipt, given acknow-
ledging the amount and allotted shares.
The present proprietors ask tor no remunera-
tion whatever further than their paid-up shares,
but being satisfied with estimated results, offer
the half of their interest, all of which will be
placed to the credit of the Company.
To the Secretary of the New South Wales Oyster
Company, Limited.
44 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
1 .u ere xV y H £ ply Shares of £3
each in the New Seuth Wales Oyster Company
and enclose half the sum, and furtner agree to pay
the balance when the shares are allotted to me. 1
further agree to accept such shares or such less
number of them as may be allotted to me, subject
to the articles of association to be hereafter
adopted by the shareholders.
I am, yours faithfully,
Signature-
A par. has been going the round of the
home papers, asserting: that marriageable ladles
(widows preferred I) are wanted In large numbers
in New Zealand now. It seems that some New
Zealander wrote to Mr. Spurgeon, asking him to
send out as soon as possible, one widow, who
would be willing to marry the writer. The letter
of course stipulated that the lady should be free
from vice, sound in wind and limb-a good
marketable article, in fact; and went on to say
that shiploads of widows would find themselves at
a high premium in the matrimonial market of that
colony. Spurgeon Inserted the letter in the
Sword and Trowed, and of course such an in-
teresting Item was widely circulated. We should
like to see that New Zealander. If he could not
find a wife amid the choir of maidens, and widows,
whose beauty accounts for the enormous
number of suicides in the uland, he must be hard
to please.
The following is a copy of a letter received by
the agents of Wolfe's schnapps a few days ago.
The writer is totally unknown to them:—
“ Spring Creek Farm,
“ Gegedzerick,
“18th May, 1885.
“ To Agents Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Gentlemen,—Enclosed is voucher No. 1037. This
was a very valuable bottle of Schnapps, as it cured
my wife and second eldest boy of a very painful
colic ; and the very agreeable surprise of finding
£1 in the wrapper.
“I have the honour to be,
“ Gentlemen,
“Your humble obdt. servant,
(Signed) “Jackson Clarke.
P.S.—The bottle was bought from Mr. B.
O’Brien, of the Berridale Hotel.”
A NEW DISCOVERY.—Hoffman’s Eucalyptol
(registered) “ Mixture and Injection,” They will
positively cure all kidney diseases and disorders,
all urinary complaints and discharges, Irritation,
scalding, inflammation, gravel, pains In the back,
&c. A case incurable In nine months was actually
cured in eight days with Hoffmann’s Eucalyptol
Injection (“purely vegetable ”). Hoffman’s Eu-
calyptol Mixture or Injection contain no mineral,
no sandalwood, no balsam, or anything injurious
to the most delicate constitution of either sex.
Ask for Hoffman’s, and take no substitute.
Wholesale; E. Prosser and Co.; Elliott Bros. Re-
tail : All principal chemists and storekeepers
Price. 2s- 6d. and Ss7fid.*
GIBBS & CO.,
HOUSE, LAND AND GENERAL AGENTS,
Bond-street Chambers, Bond-st., Sydney,
WOULD respectfully call the attention of the
public to the following
Owners are reminded that by sending in particu-
lars of the properties they have for sale, their
Insertion is guaranteed in our list, and thus a cheap
mode of advertising secured.
No sale no commission, is our motto. We do not
expect, because a property is placed in our hands
(but sold by the owner himself), payment, except
for money actually expended out of pocket In
advertisements.
Intending purchasers should send for our
Monthly List, which contains full particulars of
every class of property from the cottage to the
mansion.
Houses Let, Bents Collected, and Estates
Managed. Prompt Account Sales Rendered.
A Trial is Respectfully Solicited.
Land nationalisation league of
NEW SOUTH WALES.
“The objects of the League shall be:—
(a.) To stop the further sale of all Crown
Lands.
(b.) To restore to the State the ownership of
land already sold by such means as may
be approved of by a majority of the
people or their representatives at the
time being.
(c.) To provide for the leasing of all lands on
such terms as shall ensure to the State a
fair rental, and to the tenant full security
for his improvements and the results of
his industry.”
A PUBLIC MEETING for the purpose of pro-
mulgating these objects, enrolling members, and
electing officers, will be held
ON MONDAY NEXT, 8th June, 1881, at 8 p.m.
at
O D MASONIC HALL, YORK-STREET.
Subscription: One Shilling per quarter.
Address: Hon. Secretary,
219 Macquarle-street, North.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 26th May, 1885.
TENDERS FOR ADDITIONS.
TENDERS are invited for Additions to the
Public School Buildings, at Dulwich.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Department
of Public Instruction, Sydney,
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Additions, Dul-
wich Public School,” must be lodged with the
Under Secretary, Department of Public Instruc-
tion. at or before 10 o’clock a.m., on Monday, the
8th June, 1885.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
W. J. TRICKBTT.
Wolfe's Schnapps— It standi alone like
the one Alexander without a rival.
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated wit*
fllff and floral decorations. Artistic effects skll-
fullv arranged j peculiar brilliance In disp a j
consummated. 60* Hunter-street. Sydney.*
Ask for the celebrated Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Accept nothing else under any consideration.
(Continued from page idj
from Oaklands, In black satin, pale-blue silk, and
lace, was universally admired. The daughter? of
Judah, as usual, wore very expensive costumes;
a married lady from Trebertha bore away the
palm. Several bridal costumes were noticeable, the
wearers looking very happy. Very pretty cream
nun’s veiling and gold cord was worn by a petite
lady; cream muslin, satin body, and pink flowers
graced an excellent dancer. Four sisters hailing
from Ment debrl, in pink and heliotrope muslin
and lace, were very attractive. _ A matron from
Goonoo Goonoo was charming in black silk, jet,
and pink roses* The local C.F.S.’s wife, in black
velvet and marquerites, received much attention,
two sisters from Attunga were, as usual, much ad-
mired—one in heliotrope silk and moonlight lace,
the other in white muslin, cut low, and loops of
old gold satin ribbon. About 90 people were
present. Music was rendered principally by the
ladies. Tamworth bachelors are to be congratu-
lated on the success of their first dance.
♦ * *
On Wednesday evening (27th ult.) a “sur-
prise party ” met at the house of a mutual friend,
and proceeded to Pelham Hall, Woollahra. The
party turned out about 50 strong, mostly in fancy
dress, and, to the intense delight of three small
boys, marched through the street in procession,
carrying “swags of tucker” with them. On
arrival they were met by the astonished master
and mistress of the house, who tried to look as if
they were pleased to see them, but we are in-
formed that the following morning the gentleman
was seen purchasing a six-shooter and a double-
barrelled shot-gun, with which we understand he
intends mounting guard in future. Immediately
upon their arrival, the party “jumped ” the mag-
nificent ball-room, and a gracious invitation to
join the party was issued to the master and mis-
tress of the establishment. Dancing was kept up
till about 3 a m. About half way through the
programme the contents of the various swags were
produced, and the “Right Rev. Father 0 Flynn ’
was delegated to take charge of the refreshments.
His unwearying attention to the whisky excited
general admiration. Whilst the refreshments were
being placed there was a musical interlude, the
holy father seizing the opportunity to expound his
views on things in general, and Medlcus also
galloped over the “Yeoman’s Wedding” in true
ding-dong style. The costumes were good. The
Mahdi, having retired from business In Africa
8>nce the arrival of our Contingent, was solacing
himself after the perils of war by making eyes at the
Flower Girl. Mephislotena looked satanly well.
Baby was good, and behaved well all night. Nancy
Lee, instead of praying for her absent husband
(vide the song), was allowing herself to be consoled
by a gallant lieutenant of the Naval Volunteers,
and even condescended to tread a measure with an
A.B. of thejsanie force. Mr. Stiggins and Esmeralda
basked in the light of the “ Evening Star,” which
shed its ray over and helped to enliven the whole
Sarty. A Lady Graduate looked a thorough
Ilstress of Hearts; while Morjiana was so fresh
and charming that it was evident to all that a
“ now version of old Father Time” had no in
fluence over her. A Spanish Lady sailed about
with a Yachtsman. Miss Fortescue’s charming
figure and sweet countenance were much ad-
mired. She seemed to have quite recovered from
the loss of Garmoyle, but likely to fall a victim to
the fatal fascination of Paul Pry. This simple
explanation will account for so many men going
about Sydney Thursday morning with bleary
eyes and bands to their beads and in their hearts
a wild desire to drink cocktails.
• ■ •
The junior pharmacists gave their opening
ball in Needs’ rooms last Thursday night, when
about 50 couples enjoyed themselves. The ladies’
dresses were in excellent taste, and the catering
was up to Compagnoni’s average. Dancing was
kept up hours after midnight.
■ • ■
Last Tuesday St. Mary’s Church, Balmain,
was the scene of a pretty and fashionable wed-
ding. The bride was Miss Edith (Poppy), fourth
daughter of Dr. Evans, of Balmain, and the bride-
groom, Mr. Taylor. The bridal gown was com-
posed of exquisite pearl satin de Lyons, the front
of the skirt being trimmed with two very deep
flounces of rich lace, caught here and there with
plush horse-shoes and bunches of white satin
roses and orange blossoms; very long train, with
feather trimming, wreath of orange blossoms,
with long silk net-veil reaching down to
the hem of the skirt. The live bridesmaids were
Miss Jessie Evans, sister of the bride, and who, in
her gentle, fair beauty, looked very charming; the
Misses Rudder, Trouton, Broomfield, and Robert-
son Their uncommon dresses were of ivory nun’s
veiling, trimmed with very light golden-brown
plush, and horse-shoes of the same; silk ruohings,
in which were embedded chrysanthamums of dif-
ferent colours and poppies (the latter being the
name-flower of the young bride), were worn round
the neck; white straw hats, lined and trimmed
with plush and flowers to match the dress, and
silk net strings tied in large bows under the chin.
All wore long tan gloves.
♦ • *
Again dancing is being denounced by
w c Wilkinson, who has written an article
entitled “The Dance of Modern Society.” He
doesn’t so much object to dancing in itself; indeed,
he has been good enough to say that the “ leaping
and moving with measured step ” is perfectly in-
nocent of bad effects, but the dance as practised in
modern society, is, in his opinion, conducive of all
kinds of evils, from bad health to questionable
morals. “But,” says the Pall Mall Gazette,
“ what can we say to an author who, like Mr. Wil-
kinson, declares that our balls are ‘a massing
together of a jostling crowd of mute or merely
gibbering animals’ with the worst consequences
to manners and morals? A plain-spoken man is
Mr. Wilkinson, truly, and given to utter some dis-
agreeable truths.”
« * * *
The Buffalojjball held at Newcastle on the
Queen’s Birthnight, was an unqualified success.
Not too much crowding, and ladies costumes
mostly good. Many chose fancy costumes, the
most admired being several Soudan goat-fiuntere.
Mr and Mrs John Randall of Mudgee, aged TO
and 66 respectively, and natives of, Penrith, cele-
brated their golden wedding on the 4th instant,
having married on the 4th May, 1835. just 50 years
ago. The old couple have 62 grandchildren, and
are still hale and hearty — A grand day of athletic
sports was followed up by a ball in the evening at
collaindabri, last Monday. The ball was graced
by all the youth and beauty within a radius of
twentv miles...-The German ball was held at
their Club last Friday night. About thirty officers
honoured the affair by their presence, and glad-
dened the hearts of the feminine element.
ANSWERS TO SOCIAL CORRESPONDENTS.
[Note.— Social items, in order to ensure Inser-
tion for the current week, should be to hand no
‘‘ a iadiRnant'”f 8 A^evidently overlooked till too late
for this week.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Royal Naval Athletics Sports, Associates
Glebe SiWraffiXiniii-Bali'.... Z’JSS \
Annual Maeonlo Ball (Maaonic Hall, Par-
Rpdnp'v Oivl Club Ball, Town Hall June 18.
Bt. Kilda Social (Balmain School of Arte)j. June 19.
P0 Ma a onic k HaU C1Ub . AnnU ’. * - June 26.
The Mutual Imps Ball. Needs’ Rooms .June 29
" ' Sydney, Wednesday.
My Dear Belle,—How very delightful It must
be to be accredited with a good and thoughtful
action, when at the same time self benefits as
much as anybody by the results I Now, I am just
as pleased as can be that the Queen is purchasing
Irish poplins and linens and . Scotch embroidery
for the trousseau of the Princess Beatrice; but,
knowing, as we do, how saving and economical
the dear lady Is, would it be quite unreasonable to
suppose that in choosing this class of goods, which,
as nearly everybody is aware, are the best of their
kind manufactured, that a care for the durability
of the Princess’ wardrobe had as much weight in
prompting the Royal patronage of the Irish and
Scotch manufactories as an intention to consider
the welfare of her people ?, Were these Irish pop-
lins shoddy and unbeautiful, then the Queen’s
motive for buying the same would certainly be
pure and disinterested; but, as matters stand, she
Indulges her ewn economical whims, and happily
pleases her subjects at the same time. This is
what I call making a virtue of inclination.
Tou’d be surprised, dear, did you know how
severely we are rated by the sterner sex, at
times. For instance, yesterday as we were walking
down Pltt-street, we observed a lady driving.
There was nothing unusual about her driving, save
that she never allowed her whip to rest a moment,
but kept up a continued ‘‘flip-flap,” “flip-flap”
around the horse’s ears (all the time. I oommis-
serated the poor horse, but a bachelor friend of
Ned’s who was with us, remarked, “Oh, but that’s
just how a woman drives everything, and espe-
cially a man, when she gets him into harness. It’s
flip-flap, flip-flap, all the time the husband's in
the shafts.” Then I fell to wondering how we Billy
girls could possibly like these creatures who were
always saying such hard things of us—but (al-
though, of course, we wouldn’t let them know for
all the world) I am afraid, even with all their
nasty remarks, we are foolish enough to like them
a little bit sometimes. Are we not ?
Did you ever hear of a poor doctor in Sydney,
dear ? I never did, and no wonder, for their
charges for attendance are in most cases enor-
mous. San Francisco, which our mutual friend
has visited, is also a paradise for physicians, but he
tells me there are parts in America where the re-
muneration they demand is nearly as reasonable
as in London and other English towns, where, I am
told, you can obtain a doctor’s services for half a
crown and medicine given in I But lucrative as is
the profession of a doctor in Sydney, it isn’t a cir-
cumstance to that of a dentist, who. in some cases,
are known to make upward of £6000 a year, and
won’t look at your mouth under two guineas. But
the wonder to me is why these dentists, with
all their talent, continue to “ give their patients
away "—Charlie's slang phrase—in such a stupid
wholesale manner as they do. Their absurd idea
of making the false set of teeth true to nature is
as comical as a barber’s idea of a perfect gentle-
man as exhibited la a wig block, or a costumier’s
notion of a perfect lady in a fashion-plate pr a
shop model, or a “London Journal” novelist’s
creation of a heroine. All of which are quite too
perfect to be natural - and so with the false teeth.
Now, if I were a dentist, I should be inclined, just
for the sake of giving an “un-false” appearance
to the teeth, to make them slightly irregular, by
having one tooth rather prominent or another
somewhat receding, chip one a bit, or give one a
slight discolouration as if it were about to decay.
Oh l these demists aren’t half cunning enough.
There seems to me to be no art in either the
manufacture of teeth or in dyeing the hair. Only
yesterday, as we sat down to dine in Gunsler’s, the
first thing I noticed about the old gentleman and
his .young wife who sat opposite to us, was that he
dyed his hair and her masticators were false. Now,
it more cunning, art were brought to bear on these
things, people might dye their hair and shed their
teeth and no one be the wiser, A line-looking,
strapping fellow here, who halls from North
Shore, and stands six feet high, dyes his handsome
moustache and thinks nobody knows, when really,
dear, anybody with half an eye can detect it a mile
off. With him I have no sympathy, for I am sure
a blonde moustache is just as beautiful as one of
a darker hue—it may be gray, certainly, but then
a fine gray moustache is, in my eyes, as beautiful
as a good head of gray hair. Why there is such a
prejudice against gray hair I never could find out,
for 1 think it is to most faces extremely becoming,
aad has a softening effect upon the harshest of
features. But before I have done with the sub-
ject of bone (of course you know hair is bone as
well as teeth), let me tellyouthat (Justtoshow that
there’s nothing new under the sun) some Italian
antiquarians have recently discovered false teeth
in a skull which has been excavated in an ancient
Etruscan cemetery. The sepulchre out of which
the skull was taken dates from the fifth century
b c., and the false teeth are nothing less than
animal teeth attached to the human bone by means
of small gold plates; and to think that in all these
long years so much is still left for improvement in
the dentist’s art I
I tremble at the thought, but I really believe
that tricycling for ladies is gaining ground. There
are even little manuals out which are devoted to
this ungraceful mode of propulsion, and which
have a great deal to say about costumes suitable
to tricycling. Of course, a nice becoming costume
will go a long way towards reconciling us to tri-
cycles, but I don’t believe that any lady who
hasn’t lost all sense of the ridiculous will appear
in public, i.e„ before men—on these machines.
Mark Twain was once rude enough to say that
“ women aqd cows should never run,” and I know
many men who are rude enough to agree with
the humourist. If then, they object so much to
our running, I am certain they will turn from us
altogether if we adopt the tricycle. A friend tells
me that in England, tomboyism Is going ahead
fast; thousands of ladles think nothing of climb-
ing on to the top of a ’bus, and it is no novelty
to see the top of the Hampton Court omnibus
crowded with petticoats. Such being the case,
dear, we may safely conclude that crinolines have
no longer a place in a young lady’s wardrobe in
England. I thinly riding on top of a ’bus must
be quite too nice to talk about, but I’d sooner
wear one of last season’s dresses at one of our
balls than a crinoline when climbing up to a box-
seat, wouldn’t you ?
I heard such a funny story to-day, dear, which
amused me so much that I cannot forbear giving
you the benefit of it. A young lady who was in
a hurry to got home, stepped into aa omnibus
which was rather over-crowded. However, two
kindly business men made room for her between
them, and for awhile all went well. Suddenly, how-
ever, the man on her right slapped his hand into
the pocket on the right side of her ulster, in which
lay her purse. Quick as lightning the young lady
dived in after him, and, to her intense dismay,
the giant paw, instead of showing proper shame
at being caught, added insult to injury, by im-
prisoning the little hand in hlsl Whatever should
she do ? An attempt to withdraw her hand and
let the purse go, only drew forth a harder squeeze.
In despair, and nearly fainting with embarrass-
ment and fright, she at last whispered in a trembl-
ing voice, “Oh, sir, do, please, take your hand out
of my pocket.” “ I beg pardon, miss, but you have
your hand In my pocket.” And it was only too
true; for there, upon looking down, the poor girl
discovered her hand deep in the outside pocket of
a man’s great coat I Fortunately for her, the man
was a gentleman, and quickly saw the mistake,
and courteously left the omnibus so that the
frightened girl might not be embarrassed by his
presence.
I have gleaned for your information the follow-
ing facts. That large mouths are now in favour,
the prunes and-prism lips being quite out; so you
of the small rose-bud mouths will please give us
our innings now—we who possess that feature
more akin to that of the cod-flsh. That high-toned
5 o’clock teas have always their dish of roasted
salted almonds, which are eaten before the tea ii
drunk, just like olives before wine-they are sup-
posed to bring out the flavour of the tea, which,
by the way, is taken by the ultra-fashionables
without milk or sugar. That the very newest
style for the hair is the “ Cadogan,” which con-
sists in the back hair being loosely tied back
from the face with ribbon, and the front part of
the hair arranged in graceful curls around the
face, which gives a dlstingui and youthful ap-
pearance to a well-shaped head: that the latest in
note-paper is “the Mahdl note,” which is rough
and flannely, and is the colour of freshly shed
blood (horrible isn’t it ?); that asses’ ears are the
latest bonnet ornaments in Paris—real dried
donkey’s ears, mind you- And now, dear, if you
are half as tired of reading as 1 am of writing,
you will not be sorry that I have nothing more to
say to you this week. I am just going to have a
good long read of the “ Young Ladles’ Treasure
Book,” which looks very enticing, and is supposed
to be a complete cyclopaedia of practical instruc-
tion and direction for all indoor and outdoor
amusements and occupations, suitable to young
ladles. Just the kind of book to while away our
long winter evenings, I should fancy. It has just
occurred to me that I haven’t told you a word of
any of the numerous balls we have been to this
week. But, indeed, there is nothing much to say
about them, excepting that they were all too
crowded for comfort, which caused us to be cross
and fretful, after each danse. But it's little use
grumbling, as the various committees seem to be
more anxious to sell the tickets than to secure the
comfort of the truly,
MAB.


“ I must confess I was agreeably surprised
at the full, rich aroma possessed by Wolfe's
Schnapps.
Don’t use stimulants, but nature’s brain
and nerve food—Hop Bitters. Beware of all ex-
cept made by American Co. See.
Love may come and love may go,
And fly like a bird from tree to tree:
But Summerfleld’s clothes will never go,
Though the schoolboy kneels on each bended
knee.*
The photo, of the renowned beauty* Mary
Anderson, can be seen In Bray’s window, 403
George-street, surrounded by some of the potters
most beautiful works in art. Pottery and glass re-
ceived direct from the manufactories.*
Invalids who require stimulants can safely
rely upon Wolfe’s Schnapps. Be certain the/
get Wolfe’s.
Woman Items
The Decline of Man —When his eirl refuses
him.
“Can I see your husband?” asked the
rate-collector. “ No, that, Indeed, you cannot,”
replied Mrs. Slow worm, “for he is now in bed with
a guitar.”
“ I wonder why Mrs. Blank always wears
her dresses cut so low in the neck ? ” “ Humph I
That’s easy. She wears her dresses that way so
that she can give her husband plenty of cold
shoulder.”
“Ido so like the colonel,” said a sweet
voice behind me at the theatre. “ He’s a dear man.
Isn’t he ?” “ Yes, you know I am almost related
to him. ’ ‘ Indeed ? I never knew that. How ? ”
“ He came very near being my father. He was
the first man my mother was engaged to.”
The bridegroom was very fond of nice
calculations. The marriage had been arranged to
take place on Wednesday, but he wished it changed
to Monday. “Why do you wish It changed?”
asked his prospective mother in-law, suspiciously.
“ Because,” said he, “ I have been calculating, and
I find that if it takes place on Wednesday, my
silver wedding day will fall on a Friday, and that
is lodge night.
A husband recently called on a London
magistrate and desired a summons or something
against Lis wife, on the grounds that that lady
assaulted him continually with a poker, and other-
wise illused him. The magistrate, in reply, said he
eould do nothing to the wife for beating him,
but if he tried it on with her, he could be accom-
modated with six months or so at any time. The
husband then walked pensively away—into a
canal.
The Stamford (Eng.) Burial Board have
held t vo sittings, at which 50 speeches were de-
livered on the Inscription of a tombstone, which
ran as follows:—
“ To part with my wife was a trial severe,
Par better In Heaven than suffering hero.”
Ultimately the inscription was allowed, a full stop
being inserted after "severe." Even now the
widower has contrived to libel himself.
A ytfung widow who recently advertised
for a husband in Dunedin under the title of
“Thrift,” got (so she says) 174 offers. She how-
ever, chose a farmer, and advertised thanking the
173 left, assuring them that their “confidence
would be respected.” As for the “stamps for
reply” (if any) there is no record as to whether
she returned them or not. We should Judge that
she. in all probability, “respected” those little
pictures (as mementoes) too much to enable her to
part with them I
Society chaffs Queen Victoria thus:—
“ Like most elderly ladles, Her Majesty revels in
three things—viz., a birth (no monthly nurse halls
the arrival of a little stranger with more enthu-
siasm); a marriage (especially one she has arranged
herself); and a funeral, for which she has a melan-
choly weakness, which equals that of the old
woman who hoped her husband wouldn’t die till
the summer came, because while the cold winds
lasted it was Impossible to get much real enjoy-
ment out of a burying. In Prince Albert’s time
the Teutonic influence over the English Court
was all but supreme. The Prince of Wales was
brought up under it. His education was planned
on German lines, with, in some respects, odd re-
sults. He speaks German, if anything, better
than English; with less accent and less trace of
foreign idiom. German, and not English, is the
language of common conversation among the
Royal Family.”
Polygamy only exists among the Mormons
to a tmall extent. Most Mormons are content to
have their second wife in theory; In practice they
find one sufficient. Even in Turkey, where poly-
gamy has been established for thousands of years,
tew men have more than one wife. In Algiers,
shortly before 1879, the numner of married men
registered was 18,283. Of these no fewer than
17,319 had but one wife; 888 had two wives; and
only 73 had more than two wives The theory
that more women are born into the world than
men, has been exploded. Behel shows that in ten
States, with a population of 250 000,000, the excess
of females is only 2 500 000 When we remember
the extent to which men out-number women in
the colonies, and the fact that in India there are
6.000,000 more men than women, the natural infer-
ence is that if the inhabitants of the earth were
distributed according to their sex, men and women
would be found to exist in about equal pro-
portions.
• • *
A married woman of 46, named Van den
Linders, has been convicted of poisoning (for in-
surance money), at the Hague Since 1869 she has
attempted to poison no less than 102 persons, and
she tried to poison everybody who came in her
way. She killed 27 of her victims with arsenic,
and 15 others became dangerously ill. Six times
she endeavoured to poison one of her sisters-
in-law. . .“ My affections are wasted on you,”
he said, as he put h's arm where it would be
productive of most pressures results “It is
uncommon to And a lady proficient on a wind-
instrument,” writes a fair correspondent. What’s
a tongue but a wind-instrument?.. .According to
Colonel Mapleson, Miss Nevada entered the K. C.
Church twelve months ago, and has since been a
regular attendant at mass. Her religion does not
trouble Mr. Mapleson, but the persistence with
which she attends mass does “ She keeps me con-
tinually in hot water,” said the manager. “Say-
ing mass in a eold church may bo good for the
soul, but it is h-1 on the high notes.” Hugging
parties for the benefit of churches are becoming
very popular in America. The prices are as fol-
lows: Girls under 15. 35 cents, for a hug of two
minutes; from 16 to 30 years of age, from &5 to 75
cents; another man’s wife, one dollar; widows,
according to looks, from 10 cents to two dollars;
old maids, three cents apiece, or two for a nickel,
and no limit as to time—The editor was a gentle-
man of culture and a Bachelor of Arts, but this is
how he proposed for the lady on whom his affec-
tions were centredDearest,—I have carefully
analysed the feelings I entertain for you, and the
result is substantially as follows: Iloveyoul Will
you be mine? Reply by return of post.” Then,
after a moment of thought, he added, in a dreamy,
absent-minded way: “Write only on one side of
the paper. Write plainly, and give real name
and address, not necessarily for publication,
but as a guarantee of good faith.”.... Young man:
“ Your daughter has referred me to you, sir.”
Old man: ,r All right, you have my consent. Is
that all you want?” Young man: “ Well-er-one
thing more I would like to ask, sir. If I should
present your daughter with a diamond engage-
ment ring, would you be willing to—er—give me a
receipt for it, in case anything unpleasant should
happen ? ” —“Then, am I to understand that you
reject my offer? In that case, I have only one re-
quest to make, which I fervently hope you will
notrefuse.” "Whatlsit?” “ That you will never,
never betray what I have just revealed to you of
the deep feelings of my Inmost heart.” “Oh,
certainly not. But why ? ” “ Because—ahem I—
well—because I intend proposing to your elder
sister to-morrowl”—She knew music and paint-
ing and style, and possibly knew bow to flirt; but—
saints of the kitchen I—she asked for a gridiron to
iron a thirt.
“ The Russian Government has accepted
the British proposals. Meruchuk and Zufficar
both remain In the possession of the Afghans.”
This is from a daily. Our thrsion is i “ The British
Government has accepted the Russian proposals.
Penjdeh remains in the possession of the Czar.”
There’s nothing like turlng a thing round.
“I observed that Mr; So-and-So, the
theatrical manager’s representative in front of the
house, was an extremely Sgrfceablfe young man.
and also seemed .possessed of some amount of
wealth. ‘ Wealthy I agreedblel ’ cried the manager.
* I should think so. Why; he came to me without
any seat to his troufletfl, and before he had been
with us a month he had a diamond ring, patent
leather boots, a s&flskin Waistcoat, and called me
Charlie I ’ ”
They had a little excitement in Launceston
(Tasmania) a couple of weeks ago. The volunteers
were nursing their valour and telling how they
would handle the Russians when the time came.
On Sunday night, between 9 and 10 o'clock, the
signal-gun was fired. Up started the sons of Mars.
Some of them were courting, and shown a
place to hide, they crept in and lay down. Others
were married, and they rushed to the lamsterlng
ground, anxious to sacrifice themselves for their
country’s sake. But the alarm was false. Some
wag had got at the touch-hole. Then the single
men jumped out and squeezed their girls’ hands.
Then the married men crawled home and sat down
sorrowfully by the fireside.
A crematorium has been established in
Woking. England, and as Lord Shaftesbury has
declared that the “religious objection” to crema-
tion Is unfounded, it is expected that the enter-
prise will be well patronised. The ” re llgious ob-
jection ’ was that cremation “would impose diffi-
culties in the way of the resurrection of the body.”
Where, then, is the limit to the revivifying power
of the rising soul? If a man win he trusted to
collect, at the last day, his flesh which has departed
and perchance a leg or two which a shark may
have annexed, or a surgeon out oil' from the living
frame, when Gabriel sounds the reveille, and be up
there in time for the roll-call, surelv he will also
be able to rake his rushes from th e four winds of
heaven, and appear smiling. Faith is a lovely
oooMiontUJy en0rmOUil demands are made upon it
Thus Thadeus O’Kane, of the Northern
Miner, concerning the announcement that Dr.
Ahearne would try and see the Prince of Wales in
regard to the N.Q. separation movement:—“ This
is a democratic colony, and all questions relating
to its management must be left to the represen-
tatives of the people in Parliament assembled,
l he Townsville separationlsts may crawl on their
bellies before Royal Highnesses, as long as they
like, but the people of the colony care nothing
t° r , Koyal Highnesses. It is not probable
that the English people will wipe the lot out before
long, it is singular to observe, that as democracy
grows and flourishes in England, the toadies of a
corrupt aristocracy increase and multiply in Aus-
tralia, as witness the fulsome adulations of the
Home Government by the Sydney Ministry in
regard to the return of the Contingent.”
It was only the other day they had a public
meeting in the Sandhurst orderly-room to beat up
recruits for the militia. The Hon. Bob Burrowes
took the chair. He, the Hon. Angus Screechowl
Mackay, and Dr. Quick were the principal if not
the only speakers. Bob admitted that he’d once
been a warrior himself. Had played the triangles
in the Kangaroo Flat Fenoibles. Many a time
we ve heard him tell weird tales of border warfare
in those early days when Johnny M’Intyre routed
the whole of the Golden Square Contingent—the
death-or-glory boys—with the leg of mutton he’d
brought with him from Ballarat. Ah. those were
the daysl—when diggers were chained by dozens
to logs in Rosalind Park and put the night through
playing “mumble-peg” for buttons—when the
holders of one log would represent the Eng-
lish and the other the “ Rooshans,” and pelt
each other with boulders and blasphemy to
keep themselves warm. But to the meeting.
Angus Mackay said: “On the death of General
Gordon, the colonies had been thrilled as by an
electric shock, and the people had expressed a
strong desire, not to avenge that great hero’s
death, but to assist the British in putting down
the rebellion.” How in the world did Angus get
such a comprehensive grasp of the whole thing ?
But he was always a smart lad. Everything is big
print to him. whatever he and his paper, the
Bendigo Advertiser don’t know is really of
little Interest to anybody else. And how nice to
know that Gordon’s death had nothing to do with
the despatch of Australian troops—that they’d
have been sent anyway I We would suggest,
however, to Mackay, that, since the Russians
threatened Afghanistan, there are no more
“ rebels ” in the Soudan. They are now Arabs or
Soudanese. “ Did they suppose,” Angus went on,
that it [the Australian Contingent] had no effect
on the policy of Russia ? ” We supposed no such
thing. We know it had—made them take
20 miles of a bigger bite out of Afghani-
stan. Had the Victorian and South Aus-
tralian veterans been accepted also, the Mus-
covites would have entirely swallowed the
Ameer to make up for it—to show the “moral”
effect it had on them. It was Quick’s time now.
He said that, in order to improve a man’s physique,
*nd make him at the same time moral enough for
* Methodist prayer-meeting, there was nothing
ike becoming a Bendigo militiaman. He’d been
■n the “Melbourne Artillery Corps,” and knew
>vhat soldiering was— h« did. We knew that corps,
too, and can conscientiously »ay that, for making
a well-planned midnight foray on a Carlton public-
nouse, or beating a Colllngwood policeman about
the head with pint-pots, we never knew their
equals. Before the meeting broke up Colonel
Brownrlgg added a few words. He admired the
discipline of the militia—[three of them were in
for garottlng a sergeant the night before]-but
was Justly severe on those who used their rifles for
shooting rabbits. Three cheers were given for the
chairman, when the new recruits were marched
over to old Crowley’s to indulge in patriotism and
porter.
Any one who is satisfied to gain his im-
pressions of current history from the garbled tele-
grams (and Tory “ Own Correspondents ” of the
leading,” or misleading, morning newspapers of
Australia, would be obliged to believe that the
visit of the Prince and Princess of Wales to Ire-
land resulted in a triumphal progress, and effec-
tually brought to light the unexpected fact that
Ireland is loyal to the backbone, and Nationalists
an insignificant minority. There is another side
to the picture. Reynold’s Newspaper presents
it plain ly enough, good ness knows. Listen:—“ It
is stated that the Prince of Wales is highly
satisfied with his reception in Ireland I If so, it
must take little, indeed, to please him. None
but Idiots can shut their eyes to the transparent
fact that bludgeon law prevailed wherever the
Prince and Princess went; that at Mallow the
people were mercilessly, and cruelly, and brutally
dragooned because they preferred shouting 4 God
save Ireland ’ to ‘ God save the Queen,’ and play-
ing the Dead March in 4 Saul ’ to 4 God bless the
Prince of Wales.’ In the eye of the Irish law, as
it is at present administered, these were heinous
offences, and could only be met by bludgeon and
bayonet. Nevertheless, we are assured that the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland is
ibout the only place on the face of the earth
where men are free to express their opinions and
sentiments without fear of molestation I Probably
the Princess of Wales, being stone deaf, may not
have heard the disloyal tunes played at Mallow
and elsewhere; and maybe the courtiers-in-wait-
ing assured her that they were all expressions of
loyalty, enthusiasm, and devotion to the Royal
Family of England! But, although her sense of
hearing is defective, that of vision is not so. Con-
sequently, whilst Journeying on the railway, the
royal lady could not fall to observe the numerous
black flags planted along the line, or the 4 disloyal ’
mottoes that everywhere figured and flaunted
conspicuously before her eyes. At Cork, however
deaf the Princess, the storms of hooting and hiss-
ing must have penetrated her ears. Altogether,
we suspect that, whatever else may be said to the
contrary, the royal Journey to Ireland has neither
proven a political success, nor at all a pleasant
trip to the Prince and his spouse. It appears to
us that he has been hissed, hooted, hustled, pelted
with onions, and indeed suffered almost every in-
dignity save that of being dragged through a
horsepond I Yet we are assured he is satisfied with
his reception I Instead of being messengers of
peace, and pouring oil upon the troubled waters,
the royal couple, wherever they went, proved
firebrands, fomenting hatred and hostility amongst
the different sections of the populace. But
the question remains, was not the subjecting
a female like the Princess of Wales to such an
unpleasant ordeal both unwise and unmanly ? ”
Just so. It will be remembered that Just before
the Prince's visit was announced, an alleged threat
by alleged Fenians to assassinate him was pub-
lished in all the papers. Whether this was a
loyalists’ dodge to give a colour of pluck to a
visit already planned, and was part of the pro-
gramme to lend prestige to that visit, or whether
the threat really had been uttered is uncertain. But
supposing there had been such a threat, what is to be
thought of a man who, being threatened with
assassination, takes his wife with him wherever he
goes ? We have always regarded this step on the
part of the Prince of Wales as most contemptible.
During his visit to Ireland, he was practically
sheltered under his wife’s petticoats, and keeping
her body between his carcase and the possible
blows of the assassin.
Ad Hominem.
A third bard came, and straight our hopes uprose
l o hear his Ringing and to read his prose,
kull through his stave a voice Australian rang,
We heard the swaying forest as he sang.
Heard the lone echo of the bushman's axo
Clearing his ground, or making out the tracks
To guide the stockman or the pioneer
To some far station or to water near—
Where art thou, Three ? Still pondering on the
theme
That Life and all that’s in it is a dream ?
Dost meditate on suicide—(the fact.
We may remark, Instead of the “ rash act ”
Insinuated by the present bard,
Is that his present fate is one not hard;
He Jacked on rhyme, forswore the tender tear;
He * sacked ” the Muses, and now brews sound
beer.)
What shadowy form is this I see arise.
With feet on earth and head up in the skies.
Whose flashing eyes are those that scan the
Heavens,
They sniff from here the fumes of Bismarck’s pipe,
And unwiqd Moltke in big, fat, black type;
Their telephone is laid down to Samoa,
While at this end, to catch from that far shore
What game is on, what German jinks to tear,
Long lies come back to fill a longer ear,
It’s dread *rkr warnings, which but raise a laugh—
The nightmare dreams of a dyspeptic staff;
The cultured scholar has his special day,
The next, some wayfarer has all the say;
And then, td leave no servant without joy,
Leaves Monday’s leaders to the office-boy.
Then the great Herald, monument of lead,
Our opiate living, stimulant when dead.
In its fat sluggishness, with friends or foes,
Attacks, defends, alike with padded blows;
Never will run the risk of any fray.
But hopes to live to fight some other day;
Its leaders odme with solemn step and slow,
With pomp.funereal, and with equal “go,”
To cloud Protection or befog Freetrade
With crushing logic that will not persuade;
To serve the wealthy, they with joy could weep.
They love a squatter, but could hug a sheep.
Let others preach the poor man’s case at will,
Ring in his dictum with!” That’s what I say.”
tpo, passed from out this vale of tear,
jothut dim region of no threep’ny beers ?
"° n t . h «- he this, and he still draws breath,
4^?A 1 J 0Ug il the other Three will be his death
r irst time they meet him, he feels no dismay.
But now starts off to tune his little lay. y
Rut, ah, the toll to court the heavenly Muse
*u TOrld i that stands an Evening News,
To chant the melody by thee inspired.
Only to bear that an “event transpired,”
To have our verses shunted or exposed.
While copious columns tell what Flynn "deposed.”
How must we writhe to hear each subtle hit
struck by some blockhead aldermanlc wit?
How can we tune our meditated lay
To choer our fellows with a future day.
and Peace shall hold the place
Now held by Fraud and War with brazen face ?
How shall we honestly cry or laugh
while still exists the Daily Telegraph ?
r or, when our cup of bliss seems unalloyed.
This clamorous piece of cant and wit typhoid.
Comes with its German or its Soudan scare.
And for more pennies loudly taints the air.
A PERTINENT QUESTION.
(“ Bismarck is willing to sell German-Pacific interests to England.”— Telegram.)
GENT. WHO WANTS TO REALISE: “VOT VILL YOU GIFF ME VOR DOSE LEEDLB
BROPERTIES ? ”
J. BULL’S MAN OF BUSINESS: “BEFORE WE GET TO FIGURES, MY FRIEND, PLEASE
ANSWER ME ONE QUESTION—WHAT IS TOUR TITLEV’
Frightening all stars at sixes and at sevens;
Bending their gaze anon to things on earth,
Xo wither humbug or to cheer up worth ?
What voice is that which tunes the flute-like lay
To lovely woman or a moonlight fay,
Or ceasing now his ever-welcome song.
Shows how a Barry or a Spencer’s wrong ?
That s number Four, who in the flesh was known
As boss incarnate of the reign of bone,
Boss 1 shepherd ” he around a counter lunch.
Too poor to pay up, yet too small to punch;
Deep read was he In matters of finance.
And his critiques made many a Treasurer dance;
But, with that genius which we all adore,
Oft made his rent man dance a good deal more.
Tutor he was to all the previous Three,
And all the music In their mlnstrelsie
He gave them gratis, and when they’d provoke
The public smile, hefurnlshed them the joke;
And aye, ere publishing, to be correct,
They d.seek.the views of that great intellect,
8o, trained by him, they sent his wisdom nut.
And cracked his jokes in many a town about;
w ," e ° the talk would turn to things profound.
They d throw their tutor’s Plato gaze around —
Raising their finger in his ’customed way,
They’ve had the wealthy, and they’ll have them
still.
THE BUNYIP.
' BU HAL F-KILLED. IN A SWAMP NEAR NAGAMBIE. VIC., AC-
NAGAMBIE TIMES.’ THE ANIMAL REVIVED AFTEIf MAKING
A MEAL OF A DOG, AND TOOK A HEADER INTO THE WATER.’’— Exchange.


J-A. THOMPSON,
A.J.O. 01 GAB DIVAN AND HAIB-DEES8ING SALOON.
91 Bing-street.
iy N.B.-I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
READ THIS I
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£8 lOs. each.
Warranted for three years,
OAK BK BOUGHT AT
269 PUt-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SZMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER
PUBLIC NOTICE.
Marshall’s Artificial Teeth.
Marshall brothers. Dentists, owing to
the great increase of their dentistry prac-
tice, have also taken extensive premises at 183
ELIZABETH STREET, Hyde Park. They still
continue to ioseit teeth at the same enormously
reduced price as before, namely, £5 per set,
upper and lower, which are precisely the same
prize medal teeth advertised by other Aims.
Marshall Brothers gurantee these to be equal in
every way, both for quality, fit, and appearance,
to those Inserted by hundreds of dentists (with a
limited practice), who charge double and treble
this amount. The public may doubt this, but
tfarchall Brothers offer £500 to any person who
can prove this statement untrue. Consultation
free. Painless extraction by the aid of nitrous
oxide gas. MARSHALL BROTHERS, American
Dentists, 133 Blizabetb-street, Hyde Park, and
Market street. N.B,—All trams stop at the dcor.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GBNT.’S ... 60, Is. Od.; 100, 0s. Od.
LADIES’ 50, 08. Od.; 100, 3a. 0d,
Address, Od. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 3s. Od.; 860, OS. Od.; 500, 10s.; 1000, 16s.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
Orders executed and forwarded by return
pqst.
TEE DIRECT SUPPLY GO.
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
H. A. BROWN & CO.p
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
260 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-streeU
Prom the Strand. London.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 364 and 356 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia.
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment.
Everybody is informed that this Studio is carried on for the benefit of the late Mr.
Boyd’s children, by his executrix.
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Apt, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manasxk.
, and CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCF. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
IEOH, mm, d MiCMEI BUTE,
Importers of
STE A I 1 %t? TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS,
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHJUGILDERS’
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, &o.
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PBRFO
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRU8HWARE
FENCING WIREwj
WOOLPACKS
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
-4
HiiMER
PORTABLE, FIXE
and SEMI-FIXED E.
QINES
VERTICAL and HOI
ZONTAL BOILERS
Sgg TEAM and
Sg?- PUMPS
LATHES, PLANIN
SHAPING, 8CHE
f™** MA% a iNB8 DRILU
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRA
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLL
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER. &o.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.
ad Warehouse -
n ani Implement Yard
Ik Stores
- 54 YORK STREET.
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR.
SYDNEY.
London Office
86 GRACEOHURCB STREET.
cura
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Bca'ly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
ILoss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
i-Cdticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
i internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
; stoat Skm Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching: and Burning Skin
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’
igr SJkin Diseases,
, washerwoman’s Itch,
' Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
1 to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
' Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
• daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
' will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
I Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
' With Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
t solvkSt. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
• cmnh sworn to before the British Consul, which
* repdst this story; I have been a terrible sufferer
’•forears from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
utaF e been obliged to shun public places by reason
«df my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians ; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
)no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Kkin and Blond Diseases*’
How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.
Australia?? Consignees,
R. Towns & Co,, N ew South Wales.
C
UTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever, Guaranteed absolutely
pare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
Por Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand- Cuticura, 60 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Prepared bt the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
mmwtmm
356 George St.
Established
SYDNE
i85a
ORGANS
PIANOS?
Best Makers Only
EVERY INSTRUMENT/
GUARANTEE]
/ 0 #>
cW
VERY
MODERATE
prices!
The Most Liberal
TIME PAYMENT
SYSTEM.
OVER
800
Instruments
ON VIEW
To Selechfrom.
SYDNEY.
BAUMANX,
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
—
PT" LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOB LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.


Wolfe's Schnapps—No family should be
11 i8 P ure6t aQ( * best stimulant
Political Points
The last big “ legend ” told his 400 millions
by the Emperor of Chlm is that “The French,
having humbly sued for peace. His Majesty
graciously grants their prayer.” And Sydney
people wonder why the Buddhist gardeners
at Botany work on Sunday, and wny no laying
fowls can be reared further South than Waterloo 1
From the London Daily News: — “O
their arrival at Castle Lough Bay, the Prince ant
Princess of Wales were enthusiastically reoeivec
by the hotel boatmen.” The reception of th
Royal Highnesses by the chambermaids was, t
p.N. might have added, of a most flattering c
scription, and the boots and the head-wail
rivalled each other in the warmth of thdr w
oome.
New version of the old Jingo psalm
We don’t want to fight;
But, by Jingo, if we do—
We’ve Protestant and Catholic,
Turk, Infidel, and Jew;
We’ve " God ” and “ Mammon,” “ Allah,”
“Buddha,” “Brahma,”and “Vishnu;”
We’ve collare i all the Deities, so what can Russ
do?
The British army-contraot arrangemen
are evidently as rotten as the British system
patronage based on “Royal favour.” At Ah
Ktea and Abu Kru, the Martini cartridges stuc
(because they were Imperfect), rendering tl
rifles unserviceable, the bayonets twisted and ben
and now, when the 2nd Dragoon Guards, 7th Hu
sars, and the Commissariat and Transport Cor
were examined, most of the weapons were fout
unserviceable.
Thus a Berlin correspondent quoted b
Vanity Fair;— “It sickens me to read all th
trash in the English papers about an Anglo-Germa
entente, when I know Bismarck to be the invet
rate foe of England. His game Is to Involve he
in war, and if sne Is defeated, to seiz? the Netbe
lands. That will, not improbably, come to pa
sooner than the unwary Englishman expect
France should have been our ally, but, unfortu
nately, the French have been estranged from
by their ignorant and corrupt Press.”
Thus Vanity Fair “ The theory tha
Bismarck is precipitating Russia’s embroilment s
that be may fall upon France, and oompel he
either to fight or disarm, is a natural one. Wit
Germany’s Eastern frontier rendered safe b
Russia having her hands full, the man of bloo
and iron would cheerfully march his master
legions across the Rhine, for it is the prevailin
opinion in Germany that the terrible strain o
keeping a million men virtually under arms from
year to year, must cease If the Empire is to pa
her way. There are not wanting in France som
sage men of the world who are acting on thi
theory.”
Said one of the most eminent of livin
statesmen recentlyViema, and not Berlin,
the real scone just now of political intrigue. Bis
marok, knowing that the Emperor William hate
the Idea of war, not only because of bis famil
relationship, but from personal instincts, woulc
make a catenaw of Austria against Russia, by en
oouraglng her with the hope of gaining predom
nance in the Balkans. But Austria has to con
alder Hungary, whose people, ready enough t
take part with her against Russia, would decidedly
object to the dismemberment of Turkey, as the :
have not forgotten the debt of gratitude incurre
in 184‘J.”
"Une who has Seen much of War” write
to the Pall Mall:— “If you ask nine out of ten
of your acquaintance* at the present crisis wha
they propose to do if the Russians should take
Herat, the reply is ‘ Why I turn them out, to b
sure; but once the Russians are established there
what does ‘turn them out’ mean? Why, 50,(XX
British soldiers with 50,000 native ones, 300 guns a
least. 300 000 baggage animals of all sorts, anc
100,000 camp followers ; and this force to marol
from Quetta, 500 miles distant from Herat, througl
a country very scantily provided with food, anc
having, on arrival at Herat, to fight a battle with
an army which we know can and will fight, and in
a carefully-selected position; and this battle may
decide the fate of India; for, if lost, where are w'
to retreat to ?”
“ Within the recollection of living men,’
says the London Echo, of April 1 (St. Jingo’s Day)
“ no war waged by England has caused such £
feeling of shame and disgust as the present cam-
paign in the Soudan.* The feeling is widespread
among all classes and all parties. It is shared by
faithful supporters of the Government like Mr
Samuel Morley,, who recently declared that he
hung his head with shame over the business- by
the Nonconformist Ministers, notwithstanding
their unquestioning devotion to the Prime Minis-
ter; by staunch Conservatives like Mr. Dawnay
who are jealous of their country’s honour; anc
by our gallant soldiers at Suaklm, who respecl
a brave foe, and fail to comprehend why they are
fighting him. Why, then, should this miserable
work of slaughter go on ?'“ That s an easy one To
enable Dailey of N.S.W. to brag all his life-time how
he refused a knighthood once, of course.
The N.8.W. Minister of Mines has tra-
velled 1430 miles getting to Wllcannia and spouted
3000 miles of twaddle, to say nothing of some
leagues of promises never to be performed At
Wllcannia he discovered something more terrific-
ally remarkable than even the rabbit or the un-
fathomable virtue of the fret-ielector. He said-
"It was a remarkable thing that they had living
in the town the sons of two of our most distln-
Suishod Englishmen, Anthony Trollope and Charles
dokens. It was an honour that had not been
conferred on any other town in N8.W. or
any of the colonies, and was a circumstance
of which they ought to feel proud. He hoped
that those gentlemen would make their mark in
whatever position it might please God to call
them.” He then made a few remarks about the
wants of Wllcannia, and assured them that they
would have a railway—in a few years’ time. Well
they ought to be satisfied. They have their Trol-
lope and their Dicaens, and it has pleased God to
call them there. We have, therefore, no sympathy
With the growl that went round amongst the ban-
queters, “Confound it, give us the railway and
you can take the Dickons and Trollopes. ’ No
satisfying some people.
Speaking at the opening of a school in
Burrowa, N.8.W., Mr. Tom Slattery, M.P, was
good enough to explain to the children, and
through the medium of the Press, the world gener-
ally, that “knowledge is power,”—and having
entrenched himself in that Impregnable zarebs, he
went on to announce that the world knew he had
"strong opinions on religious education’’—that
notwithstanding this (which really means that
Tom has profound belief in the catechism he hasn’t
looked at for 30 years), ho “considered it his duty
as a public man, to render justice to the
electors (of Rye Park), and secure for them
the advantages of education.” Now, this is tery
handsome of Tom. The bigoted Secularist will see
the enormous concession here made. Dr. Moran's
flock at Rye Park are either not numerous or not
pious enough to find the money for a catechism
school, yet while this wrings the devout Tom’s
bosom, he is actually prepared to “secure” (that
is, to write a couple of letters to the Education
Office and have them printed in the local pa per to
show how indefatigable he is) the means of getting
his constituents’ children the art of reading and
writing. There is hope for the country white this
conciliatory spirit exists in Thomas.
Come closer. Listen to this. Don’t lose a
word of it—it may save your life. It is from
Wagga—the town of fat nullocks, fat butchers,
and fat baronets. Some time ago the war party of
the town sent a telegram to Dailey In the middle
of pjght saying that Wagga had thrown its
gauntlet into the arena, was about to speak out on
the Soudan business, and double the Patriotic
rund. Hundreds of circulars were sent round
lull of patriotism and bad English. At last the
night came big with ttj© i>te of Wagga ami of the
J he n'ght was big enough, go was the
meeting-house. But the hudlenoe was small. It
I might have b?en select. That we don’t deny. We
u e ? t0 8a y in » ’twas small/ Sam
Hawkins, the chairman, said that £2312s. had been
subscribed, £10 10s by one man, and the re
malnder by three storekeepers and the ohll
of , the Public School—the latter. Ilk.
the good Little Boy of Manly,” being gener
ously allowed to put down their lolly-copper.
for the conversion of the two Arabs taken
prisoners by the Contingent, We believe
The Bulletin, by showing the true character-of
the Soudan scandal, had something to do With this
noil-over. At all events .t will be remembered
that, th$ enthusiastic preliminary meeting &
couple of months ago. the chief speaker met tv,,,
timorous suggestion that the Soudanese after oi, e
were merely lighting for their homes.” bv
8t ?^^^- r c ece i ved with whirlwinds of applause
-that the Soudanese were not fighting for thev-
homes, as the jr were wandering tribes, and had n„
homes—only nutd.” Fancy a people so lost to Sn
sense of decency as to fight for huts I But we’S 11
known people to fight for nothing. The person I?
all others who has our sympathy is the onewhn
gave the 10 guineas out of the 22. It is said th«?
h ® ca ?£ ow ba seen at any hour stalking moodifl
about Wagga, muttering words of fearful import
“Patriotic Fund” is mentioned he
has to be tied and gagged. u
A curate in England, replying to the n>
P n°“ of K^ e MaIjL that the preachers were
all dumb dogs and refused to advocate nation#!
peace, writes:-” Every bark we curates S
against blowing brethren to shreds abroad or
swindling them to death at home is bought at thl
price of our dog-biscuits and boncs Our strin
fnH t t° I i derS are £ , ba F k Perpetually at the moon*
and to leave eartb to herself and her devils
may never say, • Thou shalt do no murder, : when
any murder is about to be done with the full con 1
,iM D en a Ha1 8 v, ppr< l bation w 0f the seat-holders and ini
duentia! church-members. Personally, I shall be
mly too glad to advocate that the bodies of the
cabinet be sent in pickle to the Russians if thev
b. a J® allowed or do allow us to blunder into blood 7
shed, and ! am always prepared to hold up to pub
*® and Private execration the names of advocates
) ,Irnn+ cb^ r i e8 ’ ’Heroism, &c., wherever these are
perpetrated or proposed, and of the Ministers who
rinhHn Ut tbelr wicked wills, and of the bishops
archdeacons, rectors, curates, and the whole pack
?h£ umb dop . 8 ’ who > by their silence, encourage all
b ® 8 ® “ on8tr °u8 impieties, and who shall un.
doubtedly receive greater damnation, though vou
burning.” y ° Ur b68t t0 snatch th « m from tte
If the proceedings in the British House of
» 8 +il re n ? t characterised by such broad bur-
VP'thlS those in our own Legislative Assembly
,,I* they are notable for a quiet, lazy humoroul’
which is quite as peculiar in its way. The
came c f mystification seems to be an unfailing
amusement to the six hundred and odd
,ent emeu who meet there to play at legislating
peop h- The mystification is of a iflnd that
mystifies nobody. Therein lies the joke. For in.
nio«£ e l one i honourable gentleman rises in his
place to ask why the Government are backing
Innthtr pnf* a Afghan affair Thereupon
mother still more honourable gentleman—a right
honourable, m fact-replies that it is undesirable
fL en h 1 * n * :o explanations at that juncture, but
the .honourable gentleman and the House
might be assure d that it is not for want
of it flexible firmness on the part of Her
Majesty s Government that things are as
are - The House smiles. Nobody Is
nobody cares. Or take a telegram of
a8 f week for a more palpable case in point. This
18 h°w it ran:—“In the House of Commons to.
svJi f ord Hartlngton, the Secretary of State for
+ Py t0 , a question, stilted that it was not
f x Pl aIn the reasons why the Govern-
ment had given orders for the stoppage of the
Guards, and for the massing of the troops hitherto
?iT ed J n the Soudan, Ho added; however 5
that they had not been stopped with a view to
their employment elsewhere.” Of course bot
RrHkh°n not kn °w the interest taken by the
?K 5 Go u verMe n nt £ the culture of Tommy
hlifnnn fff a ! ons ? What reason could there be
b'jtone-to give a chance to Tommy to steep his
mind in the memories of the Ptolemaic past-to
morals from the fatal passion of Antony
and Cleopatra in Cleopatra’s own city—to muse
mysterl< ?? of Neo-Platonism on the very
spot where once it flourished? Certainly. BvaM
father. raiQ 18 8 great wette ° ln moist
* I l om a London paper, clears un a
question of infinite interest to AustraliansThe
1 l ia of are fia - d t0 be threatening to let loose
fast-sailing cruisers against British C3mmerce?
There is nothing to prevent them from doing so
If those steamers sail duly commissioned from
their own ports-Cronstadt, Beoul, Archangel, the
fnr«io C n h^? a Ur ?i. &0 - S. ut th ®y are to safl from
foreign ports, the matter is not so easy. Let us
suppose a steamer, with a crew of Irish Fenians,
commissioned by the Russian Government, sailing
from New York and capturing and destroying
W 8bip8 ' nder the Alabama
Treaty the U.S, Government would be bound to
™ a £® ?o° d any damage ; and, independent of and
without any treaty at all, such steamers would be
pirates, and everyone on board of them, from
fr aP topahli-hcy. would be liable to be hanged
/ e i int0 °. ur hands—which they would be
certain to do eventually. A Government may com-
mission its subjects under letters of marque and
k®P, ri . 8aI . to ™ ak ® of enemy’s ships and goods.
But if foreigners accept such a commission they
are pirates, not belligerents. If it were different,
?/™f y i eX 8t ? K P lrate ’ in order to make his trade
lawful, woula have nothing to do but to take out
a letter of marque from some belligerent State.
According to the Law of Nations, therefore, a
privateer must be national in her character. She
must be commanded by a subject of the State
that issues her commission, a majority of her
officers must be subjects, and also a majority of
an< * 8ke must sail from a port belonging
soJLHf*H g i' a^e ’r' and i. m P 8 J * ake her prizes to be con
demned to a Court of Admiralty sitting under the
° State’s allies, where justice ac
of Nations is administered
Although ignorant or interested persons profess to
regard privateering as ‘alegalised form of piracy,
warfare mere strictly under
rules of law than privateering. To call a pirate
P rl j fl A e ® r will not make the pirate a lawful ship
i n _P a86 ,° f war any of these Russo-Fenian
Pn.r + 8 h?L 8 £?n l ct 9 °P hands, the best way of prov
to tde captain and everyone
on board of thorn at the yard-arm
Mr. Froude declares that he has no official
mission to the colonies—that he is "just drifting
n *^ y -^ bo has rectntly taken his
degree at Oxford. James Anthony's official mis-
hl8 writings, have been sad
fhH U^o 8 some years ago, to induce
8ou . t o, African colonies to federate
1-born, His attempts to prove
that,during!ho eighteenth century, the English
la Ireland were the most considerate of task-
s'^ 8 A £ /io^ re r< j C 5 Iv ® d with delight on one side of
the Atlantic and derision on the other. He went
to America to prove to the descendants of the sur-
vivor8 of a century of the meanest persecution to
JT.„l cb <- a . ! l, y P eo Plc has ever been subjected that
were entirely in the wrong from
d k He failed—absolutely, ig-
aommously. He found there the Celt who bad
• <re ? er 5^? n °f two of fair play—of bread and
beef, instead of potatoes and buttermilk—occupy-
ing the most prominent places in literature,
art8 ’. aac ? ar , m8 - Those who, had their
wl«„ r ir en ?i aiI i ed ir ? Hayo or Galway, would have
been abjectly begging some “lordly fellow-worm”
v ? th f . m leave to toll were discovered in the
5 ates leading successful senates. And he found
more. He found there an Irish priest - one Father
Burke—who quietly smashed into the smallest of
fragments all his best theses, showed that
his facts were garbled, his Illustrations one-sided,
ana his inferences unsound. The Yankees enjoyed
the fun—screamed at James Anthony’s dlscomfl-
i i* 1 ® 11 we said mean persecution we merely
said what every well-read Englishman of to-day
,)^^ 8 p°ii j Ve tke case - Religious persccu-
lons of all descriptions—whether in Spain against
rrotestentism, in France against the Huguenots,
in Scotland against the Covenanters, or in Ireland
against the Citholics—are peculiarly detestable.
But while the Inquisition crushed the reformed
doctrines with merciless ferocity, the Irish perse-
outions were just enough to aggravate but not to
They were not merciless—only mean.
And so I roude found when he crossed the Atlantic
that not alone the men of Celtic, but of English
blood, jeered at his mission, and told him they
Knew all about the affair just as well as he. Yes,
•lames Anthony’s writings are fine reading, but bis
missions hav© boon dead failures.
PLAIN ALICK STUART (loci.): “DALLEY WONT TAKE IT, BUT I WILL."
“IP IS FEARED THAT LORD AUGUSTUS LOFIUS MAY TALK PLAIN BILL DALLEY
INTO ACCEPTING A KNIGHTHOOD.’*
(IB THAT “PLAIN” ENOUGH. BILLY ?-Abtist.)


SON IN
E
THE CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATIONS
I 3>T ID I-£>-3ST
COT!
TE.A.G.
quality of your Tea has a higher
extract than any Packet Teas we
have examined.
“ J. COSMO NEWBERY.
“ FREDERICK DUNN.’’
It will be thus seen that the
highest and best authority pro*
curable pronounces even ouf
lowest priced teas at 2s. 6d. per
)b. to be superior in purity ard
analysis to any of these above
mentioned teas at 3s. 6d. per lb.
Further comment Is superfluous.
The teas of the Calcutta Tea As-
sociation are the produce of up-
wards of 50 of the most celebrated
Indian traestates, which, blended
together, make the most perfect
tea the world can produce. They
are blended by competent tea
tasters, assisted by analytical
chemists of the highest standing.
Every inducement is given to
the merchants and storekeepers
throughout the colonies to keep
our teas In stock, but should con-
f umers not be able to obtain them
from their regular grocer, they
can purchase at our wholesale
warehouses, as a sample, any
quantity from half a pound up-
war ds.
Those living at a distance who
cannot be supplied locally can
have sent direct from the Mel-
bourne wholetale warehouses any
quantity from 101b. weight up-
wards, freight and carriage free,
to the nearest port or railway
station on receipt of bank drait
or post ollice order made payable
to the Calcutta Tea Association or
order.
Our teas are packed in Hi lb. and
Jib. packets, 5, 10 and 251b. tin
canister ; half-chests in lead of
401b and upwards.
The teas sent out by us, duty
paid in Victoria and New Souta
Wales, are of three prices, and are
sold in anv of the above size pack-
ages, at 2s 6d , 3a., and 3*. «d. per
lb. Sibthorp's mixture at 3s. 6d.
per lb., in packages of not less
than lOib.
On account of the difference in
duty the prices in New Zealand,
and Queensland are 3s. 9s , 3s. 3d,
and 3s. 9d., per lb , duty paid.
When purchasing ask for
THE CALCUTTA TEA AS-
SOCIATION’S PURE
INDIAN TEAS.
Bee that you are supplied with
them, Don’t bo prevailed upon
to take any other tea. If you can-
not be supplied in one store try
another.
• e ware of piracy and imitations.
All our leas are marked THE
CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIA-
TION S PURE INDIAN TEAS.
'J he price and weight, with in-
structions for brewh g,are marked
on the end of each package.
Hitherto the Austro Hans have
had no option, but were forced to
purchase trash called tea which
was shipped herefrem China and
other portk; now they have an
opportunity of purcoaslng the
pure Indian teas supplied by the
Calcutta Tea Association, which
is the most perfect tea that can
be pioduced.
There is no instance on record
of Indian Tea being adulterated.
We will, at the request of any of
our patrons, send, or allow them
to send, a sealed packet of our
teas to an analytical chemist, and
if found to be adulterated we will
lorfeit *500 to the charities.
We are sorry to say that some
of the storekeepers who sell our
Teas try to prevail upon custo-
mers to purchase other Teas, for
the simple reason that they make
a larger profit.
The Teas of the Association are
all labelled “THE CALCUTTA
TEA ASSOCIATION’S PURE
INDIAN 1EA," and the prices
are marked on every package.
The public will please ask for
them, and take no others. They
are guaranteed pure and of the
bight st class, m d such Teas can
only be supplied by an Association
having command of the produce
of not le s than Fifty Tea Estates,
which are blended so as to pro-
duce the most perfect teas In the
world.
NOTICE IS HEREBY6IVEN
TO ALL PERSONS
Either
PACKING or SELLING TEAS
With an
IMITATION OF OUR
WRAPPERS
That they will be
PROSECUTED.
And that this notice now given
will be used to prove a guilty
knowledge against all persons
either imitating our wrappers or
selling teas in any wrapper with a
colorable imitation of oms.
J. B, TAYLOR, Secretary.
CA LCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATION
28 KING-ST,, MELBOURNE.
S&v'
m
Hb-2£
4p
m
S'
1R'£
/,m
lkL<
7X.
- -
s<
& v &
10 lb $M|
thl Calcutta Tea Association s
JtAS_
v * v * 1 1 -— 4 *- ~ "■
VI
m
m
V/J&i
<Pl. V
%>
ItAlVUT
. *• ’ f mt*
s
m
o ,b "3/-
■fjlb"3/
5
3/6
D Ij5 "2/6
PURE INDIAN TEA
Will i?o much further than the ordinary Teas, and consequently less need he used. It is well to hear this |n mind,
because when pure Indian Tea is used too much may be put In the pot, audits very goodness may crea e a preju c
against it.
INDIAN TEA PROPERLY BLENDED,
As is so efflo’cntly done by the CALCUTTA TRA ASSOCIATION, is purer, stronger, more paiat aoie, more economical, and In every
way superior to the Chinese rival. Give the CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATION’S TEAS a lair Hal n the teapot one-third
less fo* an infusion than you would of « hloa Tea. This means really a saving of one shilling in three In the prices, ask your
grocer for the CALCUTTA TE \ ASSOCIATION S PURE INDIAN TEAS, and give them an honest,_ unprejudiced^irlaj.^and
stake •* Lombard street to a China orarge
Chinaman, but will in future drink the
1 that never sgaln by choice will you revert to the shady, insipid,
| Bwe will
doctored teas of John
Calcutta Tea Association’s Pure. Unadulterated, Fragrant,
Full-Bodied Indian Teas.
Ufadc in the Indian Gardens of old John Bull,
SOLD BY ALL RESPECTABLE TEA DEALERS AND GROCERS IN ALL THE COLONIES,
Gradually, but surely, since the
day when the Somersetshire far-
mer's wife—having received a pre-
sent of the “TEA” that was then
an unknown luxury, presented it
to her husband carefully cooked.
In the form of a plate of cabbage—
the said Tea has assumed the po-
sition of the most important, and
certainly the healthiest of beve-
rages, "the Cup that Cheers but
not Inebriates.” It is only of late
years, however, that tea drinkers
have been awakened to the fact
that there is danger even in That
Cup, and that the market may be
as readily filled with deleterious
compounds under the name of
Tea, as it may with spurious and
poisonous wines or spirits.
It is to remove the risk of these
Impositions teat the
CALCUTTA TEA
ASSOCIATION
and its objects are now presented
to the public notice for the pur-
pose of supplying consumers with
PURE AND UNADULTE-
RATED INDIAN TEA,
beyond all suspicion of its being
in any way or in the slightest de-
gree tampered with. That there
exists a neef ssity for this project,
to prevent consumers from the
risk of drinking what is nothing
more nor less than a Poison in its
most insidious and destructive
form, has been recently proved
beyond ail shadow of doubt,
-The Victorian Press has. from
time to time, pointed out that
large quantities of teas imported
into this market from China were
adulterated to an extent that ren-
dered them nearly as injurious to
the consumers as the deadly
0i Read’the following report of the
Chief Analyst of the Technologi-
cal Museum, Melbourne, on 54J5
half-chests, quarters and boxes of
CHINA TEA sold by auction in
Melbourne on last January: -
“ All the samples are of very
inferior description, and are, in
my opinion, unfit for human con-
sumption. They all contain rot-
ten and exhausted leaves, leaves
that have none of the general
characters of tea-leaves, dust (not
tea dust), gum, starch and. foreign
colour, seeds of various kinds,
stalks, bark, sand and earthy
matter, hair and other matter of
animal origin, .
“J. COSMO NBWBERY,
“3. Sc, C.M.G.
Mr. Dunn, the recognised Tea
Analyst, reports on 975 packages
of China Tea received into this
market:—* 1 It was difficult to find
a perfect and genuine tea leaf in
the samples, and that the stuff
consists for the most part of de-
cayed, exhausted, or foreign
(other than tea) leaves, foreign
items, tea (weepings, held to-
gether in little nodules by starch
paste and pieces of brick husk and
nutshells. All this rubbish was
laced with plumbago, to give it a
black appearance, and was totally
unfit for dietary purposes.
tan now obtain
PURE TEA FROM INDIA,
A BRITISH POSSESSION,
without being dependent upon
foreigners in the first instance,
and being poisoned by them in the
second.
THE CALCUTTA TEA ASSO-
CIATION has been formed for
the purpose of offering to the
Merchants, Orocers. and Con-
sumers PURE INDIAN TEAS,
chosen for vs hy the CALCUTTA
TEA SYNDICATE, and Guar-
anteed Free from all Mixture of
Chinese, Japan, or other deleteri-
ous Tea, as shown hy the /< Hom-
ing Letter from Messrs. James
plenty and Co., a firm of the
highest standing, and agents for
the Calcutta Tea Syndicate, Little
Collins -street West;—
“TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIA-
TION.
“2d King-ftreet, Melbourne.
“At your request we have re-
peatedly inspected your large
stock of teas, and found same all
PURE INDIAN TEAS, selected
in India by the Calcutta Tea Syn-
dicate.—Yours, &c., _ „
“JAMBS HBNTY and Co.
•• p.g-We have also transferred
to you the stock and sole agency
of Sibthorp’s Indian Teas, as sup-
plied to visitors during the whole
bf the International Exhibition.”
If stronger evidence be wanted
we can supply it. Read the fol-
lowing There can be no stronger
testimony adduced to the unrival-
led superiority of our Indian Teas
over all other competitors. Messrs.
Newbery and Dunn, the Govern-
ment Analytical Chemists, report
as follows: —
“REPORT ONTHREESAMPLES
OF INDIAN TEA HEOEIVED
FROM THE CALCUTTA TEA
ASSOCIATION.
“The above samples have been
carefully examined by us. They
are ABSOLUTELY PURE, and
we may add that even the lowest
Supplied wholesale by
TRY A 101b. TIN OF THIS TiA AND YOU WILL NEVER USE ANY OTHER SORT.
U. BOWMAN and CO., Melbourne;
WHlfTE, COUNSEL. L and CO., Adelaide; NEILL, BROS., Dunedin,N.Z.;
and by W holesale Merchants In all the Co'onlcs.
JOHNSTON and CO., Wellington, N/.}
GEORGE GRIFFITHS and CO., Merchants, Bridge-street, Sydney, have been appointed
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales.


Cut/cura Resolvent,
The new blood purifier, cleanses the blood and
perspirat.on of impurities and poisonous elements
and this removes the cause. Cuticitra, the great
skin cure, instantly allays itching 1 and inflammation
clears the skin and scalp, heals ulcers and sore*
and restores the hair. Cxtticura Soap, an ex-
quisite skin beautifler, prepared from CuTiccaA,
is indispenstble in treating skin diseases, baby’
humors, skin blemishes. ■ *
Be certain you make no mistake: ask for
and take no other but the genuine Wolfe's*
Schnapps. Demand Wolfe's.
Murray and Lanman’s Florida water-
exerts a wonderfully exhilarating and refresh,
Ing influence on every one coming within its
range, and as a consequence, at parties where,
it is used, the dancers-feel no fatigue, the
conversation never flags, all the mental powers of
the guests being stimulated to the highest degree.
A man is wise when he knows what he is
drinking. Wolfes Schnapps may be relief
uponasapuresp'r’t. J
Mashbbs.— The beet and llghteet »n . >ade by
Offord, Hatter, 662 Goorge-etreet, Brickfield Hill.*
There is hut one genuine medical beverage
under the name of Schnapps, and that is Wolfe's
l? cun apps.
It is astonishing the favour in which
Wolfe’s Schnapps Is held—We suppose because
It is a Brat-el vss art'cl '.
The Ashfleld (Sydney) Mutual Improve-
ment Society Is “ a non-sectarian one; and is for
both ladies and gentlemen.” They once had a
™ « J* 0 w 11 £ e J b i 8 , at Begarratown, near
Blayney, but whit busted It up was the appear-
«vn?Q? a ,, bi 5 b £? tb * r 4.?' lth a gua one night, who
da fu J l’ *° the president that he wanted
to look after the interests of the family. They «rot
“P P?® on the Carcoar side afterwards, but that
society owed its collapse to a fl<ht on the third
meeting, provofeed by the chairman, who refused
when in the middle of “ ehamus O’Brien” to
kick along the spittoon.”
We see that a certain celebrated Sydney Ama-
wPh C i* b a *? ow re -° r »anlsed, and notice
with feelings of a pleasurable nature that Mr.
Montmorenoi Isaacs and Mr. Plantagenet Isaacs
are again.to the fore. The following, we believe
gl?e£ b°y the C cmb:- an ° riginal play 8hort l y to be
_ Dram. Pans.
Sir Crosse de Blackwell
*°, ver) — ,, ••• Mr. Montmorenoi Isaacs
Lord GilberMthe hus: ' Vava80Ur Tartakover
Lucretia (the" erring Mr ‘ riantagea et Isaacs
Wl /lrn a 'i Miss Sheba Sholomunsh.
r ( 8 , ia 5 a °s SE I and Lucretia discovered )
° r ! us bysh to'my two-acre lotsh,
r a rtl 08 £ ourselves in love’s fond dreamsh 1
Luo.: Oh, Crosse I fweepsl
81r C J„° lucretia I vat a time ve’ll have I Do not
veepsn ror in©
Luo. (looking round): It’s for the goodsh I’m
“z««h. 10 Re “ br »" dt «*™>
S ‘ r vlfl dolt cheaosh!* 11 *“ M MU8, “
tj r ™,l. (EN . TEK DONALD).
Ron.: Lord Gibertl (Eater Lord Gilbert).
Ronald (maliciously, being hlmself-no common
My MMtersh? ay8 lQVeWlth his mi8trese):
Luo.: My busbansh.
Sir 8.: My rivalsh 1
Lor £ini Ha ’ ha ’ Sl ’r Crosse de Blackwellsb. ’Twas
7® 1 * *9 gi ve mei tha$ appointmentsh at the auc-
T (.Drawing) Draw, Caltlffsh 1
I horrorsh I Fetch mine uncle Lazarush I
Ll shall be sphrlnkled with the
bloodsh of one or bothsh.
S 1 * 0, J Ensem- \ (warnlngly): Mind the goodsh I
fj ble.i C (entreatlngly); Mind the goodsh I
t u°* ( ) (passionately): Mind the goodsh!
Dord G. (much overcome): Blood I could shedsh—
but to sphoil mine goodsh 11 (Turning to Sir
C.): No, Sir Crosse, you can take her; but,
m a&oln’ to schtlok to her clothes.
(On this Sir Crosse falls back In a swoon, Ronald
chuckles audibly, and the wife comes and falls
upon Lord Gilbert’s breast).
Luc. (aloud): I could not leave you, dearest hus-
band (aside) without mine clothes.
XT , , Tableau ANd Curtain.
Now, who dare say it’s not a bit like it ?
boardringleaders of a mutiny on
court-martlalled and’shof. Bayard at Formosa were
“ A hog ate?* J me /l oan dynamite story
a Jot where ;!£ av,ly of dynamite, and then entered
was Jdok* h ere was ? $l°Y e of mul es. The hog
diatelvr jd . b 7 ° ne of their number, and imme-
4 h / xp,oded and ki Ued 20 of the mules.”
RfSn! , p ’ saya the London Echo, has arrived,
be d' ltb .? carjf ° of spears. These arc to
arinV to e ?hi? red ? cbre ? nd brought back by the
nre'^^Li* 18 oountry, where they will be sold or
, JS-Mas
ever deluded the British public,
*^5 auflt J 5 , e 80me disadvantages in the
an New Caledonian journalism. We think
have 6 n a^ e n y e noti( ? e tbat tbe Moniteur seems to
anvHmo°'S?K^ 0u ‘ plea8e m ethod of coming out
£? y t*™ 6 within a week of the expected day. Ore
We +vS n< !’ J as ? nly four da ys late
i* d that this is done to encourage a spirl
of speculation in the island. When the races are
wdhin’i 1 fn^n? C^ + the r* MoNITEUR at odds to »PPes
within a fortnight. It generally does.
„ bbe Sydney Central, an elderly dealer
?h^n1i^ ame j Jobn8 ° n was obliged to look over
fnn nf a u d why he bit the ear and°tho
top of the chin off one Charles Tandy. The evi
ji* 80 * 080 whether the samples were
tnJ«S« bacl r 1 v' Tandy ’ or were swallowed by the
The d0fence was that Johnson
nZir areand chins, and was merely trying i !
ioa dy 8 were made to order or slop-made. James
th“pie“e. nded ’ Wlth a view to makin «’ h ‘m keep
From a New Zealand paper
89lyenta - Chick Yu and Ah Kun. marketer'
d ® ner s, Dunedin. Liabilities, £53i; assets
Koughiy estimated, this estate will pay l-29Sths nr
a Penny In. the pound, after defraying Court ex
P“ 8 a. Th .e apostles of Confucius have only
more things to learn—how to arrange a nedpstriar,
contest, and how to travel on religion. The latter
knowledge one of them has already acquired He
“yes d °wn near Waterloo, Sydney, and
others, supplies a noted llomanist with the luscious
of rural fields and town sewage. But at
tkj 8 e? an l lon be has a rival, an ingenuous Celestial
b ’ whose thoughtful demeanour and pathetro
smile are worth millions In the cabbage trade One
I at ®iy the guileless smllerbad been ihwl
and when the opposition caterer displayed
his stock, the mistress said, “ No good John r
bought everything Just now.” There was a
in bis clas8i c tones, al though it
tortured Dim to h&YG to renrove a orinH nncf
and betray a friend, as he repii d " Hta
man, missie. Him no good; him b — Kgeman
We remember when it was thought that*
Arm8t r°rg and the Whitworth would fromi
their very destructiveness, put an end to all
fn? e Vv, We Ba^ w tb ,® 8e missiles in action p toughing •
ind t h ® “'iS Y a ,'i 8 of the Maori entrenchments
that the natives were sittimr
boiling potatoes and laughingly waiting for the 1
firing to cease so that they might get afhance of
digging out th© destructive projectiles Butt
from America—that land of wonders-the new*
comes that an entire revolution in war is about tr*
be caused this time. It was at ex-
periments were tried with 6-In. shells containing
instead of powder, 111b. of nitro-glycerlne For a
long time It was thought that these would explode
fn th« r n^ re J^ vlDg tb ? yun or they St
’“ike open. The experiments have proved this
Ono°nfThi,^fl r6 J theory, to be quite unfounded’,
men ™!5a^ fl f ed * at .. a Perpendicular wall of rock
10C0 yards distant, shattered the face of the
rock for a radius of 39 yards;” another “opened
a f fi v f ity about 25ft. in diameter and excavated a
pit 6ft, deep. They are now about to exneriment
wttb S-in. shells, carrying 351b. of nitro-g’lycerine!
8ucce ®« u ‘ In Proportion to the
G-m. ones, all the armoured vessels in tho world
can be sold up for old iron. 1 0 woria
A Russian war song:—
We’re coming, Alexandroviteh, at least a million
more,
bay and Obskalagouba’s
FromKarakouskl’s frozsn wild, from Tymskaia’s
10 *’ Alexander, with all our might
From Gatmo'nsckino’s forest, from Tschernorbe-
SKOl 8 Vfll6 t
Fr °01yiMk1a’s 8 daJe! ,ak8 ' 8 «*“•
Fr °rakl < 8 a i C 8le ia ' i0Sa ' 8 vIllage8 ’ from Meidouscha-
n'o'hi Gxa -u der ’ the wear y rank and file.
down y 711 bi Vlba £ es we re marching {gaily
* n Afghanland to gild anew your
We 'weseek° Berg ‘ el Murghab and Penjschldyeb
beaded b y some generals whose names ✓
no tongue can speak.
1 iaces and whose names beforei
L °°“ p\*” 0 a heaP ° f consonaDt8 shovelled lntb>
We -vitch 1 eH Wf '’ aDd ■° ff8ki ' 7S '> - eff9 ' and -offs, andl
F ° dUr ° h aDd Pi ° US Czarwilldlela Herat’si
Pi^?<a ne t , h ? « hr ewdest men in the Bengal
Uvll bervice lately pave (save Vanity Fair,) some
securities & £60W to inrest/n Indl“n
securities. He said.— I don t wish to set ud »
premature alarm, but I think I am right in advls-
T psinnnf t0 i 8el1 0ut now - Nothing ls*ecure here,
y0U , a ,P ro P er idea of our condition,
HfflHmn fh Q must , hav e 8 P e ?t a good slice of his
la Jhe country in order to have any con-
ception of the pass to which we are brought. To
frCtoTC. ® tandin F on a volcano is a mild lllus-
tration, we are on a scaffold, the rope is round our'
necks, and we do not know when the bolt may be
d ™™;. We wait and shiver. I don“t funk mow
tn W8: C )ut L cer £. ainly should not like
mr« or daughter here, and I should not
like to own any stock on which the value depends-
on our tenure of power. Maiy men think that our
last struggle Is far off; Isay it is near, and I should!
not be surprised if we had to fight for our skins at
a word tbat BnarUsh journal
xrnii 7 £rVi*i you can get a good price, andt
you will thank me before yom are much older;’*
mail has shown that he knows bow to luilfc;
and he is not by any means timid; but be recog-
mses facts, and he says in private what he dares
not say publicly. The Russian movements are
olpKed by ignorant persons as the brutal blunders
of a headstrong soldier: they are really master*
pieces of skill, directed by diplomatists who play
with our unhappy Ministers. We shall be drawn
into Afghanistan before long, and then the fer-
ment in India will become acute. That Is what
Russia intends.”
THE HEIRESS AUSTRALIAN.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The Dreamer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Tis the wind in the trees; let it daily. What else is
there for it to do ?
In the lap of the plain, on the crest of the ridge,
let it linger and lie:
Let it sleep, if it will, till an end come of things; or,
again, as it blew
On the day that he left her, blow now till it
blacken the front of the sky.
’Tis the sathe. She wbn’t waken. She’s down
, there, not far from the pool in the stream.
She 11 not waken; whatever be silent Or big with
..... the xhadness of stfife;
All s the same. She’ll not waken. Bilt he—let him
sit by the watch and dre&m!
It 1* he, it is he shall aahake to the loss of th
light of his life!
In the young yeahs he met her here; he, with ho
pulsing of art’ry and vein.
While the sun was abroad and the wind was a ;
large he came to her. His eyes
Showed the smoke and the sparks of a Are on the
hearth of his heart and his brain.
And his lips strewed the winds with wild words
as he left her. The plains and the skies
Went on changing, and changing, and changing
She, too, changed. The glow went away
From her cheeks, and the pink from her lips
the elastic light motion of limb
And the bright, joyous sparkle of eye; and down
like the fading of day
Into night, unto death went the spirit. Lo
knowledge to him, unto him
At the last, at the last camel He rose and looked
round him. His brain and his heart
Had been living and moving and having their
being in lies. The red Are
Was a litter of gossip and guesswork, lit up by the
doxtcrous
Of the smutohers of loveliness, Stainers of holi-
ness, rollers in mire.
Ob, slow Wisdom, slow Knowledge, how tardily,
sulkily onward ye move,
Letting man give extravagant faith unto one to
an absent one’s ill I
Will the time ever come when your pace will be
quicken'd to seize and disprove
The sleek tricks of soft llspings, sly gestures that
cunningly labour to kill ?
’Tis the wind in the trees; let it dally. He sits on
the bank of the stream.
He is dreaming he sits again by her, his blossom
to grow to a wife.
Let him dream. She won’t waken again till the
end. Let him dream, let him dream.
It is he. it is he shall awake to the loss of the
light of his life t
Sydney, 38th May, 1883.
"AT THARGOMiNdAH A fllLLV-GOAT THIS MORNING ATTACKED A MEMBER OF THE
‘FORCE’ NEAR THE CLUB HOTEL, BUT WAS FORCED TO BEAT A RETREAT
WITHOUT HAVING INFLICTED SERIOUS INJURIES ”-X,ocaZ paper.
LER8’ Gazette, The publicans, erst so pale, have
grown ruddy again since the avatar of this Bard
of the Barrel—this Vates of the Vat. And the
knees of the teetotallers are heard afar off
smiting against each other as they march down
the street, now given over irrevocably to ,the
orgies of Seven Demons of Drink, each Worse than
the one they cast out. But perhaps would
like to know how this Co’lingwood Silenus fiibcups
to his wild harp. Here, then, is a verse from his
last lyric, which he calls a “Hymn to Bacchus”:—
“ What care we now for Booth’s Blue Army,
Salvation Dowleltes or other elfs,
Asfbom thy grape the juice so balmy,
VVe stjueeie and laugh at howling whelps.”
No smell of the lamp about this—whatever there
be of the oil. The bard has evidently here looked
into his stomach and written. There is the mark
of a hobnailed liver in every line—the stamp of a
pustuled intellect in every word. And now.
so much prose, we, too, will strike our wild, grid-
iron to a soberer If less fiery tune. What follows
we dedicate especially
To Pothouse Poets,
We do not ask you, wretched race—
Too fallen to be lifted thus—
To leave the mire of your disgrace;
Get drunk, got dead, got d—d for us-
Get drunk wherever you can drink,
Get bruised in every pothouse fight,
# Get fl ung in every pothouse sink,
But, never-never —never write.
You’ve seen a bard drunk I WeH, suppose
Ye have ?—clutch this conclusion hard.
That more than drunken drivel gees
Unto the making of a bard.
Who has not song within him finds
No inspiration in the bow).
And ye would still be rotten rinds
Though ye were sodden to the soul.
A poet drinks-each one of ye.
Each miry mother’s son of slime
Cries—” I am drunker far than he.
Go to I —shall I not also rhyme ? ”
0, hearken to the Muse of Mire,
Who thinks the poet’s vi ion lies
In seeing snakes with tongues of fire,
* And headless dogs with bloodshot eyes.
But if ye will write, rags of men,
And publish all ye write or bust,
There is no help-0, God’s sake, then.
Take pills-and publish, if you must.
[* Ex pede Patricium. There is the trace of a
cloven brogue about this line.—Bn. B.]
Wehavfe the greatest pleasure in hereunto
expanding a paragraph relating to a nobleman
his wife, «hd a gardener which has been going tn
round of the Australian country papers. W
call it — , , i •
tHB HBtRESS AtSTRALIAN.
or
Th® Fatal GardeKeb.
[It ia Monday, ladies and gentlexhen ; you ca
safely pull out your handkerchiefs. . .. water
you know, la—.Asses.-Ed. B]
•
AItE^tiOn.
The scene ia In Paris, the Babylon of three Hernia
pfaeresl ...
Two hemispheres are not enough for this terres
trial Paradise to be Babylon of.
We, who hate been a Cook’s tourist, shoulc
know this. » • .
Rilt no matter.
lu a gilded saloon* in the Faubourg St
Antoine, aat two men. Oae was tall* and Wa
aristocratically clothed In. a spiked moustache
Thus bis nationality was at once proclaimed—be
was a Frenchman! Bo need to flourish tbetrl
bblour which he carried as a handkerchief; no need
Jo slap the decoration that was in his button-hole
n his thin and weedy body was that nationality
revealed. He was noble. 1 His title was M. le
Baron de Bootheels III S
The other occupant of the apartment was a man
so stout that it took four footmen to hoist him
Into his buggy. To see this accomplished, thou-
sands of the Parisian populace assembled dally.
That made him famous I
For they cried aloud: ‘'Here is the Australian
Rich I Void, Monsieur Harbour Darling, C M.G
O-ooray /”
On this the Australian Rich scattered bis smiles
around.
The populace held their halslnthiir hands ex-
pectantly.
But that was all be scattered.
To resume, however.
“Monsieur,” said the Baron, “I loaf your
“ I am flathead,” said the Australian Rich.
“I have wooed and won her In the name of
Euphroslne ; but,” continued the Baron, darkly,
“I have since discovered she was christened
Sarah.”
“ She was-her mother —”
“ Bah 1 ” cried the Baron—“ v'lan, houpe Id, fdllait
pas quilaine-Zutl”
“While agreeing with your arguments,”daltered
the Australian Rich, “I ”
“ Enough-enough I ” cried the Baron. "I loaf
your darter, as I have said. Is she beautiful 7 ”
“ Pas boo coop," faltered the sire.
“Is she aimablel"
“ I have never found her so,” sighed the Austra-
lia* Rich.
“’Tis well. You have of sliver one vast moun-
tain?” said the Baron, languidly taking a bite
from his plug of tobacco.
“You have raisins, Baron,” replied the Austra-
lian Rich.
“Then, how much of this mountain will you
give to this darter that I loaf?" enquired the
nobleman.
“ The top of it,” briskly returned the A. R.
“ Embrace me I” cried the Baron.
And he smacked the Australian Rich over each
eyebrow.
Thus the compact was made, signed, and sealed.
Hal ha I
ii
The wedding was over; and the happy pair were
being whirled to the Baron's residence in a two-
horse carriage. It was licensed to carry 12 In-
side; but it was due to the Baron’s generosity that
only seven occupied It, irrespective of the bride.
What a great, a generous heart was this I
Suddenly, within almost oat-call of his mansion
in the Elyslan Fields, be leapt out.
“ Six sous,” cried the conductor, as the Baron
disappeared under a culvert.
But there was wafted upon the summer zephyr
no reply.
in.
When half-an hour had elapsed, the Baron orep ;
from under tho culvert, and, combing the scum
out of bis moustache, said:
“ Mordt! Sacri norm d’ unepipe! Diable!"
This refreshed him.
“ I have been half-soled,” be then cried. “ With
my wife I have but got the tip of the mountain
What is the top of the mountain ? ’
Here he was taken very unwell.
“ The top of the mountain,” be gurgled, “1s only
snow.” (Left gurgling.)
They had been wedded seven long days. In the
sunny noon they walked there upon the velvety
lawn.
“So you are amoureuse of my Jardener-I
mean,” the Baron said, hastily correcting himself
“my gardener.”
“ Ho has a fascinating manner.” said the bride.
“ Morbleul Ceet possible I Mais regardez done
his feet.”
“No need to look,” cried the daughter of the
Australian Rich. “All over the grounds one can
see their shadow.”
“ Ceei est un pen strong,” murmured the B iron.
Here he called the gardener.—
“Richard English, Deak, a Deakl ”
The menial approached.
As he did so, you could perceive that he wore
his pockethandkerohlef on the back of his band
There was an artificiality about bis smile, but the
realism of his squint was awful.
“ You loaf my wife,” said the Baron, sternly.
“ To), lol,” replied the botanical labourer.
“ Ha 1 what do I hear ? ”.
“ She has I admit,” said the g&rdener, “ manners
above her station.”
“ This to my face 1 ” cried the Baron—“ but
anon.”
IV.
It was bed-time in the nuptial chamber.
On either side of a table, on which was a shaded
lamp, stood the Baron and his bride.
It was an awful moment.
0“1 would drink ere I sleep, Eupro Sarah,” he
said, ironically, "Q ties, ce-gue voue avez in that
Jug?”
“ My little pint,” replied the bride.
“ Give me of it one glass,” said the Baron.
To dash tho beetle-polsan into a crystal goblet,
and to fill it up to the brim with the beer of her
country, was the work of a moment.
“When he Is dead,” she murmured, “I will
absorb his rum which here reposes in the lemonade
bottle.”
The Baron drank.
A rattle.
And he fell stiff.
“Dickis now my unadulterated own,” cried la
Baronne, in a strident voice. “ But I must drink.”
And, drawing the cork from the lemonade bottle
where the rum reposed with her teeth, she drained
It unto the last drop.
She then sucked the cork I
Fatal deedl Knowing her propensities, her
husband had painted the stopper with rat-lini-
ment.
She then fell stiff likewise.
v.
As the silver groy of dawn was filtering in
through the Venetians, the feet of the gardener cast
their shadow on the wall.
“Both stiff I” cried the ordinary gardener.
"Tlensl . ,
“ I must go for a dray in Which to carry away
their little effects. She had manners of a superior
description; but I must be a man. A dray, then 1
“ Let me begone.”
I And up to the time of our going to p re is, he had
not returned .]
The Sydney Celtic Club.
(It is reported that the Celtic Club has been closed.)
The tales we've heard around that board
Of love and war—all true (ahem I)
The men that songs of Erin roared,
The mouths they fetched along with them I
The tales they told of widows, wives,
The rum they’d drink, the peelers drub I
The hands they’d hold at "forty-fives ”
Would break a bank—they broke the Club.
There was a day, an hour, a man,
(All gone) when Erin was the "hub ”
Of all lands-bossed them—read Moran—
And jet they closed the Celtic Club.
Gods I how the nights ambrosial passed
Whenshutwas each "contagious ’’ pub I
Such hours were all too bright to last—
They've spiked—nailed up—the Celtic Club.
How It brought back the days of yore
To hear the brogue—from Down to Clare—
That set the taMe la a roar.
That "thrated wid contimpt” the Chair I
And while went round the flowing bowl,
How fast tha fun. until sub-
lospeotor yelled through the ker-hole:
" Shut up, or I’ll shut up the Club.”
I've had my say—my heart Is low—
I must away back to my tub;
Man wants but little here below—
But, ah I he wants a Celtic Club.
* Fill ’em again ’’—we’re nearly broke—
No chateau margaux have we here—
But even with despised “ sheoak ”
We drink—the Club too’s on the bier.
Our toast Is this—no heel-taps there—
“ While time and Jews lea w e us to rub
Along this weary world of care.
Let's ne'er forget the Celtic Club.”
A Pothouse Post.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The cause of the publicans was slowly
losing- ground in Melbourne until lately. The
Salvation Army, the Blue Ribbon Army, the
Dowle Desperadoes were all waging war to the
corkscrew against it. It seemed to the despondent
eye of many a Licensed Toxicologist that the
wreck of bottles and the crash of keys was close
at hand. Indeed, the hour was a dark one. But it
brought its man. He arose—a poet-soul burning
in that hour of darkness like the fierce slush-lamp
of the lonely splitter in his tenobral hut—In the
satyr-haunted regions of Collingwood. He saw
his opportunity and seized it by the hair. Poem
after poem came pouring forth from the inex-
haustible pewter of his imagination and fell into
the columns of the Victorian Licensed Victual-


i'jMBRELlAS
I
TUDT ECONOMY
and
avcyourU mbrella Frames
| re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
1 641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
> tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted
T
he fresh food and ice company
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, Ac., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
Fresh Food & he Co., Limited,
Head Office a.
Stables
Factory
21 Harbour-street.
Liverpool-street.
Mlttagong.
mcB
Or
LIFE
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, \crvons and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses maybe
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur-
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
or Self Preservation. A book for every man, young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
any physician. 300 pages, bound in beautiful French cloth,
fall gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will be refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers ©f which he refers.
The Science of Life should be read by the young for
instruction and by the afliicted for relief. It will benefit
all. —London Lancet.
Address the World’s Dispensary Medical As- MPII
gociation, or Dr. W. R. Parker, No. 69 Hunter M L A L
Street, Sydney, N.S.W. The author may TUVOCI T
be consulted on all diseases requiring | M |qI"I f
skill, secrecy, and experience.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SVD N EY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
dNEWEST SHAPES.
f
MOULTON’S
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON’S
FRUIT PILLS. Wo mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and no
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relievo distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
rtimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
Jmown, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price 1». 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor,
PILLS
Marshall’s
TONlt NERVINE
itAUXBTBHftll.
SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURB for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, ns Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
luuiuauuo, itorvuimueBB, inaitfgallon, JuOSfi OI
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, Loss of Vital Power, &c. By Its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
for Alcohol. By Its richness In phosphorous and
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4s. 6d., or 25s. a case.
Sole Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHBR8,‘M.P.8.
Manufacturing and consulting Chemists, 104 and
J06 Market-street, near Hyde Park, Sydney, and
SPltt-street. Circular-quay. TAKE NO SU B8TI-
TUTR.
NO MORE CORNS 1
WARTS removed without pain
by the use of Palmer’s Painless. Harmless
and EffeCtualCORN AND WART REMOVER!
Thlspreparfttioa is the most wonderful ever used
for Corns, Waftt, or Bunions. If applied accord-
ing to the directions, It will effectually remove
them in from silt to eight days.
PALMER’S
BM ' 1 FACIA: CURA jjag
Mark. \
For Neuralgia, either Chronic or Local.
This most wonderful Preparation has surpassed
all others in speedily removing this excruciating
and most distressing complaint. It matters not
now long or severe the suffering has been, a single
bottle has never failed In producing the desired re-
8u i ,! •HQ.lt pan be most confidently recommended.
Bold retail by all chemists and druggists and
general stores; wholesale by Messrs. Elliott Bros.,
Sydney ; E. Prosser and Co., Sydney ; Felton,
Grim wade, and Co., Melbourne; Kcmpthorne and
Prosser, Dunedin.
Sydney Pharmacy,
T6 HUNTER STREET,
Opposite Tramway, Elizabeth Street.
"PHYSICIANS’ PRESCRIPTIONS carefully pre-
ST pared with Drugs of the purest quality,
French Indlarubber Goods, Ladles’ Abdominal 1
Supports and Pessaries, Syringes and Enemas of
every description, always In stock.
Country Orders promptly executed.
H. P. SABIEL, M.P.S., Mgr.
NEUSTADT
COMPLETE
FURNISHERS,
39.154, 156, & 158 J
SYDNEY.
W HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
Eithbk tor Cash or Timb Payment,
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Gash. Purchasers.
REMEDYFREE.
ful Errors, Farly Decay, Lo
WEAK MEIN,
Suffering-from Vonth-
j Lost Manhood, etc., will
learn of a simjffe and certain means of Self Cure,
r rcc of Charge, by addressing
M. B. TAYLOE, Esq,, Box 891, Sydney, N.S.W.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
S08 GEORGE STREET.
*' v fl.£BRXTfP'.
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
dPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
80LEAGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
BOHNAPPR.
LITHUANIAN
MAGBN BIT-
TRRS.
GBNSRAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
on
APPLICATION.
ALCOCK&CO.’S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS:
GEARIES IB d C:,
375 George-st., Sydney.
W TIME PAYMENTS, IP REQUIRED
ODINI,
DUKING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of *
FIREARMSi
makers Ured by the most celebrated English
t 081^ 6810 apprise his customers
9, f the fact that he has been appointed* AGE NT for
Firms;-JloHNRIQ BY & CO., Lon-
tho following „. „„„„ 1VIUU1 au „
SON., London; JOSEPH
LANG « SON, London; CHA8. OSBORNE &
vbt| Iiondon.
bossy"' CO a ! 8 Lotdo E n NTf0r th ° CmInent flrm of
Gft^^f, q^. (^ fie8 .’ < <? rtrld ? e Belts, &o„ and all
k l?n B r? f «5 por & , 5 en ,, 8 Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 Gaoroe-st., Sydney,
i Inspection la Invited.
Champagne
Haldsleck A Co’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINK MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS ft Co.. London.
Pole A (rente for Heldsieck * Co.. Reims.
E Should use IPEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
J5r"IjiOXJjtC
IT IS MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
j 831 Ceorjcc-strcet, Sydney.
Are you going to Bodrke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TUEF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
The “LOUIS”
VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight Without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woVed pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the |pdce. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of “ Louis."
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
■send patterns
post free on
application, y
“VICTORIA” OFNER BITTER-WATER,
The Best and Strongest Natural Aperient.
-A. Natubal Fluid Magnebia, as a safe, ordinary, and gentle aperient In Inflammation
Congestion, in Rheumatic and Gouty Disorders, against undue tendency to Fat,
sagwiust Haemorrhoids, in Bilious Attacks and Disorders of the Liver.
Nature’s Aperient Remedy during Pregnancy, and in many Female Diseases; for
Hattoitual Constipation, in Organic Diseases resulting from fatty degeneration, to remove
Hhe (consequences resulting from excess in diet, &c.
One wineglassful will usually relieve the most distressing headache.
(KRE BOTTLE OF “VICTORIA” IS EQUAL IN ITS EFFECTS TO TWO OF OTHER BITTER-
> WATERS, HENCE IT IS MUCH CHEAPER.
Intmtoe of Indigestion, Stomach and Liver Affections, Constipation, and other Derangements of the
System, as a Family Medicine this has no equal*
Sold in Bottles at 7 s. £d. and 2s. ,
And may be obtained of any Chemist or Patent Medicine Vendor in the tfnited Kingdonf,
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Robo Mahers.
Trousers from 21s. to 40s.
%ar N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last, five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Parmer and Co.
W. Bhbabsbt & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabeth-st,
J« the largest and best-app olhted Family Hotel In the Western District. The Table and Llquo
cannot bn surpassed, even in the Metropolis. Private Suites for families. Flrst-olass Stabling
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor
■ Is -O
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
q OBN&R O F CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WA GGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
tar* BEST ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WlLLIAliC FLEMING*, Merchant & Importer
$2 & 24 Ol arence-sti’ect, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)


W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON 1 and SYDNEY.
Catalogues Catalogues
POST FREB.
W. WALKER
and SONS
POST FREE.
ALL STOCK
in their
.SYDNEY
are one of the
Largest
HOIJSB
Stockholders
Bnpplied
and
DIRECT
Mcmufactwert
♦rom their
High-elas*
FURNITURE
ENGLAND,
London
Manufactory,
and Latest
London Styles
Guaranteed
SYDNEY BRANCH:
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARO SQUARE.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ If you are suffering from poor health
'or languishing on a bod of sickness,
‘take cheer, for American Co.’s
Hop Bittera will core yon.
“ If you are simply ailing, If you feel
‘weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘ knowing why, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will Revive yon.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
* taxed yourself with your pastoral
* duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘ and work, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will Restore yon.
“If you are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
‘ your avery-day duties, or a man of let-
ters, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strengiiten yon.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
* or drinking, any indiscretion or dlssl-
‘ pation, or are young and growing too
fast, as is often the case, Am. Co.’s
Hop Bitters will relieve you.
“ If you are In the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
‘ that your system needs cleansing, ton-
‘ Ing, or stimulating, without intoxlcat-
‘ Ing, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters is what you need.
“ If you are old, and your blood thin
* and Impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
* unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Am. Hop Bitters will {five yon new Life
and Vigour.
" HOP BITTERS, as made by the Ame-
rican Co , is an elegant, healthy, and
‘ refreshing flavouring for sick-room
‘ drinks, impure water, etc., rendering
‘ them harmless, and sweetening the
‘ mouth, and cleansing the stomach.”
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
None genuine without a bunch of gr’en hops
ou white label, and Dr., Soule’s name blown in
bottle. Shun ail others as vile poisonous stuff.
WeakNervousMen
Whose debility, exhausted
J lowers, premature decay and
ailure to perform life’s duties
properly are caused by ex-
cesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
She Marston Bolus.
either stomach drugging nor
, ,, — instruments. This treatment
of Nervous Debility and Physical Decay is
uniformly successful because based on perfect
diagnosis, new and direct methods and absolute
thoroughness. Full information and illustrated
treatise sent free (sealed).
Address—Doctor J. O Connell,
P.0. Bos 46G. 52 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
* CONSULTATION PRICE).
Eac db cologne,
4711 4711.
Established 1792.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1872; Prize Medal, Vienna, 1873
This Eau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 35 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for Its superior sweetness, strength,
and invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
petitors.
It haa become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the tfllto of
Europe.
The large and constantly Increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Eau de Cologne, not only In
Europe, but also In North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitatio a with the genuine
number— 4711 changed Into 7411, 1147, 4H7, &c , &c.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pltt-
streot, Sydney.
To be had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
and Storekeepers, in town and country.
SOLE IMPORTER OP
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
WILLIAM BRUCE,
187 PITT STREET.
SOLE AGENT FOR THE
r SMITH ORGAN.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 FITT STREET
ry^^rwyvjtM^
We know that WoleV-s Sony Apts is a flrtt
class article, and can recommend it us such to our
readers.
Ayer's ChERmr Pectoral wonderfully
Increases the power and flexibility of the voice,
enabling public speakers to speak clearly and with-
out fatUue. It poopl? who are troubled with colds
would take Ayer's Cherry Pectoral before going
to church or place of entertainment they would
avoid coughing, greatly to the comfort of both
hearers and speakers.
Call for Wolfe’s Schnapps. It is the only
genuine brand. Be certain you get Wolfe’s.
*
ws
&
R
arjRY BURGI8’ £3 3s. Suita, to measure. Trousers
[_ from 10s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
orougrhly shrunk. This is the cheapest bouse for
Sgood. genuine suit of clothes. 170 PlTT-STttEET,
ydney. Samples and diagrams for «f tf-measurlng
forwarded to any part of the colony
AUTUMN SEASON, 1885.
LLOTD (So CO.
HAVE RECEIVED THEIR NEW MILLINERY from Paris and London, and are now showing the
most charming little Bonnets at 21s.; and Hats at 18s. 6d., which are simply beautiful; and,
judging from the enormous variety and the magnilicent quality of the materials. It is quite evident
that their home agent has spared no time or trouble in carrying out the Instructions given him by
Mr. Lloyd.
We are showing upwards of 1000 imported HATS and BONNETS, suitable for all ages, at such
extremely low prices hitherto unequalled in Sydney.
IN OtJE LACE DEPARTMENT, wo are second to none in the colony, for the variety is estonishlng
and prices are so much lees than we have ever had to ask at any other time.
IN OUR RIBBON DEPARTMENT, we have every possible shade and width, at cutting prices, for
best qualities Otoly.
IV OUR GLOVE DEPARTMENT, we have a large stock of every kind.
The loading Speciality is 270 dozen REAL GRBNNOBLB KID, usually sold at 4s. 9d. per pair in
black and dark colours, with four patent clip fasteners, all sizes, 3s. 6d. per pair, post free 2d extra
Also 390 dozen in light and dark tan, with heavy black stitching, four buttons, only 3s. 6d. per pair post
free Tor 2d. extra.
In the Ladies’ and Children’s Underclothing Department we have every requisite at London prices
EOS8ALIE, LLOYD & CO.,
OPPOSITE WYN YARD-STREET, SYDNEY.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL'S
BISCUIIS ABB (ABES, TREACLE ARB BOBBER STREP,
Self-raising JErated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
IgrSf- FOIL SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
8. & A. have obtained First Awards all over tbe world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney I.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4,
Sydney Agents: W. H. ARIELL & CO., 343 and 345 Kenf-street.
The true method of treatment for patients
In country hospitals has at last been found out,
and It is to Queensland we are Indebted for the
discovery. The waifs and tags of humanity, whom
rheumatism and rum force Into these country
establishments, will be glad to learn that In the
“hospital” of a certain town in the North-West,
science has done everything to ensure the!r
speedy recovery. To begin with, the doctor is
always drunk, and so Nature Is given a fair chance
of carrying on her curative processes without in-
terruption. While he Is boozing about the
town the most hopeless cases get rapidly
well, and have pitched battles In the wards
with their now useless crutches. One side
of the room go on all-fours to represent Arab
goats-the cross of the crutch forming the
horns—while the other side personate the N.S.W.
Contingent and charge amongst them with reck-
less fury. Then, again, a billiard-table Is supplied,
where the poor convalescents play 50-up for
buttons. But there is one drawback. Patients
who once visit this highly-organised estahllsh-
lishment can seldom be Induced to leave It. Even
when carried out they come back next day
with the most trifling ailments, knowing they
cannot be rejected till the surgeon gets sober
enough to see them. It Is one of the townspeople
who sends us the information, and, as he pays
towards the support of the hospital, he naturally
rejoices at the efficient manner in which It is
managed. In his desire to increase the subscrip-
tion-list he suggests to us a picture of a billiard-
table with skulls for balls, shin-uunes for cues,
skeletons for players, the doctor for marker, and
blear-eyed convalescents propped up on the seats
for audience. We believe this Is a mere skit.
The programme of the English Damooratio
Federation comprises the following 12 points.—
Adult suffrage; annual Parliaments; proportional
representation; payment of members, and official
expenses of elections out of the rates ; bribery,
treating, and corrupt practices at elections, to be
made acts of felony; abolition of the House of
Lords and all hereditary authorities; legislative
independence for Ireland; national and federal
Parliaments, including representation of colonies
and dependencies; nationalisation of the land;
free justice; disestablishment and dlsendowment
of all State churches; the power of declaring war,
making peace, or ratifying treaties, to be vested
In the direct representatives of the people. With re-
ference to this, W8 have to direct attention to the
circumstance that “ Legislative Independence for
Ireland,” is one of the objects aimed at by the
English Democracy. We have insisted in The
Bulletin over and over again that the Irish agi-
tation is not a racial, but an economic one, and
that the English people have nothing to lose
In granting all that the Irish people de-
mand, although the landlord caste has. We
have pointed out repeatedly that the Irish are
simply fighting for the recognition of principles
which will vet hive to be equally struggled
for by Englishmen. Our reward has been
till now to bo cursed by colonial Tories, Orange-
men, and other prejudiced and ignorant persons,
as “ Fenians ” and a lot of other lll-soundlng names
—rather absurd, considering that the mm chiefly
instrumental In advocating and entirely respon-
sible for, these opinions in The Bulletin, is a
Scotchman, taught and bred from childhood to re-
gard caste and privilege, and especially the rights
of a landed gentry, as heaven-born. We kne w, of
course, that intelligent and unbiassed Englishmen
—that is to say, among the people or plebs-must
be of like opinion with curselvaa. But it was
dlffinult to prove this. The item In the programme
of the English Democracy now supplies proof for
the benefit of the howlers of Irish bad names at us


RILEY
BROTHERS
CELEBRATED £5 DRAPERY BALES.
NOT.CE.
Bale*
OTiCE. It having come to our knowledge, a short time since, that certain persons were circulating a report that we had given up supplying our celebrated £ r » Dranerv
. carnage free, we then deemed it expedient to offer a large reward for Information, &o., &o. WV beg no w to state, for the latisfactiou of our triends in New South S7 s
i 1 80 far pivmgup this excellent part of our business, we have quietly been makiug arrangements to greatly enlarge our facilities for carrviiur it on bv
t^oe d n^ a iot W t7Ui ar^ 0 “ Se e l h 1(i a in v k,ns large P urc,i ases of goods especially suitable for the Country Districts, as well as perfecting more and more our carriage arrangements so
that no delay will arise in the delivery ofjour parcels—all charges paid-.to the most distant places. “ SB arrangements so
v°nf ' n llys that time, and have hundreds of testimonials. We may add, also, that we are the Contractors to the New South Walt^ V Qoveinment
for the supply of all k nd of Drapery. This should, in itself, show that our goods are of a good serviceable character. "axes Government
Xlit) lullowiug is R list of our rtjjulnr SlHndHrd BhI6S< Xt must X)0 kept in mind gv©i v Bh)6 is pneksd sccurtlv wntorDroof in f*a.nvn*i inAiirpd rinmn<* i ,
delivered any where in New South Wales or Q .eenslaud by the very quickest means,all carriage 1 and chaVes paS. 7 ’ water P roor in canva8 ’ lC8ured agamst damage or less, end
applied For. of 1>rices coutains over Two Thousand Articles. A £5 Bale may be made up of any list of goods, Catalogues and estimates given, also full 8e t of patterns if
RILEY BROTHERS,
Importers of General Drapery, and Contractors to the Government of New South Wales.
1G3-1G5 Oxford-street, Sydney, April 1,1885,
RILEY BROTHERS’
<5
DRAPERY BALE SYSTEM.
WHAT D0E3 IT MEAN?
It means that persons living hundreds of miles from Sydney
have the chance of buying from the importers direct. By
sending us £5 In advance, they obtain about £7 worth of goods,
all bran new, clean, sound, and fashionable, and the parcel
nicely packed, delivered at their own door within a week, free
of all risk and expense.
THEN WHY PAY MORE ?
Every bale is packed Waterproof In Strong Canvas, and is
sent “ Carriage Freo ” all over the colony, insured against losr.
Our £5 Bale system has now been established 12 years, during
which time upwards of 40,000 (Forty Thousand) Bales have been
sent away, all giving the utmost satisfaction.
We have built a large Warehouse at 165 Oxford-street, spe-
cially for our £5 Bale system. Our goods are imported direct
from the manufacturers, and are cheaper and better than ever.
Our carriage arrangements, both by railway, steamer, mail
coach, and horeback mail, are quick and safe.
PARCELS BY POST.
There are many small articles that can be conveniently and
safely sent through the Post-olBce at alight expense, such as
Laces. Tits, Trimmings, Gloves, Worked Slippers, Smoking Caps,
&c , &c.. and we can even send sufficient Silk to make a dress.
Payment will be received in stamps. The postage of these
small parocls usually amounts to 6d. or Is.
ORDERING £5 BALES,
In ordering, please state what kind of Bale is required,
whether a “Family Bale,” “ Clothing Bale,” “ Ladies’ Bale,” &c.,
&c. Any list of articles amounting to £5 or over will be made
up and sent “ Carriage Free,” the same as a regular £5 Bale.
WHOLESALE ORDERS.
Orders of £20 and upwards from Storekeepers, Hawkers,
Dealers, Stations, Dressmakers, Tailors, or others, will be exe-
cuted at LOWEST SYDNEY WHOLESALE PAIGES, and
despatched “ Carriage Free; ” provided the full order amounts
to £20. Cut lengths, or the smallest quantity of any particular
article will be sent and charged at wholesale rates.
£2 PARCELS.
Parcels of Goods, amounting to £3 and upwards, we cend
“Carriage Free” by railway or steamer, and to almost every
post town in the colony,
ORDERS BY TELEGRAM.
We are constantly receiving and executing orders by tele-
gram for articles urgently required for weddings, confirmations,
balls, banquets, concerts, amateur theatricals, mourning, and
accouchnjents; also for regalias, jockeys’ costumes, and wings
lor kangaroo drives. Our usual course is to telegraph the esti-
mated cost of the order, and oa the receipt of a telegraphic
money-order for the amount, wo immediately pack and despatch
the parcel.
The coat of a telegraphic money-order is about a shilling
more than an ordinary post-offico order.
N.B —All telegrams sent to us must be pre-paid.
GENERAL ORDERS.
Although we are importers principally of Drapery, Clothing,
&c., we are prepared at ail times to give estimates and execute
orders, when accompanied by remittance, for any article re-
quired by Institutions, Station Proprietors, Free Selectors,
Farmers, Miners, Contractors, Surveyors, Medical Men, and
others.
ABOUT PAYMENT.
Every order must be accompanied by a remittance to the
cunt tf goods required. . , .
Payment may be made by bank draft, post-office order, bank
tea cheques, or orders on Sydney, Queensland, or Melbourne
ns’ For small orders payment mry be made in stamps.
By far the best and safest plen is to send a post office order.
E2 tr £3 order only costs 6d , and a £10 order Is.
£1.
On receipt of the above amount, we will forward by post a
, 0 d Nickel silver Watch, guaranteed a good timekeeper, and
clcsed In a nee case, with a book of directions.
A HANDSOME PRESENT
of one of these watches will be sent to anyone forwarding us
three £5 orders at one time.
SPECIAL TIES.
Waterproof Sheeting for Surveyors
Calico for kangaroo drives
Calico for wild horse drives
Calico for lining houses
Tents, Tarpaulins
Patent Medicines
Boots and Shoes.
£5 family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt, large size
6 yards White or unbleached Sheeting
10 yards White or unbleached Calico
5 yards White or Red Flannel
12 yards Wincey, Print, or other Dress Material
6 yards Strong Cotton Shirting
3 pairs Womens’ Stockings
3 pairs Men’s Socks
1 pair White or Coloured Stays
10 yards Strong Cotton Tick
2yards Gambroon for strapping
3 yards Strong Brown Hollaed
2 large size Bedroom Towels
3 yards Strong Osnaburg
1 Linen Damask Table Dover
1 pair Strong Tweed or Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women’s, or Child’s Boots
1 Belt or pair of Braces
J4 doz. Pocket-handkerchiefs
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
ic.fso.’ Tape8 ’ Oolto “. Button,. Hook, and Bye,
REGULAR £5 BALES.
CARRIAGE FREE EVERYWHERE.
The following Bales are always kept for dispatch on the shortest notice. Any article In tlum not required can be taken ouf and
something else put In:— ou uuv » ana
£5 FAMILY BALE.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 Large Marcella Quilt
10 yards Good Sheeting
20 yards Strong Calico
12 Strong Cotton Tick
20 Wincey Dress Tweed
10 Good Welsh Flannel
6 yards Strapping Tweed
All the above are good wearing articles.
The Mother’s £5 Bale.
2 Ladies’ Night-dresses
2 Ladles' Chemises
2 pairs Ladies’ Drawers
1 Lady’s White Petticoat
1 pair Lady’s Stays
1 Lady’s Camisole
2 pairs Ladies' Stockings
1 Lady’s Flannel Petticoat
4 Infants’ Skirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns
2 Infant's Long Flannels
1 Infant’s Haircord Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Rollers
1 Infant’s Stay Band
*4 dozen Infanta’ Diaper Squares
Puff Box, Puff and Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
2 Bibs
I pair Wool Boots
1 Infant’s Christening Robe
1 Infant’s Christening Square, trimmed with Quilted Silk
1 Infant’s Christening Hood or Hat.
£5 Men’s Clothing Bale.
1 Suit Tweed, Coat, Trousers, and Vest
2 Crimean Shirts, large size
2 Best Cotton Shirts, largo size
1 blest Felt Hat. any size
6 pairs Strong Cotton Socks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Collars, Tics, &o.
£5 Lady’s Bale.
6 Ladles' Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Childrens’ Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Niaht-gowns
3 Petticoats.
The above are made of good longcloth, and nicely trimmed.
If desired, other articles may be ordered instead of any of
the above.
£5 Free Selector’s Bale.
1 pair Large B ankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt
5 yards Strong Sheeting
10 White or Unbleached Calico
6 White or Red Flannel
12 yards Dress Material
12 yards Cotton Shirtings
4 pair Good Stockings
1 pair Strong Stays
1 Dark Petticoat
6 Strong Gambroon
6 Brown Holland
4 Large White Towels
3 yards Good Trousers Tweed, Buttons, Threads, &o.
£5 Mourning Bale.
2o yards Black French Twill
3 yards Black Crepe
1 dozen Crepe Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
£2 PARCELS,
Carriage Free by Railway or Steamer, and to a good many towns reached by Mall coach.
£2 Farmer’s Parcel.
5 yards Red or White Flannel -y
13 yards best White or unbleached Calico
10 yards Dress Tweed or good Print
6 yards Cotton Shirting
6 yards Holland
5 yards Boy's Tweed or Drill
3 pairs Stockings
1 pair Stays, any size
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
£2 Drover’s Parcel.
1 Macintosh Waterproof Coat
l pair Leggings
1 pair good Tweed Trousers
Or, for £2,
1 best Tweed Trousers and Vest
1 Tweed or Black Cloth Coat
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
£2 Stockman’s Parcel.
1 pair Tweed Trousers
1 Crimean Shirt
1 best Cotton Shirt
3 pairs Strong Socks
3 Pocket-handkerchiefs
1 Soft Felt Hat
Elastic Delt
Pair Strong Bools.
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
£5 Infant’s Christening Parcel.
trimm£d 80me Wbite Mu8lla Large Chri 8teDlng Robe, rich
1 infant’s White Cashmere Square, trimmed quilted s'lk
1 Infant’s White Satin or Bilk Hood or Hat M 8 1Jt
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
£2 Infants’ Parcel.
4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infants' Night-gowns
2 Infants’ Long Flannels
1 Haircord Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Rollers
1 Infant’s Stay-band
Vi dozen Diaper Spuares
Puff Box. Puff and Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
2 Bibs
1 pair Wool Boots
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
£2 Lady’s Parcel.
2 Nightdresses
2 Chemises
2 pairs Drawers
1 White Petticoat
1 pair Stays
1 Camisole
2 pairs Stockings
I Flannel Pettlcott
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
wo wish it to b, distinctly understood tbst sny .mole In the Bale, ms, be changed for some other llj(m t the .sn» price
£1 PARCELS.
The following are parcels we send carriage paid anywhere: —
Ladles' Biding Hat, 20s
Ladies’ Patent Aooouchment Belt, 20i.
Gents’ Handsome Smoking Cap, 20j.
TAILORING
Gentlemen will be supplied with
Samples of Tweeds, &c, and full
directions for self-rr easuremeut on
application.
Try our suits to measure, 70s.
DRESSMAKING.
Wedding Wreath and Vei', °0a
Christening Cloak and Robe, 20s.
Ladles in tho country may relv
"“paving a perfectly good St-
an,? 8^f eS m c We 8end Patterns
measurement dlrtc-
£5 SILK DRESS.
We can make and trim a very nice Blaok or Coloured Silk Ladv’a Cnsfums r , .. „
very securely In a box. This makes a nice present, and Somes about halfthe^ffi
PLEASE NOTE THE ADDRESS:—
RILEY BROTHERS, 163 Oxford-street, Sydney


A POPULAR MINSTREL MADE HAPPY;
OR, FROM JEST TO EARNEST.
“ For seven years,” writes Mr. Horace Bent, of
the Federal Minstrels, “ I have suffered from an
acute neuralgic affection of the right knee and
rheumatic gout, which became so severe during
our season at the ‘ Gaiety ’ in September, ’83, that
was obliged to relinguish the active duties of my
profession and keep my room for a couple of days.
I had tried several strong liniments at various
times, some of which gave me partial relief. In
the course of my lecture and sketches I had fre-
quently mentioned, jocularly, St. Jacobs Oil; but
it never occurred to me to apply it to my own ail-
ments until a friend who happened to be in my
room whilst I was complaining of intense pain re-
minded me of its claims, and sent out for a bottle
right away. I used a little of it immediately, and
found Instant relief, repeating the application
again later on in the evening. From that night, I
have never felt either the neuralgic affection or
the knee or the rheumatic gout return, ana 1
would have sent you this acknowledgment earlier
but I thought it best to thoroughly establish the
permanence of the effect; and have to subscribe
myself a firm believer in the virtues of St. Jacobs
•«ld by all chemists and druggists in N.S.W.
price 3b. 6d. per bottle.
Wolfjb’s Schnapps. There are many initia-
tions but by using ordinary intelligence you need
not be deceived.
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hookings ana
Co.. 143, Pltt-street.*
MacLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 George-street,
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &o.*
When your physician orders you Schnapps
he means Wolfe’s Schnapps, as it is the only
genuine brand.
Printed and Published by Thb Bulletin- News*
caper Go. (Limited). 24 PittHrt* Sydney. K.S.W.
A BACTERIAN PROBLEM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The notice hereunder is to he taken in the
light of a caution.
: CAUTION. A11 .
: Readers of Bad Boy, Snake, Alliga- :
; tor, and Klcking-Mule Stories are .
; hereby warned off the following .
: article, which is a :
: Philosophical Disquisition,
; and requires to be wrestled with in .
; silence and partial sobriety. If this .
; caution is disregarded the author
i will not hold himself responsible for .
I any consequences which may ensue. •
Note by the Editor.— The above warning is
worth attending to. The mere setting-up of the
article has killed one of our compositors, and
driven three others to the maddening cup. The
remainder are now painting their faces with print-
ing ink, and demanding to be led against the com-
posing staff of the Rum.
Note by ’writer.— If, despite the foregoing
notice, any person of high intellectual calibre
determines upon risking a perusal of this article
let him gird his soul with gravity and his brain
with a wet towel, and hide the spirit-lamp. It
must be distinctly understood that we will not
hold ourselves (responsible to Kirby for funeral
expenses in connection with this article.
♦ • •
Let us plunge boldly into the mysteries of
the microcosm. Professor Ray Lankester says
that neither in life nor in death can we get rid of
bacteria. But what are bacteria? They are
minute animalcule, ranging in size from the fifty-
thousandth to the hundred-thousandth part of
an inch, and infest the human body to such an ex-
tent that, instead of being complete and inde-
pendent organisms, we are merely moving mounds
of bacteria. Repeated experiments with the mi-
croscope have settled this as a scientific fact.
Good; what follows? Let us see. In the first
place, no man, whether physicist or
oan say authoritatively that intelligence is
measured by size. We reject as unscientific, or
at any rate beside the point, comparisons between,
sav A G. Taylor and Ninian Melville, or the Vic-
torian M’Kean and the Victorian Mlrams We
confine ourselves to the animal world. What do
we find there? We find that, in point of intelli-
gence, the creatures that approach nearest to man
are the elephant and the ant. Yet what a differ-
ence in point of size I Size, therefore, has nothing
to do with what we call mind. The mlnutest ani-
malcule may, therefore, have a distinct mental
consciousness of its own, sufficient in all ways to
its sphere of existence, and. perhaps, regarded
from 1 * the high ground of Absolute Mind, quite
equal to ours. There may, therefore, be micro-
scopic Bismarcks, Gladstones, and even Daileys
among bacteria. And for why ? Because the
Bismarcks, Gladstones, and Daileys are merely
aggregations of bacteria. Let us put a case.
• • • •
Take a human unit, whom we will call
John John is a world, from the bacteria point
of view. His truak is a vast continent, his limbs
immense peninsulas, his head an e ° 0 J' m ou8 island,
except for a massive isthmus, which he calls his
neck. John, as John, is nothing. He Is, at the
tnn*f a fGedlmr-srround. H6 is no moro an inde-
pendent creature than an unlahabited tract of
land is a nation. But how little we know of all
this; with what heavy vanity he takes to himself
the credit of being the prime mov er-the Alpha
and Omesra—of bis own organism. Is it he that
does this, though ? No, lUs not. It is the bacteria
which occupy his head. We will explain.
• • •
There are some millions of these animal-
cule,, in the human body, and there is no part of
the human body which they do not pervade. But
the brain is the bacterlan Paradise. It is the capi-
tal of bacteriadom. Whichever party possesses it
rules the rest. Generally speaking, it is held by
an oligarchy. Whenever there is a rising or a re-
volution in the trunk or the limbs, John says that
his blood is out of order, and, if he happens to be
a member of Parliament, remarks from his place
?n the House that the lower dassesshould beput
down with a strong hand; or, if he 13 the editor
of a morning paper, writes a leading article de-
nouncTng the pirnloioustheories of Henry George.
Rut bless vou, he is not to blame for this. It is
the bacteria in his brain which urge him on. They
are Conservative, and, therefore, he can no more
help being Conservative than a sheep can help not
be ng a goat. He can help nothing. He is a great
rnaohinfi worked by minute demons. According
Ke nature of these, he is either republican or
monarchical, liberal or conservative in his views.
This matter Is chiefly determined by the food he
takes. Thus it is noticed that poor livinghaaa
tendency to propagate radical and even Ninilistic
views among the bacteria of the body. The oppo-
site result is attained by rich living. So that if all
men fed alike there would be an end of riots and
revolutions. (N.B.—This discovery is copyright.)
♦ * ♦
o nv that John is a poor man and lives upon
poor diet What follows? Simply this.
The bacterla of his brain are overpowered or cor-
ruptedby the starved and discontented bacteria
of the stomach. The government of the body be-
comes republican, and John then wants to know
the large estates of the few are not divided
the manv. By persisting in this course of
conductor some time, he probably ends by. get-
9P „ ostftte for himself. Following on this, of
course is achange of food. Immediately there is
° s dvtut within him and the Conservative
bacteria ge\ possession of his brain. Straightway
he becomes a Conservative and finds himself pos-
ted ofWery strict views of vested interests and
rights of property. You bet. And does he
then take his fortunate fellow-agitators by the
hand and encourage them to place their feet under
SfPmahnffanv ? Well, hardly. He takes the first
™™£mhtvof referring to them as selfish dema-
SRSnca and firebrands. He also speaks of the poor
m the vulgar herd-the mob, the rabble, and siml-
larchoioe terms. That’s what John does when he
hM grown rich by championing them as the down-
trodden multitude. But, is he to blame? Not a
m?Thefault—if there be any fault in a purely
natural 1 phenomenon—is with fils bacteria. They
”ill grow Conservative on good cheer. Strictly,
therefore, it is not the forked radish we call John
ovftrfh conservative and Inconsistent. And yet,
Ttrictlyf it T(a paradox which we will explain
hereafter.) m #
To pass from politics. John goes out to a
whisky-party and pours into his system a quantity
of raw or mixed liquor. This makes the circula-
tion jf his blood more rapid, and floods his brain
with all the bacterian sans-culottes of his trunk
and extremities. These are by nature destructive
RRa malignant. Consequently, John, on his way
Homo 11 smashes a lamp and destroys a policeman’ll
nnuIrm Ho is taken to the lock-up and-in the
Roaree unscientific and undisoriminating manner
RRRniiir to policemen—charged with being drunk,
inv explanation with reference to hisWerla
«Ruld simply be regarded as an aggravation of
off«nce But what is the fact ? His circula-
tion having become slower during 1 he night, the
«atw-cutott€8 bacteria have been expelled trom his
lointwthe “ party of order,” and when, in the
br RiSinvhe Is put in the dock he is contrite and
Tha P t does not save him, however.
The bacteria in the brain of the magistrate are
Blotted with good living and seasoned to strong
Srink They condemn him. And he gets] seven
The injustice of this sentence need not be
It is patent. It is no more reason-
S to punish John for being drunk than to
punish a pump because it doesn t give milk. We
Pelves remember an arrogant magistrate—[So
do we. We had to bail you out. Go od.-Ed. B.l
* * •
Then, again, there is the conscience. What
is the conscience ? A pbxase-a term by which
the bacteria of Reverend Johns in long coats and
falters feed fat at the cost of the bacteria of poor
ohns in threadbare tweed. Is this not evident ?
If it isn’t we will soon make it so. Soon John
commits a small theft. He is sent to gaol for it.
Then the thin food given him there causes the
bacteria of his brain to become depressed and
melancholy. The gaol chaplain explains to him
that this is trouble of conscience. And he believes
it. Rich John robs the public with both hands,
and—as is the mysterious way in these matters—is
not sent to gaol, but feeds in his own mansion on
sumptuous diet. Does his conscience trouble
him? Not much. His bacteria are too well fed.
You will observe, therefore, that what we call
conscience is also merely a phenomenon of food.
What is the moral to be drawn from this? A
simple one. Eat of the best and drink of the best,
however you get it, and you will feel yourself vir-
tuous and happy. It is of no consequence to you
whether those at whose expense you live consider
you all this or not. If |they do not, depend upon it,
there is something wrong with their bacteria.
♦ m •
This theory of ours is in advance, yet
somewhat similar to, a theory of Sidrebols, a
French philosopher. His proposition was that
ideas exist molecularly, and that therefore, when
you promised a man you would do him a service,
you meant (In Sierebois’ language) that you would
place a certain quantity of your Ideal molecules of
generosity at his disposal. Substitute bacteria for
molecules and you have our theory. Thus me say.
If a friend asks you to do him a good turn which
will cost you either time or money, take two or
three days to consider. If, after a calm view of
the question, you come to the conclusion that It is
politic to comply with his request, straightway
begin to diet yourself on the richest food and the
crustiest port procurable. This will bring your
bacteria up to the proper pitch of generosity. If,
on the other hand, you deem it wise to refuse him,
let your diet be of a Lenten description and drink
only restaurant-claret. At the time appointed
you will find yourself able to give him a prompt
negative without turning a hair. Have we made
this matter clear ? We trust we have, because we
hope to see the idea propagated. For people with
short memories we will put it In the form of two
maxims, which are: Always look after your eating
and drinking. Never neglect your bacteria. Once
these are thoroughly grasped by thai public aU
notions of personal responsibility will be swept
away, together with laws, lock-ups, and policemen,
aod wo Shall all live happy ever afterwards.
But is this the end? Bless you again, it is
hardly the beginning. The same Professor Ray
Lankester (who is a high authority, by the way)
says that even in the tomb [Of course: King
Charles’s head!— Ed. B.] —our bacteria are as
lively as ever. He could not have said anything
that would have given us more pleasure. He has
played right into our hand. For, mark you. as a
man knows the affairs of the world he lives in, so
does it stand to reason that an animalcule of this
description know the affairs of the world in which
he lives. And that world is man. Thus, whatever
of thoughts or memoirs or hoarded knowledge we
(it is less confusing to speak of ourselves as dis-
tinct entitles than as bacterian aggregations) may
have accumulated during the course of our lives
is the common property of each and all of the bac-
teria in our bodies. Probably, if we could put one
of these on a sheet of a paper and establish some
means of communication with it, we should find
that (mentally) it was a microscopic image of our-
selves. Not a perfect one, of course, because it
might have less or more of the qualities which dis-
tinguish us as aggregates of a lot of its kind. For
instance, it might belong to the bacteria of courage
living in the rich arterial districts around the
heart. Or it might be one of the poor-spirited
bacteria dwelling In the chilly region of the feet.
But, courageous or cowardly, it would probably
be In microcosm an approximation to what we are
In macrocosm. You have grasped this so far ?
Very good. You will observe what follows. Or
shall we tell it you in two words ? Then, In two
words, what follows Is Physical Immortality.
* * *
Some scientist—whose name we forget—
almost anticipated us on this very subject, when
he hinted that, as life this side the grave is simply
a matter of segregation of atoms, so, on the other
side of the grave, it may (in accordance with a
new and opposite law) be still conducted by the
disintegration of atoms. Why not ? Even in this
world we live almost as much by what we throw
off as by what we take in. If you want an illus-
tration of this statement, we have one at hand.
Thus we have thrown off this article. On the pro-
ceeds we live. Yet what have we taken in?
[HumphI This is dangerous ground. Proceed.—
Ed. B.l Very well; now, when you—or, if it is
unpleasant to you to put it that way—when we
are screwed down in a polygonal pine-box, by a
man with a hiccup which temporarily galvanises
us, and trundled off In on® of Kirby’s patents to
the six-footer of our fathers ia the Waverley
cemetery, is that the end of us ? By no means.
We have simply, in accordance with some law
which has not vet been discovered, ceased to cor-
respond with the environment which is necessary
to what we now call life. In other words, instead
of being compelled to use our senses to procure
food for our bacteria, our bacteria have to look
out for themselves. Consequently we have no
further use for these senses, and they are dispensed
with. But, as our bodies have only been great
plantations for the breeding of these bacteria,
this is rather a gain than a loss. For we, intellec-
tually, morally, and vitally, are bacteria.
* * *
Thus it will be seen that, though our mortal
frame goes to pieces, we still exist. In fact, the
more it goes to pieces, the more we exist —we bac-
teria. Instead of being a Federal Empire, we are
a Decentralised Democracy. Instead of living one
poor life, we enter into lives rich and manifold.
The unsatisfied longing which haunts us in the
present life merely proves—and yet it is a singular
proof—that the living monads of which we are
constituted long to start life on their own account.
This is the explanation of what is called the yearn-
ing for immortality. We can have no knowledge
of what life is until we are dead. Marvellous and
multifarious is the life in the grave. This may
seem a dark saying and hard to understand. We
will, therefore, try to make it clearer. Each
animalcule in our body is, as we said before, a sen-
tient being—an infinitesimal part of the whole we
call man. But as we have agreed that intelligence
does not depend upon size, and that this minute
creature is probably in small what we are
in great proportions, size has nothing to do
with the matter. It follows, then, that our
lives are multiplied by the number of these
which detach themselves from the others
when our body is crumbling in the coffin. For
each of these carries away distinct the germs of
all the thoughts and feelings which made us what
we were. In due time all these come to full flower
and—there we are again. But not once—ten
million times. Ten million lives radiating from
what we thought one (and which, by reason of.the
clogs of clay and the clouds of sense, was virtually
to us as one—though we were at times dimly con-
scious of living an infinitely divided life), is it not
a magnificent prospect ? And in and through these
the large imperial life we live (full-flowering ten
million times, and from each of these ten million
million more till all is cerulean), through sympathy
and community of memories and feelings (for this
is as easy to understand as the community of
history and feelings which makes ten million
human units a nation—each unit living a concur-
rent, national, and individual life), is not this a
fearfully glorious future ?
* * *
It is a tremendous thought to think that
each of us, simple as we may now appear, contains
the germs of a Solar System. We state here our be-
lief that all organic creation is constructed on this
plan of eternal development. Individual man
is probably but a bacterian unit cf the great
creature Man, who treads the earth with three
thousand million feet. The transcendental philo-
sophers saw this and extended the theory—as was
proper and logical—prospectively and retrospec-
tively. The state of mutual dependence, in which
we find ourselves, is of itself sufficient proof of
this. But if that be not enough, let us remember
that all great events which have happened on the
stage of this earth have been common to all man-
kind ; or. as we prefer to say, Man. The
Deluge (for even if the Deluge were only
local, Man knew in all his parts — that is
to say all tribes and nations knew—that an un-
Sleasant occurrence had taken place in one part),
le Incarnation or Avatar, or whatever we may
choose to call it in our various tongues, are
memories common to all the human race—to Man.
We say that a wave of thought passes over the
earth—religious, revolutionary, or what not—that
it is in the air—and straightway we all find our-
selves thinking the same thing, and wondering
why. But is this not a thought passing over the
vast composite brain of Man ? The brain of Man
has been at various times Aryan and Semitic. It
has still the Semite stamp, but the power has
parsed over to the Aryan bacteria. The thought-
centres of Man have been at various times fixed
at Babylon, Memphis, Jerusalem, Athens, Alex-
andria, Rome, Constantinople, Florence, Paris,,
London, and—Manly Beach.
■ • ■
But even this vast and wonderful being
Man, living through all the generations of time,
may yet be only a bacterian fraction of some un-
imaginably vaster and more wonderful creature
living in all the visible universe. Even we—mere
bacteria of a bacterian as we are—feel at times
“ the desire of the moth for the star.” Is this not
an evidence that there is some subtle sympathy
(which we cannot state in terms of our tinpot
logic) between us and the vast star-filling creature
beyond of which we are but the fraction of a
fraction ? In this way, macrocosmically, we can
guess at what our own bacteria must feel,
mlorocosmloally, with regard to us, their
great aggregate. [You had better finish this
thing quickly and go out by the back way.
There is a bacterian outside waiting for you who
calls himself a bailiff— Ed. B.] We will conclude this
article somewhat hastily. The fact is, there is a
sort of civil war going on inside us. The disso-
lute bacteria of the stomach are besieging the
bacteria of the brain. The war-cry of the stomach
bacteria is “Beer.” Lotus pause a moment and
see the issue of the strife. Alas I there is a
traitor among the bacteria of the brain. He opens
the gates. The stomach bacteria pour in. They
clamour for Beer. And Beer it is. Yet, speaking
from the lofty plane of the higher morality—[He s
at the bottom of the stairs— Ed. B.]-we will tem-
porarily retire.
THE "PRECEDENCE" GAME!
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
[“ Archbishop Moran (R.C.), of Sydney,
has declined to attend the Governor’s dinner be-
cause he had information that the Anglican Bishop
Barry would be given precedence.”
SCENE AT THE GATES OF HEAVEN.
April 1st. a.d. 19—
1st Pb.ela.te (Knocking):
“ HOLLOA, there 1 Peter I don’t you hear
This knocking, all this din ?
Come, hurry up I I’m getting cold;
Please, Peter, let me ini
“ You surely know my voice ? it’s II
Be quick I I’ll kick the door in 1
No fooling now I I’m sick of this I
It’s 11 Archbishop Moran I
2nd Prelate (arriving on the scene):
“ Come, good St. Peter I ope your gates 1
Don’t bid me longer tarry;
I have my passport, checked and signed—
It’s I, the Bishop Barry! ”
St. Peter, (slowly opening the gates):
» What’s all this row about ? What’s up ?
Why all this fuss and clatter ?
A minute more or less, I’m sure.
To such as you, can’t matter I
“ But I Holy Moses I Can it be ?
Good sirs, I beg your pardon;
Aside to Cherub):
“ Here I bid old Michael step this way,
(You’ll find him in the garden).”
“ Why, just look, Michael, here’s a go I
Our luck is coming back;
Gee will kins! why, this fegood—
Two bishops at a whack I
(To Prelates):
“ Well, please step in, and had I guessed
The luck I had in store.
I’d not have kept two such big swells
A-thunderln’ at my door.”
1st Prelate :
“ Excuse me, sir I my rank demands
That it’s I should enter first:
I always have, and always will,
Let him dispute who durst.
2nd do.:
“ Excuse me, too, I’ve always claimed
Precedence justly mine;
This privilege to me alone
Belongs by right divine
1ST do.;
“ Whew, now I Who’s ever heard the like 7
Well, let me solve this riddle—
If not first, then not at all—
Pll not play second fiddle!
“ Besides, I’ll prove that I am right,
And (since I am no fighter)
I’ll lay a wager, fair and square,
I’ll bet—my Alb and Mitre 1
I’ve heard this yam before— on earth—
(You were, as now, the sinner);
But that time, too, I ‘ euchred ’ you.
Although I lost—a dinner! ”
St. Peter (interposing) :
“ Now, this has really gone too far—
Allow me, sirs, a minute -
Some slight mistake between you both—
There’s really nothing in it!
“ Pray, leave it all to me, I beg,
1’U fix it in a trice;
Here, Michael I there's a good soul, do
Just fetch that box of dice!
“ Now, come I Toss up, and see who’s right
(You needn’t fear they’re loaded).
Though, as a fact, we’ve no rank here—
That theory’s exploded.”
1st Prelate;
“ Your dice be blowed! why, what’s the use
Of tossing to decide
A question ’bout who’s right, forsooth!
The right’s all on my side I ”
2nd Prelate:
“ As far as right’s concerned, of course
(And I really am no prig),
I know I have it—and to toss
For a bishop’s infra dig! ”
St. Peter (waxing wrathy):
“ So each is right, and each is wrong,
And each is soared to toss;
I’ll shut the gate on both of you—
I’ll let you know I’m Boss!
“ Take my advice, and try awhile
Some higher state to reach;
Be friends, and sink such petty feuds—
Just practise what you preach I
“ And if you can’t, why—stop outside,
I’m sure we’ve saints galore;
We want no wrangling quarrels here;
There, Michael, shut that door.”
Exeunt, discomfited and wondering.
