

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 3.—No. 125-Now Series.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1885.
Frioo—6A.
The Bull
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1885.
“Lords and Lackeys.”
There are many mean histories in the
world. There is the long dreary story of
“ monarchy,” with its attendant arrogance
and servility — its tawdry trappings and
fathomless stupidity. Then there is the re-
cord of wrangling sectaries, with their odd
habit of killing one another to show how
much they loved God. The history of Pre-
lacy, too, from the days when it amused
itself by clipping the ears and slitting the
noses of Papists and Nonconformists, down
to its rejection of the Deceased Wife’s Sister
Bill, is far from clean. But the meanest his-
tory of all—the one that can hold its own
against all competitors — is that of the
British House of Lords. Wherever Freedom
raised its head in the world, wherever men,
maddened by wrong, turned upon their op-
pressors, there was the influence of the
Lords spiritual and temporal of England to
be found on the side of the despots. Bear-
ing these things in mind, it is surely remark-
able that some of our richest colonists
should strain every nerve, stoop to any
means, in order to get enrolled in such a
body! It is humbling to think how colonists
pursue so eagerly the so-called honours
which the greatest Englishmen put aside
with contempt. It may be that our people
do not know the true character of the House
which they hold in such veneration. We
shall tell them a few facts con cerning it.
• • *
When Saxon England went down before
William’s cut-throats the booty was divided
among the conquerors. Some of the soldiers
were content with a town, others put up
with a castle or a domain, while a few, with
the modesty of their calling, were satisfied
with a rich Saxon wife. Harold’s defeat
was possibly due to the fact that William
brought with him from Normandy a flag
which had been blessed by the Pope, and a
ring wh'oh contained one of St. Peter’s heirs.
With such helps as those, the warrior who
could not win a battle eight hundred years
ago—particularly when the preponderance
of men and of cross-bows was on his side-
had better change nis calling. Having
carried fire and sword through England, the
conqueror sent the banner back to the Pope
accompanied with his blessing and a good
share of the plunder. Concerning what
became of the ring and the hair, history
preserves a distressing silence. Having
devoured the Saxons, the followers of
William commenced the congenial task of
devouring themselves. This took them over
300 years, which shows that, together with
other good qualities, they were tough and
indigestible. The wars of the Roses finished
most of them, or where, here and there, a
prince or noble escaped the slaughter, it was
only to be murdered by his nearest kinsman.
Northumberlands, Devons, Pembroke?,
and many others having lived on the
public for centuries were at last induced to
live on themselves. In this they failed, and
reconciled themselves and others to the
failure by assassinating each other with
gratifying promptitude. Yet it is from these
swashbucklers that some of our oldest
families claim to be descended. Even if true,
the claim is not one of which to be proud.
But it is not true at all. It is said that no
English peerage comes within five centuries
of the Conquest. “ George III. alone was
responsible for 522 creations!”
• * *
Under the Tudors the nobles were chiefly
employed performing in England the same
congenial task that their successors under
our present Sovereign perform for Ireland—*
rooting the people from the land. Having
robbed the peasants, they next commenced
to hang them as vagrants. Harrison asserts
that, during the reign of Henry VIII., no
less than 7,2,000 Englishmen were executed
by the King and his nobles. These unfortu-
nates were strung up in rows like herrings.
The good work was continued under the
“virgin” Queen and her drivelling succes-
sor—the British Solomon. The starving
poor who wandered from their ruined
homes were treated in the following fashion:
—“Anyone might seize them and set them
to work. If they made off and were caught
they might be branded with a ‘ V ’ on the
breast, and be adjudged slaves for two
years. If they went off again they were to
be chained and beaten, branded on the cheek
with the letter ‘ S ’ and made slaves for life.
Beggars’ children might be kidnapped and
made slaves till they were four and-twenty.
If they ran away they were to have their
ear bored through' with a hot iron an inch
wide; if they absconded again they were
adjudged felons, and for a third offence they
were to be put to death.” Indeed, during
the reigns of Henry, his two daughters, and
the first Stuart the conduct of the nobility
towards the English people can challenge
any similar record the world over for mean-
ness and inhumanity. It was only to bo
equalled by the conduct of the lawyers and
the priests.
« • *
But we must hurry on to more recent
times to show the modern character of the
class in which colonial sheep-breeders would
be enrolled. In January, 1649, King, peers,
and prelates came down with a run. The
second Chamber was dispensed with as
“ useless and dangerous,” and a nine years’
period of unexampled prosperity and glory
set in for England. This was brought to a
close by the accession of Charles and the
restoration of the class which signalised its
return to power by digging up and gibbetting
the bones of those who had made Britain
great and feared. By means of the restored
c r ew and their foreign harlots England
touched a depth of infamy the lowest in her
troubltd annals. So long as James con-
fined his attention to whipping and brand-
ing Dissenters he might bow to crucifixes to
his heart’s content. But once ho struck
out in the direction of toleration his doom
was sealed. The peers and their coadju-
tors the bishops trembled for their stolen
property, and once again a false issue was
put before the people who walked com-
placently into the trap. Indeed, a careful
study of English history is sufficient to con-
vince any unbiassed mind that the British
people, while possessing many fine qualities,
are also possessed of a gullibility of almost
infinite dimensions. For if there is one
lesson which more than another has been
taught them by centuries of cruel wrong
and persecution it is that a house of peers is
“useless and dangerous.” “Since the Revo-
lution of 1638,” said air. Roebuck, “cruelty
and oppression have been legalized, but the
interior history, the social proceedings and
every-day life of our rulers since that time
would hardly appear less frightful than the
horrors of ancient days. A more despicable
set of wretches cannot be found than the
nobles of England under the Georges. Li-
centious, mean, in every way thoroughly
corrupt and cruel, it wouldbe difficult to find
their superiors in vice in the world’s his-
tory.” And if the nobles of the Georges
polluted the political and social atmosphere
in which they moved, are those of Victoria
any better ? J udging by the records of the
police and divorce courts there is not much
to choose bat ween them. Yet it is to have
their names written in this bible of black-
guardism that wealthy Australians are said
to be willing to spend fabulous sums of
money I
• • ' ♦
Let us pass in review some of the things
the peers of England have done for freedom
in Britain and in the world during the past
hundred years. To crush American liberty
George 111. and his nobles, left no stone
unturned. Even the Red Indiana were
pressed into the service to scalp colonial
women and children. When France spoke
out for freedom, and proclaimed the glad
tidings of liberty to an oppressed world)
every European tyrant, from Russia’s
Cassar to the smallest German princeling,
turned to England for countenance and
money, and was not disappointed. The Dey
of Algiers even—a notorious pirate—was
subsidised. In one year, European rulers
received £14,000,000 of money from London
to enable them to keep down their subjects.
The final partition of Poland was paid for
by English gold. Old men remember those
anxious days of 1832, when, but for the
fear that the army would mutiny and make
common cause with the people, the Duke of
Wellington and the “old nobility” would
have plunged the country in civil war. And
since those days of half a century ago, has
not every legislative measure, having for its
object the repeal of some old abuse, or the
elevation of the people, been doggedly
opposed by the peers and bishops until
opposition became dangerous? Although
the Reform Bill of 1832, by partially purify-
ing the atmosphere of the Commons, broke
the back-bone of the House of Lords, the
power of the peers for mischief was far
from being entirely destroyed. The follow-
ing are a few of the Bills our spiritual and
temporal masters have opposed during the
last half century
1833. Refuse to open Universities to Dissenters.
1831. Refuse to allow more than 20 persons to meet
for worship in a private house.
183i. Refuse to allow Nonconformist ministers ac-
cess to Workhouses.
1835. Population of Ireland, 8,000,000 — voters,
60,0001 Lords refuse Reform. Prevented
for 40 years after.
1839. Continue death penalty for sheep-stealing
against the will of the Commons.
1842. Mines' Regulation. Protection of miners
against preventlble accidents not obtained
for 30 years through Lords.
1845. Compensation for Tenants’ Improvements
(Ireland) refused, and so for 25 years.
1858. Church Rates Abolition refused. Put off
11 years
I860. Refuse education to miners'children. Twelve
years of darkness follow.
1838. Throw out the Irish Church Disestablishment
Resolutions.
1870. Irish Land Act. Lords refuse compensation,
and insist on their right to evict distressed
tenants.
1871. Ballot Bill thrown out.
1880. Reject compensation for Disturbance Dill
(Ireland). Ireland given up to anarchy and
crime in consequence.
1884. Refuse the franchise to 2,000,000 county 1
householders.
1885. Disfranchise ali electors who are so poor that
they have had to seek gratuitous medical
relief.
* * *
These are a few, and a few only, of the)
measures demanded during the last 50 years
by the representatives of the English people
and denied by the irresponsible descendants
of Stuart strumpets and of the “ despi-
cable wretches ” created by Georgs III.
LIEUTENANT MULHOLLAND, LATE OF THE N.S.W. CONTINGENT,


And it is to support such spawn that one
returned colonist contests Canterbury,
while another, with the doleful cry of out-
cast London in his ears, spends thousands of
pounds in feasting a German mendicant.
What a strange idea of “honour” must he
possess who pines lor a place on such a
roster ? What wonder that the very name
of a successful colonist smells malodorously
in the nostrils of the English people?
The Proposed Poll-tax of Bachelors.
Mr. Shackell's motion to lead the Victorian
Assembly to impose a poll-tax on bachelors be-
tween the ages of 25 and 60, has apprised Australia
that a worthy man of that name enjoys a Parlia-
mentary existence. Mr. Shacuell has reason to
rejoice at the ample fulfilment of his ambitious
dreams. H's motion possesses a penetrating,
absorbing, all-round Interest. It touches New
South Wales as keenly as Victoria It pierces to
the heart of bachelordom everywhere. Shall the
Caucasian marry, or give his arm to the almond-
eyed Celestial and march with him down the poll-
taxed road of a social despotism 7 His first thought
is that he will marry. He looks around at the
available material. His next thought is that he
will pay the poll-tax. Then he rises to argue.
Venerable old maids are no less excited. They are
not threatened with a tax. What puls them in a
nervous tremble is the apprehension that the tax
may not be heavy enough. In this state of things
the Press has to do its duty. The Sydney Daily
Telegraph says as much and illustrates the way
to go about it. The fascination of the topic forces
us to take a way of our own.
• ■ *
The social difference between a bachelor and a
married man is, in the abstract, great. The latter
is in office. Membership of the guild is his by
natural right. He is in step with the sentiment of his
race. He is the lineal representative of his Aryan
father. The first form of society was the family.
Families coalesced and made clans. Clans made
tribes. Tribes coalesced and made nations. The
representative of the Aryan household wss the
husband. Throughout clans, tribes, and nations
the same principle of representation was enforced.
The bachelor was a subject. If present at all in
council of clan or tribe, it was as deputy of a
husband. This character is inherent in him. In
the abstract he is an honorary member of the
guild. As popularly conceived in modern times,
he is not employed discharging the duties of son-
ship. Nor is he constrained by fraternal bonds.
He has no responsibiltles unless his own for him-
self. The continuance of the existence of what is
good in the world cannot reasonably give him
concern. If it last his time, and he be a sensible
man, there is nothing to care about. This is the
person ancient lawmakers placed under a dis-
ability. He was using an organisation with which
he was not centrally identified. In clan and tribe
he was, though a subject, protected. But there it
was understood he was growing up for duty.
When he declined the duty he lost his place.
Solon reprobated this type of man. Lycurgits
legislated against him.
• •
In the eyes of Lycurgus, however, women bore
some of the blame. If man without woman be
faulty as a social factor, woman without man is
also faulty. Theoretically union perfects. In
practice it is often of negative social value, and
sometimes of positive social wrong. Had Louis
Napoleon stayed a bachelor there would have
been no Franco-German war. L’ouis and Eugenie
united made Sddan. MarlbOrough, a bachelor,
would have lived in peace at home. He and the
Duchess unfurled battleflags over Europe. Still
the theory deserves to dominate. Palmerston
and his wife were greater than Palmerston.
Disraeli and his wife made the Earl of
Beaconsfield. With the theory before it Go-
vernment does right to urge to unions. It does
right to effect them if It can.
* • ■
But no one is bound to the impossible. In each
of the colonies there are more marriageable men
than marriageable women. A quart cannot be put
in a pint pot. After human ingenuity has been
exhausted there will be redundant men. Can these
be taxed ? Who will discriminate between them
and shirkers ? Often it is the man who has tried
hardest to insert bis head in the silken noose who
remains a bachelor. Often it is the man who did
not try at all who is found with his head through.
Sufficient material is not then enough. A man
may empty out his holiest feelings and have to
pick them up again and pocket them while the
girl is laughing at him. For Government to send a
man down to gather a poll-tax just then is adding
injury to insult. It is spelling hgony.with two g’s.
In addition to being sufficient, the material must be
mpressionable. There are spinsters who would
reject half the men in the world. They have an
ideal man in their eye. Till becomes along they
are Hint. If there is to be a tax, some'of it sh ould fall
on these. Otherwise it will look as if the
Shack ells did not want marriages so much as
taxes. But as with batchelors, who will dissemi-
nate between these spinsters and plastic ones?
Both spinster and bachelor elements are too vari-
able for law to operate on.
» • •
It is conceivable that a measure like Shacuell's
might be run through. Bachelors, It is true, con-
stitute a majority of the adult male population.
But they are in a minority in Legislative cham-
bers. They are in a minority at the ballot-box.
Wo have not figures for this, but considering the
requirements of the electoral law, and the no-
madic habits of the bachelor tribe, it may reason-
ably be assumed to be correct. A six month’s
residence in the electorate is exacted. Bachelors
arc much less likely to fulfil this than married
men. Their political power is not proportioned to
their numbers. That Is seen in the education
vote. Some bachelors may approve of this State
expenditure. It is unreasonable to suppose the
majority do. In New Zealand, where the tax was
direct, many wont to gaol rather tl ai pay.
Married men override this majority. In the same
way a Shackell Bill might get through. To
some married men, it would be even more con-
genial than the Bill compelling. bachelors to pay
for the education of children they know nothing
about. Lucretius describes the joy a man feels
who witnesses from a place of security the drown-
ing of a ship-load of people. Longinus allows
that the sentiment possessing the observer has an
alloy of glee. But to the man of grief the com-
panionship of others brings more of that alloy.
The Scriptural reason for tho Devil’s interference
with us Is built on this. The sentiment is active
In Milton’s portraits. It actuated Samson In the
theatre of the Philistines. It is quick to-day. If
Mr. Mi bams must sit In the cold, he will bring as
many to his side as possible. If Mr. Buchanan
must stay outside the Ministry, he will drag the
Ministry outside if he can. Married legislators
cannot get out of their state. Naturally, there-
fore, they will like to drag bachelors Into it.
Legislators with sensitive consciences might not
act thus. But where are they ? Hence it is con-
ceivable that were a measure such as Mr.
Shackell proposes workable.lt might be made
into law. It is not the benevolence of married
law-makers the bachelor has to thank for Immunity
from a poll-tax.
* ♦ •
The subject has become In modern society too
complicated for legislation. The bachelor will be
allowed to shirk bis duty indefinitely. His epoch
Is his advantage. Thousands of years ago he could
not have hung on to society. Now he cannot be
got at. All society is able to do is to slip him up
In trifles. If he wants a bottle of wine In his hotel
he Is made to pay thrice as much as it costs the
married man in his own home. He is encouraged
to spend money on unguents and perfumes. It is
reckoned that it takes 800 full-blown roses to make
a spoonful of scent. Society encourages the
bachelor to pay liberally for a lot of that. One
onion cut up is scent enough for a married man.
The bachelor is induced to believe that high-priced
cigars are the proper thing. Society doesn’t try
to befool the married man. It lets him smoke a
wooden pipe, if Mr. Shackbll could invent a fow
more luxuries, and stick It into the heads of
bachelors that, while bachelors, it will be obliga-
tory on them to enjoy these, he would be helping
to run them into a corner out of which matri-
mony would look a relief. This Is, as well as we
can judge, the only way of reaching them. It
would serve as a stimulus, and would have a sem-
blance of human liberty. Bachelors are an evil
They are wens upon the body of the tocial sys-
tem. But poll-taking Is impracticable and pole-
axeing too drastic.
“ Now, Infidel, we Have Thee on the Hip!"
In Melbourne, as in most cities at the present day,
there are a number of g iod people who hold un-
popular views on subjects beyond the range of
knowledge, and believe that it isjfor the welfare of
their fellow-creatures that these offensive opinions
of theirs should be made as public as possible.
They decline to bow down before any of the gods
revered by the devout, cut themselves adrift alike
from Christian and Jew, Trinitarian and Unita-
rian, Protestant and Papist, maintain that all reli-
gious ceremonies and observances are but relics
of idolatry and barbarism, and that Sabbatarian-
ism le only another name for slavery. They term
themselves Secularists, and, Joining together in
organisations, delight, like the Independents.
Quakers, and Methodists of past centuries, in pro-
claiming their nonconformity with established re-
ligious modes and their determination to take a
road of their own.
* * •
These peculiar-minded philosophers have
rented for the purposes of their Sunday gather-
ings a building in Bourke-street which they term
"The Hall of Science,” Although they contrlbutt
their share to the general revenue of the colony
the same as other sects, they have not been vouch-
safed a piece of the public lands for their own
particular use and benefit, and have had to resort
to the vulgar, but perhaps righteous, expedient ol
paying for their property in the ordinary way.
Some two years ago these sturdy heretics sent tc
England to engage a preacher—a lecturer, as they
prefer to term him—and one of Charles Brad
laugh’s most active and industrious lieutenants,
to wit, Joseph Stmbs, a man who, some 10 years
earlier, had emerged from the darkness of a Wes-
leyan pulpit, agreed, on certain specified terms,
to come out and occupy the Secular platform.
• » •
This converted Methodist minister—we present
the term “ converted ” from a Secular standpoint
of course-came accordingly, and has proved &
somewhat tough customer for Port Philip piety
to digest. He has insisted on. bis right to
speak and print his criticisms of his oppo-
nents and their opinions just as freely as
they speak and print their criticisms of him and
his party, and on the whole his vocabulary of
denunciation has proved, mirabile scriptu, fuller
and more capacious than that of the theologians.
Beaten in the battle of Billingsgate the upholders
of the old temples have turned to Caesar and his
legions for assistance, and not in vain. A Govern-
ment, whose head is a Freethought Nicodemus
and one of whose members is a pronounced
Spiritualist and compiler of the local Lyceum
Guide, which is chock full of heresy, has under-
taken to do the dirty work of the persecutors, and
by force of police suppress the Secularists.
• • •
Now, we have no more sympathy with the ways
of Joseph Symks than we have with those of
Captain Hallelujah, Pastor Grasge, or Father
Shillaly. All we are anxious about is falrplay
and the good name of Australia, which is sure to
suffer if there be persecution of speculative opinion
in any of Its provinces. A musty old law oi George
Ill's, time has been exhumed from its crypt of dis-
honour, and under its provisions Syme ; has abso-
lutely been hauled up before the magistrates and
committed to take his trial for keeping a dis-
orderly housei Because Symes speahs frjm a
platform Instead of a pulpit, and attacks the popu-
lar faith instead of defending it-because the Secu-
larists collect their pew-reuts nightly Instead of
monthly, quarterly, or yearly—because their ser-
vice is of a secular and attractive character Instead
of being sanctimonious and unattractive, their
temple is attacked as a ‘ disorderly house, ’ and
their preacher ordered to stand in the dock to take
his trial under a criminal accusation. We can
scarcely credit the news, but it has duly appeared
in the most “respectable” journals—Journals too
respectable to have one word of condemnation of
this flagrant outrage on Liberty, this nineteenth
century renewal of Christian persecution. Be-
cause the Secularists and their leader are
unpopular, a mean, truckling, subservient Press
is silent when it ought to speak out with a
voice of thunder. The very unpopularity of the
cause should make It thunder the louder. If the
cause were not so unpopular, the outrage could
not be committed. Throughout the ages no perse-
cution has been possible save when those perse-
cuted have been weak and incapable of success-
fully defending themselves. And the spokesmen
of that religion which professes to be one of love
—are they Indignant at this practical libel on the
faith they teach ?
* * *
With one exception only, so far as we are aware,
the Melbourne pulpits are silent; and the Mel-
bourne par:ons ara In ecstasies of delight because
there is prospect of Symes sharing the fate of
Robert Brown, George Fox, and John Bun-
van. The exception is too notable a one to be
allowed to escape prominent attention. Be it re-
corded then, to his honour, that a clergyman of
the Church of England, Rev. Mr. Bynq, has, from
his pulpit In St. Michael’s, North Carlton, de-
nounced as “ shameful ” this persecution of the
Secularists, and demanded for all sections of the
community complete liberty of thought. But
this Is all. Even the Unitarians—those fair-
weather Liberals—have made no sign, while one
who goes a stage further than themselves In op-
position to current theology is treated as a crimi-
nal. Alas! When will the lesson be learned that
the only true test of freedom is found in the mode
in which authority treats opinions of present un-
popularity—that there never yet was a martyrdom
which, at the time of Its occurrence, was not a
satisfaction to the ruling majority and the eo-
callod respectable classes ?
♦ ♦ ♦
Now that this pious work of ferreting out old
Acts of Parliaments wherewith to harass heretics
has been fairly inaugurated in Victoria, we shall
wait to see if action be taken under the Blas-
phemy Act of William IIL, which renders liable
to prosecution all who publicly deny the divinity
of Christ or generally assail the leading dogmas of
Christianity. When will the battery of the law be
turned upon Rev. Mr. Walters, Judge Wil-
liams, Judge Hiqinbotham, and other upper-
crust infidels ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Resources of Science.
Under the heading of “ How they Live,” we gave
some few weeks ago a short account of how the
public are gulled into providing bogus doctors
with large brass plates to their doors pates de foie
gras for their stomachs, and sealskin jackets for
their wives. The fact is, we’ve been in the line
ourselves, and scattered throughout Australia in
incurable asylums and institutions for the insane
are numerous persons whose present condition is
a standing proof of the efficacy of our method of
treatment. The certainty with which coma fol-
lowed our first visit, while tetanus was not far
behind the second, says much for the power of our
system. One bolus we used of peculiar potency,
and a power of discovering the weak points of the
anatomy that has probably never been equalled
Outside Melbourne is one graveyard which owes
a good deal of Its success to the peculiarities ol
this pungent pill. |We called it vita brevis, and, in-
deed, our having taken to literature was
entirely due to an inquest It was necessarj
to hold on a hodman who had incautious!?
chewed a corner of this peculiar composition.
But we wander. Our object is to take the
Sydney public into our confidence, and tell
them why it is we've neglected opening here
in the line for success in which we once put up six
months in the Geelong Hospital—the result of an
Interview with a former patient. It is because a
letter from a Sydney practitioner was put into
our hands the other day. It was sent us by a
voung man of Merrlwa, and a careful study of it
shows that, against such an artist as the writer, it
would be suicidal to enter into competition.
There are certain obscure diseases which, since
Hippocrotes first gave glauber salts, have been
the peculiar province of quacks. Indeed, it was
but comparatively recently that the legitimate
practitioner touched them at all—which was a
great mistake, by-the-way, as it left the charlatans
complete masters of the field. And they made the
most of it I That there are such ailments is now
generally admitted, but that their effects—except
in the very worst cases—are so distressing as the
harpies make out is utterly untrue. And now for
a few gems from this clever scientist’s letter to the
man who thinks there is something wrong with
him: “I am sure you fail to appreciate the strength
and severity of your disease. . . You are really
underestimating the extent and gravity of your
trouble, it having now reached a critical period
. . . You will let it become chronic and incur-
able. . . The tissues. . . are delicate and as
easily injured as those of the eye. . . To the
specialist, however, apparently trivial symptoms
have their meaning. . . Wrong treatment and
neglect have peopled this earth with many a
chronic Invalid. . . Any patient can see from
looking in our little book what form of bolus he
needs. . . Did they know their trouble there
would be no need of men, such ai myself, devoting
a lifetime to the study and treatment of these
cases. . . My confidence in the power of the
bolus treatment is based upon a large experi-
ence. . . On receipt of the balance due I will.’*
&c., &e. There I And these, mind you, are but
brief extracts. What hope is there in taking to
the line with a past-master like that in the busi.
ness ? The Merriwa young man will read that
letter and never smile again. He’ll think he has a
monopoly of all nervous ailments in the posologlcal
table. We thought we were smart but, compared
with Doctor —, we are unweaned and bald-
head ed babies.
The " Pall Mall” and the Sydney “Echo.”
The Sydney Echo has the reputation of being
written mostly by parsons. Nevertheless, on all
questions of broad public morality it manages to
get round to the wrong side. The Herald shows
capacity to sit steadily astride the fence, but
whether It is owing to exuberance of spirits or
Ignorance of the true trend of ethical discussions,
Its little friend quits the fence and makes a fool of
Itself. Ab?ut the Pall Mall business, it has now
got Itself into this state of mind:—“ The Indigna-
tion of healthy-mlndtd Englishmen Is waxing
warmer and warmer against the proprietors of the
Pall Mall Gazette, because of the notorious
articles published in the paper, and the fact is
creditable to the people.” While the parsons of
the Echo were tolling at this view, Bishop Moor-
house, of Melbourne, was talking sensibly as fol-
lows:—“That these revelations are substantially
reliable 1 do not for an Instant doubt. The most
damning disclosures are not a whit worse than
those which have been made on her own authority,
and on that of the Rev. Mr. Horlsby, by one of the
noblest and purest-hearted women In England.”
The Echo thinks the agitation in London the out-
come of unhealthy brains, and would have the
whole topic tabooed. In this the Echo Is at least
consistent. It will be remembered that when one
of its staff was called upon to give evidence con-
cerning the Immoralities at Clontarf, Sydney—for
showing up which some of The Bulletin people
had to go to prison—he deposed that he had writ-
ten what he considered a fair account of the dis-
graceful proceedings at the place, but this account
was “ toned down ” by the edlior. Bishop Moor-
house sees in the agitation an Incentive to action,
a call to arms. He exclaims: “Where is our
manhood, where Is the righteous Jndigna Ion
which ought to swejp those scoundrelly dealers
of children Into prison, and shave their heads and
stamp upon them the brand of Infamy, whether
they be rich or poor, beggars or nobles ?” It is
well for the Church that there are parsons like the
Bishop. Were they all like the Echo people their
religion would not be worth the price of the little
evening sheet.
Billy Dailey and this Cross-eyed World
“ Desecrating the Day” is the style in which a
widely-circulated United States Journal alludes to
the way in which the American citizens of Sydney
celebrated last 4th July at Botany. In ripping up
Mr. Consul Griffin’s remarks that “ the toast of
the Queen was nowhere received with a deeper
sense of respect or personal attachment than by
the peoi leo’ the United States of America,” and
that “ k all r latlons of life as daughter, wife, and
mother, u Majesty has presented the purest
example of d .votion and duty,” the disgusted
Democrat "over thar” says:-" If this alleged
American had uttered his nonsense at a popular
gathering even in England those present would
have laughed at him. The true character of the
woman he so highly lauded is so well known that
it is needless to comment on it and useless for
anyone to lower himself in the eyes of Intelligent
persons by pretending to admire it. Mr. Griffin
further displayed his exquisitely bad taste by
speaking of the pleasure which it gave him
to see the French Consul present, and im-
mediately after proceeding to exult over the
fact that the attempts of the French to plant
colonies in America had been failures and that the
British flag now floated in triumph not only over
Montreal and Quebec, but also throughout the
Canadian Dominion. How proud Montgomery’s
countrymen and their representatives ought to
feel of that fact I Then our alleged Consul con-
cluded with the usual stale and senseless chatter
about the Anglo-Saxon race having the same code
of laws and the same freedom of speech, and the
British officials, encouraged by this balderdash,
declared that any nation wanting to Injure Eng-
land would have to reckon with America.”
“ Attorn ey-General Dallby” is always carefully
rubbed up the wrong way for declaring that he
was ‘ in favour of a union between England and
America,” and is told that “he conveniently
enough forgot that those assembled had met to
celebrate the disruption more than a century since
of the then existing union. And when ho talked
of this as desirable, ‘not for conquest, but for
civilisation—not as a menace to the tranquillity of
nations, but as a guarantee of universal peace,’
he ignored the fact that when temporarily in con-
trol of the government of his colony a few months
ago he sent off a few hundred marauders—who
have lately scuttled back—to aid the British in
their attempted conquest of the Soudan.” This
looks as if the gaze of the world was on us still,
but that some of the gazers were a trifle cross,
eyed.
"Loyalty” and tho Gag.
“ I charge him with want of loyalty to the
Queen.” Such was the indictment preferred
against Mr. Angds Cameron in the N.S.W. As-
sembly last week, by Mr. G. Campbell, who put It
forward as a ground upon which Mr. Cameron
ought hot to be elected to the position of Chair,
man of Committees. What was Mr. Cameron’s
offence ? An interjection In the course of another
member’s speech to the effect that the Governor
knows more about Muscpvy ducks than he does
about politics I A number of the members got up
and reiterated the charge and advanced it as a
reason for voting against Mr. Cameron, one and
all expressing the hope that these antagonistic
votes would be a “ caution” to him and Induce him
to control his tongue a little better In the future.
We protest against the barefaced attempt made
to apply the gag to Mr. Cameron, and, on this
ground alone, express our satisfaction that his
opponents were In the minority. It is no secret
that In the past had Mr. Cameron not been In the
receipt of the salary attached to the office of
Chairman (formerly £500, but now £800 per
annum), he would have had to resort to the Parlia-
mentary agency business to raise the wherewithal
to maintain himself and family; failing this, or
substantial “testimonials” from his admiring
constituents, he would have had to return to the
carpenter’s bench. We mention the fact of Mr
Cameron’s pecuniary position not being too
flourishing to show that the adverse vote of a
majority of members would have been of some
consequence to him. This fact attaches special
significance to the attempted gagging process. How
are wo to expect honour and independence to
be the prevailing characteristics In the political
life of New South Wales if any section of mem-
bers of Parliament ;have It In their power to close
the mouths of even an individual member by
t hreats of withdrawal of legitimate monetary


A NEW BOOK.
250 Tricks and Delusions
WITH
CARDS, DICE, and CONJURING APPARATUS,
and also containing over 100 tricks and deceptions
with cards, illustrated with blocks and diagrams,
fully explained, simplified, and adapted for home
amusement and social entertainments, forming
the most complete collection of Its kind ever
offered to the Australian public. Mailed free to
any address ONE SHILLING.
THE WIZARD’S CHANGEABLE CARDS.
These cards change from Red to Black, from
eights to deuces and back again at the pleasure of
the performer, and elicit exclamations of wonder
and surprise from all who witness them. Post
free, with fulUnstructlons. Is. 2d.
Comic caricatures.
“I’m a Fadder,” “I’m In love,” “I’m a Daddy,”
“ Before and After Marriage,” “ The Mother-In-
Law.” Five separate sets, each set consisting of
five character sketchings that have convulsed with
laughter every gathering at which they have
appeared. Price, post free, Is. 3d.
WONDERFUL JAPANESE DRAWER BOX.
The performer sends round a pretty little box to
the company, which they fill with rings, coins, etc.
Directly the performer takes It in nls hand the
articles Instantly vanish and the drawer is shown
empty. Price 3s., post free.
tST" GIVEN AWAY I
Cut this advertisement out and post It to us, en-
closing 5s. in stamps, or a P.O. order for 5s., and
we will send you by return of post the above-men-
tioned goods, together with either of the follow-
ing articles
A LADY’S HANDSOME BROOCH or EARRINGS
GENT’S SCARF PIN or SET OF STUDS,
of the finest American Roll-plate Gold, guaranteed
to stand the acid test, and to wear for 10 years,
alone worth double the money, for which we
MAKE NO CHARGE.
N.8.W. stamps taken at par, other colonies add
Id. to each Is.
Address all communications:
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT,
BOX 641 G.P.O. 401 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
J, TURNER R03INS0N * CO.S'
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Georgo-street,
Established 1864.
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OP
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guaranteed.
C. W. ROBERTS
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only |9«,
Small Bottle, , is. 64.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
Prom Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
1*. 8d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. par Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORTl
Is. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Botties, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN-IN FLASKS,
Ir, 9(3. each.
The Key Brand, and Henkes Prize Medal Brand,
In atone bottles and square bottles,
lARGBET BIZI.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
C. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
■TDNET.
M. J. Bernier, editor of L’Independant,
a vigorous Radical journal of New Caledonia, and
who, by the way, puts his name to his own artl-
TH1 RAIB8 OT SUBSCRIPTION to THB BJCLLBTIW
ar»— For one year, 24b.; half-year, 128. 6d.,
quarter, 6a. 6d.—In advance.
Thm Advertising Rates are 6s. per Inch S
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per Inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
yertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inaer-
tlons, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions!
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 26 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under XL, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
cles, ridicules the N.S.W. Executive Council for
raising Cor sensational purposes the bugbear that
in Sydney and Its environs there are 400 criminals
from New Caledonia. The Inspector-General ol
Police in Sydney Is given as the authority the
Government followed. M. Bernier has consulted
the prison records at Noumea. He shows that the
total number of convicts who are entered as
“absent 1 ' on the prison registers since the origin
of transportation is under 400. Of these the
largest part went to France, a good proportion to
America, and the balance to various parts of Aus-
tralasia. He thinks it likely that there are as
many of this third moiety in Queensland and Vic-
toria as in New South Wales. The article proves
clearly that the police authorities in Sydney have
blundered hugely, and have led the Government
into a foolish fix.
The New York Times has a quaint hu-
mourist in Mr. Alden, whose contributions are
much copied in the Australian papers. He “ sails
so close to the wind,” as a sailor would say, that
his Jokes are often taken in earnest. He should
put under them a nota hene, in Artemus
Ward’s style, that they might not mislead. Our
contemporaries have been copying, as real fact,
his terse humorous story of a sea surgeon sup-
plying a lost human eye by one taken from a rab-
bit. The veriest tyro in anatomical knowledge
would know the Impossibility of such a thing.
Not only has it been accepted as veritable fact, but
the occasion has been “improved,” as parsons
say, by the suggestions made that the superior
powers of vision possessed by different animals
might be, by such grafting, given to man. One
eye which seems wanting in such commentators
is that which can see a joke.
It is much better not to drink at all if you
cannot obtain the genuine Wolfe’s Schnapps,
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a superlative tonic
and anti-dyspeptic cordial with a pure spirituous
basis.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a good medicinal
beverage for regulating the organs of the body.
Be sure you obtain Wolfe’s.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is an excellent specific
for indigestion, rheumatism, and gout. Obtain
Wolfe’s, accept nothing else.
If a man tells you he keeps the best
brands just look if he has Wolfe’s Schnapps. It
not he has told you an untruth.
To protect the system from influences, and
for bracing’ up the nervous system use the cele-
brated Wolfes Schnapps.
Weak and nervous invalids will be bene-
fltted by taking that world-famed tonic Wolfe's
Schnapps. Demand Wolfe’s.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is held in high esteem
by medical men, as it is the purest stimulant and
tonic in the world.
“ The summer pants,” the poet wrote,
Then paused in admiration.
To contemplate the cunning phrase,
His own, his last creation.
“ Ah, summer pants!” his friend replied,
“ There is an exhibition
Of these at Summerfleld and Co. S
Which laughs at competition.”*
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a mild aromatic
stimulant, and is essentially suited to this climate.
Ask for Wolfe’s.
In this colony, where climatic changes oc-
cur so often, a gentle stimulant like Wolfe’s
Schnapps is needed.
It is singular how blind people are to their
own interests, by selling imitations of the genuine
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
It is said that some people have no con-
science. It must be true, or Wolfe’s Schnapps
would not be pirated as it is.
We are at a loss to know why people
should allow themselves to be imposed upon by
imitations of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
If you cannot get Wolfe’s Schnapps in
one house it is much better for you to go where
you can get it.
assistance ? Apart from this aspect of the ques-
tion, surely it is loyalty run mad to say that Mr.
Cameron was guilty of disloyalty to the Queen
because he happened to say what no doubt he
believed to be the truth respecting the Governor 1
If Mr. Cameron or any other man thinks that the
actions of a Governor indicate that that august
functionary is an authority on Polish pullets, but
Is unable to detect a Popish plot, and is ignorant
of the ways of political poltroons and puppets,
certainly in a country like this, where we boast of
our freedom, that man has a right to express his
opinion, even though in doing so he may violate
the canons of good taste and judgment. It is this
quack loyalty that forbids any comment other
than by way of praise on the Sovereign-a Sove-
reign but in name, so far as Australia is concerned
—or her representative here, which is to elevate
this country into a nation—so we are told! A
nation of miserable, servile toadies I Will young
Australia allow herself to be forced into such a
despicable position ?
“No Man can Serve Two Masters”
« show us the corruption,” yells the Sydney
ECHO “ cricket” In Tuesday’s issue, when dealing
with the case of Mr. Waterpipe Wright. To
this we reply It is not necessary to do so to secure
the Minister’s condemnation. All that is necessary
is to show that Mr. Wright, by occupying two
positions, has frequently, as Minister, to decide
upon matters affecting his own interest. If he
were called as one of the jury in a case in which
he was defendant, it would not be necessary to
prove corruption in order to prevent his
sitting as a juryman. The very fact that
he hid a personal interest In the decision
would be enough to prevent him from sitting
in judgment. And so in like manner, we say, the
mere fact that he is trying to serve two masters,
the State and his firm, is (or ought to be) of
itself, without any corruption, sufficient to en-
sure his dismissal from office. The special-
pleading “ cTioket” says the colony has outgrown
the Constitution Act. So it has. Political offences
of this type were meant to be included in that
38th clause, but the Act never contemplated the
growth of companies such as that of Wright,
Heaton and Co„ nor was it framed in anticipa-
tion of the fact that the State would control the
railways. That Mr. Wright has not sooner been
dismiased from office, shows that the majority of
members have been more charitable than ener-
getic.
The Lieutenant.
To return to Lieut. Mulholland, whose portrait
is printed on our first page to-day. Accused of
cowardice in the Soudan, be demanded an investi-
gation, which .was denied him, owing to his ac-
cuser’s refusing to furnish particulars. Wo think
Mulholland a sufficiently brave man, who, like
many before him, has been Pelted with mud
through the embrasures of the stronghold of Par-
liamentary privilege-and licence. Quite
ago the writer of this served with him in New
Zealand. He name, we think, from Victoria, as a
soldier in the 4th Waikato militia. He was a non-
commissioned officer when we knew him-a posi-
tion he would not have held for a < lay had he not
shown in various skirmishes that Nature,when she
took in hand the job of making him, had mixed
a bit of pluck with the materials. The name
he really had was that of being one of the
strictest sub-officers in the corps. That re-
putation he no doubt kept up in the Contin-
gent.” Men courageous at 20 .do not become
poltroons at 40. In a regiment of old and highly
disciplined soldiers—men trained for years to un-
questioning obedience —we are certain that Mul-
holland would have been considered a brave
officer. But what chance of escaping calumny
had anyone who attempted to do his duty in a
corps composed of the most heterogenous ma-
terials, brought together in a harry and placed in
the field with no proper training? None what-
ever. To think that men of mature age, most
of whom had all their lives enjoyed unbounded
liberty, could be turned at once into sol-
diers. and taught to comply unhesitatingly
with the orders of those placed over them, is to
suppose that human nature is entirely different
from what it is. In the rumours concerning the
conduct, not of Mulhol'and alone, but of other
officers of the Contingent, we at first placed little
credence. Now, we place none at all. It is con-
trary to the rules of the (service-imperial or
Colonial—for soldiers to write to the Press on
matters connected with discipline. But, since
their return, we have met many of the officers
of this ill-advised expedition, and not one had
the least belief in Mulholland’s cowardice
no, not one.
CORRESPONDENCE
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“ Hiram Abiff Your lament concerning
the blindness and laziness of voters is short of the
truth. The results of their stupidity are now to
be seen in Macquarie-street, Sydney...." R.H.”;
Pooh! You are a caviller. Even if the Soudan
Expedition did cost £150,000, look at the glory we
got for it 1 You must remember, too, that glory
is a luxury in these days and has to be paid for “ as
sich.”...." Pen ” (Windsor): Your metre Is not
Tennysonlan, although some of the ideas are wor-
thy of a better setting. The verse about the
nomination of some councillors to the Kamschat-
kan House of Lords illustrate our opinion—
“ Weep for them not, they were prepared
For the Upper Chamber, none
Half so fit as they already
In the upper story gone.”
“ B.A.J.”: Not one man out of ten goes regu-
larly to a place of worship to listen to sermons,
but nine men out of ten take the morning paper,
and unconsciously form their codes of morals
from it. If it were not for the few fervent
preachers we have in Australia, the pulpit would
become as obsolete an institution as the pillory.
And even these have to depend upon the Press for
the wide diffusion of their thoughts. But the
Press must be progressive; or it is a curse instead
of a blessing. Happily, no paper can exist and
keep very far behind the age. It must move in
the van or the rear of the procession—as a
crowned conqueror in the front, or as a chained
captive at the hindmost end of the triumphal march
of mind. Your judgment that we would prefer a
testimonial to our own humble efferts to take the
shape of a Ci.sk of beer, does equal credit to your
bead and heart. Send it along soon—“Tempus
Fuglt You ask us what we tnink of Bret Harte.
We think—to parody an old joke—that he is a
middle-aged man. Why don’t you ask us what we
think of Shakespeare or Burton’s “Anatomy of
Melancholy ? ”.. “ C. Maglin We are afraid that a
BUI for the amalgamation of the legal professions.
If passed, could have effect only so far as the
lawyers pleased to let it. The legal professions
are already amalgamated—as against the public...
“ J.P.T.O.”: The next N.8.W. general election will
take place before the end of December next. (3)
Manhood suffrage is the law in N.8.W. (3) There
is no Liberal party in N.S.W.; the colony is at
present being governed in the interest of land
syndicates, limited liability companies, and obso-
lete laws....“Tom Young”: Unintelligible....
“S.E.”: You are a cool hand. You say; “I con-
sider my par. much superior in all respects than
the above,” &c. You also remark: “ There was a
deal of literary merit in my par; there is little or
none in yours.” We don’t remember your para-
graph... “Siverton”: We, of course, don’t know
how the Mount Morgan jumping-case will end.
The title of the jumpers must be thought by some
people to be pretty good, since a one twenty-
eighth share has been sold by them for £80C0—
“J.H.W.”: We got on nicely with your verse till
we came to the lines:
"If forgetfulness sits at the prow, our hearts
’twill safely steer
Along the true, unruffled course, marked by that
word forbear.”
Our heart has not the new steering-apparatus
which is worked from the prow, consequently we
stopped here “Donald 8.”: It was necessary to
put so many blanks in your lines that we found It
easier to make one blank of the lot ...“W.L.B.”
(Toorak): Not force enough. Such a subject re-
quires strong treatment “ S.N.”: Not quite “ up
to the knocker.”—“ A. Philistine ”; Thanks. We
are always glad'of good cuttings —"J.J.” (Mar-
rlokvllle): You can t write poetry, or at least you
have not yet sent us any of it. In this verso, for
instance, you make language subserve your
rhyme, and the result is not pleasing—
" That morn she laid in the cold grave
What God had taken, and God had gave—
The winner of her once young heart,
But now for ever they must part.”
If you have any more of this on hand send it to
the Town and Kuntry Jbrnei,....“ Sophona”
(Gippsland, Victoria); Thanks. Neither contri-
bution quite suitable—“T.M.”: Try again.....
“ Correspondent” (Walgett) ; Even if a bank clerk
in the Northern district, is booking-clerk to a
coaching firm, and another is accountant at a fruit
stall, we don’t see that they need censure. Fruit
is a good thing in a hot climate like yours. He is
better there than mashing the poundkeeper’s
daughter, or the bellman’s wife “ Lux”| (Clon-
curry, Q.) : Your social item is welcome, as is
your letter. With regard to the Soudan farce,
time was when we were writing against the feel-
ing of the majority ; now, since the excitement
has abated, the great majority heartily coincides
with us. No candidate at next election will dare
mention the goat expedition, except to condemn
Its authors. If you care to write us your ideas re
coloured labour and I separation, in the com-
pass of a par., we will try to find room for them
“C. O’Mick”: Manuscript to hand, but you have
forgotten to send the jokes with it—“Young
Australian”: Thanks. Have we not seen your
writing before? “M. Dodds”: Beach’s refusal
to row Matterson for the championship unless the
latter puts down £500 in stakes is, in our opinion,
a most unsportsmanlike proceeding. The British
championship has, we believe, always carried £300
only, and we think the figure should be stuck to.
“ Annotator ” writes: “ You might have sat still
harder on the Melbourne Argus for speaking of
the plot of Anstey’s ‘Tinted Venus’ as being
‘ surprisingly quaint and novel.’ It was inclined
to be ibald-headed even when William Morris
wrote his ‘ Earthly Paradise,’ for Tom Moore, in
his ‘ Tale of a Ring,’ published 1803, treats of a
similar incident, and acknowledges having copied
the idea from the work of an old German author,
Promman, on ‘ Fascination; * and Fromman him-
self bad it second-hand from a mediaeval ink-
slinger named Beluaoensis. Nihil sub sole— the
proverb Is something musty.”
Civilization Progresses In Westorn Queensland.
THE HON. SECRETARY OF THE BALL-COMMITTEE, WITH STERN DECISION, DRAWS THE
LINE AT SINGLETS,


Personal Items
Bishop Torreggiani (R.C.), of Armldale,
N.S.W, weighs eighteen stone. How strangely
protracted fasting affects some people I
The honoured name of Henty is identical
with the foundation of the colony of Vietoria.
Wc are sorry to hear of the pecuniary misfortunes
of one of its members.
Mr. Dion Bouoieault will treat the Sydney
public to his drama “The Jilt,” on Saturday
night. Dion didn’t put on “The Jilt" until he
had got safely married.
George Augustus Sala, passing through
Atlanta while Buffalo Bill’s troupe of Indians were
parading the streets, printed in his book on Ame-
rica that “ Indians in their native costumes and
armed with tomahawks might be seen lounging on
the streets of Atlanta.”
From Saturday’s S.M, Herald:—“David-
son— Sunday, July 17,1813, at 3.30 p.m,, at the City-
road, London, England, the wife of Mr. Francis
Burnand Davidson, of a son; and at 8.40 a.m.,
Wednesday, 33rd September, 1885, at D’Bresby Cot-
tage, Waverley Heights, Cowper-street, Waverley,
N.S.W.> the wife of Mr. Francis Burnand David-
son, of a son.”
Victor Hugo’s insane daughter has not
been told of her father’s death. When she asks
for him she is told that he was there only yester-
day, and cannot come every day; and then she
believes she has seen him, and goes away con-
tented, for it is a peculiar feature of her dementia
that she believes whatever is told her. What a
pity it is for the clergy that everybody isn’t like
Miss Hugo I
Grant was not a man to waste powder.
When ho received news of Sherman’s capture ol
Atlanta he was besieging Richmond. He at once
telegraphed Sherman: “I have just received your
dispatch announcing the capture of Atlanta. In
honour of your great victory I have ordered t
salute of shotted guns to be fired from every bat-
tery bearing on the enemy. The salute will com-
mence within an hour, amid great rejoicing.”
“ Annuitants live long ” is a saying which
will hold good in any climate. And an example
thereof was the late Mrs. Susannah Mileham
widow of Assistant-Surgeon Mileham, who shuf-
fled olf this mortal coil at the Oaks, near Camden
(N.8.W.), at the venerable age of 80 years. The
deceased lady had been in receipt of an annuitj
from the N.S.W. Government of £100 since Sep
tember, 1834, and, consequently, had been paid just
£6000 by the Treasury.
We read that “ the barmaids of Towns-
ville, Charters Towers, and Cooktown, are going 1o
present Mr. Griffith, the Queensland Premier, with
a smoking-cap and pair of slippers, ornamented
with Torres Straits pearls, in recognition of his
noble defence of their characters, when in the
House he declared that the presence of females in
bars acted as brakes on bad language, and that
some of the most worthy ladles he had met in
Queensland were at some one time compelled to
earn honest bread by serving behind a bar.”
The Sydney Evening News says that one
of the friends of Mrs. Hampson, the comely and
eloquent lady-evangelist now in England, has re
cently received a letter from her asserting that
the rumour as to her marriage is untrue, and that
she has no Intention whatever of re-entering the
holy bonds. Many “ Christian young men” in
Australia became victims at the shrine of thif
fascinating widow, whose bonnets were poems
and who (no doubt, unconsciously) ‘'mashed”
while she converted, and crumpled up a fellow’s
heart while she whitened his soul.
The official title of the successor to Mr.
Hutton, of Brisbane, is “ State Executioner and
Scourger to the Queensland Government.” He is p
high-toned gentleman of military experience and
unimpeachable character. At his own particular
request his name is withheld. He made the sup-
pression of his name before the public a condition
of his acceptance of his high office. This, of
course, does not moan that he will deny to tht
Premier, and otherlexalted individuals, during the
hours he devotes to relaxation in their society, the
privilege of addressing him by the family cog-
nomen. It is the lips or the canaille he declines to
let slobber his patronymic.
That delectable peer the Duke of Marl-
borough must have married his paramour, Lady
Aylesford, for. In a London paper, we read ol
“ Lady Randolph Churchill, accompanied by the
Duchess of Marlborough,” doing something or
another. By-the-way, what is the name of Lady
Aylesford’s Infant son, whose claim to the title
and estates of her dead husband she so Impudently
put forward ? As the House of Peers decided that
his worthy grace of Marlborough was father to
the child, born while his mother was legally united
to the Earl of Aylesford, the youngster will grow
up to find himself with ducal parents and yet un-
able to claim any name or title as his own.
Maori members of the New Zealand Par-
liament address the House in their own language.
Interpreters are employed to make necessary ex-
planations. The custom was, however, broken
through one night lately. Parata, a member from
the South, rose to rebut some charges of incon-
sistency. There was no interpreter in the House
His spirit was up and he would not wait. He
therefore launched into English. It Is immaterial
what the subject was. His opening words were:
“ I voted for Pyke for him to get the money. You
knock it oil him, you knock it oif the lot.” It was
the first time a Maori member had ever addressed
the House in the English language, and the ven-
ture was met with protracted cheering.
The Age London correspondent has been
reiving on evening papers for his news. Evening
papers everywhere are, of course, most reliable
authorities. In the case of Mr. Murray Smith's
intended resignation, the London Globe was,
however, all wrong. We thought so when not
reading the news in the Argus. Smith is an
executor of a late proprietor of that journal,
which would bo first to know of his movements
He is not likely to come back in a hurry, when
there is something to wait for. His two prede-
cessors Verdon and Michie, came back handi-
capped with knighthoods, while he is only at
present a miserable C.M.G. His second term of
office expires next year, and then Victoria will
probably see Sir Murray’s return.
Rumour says that that ready debater,
David Gaunson, M.L.A., of Victoria, contem-
plates migrating to. his native place, Sydney.
David has contrived to get himself disliked by the
conventional newspapers, and no wonder. He is a
cultivated Radical, and a much better speaker
than any the N.S.W. Assembly can boast. He 13 a
wit in his way, and has a sufficiently venomous
tongue which is a thorn in the side of his enemies.
As N 8 W. has of late imported so many Victorian
Journalists and lawyers, she might now take over
a few of the keenest of the southern politicians,
beginning, say, with that keen-witted, good-
natured soul, David Gaunson, with the face of
a Rochefort and the beard of a French artist.
The continued incarceration in Melbourne
Gaol of the “Reverend ” Peter Campbell is kind-
limr a slight blush on the face of our legal in-
telligence. It is evident that the man never will
be able to obtain the securities for good behaviour
demanded by the law. What then ? Is he to sit
in a ceil there until the sceptic has passed from
England, and the enlightened Chinese become the
rulers of the earth ? Jurists should be able to de-
vise something more rational. Peter has sup-
Eorted the situation long enough. The country
as supported Peter long enough. Is there not
a paddock somewhere in which he would be harm-
less ? He has been tried long enough as a prisoner
on hominy. He should have a turn as a Nebu-
chadnezzar on grass.
“Dr.” L. L. Smith, of Melbourne, is
making his “ footprints in the sands of time,”
andjthe only fear is that they will be taken for
camel-tracks. An enthusiastic admirer of his (a
wonderful cure, perhaps) has written to Have
Rum Hot the Prince of Wales asking the latter
to recognise L. L. as the Executive Commissioner
for Victoria in London, in connection with the
Colonial and Indian Exhibition. There was a re-
ply to this, but It must be mysterious, as it has
been sent in to the Victorian Government for
elucidation. Probably one of Smith’s “ads.”
Slipped into the letter, and 11.R.H.’s answer is to
the effect that he doesn’t get any of those dizzy
fits, that he does feel well, and further, that
he is “ looking into his heart and writing like fury
all the time.”
Miss Alice Sydney Burvet is showing the
determination, if no other quality, of genius. She
went down to the Melbourne Athemeum a week
ago and attacked Beethoven, and Chopin, and
Schumann, and Mendelssohn in a flagrantly daring
way. If the Age is to be credited, her perform-
ance amounted to something like assault and bat-
tery. It credits her with executive power,
but charges her with incorrect notes, incor-
rect tempi, and eccentricities of reading. Miss
Burvett should settle down to work care-
fully for a time. If these criticisms be
correct she is reaching the stage at which
she will take rank as a pianiste even below second
class. Her Sydney performances, when she first
came out, faulty in parts as they were, showed
promise of an artiste in whom Australia might
take pride.
The Liberator says“ It is expected Mr.
Charles Bradlaugh, who boldly stands out from
millions of his fellowmen as the boldest champion
of liberty and progression this age has produced,
will be elected for East Finsbury in addition to
faithful Northampton, and will, without trouble,
take his seat In tne new Parliament that will meet
in February, 1886. The first session of this Parlia-
ment will end in the following August, and pro-
viding his seat is beyond dispute, we trust Mr.
Bradlaugh will be able to leave at the fag end of
the session in July. Arriving in Melbourne by
mail steamer, it is projected thot his tour shall
commence In that city of bigotry and democracy;
from thence to Sydney, and, if time (permits, the
northern towns of N.S.W. to Brisbane; thence to
New Zealand, and from there to Adelaide and
home.”
It is cabled on the 25th September—by
Reuteri—that “Mr. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.P.,
of Sydney, sailed .by the P. and O. Company’s
steamer Chusan yesterday, on his return to New
South Wales.” All this glory is paid for by some-
body—we shall possibly be able to sec him soon—
at the rate of eight and fourpence a word. “ One
touch of nature,” etc., and so it comes about that
Reuter, who is a Baron himself, hastens to
Sydney Morning Herald the advent of this
obscure ex-proprletor of a flve-cent. whisky-mill,
Roberts (C.M G.), who, though he may be a very
honest and respectable person Indeed, has never in
all bis life said or done anything which, in our
opinion, entitles his approaching return to be
made the subject of an announcement that takes
a way our appetite as we Inspect the morning paper
at breakfast-time.
Ellen Sullivan electrified the “beak,” at
the Melbourne City Court, with the information
that she is married to the Duke of Edinburgh, and
that her noble husband is anxiously seeking his
long lost love. She had previously explained her
conjugal relations to Sir Henry Loch, and so
shocked him that he gave her in charge. Poor
Ellen I Possibly the amiable Edinburgh did smile
at her—ho smiled at a lot of them—upon the occa-
sion of that never-to-be-forgotten visit. She was
young then. But, judging from a passing glance
at the fair Ellen’s face, we resolutely refuse to be-
lieve that his Royal Highness is looking for her
now. , The Duchess isn’t exactly a fairy, out she’s
certainly a better-looking woman than Ellen. This
may partly be accounted for by the fact that the
one dwells in marble halls, while the other sells
boot-laces at Ballarat.
By 25 votes to 13 the Queensland Parlia-
ment has passed a grant of £1000 to the widow of
the late Judge Prlng. The Premier and the leader
of the Opposition voted with the majority. The
late Judge arrived in Queensland 38 years ago, and
for many years led the Bar of that colony. He
was an able man, of strong impulses and great
vehemence. He had weaknesses of the convivial
kind. These he was accustomed to atone for by
public protestations that he would sin no more.
The protestations were periodic, and needed to be.
He was twice appointed to the Judicial Bench.
He resigned on the first occasion to go to the Bar
on behalf of some old friends. His second ap-
pointment was much cavilled at, and was finally
secured by a stratagem. He possessed many ad-
mirable personal q ualities, and, although not the
type of man to be set up as a model, he com-
manded a good deal of general affection.
Sala, iu a letter to the Argus modestly
stated, that among other accomplishments, he
possessed the useful and beautiful art of “ cursing
fluently in six languages.” Heaven send we way
never be cursed by George. But a word in your
ear, G.A.8.; we know a little nine-stone cedar-
cutter on the Clarence, who can find backers in his
own country, willing to make a match. He’d beat
you “with one'hand.” He only knows English,
but in profanity ranks M.A. Listen. His mate
has lost his grip with the handspike and while
bearing the whole weight of a three-foot log he
speaks: “Jump; you jump take hold quick,
set a light to y' 1 wish you was lashed be-
tween the (adjective) hind hocks of Satan, with a
red-hot chain cable, so far down in gory Gehenna
that the white winged angels couldn't see y’ with a
tallowscope.” Then he turned his quid, spat on his
bands and chopped the sharp end off a soldier-ant
prior to dropping the balance in his mate’s shirt.
Some of the Queensland papers became
unreasonably angry when Government decided to
add one more pensioner to the State list. The new
honourman had grown grey in the duties of his
office. No one had ever charged him with allow-
ing fear, favour, or personal interest to warp his
judgment or soil his conscience in the performance
of his onerous functions. With grey hair came
feebleness, however. The spiritual part stayed
strong, but the physical part decayed. He could
no longer draw the blood copiously. He could no
longer peel the skin cleanly. His hand shook
when adjusting the nocse. His arms trembled
when straining the rope. Bis feet tottered about
gallows and triangles. It was evident that the
noonday vigour of Hutton, the hangman, was
gone for ever. It was at this pass the Queensland
overnment resolved to .give him a niche in the
Pantheon of State pensioners, and to enter his
name, with £L a week to its credit, on the lumin-
ous scroll devoted to those who have worked
faithfully in the service of their country. Pride,
not anger, wells from the news
Daring the recent drought, carriage was
very high, and consequently the necessaries of
life were very much enhanced la value, so much
so, that the Thargomindah (W.Q) hotelkeepers
were compelled to put an additional 35 per cent,
on their charges for board and lodging. This was
felt very severely by a clerk in one of the banks,
In receipt of the proverbially miserable salary. He
consulted with the local manager, who recognised
the justice of bis claim, and the result was that a
letter was sent to the general manager, with a re-
commendation from the local manager, asking for
an Increase. Judge the disgust of the unfortunate
clerk when he received a reply as follows:—” I am
in receipt of your application for an increase in
salary, and while you have mv sympathy, I can-
not at present recommend an increase. However,
I have it on reliable authority that the drought is
now almost at an end, and we may expect a
copious downfall of the precious element at any
moment, when things will, doubtless, return to
their normal condition.” How is it, we wonder,
that the snuffler who wrote that letter didn’t drag
in something about the goodness of Divine Pro-
vidence ?
The Bega Gazette, commenting (in a
leader too) upon some attacks made by the Stand-
ard of that ilk on the conduct of J udge M'Far-
land, asserts that his Honor asked the Attorney-
General to file a criminal information against the
paper, but that this was the Minister’s reply:—
1 The Attorney-General dors not think It advis-
able to take action against a hole-and-corner
journal that few people ever saw.” We have our
doubts—strong doubts—as to the authenticity of
this reply; its terms are not sufficiently precise to
prove its origin from a Ministerial brain, and its
denunciation of the Standard smacks strongly
of pars, concerning “our contemporary,” which
have formerly appeared in the Gazette. Still, so
much has been hinted, so much even asserted by
South Coast journals to the detriment of bis
Honor’s reputation, that, without believing a
word of any of the yarns, we are at one with the
Standard in regarding it as imperative in the
public interest that either by commission, as in
the Northern district case, or in some other
thorough manner, the many flying rumours as-
sociated with Judge M’Farland’s name be search-
ingly dealt with.
Judge Windeyer, of Sydney, remarks the
Liberator, Is a study. Men wonder at times if
the elevating glow of liberalism controls his life,
when he boldly shows his hatred of clericalism in
its many devious windings. But ho mars his good
deeds by narrow-minded actions and bitter vin-
dictiveness. We find him extending hospitality to
Gerald Massey, and evincing bis comradeship with
the poet’s exposures of the mummeries and super-
stitions of the Christian mythology. Then he
bursts forth against the Liberator and its editor,
and . . . Changing again his front he boldly
saves our University from the sway of eccleslas-
tloism, displaying great diplomacy and unflinch-
ingly meeting the hostile criticism of the Press and
pulpit. After which be satisfied his unbalanced
mind by[aidlng!a!narrow set of bigots who cried:
“the people’s mind is being demoralised; a great
public institution, subsidised by the Government,
is being made the medium for the propagation
of vile and pernicious doctrines, by the Free-
thinkers.” The Telegraph echoes the parrot
cry; the Telegraph snivels for the Judge’s
prompt aid, and Mr. Windeyer does his best to
crush the Debating Club of the School of Arts.
In Hotham (Melb.), not long since, there
lived an Irishman named Ryan. This frolicsome
Hibernian had a penchant for going to
funerals, and gloried in attending all the
wakes that were held around his neigh-
bourhood. He was suddenly seized with an
attack of sickness, from which the doctor told
him he would never recover. On hearing this un-
welcome announcement, be at once sent a messen-
ger post-haste for the local priest. When the
latter arrived, the sick man begged the doctor to
leave the room, as.he had some information he
wished to impart to his reverence in private.
When the two were left alone, Ryan told his
spiritual adviser that he sincerely wished that, if
he were to die, his death would take place on a
Friday, as “ Sunday was the best day for a big
funeral,” and he was anxious that a prayer should
be offered up in order that his desire might be
gratified. When the next Friday came round the
eccentric fellow breathed his last, and on the next
Sabbath day his remains were followed to the
grave by one of the largest concourses of people
that ever assembled at a funeral in North Mel
bourne. We wonder if his soul rejoiced accord-
ingly.
Two items of news from America willcause
remarks from many. We may wonder what has
driven the genial Will Carleton to suicide ? It is
far Indeed from what would be expected of the
humourist of the “ Farm Ballads ” and “ Farm
Festivals ’—books which have delighted tens of
thousands. The other item is that of rumours ol
resignation of Plymouth Church pulpit by the
famous Henry Ward Beecher. It was well-known
to yield him £5000 a year. Such a step might have
been thought less of twelve years ago, when the
Tilton divorce suit, in which the reverend gentle-
man figured so conspicuously, was so much before
the public. One of the rumours of cause for such
resignation is that Beecher “ has lost all his
money.” He was thought to make as much by
lecturing as by preaching, and was a certain
“ draw ” on all occasions. It was always a mystery
to his friends what became of Beecher’s money—
he was chronically in monetary straits —large as was
bis income. Lord Brougham’s saying that some men
are “ perversely unfortunate ” might be applied to
him in the aspect of his prevalent and unaccount-
able poverty. Twice, when In the States, we went
to Brooklyn to listen to a Beecher sermon. It was
only on the second occasion that we found even
standing room. Seats were always at a premium
to hear the floridly-eloquent Ward Beecher.
There are a few American newspapers
who don’t worship at the shrine of military suc-
cess to the extent of regarding Wellington as
greater than Julius Caeaar or Napoleon, or of set-
ting General Grant and Von Moltke on the same
pedestal. Here, for Instance, is a bit o r “ the
other side”:—“ Ulysses Simpson is dead, and the
newspapers are singing his praises, telling us be
was the greatest General America ever produced,
and all that sort of thing. Of course, such talk
hurts nobody and makes bis friends feel good, but
nevertheless there is no truth in the statement, for
with the exception of Irwin M‘Dowell and Am-
brose E. Burnside, the army of the Potomac never
had a poorer commander than Grant. M’Clellan,
Hooker, and Meade were his superiors in every
sense or the word, and if it had not been that his
army outnumbered Lee’s five to one, he never
would have defeated the Confederates. The fact
is he never did defeat them, for the rebellion died
a natural death. In the battle of the Wilderness,
he admits losing five to the enemy's one: he, how-
ever, lost seven to one. Is that generalship, where
in an open country one general loses seven to an-
other’s one ? We think not. It looks to us like
main strength and ignorance. Grant, although a
failure both as a soldier and statesman, was pos-
sessed of a fearful amount of gall, and was not
the greatest general, but the luckiest man America
ever produced.”
Captain Armit thus addresses us“ Cook-
town, 19th September, 1885. My Dear Bulletin,—
You have allowed a par. of old Independent
Fowler’s to lead you astray. 1 have not been
posing for the bear garden. I may when in the
sere and yellow leaf, but hardly while New Guinea
is unexplored. What do you mean by a fiasco ? I
happen to have gone farther inland than any other
explorer, and my farthest has to be beaten. Since
then I did 8.B. New Guinea and the Louisiades on
my own book, and alone I explored most
islands and part of the S E. Peninsula. I lived two
months in the village Captain Filer was murdered
at, and the natives, although cannibals, didn’t eat
me. I saw them kill, cook, and eat one man and a
baby. Nice sight, that I Returned here after
seven months’ scooting round; lost the whole of
my large collection by shipwreck near Teste
Island, and landed here nearly dead of fever.
Have got round again. Have been running the
Courier for two months, and now want to take
an expedition over if I can get one, but I do not
want a mob of new chums. Three men, myself,
and one scientist will do, and I think (' though 1
says it as oughtn’t to ’) that there are few others
who know more about the island than I do. Now
you know what I’ve been about. The holes were
none of my making, and if 1 fell through I have
come out at the bottom end, only, however, to
climb up again as fresh as paint. I have written
my last trip, and want a publisher. Thanks for
kindly expressions, and believe me, dear Bull.,
yours to a cinder, 7 illiam E. Armit.”
The Rev. J. J. Westwood, one of the oldest
of Australia’s bush missionaries, is now in Rock-
hampton (Q.) He proposes going westward again
when he has emptied a few bushels of talk into
the capacious ears of the dwellers by the sea. It
was a general thing, some years ago in the West
of Queensland, to find the Rev. Peter Campbell,
now of Melbourne Gaol, going out of one end of a
town while the Rev. J. J. came in at the other.
They were industrious apostles. They did not nap
if the sun shone. Wherever they met a digger or
busbman they balled him up and poured grace
into him. They would wind up the machinery
with a request to come and hear the sermon in the
tent or shed in the night. We remember th<s Rev.
Westwood giving Invitations to what he con-
sidered a tearing sermon one day in Copperfleld, a
little mining town some four miles from Cler-
mont. Miners are always ready to roll up for
a sermon or anything else that can be
called “tearing.” It must have been on a long
time when we went in. The Rev. J. J. was stand-
ing there, dropping a word every now and then,
apparently tired, but evidently determined to do
his duty. And the miners—well, they were astride
forma in knots of threes and fours, each with one
eye on the parson and the other on white coins
alongside. A couple of old watches were in the
hands of each group. “Another bob that he
doesn’t last two minutes more,” a man would say.
Taken. “A half-crown that he bursts in five
minutes.” Taken. “ A bob that he doesn’t say
‘ Hell ’ in the next ten words.” Taken; and as
many more taken. The fact was that the sermon
was not a “tearing” one, and when the first dis-
appointment was over the miners gradually and
unconsciously dropped into a friendly game of
speculation on bow long the entertainment would
last.
A piece of fashionable intelligence of
more than ordinary moment comes to us from
Shoalhaven (N.S.W.) At Nowra a Professor
Josephs appears to reside. What he professes is
not quite certain—Indeed the Shoalhaven News
leaves us in the dark as to whether high art or
hair-splitting engroses the Professor’s talents.
Judging, however, by the fact of his having
treated the Nowra band to an oyster-supper at
“his saloon in Kinghorn-street,” it is probable
thattonsorial manipulation is the calling to which
he devotes his talents. “ The band marched down
the main street to the residence of the Professor
and played some very nice airs.” Any band
should be able to play “nice airs” with the
prospect of oysters and stout before them. What
we would like to know—a point on which
the News is aggravatlngly silent—is how they
played when they were coming away ? Did each
musician stick to the instrument with which he
started from home, or did the artist who usually
expressed his views through the cornet vent his
feelings through; the trombone on the return
Journey, while the person who defied the
neighbourhood through the latter instrument
sought some relaxation with the big drum ?
Mr. Leeming was in the chair, while Ser-
geant Melville sat opposite. The chairman pro-
posed the Professor’s health, remarking with
touching originalty, that “ he was a Jolly good fel
low,” and by his action in inviting the band to
supper, showed “ the interest he took in the
musie.” We’ve been in Nowra, and heard the
band play. From our remembrance of the
clever manner in which “The other side
of Jordan” was given, we would be .within
the mark in saying that whatever interest
Professor Josephs took in music before the supper
was converted into a love for silence after. But
stay, he might be deaf. We believe he is. The
man who takes an interest in music after sitting
out one performance by the Nowra band is a per-
son to be avoided. We nearly forgot. The Pro-
fessor himself proposed " the health of the
bandsmen, and prosperity to the Press.” Music
and literature in the same breath I We’ve heard
the Nowra band. If we could now see the Nowra
Press, death would have no terror for us.
A N.Z. correspondent thus addresses us :—
“Mr. John Duncan, a bald-headed Scotchman,
lives in a cottage built by himself in the vicinity
of one of the hot lakes in N.Z. Some time ago
John had an attack of rheumatism in bis right ear
which stiffened one of his hands to such an extent
that it became completely useless as a fly-flapper,
so he went to the Hot Lake country to be cured,
and soon found the sulphurous mud-baths so
beneficial that both ears became endowed with
greater activity and alertness than ever, and the
flies that used to torment him had to keep their
distance and survey his bald head regretfully from
afar. Out of gratitude to the bustling and ener-
getic mud-bole that bad wrought such an effectua.
cure in bis auricular organ, Mr. Duncan erected a
comfortable cottage beside it (the aforesaid mud-
hole) and squatted down to pass the re-
mainder of his days in ease and sulphurous
tranquillity on the spot. He had not, however
been iong settled in his home, when the mud vol-
cano shifted its quarters and took out a fresh
lease with renewed activity under the floor of the
house. Had this happened jn our case, we would,
in all probability, havp regarded the
ances as a gentle hint to quit, but Mr. lJunoan
is an Aberdonian, and saw at a glance the advan-
tages in the saving of firewood and coals likely to
result from this novel, it somewhat infernal, house-
warmer. He accordingly, nothing daunted, set to
work and made a square hole in the floor, where
his hearth had been, and he now makes bis por-
ridge and cooks his meats in the boiling cauldron
below. When we visited him lately he was sitting
comfortably in his arm-chair, smoking his
pipe, and warming his toes at the Infernal orifice
under his chimney. The atmosphe.-e was somewhat
sulpherous and suggestive of future experiences,
but John did not seem to mind it, and we rather
think that Old Nick, should he ever have the hand-
ling of him, will find this bald-headed Scotchman
a difficult subject to deal with. It was rattier a
gruesome experience to sit there and listen to the
spluttering, bubbling, gurgling, and hissing noises
emanating from below, but when our host pro-
duced a bottle of whisky we became reconciled to
the situation, and spent a very agreeable evening
Indeed. We shall probably pay another visit to
this anchorite soon.” [Yes, we dare say. The
man who wrote this would visit him in Hades if
he had whisky there.— Ed. B.]
“ H.E.G.” writes in the Armidale (N.S.W.)
Chronicle an account of his trip home six years
ago in the sailing ship, Loch Ryan, with Sullivan,
the infamous Manugatapu murderer, who after
being erased all over the colonies and nofalloWed
anywhere to find rest for his bloodstained feet
was smuggled on board the Loch Ryan, under
cover of tne darkness, by the Victorian police.
Mr. Sullivan seems to have had a very bad time of
it indeed on shipboard, where all hands conspired
to inflict on him the greatest possible amount of
misery. The heroic writer says, that when recog-
nised as, and accused of being Identical wltn,
Sullivan, the ruffian, “ tried to speak, but his
tongue seemed to cleave to the roof of his mouth,
and in another moment he was gone. The
next morning he was on deck, and to my
surprise wished me * Good morning,’ I simply
hissed in his ear ‘Murdererl’ and thei commenced
to stalk him. Being weii-accustomed to the plays of
the great Australian author-actor George Darrell,
in New Zealand—(oh I) where for many years he
was a constant joy, I knew how murderers should
be stalked. I have seen Mr. Dave Plinton and M r *
West as villains qf the deepest dye walft to sjow
music thirsting for blood, and I operated on My.
Sullivan accordingly. 1 gave instructions to the
sailors to call me whenever Sullivan was on deck,
and I never missed him. The excitement of tiger
or lion-shooting I can imagine is intense; but to
find a real live tiger on board ship, with the edante
of stalking him daily, was an excitement I never
dreamt of in the wildest flights of my ambition. I
paced him step for step, turned when he turned,
stopped when he stopped, until 1 fairly drove him
to his lair. If be ventured up again I was
ready; indeed, I may say I devoted my
whole time to him. If he had not been
the deop-eyed villain he was the system I
pursued was like pe seoution. When a sheep was
killed the sailors would rub blood over his port-
hole, ana one of their greatest amusements wag
to drop a noose over bis head whilst sitting in the
saloon. This they considered a great improve-
ment on deck-quoits, unce they got it clem over
bis neck and commenced to haul, but he was quick
enough to get bis hand Inside and throw it off.
Day after day, night after night, I haunted him
until we arrived at Gravesend, where, as 1 antioi-
Eatod, the police-boat met us and took him off. I
eard afterwards that he was going to marry a


READ THIS!
GIPPSLANO HOP BITTERS.
Manufactured by
THE GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS CO.,
SALE.
Certificate by Wm. Johnson, Government Ana-
lytical Chemist
“ Government Analyt'cal Laboratory,
“ Melbourne, July 14th, 1884.
“ I have examined Trood’s Hop Bitters (manu-
factured at Sale). They are remarkably pleasant
to the palate, and as a general tonic and promoter
of appetite for invalids and young people are no
doubt excellent. The Hop Aroma is delicately
combined with a fragrant fruit flavour, producing
a rea'ly elegant preparation, which may bo relied
on as beneficial to health and free from anything
deleterious.
(Signed) “ WM. JOHNSON,
“ Analytical Chemist.”
IHE8E celebrated Bitters have been proved by
analysis to be a pure, delicate, palatable com-
pound, and are invaluable in affording relief in all
coses of disorderj of the blood, stomach, liver,
nerves, etc.
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Will be found a perfect “ Balm of Gilead” to all
who are suffering from shattered nerves, an over-
worked brain, or lassitude; they are, in fact,
nature’s brain and nerve food.
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Are an excellent appetiser, and may be taken
with perfect safety by the most delicate invalids
and young people.
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Enrich and purify the blood, and are an exquisite
tonic and stimulant. If you are sick, no matter
from what cause, use
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS.
The large and Increasing consumption has
gained for the Gippsland Hop Bitters Manu-
facturing Co. a wide celebrity.
Beware of Imitations,
And use only those manufactured by the
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS CO.
They are pronounced to be the best and only genu-
ine Hop Bitters manufactured in the colonies.
THOMAS TROOD & CO.,
Proprietors.
Sale, Nov. 11th.
To be obtained from all the leading merchants,
chemists, and hotels in the colonies.
Jk U8TRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1872.
Capital—£100,000 with power to increase to £1,000,000
BONUSES—20 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
PE APES &
SPRING SHOW!
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING MILLINERY.
PE APB'S and SHAW’S SPRING COSTUMES.
PE APES and SHAW’S SPRING DRESS
FABRICS.
PBAPBS and SHAW’S SPRING FABRIC
GLOVES.
PEAPES and SHAW'S SPRING SHIPMENT
KID GLOVES,
PBAPBS and SHAW’S SPRING HOSIERY,
from J. and R. MORLEY’S.
PE APES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
LACE GOODS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
EMBROIDERY.
PEAPES and SHAW'S SPRING SHIPMENT OP
PARASOLS.
tr SPECIAL NOTICEI
All the above goods are
Now Open for Inspection.
Large Shipments
for other Departments are
CLOSE AT HAND,
and a constant how of
NOVELTIES
will be opened up
DURING THE SEASON.
PEAP I'M SHAW,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS,
324, 326, 328 George Street.
J. NOAKE,
320 A 446 George Street,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
Just Unpacked, ex s.s. Rome,
12 Cases ReaIHAVANNA CIGARS
• t
(Finest Brands), consisting of
ANTONIO MURIAS ”
VILLAR OF VILLAR8 ”
HENRY CLAYS”
REAL”CABANAS
LARRANAGA”
RITICA”
MORALES”
FLOR DE NARE8”
PARTAGAS”
INTIMIDADS”
FLOR DE CUBA”
ESPANOLA”
LA CORONA”
J. NOAKE,
320 & 446 GEORGE STREET,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
POST FREB FOR Is. STAMPS.
Social Sclence.|
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders, Chronic
Diseases, Impediments to Marriage, &o.. How to
choose a partner for life so as to live happy, How
to Regain and Preserve your Health, &c.
Address—R. T. SELBY, M.H., Devonshire-street,
Surry Hills, Sydney.
ANHOODi RESTOREDI
A Clergyman having tried every known remedj
) fortheCUREof NERVOUSEXHAUS-
TION, PREMATURE DECAY, &c., has at
aat discovered a simple SELF-CU RE, which, for
he sake of suffering humanity, he will send FREE
he Prescription which CURED him. Address,
vith self-addressed stamped envelope—
Dr. E. A. CLARKE, P.O. Box 292. Sydney.
L4
ECONOMICALFURNnilREp ECONONICALFURNITURE
um
/ i
THE LARGEST AND ONLY LEGITIMATE
TIME-PAYMENT FURNITURE WARE-
HOUSE IN THE COLONY,
365 PITT STREET.
Public Announcement.
TO ALL WHOM IT MAY CONCERN.
MESSRS. NBILD and CO., on behalf of The
Magnetical-Electrlc Appliance Company
earnestly desire to call the attention of the public
to the fact that, In consequence of the success
attending the sale of the above Company’s Elec-
tric Belts, Corsets, &a , a so-called Caution has
been published, emanating from an agent for
Electric articles, who, prompted by a motive to
attempt to monopolise the sale of such articles,
the principle of which we emphatically aesert has
been known to the world for at least twenty years
and are now being manufactured in Great Britain
by dozens of firms, and variously styled for the
purposes of a trade mark only, but avowedly par-
taking of the same nature, being an adaptation of
the element of Magnetlcal Electricity. Further-
more, to give substantial proof of our assertions,
we here cite the well-known names of firms who
may well be called the pioneers of this form of
Electric TreatmentjWho perfected and popularised
its adaptation for Therapeutical purposes which
could be worn about the body as articles of
clothing, disoensing with the cumbersome chain
bands and the objectionable use of acids. Fore-
most among the promoters of this treatment are
Darlow’s “ Magnetlne,” Scrivener Gills’ “ Amyn-
terion,” Wetton’s “Magnetlcon,” Whiting’s " Mag-
netod,” &o., &c. We wish, therefore, to refute
in ioto any erroneous impressions caused by the
before-mentioned so-called Caution, and we
emphatically assert that the Magnetieal-Blectrlo
Appliance Company’s Belts, Corsets, Lung In-
vlgorators, Spine Binds, Insoles, &o , and various
other appliances of their manufacture, embrace
all the latest improvements, and are manufactured
on strictly scientific principles, and in accordance
with the most modern and approved adaptation of
Curative Electricity. Wo ask, therefore, those
who desire to adopt the treatment of Electricity
for constitutional or local derangements, to com-
pare our Electric Balts, Corsets, &e , with those of
other manufacture, as they are undoubtedly of
superior Electrical Strength, design, quality of
mtterial, and elegance of finish. The half-guinea
Gent.’s Belt is the best ever offered to the public
for electrical strength and quality. Gent.’s special-
power Electric Belts, 30s. These Balts are manu-
factured ex pretsly for tropical climates, and are
very durable, as also are our Electric Corsets,
Lu-'g Invlgorators, Spine Binds. &o-
We beg also to draw special attention to the fact
that we have secured the services of a Medical
Electrician, a gentleman who was for many years
engaged as consulting representative in the firm
of Messrs. Wetton and Co., London, whose ap-
pli .nces are of world-wide reputation, and who
was also recently engaged as consultant to tho
Hygienic-Electric Association, of Regent-street,
London.
All correspondence treated with the greatest
de patch.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
We have just received a large stock of tho Mag-
netlcal-Electric Appliance Company’s Half-guinea
Electric Belts, which are unequalled for electric
power and finish.
The Guinea Electric Belt is t ie same as sold in
England for £3 3s.
All our Bkc’ric Appliances are stamped "Mag-
ner.ioal Electric Appliance Co , Lotdonaud Sydney,
without which none are genuine.
E. S. NEILD AND CO.,
158 Pitt-st., Sydney;
SOLE PROPRIETORS FOR AUSTRALIA.
Head Offices. «i*a
First Fire Society established in me coiony on
the Mutual principle, giving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year. ,
Poliey-hc’ ders are perfectly free by law from
amiability . , ,
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums. , .
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
TSHro incniraTiPo Inwflflt rates*
For general debility and prostration Hop
Bitters. (American Go’s) will do wonders Prove
it by trial. See.
QUOD FACIMUS VALDE PACIMU8.*
(What we do we do well.)
YOUR PHOTO.-If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
counsel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices—C-D-V.,; Cabinets' 30s. per dozen.
CREELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADE.
Amal iws MusUa ei» MUIlsii
Lightning and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
WALTER C HIJBCH, Manager.
Head Offices—PITT and KING STREETS.
TO ™ MEN
suffering from the
effects of youthful
errors, early decay,
lost vitality, premature decline, nervous weak-
ness, etc., I will send you particulars of a
certain, simple, and sure means of self cure,
Free or Charge. Address, in confidence.
Prof. M. B. TAYLOR,
68 Elizabeth St.,
SYDNEY N.3 W.
DR. BRIGHT’S FHOSFHODYNE
The only Reliable Remedy for Mental and Physical
Depression, Nervous, Debility, Incapacity for
Study, Loss of Energy Sick Headache, Indigestion,
Female Complaints, Premature Decline, and is «
marvellous medicine for renovating impaired and
broken-down constitutions. It operates on the
system without exciting care or thought unon the
individual a* to the process. It moves the lungs,
liver, heart, kidney, stomach, and intestines, with
a harmony, vigour, yet mildness unparalleled in
medicine, and is the most powerful blood purifier
of the present day. Sold by all chemists.
Agents— Elliott Bros.
TO Country Journalists.—Leaders,
and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man of long experience, on moderatf
terms. “ Beta,” Bulletin Office.
BEST IN
T
I
'
THE WORLD
OFFICE-31 LOMBARD ST. LONDON.
9
Ml >
fSS**w8B
iff*
LOWEST
IN PRICE
1/SCOTIAN "HORIZONTAL ENGINES,SS»«™
ALBION” L.0N6STR0KE HORIZONTAL ENGINES.^
, CLIMAX” VERTICAL ENGINES S BOILERS
“CLIMAX” PORTABLE‘HOISTIN® ENGINES.
i“BRITON”«HORIZONTAL COMPOUND LAUNCH ENGINES.
J INVERTED COMPOUND MARINE ENGINES,
if »• PORTABLE STEAM CRANES.
CORNISH.§ MARINE BOILERS.
— ■ ■ - — ... * " 1 " ' 11 ' 1
LARGE STOCKS:FOR FULL PARTICULARS AND PRICES APPLY TO
D.&W.R0BERJSON..SYDNEY,SOLE AGENTS-.-NEWSOUTH WALLS
J.W.SUTTON &C0 BRISBANE.SOLE AGENTS •»QU EENSLAND.
ROBISON BROS.* CO. MELBOURNE. SOLE AG ENTS “■VICTORIA
woman who kept a coffee-house in London, bu
the police, who had him under constant surveil
lance, interposed-then that he was barber in Cali
fornia— (Fancy being shaved by him.) Whether
he is dead or not I do not know, but I am sure he
never forgot, and I shall never forget our trip
home in the Lock By an.”
The cleverest revenge on thieves we ever
beard of occurred some time ago in Melbourne. A
young fellow down from the back-blocks fell into
evil hands and found himself at dawn next morn-
ing lying in the gutter in a state not far removed
from that of Adam. However, before the drugged
liquor had rendered him insensible, he had taken
stock of the two leading male and female actors in
the affair, and also the house in which it occurred.
His position was such that he could not dream of
prosecuting, and that his friends, the thieves,
knew well enough. Their favourite prey is men
wQose standing in the world precludes them irom
giving Information to the police. The youth
swore he would have a revenge that would striae
terror into the fraternity. His friends laughed at
him. About six months afterwards he again came
into town and visited the same haunts. The result
was similar in every respect; he got to his hotel
next morning, if anything, in a worse state. His
friends thought him mad. But in a few days a
man and woman were brought up Tor attempting
to pass bogus notes issued as an advertisement by a
local clothier. They were duly convicted, despite
protestations that they did not know the articles
were false, and received, the man five years, the
womani two. Then the plot came out. The
young fellow had furnished himself witn “flash
notes and gone to the old den. The" vultures took
the bait, and brought themselves under the lash j
of the law.
Here are two triumphant items which the
Victorian Licensed Victualler should brandish in
the teeth of his foes at every future meeting. We
quote from a contemporaryThere is a cottager
ih Sussex named Bodle Homes, who, at 105 years
of age, enjoys his pipe and his chat dally in the
garden. Neither tobacco ncr beer hurts him .and
e retains all his faculties.” And :-“ Nancy Wig-
gins, residing at Burton Constable, North York-
shire, died the other day at the age, it is said, of
105 years. It is stated that until recently it
was the custom of the old lady to smoke a
quarter of a pound of tobacco and drink a
bottle of gin every week.” These are cheery
facts to set against the dismal anecdotes of early
deaths through drink retailed with such gloomy
gust by the JElechabites in their dreary tents.
But it would be wild to expect that these latter
would be shaken by such contradictions to their
theory. We havo not the shadow of a doubt that,
If the facts were set before them, they would un-
hesitatingly ascribe the ultimate decease of Nancy
Wiggins to gin. “ Ah, misguided people, pause and
shudder at the case of Nancy Wiggins cut off at the
age of 105 by the cursed drink I” That would be
about the style. As for Bodle Homes, we daresay
that some zealous Apostle has worried that poor
old centenarian into takingJJthe pledge by this
time. Well, he has had a pretty fair turn at the
cakes and ale, and should leave roystering and
bumper-draining to the young fellows of 90.
Thunder I it we could expect to be able to
stand up to a bottle llks Bodle when we are his
age—but it may not be. Although now scarcely
80, the rum of Queensland is beginning to tell
upon us. Time was , Slow music please—
Time was when we made day of night,
And made the hours reel round with quaffing,
Though all our light was candle light.
The flash of wit still kept us laughing—
The flash of wit, the flow of wine.
Aye, tnose were nights indeed divine.
Ah I where are our companions gone—
Where all the “ old familiar faces”—
The lips that laughed, the eyes that shone ?
Killed by the pace. They ran their races
Too fast to last: three tombwards went,
Two live in the Benevolent;
And one was hanged, and two were drowned—
Their bodies none could ever fish up—
And one doth lord it o’er a pound,
And one is now a famous Bishop,
And ono—the best—depressed and glum
Is writing of these rhymes for rum.


Professional Directory.
/2LEORGE PEUBIMAN. Scene Painter, Theatre
"Jt Royal. Bri'lmne. Disengaged.
rriHBATRB ROYAL.
JL Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Muborovi.
Leasee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
Acting Manager, H. H. Vincent.
Last Six Nights of the Boucicault Season.
THIS -THURSDAY) EVENING, OCTOBER I.
at 8 o’clock precisely, and terminating at 10.35,
THE COLLEEN BAWN,
Written by Dion Boucicault.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 3,
the Last and most Important Production of the
Boucicault Season, and first time in Sydney of
THE JILT.
MYLES O’HARA Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Entirely new Scenery by Gordon and Hennings.
Prices of Admission: Dress Circle 5s.; Stalls, 3a.;
Family Circle, 2?,
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway s
Hotel.
Box plan open at theatre from 11 till 4. No free
list. Agent for Mr. Boucicault, Mr. W. Macmahon.
NEW OPERA HOUSE.
Under the Lesseeship and Management of
MAJBRONI and WILSON.
THURSDAY. OCTOBER 1,
MAKITANA.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, Last Night of the Season.
GRAND PROGRAMME, it eluding the Fourth
Act of
CARMEN CARMEN CARMEN.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 3rd.
First appearance in Sydney since his serious acci-
dent in London of the Australian actor-author,
Mr. GEORGE DARRELL,
who will present bis representative Australian
drams,
THE SUNNY SOUTH.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Huenerbein’s Music
Warehouse, 318 George-street. Tickets for all parts
of the house may be obtained at Roberts’, tobac-
conist, next theatre.
/GAIETY THEATRE.
VT Proprietor .. Mr. John Solomon.
DAMPIER SEASON,
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 3,
When will be presented the most popular Drama
of Modern Times,
IT’S NEVER TOO LATE TO MEND.
The recent revival at the Theatre Royal, Drury
Lane, London, aroused all the old enthusiasm, and
provided a most brilliant and exhilarating Success.
The NEW SCENERY, by KINCHELA, will
include The English Farm, The Prison, The Aus-
tralian Log Hut, The Home of Gold, The Water-
fall.
N.B.—By the express wish of the late Charles
Reade, Mr. Dampier possesses the sole Gaht of
producing this play in Australia and New Zealand.
Box plan now open at Nicholson and Co., Music
Warehouse, George-street.
Business Manager, FRED. GUNTHER.
Academy’ of music.
Lessee and Manager.. .. F. C. Hiscocks.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS of
THE GRAND DOUBLE COMPANY,
LEON and CUSHMAN COMBINATION
in conjunction with
HISCOCK’S FEDERAL MINSTRELS.
Concluding with Leon and Cushman’s Musical
Comedy, THE FARMER’S DAUGHTER.
Prices : Reserved Orchestra, 4s.; Stalls, 3s.; Par-
Quette, 2s.; Gallery, Is. Plan box at Paling's.
THE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL
George street, Haymarket.
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
CROWDED and FASHIONABLE AUDIENCES.
IMMENSE SUCCESS IMMENSE SUCCESS
of
THE ALHAMBRA VARIETY COMPANY.
Pronounced by the Press and Public the most re-
fined Entertainment given In Sydney. Minstrelsy,
Olio, Farce, Every Evening.
The whole to conclude with
A SCREAMING EAHCE.
Gentlemen ushers in attendance.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 3a; stalls, Is;
balcony, Is.
CHA8. AUSTIN, Business Manager.
Artists of acknowledged ability disengaged,
please communicate with Mr. Frank Smith.
THE OLYMPIC
(late Old Masonic Hall, York-street).
. (Lessees .. Messrs. Davis and Raphael.
After extensive alterations, decorations, and
other improvements, the above popular pl»ce will
be opened as a permanent place of amusement on
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 3,
with the strongest combinations of specialty artists
that ever appeared in Sydney, amongst which is
MISS AMY HORTON
the Queen of Burlesque, in new and original
characters.
LThe celebrated Sisters,
ANNIE AND KATE MARTIN,
Premier Ballet, Clog, and Character "ancers.
Miss ANNIE SCHKAEDKR, Miss ROSIE JOHN-
SON, Miss M. AYENBL, Miss KATE BELL
(all well known Opera Bouffe Artistes),
Mr. D’ARCY STANFIBuD, and Mr. FRED DARK
(the world-renowned specialty Artists),
Mr. George Dean, Mr. Percy Shannon. Mr. Fred.
England, Mr. J. Lindsay, Mr. IT. Trevorah,
all popular favourites.
53T A GRAND ORCHESTRA of 10 First-class
Musicians, under the direction of Mr. G. RIVERS
ALLPrE S, mating the whole entertainment the
most original and unique ever presented to a
Sydney audience.
Prices of Admission—Stalls, 3b; Balcony Is. A
few reserved orchestra stalls at Nicholson s, 3’.
For Programme, see day bills and future adver-
tisement.
General Manager, Mr. M. L. RAPHAEL.
Lynch Family Bellringers
(Organised 1867)
Manager HARRY LYNCH.
SYDNEY SEASON CONCLUDES THIS WEEK.
WILL shortly visit Parramatta, Windsor*
Richmond, Penrith, Camden, Campbell-
town, Goulburn, &3., en route to Melbourne.
Advance Agents, j E.® BABNE*!
»B \HISTLE CLUB OF NBW fcODTH WALES.
I Under Distinguished Patronage.
THE SECOND ANNUAL HIGHLAND
GATHERING
will be held at the
ASSOCIATION CRLOKET GROUND,
Moore Park, on
PRINCE OF WALES BIRTHDAY, NOV. 9, 1885,
lighland Piping and Dancing, Irish Jigs, Sailors’
nuilDfS Bicycle Race lor all comers, Ditto for
latours, Tossing the Caber, Pole Vaulting,
tting Heavy Shot, Wrestling, Tug of War, Flat
ces, Jumping, Walking Matches, &o.
kinds of Sports. 37 events. First-class Prizes,
[i uster Programme will bo issued next week.
JOHN McMILLAN, Secretary.
JgllGHT HOURS’ DEMONSTRATION 1
“YE AUSTRALIAN FAYRB”
PICNIC, SPORTS,
AND
ART XJNTON.
GRAND PROCESSION of 20 TRADE SOCIETIES
The finest sight ever witnessed in the city.
Banners, Emblems, and Specimens of Handicraft,
displayed throughout the Hrocessslon.
Rendezvous at COOK PARK, on MONDAY NEXT
GRAND CARNIVAL, GALA DAY, and SPORTS.
AGRICULTURAL GROUND, MOORE PARK,
NEXT MONDAY,
18 BRASS BANDS IN PROCESSION 18
MONDAY, jMONDAY.
BALMAIN COLDSTREAM BRASS BAND,
25 performers,
head the procession and play for dancing.
Amusements for the lower million at the Agricul-
tural Ground, Moore Park, October 5.
Art Union Programmes will be ready on Thurs-
day, September 17th, everywhere.
The most complete Programme of Sports ever
offered to the Australian Public.
Tickets on sale at Anthony Hordern and Sons,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket; Turner and Hen-
derson, Hunter-street; J. R. Talbot, Batburst-
street; Hordern Bros., Pitt-street; Mandelsonand
Davis, Oxford-street; Campbell Bros., George-
street; J. W. Wrisrht, Brickfield Hill; 8. Punch’s
Swan with Two Necks Hotel; S. Cank.j Harris-
street; and from Members of Committee; also, at
the Grounds on day of Demonstration.
All particulars at the Booms, Swan with Two
Necks Hotel.
D. MORRINB, Secretary for Sports.
W. PERRIER, General Secretary.
NEW MASONIC HALL,
Castlereagh-street.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8th, 1885.
Under the most diitingulshed patronage of His
Excllency the Governor. Lord Augustus Loftus,
G.C.B,, and the leading residents of Sydney.
Grand Complimentary
BENEFIT CONCERT
tendered to
SIGNOR and SIGNORA FABRIS,
kindly assisted by
Madame Charbonnet-Kellermann, Miss Sherwin,
Miss M. Mooney, MiesA.de Fontaine, Miss M. C.
Stanley, Mies J. Smith, Miss James, Mdle. Goult.
Mr. Hallewell, Mone. L. Caron, Mr. W. J. Rodd. Mr.
Maclean, Mr. F. 8. Maclean, Mr. G Mooney, Mr.
P. D. Blake, Mr. D. B Fraser, Mr. H. Humphery,
Mr. H. A. Solomon, and Chorus.
Prices—5s„ 3s., and 2s. Concert at 8 o’clock,
Box plan, where seats may be reserved, at
Messrs. Paling and Co., George-street.
"THE LYCEUM,’’
Newcastle,
SITUATED IN THE BEST PART OF THE CITY
It is capable of seating 500 people,
and suitable for
MUSICAL & DRAMATIC ENTERTAINMENTS.
The Stage (40ft. by 24ft.) is furnished with
STOCK, SCENERY, &c.
For Terms, apply
COLIN CHRISTIE,
“The Lyceum,”
Newcastle.
Miss Annetta Scasl
HAYING rested her voice for six months, after
a long and successful tour through New
Zealand, would be happy to
RESUME HER PROFESSIONAL DUTIES ON
THE STAGE ONCE MORE.
f* Lino of Business Opera Bouffe, Concerts,
Burlesques.
This young lady artiste, being an eminent musi-
cian, would have no objection to travel with a
first-class company as Pianist.
All theatrical managers please address letters,
for the present, Post Office, Young.
CONTINUED SUCCESS
or
RILEY BROTHERS 9
ORIGINAL
£5 DRAPER! SALES!
PACKED in CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
Carriage paid by mail all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for 12
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe.
Price lists and patterns sent poat free.
£5 LADY’S BALE.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladles’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longclotb, and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered Instead of
any of the above.
£K MOURNING BALE.
25 yds. Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVES.
On receipt of 3a. in
stamps, we send, poat
free, a pair of 2 or 4-
button kid or silk G loves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For accouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £6.
15s,
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials - Silks, Velvets, &o.—with
prices, and full Instruction for self-measurement,
if applied to.
RILEY BROTHERS.
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
Originators of the celebrated £5 Bales of Drapery,
and Contractors for Linen Drapery to the
Government of New South Wales.
ACE
t&m
mi
m
' c'-
WAREHOUSES. SYDNEY.
The In ZtaU Liu aid Unlit %my Company
(LIMITED'.
HEAD OFFICE
I> *91
LONDON,
Capital - - £3,500,000.
THIS COMPANY WILL CONTINUE TO DISPLAY AND SELL
WOOL!
ON THE MELBOURNE SYSTEM,
■At their Magnificent Warehouses,
IB Z5 I D Cf- IE STEEET,
SYDNEY.
EVERY LOT WILL BE CAREFULLY VALUED, AND SPECIAL ATTENTION WILL BE
BESTOWED UPON SMALL FARMERS’ PARCELS, WHICH WILL BE PLACED ON A FOOTING
OF EQUALITY WITH THE LARGE CLIPS.
If reserves are not reached, the nominal charge of one shilling per bale only will be made.
WOOL SALES, EVERY TUESDAY. SHEEPSKINS AND HIDES, EVERY FRIDAY.
Way Bills and all Information can be obtained on application, or will be sent by return of post.
H. H. LANG, Produce Manager,
Sydney Wool and Grain Warehouses.
4.
\ ■
yt _
\v>
NEW AND INGENIOUS READY-ACTING DOG-TAIL AND CAMERA ATTACHMENT, FOI
TOURISTS.
A patent is now pending by the inventors,
They claim the dog’s tail and the instantaneous shutter, also the combination of the shutter and
dogs tail, also the whole dog, and the general application, in the manner substantially and for
the purpose described.
ray <S& Lt ichtner,
32 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
Complete Photographic Outfits, In great variety, from #53. Catalogues post free.
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
SOLE AGENTS for BAKER’cJ DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID in the Market,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies.
Caterer and Confectioner,
654 GEORGE STREET.
WEDDINGS, BALLS, PICNICS, AND PARTIES A SPECIALITY.


Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 29 th September, 1885,
TBNDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP-
PLIES.—TENDERS are Invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
Is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will bo announced, If possible, before the
duties of thn Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to aocei t
the lowest or any tender.
• J*
L
rHIKTY SHILLINGS.
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
«
J-
Nature of Works ani Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can to
receive d [it
this office.
Construction of Aqueduct Piers,
8. Sydney Water Supply
Laying and Jointing Pipes, 11%
miles Sydney Water Supply
Additions, &o, Post and Tele-
graph Office, Grafton
Construction of Brickwork. &o.,
Bridge over Railway at Wil-
liam Henry-street, Darling
Harbour
Erection of Fencing at Foys’
Reformatory, Rookwood
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Oberon
Supply of 30 Tram Cars
Bridge over Reedy Creek, road
Cudgegong to Cassilis
Bridge over Bogan River at
Dandaloo
Tuesday,
October 6,
At 11 o’clock.
The Autophone!
, r\HIS triumph of musical invention is acknow-
I. lodged on all hands to be the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It is a wonderful little Instrument, which, while
it weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL-SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and executes its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 22 reeds, plays In three keys, and all the
parts of most difficult music.
To Mr. H. B. Horton, the inventor, the world
was first indebted for the Organette; but that was
too expensive to come within the reach of all.
After years of persistent effort and Intelligent
study, he has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of cost and crudeness.
It requires no skill to extract from it any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which It plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas, Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, &c , &o., &o. A child can
play any of these selections with perfect accuracy.
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that are sent with each
instrument, and are so plain that “ he who runs
may read.” It is best adapted to the kind of music
which suits an organ best, In which chords pre-
dominate ; but it has also wonderful power in
executing very lively pieces. It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card-holder for convenience
in singing. It will be found invaluable for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and
for Dancing. Every shanty In the bush should be
supplied with one ; and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autophone. It will afford greater and better
entertainment than four times the price can pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Sole Agents for this marvel-
ous little Instrument in the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
or
474 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the colonies. Orders have
come t3 us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonelj
shepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the cities from
everywhere, in fact. And one of the best argu-
ments wo can ( ffer as to the genuineness of the
Instrument, is the fact that, in all our corre-
spondence, we have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they wili recommend it
to their friends.
It is conceded by all educators and moralists
that music is the great refining influence, and
I especially with children its effect for good is
boundless. The love for music which music in
the family engenders, is more potent in forming
dispositions and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, i nd parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm which renders an other
wise hard task an easy one.
The price of the Autophone Is 30s.,
and where good music can be procured for such a
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
be without it. With each Autopho. e for 30s. we
send three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
ah orders for music are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it our
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogues of tunes at any time.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Sole Agents for Australia:
Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-street, Sydney, 474
Opposite entrance to Fruit Markets.
Erection of a Morgue,Newcastle
Bridge over Wallarobba Creek,
road Duogog to Clarence
Town
Construction of Foundation
and Walls, supply and erection
of Ironwork Superstructure,
&c, Workshops 1 to 4, and
Smoke Shaft, Evelelgh
Erection of Station Buildings at
Molong
Supply of Railway and Tram-
way Stores for 1886
Tuesday.
October 13.
at 11 o’clock.
Extension of Market Wharf, I
Newcastle
Additions to Sergeants’ Quar- I
ters. Police Barracks, Gralton I
Supply of Coal for Dredge, at |
Lake Macquarie
Roofs, Girders and Columns for i
Shops Nos. j« to 25, Eyeleigb,
Contract, No. 9a I
Tuesday.
October 30,
at II o’clock.
Tally walka Bridge, on road Boo-
ligal to Wllcania
Additions, &c. f Dubbo Gaol •
Fencing, Tank, &o., Courthouse,
Quirindi
Tuesday,
October 27.
at 11 o’clock.
Supply of Twelve Passenger 1 Tuesday,
Engines December 1,
I at 11 o’clock.
F. A. TfEIGHT.
s-acreITodelTarms
FOR
40s. per Montli,
Sale on the Ground, SATURDAY, 3rd Instant.
FOR TICKETS, AND ALL OTHER INFORMATION, APPLY TO
ZBO"S"3D dc KI3STQ-,
96 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The N.S.W. country Press is against the
Ministry all along the line.
A candidate and probable candidate for
Central Cumberland (N.S.W.) are said to have had
a Lonsdale-Chetwynd affair near a. pub. at Parra-
matta. This should prove their ability to enforce
the views of their constituents in the Assembly.
The Melbourne correspondent of the
Sydney Herald, 'dealing with the Bight Hours
question, thus shows his qualifications as caterer
to a presumably Conservative constituency : —
“ There is a consuming desire to lesson the hours
of labour and to multiply those of idleness, and
we know what Dr. Watts says of the
found, and by wham, for idle hands. .This kind
of social thinking gets, first, the run of the Her-
ald, then of the Echo, and then of the Mail.
Stuart Mill called Conservatives the Stupid 1 arty.
The party in N.S.W. must be eminently stupid to
accept three editions of this twaddle of nescience.
The London Engineer, according to a
recent cable message, says that the Sydney tram-
way system is a failure, from an engineering
point of view, and a solid local authority on figures
—Mr. J. P. Gatvan, MP.- asserts ic is a failure
financially. Mr. Garvan says that the accounts are
kept in such a way as not to reveal the actual state
of affairs, but he has made a careful analysis of
the figures, and he ft ads a balance on the wrong
side. Mr. Garvan points out the strange circum-
stance that as the accounts a re , P r88ente ‘*??®
profit on the working of any tramline decreases in
proportion as the income increases. 1 The.
opinion of the travelling public is that if the tram-
ways were worked by a private oornmny the for-
tunate shareholders would pocket per cent,
divs. The working of the Balmain tramway a
private undertaking—ought to show in wnat re-
spects the Government linvs are mismanaged.
Employ that celebrated tonic Wolfe’s
Schnapps to restore the organs of digestion, &c.
Be sure and obtain Wolfe’s
For loss of appetite, general debility, im-
pairment of the organs of the body, Wolfe s
Schnapps Is the best remedy known.
Only by a pure spirit can nervousness be
bene fitted. Wolfe s Schnapps is the stimulant
required.
Wolfe's Schnapps has no equal for the
cure of dyspepsia and kindred complaints. Bp
sure you obtain Wolfe’s,
SATAN IS COMING
To rapture the Entire World, June, 18SG.
For SAiiif.'—the book of knowledge.—
Contents; Millenium, 1890; arrival of the long
anticipated Jewish Messiah; great financial cri«i«,
i860; great war throughout the entire world, 1886;
Satan tbe chief Anti- Christ, time of his birth, in-
cidents connected with Satan’s birth, powers,
and advance sklm'ehers, Satan’s Temple, Ten
Commandments, Satin’s Ensign and Inscrip-
tions, what Satan says regarding his ensign to all
nations, etc. Price one smiling, stamps. Address,
August Kohk, St. Paul, Minn., U.S A.
DR. BOYD,
53 CAS ILBRE A G H-8TRBET, SYDNEY
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN. MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Walts.
Office Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday* Wednesday;
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and ietnale Diseases a
Specialty.
§ox 120 G P.0.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Tjii.TR! Royal—“4 be Colleen Bawn ” ... P. 8
Gaiety TheatrS—“ It's NeYGr TOo Late to
Mend.” »
Opera Housb—“ Maritana” ••
The Olympic—“ Quits”
Alhambra— Variety Company ••
Academy op Music - Minstrels .
Lynch Family Bellringers (Ryde).
There were no vacant places in Sydney
Onera House on Saturday night. The piece put
un was the “ Bohemian Girl.” It was the first time
this company undertook the rendering of It. That
imparted novelty, as the opera is a prime
favourite. Day and night were wet, yet this
house was filled before the rising of the curtain.
The audience was not so demonstrative as on pre-
vious occasions. Still, it was sympathetic, and
without insisting on many encores, manifested a
general appreciation.
The scenery was in parts attractive. The
odimnse of the grounds of Count Arnhelm was
uicturesque. The surroundings of the gipsy fair
had freshness. The saloon in the castle of the
count was not so magoiflcent as the circum-
stances would suggest. Some of the costumes
were dazzling. Arllne and the Queen of the
Gipsies were luminous. The count and his
nephew spared no expense. The gipsies were, of
course, a motley lot, hut their _ fantastic
robes carried a charm. Some of Balfe s sweetest
melodies are set in the piece. The concerted parts
are stirring and tuneful, but the solos give the
opera its character. A performance containing
three such songs as “ I dreamt that I dwelt in
marble halls,” “ The heart bowed down with
weight of woe,” and “ When the fair land of Po-
land,” could hardly, under any circumstances, fall
flat. , . •
M". James took the part of Count Arn-
heim. We have only heard him in this character
and as the Pirate in *‘ Isidore.” The uncertainties
then noticed are still noticeable. He has voice and
delivery, but he works them as if he had only a
loan of them. They and he appear to have only
lately become acquainted. He rises to an occa-
sional strain of great power. The tones have force,
richness, flexibility. He imparts a thrill of enthu-
siasm. Then the bottom falls out of his genius.
He plays along in a state of dilapidated mediocrity.
He studies make-up carefully. He alone showed
the reasonable change in appearance after the
twelve years supposed to elapse between the first
and second act. Count Arnheim was no doubt a
military man, but soldiering must be a hard thing
if it compels a man to stride about like Mr. James.
Tendons and sinews and even joints had their
services contemptuously Ignored. He was a
column of petrified humanity worked by metal
prings. He was much more natural when
sitting. There is more in Mr. James than the parts
we have seen him In have drawn out.
* * *
Mr. Harding was Thaddeus. He is tend-
ing more and more towards declamation. His
abilities are strongest in this direction, but a de-
clammatory vocalist is In danger of exaggerating.
He tears the passion. Besides, gentle and sweetly-
tuneful passages are sure to be entrusted from
time to time to the fiery deoialmer. When he has
come to exaggerate the virtue of declamation he
will be liable to slur these passages. Mr. Harding
is very fine when he has some danger to brave or
some foe to defy. It is not so much calm as care-
lessness that succeeds the artistic tempest.
• • •
Mr. Rosevear was the count’s nephew.
His duty is to make abortive proposals to Arline,
and bring things generally to a point. We liked
him in other parts better. He went through his
work here well enough, but when he speakshe is
more pleasing than when he sings. Mr. Went-
worth played Devilshoof. Elements of the
character were made striking. His joy at the be-
throthal of Arllne and Thaddeus, and the way it
acts upon him in the presence of the Gipsy Queen,
are intelligible. But he discounts good things by
yielding to a propensity to clown. The humour
he extracted from the spring-stuffed chairs was
very thin, and his debauch on toast-water hollow
mumming.
• • *
Miss Saville looked well as the Gipsy
Queen. The part compelled her to be hard and
unalmable. Her articulation is not peculiarly
distinct, but her voice is sweet and clear. It is in
her acting she misses. In the proportion Mr.
Harding is tending to exaggeration Miss Saville is
tending to diminution of vivacity. The tendency
is the more evident owing to her nearness to Miss
Plaisted. Miss Piaisted was the Arllne of the
opera. She was not better than in other parts.
Her characteristics have now, in a measure,
become settled. She works hard. She tries to see
what the author meant. She throws grace end
talent and enthusiasm into her interpretation.
* * *
This opera company is now in its last days.
“La Fille de Madame Angot” was given last
night, and “Maritana” is set down for to-mgbt
g'hursday) Then, other lips and other eyes!
essrs. Majeroni and Wilson have, in this short
season, presented the Sydney public with some of
the best things in comic and romantic opera. Of-
fenbach, Leoocq, and Balfe took the classic side.
But the less pretentious side was not altogether
noirleptcd Mr. Luscombe Searelle was given a
few nights to show what “ Bobadll ” and “ Isldora”
were like. Mr, James’ is the only new voice of
value introduced during the season.
• * * *
“The Colleen Bawn” is everywhere a
fa vourite. With any sort of a middling company
it can be depended on to fill a house When the
Boucicault company announced it for Monday
last in the Theatre Royal, Sydney, the sufficiency
of the sitting accommodation of the building be-
came a question. As the result showed, the ques-
tion was a material one. Half-an-hour before the
stage was occupied there jwas disappointment in
the passages. The same thing happens in Londqn.
We have seen the same thing happen in a zinc
tent in the Western country, where a man with a
wooden-leg played Myles-na-Coppaleen, and the
Dart of Eily O’Connor was supposed to have been
effectively interpreted by a Welshman with red
hair.
* • *
What is the central charm of the piece ?
Hoes it intrinsically merit its popularity ? We do
notUrgue against a success. We simply ask from
what sources the elements of the success are
drawn? Do those sources abide legitimately in
the drama? It does not seem that more than a
few of them do. What do the boards actually
give us? An unequal marriage, the husbands
pffnrts to destroy evidence of the contract witki a
view to marrying another, his failure, a reconcilia-
tion and universal contentment. These constitute
fhihones of the play. Their human interest is a
SnnrcTof success. But where is the rest? The
acting is good, the scenery beautiful, the music
sweet These are tributaries to the human m-
But do not the spectators carry in their
imaginations the chief sourc. s of the success that
crowns the theatrical rapresentat.on of the Col-
leen Bawn ?" 0 *
The storv is known to be founded on facts.
Fvorvone in the South of Ireland has the facts in
li‘s°head The writer who first put the facts into
narrative lies In a little graveyard down
there now. They are all together-the mur-
S thi murdtrad. relatives, neighbours,
and the proso poet who t P Bawn ”
' sftiffwisssa.“Tv,
“ ,l S » well a. of the South. I
TheSe “hrong to the Theatre Royal or elsewhere
with imaginations alive. The little they see sug.
trtsta much they do not see loo contagion of
e itnuslasm spreads. Tne success is triumphant.
Toe drama is fair, certainly. b i xt “aouclcauff
ot the audience maters it good. Mr. Boucicault
has taken mmy i:b3rties with the materia s at his
disposal, tie unites Wardress Cregan and Elly at
the end. He rflakefl Danny Mann die in bed. In
the original version this pair of worthies die on
the scaffold. To keep the thread from tangling,
the dramatist has, therefore, had to smooth it out
with an odd incident of bis own.
* • *
Tho acting displays so many of the
Characteristics noted when “ Arrah-na-Pogue ”
was described that little fresh can be added The
Bouclcdult family do the best things. Mr. Bond-
cault has laboured to annihilate the stage Irish
man. How is It he allows Mr. Brown’s Corrigan
to cut such figures as he does In the house of Mrs
Cregan ? The character is purely a stage one, and
an Irish stage one at that. Mr. Boueicault is him-
self, as Myles—simple, sincere, warm-hearted, re-
signed. Miss Boueicault played Elly with ingenu-
ousness and pathos. But she sang again. The
best played business of the night was that taken
by young Boueicault. He gave vivid distinctness
to the character of Danny Mann. He can indi-
vidualise, and this,.coupled with the Industrious
study he bestows on his part, points to a name
ahead. The delirium scene was realistic, and if he
appeared to die a little too bard, it should be re-
membered that It was the last thing he had to do
for the night.
• ♦ *
The “ Collegians ” is the basis of the
drama. Gerald Grilha wrote this thrilling nar-
rative under sad conditions. When young he
left Dublin to carve a road through literature in
London. He worked hard. Bad health, bad em-
ployment, poverty clung to him. Sometimes the
expense of Ink and paper was a consideration.
Gradually, after many weary years, his tales of
Irish life and poems of Irish sentiment began to
leave marks. His name was heard. He was no
longer unknown even In the great mart of the
world's intellect. Then religious Influences pos-
sessed him. He laid down his pen, returned to
Ireland, Joined the order of the Christian Brothers,
died, and was put away in a little graveyard in a
Southern town.
* * ♦ *•
Harry Lynch and his crowd were ringing
out their wild bells at the Glebe last week. Henry
then began with the musical glasses, when a
determined doubter at the back, turning to his
mate, remarked, “ He don’t get at me like that.
He’s got a ’armonium under the table.” It is use-
less to try to Impose on a Glebe audience. Among
them there is always sure to be a man with an
irritatingly accurate knowledge of how things are
done, and an aggravating determination to let the
public into the secret.
* * * *
Dampier starts at Sydney Gaiety onSatur-
When last we filled a free seat at this pretty
theatre, Dr. York was telling the people what he
knew and thought about Romanism and priestly
celibacy. He seemed to know a good deal and
think very little of both. Miller's orchestra, with
Percy leading, is to sunply the music. The paint-
ing is being done by Kinchela, an artist who, with
one hand tied and a piece of burnt stick In the
other, could kill Raphael with envy. The lovely
Alf. Boothman is In the crush. “ Never too late to
Mend ” is the opening piece, to be succeeded after
a three weeks’ run by '* Brought to Justice.”
» • « «
On Saturday tire Davis and Raphael peo-
ple begin at the Olympic. It is a variety company
and numbers amongst its crowd Miss Amy Horton,
Darcy Stanfield, Fred. Dark, the sisters Annie and
Katie Martin, and others. An orchestra of ten
will punish the music.
* * * *
On dit, that Miss Qracie Plaisted, now
singing at the Opera House, leaves for California
by the Zealand!* next Thursday. We hear that a
monster benefit is to be given “ Oracle ’ on Wed-
nesday, at either the Royal or Opera House. Also
that on that occasion Miss Myra Kemble will, with
Mr. Titheradge, delight the crowd with a charm-
ing comedietta in their best style. M. Henri
Kowalski will, we believe, make a piano tain.
Three spasms and a complicated tableau from one
of Searelie’s peerless operas will be given, and
there is every probability that this will be one of
the biggest ’ bens.” of the year. There now 1
* W » *
The cause of charity and the local Lying-
in Hospital is selling well the tickets for the
“Antigone” performance at Melbourne Town
Hall. From 3i. 6d. to £300, everybody’s price can
be suited. We sat out this gruesome tragedy in
18H at Covent Garden when we were young and
could well stand fatigue. Such things are beyond
us now, and are put away with childish things,
oratorios, and Scotch sermons. There is not a
smile in the long three hours of this dreary, de-
clamatory, classical, and frosty play. It will well
modify any exuberant praieties of the Cup week,
and, in that respect, perhaps, act as a corrective.
Planchd burlesqued this piece in his Golden
Fleece a title, no doubt, plagiarised from that
given to Australia by Sala, In this burlesque, the
funniest thing was the Inscription above the pro-
scenium intended to look like Greek. On the
second or third glance it was seen to be In a more
modern tongue reading as “ H’s all my eye and
Betty Martin” done in this way—ITS ALL MI HI
AND BETTI MARTIN.
* * * *
This is how it is put by a ’Frisco paper
“ Miss Beatrice Lyster, the Australian actress,
and Frank Wright, each sang a song on the open
ing night of ‘ I’he Power of Money. Owing to
the thoughtfulness and the promptitude of the
California management, the songs have since been
suppressed. A grateful public acknowleges the
intervention.”


BRIEF MENTION.
Home of the Lyre Bird—Sydney Echo
office.
J os. Symes is addressing to Bishop Moor-
houso a series of weekly letters signed “Joseph
Victoria."
The Kiama Reporter publishes a piece of
poetry entitled “Laugh and grow fat.” The
editor Is jubilant. Other ways cost money.
Graham Bennett, the bushranger, comes
out of gaol on the 1st of November. Lucky dog.
He will just be In time for the Melbourne Cup.
A popular Tumut hotelkeeper is dead.
“ He took a trip to Bourke for the benefit of his
health.” They should carve this statement on bis
headstone.
Baok-blocks priest: “Well, O’Reilly, al-
ready coming out of the Shearers’ Arms again ?”
O’Reilly: “Certainly, yer rlverence; I can’t stay
In there all the time.”
That clause of th« Victorian Licensing Bill
which forces a man to travel 10 miles before he
oan purchase a threepenny-beer, has been agreed
to. And now local journalists are zealously study-
ing the bicycle.
The Age says that “when the drink
traffic Is unrestricted it eats like a canker and con-
sumes like hell-fire." Another paper remarks
that this is probably the case when the leader-
writer is “pood on the slate.”
A New Caledonian paper called Le Pro-
GRKS found, last month, that there was not
another sous in the exchequer, so It sent forth its
last number blank, all to the following words
printed, like an epitaph, across the centre of the
first page, “Cesse de paraitrr.”
“£U0,000,is to be offered for a Centennial
Organ. ’ What’s the use of wasting time calling for
tenders ? Why not give It to Wright, Heaton and
Co or Hudson Brothers, and have It painted In-
side and out with three coats of ‘ Standard Paint,’
like Stuart’s Hlawarra Railway Houses ? Tam-
worth Observer.
There is cholera in Timor, so Jonkheer
Mynheer Ploos Van Gottam Illustrissimo Van
Back-action Schnapps Dam Amstel, Dutch Con-
sul at Melbourne, informs the authorities But
this cholera, though fond of filth, has too much
self-respect to v sit Sydney while the place Is run
by the present Corporation.
Last Sunday morn the Rev. W. Bradley,
of the Bethel (unsectarian) platform, Sydney,
preached on the words, “ Man is better than a
sheep.” Is he? Onlv the other day a Vic-
torian squatter paid £1500 for a prize ram that
had a wall-eye and a tail like a boiled yam. How
many men—even reverend men—could be bought
for the same sum ?
The Methodist Times (Sydney) says that
“ sermons.whichntitherstrlhe, nor stick, nor rend,
nor melt, ought to be abolished." If the Times
would maintain the same level of human truth
throughout all its contents, there would be a
crowd round the office door every publishing
morning, and men would pawn their boots to buy
a copy of the paper.
The Melbourne Advocate (a R. C. organ)
is pleased with the Age for telling Victorians not
to receive the Prince of Wales. It gets one right
into a vital part of the Coilins-street preacher
when It adds that the age is not yet c ol irom
denouncing the ParneiJites tor telling Irishmen
net to welcome H.R.H. to their country. Incon-
oonsistency, thy name is Syme!
Over 160 Anglican parsons sat down to the
muffin and crumpet struggle in Melbourne on
Tuesday week. This gathering of holicesi con-
fined itself to liquors other than fermented and
spirituous, and tne toasts were all drum in tea
and sodawatcr. Under these circumstance*, tbe
Herald man very properly showed his contempt
tor the affair by confining ,bis report to a 12-line
par.
Mass meetings have been held in Hobart
to protest against a clause in the Defence Bill
empowering the Governor to call out all able-
bodied men in the colony in case of Invasion.
They would much rather be called out to drink.
Perhaps they are right. Fancy anybody falling on
the battlefield with his stomach full of lead, call-
ing out with his last breath, “I die for the glory of
Tasmania!” Pooh!
In religious matters, if anywhere, a man
should not be swayed by mere accidents of associa-
tion. Such is the precept. The Sydney Presby-
terian la responsible for the following example
of how the precept is followed:—Bishop Barry’s
predecessor in the See was Evangelical-Bishop
Barry is the reverse. In the predecessor s time, 90
per cant, of Anglican clerics In the diocese were
Evangelical. Now, 90 per cent, are the reverse 1
The Express (the organ of the R.C. hier-
archy in N.S.W.) devotes a couple of columns to
strictures on the Victor Hugo memorial entertain-
ment, lately given in Sydney. Its notion of things
can be extracted irom this wind-up: “ And the re-
spectable citizens of Sydney have been asked, and
many have accorded, their patronage to this mani-
festation of political atheism. Shamel” French-
n en must remember that that is not Press criti-
cism. It is only Express criticism.
In San Francisco a man drawn as a trial
juror failed to appear and was pronounced in c m-
tempt of Court. Next day he came round and ex-
plained that ho bad been under arrest for cheating
at faro. The Judge accepted the excuse, purged
him of contempt, and he wont on duty in the
panel. This almost reminds us of the time when,
in Sydney Supreme Court, we were hauled up
before a jury of four, consisting of three suburban
publicans and a high priest of Venus Cloacena.
“I say it, and would repeat it again, that |
you are acimrsed and your country is accursed by |
the rule of Democracy," so said an Anglican 1
minister, newly-arrived in N.S.W., to his congre-
gation last Sunday; “your members of Parlia- j
ment are nothing but the oil-scum of the dregs of
a rotten Democracy—men who have jumped into i
prominence by bribery and corruption!’ 1 Why,
bless you, it’s getting near election time I Just i
fancy how nice it would be to have a Parliament
of parsons now I
It is only by degrees we learn the causes
that stirred up some of the NSW. country towns
to an enthusiastic approval of the Government
policy in the Soudan Spanking for its own town
the Moruya Examiner asks, while soliciting aid
for the local band, “ Is it not a fact that the
enthusiasm was In a large measure due to the
thrilling excitement with which the occasion was
vested by th • stirring airs of our youthful
musicians ?" The future historian in dealing with
the subject will, it is to be hoped, not forget this
contributing Influence.
The Sydney Freeman’s Journal priilfcs d
letter that will have a diabolical,effect hpbn the
mouths of the chorlfitets in St. Mary’s Cathedral.
The singers are ohargbd with singing badly, with
making theit songS too long, and with conducting
themselves in a way unbecoming in a sacred place
The gravamen of the writer’s grievance appears
to lie in the fact that the celebrating priest, being
without his breakfast, and, as a consequence,
ravenously hungry, is entitled to have things out
short. We fully concur here. But why not limit
the issue to this single consideration ? Why asso-
ciate his reverence’s mouth with the mouths of
the interesting choristers ?
Amongst the trophies presented to the
festive revellers at the late Sydney Undertakers’
Picnic sports, not one, not even a little one-came
from any of the medical faculty. Considering the
many pbhgatlons the pine-liners confer on the
mil-rollers in the way of smoothing over “ jerried ’’
jots, we consider this to be downright mean and
we can well excuse the bitter sarcasm of tne chief
mourner at the banquet board when he remarked •
’ In J*7. llum Shakespear's time, it were the custom
ov Patience to squat on a mo- ument an’ take
lunars at Grief, but in our days, the patients seems
to prefer gettin under the monuments, an’ ke>m-
in mum until th‘ day o' Jedgment comes."
The London Chronicle calls the follow-
ing alums naturrr,:—"A lad, hailing irom Luck-
now, a Rajpoot Hindoo, aged 111 years, ' biting
The Victorian Bachelor-Tax.
CUPID (loq.): "LOOK HERB, MR. BACHELOR, I VE BEEN AIMING AT YOUR HEART IN VAIN FOR YEARS; NOW I’LL HAVE A SHOT AT YOUR POCKET."


Now that the local butcher has had his
shop newly tiled with sheets of bark, and the lead,
ing grocer’s boots have been half-soled and heeled,
the high-toned district of Murwash, Victoria, is
putting on frills, and in the matter of bong tong
bids fair to wipe Potts Point and Toorak clean off
the map entirely. This we deduce from the fact
that at a “grand quadrille assembly ” holdover
there a few days ago, it became necessary for the
M.C. to announce a coming super-msthetloal
rigadoon, and in doing so he observed: “ Panay
dress is by no means compulsory. The only point
insisted on is that eauh gentleman miist wear
gloves, in protest the ladiea’ dresses.’’
This looks as if the gentlemen of Murwash came
straight from their pig-sticking and navvying
work to the marble halls of the more-wished fair.
There are wild rumours afloat in Qunda-
gai, N.S.W. Government ought not to allow its
troops to weaken themselves by hard work until
it is known that law, order, and decency are once
more restored <o the town of the euphonious ter-
mination. Here is the chill steely record (from
the local Times) of the latest instance of appalling
outlawry:—“A young lady was walking round the
corner of Sherldan-street when she met three con-
temptible beings in trousers, ene of whom boldly
accosted her with a ‘kiss-you’ sound, as though
sneezing. The action so terrified the poor girl
that she almost fainted.” We have added no sen-
sational touch to the picture, it stands therein
ali its enormity, just as the conscientious Times
committed it to everlasting print. Note the
facts of the case. It happened at the corner
of Sherldan-street. It was not at Smith*street or
(frown-street. It was at Sherldan-street. And
wbo was Sheridan ? Note that. Then the three
beings were “ in trousers.” Take notice of the
aggravation They were actually “ in trousers.”
Then the ‘' kiss you ” sounded like sneezing. The
agony is growing. Why. may be It was sneezing.
Likely it was sneezing, for, as the graphic record
has it, “ the noor girl almost fainted.” We boast
of our civilisation, but if deeds liko these can
happen In a to wn[of the intelligence, respeotabllii y
and tone of Guudagai, it were better that we
should sell our boots and wander back among tho
river-beds of barbarism. Where’s the perleec© ?
Where’s the sodgers ?
Wolfe’s Schnapps is more wholesome
than brandy or whisky and Is a pure refreshing
beverage. Ask for Wolfe’s.
Wolfe’s Schnapps not only has a delight-
ful flavour but is a pure tonic, diuretic and a
good general corrective.
Beauty and elegance are confined to no
one race of mankind, and we look In vain to find
perfection in mortality ; but what a useless waste
of time it would be to seek for imperfections in
Bray Bros*, stock of China and Glass, showing at
their places, opposite the Joint Stock Bank.*
The medical profession certifies that
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the purest stimulant pro-
curable.
“Prevention is better than cure.” There-
fore use Wolfe’s celebrated Schnapps, which is
a preventive of disease.
himself in Sudder Bazaar, presents an extraordin-
ary spectacle, having one head attached to two
bodies. Bach trunk is alive to the touch, and each
set of limbs work together In unison, performing
the same office at the same time; this is the same
with tfceorgansof e«oh trunk. The lad gathers up
the front limbs and carries them along in moving
about. His mental faculties seem intact* an 1, not-
withstanding the tediousness of sitting mug hours
In heated apartments, he is cheerful.” No doubt
it is strai ge. But we don’t think It a lilsus ndturte,
Wb think it an allbgory. It symbolises the Sydney
dally And weekly newspaper tinder one proprle-
taf y. , , ,
Rev. Patrick Birch went into the Queanbe-
yaa (N.8.W.) Police Court a fortnight ago to tell
about bis horse. He bad been unable to sit him
one day, and seeing a young lad not yet 15 years of
age standing under a verandah be thought be
would get the boy to sit him. He lifted the boy
on, gave him a sliver-headed Malacca cane, and
directed him to ride the well-fed steed to the
bridge. The boy swears Father Blrob told him to
lay the cane into him, and Father Birch admits he
might have said that. At all events, the horse
came back with a lump on his side. Father Birch
called the police. The boy was fined 5s and 4s. lOd.
costs. There is a lesson in this. The boy’s father
teaches it in a letter in the Queanbeyan Age. The
Age thinks the lesson good, for it prints it in the
space the leading article should occupy. In' the
main. It shows that when Father Birch wants a
prancing horse tamed he will, in future, be left to
employ the services of a professional jockey.
Then the rider will be sure of getting something
instead of having to give something.
The Bathurst (N’.S.W.) hospital appears to
be bossed by a crowd of believers in the physiog-
nomy fad, or, at any rate, by men who, like
Juvenal, believe that—
“ still we find
The face the unerring index of the mind.”
This is the inference wo draw from the following
S.M Herald advt : “Bathurst Hospital-Wanted,
a Lady, as Matron; dulv trained and qualified for
the position. Salary, £72 per annum. Applica-
tions, with certificates and photo , up to the 28th
instant to tt. Y. Cousins. Esq., Bathurst Hospital.”
Of course, the committee does not bind Itself to
accept the prettiest tenderer for the job, but we
have a cunning idea of our own that this is a case
tn which a Florence Nightingale or a Burdett-
Coutts would have but a small show against a frisky
Fortesoue or the scrumptious Jersey Lily. Any-
way, now that our hospital rulers have reached
the photo, phase they might go a trifle further,
and require each lady applicant o furnish them
with her age, pedigree, and performances as well.
The recent irreverent remark of the Mel-
bourne coroner to the effect that some people get
their Bibles in as they get their beer, via., in bulk,
reminds tls of a good tale told of an old Hawkes-
bury identity who, was sitting outside his pub.
doing a quiet whiff one day, when a colporteur
came along and ec[ulred, “ Can I sell ydu a Bible,
sir?” “No,” shouted the landlord; “I’ve got
one.” “Q'.t one I” exclaimed the hawker, strik-
ing a Thornes Dldymus emphatically; “can it
be possible that the sacred book of Trewth is to be
found In this ’ouse hof sin?” “Yes, It kin,”
snorted boniface; and then, catching sight of bis
red-headed Hebe, hefcalled out, “ Say there, Sal,
bring us out that theer Bible.” After a long search
and struggle, Sal returned with the broken cover
and few draggled leaves of what had in its youth
been a copy of Britain’s Bulwark. On seeing the
wreck, the old man cooled down, and, taking the
visitor by the arm, whispered: “D—n me, ef I
knew we woz go short o’ Bibles before; y’ can
leave three or four with th’ girl, an’ then come
inside an’ do a toothful.’’
The Weekly Advocate, the devout organ
of Sydney Methodism, cries out for additional
parsons, and thoughtfully publishes a list of the
qualifications intending candidates must possess.
Hitherto we were indefinite on the point, and had
we been asked the essentials would have given
them as (in many cases)—No. 1, look soapy and
hump a nlate; and No. 2, hump a plate and look
soapy. We are grateful, therefore, for accurate
Information, and as a matter of duty send it round.
The candidate,” says the Advocate. “ must be a
good preacher, with at least a fair presence and
voice, healthy and strong, ready to adapt himself
to circumstances, able to talk sensibly upon
occasion on all the isms and ologies keep abreast
of current affairs, and be in no danger of being
cornered by the high school boy, or even the
University graduate on the station." There’s
what is wanted. It is much more than we thought.
Still, It should not be hard to fill the bill. Accord-
ing to the Advocate, there is no question of
honesty or of moral virtue of any kind in it. We
know a poet who would just fit. Ho Is In gnol
now, but will soon be out.
Some short while ago, a certain Sydney
printing firm had occasion to mail 300 blocks for
business purposes throughout N.S.W. and
Victoria, and on applying to toe antediluvian
authorities of the Sydney Post-olfioe, were told
that the letter-rate of 3i. must be pre-pald on each,
the total, of course making a cost of £30. Feeling
this to be too steep a hill to Climb, the firm sent a
man across to Melbourne with instructions to post
the blocks theta. This was dilly done, and the
senders found that the business, after all expenses
were paid, only coat them £20 10a. Many of these
blocks came back to within a few miles of Sydney*
so that the local P.O. officials bad to do a heap of
work for nothing, whilst the Victorian Depart
ment bagged a fair pool, and the level-headed
traders saved £10 103. We are occasionally told
that our postal clerks are overworked, and the
Department does not pay. The wonder is that the
mud-beaded merchant, the gibbering banker, and
the paralysed policeman do not come down from
their sculptured perches on the walls and brain
their rivals, who, by their jackass administration,
contrive to make the interior working of our
Q.P.O. as much a matter of contemptuous derision
as Its exterior decorations are.
The Real Scapegoat.
“THE N.8.W. MINISTRY ARB TRYING TO FASTEN ON TO THEIR AGENT-GENERAL, SIR SAUL SAMUEL, THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE FAILURE OF THE LOAN.'*


“ What’s your opinion on circular educa-
tion ? ” asked a free and independent of a coming’
candidate. “My opinion, my boy—well, my
opinion is, that when it was circulating, you got
very little of it.’’ “ Are you In favour of a National
Reform League?” “Areyou going to vote for
me ? ” “ Yes.” " Well, come and have a drink,
that’s more in your line.”
Mr. Hunter, of Melbourne, drank so that
his life was eternally mixed up with a menagerie
of natural curiosities—snakes, dragons, and so on.
His favourite liquor was rum, but he could get
down brandy at a pinch, and he was in the habit
of taking two loaded six-shooters and a long dag-
ger to bed with him, occasionally slicing his wife
with the latter. After reporting this much, the
local Herald casually remarks that Mrs. Hunter
has rather a delicate appearance.
Why should Shackell, M.L. A., of Victoria,
seek only to tax bachelors under 50 years of age ?
Dion Boucicault got married the other day at the
frisky age of 68 or so; (Billy Hoskins became a
father when past four-score; Rev. Brombv, of Mel-
bourne, not long ago, hitched-up, in his 70th year,
with a lovely creature of sweet 17; Lord Chief
Justice Coleridge, of England, who is verging
on the seventies, has just united himself under a
threat of breach of promise, with a thlrty-year-old
brunette. It’s quite true that all these were
widowers; but if a widower can marry at 70, a
bachelor ought to be able to do the same.
Angus Cameron, Chairman of Committees
in the N-8 W. Assembly, was empowered to ad-
minister the oath of allegiance in the abcence of
the Speaker. It must be remembered, however,
that this is allegiance to Her Mijeity, not to the
gentleman who is said, on the authority of Angus
himself, to know "more about Muscovy ducks
than politics.” By-the-way, the fact that the
Government were unable to elevate Mr. Slattery
to the position so long held by Angus would serve
to show that their majority cannot be made to
follow whenever the boobylsh cry of Imperial
loyalty is raised, Tom Slattery has always posed
as a superfervid loyalist, and the Ministry tried to
use him for the purpose of crushing the rebel
Cameron. The member for Nagle-Kyan was glad
to come forward because some of his constituents
who are not under the thumb of the local mon-
arch have lately been storing eggs, already
long past their prime, in anticipation of his
next visit. But the game did not come off.
Angus, in his apology (which, as made, was quite
unnecessary, even if sincere) hardly pleased himself
or the House. His retractation was too sweeping,
or else not sufficiently so. He should have with-
drawn his former comparison, and stated that the
Governor “ knew less about Muscovies than poli-
tics,” but when about to do so he remembered
that this would, perhaps, be impossible, and so
forebore. Tom Slattery was only second or third
choice as Ministerial nominee for the Chairman-
ship. Mr. O’Mara was first asked to oppose the
present occupant, but he declined. By the way,
I too, it seems strange that Mr. Garvan should be
bringing the vote of want of confidence against
the Minister for Works. Had it not been for Mr.
Wright’s determination to remain in the Arm of
Wright, Heaton and Co., while holding a portfolio,
Mr. Garvan wouldnowmostprobably be sittiag on
the Treasury benches, xs he refused some time ago
to take office with Waterplpe Wright as a col-
league. This persistence of the Minister for
Works in a course conducive to suspicion is said
to have led to tne retirement from the Govern-
ment, some time since, of Sir Patrick Jennings.
A man out at Milton (N.S.W.) Las been
bearing the burden of two names and three wives
during the heat and cold of the past three years.
It was not on his shoulders he bore them. The
local Times vouches for it that he was always of a
“serious turn of mind,” the gravity tending in a
general way towards taking leading parts in the
solemn services of his Church. When he was in
Adelaide he was known to the angels as Henry G.
Hoddardt. His piety was contagious. He smote*
slew, and bound with hymeneal bonds a girl of the
City of Churches. He ascended to the noble posi-
tion of father. /Six of them called him that. Then,
warbling a hymn, he moved nearer to heaven.
That was Cooma, N.S.W., where leeks are succu-
lent and onions bulbous. There he married once
more. Twice again he merited the endearing title
of father. Once more warbling he struck out
heavenward. The exertion landed him at Milton.
Here he coalesced in the holy bonds with a pretty
girl, and proceeded to earn the delectable appel-
lation some more times. Near as Milton is to
Heaven, however, it possesses a gaol. When it
was found that the three wives and all the chil-
dren were alive the other day, and waiting in
turns for Henry G. H. to come back from his
t te-a-tete with me angels, the police scruffed and
unceremoniously ran him inside tne blue-stone
walls He is there now, and to quote again the
local paper, is "altogether of a very religious turn
of mind.”
An extended lease of life may be obtained
by the continuous use of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Avoid imitations.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a splendid tonic and
corrective for physicial ailments. Be sure you
obtain Wolfe’s.
Wolfe’s Schnapps smothers the voice of
depreciation. Ask for Wolfe’s and accept
nothing else.
By studying your customers you study
yourself. Never palm oil’ upon them an imitation
of Wolfe's Schnapps.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
Wt thaii he gtaa to bent tbu mam pvMta up s*
tttrttariet of rating club* and managtri of
tporUng events in asnsraU
RACING.
Ballarat Hunt and 1 C October 1, 3
Melbourne H.C •' October 3
Rosehll. R.C October 3
Mudgee Tattersall’s R.C. (Spring) October 8, 9
Sydney Turl Club October 10
Victoria A.T.C. (Spring) October 10. 17
Berrima District R.C October 13,14
Eureka T.C October 14
Canterbury Park R.0 October 17
Wollongong T.C October 31, 23
Moonee Valley October 34
V.R.C. Spring October 31, November 3, 5, 7
gaeensland T.C...., November7.9
iverpool J.C November 9
Wllliamstown R.C. V.) November 9
Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C. Spring...November 10,13.13
Narandera J.C ..November 13,13
Murrumbidgee T.C. (Spring)....November 18.19. 30
Yerong Creek Novembers!
Rockampton (J.C November 35, 36
Gunnedah (Annual) November 35 36
Narrabrl J.C December 3, 3
Brisbane Tattersall’s December 10
Canterbury Park R.C December 19
A. J.C. (Summer) December go
Victoria A.T.C. (Summer) December 36
Rosehill R.C December 38
V.R.C. (Summer) January 1
Tattersalrs (Annual) January 1
AQUATICS.
Lake G eorge Regatta .... October
Davis v. Maclean, at Woodburn October
New South Wales R A. Regatta .... .October 3
M.R.C. Branch Regatta October 17
Double Bay Regatta October 31
ATHLETICS.
Eight Hours’ Art Union and Sports, Agri-
cultural Society’s Grounds October 7
BY FLOOD FIELD.
“How is it,” asks a writer in a Sydney
daily, *’ that the children of Israel form so large
an element of * the ring ’? ” Because, dear sir, it is
a money-making beesnees. See how well the
betting men all look I They live on roast turkey
and champagne, and, even metaphorically, rarely
have a turn of shin of beef and Botany water or
Yan Yean to wash It down. The innocent, saintly
people of the community entertain an idea that me-
talllcians are a wild,harum-scarum lot of tellows,
drinking and gambling day and night, and hardly
ever going to bed; that their motto is “a short
life and a merry one.” Nothing could be further
from the truth. There was a time when our great
bookmakers were all that, but It’s past. Many of
the wildest fellows of the days gone by, who
sat at loo, poker, or hazard until daylight
appeared, and then prepared for the racing
field, are now “staid, sober, and respect-
able family-men.” The ring proper is an
assemblage of business men, though, of course,
there’s an outside circle, hovering between the
metalllcian and the magsman, who nave to live as
they can by their wits—and dreadfully sharp wits
they are, too, as many a Sydney “ Hat has by this
time found out. But when these have once made a
big haul at the races,gold gets them admitted within
the charmed circle, and the shady ones know them
no more. By the way, the Cootamundra accident
bookies came over from Melbourne to Sydney last
week, and don’t seem much the worse for their
adventure, though their language is strong about
the Government which escaped paying a
couple of hundred thousand through the “ act of
Providence ” plea. One metalllcian very forcibly
remarked he hoped that in future “ Divine Provi-
dence would mind its own business, and not
go a Interferin’." The Victorian Government had
to pay over £100,000 for the Jolimont accident;
that of N.S. W. got off without a scratch If they
hadn’t, they could not have afforded the Contin-
gent, so Providence, after all, was kind to the
powers that be in Macquarie-street.
♦ • *
It’B amusing to read some of the comments
upon the defeat of Uralla by Nordenfeldt in the
A.J.C. Derby. The Melbourne Sportsman, for
instance, after stating that “shrewd backers in-
variably go for the outsider,” when Mr. White
starts a couple, goes on to say that “ Hales made a
desperate attempt to catch Nordenfeldt,” but bad
to pull Uralla round because he was Interfered
witn, and “the Musket colt won all out by half a
length.” This reads a little bit perplexing. The
remark about “shrewd backers” would seem to
insinuate that Nordenfeldt was the “pea,” a pre-
sumption rather Inconsistent with the statement
that he had to be ridden right out to beat a stable
companion who was interfered with. It can be
taken for granted that Mr. White's pa'r went on
their merits, and possibly the luckiest horse came
in first. Anyway, Bills was fortunate in not being
hampered by any “ declaration ’’ to win with she
filly. The late Admiral Rous used to say that it
was " brutalising ” a jockey to compel him to pull
his mount in favour of a more fancied stable com-
panion, and because Mr. White allows his jockeys
to make the best of their way home, the public
have no right to complain if the vlsclssltudes of a
race prevent them from finishing in the order that
was expected.
* * •
Good judges can come to no other con-
clusion than that Despot is a non stayer, whose
trick of falling arises from distress, and not from
accident. There’s seldom much reliance to be
placed on excuses for horsey who “ would have
won if they hadn't been disapnointed,” but to be
told that Despot would have cantered in if he
hadn’t fallen, is altogether too thin. The cry has
been raised too many times, now, for sensible
people to give it any further credence. No matter
how freely a horse appears to be going, the fact
of him crossing his legs is an almost certain indi-
cation of being pumped out. There are excep-
tions, of course, but in Despot’s case, the stumble
only seems to occur when the pace is hot, and a
certain distance has been covered.
♦ * *
Wild Oats, sire of the flue upstanding
Oatcake, who won the Squatters’ Handicap,
was, in his day, one of the grandest thorough-
breds that ever looked through a bridle. Wild
Oats was a “roarer,” however, and most of his
progeny have inherited papa’s infirmity along
with his fine proportions.
• * »
Newstead’s chance for the Y.RC. Derby
is becoming more than ever a vexed question,
and his position in the market is the reverse of re-
assuring. Some take exception to him on the
ground that he is doing “ no work, and others
ridicule his stralgot forelegs. However, provided
they will only permit him to do enough gallops
beforehand, Newstead s straight fore legs wouldn t
interfere with his chance in the actual race. If
there were a steep hill to come down at Fieming-
ton, it would be another matter.
• » •
Despot’s spill in the Metrop., on Tuesday,
was a thick slice of bad luck for the Hon. James,
as the horse was in a capital position, and running
a great race when he came down at the home
turn It is a singular coincidence that the grey
met the same fate, in the same race, and at the
same spot, last year, and he also fell in the Mel-
bourne Clip tussle, won by his stable companion.
Martini-Henry. The finish of Nordenfeldt and
uSa in the A.J.C. Derby is only another Instance
tho mistakes made by the blue and white
nartv and is on a level with the cases of lolanthe
and Bargo. Tempo and Tremando, and Monte
Christo and Uralla. The fancied one s of Fennelly s
stable have so often been put down by the second
flight that it would seem to be a safer plan to back
the mount of Ellis than that of Hales. And this
shows the immense advantage the public may (or
may not) derive from following the tips of our
sporting prophets, for if the owner, trainer, and
retained Jioks of a racing stud cannot tell which
1* the fastest flyer in i heir string, how in thunder
can a man who only sees the horses do an occa-
sional morning flutter expect to be any wiser than
they are ? Nordenfeldt has now scored five wins
out of a possible six, and he should have, amongst
other engagements, a big say In the Caulfield
Guineas, V.R C. Derby, and Melbourne Cup, pro-
viding all goes well and the stable pops its pewter
on some other fancy selection.
* * *
The third day’s racing of the A.J.C.
Spring Meeting (Craven Plate day), was not like
either of its predecessors so far as attendance was
concerned, but weather and racing were fully up
to the mark. A fine field started for the Suburban
Handicap, for which Fuze msde the running until
the distance was negotiated, when Minorah came
with a rush and won by half a length from Oak-
lelgb, who beat Fuze by a similar distance for
second place. For the Grand Stand Plate Wallan-
gra left the paddock at 6 to 4 on, and justified the
confidence placed in him by winning cleverly by
three-quarters of a length from Polestar, Cerise
and Blue third, half a length away. Nordenfeldt
was supported by the public at 6 to 4 on for the
Craven Plat® The favourite led into the straight
followed by Reginald and Astroea, with Honeydew
in close attendance. Hales on Honeydew then
settled down for a race home, and at the half-
dlstanqe was nearly on an equality with the leader,
but Nordenfeldt responded like a racehorse to the
call made upon him by Ellis, and drawing away
again, won a grand contest by a bare half length
from Honeydew, Reginald third. For the Richmond
Stakes, Acme started at 3 to 1, and won easily by
some tour lengths from Halcyon. Uralla was served
up a regular cayenne pepper favourite for the
Second Foal Stakes at 7 to 4 on, but First Chester,
cleverly ridden by young Kelso, rather upset the
pot by winning easily by some four lengths from
Eagle Grange, followed by Lennox and Uralla In a
bunch. The last race on the card, the Sidney
Handicap, fell a victory by a head for Wing, after
a great set-to with Tom Brown and Folly, who ran
a dead heat for second place.
* * *
Notwithstanding rain and mud galore on
the final day (Saturday), the large attendance of
the sterner sex who put in an appearance were
well rewarded by the splendid racing for their
battle with the elements. The running of Den-
mark in the Steeplechase was a sight worth swim-
ming to the course to see. The Tasmanian bred
Denmark, with the crusher of Ifist. 12lb. t took
command before half the three-mile course bad
been covered, and, sailing over his jumps in rare
style with Kilduff in the pigskin, wss never after-
wards interfered with, and won as he liked by ten
lengths from Lizette, Uhlan a head away.Itbird.
For the second Hurdle Race Parade led Into the
straight, but struck the last jump heavily and
nearly came to grief. At the distance Caloola came
with a powerful rush, and, passing the leader, won
by a length; Confidence, four lengths away, third.
Boor! started at first favourite for the Members’
Handicap, but he never showed prominently, for
Magnifier took command after crossing the tan,
and was never afterwards interfered with, win-
ning eventually by three lengths from Oakleigh,
Algernon a very close third. It was any odds on
Nordenfeldt for the Hand wick Plate. For two
miles the trio—Nordenfeldt, Percussion, and Eagle
Grange merely did a gentle canter, until passing
the tan for the second time, Nicholson, on Eagle
Grange, set the colt going, and established a lead
of fully six lengths. Ellis, cn the favourite,
settled down to catch the “ stole away,” and, at the
back of the course, had reduced the lead by a
couple of lengths. Foot by foot the Derby win-
ner drew upon Eagle Grange, who still had pride
of place, when the turn into the straight running
was made. The pace, however, now told upon
the leader, who melted away, and was passed by
Nordenfeldt, wno won with ease by a couple of
lengths from Percussion, who passed Eagle Grange
in the run home The time was miserably slow—
7min 40sec. Acolyte was looked upon as a good
thing for the Waverley Handicap, but Sanders lost
a stirrup at the home turn, and being unable to
ride the favourite out, was beaten by a head by
Anglesey, Folly third, at Anglesey’s girths. Happy
Thought started first favourite tor the Free Han
dicap, but young Fielder, on Cerise and Blue,
who started begging at hundreds to five rather
upset calculations by winning cleverly from Kath-
leen, with the favourite third; and tue A.J.C.
Spring Meeting of 1885 was a thing of the past.
• *
After the running for the Craven Plato,
Honeydew was purchased by Mr. W. A. Long, for
the stated price of £20M.
• ■ •
Donald Nicholson’s luck was completely
out at the A J.C meeting. The crack light weight
did not score a win during the four days racing.
• • • '
The rejoining of the N.S.W. Rowing
Association by the Sydney Mercantile Rowing
Club is bearing fruit, and the Association Regatta,
on Saturday next, promises to be the most success-
ful yet brought off by that body. Races for senior
eights and junior and maiden fours have filled up
well, the one failure In this respect being the
Sydney Mail trophy for senior scullers in out-
riggers, the only entries being A. F. Sharland,
from Tasmania, the present holder, and J. O.
Trimble, of the Sydney M R.C , which virtually
means a row-over for the Tasmanian. Mr, Shar-
land generously consented to postpone the race
until the 17th October, as it was thought some of
the men in the eights might compete, but as no
more entries were received by Monday last, it is
decided to row off the event on Saturday next.
For the senior eights, we fancy the Sydney B C.
crew, which consists of the last intercolonial eight,
with the exception of the younger Kennedy and
Sharpe in the place of Martin and Seale, must win
if form goes for anvtbing; and we shall not be
surprised to see the Glebe B.C win the double, the
maiden and junior fours. Some time since we
pointed out the Association would one day be In
a dilemma with regard to their recognition of the
Balmain Bowing Club, and our prophecy has now
come to pass. The 8.B 0., M.B C., and G.R.C.
have entered protests against a member of the
B B.C. maiden crew, on the grounds that he is not
tibonaflde amateur, but, as the Association have
accepted the Club's subscription, well knowing
that said member was on its roll, we fancy
they are in rather a tight fix. The member
in question belongs to the “ foorce,” and
although we have at all times a vast
respect for gentlemen of his profession, we hardly
think a member of the “ foorce ” can, by the
wildest stretch, be looked upon as a bona fide
amateur under the Association definition, i - almain
is starting a Working Men’s Bowing Club, and
there is now no excuse for the so-called amateur
club retaining any of their “ doubtfuls.”
« •
The Sydney sailing season is now setting
in with the north-easters,;but a couple of 20-footer
half-deckers and a l(J-foot dingy are the only new
creations we have dropped across so far. Young
Golding, of Balmaia, who built the Nereus, the
30-foot half-deck hero of last season, had a new
craft of similar dimensions out last Sunday, and a
beautifully-finished craft she looks with her
polished rosewood deck. But she will have very
different cattle to meet from those her sister had last
season, as Donnelly and Sullivan are putting the
finishing touch on a rival—the first 30-footer
turned out of their shed. Both boats look heelers,
but we like the look of Donnelly’s boat best.
Golding’s has a tuck much after Joe's old style,
such as the Lottie s, while the Woolloomooloo
boat’s tuck is a great deal shallower, and gives the
boat a much better run. Donnelly is also at work
on a 16 footer for George Fletcher, the well-known
boatsailer. and, so far as appearances go,
Georgie should make his mark in her during the
coming season.
A short time since William Beach, the
champ.on sculler, came down to Sydney and in-
vested in an expensive “Greener,” much to the
disgust of many who thought the Cbamnion had
more"su«ar” than wit to indulge in such an ex-
pensive toy. However, there was method in
William’s madness, for he made his debut in metro-
politan pigeon-shooting grounds shortly after-
wards, and, at21yds, ia the N.8.W. Guo Clubs
Grand Open Handicap, he grassed his nine birds
out of ten and “scooped the pool ” As the terms
were £8 sweep, nine birds, two misses retire; 1st
pri/,3£ieo and trophy value £35, it will be seen
that William might have made a “Greener” in-
vestment after all.
♦ * *
A large and respectable audience put in an
appearance at J. Lawson’s benefit, at Foley’s
rooms on Saturday night, but for the sake of the
sport, we are sorry to say the performance was
not on a par. It was announced that Jackson,
Hall, Powell. Dooley, and others would box during
the evening, but the promised ones did not put in
an appearance, and some indifferent boxing made
up the evening’s entertainment. Hall went to
Melbourne on Saturday afternoon, but so far as
the others were concerned, having promised they
should have set-to, as their turn will no doubt
come soon, and then the public will know what to
exoect. Good boxing will ever draw a good house
in Sydney, but we are afraid the “ fancy ” will cry
“wolf,” until a really good show comes on the
board, when they will find a long deluded public
fail to respond to the call. Take this to heart, ye
Sydney gladiators
♦ * *
All classes of athletes in America appear
to be in vastly bad favour with the Press and the
nubile, for in'addition to the general blackguard-
ing accorded to the professional scullers, the
Frisco Newsletter gives Duncan Koss, the all-
round athlete, the following lively send-off
for his proposed visit to the antipodes. Says the
Newsletter:—“ Miller, Dinnle, and Whlstierare
somewhere in Australia. Now, Duncan Ross
threatens to follow them. We are glad to get rid
of him. and sincerely hope that he and all such
may avoid th s city for ever. Tne sham
wno, under tho cloak of religious sentiment, se-
cured more free advertising than ad the others, is
at heart the basest humbug of them all.” So we
may look for a high old time when Mr. Koss makes
his bow to the Australian public And this re-
minds us that the Grmco-Homan wrestling match
between “Professor” Miller and Clarence Whistler,
came to an issue in Melbourne on Saturday last,
when the Tank won two falls straight away, and
the match. In the first bout the men struggled
lor 1 hour.JOmin . with the exception of 15 minutes’
spell, before Whistler succeeded in turning fils
bulky opponent square on his back; but youth.no,
doubt, came to Whistler’s aid in the second trial, as
he fixed Miller up in 10 minutes by getting the
Professor s arm in such a position that it meant
break or cry a-go, and Miller very sensibly cried
enough!
OBEYING ORDERS.
The Aquatic Championship.
The refusal of William aqu '.tic cham-
pion, to row Matterson tv>>- a less sum than £500
aside is as ungraceful is it Is unex mooted. If our
memory does not play us fa ao tvhea Beach was
first beaten by Trickevu. me present champion
asked Triokett to give him another trial for £100
aside, to which Triokett replied that he considered
It infra dig. to row tor less than the time-honoured
£300 aside on occasions when the world’s champion-
ship was la the balance. It was only after great "er-
suasion that Triokett, who, to give him his due,
was always anxious to “do the square thing,” con-
sented to another match. Then, when Hanlan
made his advent here, the trouble of fixing up a
contest lay in the fact that the Canadian wanted
to row for £500 aside, whilst Beach held out for
the traditional £300. But times have altered, and
we now find the party who said such bitter things
about a £500 match refusing themselves to
row on any other terms. The curse of
aquatics now is that there is too much money
in the sport, and we grieve to think that
sportsmanlike contests such as we used to wit-
ness over the old Parramatta course am things
of the past. Hanlan introduced the Hippo-
drome ” (as they term it in the States), and big-
money business into Australia, and we a e afraid
that the seeds sown by the Canadian have ger-
minated too well. And now for the remedy. We
have often purged that the colonial rowing asso-
ciations should take the professionals as well ts
the amateurs in hand, and now that so. able and
experienced a man as Mr. P J. Clark is at the
tiller of the N.S.W. Association, we think
a settlement of the present question may
safely be left with that body. The Beach party
no doubt see that as the steamer following the
race would carry some £500 or £600 it would be a
“good line” to back any outsider against the
champion for a couple of hundreds, as the steamer-
money would more than recoup the novice’s
backers. But such an arrangement could be frus-
trated by an enactment that in all championship
matters the winner should “ annex ” a much
greater proportion of steamer-money than the
user. As matters now stand, a champion can
hold the championship for all time by simply
making the stakes up to such an extent as to
make them prohibitive; and, looking back into
Beach’s career, we fancy he should be just about
the very last man on earth to take such a course.
‘•DAD MOTHER SAYS THIS IS THE THIRD TIME THAT SEE HAS SENT FOR YOU
&.NO THAT I MUST BRING YOU HOME EVEN IF I HAVE TO CARRY YOU, AND (tuckina
up his sleeve) YOU KNOW WHAT THAT MEANS 1”


All inferior articles must disappear before
the genuine Wolfe s Schnap/s. Be sure you
obtain Wolfe's,
How many people are in their graves to-
day who would hive been alive and well if they
knew the virtues of Wolfe's Schnapps.
If you value your good name do not put
it in jeopardy by selling counterfeits of Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Of course every one wants value for their
money—WQPFJt’s Schnapps is the best value you
can obtain,
WOMAN ITEMS.
An American paper thinks that American
girls are more beautiful than they were 15 or 30
yearsago. A contemporary remuks: “ We should
say that this is eminently true of g'rls who w're
born li or 31 years ego.”
The Sydney War Crv moralises on the
ducks of bonnets one sees on both sides of the
street: —" Sydney takes its fashions from London,
and London from Paris, and Paris from the
Devil.” That is rough on the Devil
“A Frisco paper says Mrs. Langtry goes to
Australia next fall. What’ do they mean by next
fall ? Eve left the Garden of Eden after the fall.”
This is from Melbourne Punch, and is the
neatest thing we’ve seen in any Southern paper
for a whole week.
Girl- “I will look at your hammocks,
please.” Dealer; “ Yes, miss. Now, there is some-
thing nice. Not expensive, but, at the same time,
pretty and strong.” Girl: “It doesn t look very
strong-’’ Dealer: “I will guarantee it to sustain
a weight of JOUlb.. miss.” Girl: “ Let me see; 130
and 165 would bo juet 385-very well. I will take
that one.”
au American revivalist says: “God won’t
keen a young lady pious who has her waist en-
circled seven times a week by a spider-legged
dude ” We assure Rev. Mr. Jones that we are no
friend to the dude, but we desire to suggest very
meekly that pretty much the same thing is liable
to happen to the young lady if she Is hugged too
often by the parson.
A ftieoe (if evidence in a Quebec breaoh-
of-promise case was a cuff with an offer of mar-
riage written on It. One night, while the defend-
ant was bolding the plaintiff's hand, whispering
fervid words, he popped the question In manu-
script on the smooth linen at her wrist. She was
sentimental or shrewd enough to keep the article
out of the wash, and now It is of practical value.
This is “ washing linen in public ” with a venge-
ance.
The Melbourne Age, in a pedantically -
moulded misogynistic article, thus accounts for
the lowness of the marriage rate in the Radical
colony; As long as the fashionable girl may be
only a flrure in which the saw-dust can be let out
at pleasure, instead of a compact mass of working
muscle and tissue, It Is not surprising if the young
men who ought to marry her find metal more at-
tractive to the touch in the air-blown convexity
of the football.”
The editor of the Morpeth (N.8.W.) Times
introduces to his readers a locally-manufactured
novelette in the following fashionLook out,
then, for the |new tale—love, disapolntment, mar-
riage, poverty, riches, glory, mystery, and other
nice things.” So then disappointment and poverty
are nice things 1 If the local novelist be not able
to write better English than that, she—and it is
about 1000 to 1 the gender is feminine-will find
her pursuit of literary fame ending in disapoint-
ment and poverty, and other nice things.
The Independent, the mouthpiece of the
N.S.W. Congregational Union, printed and folded
by Joseph Cook, of Sydney, is, to all appearance,
badly mashed on its deceased wife’s sister. We
don t know the lady. If we did we might perhaps
be sympathetic, as it is, we are simply Impartial.
The Independent, observing tearfully that Bishop
Barry approves of such unions If effected out of
Australia, eloquently rates bis Inconsistency in
disapproving of them here. “ A widower,” It ex-
claim?, “ finds the virtuous aunt of his children
would make a good stepmother. What Is he to
do ? He has no wish to be immoral, but he has no
time to go to Switzerland. What Is he to do?”
That is it. Let not the Bishop try to push the In-
dependent too far. “ If,” continues the amorous
organ, ‘ Peter’s wife had caught fever from her
mother and dn d, and he afterwards married her
Sister, there was not In all Jerusalem a Pharisee
perverted enough to complain that It was against
the law. ’ Let the Bishop put that in his pipe.
George Darrell has returned like a giant
refreshed ‘r im his Adelaide trip, and if the city
isn t on tiptoi with expectation for the “ Sunny
South,” it ought to he. George’s latest and most
immortal work. “The Squatter,” first produced
in Melbourne, with ghastly results, sent a delicious
tremor through the whole of South Australia.
He is an author of cunning resource, is George,
and. finding that the third act of “ The Squatter,”
representing a masked ball in the Melbourne Town
Hall, didn’t work, he changed it, we hear, into a
shipwreck, or a colliery explosion, or an earth-
quake, or something, when he got to Adelaide.
Other great dramatists have done the same sort of
thing. The sleep-walkiog scene in “MacbPth,”
we believe, was substituted in place of a cock-
fight, out of deference to the opinion of some of
Shakespeare’s “first-nighters.’ So George Dar-
rell appears to bo following in the footsteps of the
divine William in more ways than one. In that
original masked ball, by the way, George appeared
as Robin Hood, in a beatific suit of Lincoln green,
and looked lovely. We don’t know what costume
he sports for the shipwreck, or colliery explosion,
or earthquake, or whatever it is.
Mr. Sbackeil’s proposal to tax ttie bache-
lors of Victoria, “ In the interests of posterity and
the colony generally,” has brought a Hush of hope
Into the cheeks of many Melbourne girls. The
terrorism of the tax-oolleotor, think the maidens,
might do more to advance matrimony than all
mamma’s manoeuvring?. And very likely they
are right. Theirs is a hard fate, by the way, be-
cause it is a physical Impossibility for every Mel-
bourne Jill to find a Jack, unless Mr Shackell can
compel some of the reluctant bachelors to get
married twice over. But while fully sympathising
with the young ladles on the point of numerical
discrepancy between the sexes, we must also put
in a word for the bachelors In this hour of con-
templated infliction. Why on earth should a vir-
tuous young man, who doesn’t want to marry, be
taxed for the benefit of a posterity in which ha
h«s no hand? Let him rather pay over an annual
sum towards supporting a second wife for his
(rend Jones who Is connubially Inclined, and so
ie;tle the everlasting marriage question on terms
satisfactory to everybody all round. There’s sense
in that idea, but we don’t dare to hope that it will
be adopted. What can you expoct of a Legislature
which is inconsistent enough to talk of taxing
bachelors while it positively discountenances
bigamy ?
Suttor v. Mulholland.
CHORUS OF MEMBERS: “ NAME 1 NAME 1 ! ”
THE REVEREND SUTTOR (loq,): “THE SEAL OF CONFESSION CANNOT BE BROKEN.’’


New Mexico spent last year for liquors
£1,500,000, and for churches and schools, £9000.
American civilisation has reached a high point in
New Mexico.
John Weinecke, of Yeulba, Q., is said to
have covered 109ft. in nine consecutive
standing jumps—which beats Byrnes’well-known
record, 108tt
The Revised Version throws new lights
on some matters. As we read Psalm XIX., now,
ins revised language evidently prophesies the
power of the Press. What we boggled over before
Is now plain enough in the new rendering of the
obscure Hebraic script. What else but the Press
can be meant by this: “Day unto day uttereth
speech, and night unto night sfaeweth knowledge
Their’s is no speech nor language. Their voice
cannot be heard. Vet their line is gone out
through all the earth, and their words to the end
of the world?” Even the Yarrawirrah Rip.
snorter can claim a slice of this.
Joachim Frederick Hagen is one of those
who find it hard to part—when creditors’ money
has to be parted with. His sufferings from this
tightness of the pocket drove him away from
Pitzroy to London with £:1000 gained as a trading
grocer. That “a rogue is but a fool with a cir-
cumbendibus ” he well illustrated by taking the
money in a bank-draft. Had he taken it in coin
and landed in India, or the Cape, he might not
have been so soon brought back for trial and con-
viction. When he walked into the London Bank
with his draft, a telegraphic communication had
prepared a welcome for him, as also that friend
who sticketh closer than a brother,” and who
saw him safely delivered—under a magistrate’s
warrant—to those awaiting him in Melbourne.
More health, sunshine and joy in American
Go’s Hop Bitters than In all other remedies.
Observe.
MaoLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 George-street,
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &c.*
The public health is endangered by per-
sons who vend counterfeits of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
They are becoming so widely known that
every day fresh applications from different parts
of the country are made for the beautiful combi-
nation Dinner and Tea Set, costing Eighty Shill-
ings. whioh are only sold at Bray’s China and
Glass Depot, 403 and 404 George-street.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps beneficially affects the
constitution and reforms the morbid habits of the
body.
The air was soft as woman’s touch,
The breeze was flower laden,
Beside the sea we slowly strolled,
I and a lovely maiden.
The sky was calm, all earth serene,
And I with joy was telling
The cheapness of the Summer suits
Which Summerfleld is selling.*
We recommend Wolfe’s Schnapps to our
readers as an unequalled medicinal beverage.
BEALE & COMPANY.
BEALE & COMPANY
Boale & Company.
SYDNEY and BRISBANE.
SOLE IMPOBTERS OP THE
Sweat Hapsburg Piano,
SWEET “ HAP8BUBG ” PIANO.
The PAYOUBITB IN8TBUMBNT for Australia.
Iron framed, and of the strongest build,
Withstands the Greatest Extremes of Climate
UNEQUALLED IN TONE AND VOLUME.
The Principal of the Firm is at present Visiting
the Continent of Europe, and the
SHIPMENTS NOW ARRIVING
contain all the
VERY LATEST IMPROVEMENTS.
MORE ARE SOLD THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY than of
ANY OTHER MAKE.
Ever Growing and Widening Popularity Attested
>y High Testimony Daily Volunteered.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
Sole Importers of the
.“HAYDN” ORGAN,
the Perfection of Cabinet Instrument. Of Groat
Power. Perfect and Durable In Construction.
At Prices from 30 to 50 Guineas.
BEALE COMPANY
Will Deliver
A “Hapsburg” Piano,
A “Haydn” Organ,
OR
A “Haydn” Harmonium
(CARRIAGE PAID)
To any Wharf or Railway Station in New South
Wales upon the most
LIBERAL TERMS OF TIME-PAYMENT.
Catalogues Free on Application.
BEALE AND~ COMPANY,
Sydney Show Rooms,
386 and 613 GEORGE STREET,
13 CENTRAL MARKETS,
151 OXFORD STREET,
BRANCHES and TRAVELLERS THROUGHOUT
THE COLONY.
“ BEACH’S ”
CON8UJL.TA J ION
ON THE
MELBOURNE CUP,
NOW OPEN.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10s. BACH.
First Horse £360
3ad „ 100
3rd „ 35
Starters 65
Non-starters 50
Also. CAULFIELD CUP.
1000 Subscribers at £1 each; First Horse, £500.
address—
“ BEACH,”
Care of J. G. Dceble,
Hotel, King and Pitt Street, Sydney
Please apply early, and register letters for repl
with stamped envelope.
PEPPER AND SALT.
There can be no more Mudges than one.
A few weeks ago we chronicled, with tears in our
eyes, how a Mr. Mudge had been found dead on
the bank of a Queensland stream, and how all that
was mortal of him had been burled without benefit
of coroner or clergy in a shallow grave not above
flood mark. We consokd ourselves with a thre-
nody to the effect that “It was all the same to
Mudge.” But, bylho English papers, we learn—
as did the historian Jack Robinson—that “he’s not
been dead at all.” R. B. Mudge has only now died,
and the Queensland fatality must have been a try-
on to catch our versatile Muse. He had been a
Government clerk, and drawn a pension for 43
years from the British Government—a mere trifle,
a thing a pressman can knock out by working an
hour a day-£330 a year. And now he is really
dead the finances of the Empire begin to swing
round to the normal balance. He got that pension
after three years’ service, and although we cling to
our own lineage of the Plantagenets, and love the
name, we confess the times are so rough we would
accept even the name of Sludge for a similar 42
years’ spell. In view of the diplomacy of the
Mudge family, who can die in Queensland, whilst
still living on the fat of the land in London, we
forgive the deception practised on us. We admire
Mudge. Let no such go unsung with catgut
ruling at latest quotations:—
Mr. Stanley Huntley, the creator of Spoo-
pendyke and his you-only-want-a-ten-year-old-
dlreotory-and-a-deaf-offlce-boy-to - be - an - intelli-
gence-bureau style of humour, la now, or can be
if he likes, the great chief of all the Sioux tribes.
He was adopted by the old chief some years ago,
and now the old chief and all his descendants
are dead, and as, according to Indian law, adopted
children enjoy the same rights as others, the
American humorist 1s now sole sovereign of the
Sioux. Whether he has yet entered into his regal
inheritance or not we cannot say, but, anyhow, his
aase is a realisation of some of the most wor-
shipped Actions in the penny yellow-covers of our
youth. Still, it is not unparalleled. We, too, have
had our chance of taking a place among the
crowned heads of the earth. We remember that
when the ghost of old King Billy of the Quean-
beyan (N.8.W.) tribe was wafted away on a
long-drawn hiccup and Black Mary, the Queen,
was left to reign alone, she cast not
unfavourable glances into the little office where
we sat writing alternately articles dealing with
“High politics and the Asian Mystery” and
Aery phllllpios against the disgraces to civilisation
who pulled down the watchmaker’s signboard.
Yes, indeed; it is not without a sentiment of
melancholy, mingled with some pardonable pride,
that we recall the fact that her affable Majesty of
Queanbeyan deigned to drop in upon us quite fre-
quently and without the smallest trace of ostenta-
tlon-or boots-to ask us for the price of a goblet
of rum. On these occasions we noticed a look of
profound meaning in her eye. She never said
anything outright in explanation of this look, but
we knew what it meant. It said as clearly as
though she had cried aloud through a speaking-
trumpet:—“There is a vacancy on the throne of
the Queanbeyan tribe. Fill it, budgery whltefellow
paper-man.” It was a great temptation, but we
withstood it. A look at the regalia, left by the
late King, somewhat discouraged us. Her Majesty
kept it in a hollow log, hard by her gum-branch
gunny-bag palace at the far end of the
township. She showed it to us in a burst of confi
denoe one day. The dead monarch had ev idently
kept a keen watch on the growth of Republican
and Socialistic doctrines, and had intended to dis-
prove one of their leading assertions, that mon-
archy amass treasure at the cost of their subjects t
by his own example. The crown-property con-
sisted of a “ belltopper ”—a coachman's coat with
one tall—one blucher boot tied with whlp-oord t
and one half- Wellington ditto, with the fore-part
of the upptr missh g—an empty rum-bottle (bis
last moments were given t > draining it, so the
Queen Informed us, in what we imagined to be an
injured tone), a short clay pipe which he had
thoroughly aborlginallsed in cojour and smell, and
a waddy with which (as she told us in a quite un-
complaining and matter-of-fact manner) he used
occasionally to correct his royal consort. They
did not tempt us, and when we reflected calmly on
the subject and saw that if we shared the throne
l*b her we should have to throw our own per-
sonai income into the insolvent gulf left by the
late monarch and spend most of it in balling out
the Queen (she could always get drunk for nothing,
but to get her sober was a costly thing) we paused.
The throne of Queanbeyan certainly possessed one
advantage over that of—Russia, say. Its occupant
would have no cause to fear deposition by dyna-
mite. Its subjects were all peaceful. They were
all dead. Black Mary was the sole survivor. She
too, is dead now. She sighed her sweet proud sou)
away on a whiff of negrohead. Now you know
it all and will not wonder why at times we take a
haughty attitude with common men when we re-
member that once—alas 1—we also might have
Ken a monarch,
» • •
7 he Mayor of Richmond (Melb) has re-
ceived letters threatening the blowing up of him
his Town Hall, and his aldermen with dynamite.
This sad intelligence had quite a softening In-
fluence upon us. It reminded us of a little ballad
we wrote when we were young and full of hope and
ambition. Shall we sing you that old ballad ? (Cue
for the music)—
Patrick Fox is a blind man who infests tin
streets of Melbourne. Patrick got drunk the
other day. It Is needless to state blind-drunk—and
was locked up. We hope somebody will read thes*.
few verses to him:—
You knew you had a little terrace.
We are now done—done for ever—with pro-
fessional blind men. Once upon a time, In the
flourishing: City of Melbourne, the man who writes
this wes but a solitary threepence on this side ol
Insolvency. Of course there was only one way to
spend It. But as we walked towards the corner
meditating whether it should be beer or something
else, we saw a decent-looking blind man standing
or the side of the footpath with his palm stretched
out. We paused, and then, in a noble burst of
abnegation, gave him the threepence. He quietly
shifted it out of his palm with the other hand— and
hit it! On the strength of the statement In the
Scriptures that such deeds—we don’t refer to the
biting—will be rewarded a hundredfold in heaven,
we calculate we shall be able to start life there with
a capital of 35>.—no more, for we are never
going to give alms to blind men again. That
very same evening wo happened to be in a ham-
and-beef-shop, buying a little black-pudding for
supper (we had recruited our finances a trifle in
the meantime), and we saw the same blind man
making purchases of liver worst, Frankfort
sausages, brawn, and ham, and heaven knows
what else. We are not sure he didn’t buy the
shop out before he left. And we went home with
our poor little threepenn’orth of black-pudding
in our pocket 1 We may say, that though that was
a long while ago, we have never given anything to
a blind man since, though we have frequently
asked a blind man to give us something—a request
which, it is needless to say, has been invariably
received with derision.
» m •
The poor old lodgers at Melbourne Be-
nevolent Asylum seem to have had an awfully
considerate friend in Mrs. Hubbard, who Is raising
such a rumpus about mismanagement at the In-
stitution. Mrs. Hubbard used to keep an affec-
tionate look out for “ cases ” that were approach-
log dissolution, and comfort them in their last
hours with a glimpse of the undertaker’s receipts
for coffins and graves. This sick-bed consoler
says the receipts were produced so that the mori-
bund old ladies might be easy in their minds
“ that their bodies would not be prepared for the
grave by any of the male attendants in the
asylum.” In that case 'twas a nice delicate little
attention to pay them, especially if the po or old
creatures were favoured with a plan of the
churchyard, and permitted to pick out their o wn
bit of freehold land—
We hasten to spread the glad tidings.
There is, now, certainty of earthly salvation for
ill men. Not only may men look forward to
aappiness in the Hereafter, but they may be re-
leased from all physical, mental, and moral blem-
ishes in the Now. The Medical Reformatory,
•There this is all done, is in Macquarle-street,
Sydney, and the cost attaching to the operation is
only a modest “ canary.” Here, in black and white,
ve will give proofs of the soundness of our anti-
cipations in bailing an earthly Millennium. This
is the first of our proofs; it is extracted from a
jrinted circular, sent to us possibly by the men
wbo have at the above address carried science to an
•eminence never before reached, and the reforma-
(on must be taken as an example of the efficacy
if the new system:—“1. A widow, aged 50, was
narried again to a clerk of spare proportions, a
rreat smoker and lover of coffee and liquors. He
vas morose, disobliging, and stingy ; and
made her life miserable. The medicine, by
Che Doctor’s advice, was administered in his
evening porridge. After three weeks she returned
Highly satisfied, as her husband was again as
friendly as when he courted her; even smoking
*nd drinking had been almost abandoned by him.”
fo triomphe. This testimony, in the language of rat-
poison ads., must” be a rare boon to thousands.”
Sow many thousands must there be who, having
narried widows of 50, afterwards become “ mo-
•ose and disobliging,” especially when they find
hat the much-married matron does not own the
mb. and terrace of housss of which she once
ised to talk so glibly. And yet how easy is the
surel Merely the insertion of medicine in his
evening porridge, and a result equal to the most
glorious achievements of Bishop Barry, the Salva-
lon Army, and ordinary medical practitioners
ollow. This instance prepares us for a still
creator wonder. Instance No. 2 is that 6f (we
luote:—(2.) “A young married scapegrace who
reglected his family and his profession to
frequent bad society. In this case the me-
llclne was administered in the same way
as in the previous case. A few weeks
afterwards, the wife related with astonish-
ment that her husband now remains at home on
Sunday, which he never did before, and he had
entirely changed his old habits into those of order
and decorum.” We knew this man. He was a
parson, and was accustomed to consort with the
reporters of clerical papers. But he has given up
his evil habits. So has No. 3, who being “ A
married man of sixty had been jealous for 32 years,
»ut for the last five years he became more violent,
rousing the whole family in the dead of night by
its violent fits, and using insulting language to
iverybody. The medicine in this case was given as
lefore, and he now behaves like a gentleman, and
das entirely given up his groundless passion.”
But we have reserved the chlefest triumph to the
last so as to make a fitting climax to this tract.
This instance, No. 4, will be the cause of ecstasy
to many maidens whose fathers will not come
down with the needful to enable them to marry
military heroes who can contribute a beer j ig and
a fiat-iron to the stock of goods deemed necessary
to life. “ (4) An obstinate, sullen, ego-
tistic, and avaricious father, well off in the world,
refused his consent to the marriage of his
daughter on account of the necessity of providing
some dowry. At the request of bis wife the medi-
cine was administered as la the previom cases.
Three weeks afterwards a change took place; his
stubbornness yielded, and everything was settled
to mutual satisfaction.” To all persons who haye
relatives who love porridge and vice these cures
must be the source of untold, and untenable
gratification. To all such we recommend a visit
to the Home of Holiness, the Sanctuary of Sanc-
tity, the Temple of Temperance in Macquarie-
street, Sydney.
THE PENSION OF MUDGE.
In eighteen hundred, forty-three,
A gentleman named Mudge
Fell sick, and said, “ No Government
To pension me will grudge,
»'Loven pounds a week Is now my screw,
Far too much to be missed;
I think I’ll go and quarter me
Upon the pension list.”
Wars came, smallpox, scant harvests, and
Starvation ’mongst the poor;
But all these things our pensioner
With Christian patience bore.
He saw the workhouse choked with men,
Saw starving women, too;
Nor thought “ Why all these taxes ?” but
“ When is my pension due ?”
Hla health was good, he ate the best,
He slept on beds of down,
And dressed In true Parisian style
When he rode Into town.
He saw one Government go out,
Another one come in,
And oared not what ’twas all about,
But raked his pension in.
Thus generations two went by,
And fed up Mudge, and he
Saw grim taxation with the great-
Est equanimity.
Now comes the Tax-Collector, who
No man nor Mudge respects,
Armed with a writ for long arrears
(He spares nor age nor sex).
»• I'm pensioned, sir, no taxes pay,”
Mudge cried, with bated breath.
** Excuse me, sir, you’ll pay this time—
You see my card ? I’m Death.”
WICKED WILLIAM.
He was a wicked villain, was
The subject of our rhyme.
Whose merry hours and mental powers
Were given up to crime;
His conduct from bis very birth
Had ever been acours’t— ,
Of all the villains then on earth
This William was the worst.
No sort of misdemeanour to
Our hero came amiss,
To tell a flb ®r crack a crib
Was Billy’s dream of bliss;
When honest folk were all in bed
He’d sharpen up his knife,
And go and earn a crust of bread
By killing someone’s wife.
He’d rob a Baptist Chapeljor
Prig sacramental food;
Each week, at least, he’d “ pot ” a priest
And dabble in his blood;
Then when they in the churchyard lay
They didn’t long remain—
Bill called the first convenient day,
And dag ’em up again.
His mother kept a cottage, where
She dwelt with children five;
Bill struck a match and lit the thatch,
And roasted them alive;
While, furthermore, we must r Mate
(Although our heart it pains)
That William got a fork and plate,
And ate the charred remains.
But when he had committed all
The other crimes he knew
(The brandy pass—we need a glass)
An editor he slew;
And then his appetite was fed,
For sin he’d no more zest—
The taste was fled, and William said
He thought he’d have a rest.
And thus he cogitated: “ I
Have left no crime undone;”
But Satan here hissed in his ear:
“ Save one, dear William, one."
Bill started, blushed with shame, and then
With frenzy tore his hair,
And cried: “ I’ve killed all sorts of men,
Yet never killed a mayor."
He settled one that evening with
A lump of dynamite,
And with the mayor he sent a prayer
Up to the Realms of Light;
He begged repentance for the past
Through what had just occurred;
And Satan lost his man at last—
For William’s prayer was heard.
And when he met St. Peter on
The awful Judgment Day,
That angel grave a signal gave.
And lo! a loud “ Hooray”
Was shouted forth a hundred times
By all the people there—
Poor Bill had cancelled all bis crimes
By blowing up a mayor.
Naw, Patrick Fox,
This really knocks
All things we’ve seen into a cooked hat;
That you should go,
And rip round so
Is, sure, a matter to be shocked at.
For, Patrick Fox,
Your conduct blocks
All future charity to blind men;
For if you drink
Like this, we think.
You can’t expect much alms from kind man.
But let that be.
You’ve had your spree—
Though rum you drank instead of sherries—
It seems to us,
You gay old cuss,
PRACTICAL BENEVOLENCE.
Old Mary lay a dying; she was weary of this life,
And she sighed for that Asylum where there’s
neither soup nor strife;
But one sad thought oppressed her—she was tor-
tured by a doubt
That when her spirit homeward fled a man might
“ lay her out.”
’Twas not a nice foreboding, and a tear stood in
her eye,
And painfully she caught her breath to heave a
little sigh;
But tear and sigh were noticed by a lady standing
near,
And she ran to Mary’s pillow, saying: “What’s
the matter, dear ?”
The agM Mary mentioned all her tro ubles, ’mid
her tears—
The laying out—etcetera, but the lady soothed
her fears,
And, smiling, told poor Mary that, for just one
final treat.
She’d “ stood” a grave and coffin, and would show
her the receipt.
Sow happy then was Maryl all the pangs of death
were passed;
She was proud in the possession of some property
at last.
A look of calm contentment smoothed the wrinkles
from her brow,
And she passed away, exclaiming: “Kindly put
me in ’em now.”


COMPAGNONI CATERING CO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. * *
THB oldest and leading Catering Bstabllshment In N.8.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mayor.
Municipal Council of 8yd > ey, the A.J.C., City Club, vc., &o.
Tne Dining Saloons for Ladies and Gentlemen are the Finest, Coollest. and loftiest In the colony.
FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY. Private Bar—Good Wine List.
T&r GRILL ROOM now open- A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. (after the
Theatres. Select your own steak, &c., and see it grilled in the room. This 1s one of tne acquisitions
oi the city, and a long-felt wa> t. Inspection invited Club rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Clue
and City Club, upstairs. Ei D. TOLLENACHE, General Manager.
XjOCla.-IDlb/a. <3z> Sla-suns-roclr
3-8tar 10-Years’ Old Whiskies. The Oldest, Purest, and Most Mellow imported. GOLD MEDALS—Cal
cutta, N.Z. and 8. and W. Australia. HOLLAND & CO.’S OLD TOM GIN. G. H ADAMS. 119 Pltt-
street, Sydney; and at Melbourne. Adelaide, and Brisbane, Agent. Klrker, Greer, & Co. (Ld.)
THE SYDNEY SPORTS
DEPOT.
389 GEORG E-STREET SYDNEY
(Opposite Royal Hotel.)
BiGYCLCS,_TRICYCLE8.
OUR
1885 Pattern Bicycles
and Tricycles
Have Every Improvement.
OUR SPECIALITY
New Cheap Roadster.
THE UNIVERSAL CLUB
BICYCLE,
fitted with Improved Ball Bear*
inffs to front and back wheels,
Hollow Porks, Patent Head and
Detachable Bent Handle Bar,
Easy Slide Spring, Hubs Plated,
Black Enamelled Spokes,
1885 Universal Club, a thoroughly reliable and easy-running
machine. Ball bearings to both wheels, and improvements.
Price, £13 lOs. At the price
we defy competition.
MARTIN A COMPANY, 388 Naorge-st., Sydney.
CHAS. OTTE & CO.,
m
Electrical Engineers,
113 Pitt Street.
Electric Batteries for surgical and household use, Electric Bells,
Private Telephones, Electric Lights, Lightning Conductors, Dyna-
mos, and all Electrical appliances fitted at the shortest notice, at
26 per cent, under usual price.
CHAS. OTTE & CO., 113 Pitt Street
O ALL WUMHN.
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’8
Borax Soap
«y TKY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, in either HOT or
COLD WATBB.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERT
IN SOAP 1
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everythin*
washed with it:
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
|9V Sold by every Storekeeper and Grooer at
fid. per Bar.
Bole Manufacturers:
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
PAUL LIEBE^gipr
UNLIKE OTHERS
DOES NOT
FERMENT
mi
A
Dr. t h o m a i
may be coESuited oa
Nervous Debility, Skin and Contagious Affections.
Medical Establishment, 203, Elizabeth-street,
near Bath unit-street.
Hours : 9 till 10 daily.
Dr. Thomas Is the only medical man advertle in/
in Australia who has passed the degrees of an Eng
lish Physician and Surgeon. Examinations passei
-Licentiate of the Royal College of Physieiant,
London, 18«4; Member of the Royal College oi
Surgeons, London, 1859.
AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral.
No other complaints are so insidious in their
attack as those aifecting the throat and lungs:
none so trifled with by the majority of suffer*
era. The ordinary cough or cpl.d, tesuHUig
perhaps from a trifling or upcppsciou? ex-
posure, is often but the beginning of a fatal
§icknes§. Ayer’s Cberry Pectoral has
W e D proven its efficacy in a forty years’ fight
With throat and lung diseases, and should be
taken in all cases without delay.
A Terrible Cough Cured.
“ In 18571 took a severe cold, which affected
my lungs. I had a terrible cough, and passed
night after night without sleep. The doctors
gave me up. I tried Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, which relieved my lungs, induced
sleep, and afforded me tiie rest necessary
for the recovery of my strength. By the
continued use of the Pectoral a perma-
nent cure was effected. I am now (J2 years
old, hale and hearty, and uni satisfied your
Cherry Pectoral saved me.
Horace Fairhrothee.”
vt., July 18, 1882.
«
Croup. — A Mother’s Tribute.
"While in the country last winter my little
boy, three years old, was taken ill with croup;
it seemed as if he would die from strangu-
lation. One of the family suggested the use
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, a bottle of
which was always kept in the bouse, This
was tried in small and frequent doses, and
to our delight ip less than half an hour the
little, patient Vas breathing easily. The doc-
tor. said that the Cherry Pectoral had
saved my darling’s life. Can you wonder at
our gratitude? Sincerely yours,
Mrs. Emma Gedney.”
159 West 128th St., New York, May 1,(5,1|882.
“ I have used Ayer’s Cherry Sectoral
in my family for several years, and do not
hesitate to pronounce it the most effectual
remedy fojr coughs and colds we have ever
tried. A. J. Crane."
Lake Crystal, Minn., March 13, 1882.
“ I suffered for eight years f rppa JJroiieijtifl,
ftnd after trying many remedies with no sqjpr
cess, I was VY the use of Ayer’s Crer-
by Pectoral. Joseph Walden."
‘ Byhalia, Miss., April 5, 1882.
"I cannot say enough in praise of Ayer’*
Cherry Pectoral, believing as I do that
but for its use I should long since have died
from lung troubles. E. BRAGDON."
Palestine, Texas, April 22,1882.
No case of an affection of the throat or
lungs exists which cannot be greatly relieved
by the use of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
and it will always cure when the disease is
not already beyond the control of medicine,
* PREPARED BY <>
Dr. J.C. Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
, Sold by all Druggists.
ELLIOTT BROS, and 8 HOFFNUNG & CO*
Wholesale Agents.
after before M0U2TA0H3 and WEISEEES. «fors after
J3oyd'e Beard F.lixir did thin,and
will do it
on either bald head or
bare face. Foiceg heavy Mous-
tachein from 2 to 4 weeks and never t
fails, 20,000 young men already
wear full beards, having used 1 to
3 plots. No injury, eaeily applied, tertain in effect. _
•.aeh , 3 for 3 s. 6 d., post paid , tent under cover, free from observation •
iddress, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent, Box 730, G.P.O., Sydney ,N.B. W‘
Copyrighted .
Copyrighted.
Packets Is. &*
BULL DOO ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage In the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALB, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTELL & CO..
Sole Agents.
TJune dlt
t/ Mets.fi,
se
rf
f=f
p
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &o.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues can be had gratis on applica-
tion.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &c., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
41 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines. .
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever Invented. The Trypograph
t ikes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Bond and obtain full particulars of working.
VIUIAnTuLLARDp
842 GEORGE STREET.
ARTiriCIALTECTH
COMPLetesFT
MARSHALL BRO;
DENTISTS
133 ELI Z ABETH ST
N
OTICE TO !jl H E TRADE
Now landing ex Late Arrivals.
HALF-TESTER NICKEL BEDSTEADS.
HALF-TESTER BRASS BEDSTEADS.
HALF-TESTER IRON BEDSTEADS.
STUMP BEDSTEADS.
FRENCH BEDSTEADS.
BLAPK and G0J4> BEDSTEADS.
BLACK and BRASS BEDSTEADS.
Cases of No. 14 AUSTRIAN CHAIRS.
450 Cases of AMERICAN CHAIRS.
760 Bales of BEST JAVA KAPOK.
10 Bales of COTTON FLOCK.
20 Bales of CURLED HAIR.
10 Cases of TOILET GLASSES (Assorted).
20 Cases of ROWCLIFPE SPRING MATTRESSES
15 Bales of BLACK CURLED FIBRE.
13 Bales of WHITE WOOL FLOCK,
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st., Sydney,
IMPORTER of FURNITURE. UPHOLSTERER,
and BEDDING MANUFACTURER,
Bavarian m n D
itters. nUr
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
Made of the beat Bavarian Hops. Superior to an
other.
They take the first place wherever tried, and ar
well authenticated by eminent medical men an
well-known analysts.
Read the reports and testimony which aooon
pany each bottle, and do not forget to make a
trial of BAVARIAN HOP Bitters.
P. KIRBY,
Prom the late Mr. Jaku Curtis.
X7*KLd.ertsulrer,
■4 HUNTER Ml PHILLIP STREET*.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was In the employ of the
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (10) yean;
Manager for over ton (10) years.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found
last with the Argosy Braces at ©owing Brcs
%
£ ' ' -
GOWING BROS.
Have Just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
iLrgosy Braces!
Arresy Braces, Xs. 64., 8s., Ss. 64.,* 4s 6
GOWINgTbROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, A
ESS sal 46* Gsorn-itrasr^
WILLIAM BALL,
THE “PROFESSIONAL" AND PHARMACEU-
TICAL CHEMIST.
61 Bourse-street East, Melbourne.
The Toilet and Theatrical Requisites, manu-
factured by W. Ball, are composed of the
ourest ingredients, and are guaranteed not to
cause the least injury to the most delicate skin.
There are few ladles now, either in private life
or of the Theatrical Profession, who do not look
upon the
BLOOM OF PEACHES
(REGISTERED)
as the one article that is perfectly safe and satis-
factory to use either for the
THEATRE, BALLROOM, OR PROMENADE.
$
Our Cupids Manufacturing Bloom of Peaches
“ Dear Sir,—I consider your ‘ make-up perfect,
and should never think of using anything else
while it is possible to obtain it.—Yours truly,
Ed. Parley.”
The following ladles and gentlemen have also
written, speaking in the highest terms of these
Toilet Requisites Mesdames Louise Pomeroy,
Alice Deorwyne, Myra Kemble, Eva Davenport,
Roland watt Phillips, etc., etc.; Messieurs George
Tltheradge, George Rignold, Sheridan, Henry
Hodgson, W. J. Holloway, Fred. Marshall, Bulan
Darley, Frank Cates, etc.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
Wholesale Agents, N.S.W.:
Messrs. PROSSER & CO., Sydney.
G. F. PRIDDY & GO.,
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS,
leg to announce that, on and after APRIL 7th,
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Days
at 6.30 p.m. : Saturdays as usual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
OTUDf SOONOki
and
HaveyourUmbreUaPrarr p-
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and m*.
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’*
511 George Street,
1 Brickfield Hill, between
I Liverpool and Bathurst St*
I Parasols made to match cot
i tumes. Repairs ne tly ex»
autos
UMBRELLAS
R&&OVEBEA


JJIURNITUB1 8H0»f ROOMS
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
hT
ALL FURNITURE, HAT6TAND8, $-ni
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
T IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and BID1
Jj TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES.
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; ■‘veil worthy of
Inapeotlon. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, *o.
VERY ELEGANT. Just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O'Connell streets, Sydney.
E
11 IGHT-PO UN D BEDROOM SUITES.—The.
vi Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table am?
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLBY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towol rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD. and 3 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 30s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 37s. 6d.; washstands from 13s. 6d.:
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s ;
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLBY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
_iii‘
jOQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
oUOtl strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, In handsome
Case. Free at rail or wharves for cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb. _____
|u A8Y CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
Ev rooms. New designs covered to order in any
material.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and restful,
a speciality. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O Connell-street.
Drawing-room cABiNErs.-Eariy English,
Anglo-Japanese, and Chippendale designs.
Just opened. BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring & O’Connell sts.
D~ RAWING ROOM FURNITURE—The latest
development of fashion. ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exqusita examples are now on
view In our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEW ION. and La MB.
Elegant novelties in bedhoou fur-
niture. full suites, in SATINWOOD, ROSE-
WO ID, and other CHOICE WOODS, richly inlaid.
Will well repay inspection.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-st.
FOLDING-SCREENS (3 and 4 »old) for the Draw-
ing and Dining Rooms and Office. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb. _
ri ARDEN SEATS, 30s; Verandah Chairs,
lj INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LBY. NEWTON, and LAMB, G’Connell-street.
Rattan verandah lounges. 203,; and
large variety of Chairs, &c ; special designs,
extra quality. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring & O’Connell sts.
ARBLB-TOP TABLES, OB STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurantf,
smoking rooms, &o.
“ I ELF-AD JUSTING HAMM 0 OK CHAIR—
Patented.
5S2
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet Ingenious In its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can he obtained, Instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It Is superior
to anything yet Invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort Is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash —strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when ft ided. Price 80s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing In canvas. If required,
3s. 6d. extra.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
IRON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLBY,
NEWTON, and LAMB, Spring & O’Connell sts.
COPYING PRESSES, BRADLEY, NEWTO&,
and LAMB. Spring and O’Connell streets.
WALL MIRRORS and BRACKETS-Novelties
in plush and velvets and in all woods,
from 5/6.
TmLHGANT VENETIAN MIRRORS, richly
Ci enamelled in colours. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
OMMOUE CHAIRS; BIDETS, with PAN;
Shaving Stands Bradley, Newton, & Lamb
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted with
pulleys and cords, 0x8 9/6; 8x8 11/-; 9x8,
3/-; 10 x 8.14/-; 13 x 8,16/6; 13 x 10 30/-.
BRauLEY, NEW ION, and LAMB.
0
ICE CHESTS, with CUPBOARDS, all sizes, from
37s Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Spring and
PConnell streets.
T7IUKNITURE—THE LARGEST STOCK IN THE
lj COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
i Spring and O’Connell streets.
SOCIAL
Without a doubt, the Bouoioault season is
the most brilliant Sydney Theatre Royal has seen
for many a day, aod nothing tempts the ladies to
spread themselves in their devices of elegant
toilettes more than the knowledge that they will
see and be seen by a large crowd. They, therefore,
tnke this splendid opportunity to dross at each
other t > an alarming extent, and it is no uncom-
mon thing now to see beautiful and delicate ball
dresses doing duty for theatre wear, and being
crushed into a crumpled heap of satin or
tulle, as the case may be, which to a sen-
sitive and economical nature is most distres-
sing. On Monday night the toilettes were ex-
ceptionally brilliant. A shimmering ivory brocade
was c.it low, displaying beautiful shoulders, and
had a lovely indescribable gold plastron, and oyer
one shoulder and in the hair beautiful coral-pink
plumes. A brown tulle out low and sleeveless was
uncommon-looking, and the long pale-blue gloves
made a pretty contrast. A rich black lace dress
with just a sensation of cerise on skirt and corsage
was very telling. Mrs. M‘Quade wore French
white silk, and Miss Manning a perfectly fitting
white dress, with something dark bunched on one
shoulder. Miss Beattie wore a handsome white
satin and lace, and another lady. In white satin,
wore an abundance of gold ornaments, perhaps too
many for perfect taste. A beautiful crimson
plush opera tippet met the entire approval of the
family-circle mob, who did not hesitate to give
audible expression to their feelings. By the way,
this nuisance Is on the Increase. No doubt, now
that these gods are obliged to go early In order to
secure their seats, the half-hour wait Is rather
tedious, but surely they could devise some other
amusement than audibly criticising the ladies as
they take their seats in the circle. Such expres-
sions as •* By golly I ain’t she a daisy ?’’ “ I say,
she’s got ’em on, though perhaps rather novel,
are hardly calculated to be acceptable to the ears,
of the victims. It might be just an well If some
one could Intimate to these noble orators that
their comments are hardly good form, and If con-
tinued will probably have the effect of deterring
ladies from attending the theatre. It’s true some
may tolerate and even enjoy this open admiration,
but most certainly the majority don’t.
• ♦ ♦
The dismal and uncomfortable Protestant
Hall was called Into requisition on the evening
of the 24th. for the Second rendition. In Sydney,
of Gounod’s “ Redemption.” The chairs in the
classic building are so small and so tightly
jammed together, that It would require at least
six of them to seat a Lucas, and between a man
of ordinary proportions and his next neighbour
there isn’t room enough to place a cane, and
there is no breathing room then. When the
Primate and his party arrived, the ushers, pro-
bably to show that they were no respecters of
persons, allowed him to elbow his way through
the crowd, vainly trying to find the seats which
apparently nobody had thought of reserving for
him. Did he not happen to be brimful of good
nature, he would have resented this un-
pardonable slight, but, as It was, he took what
he could get with a good grace. Mr. Massey
is a brave man, and this “ Redemption ” struggle
of his deserves appreciation. None but those who
have attempted to get together and drill a fair
orchestra in Sydney, know what a wearisome job
It is, and what heart-aches and disappointments
are therein entailed. The first violin won’t stahd
any lault-flnding, because be fancies he "ought
to know *’ as well as the conductor: the clarionet
won't be persuaded that he blows fiat; ihe cornet
can’t modulate his tone to save his life; and the
’cello is always half-a-dozen bars ahead. Yes, and
you wouldn’t suppose, to look from the double
bass to the first oboeiit that everything hadn't
run along without the slightest trouble to any-
body. Mr. Massey has managed to “ touch up ’
the whole performance considerably since its first
production here, and there were a few orchestral
items which left scarcely a loophole for complaint
The lady who sang the second soprano has a sweet
and true voice, and in one or two of her renditions
rose quite above the mediocre; the first soprano
was hardly so successful. Several rich alio voices
were heard In the choruses, which added not a
little to the general effect. Mr. Brown undertook
all the tenor part, save a few bars of which he was
relieved by a new voice which was pleasant, but
shaky through nervousness. Mr. Brown passed
the nervous stage (that is if he ever experienced
It, which we much doubt, as he is, and always was,
quite well aware of his vocal powers) six or seven
years ago, when the now defunct Glebe Musical
Society was struggling for an existence, so it is
needless to say that he sang with perfect compo-
sure and with almost perfect success. Mr. Halle-
well pitched his voice a trifle askew at the begin-
ning of the evening, but as It warmed it soon
righted Itself, and all went well. So, all things
considered, the “ Redemption” was a performance
of which neither Sydney nor Mr. Massey need be
ashamed.
* * *
Clontarf never looked so charming as on
Tuesday—the day fixed for the complimentary
picnic given to Mr. Dion Boucicault. About 500
ladles and gentlemen were present at the banquet,
which was served in good style by Callaghan.
The guest, Mr. Boucicault, sat .with Mr.
D O Connor on his left hand and Miss
Marv Boucicault. his niece, on his right, and
created much amusement by his witty and In-
teresting speech. Mr. O’Connor read letters
from the United States Cocsul and various mem-
bers of the Ministry, regretting the fact that busi-
ness prevented their attendance. Mrs. Boucicault
looked stylish and pretty in a rich black-corded
silk dress sans crinoline, ana a high-crowned
black straw hat trimmed with silk plumes; MLB
M Boucicault looked cool in a nice light
zephyr cloth and white sailor hat
with black velvet and flowers ; Mrs. Tait,
black broohe and old gold straw bonnet;
Mrs Bailey, dark green silk trimmed with coffee
lace’ : Mies Boucicault (another of Dion’s nieces)
black satin dre°s, white straw hat and white
leathers. A pretty costume was a brown shot
sootted broohe polonaise worn over a neat nut-
brown kilted petticoat, small fancy straw bonnet,
trimmed with brown satin and cream aigrettes ;
Mrs. Coates wore a quaint costume of fawn,
colour and ruby, with large fly-away hat adorned
with long fawn-coloured plumes. After partak-
ing of tea and cake, most of the visitors re-
turned to Sydney much pleased with the day’s
amusement, whilst others remained to enjoy a
dance in the historic pavilion.
Perhaps the Petersham Town Hall has
nAvpr before bien ronoured by so brilliant and
successful a Dallas that given by Mr W Davis
the Mayor of that suburb, on the 24th ult. No
trouble nor expense had been spared to ensure the
comfort of his numerous guests, who were unani-
mous in the r congratulations upon the happy re-
sults. " Welcome," traced out in dark green
leaves upon a background of crimson, was a con-
sdIcuous object at the further end of the hall. Mr.
Davis was assisted by his sister, who was becom-
ingly attired in black lace with elegant silver ornr-
ments, In receiving the 300 and odd guests. The
nretty, iresh face and graceful dancing of Miss
Tait caused her to be one of the prime favourites
Her costume consisted of a soft cream Isc© jup©
with bodice of cream satin, ana her hair was worn
in a long hanging plait tied w th cream ribbon.
Two voutbful.maidens, the Misses Clissold, wore
cream garnished with white flowers Mrs Geoig*
Brook wore rich white lice over pink satin, and
silver ornaments. Mrs. Rptton was garbed in
» handsome costume of white plush and
corded silk, a spray of natural flowers over
one shoulaer and pink aigrettes In the hair.
This costume was one of the most elegant in the
room and attracted much complimentary atten-
tion Mrs. Hall wore lavender plush and white
Brussels laoe. Mrs. Seale in fawn moire, trimmed
with void lace and crimson p ppies tipped with
gold, looked well. Mrs. Coleman was attractive
la a rich heliotrope brocaded silk relieved by
beautiful white lace. Miss M‘Coy chose dark-blue
silk trimmed with biscuit lace flounce and yeliow
marquentes. Miss Cowley tactile muslin and
ruby velvet bodice, her sister, Miss Ruth, white
Indian muslin with narrow lace flounces and
buttercup coloured waistband. Mias Malden wore
black satin skirt and cardinal silk bodice. Miss
Smith from Parramatta looked very nice in a rich
cream satin adorned with garlands of crimson and
cream roses and magnificent passementerie. Mrs
Talt wore black lace over yellow satin which
looked very handsome. Mrs. Cookburn, cream de-
laine, dotted with crimson silk flowers; Mrs. John
Spencer a handsome trained dress of black luce
garnished with clusters of cream and pink roses;
Mrs. Hunt also black; Mrs. Buckley a rich looking
dress of dark silk brocaded with roses; Mrs
Wlzener, crimson and white silk; Miss Shorter,
gale pink with black net panels and waterfall
edged with pearls; a pale blue with panels of pink
loosed exceedingly pretty Mrs. Bvans Jones,
grey satin broche; Miss Thornthawite, pale pmk
satin cream lace; Mrs. Buokham, brocaded silk
black lace; Mbs Jelly, white cashmere lace; Mbs
Miller, black, with old gold sash: Misses Hughes,
one In cream cashmere, the other ruby body and
cream skirt A very pretty dress, helitrope satin
drapery of floelle lace; white satin, long train and
waterfall of dotted taiie ; pale pink muslin
and pale blue forget-me-nots. When festivities ter-
minated, three cheers were given for the
hospitable Mayor. A special train conveyed
the guests to their various destinations some time
before dawn. A return ball is in contemplation.
• * *
The bachelors of Bathurst terminated
their usual weekly gatherings on Wednesday
night, the 33rd, with a plain and fancy dress ball,
which proved to be the crowning success of the
season. A stately looking young lady to whom the
honour of belle was unanimously given, wore a
square cut white satin bodice adorned with white
pmmes, white lace Iikirt with waterfall of
chenille spotted net. La Travlata in a rid-
in# costume of cardinal velvet slashed with
gold cord, over skirt of amber satin, and
a Gainsborough hat adorned with cream and car-
dinal plumes, looked as pretty as a pic-
ture. From Cambria Terrace came a sweet,
little Ked Hiding Hood, and the character of
School Girl was admirably taken by a charming
petite brunette. Howlch-street sent one of the
best dancers in the room, and two sisters, asjAme-
rica and Italian Tambourine Girl respectively,
were each In their way bewitching; Cherry Ripe
was nice in a cream and veiling pleated skirt, each
kilt being fastened down with a bunch of cherries
and a festoon of the same taken across the
tront of skirt; a pretty blonde was fascinating in
white satin bodice and lace skirt garnished with
leaves and pearls, and another fair one In white
lawn and forget-me-nots was exceedingly neat.
Dancing till 4 a.m.
* * *
The first sports meeting of Sydney Eastern
Suburbs Amateur Athletic Club was unfortunate.
The depressing day only managed to tempt three
ladies out to the Association Ground, and these
three looked as if they wished they had stayed at
home. But all places of amusement on Saturday
looked melancholy. Even at Rand wick the ladies
who defied the weather rather than miss even one
day. seemed perfectly miserable because they
couldn’t see the wisdom of making a damp pro-
menade on the lawn just for the sake of showing
their dresses and stretching their—er—chances of
taking cold. Lucky it Is for Saturday holiday
makers that such dirty, muggy, miserable Satur-
days are so much akin to angels’ visits, in being
few and far between.
* * *
The Masons of Lodge Sydney St. John’s,
S. held their first annual ball In the Town Hall,
on Thursday evening, the 23nd ult The attend- ■
ance was good, «nd dancing kept up till a late
hour to the music of De Groen’s band. Dresses
were both handsome and stylish. Mrs Smith wore
maroon silk, with hand-painted flowers; Miss
Smith, white satin, lace and pearls; Miss Merely,
ruby brocaded bodice, and short silk skirt
trimmed with white Spanish lace; Miss Carey,
bodice and pleated back of white satin over a
white skirt; Mrs. Bastway, black-beaded skirt, and
black satin bodice; Miss Eastway, white lace
skirt and satin bodice out square; Miss Dale,
cream satin and coffee lace front; Miss Hlggison,
cream llama, with loops of cardinal ribbon; Mrs.
Boyant, pale-pink satin and white lace; Miss
Hunter, white lace skirt and white satin bodice,
out square, and adorned with gold butterflies; Mrs.
Huntley, biack lace skirt and black satin bodice;
Mrs. Phelps, bodice and pleated back of salmon
satin and coffee lace front; Miss Fay, bodice and
drapery of blue satin over a skirt of white lace;
Bliss Pettit, black velvet bodioe, with a cream silk
skirt trimmed with rose chrysanthemums. Bros.
Hughes and Leimann officiated as M.’sC. as credit-
ably as Compagnoni ran the catering.
♦ ♦ *
The Joseph Banks, at Botany, was the
scene of great festivities on Wednesday, 33rd ult.,
when some 300 ladles and gentlemen met at the
invitation of Mr. John Thompson to celebrate the
golden wedding of his parents, Mr. and Mrs.
Thompson Solomon—a venerable couple who. In
addition to having given to the world the
manly boxer by whom the day’s Invitations
were issued, are also responsible for the exist-
ence of the popular Mr. Joseph Thompson,
‘ King of the Ring,” and the dapper, festive
Mr. B. 8. Thomson. The proceedings were ar-
ranged in the order of garden party, oanquet, and
ball, and as the weather was as If made to order, a
most enjoyable time was spent by'all present. The
banquet was on the most tlavlsb scale, tand it was
evident that no expense had been spared. Mr. D.
O’Connor occupied the chair, whilst Mr. A. H.
Prince was vice-chairman. The following mem-
bers of Parliament were also present—Messrs W,
T. Coonan, Ollffe, M’Laughlin. and M’tlhone.
Dane! g was kept up in the pavilion until 4 o clock
in the morning.
• ♦ *
The last (for this season) of the pleasing
Botany socials eventuated in the local School of
Arts on the night of the 23rd. Amongst the many
pretty dresses worn special mention should be
made of Miss Thurwell’s, which consisted of a pale-
blue skirt with rich white lace flounces and ruby
velvet bodice. Mrs. Corbett wore a nice costume
of black velvet and crlm-on satin; Mrs. M’Garvey,
cream skirt with dark-brown jersey bodice hand-
somely worked with gold; Miss M’Laughlan, black
lace and pearls; Miss Adams, cream and curls;
pretty Miss Fers, facllle muslin skirt, over pink
and ruby velvet bodice; Miss Edwards, black and
old gold; Miss Watson, very pretty in blue with
pearl ornaments. Mr. Qeddes informed those pre-
sent that the Botany socials would terminate with
a grand plain and fancy dress ball which will be
held in the Sir Joseph Banks’ pavilion in a few
weeks hence.
* * v
The grand race ball given by the members
of the Cloncurry Jockey Club on a recent evening
at the Palace Hotel was a great boom. The ball-
room was prettily decorated for the occasion and
the supper room was laid out with great taste. A
blonde in sky-blue silk trimmed with cream and
pink roses, and wearing a coronet of pearls, was
the belle. A neat little figure looked her best in
a black gown with sliver ornaments A pair of
brunettes (sisters) wore, the one pink and cream,
and the other scarlet and black, and their
chaperone black velvetand cardinal. A couple of
young damsels in black velvet and tartan were
pretty ; and a young lady in figured muslin was
charming.' The small hours saw the end of a
most enjoyable bail.
« *
Mrs. S. de Groen gave a brilliant evening
party to numerous of her Sydney and Melbourne
friends in West s Rooms on the 24th.
• * *
The Buffalo Ball was held in the Town
Hall on Thursday night, the 24th ultimo, and was
well attended, there being about 60 couples pre-
sent. Dresses were both plain and fancy, and a
Nancy Lse with long curls was particularly nice.
Mrs. Brander appeared as a Spanish Lady; Miss
Lake, America; Mrs. Bartolomeotti, Italian Pea-
sant; Mrs. Israel, a black evening dress trimmed
with pink bows; and a handsome costume was a
ruby bodice with a pink skirt covered with black
lace. An Irish Pat looked the character In a green
coat, moleskin knee-breeches, and grey stockings;
and there was also a Volunteer, whose coat, judg-
ing by the appearance of the collar, had seen hard
service in the Soudan or at Waterloo. Messrs.
Israel and Dolen did their best to make things
pleasant, and their efforts were quite successful.
♦ ♦ ♦
The East Maitland Mercantile Club gave
their last of the season’s parties in the Me-
chanics’ Institute on Thursday evening, 34th
ult. These parties have ever been enjoyable,
chiefly through the constant efforts o f the secre-
tary, but in every way this last excelled all the
rest. The belle this time hailed from the sister
town, and was tastefully clad in pink and silver.
The sisters of the secretary, who are general fa-
vourites and good dancers, found no lack of
partners, and wore handsome costumes of pink
and cream satin respectively. A young lady from
Sydney was charming in black satin garnished with
roses, and a pretty little “dot” from the Coaly City,
attired in a handsome dress of cardinal and black
satin was eagerly sought after. The Misses Brown,
also old favourites, wore pretty pink dresses; Miss
Cox, white; and Miss Sawyer was handsome as
usual, and dressed with perfect taste. The Misses
Ramsay and a bevy of fair ones from Melbourne-
street were amongst the most admired ones.
Bmmerson supplied the music in nls usual first-
class style, and Small catered to the entire satis-
faction of everybody. Wraps and opera cloaks
were'not sought tlll-3 o’clock in the morning, when
all left well pleased with the last of the Mercantile
winter parties.
♦ • ■
On Thursday evening last a most success-
ful juvenile fancy-dress ball was given in the
Council Chambers of Hunter’s Hill, by Mr. Charles
J. Manning. Dancing commenced at about half-
past seven and terminated at about a quarter to
twelve. There were in all about 130 persons pres-
ent, and a most enjoyable evening was passed.
The floor was in excellent condition, and the room
was very tastefully decorated with flags, etc.
Some of the dresses were very handsome. Among
the best were Miss Levlok, as a Court Lady, Miss
E. Manning in a French dress, and Miss Allison
Rose as a Spanish Dancing-girl; of the boys per-
il" ps the best were Master Nlblett as a page.
Masters Charles and Guy Manning as an Albanian
and Lord Tollollard respectively. Supper was
duly appreciated, and the merry-makers went
home after spending a most enjoyable evening.
• • •
The Mayor of Melbourne is out of his
Parliamentary seat and wants another. He is
doing, therefore, something for popularity in the
way of entertaining the votive citizens. Other
mayors were content with giving a ball and sup-
per to the Hite of the city—or what stands for such.
Mayor Carter, however, has divided the honours.
His ball had not the customary supper attached to
It. Lighter refreshments—in the “ counter-lunch”
way—supplied its place. For 1300 of the lower
order of citizens—the working class voters—his
Worship provides a social evening at the Town
Hall with a concert programme as a stand by. We
like Innovations when they look like improve-
ments, and this one has something of that ap-
pearance.
• • • •
Gosford Flower Show, held in the local
Town Hall, was a decided success. The receipts
totalled £175. Mrs. Taylor, Mrs. Richter, Mrs.
Parr, Mrs. Watts, and Mrs. Huntley presided at the
stalls. Everything was sold except the visitors.
Decorations by Searle The bachelors’ ball at
Wolumla passed off successfully. Young lady, in
black silk, the belle....Professor Osborne gave a
very successful concert at Cootamundra on Wed-
nesday, the 33rd, in which Miss Baker gained high
honours for her solos. ..A complimentary ban-
quet was given to Mr. J. W. Sharpe, of Candelo,
on Saturday, the 26th, at Pittfield’s Hotel, Candelo.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Kureka Annual Ball, Professor West’s
Academy September 29.
Railway Officers’ Picnic, Botany September 30.
Plain and Fancy Dress Ball tendered
to Mrs. Martin by her pupils and
friends at the Dancing Academy.,8eptember 30.
The Mayor of Sydney’s Ball, Sydney
Town Hall September 30.
Philharmonic Concert, Exhibition
Building October 1.
Petersham Social (last of the season)
local Town Hall Octobers
Victoria House Cricket Club’s An-
Plcnlc at Tennyson October 3
Annual Railway Ball, Exhibition
Building October 8
Grand Complimentary Concert ten-
dered to Signor and Signora
Fabris, New Masonic Hall October 8
Sydney Socials’ Ball, Professor West’s
Academy October 9
Complimentary Ball tendered to Mr.
and Mrs. Ernest Needs, Friday
evening, Nlthsdalo ..October 16.
Wednesday, September 30,
Dear Peg.—This has been a wildly festive week
for Sydney. Ballsjand races, races and balls, have
together served to fill the too swiftly fleeting
hours. The weather has been perfect always ex-
cept Saturdayeach day sunshiny and warm
enough to make fresh spring-gowns quite the
thing” for the races, so numbers of cool, airy
fabrics were disported In the stand or on the lawn.
But Randwick is not Flemington, nor do people
as yet put all their wordly possessions on their
backs for the time being, and leave the future or
their day’s luck to pay the piper. The Hon. James
White has again been singularly successful, this
time with Nordenfeldt and Uraila; and we pri-
vately wonder whether we are jumping at a con-
clusion if we not unreasonably look for a Nov
well, on second thoughts, t won’t say what we|won-
der, or might just have (the effect of nipping the
idea in the bud!
Last Tuesday, September 33, Mrs. B. L Tooth’s
ball came off with great eclat at her residence.
Swift’s, Darling Point. This entertainment had
many fascinations apart from the passive in-
fluence of beautiful surroundings and artistic
luxury. In Sydney, as in larger life-centres,
we have grades of society boldly defined;
crystallised into cliques which touch each
other’s edges in ascending steps, perhaps,
but rarely coalesce—unless in the hands of
some daring adventurer, whose ambition is
only exceeded by his wealth. Then the golden
key unlocks the most conservative door be Sir
Gorgius Midas never so vulgar. However, this
is not so common an occurrence as in larger oom-
(Continued on next pwe,)


| IJUBfciHT BUTCHER *
1 (Late William Long),
c o
Montserrat, lime fruit juice, and
CORDIALS.
The Purest and Beet,
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
684 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY*
noun try Order* receive prompt at*anllon.
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MdJfSTY THE QUEEN,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N S.W ;
Also, at London, Mayencb, Paris, and Brussels,
IF LARGEST STOCK IN THE COLONIES.
9
B
i
A
for Infante and Children.
Castorla cures Colic, Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Diarrhoea, Eructation,
Gives healthy sloop and promotes digestion.
Without injurious medication.
“Castorla is so well adapted to children that
1 recommend it as superior to any prescription
known to me.” H. A. Archer, M. D., ,
111 Oxford Street, New York. J
Elliott Bros., Sydney, Agents.
ON THE
Brickfield. Hill.
m STAY mi cnsu depaetmest,
!
/e
O. U
n \ \\
1 .
S3
i
:
4
-
c v
JM
\
[S.
i.v
ill lit!
V- 6
Jl I
S
)l\
\V/
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Free of Charge.
Nursing and Riding Stays.
i Call in and See our fitays f
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),
I 2b. lid., 3s. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4b. lid., 5s. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., 8s. P,(J M 9s. 6d., 10a. 6d., )2s 6
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS, 666 and 666 Brickfield H,H.
—Orders from the Country will reeelro immediate an* capital attention.
(Continued from page 16.)
munlties for obvious reasons—one, that there Is a
strong: conservative element among relatively
•• old ” families; another,everybody knows every-
body else’s antecedents, aud can thus bring forc-
ible pressure to bear upon obnoxious Intruders.
This small digression is anent the Swift’s ball,
though, like a new prescription, the application Is
not 3 et tested. Avez patience, mon ami, It is work-
ing. Presently, when you read the “company
list,” it will be quite apparent There were—the
Hon. Sir John Hay, Lady and the Misses Hay, Lady
and the Misses Manning, Mr. and Mrs Alfred
Tooth, Mr. and Mrs Lingen, Hon B. Knox, Mrs.
andlthe Misses Knox, Hon. W, Busby, Mrs. and the
Misses Busby, Hon. H. Mort, Mrs and Miss Mort,
Mrs T. S. Mort, Mr. and Mrs. Laldley Mort,
Mrs. W. B. Mott, Hon. A. Campbell, Mrs. and Miss
Campbell, Mr. J. Josephson, the Misses Joseph-
son, Hon. James White, Mrs. White, Mrs. Morrlng,
Mr. and Miss Mitchell, Mrs. Bisdee, Mrs. and tne
Misses Barley, Mr. and Mrs. G. Knox, Mr. and Miss
F. Watt, Miss Shulfray, Mies Flemming, Mrs. W.
Laldley, Mr. 8. Laldley, Mrs. Lee Lord. Mr. and
Mrs. H. E. Lord, Captain Kyngdon, Miss Kyngdon,
Mr. and Mrs. Merivaie, Mrs Eustace smith, Miss
Street, Mr. and Mrs. F. P. M'Cahe, the Misses
M‘Cabe, Mr. and Mrs. F. Moore, Miss Ffrenoh, Mr.
and Mrs H. Austin, Miss Austin, Mr.and Mrs. Par-
tridge, the Misses Bouoioault, Mr. and Mrs. F.
Griffiths, Mr. and Mrs. C. Griffiths, Mr. and
Mrs. 8. A. Stephen, Miss Stephen, Mr. and
Mrs. Hubert Manning, Miss B. Stephen, Mrs.
Arthur MacArthur, Miss MacArthur, (Miss
Valllant, Mr. and Mrs. G. B. Simpson, Miss Hogg,
Miss Farquhar. Mr. and Mrs. Salomons, Miss Salo-
mons, Mr. and Miss Bloxsome, Mr. H. Massle, the
Misses Massle, Mr. and Miss Bouoioault, Mrs. and
the Misses Ward, Mr. and Mrs. Orr, Major-General
Richardson, Mrs. and Miss Richardson, Miss Dick-
son, Lieutenant-Colonel and Mrs. Airey, Major and
Mrs. Mackenzie, Captain and Mrs. Bouverle, Cap-
tain and Mrs. Penrose, Colonel Bingham, Captain
Bunbury, Captain Mil ward. Lieutenant Morris, Mr.
W. Mitchell, Mr. F. Mitchell, Mr M. Campbell, Mr.
F. Osborne, Mr. Bird, Mr. Butter worth, Mr. R.
MacCabe, Mr. C. Cropper. Mr. Arnheim, Mr. A.
Mort, Mr. W. Scott, Mr. D. Scott, Mr. T.
Kemmis, Mr. Be Burg, Mr. Roth, Mr. T.
F. Knox, Mr. N. Maclean, Mr. G. Simpson,
Mr. Fisher, &c, &c. Do you now see from
this array of well-known names how richerchi
was the programme, from the invitation list to the
iced strawberries and cream—which are as rare in
September as frosts in December—I mean the
strawberries, not the cream or the people ? Mrs.
Tooth received her guests in the large drawing-
room, which drifts into an inner reception room,
beautiful and quaint with its Oriental hangings,
and Eastern furniture, that is appropriately
known as the Cairo-room Through the lofty
pillared hall, with its thick Persian carpet,
statuary and oaken furniture, or across the
corridor, one passed to the ball-room, its white
length of wall broken by niches filled with stands
of beautiful ferns and palms, and wreathed with
ever-green. The lighting here Is quite unique, for
far up in the domed roof is a molten globe of
silvery llame, which scarcely needs the aid of
branching gases round the wall to illuminate with
a wonderful brilliancy—yet there is nothing
searching in the rays that penetrate everywhere,
on the contrary, people never looked nicer. The
band have an exclusive alcove to themselves far
up the wall, screened from the common
air by reed-screens. Many door-ways open on to
the verandah, which is enclosed, softly carpeted,
and luxuriously furnished with lounges and easy
chairs, and has a dim light from above that is
very restful after the heat and brilliance of the
ball-room. For the refreshment of the inner man
there was the splendid sit-down supper in the
dining-room and a not lees ambrosial feast in the
billiard-room beyond. This was the first trial of
the new b* 11-room floor, which came out of the
ordeal with flying colours—it is simply perfect.
And it is quite a marvel in its way, for there are
said to be no springs, and apparently no joinings in
the wood—it spreads like a taut satin sheet from
side to side.
There were some exquisite dresses worn, notably
that of the hostess, who wore a bodice and train of
sage velvet over a pale-pink satin Jupe, covered
with laces of Oriental embroidery and black
pearls; ornaments, splendid diamonds. Mrs.
Alfred Tooth, the bride of the evening, in bridal
dress of ivory gros-graln, with satin front covered
with handsome old lace flounces; Mrs. Richardson,
old gold brocade and lace; Mrs.,Penrose, black
velvet, with cardinal sash draped artistically- or-
naments, the most glorious diamonds. Mrs. Lee
Lord looked well in white, with soft drapery
and pearl fringe, here and there touches of colour
in the form of black velvet bows and clusters of
purple lilac. Mrs. Barley looked handsome in
black velvet and lace; the Misses Corrie and Olive
Darlev In white, and Miss Tilly Darley In black;
Mrs. F. Griffiths wore a distinyui costume of white
satin, with Oriental pendant of diamonds, rubles,
and grey pearls; Mrs. G. Knox, a graceful gown
of mauve satin and white lace; Lady Manning,
black satin, with black jet trimming over cardinal;
Miss Manning, a pretty combination of canvas and
coffee over pale-blue, with fringes of narrow rib-
bons; Miss Clara Manning looked well in white
net; Mrs. Merivaie, a white gown, much covered
with Oriental embroidery; Miss Boudcault looked
brisht and sweet in white lace; Mrs. James White,
rich-stamped white velvet and silver embroidery;
Miss Knox, butter-yellow tulle; Miss K. Knox,
brown tulle with tufts of ralnbow-hued feathersi
Miss Florrie Watt was simply lovely in her white
frock, a string of topazes round her throat. Miss
Dickson and Mbs E. Stephen divided the pleasure
of wearing the loveliest gowns; one was of pale-
blue crepe, the other a wave-green tulle. Miss
Bloxsome looked exceedingly well in a becoming
dress of white satin, with tulle waterfall; Miss P.
Boudcault wore salmon and blue; Miss Mary
Boudcault (her sister) was piquant in white and
gold; Miss Hassle, a well-thought-out and beauti-
ful gown of white covered with Indian silver em-
broidery, and inoian ornaments. Mrs. W. B
Mort wore a charming dress of pale-blue tulle.
The long-anticipated, much-wished-for Union
Club bacnelora’ ball became a tangible reality on
the night of Friday, Sept. 25th, about 9 p.m., and
Passed into the sealed book of the bye-gones about
3 a m. on Saturday morning. When we arrived,
shortly before nine, we found the crush of car-
riages so great that patience would have been non
est had we waited our turn to arrive at the en-
trance, so we got out and .walked the short way,
thus saving a good quarter of an hour, which is
no small consideration for the future of a pro-
gramme. As we entered we found the usual
double row of bachelor hosts drawn up on either
aide, who acknowledged the honour of our pres-
ence with smiles and bows of Chesterfleldian
grace. To sby maidens, this “ passage of arms ” is
too embarrassing to venture more than a passing
glance, and I only managed to recognise a few of
the foremost stewards—Mr, Riddle, Mr. Rothe,
Mr. Knox, Mr. Alison, and Mr. M‘Naugh-
ton. The first impression of the room was
that it was much the same as for the Australian
Club ball the Friday before, only this com-
mittee had profited by that experience. It was
altogether lighter and brighter, due to the substi-
tution of striped-red and white canvas, with a red
fringe for blue, as a wall to the conldor under
the gallery, which forms a charming coign of
vantage for waU-flowers and chaperones. The
mirrors placed at Intervals all round were twined
with graceful trails of clematis, while the initials
of the Club stood out conspicuously every where.
At the upper end of the room stood a dais sacred
to the vice-regal party, who arrived in time to
shed the li»rht of their presence upon the open-
ing proceedings. At the opposite end was a
structure that excited a good deal of Interest, and
called forth one s ingenuity conslderably-lt gave
so much scope for imagination. At length we
came to the conclusion that it must be a shoe in
rock-work, covered with moss, adorned with red
and white camellas, and having a mirror by way
of water, where the foot ought to be. It was not
the traditional Cinderella s supper, but much more
like old Mother Hubbard s shoe. I was told it was
intended as a typical representation of the buried
joys of erstwhile bachelors, now rubicund with do-
mestic feliflty, and was a tender memento from
fhe U.C.B. to their doubled brethren of the dolce
far niente they still enjoy, a cairn of frustrated
hopes and Jolly suppers that would recognise no
longer the debonnaire bachelor In the staid bene-
dict. The eucalyptus conservatory, quaintly
lighted with Chinese lanterns formed a pretty wind-
ing bower ending In a cul de sac, thickly planted
with moregum trees, which ought surely to have
been sycamore and cedar of Lebanon, for there
in the centre stood Lot's wife, a monolith of ice
full 15ft. high, round wh«so base grew palms and
ferns, and whose transfixes coldness gave off such
frigid vapours as would chill the ardour of the
most determined curiosity.
The Union Club ball is a red-letter date for
fashionable dames and dress-makers. The other
night everyone looked freshly turned out, end
there were some beautiful dresses worn i.ady
Augustus Loftus looked large and placid in black
satin and jet, a head-dress of flowers; her orna-
ments, strings of exquisite pearls. Mrs. R. J.
Tooth, a perfect dress of chestnut-brown em-
bossed satin, with lovely diamond ornaments.
Lady Manning looked exceedingly well in old
gold embossed satin, with pink panels shrouded
in gold lace. Mrs. Laidley wore a handsome
gown of black velvet brocade, enlivened by
orange tips; she carried a lovely posy of rosebuds
tied with yellow ribbons. Mrs Sydney Want was
Just lovely In ooraline pink and i lack lace. Mrs.
Darley wore black tulle with satin bodice ; Mrs.
T. 8. Mort, black velvet ; Mrs. George Knox, a
charming gown of turquoise-blue tulle and
orange aigrettes; Mrs. Bloomfield, white satin
with a lovely sash drapery of pale brocaded roses,
diamond necklet and pendants ; Mrs. G.
B. Simpson wore terra-cotta with pompa-
dour rose front, and looked very well ;
Mrs. Lingen was In Indian red satin, with petti-
coat of sheeny roses In chaudron tints; Mrs. C
Darley wore a high simple dress of black lace;
Mrs. Eustace Smith, in black satin; Mrs. F. Vll-
leneuve-Smitb, in her bridal gown of white; Mrs.
George Jenkins, in cream satin and diamonds;
Mrs. Ross Fairfax, white satin. Mrs. Cecil Qr.fflths
floated airily about a solid little mass of cloud-
grey tulle. The dresses of the two Misses Throck-
morton were universally admired. They were
soft white tulle, with exquisitely-fitting boalces of
white satin; under the waterfall backs were long
satin ribbons, looking like straight snow drifts
through the mist. The fronts of the dresses were
covered with rosettes of tiny white ribbon. Miss
Mein looked exceedingly pretty in white; little
Miss Boucicault was a dainty rosebud in red crepe,
with lace sleeves; Miss Maud Power looked well in
black; Miss Bayne wore a telling costume of p nk,
with a pmk aigrette in her hair; Miss Manning, a
stylish white net dress, with a crinkled front
studded with golden drops; Miss Clara Manning
looked fair and bright in a beautiful white tulle
frock shimmering with a network of Jsllver dew-
drops; Miss Watt was just sweet in orange tulle;
Miss F. Watt, a fair aainty maiden, with a son
of daisy freshness, was in white tulle; Miss Beat-
rice Stephen was decidedly pretty in cream; Miss
Nancy Stephen, white tulle and satin body; Miss
Ethel Stephen was not a success in pink; Miss
Eyrie, white crepe, caught up with roses; Miss
ValTant wore a very becoming; blue gown;
Miss Suttor did not do herself justice in white at
all; Miss M'Farland was distitiQui in pure soft
white; Miss Hogg looked very well in white, em-
broldered with golden butterflies; Mies Gore wore
a beautiful dress of yellow satin; Miss Bloxsome,
in white tulle and satin; Miss Knox, a very beau-
tiful dress of black tulle, with bodice and sash of
black velvet; her sister wore a similar gown,
except that the colour was red; Miss Salomons,
a becoming shade of terra-cotta, red tulle, and
satin; Miss Street, a late debutante, looked fresh
and bright in white-net, with the universal water-
fall back; a fair-haired girl, whose bright, excited
face proclaimed her a debutante, wore a pretty
simple gown of white, the front covered with lace
flounces, and neglige satin ribbons, the back a
waterfall.
That is a pretty, and to some people, becoming
fashion, of wearing a narrow piece of ribbon or
lace round the neck, tied jauntily either in front
or at one side, but it requires ito be used with
discretion, and, like most new ideas, it threatens
to become “ done to death.” The neck of one fair
girl was innocently encircled by a band of narrow
white tulle, thickly studded with orange blossoms;
the effect was most betwltching, and one could
the more applaud the tasteful ingenuity of such
an adornment, in contrast to a few people who
were apparently suffering from severe sore
throats and ill-protected by yards of lace wound
round or ending in floppy loops of ribbon. Bat
there is more variety in dresses than a few months
ago—people dress much more according to their
own taste; so that one may hope we are getting
nearer the time when the dress will be rightly
considered as an outward emblem of the Inward
individual. Is not that the true ideal of clothes ?
I should be very sorry to judge many people by
their garments. Wnat sort of a mind would
apple-green gloves designate ?
Among the 600 guests that made the old Exhi-
bition Building so gay, were:—Lord and Lady
Augustus Lottus, Mr. Unwin (private secret-ry),
Sir John Hay. Lady Hay,, and the Misses Hay, 8ir
Edward 8triokland, the Hon. E. Knox, Mrs. and
the Misses Knox, Hon. W. Busby, Mrs. and the
Misses Busby, Hon. A. Campbell, Mrs. and
the Misses Campbell, Hon. J. Josepbsou, Miss
Josepnson, Hon. H. Mort, Mrs. and Miss Mort,
Mr. and Mrs. W. Laidley, Mr. and Mrs. George
Knox. Hon. S. W. Gray, Mrs. and the Misses Gray,
Mr. F. P. M'Cabe, Mrs. and the Misses M‘Cabe.
Lady Manning, tne Misses Manning, Hon. J.
B. Watt, Misses Watt, Miss Shutfrey, Mrs.
Darley, the Misses Darley, Mrs. and Miss
Cecil Darley, Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Falnax
MisS Fairfax, Dr. and Mrs. Ross Fairfax,
Mr. and Mrs. A. Bloomfield, Mr. and Mrs
G. Jenkins, Mr. and Mrs. Ralfe, Miss Jenkins,
Mrs. and Miss Bayne, Mr and Mrs. H. Dobson. Mr.
and Mrs. F. Moore, Miss Flrench, Miss Maud
Power, Mr. and Mrs. Arnold, Mr. and Mrs Bale
mons, Miss Salomons, Mr. and Mrs. G. B. Simpson,
Miss Hogg, Miep Farquhar, Mr. and Mrs R L
Tooth, Mr. ana Miss Mitchell, Mrs. T. S Mort, Mrs
Kustace Smith, Mrs. Laidley Mort. Mrs. W. E
Mort, Mr. and Mrs Harris, Mr. ano Mrs. Lawford,
Professor and Mrs Gurney, Miss Gurney, Mr.
and Mrs- Weston, Mrs. A. Macarthur, Miss Mac-
arthur, Miss Valllant, Miss Begrie, Miss Mein, Miss
Flemming, the Misses Throckmorton, Mrs. F. v 11-
leneuve Smith, Mr and the Misses Fosbery, Mr.
and Mrs. Roach, the Misses Gore, Judge and
Mrs. M'Farland, Mr. and Miss Bioxsome,
Miss M Farland, Mr. and Mrs. 8. A, Stephen,
Miss Dunlop, the Misses Trewell, Dr. and Mrs.
Campbell-Williams, Miss B. Stephen, Miss B,
Stephen, the Misses Consett-Stephen, Miss Bath-
walte, Miss Suttor, Mr. and Mrs. C. E. Merewetber,
Mr. and Mrs. Street, Miss Street, Mrs. Lee-Lord,
Mr. and Miss Boucicault, Mrs. and the Misses
Ward, Mr. and Mrs. Austin, Miss Austin, Major-
General Richardson, Mrs. and Miss Richardson,
Lleutonant-Colonel and Mrs. Alrey, Major and
Mrs. Mackenzie, Captain and Mrs. Bouverie, Cap-
tain and Mrs. Le Patourel, Miss Durham, Captain
and Mr*. Penrose, Captain Bemberg, Captain Mil-
ward, Lieutenant Norris, Judge and Mrs. Wilkin-
son, Miss Wilkinson, Dr. Wilkinson, Mr, J.
Allison, Mr. W. Allison, Mr. Borrowdale,
Mrs. M'Naughton, Mr. Parbury. Mr. N. M Lean,
Mr. De Burg. Mr. Cropper, Mr. Arnhelm, Mr,
Uigby Smith, Mr. H. Smith, Mr. Nathan, Dr. Euis,
Mr G. Miller. Captain Kingdon, Mr. A. Gordon,
Dr. Jenkins, Dr. Brinton, Mr. Rotne, Mr. A. Wil-
son, Mr. Consett Stephen, Mr. G. Camp-
bell, Mr. M. Campbell, Mr. W. Watt, Mr. W.
Mitohtll, Mr. A. Mort, Mr. F, Osborne, Mr.
Browning, Mr. F. Orr, Mr. A. Bird, Mr. Bloomfle'd,
Mr. w. Scott, Mr. D. Scott, Mr. Alfred Cox, Mr. R.
MaoCabe, Mr. Bloxsome, Mr. Fisher, Mr. G. Bar-
ton, Mr. Dowling, Mr. Butterworth, &o.
Your exhaustively,
CO[?]RA LYNN.
THE LEADING LADY.
Every man has his price. The girl who
can offer the best figure gets him.
If “imitation is the sinoerest flattery”
Sydney is being flittered enough in Melbourne in
the coming 11 sensing laws. Mr. Bent thought to
get in an imitation of London’s ways in the open-
ing of pubs for supplies of dinner and supper
beer. An hour in the afternoon and another in
the evening was all he asked, but, by two to one,
such “sweet boon” was denied to the poor man
vho may want beer to his Sunday’s dinner and
supper. It is questionable if the travellers’rights
will be any more respected. The recipient of the
liquor in unlawful hours is now to be su umoned
and fined • qually with the supplier of it. No hotel-
boa '•der la to be allowed outside friends at Sun-
dry’s dinner. aidwe are to be forbidden to take
hot ;1 lodgings from Saturday to Monday as an
excuse for getting drink on Sunday. Tnese be
the kind of restrictions which end in revolutions.
Only make the chains galling enough and the folly
of it all will be soon seen.
We saw her thirty years ago,
And marvelled at her art.
Her well-trained voice so sweetly low,
Her terror-strict!en start.
Amt»zed we beard the goddess sob,
Then say “ farewell I" and choke—
We wept to see her bosom throb
As she dismissed her “ bloke.”
We saw her yesternight once more;
She played the same old part,
She spoke just like she did of yore,
And gave the same old start;
She choked upon the same old spot—
Hacked with the ancient pain;
She hadn’t altered, not one jot—
We felt quite young again.
Avoid onions; or, after partaking of
them, shut yourself up in the solitude of your
chamber until you are purified. A story is told
of an onion-eater who entered an inn with the re-
mark that for the last two hours he bad bad the
wind in his teeth. “ Had you ? ’ exclaimed one of
the company; •* then, by Jove, sir, the wind had
the worst of it I”
A boy threw his hat on the floor.
And was told be must do so no more;
But he did it again,
And his fond mother then
Used her slipper until he was sore.
The hoy then looked up askance,
And his mother cast down a mad glance;
“ Do you know now,” said she,
“ Where your hat ought to be ?”
“ Yes,” he answered, “ inside of my pants «


I can appreciate a really good spirit, and
that is always why 1 ask for Wolfe’s Schnapps.
There’s a language that’s mute, there’s a silence
that speaks,
There’s a something that cannot be told,
There are words that can only be read in the
cheeks,
And thoughts but the eye can unfold.
We can recommend Wolfe’s Schnapps a«
the most suitable invlgorant, stimulant and re-
storative known.
THIS WICKED WORLD.
The R.C. authorities in Noumea refuse
rites of Church to parents who send their children
to the lay schools. The local paper calls that an
attack on the feminine element—The N.S.W.
Civil Service Act threatens to be worse than the
proverbial white elephant. More than half the
employes denounce It. When passed It was esti-
mated to Involve an extra expense of £35.0’0 an-
nually. It is already found to be stretching over
£100 000 Mr. T. M. Slattery, M.L.A., in the
N.8.W. Legislative Assembly, on the Mulholland-
Suttor case: “These slanders are degrading to
Parliament, and a time will come when no man of
honour will come here.” Thus a second set of
literal triplets will be let go a-begging. M L. A.
will follow C.M.O The average costs in a
County Court action in Victoria are £19 ;
In a Supreme Court action £180 A snake
that can whistle and sing like a bird has
been sent to an American museum. Snakes of
this sort are plentiful enough on the Paroo. We
suppose there is hardly a shepherd or shearer in
Queensland who has not seen them at one time or
another. They are said to be very lively company
to the lonely swagsman on dark nights ...” I su p-
pose you didn’t go to hear the Bishop of Mel-
bourne’s lectures on the * Galatian Lapse ?’ ” was
the jocular remark of a gentlemanly turfite to a
Melbourne bookmaker, the other day. “ No chaff,
old man,” replied the latter, morosely; “what
does he know about foot-racin’? Pooh I Give
that to the mug over the way.”.. Oyster culti-
vation is progressing at Moreton Bay (Q.). Last
year 145 leases were taken out along these banks
alone. In 1870 the export value was £1644. In
1884 it amounted to £7916 ...Teetotaller Nimmo,
M.L.A., collapsed in the Victorian Assembly the
other night, at this anecdote related by Mr. M‘In-
tyre, M.L A. :—An Englishman called upon a
venerable Scotch patriarch, who for 95 years had
resided in the vicinity of Burns’ birthplace, and
enquired as to his health. “Vera weel, consider-
in, was the reply. “ Considering,” queried the
Sassenach; “ considering what ?” “ Weel, mon.”
replied the old boy, “ the fact o’ the matter is that
I wlnt to bed sober last nlcht, a thing I haena dune
for flve-and-thlrty years, and I’m a bit oot o’
soarts, but It'll no happen agin in a hurry. I’ll
warrant ye.”..;,The Suburban Times (Redfern,
N.8.W.) says that the singularities of the law are
infinite, and shows that while a youth who
pocketed 3s. 6 d. got 1 2 months’ imprisonment lor
this first offence, an individual, against whom
other convictions had been recorded, for stealing
property valued at £10 received a sentence of six
months’ only. In the latter case the offence was
aggravated by the circumstances attending Its
commission.
• ■ ♦
In reply to an interrogatory letter, Mr.
Gladstone avows that, personally, he would have
been glad had the Government extended protec-
tion to girls till 18, instead of 16 years of age
The greatest price given of late years for a single
flower was 335 guineas, which was obtained In
Covent Garden a eouple of seasons ago, for a rare
specie! of orchid. This sum is about the equiva-
lent of the total of the average salaries (in Eng-
land) of two tutors and a governess. So you sea
there are many ways open to the rick of throwing
money away besides feeding the hungry with it.
— Prince Henry of Battenberg doesn’t under-
stand much English, Perhaps that is why he
managed to brace himself up to uttering the
formula:With all my worldly goods I
thee endow.” Henry’s worldly goods con-
sisted of two rather badly-used uniforms,
a cigar-case, and threepence in coppers
A man in France Invented a pulsometer that
indicates in lines on a paper all the variations of a
heart-beat. If one of those things could write out
our pulsations when an arm is around our best
girl, it would look like a short-hand report of a
sensational love-story in two volumes ..A Lon-
don lady who was stopped in the street by a weep-
ing woman, who Implored assistance to bury her
husband, was so moved by the tale that she went
home with the widow, saw the corpse in a coffin,
and left a handsome donation. After leaving she
found she had left her handkerchief in the house,
so went back to recover it. When she entered the
house of mourning she was surprised to see the
poor widow palming a bower against the corpse
to eat an egg. and only one right one. The fact is
there are eight wrong ways, when the egg Is bad...
The Mahommedans nave ninety-nine names for
God, but no Mahommedan ever uses all of them
until he mashes his finger in tacking down carpet.
with whom she was euchre for the money left for
the funeral.... Somebody has said that Tennyson’s
bridal poem for Princess Beatrice is a machine-
Production and lacks spontaneity. That may
be, but what was wanting in spontaneity was
made up in “spons.” Alfred loves a sovereign,
wu all know ...When two girls meet they kiss
when two men meet they don’t This shows
plainly who want kissing the most A well-
known German newspaper asserts, in plain terms,
that the recently-deceased Prince Frederick
Charles did not die of apoplexy, but was shot dead
by his wife....The Jews are to be allowed to settle
) n Russia on three conditions, one of which is that
they will not be permitted to c»rry on or parti-
cipate in monetary < r insactlons.' ’ This, of course,
amounts to virtual exclusion from the H< ly
Empire. Sarcastic dogs, these Russians I An
epicurean says there are always seven wrong ways
“ is proposed to buy a new harmonium for the Sydney Hospital.”— Dally paper.
oua SUGGESTION IS TO TRANSFER THE MUSICAL DEPARTMENT TO THE SALVATION ARMY BAND. WHEN THE FOLLOWING RESULTS MIGHT BE EXPECTED:-
1. THE PATIENTS WOULD LEAVE.
3. OR DIE.
3. A GREAT NUISANCE WOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE STREETS.


Oiticura
Disfiguring humors, Humiliating Emp
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Limply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
IjOss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, Instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story; I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have boon obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians ; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured mo, and left my skin and blood
us pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
B. Towns & Co,, New South "Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonota
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Henan
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, ia
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu.
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 60 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Prepared bt the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, D.S.A.
0,
LIMITS o
ill!.
I!
moB
Music
ovERBOOofrKj
iBEsrDAKi^//
0&t
-
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
LUNCHBON AND REFRESHMENT BOOMS IOB IiADIBS AND QBNTLBMBNi
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA AND INSECTICIDE.
V
MAGNESIA. the Universal Remedy for INDIGESTION. FLATULENCE.
w ni id8 aud Child?on. be fcTOMACH * BIL I«DS HEADACHE, and a MOST GENTLE APERIENT for
fcM See Medical Opinions Accompanying each Bottle.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers throughout the Colonies.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
K? U n ° x l ous loeects, such as FLEAS, FLIES, BEETLES, MOSQUITOES, and
C()CKROACHES. It is quite harmless to Oogs, Birds, Fowls, and other animals. It Preserves Furs
from i ho Depredations or the Moth. Bedroom Furniture. Ship Cabins, Fowl Houses, and Dog Kennels
may be Cleansed of Insect Vermin by KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE. uuismuuo..
Sold In Tins, Is., and upwards, by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
ELLIOTT BROS.
K. PROSSER & CO. ( bydney *
T’ia.© iESellsUbl© Sia.g'g'les!
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant A Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-atreet, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
and CO.,
1 ——
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCE. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
, mm, ui
Importers of
TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
RAIL «A£ M n ?m£ESIS« COI *?'5£ CTOR8, plant, agricultural implements.
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACH BUILDERS’
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, &o.
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED OORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSHWARB
FENCING WIRE
W00LPA0K8
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS' IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
s>:
£2
'SWi
If IPI
ft
j i
PORTABLE, FIXE!
and SEMl-FlJlED BN
GINB8
VERTICAL and HORI
ZONTAL BOILERS
team and othe
si;: pumps
’ LATHES, PLANING
SHAPING. _ SCREW
a uvxvni i
ma 0 chTne 8 OKILL1b
a STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRAE
FOUNDRY
PATENT R 0 L LI.
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, Ac.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on applioulor.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.
Hoad Warehouse -
Iron an! Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Office •
- 64 YORK STREET.
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUI
SYDNEY - ;
. , - 65 GRAUJCCH DilCH


W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON and STDNET.
Catalogues Catalogues
W. WALKER
and SONS
POST FREE.
are one of tba
Largest
Stockholders
and
Marmfaeturtn
m
HI ah-class
FURNITURE
ENGLAND.
POST FREE.
ALL STOCK
In tbelr
SYDNEY
HOVTEW
Supplied
direct
from tbelr
London
Manufactory
and Latest
London Stylos
Guabantmd.
SYDNEY BRANCH;
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
READ IT ALIh
It may Save your Life.
AMERICAN CO.’S
Hop Bitters
ABB
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hope, Buctau. Mandrake, and Dandelion.
“The Oldest, Beat, most Renowned,
•and Valuable Medicines In the World,
‘and In addition contain all the best
‘and most effective curative properties
• of all other bitters, being- the greatest
• Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘and life and health restoring agent on
‘ earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the A«««
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘irregularities of the Blood, Stomach,
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
‘ Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
‘ highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
‘ without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease or
• ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don t
‘ wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
‘ dreds have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“ Do not suffer yourself or let your
‘ friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘ use the American Co.’s Hop Bitters.
“Remember, these Hop Bitters are
‘no vile, drugged, drunken nostrum,
‘but the purest and best Medicine
• ever made, and no person or family
• should be without it.”
iar See that the name Dr. Soule is blowr
In every bottle, none other genuine.
THE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LJWE 8TOCJ
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMt»«D.
Capital ... £100,000.
Head Office : Melbourne.
New South Wales Branch : 171 Castlereagh-streel
Victorian Directors
John L. Dow, Esq., M.P.,
Chairman
Hon. J. P. Levlen, M.P.
rnomas Learmonth, Esq.
N. 8. Wales Directors;
Andrew Town, J.P., Esc
Frank Cowley, Esq.
George S. Yeo, Esq.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs insurec
gainst death from Accident, Disease, or Natura
auses on land, rail, or at sea.
Marine Risks on Stock covering mortality or or
[erchandise accepted.
The only Live Stock Insurance Society in the
°Full particulars can be obtained from the under-
Igned.
Active Agents wanted where unrepresented.
A. J. WILKINSON, Branch Manager.!
Office, 171 Oastlereagh-street.
A U D B
4711
COLOGNE
4711.
Established 1792
9 oil Medal. Moscow, 1872; Prize edal, Vienna, 1878
This Eau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 35 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Sxhibitlon, for its superior sweetness, strength,
ind invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
petitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public
md is extensively patronised by the tflite of
Europe.
The large and constantly increasing demand for
-he genuine 4711 Eau de Cologne, not only in
Europe, but also In North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evl-
lence of its superiority.
The publio are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number—4711 changed into 7411.1147, 4117, &c ., &o.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pltt-
street, Sydney.
To bf> had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
and Storekeepers, in town and country.
BULJfi lMl*OKTMR Oi)
Only Iron-framnd Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE
197 PITT STREET.
AOLF AGENT FOK THE
SMITH ORGAN.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
a*™™*
. ■ .:'. M;;i'!- ■•■ "!. mini
mm
A Terrible Skin Disease.
t have tried for eleven years to have my wif.
cured of a terrible skin disease. The Cuticub>
remedies (Cdticcra Resolvent, the new bloot
purifier, internally, and Cuticuba the great skii
cure, and Cutxcdra Soap, an exqusslte skin beau
tiller, externally) have done in six weeks what J
have tried for eleven years to have none. You shal
have the particulars as soon as I can give them to
you, and as we are so well known in this part ol
the country, it will benefit you. and the remedies
will cure ail who use them, CHAS. H. WHITE,
Maysvllle, Ky.
Keep your health by taking Wolfe’s
Schnapps. It is the purest stimulant in the
world. Ask for Wolfe’s.
In spite of all imitations Wolfe’s
Schnapps stands In the foremost ranks of bever-
agea. Demand Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The Renner Manufacturing Co., of Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylvania, U.B.A., make an extraordin-
ary offer to agents, and those wanting employ-
ment, to sell their Renner Combined Alarm and
Door Bell, in the different colonies and Counties In
Australia. It is endorsed by over 2000 publisher!
In the United States and Canada, and by the 100.00C
who are now using them on their doors. It ha*
never been sold by the trade, but by agents alone
It will pay 100 per cent, profit, and sells from $4.0C
to $6.00 each. Agents in the United States have
taken as high as 22 orders in a single day. It sell*
readily on its merits. General agents who car
handle a number of counties, or one of the colo-
nies, can secure those they want by being the first
to comply with our terms. Large illustrator
circulars, containing terms and price-list, will b*
sent free. Address: Renner Manufacturing
Co., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, U.8.A. *•
Notice!—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs
Only sold by Hookings, 143 Pltt-street.
Sound Advice. When you get a good
article note the brand. Persons should be caret u l
to get Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the most popular
tonlo and stimulant In the world. Beware of imi-
tations.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a powerful curative
for disease and is very agreeable to the palate.
Obtain Wolfe's.
Ayer’s asue Cure not only affords
Immediate relief, but eradicates the malarial
poisons which produce the disease, without leav-
ing any injurous effect, as Is the case with quinine
and many of the ague medicines advertised. It is
Hie only medicine in existence which may be
considered an absolute antidote for fever and
ague and kindred disease.
GEORGE ST., Opp. Wynyard St.
" AMERICAN
NOVELTY CO.
FANCY GOODS.
NOVELTIES
L'U
Bring your Wife and Children with you.
Nobody pressed to buy.
WANTED a number of Gentlemen who will have their
heads shaved as above, and guarantee to attend all
meetings and side-walk gatherings. CALARY LIBERAL.
USE PEARL CEMENT S
'but Iron. Is. Bottle.
TCOTHACHE TINCTURE. — x T.”St'Si n dSC”
afraid tc use it freely. No trouble to the Teeth. Is. Bottle.
HDstrliao-g: Harbcar Hotel,
HARBOUR STREET, MONEY (Opposite Railway Gates).
STEPHEN HOPKINS (Late of Wagga Wagga), Proprietor.
tar ESPECIAL ACCOMMODATION FOR COUNTRY VISITORS.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL'S
CET iTI.Jj.biiTED
nS AID CASES, TREACLE AID SOLDER STRIP,
Self-raising /Erated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.-^)®
I. & A. have obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney I.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4,
Sydney Agents: W. H. ARIELL ft CO., 343 and 345 Kent-street.
Debate at Sydney School of Arts.
“ Here Mr. Crick, who had been all the
evening loudly Interrupting the different speakers
in favour of the motion, became most incessant in
hla noisy interruptions of Mr. Perrier, whereupon
Judge Wlndeyer arose, and, amid loud applause,
declared if that person continued to indulge in
such unseemly conduct, he would call upon the
members of the institute to expel him.”— Evening
News.
To hear the School of Arts debate
We took our biggest stick:
Our wife said, “ Dearest, don't be late,
Bun homo when you see Crick.”
An anxious, foreign-looking man
Sat next us grinding “ icreed
When finished he at once began
To vent bis views on Iteid.
** J’alme beaucoup ce beaux gaigm la—
Je crois que c’est une brique,
II bararde comme une pie mais, ah 1
C’est bon—mais non pas Crick.”
Broud Perrier, late of “ Cork's own town,”
Arose just in the nick
Of time; they failed to put him down—
With scorn he met the mocking frown
Of isolated Crick.
Judge Windeyer’s face was getting red.
His Honor’s voice was thick
With passion—this is what he laid—
“ Young man, you'd best go home to bed
Before we stand you on your head.”
loonoolast io Crick I
“ I’m in the chair, and won't be bossed,”
The Judge went on, and quick
As thought a frown of warning crossed
The classic mouth of Crick.
A settled, subtle, serious sneer
(It turned the chairman sick),
That said as plain as word in ear,
“ Don’t try it on with Crick.”
The audience rose in wild uproar
In search of half a brick,
for them life bad no peace in store
Until they saw a tombstone hoar
That on its front the legend bore
In letters six feet lo ig or more,
“ Ci git le ebarmant Crick.”


C A u 1 0 N •
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO THE PUBLIC.
la consequence of an attempt to substitute in-
ferior and spurious art'cles for “ Dr. Scott’s Elec-
tric,” the Pall Mali Electric Association, 51, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, desire to caution the public
against purchasing any counterfeit of the follow-
ing goods:—“Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets, Dr.
Sco t’s Electric Belts, Dr. fcott's Electric Hair.
Flesh, or Tooth Brushes, Dr. Scott’s Galvanic
Gene ators, and Dr. Scott’s Electric Irsoles’
Every genuine article bears the word •• Electric”
and the name of Dr. Scott, as also does the box
containing same. The extmt of our trade, and the
marked apprec atlon of (ho public having induced
certain parties to m inufacture a line of worthless
goods, having something of the general form and
external appearance of ours, and v u ioualy styled
“ Magneto -Electric or Electric Magnetic,”
we respectfully ask that parties who have been
influenced by the many testimonials we publish,
all of which are s’rictly genuine, or the universal
reputation of our to give e'ectrlcity a
trial, will see that the name of D.-. Scott and the
word “ Electric” appear on every article purchased.
In addition to th’s, we have recently resiatered a
new trade mark-an oval l«bel with cur local
address, " Pa 1 Mall Electric Association, 51, Mar-
garet-street, Sydnry, N.S.W,” in marginal lines,
encircling the device of a mailed hand holding a
group of Ihuaderbol’s
TK/C
d
3/0:
m
&
As we are the only parties in Australia importing
these goc ds direct from Dr. Scott, and are prepared
to guaiantee the genuineness of every article
bearing this label, we advise purchasers to see
personally that this trade mark invariably appears
on any and every Electric Corset. Belt. Insole.
Generator, Hair, Kleph. tr Tooth Brush, they may
desire to purchase. This borne in mind, much
vexation and dlsappointmt ut will be saved ; and
we respectfully request th t any person who has
been induced to buy any of tl ose imitations under
the impression that they were Dr. Scott s Elt cf rlc,
will at once communicate with ui.
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle ano
pleasant support, enciTeling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by. he
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continental
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who Til refuse to give thm *
■.rial ?
$
mm
mgmm ipi l
illi
IW:
m
i ■
Dr, Scott's Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy
sicians as the best, safest, and mostt ffectua
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago’
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice’
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &c., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing oases, after all other remedies (so-
called) have failed.
The prices are as follows
No. 1
No. 2
No. 3
No. 6
Electric Belts.
s. d.
..6 6
... 8 6
.. 10 6
.. 15 0
.. 15 0
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electric-Magnetic
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway stalion in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size it
not known, lake a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece of common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can oe made by cheque,
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
ic isnui
64 Margaret-straat,
SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 231,
A BOON TO THOUSANDS!
Manhood and Vigour of Youth
Restored in Four Weeks&
(I
H
DR. RICORDS
ft
ESSENCE OF LIFE
Raitorcs manhood to the most shattered and debilitated con
Ititotion from whatever cause arising, in FOUR WEEKS,
Failure is impossible if taken according to the printed di-
rections, which are very simple, and require no restraint or
hindrance from business.
This invaluable remedy affords relief, and permanently
cures all who suffer wasting and withering of the nerves and
muscular tissues, Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, Disturbed
Sleep, Trembling Sensations, Dizsiness, Spermatorrhoea, all
Urinary Deposits, which cause incapacity and degeneracy,
total and partial prostration, and every other exhaustive de<
rangement of the system ; regenerating all the important
elements of the human frame, and enabling man to fulfil his
most sacred obligations.
|u cases at ias., or four quantities in one for 36s. ; if by
coach, ts. 6'd. extra.
NATURE’S GREAT REMEDY I
DR. RICORDS
SANATIVE PILLS
For strengthening the system, purifying the blood, regulating
the bowels, and removing all vitiated humourSj bilious _ ant
Liver Complaints, Rheumatism, Gout, Scorbutic Affections,
Costiveness, Skin Eruptions, and all diseases of the nervous
system. This never-failing remedy affords at once a new
Uasc of life to the sickly and aged of both sexes, imparting
a beautiful and clear complexion, a sure sign of health,
strength, and vigour. Price, as. ; by post, *d. extra.
AGENTS FOR SYDNEY J
Messrs. W.BARCLAY & CO.,
43 QOULBURM STREET,
One Door from Gkoroe Street South,
And may be had of most Chemists.
Parcels packed securely and free from observation, sent to
Queensland, New Zealand, or any part of the Australian
Colonies, on receipt of Post Office Order or Stamps,
NERVOUS DEBILITY,
Lost Vitality, &c.—A simple and positive
means of Self-Cure, by an eminent
French Hospital Physician- Sent Free
Medico, P.O. Box 766. Sydney.
r// c
cm
or
LIFE
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the uiitoli
Sl^iifT eSU i tmgfr i >m J ndiscretlon or excesses may b
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dia
Medical Association, entitled the Science of Llfi
, I reservation. A book for every man, voumr
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may lf<
a?fncu°tfl an 1 e ? ame - d ‘ aF contains 125
1 ac , n ,to a “d chronic diseases, each one of which is in
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience foi
zo years is such as probably never before fell to the lot oi
any physmian. 300 pages, bound in beautiful French cloth
full gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
6r c 01^ 1 i he countr y ioe 2 guineas, or the money
win be refunded In every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid.
medal awarded hub aumor uy me isanoi
Association, to the ofiicers of which he refers.
Illustrative sample, 2 Gob
Tl dal ; awar^ e( l, the jiuthor by the National Medica
. -J? 10 Science of life should be read by the vouncr for
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
a11 - —London Lancet.
o^ d i- ress tkeWorld’s Dispensary Medical As- 11 r* R I
sociation, or Dr. W. R. Parker, No. 69 Hunter HEAL
Street, Sydney, N. S. W. The author may T U UftPI p
consulted on all diseases requiring | H I utLr
skill, secrecy, and experience. 1 1
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The beat known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
OU-URALOIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHAC IE.
RAINS, BRUISES, 3URNS. SCALD 3, &c~ and
J«en internally cures DIARRHOEA, DYSE^x^’RY,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other luttrns aches
#®d pains.
lH*lce, 2/- §Qld Everywhere,
S. E. MOULTON, sole prop:i: :or.
Kelbouenh u . dney,
PAINT
mu
A
NERVINE
_ HEGI8TEKBJJ.
it SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURB for Ner-
•Cv vous and General Debility, and all complaints
Jjhat spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
toothache. Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
complaints. Loss of Vital Power, &o. By Its tonic
tod soothing effects it at once removes all oravlng
S? Alcohol. By its richness In phosphorous and
Tn«tvitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4s. 8d.. or 25s. a case,
gple Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTH KK8
JJtoufaoturing and consulting Chemists, f04 and
W8 Market-street, near Hyde Park, Sydney, and
tUTJt t3r * et * TAKE NO SUB8TI.
l p
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a largo and varied Stock of
, . FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
n u r u 68l K? 8 a PP rl8e hi" customers
2?®“• fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms:—JOHN RIGBY & GO T,nn.
f»r>M LA r ND^& S0N *’ Lond °n: JOSEPH
TOLonilmN' London ; CHA8. OSBORNE &
BUS8Y & , CO.i S £otdom Tf0r tbe fm,nent flrm of
Ga k?n^ B,^ un . Cafle8 ,^?rtrldg 0 Belts. Ac., and all
'<^S por tem e n’8 Reauialtes for the Held.
_AH Goods will be faithfully Guaranteed at
B02 Georne.st., Sydney,
Where Inspection is Invited.
RAW VASELINE.
A
T^°£in2 fte „ n,D, f. aDd Preserving Horses’ Hoofs
As a T oi?K P S r S' tee ’ a, i? Prevents their growth
ventH t^b^ reserva i lve Jt iB in valuable-pre
Prnm «. packing, and renders It waterproof
l' 8 «tl-oorrcave Qualities, umqilied as i
Pir^rm r fl 0te M t0 Ki and for ke fP ln F in perf‘ ot orde
a *K^ b,neS ’ Ac ‘ H 18 tbe sole n ateria
„ e abov e purposes in the Austrian am
keepers artDle8, ® old a| i Saddlers and Store
SOLE AGENTS :
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS’ IRONMONGERS,
138 York.street, dydney.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
-IMPORTER SUFALLTHE'
NEWESTSHAPES.
Champagne
Haldsiack A Co’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OJ ALL WINB MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS A Co., London.
for HeldMeofc A U b- m»
E V 8noDj?i? usb [PEMET -Y
EXTRA SUPERFINE
..IT IS MA DE , FB °M THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replc to with tho no west and most approved
„ nT "* w Process Machinery.
The PRICK is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED GOOD.
VHJTORIA FLOUR MILL.
»«1 fieorfce-street, Sydney.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1889.
INCOaPORATBD BT ACTor PARLIAMENT. I«7?
P .id-up Capital Aaoo.opi
Reserve Fund A 50 000
Directors:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G.. Chaim
■Hon. Henry Mort, M.llC.
George 8. Calrd, Esq
felng, M.L.G.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
, Auditors;
Jas. Scroggle, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Bp.*
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Bborbtaht :
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket. Pynzont, Redfern, Gosford, Nyngan
Bourke, Manly, Byerook, and Parramatta.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
_. Directors :
Sffl&Scfe 1.fe feBMt
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
, T London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
bank transacts all usual Banking and Flnan
faTour »bleterm,
NEUSTADT and CO.,
OOMPLBTl
FURNISHERS,
39, 154, 156, A 158 OXFORD-ST
BTDNBT.
tM~ HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE.
3 Either foa Cash or Time Payment.
BBBT OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED. h
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers.
Alex. Borthwick. r ,
WALLPAPEE, PAINT, &c. WlaSS,
201 Gheoigre-et., S^cLa^e^,
DR. O CON’N’ELL,
52 Castlereagh Street,
SYDUEY, 3ST.S.W.
A iu nil tho branches
£1 1l ?I 1^1 d i ) cine , anc i and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W. whose
Ufedong experience, practical method of treat-
Eieut, and pure medicines insure speedy ,snd ner-
mauent curesm all private cases, c‘h ron Ic.
nervous, skin and .special diseases,
. CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
vo,L° r f°. Pm ? 11 . C ? 1 Sts When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, fi-eo from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
Kol & « S ’ xt x | * rankl y stated. Especial atteirtion to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility.
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effects :—Ner-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory. Dimples on the Face, Aversion to Society
alea Vr^ nt of P1 « as «re in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
repsm. Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits
'■111111 ■.< 11 <1<11111<1<1 .hi 1 , Pal ' 13 1 ln the Back, Stunted Development, <S.e. are
n %rs U e^sts te itc S ffi m R Ust fr ?°* ttna byS. le,ed *“• C “ res pe *'
kind, from whatever cause! promptly cnred? 3 Pimp,es * Blotches and Eruptions
and irregular pracdice'aU knowing' this of ?f scs attains great skill,
this oldest office in Australia, where every known re « 0111 n«?ud cases to
remedies of all ages and countries are On account of f Ud tll ° Droved good
Charges are kept low-pften lower than is demanded bv n,unber of cases applying, the
sa- 4 <■
DOCTOR J. o CONNPT t r,i 1
tastlereajru Street (ground Sidney.
PIiAVOUK and unsurpasse
V Crispness distinguish Wilson’s
rtcan “ Bxtra Toast ” BISCUITS
- saffwa-a. te s.,s 0l Hi
« or^eheeae? 6 ’
TURNER 4 CO.,
Sole Agents,
U Sussex Street, Sydney
W
S'WU
■
SNSv^vN 1 *
k ’• >
m
WSm
m
m
m
S
■
fa
nian^ntj
of every
m
c_>
C/j


Art Union of Moss Yale, in aid of Widow
and Orpan Fund of Berrima Masonic Lodge.
Ticket?, 30s. Will shortly be drawn. Apply at
once for tickets. J. S. Hyams, Sec., Moss Vale.*
Mb. DbCoubot Brown* (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
“ Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “ Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 53 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, &r" Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in th 3 Departments and
Supreme Court.*
Printed and Published by Thl* Bulutik News-
caper Uc. LteilaD, U Pltt-st.. Sydney, NJLW,
THE END OF A "HERO."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Ten Thousand a Year” is a masterpiece
in modern novel*. The fame of Warren, its
author, will probably rest upon that alone. When
publishing, in monthly instalments, in Black*
wood's Magazine, it was the talk of the day.
Those who have read It, in its many editions, may
choose their “hero” among l>s well-drawn
characters. “ Mr, Tittlebat Titmouse ” will be put
aside by some la favour of “ Mr. Aubrey,” whose
estate of ten thousand a year this draper's shop-
man won and held but for a brief period.
Since Warren’s death it has been told us that he
looked upon “Oily Qimmon" as the true “hero “
of his novel, la much the same way Shakespeare
would doubtlessly (ell us that be regarded lago as
the foremost character of bis great tragedy.
Goethe in the same sense regarded the MephU-
toi hsles of his “ Faust,” and Satan is admittedly
the true hero of Milton’s grand epic-poem.
Warren, thus drawing bis characters irom life,
told his friends who it was ;that stood for the
or glnal of his ‘ Oily Gammon.” It was part of
my youthful experience to be a law-clerk la a
lirm the rfflces of which were next door
t j those of the Arm la which Gammon was a part-
ner. It fell to my lot to meet with this man years
afterwards, In another land, to which he had been
driven by circumstances of bis own creation.
Warren’s dramatic account of his death by suicide
was but a novelist's idea of what the finish of such
a man would be. He did but make a miscalcula-
tion, is an astrologer mlget have done, in fore-
casting a “ destiny.” As both the novelist and bis
heroxra long since dead, there can be no reason
for ray not telling of the further career and the
finish of this hero of “Ten Thousand a Year.”
For such purpose only I may call him “Mr.
Hawkins”—a common name—which is near
enough to his true one. A more gentlemanly man,
nor one of finer appearance, I never saw. He was
a bachelor during all his London life, which
cirrled him onwards to nearly 50. Every morn-
log, by 9 o’clock, he was coming to office punc-
tually as myself—a tall, handsome figure in a but-
toned-up surtout, and one who compelled
attention from those whos&w him. From woman-
kind he, doubtlessly, had all the admiration his
appesracct would newssarily enforce. It will
be remembued by readers of the novel that its
author makes Gammon—this “Mr. Hawkins”—
an aspirant for the band his heroine, “ Kate Au-
brey.” He goes so far in admiration of his hero
as to eay ihit “had Gammon been only a good
man, he would have been ‘a great one.’ ” So far
as Nairn-5 could favour a man to that end, she had
done so moit effectually with “ Mr. Hawkins.”
He lived ia chambers at that fashionable resi-
dence ” The Albany,” in Piccadilly. As a member
of a loading club he was well anown In society,
and in every respect was a prominent man in
London life. It is possible that club-life may
have been the cause of his downfall, for nothing
else so w< 11 accounts for hij being one morning
missing from bis accustomed resorts. No trace of
him remain* cl, nor was the reason of his disap-
pearance known for weeks afterwards. At the
Albany and at the office he was believed to have
gone out of town on business or pleasure. Very
soon it became known that he was a defaulter
with trust •'moneys, and that to the extent of some
i’dO.OOO It could onlv be imagined that gambling
at his dub bad been the cause of such large defal-
cations. Otherwise he lived most unostentatiously.
His disappearance occurred in 1850.
It was a ’* far cry ” to Australia before the later
years of the fifties. Butin 53 the gold-diggings
had caused a feverish attention to the golden land
with those who, like myself, felt overcrowded in
London In the middle of that eventful year I
advertised in the Times to those desirous of Join-
ing a party of digging-adventurers. It was quite
an evening’s work, for a fortnight afterwards, to
answer applications and assort those to whom re-
plies should be sent. Then followed the necessary
personal interviews. Queer, Indeed, way the study
of character which that business afforded. It was
fully a month before a party of nine was selected,
who hoped, as I did, by combination to lessen ex-
penses and make a practicable partnership of the
venture.
I little knew then what four months of ship-life
would do and undo. It undid, however, all that
had been done by me beforehand. Sea life is a
sore undoing indeed of much of shore-going in-
tentions. We all i uarrelled during sometime of
the voyage, and each went his different way when
at last we landed. Two of the nine never landed
at all in Australia. One fell in loveat the Gape, of
all plants, and remained there to marry and settle;
and another was drowned In leaving the vessel
when it called at Adelaide, while a third died of
cMonial fever in “ Canvas Town,” Melbourne. Of
the other six, I was the only one who went to the
diggings.
I bad found on board ship that people did not
always emigrate In their baptismal patronymics.
Of that lact I had further evidence when upon the
goldfields. Two, whom I bad there recognised,
did not answer to their accustomed names. It was
no business of mine to say anything about It, and
T recalled that I had beard Lord Denman, from the
Judgment seat of Westminster Hall, Justify such a
change of name. “The evidence of the witness
Joms," said his Lordship to the Jury, “has been
impugned by counsel, because that he once was
known by another name. There is nothing,
gentlemen, that I know of in the laws of England
which prohibits a man from changing his name if
he thinks he can do better by another and does not
change it for purposes of fraud.”
I thought of that a great deal when, a
year or two after, I had settled in busi-
ness in Melbourne. The office door was
opened one day by a tall, portly - looking
gentleman whom, spite of the gray hairs In what I
had known as his auburn whiskers, I recognised
“Mr. Hawkins.” There was that in his pleasing
appearance which disarmed alt hesitation on my
part and threw me off my guard in addressing
him.
“ Good morning, Mr. Hawkins!" I said, and that
before he had stated his business or spoken a
word. I n.cognised, then, bis sharp, searching
look, which apparently satisfied him that he did
not know me. Our positions years before In
London had probably not led to his ever noticing
me, and business had never brought us to speaking
terms.
" i'ou are under a mistake,” he said; “ my name
is Qreville—and now to my business here.”
“I mistook you,” I said, “for one the very
duplicate of yourself, whom I met every morning
for some years, going to office next door to where
1 was employed.”
“That was—where ?—but, never mind I Every-
body b as a ‘double,’ no doubt, somewhere in the
woridl ’
"Notsuth as you!” I said; “ men of your make
and depoitment, when once seen, are not easily
mistaken tor others. However, as the mistake Is
made, as you tell me, I must apologise for It.”
“Yes, yes,” he testily said; "you have made a
great miMako-my name Is Grevlllel”
"Mr. Grevllle” then proceeded to state the
object ot bis call. He filled a high official position
in tbe colonial Civil Service and bad, I
found, occupied it for more than a year past. He
had called to give me a commission in a business
way, but, no doubt ou second thoughts, resolved
not to do so. My terms were not to his taste. He
would think the matter over, he said, and let me
know farther about it. Needless, almost, is it to
say that I did not hear from “ Mr. Grevllle ” again.
So here was “ Oily Gammon”—my Mr. Hawkins
—masquerading in Australia as " Mr. Grevllle.”
It was no business of mine to Interfere with any-
body’s game. 1 would not play the part of an in-
former, and never did so. Onoe or twice on a visit
to the Government offices I saw my gentleman
and was but confirmed in my ideas as to his
identity. He had married since he came to Aus-
tralia—and into a good family, too. As I knew
that be had been a bachelor in his London life, be
had not added bigamy to his other wronp-doings.
That w s something in his favour, and more than
I could say favourably of one or two others who
bad, 1 knew, naie colonial marriages regardless of
wives le r t behind them.
Some years at ter wards I wis a voyager from
Australia tu Now Zealand op a eummor’e pleasure
excursion. Among the passengers was a solicitor
la good colonial practice, who was similarly on a
holiday tiip. Daily chats on deck brought up the
subject of the celebrities we had each met with in
our time. Did I know “Green.” of so-and-so?
Yes, I did I “You will be surprised if I tell you
wLo n he really was. He is dead now, and has
no wife or family behind him. He was—under
another name—the clerk who had embezzled so
largely from a Life Insurance company, and who
was tried for only stealing a piece of paper-all
the charge that could, from legal olfliculties, be
brought against him.”.
“Dear me I Now you mention that case, did
you, while In London, know Hawkins, of Gray’s
Ion ? ' I said.
“Know him? Yes, well, Indeed; and, what’s
more, 1 know what's become of him, which Is more
than you do—at least, I never found anybody out
of our firm, who knew about him after his disap-
pearance from London, i suppose you don’t
know that he died last year ?”
“ I diu not know that much, but knowing that he
had married, and might have left a widow, 1 was
silent as to what I knew.”
“How came your firm only to know about him ?”
I asked.
“Because his London creditors found out his
address and sent me a power-of-attorney fo act
for them. For the last seven years of his life he
had to pay to uo three-fourths of his salary to stop
our mouths, which money we remitted home as a
dividend to the claimants upon him. Such re-
duction of bis income screwed him up pretty
tightly, I can tell you I ”
“ Would you be surprised to know that I knew
him at once when I first met him ? He braved it
out well, and l never mentioned him to anyone
until to-day.”
“ Are you sure we are talking of the same man ?”
my friend asked,
"Yes! you write down his colonial name and I
will do the same and exchange with you.”
“That would not be fair,” he said, “as you
might be wrong, and I could not be. You would
then learn official secrets I ”
“ Well, to be non-official about it, suppose I call
him ‘Mr. G,’”
“OhI you are right!” he said,
“ What did he die of ? ” I asked.
" Well, between ourselves, I think It was as
much of a broken heart, or spirit, as anything
else. Such things as he had to think of tell upon
men in declining years, and prey upon the mind.
He had brought poverty and distress upon more
than one family, and, by his breaches of trust, had
made beggars of widows and orphans. The little
that we could recover from him was as a mere
nothing, and came all too late to i epalr the damage
be bad done.”
And this was the ending of the story of the hero
of “Ten Thousand a Year’—one of the many
hundreds who, having played their part in London
life, have flnlsaod the drama of their lives In Aus-
tralia.
AUSTRAL.
Jean Ingelow says, “What comes to me
comes of Its own accord, and almost In spite of
me; and I have hardly any power when verses are
once written to make them any better.” Strange.
This Is what our correspondence editor siys!
Sir Charles Lilley, the Chief Justice of
Queensland, declares tnat he will refuse to admit
solicitors from Qieat Britain to practise in Queens-
land unless on the terms that Queensland solicitors
are admitted to practise in Great Britain. An
application for admission was made by Mr. T.
Graham, a Scottish lawyer, last week, and was
refused on the around of want of reciprocity.
The report of the Board for the Protection
of Aborigines in New South Wales has been issued
for the past year. Some of the tabulated state-
ments admit of interesting analysis. For Instance,
1881 began with 2633 full-blooded male adults and
1925 adult females. Births during the year num-
bered 63. There were at the same time, 621 male
and 181 female half-caste adults. Births among
these numbered bl. It will be noticed that the
percentage of women to men was about the same in
both oases. Had the full-bloods been as prolific as
the half-castes, the births among them would have
been 261.
We have had some melancholy papers in
Sydney, but we think the Melbourne Weekly
Times is occasionally more dismal than any of th em
Here, for instance, are a few items of news
—printed as likely to be pleasant family-reading,
we su ppose—given by the latter in almost consecu-
tive orderNo less than 1000 deaths occur dally
from cholera in Spain.” "A leper was once
classed with idiots, madmen, and outlaws, and
was not allowed to inherit.” “ Small-pox is spread-
ing to an alarming extent in several towns la the
Potteries district, England.” Cheerful facts these,
and calculated to diffuse an atmosphere of enjoy-
ment in every household—a ripple of mirth at
every breakfast-table. Give us the Graveyard
Guide for honest fun before this kind of thing.
About ten years ago a party of shearers
came one evening to a station on the Big Elver.
They were met at be horse-paddock-gate by a
jackaroo. In his hand this pannikin overseer held
a mane-comb, curry-comb, and brush, and said:
“ Comb the burrs out or your horses' manes
and tails. I don't want my paddocks sown with
them.” This was done, when he ordered the heap
of seeds to be thrown into the stream, which was a
half-banker. One of the party suggested burning,
as the river would land them elsewhere, but the
jackeroo said, “On. nevermind; it’ll carry them
East our boundary! ’ “ Cursed be he that soweth
urrs in his neighbour’s paddocks.” This is from
the Revised Version. And it was so, for the
jackaroo went astray, and went from worse to
worse until at last he became a Victorian Cabinet
Minister.
At Hobart (Tas.) recently there has been
a debate, concerning the inspiration of the Bibi ,
between Miss Ada Campbell and the Rev. A. M.
Taj lor. We might never have known about tho
affair had not one of the orthodox (who from evi-
dent motives suppresses bis name and address)
sought the aid of the Muse in squelching the fa ( r
Ada. His poem is published as a “ Gift to the
Public of Hobart,” the writer having no other de-
sire than “ to benefit his fellow-creatures and help
to save their minds from being poisoned by the
doctrines” of the aforesaid Ada. The Southern
Homer jumps off from scratch by announcing
that—
“ In Hobart there’s been a commotion,
Mias A. C. is blame i for it ad,”
and then dashes into a rollicking chorus of some
14 verses of various and appalling metre. Th's Is
what be says of the Bible:—
“ Its power is seen in brave England,
Whose scoptre sways the world.
And Kings and Judges swear by it,
To keep its flag unfurled.”
And we believe him, for have we not heard that
the notorious Mrs. Jefferies always kept two copies
on the parlour-table: hence the reason of the visits
occasionally made by Judges and others to her
establishment? Further, do we not know that
Prince Albert Victor, following in the saintly
footsteps of his Royal father, always cirrles a
very-much-revised version about with him ? But
it is in the concluding stanzas that our poet sho ws
the brightest and best products of his genius.
When he has proved beyond doubt that the gentle
Ada Is wrong he lets himself loose concerning Free-
thinkers in this triumphant and prophetic strain—
“ No more they’ll trouble aldermen
To prove the Blole false,
For facta will then be visible
That Freothought is like salts.”
There is a master-stroke of comparison. “ Free-
thought is like silts.” Of course It is, in several
ways (which need not be mentioned), and yet we
never saw that before. Finally, we rejoice in his
assurance that—
“ The Mayor no more need never fear
Petitions feebly signed,
For Freethought’s burial must take place.”
Of course it must. No system could stand such
a tremendous attack as this anonymous Milton
makes. And when that burial does takes place we
would suggest tbat the head of this pious poet
> should he sawn into half-inch collia-slabs.
Had the Executive agreed to give a free
pardon to Mrs. Keep, the prisoner who died in
Darlinghurst Gaol, Sydney, the other day, some
Interesting questions might afterwards have been
raised. The eider woman, It wi'I be remembered,
Uid upon herself, in ihi depositions she signed,
the whole <>f the hideuui crime for which both
suffered Had the Kxecutlv* adopted htr view,
what civil rights could Mrs. Keep, on her release,
claim to possess? What had sh) forfeited? A
free pardon would ba tantamount o the criminal
trial having terminated in her favour. It is in
the memory of all that the newspapers dealt
severely with her name. Would she possess any
claim against them ? Singularly enough, a oas i in
some respects resembling this, came up in the
Lord Mayor's Courtln London a couple of months
ago. A convict had been released by free
pardon after some months’ incarceration, and
he sought dama/ts as against tiosj who
prosecuted him. The defendants cmt-nded
th-c as he had been convicted by a jury ro
responsibility attached to them On benaif of
plaintiff Mr. Kemj, Q.'\ argued that the >reo i a -
don completed the c, nmnai prote;*, and i hat < o.i
sequently the released prisoner had all the civil
r gnts possessed by him antecedent to his trial and
wnlle his case was subjudice. Tue presiding Judge
ruled that the record of convict on birred action.
U he points were admitted to be so novel, however,
that ex-oonviots with little to lose are finely to try
a shot that way. Besides, according to this deci-
sion, it is not the conviction that barred action
but the record ot it. Now, a free pardon should,
in equity, be made to carry the cancellation of tbe
record. Hence a c ear opening and a lively pros-
pect, Had Mrs. Keep come out, and bad Mr.
Kemp come in, there might have been an interest-
ing display ot intellectual gymnastics in libel
actions before the N.S.W. Supreme Court.
Howick, New Zealand, is a charming little
settlement not far from Auckland. Many a night,
in dehance of a stern discipline, have we crawled
out of the camp at Otahubu, and made our way
to Howick In pursuit of affection and alcohol-a
stock of both being kept on hand by a plump
widow, who had “ planted ” her old pensioner hus-
band, and did not object to admiration. But
things appear to have changed for tbe worse since
we left. There is a State-school head teacher
there, who aopcars to dabble in science. At lea«t
em b is the very natural supposition in view of the
to lowing resolutions lately adopted by hi* school
board:-“l. The committee are convitoed that
he Is neither a good nor zsalous teacher, believ-
ing as they do that he has more interest in study-
ing insects and their habits, and writing books
upon the same, than ha has in forwarding the
children in his school. 3. They—tbe committee—
would prefer a msster who would not take sides
with any parties, religious or others, to the preju-
dice of his school. 3. Although the master has
been told several times of the bad language used
by some of tbe children attending his school, this
committee are not aware that he has exerted him-
self to put it down. 4 That this committee
think any man unfit to be a teacher who tells
bis pupils they are the decendants of monkeys.”
We always thought entomology the most harmless
branch of science, and held its professors in de-
served respcci . If we had a choice in the matter 1
we d prefer tbe study of beetles to tnat of babies.
But the Howick Board think the infants should
get the first show. Of course it is the last charge
that is the really serious one. And it shows, too,
that there are still people who stoutly hold out
against the evolutionary theory. It certainly is
□ot nice for a child to be told either that it is a
monkey or tho descendant of one. It reflects upon
the parents, too. It is also a trills rough on tbe
monkeys—that is, if the people of Howick resem-
ble in any way those we knew there 30 years ago.
We begin to think that the teacher these people
want is not one conversant with the idioSyncra-
oies of either antbropv 1 is or ants. What they pro-
bably require is some nice young man who parts
bis hair in the centre, trembles at the sight of a
glass of beer, and ia prepared to swear that the
whale swallowed Jonah-a young man who would
sing in the choir with their daughters and end by
bolting with tbe Church funds, having first con-
tributed materially to the increase of the census.
For an up-country humorist recommend
us to Peter Coster, who holds the dignified and
onerous position of member of the Spring Creek
(literary, wo presume) Institute. Spring Creek, as
everybody knows who has any pretension to geo-
grapnloal knowledge, is a small hamlet away
among the ranges of tbe upper Houlburn district
(Vie.), somewhere in the neighbourhood of Alex-
andra. The population of this bucolic centre Is
variously estimated at between 30 and 30
souls and several predatory goats. The irre-
pressible yearnings of tbe Inhabitants for
mental improvement prompted them to found
a Literary Institute, which was duly stocked
with a small but carefully-selected supply of
current literature. In the course of time, how-
ever, the readers, who patronised the institute
managed to spell through the limited number of
volumes which adorned the shelves, and ached for
something fresh. Then the committee conceived
the brilliant idea of “ swopping” books with the
Alexandra Free Library Committee, a state of
things which, they fondly hoped, would bringlplea-
sure and profit to all concerned. A reciprocal
treaty was promptly agreed to and was duly signed
and sealed. How it "gave satisfaction to all” (vide
T. and C. Jernel) can be gathered from the ap-
f tended little note which was read at thellast meet-
ng of the Alexandra Free Library Committe:—
“ Fawcett, 3rd September, 1885. To the Book Com-
mittee of the Alexandra Free Library. Gentle-
men,—As one of the committee of the Spring
Creak Library, I beg to express to your committee
our deep sense of the liberal and large-hearted
manner In which you have responded to our
application lor the exchange of a few books. The
second volume of the ‘Foituues of Nigel,’ also
the second volume of ‘ Guy Mannerlng, wlll.no
doubt, be read)with great interest by those who,
having learned by heart the first volump, will now
be able to take up tbe broken tbre'ads of those
truly charming tales. The two novels, without
covers, will certainly prove conspicuous objects
on our shelves for some time to come ‘Smiles’
Self Help’ we receive with all the more satisfac
tlon, as it is evident that your committee have
derived very great benefit from the perusal of it
Should your committee by any chance have a
work advocating the desirability of sometimes
helping others, we should, in the event of any
future exchange, be glad to get it. We are also in
receipt of a little volume containing sketches by
anonymous authors. We need scarcely say that
the obvious motive which induced those writers
to conceal their Identity has our entire sympathy,
I am, eto., P. Coster.” The Alexandra litterateurs
are now thinking out a reply to this missive.
Here is a Venetian legend from “Life on
the Lagoons.” a recently-published book, which
we have j ist been reading There were
■ix men fishing once In tbii * Valle ’ of the Seven
Dead. They bad with them a little boy. tbe son of
one of their number. The boy did not go fishing
with his father, but stayed behind to take care of
the hut, and to cook the food for the men when
they returned. He spent the nights alone in tbe
cabin, for most of the fishing was done between
sunset and sunrise. One day, as the dawn was be-
ginning across the water, the men stopped their
fishing and began to row home with their load, as
usual. As they rowed along they met the body of
a drowned man going out to sea with the tide.
They picked the body up and laid it on the prow,
the bead resting upon the arm, and rowed on
slowly to the hut. The little boy was watching
for them, and went down to the edge of
the canal to meet them. He saw the body
of the seventh man lying on the prow, but
thought he was asleep. So when the boat
came near, he cried to his father, ‘ Break-
fast is ready; come along!’ And with that he
turned and went back to the hut. The men fol-
lowed the boy, and left the dead man lying on the
prow. When they had sat down the boy looked
round and said, ‘ Where is the other man ? Why
don’t you bring him to breakfast, too ?’ ‘ Oh,
isn’t he here?’ cried one; and then added, with a
laugh, * You had better go and call him. He must
be asleep.’ The boy went down to the canal, and
shouted, ‘ Why don’t you come to breakfast ? It
is all ready for you.’ But the man on the prow
never moved or answered a word. So the boy re-
turned to the but, aad said, * What Is tbe matter
with the man ? He won’t answer.’ * Oh,’ said
they, * he is a deaf old fool. You must shout and
swear at him.’ The boy went back again, and
cried, ‘ Come along, you fool. The others are
waiting for you.’ But the man on the prow never
moved nor answered a word. Then the boy ran
l back to the hut, and said. * Come, one of you, for
I can’t wake him up.’ But they laughed, and an-
swered, * Go out again and shake him by the leg.
Tell him we can’t wait till Doomsday for him.’
The bov went down to the water once
more. He eot into the boat and shook the man by
the leg. Then the man turned and sat up on the
prow, and said to the boy, ‘ What do you want ?’
* Why oa earth don’t you come? Are they all to
wait till Doomsday for you ?’ ‘Go back and tell
them that I am coming.’ So the boy went hack to
the hut and found the men laughing and joking.
‘ Well, what did he say,’ they cried, ‘ It’s all right,’
answered the boy; ‘he says he is coming.’ The
men turned pale and looked at one another, and
s it quite s ill and laughed no more. Then outside
they heard footsteps coming slowly up the path.
The door was pushed open, and the dead man
came in and sit down in the toy’s place, the
save to at tno table. But the eyes of the other
six w. re fixed upon the seventh, their gu so. They
could not m >vo or speak. Their gaze was lastened
on the dead man's fao;*. The blood flowed chiller
and chiller In their veins till, as th > sun arose,
there were seven dead men sitting round the table
in the room.”
A soopsong of scent on this paper,
Mathilde, if you please, because this paragraph is
to tell a little history (unc petite histoire) fashion-
able and French. Merci! And now the tiniest
glass of Chartreuse. Bong! We like our little
luxuries, we. But that any pussony There was
once, In the reign of the Man with the Head like a
Pear, an army contractor and blanket-maker
whos j name was Selliere. So well did he contract
for the army, and so dexterously did he sell his
blankets, that he soon found himself able to settle
down to the prosperous profession of banking and
do himself the honour of lending money to Louis
Philippe. In return for this disinterested loyalty
Louis made him something or other feleot, what
exactly we forget just now-perhaps Grand Cus-
todian of the Royal Saltcellar—and Selliere from
thenceforth knew not the difference between a
blanket and a bearskin-rug, or between an army
contract and a decree of divorce. At length he
married his daughter—a young person of the
Penthosllea tvpe, but more so—to the Prince de
Sagan. The Prince de Sagan was a member of the
diplomatic family of Talleyrand, and astutely, as
ho thought, poor nun, did he carry out the
traditions of bis house In taking home, or
rather going home to, the young person In
question. Thray byany, as they say In the
Bwaw. The Prlncesse de Sagan, of course.
Inherited her father’s riches. The Prince did
not. Victor Hugo died the other day. Do
you call this statement irrelevant ? Pouf I you do
not comprehend. Victor Hugo was a Republican.
Hal And when Victor Hugo die t, he was buried.
This is a natural sequence. The Cosmos is a series
of natural sequences. Very well, then. The
Prlncesse de Sagan, as the daughter of a man who
waxed fat while the soldiers of France grew lean,
and opulent while the rain smote and the wind
whistled through the blankets he supplied them.
Is naturally the most exclusive of exclusives—the
most aristocratic of aristocrats. It is not to be
wondered at, therefore, that the patrician mind
settled upon the plan of a wild-beast ball (we
speak by the card) to be given the day after the
Republican poet was buried, as the most delicate
and original compliment she could pay to her
order. We are only surprised that she did not
five It on the very day of the funeral. But pro-
ably she thought that her aristocratic friends
would be likely to attend the funeral In order to
make certain that their great enemy was under-
ground, once for all. The Idea of the ball was one
most terribly appropriate to the characters of the
persons Invited. The dead poet himself, In his bitter-
est mood, and with the aid of Dante and and
the Devil, could not have thought cf a satire more
fearfully scathing. Each person invited—aristo-
crats all—was to come in the form of some animal,
insect, bird, or reptile, and to act his or her part
to the life by howling, buzzing, chirruping, and
hissing. And they came and they did all the Circe
asked of them. It is said there never were beard
such fiendish noises in all Paris before as those
which proceeded from the halls of the Prlncesse
de Sagan that night. The very horses In the car-
riages that stood outside shook in a cold sweat of
fear. The common people who passed by crossed
themselves, and hurried home, their teeth chatter-
ing In their heads. The Republican journals were
not surprised, ho wever. They said the exhibition
was quite natural. This may be the French way
of looking at It, but for our part we should fancy
if any of the animals there caricatured had been
able to see the show and had had any previous dim
hopes of ono day becoming men they would
thenceforth elect to remain beasts forever rather
than be born again in the shape of French aristo-
crats. But were is the Prince de Sagan all this
time ? Living in the skylight story of a
steeplechase stand. True, by this hand I
He had not been married long to the
haughty heiress of old Bloodsucker Selllera before
she turned him adrift on the cold world again.
The reason for this proceeding on her part la not
stated. Perhaps she found she could not make a
boast of him like the others. So behold him one
morning-fine, lot us hope—leaving the mansion
of the woman to whom he had given his name and
title just as he had entered it with a small valise in
his hand, upon the contents of which it would be
too sad to speculate. Where next? The world Is
his oyster, but, poor Prince and devil, he has but a
foolish little penknife of a title wherewith to open
It No matter. Courage I He Is a Frenchman and
a Talleyrand, and will not despair. History here
loses sight of him for a brief period. Ho comes to
the surface again as the promoter of a Steeple-
chase Company at Auteull, outside Paris. The
offices of this company are attached to the grand
stand, and, we presume, his share of the profits
was permission to occupy the garrets near the
roof. Some person, with more gifts of sarcasm
than of gentle breedlng-probably one of the
brute caricatures who appeared that night at the
mansion of his spouse—learning this, affected
to believe the poor Prince had set up as
an astronomer, and sent him a telescope. Flam-
marioe, a friend of his. took the story of the
telescope with the childish faith of a savant, and
forwarded him copies of his (Plammarion’s) astro-
nomical works. This was almost too much for
human nature—even French human nature—to
bear. But the Prince bore It bravely, and lika a man
for all that. Ho Is still, or was at latest dates, pacing
up and down his suite of attics, while below him
the Hotel Sagan is ablaze with lights and aroar with
orgiastic revelry. Poor Prince I Yet would we
rather, ten thousand times, be such a poor Prince
than even that other Prince Albert Edward of
Wales, our, peradvcntUre, future monarch, who
takes no tin to himself for attending the parties
of this same Prlncesse de Sagan. And now, chil-
dren, Is not this a pretty little history? It Is.
Then Mathllde, we will thank you for the tiosk onoe
more—the Noyeau, this time, if you love us. We
like to change the names of our drink, if we do
not change the drink. For here we will let you
Into a secret. There Is no Chartreuse—no Noyeau
—in our establishment. These, and many other,
are only our fanciful names for Queensland Rum.
It pleases us, and hurts nobody.
