

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 3.—No. 105. —New Series.
SATURDAY. MAY 16, 1885.
Prloe—B<L
The Bul[
SATURDAY, MAY 16, 1885.
A Sydney Barrister on Federation and
Annexation.
“ The dispatch of Australian troops to the
Soudan is the first step along a bifurcating
road which leads either to Imperial Union
or Separation. Having once surrendered
the advantage of our isolated position, we
must henceforth be prepared either to take
a proper part in European affairs, or else to
hold aloof. The notion that Australia might
remain a colony of England, and still be
neutral if England were engaged in war,
has lost what little vitality it ever had.
Australia, having revealed her wealth and
power to the enemies of England, must now
be ready to protect herself against
either by the help of England or by Inde-
pendence.” We quote these sentences from
a pamphlet entitled “An Australian Appeal
to the English Democracy,” by a Sydney
barrister-at-law, notwithstanding that the
title-page bears the announcement that it
is printed “for private circulation only.’’
It would be a pity that so valuable a contri-
bution to the discussion of certain public
questions of the very greatest importance
and urgency should be restricted to the
circle of the author’s personal friends, and
we are further induced to disregard the in-
timation we have referred to because the
pamphlet also bears the impress, “Pub-
lished by William Dymook, Book Arcade,
Pitt-street.” For the present, however,
we shall not mention the name of
the writer, in deference to his published
wish to preserve his privacy, although we
are confident that the secret will not keep
for any length of time. As will have been
inferred from the passage we have cited, the
questions treated of in the “Appeal” are
Imperial Union, Colonial Federation, and
Annexation in the Pacific. On none of these
questions, the writer maintains, has the
public opinion of Australia been definitely
formed, and, far less, found expression. As
for the Australians who write letters to the
Times or hold meeting? at the Colonial In
stitute, he rightly repudiates their claim to
represent the thought and sentiment of
Australia. They are, he declares, “for the
most part not Australians, but Englishmen
who have spent some years of their life in
making money in Australia, and all of them
belong to that class, comprising the squat-
ters and their immediate connections, the
bankers and merchants, which has always
fought unitedly against the rest of the
people for the possession of the public
lands.” The Democracy of Australia has
no spokesman in England, and but few sym-
pathisers among the Englishmen who visit
the colonies. It is in the absence of an au-
thoritative expression of the opinion of the
Australian Democracy that the author of
this pamphlet has come forward to inform
the English Democracy of the opinions and
feelings of the majority of the community
on questions that now occupy the attention
of the English public.
* • •
The dispatch of troops from New South
Wales to the Soudan has given an impetus
to the question of Imperial Union, but it has
not removed one of the difficulties that
stand in the way of its attainment. That
the vast majority of the working class are
opposed to the course that the Government
have taken has already, as he states, become
evident, and “ it has yet to be seen how the
home-abiding taxpayer will regard the Ex-
peditionary Bill” when it is presented, for,
he declares with good reason, “ it would be
rash to infer from the warlike enthusiasm
of the Press" that Australia will always be
ready to supply contingents to the British
army. It may even happen, he thinks, that
we shall yet congratulate ourselves on
having learnt, at a comparatively cheap
rate, a [valuable lesson, which will prevent
us in the future from joining in a war with
which we had nothing to do, and of which
many among us thoroughly and intensely
disapprove. The writer does not, perhaps,
share Mr. Gold win Smith’s belief, “ not
in the expansion of England, but in the
multiplication of Englands,” and does not
regard “Imperial Federation, or any scheme
for the political re-absorption of an adult
and distant colony into its mother country
as totally impracticable,” but he holds that
the only step towards political union which
is at present practicable, is the construction
of a Federal system of defence. According
to him, the Victorian tariff is the only
obstacle there is in the way of a union of the
Australian colonies; but, wo fear, that there
are others equally formidable. The explana-
tion he offers to the new-born zeal that
Victoria is displaying for the formation of
an Australian Dominion and for Annexa-
tion, is that the past fifteen years of Protec-
tion have sufficed to choke her markets, and
that she must find new outlets for her pro-
ducts at all hazards. “The hope is,” he
asserts, “that if the colonies are once united,
even under the semblance of a Federal Con-
stitution, a Protectionist Zollverein will
sooner or later be adopted. Negotiations in
this direction have already begun, and’Tas-
mania has been induced to make a recipro"
city treaty with Victoria upon a Protection-
ist basis.” Of the criticism to which the writer
subjects the proposed “ Federal Council and
the Enabling Bill,” we need only remark
that it is nearly as scathing as it ought to
be. With reference to the Annexation ques-
tion; he rightly asserts that the compact
body who, in the names of Christianity and
commerce, demand the entire exclusion of
foreigners from the Pacific Ocean, and
whose head-quarters are naturally in Mel-
bourne, do not represent the ideas and feel-
ings of the disorganised and silent mass of
Australian voters. In reality, New South
Wales, in this matter, is the mouth-piece of
Democratic sentiment in emphatically re-
fusing to join in a demand for further
annexation, and for that reason he urges
that the older colony should receive the
warm support of the English Radicals. He
is not at all afraid of the prospect of the
German annexation of New Britain, and of
the French annexation of the New Hebrides.
“ if we annexed the Islands, instead of leav-
ing them to foreign powers, we should be
scattering, instead of concentrating our
resources. We should be offering a greater
number of vulnerable points to the enemy,
instead of leaving him to offer them to us.”
We certainly hope that the view he puts
forward on this question is really that of the
Democratic party in the colonies,
* .. * *
He is quite right in pointing out that
England is in no mood to incur new respon-
sibilities, and that, in the event of the islands
b?ing annexed, Australia would have to
undertake their settlement and administra-
tion. Three-quarters of our own continent
has yet to be annexed. And yet we are ad-
vised by Englishmen to direct our energies
into other fields! There are other weighty
reasons in favour of foreign settlements in
the Pacific Ocean. Through them Australia
would be brought more into the stream of
modern thought, and would suffer less than
she does at present from her isolation; and
besides the moral advantages, there are
gieat material advantages to be derived
from this propinquity. Sydney is, by its
position, the emporium of the island trade.
Whatever develops commerce in the islands
must increase the wealth of Sydney. What-
ever commerce may spring up in the Pacific,
Australia must obtain the larger share of it.
And then, the author of the pamphlet con-
tends that the annexation of these islands by
foreign powers will save us from another
daeger. “They can only be worked by
coloured labour, and coloured labour will
bo a permanent source of disunion and diffi-
culty to Australia. A foreign power can
face this difficulty," he thinks, 44 be-
cause it has no white settlements
close by ; but workmen in Australia
will never consent to be taxed for the
government of coolie plantations." A real
danger, such as that which was lately
threatened by the Recidiviste Bill, we can
protect ourselves against fully, and without
panic.” Finally,” says this writer, 44 the
Democratic party in Australia denounces
further annexation upon higher grounds.
They insist that duty counts for something
in a nation's politics, and that to drive a
native people from its land is not the less an
act of robbery because it is supported by
some missionaries. Black races, they say,
have a claim to equal treatment at our
hands; and the nation which disregards
justice in its dealings, even with a savage
race, inevitably falls away in moral
Btiooglh.”
* ♦ *
41 Australian* have a noble future for their
country, independently of foreign con-
quests. We have to build up a great nation
upon the bases of social equality and poli-
tical freedom. That is a sufficient task
from which we do not need distraction, and
it is the task by which our claim to great-
ness will be judged." From the brief
summary of the contents of this pamph-
let that we have given, our readers will be
able to judge of the genuine democratic spirit
that pervades it, and the con. prehensive
grasp that the writer takes of the subjects
of which it treats. It is to be hoped that the
“Appeal ” will be widely circulated, not only
among the English Democracy, to whom it
is addressed, but also among those in whose
name the writer speaks—namely, the Aus-
tralian Democracy. We trust that its author
will see his way to remove the embargo he
has placed against its dissemination amongst
the Australian public, for we feel confident
that its perusal would powerfully help
towards the formation of a sound public
opinion on the vexed questions of which it
treats. It is with regret that we make the
slight concession to the writer’s diffidence
of witholding his name. That he should
hesitate to acknowledge so very creditable a
production is, we must say, utterly inexpli-
cable to us.
GENERAL SIR EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B.


EXTRA
STRONG
SPINDLE
BACK,
2/9.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium,
Haymarket (only).
Q UOD FACIMUS YALDE FACIMUS.
(What we do we do well.)
Your photo.- n y OU are
undecided where to go to
l obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful photograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
counsel, and pay first a visit to
the Vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
array of portraiture, not of select-
cd specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, coupled with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost anlversal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as photographers.
Prices—C.-D.-V., 153.; Cabinets. 30s. per dozen.
CREELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNE Y ARCADE.
'
J. TURNER ROBINSON A CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKEf CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
W Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
Annual Income exceeds One Million;
Lightning and Gas Explosion'Damages Paid.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9s.
Small Bottle, , 4s. 6d.
FORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
A JSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDQEE PORT,
3e. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT
Bs. per Bottle.
RDM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
ls.9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke s Prize Medal Brand,
In stone bottles and square bottles, 1
LARGEST SIZE,
IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
C. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
SYDNEY.
Th* Rates of Subscription to Th* Bulletin
are-For one year, 34a.; half-year, 13s. 6d-
quarter, 6a. 8d.—In advance. ’
™ Advertising Raths are 5s. ner Inch*
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d ner
araKra P, h advertisements 10s. per‘inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as foUows On ad-
ordered for 13 consecutive Inser-
c ® nt " 0 For 26 consecutive Insertionsf
16 per cent. . For 52 consecutive Insertions. 36 ner
cent. No allowance can be made on advertC-
S^ 0r rn red f °r alternate or Intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps -of any Australian
Colony may be sent. If more convenient.
Sir Patrick Jennings has a hobby. Not-
withstanding: the fiasco which attended Mr. Went-
worth s famous scheme for founding- a Botany
Bay Peerage, our distinguished senator has written
a pamphlet la favour of an Australian titled aris-
tocracy I Sir Patrick has also a grievance—he was
not made a baronet at the close of our Exhibition!
Pn h f 6 . Exe 'i uti V6 Commissioner.
Putting this and that together, perhaps we mav
° f prick’s nominaUonTby his
friend, the late actlng-Premler, to the position of
Pnion l iai Ve a “ ml f sl0 n ™ r J n connection with the
Colonial and Indian Exhibition to be held in
London next year, notwithstanding the direct iu-
Jrt m v^ ioa +v. rom t h at he should like Sir Saul
to have the position. All the other colonies have
A°tISnli e ri Wlth i 4 ?® Prlnce ’8 suggestion, that their
era i in® ?PP° 1Q ted and our non-com-
pliance is most likely to defeat the very oblect
for which the little scheme was concocted. DJect
Mr. Charles Watson, who executed a
' on Barlinghurst recently for
one of the most coldblooded and horrible murders
ever recorded—the Cowl Cowl tragedy wrote
before his final performance a letter, to the Kev.
of , .Hay, which Is a choice specimen
ol such productions. Of course he declared ho
was Innocent of the crime for which he was to
ft aad went to eternity with a useless
lie on his lips. He asked that the i« ttZr
should be published in the
Grazier, and that his sister, who resides «r pun
ham should be Informed oi his°fate .(5uS h P e ‘
not have spared the poor woman that blow: died
and made no sign, as many a brave man has done
rather than torture the innocent. Here are two
excerpts from his lying and blasphemous fetter™
lam humbly trusting in the Saviour, and asking
His support in my sad position. . . I have no
badfeellngto anyone [how charitable!], not even
to those who gave evidence against mo at the
f rial; I ask God to forgive them I ” There is hardly
a person in the Hiilston and Hay districts who does
nria^?°h W daid ® 8 Watson, and w ho were not sur-
prised he remained free so long—thous-h he did
serve some time for horse-stealing. There are
many bad characters in Kiverina, but he was ono
oftho w o r st, and it is well-known that he was sus-
p ®5 4ed don ® m y with a mate or two
of f hi ? iuho 1 led p 2P r Hathews to possess himself
H W J® PfPP®£W- No doom was Juster than
that meted out to Watson at Harlinghurst.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the most celebrated
tonic and stimulant of this or any age. Be cert ala
that you obtain Wolfe s. aia ,
Wotjte’s Schnapps is a great relief in
Rheumatism, iatlnitely superior to brandy or
whisky.
A fashionable amateur theatrical perfor-
mance will shortly take place in Sydney, at which
“ Caotain” Loftus (late of the Militia but now of
the Volunteers) will act as stage manager. The
net proceeds are to go to the “ Patriotic” Fund,
but as there are no widows or orphans, and as it is
proposed to send the Contingent to England as a
sort of Loan Exhibition, would it not be well to
select some other institution for the charitable
intentions of the new Loftus troupe 1 By*the
way, what we wonder, is to be done with the odd
thirty thousand or so which has been already sub-
scribed for those imaginary widows and orphans ?
And in this connection, may we venture to in-
quire, if this last proposal to employ our troops in
the agreeable duty of showing their muscles to
the admiring gaze of Hyde Park nursemaids, has
received the official sanction of our autocratic and
parliamentary-ignoring Government ? And surely
it must be very distressing to that venerable
native of the Clarence River, Sir John Robertson,
to lind the English Press so persistently ignoring
New South Wales and speaking of our boys as
the “Australian Contingent!” How would it do
to send Sir John home as a Geographical Lecturer
—taking the Contingent round —and explaining
that New South Wales is not a pastoral district of
Western Australia, nor Sydney an inland town of
Victoria ? Lor 1 what fits the poor Cabbage
Garden would get from our lecturer.
Wolfe’s Schnapps strengthens and braces
up the system pgalnst disease. Be sure you ob-
tain Wourjt s.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Sydney Torquemadas.
A determined crusade is being steadily proceeded
with, without attracting the favourable attention
It deserves. As usual, amidst the clamours and
excitements of a war crisis, matters of domestic
importance have been comparatively little re-
garded by the public in general. But these are the
very times which are selected to attack the liber-
ties and fetter the rights of a people. There have
been several steps in the general campaign, the
first having been taken, Indeed, before the military
distractions commenced. The Sydney School of
Arts Debating Club proposed to discuss the popu-
lation question. Mr. Louis Heydon, M.P., who is
President, ruled that the topic could not be dip.
cussed, basing his decision upon a clause of the
rules which, sensibly, prohibits the discussion of
questions “essentially religious.” Mr. Heydon
was, of course, obviously and ridiculously
wrong. The question is essentially physiologies l
and no more religious than the subject of the
origin of species. But his ruling was upheld and
the discussion tabooed. Next came in the sartie
Institution the exclusion of the Liberator newr-
paper, a Secular and Republican organ published
in Melbourne, which it appears dealt with the
Queen as unsparingly as though Her Majesty wore
not a goddess. This also was effected, and the
first step towards creating for the School of Arts
an Index Expwrgatoris, on the plan of Papacy, was
thus happily accomplished, with the object, no
doubt, of enabling scoffers to say in future that
If members of the institution think only one way,
It is because they are permitted to learn only one
side of certain questions. This triumphant result
has been followed by the prosecution of Thomas
Walker, ostensibly for exhibiting surgical dia-
grams, but really for discusing that subject-Popu-
lation—which the Holy Inquisition, created by
that ardent Catholic, Mr. Heydon, and his pious
followers in the School of Arts, bad prohibited.
We are very much pleased with the whole busi-
ness. The population question is one which we
regard as very imperfectly understood, and,
at the same time, as one a clear compre-
hension of which is of enormous import-
ance to mankind. That it should be keenly
and attentively studied is, consequently, to
our mind, extremely desirable. And we know
no plan for ensuring that keen and searching in-
terest which would prove more effectual than that
which the bigots and blockheads of Sydney have
adopted, namely, to place a bar upon the right cf
free-born Englishmen to express or interchange
their ideas on the subject, and to advertise the es-
tablishment of their Inquisition by inaugurating a
series of persecutions.
An Insult.
The tidings that an agreement had been arrived at
between England and Russia acceptably to both
nations and also to Lord Duffbrin, Governor-
General of India, cannot bo regarded as at all
satisfactory. We look upon it as conveying a
gross Insult to our own Government. The
rulers of England may be satisfied, and als
the Russian Czar, and Lord Duffkkin ma
be content, but Dalley has not even bee
consulted, and, as a matter of faot, it is quit
clear that his interests have been sacrificed in thi
arrangement. Unless special precautions be now
taken, the Contingent will have to return intact
save for the one hero who has succumbed t
bowel-complaint. Mr, Dalley will, in such case
have to confront the consequences of a fizzle, an
his life will be made miserable by reproaches tha
he had not provided the troops with porou
plasters for the stomach, in lieu of cartridges
The superhuman exertions which have boeh
made by the Imperial Government and the
military authorities evidently in response to
strong solicitations from our Government—
to keep the people of Now South Wales in
good humour about the dispatch of the Con
tlngent, will now require to be either aban
donod, or carried clean beyond the limits which
separate the sublime from the ridiculous. Thi
limit has already been approached perilously
near. The troops were to be conveyed to
England, ostensibly to be conveniently on
hand for despatch wherever their services
might be required (a large order, that); Eng
land being, of course, much more contra! than
Cyprus or Malta with respect to India or the Black
Sea. Now that they can have no destination bu ;
Berber or Australia, it would be too trans
parent to carry out tho original intention
of carrying them to London, with tho Bar-
num-like, but astute, intention of making
panorama of them, and working up colonla
enthusiasm for similar enterprises—lnvolving
complete surrender of a peaceful future-among
the Australian people. The ominous word “ pic-
nic,” already beginning to circulate In whispers
would in such case swell to a universal , shout ol
contempt, and poor Dalley would be blasted by
the mere breath, from the pedestal of bunkum
into the ditch of derision. His only hope now
Is that his co-conspirators at home against the
peaceful constitutions of Australian colonies will
manage to get up one good rousing massacre of
Arabs with enough casualties on our side to cover
with oblivion tho at present too famous abrasion
Of Private Rinks’ toe, and to serve as a peg upon
which to hang a whole ‘-blllng” of glory, and to
relieve the embarrassed treasurers of tho Patriotic
Fund from the absurd predicament In which at
the present moment they find themselves.
The New Defenders.
The present excitement promoted by the Ministry
and zealously fomented by the dallies is variously
described as a movement, a fever, or a scire; but
surely mania would bo a more correct term. One
of its most singular developments is tho “ volun.
leering” of the police for military service in tho
colony. It is not at all surprising that constables
themselves should wish to lay down the baton and
take up tho sword, ns they are to retain their
status and pay in tho force; but it is strango that
the Government should wish to plunge the rural
districts into confusion, and leave them with only
an apology for protection in order to strengthen
the ranks of the defence force. Surely it is
as necessary to defend our population from
iocal as from foreign foes; but yet the
Emperor of New South 'Wales apparently
has determined that country towns shall be de-
prived of constables, and that the duties of these
latter shall be performed by any townsman who
may be foolish enough to allow himself to be
sworn in as a “ special constable.” The remuner-
ation of the "special” will not be sullicient to
Induce him to devote any great portion of hie
time to his new duties, and, unless the police drill
and discipline be utterly valueless, it must be
clear that, even were he to give all his energies to
his new responsibilities, his performance would
still be unsatisfactory. Nor is it a light thing to
assume the position of guardian of the peace.
Either from ignorance or want of skill,the “special”
may commit errors for which he is legally reponsl-
ble to any aggrieved party. Her Majesty’s uniform
or service does not protect any officer from the
consequences of his own Incompetence, and a
tradesman who has, perhaps, several rivals in
business, will be peculiarly liable, on assumption
of the authority indicated, to the envy and malice
of hla fellow townsmen. Few men live long in a
country town without winning friends and making
enemies. The “special,” therefore, will be handi-
capped from the start. His friends will expect im-
munity, his enemies and business rivals will believe
malice to be the motive of any interfei'enoe with
their personal transactions and conduct. It will
be strange if this suspicion of malice does not
cause a large addition to the Supreme Court busi-
ness. But as the Courts, in the event of war, will
be closed, this consideration is not perhaps an im-
portant one. It may be said that the country
districts are comparatively free from crime or
misconduct, and that an amateur policeman could
easily look after the “drunks.” If thisbetruo
that the town butcher or baker could, in addition
to looking after his own business, maintain the
peace, by all means let us dispense with, or at
least decrease the number of professiona l , and
appoint amateur peace preservers. But it is not
so. The great risk of doing ill deeds,
prevents ill deeds being done, and it is a
noticeable fact that the more strict and
skilful a constable is the more crime decreases in
his district. But let it be known that felonies may
be committed with comparative impunity, and
felons will arise, while an incalculable injury will
be done to the country by such a carnival of
crime. It is worse than useless for a man to
patrol the pavement to keep out imaginary burg-
lars if thieves are already inside the house, yet
this is what the modern Dictator is doing. And
why are these men wanted at Kiama, Wollongong
and Newcastle, the places nam .>j as their destina-
tion ? Are there no men at these towns who
would come forward and give their services to the
country ? Are we, as a people, so destitute of pa-
triotism that we will do nothing unless roundly
paid for doing it? Where is our boasted loyalty,
and where the men who, by coming forward
were to fill every position of defence ? What
a paradox is here I The country that was so ultra-
patriotic and loyal that it sent 700 men, at a lleavy
cost, across the Globe to where they were not re-
quired, to give assistance that was not needed, is
now obliged to leave its rural population without
proper defence, and to depend upon the “al-
mighty dollar ” to gain defenders for her coast.
Tempora mutanlur. Two short months ago we
were told that our colony could defend itself
agalnstall assaults; now our Dictator, at the mere
mention of war is terrifled into withdrawing the
police from their duty in order to swell the ranks
of his citizen army. Bat why stop at the police ?
why not go further and ask the railway officers to
enlist? Substitutes could be found for them.
They showed their loyalty in the Soudan business]
and will subscribe about 3 per cent, of their pro-
mised donation; they would surely enlist if asked
to do so.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
Confidential Evidently malicious, and
by uo means interesting’ “Joker”: No, the
poets question “Tellme, where is fancy bred?”
is not in any way related to the N.B.W, Supreme
Court s decision that a tinned loaf is not fancy-
’“Marsupial”: (l) Yes, they fought in
18bb. (2) Too long. He must leave all behind.
lto«s no pocket in a shroud," “ Limestone”:
Kead the article again. We have never said all
men are equal. To be your equal, we’d have to
blow our brains out... “Master”: The jamming
arises through imperfections in the cartridges. A
clause should be put into the contract rendering
the contractor liable to summary hanging in the
ewent of rifles becoming jammed “South Seas”:
We don t know Lord Derby, but we are inclined
to accept the popular idea concerning him in pre-
r. e £? Dce *° Mr. Froude’s opinion of his character
Walbundree”: Thanks “Cornstalk”: Held
over for consideration “Tamworth”: It is
quite correct to say “ two-tenths of a grain ” of
strychnine....“ Maori” We wrestled with your
fr w bich has given us a nasty back-fail...
A Crumbier”: It’s human nature. The most
nautical loriking and brass-buttony personage on
board ship is always the barber, or the cook,‘or the
steward..“ Bargo Brush”: Yes, w e have seen
j“ e . ® o tua,l portrait of Mrs. Burton, the elderly
Maitland poisoner. Her face is that of the typical
mother-in-lawßetsy” (up South): Any mem-
ber of Parliament can get a “ good reception” in
his constituency if he has lent money to all
the farmers in the district and taken mort-
gages over the two local newspapers
J.T.W. : If the Russians bombarded Woolloo-
mooloo, we shouldn’t really have time to attend to
the war of the flames, and the cries of the
wounded—our whole mind would be full of this
one reflection ; “ What must be the state of
Burdekin's feelings?” —“Cootamundra”: Shall
he glad to hear from you on matters of interest....
. ”ercy A.”: Your verses are by no means up to
the mark. If you have commonplace things to
say, say them in prose “W. 5.8.”: The esti-
™ated population of England is about 37,150,000....
W.W.W.”: If you instituted a divorce suit you
would in all probability fail to arrange for its being
heard in camera. A barrister or a Judge in N.S.W.
can have his petition heard in secret—probably
because he is in the business. ..“T.N.W.”: (Carl-
ton, Melbourne): We gave the amount, (from the
linancial Reform Almanac) some three weeks
ag0.... “N. W.G*”: We do not generally undertake
toi return M.B ‘Maloga”: Brevity is the soul of
wit. But it by no means follows that wit is tbe
s°ul either of your couplet or of Evening News
Brevities.”—“J. W. Stone” (Wagga): Sofar.it
is no more possible to train a man in N.S.W. as a
scientific artillerist than it is to teach him to make
100-ton guns “ Cook’s River ”: We’ve answered
this question over and over again. Once for all,
Erin is not on the Rhine. It is on the Spree, and
has been ever since we’ve known it... “J.G.”
(Wagga); Next week. ..“Charles Perry”: Will
read your long letters as soon as possible. . “ Red-
fern : We agree with you that there’s no justice
in the world. The fact that the water was cut of!
in Sydney last week, was, in our opinion, quite
sufficient excuse for your getting drunk on
whisky and assaulting the police “Botany”:
Your rule-of-thumb science is hardly a success, for
we have read that Pasteur is of opinion that a diet
containing no microbes would not sustain life....
‘L.J.B.” (Wagga): How can we tell what relation
Prince Yen Foozleberg is to the Hereditary Elec-
tor of Schmitzboolfroghaustenstein ? You might
as well ask concerning the cousinship of the
Rlverina rabbits, as enquire about the relationship
of the German Royal rodents “Casino”: No;
the sale of the book in N.S.W. is prohibited....
William Sims”: We have never advocated flog-
ging. “To beat the body is to debase the mind,”
‘Fiat Justitia”: So lyou are going to “send us
a pair of ass’s ears.” Take our advice, and don’t.
You’ll want them to hear with...." J. W. Owen”
(Melb.): Booh I “Hortense de Vasacour’s” name
is probably Gubblns, and she evidently writes, not
from London, but from Little Bourke-street
“C, W. Powell”: You omitted to send the clip-
ping.... “Fred. Heyne”: No letter of yours has
been received from the T. and C....“E Double-
day” (Howlong): The American Novelty Com-
pany’s premises were burned down on Christmas
Eve. We believe the Company has not resumed
busiuess since “Physog” asks the present
address of Dr. Simms. Can any correspondent
furnish it ?....“ J. 8.”: Yes, you’ll see; “ Old Jack
Robertson ” will be Colonial Secretary—or Minis-
ter for Lands—before long, on someone’s retire-
ment.
MR. C. W. BENNETT
(Of the Suburban B.C.)
(INTERCOLONIAL CHAMPION BICYCLIST.)


Invigorate the system with Wolfe's
Schnapps If you would avoid bilious attacks.
A well-known citizen sends £17 Is. to the
Patriotic Fund, but desires that his name should
be withheld. Very natural.
Wolfe's Schnapps is a noble exception to
the spirits of the day. Always ask for Wolfe’s, i
Lord Wolseley says that the ambulance
waggons with the Contingent are of good pattern,
and are well fitted for active service. What he
said about the horses is not recorded, fly the way,
Fleming, of Clarence-street supplied the waggons.
Invigorate the system with Wolfe’s
Schnapps, the purest stimulant in the world.
Pofitical
Points
The Russian scare.—Merv-ousness.
Afghans fought most stubbornly at
Pendjeh. One position was held till all its de-
fenders were killed by the Russians.
A number of prominent Liberals and
Radicals are starting in London a halfpenny
morning newspaper with a capital of £lOO.OOO.
Reported that the British will occupy and
fortify Herat, with the consent of the Ameer of
Afghanistan.
When the new S. A. loan is launched it
will make the colony’s debt, per head, £54; interest
charge, per day, £2000; total interest per annum,
£730.000,
Baron Michel (late of Sydney) has in Paris
expressed a fear that the Germans will endeavour
to oust the French from the Pacific. Ve;y likely,
indeed, by-and-bye.
Year after year, up to the seizure of Merv
in 1884, the Russian Government published maps
placing not only Penjdeh In Afghanistan, but the
whole of the territory demanded.
Last year England’s diink bill was
£127,125,443, and, of course, it gave a thumping
revenue:—
True patriots we, for be it understood
AVeonly drank it for our country’s good.
The Burrowa Times remarks that the
damning fault of the N.S.W. Land Board is their
strong pro-squattocratic bent-tesfe the appoint-
ments thereto of stock and station agents like P.
A. Brock and L. A. Fosberry, and ex-equatters like
F. Trollope and F. T. Rusden.
A true poet is a true prophet. Praed must
have known that Victorian legislators would be
paid during the recess, when he wrote:—
“ The sugar still is very sweet,
Although the slaves are free.”
U Colonel Guy Dawnay, M.R., has given
notice of bis intention to move in the Commons
that, “In the opinion of this House, the slaughter
of men, women, and children on the shores of the
Red Sea by order of her Majesty’s Government is
a disgrace to civilization, and calls for the empha-
tic condemnation of the Parliament of Great
Britain.”
Sir Wilfred Lawson’s latest :
“ Though Zebehr may arrested be
On some mysterious charge.
No hope for better times I see
With Gladstone still at large.”
Still evictions (truly “ agrarian outrages ”)
go on in Ireland. In three months, ending 31st
December last, 2991 persons were cast out of their
homes. Of these evictions “prosperous” and
“ contented ” Ulster saw 148 families dispossessed.
In Leinster 81 families were rendered homeless,
in Munster the number ran up to 192, while Con-
naught again beaded the list with 231.
M'Elhone bas taken bis case to the Privy
Council. This will enable the hon. gentleman to,
at least during another session, look after the In-
terests of the poor down-trodden worrukin man.
Mr. Melville, however, is, we understand, on the
re-assembling of the House, to immediately im-
peach the hon. member for Handsaker, and what
will make it awkward lor Jack is that he hasn’t
got anything to sling back. Ninian has never yet
buried him.
From Reynolds’ '“ The advance upon
India is postponed; it is not abandoned, and never
will be, and our true line of defence will be to pre-
pare an India of free institutions, into which
Russia will not desire to enter. The true line of
defence for us in India is to govern justly, and to
love mercy, after a fashion unknown to our
Anglo-Indian colony. As Lord Derby once said,
the only way in which we can hold India is to
prove that we can do better for her than Russia.”
“Anyone who can’t love Mr. Dailey is not
a man,” howled Wright at Corowa.
’Tis sorry skite, O Mistor Wright,
And this we are diskivenng;
’Tis pity true, that ever you
Gave up the goods delivering.
What Minister would speak thus, sir ?
You really must be warier I
And when you seek next time to speak
For God s sake “ drop the carrier.”
Dailey’s Soudan business nearly ended in
a great disaster. “ Our boys ” did a big reconnais-
sance, and captured two donkeys and some jum-
bucks, and the British troop didn't know how to
congratulate them —what* in fact, to call thorn.
After a time they hit upon “Walers,” and as
“ Waters ” our soldiers ere known—Soudan, not
Murrumbidgee "whalers.” Just fancy, it the
British soldiers had been called “ Welshers I Its
time we changed the name of this colony, wby
not call it Dailey ? But then, that would give the
Cabbage Garden people a standing joke—they
would call us nothing else but “dalliers” or
“dilly- dallies.”
Mr. R. White, writing from Lambton to
the Newcastle Daily CHROifiCLB, focuses the
“ reasons” for the Imperial acceptance of the aid
of the New South Wales Soudan Contingent:—
i’ Derby and his colleagues could scarcely bring
themselves to accept help from those whom they
had been all aloog making their unwilling victims,
whose most cherished wishes they had thwarted,
whose claims they had ignored, and whose in-
terests they had sold, and wore even then bargain-
ing to sell afresh, as the retrocession to a foreign
power of New Guinea territory immediately
afterwards shows. These gentlemen, therefore,
felt that under the circumstances the only oner
they could consistently accept was that of this
efiony, the Government and people of which they
had succeeded by fulsome compliments in bam-
boozling, and which, therefore, had not actively
opposed their policy, namely, New South Wales.
Writes Sir Henry Rawbnson :—“ We have
no natural claim upon the affection or allegiance
of the Afghans or Persians, no Inducement to hold
out to them as affecting their own interests
which should lead them to prefer our alliance to
that of our tivals; whereas Kussia has only to
point to India as the traditional plunder ground
of Central Asia, as the prize which has ever re-
warded the victorious hordes rushing down frpni
the Northern mountains, and she at once enlists
their passions in their behalf. The pleasant
memories of the sack of Delhi by Nadir Shah and of
Ahmed Khan Abdalli’s successful campaign against
the Mahrattas, have hardly faded from the minds of
the present generation of Persians and Afghans.
Sir John Liwrence says:—“l feel hopeful of no
good results, but foresee rather muen evil, from
any close communication with the Afghans. I
feel no shadow of a doubt that, if a formidable in-
vasion of India from the west were imminent, the
Afghans en masse, from the Ameer of the day to
the domestic slave of the household, would readily
join in it.”
Thus truly the Echo (uot the Sydney, but
the London Kcuo):-“ Wby are we slaughtering
by the thousand these poor, undisciplined, in-
armed, but beroicArabs ? It is a question often
put. but never yet answered. We do not covet
their country; we do not Intend to remain in it;
and all the Soudanese ask is that we shall leave
them to themselves. It 1s aimless, wanton
slaughter—slaughter that is a disgrace to our
civilisation; and yet the clergy are dumb, and
leading Nonconformist divines [Hey, Mr.
Jefferisl] shrink from proclaiming the truth. If
we want Christian doctrine about this war we
must not go to church or chapel to hear it, but to
the halls where Christ is denied 1 And men
marvel at the spread of infidelity. If only the
Arabs who are fighting us in the Soudan were
Bulgarians, or Italians, or Poles, or Hungarians,
what a shout of admiration would go up from
Englishmen as they read the accounts of Satur-
day’s battle 1 * Over a thousand Arabs lay dead
around our zarebas,’ says one correspondent.
‘ Among them were many boys of from 10 to 12
years of age, and even women were found among
the corpses.’ Think of that, ye men of God, who
sing the praises of the Ministry responsible for
this horrible slaughter!”
The Hon. Alf. Deakin, Minister of Public
Works for Victoria, has returned from America,
having completed an eleven weeks’ trip there as
special commissioner to report on water conserva-
tion and irrigation in that country. While our
only Dailey—our own Bill Dailey I—was engaged In
committing this colony to an expenditure that
would have reached half a million if Russia and
England went to war, in sending men from a
soarsely-populated colony to help the mother
country (which did not want help), our Victorian
neighbours have been spending a modest sum in
getting full information about the most important
subject that can engage attention in these dry
climates, to see if they cannot utilise land that
now lies waste—or worse than waste—and be able
to quadruple their grass and crops. Water con-
servation and irrigation are more important to
this colony than to Victoria, because two-thirds of
N.B.W. territory is subject to periodical droughts,
which cause an enormous loss, while not a third of
our neighbour is affected. But, haven’t we a
Royal Commission ? Yes; and judging by its pro-
gress, we will have for the next ten years; and, at
the end of the time—devoted to salary-drawing,
champagne, and trips and feeding at the expense
of the State—we will have a gigantic report, as
Brobdignagian as Miratns' Tariff Report, which
no one will ever read, and which will ultimately
get into the buttermen’a hands. If Mr. Dailey
were to look for the pearls that lie under his nose
instead of the tinsel glories afar off, it would be
better for him and the colony.
An up-country correspondent sends us an
extract from a letter he has just received from a
friend living in Bradford, Yorkshire, which will
assist to show iu what light the Soudan war, and
our own share In it, are regarded by the thought-
ful among the people of England, and will furnish
a contrast to the delighted eulogies of the oligar-
chical orders, the Tories, and the military caste:—
“ I send papers In which you will see the state of
the labour market in Europe and America. From
all quarters the cry is the same—works shutting
up, destitution and want at home, and a war in the
Soudan —costing millions of money and valu-
able lives—over something that is not under-
stood by a fiftieth part of the English people. . .
We already pay for Royalty in England £500,000 a
year, and we are shortly to be called on to support
another damn’d gun-hawking German Prince,
who, no doubt, is overjoyed at the prospect of the
fat picking in store for him from John Bull’s ribs,
whilst trade depressions, competition, and over-
population, dally bring more anxiety to every
working man’s home, more or less. By the way,
our Princes, whose breasts are one mass of medals
(won on many a corpse-strewn field—sham-fight)
never give the troops, of which they aie Colonels,
Majors, &0., a chance to see that blue blood, of
which they or their sycophants so often talk.
With the exception of the Duke of Con-
naught, not one of them has been on a battle-
field, unless it has been on a visit 30 years after.
He, who so bravely led the Hcpvy Brigade two or
three miles in the rear, and who, I am sure, was in
no more danger than you or I are just now; how his
bravery was talked about in the papers, whilst the
Soor private, who encountered the enemy at the
ayonet point for a miserable Is. per day, is
shipped off home, carted away to the hospital to
die from frightful wounds, or to be turned into the
world, if he survives, a maimed crippled out-
cast, a burden to relatives and friends ; and
still, in spite of this, I read that N.B, Wales is send-,
ing her victims to a cruel and blundering war. I
am surprised that it is so. The people who sub-
scribe the money for the Expedition would have
spent their money immeasurably better in sending
for poor ‘London Arabs,’ than spending their
thousands in going to the Soudan to kill
Arabs. Of course It is very ‘patriotic’ and all that,
but it is not common-sense in my idea.”
* * *
At a complimentary banquet to the Go-,
vernor of Western Australia, in London, his Ex-
cellency caused much amusement by stating that
at Paris he had been introduced as le Qouverneur
de VAustralie.
m • •
Russia has advanced towards India at the
rate of 100 miles a year, and has moved 800 miles
nearer to India than when Lord Beaconsfleld was
in office.
THE SAVIOUR OF ISLAM.
We give the latest portrait of El Mahdi—the only authentic one yet published, we
believe. Concerning the man and his aims, nothing fresh remains to be said. But the
portrait is remarkable on account of the extraordinary similarity it presents to the
traditional likeness of the Christian Saviour, as portrayed upon a thousand canvasses.
Perhaps the strongest resemblance is to that celebrated portrait which the legend
affirmed to have been impressed upon a linen cloth laid upon Christ’s face when dead;
and which, reproduced by the pencil of a great living painter, has the singular pro-
perty of appearing to have the eyes closed or opened when looked at from different
points of view. This peculiarity is, of course, absent from the portrait of the Arab
Saviour which we give above, but in other respects the similarity of features and of
expression is very remarkable.
THE GREAT MELBOURNE DIVORCE CASE:-MRS. MALPAS, OF FAUX PAS NOTORIETY.
Ad Hominem.
I, who erstwhile the Tenth Muse did invoke,
Nor feared with thee what Ire I might provoke,
Now chuck thy pretty sister ’neath the chin,
And to the Eleventh call, If without sin
Her dimpled cheek and rose-fringed pearly mouth
May team upon this Epic of the South.
Fairest of maids, thy sister’s name was Rot,
And thou, twin sister, prithee, wilt thou not
Come to my aid and guide this dismal quill
The whilst it scrawls the weary paper still
With hellish purpose to make earth a heaven?
O, come I thou wilt ? I kiss thee, dear Eleven.
Unto the breach. Pray, why does Trevor Jones
Bewray the city with perennial groans
From those who wash ? Now, Jones, lon you call
Ere Sullivan or Plcton In the Hall
Masonic move some resolution fierce,
Shall In no wat’ry measure your soul pierce
And raise th’ hydraulic trouble, “ up to date
We’ve got no water, though we’ve paid the ratol”
From Leichhardt, Petersham, and far Balmain
There’s nought to hear but this same mad refrain,
“ He’s got his screw and sleeps sweet in his bed.
The water’s off. A clubl Where’s Jones’s head?”
Speaking of clubs—a little episode:
There was a club of men who sailed and rowed
Adown the Harbour (is there more than one ?)
Aboard a fair maid sailed, and all alone.
Sweet was she In her ways. Just as the boat
By lithe young Sydney rowing men (now note)
Was skidded to the sea—just then this maid
Would trip adown the steps. One day she said,
“ 0, mariners of Woolloo—mooloo, list I”
Each gallant oarsman raised his gallant fist.
“ Whom shall I sail with now, I want to know ?”
“ Don’t sail at all. This way, my dearest—We Maun-
row /”
Here, in a cave unknown to mortal men,
A mortal writes some very curious verse;
Claims not to be a poet—ah, but then.
In God’s name, who could try to write to men ?
There was a time. I’d like to know how long
Ago that time was. Likely, it was wrong.
Visions of beauty, senses all a-spread,
Come down. They whisper, “ Earn you, please,
some bread.”
For poor he was; but swore he ne’er was poor,
And with bare toes all dov/n upon the earth,
Still thought there was a heaven above him, sure.
And Mrs. Job said, “Job, dear, curse your birth.”
The poet raved, “Not yet.” Behold me floor
The whoa crew in one sweep of dismal mirth;
Such as before no philosophic man saw—
“ Please take away the harp. Give me a hand-saw.”
Stuart, how long beside New Zealand wells
Hast lingered ? For the grievous time foretells—
Since Dailey held the whip-hand at the crisis—
Thoul’t have a bill that you’ll find not quite nice is.
’Twas very well, when thou wert sick, to reckon
Upon some peace; but now, when men do beckon
To thee, a solid Scot, to come and count up
The bill, and ask, “ Now, how does this thing mount
up ?”
“ Heh, William, mon, let’s make the twa ends
meet;
How shall we, William, get the revenue ?”
“ Pah I Alick I drop all that when friends greet—
If ends don’t meet, what’s that to me and you ?”
“Fill high the bowl with Samian,” says D.T.,
“Toast William and toast Aleck gloriously;”’
While Alick’s been away there came a time—
A chance that neither solid prose nor rhyme
Can ever tell. There was a glorious war
With date-fed Arabs, who were fighting
For liberty; and their Hope’s star
Was much the same as at this present writing—
That Is, they fight upon their native sand
To right some wrongs that sadly needed righting.
“ The Empire’s going to smash I” said William, and
Eight hundred men were sent. Now comes the
sklting.
They landed in Suakim every man
In proper fettle;
Said General Graham, “ Now my little plan.
To give them mettle,
Is to review them. Boys, I welcome you,
Her Majesty this day is very proud.
England expects that every man will do
His duty.” Then comes General Wolseley loud
In praises of their military style;.
And Richardson wires home; he says, “Were
Hannibals.”
We knew that all before. Yes, we should smile.
We came not here to turn to cannibals—
(You’ll see by your own correspondent’s notes
We’ve caught seven donkeys and nine hundred
goats).
(To be con sidered.)


Personal
Items
“ The Claimant” is still appearing at Lon-
don Variety shows.
Mr. Farnell, the N.S.W. Minister for Mines,
is still very unwell.
Mr. Stuart, the N.S.W. Premier, kept a
Store at Port Chalmers, in the pre-hi3torio times
of 1848, So says an Otago paper.
Why does a hierarchical organ like the
Express allude to the ex-3peaker of the N.S.W.
Assembly as " Sir Wlgram Pecksniff ?"
Dr. Fortescue, everyone will be sorry to
hear, has for some days been very unwell from a
malady closely approximating to tj phoid.
Some of the Melbourne people think it
rather queer to see a lady of title standing with
her husband at the bar-counter and sipping cura-
coa and brandy.
Some wandering stars have recently re-
entered the Sydney firmament; 00-lncidcnt, was
the departure of that—latterly somewhat obscured
—luminary, the Colonel.
The Rev. John Hunter, of Hull, a popular
Congregational minister, has composed a prayer
for the editors of newspapers. They need it,
especially the editors of religious newspapers.
During the course of a recent lawsuit in
London, Mr. Anthony Hordern spoke of his
“turnover” in Sydney being £6OO 000 a year, and
of his having taken as much as £6OOO in a single
day.
At Government House, Cape York, there
is still niuch trouble. He-small blame to him—
insists on marrying the voung lady, and papa and
mamma, who strongly object, obstinately refuse
to be comforted.
The old Emperor of Germany—crowned ip
the palace of Louis XIV/in Versailles—remembers
Jena and his mother's humiliation to Napoleon;
and was present at three invasions of France
(1814,1815, and 1870).
Lord and Lady Lymington, we read, have
abandoned their proposed trip to Australia. Potts’
Point, therefore, mourns and is not to be con-
soled. We once s«w Lord Lymington and were
duly impressed. He is a long personage with
“ ginger” whiskers, who has just got married.
Some of the Maories appear strongly dis-
posed to assist Mr. Rusden against Mr. Bryce in
the libel action brought against the former by the
latter who in his “History of NZ.” charges the
ex-Natlve Minister with having taken part in the
ruthless slaughter of Maori jwomen and children
during the last war.
Lotd Durham has been advised to procure
the passing of a Private Act of Parliament for
the dissolution of his marriage, on the ground of
his wife’s hopeless Insanity. Before the passing
of the Divorce Act the relief from the marriage
bond, now obtained under that law, was not un-
commonly sought by a Private Act of Parliament.
A colonel of an Irish militia regiment
was found fault with by the Inspecting General
for the indifferent shooting of his regiment. The
Colonel replied: “ Sir, I must explain. I stand
before you in two positions—first, as colonel of the
regiment; secondly, as an Irish landlord; and, in
the latter capacity,, I consider the shooting good
enough I"
• “Presbyttr George Hormizd is,” sweetly
and approvingly announces the B.M. Herald,
“ visiting the colonies far the purpose of collect-
ing subscriptions in aid of the Nestorian Chris-
tians resident in Kurdistan and Persia.” If he is
followed by Elder Johnson on behalf of the Brob-
dignagian Pantheists residing in the moon, our
happiness will be complete. Australians are such
generous people.
Very near to the grave of Marcus Clarke
is that of Marie St. Denis, the French actress, who
many years ago poisoned herself with lauda-
num in Melbourne, and whose on'.tombatone is io-
scribed: "She loved not wisely but too well."
The tombstone of John Dunn (Clarke’s father-in-
law), hard by, bears the inscription: “He was a
fellow of infinite jest;” and on Marcus'small mon-
ument is written: “ After life's fitful fever he
sleeps well.”
Mr. Theodore Walls, author of the now
well-known sonnet “ She Stands Alone” (relative
to the present position of England among the
nations) was many years ago editor of the Argus,
which he is undci stood to have left in consequence
of his theological opinions being somewhat too
“steep” for the proprietary. He once started a
leader by saying that the politics of somebody
were “ like unto the grace of God, which passeth
all understanding.”
According to Truth, the reason for the
Prince of Wales’ recent visit to Berlin was to try
(it the instance of the Queen) to bring about a re-
conciliation between the Court of Berlin and that
pdtry ruffian the Grand Duke of Hesse (widower of
Princess Alice), whoso disgraceful behaviour to
Madame Kolemine, the lady whom he married,
lived with for a week and then divorced, merely
because his “subjects” objected to the match, will
be fresh in the memory of all.
At the lledfern railway station the other
day, a man asked whether a parcel had come for
John Smith. “ Better ask at next window,” re-
plied the official. From the next window he was
passed on to others, tiilat last, tired and worn out,
he applied at the window be started from for “ a
box addressed to the Hon. John Smith, M.L.C.”
To his delight, but not to his surprise, about 17
persons caught bold of the parcel and handed it
over to its illustrlousowner. It iosurprlslng what
the letters M.L C. mean to a railway porter.
In the gi eat libel case Bryce (ex-Minister
of Native Affairs in N Z ) versus Mr. G. w. Kusden,
an application has been made to the N.Z. Colonial
Secretary to have exhumed the bodies of the
Maori women and children who, it was alleged in
Mr. Uusden’s history, had been ruthlessly sabred
by the cavalry under Mr. Bryce. This request has
been acceded to, the Colonial Secretary stipulating
that the examination shall be conducted in the
presence of medical men nominated by him. The
whole of the parties concerned have agreed to
this.
That phenomenal American couple, Mr.
and Mrs. Price, are about to visit London. Mr.
Price, it may be stated, measures Bft. 6in.' in his
stockings; whilst Mrs. P. ( n(e Petitt) weighs a
matter of 5001bs. or so out of her boots. Mr. Price
Is a husband with a history. His first wife eloped
with a fat boy, and in marrying, for thfrsecond
time of asking, “ The Madagascar Fat Lady,” he
was probably not un-inlluenced altogether by the
reflection that, come what might, a spouse of her
bulk would be unable to run awaylfrom him even
if she tried.
The discussion in Melbourne on “ Religion
without Superstition” has now ceased-the learned
Judge firing the final shot in a letter to the Argus,
which, however, it must be admitted, was not a
very judicious one. But then his Honor has
rather a tendency for writing injudicious letters.
Does he remember those he wrote about 14 years
ago to Major Baker, of the 18th Royal Irish, then
on the staff in Melbourne of General Chute ? The
Major did not reply, but she showed the letters to
her gentlemen friends. We do foolish tnlngs
when we are young.
Some people tried to boycott the Palmer
River (N,Q ) Chronicle and organised a strike of
the printers, Whereupon the editor, who is not a 1
compositor, went to work, turned himself and
staff (aged 11 years) into “typos and devils,” and
brought out the paper. “ Last week’s Chroni-
cle, he exultingly writes, “ was set-up and
printed without a single typo or printer having a
finger in the ‘ pie 1’ No one in the office had ever
lifted a type before, and we were ourselves some-
what surprised when our usual hour of publication
found our issue ready for distribution.”
Our old friend and favourite, Joseph Jeffer-
son, a capital water-colour sketch by whom we saw
the other day at the residence of a Sydney gentle-
man, is reckoned to have made £350,000 by his per-
formances in America alone, mostly in “ Rip Van
Winkle” and “ The Rivals.” This is independent
of what he made in Australia, where he laid the
foundation of his fame and fortune, and in
England. Besides, he did not play continuously,
only in certain seasons. He has one of the finest
residences In the world on an Island In the Ohio
River, which is described as a dream palace.
So little has been heard of late years
about B. L. Farj on, the New Zealand novelist, of
“ Grif” and “Shadows in the Saow” celebrity,
that many concluded him dead. However, the
clever little Hebrew (who, by the way, was for-
merly a compositor on several Australian and New
Zealand papers) is still very much alive, and, hav-
ing entirely abandoned the tiresome attempt to
Imitate Dickens which made "At the Sign of the
Silver Flagon,” “The Duchess of Rosemary
Lane,” and bis Christmas feullletons, such stiff
reading, has set himself to tell a simple tale unaf-
fectedly. His new book, “ Great Porter Square—
a Mystery”—has been a tremendous success, and
is running through edition after edition.
The funniest part of the long-ago Southern
New Guinea protectorate proclamation business
was where a low comedy artist from Sydney, who
turned up at the “function” coatless and in a
broad-brimmed hat while all other hands were in
full fig, indulged in some characteristic pranks.
During the ceremony, which, as everyone remem-
bers, was conducted in a most solemn fashion, the
old gentleman feit rather hot; and so. stepping
over to an adjacent lagoon, he filled his hat with
water and then inverted it on his head to the
great disgust of the serious part of the company.
Two or tliree co-respondents in a forth-
coming Sydney divorce case have cleared to the
place where glory waits them—the Soudan—and
so, too, by the way, have several eminent indivi-
duals who would have been co-respondents at no
very distant date. It Is generally supposed that
these distinguished gentlemen would rather face
the spear-armed niggers than the witness-box; but
as they have gone on a patriotic mission and are
bravely facing the black foes of their country, wo
sincerely trust that Mr. Dailey will yet be able to
induce the Supreme Court to re-consider its de-
cision dispensing with ssrvice of summonses upon
them.
At a leading Sydney hotel, a few weeks
ago, Mr. , accompanied by his spouse, the
Lady Blank Blank, had returned from the inevi-
table Blue Mountains, expecting to find their bed-
room (for they went to the table d’hote) available
for them; but they, having failed, perhaps from
economy, to retain it, of course it was not. Me—
very much in appearance like the typical ostler-
walked quickly up and down ; she danced and
jumped about with rage; “they had never been
so treated before—was this a first-class hotel ? I
suppose you don’t often have ladies of title here.”
To which came the quiet rejoinder from the
hostess; “No, but we often have ladies without
titks.”
Among Mr. Gerald Massey’s audience in
Sydney on Sunday night was the Hon. Alfred
Deakin, of Victoria, himself a bright shining light
in Spiritualistic circles “ once upon a time.” But
since entering a public career the young and wily
Alfred has wisely steered clear of religious “ isms,”
tor his constituency—West Bourke-is largely
composed of hard-headed Presbyterians with
sound Calvinistic views on the Devil, heavy purses,
and dual votes, and it doesn't do to offend them.
When the poet had concluded his lecture he an-
nounced Mr. Deakin was present, and tried to get
that gentleman to speak. Mr. Deakin, however,
could not be “drawn,” and so the audience had
to go without hearing one of the smartest speakers
in Australia.
This is what it will be when the baronetcy
arrives in its band-box:—“No, no; take it away,
Dlbbs. I must die plain Bill Dailey.” “Whatl
with the eyes of the whole country upon you ’
Oh, do, please,” cries the Little Boy at Manly
do be a baronet, Mr. Dailey. Do I My pa will be
so glad, and when pa’s glad I’m glad, for I know
then it is not wicked. Do, Mr. Dailey.” “This is.
affecting,” cries the Acting-Premier, with a tears
the size of a horsebean running down his cheek-
hut, no! it was but a passing weakness, I
For our sakes,” cries the entire Ministry, pre-
senting the band box on its knees. “ You deserve
it.” “No, no; I—humph—(much affected) plain
Bill Dailey—boohoo —”
And, whiep’ring “I’ll ne'er consent,”-consented ’
A ruffianly person thus writes in the
Macleay Hesald:— “ The air is redolent c£ Smith
—R. Burdett the genteel. The zephyrs whispeir
‘ Smith ’ to the answering forest, and as the ripv
pling waters kiss the ban ks of the Macleay the:
oeculatory refrain is ‘Smith.’ From the maizes
fields, from the antimony mines, from the timber
camps, from the stores, from the public-houses,
from stately homes and primitive humpies arises
to heaven the cry ‘Great is Smith and R. Burdett is- 1
his prophet.’” This miserable rebel goes on to-
ssy that “some men achieve greatness very 7
cheaply,” and that Burdett Smith is one of them£
it is further alleged in the Herald that “the
glowing address to be presented to Smith is to be
written on the inverse side of a second-hand paper
collar.”
Vice-Admiral the German Prince Leinia-
gen is to get the command of the British iJeefi af,
the historic More, over the heads of scores of Ms*
seniors and superiors. He Is a relative of tho>
Royal family, and while in command of the 1
Queen’s yacht a few years ago, ran down a boatf
(some of the occupants of which were drowned)*
under circumstances which would have led to bis-
being ignominiously cashiered but for his relation
ship to “Albert the Good ” The job now to be
perpetrated is a disgraceful one, and shows that in
the matter of preferment, the British navy is as
rotten as the Established Church. Nor is the
army one whit better. Another obscure German
loafer, Prince Edward, of Saxe-Weimar (also a
cousin), is to have, over the heads of scores of
better officers who are British-born, the second
command under the Crown-that of the English
forces in Ireland.
An Anglo-Colonial item: Tire Honour
able Seymour Egerton, who has just succeeded, on
the death of his brother, to the Earldom of Wilton,
was at one time known everywhere in London
(and that implies a great deal) as “ Scm.” He had
a magnificent voice, and organised that lamous
company of swell amateurs, the Wandering Min-
strels. One of Sem’s little weaknesses (and he had
many) was chartering express specials to take his
company down for provincial concerts (all ex-
penses paid by him) Of course, that sort of thing
tes an end, and it came. The Guards had to be
quitted, the reversion to the income of the estates
sold, and Sem turned up (by sailing ship) In Mel-
bourne, accompanied by his brother-in-law,JjMr.
Reginald Russell (of the ducal house of Bedford),
who had, at the same time, his own little troubles
in connection with the turf. After a time, Sem
went to Germany, where he has been living for
some years. Reginald, who had most charming
rooms in Collins-street, lingered on, but in time
had to go. He transferred himself to Hamburg,
where he still resides.
Among Prince Victor Bonaparte’s latest-
acquisitions are some objects connected with-
Napoleon’s last days at St. Helena. They include »
Chinese screen which used to separate the Em-
peror’s bedroom from his dressing-room, and a
cast of the illustrious exile’s face, ghastly with the
expression of death, and on which a few hairs still
linger. Of course each hair is regarded as a relic,
Then .there are some vases and other objects
which once belonged to Napoleon’s chapel at St.
Helena. Among them Is a small piece of sponge
still showing where it had been steeped in chrism
to anoint the dying Emperor.
That immortal bard, Mr. Douglas Sladen,
is now in England, and has got one of his “ poems ”
into a magazine—published at Cheltenham. By
the way, Sladen ignores the theory of a poet
“ being born,” for he tells us in his dedication that
he was “ taught to write poetry by his master, D.
Blake.” We wonder who taught Mr. Words-
worth ?
A man no more can make himself a poet
Than a sheep can go and make itself a go-at.
The forthcoming memoirs of the Comtesse
de Castiglione are likely to be read almost as much
in London as in Paris. Although now 50 years old
at least, the Comtesse continues to lead a most ec-
centric existence and shuns the public gaze. The
blinds of her apartments are continually closed.
She never goes out except in a brougham, with
carefully drawn curtains. Whenever she goes to
the theatre she sits concealed in a back seat of »
proscenium box. She wears at least ten different
dresses daily. Her hair, although a golden cloud
like jTitian’s Venus, in the morning, is often jet
black at night, its tints varying in the course of
twelve hours as frequently as the colours of the
chameleon. She has a passion for diamonds,
wearing them on her dress, in her hair, on her
slippers and round her ankles. In the days of her
glory the Comtesse de Castiglione was the perfec-
tion of statuesque beauty. The Comtesse capti-
vated the Emperor when she was a widow of 20.
She appeared at the Bal Costume, at the Tuileries,
as Salammbo. The story is that the Emperor
placed his bands on her shoulder with the words,
“ Your beauty is more exquisite than all the pages
of Flaubert.” The Emperor used to call upon her
in the evenings in a closed brougham, “One
day,” the Comtesse states, “ Pietri discovered that
Orsini planned to Intercept the Emperor in this
oonidor. Pietri warned the aides-de-camp and
court officials, hut nobody dared broach the sub-
ject to the Emperor. Pietri, as a last resort,
informed the Empress of the danger. Eugenio
demanded an audience of the Emperor, and told
His Majesty to beware both of the liaison and the
plot ot assassination. The Emperor absolutely
denied the liaison. That evening, however, His
Majesty did not call to see me.”
General Sir John; Carstairs M'Neill, V.C.,
the brave but Incompetent person whose gross ig-
norance and carelessness led to the recent fright-
ful encounter at Hasheen (on the road to Tamai)
and to the less of £OO British killed and several
wounded, to say nothing of the total destruction
of our transport train and of the disgraceful fact
that many of our dead met their death at our own
and not at the enemy’s hands, is an A.D.C. to the
Queen, one of whose pets he happens to be. He is
the officer who, some time since, was sent to India
“on a special mission” when a certain eminent
member of the Royal family managed to get him-
self into trouble which threatened to eventuate in
a divorce case. The London correspondent of the
Argus says:—“lt is true Sir G. Graham acquits him,
but It is known that General M'Neill stands high
In the favour of the Sovereign, and allowance is
accordingly made for the leniency shown by his
superior officer.” In other words, poor Tommy
Atkins is to be slaughtered like a wallaby merely
because some contemptible nincompoop happens
to “stand high” in the favour of a discriminat-
ing woman. M'Neill is the man who commanded
the Reserve—which didn’t go into action—at Tel
el Keblr, and In which the Duke of Connaught,
according to Wolseley's telegram to the Queen,
“highly distinguished himself”—by looking nice.
By the way. General M’Neill was himself nearly
being killed, for the “ rebels ” rushed down at him
full-speed. His aide-de-camp, Lieutenant Char-
ter’s saw the peril of his chief, and gallantly
rushed to his rescue. And not a moment too soon,
for the rebels were at close Quarters. One Arab
had his gun pointed straight at the General; but
Charteris turned the shot, and then, quickly turn-
ing, cut down another assailant with his sabre.
As Charteris was thus engaged, he was attacked
with the greatest fury by a lithe young Arab—a
mere boy, in fact, not more than ten years old.
The youngster fought like a tiger, and succeeded
in spearing Charteris through the arm before ha
himself was shot. He was a gallant little fellow;
he fought with all the courage of a man, and suf-
fered a man’s fate. Searching amongst the killed,
our men made a pitiful discovery. At least four
corpses were those of women-fitting mothers of
daring youths like Lieutenant Charteris’ gallant
young adversary. These women were also dressed
as men in the Mahdi’s uniform, and bad fought
like meg.
GENERAL M’NEILL, V.C.
OLLIVIER PAIN, ‘THE MAHDI’S FRENCHMAN.”-(See page 12.)


-A/brsili.siasn.’s
Fills
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy 1
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be I
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre- |
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
THE
In Davis Sewing Muhins.
The SIMPLEST, CHEAPEST, & BEST MACHINE
ever introduced into Australia.
EAST TO WORK, EASY TO LEARN,
BAST TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Machine in the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modern
Science, and of the Best Possible Materials.
Sold on TIME PAYMENTS in Town and Country.
ET Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE to
any part of the colony.
B. O. Holtermann & Co*,
Sole Agents,
674 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DENTIST.
(Of America)
Q UARANTEEB
icaui
|PRICES MODERATE.
Corner George and Market Streets
OVER HUNTER’S BOOT PALACE.
Allen’s Black Wingen Oils.
THEY WORK LIKE A CHARM.
TO those who have been suffering from Rheu-
matism or Sciatica, we como with glad tidings
of the wonderful cures that have been effected by
CHAS. ALLEN’S BLACK WINGEN OILS. Num-
bers have been cured, and can attest to the great
and miraculous powers of these already famous
Oils.
There is now no reason why anybody should be
be racked with pain, when for the small sum of
2s. 6d„ a bottle of CHAS, ALLEN’S BLACK
WINGEN OILS may be obtained from any che-
mist or storekeeper. On how many occasions,
when you have been laid up with a severe attack
of lumbago, would you hare given anything to
get relief ; also, when you have been rendered
sleepless through neuralgia or toothache, have
you sought in vain for a cure. Stiff rno more :
keep the balm by you-a bottle of Cbas. Allen’s
Black Wingen Oils. It is needless to further recom-
mend, as a simple trial will prove to the most
sceptical the merit of Allen s Black Wingen Oils.
“TRY" THEM.’’
COSTELLO & GREY,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY",
Sole Agents.
ALLEN’S BLACK WINGEN OILS, stand un-
equalled for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
saddle girth, and wind Galls, Strains, Stakes,
Sprains, Bruises, Sweat Boils, Fistula, Wounds of
all descriptions No ’bus proprietor, carrier, or
stockowner should be without them. They will
heal any sore, no matter if freshly done or of
years" standing. No spell required to effect a cure.
‘•TRY THEM,”
May ba obtained.from Chemists and Storekeepers.
COSTELLO &~GREY,
C 8 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
BEWARE OF SPURIOUS
WATCHES I
WHY bo foolish, and buy a bad watch, which
is dear at any price, and gives no end of
trouble. If you buy one of
ROTHERHAM'S COMPENSATION BALANCE
AND JEWELLED WATCHES
from C. GRANT, you will never want another, as
they are, without doubt, the Best Watches in the
market.
Guaranteed for 5 years. Price, only £6 10s.
Sent post free to any part of the country. Special
attention given to country orders.
C. GRANT, Watchmaker,
884 George Street, Sydney.
Established 1880.
Sydney Pharmacy,
Y 6 HUNTER STREET,
Opposite Tramway, Elizabeth Street.
PHYSICIANS’ PRESCRIPTIONS carefully pre-
pared with Drugs of the purest quality.
French Indiarubber Goods, Ladies’ Abdominal
Supports and Pessaries, Syringes and Enemas of
every description, always in stock.
Coun'ry Orders promptly executed.
H. P. SABieii, M.P.S., Mgr,
DR.SCOTT'S
w
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by the
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continental
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial ?
If you have any pain, ache, or ill-feeling
from any cause; if you seem “pretty well,
yet lack energy and do not “feel up to the
mark;” if you suffer from disease, we beg
you to at once try these remarkable cura-
tives. They cannot and do not injure like
medicine. Always doing good, never barm.
There is no shock or sensation felt in wear-
ing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results; electro-magnetism acts quickly,
equentfv
generally the first week, more frequently
the first day, and often even during the
de:
first hour they are worn their wonderful
curative powers are felt.
The mind becomes active, the nerves and
sluggish circulation are stimulated, and all
the old-time health and good-feeling come
back. They are constructed on scientific
hardly
a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily
practise the same, as your own physician
will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearance
from those usually worn, as we substitute
our flat steel magnetods in place of the
ordinary corset-steels. They are all equally
charged, differing only in quality and design.
They are elegant in shape and finish, made
after the best French patterns, and war-
ranted satisfactory in every respect. Those
who have tried them say they will wear no
others. Most of the above applies equally
to the Electric Belt for gents.
5
&
ill
a
Dr. Scott’s Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for tepinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &c., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all other remedies (so-
called) have failed.
The prices are as follows
No. 1
No. 2
No. 3
No. 5
Electric Belts
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electrio-Magnetio
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. Cd. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece ©f common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque,
P. 0.0., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
Ml
54 Margaret-stroet,
SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 321.
“Doctors differ.” They do, but the ex-
ception proves the rule. —They all agree that
Wolfe's Schnapps is the best stimulant procur-
abie.
I .The first exemplification in Victoria of the
horrors of war Is that militia officers are spending
between 60 and 70 guineas each on uniforms, &c.
If you wish to establish a name for your
house, cell the best brands— Wolfe s Schnapps
stands foremost.
VENETIA WALTER -
'', Th* Air to ht weU markal. Onto Lira LowTin.E.
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, «o.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Braes Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues will he ready in a few days and
sent gratis on application. . „ .
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &c., at lowest prices.
Printing.—lnvoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed In best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, In parcels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums. Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &0.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever Invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which Is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
8 nd and obtain full particulars of working.
killiam~bullard;
342 GEORGE STREET.
A Bazaar & Art Union
IN connection with the Union Masonic Lodge
of Berrima, 981 E.C., in aid of the
WIDOW AND ORPHAN FOND,
under the patronage of the District Grand Master,
John Williams, Esq., of the District Grand Lodge,
English Constitution,
£7OOO Worth of Works of
Art, Pictures, &c.,
to be disposed of in Shares of £1 each on the Art
Union Principle, and to be drawn for at Moss Yale,
time and place of which will be given in public
Press, and the drawing will be under the super-
vision of the following gentlemen, who have
kindly offered to act :
John Williams, Esq.
I. S. Ponder, Esq.
Jas. Taylor, Esq.
W. McCourt, Esq.
Ist Prize—Picture, &c., valued at
2nd—
-3r—
d-4th-sth-6th-7th-Bth-9
5th-
6th—
7th—
8th—
9 th—
10th-
llth —
12th—
13th —
14th—
From 14 to 24-10 prizes of £2O each.
100 Prizes—Pictures, valued at £3 each.
Tickets will be forwarded by the Secretary, on
receipt of £l.
J. S. HYAMS,
Hon. Secretary,
Moss Yale.
£2COO
1300
700
' 500
370
300
300
300
300
200
130
mo
100
100
G. F. PRIDDY & GO.,
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS,
Beg to announce that, on and after APRIL 7th
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Days
at 6.30 p.m.: Saturdays as usual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Roya Hotel and Market-street.
r.ord Randolph Churchill, whose name so
v figures in the cablegrams, appears to
cQiutantly gur English politics, though his
f h (accordingte old world ideas), and his Con-
LTvate principles are to an extent in his way.
nnimoal views are, however, Conservatlve-
?ih«ral and he Is endeavouring to found a new
Uheral, a ane fee Popular . ConflerV ative (or
•“Tory-Democrat”); for he argues that thepeople
now be behind any party to enable it to at
onrt keen power. The fiery young fellow la
tain and keep now tbe extreme
' be ftkness of his physical constitufion, with which
tdaved “ducks and drakes” in his salad days;
h n«t secondly, by having as leaders such an old
M Sir Stafford Northcote and saimpractl-
w<^ m o statesman (though one of the greatest
0111 ? as' Lord Salisbury. It is strange
Oliver f man Randolph Churchill
coms from an effete family hke the Mari-
no.„aa f which iby the
b ° r .° U ls a disgracl to the English peerage,
wsy- Ran dolph is the third son of the late Duke of
Msrlborough and was born on the 13th Feb., 49.
is therefore, 36 years of age. The second son
He is. tnereiuro. j Qf the queer ma tnmonial
i: a 8 the holder of the family title, It
f. ™t impossible Lord Randolph may yet be Duke
Marlborough. He is of very diminutive stature,
nLwv as little as Lord John Russell or Jimmy
Kma but he is gifted with a voice of maryel-
M i r Hower. that could even drown the stentor-
) OUB j, OW n irm i n irham Radicals. He has great
Ihifity and Industry, and is gifted with a telent for
satire—or, rather, slogging, that tells. When he
entered Parliament ne was a sort of political
forHkin without any standing or party—he was
member of a much-laughed-at third party for a
+hTTe—but he has gradually become more careful,
forced the Commons to acknowledge his
newer and to accept him as one of the leaders of
Lord Randolph married a rich Amerl-
lal heiress. Miss Jerome, so that he is wealthy
Snd has the great key that opens the door of suc-
cess in England and elsewhere. Since John
Churchill, the first Duke of Marlborough, no mem-
ber of the family has attained any position in
BngUsbPublic life until Lord Randolph’sappear
„nce. His career will he watched with Interest,
for he is certain to become a great factor in the
history of the future.
The recent death, at Baltimore, of Mr.
■Forrester, who acted as Julia Matthews agent
during her American tour, brings up sad memories
connected with Australia’s most successful singer
-for she can so be regarded, as she came here
when but a child. There are many in Sydney who
still remember her appearance at the old Victoria
Theatre in Pitt-street—the fleas of which had a
world-wide reputation for size and ferocity. Julia
Matthews was one of the most genial of artistes,
and also the most unfortunate. In her early days
she was under the iron bondage of her parents—
canny Scots-who kept all her earnings and let
Julia appear, off the stage, in the dowdiest of
dresses A gieat romp was Julia, and yery
fond of “larks.” The writer (a bald-headed mem-
ber of the staff) remembers one fine afternoon
in what was then known as the Camp Reserve in
Sandhurst, but which is now grandiloquently called
Rosalind Park, having had a good romp with Julia
and other boys and girls. It was somewhere near
to the “Serpentine.” Across the creek there was a
riPkottv bridge, and one of the party chancing to
look that way, saw Mrs. Matthews under full sail
hobbling across it, heavy stick in hand. The alarm
was at once given, and Julia ran off, under cover
of the willows—then in a baby:stage-got out by
the Bridge-street gate, and cutting round by
Mundy-street, reached Ready s Rainbow Hotel,
where the family were stopping, without detec-
tion. Mrs. Matthews came up to the group and
“ glowered ” horribly upon them, but not finding
the truant, returned home, where she found the
Innocent Julia practising the music of her next
parti Julia’s success In Australia was phenomenal.
Who does not remember her burlesque! Was
there ever an Aladdin, the idle, vagabond
boy” like her. or a Widow Twankey like Rogers
and Greville’s ? It was some time before she took
to opera bouffe, but when she did she carried all
before her. As the Grand Duchess she wasi unap-
proachable. Julia Matthews was one of the fe *
women who looked well in male clothes—she made
a perfect Apollo. She was none of the beefy-
legged Individuals hoary old sinners and silly
young fools now run to see. Julia stood the
tyranny of her parents pretty well till she became
aware of her irreat powers, and a splendid future
opened before her. So well did they hold her In
hand, so strict was the guard over her, that she
might have remained with them a much longer
time, had not that rascal Cupid, who spoils
everything, stepped in and upset the pot.
Julia became acquainted with a handsome
young shipping clerk in New Zealand they say
she knew him in Melbourne, and love at first sight
resulted. Her guardians had a suspicion of what
was going on and kept watch, but love laughs at
locksmiths, and Julia and her swam got up a very
clever elopement, the details of which would
make a better comedy than any Julia played m
on the stage, and were married. Julia was of age.
and had a husband to protect her rights, so the
reign of Mr. and Mrs. Matthews was over, and they
retired from the scene with their savings with
which they bought a swell estate in Scotland,
where, for aught we know, they still live, reaping
the rewards of their journeyiugsovertheearth
with their daughter. Julia went to England, and
burst upon the opera.bouffe stage as a bright par-
ticular star. Our memory Is treacherous, but we
believe she was the first Grand Duchess in Lon-
don, playing the part so well that many declared
she was better than the creator of the character,
the champion high-kickest, Mdlle. Schneider, who
now has retired at a mature age, with a young and
handsome husband, to the seclusion of Asmeres,
near Paris. For some years Julia held the pride
of place in England in opera bouffe, but after a
while decided to visit the land of dollars. Unfor-
tunately, bad luck clung to her, for she and her
husband quarrelled —over financial matters, it is
said—and separated. The American season was a
great success, and at last the hard-working and
talented lady seemed to be on the right road, when
she was prostrated by a cold caught in the train,
and in a few days the lovely and sprightly Jaha
was what we all must become—a clod of clay.
Hera was a strange, eventful history. The expo-
nent of all that was bright, vivacious, and gay, her
own life was lived in shadow. Her untimely death
made many in Australia sigh; for her memory is
associated with the happiest days of a number of
ns, who have seen the best of our lives, and into
■whose hair the tell-tale and too early grey is steal-
ing. Is it impious to hope the bright spirit is
singing in other spheres, where there are no harsh
parents or unkind husbands ?
« ♦ •
Weir, of the N.S W. Contingent, who died
at Suakim, was from the Kiama district— Mr. H.
W. Morse, a pioneer who settled in New Englana
43 years ago, has just died of cancer, aged 65
There are 19 Englishmen in the Queensland Legis-
lative Assembly, 13 Scotchmen, 13 Australians, 5
Irish, 4 Germans, and one Welshman. The one
Welshman is the boss of the lot....Tbady O’Kane
calls the Separationists the Russians of the North.
.... The late E velyn Pitfleld Shirley Sturt, the well-
known Melbourne P.M., who lately died at sea
between Australia and England, left £17,650, of
which £lO,OOO goes directly to Mrs. Sturt Dr.
Krauel, German Consul at Sydney, appointed as
head of the German Colonial Oflioe at Berlin...
The Queen Dowager of the Hawaiian Islands is
dead. She was relict of the original “ King of the
Cannibal Islands.”
■ •
Lord Granville is credited with this bon
mot about a very mean man: —“ Quand A. B. sera
en enfer, 11 dira an diable charge dole rotlr: Ne
mettez pas tant de fagots, mon ami, je bruleral
a petit feu.’” Zebehr Pasha, the Soudanese
slave-dealer just arrested by the British, has beau-
tiful blue eyes, a very rare thing in an Arab.... Miss
Sumner, whose name has been before the English in
public that cause cilebre, the Hoare-Sumner seduc-
tion case, Is a grand-daughter of a former Arch-
bishop of Canterbury.... On dit that the widow of
the late Czar, the Princess Dolgorouki. Is about to
be married to a Russian prince, not far removed
in blood from the Czar himself, and a powerful
enemy of his regime.... Bishop Jackson, who died
in London lately, had nine daughters, who married
nine vicars of his own diocese. The old gentle-
man took care they didn’t marry mere curates.. ..
The uncrowned King of Wales, Sir Watkin Wil-
liams Wynne is dead. The pudding named after
him will probably be perennial There has
been much discussion at the Service clubs,
apropos of the officer of au Indian cavalry
regiment, who went into action with a shirt
of mail (which saved his life) under his
uniform. It is being seriously maintained by
not a few gallant officers that mall shirts are con-
t ary to regulations, and that an officer has no
more right to wear one In battle than he has to
array himself for the fight in a cuirass or a suit of
coat-armour.
OPERATOR: “See here, Mr. Tambo, you
needn’t open your mouth so wide, I can stay
outside to draw your tooth, thank you.


CAD E M Y
Lessee and Manager .
OF MUSIC,
Mr. P. E. HISCOCKS.
49th Week, and still Crowded Houses.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
„ and SPECIALITY UNION
Every Evening in their Refined and Amusing
Entertainment.
H.M.S. (HOPPER BARGE) PIN-A-4.
Admission, 45., 35., 25., and Is. Box Plan at
Paling’s. Carriages at 10.15.
ORTH SHORE ROWING CLUB.
N
THE FOURTH ANNUAL BALL
(Evening Dress.)
will be held
(under the Patronage of his Excellency Lord
Augustus Loftus, Admiral Tyron, and Officers
or H.M.S. Nelson and the Mayor of Sydney)
at West’s Booms,
LEIGH HOUSE,
Castlereagh-street,
on
FRIDAY EVENING, 29th May, 1885,
Tickets—Ladies, 12s. 6d.; Gentlemen, 215.; Double,
305.; may be had at the principal shops, from
members of the Club, or
H. H. ROBEY, Hon. Secretary,
No. 11, Bridge-street.
PARRAMATTA ST. GEORGE LODGE,
1943, E.C,
fTIHE ANNUAL MASONIC BALL will bo held
JL In the Masonic Hall, Parramatta, on FRIDAY,
June 12th.
Tickets, £1 Is. (Gentleman’s).
jno, jasTmiller,
Hon. Sec. Hall Committee.
~pIAGLEHAWK MECHANICS’ INSTITUTE.
GRAND ART UNION,
In strict accordance with the Act.
VALUE
FIRST O KAA FIRST
PRIZE oWOUU. PRIZE.
SECOND PRIZE, £2OO.
THIRD PRIZE, £lOO.
4
4
40
prizes, value £5O each. 100 prizes, value £5 each.
„ „ £25 each. 550 ~ „ £1 each.
„ „ £lO each. 300 „ ~ 10s, each.
1000 PRIZES I 1000 PRIZES I
10,000 TICKETS at 10s. each, obtainable at moat
business places in the colony.
N.R—ln proof of the value of the above, the
Committee undertake to find purdhasers for the
various prizes at the prices named, and to hand the
winner full amount in cash, less 10 per cent, for
commission.
The drawing to take place in June, under the
supervision of the Mayor and Councillors of Eagle-
hawk and a Committee of Shareholders.
T. H. TAYLOR,
Managing Secretary,
Bull-street, Sandhurst, and
Mechanics’ institute, Baglehawk.
CITY AND COUNTY INVESTMENT, LAND,
AND BUILDING COMPANY,
LIMITED.
REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES’ ACT.
Capital, £lOO,OOO, la 100,000 Shares of £1 each.
OFFICES—IS ROYAL ARCADE. *
IWreotors:
‘Jacob Garrard, Esq., M.L.A., Chairman
Fred. B. Bretnall, Esq., Vice-Chairman
Thomas Lockwood, Esq.
Charles F. Wymer, Esq.
John C. Hamilton, Esq.
F. W. MIDDLETON, MANAGING DIRECTOR,
SOLICITOR—EDGAR LUCAS, Esq.
Kngllah, Scottish, and Australian Chartered Bank.
DEPOSITS received at the following rates:—
For 32 months, 7 per cent, per annum
8 ditto, 6 ditto ditto
8 ditto, ditto ditto.
AT CALL,
Withdrawable at any time,
WITHOUT NOTICE.
5 per cent, per annum.
F. W. MIDDLETON,
Managing Director:
A BOOK CONTAINING OYER 250 TRICKS AND
DELUSIONS WITH CARDS. DICE* AND
CONJURING APPARATUS,,
all illustrated with wood blocks and diagrams,
forming the most complete collection' of its kind
ever offered to the Australian publlOi Mailed free
to any address in New South Wales for 7d, stamps;
other colonies, Bd.
On presenting our goods to the public, we beg
to say that they are, in their own way, the best
ever offered. The tricks are nearly all new, easily
manipulated, and are especially adapted to draw-
ing-room entertainments or amateur per-
formances. In the limited space of a newspaper
advertisement it is simply impossible to give a
full description ; we content ourselves, therefore
with the names and prices of a few
Disappearing Card Box
Wizards' Changeable Cards ...
Magic Cork Box
Great Hat and Die Trick
Wizards’ Egg and Bag
Nose and Twine Trick (laugh-
able)
Magic Cask and Fairy Bell ...
Demon Handkerchief
Magic Dissolving Pack of
Cards
Mysterious Hankerchief and
Candle
Magic Handkerchief Case ..
Glass Goblet and Vanishing
Coin
Mystic Secrete Vase
Gilding and Vanishing Egg ...
And many others, a full description of which will
be found In the book, “Magic, Mirth, and Mys-
tery.” Full instructions are sent with each trick.
N.B.W.'stamps taken at par.; from other colo-
nies, add Id to each shilling. Post office orders pre-
ferable. Address all orders plainly, AUSTRALIAN
MAGICAL DEPOT, 401 Gfeorge-street. Box 641,
G.P.0., Sydney.
RAW VASELINE
B
&
m
m
%
-v
SOFTENS and Preserves Horses’ Hoofs, Kills
Parasites, and prevents their growth. In-
valuable as a Leather Preservative, rendering it
solt, pliable, and waterproof, and prevents it
cracking. From its anti-corrosive qualities, un-
equalled for keeping free from rust and in
perfect order all metal goods, firearms, machines,
&c. It is the sole material used for the above
purposes in the Austrian and German armies.
Sold by all Saddlers and Storekeepers.
SOLE AGENTS :
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS’ IRONMONGERS,
125 York-street, Sydney.
A. * C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
818 HEOK6E STREET,
Next Peapes and Shaw.
fc* The most liberal house for Pianos and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
A. & C. Huenerbein,
818 GEORGE STREET.
£JTRCULATES EVERYWHERE. NOW READY.
“THE TRUE PRINCIPLES OP POPULATION,’’
Only Threepence.
“-p* l6 d j B ®aBeB of society can, no more than cor-
poral maladies, be cured without being spoken of
in plain language.”—J. 8. Mill. p n ot
o The above may be had from the undersigned
o 8 and at George-Street Markets on
Saturdays. j. DUNNE.
PRESS NOTICE.
WH. L. BAILEY, the well-known Queens-
• land and New South Wales Journalist
oegs to announce that he has relinquished countrv
e ’+ andfor the future devoting his
attention to a CITY AGENCY, in which hisexten
I Jnd ai inI aned expex-lence in Journalistic, Mining"
Land, and general affairs, may bo utilised for the
public advantage and to his own benefit.
Commissions executed in all branches.
Address: 44 CASTLEREAG H-STREE T. SYDNEY
opposite City Mutual Life Society.
H. L. BAILEY, Auctioneer,
reagh-street.
W.
w.
WH. L. BAILEY, Mining and Land Agent
• 44 Castlereagh-street.
H. L. BAILEY, Musical and Theatrical
Agent, 44 Castlereagh-street.
H. L. BAILEY, Journalist, Newsmonger.
&c., 44 Castlereagh-street.
W.
w.
w.
H. L. BAILEY, Land, Estate, and Minimr
Agent, 44 Castlereagh-strret.
L. BAILEY, Press Writer. Spicy
Articles supplied to Country Papers.
44 Castlereagh-street.
WH. L. BAILEY, Parliamentary and De-
• putatiomsing Agent. 44 Castlereagh-st.
WH. L. BAILEY, Hotel Broker, 44 Cast’e-
_• reagh-street.
H. L. BAILEY, Land, Estate, and Pro
• perty Agent, 44 Castlereagh-street.
WH. L. BAILEY, Insurance Broker. Life?
. Fire, and Marine Insurances effected. 44
Castlereagh-street.
WH. L. BAILEY, the well-known Pressman,
• offers his services as secretary to Ball,
Banquet, Picnic, or Entertainment Committees, 44
Castlereagh-street. Sydney.
H. L. BAILEY, Rent and Account Col-
lector, 44 Castlereagh-street.
WH. L. BAILEY offers his experienced
• services to directors of mining and other
companies as secretary or manager. Office pro-
vided. 44 Castlereagh-street.
W.
w
Office.
ABTS PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, Rulpbtiv
9
MARTIN
389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite the Royal Hotel.
O
f 7
MARTIN’S Specially-selected TENNIS NETS.
Steam-tarred, Tanned, Wire-bound, &o.
TENNIS POLES—Cavendish, Cyprus, Champion.
BALLS—Ayers, Champion, undersewn and cemented.
„ —Cypress covered Regulation Balls.
„ —Enamelled Regulation Balls, red and white,
RACKETS—Buchanan’s, Ayers, Jefferies, Wesden’s, &c.
FOOTBALLS-
GILBERT’S Rugby and Association Balls.
MACINTOSH’S Regulation Bladders for do.
YOUTHS’ FOOTBALLS, all sizes.
Clubs and Schools should write us for our prices and particulars
of our stock.
JAMES MARTIN & COMPANY,
389 George-street.
I
A
i
for Infants and Children.
Castoria cures Colic, Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Diarrhoea, Eructation,
Gives healthy sleep and promotes digestion, t
"Without injurious medication.
“Castoria is so well adapted to children that
I recommend it as superior to any prescription
known to me.” U. A. Archer, M. D., i
111 Oxford Street, New York, i
Elliott Bros., Sydney, Agents.
“Avoid COMPLICATED
FOREIGN BRACES.”
•• Cf H 3E5 O E IttT T A,”
SIMPLEST AND BEST FOR MEN AND BOYS,
WHOLESALE ONLY AT
16 and 17 CHEAPSIDE, LONDON, E.C.
" .«» W. RENNY FINDLAY & BRO., Melbourne and Sydney.
Professional Directory.
HIBCOCKB’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
oialtiy Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Noyel-
tiea, apply F. E. Hlacooks..
W H S? A . CB , BINT, with Hlsoooks’ Federal
• Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
Sydney
mo AMATEUR THEATRICAtBI—Scenery Bup-
■ plied or Lent. Q. PanawtAN, Scene Painter,
No. 7, back of Academy of., Music, Castlereagh-st,
M®;,®; C. late of " Fun on the
Bristol ” Company,, disengaged. Address,
•j-'neatre Royal.
Theatre roy
Under thp management of
Under the management ol
T Garner and Mttsorovb.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman,
poors open at 7.30, commence at 8. Carriages, 10;40,
A L
fqurteenth week
of the
R.9EAL DRAMATIC COMPANY.
T|ll£) BFBNING at 8-precisely,
at 8 o’clock,
THE PARVENU
THE PARVENU
THE PARVENU,
aUomedy In 3’ Acts, by G. W. Godfrey
Furniture and appointments from Hamilton ai jf
Co., Globe Furniture Warehouse, Park and Castle-
reagh-streets.
Prices of Admission: Diess Circle, 55.; Stalls,
35.; Family Circle, Ss.
Tickets tor all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box office open dally from 11 till 4.
G
AIB T T
TREAT R E I
Lessee
Proprietor and Manager..
Business Manager ..
... B. N. Jones.
Wm. Emerson.
Wm. A. Jinkxns.
“ ’TIS NOT IN MORTALS TO COMMAND
SUCCESS.”
WB DO MORE, DESERVE IT.
“ THE SUCCESS
Of the
EMERSON’S MINSTRELS
has been obtained by
THE INDISPUTABLE RIGHT, 1
of
THOROUGHLY DESERVING IT.’
EMERSON’S
EMERSON’S
EMERSON’S
The
Refined
Leaders.
INAUGURATED ANQ-pWBADED
by the
World's Favourite,
BILLY EMERSON
BILLY EMERSON
BILLY EMERSON.
HUNDREDS TURNED AWAY
NIGHTLY.
Popular Prices:,Orchestra Chairs, 4a.; Stalte, 3S.S
Family Circle, Is.
Box-ollice at Messrs. Nicholson and Co.’s, George-,
itroet. Carriages may be ordered for 10.30 p.m.
flckets for all parts of the house at Lewis’s, to-
mcconists, opposite Gaiety Theatre.
New opera house..
Lessees, Messrs. E. Majeronland W. J. Wilson.
Under the Management of Rignold and Allison.
Rage Manager Mr. J. F. Cathcart.
Second Week and Immense success of the young
ind charming actress, Miss JEFFREYS LEWIS,
n the most brilliant comedy,
n tne mo SCRAP 0 P PAPER
A SCRAP OF PAPER.
Miss Jeffreys Lewis and Rignold and Allison’s
Powerful Company.
Man at Huenerbeln’s. Treasurer, G. A. Coleman.
ODDFELLOWS’ HALL,
GOULBURN.
T
iHIS Theatre, one of the best in the colony, 1l
i *— T7r.„.oo. emen t. Particulars from
onen for Engagement. Particulars fro
open M puLLBN> Hall secretary.
Sir Edward Strickland, K.C.B.
CbMMISSARY-GENEBAL SIR EDWARD STRICKLAND,
K.C.8., by whose prompting, it Is said, Mr. Dailey
was induced to precipitate himself into his course
of .i unconstitutional action, and N.B.W. into a
Career of military adventure utterly repugnant to
the conception of pacific and substantial develop-
ment which had up to that moment been deliber-
ately and uniformly accepted as the system best
adapted to Insure the happiness and advance-
ment of the Australian settlers and to build up
a nation on principles more closely approximat-
ing to the Christian model than has ever existed
in the old world—Sir Edward is, personally, a gen-
tleman possessed of many admirable qualities.
The trouble about him is that a man whose whole
life, up to the age of 00, has been influenced by the
ideas of the military caste, should have had an
opportunity, by the flighty susceptibility of a
Minister, accidentally in a position to give effect to
his freaks, and holding the constitutional system
of Government In contempt, to alter the fortunes
of an entire community with which he had nothing
—either in sentiment or conditions—in common.
It is often remarked that officers of the non-
combatant branches of the military service are
ever more desperately warlike than the offi-
cers of the fighting branches, and Commissary-
General Strickland seems certainly to have
carried his combative leanings : to the highest
pitch short of personally volunteering an
undertaking from which, however, his ago fairly
exempts him. From the Army and Navy
Gazette we extract the following record of Sir
Edward’s honorable career “He joined the Ser-
vice in 1838, and served actively during the Cana-
dian rebellion of 1838-39 1 , and in Australia, Norfolk
Island, and Tasmania from 1840 to 1844. He was
employed on special service In the lonian Islands
from 1848 to 1849, during the Cephalonian rebellion,
first by Lord Seaton, the Lord High Commissioner,
and afterwards by his successor. Sir Henry Ward.
He served in Malta from 1850 till 1853, was
employed on special service at Constantinople
before the Crimean War in 1853, was appointed
to the First Division under H.R.H. the Duke
of Cambridge, and was present at the affair
at Bulganak, at the battle of the Alma, and the
advance to Sebastopol. He was then sent to
Greece, in commissariat charge of the British ex-
peditionary force, forming part of the army of
occupation, and was, at the conclusion of the
Crimean War, appointed by the Foreign Office
British Financial Commissioner, co-operating with
the other allied Powers, after which he was again
employed on special duty in Asia Minor and Syria.
He was appointed to the commissariat charge in
the West Indies in 1850, and in 1863 to that of the
Australian colonies. In 1844 he was in commis-
sariat charge of the field force in New Zealand,
and afterwards succeeded Commissary-General
Jpnea, C. 8,, as head of the department there. For
his services la the New Zealand War he was made
v'B. After serving in England, Nova Scotia, and
Malta, he proceeded to South Africa, and arrived
at the Cape of Good Hope in 1877. He was in
charge of the commissariat department during the
wars against the Gaikas and Galeikas, and in the
campaign against the Zulus; and for the able
manner in which he carried on his duties was
made K.C.B. He has been, since his return to
Europe, commissary-general In Ireland. Sir Ed-
ward is an excellent linguist, and a man of con-
siderable literary attainments; and his articles on
social and financial questions have appeared from
time to time in well-known periodicals.”


Important Announcement!
THE
ORIENTAL GOLD GO.
BEG to Inform the public that, in consequence
of the
EXPIRATION OF LEASE
of their present premises, they have commenced
their
G-HAND
CLEMS SHE,
"Which will
LAST FOR A FEW WEEKS ONLY!
The Goods are all marked at an
as will be seen by list below.
PRICE LIST.
Ladies’ Handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 10s, 15s,
17s Gd, and 20s each
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 4s and 5s per pair
Ladies’ Choice Necklets, 5s each
Ladies’ Choice Necklets, best American Plate, 20s
each
Ladles’ Elegant Bangles, 4s, Cs, and 10s per pair
Choice Lockets, 5s each
Handsome Gem Rings, 4s and 8s Gd each
Wedding and Keeper Rings, in Solid Gold, 7s Gd
each
Ladies’ Handsome Lockets, 10s each
Ladies’ Elegant Crosses, 4s, ss, and Os each
Ladies’ Brooch and Barring Sets, from 5s to IGs
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, 8s 6d each
Gents’ O. G. Watches, Hunting, Open-Faced
Crystal Glass, and patent Keyless, 80s each
warranted 3 years *
Ladies’ (same as above.)
These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses .. .. £4 0 0
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
jewelled, and compensation balance .. £5 0 0
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
_ LeverB £4 10 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance .. £5 0 0
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses.. .. £3 15 o
Ditto ditto, compensation balance.. .. £4 15 0
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance Is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph, £5 0
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grad ® £6 0 0
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket ... (ii ( 2q q
We Import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus eflectcd-about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good h watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £lO.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 4s
each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Rings, half round buckle,
flat broad buckle, engraved, good luck rings’
2i Od each. *
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 3s, 4s, 6s, and 6s 6d per set.
Same as above, only half sets. Is 6d, 2s, and 3s per
set.
Best American Patent Spring Solitaire Suites,
5s per set.
Gent’s elegant Seals, 4s each.
Gent’s Elegant Compasses, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberts, 6? each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold handsome Scarf Pins, Is, 1*
6d, 23. 2s 6d, 3s. 3s 6d, 4s, 4s 6d, ss, and 5s 6d each.
Very best American Pencil Cases, 3s 6d each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Match Boxes, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Sovereign Purses, 4s each.
Richly engraved Bracelets, 6s each.
Handsome Bracelets, beautifully jewelled, Bs, 108.
13s, and 14s each.
Broooches, Brooches, Brooches, Is 6d, 3s, 2s 6d, 3s.
3s 6d, 4s, 4s 6d, 59, 5s 6d, 63, 69 6d, 7s, 7s 6d, 8s 88
6d, 9s, 9s 6d, and 10s each.
PLEASE NOTE.
All goods will be sent post free, with the excep-
tion of the watches, orders for which must bo ac-
companied with an extra amount of two and six-
pence to defray postage expenses. Send in your
orders early, as the goods must be sold, and no one
should miss this chance of procuring the beautiful
gems at less than cost price.
Note the Appress :
The Oriental Gold Co.,
474 Gaorga Street,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS,
Wolfe’s Schnapps the greatest stimulant
and tonic in the world. Beware of imitations.
Many men, many minds, is a proverb quite true
About most things; but go East or West,
And men with one voice will be found to declare
That Summerfleld’s suits are the best.*
Three things to remember. 1. Be careful
of water. 3, Mealtime. 8. Bray Bro’s. china
shops, 403 and 404 George-street, where all hinds of
ornaments, kitchen delf, and some really beautiful
dinner, tea, and chamber sets are to be had.*
I do not ask thee to renounce
Thy whisky, club, or weed;
Yet would I wish thy pants were made
Of Summerfleld's Cork tweed.*
The most suitable invjgorant, stimulant,
and protective is Wolfe’s Schnapps. Obtain the
genuine Wolfe’s.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Jbbatbe ROYAL—“ The Parvenu ” .... .p. 8
Opbba House—" A Scrap of Paper ” „
Gaiety Theatre— Emerson’s Minstrels „
Academy op Music.—Hiscocks’ F. Minstrels „
Just before the red rag of the Gaiety went
up on Saturday night, about a million cat-calls,
with a young man in shirt-sleeves behind each,
were struggling for existence in the gallery. At
last the curtain went up, the gods shut up, and
the Emerson crowd sat down. Then there was a
chance of seeing the sort of house the new pro-
gramme brought together. The heads in the gal-
lery rose one above the other like pyramids of
round shot or the skulls of the faithful you pee
piled in the Catacombs waiting for Gabriel to send
his blast along. Every seat in the stalls was occu-
pied, and behind each a man stood ready to
“jump ” it, should the occupant go out for fresh
air or rum. The passages, too, were in possession
of people who appeared anxious to fight some-
body when Jlnkins mildly asked to clear the way,
or suggested that their money—with 6d. extra for
their trouble—would be returned if they went out.
It was big.
* * *
After the overture, Holland sang and was
received with favour. Then Cogill (the great)
struck up “ Little Ah Sid.” He didn’t give it all.
This trifle, it will be remembered, was written for
and published in The Bulletin by one who—let
us hope—has since journeyed to the country
where German bands and hand-organs are un-
known. But it doesn’t matter a Herald telegram
what Coglll sings or says or does. He only wants
to come on—his face’ll do the rest. As an example
of what he can do, we may mention that, in the
front seats of the stalls, we counted five inm&tes
of the Deaf and Dumb Asylum who’d received
free admission. We must protest against such
mistaken kindness. When Cogill came on, belting
the drum in the “ Cadets,” lit was paintul to be
obliged to sit and witness the contortions made by
these poor patients to express their views. They
first tried their hands, but ’twould take2o fingers on
each hand to convey what they thought. As it w as,
each digit seemed to have a severe attack of St.
Vitus’ dance. This was bad enough, but there
was worse behind. It was when the brothers
Cogill came on as “ Leaders of Fashion.” Then
Billy Emerson showed up and finished them.
When he’d done the appearance of these afflicted
unfortunates was pitiable. In their efforts to say
something their features became twisted like the
strands in the splice on a rope. It was a painful
exhibition, and, in the interests of public morals,
we trust it will not be repeated. Only to deaf and
dumb people who are also blind, should admission
be given.
The Town of Quetta.
WHERE THE ANGLO-INDIA ARMIES ARE CONCENTRATING.
We forget how many encores “ Billy” and
Cogill got, but we never remember to have heard
such yells for “ more.” The “ Napoleon” had to
come on and caper till his boots showed signs of
distress, and his toes were just beginning to bud
through the uppers. And they were quite as bad
with Cogill. Above us in the gallery was a sailor-
looking man with his coat off and his shirt-sleeves
rolled up to his elbows. He had a fist like a ham
and a voice like a blow-hole. Above the applause
of the pit could be heard this mariner’s deep
diapason, stating that he’d bring his bed and stay
till church time next day if the i wo artists named
would only remain on. Stanley and Pixley were
very good. So were Walsh and King. We, our-
selves, don’t care particularly about dancing—
perhaps because one leg is five inches shorter than
the other—but others do, and with them the latter
are great favourites.
. • m *
The whole affair wound up with a farce,
“Tou’ll find him out.” As a rule, when the fag-
end farce comes in at “nigger” entertainment
you see most of the middle-aged, respectably-
dressed people make for the door. It was not so
on Saturday. All seats were shepherded to the
last. This was because the affair had more fun
and less stupiolty than usual, and partly oecause
Cogil), Stanley, and Pixley were in it. The last
two were good, but-sainted Sardanapalus I— to see
Henry P.! and to hear the constant fire of com-
ments made on his ‘raug’ and general get-up I There
is one thing about “Billy’s” “crush” that we’ve
not mentioned before. Their jokes are good, and,
with one or two exceptions—new. Tnat is, new to
Australians. The same programme will run dur-
ing the week.
•* * •
Next to the appearance of the “saved”
on the repentant form at a Salvation Army meet-
ing was that of the Opera House during the week.
It was sombre and lugubrious—suggestive of sack-
cloth and sadness. Mentioning the “Arrays
doings, reminds us that we attended one in Crown-
street, Woolloomooloo, the other night, saw the
penitents ranged in a tearful row on a bare form,
and thought that, if the “saved ” looked anything
like that, how deliriously joyful it must be to be
damned. There’s no blinking the fact that, for
some reason or combination of reasons, Miss Lewis
hss not drawn. If monetary success is the mea-
sure of talent, then, so far as Sydney is concerned,
she is not talented. But big houses no more spell
genius (in all cases) than empty ones mean incapa-
city. We’ve often made one of the most enthusiastic
)n a packed house during “Romeo and Juliet,
when the apothecary had to go off with a gay exit,
gnd a leg of mutton in the distance, while Romeo
brought the house down by beating Tybalt jump-
ing In sacks. Yes, and we saw Charles Matthews
Play to a tipsy bailiff in the Sandhurst dress circle,
and a club-footed cnarity boy chewing sugar-stick
in the pit. “ A Scrap of Paper ” is still running or
crawling at the Opera House. We’ve already said
ftbat we thick about it. It is slow— unmistakably
slow. And this fact alone is sufficient to crush any
piece. Said one of the leading' actors to us the
other night, It] Is] a delightful thing—a bijou—fit,
in many respects, to sit alongside the ‘School; for
Scandal, j It may he—and still it’s slow. And, be-
sides, just as writers are by no means the best
judges of their own work, so the opinions of even
the most eminent actors on the pieces in which
they play are not always to be depended upon.
** * m
Considering the length of his season, and
the rival shows he has to run against, it is wonder-
ful how people roll up to Hiscocks’. One thing we
discovered there the other night—that Warner is
ever so much better than we thought at first. The
oddest thing connected with the “ perfesh,” is
that they constantly choose things that don’t do
them justice, and in which they don’t appear to
advantage. A man gets it in his head that he can
edit a paper, or write poetry, or play a particular
part, and nothing but a stick of dynamite will
open his eyes. When we first heard Warner (we
suppose ’tis the same man) ’twas in a thing called
“It's only what I’ve been told, you know,” or
something like that, which had a sort of spoken
refrain. For nights we listened to this, and saw
the audience, when the first feeling of surprise
wore off, look round for something to throw.
When we heard him on Friday, we found that he
hadn’t a bad voice by any means, and could bang
the tambourine in capital style.
• * *
But when fun is wanted all eyes turn to
Keenan and Bent as naturally as .a navvy starts
home to wallop his wife when his money's gone
and he requires a little enjoyment. They, we
fancy, are the “artists” who have chiefly suc-
ceeded in keeping the pot boiling over for nearly a
year. Of course, in the whole crowd of them, with
all their Liedertafels and Philharmonics in Aus-
tralia thrown in, there’s no voice to equal A mery’s.
That we’ve said all along. Braham is not giving
us any “ solos” now. What’s up ? Shaky top-
notes, ingrowing toe-nail or what ? The best
thing we heard Beaumont Read sing lately was
“ Touch the harp gently.” But remember what a
sweet song it is. The man who couldn’t sing that
should be ostracised. We sang it once in a three-
penny bar in Bathurst-street. Wo were ostracised.
There wasn’t a pint-pot in the place that wasn’t
coming our way after the first line. We spent six
weeks in the hospital over that song, so it’s no
wonder we love it. Though we were so anxious
to “touch the harp gently” the corporation
labourers in the bar seemed equally anxious to
see what was inside us—where the voice was
coming from.
« • *
Hiscocks’ rapparees wind up with “ Pin-a-
I”—a burlesque opera, specially localised and with
new and original costumes. In this piece there is
a good deal of all-round originality. The shark
that partially swallows Horace Bent, for instance,
is an entirely new conception. If you could only
make sure that ’twas Horace who wrote or local-
ised the opera, you’d probably regret that the fish
didn’t succeed in wholly destroying him and as
many more of the performers as he could stow
away without inconveniencing himself. In this
gorgeous production, “ Rackstraw ” becomes
•‘Cornstalk,” and “Corcoran,” “Cork all o’er
’em.” These are but slight specimens of the keen
irony that runs through the piece.
** * *
In the “ Parvenu,” produced at the Royal
on Tuesday, for the first time in Sydney, we get a
broken-down Baronet, proud of the title attained
by his ancestors, owing to the rise in the price of
young females at Charles’ Court; a couple of
young ladies! anxious to get married tolpaupers:
an elderly lady who knows a lot better; a nouveau
riche, an artisc, a sporting youth intended for the
Church, a boatman, and a buttons. In the alembic
of G. W. Godfrey (the author) one would think
that an interesting product might be obtained
from these materials. Such is not the case. About
the characters there is not the least novelty. They
are as stereotyped as marionettes. The old males
go for the “sugar” and the young ones for the
women, just as they did before the flood came and
swept off sons of God and daughters of men indis-
criminately.
♦ * *
Sir Fulke Pettigrew (Mr. Titheradge) is the
Baronet. Backing “ stiff ’uns ” and buying dia-
mond bracelets for retiring females have reduced
his once broad lands to the size of a circus ring.
On that there were but two trees, with a mortgage
oa each. He had one daughter (Miss Mortyne) a
charming girl, who probably reads Mrs. Hemans
when at home, and “ Boccaccio ” when she
goes for a walk by herself. On this “kid” old
Pettigrew and his wife (Miss Mayor) depend
to pull them through by marrying her to a neigh-
bour (Mr. Redwood), a rich widower. She is 17,
and he is 51. Her cheque is not good for a paper
of pins, while his would cause a meeting of direc-
tors of the Bank of England. Only a few years
before he’d started with £OO, but, by a judicious
fire or bankruptcy, and a succession of joint-stock
companies—all of which burst-he became a mil-
lionaire, went into Parliament, and wisely held his
tongue there for seven years. Still, his heart was
in the right place. So was his money. He wore
“loud” clothes, dropped his “h’s,” and gave ex-
pression to sentiments that would shock Tom
Walker. But his suit is unsuccessful, mainly
because a young artist (Mr. Flemming) comes
along and cuts him out.
.• • •
The chief defects we noticed in this artist
was that he was clean and hadn’t long hair, nor a
velvet coat with 18 pockets. Mr. Flemming will
have to look to this. Art la long. But he makes
up for these drawbacks by coming in a boat and
bringing his traps for sketching. These consist of
an easel and things bound with a hawser. He left
thp whjte-wash bucket and brush in the boat, lie
•
| is just in time to see a tramp insult the Baronet's
daughter, Miss Pettigrew, by asking her for a
“ chaw o' terbakker,” or something. Young
Glynne (the artist) had studied under Tom Sayers,
and, we belie vo, the pu 1 verlsed frame of that tramp
is still lying in the adjacent ditch. What could
young and good-looking people do under such
circumstances, but fall desperately in love. She
introduces him to her parents as one who had
saved her from outrage. But the old woman was
up to many wrinkles, and wasn’t going to let
Ledger (the rich pa) venu ) slip through her Ungers.
She snubbed Glynne—never asked him to lunch,
although you could see he was hungry, and carried
on in a highly unpleasant fashion till a letter from
a lady friend informed her that Lord A.—a sim-
pleton worth £BO,OOO a year—was in the Pettigrew
neighbourhood. Then Lady P,, with the pene-
tration of her sex, jumped to the conclusion that
the artist and the Lord were Identical.
Old Ledger is at once given hie conge, and
it is here that he makes use of his fieriest language.
He will foreclose the mortgage, and “ bust-up ”
the whole “bllin”’ of the beggars. He doesn’t.
Better thoughts prevail, for his heart was soft,
except when there was a new company to 6e
engineered. There was a deal of love-making in
the piece. Annie Mayor, as Mary Ledger, made
love to Hans Phillips (a youth who was studying
for the church and running broken-down
screws ”) in a way that left Hans little to do but
think. Miss Pettigrew, on the other hand, had to
be wooed in the orthodox fashion man’s
right arm round her waist, and her left
over his shoulder. All the love-making was done
before the audience, and kept the three men-’o-
war'E-men and ladies who crowded the gallery in
a state of excited watchfulness. When the mutual
pledges ended with a mild kiss on the ear those
mariners looked at their corap >nions and laughed
contemptuously. During this billing and cooing,
many rotund ladies walked out of the circle, and
the bars outside were swarming with old bachelors
who slunk out till ’twas all over, and fell like
hyaenas on the lettuce and sandwiches.
* ♦ ♦
In the “ Parvenu” are many sentiments
as beautiful as those to which Joseph Surface
gave expression. The superiority of lowly birth
bracketed with virtue, to wealth and pride, was
constantly insisted on. The young girls, as we
said, were infatuated with the wish to marry
paupers and the young men beggars. We know
how true this is to lile, and we also know that
there’s nothing so maddeningly jolly as for a
young couple to have porridge for breakfast and
a bailiff in the next room. Is it strange that the
*‘ Parvenu” is put on ? Marvellous I
** * *
Aleck Andrews (poor Bill’s brother) is in
town again, after a 13 month,’ successful trip
through all the colonies. He started as low come-
dian with Buckley's Hibernicon, and returns with
a bass voice of a depth and capacity that would
have made Lablache give up singing and run an
oyster shop.
** * *
Miss Juno was last heard of from Mary-
borough (Q ), where she was playing in a new
piece—“ The Bonnie Fishwife.” Rum-tl-tum-tum.
The local paper says that Mr. Forbes was “not to
be commended as the Dougai Cratur ” (sic). Also
(in the “ Colleen Baun ” (sic)) “ Messrs. Russell and
Forbes sustained their respective parts as Danny
Man and Father Tom with proper emphasis.” A
country writer is nothing if not original Some
London papers call Lord Lytton’s lately produced
play of “Junius,” uninteresting and tiresome, and
that more could be dono by “a few magic-lantern
slides and a lecture.” Another says it is “ full of
dignity, directness, and strong dramatic fibre.” A
third that it is old-fashioned, thin in action, con-
ventional in treatment. A fourth that it “ has
added a noble play to the repertory of the modern
stage.” And so on for pages. We should like
to measure some of these critics’ heads From
Townsville (Q.) we hear of the M'Lean Comedy and
Burlesque Company in •* Struck Oil.” The School
of Arts was crowded, and brought down—some
bananas and other tropical fruits finding their
way to the stage. Miss Fox, according to the
local journal, was “an immense success,” espe-
cially ia ** the sand jig and • Kaiser, do you want to
buy a dog ?’ ” All the other “ push” came in for
praise except Mr. S. M'Lean, who must have deaa
with the opposite “ rag” for bill-sticking and
printing, and so gets put off with “ Mr. M'Lean
slightly overdid the part of Deacon Skinner.”
“ General” Booth’s daughter Agnes (the lamb) is
about to start in the “ biz.” with a sacred piece
and a company of women. A detachment of beef-
eaters is to keep guard over the green-room, and
no officers of the “ Blues” are to be allowed In any
part of the house.


PEPPER AMD SALT.
The Australian clerieal journals are be-
coming very giddy and frivolous indeed. The
Rome correspondent of the R.C. Arcbiepiscopa l
organ, the Express, informs us th-J.t “ Louis XIV.
was as powerless as Tertulllan to discourage
fashions.” Just so. The Sydney hierarchlal organ
is not only equally helpless to check the crazs for
extravagant female finery, but it actually panders
to it, and puts our top-shelf society ladies up to
wrinkles calculated to make the musty old holy
fathers of Tertulllan’s time roll over In their
graves in agony, horror, and righteous indigna-
tion. The Express’ Rome correspondent tells us
that In Pope Urban’s day vermllllon of lead was
about the only face-improver known, and
the use of It was denounced by the Church
as “an insolent pretension to correct the
work of God but here we have Dr. Moran’s
special mouthpiece coolly informing 1 our girls
that “the only powder not fashionable to-day
is rice,” and then U goes on to describe
every article of female finery, from the dainty
little hotline right up to the spring hat, which we
are told is “ now worn taller than ever; the
scaffolding being more ascensional.” Like“mobled
queen,” ascensional is good, and was probably
suggested by the fact of last Thursday being As-
cension Day; but anyhow, hats are evidently the
strong point of this giddy old Papal Journal’s
toilette knowledge. For Instance; the B«Sbe, our
spiritual adviser says, “looks well in cream-
coloured woollen lace; the Danae is best in gold
tulle and black lace,” but what ropes our fancy
most is the valuable information that “ A hat can
impart a fresh look to a toilette by rejuvenating
and imparting to it gaiety.” Think of that, y e
girls of 75! Ye may foot it round to the
Cathedral, and take advice of your ghostly father
as to the correct angle of your Danae or the
proper elevation of your Bdbe. So long as the
hierarchical Journal confined Itself to the hat
question, the scandal was not so grave, but we
must deeply and publicly deplore the air of regret
with which our clerical costume-censor observes
that “at Lenten balls, low-bodied dresses are
worn; the corsage is demi-open, and the shoulders
covered with a veil of gauze, tulle, or lace.’’
Malediction on those envious, tantalizing veils, for
'ARRY ON THE CHINESE QUESTION.
Dear Charlie, I sends yer a paper.
Just twig where•l’vo’put a red mark—
It’s a’speech on'the new Chinee caper
They’re all fpoutlng about In the Park.
SCch larks as we’re 'avlrg, old chap,
I wish yer could Jine in the fun,
For the Jokes seem to fall a bit flat
Without some kongenial chum.
Tbat makes stoning Chlnkees a crime,
And you bet they’d soon drop to the fact
And clear to some pleasanter clime.
Yah I bah I these ’ere nobs they all spout
Of the evils these heathens Import,
And then if we gives one a clout
We’re collared and dragged up to Court.
It’s getting quite serious, old man;
Brown said at the Statue last week,
" If we don’t quickly hit on a plan
The Chinks will take charge of our fleet.”
But that wouldn’t be much of a cop;
"Wolf! Wolf!”
YOUTH with hardware “LOOK HERE ; YOU’VE KEPT ME LUGGING THIS AROUND FOR THE PAST MONTH, AND ALL FOR NOTHING. NOW AS YOU COULDN'T
POSSIBLY BAWL ANY LOUDER, HOW AM I TO KNOW WHEN A REAL DANGER ARRIVES?”
I could always depend on your shot,
And so could old hell-fire Cox,
For he used to look round for yer dot
The moment he stepped on his box;
But I’ve left that old faker alone
Since his patter don’t Interest me,
And Fm not a good shot with a stone
▲t seoh bloomin’ old sbadders as he.
"Brown, Miller, and Co. is my dart.
For I’m nuts on this ’ere Chinese question,
And we’d very soon give ’em a start
If they’d Just foller out my sergestion.
And that is to abolish the Act
In fact, it would be a good scheme
If we packed off the ’ole blessed lot
For a cruise in the old Wolverene.
Lord I we’d never regret what she’s cost.
That is, if she didn’t come back;
If she did—well, she’d still be a frost.
But I don’t think there’s much chance of that.
For we’d get all the parsons together.
From Peter to old Bishop Barry,
And reel off a prayer for bad weather
And success to yours, bobbishly,
’ ARRY.


we hold with Congreve, as he sang to his lady
love:—
“ If snowy white your neck, you still should wear
That, and the shoulder of the left arm, bare;
Such sights ne’er fail to fill my am’rous heart,
And make me pant to kiss the naked part.”
Libera nos a malo! See into what a frisky mood
we have grown, simply by reading a few limsin
our boss religious journal. Oh, Dr. Mo-ran, how
can you permit such deludhrlng devilry to be cast
in the path of persons so prone to evil ? Stop our
paper at once—we’ll no more of such a seductive
article, for, as St. Jerome said of Catullus’ nice,
but naughty work, “there’s a very devil in it.”
• • *
“The electors of Macleay are about to
entertain their member, Mr. R. Burdett Smith, on
a scale as magnificent 111] as, perhaps, has ever been
done before by any constituency to its representa.
tlve. Altogether, the hon. member will be enter-
tained a clo*en times at banquets or luncheons [ll]
Mr. Smith has arranged to leave Sydney on Mon-
day for Kempsey. There he will be banqueted on
Thursday. His programme then will be visits to
Kinchela, Frederickton, Boraville, Fernmount,
Boat Harbour, Raleigh, Nambuccra Heads, Nam-
buccra, Smithton, Lower Macleay, and Gladstone.
The tour will occupy nearly three week*.”—
Our measure of woe, It seemed fairly complete
When we learned that “ourboys” had complained
of the heat;
And now, proving trouble comes never by halves,
"oc r Lambie is wounded In one of his calves.
be the cause amongst our readers (including the
Very R.) of some comment.— Ed. B.]
Avauntl O Robert Burdett Smith!
The last time we forgave you;
But do not think that once again
Your beauty, Bob, will save you I
Nor those seductive tones which seem
More rhythmical than Byron—
The fact Is, Cupid—bend your ear—
We’re “ Jack about the siren.”
Why should you be reported free
When “ greasing down ” a rustic ?
If we want some of your dull law
You will not, Bob, give us tick.
It is because you make us blush
That we now turn reprover;
(He once came charging down on us
Armed with an umbereller).
Go ’way! we’re weary, weary of
These little dull deceptions I
What are to ue, you little mind,
Tour coaohing-house “ reception
When of the Mayor and you we read-
indignant we declare, too,—
We Just anathem’tlse “
Then straightway cuss the Mayor, too.
We don’t want to be churlish, for
Our nature’s to be merry;
And we’ve a kind of rev’renco for
The head of Scantlebury !
We don’t want to let down our foot
(It hurts. If you but knew it I)
So—have a little proper pride,
jLnd, Bob ! don t overdo it!
Hot as Egypt’s sun is burning,
Your son’s burning hotter still.
Fame’s bright ladder men have sung oV—
’Tis a wretched phantom thing
I have never gained one rung of.
Why does hope delusive spring
In our hearts ? I dreamt of climbing
To a dizzy height of bliss,
But my strength (excuse the rhyming)
Couldn’t stand a clime like this.
Tell the neighbours what I’ve told ytr—
Make it known to everyone
How you had a son a soldier,
And how Dailey sold per son.
Let them know my doleful story,
All Serene!
THE KISS OF PEACE, AND NOT THE HUG OF WAR (?)
(With Compliments to FUNNY FOLKS.)
NOW, MIND!
[The following stanzas have been Inspired by a
Smithical par. (we can always detect them) in the
Penny Rum of Monday. Sufficient of it is quoted
to advance a reason for Hoes of even Churchllllan
Severity. Our mildness .vill, therefore, nc doubt,
It has so sick, sir, grown with age,
“The R. B. Smith manoeuvre I”
Some letters say you killed old Dease
(We know the cove that has’m);
You pressed his hand and then he died
In one ecstatic spasm I
Yet when he used to call in town—
Ob, Bob, you are a rum bug—
You’d say, “ Ob, let him wait all day.
The fossilised old humbug!”
We’ve seen him wait the whole day through
(’Twas very cold then, look you),
While waiting eat a mutton pie
(At Kempsey this will cook you I)
The fascination was on him—
Poor antiquated feller I
A LETTER FROM EGYPT.
(BY A SICK WARRIOR)
Mother, dear, my limbs ere aching,
Sickness sore has laid me low;
Love of life is fast forsaking
One, who, but a while ago,
Gaily spoke of glory gaining
As you wept. Ah, foolish lad I
Little did I think campaigning
Ever brought camp pain so bad.
Ma, the echoes of your sobbing
Ring reproaching in my ear,
Now my fevered brain is throbbing
And the end is drawing near;
In my little bed I’m turning.
Like a steak upon tbe gi i 1—
So a warning It. may be-v
How I had to fto.tovglory
Ere it ever came to me..
Good-byo, mother, for the rattle
Warns me that my course is run?
With King Death I’ve had one battle.
But—the enemy has won.
Try to comfort cousin Eva,
Tell her she'd have been my bride
It I hadn’t fought the fever
And, like gallant soldier, died.


BEALE & COMPANY
BEALE and COMPANY,
Sole Importers of the
SWEET HAPSBURG PIANOS.
BEALE and COMPANY,
Sole Importers of the
HAYDN ORGANS.
BEALE and COMPANY,
Sole Importers of the
WONDERFUL WERTHEIM SEWING MACHINE.
BEALE and COMPANY hold the highest Tes-
timonials in the trade from the most distin-
guished Musicians this country has seen, and they
will be happy to exhibit the same to intending
purchasers.
BEALE AND COMPANY.
for
PIANOS,
ORGANS,
HARMONIUMS,
SEWING MACHINES,
Sydney Show Rooms:
386 GEORGE STREET.
13 CENTRAL MARKETS.
613 GEORGE STREET.
151 OXFORD STREET.
Branches and Travellers throughout the Colony^
L’BERAL TERMS OF TIME-PAYMENT.
BRIEF MENTION.
Australian Contingent, or Cantingent, or
Canteengent—which 7
Motto for the Contingent’s medal“ We
went, we seen, and we wos jelly glad to come
back.” ,
“ Resuscitation after supposed execution ”
is an article which has lately appeared in every
N.S.W. provincial paper. It gives hope to the
gloomy country editor.
■ x lt is understood that there was only one
thing in connection with the N.S.W. Contingent
that Lord Wolseley did not inspect. That was the
“prog” list.
From the Maitland Mayor The re-
port which was not compiled by us was Inacurate.”
Yes, so is this spelling. However, as it may have
been “ in a curate” we parson.
From the Evening Ooze : “ The young man
who always finds something good in the newspaper
is he who carries bis lunch wrapped up in it.” We
once saw something good in the News.
An awful printer’s error.—A Melbourne
weekly, quoting the other day from" Women of
theTlme ft (a Boston publication), made it read:
“ We learn from ‘ Women of the Town,’ ” &o.
It is officially denied at the Colonial Secre-
tary’s office that in one of Ollivler Pain’s communi-
cations to his journal in Paris, he reveals the fact
that the Mahdi is none other than Hanley Bennett.
Strange to say, since “Cupid” started on
his tour of triumph, the advertisement—" Wanted
a gentleman, of good address, to travel with soap
in a country district”—has no longer appeared in
the Herald.
An English astrologer, we read, has pre-
dicted the death this year of “ the foremost Aus-
tralian statesman.” Let us sobbingly drop a
water-melon-sized tear on the ready-made grave
of Burdett Smith.
Here is an item for Darwin. The Sydney
Hospital Board have decided that Miss Osborne
shall be called “ Matron” and not Lady Superin-
tendent of Nurses. But what’s in a name 7 Miss
Osborne is not a matron.
Professor Hyland, the horse-tamer, has
been riding wild bullocks at West Maitland. The
wild bullock off which we dined at our boarding-
house yesterday had evidently been ridden to
death by this Hyland man.
Captain Des Voeux (“who has seen active
service ”) addressing the Queensland men :
“ Soldiers 1 at 10 o’clock to-morrow night there
will be an alarm. But you will please understand
that it is to be * totally unexpected.’ ”
Says the Kapunda Herald :—“ Tomatoes.
—From Mr. J. H. Castle we have received some
fine tomatoes. Two of them turn the scale at a
pound and a quarter.” The editor’s modesty for-
bids hims to tell the truth, and speak of the toma-
toes in the past tense.
They’re getting a bit pensive about their
drill-instructor in a marine suburb. On the fourth
day, when all expected he would do credit to his
reputation, he merely said: “Heyes right—heyes
left—as you wos.” And then ran away to the
public-house for the book.
We have read a recent week’s statement
of imports to Cairns, N.Q., but we don’t see any
brandy mentioned. Fifty cases of kerosene are
on the list, however. When the Northern publi-
can has “ put it through” it bites all the way
down just like the real article.
The nearest the Herald’s “Stella” can
get to the name of the American diva, Mademoi-
selle vanZandt, Is “Von Laudt.” And this is not
the only sign about “Stella’s” correspondence
which makes us Incline to the belief that she has
“ been at the eau de cologne ” again.
A country editor remarks that “ the effec-
tiveness of Australian horsemen as irregular
cavalry is certain. Look at the Kellys. We have
thousands of men in the bush like the Kellys.”
Humph I We advise the police department to
inspect the list of subscribers to this editor’s
paper.
Out at Watson’s Bay. Officer (to awkward
squad): “Fours to the right—mark time-fire!
Hold on, though,” he said, when he saw the regi-
ment tied in a knot; “ I turned over two pages at
once, gentlemen. Hem! Quick march!” And
awav went the army straight in the direction of
the Gap.
The report of the Royal Commission on
Asylums for the Insane in Victoria seems to assert
that several imbeciles are still at large. Tbe Ten-
der Board accepted a tender for straw hats worth
6s. per dozen from a man who generously offered
thorn at 375. They were soft enough to be a very
tender board.
“Three-fifths of the Contingent have
volunteered for India,” she read; “the rest will,
therefore, return to the colony.” She didn’t want
to peruse any more, but, going to an old box, took
out a battered tin teapot and a lot of iron panni-
kins; then, going out into the yard, she dug a big
hole and buried all the new crockery.
Now that the Rev. Zachary Barry, L.L.D.,
of St. Mathew’s, writes to the Herald that he
has now to fall back upon his tanks, although he is
charged for Corporationlwater all the same, wo
recommend the man who Is sent to collect the
rev. gentleman’s municipal rate to put galvanized
iron under his singlet, and to keep his vizor down.
Prom the Lismore Chronicle :—“ Correc-
tion.—We would remind the editor of our local
contemporary that the past participle of the verb
drink is drunk, or in earlier English drunken, not
drank as he persistently calls it in bis report of the
Ministerial reception.” It is only the country
scribe who can conjugate drink. He conjugates ft
with a tumbler.
How times change ! Why it was only the
other day that “patriotic ” songs and music had a
distinct market value. Yet now if Charles Huen-
erbeln. Esq., were to play “ Our Brave Boys to the
Front” (or whatever it is) in public, somebody
would throw a oat at him; while a dray-load of
“ patriotic” lyrics would hardly fetch as much, on
the day we writs, as the autograph of Lewis Scott!
“The approaching marriage of a well-
known clergyman in Ballarat with a young lady
resident in Melbourne, is causing a mild excite-
ment. The age of the bridegroom is said to be 58
years, and the bride 38." So many elderly saints
have been following in the same track lately that
it’s quite plain that conventional “piety and
clerical amorousness are but different phases of
tbe same emotion.
Dr. Moran, R.C. Archbishop of Sydney,
tells us that “ all the evidences of Scripture go to
show that so far from commanding men to drink
wine, as was often said, God bad in an especial
manner favoured those who denied themselves
and practised total abstinence.” And yet the Rome
correspondent of the Archbishop’s own paper, the
Express, assures us that tbe Pope polishes off a
bottle of good old Bordeaux after dinner every
day. And as he is noted for being a most ascetic
man, what must the different Padre Buontem-
ponls who are out of his sight do when they play
their little games of euchre and “ crib” until the
“ matin bell ushers the holy hour.”
The Harmy is doing good biz. in Mel-
bourne just now, through the medium of some
rather taking Hallelujah lassies, who waylay the
Coillns-street strollers and demand “ a little six-
pence for your fallen sisters.” “ What are fallen
sisters?” say the peripatetic infidels. “Go along
with you,” say the little angels in big bonnets o’
blue, “ you know what they are, your fallen
sisters off the street, if you want it straight.”
Then the supplicant and the supplicated look into
one another’s eyes, and the Inevitable “ tanner” Is
forthcoming. It’s a good game, and If threepence
out of the sixpence does go towards “ expenses”—
well, what matters 7 For Instance, the society for
the conversion of the Jews is a good evangelical
Institution ; yet a man who once upon a time put
a sovereign into the little plate, irreverently
said—“ There’s a shilling to convert the Jews in
Jerusalem and nineteen shilling to got it there.”
At Reefton, N.Z., “ a man backed himself
to drink a gallon of beer at a single draught. The
beer was measured out into a basin, and the man,
having loosened all his tackle, turned the beer on.
Incredible as it may seem, the fellow drank it all
but about a cupful, but this effectually hitched
him up, and so he lost the wager.” What a pity
that a man with so big a heart shouldn’t have
owned a bigger bingey 1
Mr. William Cody, a licensed victualler of
Melbourne, and a volunteer of Victoria, is, at the
present moment, sorely vexed in his spirit. Thus-
wise did he unburden his soul to the Mayor of
Col ling wood“ The Licensing Act says that I can-
not be more than 48 hours absent from my licensed
house without permission. I may be called away
at any moment, and I might not then have an
opportunity to ask permission to be absent. In
what position shall I be placed if I am called upon
to go down to the Heads to fight the Russians 7 ”
“ What do you want for the rent of that
seven-roomer 7 ” said a man, recently to a Tam-
worth house-proprietor. “ Threepence, weekly,”
was the reply. “Dearmel” said the proposed
lessee; “ may I ask the reason of this extremely
moderate rental?” The landlord looked darkly
in the direction of Peel-street; then taking a
newspaper from his pocket, pointed to a marked
paragraph. It ran asfoliows:—“ An amateur min-
strel troupe has been formed in Tamworth, for
the purpose of giving entertainments during the
winter months.”
From the Herberton Advertiser “ Luke
Tierney.—This Individual, who was recently con-
victed and sentenced at Tenterfleld for a common
assault upon Bridget Tierney, from which she
died, has been discharged by a full Court, it having
been decided that the information upon which he
was tried, that of ‘inflicting grievous bodily barm
with intent,’ is a felony, while the jury’s verdict of
common assault was only a misdemeanour, which
circumstance appears to have been overlooked by
both Judge and Counsel.” The far North must
indeed be a highly moral place, when an informa-
tion is reckoned a felony, and a jury’s verdict
becomes a misdemeanour. An acquittal weuld
probably be sufficient to wall a man up for the
whole of his natural life.
We admire the
style in which the C. of
B. Discord mingles
principle and pecuniary
considerations. The
body of the paper con-
tains eloquent temper-
ance articles, the covers
display invitations to a
South Coast pub. “Ye
cannot serve God and
Mammon.” That was
all very well before
the world invented
Commercial Phil a n-
thropy.
A Polynesian girl
at Maryborough (Q.) In
answer to questions
put to her in court to
ascertain her reliability
as a witness, said “she
knew that it she did not
tell the truth, she would
be sent to the bad
place ; ” by the bad
place she meant the
lock-up. New South
Wales children know
better than that ; if
asked to name the “ bad
place,” anyone of them
would immediately an-
swer “Parliament,” or
“Maryborough,Queens-
land,”
Queer ideas they
have about lots of
things at Parramatta.
A girl up there, feeing
charged with vagrancy, '
called a witness to 1
certify to her character.
This gentleman, a sur- 1
veyor, deposed that he
“ known defendant for
10 months; he had met
her as she came out of
gaol. He interested
himself in her behalf
because he had a liking
for her. They lived
together as man and
wife for three months.”
But even this high testi-
mony did not satisfy the
magistrates. They sent
her up for three
months.
The British Palla-
dium is unwell at Hay.
After carefully con-
sidering the evidence
given at an inquest re-
cently held at May, the
twelve good men and
true rounded up de-
clare—“ We are of
opinion that the fire
was the act of an in-
cendiary, but whether
wilfully or accidentally
there is no evidence to
show.” The sooner
those donkeys captured
by our heroes In the
Soudan are sent over
here as intelligent jury-
men the better it will
be for the mainstay of
Magna Charta and the
British Constitution.
“Cut of 41 offers to form volunteer corps
in the country, 14 have been accepted, 36 are under
consideration, and one has been rejected.” That
rejected was the Bowbooble Creek one. Only two
volunteered the b'acksmlth and the pound-
keeper, and both applied for the post of captain,
the uniform and accoutrements to be found by
the Goverment. The constabulary reported
against the former, anyhow He said whenever
he took the blacksmith down to the county gaol to
do his little seven days, or what not. he coosidered
it wanted one spring cart for the prisoner, and a
waggon for his hiccup.
In a notice of the “Gordon Memorial
Waltzes ” [ 111], the Market-street organ commends
some verses written to the air, of which the follow-
ing is a sample:
“ And Australia fair 'twas done well
That no lingerer wert thou ;
Patriots ne’er can deem it unwell
Thus to make a loyal vow.”
To The Author.
This stanza’s satisfactory,
For don’t you see we find
Just in its utt<?r shoddy, the
Impressions of your mind.
The sacred majesty of Justice has recently
been stood on its head and laughed to scorn down
Adelaide way, and the matter happened thus:—A
South Australian magistrate, who is the perfec-
tion of dignity on the Ranch, and the pink of pro-
priety off it, was examining a rather frivolous-
looking young damsel who sported a pair of
diamond ear-rings, and. was evidently of that
order of female which thinks that spangles cover
dirt. Among other things, the Stipendiary Solon
asked “ What is your name 7” " Susie Perkins,
sir,” replied the frisky maid. “ And where do you
live?” thundered the Judge. Upon which the
giddy girl threw a loving glance at his Washup,
sweet enough to coax a sparrow down off a fence,
and said: “Ah! what's th' use of telling a steady
ole fellow like you? You’d never step round an’
crack a bottle o’ fizz with me, would you 7” Then
a mighty silence, like unto that which follows a
request for a 55.-loan until next Saturday, came
down and filled the Court with a nameless awe
that made even the police boots curl up with fear
and horror.
There is a legend that four or five years
ago the Illawarra Mercury contained (amongst
others) the following a3:—
“ CTRAYBD into our premises a Goat.
w This advertisement will not appear
again.”
No more it ever did I And by a course of unfailing
industry and continuous sobriety, that goat has
brought the Mercury to its present proud posi-
tion in the world of literature. Why, if the adver-
tisement had appeared again, it is possible that the
journal in question would hardly, by now, have
even attained to the circulation of the Glasgow
Herald; also a provincial paper. And what a
loss that would have been I
A magnificent generaliser is the editor
of Truth, who, on March 33, penned this:—
“I sincerely hope that the proposed Boys’
Memorial to Gordon will como to nothing.
When a boy writes to the local Mayor or
other public character and says, ‘Please, Lord
Mayor, I am only a little boy, but I would
like to give ll%d. for this, that, or the other,’ that
boy ought to be taken from his parents, who are !
corrupting his young mind with humbug, and,
having been first severely spanked, sent to a re-
formatory. Heaven knows there is humbug
enough in the world without manufacturing it in
the nursery and the schoolroom.” And yet that
snarling critic, Labouchere, had never heard of
the Little Qoy at Manly 1
Journalistic amenities are still in full blast
up North, as can be plainly seen from the follow-
ing first-class notice the editor of the Bundaberg
Mail gives the “ beggar opposite ” who runs the
Star. They met at a fancy ball, it seems, and
what the Mail man subsequently wrote was this:
—“ Nothing occurred within the hall to mar the
pleasantness of the evening, the obtrusive lush-
wallower being an individual with a patch over
his eye, and who gained admittance as ‘ Star re-
porter.’ Ot course he was sailing under false
colours, and when he wanted to compute the num-
ber of gallons the building would hold according
to measurement, he was handed out.” Now, then,
sweet shining Star, shoot out thy lurid beams and
frizzle the Mail mauler up like an old India-
rubber goloshe on a hot stove.
The Adelong Argus
ladling out jam to a
coach - driver on the
Cootamundra line, calls
“the modern Jehu.”
This is a £30,000 libel.
Jehu was noted for
driving furiously. Per-
haps, though, the A. A.
only means that ho does
his Jehu-ty.
The prospectus of
the Pacific Oyster Culti-
vation and Fishing
Company just Issued.
The capital is to be
£30,000, and the pro-
moters propose to em-
ploy this in oyster
culture, as well as
dredging. The word
Pacific seems to us un-
necessary-oysters are
, never anything else.
The Wide Bay
and Burnett News, a
journal which some-
times contains some
eloquent pars, com
mencing with, “ What
is this disease that is
coming upon us 7 ”
“Notice is hereby
given,” and “ Our dress
department will be
found,” corrects a n
error in a former issue,
and states that “ £l5
per thousand gallons
should have read £l5
per ton.” Strange that
gallons should have
been written instead of
tons. But then some
people think as much
of gallons as the miner
does of quartz. Out of
the heat of the coppers
the mouth speaketh.
A Westminster
magistrate expressed
doubts as to the sanity
of an Evangelist, be-
cause while exhorting
his flock the preacher
would suddenly stop,
spin a coin, and then
proceed with his dis-
course. This is nothing.
We have seen an Evan-
gelist (are you there,
Peter 7) stop short In the
middle of a prayer,
when he saw the con-
gregation becoming
small by degrees, and
anything but beauti-
fully less, take the bat
round, and, returning
without a solitary coin,
entreat the Almighty
to fergive his people
their sinful meanness
in the past, and open
their hearts that they
might shell out more
liberally in future. Oh I
yes, our Evangelist
could give points to the
London coin - spinner.
Then, too, the London
man has never been
married—our Evange-
list has.
Seventy-six typhoid patients at Little Bay.
One case of small pox would put Sydney in terror,
but people get used to typhoid. By the way, it is
related that during the last small-pox scare, a
Jewish gentleman was put into quarantine. He
bad a spot on his extensive nose, so they billeted
him on board the hospital hulk. Faraway. He
wasn’t a bit sick, and by way of amusing himself,
he began (for he was the possessor of some of
those virtues which are insolently alleged tibe
exclusively Christian) to nurse the other patients.
By and bye they found that a spot on the proboscis
did not justify a variolan diagnosis, and so they
turned him and the nose-spot loose on this peace-
able community.
One morning three well-dressed indi-
viduals walked into a Dunedin fancy goods shop,
and while two of them endeavoured to keep the
proprietor’s attention engaged, the third pocketed
a line meerschaum pipe. But the “ boss ” saw it,
and said nothing. Presently the trio, after pur-
chasing goods to the value of a couple of shillings,
asked how much they owed. “ The stamps and
stationery,” said the proprietor, “ will be 35.. the
meerschaum pipe in that gentleman's coat pocket
will be 355.—375. altogether, if you please/’ The
astute shopkeeper chuckled over the clear 100 per
cent, profit he had considered himself justified,
under the circumstances of the ease, in levying on
the meerschaum.
Fromaleader in the Daily T., ic the war
and the waterworks:—". . . It will be wiser
for us to place reliance in our own prudence and
foresight rather than on Muscovite forbearance
and respect for the comity of nations.” Here
they come I All the old copy-book headings
again. Yet strange enough, in the office of the
Penny R. they pay for this sort of thing. Even
on Sunday nights, when the gate-money for the
“ Christian platform” has been very shy, Osborne
is let loose on the public They never think that
a man can’t give his whole mind to calm, argu-
mentative writing when he could take his Bible
oath that at least nine in the back seats put but-
tons in tha “ offertory.”
Two Salvation Sallys were trotted out at
Wanganui (N.Z ), recently, at the head of the local
contingent, dressed in a style which gave old Nick
spasms to such an ex tent that he incited a member
of the foorce” to run them in on a charge of
lunacy or something. When arrested they were
surrounded by a crowd of excited persons, and
were dressed principally with War Crts. one of
them having on a huge dunce’s cap made very
appropriately with material from that gory jour-
nai. They also wore blue and green spectacles,
and had their faces white-washed. When brought
before the “beak” the defendants said that they had
adopted the disguise for the purpose of attracting
the attention of drunkards and freethinkers, who
(the latter especially) are rather numerous in Wan-
ganui, expecting that they would follow them to
the barracks and get “ saved.” “ Capting” Wright,
late coal-carter, now in command, gave the whole
thing away, however, when he explained to the
Bench that the Army had lately found business
very dull, and something had to be done to attract
the attention of the public. The defendant told
him they were “up to something new,” and he
Simply gave them bis blessing and permission to
have it ail their own way. The Bench screwed on
a serious face and polished them off with a fine of
ss. each and a little sermon on his own account.
M. Ollivier Pain—“The Mahdi’s French-
man,”—See Fage 6.
As a devoted lover of human liberty, without
distinction of country or race, Ollivler Pain is
perhaps tne most distinguished for activity of any
man now alive. When the fall of the bastard
Napoleon had involved the fall also of Paris, and
the extreme party had on the retirement of the
Prussians determined to make an effort to replace
the fallen despotism by a Government on the Com-
munal system as opposed to the plan of a bour-
geois republic, Ollivier Pain, then a lad of 14.
was a prominent and desperate combatant
in defence of the barricades of Mont-
martre against the regular troops employed
by the Versailles party. Captured with
arms in his hands, he escaped by a miracle—in the
suppression of the Commune—being shot straight
off. Reserved, however, for trial, he, with Roche-
fort and other members of the Government of
Natural Defence, was transported to New Cale-
donia, whence he, Rochefort, and three others
escaped in an open boat, and reached Australia.
In passing through Sydney, Rochefort and other
distinguished journalists courteously called upon
the conductors of our own S.M. Herald to ex-
change greetings as brethren of the Press. The
reception accorded to these talented and spirited
men, everyone of whom has since attained high
distinction, and in some capacity fixed the eye of
the world upon him. may be understood by the
fact that in an immediate issue the 8. M.
Herald referred to the political exiles as
“ these convicts,” a brutal insult to gentle-
men whose sufferings and whose helpless situa-
tion alone should have protected them from
affront, which sent a shudder of shame through
the colony, and was most happily and trenchantly
satirised in the succeeding issue of the Sydney
Punch. M. Pain returned to Paris on the am-
nesty being granted to exiles of his class, but on
the outbreak of the Kusso-Turkish war, promptly
flew to the aid of the country assailed. During
the siege of Plevna he was private secretary to
Osman Pasha, and when Plevna fell, the stray
Frenchman was offered by its captors to the
French Embassy, but he was refused the protec-
tion of the Republic and sent to a Russian prison.
After his release he made his way to Paris, and,
after a brief essay in journalism, he made his way
through the Egyptian lines, afld put his pen at the
service of the Mahdi, It was this eloquent utensil
that concocted the despatches from the Soudan
which hoodwinked the Egyptian Government and
the British commander during last year, and made
their Ingenious author very serviceable to the
Mahdi, and In the same degree offensive to the
enemies of that patriot’s country. The version
of affairs in the Soudan which has proceeded
from the Mahdi’s camp indicates that the literary
powers of his French secretary are exercised with
undiminished activity.
There is nothing known better calculated
to invigorate the constitution than Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
.Not a bit of pride about Attorney-General
Dailey! He only made the acquaintance of
Wright (“Minister of War”) at the formation of
the Ministry, and yet he “dear old boy’s” him
already. We suppose, then, he “dear old duck’s”
Parnell, whom he has known for years, and calls
Alexander Stuart “ Molly, Darling.” We had a lot
ot that sort of thing, once, always on hand, in par-
cels to suit all customers; but we haven’t now.
Recent events have soured us, and the men we
were once almost disposed to swear by. are the
parties whom now we have a burning desire to
swear at. We have arrived at austerity; we trust
we shall never come to be brutal.
Universal fuse and popular approval have
indissolubly established the fame of Wolfe's
Schnapps.
Chinholders are among the latest of in-
ventions, and among the latest styles are the
dinner, tea, breakfast, and toilet sets, shewing at
the well-known shops of Bray’s, 403 and 404
George-street.*
. CORK TWEEDS.
Cork Tweeds are warranted all pure wool, well
and carefully manufactured, and dyed in the most
effective way known ;;they arejguaranteed to stand
any test of wear and colour; to resist sunlight,
sea air, salt water, &c. A very large consignment
of these celebrated Tweeds now so well and
favourably known for their great durability and
excellence of quality, BOUGHT UNDER EXCEP-
TIONAL CIRCUMSTANCES, for hard cash, by
Summerfleld and Company, are now being shown
in their woollen department, 335 Pitt-street. We
respectfully solicit an inspection of our huge and
magniflcient purchase; the goods being in the
newest styles of checks. Bight high-class cutters
by Summerfleld and Company, Mer-
ohan. dors, 335 and 337 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
The popularity and enormous sales of
Wolfe's Schnapps testify its intrinsic merits.
BARNES, THE SELF-CONFESSED MURDERER OF
THE LATE MR. J. B. SLACK.
Barnes, who is to be executed at Melbourne to-mor-
row (Friday, 15th May), in his confession says:—“I
went into the house for purposes of burglary. Slack
heard me under the bed. We had a struggle, in which
be broke his neck. Then I cut his throat to make it
appear he had committed suicide.”
JOSEPH BRAGG SLACK,
(Barnes’ Victim.)


At Bingera, N.S.W., an old man recently
obtained seven pounds weight of gold as the result
of two weeks’ labour.
At a low estimate, the British losses in the
present campaign are, so far, about 9000, or 5 per
cent, of the paper strength of the entire army.
Labouchere says that the Times (which is
now edited by one Buckle, a young gentleman of
30 years) is “ sinking into a ghastly abyss of imbe-
cility.”
From the latest official reports we see that
in 1868 the number of Irish soldiers in the British
army was 55,583, < r per 1000. By steady grada-
tions that numte. - it il in ten years to 39,131, or 319
per 1000: and last year in had fallen to 31,694, or
186 per 1000.
The picture of Mrs. Marcus Clarke, which
we gave in the front page of our last issue, was
taken from an excellent photograph from the
studio of Batchelder and Co., 41 Colhns-street,
Melbourne.
London (says the World’s Press) issues
Seriodicals with an annual circulation of 1,017,
K),000, Paris, with a far smaller population.
Issues periodicals with an annual circulation of
1,100,000,000.
The ten leading English railway lines
earned from passengers during the past year
£14,844,884, Of this amount £10,798,178 came from
third-class alone, while first-class contributed
£3,033,316, and second-class £3,013,490,
The five deepest claims in the Sandhurst
district are now on an ounce to the ton. That this
should be the case with mines down close on
3000 ft. proves, beyond the shadow of a doubt, that
the rich reefs go down to incalculable depths.
In one of the cases against Rev. John Alex.
Dowie In Melbourne an ungodly magistrate
showed himself in the person of the chairman,
who replied to Dowie’s remark “ 1 obey God ” by
saying: “We obey man first, and then God
secondly. You are lined £30.”
Advices from Overland Corner, 8.A., re-
port the discovery of a dead body in the vicinity
of that place. A paper was found in a purse, on
which were the words:—“Lost in the bush coming
from Lake Bonney to Bookmark. If I die, I die
for want of water. God keep you from my fate.
—Jno. Bradshaw.”
On Wednesday week last, at the conclu-
sion of the R C. Diocesan Synod, a dinner was
given at St. Mary s to the clergy of the Arch-
diocese. His Grace the Archbishop presided. The
only after-dinner speech was by a clerical gentle-
man, who, called upon by the authorities, took
round the hat for “Five shillings, please 1” which
some refused.
The bloodthirsty Cooktown Independent
puts it approvingly and delicately thus “ On
Monday Mr, Jones, of the Laura, brought in 14
native spears, captured by him in his defensive
fights at Booralga and along the Doighton, while
the native police under Marrett were reposing
calmly in camp, or playing dominoes. Harry has
proved himself a practical civilizer by burning
over 500 spears, waddies, &c., within a month, and
if the necessity is forced upon a man to defend
his property through the Inefficiency of legal re*
presentatives, he ought to he applauded and re
warded instead of being sneered at by the incom-
petent chiefs of the police. One of the native
spears has a history. It is a bamboo 16 feet longi
with a point fashioned sharply from the handle of
a bucket, and flung at 60 yards It would have
pierced the head of Johnnie Gottis, a month ago,
had he not been an active horseman and a quick-
eyed bushman who threw up his right arm, re-
ceiving the barb on the elbow bone, where it was
bent into a bow.”
Barry Sullivan on Irving and Wilson
Barrett:—“l have been asked how I accountfo r
the present demand for Shakespeare in London.
I answer there is no such demand for Shakespeare.
The supply far exceeds it. Two or three men are
in the position of actor-managers, and they are
producing these plays in order, with supreme
self-conceit, to appear in the principal roles
These gentlemen, you must bear in mind, never
held the position of a leading Shakespearian actor
in their lives in any city that I am aware of in
Great Britain or Ireland. They have gone on the
stage now and then for leading parts for their own
or some other person’s boneilt-on which occa-
B ior s all actors are allowed to play the fool—ancTln
order to show their friends what they can and they
will do some day whrn they get a theatre of their
own. This i* really the true meaning of the
modern representation of Shakespearian pieces in
London ” Which reminds us. The 3.‘srd of last
month was the anniversary of both Shakespeare's
birth and death, and yet no more fuss was made
over him here than if he had been a common J P
or a wooden blsckfellow. Now, if it had been Bill
Beach instead of Bill Shakespeare!
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the purest and best
stimulant, tonic, diuretic, at present before the
world.
Ex Parte Enthusiasm.
MR. SMITH (BURDETT, ALIAS BOB) REMARKED THAT “THIS GRATIFYING AND ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION WAS UTTERLY UNEXPECTED” — (Aside, "OR
HE’D NEVER HAVE COME.’)


Wolfe’s Schnapps is a delightful ber
as agreeable to the taste as its properties ar
flcial to the health.
erage
e bene-
The calm, soothing, but still invigorating
effect Is peculiar only to Wolfe’s Schnapps. Ask
for Wolfe’s.
Mashers.— The best and lightest are made hy
Offord, Hatter, 652 George-street, Brickfield Hill.*
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
Quality, may be purchased from Hookings and
Co., 143, Pltt-street.*
Now that the Russian bear is shewing its
teeth it should be Interesting to know what den-
tist looks after that very fine set. Mr. John Bull
appears anxious to extract the lot without the use
of chloroform. But if it wore desired to have the
operation performed gracefully and painlessly,
somebody should advise Bruin to visit Messrs.
Marshall Brothers, the well-known dentists, at
their new premises at 133 Elizabeth-street, Sydney,
to which they have just removed.*
Experience teaches that Wolfe’s Schnapps
is more suited to the Colonies than either brandy
or whisky.
“ BEACH’S " '
CONSULTAI7 0N
ON
Birthday Cup, May 25.
500 SOYS.
1000 BUBSCRIBEBS, 10s. EACH.
idresa—
“BEACH,”
Care of J. O. Deeble,
Hotel, King and Pitt Street, Sydney
The Reteree.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index pasted up by
secretaries of rasine clubs and managers of
sporting events in general.]
RACING.
Canterbury Park R.C.... May 16
Rosehlll R.C May 23
Wollongong T.c. (Autumn),., May 25
Walkerston (nr. Mackay ,Q.) R.C. Annual... May 25
Blaokall R.C June 4,5
Rosehlll R.C June 20
Walgett H.C July 8, 9
Rosehlll R.C July 18
Canterbury Park R.C August 1
Rosehlll RC Augusts
Canterbury Park R.C September 5
Hawkesbury (Spring) September 10 12
A.J.C. (Spring) September 19, 22, 24, 26
Rosehlll R.C October 3
Canterbury Park R.C October 17
Canterbury Park R.C December 19
Rosehlll R.C December 28
AQUATICS.
Matterson v. Messenger May 30
ATHLETICS.
Ashfleld Amateur Athletic Club May 16
’CYCLING.
Sydney Bicycle Club (Annual R.M.) August 22
THE RING.
S.A.B. Club Competition Juno 1
Foley v. Farnan June 30
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Newcastle Football Club has been re-or-
ganistd.
The form ladies most admire at a boat
ace—their own.
The Suburban Bicycle Club take the cake
sending their races away to time.
It is said John Teemer, the Yankee sculler
who la to lick all creation, will visit England in
July or August next.
Donald Dinnie has been doing: the pro-
vinces to crowded houses. At latest, he was per-
forming in Queanbeyan and other southern towns.
Football season opens badly. William
Cahill, playing in a scratch match at Moore Park,
on Saturday, fell heavily, and died in a lew
minutes.
At the late Auckland Racing Club’s
Autumn meeting, the totalisator dividend of £351
15a. wms paid over Kalso’s victory in the Shorts
Handicap.
Father Mdriarty recently rode on horse-
back from Bungendore to Cooma, 81 miles, in 11
hours, on a bitterly cold night, In order to hold
mass at 7 o’clock the following morning.
If a man loses a billiard-match you would
generally gather from his subsequent account of
the proceedings that luck wss the sole virtue,
public or private, possessed by the other man.
The Argonaut Rowing Club of Toronto
will send their representative four, which has
proved itself the champion crew of America, to
compete at the Henley and other English regattas
Amongst the men who have decided to
row at New Orleans in the chief event, for which
the first prize will be £3OO, are Teemer, Boss, Lee,
Plalsted, Hosmer, M'Kay, Gaudaur, Ten Eyck,
and Conley.
Green, of Southampton, has commenced
the feat of walking 5100 miles in 100 days. He is a
moderate drinker, and his object is to beat
Weston’s record. He started from Cardiff, and in
the course of his Journey will visit various towns.
Wallace Ross is reported to have said that
no matter whj won the Beach-Hanlan race, he
would challenge tho Canadian on the ex-chara-
plon's return to America. Roes thinks he was
overtrained when Hanlan defeated him at Ogden-
burg in 1883.
The American slogger Sullivan (the
“ champion of the world' ) was recently tlnod £33
for ill-treating a horse; and at latest his wife wti
on the war-path for a divorce on the grounds of
cruel and abusive treatment, and gross and con-
tinued habits of intoxication.
At the bicycle sports on Saturday, Cham-
pion Bennett was met each lap by his coatholder,
who urged him on with wild gesticulations, not-
withstanding Bennett was towards the finish a lap
to the good. This sort of thing should not be
allowed at amateur race meetings.
Our amateur champion, C. W. Bennett,
made short work of the Five Miles Intercolonial
Challenge Cup at the Suburban Bicycle Club meet-
ing on Saturday last. He won all by himself in
;17min. KBecs, his Held, including the Victorian
>representatives, being completely distanced.
The first public regatta of the St. Ignat ius’
'College Rowing Club, Hill View, has been fixed
for 20th June, and a programme of races drawn
up—several of the events oeing left open to other
•clubs. The Sydney clubs have promised to assist,
and a pleasant day's outing may be looked for-
ward to.
It is stated that over 500 horses have died
at Newmarket alone of pleuro-pneumonla since
It was imported from America by the first team
belonging to the late Mr. Sanford, some dozen
years since. We keep English dogs out of the
•colonies; now we shall have to exclude American
horses.
An English paper says:—“Mr. Little Gil-
mour, the well-known veteran foxhunter, has ar-
rived at Melton Mowbray from Scotland.” With
the exception ot 1883 and 1, when he was laid up
with rheumatism, he has not missed a single hunt-
ing season since 1838, when he made his ilebtit at
Melton. Mr. Qllmour is within a brace of four
score years.
This Thursday evening, a benefit in the
Athletic line will be given to the old veteran, Bill
Hparks, whose great fight with the old-time
British champion, Nat Langham, we mentioned in
last week’s issue. The affair will come oil at
Foley’s athletic room, Whito Horse Hotel, the
•champion having generously given the use of his
rooms for the occasion.
Bam Floyd, who was disqualified for 12
months, over the “ Our Boy” business, at the last
Elsternwiok Bark (Vic.) meeting, made application
to the powers that he for a removal of the dis-
qualification. Nothing came of it, however, so
Sammy will have to chew the cud of bitter reflec-
tion, while his nag masticates tbe corn of idleness
for the stipulated period.
Lantern’s victory in the Goodwood Handi-
cap at Flemington looked about as hollow an affair
as could well bo imagined. Whether some of tbe
others couldn’t have got a lot nearer If they had
not held the leader too cheaply at first is open to
question, but, as it turned out, Donald Nicholson
had to take some long and strong pulls at his
mount to prevent him winning by the proverbial
length of a street.
The trot, in harness, at Randwick. on
Saturday last, between F, Alexander's Sir William,
and W William s Darkle, resulted In a win for the
unbeaten Darkie, who was trained and driven by
the cross country rider James Gardiner. Darkie
was well supported by his admirers, who planked
the coin to a good tune at 6 to 4. both nags in
their turn have figured as cab horses, and Darkle
has an unbroken list of wins.
While the horses were running for the
Prince of Wales’ Cup at Liverpool, Eng., a lad
attempted to get across tbs n-nwe. There was
not time, however, atni . u : i nger, he
« imBelf down in front of the advancing
Held, the runners passing over the lad, who ap-
parently sustained no Injury, as he got up and ran
away when the horses had cleared him. There
really does seem a special Providence watching
over some people.
The Broker’s defeat of Silver King at
Flemlngtpn makes it out that Mr. Halinbourg’s
chestnut is coming right back to his two-year-old
term, which was very near the top Of the tree. The
fact of Sandal finishing a long way In the rear of
the two colts, shows the performance of the
Broker to be a pretty good one. Even better was
that of his jockey, Sanders, for a more artistic win
was never seen at Flemlngton. By the way, there
was something suggestive about the result of that
ot. Leger—even Silver Kings occasionally come to
grief through the Brokers.
In the pigeon matches recently shot off at
Albury, young Treacy only missed 4 birds out of
a possible 75. He divided every sweep he shot in.
In the first match, for which he gained shird prize,
each had to shoot nine birds. Three tied, Treacy
being one of the three, for the tenth shot; he fired,
wounding his bird, and in running to secure it, he
caught hold of its tail. The tail coming out, his
pud escaped out of bounds, and so he was debarred
from further competition for the first and second
prize. In the next match, for the hammerless
gun, value, £6O, he shot all his birds.
The following story is told about the
English jockey, Teddy Weever, who, being picked
up for dead in a chase at Worcester, was carried
to an hotel, and put to bed, still unconscious. A
medical man pronounced it a case of great danger,
requiring careful watching, and left him with
some bosom friend. As soon as they were alone,
Teddy opened one eye, looked round the room,
and said: “Tom, are they getting up a subscrip-
tion, or a testimonial, or anything of that sort ? ”
No I No one has thought of such a thing! ”
replied Tom. “Then,” said the injured man, “it’s
no use stopping humbugging here in bed! ” So he
arose, dressed, and went to dinner.
Paradox, by Sterling—Casuistry, has
landed the English “ Two Thousand Guineas” for
his plunging young owner, Mr, Broderick Cloete.
I he horse had been first favourite for that event
for some time past, and will now, no doubt, re-
sume the premier nosition in the Derby quota-
tions, from which Melton (Fred. Archer's mount)
temporarily ousted him. Paradox is trained by
John Porter, and would, presumably, be ridden by
Tom Cannon, who is associated with the stable.
Blood, by the way, was well to the fore in the first
of the English “ classic” events. The winner’s
pedigree is irreproachable, while the second and
third hors c s were sons of Kisber and Blair Athol
respectively—both Derby winners.
You must go from home to hear news.
The Indian Planter's Guide, which Is a first-
class blaokfellow’s paper, indeed, has the following
rather startling “ Sporting Note 1 ’ “ Though
pur tender-hearted, liberal Government refuse to
let us have a public Derby flutter out here, the
Australian Nestors are not so careful of the public
morals, and the Sydney Jockey Turf Club issues a
prospectus of what it terms the Melbourne Cup
Consultation for 1885, with prizes aggregating
£50,000, to be allotted as follow.” Here follow the
usual prizes, special prominence being given to
the fact that the first horse is to receive £lO,OOO
This Is the first we ever heard of a “ Sydney
Jockey Turf Club, but we suppose the matter must
be O.K. or it wouldn’t be in the papers.
This is how a super-smart young man was
“ sent home ”at the recent Auckland races. Just
before the Short’s Handicap came off, Citizen A.
saw Citizen B.—a bosom friend of bis-standing by
the totaiisator, watching a chance for investing a
pound on a ‘‘soft thing.” Tripping silently over,
therefore, he asked his chum what be wasgolng to
stand on, to which the latter replied: “ Well, I’m
going straight for No. 8 [Kalo]; best thing I’ve
seen foi many a day.” -‘ls tnat a fact?” ex-
claimed Citizen A.; ” well, blessed if I don’t put a
bov. on him, too.” Now it so happened that
Citizen B was all the time plumping for No. 7 [Sir
Bedevere], and, wishing to get a big dividend, he
threw his friend over. As matters eventuated,
Kalo landed the pot, and the lucky Investor who
was put on to him by means of a fib, scooped in
£25114i, while bis good-natured friend had to go
behind a fence and kick himself in order to let off
some of his indignation.
Jackeon stock has risen sky-high in cer-
tain circles since his show with Miller at the cir-
cus recently, but we fancy a few of the would-be
knowing ones will burn their fingers over the
darkle before they have done with him. As for
the show in question, it must be acknowledged
Jackson, who was “ readied” up for the occasion,
showed the best science, but it must not be lost
eight of that the spar took place on sawdust,
wnich was all against a heavy man like Miller,
whose ankle may not have quite recovered from
the bad sprain it received in Melbourne, Miller
again says his wrist is not well, but be that
as it may, there was not such a great deal for the
darkey s friends to make a noise about; and, had
it been a knock-out, it was ten to one on Miller,
notwithstanding condition, as towards the finish
Jackson commenced to give way, and Miller ran
him right back to the limit of the circle. A few of
the “fancy’’ met a r - Foley's White Horse one
morning this week, when a rare bit of barneying
came off. Jackson’s backers were in force, and
pretty well talked the rest into a premature grave,
till Larry Foley appeared on the scene and of-
fered to fight the darkle when, where, or how
they pleased for £5OO a side, but they declined
to negotiate on any terms with our champion,
who appears *o have Item all under cow. Miller
said his -wrist was bad, and that they could not
"barney” him into a match until he has had a
complete rest. Jackson’s backers must be *’ off
their head,” Their man has been beaten to a
stand-still twice by Farnan, and because be showed
a bit the better science in a show with Miller, they
are red hot to back him against any man in Aus-
tralia, bar Foley. Faman will thrash him when-
ever they meet.
“Visor,” in the Australasian, in com-
menting on the recent Intercolonial eight-oar
race, says:—"The N.8.W., whose coxswain, It is
said, fished and played on the river all bis life, and
knew every inch of the course, was the only crew
properly steered.” We saw the race from first to
last stroke, and we think it hardly fair for the Vic- ,
torians to disparage the services of Norman
Young, for the boy steered equally well with our
coxswain. As to the swerve said to have been
made at Gladesvllle by the Victorian boat, in our
opinion, it happened only in the Imagination of the
Cabbage Gardeners, who, at that; point, had cried
"a go,” and were well out of the race. The
Victorians had a southern position, so New South
Wales kept them jammed on the northern shore
all through, and did not give them the opportu-
nity of shooting over to the southern shore after
passing Putney, as they would assured ly have done
had they commanded a clear course. The only boat
that went a correct course after passing Putney
was the Tasmanian, and, as a matter of fact, the
Victorians and Welshmen remained together
pretty well all through the race, so that we cannot
see how young Benson, having " fished and played
all his life on the Parramatta,” influenced the race.
Had Benson been able to steer his course as in-
structed, the Victorians might have been beaten
much more decisively.
Watney and Co., a firm of Eughsb brewers,
have just sold their business to a company for
£3,167,931.
An eagle has just died in Vienna which
has been kept in confinement 114 years. It pro-
bably was a young bird when caught, so that its
age must have not teen far from 130 years. A
record of the eagle’s condition was made from
year to year. There are swans on the Thames
that are known to be 150 years old. For five cen-
turies the Vinters’ Company there has kept a re-
cord of certain swans, and the ages of the speci-
mens of this long-lived species of water-fowls are
known to a day.
The Windorah correspondent of the
Thargomlndah Herald is a very Australian per-
son indeed. He says that “ news just now is about
as plentiful in Windorah as bath towels and flori
line in a Cooper’s Creek black’s camp,” and that
he “ has latterly felt about as happy as a ’possum
up a hollow log, with a big fire at one end and a
naughty boy with a long stick at the other.” He
says that the threatened Windorah water famine
has at last happily been averted, as the well (now
sunk 80ft.) Is yielding' 150 gallons daily. The
water is very good, and tastes well in whisky,
which has been scarce lately. “We have been com-
pelled to ride out to the Crossing Hotel, eight
miles away for a nip, and now that source has
been exhausted, and we are again a totally whisky-
less community.”
Some fiend in human form managed to
successfully distribute about a score of antibilious
pills in the Inner recesses of the confectionary
served out at an evening party given in Sarry
Hills on Friday last. A well-known footballer,
who was the funny man of the shlvoo. accident-
ally surrounded three of the deadly missiles before
the dread)ul truth had time to dawn upon him.
“ A Planter” (of Mackay, Queensland)
contributes to the Palp Mall Gazette of 27th
March last a two-column article extolling to the
skies the South Sea nigger labour system of the
Northern colony. “ Place,” he writes, “ a hun-
dred of your English farm labourers alongside a
hundred kanakas, and compare their condition
and clothing. Then if ‘ freedom’ is to be identified
with a sleek, well-fed body and decent clothing,
and * slavery’ to be marked by downcast, hungry,
gaunt, wolfish-looking creatures, with scarce a
rag worth the name on them—then, certes, the
white man would be the slave and his poor black
brother the free man.” Yet this apotheosis of the
Queensland planter happens to reach us just as a
Parliamentary Commission has reported that the
Northern nigger system means a hundred ferocious
murders annually—that it is synonymous with
fraud and oppression and cold-blooded cruelty and
the rankest slavery.
At Climes, Vie., the police have arrested a
married woman in the act of posting a libellous
letter. What we want to see is the arrest of
women who post leve-lettera.
Mr. C. Drake, a Newcastle man, publicly
stated, on a recent evening, that any man who
taught his children the doctrine of hell, himself
not believing In the same, was nothing but a
black coated scoundrel.
During a recent wedding ceremony at
Cootamundra—the marriage of Mr. S. H. Dickson
and Miss Sweeney—a church mouse played some
capers that threatened to upset the gravity of the
principal figures; but the ladies stood it bravely
and didn’t jump on the pews and scream.
Mr. Sprague, President of the Society of
Actuaries, has been investigating a curious sub-'
ject—viz , what is the probability that a marriage*
entered into at any age will be fruitful, and that
a marriage which has been childless for many years
will afterwards be fruitful. He bases his figures
upon the marriages of 1523 peers, and certain of
their near relatives, which have occurred since
1870. Of these, 1183 have been fruitful; 43 per
cent, of the first children being born in the first
year after marriage, 33 per cent, in the second
year, and 10>£ per cent, in the third year. After 17
years’ marriage without children, the chances of
one being born are only .01 per cent. The younger
the wife, tho more likelihood there is that she will
have issue. Only about 33 per cent, of the women
married between 38 and 43 have issue.
“Mrs. Dr. Potts’” idea of domestic hap-
piness A pleasant room, a bright fire, a com-
fortable cat and dog, rosy-cheeked children, and a
prettily-dressed mother with sewing in hand. To
these enters the husband, tired with his day’s
work and happy to bo at home. He throws him-
self.into a comfortable arm chair in an attitude of
careless repose, which he completes by placing his
feet upon his wife’s kneesl “This,” remarks an
English paper, “must, Indeed, be bliss.” “Our
idea of happiness.” says a bachelor who haunts
this office, “ would, were we married, be A
pleasant room full of the boys and their tobacco-
smoko (the latter so thick as to be cutable with a
knife), a bright fire (with toddy kettle accompani-
ment), our feet on the mantlepiece, a comfortable
bull-dog (which has just eaten the cat), the old
girl out at the Dorcas meeting, and the kids in the
Reformatory.”
A Sydney daily paper’s statement that
Max O’Rell’s “ John Bull and his Womankind” has
“ been interdicted for sale on the English railway
bookstalls on account of its Immorality.” is an.
absolutely delightful piece of intelligence. The
volume came out five or six months ago, and, like
O'Rell’s other book, “ John Bull and his Island,”
was a gigantic success, the whole of the extensive
first edition being sold out in a single day. Many
of the things contained in it rather jarred on the
hyper-sensitive ear of the Evangelical, and had a
tendency to corrode the tympani of those who
imagined that «.ur nation had a monopoly of phy-
sical beauty and of all the virtues; but still the
Sale went merrily on, and it Is only now that
Monopolist Smith of the bookstalls has discovered
that Max’s sprightly badinage is “im moral.” It will,
of course, soon be found in Australia by that cul-
tivated and watchful censor morum, the “ bobby,”
that those who vend copies are offending against
the criminal law; so anyone who has not already
read “ John Bull’s Womankind”—which is really a
very harmless brochure indeed—hsd better do so
ere Inspector Anderson puts the booksellers into
gaol.
This, cut.from last Friday’s S. M. Herald,
presents a most lovely chance for the Sydney
Girls’ Friendly Society:—
“ T ADT HOUSEKEEPER required for ft
gentleman not in good health, 40 years;
reserved, intelligent lady; unquestionable re-
ferences; no lover or mercenary need apply.
She will be her own mistress, have the most-
delicate living, can go out at pleasure, and re-
ceive lady friends only as visitors. Apply, la
the first instance, by letter to Mrs. , st.,
Leichhardt. Young ladies, observe the above
condition, as advertiser is sincere and his home
comfortable.”
The ingenious adroitness with which this debilii’
tated David manages, on the “ Don’t-nall-bis-earsn
to-the-pump principle,” to convey tho idea that
the girl must be young, and, to quote from the
Matrimonial News, •* of an affectionate and
loving disposition,” is worthy of careful study
and deliberate admiration. “ She will be her
own mistress.” Humph! “ SnewiU have the most
delicate living." . . . “Advertiser is sincere
and the home comfortable!’ What nice weather
we are having juet now! We’re almost sure the
Herald wouldn't publish such an advertisement
as this for anyone not on the editorial staff.
“ The gay Lothario in this ease cannot be
accused or fascinating that Melbourne high-toned
lady by his boauty, lor he is as ugly as if made to
order; but, then, money, dear, as you know, has a
wonderful charm tor people, particularly some
ladies.”—” Gladys,’ ” letter to a Melbourne paper.
THIS IS TO NOTIFY UP-COUNTRY PATRIOTS THAT PEACE PROSPECTS ARE
BRIGHTENING, AND THAT NAVAL OPERATIONS MAY BE SUSPENDED FOR THE
PRESENT.
MAID TO ORDER.
Oh, yes, my gentle Gladys,
'Though we know that he a cad is.
Still it’s money that’s required In this democratic-
land; ‘
And the fellow who has got It
Calmly smiles and slaps his pocket.
As he lands an easy winner for the fairest Hady’s,
hand.
Whilst the sorrowing * ! Edgardo,
Who possessed no El Dorado,”
And who isn’t made to order on a very golden l
plan,
Is left to wall and weep her
When she finds he cannot keep her.
For, of course, she has to vamoose with the*
gentleman who can.
For you know, my gentle Gladys,
’Though you olten call us “ badys,”
Still you love us If we're naughty and com-
paratively nice;
But it's not he who adored you.
But the fellow who can board you.
Whom you’ll follow when you’re certain that hi*
income will suffice.
And, Gladys, I am certain,
Could we only raise the curtain.
And see the pretty darlings as they must appear
to yoiij
That all who could afford her
Would obtain a maid to order.
For I’m sure we couldn’t choose from the sampler
now on view. -
And I think it will be better
If. when next you write your letter.
You keep those naughty tales out which ■ ■ vnu
really shouldn’t blab, you
For oh, ma petite Gladys,
My heart It really sad is
Wh flWe t K r0 "' ren< ' ,otadrllll,>Mrc,, S'
R. H.


GOMPAGNONI CATERING CO,, LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ' 7
HE oldest and leading Catering Establishment in N.S.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mayor,
Municipal Council of Sydney, the A.J.C., City Club, &0., Ac.
Tne Dining Saloons for Ladies and Gentlemen are the Finest, Cooepest, and loftiest in the colony.
FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY. Private Bar—Good Wine List.
&T GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. (after the
Theatres. Select your own steak, Ac., and see it grilled In the room. This is one of the acquisitions
or the city, and a long-felt wa'.t. Inspection invited ' " " •
and City Club, upstairs. E;
T
Club of the Prince Alfred Yacht Cluo
D. TOLLKMACHE, General Malinger.
Bray <Sc, Liolitner,
32 0 CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
►3
O
► t> O'
S 5
S"i g
Cg I
M s» o
► H &J
• 01//* Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied, best,
and Cheapest in the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments, with fu n instructions for Novice*,:
c'i
rrrn.
wu'ura
y
■AM
i
-s^
.3
fS
-O
'SSS
■3
4s-.,
'M®
*?93{JBra 9q;j. ni pidßJ pnß 9iqßn9J isoni
«» 8,J93i8a JOJ s;n93y 9fOg
IMPORTERS OF SUPPLIES
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied, best,
and Cheapest in the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments, with fun instructions for Novice*.:
« C. C T _ r^\
T
ALL WOMEN.
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
BF" TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, In either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERT
IN SOAP 1
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with it;
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
6d. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers :
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
TORjeORffS
ESSKMCEw-MfE
remedy for
fEFvybifs JjebiLijyT
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all whc
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustlve derangement of the system: regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 125., or four quantities is one for
Ms.; if by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,!
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from George-street South.
AYER’S PILLS.
A large proportion of the diseases which
eause human suffering result from derange-
ment of the stomach, bowels, and liver.
AVer’s Cathartic Pills act directly upon
these organs, and are especially designed to
cure the diseases caused by their derange-
ment, including Constipation, Indiges-
tion, Dyspepsia, Headache, Dysentery,
and a host of other ailments, for all of
which they are a safe, sure, prompt, and
pleasant remedy. The extensive use of these
Pills by eminent physicians in regular prac-
tice, shows unmistakably the estimation in
which they are held by the medical profes-
sion.
These Pills are compounded of vegetable
substances only, and are absolutely free from
calomel or any other injurious ingredient.
A Sufferer from Headache writes:
“ Ayer’s Pills are invaluable to me, and
are my constant companion. I have been
a severe sufferer from Headache, and your
Pills are the only thing I toUld look to
for relief. One dose will quickly InoVe my
boWels and free my head fi-btu pain. They
are the most effective and the easiest physic
1 hay© ever found. It is a pleasure to me to
Speak in their praise, and 1 always do so
when occasion offers,
W. L. Page, of W. L. Page & Bro.”
Franklin St,, Richmond, Va., June 3, 1862.
•‘I have used Ayer’s Pllls In number-
less instances as recommended by you, and
have never known them to fail to accomplish
the desired result. We constantly keep them
OU hand at our home, and prize them as a
pleasant, safe, and reliable family medicine.
FOR DYSPEPSIA they are invaluable.
J. T. Hayes.”
Mexia, Texas, June 17,1882.
The Rev. Francis B. Harlgwe, writing
from Atlanta, Oa., says: “For some years
past 1 have been subject to constipation,
from which, ia spite of the use of medi-
cines of various kinds, 1 suffered increasing
inconvenience, until some months ago 1
began taking Ayer’s Pills. They have
entirely corrected the costive habit, and
have vastly improved my general health.”
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills correct irregu-
larities of the bowels, stimulate the appe-
tite and digestion, and by their prompt and
thorough action give tone and vigor to the
whole physical economy.
PREPARED BY
Dr. J.C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass,
Sold by all Druggists.
VDIIWR All experience the wonderful
Din Atm beneficial effects of
MinniF- Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
• Children with Sore Eyes, Sore
AGED. Ears, or any scrofulous or syph-
ilitic taint, may be made healthy and strong
by its use.
Sold by all Druggists; ?l, six bottles for $5.
ELLIOTT BROS, and 8. HOFFNUNQ & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received hr
ROYAL ARCADI.* GiSrGI BT.. iM SYDNEY
* USTRALIAN MUTUAL ELBE SOCIETY'
Established 1872.
Capital --£lOO,OOO with power to increase to £1,000,000
BONUSES—2O per cent, paid annually since 1873.
First Fire Society established in the coiony on
the Mutual principle, Riving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Policy-holders are perfectly free by law from
all liability.
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
,«»is Head Offices.
THE'LATEST WORK* AND PUBLICATIONS
. GL
ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
WALTER CHURCH. Manager.
Hoad Offices—PlTT and KING STREETS.
INTENDING VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
Should Carefully Preserve this Notice.
"THE WONDER” COACH
CARRIED 1920 PASSENGERS LAST SEASON.
Mr, P. J. Rumney, of “RIDGE’S FOOD” fame
Is again running his celebrated four-horse Stage
Coach, “THE WONDER,” between London and
St. Albans, leaving Hatchett’s Hotel, in Piccadilly,
London, every morning at 10.15 returning to Pic-
cadilly at 6.15 p.m.
Ample time is allowed at St. Albans for lunch
ttnd for passengers to inspect the CATHEDRAL,
which is one of the FINEST and OLDEST IN THE
WORLD.
The trip is one of the most delightful that can be
taken, and the price charged for the return fare is
fifteen shillings.
For Time Cards and other particulars apply to
* WONDER” Coach Office, Hatchett’s Hotel,
Piccadilly, London, England.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
m of ni
IRON, BRASS^and^HCKEL-PLATED
CHILDREN’S COTS,
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRABBES
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS*
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR*
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
&0., &o.
BLAKE’S IMPROVED
STEAM PUMPS.
H. P. GREGORY & GO.,
17 PITT STREET,
. SYDNEY,
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE ABOV B.
and have In Stock and to arrive—
FIRE PUMPS
'BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS
1 MINING PUMPS
AIR & CIRCULATING PUMP
ITANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING PUMPS
BEND FOR PRICES AND ALL PARTICULARS
CATALOGUES FORWARDED FREE.
fte. oefore MOUSTACHE and WEISEEE2. before
Boyd's Beard Elixir did this,and
] will do it on cither bald head or
bare face, force! heavy lions■
tache in fromi to i weeks and never k
_ ‘ fails, 20,000 young men already
Copyrighted, wear full beards, having used Ito ~-r.- .
1 Jjfcti. Ko injury, easily applied, terlain in effect. '
ach, 3 for 3s. tid.,post paid, sent under cover, A**
Address, grant Dougin., Bole Agent, Box 730. P.P.P.^Sydney^W-W^
Copyrighted
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST,
Graduate In Medicine and Surgery, Registered
Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours : 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., 7 to 9 on Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday Evenings.
Ladles’ Waiting Room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.
11, 58 Castlereagh-street (upstairs.)
Send for Free Treatise on Vitality and Nervous
Debility, Diseases of Women.
Illustrated Works on Deformities, Electricity
and its Application. Hernia (ruptures), Varicocele,
&o.j &c»
Address—Australian Medical and Surgical In-
flrraary, Sydney ; or B. O. HOLTBRMANN, Esq.,
M.P., President, Box 130, G.P.O.
Consultation Free by mall or in person.
Deformities, Specific. Female, and Nervous
Diseases, a Specialty.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TJ - n-d-ertaDser,
■I 84 HUNTER ft PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was In the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten GO) years.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found it at
last with the Argosy Braces at Q owing Bros.
/y i
'A
m
P 6
X-
%
GOWING BROS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces I
Argosy Braces, 2s. 6d., as., Bs. 6d.,«c 4s. 6
GOWING BROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, Sc
882 and 408 George-street.
Watch and Clockmaker to the Victorian
Government.
T. GAUNT
Watchmaker,
GOLDSMITH,
JEWELLER MJ OPTICIAN,
297 and 299
George Street,
Bavarian
itters.
HOP
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
Made of the best Bavarian Hops. Superior to any
other.
They take the first place wherever tried, and are
well authenticated by eminent medical men and
well-known analysts.
Read the reports and testimony which accom
pany each bottle, and do not forget to make a
trial of BAVARIAN HOP Bitters.
LOST VITALITY, Nervous Debility. Weakness,
and Premature Decay. Its Causes, bymp-
oms, and Self-Cure, with Dr. Rabonski’s favourite
French Hospital Prescription (in English) sent in
ecure envelope, post free, for six penny stamps,
iddress C. C. Williams, Box 766, G.P.0., Sydney,
1.8. W.


F
URNITUKI SHOW ROOM
H
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O'Connell and SoHng streets, Sydney.
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS,
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT.
IBRARY FURNITURE,
end
■ CENTttE and £ lUB
JLi TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in - womans
taste, the very latest fashion ; v ell worthy of
Inspection. Bradley. Newton, and If mb
r ALL CABINETS for Choice "China,
W
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Brali.
Newton, and Lamb.
TABLES, on STRONG HAND.
SOME STANDS, for olubs, restaurants
smoking- rooms, Ac.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woo'is,
and very handsome designs, with 7-fe t
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for tj *le
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEW. ON.
and LAMB, Spring and O'Connell streets. ■ p Mey.
lIGHT-POUND BEDROOM
IT! IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SU f i ES.-The
U Economic Bedroom Suite, compri6.ng ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, drying table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for &. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell -sueet.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashion,, ble Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, ift., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 3 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 305.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 375. 6d.; Washstands from 13s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s-
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Sideboards,
<rom £3105.; Clothes Horses, fromlOs.Bd.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB. Spring and O’Connell streets.
■n.
jt?QK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
wtltl strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs In Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Occasional tables, elegantly :
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &o.
finished in
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
O Connell-street.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
sBRADLBY. NEWTON, and LAMB,
OCCASfONAL CHAIRS.—
- A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Ices, from 13s 6d, Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inez-
penslve. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’C
'Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
with swing GLAf
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full surras for dining-room-side-
-BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
COUCH, EASY CHAINS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Coaneli-stroet.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 6 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK OH AI El—
. Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
mum. i/*w i/i/# on, au i/uo Win Ul
tho occupant. It la simple, yet Ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, Instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of h e body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
When ft ided. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing In canvas, if required,
3s. 6d. extra.
B
AGATELLB BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Framework for dining-room furni-
ture, Handsome and Massive, In Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets. .
B
SDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
B
EDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
aell and Spring streets.
W
ASHSTANDS, with marble, from 255, each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LET, NEWTON, and LAMB, G’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very romplet*
Assortment; beat make, lowest price u
Wolfe’s Schnapps is now the most popu-
lar drink in the world. Avoid other so-called
SCHNAPPS.
Bail Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated wltk
fla# and floral decorations. Artistic eifects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance In display
consummated. 60* Hunter-street, Sydney.*
SOCIAL
Although the Mayor of Sydney made a
splendid resolution not to crowd the Town Hall
with guests upon the occasion of his Assembly last
Thursday evening, he was evidently induced to
break it. for, instead of the comfortable number
of 300 quite 700 partook of bis hospitality on the
eventful night. It’s well to have a good-natured
Mayor, but it’s not well for people to impose upon
this same good nature, and we feel sure that if the
uninvited had been content to wait, our genial
Mayor would have given them a turn next time.
It’s Impossible to ask the whole city all at once,
and it is absurd in those who have chanced to be
amongst the uninvited to either take offence at the
unmeant slight, or to crave an Invite. It quite
spoils any pleasure in dancing, to be in constant
fear of knocking somebody down, or what’s worse,
being knocked down one s self. Yes, it’s a fact,
the Town Hall was far too crowded, and It made
all lovers of dancing long for the time when
they shall have a room of decent dimensions
for these big events. The decorations were excel-
lently devised by Messrs. Sale and Dare, and the
catering was In Compagnoni’s best style. The
refreshments were laid out upstairs and down-
stairs, to the right and to the left; in fact, it was
impossible to stroll anywhere without meeting
with tables groaning under the weight of the
creature comforts. A noticeable feature amongst
the dresses was that the plain, full, balloon skirts
and spenser bodices, which figured so largely at
last season’s balls, nave almost entirely disap-
peared. Now we see the full, richly-puffed skirts
again, with wealth of trimmings, which, we take
it, signifies bigger dressmakers’ bills, and more
trade for the drapers. The acting-Mayoress wore
a very handsome black velvet robe, with long
train. Lace and jet trimmings ornamented the
front of the skirt, and the sleeves were half-short
and finished off with beautiful lace. A cream cap
with pink feathers completed the costume. Miss
Playfair looked extremely well in a cream satin
with lace trimmings. Miss Milson’s fine figure
showed to the best advantage in a pale cream
satin, most elaborately trimmed with fine, deep
lace, and the corsage, which was out low,
was adorned with white ostrich feathers and a
beautiful spray of natural flowers. Her younger
sister chose pink nun’s veiling, and from the
sleeveless bodice hung loose straps of beautiful
pearls. Mrs. Bardie's dress was of ruby velvet,
with long train. Her daughter, in cream satin and
lace, looked very childish and pretty. Little Miss
Florence Merriman, who chose this occasion for
her dcMt ball, wore a suitable dress of pure white
satin and tulle. Mrs. Alderson looked graceful in
a cream lace skirt and ruby velvet bodice, which
was cut to shape and much trimmed with lace. A
most uncommon costume, and one that attracted
considerable attention, was a bodice and long
train of bronze plush worn over a petticoat of
pale-blue silk. Another original dress was a large
flowered silk, made princess shape, and quite de-
void of ornament, save a band of drab feather
trimming which was taken down the fronts and
round the long train. A peculiar costume cer-
tainly, but the wearer was handsome, and so—and
so; well, a handsome woman can dress as she
pleases and look nice. Miss Barton’s fine
form was seen in a pale-blue striped satin dress
prettily made and trimmed with lace. A white
tuft was worn in the hair, Mrs. Spencer wore a
very elegant costume of pale-blue broche covered
with beautiful biscuit-coloured Spanish lace. Mrs.
Webb, of Ashfield, looked graceful in a pale-blue
broche with long train. The front of the skirt was
covered with a handsome network of pearls, and
the corsage adorned with gold chenille pendants.
The Misses Devlin both wore white dresses with
waterfall backs of chenille-tufted tulie. One of
the prettiest costumes was worn by Mrs. Meyer,
being a pure white tulle, over which was scattered
scores of tiny pink rosebuds and leaves. The
effect was charming. Miss Parker, who was one
of the chief claimants for beauty, wore a cream
dress composed of satin and lace, with heliotrope
flowers in sprays on the corsage. Miss Butcher
was also in cream, with a handsome spray of
pansies over one shoulder. A lady who did not
dance much, evidently preferring to converse
with a certain officer, wore an elegantly-fas-
hioned dress of ivory silk and satin. The train
was edged with a rich rose pleating, and the
handsome figure was made the most of by
a cunningly-devised bodice which was cut just low
enough and no lower. It was very effective, and
was evidently the result of careful study. Mrs.
Keuss, of Glebe Point, wore a cream dress with
high Elizabethan collar and red popples. Miss
Sheridan Reid a tasteful black costume relieved
by white roses. Mrs. Alcock’s dress was pale-blue
broche with beautiful pale-pink feathers on the
corsage, and pink gloves with silk lace armlets.
Miss Bull wore an elaborate costume composed of
a crimson satin bodice trimmed with white passe-
menterie, and a pale-blue skirt profusely trimmed
with lace and small gold coins. A beautiful
shimmering mushroom satin artistically relieved
by ruby plush was most striking. Miss Fisher was
attired in a white marveilleux satin dress flounced
to the waist, and here and there on skirt, sleeves,
and bodice were bright touches of crimson velvet.
Mrs. Dr. Evans was beautifully dressed in pale-
blue- broche and lace, which admirably became
her winning face. Mrs. Watson, over a handsome
brocaded silk petticoat of divers colours, wore a
bodice and train of black velvet. Mrs. Clift, biscuit-
coloured silk and satin with plumes to match. Mrs.
Coates wore a mixture of pale pink and blue—the
short bodice of pink and the skirt of alternate blue
and pink flounces. The Misses Love looked neat
in white veiling and lace, and a moat peculiar dress
was a bronze broctui with numerous pink roses
adorning corsage and skirt. A tall lady in black
wore not a vestige of colour save a lovely tor-
quoise necklace which fitted tight round the
throat and was very telling. Mr. Playfair, junior,
was very assiduous in his endeavours to see that
everybody had their share of enjoyment, and It
was not a little owing to that gentleman’s efforts
that the ball was the success It undoubtedly was.
* ♦ ♦
■The first gathering of the Ladies’ Assem-
blies took place last week at Narandera, and was
one of the most sociable and enjoyable affairs ever
held in the little township. The musical arrange-
ments, under Mr. Broadhurst, gave great satisfac-
tion. Miss Bathon, in pais blue, and Miss Harold,
In pink, looked more than nice. Miss Jackson, of
Boree Creek, wore a very costly dress of pale-blue
plush and white lace. Miss Josephine Phillips
was neat in pink nun’s veiling. Amongst the
married ladles, the most noticeable were—Mrs.
Stinson, in cream satin, and Mrs. Christie in all
black,
* * *
The bachelors of Bathurst issued invita-
lons for a quadrille Assembly for last Thursday
evening, and, notwithstanding the wet weather,
there was a full and happy attendance, A short
programme was danced through by 10.30, and the
enjoyment was Immense. Gentlemen complained
bitterly of the bad dancing oi the Bathurst young
ladies; but, poor things, how can they help their
deficiencies when the dry old town cannot boast
of a dancing master? Miss Chapman, a recent
arrival from Sydney, being the best dancer, was,
of course, in great request, much to the disgust of
many of the other girls. The assemblies are to be
held weekly throughout the season.
• • •
A pretty wedding was celebrated at St.
Matthias’ Church, Botany, last Thursday, the
principal actors being Miss Alice Berry and Mr.
W. J. M’Garvey, Loving hands had decorated the
little church with exquisite taste, ferns and pure
white flowers forming the chief material. Judg-
ing by the crowd which assembled to witness the
ceremony, all Botany must have taken a holiday
in honour of the event. The young bride looked
serenely lovely as she glided up to the altar, loan-
ing upon her father's arm, in a handsome robe of
rich, French-white silk. The train was very long,
and the front of the skirt was handsomely trim-
med with deep honiton lace and pearls. A wreath
of orange blossoms surrounded the pretty head,
and beautiful workmanship was shown In the long
handsome veil. The principal bridesmaid. Miss
Parker, a niece of the bride’s, wore a creamy white
dress of satin and handsome lace, and her lovely
and amiable face was much admired. The remain-
ing five bridesmaids were Miss Underwood In pink,
the Misses Wright (2) In white, and two more
mites in pink. All six carried beautiful baskets
of flowers. Mr. Playfair, junr., acted as best man.
After the ceremony was over, the organist played
“The Wedding March,” and about 60 guests drove
to Elstree, the residence of the bride’s parents, to
partake of the wedding breakfast. The wedding
presents were both elegant and numerous, the
most substantial being the gift of the bride’s
parents, which consisted of a nice little house fur-
nished throughout. After all had been admired—
excepting the house, which couldn’t very well be
exhibited on an ordinary sized round table—all re-
paired to the large marquee, where a sumptuous
breakfast had been prepared by Mr. Correy. Mrs.
Berry, the bride’s mother, wore a handsome black
satin dress, pale cream bonnet and feathers, and
long cream gloves. Her married daughter (Mrs.
Parker) looked well in a becoming dress of ruby
silk and satin. Mrs. Trevett wore plum velvet
with small straw bonnet and trimmings to match.
Miss Milson looked very elegant in a peacock-
blue dress heavily trimmed with rich plush
and chenille fringe to match ; small peacock
plush bonnet, which suited her blonde com-
plexion admirably. The Misses Bayllss were
bath richly dressed in bright ruby marveil-
leux satin dresses, plentifully relieved with
cream lace. Mrs. Walsh wore a handsome
costume composed of black satin and rich gold
satin brocade; small, becoming white velvet bon-
net. Mrs. Watson was very richly attired in a
broche of two colours—brown and light-fawn—
and her daughter wore an uncommon dress of a
light flowered material. A very elegant costume
was shown on a tall lady, in the shape of a stone-
coloured satin, with bodice and draperies in velvet
of the same shade: long pink gloves and cream
lace bonnet, sugar-loaf shaped, with pink plumes.
Mrs. Underwood's costume was very rich and
tasteful, being a moss-green brocaded velvet with
green bonnet and pink plumes. When the break-
fast was over and the inevitable /speeches gone
through, the bride retired in order to don a less
tell-tale costume, prior to her departure for
Blaokheath, where the honeymoon is to be spent.
Good wishes and rice followed the happy pair as
they drove off.
9 * *
And now the Petersham folk hare started
their private socials—the first was held in their
Town Hall last Friday night, and the very even
floor was the subject of many favourable com-
ments. About one hundred were present. One
Miss File wore a black lace dress and a
handsome gold necklet. Her fair, swan-llke
neck contrasted well with the sombre dress. Her
sister’s dress was of crushed strawberry satin, but
she had wiseiy contrived that none of the harsh
colour should come near her fair face, as the
jeoullar but tasteful bodice was one mass of beau-
tiful biscuit-lace—the only colour besides black
which can be worn with crushed strawberry.
Miss Cook looked fresh and nice in a pale-blue
nun’s veiling. Miss A. Cook (a nice dancer)
wore a peculiar pale-blue checked costume,
whilst her younger sister, in a white cash-
mere and blue ribbons looked exceed-
ingly pretty. Miss Korff wore black with
jet trimming and pansies. Miss Katie Korff wore
white muslin, with numerous bands of crimson
satin ribbon above the hem of the skirt and crim-
son satin bodice. Miss E. Maddock’s dress was
a pale heliotrope muslin trimmed with white lace.
An elegant dress was of rich shrimp-pink satin,
with white lace. Miss Graham’s tall form was
clad in a beautiful blue nun’s veiling, with cas-
cades of rich white lace ornamenting the front of
the skirt. A pretty girl wore pink Indian muslin
and numerous string of pearls in the hair. Two
sisters wore greenish blue tarletan, plain full
skirts, and satin bodices in the same shade. A
pretty dancer looked nice in a peculiar drab-
coloured brocade tastefully trimmed with lace of
the same hue. Miss Wetherell wore blue; indeed
blues and pinks asserted themselves in the most
determined manner upon this occasion. Refresh-
ments were served at 10 o’clock and dancing kept
up till 13.
♦ * *
Tennyson, that lovely spot on the Parra-
matta River, was the scene of the Oriental Cricket
Club's Excursion, on Saturday afternoon last.
The steamer Telephone escorted over 300 people
to the favourite pleasure grounds. The weather
was charming, so that an excellent afternoon was
spent. Dancing was the chief amusement, and the
pavilion was fully occupied during the afternoon
by the lovers of Terpsichore, who whirled
away in an excellent manner to the lovely strains
of the Pyrmont United Brass Band. A nicely-
arranged programme of 13 dances was got
through. Messrs. J. Scott and J. Richardson
acted very efficiently as M.’s C ,and the hon. secre-
tary and committee of the Club may be congratu-
lated on the unqualified success which attended
their third annual excursion.
* * ♦
A most successful plain and fancy dress
assembly eventuated on Wednesday, 6th instant,
under the auspices of the Gundagai Social Recre-
ation Society, at which there were between 30 and
40 couples, including old Judge Forbes and mem-
bers of the bar on circuit. The belle was Miss
Alice Foy (Nancy Lee), in an extremely pretty
costume of crimson and white satin skirt, with
black satin bodice slashed with white. Folly, re-
presented by Miss Lily Leory, also looked and
danced well. The other noticeable fancy costumes
were: Duchess of Gainsborough (Miss Foy), Lady
Glenoarty (Mrs. Walton), and a Bussian Hussar
(Miss Carroll). Among the many pretty evening
toilets, the most attractive were those worn by
Mrs. Abrahams, comnosed of white broohe
trimmed with pearls; Mrs. M‘Kenzie, white nun’s-
veiling and broche trimmed with scarlet poppies;
Mrs. Forsyth, old gold satin and black lace; the
better halves of two popular mediooes, both in
white nun’s-velling; and Mrs. Col. Smith, black
lace and old gold. Miss Nellie Hubbard, in white
with white-satin bodice, looked very attractive
Music was provided by the ever-green Simpson’s
Band, and refreshments—which would have re-
flected credit on Compagnoni—were supplied by
Host Archer, of the Family Hotel. Dancing con-
cluded at 1 a.m.
♦ * *
The Sydney Socials gave their second
dance of the series for this season, at Needs’ rooms
on Tuesday evening the sth The attendance was
large, over 100 votaries of Terpsichore putting in
an appearance. These are really enjoyable little
dances, most of those who attend being acquainted
with each other, and as all are welcomed by
smiles,” visitors at once feel at home, ana thor-
ough enjoyment is the result. Mr, Ernest Needs
as usual provides capital music, with which neces-
sary ad j unot a neat little programme of 16 dances
was got through somewhere about midnight. A
nimble dancer from Botany-street caught our eye,
in a becoming dress of black gauze, the skirt made
plain, body of old gold plush, sleeveless, and
feather trimming. A brunette from Surry Hills
was the owner of a pretty blue satin, uniquely
trimmed with white lace, high-necked bodice, and
elbow sleeves. A married lady, “ young ” in years,
was admired in pink satin and white lace.
A gay cavalier from Summer Hill escorted a
charming maiden, who wore a pretty sky-blue
nun’s veiling, the front of the skirt being almost
hidden by tiny flounces of white laee intermixed
with pearls. Our mind suddenly reverted to Miss
Jenny Lee, of “ Jo” celebrity, on seeing a little
dot, who wore a pretty cream cashmere trimmed
with swansdown, short sleeves and low-necked,
displaying a figure that warranted such a costume;
and last, but not least, was a charming little dancer
from the city in pale pink nun’s veiling and a re-
markably profuse display of flowers depending
from one shoulder. Messrs. Pearce and Miller
write M.C. after their names at these socials, and
they certainly deserve the distinction, judging
from the attention they give to the duty. Mr. J.
T. Smiles is the courteous secretary, who informs
us that another dance will take place on Friday
evening next.
Last Tuesday evening, Mr. Harry Hyndes
made his first appearance in Maitland since his
return from Italy, at a concert in the Masonic
Hall. A large audience assembled to hear the
gifted pianist, and his reception was most enthu-
siastic... .Miss Agnes Kong Meng, eldest daughter
of Kong Meng, Esq., the Chinese Consul of Mel-
bourne. was married to Mr. Charles Martin, at
Kooyong, the residence of the bride’s father, one
day last month. The bride wore an elegant robe
of cream satin with pearl embroidery, and wreath
of orange blossoms. A brilliant crowd assembled
to witness the ceremony—On Tuesday, sth inst.,
Mr. Alex. Dodds, of Menenburn, North Shore, en-
tertained about 50 guests to a ball and supper.
Everything was carried out in the most recherche
style under the able management of Mr. Baumann,
and dancing was kept up until an early hour in
the morning.
ANSWERS TO SOCIAL CORRESPONDENTS.
[Note.— Social items, in order to ensure inser-
tion for the current week, should be to hand no
later than Tuesday.]
“Maud”: Your communication most welcome,
but, as you surmised, we had already received
account from our own reporter — “ Quirlndi”:
Shall be glad of items you promised. The one
you send this week not of sufficient interest to
warrant insertion.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
St. Kilda Socials, School of Arts, Balmaln...May 15.
Campbelltown Assembly May 15,.
Glebe Point Private Assembly (Glebe
Town Hall) May 28
Junior Pharmacists’ Ball (Need's rooms) ...May 38'
North Shore Bowing Club Annual 8a11..... May 28.
Newtown Social May 33.
Glebe Rowing Club Annual Ball June 5.
Annual Masonic Ball (Masonic Hall, Par-
ramatta) June 13.
Sydney o<vl Club Ball, Town Hall June 18.
WALTZING AMBITION.
[Square dances are out of favour, nothing will do but the waltz. Two dozen waltzes
in the evening are now pronounced to be the correct thing at suburban ballrooms.]
How THE BALLBOOM APPEARED TO YOUNG PIPKINS AFTER HIS TWENTY-SECOND WALTZ!


MIGNON
PIANO.
mu
MIGNON
PIANO.
325 George-M
k;;
PRICE LISTS POST FREE. TWENTY PER CENT. UNDER
ANY SYDNEY HOUSE.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, 13th May, 1886.
Tenders for public works and sup.
PLIES.-TBNDBRB are Invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
Is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
,£o tender will be taken Into consideration un-
with the t6rmS of the notlce are strictly complied
*J^~iiT erDmen ! do ® B not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
of Wrought Iron Water Pipes.
Sydney Water Supply
Tuesday,
7th July,
at 11 o’clock.
P. A. WRIGHT.
\ POSITIVE CURE WITHOUT MEDICINE,
Registered,
T ill r oure J the most obstinate case, acut«
or chronic, iq four days or less Dr ra vr uvn
SOLUBLE MEDICAT y ED Or BOUGIBS (Eucalypti)
No nauseous doses of cubebs, capaiba, or oil ol
sandlewood, that are certain to prod ice dyspepsia
by destroying the coatings of the e nach P Prict
Boi 823, Sydney. 0 re ° eipt ° f prie ddrese p -°
£4OO WORTH OF STEEL ANGLOS TO SELECT FROM.
J. STANLEY,
CONCERTINA DOCTOR,
WILLIAM STREET, BATHURST.
Mr. Charles Blackett, the best Anglo-German
concertina-player in the colony, writes to me :
“ The concertina I bought from you last year is
the best I ever had-Its tone cannot be excelled,
and the touch and articulation are perfection.
Your invention of screwing down the levers will
remedy the principal fault found in Steel Anglos
in hot climates, and your workmanship on every
part of the instrument, I believe, is unequalled in
Australia.
• (
“ Byrock, April 20,1885.
Charles Blackett.
“P.S.—Tour prices are far below any other es-
tablishment that I know of.”
S T -
GEORGE’S HALL,
Melbourne.
Lessees Clark and Hyman.
OPEN ALL THE YEAR ROUND.
First-class Artists, Novelties, Combinations—
either Musical, Dramatic, Minstrel, or Operatic—
treated with.
Silence a respectful negative.
This popular place of amusement is now in its
full tide of success—houses packed to the doors
nightly. Pronounced by the Press, public, and
profession to be the best entertainment ever seen
In Melbourne.
Notice.—The title of ‘-Red Stockings” has
been duly registered, and anyone infringing this
title will be prosecuted according to law.
JOHN FAN 'fINQ,
Business Manager.
ON THE
Brickfield Hill.
1 001 STAY MI comr DEPABTMEITT.
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Free of Charge.
/(?.
CO
6 ’
JO
/ '
%
i
a
Dim
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),
2s. Hd., 3s. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4s. lid., ss. Gd., Gs. 6d., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d,, 9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s G
EDWARD HORDERN AND SON?, 666 and 668 Brickfield Hill.
N.B.—Orders from the Country will receive Immediate and caretul attention.
Sydney, Wednesday.
. .Dearest Belle, —Since the Mayor’s ball, last
Wednesday night, we may consider our season has
commenced in real earnest. That it will be a bril-
liant one I make no doubt, providing the war
prospects keep their distance; and, if they do not,
of bourse we shall most of us have to retrench,
and be contented to wear cleaned gloves, imita-
tion laces, and so forth. That would be horrible,
wouldn’t it, dear ? So let us pray there will be no
necessity for such martyrdom. I feel sure you
will have heard all about the beautiful dresses
worn at the ball from other sources, so I may
spare myself a description of the same. It was a
nice and a brilliant assembly, but there was the
old, old fault of an over-crowded room, which was
disappointing, as wo had heard that only a limited
number were to be present. I hope our dear, good
Mayor will harden his heart next time, and send
out fewer invites. There were many present the
other night whose absence would have been far
more acceptable. I allude to the non-dancers,
who, if they went to the ball to talk instead of to
dance, might, at least, have withdrawn to one of
the ante-rooms instead of collecting in groups
and taking up valuable space in the ball-room to
the discomfiture of the dancers. I cannot,
nor ever could, understand why such men
go to balls at all, unless—now I’m going to be
spiteful—unless it’s for the sake of the cham-
pagne. Well, they shouldn’t be so thoughtless and
selfish, then I wouldn’t say such mean things
about them—there. A'friend of mine purchased a
beautiful white hood specially for this ball, which
was elaborately trimmed with white brocaded
ribbon, and had strings of the same ribbon about
a yard and a-half in length. She was proud of
this head-cosy, and indeed it was very pretty. To
imagine her dismay when she went into the cloak-
room to get her traps before going home, upon
discovering that one of the handsome strings had
been ruthlessly torn from the hood 1 Evidently
somebody had required a shoe-lace or something,
and hadn’t been particular what she annexed and
use for the same. It wasn’t kind, was it, dear ?
and if it had been my hood I know I should have
felt very savage about it. When it is intimated on
the invitation cards that carriages may be ordered
for 13 30, I don’t think it shows good breeding In
people to stay past that time-do you ? And yet
I heard some one say the next day that it was past
3 o’clock before some of the people left the Town
Hall I From what I hear I don’t think his Worship
the Mayor was overpleased with this lack of atten-
tion to his wishes, and no one would blame him if
he omitted the names of those guilty ones from
the list of invites next time he gives a ball.
Fancy Miss Virglline Griffin, who has just made
her deMt as an actress in Kentucky, being the
daughter of our own American Consul, Mr. G. H.
Griffin 1 It is said of her that even in her babyhood
her beauty was so rare that the American poets
were inspired to write verses to her. She is now
just sixteen, and bids fair to rival her step-cousin,
Mary Anderson, in beauty. With a perfect com-
plexion, wonderful brown eyes, a wealth of golden
hair, and form slim and graceful, she must indeed
be very beautiful, and it is no longer a matter of
wonder to me that our Consul here wears so sad a
visage, parted as he is by miles and miles of water,
from so fair a possession. I wish Miss Virglline
(pretty name, isn’t it ?) would come out here, if it’s
only to show us what a real beauty is like.
Mr. G. A. Sala left for Brisbane last Saturday,
upon a lecturing tour, where I know he will be as
well appreciated as he was here, I remember one
evening we were all sitting talking upon various
subjects, when, to our infinite amusement, Mr
Sala remarked: “Now, why don’t some or you
people ask me how I like your harbour ?’’ With
one voice we hastened to assure him that we had
made up our minds to spare him the hackneyed
question, and some one ventured to remark that
perhaps we were a little bit too conceited about
our little picturesque pond. “Not at all, not at
all,” answered the great man, “indeed, much
as I heard of your ‘blow’ before I came here
for my part I don’t think you talk half enough
about your harbour.” You can, perhaps, imagine
our delight, dear, upon being told that we weren’t
half as conceited as we have a right to be. “ Now
for real conceited folks,” remarked the American
Consul; “ you can’t beat the Bostonians; and I’ll
just give you an example. Once upon a time a
powerful cast played * Hamlet’ in Boston city to a
big audience. Next day an Englishman, meeting
a Boston friend, asked him how he enjoyed the
play. ‘ Oh, Hiked it real well; yes, indeed, and
see here, I don’t believe there are more than half-
a-dozen men in Boston who could have written
that play.’ ” After that I think we may con-
sider ourselves the perfection of modesty here—
don’t you agree with me ?
Has it never worried you when you have been
going on a journey to know what to do with your
umbrella and parasol ? But, of course, it has, and
the wonder is that through all these long years
ever since umbrellas were first used that no one
has invented a way of packing them in a trunk
along with other necessaries until just now; and
so simple as it is, tool You have merely to un-
screw the handle and top, and, viold, there you
have a disjointed umbrella which is as packable as
a pair of shoes. I dare say as long as they are a
novelty these be-screwed parasols will be pretty
expensive; but, however costly they may be, I
am sure in the long-run it will prove to be money
well invested, as how many manage to accomplish
a journey without losing an umbrella ? Not many,
I feel certain, so this new invention should prove
quite a boon to travellers.
So many gaieties have been crowded into this
week that it is impossible to tell you of them all,
so, my dear friend, I must ask you to imagine the
greater part of them for once. Miss Berry’s wed-
ding—which I told you was going to take place In
my last—was a very pretty one, and the bridal
dress (which was made at Peapes and Shaws) cost
a considerable number of guineas. But one
doesn’t generally have to meet the expense of a
wedding-dress more than once in a life time, so the
extravagance is excusable. I believe, before the
year is out, the eldest daughter of “ Asbgrove,”
Ashfleld, Intends to enter the matrimonial bonds,
and her trousseau is said to be something superb
I will tell you more particulars in a future letter,
as I am going up next Saturday to one of their
pleasant tennis parties and then I can see for
myself.
This morning Messrs. Nicholson and Ascherberg,
with their usual generosity, sent me a batch of
nice new songs and dance music. A patriotic song
published by the firm caught my eye first. It is
entitled “The Death of Gordon,” and the words
are written and the music composed by one and
the same man. I would like to say something nice
about this song, as the composer’s intentions are
evidently of the very best, but really I don’t think
he does himself justice by giving expression to his
enthusiastic admiration of the dead hero in music
and verse. In music written in remembrance of a
great man, we naturally look for something ap-
propriate, grand and noble, but, much as it pains
me to admit it, I have searched through this song
in vain for these qualities. But, as I said before, 1
am sure the composer's sentiments are more
worthy than his music. Poor Gordon I
I could not attend the bicycle sports on Satur-
day as I had another engagement; but lam told
there was a good show of dresses, which, however,
could hardly be seen for the crowd. We have had
to take out our seal-skins and furs at last, and I
hope to have something good to tell you of our
winter costumes soon. Bright colours will be
much worn in hats and bonnets this season, and
plumes ad libitum. There, dear, the mood for
gossiping has left me for the nonce, so you must
be content to wait for more till again I am 1’
the vein.
Your ever loving
MAB.
P.S.—lsn’t the water famine we are suffering
from terrible, and don’t you think it unjust that
house-owners are compelled to pay water rates
when they can’t have the water ? I do. The Gas
Company would never think of charging for gas
that was never used, so why should we pay for
water w; t ever get? There’s something wrong,
tnough I u i'n't know exactly where to place it.
M.


WOMAN ITEMS.
In England, a man who “ bit his wife’s
nose off and threw the piece into the passage ”
was sent to gaol for six months I
A “ patriotic ” mother has named twins,
bom this year. Sue and Dan, in commemoration of
the “ patriotic” movement in N.B.W.
“ A Woollahra Girl,” writing in a con-
temporary, complains that, owing to the shortness
of the water supply, she “hasn’t had a bath for
a week.” Any excuse serves some people for not
washing.
" Our Australian girls of fortune appear to
be as incapable of refusing sprigs of English no-
bility as American girls are of saying “ no ” to
French counts and Italian princes. Within a fort-
night a bonny Australian heiress worth about
£300,000 gives her hand and fortune to an “ honour-
able.” May he prove to be so.
The recent sale of the poet Keats’ corres-
pondence with Fanny Browne suggests the ques-
tion how far love-letters should be privileged
communications. The words written in hot pas-
sion for one eye ought not assuredly to bo looked
at from the same point of view as the stiff business-
like communications intended for the perusal of
all whom they may concern. Yet a judge and
jury no more consider the epistles of passion pri-
vileged than they do an invoice of warming-pans
or a bill-of-ladihg.
The Queen has been called upon again to
E resent a working man’s wife with £3 for having
rought into the world three children at a birth.
This sort of “ presentation ” has of late become so
common as to threaten to prove a serious tax on
the Queen, who, as all the world knows, allows all
poor persons in such cases a bounty of £3. At the
end of last century the wife of a Frenchman had
six children at a birth—three boys and three girls.
It is recorded also of the spouse of an Italian that
she gave birth to 53 children in all, of whom never
less than three were born at one time. In Eng-
land, too, in the good old times when George 111.
was King, a husband was one morning “ congratu-
lated ’’ on the fact that he had just become the
father of seven children at one “ fell swoop.”
Mrs. Hampstead, a Melbourne woman,
who was recently awarded £350 to soothe her
wounded feelings, proposes to publish the letters
of the faithless George Briggs, which were not
read in court, and a selection from her own effu-
sions. It appears that only those letters which
militated against her were road, and she desires
that the public should know what an angel she is.
and what a naughty old gentleman he Is, But the
public think she was a very clever woman, and
that between the date of the first meeting of this
couple on July 14th, and their final separation on
September 30th, she did pretty well. There are
wicked people who even think he might be worse
off. She will get about £llO net, or £5O per week,
for the time devoted to her lover. He will pay
about £BOO in all, a third of what he is worth.
We read that “they have a novelty in
Oootamundra Just now, viz, a mock breach of
promise of marriage trial. The action Is supposed
to be brought by a young lady, a resident of
Oootamundra, against a young gentleman of Gun-
dagai, who had trilled with her affections. The
plaintiff was personated by Master Thomas Hud-
son, who was capitally made up. Mr. Wilson, a
compositor, acted the part of the defendant, and
blushed deeply when denounced by the plaintiff’s
counsel. Mr. Doidge, of the Liberal, appeared
for the plaintiff, and Mr. Healy, solicitor, and Mr.
Pinkstone, of the Herald, for defendant.” What
strikes us as curious in this affair is that a compo-
sitor should have been able to blush. This Mr.
Wilson, who blushes to order, is possibly the very
man who, when the contributor wrote “ My love
is dark,” set up “ My love is drunk ’’—and faced
the editor next day without turning a hair.
We read that “among the few Australian
ladies present at the Queen’s drawing-room, the
dress of Mrs. Henniker Heaton was strikingly
beautiful—of satin mais with green velvet train,
set off with a hand-painted fan showing rich
plumaged Australian birds on wattle (mimosa)
boughs in lloom.” Here is a stab Irom the Court
Jot®val:— “ Mrs. J. Henniker Heaton.— Train
of arieh shade of moss Lyon velvet, lined in ihe
same shade of poult-de-soie, and trimmed with
satin and large bunches of shaded daturas; cor-
sage and upper dress of naais yellow brocade,
trimmed with tulle and looped with bunches of
daturas over a jupe of mais satin duchesse en
phases. Headdress, lappets and plumes; orna-
ments, diamonds; fan hand-painted with Aus-
tralian birds on wattle (mimosa) boughs in bloom;
bouquet of marshal Nile roses.” Phew I Fancy
all that produced by “ Secun’ Edition, — Another
Horrible Outrage!"
♦ * *
A mild sort of merited libel. “Well, how
were the ladies dressed ?’’ was asked at one of the
clubs of a member who had just come from a
fashionable dinner party. “My dear fellow,” he
replied, “ I really don’t know. The fact is. I didn t
think of looking under the table.” A young
lady wearing a very low-neclsed dress having been
expelled from a New York ball on the ground that-
her dress was tpo low, has appealed to a court for
redress, and the court will have to decide how low
a low-necked dress may be worn, or, in other
words, what are the precise limits of the feminine
neck. It is evident, however, that the court will
have to appoint a commission of experts who will
make a survey and fix a boundary which, in their
opinion, should be adopted as the southerly
boundary of the neck Diseases are frequently
communicated by kissing—especially heart-disease.
“Yes,” he said, dropping into a chair, “Clara
loves me, I am sure. I tried to kiss her to-
night at the hall door, but she got very Indig-
nant.” “That doesn’t look as if she loved you,”
“Oh, yes.it does. She called me a rascal.”..,.
“ The awkwardness of your coming here so often,”
said she, “is that my maid is always on the qui
vive." “Ahl” he sighed, softly; “ key-kole vive, so
to speak.” The trousseau of Lady Erymntrude
Malet, daughter of the Duke of Bedford, is said to
be the most wonderful that the world has yet seen.
The fair bride’s papa has actually presented her
with 100 pairs of boots and shoes. When a papa
has daughters who want 100 pairs of boots all at
once, no wonder he has to build over his tenants’
back gardens ... Society has been startled in
Ballarat by the rumour tnat a local clergyman 68
years of age is to take unto himself a blushing
bride of 38.
“Honesty is the best policy.” If every-
body thought so Wolfe's Schnapps would not bo
imitated as it is.
From the Melbourne Age: “Wanted
girls, four, live, to peel onions.” Nlobe in tears.
What everybody says must be true. All
who have used Wolfe’s Schnapps say it is the
best stimulant.
Current Topics.


T-A. CK THOMPSOIT,
A.J.C. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SALOON.
91 Eing-street.
tsr N. 8.—1 ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
READ_THIS I
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and Jewelled,
with the latest Improvements,
£8 lOs. each.
Warranted for three years,
CAN BB BOUGHT AT
269 Pitt-st, Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER
PUBLIC NOTICE.
Marshall’s Artificial Teeth.
Marshall brothers, Dentists, owing to
the great increase of their dentistry prac-
tice, have also taken extensive premises at 133
ELIZABETH STREET, Hyde Park. They still
continue to inset t teeth at the same enormously
reduced price as before, namely, £S per set,
upper and lower, which are precisely the same
prize medal teeth advertised by other firms.
Marshall Brothers gurantee these to be equal in
every way, both for quality, fit, and appearance,
to those inserted by hundreds of dentists (with a
limited practice), who charge double and treble
this amount. The public may doubt this, but
Marshall Brothers offer £5OO to any person who
gap prove this statement untrue. Consultation
Market-street. N.B.—All trams stop at the door.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GBNT.’S 80, Is. Bd.; 100, 28. 6d.
INDIES’ 50, 28. Od.; 100, 3s. Od.
Address, 6d. extra.
Meat Business Cards.
100, 3s. Bd.; 250, 6s. 6d.; 600, 10s.; 1000, 108.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
W Orders executed and forwarded by retuffi
post.
TIE DICnMI CD,
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
I. A. BROWN A CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS.
280 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-streeW
From the Strand, London.
-y-
EYERTBODT KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 364 and 356 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest In Australia*
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment.
E v er yßo o yi’s i child?S! d by I hte ex?outrif °** ° U f ° r the benefit 0f the late
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354, and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, MANAGER.
, and CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J, ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
iron, mm, d wmi merchants,
Importers of
i and REQUIS
MINING,CEUSI
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSHWARE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACKS
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
PORTABLE, FIE
and SEMI-FIiED
GINES
Jump" “ d 01
‘Vhap?m}, p Vct’
- OXXxAx x W VlTf DvXi
f M6W MA%V N d E8 DttlU
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BI
FOUNDRY
PATENT RO LT
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, Ac,
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application,
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
Head Warehouse -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Office -
- 64 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS.
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR.
SYDNEY.
■ • - 86 QRACEOHURCH STREET,
Giticura
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the now Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching: and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when ail other means absolutely fail.
nUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fler, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautlfier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
hook, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 60 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Australian Consignees,
B. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co,, Boston, tJ.S.A.
mum
tmm
Established
SYDNE
iBsa
PIANOS/ORGANS
Best Makers Only
EVERY INSTRUMENT'
guarantee)
A 4/,
OVER
800
Instruments
ON VIEW
To SelecKfrom.
SYDNEY.
VERY
MODERATE
PRICES^.
The Most Liberal
TIME PAYMENT
SYSTEM.
m
BAUMAMN,
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
0T LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.


W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON and SYDNEY.
Catalogues Catalogues
POST FRBB.
IV. WAL KER
and SONS
are one of the
Largest
POST FREE.
ALL STOCK
in their
SYDNEY
HOUSE
Stockholders
Supplied
and
DIRECT
Manufacturer •
'rom their
Hi|h>olan
FURNITURE
ENGLAND.
London
Manufactory,
and Latest
London Styles
' Guaranteed
SYDNEY BRANCH :
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
REMEMBER THIS,
IP YOU ARE SI OK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS willl
Surely aid Nature in making you welli
again when all else fails.
If you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,,
never rest easy till you are made a new-
being by the use of American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any of the numerous;
diseases of stomach or bowels, it is,
your own fault if you remain ill, fort
American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting-
Death this moment, and turn for a curot
to American Co's
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of American Co.’S;
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident;
of a miasmatic district, barricade your-
system against the scourge of malarial,,
epidemic, bilious and intermittent
fevers —by the use of American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, American HOP
BITTERS will give you fair skin, rich
blood, the sweetest breath, health, and
comfort. In short, they cure ALL
Diseases of the Stomach, Bowels,
Blood, Liver, Nerves, Kidneys, &0., and
£5OO
will bo paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
American Hop Bitters, costing but a
trifle.
Will you let tbem suffer?
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
American Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or Suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
See If the name of Hr. Soule Is blown
In every bottle. If not it Is counterfeit.
WeakNervousMen
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay and
failure to perform life’s duties
properly are caused by ex-
cesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
She Marston Bolus.
either stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment
of Nervous Debility and Physical Decay is
uniformly successful because based on perfect
diagnosis, new and direct methods and absolute
thoroughness. Full information and illustrated
treatise sent free (sealed).
Address— Doctor J. O Connell,
F.O.'Box 466. 62 Castleroagh St., Sydney,
CONSULTATION FREE.
Eau db cologne,
4711 4711.
Established 1792.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1872; Prize Medal, Vienna, 1873
This Eau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 35 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for Its superior sweetness, strength,
and invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
petitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the 31ite of
Europe.
The large and constantly increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Eau de Cologne, not only in
Europe, but also in North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number—47ll changed into 7411,1147, 4117, &c., &c.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue-aud-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pitt-
street, Sydney.
To be had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
end Storekeepers, in town and country.
SOLE IMPORTER OP
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
SOLE AQENT FOB THE
'SMITH OEGAH.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
<7
i
f
Our Western people are liable to be laid
low by malarial lever when breaking up new
lands. The folks In the East are also complaining
of fevers, chills, and agues, arising from decaying
vegetable matter and imperfect drainage. For
either East or West the best remedy Is Ayer’s
Ague Cure.
That furred tongue, bad-tasting mouth
and miserable feeling, say you need American
Co.’s Hop Bitters. Read and believe.
>
l!»ii N
m
M
f BUKGIS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
I from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-BTKBKT,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for s«
forwarded to any part of the colony
BARGAINS! BARGAINS!! BARGAINS!
Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale.
XjHiO“SriD <Sz CO,
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO, ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.
Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale.
Ladies should secure the *
CHEAP LACES AND UNDERCLOTHINQ AT ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.’S SALE.
4s. in the pound taken off your Bill.
Thousands of Remnants of Laces. Remnants of Laces. Remnants of Laces.
Remnants of Ribbons. Remnants of Ribbons. Summer Millinery. Summer Millinery.
A MAGNIFICENT STOCK ALL INCLUL-kO IN THE SALE.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.
Umbrellas. Umbrellas. Parasols. Parasols.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.,
NEAR THE GENERAL POST OFFICE.
OBTAINABLE EROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
CELEBRATED
BISCUITS AND CAKES, TREACLE AND GOLDEN SYRUP,
Self-raising AErated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
EWfe* FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
8. & A. have obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney 1.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta IF. 1883-4,
The “Evening News” and Trench
Tragedy.
The Sydney Evening News tells us about
how at “Ruffec” [l] in France a man named
Fourcheraud made his missus confess that the
lather of the ohlid was the man on the next lot, and
then told her to tell the neighbour he must adopt
}t, and if he refused she was to shoot him. He re-
fused, and was shot. Pooh! a nice way the News
has of telling a French story. This is how it oc-
curred:—
Entering the house of the seducer, hastily,
Madame Fourcheraud closed the door noiselessly
hflr.
A figure was smoking a pipe by the chimney
8i She uttered a faint cry, and said, “It is Henri—it
is, indeed, ho I Oh!” . ..
And she wept—one sob to every puff of the
Seducer’s pipe. , , .
“Guess what I am here for?’ she at length
asked in broken tones.
“To borrow onions ?” he suggested between two
whiffs.
“Cruel one—no! By my husband’s commands
you are to acknowledge and adopt your child,
or—.”
“ Mordi —‘or ’
“ Die!”
Herewith one hand she presented the infant and
with the other a pistol. , ~
The miserable de cuivre (brazen wretch) then
thrust his beery face into that of the infant, then
laughed—ha, ha 1
“He resembles me not, he cried.
“ SeiUrat! would you deny the sweet pledge
of —
“ He has the squint of Poulet-Moulin.
“ Br-rUiand!”
“And the Hat nose of Grenicheux.”
“ Oh, you mistake, Henri,” now cried the heart-
broken woman; “ you are as alike as two angels.”
“ Hein!"
“ See here, upon my crucifix I swear it.
Swears it.
Henri, who had been cleaning his pipe with a bit
of straw during this solemn ceremony, said at its
conclusion, “ Eudoxie, show me once more the
Infant.”
He looked at the innocent babe—now slightly
troubled with wind—and cried, “ I am really like
this 1”
“Its double, my Henri.
The seducer gave a spasmodic groan. He took
off his coat. He took off his waistcoat. He was
about to take off his shirt, when noticing a blush
mantle the cheek of the betrayed one, he paused.
“There was a time,” he muttered, "but .”
Then pausing, he cried, "My heart pants for your
lead-fire I”
Bang! She fired.
Thus virtue triumphed over vice; and it was a
sweet picture, that evening, to see the wronged
and outraged husband cart away, by Cynthia’s
light, the seducer’s wood heap.
As for her? Poor, poor penitent, after laying
out the body complete, all except the sleeve-links,
she wandered forth in the moonlight to where the
streamlet sparkled.
“ Wretch that I am,” she cried, wildly waving a
slice of bread and honey. “ Fourteen times have I
fallen, yet”—here she glanced uneasily around—
“ my husband knows but of thirteen times only.
Did he hear of the fourteenth, the good man
would be truly vexed. I must consider.”
[Left Considering.]


UMBRELLAS
£<3VlBi^o
STUDY ECONOMY
and
' Ha veyourUmbrella Frames
I re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
I Parasols made to match oos-
-1 tumea. Repair* neatly exe-
cuted
T
he fresh food and ice company
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
No. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &c„ with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
“KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
Fresh Food & ice Co., Limited,
Head Office 21 Harbour-street.
Stables Liverpool-street.
Factory .. ... Mittagong.
ntr
mcß
or
life
KNOW THYSELF
A G-r Sat MEDICAL WO&E on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses may be
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur.
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
or Sclr I reservation. A. book for every man younir
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may he
repined and retained; It contains 125 prescriptions for
dll acute ond chrome diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. bo found by the author, whose experience for
20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
any physician. 300 pages, bound in beautiful French cloth,
full gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
mil be refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
The Science of Life should be read by the yountr for
instruction and by the afllicted for relief. It will benefit
all. —London Lancet.
Address the World’s Dispensary Medical As- 11 r* A I
sooiation, or Dr. W. E. Parker, No. 69 Hunter HT AI
Street, Sydney, N.S.W. The author may TIJV/OF" I
be. consulted on all diseases requiring I fl lOt. L r
skill, secrecy, and experience. ■■■•vtoi.i
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
S VO N E.V
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The beat known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
•neuralgia, headache, toothacie.
Rains, bruises, iurns. scalds, & c and
token Internally cures DIARRHOEA,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other iutfarna aches
and pains.
Price, S/- Sold Everywhere,
G. E. MOULTON, sole propfiuor,
Melbourne and s* . dney,
PAINT
, _ itBUIBTBKBD.
\ SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURB for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
tnat spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
loothachc. Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss oi
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Losa of Vital Power, &c. By Its tonic
ana soothing effects It at once removes all craving
zor Alcohol. By Its richness In phosphorous and
elements, MARSHALL’S
AH'NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
SSL system. Price, 4s. Cd., or 255. a case.
Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS,IM.F.S.
“SAuiaoturing and consulting Chemists, 104 and
n «ar Hyde Park, Sydney, and
Clr<ml<u ‘- < l u »y* TAKE NO BUBBTI-
COOLALTA WINES.
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX, *
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 GS-eorge-street
(Beneath Paling’s.)
NO MORE CORNS I
CORNS AND WARTS removed without pain
by the use of Palmer’s Painless, Harmless,
and Effectual CORN AND WART REMOVER.
This preparation is the most wonderful ever used
for Corns, Warts, or Bunions. If applied accord-
ing to the directions, it will effectually remove
them in from six to eight days.
PALMER’S
FACILE CURA jSSg
For Neuralgia, either Chronic or Local.
This most wonderful Preparation has surpassed
all others in speedily removing this excruciating
and most distressing complaint. It matters not
how long or severe the suffering has been, a single
bottle has never failed in producing the desired re-
sults ; and it can be most confidently recommeided.
Sold retail by all chemists and druggists and
general stores: wholesale by Messrs Elliott Bros.,
Sydney ; E. Prosser and Co., Sydney ; Felton,
Grimwade, and Co., Melbourne; Kempthorne and
Prosser, Dunedin.
NEUSTADT andCO.,
COMPLETE
HOUSE
FURNISHERS,
39.154, 156, & 158 OXFORD-ST J
STDNET.
I W~ HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
Either for Cash or Time Payment.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND AT.T.
' WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers.
ETP EX WEAK MEN,
i (ItL Suffering from Void li-
ly Decay, Lost Manhood, etc., will
. a and certain means of Self Cure,
Free of Charge, by addressing
M. B. TAYXiOE, Esq,, Box 891, Sydney, N.S.W,
REMEDY
ful Errors, Earl
learn of a simple
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
oi ft3colcW^
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
6PIRIT MER-
CHANT.
80LB~AGBNT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS,
LITHUANIAN
MAGBN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL,
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE,
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING.
WEST END HOUSE,
168 FITT STREET, STDNET
(Two'Doora from Compagnoni’s.)
3HHB undersigned, recognising the want of a
L FIRST-CLASS TAILORING ESTABLISH-
MENT, have OPENED the premises lately occu-
pied by the Bank of Australasia, at 168 PITT-
-BTREBT (THE WEST END HOC SB) where they
Intend to carry on a High-class and Fashionable
Trade.
The public may feel assured that we shall be
able to maintain a high standard, when we state
that our Mr. Ward has had some years’ experience
in the best houses in London, Paris, as well as in
first-class Sydney Establishments, namely, Farmer
and Co.’s and David Jones and Co.’s.
Our Mr. Wilson has had fully 20 years’ expe-
rience in the Australian trade, and has just re-
turned from England, where he visited ail the
principal Woollen Mills, including that of Hud-
dersfield, as well as West of England and Scotch
Mills. This will be a sufficient guarantee that the
tastes and requirements of the public will receive
the attention they deserve.
In conclusion, we desire to say that we hope to
obtain a fair share of patronage, in return for
which we guarantee first-class work, all hand-
made, well shrunk, perfect fit, and all in the latest
London and Pans styles.
Soliciting a trial, we remain,’
Very truly yours,
FREDERICK WILSON.
HUGH WARD,
Fashionable Tailors, Robe and Habit Makers.
West End House,
168 Pltt-street, Sydney.
HODIMI,
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS.
manufactured by the most celebrated Emrllsh
makers.
G.B.M. further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
following Firms .-JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
the
don;w* I *! D & SON., London: JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London; CHAS. OSBORNE &
CO., London,
BUSSY&CO a ! S Lotdo B n NTfor th ° CmlDent flrm 0f
Game Bajrs, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, &0., and all
k ' n ,dB°f Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Falthf ully Guaranteed at
602 George-st., Sydney,
Where Inspection is invited.
Champagne
Heldslock & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE,
OF ALL WINK MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co.. Loudon.
Sole Asrents for Heldaleck & Co.. Reims.
E 'should’ USB IPEMET -7/P
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT 18 MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW. and the QUALITY
is QUA RANTB ED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
Shit George-street, Sydney.
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TUKF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
The “LOUIS’*
VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
{or all purposes in which Silk Velvet
day be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of “ Louis.”
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
1 send patterns
POST FREE Ofi
application.
sS
-* -
Carnrick’s Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk
(Composed of about equal proportions of Pure Cod Liver Oil and Condensed Milk digested).
IT affords us much pleasure to announce to the Medical Profession and the Public that we have suc-
ceeded in combining these nutritive substances into a permanent, palatable, and easily assimilable
form.
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk baa the following advantages over the Plain Oil and the
Emulsions now in use :—lst. Plain Cod Liver Oil is unpalatable to most persons, hut in combination
with condensed (digested) milk, as exhibited in this preparation, it will usually be taken by the youngest
child with a relish. 2nd. Oils are prepared for assimilation principally in the duodenum ; consequently
Cod Liver Oil, when taken plain, often offends the stomach. The Oil and Milk in Peptonized Cod Liver
Oil and Milk are digested, and it will therefore usually agree with the most delicate stomach. 3rd.
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk contains double the nutritive and flesh-forming principles found in
the Emulsions of Cod Liver Oil. 4th. It is well known that the Emulsions of Cod Liver Oil usually
contain from 60 to 75 per cent, of water. Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk contains 53 per cent, of
best Cod Liver Oil, and in the place of water we use condensed milk, reduced in vacuo in our labora-
tory. sth. The milk is condensed to the consistency of the Cod Liver Oil, and when combined, as in
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk, it forms one of the most pleasant and nutritious compounds that
can be conceived or produced.
This Preparation is acknowledged far superior to any of the Cod Liver Oil Emulsions over
introduced, it being already digested, it may be retained on the weakest stomach.
We also manufacture the above preparation combined with MYPOPHOSPHITBS OP LIME AND
SODA. To be obtained of the Principal Chemists and Druggists ia the colonies.
The Maltine Manufacturing Co., Lim., 24 aud 25 Hart-st., Bloomubary, London, W.C.
Wholesale Agents in the Colonies Elliott Bros., Sydney; E. Prosser & Co., Sydney; Felton, Grim,
& Co., Melbourne; Kocke, Tompsltt. & Co., Melbourne; Duerdin & Sainsbury, Melbourne; F. H,
Faulding & Co., Adelaide; A. M. Bickford & Co., Adelaide; Berkley, Taylor, & Co., Brisbane; Elliott,
Bros. & Co., Brisbane: New Zealand Drug Co., Brisbane.
Samples and Full Particulars may be obtained of
W. T- PALMER, 104 King-street, Sydney.
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Robo Makers.
Trousers from 31s. to 40s.
I* - N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Farmer and Co.
W. Shearsby & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabeth-st.
Is the largest and best-appointed Family Hotel In the Western District. The Table and Llquo
cannot be surpassed, even In the Metropolis. Private Suites for families. First-class Stabling.
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietoc
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPKESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
ST BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)


A POPULAR MINSTREL MADE HAPPY:
OR, FROM JEST TO EARNEST.
“ For seven years,” writes Mr. Horace Bent, of
the Federal Minstrels, “I have suffered from an
acute neuralgic affection of the right knee and
rheumatic gout, which became so severe during
our season at the ‘ Gaiety ’ in September, ’B3, that
was obliged to relingulsh the active duties of my
profession and keep my room for a couple of days.
I had tried several strong liniments at various
times, some of which gave me partial relief. In
the course of my lecture and sketches I had fre-
quently mentioned, jocularly, St. Jacobs Oil; but
it never occurred to me to apply it to my own ail-
ments until a friend who happened to be In my
room whilst I was complaining of Intense pain re-
minded me of its claims, and sent opt for a botflp
right away. I used a little of it immediately, and
found Instant rpljef, repeating the application
again later on in the evening, Fyom that night I
have never felt either the neuralgic affection of
the knee or the rheumatic gout return, and I
would have sent you this acknowledgment earlier
but I thought it best to thoroughly establish the
permanence of the effect; and have to subscribe
myself a firm believer in the virtues of St. Jacobs
. Sold by all chemists and druggists in N.S.W.
price 2a. 6d. per bottle.
/ had tried Everthlng
I had heard of in the East and West for salt
rheum or eczema. My case was considered a very
bad one. My face, head, and some parts of my
body were almost raw. Head covered with scabs
and sores. Suffering fearful. One very skilful
physician said he woujd rather not treat it, ancj
some of them think now I am only cured tempor-
arily. I think not, for I have not a particle of
salt rheum about me, and my case is considered
wonderful. Thanks to Ctttjcura Resolvent, the
new blood purifier, and Cdticura and CpTipußA
Soap, the great skin cures and beautiffer. Mrs.
S. E WHIPPLE, Decatur, Mich. Sworn to before
the British Consul.
We speak advisedly, and with afullknoWr
ledge of the facts, when we say that BRISTOL’S
SARSAPARILLA is actually and truly A SDR®
CURE FOR EVERY DISEASE arising from IM-
PURE BLOOD.
Mb. DbCoubot Browne (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 52 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, asr Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, Land Titles, Mr. Browne |
skill, a matter of record in the Departments aad
Supreme Court.*
A new discovery.—Hoffman’s Euoalyptol
(registered) “Mixtureand Injection.” They will
positively cure all kidney diseases and disorders,
all urinary complaints and discharges, irritation,
scalding, inflammation, gravel, pains in the back,
&c. A case incurable in nine months was actually
cured in eight days with Hoffmann’s Bucalyprol
Injection (“ purely vegetable ”). Hoffman’s Bu-
calyptol Mixture or Injection contain no mineral,
no sandalwood, no balsam, or anything injurious
to the rpost 4elipate constitution of either sex.
Ask for Hoffman’s, anff" taffe no substitute*
Wholesale: E. Prosser and Co.; Elliott Bros. Re-
tail : All principal chemists and storekeeper
Price, 3s. 6d. and 3s. 6d.*
Printed and Published by Thb Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), 34 Pltt-«t., Sydney, N.S.W.
v Cran and Co., the monopolist proprietors of
jTengarle sugar-refinery, Maryborough, Q., whose
Bat respecting the ruling local prices Is unfortu-
nately beyond control, have fixed the value of the
price of cane-juice this year at £15 per thousand
gallons, a diminished Income for the growers,
taking the possible yield at 4000 tons, of the good
round sum of £10,000.
•the editor of the Herlierton Advbrtisbr
puts it delicately thus concerning a friend of his:
Result.—The numerous friends of
Mr. will be glad to hear that in con-
nection with certain charges anent cattle, no bill
was filed against him in one case, and the other,
he, his son, and nephew (M. Read) have also been
discharged, the case not having gone to the jury.”
Having a friend among the editors Is, up North,
evidently the thing next best to having a friend
on the jury. “Certain charges anent cattle.”
Humph I
At a leading Melbourne hostelry, the
other day, a goodly company assembled, one of
the number “ shouted,” and 53 people were asked
to “ nominate their drinks.” The waiter came In,
and they commenced, one after another: “ Whisky
and soda,” “gin and bitters,” “ sherry and lemon-
ade. ’ “ claret,” and so on, when It was loudly
gugrested that the waiter couldn’t possibly re-
member so many orders ail at once. A man In the
'orovd who knew the fellow with the tray and
towel thereupon offered to wager that the latter
would take the whole of the 53 orders and hand
.each thirsty one his drink without a mistake. A
fiver was accordingly staked on the subject, and
In the result, although many of those present
Changed seats and moved about the room, James
brought to each man exactly what bad been called
for.
The Cootamundra Herald has invented a
new disease, “ chronic consumption.”
For sinking spells, fits, dizziness, palpita-
tion and low spirits, rely on Hop Bitters. Genuine
made by American Co. Notice,
Lays of Contemporary Chivalry.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SIR PEBLAR DE BART AND SIR JAGO PHIPP.
I.
Sir Peblar do Bart and Sir Jago Phipp—
With respect their names I trace—
Were belted knights once in partnership
(Two belted knights made a brace).
Sir Peblar de Bart, his blood was so blue,
It purpled his nose and lips;
Sis prospects partook of the azure* too,
And so did Sir Jago Phipp’s.
Sir Peblar de Bart he had sailed down South,
To marry gold, in a ship,
And he was uncommonly “ down in the mouth,”
The same with Sir Jago Phipp.
IX.
The Lady Podophylllne Musa Miggs,
She sat In her rich “ boodwawe,”
The Baron, her sire, had cattle and pigs,
Then what was she sighing for ?
ke had sheep, and cattle, and hens and pigs,
And all would be her’s one dayi
kut the Lady Podophylllne Musa Miggs
She still kept sighing away.
What were those effigies lank and swart,
That hung to the fence in strips ?
Was that the form of Sir Peblar de Bart f
That figure Sir Jago Phipp’s.
HI.
The Baron of Pott’s Point sat in his chair,
His smile it was dread to see;
And wicked and weird was the wolfish glare
In his little red eyes—ah, me;
As he read in his ledger this entry grim,
“ For the hand of my daughter these—
tiord Golfo M‘Guff, Sir Perryman Pym,
The Marquis of Manganese,
1 Sir Peblar de Bart, and Sir Jago Phipp,
ah gone— and whither ? But, lo,”
Ho softly said as he curled his lip,
“ How should the poor bull-dog know ?”
IV.
What were those gliding in serried rank—
Gramercyl also eftsoon—
Where the moonlight sleeps upon yonder tank ?
(Who’d write verse if there were no moon I)
’Twas Sir Jago Phipp—what was left of him—
And the rest of de Bart; with these
Lord Golfo M’Guff, Sir Perryman Pym,
And the Marquis of Manganese.
tike lizards they wriggled, these wrecks of rank
Through the mouth—or bung—or dobr—
Till one by one they sank in the tank,
And the night knew thelii no more.
V.
kut the Baron of Pott’s Point would have shook
in his patent-leathers for fear,
tf he had gone to that tank and took
And glued to the side his ear.
koythey made a terrible vow, these five,
Ere a man next day should stir.
To have his body dead or alive—
And they shook in the hat fdr her.
Ah, Lady Podophylllne Musa Miggs,
How goes it with your dear heart ?
Tor your hand and land and hens and pigs
Are won by Peblar de Bart.
VI.
But the Baron of Pott’s Point did not shake
In his patent-leathers for fear.
For he did not go to that tank, and take
And glue to the side his ear.
But a wharfer came to his house and told,
, That night, the whole of the plot;
Then the Bdron he gave that wharfer gold—
Though it Is not certain for what.
Except that a shark was seen next day
With the ond of a tank in his mouth
Wedged fast in the most ridiculous way,
A-swimming like mad down South.
Vri.
This is all I know of Sir Peblar de Bart,
And all of Sir Jago Phipp,
The Lady Podophliyine lost her heart
On a coachman—let her, too, rip.
The Baron of Pott’s Point, he is gay
As ever, and drives to town
With a pair; i met him the other day,
And he largessed me half-a-orown.
And if you’d know more of those gallants flue—
M’Guff, Pym, and Manganese—
Tqu might ask of a man in the whaling line,
Who runs to the Polar seas.
BLACK OR WHITE?
A TALE OF THE SEA.
( FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Some months ago a ship sailed for Sydney
out of an English port, and, just as she was leaving
the wharf, a coloured person was seen to spring
aboard. In the hurry of the moment there was no
thought of stowaways, and he kept well out of
sight. In the middle of the night, however, an
unearthly sound was heard issuing from the hold,
accompanied by a scratching sound resembling
that of a gimlet. A search was made, and the
stowaway stood revealed. To call him a coloured
man would be to trifle with his complexion—jet-
black would be more like it. The captain, who
was a genial sort of fellow, and who is now In
Sydney and vouches for the truth of the story,
took the matter in good part, set him to work,
and in a very short time Tom was the favourite of
the whole crew. He was everywhere the same -
The mess-table was never so merry as when he
was about; the best piece of duff on the board and
the choice of seats were his. In the evenings*
when the Joke and song went round, however, he
appeared lost in thought. Gazing with dreamy
eyes into the penumbra of the colza-flame, he ap-
peared to take no Interest in the revelry. Once
or twice the seamen rallied him on his melancholy-
•* Cheer up, Tom, old fellow; If you’re afraid she’ll
play you false, remember that there are other lips
and other hearts. Give us a song.” “ Later on
later on,” he said; “ not for me the gay and fes-
tive scene. Give me the moonlight, and I will
serenade as of old. When you are rocked in the
cradle of the deep, I will pace the deck, and warble
forth my woes on the night winds ’’—and relapsed
again Into silence. “Gone mad with ‘London
Journal,’” was the opiaion, and they let him
alone.
♦ * ♦
A Still night in the tropics; the great
Southern constellations in all their steely glitter
overhead, and reflected in the deep their solitary
glory. A ship lying becalmed. Not a ripple to be
heard, and nothing to break the stillness of the
night but the idle creak of some unbalanced spar.
Even the watch seemed asleep, when Tom’s dark
figure emerged from the forcastle, passed rapidly
and noiselessly along the deck, and disappeared
into the oook‘s room. The nodding helmsman
just then awoke. He wondered what the design
was. He had not to wait long. Tom emerged
and walked slowly to the bows, and lifting his
care-worn face to the moon, began his promised
song. But oh I the agony of that wail—what pent-
up miseries here found vent under the unpityirg
skies! It told of hope defeated, of dear relations
for ever gone; of a wasted life; of jilted love.
Captain and seamen heard the wail. They could
endure it no longer. Aft in a body, with tears in
their eyes, they besought him not to revive
memories better forgotten. More than half-
fainting, he was persuaded to go below. Peace
once more reigned in the vessel, and for the re-
mainder of the voyage his comrades refrained
from pressing him for further songs. He did his
work, took bis food and nap with the rest, and be-
came every day a greater favourite.
One stormy night, when the helmsman
shivered under the pitiless pelting of the hail, and
hung on to his wheel with frozen hands; when the
seamen were up clinging to the frozen ropes, and
howled through the flapping sails and
rattling shrouds, a sudden flash of lightning re-
vealed Tom's figure leaning over the bulwarks.
There was a sudden lurch, and Tom was down
amid the tumbling billows of the main. One
scream, as he fell, was heard through the din of
the swaying and shouting olflcers, and then.
• • • • • She was under too much headway to
put back; but when the storm abated, ten willing
hands and sturdy backs were bent to the oar, row-
ing over and over the supposed spot where there
might be a faint hope of finding the survivor. It
was four bells (two in the morning, and inky dark)
when the boats reached the scene, and at daybreak
all hope was abandoned. No man could float four
hours in such a sea, and with weary hearts
and wet eyes, they turned to row back to the ship,
Those only who know what a gap one man missed
makes at sea can realise the sense of gloom that
fell over them. But now the storm had blown
itself out; where the great surging waves had
lifted their manes in raging fury, nothing ap-
peared now but that silver-saining ripple, called
by Homer the merry laughing sea. Then a faint
call. There was no mistaking that voice. In a
moment cheers and hurrahs reached the ship, and
were echoed back. Just at his last gasp the brave
fellow, who had struggled through that bitter
night, was seized by friendly hands, taken aboard,
tenderly nursed, and restored to his old form. But
—he was white from that day to this!
- • *
We have the pledge of honour, we insist,
from the captain and seven of the crew that when
he came aboard he was black. Scientists may ex-
plain it as they please, but Tom himself is now, at
this present writing, in the employment of
a George-street, bookseller of this city; and
THE RANTZAU CORSAGE.
Corsage of ottoman with long pointed basques in front; the basques and fronts are
edged with lace. Pelerine-collar of velvet edged with lace. Elbow sleeves with vel-
vet parements. Long Suede gloves. Velvet chapeau trimmed with lace and a plume
of feathers; velvet strings.
has been Interviewed by the leading gentlemen of
the city and the representatives of the Press.
Miracles have been believed on less evidence.
And yet, when we remember other cases of peo-
ple’s hair turning grey with grief, need we won-
der that the struggle of that bitter night should
work some startling change ? To see the merciless
stars overhead deaf to every cry; to find the heart
sink as the great cruel waves come, on momen-
tarily lighted up by a Hash that showed the vessel
helplessly driving before the wind! How must
his mind have gone back in agony over tales of
the cruel sea, and beard again the shrieks of the
un-named millions of that mournful company
whom he must soon join in their everlasting
stillness! And then, in a slight lull, nerving
himself for a last long struggle, he would pray for
the long-delayed light. Hour after hour, with
ever-weakening stroke, and still no dawn. At last
the boats in the feeble dawn—the ray of hope—the
walling cry, the last gasp, as he fails to reach near
enough to be heard, and then, oh, death I—the boats
are going! One wail, and he knew no more, until
he found himself stretched out on the deck, with
friendly faces beamirg down. We may imagine
all this. Suffice it that when beard of the
poor fellow s misfortune, he straightway took him
to bis home.
* * *
Since writing the above we are informed
by the bookseller, that Tom has disappeared,
and no tidings can be got of him. The book-
seller is making every enquiry. He says that of
all the previous cats he had k6Pt> Tom was tuo
best ratter of them all.
“Malarial cerebration,” is the last new
name for It.
At the Hasheen (Soudan) fight the Naval
Brigade lost 33 per cent, of its strength.
“The Indians have been defeated at Bat-
t e lore, with a loss of 50 men,’ t says a recent
cable, They are now playing shuttlecock.
The lion which attacked and badly man-
gled Williams, the English tamer, was shot, and,
on being dissected, was found to have been suffer-
ing from cancer on the brain.
In vaults in New York and vicinity there
were .it bodies awaiting the consuming fire of the
projected crematory at Mount Olivet, Bong Island,
wmcn was to be in operation about May Ist.
Our stalwart friend, Agnes Consuelo, has
what some papers allege to be a successful
debut in London as “Zana,” in a “drama ex-
pressly written for her by Mr. G. W. Appleton.’
„ . e 'ady,” writes Society, “is tall and beauti-
tui, with much grace and naivete.” Humph 1
The French flag again floats over Stras-
burg Cathedral. A Gallic dyer recently caught
some of the storks for which the city is famous,
and coloured one wing red and the other blue—the
bird s white breast and body serving as the middle
ox the tricolour. Then he let them go, and they
the^Germans* 16 Bpire ’ the kreat exasperation of
The fate of Col. Burnaby (who slew the
man by whom he was mortally wounded, and
when picked up had his death-grip on the Arab’s
throat) shows that the sword is no match for the
Soudanese spear. At the last fight with Osman
Cigna, the 19th Hussars discarded the regulation
sabre, and armed themselves with the Bft. long
weapons of the enemy.
A London journalist has received a letter
trom a friend at Suakim, who states that the
utmost anxiety prevails there, owing to the
extreme danger of the position of the camp. He
A! lat everything is grossly mismanaged, and
that the officers and men are thoroughly dissatis-
fied. He goes on to assert that “if the Arabs had
only some idea of the insecurity of the British
position, and were to attack in great numbers,
nothing could possibly save our troops, who would
be butchered to a man.”
We read that “the choral services at
Chester Cathedral have had to be temporarily dis-
continued, as the choristers are suffering from
mumps. Which reminds us that cherubs seem to
be eternally afflicted with the mumps, if we may
judge from the pictures we see of them in ecclesi-
astical drawings, church windows, and old illus-
trated Bibles. They are always represented with
enlarged glands, and cheeks blown out to a pro-
digious extent, sounding the last trump or singing
a doxology; but this may be only a pictorial
license or conventional mode of expressing great
energy in their duties, and not, as might be
imagined, the result of a painful complaint.
A series of small thoughts Life is a big
mistake. The man who is never born at all is the
happiest. All women are fools-only not such
big fools as men.——A thrifty man often starves
himself that his heir may get drunk. Sympathy
Is making yourself unhappy about a lot of people
who don t care a brass farthing about you. It
is better to hate than to love. A lover tortures
himself; a hater tortures somebody else. A
contented mind is the sign of a narrow in-
tellect. Contented men would have been satis-
fied with oil lamps and stage coaches. The
n ho grumbles always gets the most con-
sideration. The man who puts up with little
inconveniences gets nothing else. The gentle-
man who gets outside to oblige a lady often
catches a cold and gives it to his wife and family.
—A frugal wife saves money for her husband
that he may spend it out of doors. A stitch in
tyne keeps the children’s clothes good too long,
if they were let get ragged, father would have to
buy them new new ones oftener. The man who
doesn t pay his debts gets twice as much for his
money as the man who does. The reward of
honest men is to pay for the board and lodging of
thieves A soft answer is the coward’s reply to
a bully.
