

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2.— No. 96.—New Series.
SATURDAY, MARCH 14, 1885.
Price—6d.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, MARCH 14, 1885.
A Leek to Eat.
The Parliament of New South Wales is
summoned to meet on the 17th inst. to ex-
hibit its appetite for humble pie. it will be
told that its functions have been usurped
by a gentleman who is not in any sense a
representative of the people of the colony,
that the Cabinet has accepted the responsi-
bility of that gentleman’s actions, and that
all it has to do is to register the decree of
Mr. Dalley. It will be given to understand
that a-Parliament is all very well in its way
to fuss about railways and loans, and the
salaries of Civil servants, and comparatively
petty questions of domestic policy, but that
really momentous questions are better
settled without it. It will be apprised, with
a pretence of respect which will veil a rea 1
derision, that the honour ot the country
has been pledged, and that it had best
be content to take the ticket, and also, that
the Constitution having been shattered, its
wisest course will be to go down on its
knees and pick up the pieces. A more de-
grading and humiliating invitation has
never been offered to any Parliament since
James II. assumed a “ dispensing power,”
and disregarded the House of Commons
altogether with respect to the Test Act.
• ■ •
The Government will present themselves
before Parliament in a [mixed attitude of
defiance and of apology. They have to
declare that what they have done Parlia-
ment cannot undo, and they have also to
plead that urgency alone induced them to
exercise James Second’.s dispensing power,
and to degrade the Parliament of the colony
to the status of a mere Recording Chamber,
with no functions higher than servile or
enforced endorsement of autocratic acts.
We trust that the Parliament of this country
is not barren of men of sufficient statesman-
like comprehension to perceive the sweep-
ing nature of the blow which has been
struck at the free institutions of the colony.
Our hope is to witness the hour produce the
man, and to observe some solid and sober
man arise from among the members to as-
sert the dignity of the people’s representa-
tives and defend the constitutional rights of
the people of New South Wales. The matter
is too grave for mere spluttering. It is not
the occasion only that needs to be con-
sidered. The broad and momentous conse-
quences upon the political future of New
South Wales as a nascent nation, and upon
the integrity of the constitutional form of
government in this part of the world, fer
generations to come, are involved.
♦ * *
The colonists of New South Wales have
frequently been congratulated by the very
papers which now screech for “glorious
war,” that among the advantages they
enjoy is that of being remote from the
scenes of old-world contention. They have
been told to bear in mind the cheerful fact
that while all the world else may be torn and
racked by furious strife, and nations may
ba flinging armies of unhappy wretches in
uniform to mangle each other, here we are
far from those madding crowds, removed
from the evil influence of bloodthirsty pas-
sion; and if we ever do have to rise in arms,
it would be in that noblest ot struggles—the
defence of our liberties and native land. It
has been impressed upon our people that
while in the old world everywhere are pre-
parations for destruction, and every decade
witnesses some desolating struggle, involv-
ing agony and death to thousands of men,
and unspeakable desolation to countless
widows and orphans, here, in another hemis-
phere, industry is enabled, uninterrupted, to
“scatter plenty o’er a smiling land.”
* * »
Yet at a puff of charlatanlc breath, all
these advantages are thrown to the winds,
as though they were but feathers—“Trifles
light as air.” It may seem deserving of the
most careful, prolonged, and dispassionate
consideration [whether such conceptions
should be embodied in an Australian policy,
and rigid abstention from offensive wars
not of our own seeking should be observed,
or whether the development of our country,
the repose and moral culture of our
people, and all the expansion of the
industries of settlement, shall be placed
at the mercy or caprice of statesmen in
another part of the world, who know little,
and care less, about our inclinations and our
welfare. If ever representative institutions
were likely to be of service, it was surely at
a juncture when a decision upon a policy so
comprehensive in its range and so vital in
its consequences had to be formulated, once
for all. But, in lieu of deliberation, we
have had impulse; in lieu of a plebiscite, or
even a reference to Parliament, we have
had the precipitate decision of Dictator
Dalley with his head in a whirl. This
accidental despot who “acted with prompti-
tude,” and in a tremendous hurry—which
would have kept till next season with-
out going bad, as the non-acceptance till
that time, of Victorian and other con.
tingents has proved—has settled the fate of
Australia for all time. That is to say, has
so settled it, provided the representatives
of the people of New South Wales can be
intimidated or cajoled into registering with-
out more ado Mr. Dalley’s decress. If
this feat of servility be accomplished, the
matter is settled. Henceforth, whatever
quarrel is undertaken by the British Houses
of Parliament, in which Australians are not
represented at all, the lives and fortunes of
Australians have passed definitely beyond
their own control. It will no longer be
enough that any foe of Great Britain must
come and seek us if they desire to wreak in-
jury upon us. It will be within the power
of any Minister, during recess of Par-
liament, to play upon the natural in-
clinations of defence forces chafing against
inaction, as every soldier does from the
moment he puts on uniform, and to de-
spatch whole brigades, as volunteers, to the
end of the earth to meddle in quarrels which
do not concern our population one lota. We
will henceforth be reduced to the position
of helots. It will be permitted to us to work
and sweat to provide the money. It would
not be difficult, once started on this system,
to substitute a military dictatorship for our
present institutions, and to curb and con-
trol with the troops the peace-loving indus-
trials w r ho were poor-spirited and mean
.enough to object to provide their pay.
The Coming Democracy.
The Wings and “official Liberals” are
dragging England in the dirt. The weak
point in the present lath-and-plaster Minis-
try is not, as the Conservatives say, the
successful Radical screw-maker, “Joe”
Chamberlain, who will one day be Premier
of England, and who would have managed
this or any other piece of statecraft on
sharp business principles; but those coro-
netted apostles of dawdle, shilly-shally, and
right - about - face, Earls Granville and
Derby. A good Radical (“ a Radical,” John
Bright once said, “ is a Liberal in earnest.”)
writes to the Pall MaLl these suggestive
words :—
“A lesson obvious to Liberals with heart to seek
it in the sinister outlbbk is surely this. More im-
portant than reform of the House of Lords 18
reform in the number of Lords henceforth in a
Liberal Ministry. The three conspicuous find
dangerous failures in Mr. Gladstone's Cabinet
are Lord Derby, Lord Granville, and Lord
Northbrook. We have set France and Germany
by the ears; we have, with Federation on our lip£»
played fast and loose with our African and Aus_
trallan colonies; we have, while successfully in-
creasing our foes and estranging our friends,
decreased the relative strength of ohr first line ot
defence. That our Ministerial muddles and fail-
ures, with thbir bitter national fruits, should rest
with three peers, is more than a coincidence. It is
partly dtle to lordly dawdle, the utter inability
from want of business training to adapt Cumbrous
circumlocution and red tape ways to these days of
decision and the telegraph tape. But in the main*
it is due to what the PalL MaLl has already seen
in Lord NORthbrook, and what the Spectator*
in an article directly hostile to the instincts of
young Liberalism, tardily admits of Lord Gran-
ville-namely, that he is cn rapport with the
statesmen rather than with the ideas of Europe.
It would be the saddest satire on the next, the first
Parliament of the people, if its colonial, its
foreign, or its naval interests should be at the
mercy of peers whose unfortunate perogative it is
to lack touch of the people;”
■ • •
It is impossible for anyone Who has Hot
waded through the papers published in re
the Angra Pequena, New Guinea, and
Fijian negotiations to fully appreciate the
depth of degradation attained by the Foreign
and Colonial Offices of the country which
was once “Great” Britain. But ere long
there will be a rattling of dry bones. Real
Radicalism—which means Republicanism-
will soon supplant Whiggery and official
Liberalism. The “Liberalism” now ascen-
dant is that of idleness, privilege, and Croe-
sian wealth — of that gilded bauble the
Crown, of the Whig “nobles”—the Ar-
gylls, and Granvilles, and Devonshires,
and Rosebbrys, with their broad acres
stolen from the people, theii millions, and
their big titles; of the well-paid Civil Ser-
vice loafer, the rich and lazy [parson, with
his poor curates and his fat livings, and his
ideas about “keeping common people in
their place.” The coming Democracy is the
democracy of the working-man delegate
who, whether rich or poor, can only live
politically by keeping himself truly “in
touch” with the masses. It is the Demo-
cracy of the newly-enfranchised two mil-
lions—of the men and women who live in
one room.
• * ♦
The determination of those gigantic asso-
ciations, the English Labour Leagues, to
send to the next Parliament not “ respecta-
ble” men, but men of their own order, and
“ to take any steps to ensure the defeat;
quite irrespective of party politics; of ineH
of the type abounding in the present House
of Commons,” is one-of the most portentous
events of the day. The party of privilege
(they to whom Disraeli referred when he
said: “ There is no greater enemy of the
people than the modern Liberal”) have
already taken alarm. The Globe points
out that a coal-miner elected to Parliament
must live, and, therefore, must be paid [for
his services—“ in which case he becomes a
mere tool in the hands of the electors.”
“ Then,” says the Globe, “ the duties of a member
of Parliament would cost him—say, £50(1 a year;
for he would have to make a respectable appear-
ance in dress—we have not yet, let us hope, become
so Radical as to wish to see sweeps and coal-
heavers sit in our House of Commons in their
working costumes—h 1 * cab expenses would be a
MR. HARRY HYNDE3, THE YOUNG AUSTRALIAN PIANIST.-(See page 14.)


ugj
ft'
>. •; •: •
V
■
i. :
r EwsSiST:
WMJ
SsLPUGH 8cWA
r x *^rr
THFlii
°NLY REED ORGAN
S^MADEil
h avingthe patent
Qualifying tubes
I GIVING THE
nearest approach
1 11" i
0 yr
f pipe!
i.
:'-5
NICHOLSON AND GO.,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand,
325 GEORGE STREET.
C. W. EGBERTS’
Single Boftle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, ohly 9s.
Small Bottle, , 4s. 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
A /STRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. 6d. per Bottle.
&URRUSlBlt)GEE PORT;
2s. per BOttlO.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORf
8s. pet Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles; rind Imperial Quarts,
At lowest ybb&ltlo Price’s.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
Is, 9d, each.
The Key Brand, and Henke s Prize Medal Brand,
in stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST SIZE.
IRISH And SCOTCH WHISKY,
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
SYDNEY.
heavy item of expenditure; he would have to live
in a decent house if ho wished to retain the re-
cognition of his colleagues; his wife and family
would have to dress with becoming dignity In
their altered position. In fact, he and his sur-
roundings would have to undergo a complete
metamorphosis, and watch the result. When he
no longer occupied a seat In our Parliamentary
Assembly, he, of course, could no longer draw his
salary from his electors; what, then, must he do 1
Nothing is left to him but tD return to his former
occupation. Truly a great descent from the
realms of Parliamentary life to the coal mine to
earn his pound or two a week I”
♦ ♦ •
But, in the grim words of Bjsmabck, ‘ the
block of the world goes on.” Within
a few years we shall seo hundreds of
working men in the House of Commons —
men who respect nothing merely T because it
is bid—men who will slaughter the peers’
pensions and tax the peers’ estates, and blot
out the privileges of royalty, and royalty
itself, as ruthlcfsly as the mountain blotted
out the Girondists —of men who can live in
Parliament on a blacksmith’s wages instead
of on £500 a-year—who care so little for
“respectable appearance in dress” that
they dare to sit in fifty-shilling tweed suits
beside the snug black-coated bourgeois
and the scented sons of dukes —who are
sturdy and brutal, and can walk instead of
going in cabs—who do not live in “descent
houses,” and care not one jot for “the
recognition of their colleagues”—whose
wives and families know naught of “ dig-
nity ” or “altered position”—of men who
emerge from the grimy factory, and inflict
upon the council of the nation the unutter-
able insult of a Crimean shirt.
• • •
The working-men of England have thus
at last awakened to an all-important fact
which, as yet, has only partially struck
the working-man of Australia —that the
artesan-deligate, who outwardly metamor-
phoses himself, merely because he is eleoted
to Parliament, is a traitor to his order—that
the eternal black coat of John Davies, and
the everlasting black-belltopper of Angus
Cameron, the fine houses and cabs and
“dignity” of so-called working-man repre-
sentatives, are as offensive, and as much dis-
tinctive marks of what the world calls
“social superiority” as are stars and garters
and Windsor uniforms.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Political Roundabout.
Should you ever -wish, writes our London. cor-
respondent, to enquire of an Englishman whether
he’d like a llttl e more of what in colonial sporting
parlance is commonly known aq “gruel,” just ask
if he’s ready for some “Angrs Pequena”—
which is now the generic name for national
humiliation and “having it properly rubbed
in.” Bismarck has once more publicly crucified
Earls Derby and Granville, the pair of
monthly-nurses who, in diplomacy, represent
poor, patient old England and old England’s
colonies. John Bull is again on his marrow-
bones—not to pray, but to grovel. When
we took over Fiji from Cakobau, Jemmy
Butters (the “Mudgee Diamond” owner),
Woods, Db Courcy Ireland, Burt and Co.—
in the good old times when “ Fiji Joe ” became a
nobleman, and when, at Levuka, a quart-bottle of
real Dutch square gin was purchasable for 103. (so
that, every decent fellow could afford to drink at
least three bottles a day)—England solemnly an-
nounced that no private claims to land-ownership
in the islands which did not date from before
January, 1871, would be recognised. Butters and
Co., whoso claims were enormous, and who had
the unsophisticated King'of the Cannibal Islands
right under their thumbs, vigorously but ineffec-
tually protested, and were “ clean broke-up-” by
the enforcement of the edict. Nor did it
avail them that on a memorable occasion they
assembled in their might at Government House
Melbourne, to plead their cause before Sir
Arthur Gordon, 11 the friend of the nigger ” —
who contemptuously drove them “ naked and a-
hungry from the door.” A number of German
settlers, whose land-titles had been cancelled, ap-
pealed to the Almighty Bismarck, who, in turn,
communicated with the English Foreign Office.
With a deliberation worthy of the N.S.W. Lands-
Department, for three solid years Lord Derby
(then Foreign Minister) took no notice, and when
at length he did reply, it was merely to say that
the German claims were being settled locally in
an equitable manner. But when, four months
ago, the era of Aagra Pequena had begun, and
Bismarck had become thoroughly aware that the
destinies of England were in the hands of Mrs.
Gamp and Mrs. Prig, he himself wrote to the
German Minister in London insisting that the
Teutonic claims in Fiji should be submitted to a
mixed Commission consisting of one English and
one German official whose report should be pre-
sented—not to England, oh, no I—but to “ their re-
spective governments,” Lord Derby “ really
could not see his way,” but Lord Granville (who,
Heaven help him—and us—is Warden of the Cinque
Ports as well as Foreign Secretary, and has the
impudence to sleep in the bedroom of the old Iron
Duke at Walmer Castle)—had already caved in, or
in the more elegant phraseology of Count Mun-
ster, had “abandoned the standpoint which he
took up four weeks ago.”
These Ridiculous Quakers.
We have received copy of an appeal issued by
the Society of Friends to their fellow-Christians
with respect to the Soudan war fever which the
holy Herald and the pious Telegraph, and the
whatever-pays-best News have been so furiously
abetting 1 . From this Quakers’ manifesto we quote
the following:—“ The war system will die out
when all Christian people are willing to accept, in
their fulness, the teachings of the New Testament,
and to act them out. . . . We are nor at liberty
to sink personal conviction in any supposed re.
quirements of wordly policy or political necessity.
The authority of Christ's Kingdom is to be esta-
blished in the earth by the practical adoption,
now, on the part of Christians, of its holy and bene-
ilcient laws. . . . We are bound to obey the
commands of Christ without reference to
consequences. He is our Master, not merely our
adviser. . , . Wo are sometimes taunted with
pleading for * Peace, at any price.’ It is true
that we hold all war to be forbidden to the
Christian, not as a matter of policy merely, but as
an important principle of our religion; and thus
we hold the doctrine of peace ‘ at any price,’ in.
the same way as we hold the faith of Christ? * at
any price;’ or, as an honest man is honest ‘at any
price.’ . . . The leading principles exemplified
in the personal work of Christ are Love and For-
giveness. It is not possible to reconcile His ex-
ample with the spirit and practice of war. We re-
call His rebuke to His disciples. . . ‘Put up
again thy sword into its place; for all they that
take the sword shall perish by the sword.’ Chris-
tians dishonour their Lord in doubting the wisdom
and practicability of His counsel. . . . Personal
combat, as a means of settling disputes between
individuals, has long been abolished as barbarous
and criminal. TFdr is substantially International
Duelling. . . . The wars and war establishments
of Christian nations are amongst the greatest ob-
stacles to the spread of the Gospel amongst the hea-
then. Missionaries present the text of the Gospel of
peace and good will; and soldiers from professedly
Christian lands give the comment and illustration
The nations of India and China, who probably con-
stitute half the population of the globe, are races
peculiarly quick to detect such a contradiction
and to reject and resent the inconsistency. . •
War, on the other hand, is the embodiment of
lawlessness and violence. All the worst passions
and dispositions—hatred, revenge, carelessness of
the value of human life and property, and a disre-
gard of the most sacred personal rights — are
directly festered, not only by p state of actual war-
fare, but even by the war-system in time of peace.”.
Awful bosh, isn’t it ? “ Not possible to reconcile
this example with the spirit and practice of war,”
forsooth! Rubbish! To the S. M. Herald people
nothing is impossible. “Christians dishonour
their Lord in doubting the wisdom and practicabi-
lity of His counsel.” Stuff! He is greatly
honoured by a Lord Bishop deigning to even pre-
tend to believe in Him.
The Popular Feeling.
Now that the first outburst of Jingoism Is over,
and the public have had time to sit down quietly
and think the matter out, Mr. Dalley’S “ noble
offer of troops te Old England ” is receiving some
little consideration. And it Is not at all displeas-
ing to those who, at the outset, looked upon them,
selves as in a hopeless minority, to find lhat 1 heir
ranks are receiving strong reinf< rooments daily,
as the Soudan question is becoming better under-
stood by the mass of the people. .Whea the
trouble started in Egypt,Ysomel&thrce
ago, The Bulletin was the first in the flel 1
to denounce the so-called “war” as iniquitous,
unjust, and unworthylof a great nation. We are
not alone in that opinion now. So when Mr,
Brown, atthe Exhibition meeting, struckthekey
note of opposition, and was maltreated by the
ultra-Jingoes for his temerity. But Mr. Brown’s
faint protest found an echo in Balmain, where the
so-called patriotic movement met with a decided
check. Yet the daily papers would have us be-
lieve that the great heart of the country was with
movement. At Camperdown, the Jlngos who
called a meeting could not muster 10 adherents,
and had to abandon the attempt. At St. Leonards,-
tho experience of Dalmaiu was repeated. The
Newcastle miners were the fiekt to put up their
backs, though Mr. Galley endeavoured to stop
them, and in doing so offered a deep and gratui-
tous insult to a repectable and hard-working body
of men. At the miners’ demonstration, on Thurs-
day last, feeling ran very high on the subject, and
the action of the Government ftnsparingly
condemned by Messrs. CurlV, Davies, abd other
representative miners, as well as by one of i!he
members for the district, Mr. FletcHeb, M.L.A.,
who stated that when Parliament met he would
speak with no uncertain sound on the question.
Messrs. Melville, Cameron, and LuscoiirffE
were less pronounced in their remarks, but they
took the precaution to say very little, and that
little in a half-hearted way. But when the “ pa-
triotism ” of Newcastle was put to the test
at a public meeting called for the specific
purpose of forming a branch of the “ Patriot
tic Fund,” the people, by an overwhelming
majority demonstrated in the clearest manner pos-
sible that there was no spurious patriotism about
them, though the advocates of Jingoism put their
case in its most attractive form. Again, on the
Southern coast we find that farmers and
graziers do not regard the Soudan Expedition in
the light of an unmixed blessing for the colony,
judging by the reception they gave to Messrs. H.
Clarke and P. Garvan, M.s L.A., at the banquet
in connection with the local Agricultural Show
The local correspondent of the S.M.H. says:—
“ Each of these gentlemen spoke in condemnatory
terms of the Government for their hastiness in
incurring the heavy expenses of the Soudan Cam-
paign without Parliamentary sanction, which they
said was nothing less than ignoring the rights of the
people, and that the action of the Government
would meet with their warm opposition. The
meddling of the colony in Egyptian affairs might
possibly prove more disastrous than otherwise
and Mr. Garvan, who spoke vigorously, looked’
upon the fatal accident in Sydney harbour, by the
Iberia’s collision, as most ominous. The speaker’s
views appeared to meet the approval of all
present, and they were loudly applauded.” On tho
evening of the 2nd, just before the departure of
For continuation of “ Plain English,” see next page*
Mr. BIGLOW AT THE PRO-
CESSION,
TUESDAY, 3rd MARCH.
Thrash away, you’ll hov to rattle
On them kittle drums o’ yourn—
“ Taint a knowiu’ kind o’ cattle
Thet is ketched with mouldy corn ; ”
Put in stiff, you lifer feller,
Let folks see how spry you bo—
Guess you’ll toot till you are yeller
’Fore you git ahold o’ me!
Thet air flag’s a leetle rotten—
Hope it aint your Sunday’s best;
Fact! it takes a sight o’ cotton
To stuff out a soger’s chest.
Sence we farmers nev to pay fer’t
Ef you must wear humps like these,
Sposin’ you try lucerne hay fer’t,
It would du ez slick ez grease.
’T wouldn’t suit them Guv’ment fellers,
They’re a dreftie graspin’ set —
We must oilers blow the hellers
Wen they want their irons het;
Maybe it’s all right ez preachin’,
But my narves it kind o’ grates
Won I see the overreachin’
u’ them petty potentates.
Them thet rule us—them false teachers—
Haint they cut a thunderin’ swaith
(Helped along by Gospel preachers)
Thru your vartu an’ your faith !
You begin to think it’s nater
To take sarse an’ not be riled ;
Who’d expect to see a later
All on eend at bein’ biled ?
Ez fer war, I call it murder —
There you hev it plain an’ Hat;
I don’t want to go no furder
Than my Testament fer that;
God hez sed so plump an’ fairly—
It’s ez long ez it is broad—
An’ you’ve got to git up airly
Ef you want to lake in God.*
’Taint your eppyletts an’ feathers
Make the thing a grain more right;
’Taint afolleriu’ your bell-wethers
Will excuse ye in His sight;
Ef you take a sword and dror it,
An’ go stick a feller thru,
Quv’inent ain’t to answer for it,
God’ll send the bill to you.
Wat’s the use o’ meetin’-goin’
Every Sabbath, wet or dry,
Ef it’s right to go amowin’
Feller-men like oats an’ rye ?
I duuno but wat it’s pooty
Trainin’ round in bobtail coats —
But it’s curus Christian dooty
This ere cutttin’ folks’s throats.f
They may talk o’ Freedom’s airy
Till they’re pupple in the face,
It’s a grand, grel oemetary
Fer the barthrights of our race;
They’ve jest riz this big sensation
Fer to git themselves a name,
An’ the sinews o’ the nation
Air the victims o’ their game.
Aint it cute to see your money
Goin’ in military shows,
All to give the drones the honey,
An’ yourselves the kicks an’ blows i
Wy, it’s jest ez clear ez Aggers—
Clear ez one an’ one make two—
Chaps that send ye fightin’ niggers
Wouldn’t slick at gaggin’ you.
Tell ye jest the eend I’ve come to,
Arter cipherin’ plaguy smart.
An’ it makes a handy sum, tu,
Any gumpcould larn by heart:—
* Air you list’nin, Bishop Barry ?
t Bishop Barry will, doubtless, explain.
Laborin’ man nn’ laborin’ woman,
Hev one glory an’ one shame,
Ev’ry thin’ thet’s done inhuman
Injers all on ’em the same.
Taint by turnin’ out to hack folks
You’re agoin’ to keep God’s laws,
Nor by helpin’ lick the black folks
Thet ye serve your country’s cause;
War’s right enough fer self-defence,
But soon’s it’s carried furder,
Wy, then it’s only Just pretence
Not callin’’t wholesale murder.
Want to tackle me in, du ye ?
I expect you’ll hev to wait;
W<>n cold led puts daylight thru ye
You’ll begin to kalkilate.
VSpose the crows won’t fall to pickin’
All the carkiss from your bones
Coz you helped to give a lickin’
To them poor Egyptian drones?
Jest go home and ask our Nancy
Wether I’d be such a goose
Ez to jtna ye—guess you’d fancy
The etarnal bung wuz loose I
She wants me fer home consumption,
Let glone the hay’s to mow;
Ef you’re arter folks o’ gumption
You’ve a darned long row to hoe.
Take them editors that’s crowin’
Like a cockerel three months old—
Don’t ketch any on ’em goin’,
Though they be so blasted bold.
Aint they a prime set o’ fellers ?
’Fore they think on’t they will sprout
(Like a peach that’s got the yellers)
With their meanness bustin’ out.
New South Wales—may God forgive her!
She’s a-kneelin’ with the rest,
She thet ough’ to ha’ clung fer ever
In her grand old eagle-nest ;
She thet ough’to stand so fearless,
Wile the wrecks are round her hurled,
Iloldin’ up a beacon peerless
To the oppressed ot all the world I
Haint they scorned your Constitution?
Haint they made your money wiz ?
Speak like men o’ resolution,
Show them that yer dander’s riz !
Come, I’ll tell ye wut I’m thihkin’
Is our dooty—by the bye,
They’d ha’ done’t ez quick ez winkin’
In the days o’ Guv’nor Bligh.
Clang the bells in every steeple,
Cali all true men to disown
The tradoocers o’ our people,
An’ the devil’s work they’ve sown :
Then tell all your members proudly—
Around your standard rally—
Let them ring your mesaidge loudly
In the ears o’ William Dailey:
We’ll return ye good fer evil
Much ez we frail mortils can,
But we wun’t go help the devil,
Makin’ man the cus o’ man ;
Call us cowards, call us traitors,
Jest ez suits your mean idees—
Here we stand as tyrant-haters,
An’ the friends o’ God an’ Peace I
Ef I'd my way, I hed ruther
We should go to work an’ part—
They take one way, we take t’other—
Guess it wouldn’t break my heart;
Men hed ough’to put asunder,
Them thet God has noways jined p
An’ I shouldn’t gretly wonder
Ef there’s thousands o’ my mind.


(‘•plain English," continued from page 4.)
the troops, a monster public meeting of working
en was held at the statue in King-street, when a
m te was carried against the action of the Govern-
T °nt; and again, on Sunday last, in the Domain,
after the question had been debated in public, a
imilar motion was carried by an overwhelming
8 jnrity. IQ a gathering of six or seven thou-
nd people- The Theatre Royal of late has been
*t c ked from floor to ceiling every Sunday night
? lespectable and intelligent audiences whose
feelings are evidently in consonance with those of
the lecturer, Mr. Walker, who unsparingly con-
demns Mr. Dalleys action. On Sunday next a
monster meeting will be held In the Domain, when
the subject will be publicly discussed and a vote
taken on if. v iV en the Melbourne Argus Is now
eWoring its Jingoistic tone; and advocates that
ostead of sending a body of troops to the Soudan
the colony should send £230,000 to the British
overnment for the prosecution of the war. One
0 the Geelong papers condemns the whole affair,
an the Bendigo journals are dealing with it in a
half-hearted manner that is little better than pro-
nounced condemnation. Among the up-country
ress we notice that the Forbes and Parkes
f l^ TTE up its little voice and says that
,000 would he better spent in building railways
rough the interior, and several other journals
are taking the same view of the affair. When
parliament meets, Mr. Dalley will find that his
ing ° r k nl,? kthood will receive some rough handl-
From an old Soldier.
We like old soldiers. Like old sailors, they tell us
simple tales of exposure and want which captivate
and convince us. And this is what at old oodgor
said to us on that fateful Tuesday when our lads
left:—“I am an old swaddy,” he said, “and know
nothing of politics—who’s in, or who's out; who’s
acomin’, or who’s agoin’. An’ I don’t care. My
grandfather was doubled up by the cuirassier? at
Waterloo, but not afore he saw his old regiment —
the Scots Greys—give ’em as good sis they got,
an’ more. My dad was under old Gough
at Chillian wallah, an’ kem home with a
shillin’ a day an’ a woode.i leg with a knob
at the end of it as big as a football. I put some
months up in the trenches, an’ was just home in
time to get the fust boat goin’ to India after Nana
Sahib. So, you see, sir, I’ve been about a bit in
my time. An’ so when the rout came for the Sou-
dan, I dropped in to the Paddington Barracks to
see the boys go through their drill. Will I ever
forget it ? No, t wont. I saw four or five hun-
on paraie, P.n’ half o’ them couldn’t tell
their right hand f’om their left. SojersI (this
with terrible mordancy) C , if they have to throw
out skirmishers, or form rallyin’ squares, or do
anything but blaze away at the fust stump they
see in the road, God help ’em I Courage ? Who’s
a-talkin’about courage ? I suppose they have as
much of it kickin’ about as most other English-
men. Of course, there must be courage at the
bottom, or all the trainin’ in the world goes for
nothing. But ’twasn’t courage that saved them
English squares ’tother day, when they were
i broken by them there Arabs— leastway’s ’twastn’t
pluck alone. No, sirree-’twaa discipline—'twas
years of training under strict officers, where if a
feller opened his mouth too wide there was always
people handy to close it. And (here the old chap
got maudlin) to think of Dailey’s sending them
militia-men to mix with the Guards an’ the Black
Watch, an’ the Royal Irish. Ugh!”
The other day our Government, in common with
the Cabinets of the other Australian colonies,
refused Lord Derby's request that the colo-
nial contribution of £16,000 towards the ex-
penses of annexipg New Guinea should be
doubled. The New Guinea question does
affect Australia—the Soudan affair is none
of our business. Yet I) alley, after refusing
£16,000 for the former offers unasked about
half a million sterling, to help along the latter,
besides throwing in 700 or 800 human lives. This
is statesmanship, probably.
We have received, just before going to press, a
copy of L’Italo Australian©, a monthly review
and organ of the Italians scattered throughout
Oceania. Time has not permitted of more than a
glance at its contents, but we translate freely
one paragraph“ England has had the good
sense to not avail herself of the offer of Italy
to send troops to operate against the Sou-
danese, and has thus spared the history of our-
national revival a crime which our Government
sought to fasten upon it. The wars which Italy
has waged of late have been wars for independence
—that is to say, justifiable wars; the campaign
which would have been undertaken in the desert,
side by side with the English, would have been a
war against the principles of liberty—a disgraceful
war.” Here we see ounelves as others see us.
Howl, Jingos, howll
When we stated last week that Mr, II.
Badgery, M L A., had been "fined 5s. or six hours
in the stocks,” for driving cows to water, wo made
a mistake. Mr. Badgery didn't drive cows to
water, ami wasn’t fined or stocked. Here are the
facts. in Mr. Badgery's own words:—“On Sunday,
the 25th January, about 8 p.m., a man came to
my house at Summer-hill, and told me he had
brought some 40 head of cattle Irom the Clar-
ence consigned to another agent. They were
landed at Glebe Island about 3 p.m., and no
one came to meet bim. There was no water in
the Government troughs, and Walsh, Elliott, and
Bennie’S man had helped him'abltofthe way,’ but
he did not know where to go or where to put the
cattle. I at once got ray horse, and though rain-
ing, went and found the cattle on the Parramatta-
road, near the old Pound yard, and a constable had
bailed up W., E., and B. s man. Now, as these poor
fellows have been much harassed of late, ard
wishing to take their part, as well as to test their
case, I told the constable to summons me, and not
the men, as I w?s drover for the night, and would
test the case. The report sent to you from the
scrutineer is true, and that the case was dis-
missed is also true My sole object was
to test a case, but it does not seem to have
succeeded, if reports are to the
effectl-that a punishment was Inflicted.” We
are very sorry that we published the erroneous
rumour, and apologise to Mr. Badgery accordingly.
At the time we don't believe anyone would
have thought a bit the less of him had it been the
case that he was fined for watering thirsty cattle,
under the provisions of an antiquated law which
every sensible mau contemns.
Current Topics.


Personal Items
Mias Alice, third daughter of Mr. James
Payn, was married the other day to Mr. George
Earle Buckle, editor of the Times.
When John OLeary/, formerly editor of
the Irish People, who was sentenced to twenty
years’ penal servitude in 1885, on a charge of trea-
son felony, attended a public meeting of tee V oung
Ireland Society at Dublin on a recent evening, to
receive an address, he was, ‘amid great enthu-
siasm,’' presented with a bouquet by Mrs. John
Redmond.
The other day;—“Dr. Jones, of Ashfleld,
had a very complete ‘spill ’ in his buggy yesterday-
T'he vehicle was turned upside down, and one ot
the shafts was smashed. The doctor was unhurt.
On staggering to his feet alter he had clawed the
read metal out of his skull-top, ho knelt down by
the hedge and offered up a thank-giving that he
had escaped injury. He knew there was another
doctor in the neighbourhood, and—he had seen him
carve.
The “Claimant,” in a letter to Mr. John
de Morgan, published in the Toronto Weekly
News, says:—“Gould you oblige mo by seeing
Mr. Barnum, and ask him what he would guaran-
tee mo for a six months’ tour through America
with his circus, as I am entirely dependent on
what learn to keep my children, who 1 should
have with me if I visited America.” Barnum re-
plied by saying Sir Roger would not prove attrac-
tive In the States.
Primate Barry is credited among his inti-
mates with the possession of a thin streak of
humour. Samples show it to b© of th© caustic
kind. Not long ago a loud-voiced curate whom
people ivill call eloquent, but who nearly always
reads borrowed sermons, was solicitous in the
Primate’s presence about a text for the ensuing
Sunday. The Bishop sent him to Corinthians fpr
a chapter and verse which, when the Captain
Cuttle of the pulpit unearthed it, read “I know
nothing.”
A. P. Martin writes to the Rum, telling it
how he took the chair at a house dinner at the
Savage Club. It’s astonishug how the Ikerary
profession is looking up! If Garden Honey could
only manage to plane bis hiccup down a bit, ho
might have a show of presiding at a banquet one
day at the Garrick. We wonder, by-ihe-way,
what has obtained Patchett all this glory—his
sonnets in the Melbourne Review, or hit
Rum correspondence. If tbo former, there is
little fear, we are afraid, of our “ rushing in; ’’ but
If the Utter did the trick, and Garden Honey do
not “ fear to tread,” he has a fair show for literary
distinction.
Lord Aylesford’s dealh (in America) comes
opportunely for the noble pair who were con-
demned by law to live an adulterous life so long as
the lady’s liege lord remained in existence. The
Marchioness of Blandford obtained her divorce
from the new Dukeof Marlborough on the ground
of, among other counts, the duke's adultery with
the Countess of Aylosford, but the Karl of Avles-
ford was unable to obtain his divorce because he
did not come into court with cleau hands Now
the bar to his union with the countess is removed,
It will bo interesting to learn what the duke will
do. Some of the papers say he will make her
Duchess of Marlborough.
A popular edition of Queen Victoria's
alledged “ book,” '* More Leaves from the Journal
of a Life in the Highland’,” is announced. This
was to be expected, but two volumes of 500 pages
each, with which we are simultaneously threat-
ened, from the matured pens of Albert Victor and
his brother are surely a little too much. Dr.
Johnson held that when a man of rank elected to
appear as an author “his merit ought to he hand-
somely acknowledged;” but ho evidently forgot
that letters are a republic, not a kingdom. To
Royal personages, the Republic of Letters is very
much like George Buchanan’s description of the
Kingdom of Heaven to James I.—“a place whar
few Kings daur enter.”
When Mr. W. P, Morgan, who has just
now given £500 towards the Patriotic Fund, was
practising as a solicitor la Charters Towers, two
years ago, station blackfollow called Jerry, who
was more than ordinarily civilised, having a
grudge against a white man on the station, came
to Morgan for legal advice. .Morgan seeing that
he had-a good case, took It up and won it. A few
hours after the trial, Jerry having tempered hio
joy with some rum, came tpMorgan and tendered
payment. The latter, however, being at the time
deeply immersed lin one of Thady O'Kane’s
friendly criticisms, and being quite confident of
Jerry’s ultimately paying, said, “Never mind, Mr.
Jerry, I’m very busy, you come In again to-
morrow.” To which Jerry replied, with an air of
conviction that displayed a considerable know-
ledge of his subject, “ Baal that budger. c, Misser
Morgan, suppose you die to-night, then mine have
to go through h—I to-morrow to lino you.
We read that Mrs Broune, wife of the
Bishop of Winchester, has issued an appeal “To
the Mothers and Daughters of the Dlooese of
Winchester.” An appeal for what? For food to
feed the starving ? for clothes to cover the naked ?
for funds to educate the ingorant, to assist the
Indigent, to relieve the suffering, to reform the
degraded? For none of those things. The
“Mothers and Daughters of the Diocese of Win-
chester” have been asked to raise a fund fo - a
costly wedding present to the Princess Beatrice.
And this is what Mrs. Broune, the Bishop’s wife,
is doing during a time of horrible distress and
suffering among the work people of England. To
this end arc the Influence of the bishopric and the
wealth of the dloce<e directed ? Truly did Russell
Lowell write of the Prelates and dignitaries of the
Church:—
“ With gates of silver and bars of gold
Ye have fenced his sheep from their Father’s
fold.
And think ye that building shall endure
Which shelters tho noble and crushes the poor ?’’
They have taken a seat on the great Rev.
J. A. Dowle again; they are always doing it. His
style of raking in the pennies is a deviation from
the old beaten track of the hoard’s anointed
ones, so they humped their backs rgainst it with
a combined and stubborn bump. But still John
hung out, and drew a crowded house whenever
he appeared. His sermoa was at once forcible,
original, and local. He worked public men into
his discourse in a manner that brought the sub-
ject] home to the sympathies of his hearers, and
once he settled on a man’s character he'd maul it
about in five minutes so it wouldn’t lie won h two
cents Then he had another sensation that took
like a new circus, by simply laying his hands on
tho worst afllcted carcass that ever puzzled the
doctors, he’d drive Cain out, aud leave the
Satient frisky enough to scalp his grandmother,
y thes? things, and selling his photos.—one
glance at which is as good to a man as tho run of
a chdmjst'e shop-John managtd to scoop in tho
needfi)i n and the world went, with him But a
committee of inspection has been appointed, and
condemned, Iris littlo tabernacle as unsafe for
and now J. A. D. has not
where to lift his voice, or send round the hat with
any of thturned to him.
Mr. M.P. aud Lord of the British
Admiralty; sail at Exeter Hall the other day that
the National Temperance League “ had taught the
world that at least English soldiers and sailors
could do without alcoholic stimulants, and that
they did not require ‘Dutch courage* to enable
j :em to fulfil their duties. They could endure the
doidw wul batonoor» rUf fcaaoiatvo iq eda is.
greatest hardships and the most difficult cam-
paigns better without the use of intoxicating
drink than with It. For example, the greater por-
tion of Lord Wolseley’s army had already tra-
versed the worst part of the desert route—not
upon the spirit ration, hut upon water. The water
was served out at the rate of a quart per man per
day, and was, he regretted to s ly, of a very in-
ferior quality, being largely diluted with mud, and
yet there was scarcely an invalid. Then, again,
there was the most brilliant infantry charge of
modern times—that of Tel-el Keblr, which wss
carried through on cold tea.” Mr. Caine is a very
worthy person, no doubt, and is entitled to every
praise for his exertions in the cause of temperance.
But what can be thought of the man who is so un-
blushing a bigot as to describe the miserably
slaughter of blackfellows (brought about as much
by bribery as by valour) at Tei-el-Kebir as the
most brilliant infantry charge of modern times r
Shades of Inkermann! to what depths of degrada-
tion has the official Whig descended in these de-
generate days I
Ho w Johnny made his pile! Johnny was
at one time a humble and hard working drayman
glad to earn 2‘. 0 i, and not too proud to have a
drink with a pore man. He is now, however, a
proud and haughty haristocrat. the owner of
several streets, an influential J.P., chairman of
several companys, member of Parliament, and
many other things, too numerous to mention. The
story of his success in life has been variously told.
At Sunday school he is held up as a pattern, be-
cause he always attended church regularly when
he was a little boy, and that's why he is now so
pious and wealthy. According to another theory
he made his money at the diggings, by sticking up
tire escort and walking off with all the gold. The
true version, however, states that when a ship was
wrecked at the heads, Johnny succeeded in getting
cn board after the crew had deserted her. A tox
of gold, consigned to one of the banks, was sup-
posed to have gone down when the ship broke up;
and divers wore afterwards employed to bring it
up, but it has never been found. Ever since that
day, Johnny’s success in life has been tbo wonder
and envy of his fellow oltiz ns. Every time we
see Johnny the conviction pricks us like a dagger,
that the cause of our own remarkable want of
pence—that which has always barred our way on
the road to affluence, and legislative honours, has
been our troublesome and inveterate honesty.
This is a N.Z yard.
Rev. Henry Ward Beecher’s annual sale
has been lees successful this year than for many
years past. This does not refer to a drapery stock,
or to unredeemed pledges, but to the seals in Ply-
mouth Church, Brooklyn, which are sold each
January to the highest bidder for the twelve
months In 1875 the amount realised was £13,800
Last year it had fallen to £6870, and now the pecu-
niary value of Mr. Beecher’s spiritual teaching for
the current year la estimated at £5150. Bidding
for the best pew started at £13 10a., and ran up to
£40 before the rivalry ran dry. This did not give
the right to the seat, but the privilege of paying
five guineas pew-rent to secure it. “Now, who
says the Bethel ?” shouted the auctioneer; where-
upon a wealthy dry goods merchant disarmed op-
position by offering £35 straight away. The third
went for £3310s.; the fourth for £30; the fifth for
£1710a„ and so on; until every seat had been dis-
aosed of. Mr. Beecher is a business man. So is
[r. P. T. Barnum. That veteran showman is re-
Eorted to have cleared as much as his show cost
im last year, and as the expenses ran to within an
ace of £200,000, that means a fairly respectable
profit. Mr. Barnum paid £43,709 in salaries to his
performers; £18,5(50 to his agents; £15,000 in adver-
tising: £31,400 for printing and engraving; £14,570
for bill-posting and bill boards; £0600 for trans-
portation; £6300 in hotel bills: £8700 in the cook-
ing-tent; £7100 in fodder for animals; and. among
many other items, no less than £3400 for licenses.
It may safely be asserted that Mr. Barnum’s
revenuesiwere not much swollen by the white ele-
phant he sent to the Zoological Gardens.
For a little “ wholesome fun’’ the likeliest
place we know at the present time—of course,
barring a Town Hall annexation meeting—is the
East Maitland Borough Council. Itislocally known
as “ the Pantomime" the principal parts—clown,
pantaloon, and policeman—being roiled into one
and ably taken by Councillor Porker. Mr. Porker
has many estimable qualities. .Among others, he
has a natural aptitude for gripping the dirty end
of the stick in any question, and persuading him-
self that he holds the clean termination. When P.
makes up his mind that two and two are five, no-
thing short of a tram-car would shift him from his
position. Possessing these attractive qualities, it
is no wonder that his brother councillors adore
him. At a late meeting the Mayor was absent,
and P. was voted to the chair in the foolish hope
that such an unlooked-for promotion would muz-
zle him for that meeting at least. But they didn’t
know their man. He started by ruling every mo-
tion out of order, and wound up by offering to
fight the lot. While the athletic sports were going
on on Anniversary Day, this “ terror” sat on a
kerosene tin outside the fence, and warned the
people n,ot to pay, as it was illegal to keep them
out. Hd is pretty handy with an axe, too, and did
good service in levelling the reserve fence as
fill 1 V
quickly as it went up. As a last resource, the
citizens of Bast Maitland have sent round the hat
for a subscription to induce him to visit the
Soudan on the off chance of an Infernal machine
blowing the vessel up or the “ Australian Contin-
gent” mistaking him for BI Mahdl, and blowing
him into as many bits as the gen’leman Mr. Weller
“ knowed” blew the pigeon.
Most of our readers will remember the
splendid legend about secret dispatches from the
British meri-of-war at Madagascar, which Henni-
ker Heaton took charge of at the peril ot his life
when on koard the mail steamer at Mauritius, on
his la«t trio to England. The story of his heroism
was detailed, at full length (by himself) in the
columns Hof the Down and Gumthee. Well, de-
spite the public exposure of the absurd and impu-
dent attempt to make himself out a hero, which
shortly followed, Henniker had the effrontery to
pitch his exploded yarn afresh last December in
the Anglo-New Zealander and Australian,
nowly-starled in London. The instant conse-
quence has been to produce afresh exposure from
a correspondent of that paper, who writes to the
editor;—“Sir,—Itis an unzneious service tor mo
to render to my aspiring fellow-colonist, Mr. J.
Henniker Heaton, in his laudable efforts to present
himself in a meritorious aspect to his constituents
of Canterbury, but truth compels me to comment
on the fascinating fairy tale which he has woven
around the famous Madagascar desptaches. . . .
That Mr. Heaton should at this time of day have
repeated the tale with embellishments at this side
of the world in the faith that nobody would be
tickled by the story and impelled to spoil its narra-
tion, argues ap amount of naive simplicity for
which I would have hardly credited a colonist like
Mr. Heaton. Invested of all this mystery and
sensation, (he facts are simply these, as vouched
for by the principal actors in the affair, and those
who best know the nature of the secret de-
spatches-namely, Captain Boyle, the commander
of the Tourmaline, by whom the bag had bien
originally sealed and sent, and Mr. St. John, the
British consul at Reunion, who directed his clerk
to send the bag on board the Caledonien, on which
Mr. Heaton was a passenger. Captain Boyle had
sent by the commander of alFreuoh man-of-war,
this ordinary lotter-bag to Reunion to be posted
there for Aden. He declares that there were no
secret despatches or treasonable matter of any
kind contained, which one can readily under-
stand if he forwarded it by a French com-
mander to be posted in a French post office.
The bag had been, of course, sealed, and by an
oversight, English, instead of French, stamps had
been affixed to it. The French officer handed it
over to the British Consul at Reunion. Mr. C. L.
St. John, who sent his e’erk, Mr. White, to post it,
when it was found that, in order to conform to
the usages of the post-office, it would be necessary
to open the bag and affix French stamps. Not
desiring to break the seal of the commander of
the Tourmaline, the Consul resorted to the expe-
dient. commonly adopted in every country. To
quoto his own words: * I sent the bag on board the
mail steamer with instructions to hand it over to
the first respectable English passenger willing to
render such a service; and, at the same time, with
the view to avoid all difficulties that such a ser-
vice might entail, I supplied the usual passport,
stating that the bearer was in charge of despatches
for H.M. Government. As ill-luck would have it,
a Mr. Heaton took charge of the bag. What use
this gentleman, for the sake of a little profit, and a
good deal of notoriety, thought proper to make
out of so simple an affair is known to the public,
by whom, I have no doubt, he will be ju«tly
condemned for his indiscretion and flagrant
breach of trust.—I am, &c, C. L. St. John,
H. B. M Consul. St. Denis, Reunion, May t 33.,
Captain Boyle, of the Tourmaline, on b?ing in-
formed of the representations of the affair since
made by Mr Heaton is his letter to the Sydney
Evening News, wrote in a great, state of indig-
nation a letter addressed to the Governor of
Mauritius, which was published in the
Government Gazette, denying the exaggerated
statements of Mr. Heaton in toto. He. says that
Admiral Galliber has dqne'all in his ppwer to
facilitate the British, skips’ mail service, and he
would ill requite that officer's courtesy if he per-
mitted Mr. HeatprfB rerairkk to pass unnoticed.”
We suppose if’Alf. Bennett had left the Journal
and the News in charge of Henniker, he would
have referred to that worthy also as a “ conscien-
tiousjjouroalist.” 4 So are they all-all honourable
men ” (Shakespeare).
♦ * *
Mr. F. Trollope, chairman of the Wilcan ;
nia Lind Board under the new Act, and son of the
late eminent novelist, and writer, Mr. Anthony
Trollope, is now in Bourko e?i route to the first-
named place, where a Mr. Dickens, son of another
eminent English writer, the late Mr. Charles
Dickens, also, wo behove, resides. It is a little
singular for the sons of two such eminent novelists
to be brought together as residents in so small an
Australian township as Wilcannia Ketten died
from an overdose of chloroform which he took to
cure neuralgia from which he suffered terribly.
He was awfully sensitive, and anything approach-
ing a snub in the papers made him rage like a lion.
THE KOOKABURRA.
“ How can a woman tell ?” is the title of a
recent poem. “ How can sho help telling? ” would
be more appropriate.
Mashers.— The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 052 George-street, Brickfield Hill.*
“What is a lake?” asked the teacher. A
bright little boy raised his hand. “Well, what is it? 1 '
“ Sure, it’s a hole in the kittle.”
“Are you dead, Tim ?” said a« Irish father to
his son who had fallen down a well. “Not dead,
father, but spacheless,” came up from the pit.
The vigour of youth given to the aged and
infirm by using Hop Bitters. Try It. Read.
When Jemima went to school she was asked
why the noun "bachelor” was singular. “Be-
cause,” she replied, “it’s very singular that he
does’nt get married.”
He—“ I am going to take a botte of salt
water as a memento of this watering place.” She—
“ But don’t fill it too full, or it will slop over on u»
when the tide comes in.”
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hookings and
Cg., U3, Pitt-street.*
A young man gazed at his mother-in-law’s
two trunks in the hall and sadly remarked: “She
has brought her clothes to a visit; would that she
had brought her visit to a clbse.”
Sleepless people, says Health and Home,
should court the sun. We need hardly remark that
courting 1 he daughter has a tendency to increase
sleeplessness, especially in the case of the old man.
The Most Trivial Affections with which
we are troubled are what are commonly called
colds, and yet, trifling as they are from a superfi-
cial standpoint, they are but inductors or con-
ductors of many dire diseases. If they do not end
in pneumonia or some pulmonary complaint, they
fall on the kidneys, and here is just the point at
which Wolfe's Schnapps comes to our aid, and
by its searching, permeating, and pervasive action
on these organs, restores them to their normal
condition. Be sure you obtain Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Mathew Arnold says he was particularly
impressed with “the talkingness and engaging-
ness” of the American woman. Mr. Arnold’s
flatteringness is quite embarrassingness and alto-
gether pleasingness.
Lady of the house to nursery maid, whom
she finds deeply absorbed in a novel: “ Why,
Anna, you can’t read and mind the baby at the
same time.” “Begging your pardon, mum, the
child doesn’t disturb me a bit. ”
How to tell Genuine Florida Water. The
true Florida Water always comes with a little,
pamphlet wrapped around each bottle, and in the,
paper of this pamphlet are the words, “Lanmac,
and ffemp, New York,” water marked, or stamped,
in nale transparent letters. Hold a leaf up to. the.
light, and it genuine, you will see the above,
words. Do not buy if the words are noq there,
because it is not the real article. The water mark'
letters may be very pale, but by looking closely.,-
against the light, you cannot fail to see them.
First Dear—“ Let’s get photographed ins,
our ball-dresses, my dear.” Second dear-” What*,
do you take me for, my dear? They would think
wo were actresses; the corsage is so low. I would
be so ashaou d. It would be dreadful.’
“ Captain, we are entirely out of ammunition,”
said an orderly sergeant to his commander on a
field day. “What 1 entirely out of ammunition ? ”
exclaimed the captain. “ Yes, entirely out, ” was
the reply. “ Then cease firing, ” said the captain.
Mr. DbCourot Browns (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Export, Adviser, and Land
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on wgesR
description of Land and Mining business person-,
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, SgCastle-.
reagh-street, Sydney, tar Mining Titles, a well'
proven speciality, E-w Land Titles, Mi;. Browne’s,
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and>
Supremo Court.*
Welcome the new philanthropist.—A bene
volenfc gentlemen, who deserves a m'onupaent 14,000 1
feet high, has invented a noise'ess piano, by which
the mechanical fingering can bd as easily learned by
musical pupils as upon the real instrument of;
torture.
“Were you at church to day?” asked thn
landlady of her wicked boarder last Sunday. “li
was.” “What did the minister preach about?”
“He preached about two hours and a half. Pass
the potatoes.” The potatoes were passed in a,
silence as deep as an editorial on the tariff.
A new discovery.—Hpffmfinls Eucalyptob
(legistered) “ Mixture and Injection.” They will;
positively cure all kidney, diseases and disorders*
all urinary complaints and discharges, irritation,
scalding, inflammation, gravel, pains in tlae back,
&c. A case incurable in nine moEths was actually
cured in eight days.wjtji Hoffmann’s Eucalyptol
Injection (“ purely vegetable ”). Hoffman's Eu-
calyptol Mixture or Injection contain no mineral,
no sandalwodd, no balsam, or anything injurious
t® the rffost delicate constitution of either sedc.
Ask fpr Hoffman’s* and take no substituted
I Wholesale: E. Prouaer and Co.; Elliott Bros , Sell
1 tall: All principal chemists and storekwraers
1 Price, 3s. 64. and 3a 6d.*
I A, witty Frenchman wrote the eo.n~
mencement of this century a very interesting and
amusing book bearing the titie, “ Les.agremens eti
les chagrins des mariagec?.” In this, work the fiesta
four pages are devoted to the “agremens”(Jdys)u
and the remaining three hundred,and mty pages W.
“chagrins” (sorrows).
Tuesday, March 3, 1885, was,a red-letteijr
day in the annals of New South Wales. With,
banners flying, bands playing, and, amidst the
enthusiastic cheers of a quarter of a million off
spectators, the first colonial contingent of troops 4
ever employed on active service paraded tho
streets of Sydney in all the pomp and circumstance ■
of glorious war. Never, perhaps* was there such
a display of loyalty, apd iiev,ei; did Sydney appear’ -
so markedly as the premier city, of the Southern
hemisphere as,op this occasion. The crowds who
thronged the streets and witnessed the embarka-
tion were composed of all sorts and conditions of .
persons, and their general appearance showed un—
imistakpbly to an observer what a prosperous state
the colpny is in, and how well the wants of the •
i people are looked after by the Universal Providerg.
—Anthony Hordern and Sons, of the Hay market.*-
i Mr. John A. Wilkinson has much pleasure
|in informing his friends, and the public generally,,
that on Thursday, the 36th inst., he will have on
tap a cask of “ Must” (wine In a state of fermenta-
;tioo),, which will be procurable until the end of the-
present season.
Monsieur John a Wilkinson a I’honneur d’ in-
former le public de Sydney et des environs qu a
partir dejeudi prochain 33 Fevrier et j'usqu a 1»
fin de la saison il aura en perce a son Bodega lee
vins de la nouvelle saisons (vins doux).
Meinen Gonnern and abnehmern zur nachricht
das wahrrnd der diesjahrlzen saison in meiner
Bodega friseher wein most verzapft wird.
I Signori Italian!, resedenti in New South
Wales, soninvitati di visitare la Cantina del Signor
Giovanni Wilkinson, onde assagiare il nuovo vino
(nel mosto), durante la stagione della vendemmia
cominciando il 36 instante, Mort’s Passage, George
Street.
JOHN A. WILKINSON
Coolalta Wine Cellars,
364i George Street.
SOME HOPE YET.
YOUTH (with large facial aperture): “YES, I ALWAYS S-S-STUTTER WHEN I’M A BIT
EXCITED. DON’T'IHERKNOW; DEMOSTHENES TRIED PUTTIN’ P-P-PEBBLBS IN HIS
MOUTH, I BELIEVE; D’YE THINK PUP-PUP-PEBQLES ’UD HELP ME?”
SYMPATHISING ONE (despondently): “I'M AFRAID NOT; BUT (HAPPY THOUGHT!)
YOU MIGHT TRY PAVING-STONES!''


Cuticura, a Medicinal Jelly
Which neyer changes or loses its medicinal pro-
perties, id a positive cure for salt rheum, tetter,
psoriasis, leprosy, ecall head, dandruff, and all
itchi g and scaly diseases of the skin and scalp,
with loss of hair, scrofulous ulcers, sores, and dis-
charging wounds, cuts, wounds, bruises, scalds,
and burns, rheumatism and strains, chilblains,
cracked and chapped skin, itching piles and deli-
cate itching humors peculiar to both sexes, if the
blood and perspiration are first purified with the
Cuticura Resolvent Cuticura is the most
wonderful healing application known, and fhouid
be kept constantly in the house as a pure, sweet,
and always reliable agent.
Political Points
A RANK OFFENCE—CAUSE AND EFFECT,
strange—the House of Lords should be so
foolish:
To kick at Freedom is a habit mulish,
Inherent to a race’.whose whose Illustration
Began with-perhaps—a Royal Assignation.
From the Times :— 44 Whatever Russia and
France may say, Russia baa not only meditated
action in China, but has sounded France as to an
alliance against China. Such an alliance would oe
a blow struck more at England than China. If it
has come to nothing now, it is none the less neces-
sary to keep the possibility in view. All that has
recently occurred in this part of the world shows
that we may expect before many years pass—it
may be very soon—a life struggle for supremacy.
For this eventuality England should prepare.”
On the Soudan question the Evening
News is trimming with interesting awkwardness.
The donation of £1000 by its five proprietors, at
£200 per head, has so compromised its policy, that
It can’t back out from its original Jingo lay. So it
continues Jingo in the leading columns, and pite-
ously anxious that its merits in permitting the
other side to be heard shall be reckoned just as
good as being antl-Jingo. In future, the 44 con-
scientious journalists ” should always arrange to
be on opposite sides. Then one of them could be
“in it’’all the time.
This is Dailey’s view “ The colonies are
the camps and barracks of Imperial forces ready
to die for the Empire wherever the foe may be
found.” Are they ? Let them have one good dose
of war and taxation, and their desire to have a say
in quarrels that do not concern them, or in the
making or healing of which they were not con-
sulted, will cool considerably. According to
Daliey, an ambitious British Minister might pro-
voke war, or a stupid ono drift into it, and New
South Wales’ duty is to at once raise men and
money to support a cause she may condemn.
What a mean idea of Australia’s future some men
have!
Germany, while engaged in the laudable
work of conferring upon the Cameroon natives
the inestimable blessings of bi’andy and Bibles
(sometimes facetiously alluded to as civilisation),
found it necessary, the other day, to “commence
hostilities without the slightest notice.” Where-
upon the paga.»i blacks appear to have got angry,
for we read that “ Woermann’s agent, held as
hostage, was well treated until the first shell killed
a number of the natives, including women and
children, on the beach, when he was immediately
decapitated and disembowelled in view of the
German war-ships, and afterwards buried with a
chief who had been slain.”
Mr. Fletcher, M.L.A., who is an honest
enough man, as Now South Wales legislators go,
has recommended the people of Stockton to send
a deputation to the capital to interview the Act-
ing-Colonial Secretary about two local require-
ments. The one is a recreation ground, the other
a cemetery. To those who don’t know Stockton
the making one mouthful of a recreation ground
and a cemetery must seem odd, and Mr. Fletcher
and his clients must appear the fathers of a gentle
joke. Things arc not what they seem, however.
The satisfying of one requirement makes the
satisfying of the other indispensable. The Stock-
ton people want the recreation ground for rifle
practice.
In the new number of the 44 Financial
Reform Almanac” the statistics relating to the
“aristocracy and the public service,” which were
begun last year, are brought to a conclusion; and
a very interesting one it is. It appears that from
1850 down to the present time the total amount of
money received from the public exchequer of
England by members Of “noble” families is
£108,611,633—a fact which certainly goes far to bear
out Mr. Bright’s remark, that the English system
of patronage is nothing but 14 a gigantic system of
outdoor relief for the aristocracy of Great
Britain.” The amount spent during the same
period in the recognised form of Poor-law relief
fe, indeed, more than twice the amount above
stated—namely, £249,921,559; but then, whereas
this latter money has benefited several millions of
paupers, the aristocratic paupers relieved have
been only 7991, or, to put the contrast in another
way, whilst the recognised paupers cost but £10 a
year each, the peers, or their relatives, in receipt
of out-door relief cost £100 a year each. Decidedly
they are an expensive luxury.
A correspondent, writing from Towns-
ville (Q ), on February 25, says: — 44 1 think it would
be an improvement if, before your volunteers
sail, special services be called in all the churches
in Sydney, and the volunteers attend in full uni-
form, when they might be blessed as they marched
out. It is deplorable to think that our gallant
soldiers may share the fate of General Gordon,
whose enterprise, I am certain (we may know
some day), could not have been blessed by more
than one or two churches at the most, Why I
should like to see them blessed by every church in
Sydney is because the volunteers may be of
different denominations, and it stands to reason
one style of blessing wouldn’t serve for all. In
conclusion, I hope the gentlemen who opened
their pockets so wide, for the sake of helping God
to punish those rascally Arabs, will not be forgot.
I am afraid some of the Sydney people will be
thinking of the thousands of suffering people the
same amount would have helped; but then those
people are never satisfied, for any sensible man
can foresee that the starving poor would eat it all
up, and just go and get as poor and starving again;
but the titles and honour and glory which will
flow to New South Wales will last as long as —
well, as long as there are crawlers in Sydney.”
A day of victory, writes the London Echo;
may not be the happiest time to point a moral.
But to-day, perhaps, the country will begin for
the first time to realise fully the cost of Gordon’s
gallantry and the Government policy in Egypt.
“Nine officers killed and nine wounded; 65 non-
commissioned officers and men killed and 85
wounded.” That is our death-roll, and our pay-
ment in English blood. Arab blood is of less ac-
count, and Arab losses will rank in our calcula-
tions alomr with the casualties among the camels
in our own force Still, 800 Arabs killed, and “an
altogether exceptional number” wounded, must
be put down as an item in the account of blood-
shed. We have no quarrel with these Arabs.
They have done us no injury. They are fighting
for their own land. They are “ rightly struggling
to be free.” Nor is the fight for our Interests in
any shape. Blood has rarely been shed with less
cause, even by a British Government. We should
gain nothing by twenty such victories. Our posi
tion in Egypt and our relations with Europe would
be unchanged though we defeated twenty Mahdis
and killed a million Arabs. The Liberal conscience
was touched a little when Alexandria was bom-
barded. It showed its continued existence during
the war in Egypt, and did not bear without a
slight strain the guilt of the massacre round Soua-
kim. To-day, however, we look in vain for any
semblance of protest against the fresh era of
bloodshed that has commenced in the Soudan.
The Liberal conscience is apparently seared beyond
sensitiveness now. The battle has answered the
highest expectations of the Primate's prayer.
With respect to the pressure put upon
railway employes and other Civil servants to
indue© them to 44 voluntarily ” give a week’s
pay as a testimony of their approval! of the de-
spatch of New South Wales troops to a foreign
war, a correspondent aptly remarks:— 44 On the
Goulburn section of tho G.S.R. the officers, from
the platform porter upwards to the statiou-mastbr,
were interviewed last Friday week by the traffic
manager ur his clerk, and asked to contribute one
week s pay to the patriotic fund. Few had the
courage to refuse this apparently official and ex-
tortionate demand; and those who had. felt that
by doing so they rendered themselves liable to be
victimised hereafter. That the action originated
with the Minister for Works is evident, else why
should the mission be performed by the heads of
Departments, and that tho demand is extortionate
is not less plain. For if it be necessary that the
railway officers should dub up a week’s pay,
it follows that every other toiler and capi-
talist in the colony should do the same.
Again, why should not Government officials be
conceded the liberty to determine their duty on
the Soudan question equally with all other colon-
ists ? I believe when the time comes (which may
be too soon), for an exhibition of real patriotism,
few colonists will be loand hesitating to sacrifice
money and life, in defence of the unpreoedemed
liberty we have the good fortune to enjoy; but I
protest that the poor should be forced to pinch
themselves for the Soudan expedition. The rich
can well afford to raise all that is required at pre-
sent. Tho poor have always to find the muscles
and lives.”
A cablegram states that Bismarck com-
plains that Lord Granville is sowing distrust be-
tween France and Germany. If this complaint toe
truly grounded, much may be forgiven the gener-
ally-feeble Granville. England and France are
the two European nations which represent
modern Liberalism, and the recently-passed Fran-
chise BUI will advance England a long march
further ahead towards the democratic Ideal. Ger-
many, Russia, and Austria represent the autocratic
system, and there is every reason to suspect that
Bismarck’s policy is to alienate France from Eng-
land, crush each nation in deta'l, and thus make
autocracy triumphant in Europe. Our opinions—
we expressed them fully in an issue of Janu-
ary 10, under the heading of “ A Grand
Conspiracy "—are, we observe, precisely those
of General Campenon, the French ex-Minister
of War. In resigning office the other day,
General Campenon advised his countrymen to
cultivate the friendship of England and prepare
for the next struggle with Germany. “ For some
years past,” he said, “France has been used as a
tool by Bismarck, The Chancellor has got up a
quarrel between us and Spain, and then between
us and Italy. He is now involving us in a q uarrel
with England. I have ever been of opinion that
all we had to do was to keep quiet, and prepare
ourselves for fighting, not at the four corners of
the globe, but in Europe, and you know against
whom. It is with that object thitour excellent
army has been organised, and so organised that it
cannot, without serious inconvenience, bo dislo-
cated to take part in distant expeditions.” And,
naturally enough, the reasons which General Cam-
penon thinks conclusive against the French war
with China, are identical with some of the reasons
which we have urged against the foolish, as well as
wicked, campaign in the Soudan. It is a misappli-
cation of foice, which must exhaust strength
likely to be required elsewhere and under terrible
necessity.
Mr. Alfred Webb, writing to the Dublin
Freeman’s Journal on the subject of the Dyna-
mite Explosions, says: “We all recognise the horror
of such outrages, wherein is embodied the out-
come of uncurbed and unrestrained passions. I
suppose it will be admitted that the plotter is little
worse than the doer, and the adviser than the
plotter. What would be thought of any respect-
able Irish writer who advised or foreshadowed
such deeds for the good of Ireland ? Now, what I
cannot understand is this—that it is not considered
equally horrible for English writers to advise far
more shocking proceedings regarding Ireland. It is
bad enough to blow up buildings.it is worse to maim
innocent persons; but what would bo thought of
the destruction of a whole nation ? And yet tbi»is
precisely what I have often heard set forth as in
store for my own country in certain eventualities.
It ha« made mv Quaker blood boi', am cut into
my spirit like the lash of a whip tuto flesh. The
editor of the Times once suggested half an hour
under water as a cure for Ireland Mr. Carlyle
once compared Ireland to a starved toad and Eng-
land to an elephant, and then apostrophed the
elephant with 4 Squelch her, by heavens! I think
it was Mr. Froude who said that England before
she would let Ireland govern herself, would drench
Ireland with blood, and would herself become an
extinct volcano. And such is the language of a
large section of British 4 Liberals, 4 who say
they love us and expect us to love them. I
never heard of the editor of the Times, or Mr.
Carlyle, or Mr. Froude being boycotted by their
friends, or account for such language.
They have died, or will die, in the odour of politi-
cal sanctity. And yet the connection is clear be-
tween such, utterances and Saturday’s explosions,
if, unhappily, they were due to Irishmen. It is
all right for powerful England to assume such
an attitude towards Ireland. It appears safe for
editors, and Carlyles, and Frondes to sit in their
armchairs and pen such sentiments. But feeling
as 1 often felt while reading the like; 1, who never
want; I, who never had relatives die on a hillside
or suffer brutal treatment ia prison-I can but
dimly realise how such words must have cut into
hearts and souls of a whole people, and have had
their inevitable poisonous outcome in the
calling of the devil into tho councils of even
a few.
To talk as many—and especially many of
our preachers of the Gospel and journalists—are
doi J n ?^ of , the ca Pture of Khartoum by the Mahdi,
and the slaughter of Gordon hy his tollowers. as
outrage and murder by rebels, is simply nothing
snort of sheer nonsense. The Mahdi may be a
raise Prophet,” that is only saying in other
words that he is a prophet of another faith than
ours; and he and his followers may bo fanat'es—
which again may merely mean that they sincerely
and enthusiastically believe tho doctrines they
Pu°/?u 8 ’ R must, in ail conscience,be allowed
i“ey “aye a much superior right to their own
soil than either the British or the Egyptians. In
aelendmg the Soudan against the Invasion of the
British or the Egyptians, the Soudanese are plainly
not acting dishonourably, but the contrary. It
may be well for us to remember that whan ap-
pointed Governor-General of the Soudan. Gordon
informed Ismail. 4 the late Khedive, that bisfap-
pointment would be fatal to tho continuance of
the old system by which that territory had been
governed. 44 Nevermore,” said he, “ will Egypt be
able to govern the Soudan in the old Egyptian or
Circassian fashion, after I have resided there long
enough to teach the peopio that they have rights.
If you send me, you must continue my system or
lose the Soudan.” The warning was not heeded.
Ismael sent General Gordon to his post. He was
succeeded by Tewtik, by whom Gordon’s system
was not continued. The result is before us. The
Soudan has been lost to Egypt, as Gordon pre-
dicted. Shortly before he set out from England
on the last occasion, Gordon said, In reference to
the state of affairs in tho Soudan : " I laid
the egg which the Mahdi has hatched. I
taught the people that they had rights. Evcry-
thing has sprung from that.” Prom this it
may be seen that General Gordon acknowledged
himself to be greatly responsible for the success
that has attended the Mahdi in rousing the
.Soudanese, and marshalling them against their
opponents, whether Egyptian or British, and it is
not, therefore, to be presumed that he was op-
posed to their gaining and maintaining their
independence, however much he may have wished
to succour the garrisons that were threatened with
massacre at their hands. These are facts that
should be remembered!, for they help us materially
towards an understanding of the struggle that the
Mahdi and his followers are waging with Egypt
and Egypt’s ally, and of the position that Gordon
occupied towards each of the parties to the con-
flict.
A London friend, who took part in the
mass meeting in front of the Royal Exchange,
London, which was called by the English Land
Restoration League “ to consider the present de-
pression of industry and its causes,” gives the fol-
lowing account of it In a letter written the morn-
ing after it was held :-” I went to town yesterday
to attend the great open-air meeting, which I re-
garded as a venturesome and dangerous experi-
ment. Fortunately, (Re weather, though raw,
was fine. Mr. George, Mr. John Morrison David-
son (author of ‘The New Book of Kings'), Mr.
Reeves (the publisher), and myself left Anderson's
Hotel, Fleet street, in an open trap, and pro-
c eded to the city; but when we got there
the ground in front of the Royal Exchange
was so densely packed that the police had
the utmost difficulty in clearing our way to the
platform. It was simply the densest crowd I ever
witnessed, and my ribs are still aching from the
squeezing I got. Mr. George made the best speech
he has over uttered, and it was vociferously ap-
plauded. When he finished, I certainly thought
he would be crushed to death. There was a scene
of indiscribable confusion, through the whole
meeting striving to shako hands with him. How-
ever, the police managed to rescue him before he
was quite smashed, and got him into a cab; but
the struggle to get away was severe and pro-
longed. It was certainly the largest and most en-
thusiastic meeting that dr. George ever addressed,
and will be memorable as marking a new de-
parture in the political, and especially the social,
history of England. The re-imposition of the
land-tax, which Mr. Georgo again declared to be
the best means by which the solution of the land
problem can bs attained, is rapidly gaining
favour. This land-tax, once it is made a reality,
can be gradually increased, and helped by other
measures which wouid.then be easy of application.
Mr. Chamberlain’s ideas on this point exactly agree
with Mr, George’s; so that, as a matter of fact, the
agitation is settling down into a very practical
measure which a few years will see accomplished.' 4
-towards the close of his letter, the writer mentions
an amusing incident that occurred at this meeting,
George Mitchell,” —One From the Plough— 44 hav-
log remarked, in th> course of hl< speech, that it
would be a blessing if all the landlords could
be sent to heaven, Mr. George protested that
heaven was the wrong place to send them to.
in even t of their getting a foothold
tnere, it would soon be 4 in heaven us it is
on earth.’ It was clear that if they divided
tne territory up there as they had done down here,
no one else would be permitted to settle except
on such terms as the landlord choose to exact.
At this stage, the crowd lustily shouted, ‘Hell!
H*1L T° he!' w Rb the landlords!’ It 1-3 Gear
that the Democracy is upon us, and 4 Liberalism 4
is a thing of the past. It will bo a meat exciting
time when the new constituencies meet to elect
theur representatives. What the result will be no
man could do more than surmise; but for one
thing, there will be no more nominee membeis,
except, perhaps, the nominees of Parnell iu
Ireland,”
■ • . s
At the Presentment Sessions for County
Waterford, a presentment for £1016 for the main-
tenance of the extra police foice under the
Crimes Act was unanimously rejected The
Czar disposes at his own pleasure of the enormous
sum of £2,450,000 per annum. What he does with
the money is a mystery to his subjects, as ho
gives but very little away ..In the Bulgarian
Legislature, a mem her Of the Oppo*ltion-M. Siva-
ceff—attacked the Government for favouritism
with regard to a railway concession, and further
charged the Prime Minister with financial
mancouvres bordering on peculation. The Prime
Minister requested the President to impose silence
on the speaker, which the President, however, re-
fused to do. Thereupon a group of the Govern-
ment’s supporters rushed forward and beat M.
Sivaceff within an inch of his life, leaving him in
a pool of blood on tho fioor of the House. Mr.
Sivaceff could hardly have fared worse had bo
attempted to utter humane sentiments at a Sydney
Jingo meeting.
John Smith Harris, of Wellington, New
Zealand, was up before the “,brak ” there for firing
a rifle-shot in one of the streets of the city.
44 What Were you firing at,” asked the presiding
Solon. 44 Please your Worship,” replied John, “I
fired at a whiffier.” “And what is a whiffier?”
asked the Bench. 44 A whiffier,” replied Mr.
Harris, 44 is a very dangerous creature, and I
cannot better describe it to your Worship than by
stating that it is an insect with parasitic proclivi-
ties, usually found pasturing on the wing of a
midge. That's why I shot it.” And that’s why
John Smith Harris now goes by the name of “The
Whiffier.” Fined 40s,, and costs.
The Municipal magnates of Petersham
have just hoisted up a notice, 44 Full intide—stand-
ing room only” on the gates of their local bone-
yard, and, as a natural result, Dr. Moran and ait
who own claims in the silent diggings of Peter-
sham are dancing mad in consequence. Peter-
sham, however, is by no means alone iu her
trouble. From all parts of the world comes the
cry that the mitey dead are crowding out the
mighty living in a hiyhly Inconvenient stylo in-
deed; and, therefore, it is with pleasuie that we
now draw attention to the fact that the long- elt
want of a proper and advantageous means of dis-
posing of our dead has just been filled by achemist
of Genoa. This enterprising pill-roller has, it ap-
pears. discovered a plan lor turning flesh into
marble, and, from what we can Jearn, the mndus
operandi seems to be t hat the veins of the dead body
submitted for operation ere charged with a certain
mineral which, by its chemical action, not only
changes the veins into hard stone, but before be-
coming entirely solidified, has the same effect
upon all the surrounding titsues. The expense of
putting a corpse through this process is a mere
trifle—less than one-fourth the cost of a pine silk-
44 liner,” and the Genoa genius has already mar-
bleised a number of dead animals and placed them
on his lawn as specimens of his skill. The advan-
tages to be derived from this new discovery are
simply incalculable. For example: When a hus-
band dies his distracted widow, instead of carting
him off to be food for worms, has him carefully
marbleised In the best style, and then stands him
up in the hall as an ornamental rack for her second
husband to han* his Wintt r clothes on.. Or again:
The Mahdi is now at the head of 50,000 troops, and
in six weeks’ time the whole of this force will be
cut to pieces by the glittering swords of Austra-
lia s warlike sons. What do wo do with the
mangled bodies then ? Leave them for the birds
of the air and the beasts of the field to
hold a monster eight-heur association picnic
over ? Not a bit of it We simply squirt a
bucket or two of the cheapest Genoa chemicals
into each Arab's veins, and presto! the whole ca-
boodle of the Mahdl’s men are turned iuto blocks
of white sandstone. These blocks aro then sold
by the ton to Government contractors, who grind
thorn up into fine powdor, and sell them for gaol
and hospital supplies as the very best Adelaide
flour, price only £14 per ton. The family album
nuisance will also be wiped off the face of the
earth entirely, and the retired butterraan’s lady,
Instead of boring her visitors to death in future
by pointing to the 44 Dittoes ” of a lot of simper-
ing old washed-out idiots as she observes, 44 That's
ma and pa, and that 4 s aunt Borojolly, and I don’t
know who that is—and that's Mary M’Gucken’s
young man before he went (o Sukhim to light the
Arribyuns ; don’t he look sick’’—instead of all
this time-honoured drive), the old lady will
simply sit under the front verandah, hoist
her heels on the rails and pointing down
the lawn, remark, “See that Cararra marble
old gentleman that looks like Socrates with
the stomach-ache ; well, that’s poor dear pa.
And that handsome-looking person with tho yel-
low streaks running down nis legs and a chip off
his left ear is my first husband, and that’s his
favourite bull-purp by his side. We had ’em both
froze up together by a young marbleiser just out
from Rome.” These and a thousand other benefits
must necessarily follow The Genoa Jalep brewer's
great discovery, and it the present war craze keeps
on for another month we are confident of being
able to build a gorgeous marble palace out of the
slaughtered carcasse of the weevil-headed patriotic
(.oets who are now trooping up in battalions, and
blasting us with their insensate drivel. No more
effigies of our public men will we be required to
raise at the expense of t ur Treasury coffers now,
but each one as he dies will become his own statoo,
and then ho can be either honoured with a place
in our park, or stuck up in a drain for the boys to
pelt mud at, just as the humour of the people
seems to take them. This Is the bulliest man
Genoa ever raised since the days of Kit Columbus.
Nicholson and Co,, George street, to prove
that they aren't behind the ti ces in the matter of
new music, have sent us a batch big enough to set
up shop for ourselve*. Amongst the lot, our cun-
ning eye has singled out various songs, polkas,
waltzes, which no well-regulated musical house-
hold should be without. To wit, “Bid me Good-
bye,” both waltz and song; 44 Tender and True,”
waltz; 44 Black-and-Tan,” polka, by the favourite
composer Caroline Lowiliian ; and 44 En Garde,”
polka, by Waldteufel. All good music of its kind,
nicely got-up, and in the case of many the pictorial
frontispieces are very chaiming. Sj now we
should advise those girls whose hearti have bovn
acheing since last week to go to Nicholson’s
and make a selection, as there’s nothing on this
earth so soothing in times of trouble as good
music. Take our tip lor that.
WHAT THEY’LL DO ON THE 17th.
Dan O’Connor, in a speeeh.
Is certain Dailey to impeach;
Levien is waiting in the dumps
To see which way the pussy jumps;
With tongue of leather, Abigail
Will tell an anti-battle tale!
When meets the House, you will all find
That Slattery has 44 changed his mind.”
John Harris, in indignant strain.
Will get up—and sit down again!
THE HUMBLE INSTRUMENT.
GENTLEMAN ON THE LEFT (examining change): “B’HELP ME ! MR. OPPENHERMEK,
HE’TH CHEATED UTH, HE’TH ROBBED UTH1 BUT HEAVEN WILL JUDGE HIM!"
MR. 0.; “HEAVEN HAS ALREADY JUDGED HIM, MR. LEVI. I’VE GOT THE
SPOONTH IN MY POCKET.”


ODDFELLOWS’ HALL, GOULBURN.
THIS handsome Bijou Theatre, completely re-
modelled, Is fitted with every convenience,
and has one of the best stages in the colony (50 x
30), is now open for engagement on very moderate
terms. Seats comfortably in dress circle, 250; pit
and stalls, 500. The population of the city is nearly
9000, and the Hall, which is now the most popular
place of amusement, is situated in the most cen-
tral position of the main street. Mr. Charles
Turner, of the Montague-Turner Opera Company,
says“ The Hall I consider second to none in New
South Wales. The acoustics are good; the stage
and dressing-room accommodation is superior to
any Hall in the colony. Applications addressed to
M. E. PULLEN, Secretary, will receive prompt
attention.
A Bazaar & Art Union
IN connection with the Union Masonic Lodge,
of Berrima, 981 E.C., in aid of the
WIDOW AND ORPHAN FOND,
under the patronage of the District Grand Master,
John Williams, Esq., of the District Grand Lodge,
English Constitution,
£7000 Worth of Works of
Art, Pictures, &c.,
to be disposed of in Shares of £1 each on the Art
Union Principle, and to be drawn for at Moss Vale,
time and place of which will be given in public
Press, and the drawing will be under the super-
vision of the following gentlemen, who have
kindly offered to act :—
John Williams, Esq.
I. S. Ponder, Eeij.
Jas. Taylor, Bsq.
W. McCourt, Esq.
1st Prize—Picture, &c., valued at £2t00
2nd- „ ,-, 1309
drd ,, ,, ,, 709
4th— „ ,. „ 500
5th— ., „ „ 370
0th— ,, „ „ 300
7th— „ „ „ 300
8th— „ „ „ 300
9th— „ „ „ 200
10th- „ „ „ 300
llth ,, ,, ,, 130
12th ., ,, ,, 100
13 th— „ „ „ . 100
14th— ,. „ „ 100
From 14 to 24—10 prizes of £30 each.
100 Prizes—Pictures, valued at £3 each.
Tickets will be forwarded by the Secretary, on
receipt of £1.
J. S. HYAMS,
Hon. Secretary,
Moss Vale.
nMRY BURGIS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
JL from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STRBET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for s(£>-measuring
forwarded to anv part of the colony
BARGAINS! BARGAINS!! BARGAINS!!
Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale.
EOSSALIE, LLCTSTD dc CO.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO, ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.
ISf” Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale.
Ladles should secure the
CHEAP LACES AND UNDERCLOTHINS AT ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.’S SALE,
4s. In the iHiinid taken off your Bill.
Thousands of Remnants of Laces. Remnants of Laces. Remnants of Laces.
Remnants of Ribbons. Remnants of Ribbons, Summer Millinery. Summer Millinery
A MAGNIFICENT STOCK ALL INCLUDED IN THE SALE.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.
Umbrellas. Umbrellas. Parasols. Parasols,
KOSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.,
NEAR the general post office. 9
Por'the Trade.
For. AmatanraT
Photographic Supplies ]
Bray & Lichtner, 32 O’ComxcII-st., Sydney.
Nev unqiDmii)»cycr>/Lensc», Magic Lanterns*
r»e assort in c nto f i GlmFram es.Tn-all sizes.
mounts, Chemicals. Large
BAKER'S and -1 ENGLISH 1 makers DRT PLATES.
Amateurs
V!
Supplied
with
P.
COMPLETE
OUTFITS
■ <7
fcv
1
from £3
Catalogues
6 ran®.
./s
Country
orders
■7
promptly
i xecuted.
M
Carnrick’s Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk
(Composed of about equal proportions of Pure Cod Liver Oil and Condensed Milk digested).
IT affords us much pleasure to announce to the Medical Profession and tho p„hi,v> u
2c«o», he bS a?n “ ,‘° a <he
with condensed (digested) milk, as exhibited in this nreoaration ft wiin?f PJwff’ but ,n combmat on
Oil and Milk are digested, and it will therefore usnallv nir Pn w th iJAHFJ laJeptoni.zed Cod Liver
the Emm si on of * Co ver Oii! ,C 4th! t 'is well kno'wnthafSl EmulsiSn^o?‘c^
contain from 60 to 75 per cent, of water Peptonized rod ilw nifmTif i?* Cod Liver Oil usually
11 »“«« 5 ‘»e 25*%S2t 2ft SUSS SSS5SS&.1SJS
cn n\° a !r2 ™ an nfacture the above preparation combined with H YPOPHOSPHITES OP TTMP amt*
SODA, lo be obtained of the Principal Chemists and Druggists in the colonies LIME AND
T wv^ alt . iU ! Manuf * cturin ff Co., Lim., 24 aud 25 Hart-st.. Bloomubury, London, W C
Samples and Full Particulars may be obtained of
W. T- PALMER, 104 King-street, Sidney.
Professional Directory.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Hlacocks..
W.
Sydney
HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks’ Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
TO AMATEUR THEATRICALS.—Scenery Sup-
plied or Lent. O. Perriman, Scene Painter,
No. 7, back of Academy of Music, Castleroagh-st,
Theatre royal.
Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musqrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager—Mr. H. H. Vincent.
Doors open at 7.15, commence 7.15. Carriages, 10.45.
Fifth Week, and established Success of the Royal
Dramatic Company.
THIS EVENING, at a quarter to 8 precisely,
The Latest London Sensation,
rfAUNTRD LIVES
HAUNTED LIVES
HAUNTED LIVES
AN ENORMOUS SUCCESS.
Furniture and appointments from Hamilton ai.d
Co., Globe Furniture Warehouse, Park and Castle-
reagh-streets.
Prices of Admission: Diess Circle, os.; Stalls,
3s.; Family Circle, 3s.
Tickets tor all parts of the house at Bastway’s
Hotel. Box olfloe open daily from 11 till 4.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee Mr. Wybert Reeve.
Stage Manager ... Mr. Howard Vernon
Under the Management of A. T. and J. F. Dunning.
THIS EVENING.
Offenbach’s famous Opera Comique,
BARBE BLEUE
BARBE BLEUE
(BLUE BEARD).
Witnessed by delighted audiences with unbounded
enthusiasm. Encore after encore.
Mr. Knight Aston in bis great impersonation of
Blue Beard, played by him in the leading theatres
in England, America, and the colonies.
GRAND CAST OF CHARACTERS
by the Premier London Comic Opera Company,
Admission Orchestra Chairs, 5s.; Stabs, 3s.;
Family Circle, 2s. Box Office, Nicholson’s, Qeorge-
street.
New opera house.
Lessees, Messrs. E. Majeronland W. J. Wilson.
Under the Management of Kignoid and Allison.
Stage Manager, J. F. Cathcirt.
Second Week. Still Continued Success.
Derrick’s Great Eccentric Comedy,
CONFUSION ! CONFUSION 1
EVERY EVENING, at 8.15,
R’gnold and Allison's Selected Comedy Company.
Furniture by Anthony Hordern and Sons, Hay-
market. Plan, Huenerbein’s 318 Qoorge-st. Day
tickets at Roberts’, Treasurer, G. A Coleman.
■jg’ BW v OPERA HOUSE.
(Kindly given for the occasion by Bro. James
Allison )
THURSDAY NEXT, MARCH 19.
GRAND MATINEE PERFORMANCE.
F. M. I.
(Fraternity Mutual Imps), Sydney Lodge No. 8.
Greatest Programme ever Presented,
Theatre Royal Dramatic Company.
Rlgnold and Allison's Opera House (“ Confusion ”
Company).
Gaiety Theatre—Dunning’s London Comic Opera
Company.
Academy of Music—Hiscocks’ Federal Minstrels.
Prices of Admission.—Drees Circle 3l, Stalls 3*.,
Parquette 3s.
MATINEE at 2.30.
Dress Circle Tickets may be reserved at Bro.
Louis Nicholson’s Music Warehouse, 335 Gcorge-
streot.
Bro W. J. B. JENKINS. M F., Hon. Sec.
Business Manager: Bro G. A. COLEM AN, M F.
CADEMY O F MUSIC,
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and SPECIALITY UNION
Every Evening in their Reffned and Amusing
Entertainment.
Enthusiastic Reception of thi great
BARRY O’NEILL,
In his Characteristic Impersonation.
Admission, 4s., 3s., 3s., and Is. Box Plan at
Paling’s. Carriages at 10.15.
HE AUSTRALIAN
WAXWORKS
Opposite the Cathedral,
Just added,
GENERAL GORDON.
Open dally from 10 a.m. till 10 p.m.
Admission, One Shilling; Children, half-price.
T
N
A N O I
PROP. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &o. Leigh House Academy, 35]
Castlereagh-street, near Bathurst-street. P.S -
The ball-room 1s much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and Is superior In ventilation,
soring floor. &c. No decorations required.
E A U DE COLOGNE,
4711 4711.
Established 1703.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1873; Prize Medal, Vienna, 1873
ThlsEau de Cologne, so favourably known to I
the Australian public during the last 35 years ob-
tained at the last Philadoiph a Exhibition’ the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for its superior sweetness, strength
and invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
petitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public
and is extensively patronised by the Mite of
Europe.
The large and constantly Increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Eau de Cologne, not only in
Europe, but also in North and South America
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number-4711 changed into 7411, 1117, 4117, &o , &c
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pltt-
street, Sydney.
To be had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists
and Storekeepers, in town and country. ** ’
S L Tn«r R Vi^o S |i. With ervon8 Debility
Lost Vitality, &c., be your own Phvsipian
The FRENCH HOSPITAL REMEDY wiB soon re
store you to health and manly vigour. Preserintim
free. Send your address on a stamped en velope to
C. C, W., Box 766, G.P.O., Sydney.
&
gw
S3
a
%
30
N-'
%
*%>
_>
o
Z!
V
<>
<x
qy
■d
s
<?.
%
<r
a
MAN
I
CO
URY.BUXTON& C
URN
MUNZER
ENGLISH ALES
Burfon-on-Trenl'
fau
RNISSEURS
Bord
P
Of
>c
&
to
to
i
<('
>
?
m
m
BSOl^
OHNE ZUSA'I 1
. ALLT Si CO/S Wiw and Snirii Stares and 'Mss,
CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
London Agents: Messrs. Aeihtjb Allt & Co., Wormwood Chambers, Wormwood-street, E.C.


Waltham ffatcl Agency.
REVOLUTION IN THE POSTAL SYSTEM.
ip ff ? rt8^, aro belDff'made by the
wifltni Wales Government to bring the
tin f* a Department up to the requirements of the
Gnee pledged to the introduction of the
boon in J( i 8 hrf y r fi T te ? a ’. W tl' 1 Ch 5 98 P roved * national
sfates k nfllom ard the United
nfmoVi 8 S £ dne £ Minister is expediting the work
department a safe, cheap, and
speedy medium of transit for all descriptions of
r rc i hsnd i-?-. Thi8 means that goods
™ a /,P?. w be despatched through the Post Ofllco
fn f d as ‘iu f « kl v as a letter to any address
t hat ( ? >l0 n y ’ .The significance of the thing is
r *l! a J br >P»s the most distant resident
Mi-Tkiiih the * f d0 ?” te P of the best and cheapest
establishment in the great free-trade metropolis,
i he man who has ied the way in encouraging this
8 y 8tem of trade, is undoubtedly
Mr. T. M. ALCOCK, Jeweller and Watchmaker, of
H® Haymarket, Sydney, Australian Agent for the
World-renowned Waltham Watches. For the past
hi years Mr. T. M. Alcock has been doing business
with people who have never been in Sydney, and
who have never seen or entered his shop,
8 i rai / ht Foing, honest treatment of
patrons hundreds of miles away has won him a
permanent hold on the entire inland community
®°l°ny> and ho now does a larger parcels-
P° l 8t vi 8 nc ?? in jewellery and watches than any
w *u v ree bouses of either city. The Waltham
Watch has given Mr. Alcock a further hold on the
*S*a°d public, fly personal negotiation with the
Waltham proprietors at their works, Massachu-
setts, Mr. Aleook secured concessions as the Wal-
tham ageat which r laced these famous watches be-
fore the Australian public at manufacturer’s
prices. 1 he parcels-post system completely Jinks
the whole Australian public, as it were, on to the
great Waltham factory. Mr. Alcock forwards
these watches to any address in all Australia, pay-
ng the postage, and taking all the risk of safe de-
livery, By these means Walthains have gone
broadcast throughout these colonies. Mr. Alcock
handles every watch before drspatching it, and ho
alone executes the order. Of upwards of 10,000
purchasers there Is not a single customer who has
complained or expressed dissappolntment at Mr,
Alcock b treatment of their favours.
THOUSANDS In ALL GRADES to select from at
MANUFACTURERS’ PRICES.
Mr. ALCOCK gives a Three Years’ Guarantee
with every Waltham Watch, and, in addition to
this, issues with each watch sold tho Company’s
Certiticate, as follows:—” Watch, No. , and en-
graved with our Trade Mark, was manufactured
at our work?, and is guaranteed by us to be made
of the best materials on the most approved prin-
ciples, and to possets every requisite for a reliable
Timekeeper.”
For any defect in material, workmanship, or
performance under fair usage, we at all times hold
ourselves responsive.
General Agents, for tho American Watch Co.,
ROBBINS and APPLETON.
R. ROBBINS, Treasurer.
, „ T. M. ALCOCK, A*ent.
673, George-street, Haymarket, Sydney.
GENT.’S SILVER WALTHAM WATCHES,
In Hunting or Open Face, with Crystal
Glass Sterling Hall-marked Cases.
KEV WINDERS.
No. 1,—Seven jewels, steel balance. A
sound reliable timekeeper .. ..£3 10 0
No. 3.—Seven jewels, steel balance. Extra
heavy full size cases, specially
built for bush use
No. 3.—Seven jewels, good balance. Very
superior llnish. Perfect time-
keeper
4. Full jewelled, compensation ba-
lance. Very highly ficUhed; suit-
able for extreme climates
5. Compeusatiou balance, extra
Jewelled. In separate settings ;
very superior movements
No. 6.—Three-quarter plate hands, to set
at back, good balance, seven jewels
No. 7.—Three-quarter plate, compensa-
tion balance, full Jewelled. Spe-
cially rated
No
No.
3 10
3 5
3 15
4 4
3 5
4 0
PATENT KEYLESS.
No. 8.—CELEBRATED RIVERSIDE, adjusted
keyless tint? movement", three pair extra fine jewels
in setting, exposed pallets, compensation balance,
in silver case, 7 guineas; in massive gold cases 15
guineas. Note.—Read Swiss Commissioner's speech
re this watch, and if you are in want of a perfect
time-kooper, buy one at manufacturer’s price of
the agent, T. M. ALCOCK.
No, 9.—CELEBRATED HILLSIDE, seven jewels,
compensation balance. Very highly finished, and
perfeet time-keeper, £4 15s. and £3 6s.
No. 10.—Full-sized extra stout eases, compensa-
tion balance, full jewelled. This movement is
specially built for hard usage, and is a perfectly
reliable time-keeper. In two prices, £5 3a, and £3
10s.
No. 11.—Full sized, three pairs of extra fine
jewels, In settings. Adjusted. This Is a very
superior movement. £7 7s.
No. 13,—Named “ P. H. BARTLETT,” Waltham,
Mass., four pairs extra fine jewels, in settings,
compensation balance. This watch is the acme of
perfection. £7 7s.
No. 13.—Ladies' very superior, full Jewelled, com-
pensation balance. Engraved casts. £4 10s. and
£5 5s.
LADIES’ AND GENT’S GOLD WALTHAMS,
In Hunting or Open Face, with Crystal Glass,
Standard Hall-marked Gold Cases, of various
grades—
£8 8 0 £11 II 0 £17 10 0
990 U 0 0 20 0 0
10 10 0 15 15 0 up to 75 0 0
A magnificent stock of every grade of Watch
made by the Waltham Company, including a rich
collection of P/esentation Watches, in plain and
fancy engraved cases,
Duplicate parts of every Watch made by the
Company kept in stock. Weltbam Watches re-
paired with the Company’s Materials on the
shortest notice.
THE ENGLISH PATENT LEVER WATCHES
ALSO COMPETE IN ALL AUSTRALIA.
Recognising the value of tho better class of
English Patent Lever Watches, T. M. Alcock,
while in England, visited the great watch factories
of London, and entering into large contracts,
arranged lor the manufacture ot a splendid and
superior class of English Patent Lever Watch,
the BEST and cheapest ever imported to Aus-
tralia.
No. 1.—Crystal Glass or Hunting Case "> .. £3 10 0
No. 8.—Ditto, extra jewelled and superior
finish
No. 3.—Ditto, highest grade, fuil-jewellcd
No. 4.—Ditto ditto, superior adjusted
No. 5,—Rotherham s celebrated Levers ..
No. 6.—Rotherham's Compensated Ba ance 5
No. 7.—Rotherham's Chronometer Balance,
highest quality ' 6 6 0
No. 8.—Rotherham’s Adjusted, compensated
balance, very superior 7 7 0
An unequalled stock of the above in 18-carat
gold cases, from £13 to £30; in keyless. £30 to £50.
4 4 0
5 5 (l
6 6 0
4 10 0
0
SUPERIOR CHRONOGRAPHS.
T, M. ALCOCK is now in a position to offer to
the public generally the Cheapest and Best
CHRONOGRAPH for racing and timing purposes
ever made.
Illustrated Catalogues Forwarded Free.
All communications to be addressed,
T. M. ALCOCK,
Waltham Watch Agent,
#13 George***., Haymarket, Sydney.
GENTLE, BUT EFFICACIOUS.
Wyndham-street, Alexandria, Sydney, Feb. 14,1884.
Gentlemen,—I beg to Inform you that I have
used Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea in my household
with good results. My children have taken it as
an aperient, and its action has been gentle but
efficacious.
Yours faithfully,
Joseph Lingard,
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
VERDICT OF A POPULAR BONIFACE.
I have tried Hamburg Tea, and my household
have proved it to be gentle but efficacious as an
aperient, and I can strongly recommend it.
G. A, BROWN,
Exchange Hotel,
West Maitland.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
tweatbs ROT At —“ Haunted Lives ” p. 8
Opera House— “ Confusion •*. ..
riiwV Theatre — Barbe Bleue >•
academy of Music.—Hiscooks’ F. Minstrels ■«
u A genuine melodramatic success ” is what
♦h« Rum calls “Haunted Lives.” We would
frombllngly suggest that, to Rive this Rreat “ suc-
APas ” a fair chance of establishing itself in popular
favour, the prices should be reduced to—say.
ctrcle 6L. stalls 31., pit 2d., and gallery Id,, with
half-prices after the second act. This would be
«n v fair to J. Wilton Jones, the writer of the
nohle drama of “ Haunted Lives.” The present
two-shilling gallery excludes our best oilizens-
those with the keenest perception of the nuances
nt “ play-acting.” The female tramp who walks
for weeks through the snow carrying her boy (the
image of his dead father), in order that she may
take a last farewell of the happy home of her
nhildhood, never meets with proper appreciation
when the tariff is high. Her touching appeals for
the recovery of her che-i-ld evoke little enthusiasm
from people who don’t chew tobacco nor harry
policemen. We commend this to the enterprising
managers. + * *
tn “Haunted Lives,” produced at the
Royal on Saturday night to a house whose mur-
derous insiincts appeared to Increase as the plot
developed, there is everything that the most fasti-
dious could desire-love, hate, jealousy, crime,
poison, pauperism, and policemen (we’ll never get
rid of the two latter). This is a pretty big order
for a start. But, besides all these, we have unfor-
giving fathers with the flintiest of hearts, and re-
nellious sons who, in obedience to the dictates of
honourable love, flout the authors of their being
and cling like barnacles to the village maidens of
their choice. Then there are sailors, assassins, and
Nihilists, a Russian countess, a ship on tire, and a
poisoned cup. Nor do these exhaust all the ma-
terials woven into this thrill ng drama by the ac-
complished J. Wilton Jones. He includes an Eng-
lish mechanic who, owing to the crowded state of
the labour market and the high price of tripe, can
seldom obtain as much—even of the coarsest food
—as would temporarily deprive him of his appetite.
We saw this mechanic on Saturday night, and we
were not at all surprised at the difficulty he ex-
perienced in finding employment. Ho carried an
adze, some hammers, chisels, and things that go
to make up a workman’s ordinary outfit, but it
was easy to see that hard work was about the very
last thing in the world that would attract hla at-
tention. He was clearly pining for the “ jimmy,”
skeleton keys, knuckle-duster, and centre-bit ap-
pertaining to bis proper vocation. For one who
“hadn’t tasted nothink that mornin’,” and not
much the day before, he appeared in fair condition
and cheerful withal.
* ♦ *
But it is time to say something of this
“ enormously successful drama.” The scene opens
in England—and here let it be said, the mounting
is really good. There you see Farmer Branston’s
cottage—a fruit tree in blossom close to one of
the windows. He has a daughter, Ruth, a model
of propriety. For all that, her bed-room window
opens on to the apple tree [N.B.—There is a mys-
terious affinity between women and apples.!—it
might come in handy. And It does. Up that tree
Frank Edenbridge (the squire’s son) climbs with a
dare-devil recklessness that suggests that both his
head and his heart are soft. We saw him do it on
Saturday night, and trust he will not try it again.
Surely the management could afford a crane for
hoisting actors to any place where their services
are required. No audiences can stand night alter
night the mental strain of seeing Titheradge crawl
up that tree. Old Squire Edenbridge (Frank’s
father) is farmer Branston’s landlord. They are
both crotehetty. Tne landlord (unlike most Eng-
lish landholders) thinks the tenant should be more
deferential, while the tenant (having a long lease)
would see him in first. In Ireland they man-
age things differently. There, when landlord and
tenant fall out, the former nearly always gives in.
There’s nothing like a pound of swan shot for
showing a man that he was mistaken. So
old Edenbridge forbids his son’s marriage with
the dainty Ruth. The ceremony takes place all
the same. There was a wedding procession headed
by small boys—the rear brought up by bumpkins
in smocks. Amontf those who formed the proces-
sion was a bearded, attenuated “ supe,” who strode
ferociously forward, glared malignantly at Lthe
orchestra, blew his nose, and disappeared. We
don’t know why he was brought on or what be-
came of him, but on Monday we saw some one
ridiculously like him step majestically out of
“ Black Maria,” and stride contemptuously into
the Water Police Court.
* i * *
Some years before his marriage Frank had
been in Russia, and joined the Nihilists. But when
he saw how they warred against the sacred rights
(Belas!) of property he left them. So long as ’twas
all rose-water he was fiercely socialistic, bat when
it came to knives he bucked. During his little
“flight abroad” he fell in with the Countess
Zolinska.' She was Russian, noble, Nihilist and
nitro-glycerine mixed. She loved Frank with a
love as consuming as that of Dolgorouka for Alick
or Dalloy for Parkes. And this unhallowed affec-
tion is the dummy on which J. Wilton Jones
hangs this most original and successful, of dramas.
Frank is sentenced to death by the secret brother-
hood. Zolinska pleads for him, and then brings
him forward to speak up for himself, which he
does by telling them all to go to blazes. The
police surround the house. You can never keep
anything from these people. They are always
“ on the track.” Not a mortal thing happens in
the community that this marvellous force hasn’t
a “clue to,’ and doesn’t follow up with “bull-dog
pertinacity.” The bobbies don’t break into the
place this time-possibly because most of them
were busy behind, clearing away the impedimenta
left from the last tableau. Mrs. Frank sneaks
into the house, and arrives just in time to see a
French ruffian trying to see how far he could put
a butchers’ knife Into her husband. The villain
failed. He forgot he had an Englishman to deal
with. Even to this day—in spite of the lessons
taught them—seven or eight foreigners, with
knives, think that they are a match for an un-
armed Briton. Will these people never learn ?
Frank takes this stupid Gaul by the slack and
the scruff, drops him into the street with a pre-
liminary kick to quiet him, and the curtain goes
down to patriotic music.
• • •
After the second or third act—we forget
which—a national march was played. It was
composed in commemoration of our declaration
of war. It is quite original—at least the different
movements were original at various periods dur-
ing the world’s history—some during the stone
age, some as late as Handel. All that could have
been said of this work has been said over and over
again by musical critics of many nations. We
have nothing fresh to add.
o • •
It is useless for Frank and Ruth to remain
m England. It’s bad enough to have Nihilists
shepherding you, but when there’s a Sclav
Countess on the track as well, things get tame.
Besides, they want to get away from London be-
cause they have sufficient m. ney to last them for
twelve months only.” Their idea of being “ bard-
up, when they hud a year’s wholesome food
■ ?iF e f^ em > made a few Irowsy-looking bushmen
m the gallery start for the door and ask their
money back. However, they get aboard for
*!/anei/. When “ Haunted Lives” is produced in
Kiama, we’ve no doubt that it will be for Kiama
the young couple start. But the serpent was on
the trail—the sapper-and-miner was at his dirty
work. Zolinska was “aboord.” So also was the
■Frenchman whom Prana bad “histed.” This
scoundrel looked a littie put out since the last
ac t- u u 8 8 P' ne > particularly, seemed not to fit well,
a P“ punnd a pronounced limp. But he had suffi-
ctent strength left to strike a match and set fire to
8 -Before he did so. Zolinska had time
take a lot of starch out of Ruth. The
countess had had a musical framing, and was on
ner way to Sydney under engagement to Dan.
O’Connor. She tells us that she had sung at Milan,
Paris, and Petersburg’, where audiences rose to
her and cried Bravo. Wo doubt this. When we
were at Milan, and the house rose to any
“Lucia,” it wasn’t Bravo they said. Anyway,
she was bound for Sydney and would pro-
bably have arrived here but for the French
bandit's precipitancy in setting fire to the lee-
scuppers. This ruined all. It was a case of sauv e
qui pent, and, to do the Frenchmen j ustice, ho was
about the tlrst over the side. The sailors worked
manfully with paste-board buckets to get the lire
under, but when it reached the for’ard cat-head it
was seen how hopeless the task was. It was then
a case of “stand from under.” Ruth, rising
superior to the taunts of her Russian rival, threw
her comforter over the Sclav's head, and then fell
senseless on the burning deck. When Frank came
out of the cuddy to rescue his wife he collared the
Muscovite and helped her into the boat. As his
wife was live feet nigh and the Russian about six
it was just the sort of mistake a man would make
in the hurry of the moment. Everybody’s saved—
especially the ship-owners, who were over-insured
—and the curtain goes down to dismal harmony.
* * *
You know the remainder. No ? Well,
you can guess it, Ruth has a child born at sea.
We were born at sea, and there we’ve been ever
since. But this by the way. She and the kid
make their way to the old home. For some hours
they camped on a stump outside the gate, till
Captain Howard Eden bridge—the monster of the
piece—shunts them on to a heap of stones. Of
this Howard we cannot speak and retain our men-
tal composure. We’ve seen them all—lago, Pollio
in “Norma,” Joseph Surface—the whole set. But
this Howard could give a knight and two pawns
to the lot. Circumstances, however, are against
him. On the stage, as in real life, you may try as
much as you can to keep down virtue and promote
vice, but, believe us—[Oh, shut up I—Ed. B.]
• •
So everything ends happily. The Nihilists,
male and female, get their deserts. And now, we
might candidly ask, what means the placing of a
piece like this on the stage? Will it pay? No.
Will it teach? Certainly not. What has it to re-
commend it? Capable actors and good scenery
alone. Why, then, is it put on, with its absurd in-
cidents, stupid plot, ad captandum dialogue, ab-
sence of originality, and unique merotriclousness 7
Goodness knows. We don’t, and we don’t think
the managers do.
* • * *
At the Gaiety, “ Les Manteaux Noirs” has
been a frost. It is hard to say why, except that
the dose of opera bouffe has been too much. We
believe we mentioned Dark’s legs some time ago.
Until the other night they possessed for us a
strange fascination. But they do so no longer.
We have seen Appleby’s. This was due to our
taking a front seat in the stalls. People behind
were not so fortunate—at least those of them who
hadn’t glasses. What were they like ? Well, It’s
hard to say. We’ve thought of everything—tent-
poles, drum-sticks, clothes-pegs, crochet-needles
even, but no comparison will meet the case except
a mathematical one, which we will give in the
form of a conundrum Why are Appleby’s legs
like a point? Give it up ? Why, of course, be-
cause they have position, but no magnitude.
• it
No person was ever half so idiotic as
Dromez looked. The very idea of Qirolas being
obliged to wed him sent a thrill of indignation
through the house. To think of their kissing,
fondling, occupying the same chamber I Ughl
There’s a lot of kissing all through the piece. The
King (Vernon) is right in it. But, then, Kings of
Spain would kiss anything. They were sad dogs,
unlike our monarchs who - whatever their faults—
never gave way to promiscuous osculation. And
this reminds us-we liked Vernon’s serenade in the
mill as well as anything. And Knight Alton ? He
sang as'flat as a pan-cake. With your eyes closed,
you could readily imagine he’d loft his ears behind
him. That such was not “really the case” was
obvious at once when you saw the back of his
head.
• • •
Miss Leaf was the Spanish Queen, and
proudly ordered various peop'e out of her royal
presence, consoling herself for such necessary
severity by winking at Knight Aston. Her ges-
tures were striking—superb—especially where she
haughtily points to a fly which had taken up a
commanding position on the door-knob of the
bridal chamber to keep an eye on things. Yee:
Queens of Spain have many advantages. And
they generally make the most of them. Ciel!
what pleasure there’s in life when you know that
there’s a nice, fair-spoken, jolly ecclesiastic always
at hand to intercede with Heaven for any little
mistakes you makel And yet to think that, under
circumstances like these, backslidings are so rare.
Odd, isn’t it ?
♦ * ♦
Unlike our gracious Sovereign, whose
tastes are mostly literary, it was to science that
Miss Leaf devoted whatever time she had left
from watching her husband. This was not much,
certainly, but she made the most of it, and no
doubt made some useful discoveries under the
able guidance of the Astronomer Royal. It was in
the “ mill ” that Ivanova was at her best. We have
observed the same of Larry Foley.
• * * *
“Apropos," we said, “Harold Stephens
has written an opara, and Juncker has set it to
music.” We made the remark to a friend across
the caf6 table, and (let us honestly admit it) our
tongue was wedged in our cheek. But we spoke
too loud—opened our mouth too wide. A mild-
looking man at the bead of the table chipped in.
We had paid no attention to this person, beyond
observing that the well-picked mutton-bone on
his plate suggested; that the coats of his stomach
were intact. “Pardon,” he observed, “I am a
stranger, and would not venture to interfere in
your delightful conversation (this, we thought,
with a soupfonof sarcasm), but that M. Juncker
is a musician, and a friend of mine. May I ask,”
he went on, turning to us, “if you have seen the
words or heard the music of this opera which
(more sarcasm) you appear to appreciate so
highly ? ” We are proud. We resented this
waif’s interference. “No,” we answered,
haughtily, “we have not seen the words, and we
have not heard the music, and—we don’t want to.”
“ It is the old story,” he said, half apologetically;
“ whenever you find a person sure of a thing, you
may be certain hi knows nothing about it. ‘Mari-
tana ’ saw the light in Sydney, ‘ His Natural Life’
in Melbourne, and yet there are amongst us those
who would condemn any colonial effort without a
hearing.” Then he bowed, and left. “ Agreeable
old body, aint he ?” said our frien -1, as he rose and
told the garcon to look to us for a pour boire.
“That is a matter of opinion,” we responded,
coldly. In fact, ’twas a nasty jar, and—we de-
served it. But what was to be done ? Why, go
and borrow the libretto, and then sneak round and
bribe Juncker to run off some of the music. We
borrowed the words and bribed Juncker. What
do we think of it? We think that the words are
appropriate, and that many of the movements
could hold their heads up in "Angot’s ” and
“ Tambour Major’s ” company. That, at least, is
our opinion, and we ought to know, considering
that when we were “ off it ” we play the triangle
in a temperance band with singular doggedness.
* * »■ *
“Confusion” still at the Opera House.
Crowds still roll up to see it, and, if it points no
particular moral, it at all events makes the ghost
perambulate.
* * * *
At Hiseock’s the chief novelty is the re-
appearance—the first since eighteen-hundred-and-
ever-so long ago—of the famous cornique, Barry
O’Neill. When last we heard Barry we were in
knickerbockers. Our nose, too, was constantly
neglected. We listened to his “ Champagne Char-
ley ” and “Up in a Balloon” and survived. We
shall have a lot to say of him presently.
We know Hop Bitter are above and be-
yond all aa a nutritious tonlo and curative. Read
thoroughly the
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
Walter Goodwin : We don’t quite un-
derstand your letter. However, we are glad to
learn that the working men of N. S. Wales (no re-
gard for creed or colours) are trying to under-
stand the, writing of the Sydney Bulletin to
the best of their ability.” That’s just what we
desire. They have never before been addressed
in the same fashion. They have been Haltered
and humbugged by professions of an anxiety to
be their organ, and the plan adopted has been to
endorse their mistakes, minister to their transient
agitations, and do everything but interpret for
them the great movements of their order else-
where, and explain the fallacies by which they
and their forefathers hav? been tickled and bam-
boozled. We have gone straight for demonstra-
tion of principles, we have never hesitated—and
never will—to oppose a popular agitation if it be
really wrong. We don’t crawl after the working
men. We don’t scramble for their favour. We
only exp iund certain prlriSiples, and if we reach
phe intellect of the brightest and best of the
labouring order (as we certainly shall), the rest
will follow, and no favour on either side. Where
there favour there is no equality of feeling.
When the working men of Australia understand
us they will trust us, and a genuine sound friend-
ship and confidence will spring up. That condi-
tion is already approached And, look here, wo
shall stand by our principles, even though the
contrary effect be produced. Men don’t always
recognise their friends, and we may have bitter
doses yet to administer. It will come out right
for the toiler, even though he hit us on the nose,
and accuse us of wanting to poison him, when the
taste is bitter. We like appreciation as well as
anyone else, But popularity is not what we are
working for. It is the Instruction of the people in
matters which vitally concern them and their
children....” J. J. Maroc”: Received....“ Tas-
manlte” (King-River, N. Coast); As we expected,
good enough. Shall publish ...” A. Scot ”: you’ve
put a new face on a very old friend. We publish
it for the benefit of circus-clowns, It may strike
them as something fresh. Thus: —
“ The sodgers o’er a desert wild,
Should ne’er let want confound them,
For they at any time can eat
The sand-which-is around them.
“It might seem odd that they will And
Such palatable fare,
Did we not know the sons of Ham
Were bred and mustered there.”
“ A. Blood-Wood” (Bundabcrg): C<isp "Bris-
bane”: We’d like the yarn you mention “ The
Orphan Servant”: Very fair; but why the snow
and sleet? Clearly imitative. Think out some-
thing all your own. You write: " I should like to
know whether they are too bad to bo criticised, as
in that case I should send them to the Evening
News for publication,” That’s neater than your
verses—“ EP.E.” (Elizabeth-street): The sugges-
tion for cartoon is very telling, but somewhat in-
delicate... “Carolus”: "Rape of the Lock,” &o.
good enough. Held over for a chance of running
them in....“John Warren ” (Clermont, Q.): Excel-
lent sense, but halting rhyme. This is bko mount-
ing a crack runner on a lame horse. Try prose ...
— “John Perry”: Your suggestion arrived too
late last week. However, it was welcome, as all
sensible Ideas ever are. We have no monopoly of
brains and ideas in this office, although you might
imagine so after reading The Hullutin, aid
then the Hebalp, the Rum, and the Noozh , ...“ Old
Subscriber”: No. Lord Augustus Loftus is not
“ a lord, in the proper meaning of the word.”
Augustus Loftus is a commoner, not a peer, as
the son of a marquis (of Ely) he enjoys what is
known as a “courtesy” title. “ P.” (Bathurst) :
You are not a sweet singer, although you maybe
a sweet P — “Ciirns Darkie”: (Cairns, N.Q.):
Thanks. We have just received from England a
very fine photo, of Henry George, which wo are
having engraved and will print in an early issue.
... “W. Walsh”: Will endeavour to furnish the
information next week “Niv.”: We know at
present too little about the subject to express an
opinion right away. But we may give it attention.
I ....“ Rusticus”: The little thing you send this
time is quite a fortnightly affair. That if to say,
it is too weak “T.L.W.”: Much obliged
Alfred Ebsworth, of Bega, writes: “There is too
much of the demagogue and working-man seeker
in your columns,” and stops his paper. Thanks,
Alfred. Your accusation is true in essentials. We
do sympathise strongly with the less fortunate
classes, and if you want to shut your mind against
whatever can be said in their behoof, you do right
not to read The Bulletin. We shall continue to
publish the paper, however. We still have another
subscriber or so — “Mollyiem”: Received
"Granville”: Received too late for this week
“Campbell”: Ditto.-.. “ E.G.C.”: Your verses are
very tine. Although space is a consideration, w e
feel impelled to give a dribble or two
“ Six hundred of our bravest,
Whose courage is their fame,
Are showing what God them gavest (sic)—
Courage to uphold Australia’s name,
“ They do not tremble at the talk
Of paltry renegade people,
But are going on the noble walk
To honour—the highest steeple” (!!!)
When Aimee, the] French ®pera-bouffe
singer, left Liverpool for Ameiica, her maid came
running up, shrieking: “ Mademoiselle, the trunks
are left.” “ What trunks?” bowled Aimee. "The
trunks with the clotlus in them.” " Ah, zat is all
right,” replied Aimue; “ 1 sought eet was ze trunk
wiz zee diamonds in eet. I veel not need does.
What for do any bodoe want does in zee opera
comique?” And she kicked ally oil the maintop
mizzen mast, and chuckled.
Feminine Perspicacity “ You may say
what you like, mother; George no longer loves
me.” “ But, child, how did you get that silly
notion into your head ? ’ “When lie takes me
home now-a-days he always chooses the shortest
road, and never wears his favourite perfect-flt-
ting suit whicn he obtained from SuramerQeld and
Co., Merchant Tailors and great Juvenile Out-
fitters.” Largest stock of woollens in Australia at
Summerfldd and Co. Bight high-class cutters
employed. Manual of self-measurement and pat-
terns, with fashion book, sent post free to every
country resident on application. *


PEPPER AND SALT.
The report that has
been going the rounds
of the English papers,
to the effect that many
members of the Austra-
lian Parliaments are re-
tired burglars and re-
generated horse-stealers
is untrue. They are
neither regenerated nor
retired. We hope the
papers that published the
report will print the con-
tradiction. Otherwise the
younger sons of the aris-
tocracy will be discour-
aged from coming out to
us. And we could not
bear this.
♦ * *
A few weeks ago
we went on a voyage
from Sydney to Mel-
bourne. The old longing
seized us (this is merely
a flower of speech); we
may say we have never
had any old longing for
anything except to lie
down and drink shandy-
gaff out of a dipper, and
wo determined to start a
paper on board the ship.
Wo had effusive offers
of assistance in this en-
terprise from a literary
gentleman, whom we lost
sight of from that time
forth to the end of the
voyage — barring once,
when we came suddenly
on him with his head
wedged in a water-can*
This did not daunt us,
however, and we sat down
to run the thing alone.
But we never got further
than the leading article.
It concerned the captain,
and was headed, “ Our
gold-hatted tyrant.” Hav-
ing injudiciously allowed
this to be seen by a syco-
phantic passenger—who
subsequently, to our
great joy, got sea sick,
and fell down the gang-
way on his head—the
quarter-deck knew us no
more. The fact of allud-
ing to the cook’s assist-
ant as a galley-slave,
too, rather militated
against us. The anchors
wore knocked off our
ankles, however, as soon
as we got into port. On
the whole, therefore, we
have concluded, if ever
wo start an organ of
nautical intelligence
again, to make the cap-
tain editor and the cook
foreman. It is but fair
to remark here that a
gentleman in a white hat
comforted us in our
temporary trouble by
supplying us with tracts
tending to prove that
the Kingdom of Heaven
was as easily reached by
water as by land. And
as far as we are person-
ally concerned, we be-
lieve it is.
Mr. Franklyn says in his Review that
Mr. Froude is “ the greatest Ivlng master of Eng-
lish prose.” We should now like to hear what Mr.
Froude thinks of Mr. Mortimer Franklyn. He has
said nothing yet. Perhaps that is what he thinks.
• • •
M. Rousseau lately, speaking in the French
Senate, suggested Cayenne as a suitablo place for
the relegation of recidivistes. Hump hi Yes.
Thanks.—
Merci, Mossoo Rousseau!
Bis dat qui cito dat ;
But could you not have found
A hotter place than that ?
* * *
Mr. Dailey recently received a letter (en-
closing £30) from a “little boy at Manly,” of
which the following are extracts:—“Father has
been reading to us the life of General Gordon, and
I could not help thinking what a good man he was,
and how he was killed; and although I have asked
often and often if I could do something to help
our soldiers who went away yesterday, I always
received the same answer: I was too young, and
must wait till I am a man.” [Boohl] ....
‘Yesterday, 1 begged to be allowed to do some-
thing, even if it was to send what little money I had
saved up to the Patriotic Fund, for the poor
widows and orphans, and at last father has not only
consented, but gave me something to add to it.”
[Whoop!] In reply to this, the little boy from
Manly received a letter from the omnipotent
“ W.B.D.,” from which we hack out the appended:
—“ You will grow up, I am sure, a noble, brave,
generous boy, and you will always have in your
mind what you saw on Tuesday, and be always
proud of what you have done and written to-day.
—I am, &o , W. B. Dalley.” [Bahl] Now, then,
“little boy from Manly,” come and be tuned up.
Adaqir, please:—
It was casually ob-
served by a visitor in a
newspaper office in
Sydney the other day
that men with tails were
found in New Guinea.
The speaker had no de-
sire to ventilate a vexa-
tious question, but the
words were not well out
when a man with eye-
brows like a quick-set
hedge, and a beard on
the backs of his hands,
cried out, “We don’t
want no men with tails
here. We can get the
exclusive right of using
the second-hand tails of
Fargeon and Miss Brad-
don for a snap, and they
go down as well with our
readers as we care
about." The visitor inti-
mated that he was mis-
conceived, butthe savage
wlelder of the scissors
went on, “Why, he’ s
away home now. D’ye
think he’d have the
cheek to call on Miss
Braddon only that he
took her tail and paid
her for it. Why, he has
her tail in his portmantel
to show her it was put
in his Jernel. That’s
his Introduction as an
Australian litterateur."
* * *
Far away, in the
free and unfenoed in-
terior, there is an Arca-
dian village which has
lately immortalised itself
by becoming the birth-
place of a society which
rejoices like a strong
man to run its race under
the name of “The Royal
Ancient Order of Kanga-
roos.” The objects of
this society is ingenu-
ously admitted to be the
consumption of beer and
the encouragement of
the fine old practice of
“shouting.” No person
is eligible for election
who is not able to drink
a certain quantity of the
liquor scaled with the
approval of the society,
and tell what day of
the week it is, and how
many moons there are
in the sky half-an-hour
after. Those who pass
this ordeal successfully,
are then required to
pledge themselves never
to meet a friend without
asking him to further
undermine his constitu-
tion, and impair his in-
tellect, with whatever
brand of delirium is most
accessible, but beer by
preference. It is ahealthy
sign of the popularity of
the society that several
hitherto inoffensive re-
sidents of the township
have, since its estab-
lishment, taken to writ-
ing verses reflecting upon
the coldness of the world
and the hollowness of
things in general, while
others are periodically
led in a pyrotechnic pro-
cession from the room of
the Royal Order to the
leck-up.
The Bennett’s have always bad such an
affection for Alfred Allen, that there is a rumour
going round that he was at one time Chi is’s wet
nurse. Anyhow they let him perpetrate some of
his “ poetry,” or “ God-speed to the Troops,” or
something, in the News, the other day—an effort
which had the effect of distilling surprise, border-
ing upon dismay, throughout the city. At times,
in the throes of composition, it is evident that the
exigencies of rhyme troubled the bard greatly;
but with true auctioneer’s tack he scrambled over
alt obstacles, and knocked down his poem to
Frank, at, let us hope, a satisfactory figure. In a
thrilling stanza (que void) he recommends the
troops—
“ To face the 0ery (sic) Arab spear.
And, side by side, with Britain’s best,
Feel the fierce joy which conquers fear,
And wins to victory I—or—to rest!” [!!!1
We think, however, on the whole, this verse is our
favourite :—
“ Go forth, my heroes, to the field,
And fight as erst your fathers’ fought;
And ‘on, or under,’ glory’s shield,
Return—when duty's work is wrought.”
Mr. Allen, after this gorgeous flight, has the fol-
DON’T, PLEASE I
Dailey “ The trumpet of war has
awakened the dead, has blown its shrill blast
through the cemeteries, like that awakening one
Jn the ‘ Dies Inn ’—
• Tuba mlrum spargens sonum
Per sepulohra regionum.’ ”
You put your heel upon his throat,
And strangle him, that’s clear;
— But tell us, Dailey, is there not
Some affectation here.
Well may Sir John say (his old style)
You have of luck a streak;
He’s doomed to curse In English, while
At will you swear in Greek,
Now, on the uncombed ’tls no good
To waste each classic gem;
For French, or Russ., or Latin would
Be always Greek to them.
Nemesis; ok, “The Little Bov from Manly.”
This bursts upon us, oh, it does,
A great deal too Soudanly;
The wondrous letter written by
The “little boy at Manly.”
The little boy who could afford
A “ twenty ” from his little hoard.
How prettily that letter reads—
Ob, such sweet, gentle prattle —
It might have been Indited by
An angel with a rattle!
OLD GENERAL (on retired list): “ WHAT I D ALLEY, YOU MEAN TO ATTACK THE FORT WITH THAT LOT OF TROOPS? POOH I”
We will no ribald scoffer hoed,
Who says It was “ a fam’ly screed.”
la our mind’s'eye that little boy—
Wo mark his ev’ry feature—
Is chewing hardbake on the pier—
Is this delightful creature.
His name’s ‘‘good ” with the gaunt and tall
Boss of the Manly toffee stall.
He has his books benvhth his arm,
And also let us state,
He has a little pencil, and
He has a little slate.
His face is of expression mild,
And—ain't the other hoys all ivild ?
He gets more pats upon the head
Than boy e’er got before;
Folks cry— ‘‘ This is the little boy
Who gave his little store,
Who * begged ’ to send his twenty pund
To Dailey’s Patriotic Fund.”
“ 0, what a darling little boy,”
They all cry with delight;
“ He wrote the little letter, and
He gave his ' little mite.’
He’s nor to Ma nor Aunt a debtor
For what was in that little’Jetter.”
A week has passed; tiie little bsy
Goes fly his little kite, ’
When, lo, a thousand voices roar—
“ He gave his little mite;
He wrote that ‘ stiff ’ which made us sob.
To see him we’ve plank’d down our bob.”
He starts for his scholastic class
Upon the Sydney shore,"
When at the ferry he is met
All by a drag and four!
And hoarsely do the people roar—
“ This is the kid what gave his * score.’ ”
And when it’s time for him to browse
Upon his little feed,
He’s dragged off to a banquet,
None his whimpering will heed I
“ He gave the greed,” they yell, “this elf,
And wrote the note all by hisself.”
I£ e’er he goes to see the play
The people rise and screech—
“ He wrote that ‘ loving letter,’ ”
And they foam then for a speech.
“ Bring out the kid,” they cry, and so
He’s soon “ inaudlble,below.”
On Sunday, when he goes to church,
Decked out in gorgeous trim.
Ho finds the parson hurls the last
New “guinea one” at him;
And murmurs all arise around
Of “nobleboy,” and “twenty pound.”
If e’er In his little boat
To sail should think it meet,
He’s followed by hoarse steamers, and
By yachts a perfect fleet!
And never he’s been known to land
Without the “Conqu’ring ” by the band.
Once “generous ” and “ noble brave”
(This is what Dailey said),
Ail crumpled up’s that little boy,
Now hangs his little head I
And when alone, or with his nurse,
Don't he that little letter curse ?
A NEWCASTLE “KNOCKER.”
Alderman Knightly, at the Newcastle
fiasco, re the Patriotic Fund said“ The Patriotic
Fund was objected to by some, and those who did
object to it he did not consider worthy the name
of man. (Cries of ‘ What rot I ’ and uproar, aocom.
panied by hisses).”
You pigmy, now, what are you worth,
With all your Aldermanic froth ?
And with your farthing’s worth of mind
How can you hope to guage mankind ?
What is there in you that you can
Pretend to judge what makes a man ?
Folks ask—“ Why, can the ass be sane ? ”
And talk of thee as “ putty-brain; ”
And urge you, in satiric sonnet,
To take that “bee from out your bonnet.”
What know you, come, say, little man,
About the soldiers or Soudan ?
And what has filled your elfin brain
With this poor bogus “ loyal ” strain ?
Avaunt! dull rustic—feeble bore!
Let these lines warn thee—pipe no more!
If you’re a man, ’twill come to pass,
We’ll ourselves straight write down an aes!


lowing, which is the last specimen of his struggle
W ltb the Muses we have space for:—
“ Yea! like to Britons, bear the brunt.
And fall, if needs be, side by side;
But fall with all thy wounds in front (sic),
And let no foe thy flight deride.”
Balaam was a bit of a bard, but we don’t know
whether he wrote better poetry than this. How-
ever, we are pretty certain bis ass did.
people are having a good grin over the
Mayor’s magnificent £25 prize for the man who
„ m0 gt distinguishes himself in the Soudan.” This
ia usually the trophy-sum offered to the highest
scorer in a cricket match, although Charlie Ban
Herman, the other day, got three times that
amount (cash down) for phenomenally fluking
over three score. But the gorgeous Chief Magi-
strate of this sunny city might just as well have
offered £25,000, and not made a “ holy show ” of
himself and his entourage; for who is going to ad-
judge the winner of his splendid bounty? The
man who distinguished himself the most will most
probably be dead; but in any case, his Worsbip t
we prophesy, can safely invest the amount pro-
mised for valour in sheep’s No one is likely
to trouble him for it. Garden Honey has, we un-
derstand, not gone with the contingent, other-
wise—
* • •
There were great doings at Tamworth, re-
cently, on the occasion of the departure of its
contingent to join the Sydney army. When the
brigade of five, in command of Lieutenant Boom,
mustered in front of King’s hotel on the after-
noon on which they were to leave there was dis-
played the greatest enthusiasm, and you couldn’t
see the soldiers’ uniforms for beer-froth. There
was the commanding officer, a sapper, a sergeant,
a blacksmith, an aspirant for cavalry with a bush
gun, and the regular army, who had a sleepy, not
to say bleared, appearance, and it was noticed by
the Initiated that the back of his regimentals was
copiously arabesqued with white-wash. At a
given word, the landlord came beaming out of the
hotel, bearing in his hands an enormous flagon of
Sherris wine, well limed and frothed, and banded
the same, amidst vociferous cheers, to the lieu-
tenant. The effect of this majestic proceeding
was, however, somewhat marred by the obstre-
perous conduct of the army proper, who produced
a bottle and, holding it out, said he’d just had five
long ’uns, so he’d “take his with him.” Much
levity, too, was noticeable on the part of the sap-
per, who pretended to pocket the goblet, offering
to return it to the landlord when they met on the
burning plains of Araby. The sergeant was, on
the whole, more majestic in his demeanour, but
there was a fixedness in his eye and a rigidity in
his bearing only observable in those warriors
which flourish (in several colours) on the old
English Inn signboards. The temporarily dis-
mounted cavalry, on being presorted by a deputa-
tion of friends with a halfpenny pea-shooter, used
language of a bellicose description, and the com-
mander-in-chief exhibited some embarrassment on
a procession of ladles (all in white) Investing him
with a garland of flowers. Before the procession
could move off, old Joseph presented every mem-
ber of the contingent with a last year’s Christmas
supplement of the Tamworth News, and Hooke’s
donation of six yellow-backers (with the first four
chapters missing in each) was well received, Alj
of a sudden come the dread and mystic words deli-
vered with telling effect by the warlike Boom—
"TenshunI Quick arr-rr-ehl” Then, headed by
the local band, the volunteers marched bravely to
the railway station, the cavalry refreshing himself
out of a flask as he went along, and the sapper
smoking a very ragged cigar. The train is in wait-
ing, the warning-whistle sounds, and with a ring-
ing cheer the Tamworth contingent depart on
their journey to dismember the Mahdl. . . ,
’Tls Sunday morning, and Tamworth, always
quiet, now borders on to gloomy. There is no
sound of laughter oven in the public-houses; and
men flit in and out taking their drink in savage
nobblers. Others lingered at the street-corners,
and angrily chewed lucerne; but, although a
dreadful rumour had circulated through the town,
no man liked to take the initiative in alluding to
it. As, however, the time drew near for the arrival
of the afternoon train, it was plain that the mind
of the populace was considerably excited; for
nearly the whole of the inhabitants of the town
bad betaken themselves to the station. In a short
time the whistle of the coming train was heard,
and then the excitement became Intense. Soon
one helmet (battered) appeared at a carnage win-
dow-chagrin; another (hungry for pipeclay)—an-
noyance; the fixed eye of the cavalry—indigna-
tion ; the touzled head of the infantry —
disgust 1 On the stoppage of the train
the commander got out, and, lifting his hel- 1
met with a sad air, thus addressed the
people, directing bis remarks, however, prlnci
pally to the Israelites, who were assembled in
great force round their beloved representative in
journalism, Yoseph:—“ Ladles and Gentlemen,—I
have to Inform you of the humiliating circum-
stance that the Government have declined the
services of the volunteers. This is mainly due to
an oversight on part of our men, who, thinking
that they were going to be measured round the
chest outside their tunics, had prepared for the
occasion by stuffing them full of engine-wadding.
On being requested to peel off, the result may be
imagined. We were next door to being laughed
at.” Then, turning to the forces, he said—
“Army, you are disbanded; go to the devil,” and
strode sulkily home. That evening he was cer-
tainly in a savage humour, for his girl remarked,
that all the time she crochet'd an antlmacassa ,
he knitted his brows. We understand that on his
way down, Brigadier-General M‘Iver (who is
now in Glen Innes, will review the Tamworth
troopr, and put them through their only
manoeuvre.
* * •
The Rum “ war correspondent” telegraphs,
in a somewhat doleful spirit, and weeps over
“ tender recollections,” and ‘‘tender associations.”
His thoughts, when steaming out of the harbour,
were evidently bent on his, or sombody else's girl.
Mark this:— ‘‘Once outside harbour, and we felt
our ship comparatively lonely.” No wonder I Not
even the “field glass,” of which he proudly
speaks, could detect, at this time, the faintest
speck of the red shawl, nor f”' *•’ ""-r of the
blue and yellow hat with tL c . - u .t>buckle.
Various Contingent-cies.


Ho ia likewise mournful on the subject of the
sentries. It seems that on the r fhurdday night
after the departure, these guardians, feeling the
night air cold, all coolly turned in. When the
officers, with difficulty, awakened them, they said
the deadly breach was riglft enough, but what was
the good of a man fooling around with a musket
all night, when there was nothing to shoot at.
They got “guardroom,” of course; and thus are
the first germs of disaffection sown successfully
amongst the noble band. To conclude this little
par., we wish to give a specimen of the Rum war
correspondent’s style, which will banish all doubts
In your minds, dear readers (if any exiatod), as to
his splendid capacity for descriptive writing.
Read:—“ With appetites sharpened by the bracing
air, the men apply their Knives and forks, and one
Is only sorry, as he walks from table to table, and
notes the havoc among the joints, that the Mahdl
and bis followers may never have a chanoe of see-
ing colonials before a well-spread table.” This Is
evidently a man no bullet could kill, and, there,
fore, he'll come back right enough; though we
have no doubt that he will always be to the fore
during the campaign—when the burgoo fi being
served out I
‘ The painful subject of Press v. Pulpit
cropped up, the other day, among some shining
lights of the Presbyterian Church. Addressing a
select and sympathetic audience atToorak (Melb.),
the llev. J. Thomson (without a “ p ”) made
sorrowful reference to the fact that “This is an
age of newspapers and cheap literature, and the
many are always on the look out for sensation or
amusement. They do not look forward to the
Sunday devotions as they should. Newspapers are
the powerful competitors of the pulpits, and peo-
ple are to be found reading the papers when they
ought to be in the churches.” These are state-
ments which may Indeed give us pause, and the
hypothetical responsibility of keeping any stray
sheep away from his pen—or pew, rather—weighs
heavily upon our soul. But, for the credit—the
spiritual credit—of the craft, we trust our reverend
critic does not accuse all journals of being amus-
ing and practising dangerous allurements. Hand
down the lyre—we will ask him: -
Noble 700! Be your’s the glory and the
honour, and our’a the joy of welcoming vour
return. Fathers! mothers!! and intending-to-be
fathers and mothers! 11 make your homes attrac-
tive and call and see how Bray Brothers, of 403 and
4W George-street, strive to aid you in that way.
All that is wanted in china, glass, and earthenware
they keep.*
The act of disguising Summerfleld & Com-
pany’s clothing advertisements by covering them
up with an interesting article is a crime, and should
be punishable bylaw. Meu with perfect tempers
are known to get blind with rage whea, becoming in-
terested insome at tide, they And it end with “Sum-
merfleld s trousers to order, at 10c 0J , are perfect
fitting and thoroughly shrunk.” Such advertising
dodges as these tempt men to thrash their wives
or to kick their children, and still we wonder at the
prevalence of crime. The only Sydney address
of Summerfleld and Co., is 335 and 337 Pitt-street!*®
BRIEF MENTION.
It is usurers’ bonds, not imperial ones,
that Dailey strengthens by going to war.
“ Muggy weather this,” murmured a Rum
reporter the other night. The rest of his remarks
were lost In a pewter.
The Pacific intentions of Russia and the
Pacific intentions of France and Germany are
rather hot coffee for England.
In the press, and dedicated to the Mahdi —
“ How I became Baron of Baratarla.” By .W. B. D.
[NoteDeniehoy is dead nearly a quarter of a
century.— Ed. B.]
The Royal Family are said to speak Ger-
man habitually among themselves. And yet we
talk about the Queen’s English. Why, even Hen-
niker Heaton can write it!
Three ladies had, recently, a free fight in
a church at Wagga. When the assault came off,
the husband of the defendant saw nothing. He ,
was too busy smelling bis hat.
Among the books put on board for the
troops was a parcel from the “ Animals’ Protection
Society.” This is a little rough on the English
navvies whom our troops go to mind.
In Orange the women, when putting their
younger children to bed, place under them a copy
of the T. and C. Jerned. It is the only thing in
the house that cannot possibly be spoiled I
The papers are all sending round a “ par.” i
about ‘ .Queen Elizabeth’s hobbies.” Among others
she is said to have been exceedingly fond of hunt-
ing. Just so. She iiked to chase, but not to be
chaste.
There is a new blind man on the Hyde
Park steps. We have seen many blind men in our
time—but we have never seen one who was so
blind that he couldn’t see you taking a penny out
of bis hat.
In Melbourne a “District Nursing Society”
has been established. It supplies skilled nursing
to the sick poor in their own homes. It has already
sent a couple of nurses to Sunbury. Lady Clarke
was unwell. '
In a tram. A (log.) : Did you read Colonel
Roberts’farewell to the troops? B.: Yes. A.:
What do you think of it ? B: I think that if he
can’t fight better than he writes It was just as well
to keep him at home.
On the night before the Embarkation,
every Soudan soldier found that he had two girls
more than he thought he had. And every half-
hour after he had five shillings less than he should
have liked to have had.
TRICKBTT’S MARTER.
“ Eat while we can;
Let’s dine or sup;
The game is pretty
Nearly up/’
At a picnic, the other day, a Lyre reporter
“ waved ” his thanks for “ the honersh confushed
upon (hie) his papersh.” In the rag: "The repre-
sentative of the News made a suitable reply,” etc.
Well, on consideration, so ho did.
“ The bridge over the Murray, at Howlong,
has been comihenced at last.” Thanks! This
townshsp is said to have got its name from the
Scriptural question, “ How long, O Lord, how
long ?” Its Biblical associations end there.
Rosebery is married into the Rothschild
mob. No wonder he telegraphed “ Well done ” to
Dailey. The rise in the price of Egyptian bonds
caused by Australia’s conduct, may have cleared
half a million or so for bis old father-in-law.
A rumour is abroad that Peter Campbell
is about to be let loose on the universe again.
This must be rather a disappointment for the
Waxworks, who will fail to see the further neces-
sity of advertising that Peter is “now added.”
“I am always catching cold; how shall I
prevent it ?” said one of our most eloquent orators
to a doctor rather noted for his candour, the other
day. “ By never opening your mouth until you
have something sensible to say,” was the prompt
reply.
A Double Bay resident has added to the
stud of his back-yard by the purchase of an ass.
The principal residents are intensely indignant at
this. They cannot bear to see even a distant rela-
tion occupying a position, which, to put it mildly,
is equivocal.
Two Mudgee women were scared out of
their lives the other night at the appearance of a
tall ghost, with a white face. It’s come to a
pretty thing now if a member can’t visit his own
district unexpectedly without ; but there,
A. G.’s of a forgiving nature.
The Mayor’s magnificent prize of £25
would, doubtless, be a very comfortable sum for
the man who captured the Mahdi; but it is sug-
gested that his Worship might, at least, have sup-
plemented this sum by a nice piece of brisket, and
a pound and a half of bullock’s liver.
In Brisbane a man named Kadmell fell
into a vat of boiling beer and was seriously
scalded. As soon as this news reached the public,
it got up a new gag. “ Let’s come over and Kad-
well,” were the words in which the most popular
invitation was couched at latest dates.
“ At the Leichhardt Borough Council,
held last night, Mayor John Young advised his
brother aldermen to take example from him—
never to use bad language, and always to be cour-
teous.” We agree with that, too. Always be
courteous; when even on Town Hall tiles. No-
thing in this.
There was nothing in Gladstone’s ponde-
rous letter to Prince Albert Victor—though it was
the youngster’s birthday. Not even a scrap album
or a box of tin soldiers. But the men who pitch a
lot generally do It with their breeches’ pockets
buttoned up. Hera! No allusion meant to Sir
Doubleyouheedee, Bart.
The gentlemen deputed to distribute the
Patriotic Fund are evidently resolved to do
nothing in a hurry. They have decided not to
take any steps in the matter of the poor dead
woman Sessle’s children, as yet; but have resolved
“to keep the case in their minds.” That should
almost mean dropping it.
Frank reports that “ the manager of the
Parramatta oas Company forwarded a cheque for
£10, being one week s pay of himself and his fel-
low-employes.” The other boy, then, we expect
must, at this important juncture, be on leave of
absence. If not we shall be seriously thinking of
setting up a gas-works in our own back kitchen.
There is one newspaper item we always
receive with suspicion. It is when a “powerful-
looking’’man “struggles desperately” with the
policeman who, after a “severe tussle,” lands him
in the watch-house. We are ungenerous to think
that in all these cases it is the brave bobby who
supplies the information, and that the “powerful-
looking” man’s story would be quite different.
It was noticed at the meeting of the com-
mittee of the Patriotic Fund that Frank was con-
spicuous by reason of his eloquent silence. The
key to this is that another “ conscientious journa-
list” offered to inseit the Patriotic Fund ads. for
"chiceamacoola.” We can just imagine the elec-
tric howl which would haveemanated from Alfred
“ over the sea,” if a like concession had been pro-
mised by Frank.
Whirraloo! Here’s another injustice to
owld Oiroland. On next St. Pathrick s Day there
will be a total eclipse of the sun. However, we
believe Dan O'Connor ikto lead Dr. Moran’s pro-
posed procession, and, in that ea-e, old Sol’s litile
piece of nastiness will not ho felt, for there will be
then a loighit, avasthre, and a loominassity shining
round equal to that of the whole of the solar
system boxed together.
We learn, from a private source, that
great things are expected of Lieut. Nathan, whose
sabre the armourer has been grinding ever since
the Iberia left. Every afternoon in the lower deck |
the gallant N. is to be seen practising “ one—two-
three—and under ” with a spare weapon, and he I
ha* privately arranged with the chief steward for
a joint to be hung there dally, so that he can hack
at it in anticipation of disembowelling the Mahdi.
When “ light refreshments ” were mooted
m the reporters’ room prior to Frank’s send-off
of Sanders, several of the staff pleaded prior en-
gagements, and flocked over to Deeble’s. “ We
can load up here,” they said, “until the man tells
us to give someone else a chance; but there is
something too terribly vague in ‘light refresh-
ments to tempt us.” And after 29 minutes’ hard
munching they emerged into the street marked in
mustard.
“ Her Majesty Queen Victoria has sigaifl-d
her intention of at once despatching a special en-
sign for use In the Soudan by the Australian
troops. Cornel things don’t look so bad, after
£ll. What with the Queen’s ensign and Lady
Loftus s live “quid," the assets of the “push ” are
looking up. Its rather a wonder, however. His
Excellency didn’t sling the contingent a coop or
two of Brahmapootras, Dailey, himself, has cot
had leisure, we learn, up to [the present, to sign
his cheque of four figures.
Another gem from Alfred Allen
“ ‘ They also serve who stand and wait,’
And should thy duty be perchance
But mounting guard! ’tia just as great
To guard as march In war’s advance.” [IIII
This arouses the following reflection:—
To stay behind, we can’t agee.
Is glorious for our loyal galoots;
But pr’haps they’ll quite contented be
In digging graves and cleaning boots.
Dr. Ellis, having a little spare time on his
hands now, has just figured out that the word
is mentioned exactly 165 times in the
Old Testament. But he can search the Scriptures
trom Genesis to Revelations without finding the
slightest allusion made to an up-stairs lodger
learning to play the cornet, or a choir of reedy
soprani, cholicy tenori, and leathei>lunged ba si
driving a congregation bucking mad by their
worrying of the 97th.Psalm. The ancients were
too ready with their toothpicks to tolerate suoh
tortures.
Spurgeon has gout, and has gone—awl—
to the South of Prance. The founder of the
Christian religion never had gout, and never went
to the South of France. These things cost
money. Gout means good living, and the South
of Prance means a stiff bank balance. No, the
meek and lonely Nazarene, “ who knew not where
to lay His head,” never had gout, but He may
have had chronic rheumatism from sleeping out
at nights. The Spurgeons of the world, who roll
about in their carriages, have changed that. Bah I
What a farce it all Is 1
, HOLD ON A BIT I
“Alderman Smith (of St. Leonards, at
the Patriotic Fund meeting), said he was pleased
to take part in the meeting, but as the matter had
already been so well discussed there was no need for
Mm to repeat what had been said and published in
the various papers. (A Voice: ‘ You’re not speak-
ing of public opinion.’)”
“ No need,” sweet Voice of one unknown
To tell the people that;
For all these papers, ’twill be shown.
Will shortly “ whip the cat,”
Can Australia conquer the Soudan ? Well,
we should whisper in a considerable undertone if
she couldn’t, for our telegraphic authorities—the
backbone and sinews of our Torpedo Corps—have
conquered a whole world already. The motto of
fu Marine Light Infantry, better known as
the Marines,” is Per mare per terrain ; but at the
head of the weather-map frame, at the southern
end of the G.P.O. colonnade, is a gorgeous medal-
hon bearing the legend, Per mare, per terres, thus
adding a new world to the lists of our previous
conquests. Advance Australia, and Civil Service
night schools.
Mr. Charles Lynnburg, a special constable,
should be a man to know. While a prisoner was
under the arrest of two water police constables
for being drunk, Charles, “when near the Water
Police Court, struck the prosecutor a blow in
tne eye without any provocation.” Lynnburg.
for this amusement, got off with a fine of IDs.;
though how the S. M. could reconcile this punish-
ment with a sense of propriety, Heaven only
But when a man's Christian name is
w futtlngdale, he has much to contend with. There
is evidently something in being a special constable,
we advise the next gentleman who contemplates
cracking a crib to get sworn In.
“I have a new joke to tell you,” said a
man, who came into our office the other day.
Yes, ’ we replied courteously, motioning him to
be seated with our left hand, while we felt about
for something fatal in its effects with our right.
It s something funny I saw in the Sydney
Morning Herald.” “Enough,” we cried, and
rising up pointed to our editorial chair, “ take our
place from this forth I You have more Insight for
the business than we have. Meanwhile, we will go
out and select a tombstone. We have had our
day. ’ But he did not accept our offer. He laid
he thought he would go out and look Cup some-
thing neat in the monument way himself.
“Are you going to the Soudan ?” is a ques-
tion which awakes no delirious thrill of joy in
some bosoms. To the Victorian volunteer, tor in-
stance, it appears to be particularly distasteful at
moment. Only a few days back, a
little Melbourne boy put that martial query to
one of the uniformed defenders of his colony. Acd
w result ? Instead of answering, “ No,
my little man; but I am gratefully sensible of the
patriotic spirit which tempted you to make the
enquiry, the warrior thus addressed ran after his
Interlocutor and—to his shame, be it told—cuffed
him. How circumstances alter cases, to be sure.
Now, some of our braves were observed to get
restive under the enquiry, “Are you coming bach
from the Soudan ?”
The Festive Frank, this week, compli-
mented William Horace Dent on the singing, on
kriday, of his song “Egyptian;” while Monday’s
Rum says;— Besides the opening part of the
entertainment, the programme included several
clever and laughable sketches, a comic discourse
hy Mr. Horace Bent, and several other items, all
eliciting the audience’s manifestations of plea-
sure. These encomia must be highly soothing to
the soul of Horace—the more especially as he has
not performed at the Academy of Music since
Monday, 21st ult. It shows Billy, anyhow, that his
friends don’t forget him; but there is such a
thing as overdoing it. It Is true, however, that
phe Minstrels leave soon, so perhaps the critics
think it as well to make beer come while the sea-
son lasts.
And now Beaumont Read and Niok La
(fact) Feuillade have “knocked ’em” with a new
patriotic song. It was as well, perhaps, it wasn’t
sung to the soldiers before they started. Half of
them would have “ run” before the flqdl muster.
Here’s a couplet:—
“ If they’ll fight thus for Old England, so far across
the foam,
H°iv will they fight when called on for their own
Southern home.—Chorus.
If Nick, Beaumont, and Sam Kenna had only
joined the column and atari ed the “ New Patriotic ’
-Sam leadmg-there wouldn’t be a rebel between
Sou a hum and the Nile in a week, while El Mahdi
would be on his way to Korti to give himself up.
He could meet the British in fair fight, but it was
mean to take such an advantage of him,
Mr. W. E. Langley, of North Shore, who
was formerly on the Hekald, and more recently
seretary to several abortive Government Commis-
sions, aired his eloquence in a surprising manner
at the P. F. meeting on the North Shore. First he
said the man who refused to subscribe “ was more
of a coward and a beggar than he took him for.”
No one liking ; the trouble to “ hlff” the speaker out,
even after this unparalleled piece of insolence he
proceeded to say that—” vs for Mr. Dailey, God
bless him ; and he wished to see him receive some
distinguished mark of honour.” (Cries of “ No I ”
and applause.) Now, Langley :—
If Dailey’s not made Baronet
(And we don’t think he will),
® c l5}£.^^ e ** tenp’nny ” berth, you bet.
Will be kept for you still.
Great men—Napoleon and them all,
Loved thing's that could both cringe and crawl.
FOUR WARNINGS.
Four warnings had we, such as come
But seldom unto men.
Or, having once come in a life.
They never come again.
For we had yearned for many things.
But chiefly, sirs, for fame;
Ere we had learnt the Play of Life
Was such a losing game.
Then first the Drama fixed our gaze.
There laurel crowns were won I
Shakespeare had won them—sure the race
Of Sbakospeares was not done ?
Then the first warning came to us—
Most terrible and weird—
We saw an aged, unshorn man,
With beer-foam on his beard.
And, as he to the lock-up went,
We unto him did say:
“ What brought you to this pats ? ” Said he,
“Sir, wonst I wrote a play 1 ”
Much did we muse on this, and then
Communed in our own breast,
“ If writing plays bring men to this,
To act them is the best.”
And even as this thought did flash
Upon us, there did stand
A shaven spectre by our side,
With papers in bis band.
We saw his woeful state, and asked
How he to it had come;
“ Hamlick, I played,” he said. “ And now ? ”
“ And now I sell the Rum.”
Alas, we thought, and must it be
Forever merely thus I
And must our highest thrones in life
Be on an omnibus J
If writing plays, or playing plays.
Would gain no diadem
Of fame, yet we might win one still
By criticising them.
Vain thought! we had not gone a perch,
A perch but only four,
When we behold a feeble ghost
Outside of Alfred’s door.
‘‘ Who are you, feeble ghost ? ” we cried,
“ Hushl ” said he, ‘‘here’s the boss!
I’m his dramatic cricket—and
I’m ’oldin’ of his ’oss.”
So, one by one, were we of all
Our golden hopes bereft—
Yet, not of all, for, last and best,
The Muse—the Muse was left.
Still might we win the poet’s bays,
And wear the laurel crown,
And with our spirit-stirring lays
Win glory and renown.
Lo, in that very hour and place
A warning came—the last—
A hollow hiccup from a hearse
That gaily rattled past,
” Alas,” it said—the words were borne
On a mephitic whiff—
“ I was an Evenooze bard once,
• And now I am a stiff I ”
These warnings four have taught to us
Fame brings the heart no peace,
And so there’s nothing left us now
But joining the police.
Oh, gentle priest, we feel it right
To offer an apology,
If people, now, find no delight
In sermon and doxology;
’Tis sad, ’tls very sad, indeed.
To think, their trust abusing,
Some papers have some bits which read
Too wickedly amusing.
But surely every print can’t come
Within this category—
Eor Instance, do you think the Rum
Weens any man from glory ?
AU papers to such depths don’t sink—
Some Journals while perusing
Even a priest could hardly think
Their matter too amusing.
OVERHEARD AT THE BORACS—BARRACKS
WE MEAN.
** If I'd a' «ode,” the soldier moaned,
Said Hall’ran, “ I will write
you sixteen more,’’ but the answer was
Not meet for ears p }ljte.
“ If I’d a’ knowed,” the soldier said,
“ These Arab chaps could shoot,
I never would ha’ volunteered
As a Soudan recruit.”
♦ * *
“ Please offer from this association full sup-
ply of pocket Testaments to Soudan contingent.
Purchase and present, and we will remit on re-
ceipt invoice.” These beautiful words, dear
friends, were wired to the Sydney Y.M.C.A. by the
kindred association in Ballarat. Our heart is too
full to say more, but wo will endeavour to sob out
a little hymn
Oh, hush you I irreverent scoffer—
Indulge not your Ignorant mirth,
Nor jest at this bountiful offer;
Your mind cannot measure its worth;
These Testaments some may deem trifles;
But list, and you will not gainsay
They are better than sabres and rifles
For our soldiers, whose mission is “ slay.”
Only think—when they ride on the billows.
And are rocked on the breast of the deep.
With these Testaments under their pillows
In safety our soldiers may sleep;
W hen their eyes are deep sunk In the sockets,
And their stomachs with sickness are stirred,
They can pull out these neat little “ pockets ”
And seek for relief in “the Word.”
And now, In the frenzy of battle,
When the blood in their veins runneth hot,
When the volleys of musketry rattle,
And hundreds of Arabs are shot.
Those books in the breast of our brothers
Will serve (can you doubt?) as a shield—
All the bullets will stick in the covers,
And the power of the “ Word ” be revealed
At the close of a day of destruction,
When the camp fires fitfully burn;
Our troops, in their thirst for Instruction,
Will all to these Testaments turn.
When the rebels (not dead) are retreating,
And ail things around them are still,
They’ll drop off to slumber repeating
The message of “ Peace and good will I ”
Or, perhaps, as they think of the curses
Which some dying Arab let fall,
In sorrow they’ll turn up those verses
That teach us to “swear not all; ”
And then, somewhat down and sad-hearted,
They’ll pray (and, we trust, will be heard)
For the poor savage soul who departed
Without knowing much of the “ Word.”
So, hush you I Irreverent scoffer—
Indulge not your ignorant mirth,
Nor jest at this Ballarat offer.
For now you can Judge of Its worth;
As useful as rifles and sabres
Are Testaments (who shall gainsay ?)—
When a soldier has slaughtered his neighbours,
The next thing to do is to pray.
A SONG OF SEVEN AND SIX
The little barber of Liverpool-street, being
summoned for Sunday shaving, and duly sen-
tenced to pay a fine of 7s. 6d., which he had
planked down, was leaving: the precincts, when a
bobby overtook him, handed him back his three
half-crowns, and invited him to return to be fined
20s., as his Worship had changed his mind. The
barber, however, cheerfully pocketed the coins,
and went to witness a cricket match, smiling;—
Sing a song of seven and sixpence,
Thirty shaves to pay a fine;
Think of this, ye wicked barbers
In the Sabbath-breaking line.
Sing a song of seven and sixpence,
Justice, m her mildest mood,
Deemed the sum was quite sufficient
To defend the public good.
Sing a song of seven and sixpence,
Justice thus with mercy joined;
Till, alas! the blear-eyed goddess—
Fickle Justice —changed her mind.
“ Give him back that seven and sixpence,”
Justice shouted—” Call him in;
Nothing less than twenty shillings
Can atone for such a sin.”
With the precious seven and sixpence
Kan a member of “ the Force,”
Overtook the hardened sinner
And gave back the sum, of course.
The return of seven and sixpence
Made the little barber pause.
Thinking that the musty statute
Must contain a “shaving” clause.
“ Thank you for the seven and sixpence,
Thank you for such blessed fun; ”
And into the barber’s pocket
Sank the pieces, one by one.
“ Twenty bob ? not seven and sixpence,
Is the fine, you say—I see—
I am able, quite, to owe it—
Go and pay it ? not for me.
“ Twenty bob for seven and sixpence?
Handsome offer I I decline.
Justice doesn’t know her business,
Sol mean to stick to mine.”
Sing a song of seven and sixpence,
Sabbath-breaking barbers quake,
In her deal with little Jarman
Justice made a sad mistake.


Sydney, Wednesday.
Mv Dearest Belle,— An unmistakoable feeling
of depression has seized us, allnow that our troops
are really off. Whether it Is in consequence of
the fearful accident which happened on board the
Nemesis, or whether it is that we are only just be-
ginning to realise the thing in its true light, I
know not; I only know that since that memorable
Tuesday, Sydney has been anything but cheerful.
Oh Belle, dear, just picture tojyourself, if you can,
what that poor fellow Sessle’s feelings must have
been when the dreadful news that his wife had
been killed was broken to him! Poor fellow! 1
am glad, though, he is coming back to his little
children. And the other five little ones who were
made motherless by the same accident will have
cruel cause to mourn for ever the proud (?) day
which saw our soldiers depart. ’Tis true, sym-
pathy for the bereaved ones is freely expressed
fr° m all parts, and many have been the offers to
adopt the soldiers’ little ones, but what can com-
pensate them for the loss of their mothers ? My
neart is terribly sore for their dear mothers, and it
makes me tremble when I think of the many
lamihes which have already been plunged into the
deepest grief through this war. Poor things.
how little they thought their baptism of the horrors
2^® r . w °uld commence thus early! People will
Sriii k * r k. 68 * to comfort them, of course, but it
n,iiu.u a time before they will be able to
Hunk that whatever is, is best.”
as it may seem, here we are, eat-
* .ermkmg, sleeping, and going on our round
a fW e o 8, Ju e8 J, : i U6t as if there never had been such
ouirJ tl 8 . t i ie March, 1885, And yet that’s not
r«™^^ ruo father, forever and anon we have a
fn^ivo er w ,hich brings it all back to us. Yesterday,
r example, I heard a little school boy in the 1
street call out to another, “ I say, Fred, Captain
Mullholland’s gone to the Soudan.” “ Who
doesn’t know that?” contemptuously replied
Fred, and added, “Wonder if he’ll get as much
knocking about in Egypt as bo used to give us at
school-drill? Shouldn’t be surprised if he did;
tho’ I don’t know, we used to get it precious hot
sometimes when we didn’t march in time,”
“ That’s true; but, Fred, he wasn’t a bad lot, and
you know we may get a scoitier drill master next
time.” To which dismal probability the other
gloomily assented, and it was with a lengthened
face and saddened eye, that be dreamily loaded his
catapult and fired at a passing mongrel, sending
it yelping into the next street. A glimmer of
satisfaction passed over the young face at
the effect of his shot, and for the time
the vision of impositions for falling out
of line, or marching with wrong foot fore-
most, was entirely dispelled. Is it a disposition to
be cruel, or merely thoughtlessness, I wonder,
which makes a boy delight in hurting animals
and poor little birds which never did him the
slightest harm ? Whatever it is, it seems to cling
to the >i when they are grown up men, too, or jve
shouldn’t have them leaving their nearest and
dearest to go and fight men against whom they
cannot possibly bear any grudge.
I strolled into Paling’s one day last week to see
if I could get that new song for you, and, whilst I
was waiting, I saw a friend of mine sitting down
in front of a piano in the show-room, playing a
very elaborate piece from “ Faust.” 1 never was
so astonished in my life, dear, for I have known
him nearly all my life and never knew he could
play a note. I was so amazed that I went closer to
him in order to see if my eyes had not deceived
me; but, no it was he, sure enough. I stood by
too astonished to speak for a while, but at
last curiosity got the better of mo, and 1
went boldly up to him and indignantly asked
what he meant by pretending all his life
that he wasn’t musical. He turned round
to answer me, but behold!—more mystery—the
piano continued to play, although his hands were
off the keys. He burst out laughing at my puzzled
face, and pointed to a handle at the side of the in-
strument, which a boy was turning all the while,
and which had hitherto escaped my notice. The
fact was, he was only feigning to perform, whilst
the handle was doing all the work. The piano is
just like an ordinary one, with the addition of the
hurdy-gurdy arrangement. The pedals can.be
worked just the same for the handle as for the
fingers; and for dance music, or for those unfor-
tunate people who have a love for music, yet can-
not perform, this new mechanical piano should be
an Inestimable boon. Each barrel plays eight
selections, and is on the same principal as those of
the street organ. The hammers are made to strike
the strings by atmospheric pressure, or something
of the sort; but, of course, you don’t understand
these sort of things, so I won’t bother you with
them. But it will be quite funny, won’t it, to have
pianos which will play certain tunes themselves,
and yet be exactly the same as other pianos in
every other respect ? The one I am telling you
about has been sent out by Mr. Paling, who has,
no doubt, come across it in his travels. And an-
other novelty he has sent out is a drawing-room
fountain, which is worked by steam; but, as I did
not see it in play, I cannot tell you any more about
it.
I told you last week, did I not, ‘that Mons. de
Willimoff was having a benefit con cert given him ?
Well, you will be pleased to hear that it was very
successful, and Mrs. Levy, who wore a very hand
some dross of ivory-white sating with the skirt
covered with a most beautiful lace ilounoe almost
as fine as a cobweb, played the piano beautifully.
I was truly sorry, to hear, however, that this
favourite violinist of ours has made up bis mind
to seek pastures new, where he hopes to find
fuller occupation as a teacher. Perhaps fewer
men are more missed than Mr. W. H. Paling
amongst the musical profession. Now, I don’t be-
lieve Mons. de Willimoff would have found it
necessary to leave us, had this man with the big,
kind heart been here to give him the friendly
push which he always vouchsafed to all musicians
of merit who made 8ydney their home. By-the-
way, dear, I heard only the other day of the Pal-
ing’s being in Switzerland. T’- ey were Just about
to start for Italy, leaving the youngest Miss Lake
at school in Yeyteaux, Switzerland, in company
with another young Australian. They hope to
start for Sydney in a few months’ time, where
they will not fall to receive a warm welcome.
I haven’t been to “Confusion” yet, but, of
course, intend to do so as soon as I have time to
spare. The Palmers went last- night, so I asked
their opinion of the play. Ada pronounced it
‘.‘rather broad,’’ whilst another pronounced it to
be “really funny,” so between the two they have
managed to whet my curiosity ; not that
I attach much importance to Ada’s opinion,
for she is one of those dreadfully prim girls who
thinks it almost sinful to smile on Sunday. But,
all the same, I am dying to see what she calls
“ broad.” Now, dear, excuse more this time, as my
Brisbane cousins have returned from their
southern tour, and want to gossip with me about
the sights they have seen, and the people they have
met, so, adieu, dear, Your loving MAB.
A Faithful Servant.
MBS. N.S. WALES: “YOU’VE SMASHED THE CONSTITUTION AND PLEDGED THE SWORD, WILLIAMINA. I’VE A GREAT MIND TO DISMISS YOU.”
WILLI AMIN A B. D. (general servant): “ WOT’S SMASHED'S SMASHED, AND WOTS PA WNED'S PAWNED; THERE NOWI IP YOU DON’T LIKE IT, YOU MAY LUMP
IT ! (Snaps her lingers ) *


“ BEACH’S ”
INTERNATIONAL CONSULTATIONS.
FRANK SMITH’S
GREAT SHEFFIELD HANDICAP,
NOW OPEN.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 103. EACH.
First Prize £300 I Third Prize ’
Second Prize .. 100 | Fourth Prize
Starters, not 1,2, 3 .. .. £i0o
£6
4
Address—
“BEACH,”
Care of J. G.
Hotel, King-street, Sydney
Heebie,
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have thit index meted wn by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting went* in general .]
RACING.
Goodooga J.C March 11,13
Orange J.C March 11,13
Qoulburn Turf Club March 13,13
Harmed man K.C . March 17
Liverpool J.C March 17
Bomhala J.C March 17,18
Glen Innes J.C March 17,18
Gundagai J.C March 17, 19
Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.) J.C March 17,19
Canowlndra J.C March 30
Wellington J.C March 34, 33
Cowra J.C March 35, 36
Tumut • • March 35, 38
Hawkesbury K.C. (Autumn) March 26, 38
Yarraman — ...April 6
A J.C. (Autumn) April 6, 8,10,11
Kosehlll K.C ■ • April 18
Mudgee Tattersall 8 K.C. April 33. 34
Western Downs J.C. (Tambo, Q.) Annual,.May 13,14
Canterbury Park K.C May 16
RosehUl K.C May 23
Wollongong T.O, (Autumn) May 33
Walkers ton (nr. Mackay ,Q.) K.C. Annual.. .May 35
Kosehlll K.C June 20
Kosehlll K.C July 18
Canterbury Park K.C August 1
Kosehlll K C August 8
Canterbury Park K.C — September 5
Hawkesbury (Spring) September 10 13
A.J.C. (Spring) September 19, 23, 24, 36
Kosehlll K.C Octobers
Canterbury Park K.C .- October 17
Canterbury Park K.C ■, December 19
Kosehill K.C December 28
AQUATICS.
Rowe v. Kennedy, Nepean March 14
Balmain K.C. Kegatta March 81
Beach v. Hanlan March 38
Intercolonial 8-Oar Kace April
ATHLETICS.
Narandera Sheffield Handicap..? March 14
Sir Joseph Banks Sheffield Handicap. Botany
March 14,18,31, and 33
Athletic Sports, Brushgrove. March 17
Oddfellows’ 100-Guineas Handicap, Show
Grounds, Wollongong April 6
CRICKET.
Shaw’s Team v. 15 of Cumberland,
Parramatta March 13,14.
SPORTING AND ATHLBTIC MEMS.
A goodly mustering of sports rolled up on
Thursday last for the Bungendore Handicap. J.
Ryan scored first, Armstrong second, and “Gas-
light” ran into a place.
Mr. Muston has at last, we understand,
made up his mind to give the Carlotta a fair show.
Next season we may expect to see the old clipper
turnout in a racing suit worthy of the name.
A prominent member of the late Austra-
lian eleven demanded, and received, £10 as his fee
for playing in the recent match against the Eng-
lishmen. But we suppose he still ranks as an
amateur.
Had the promoters of last Saturday’s
wrestling match decided tp keep the affair a too
too utter secret, they could: not have kept it more
in the dark than they did. The general public
were, on Monday morning, vastly surprised to
hear such an event had come off.
We have made an unsuccessful hunt round
the olllce armed with a club for the fiend compo.
in human shape who made us to say in last week’s
issue that professional Flower’s last season’s aver-
age was 28 runs. It should have read 23 (twenty-
three). No mistake this time, please.
Larry Foley has issued a challenge for
Keating, the winner of the wrestling match on
Saturday, to wrestle any man in Australia, best
two out of three styles—catoh-as-catoh-can, collar
and elbow, and Cumberland—for £200 a side. The
offer remains open for a month, and a match can
be fixed up at Foley’s White Horse Hotel.
The showing of a little back bone by the
Victorian Cricket Association has had the de-
sired effect of bringing the members of the dollar-
grubbing eleven to their senses. We hear they
have agreed to play, in the coming match against
the Englishmen, for bare expenses. A noble con-
cession on the part of gentlemen amateurs, cer-
tainly.
The annual pigeon-shooting match came
off in Melbourne on Thursday last, when the first
prize of 100 sovs. and a claret jug valued at 30 sovs.
was won by O. Daley (assumed name), of Adelaide:
the second prize of 30 sovs. was secured by V<*
Sayers, of Melbourne; and the third prize of 18
sovs. was divided between J. Hamilton, of Sydney,
and L. Clarke, of Lexington.
Mr. C. F. Vernon, the English amateur i
“bat,” got “spliced,” tho other day. to a Miss
Jeffrey. It was whispered that Mr. Y. came out
here, a little while back, with other matrimonial
plans In view—but we always put wool in our ears
when whispers are about. By the way, we had
almost forgotten the most exciting incident of
those nuptials. Lord Neville “ acted as best man.”
The Oxford-Cambridge race will probably
be pulled this year on March 28. Tho total weights
of the crews, exclusive of coxswains, will bo about
— Oxford: 98 stone and a half; and Cambridge:
95 stone. And now, gentle reader, mark what a
falling-off is here. Tho Now South Wales crew for
the coming Intercolonial eight-oar race will scale
— as near as we can guess—at the outside, 86 stoae.
From Bell’s Life we learn “ Wallace
Ross, the well-known New Brunswick oarsman,
offers John Largan lOsec. start, In a race from
Putney to Mortlake, for £200, and allow 3seo. In
addition at the finish. It is probable that the
match that has been arranged between Ross and
Laycock, on the Thames, will fall through.”
“What are they glvln’ us” about Ross and Lay-
cock?
“The contemplated match between the
English professionals and 18 Victorian junior
plkyers has fallen through, owing to a dispute
about terms.” In the name of fortune, what
“terms,” beyond actual expenses of ground and
team should be asked of the professionals—pure
and fimple professionals, for a match against 18
suckers. “Terms” have dragged Australian
cricket through the mire in England, and bid fair
to do a like thing tor the game in Australia.
St. John, who won the Bourke Handicap
at Flemington, provided “culchawed” sportsmen
with an opportunity of airing their acquaintance
with the mysteries of the English language. Some-
times this animal’s name produced a certain
amount df unpleasantness, though. Just after
the race, for instance, an icsthotic plunger was
heard to impart to a Hebrew friend that he had
“backed ‘Sinjin’ for the event.” “ More silly,
d —d fool you,” returned Lazarus, “ I was on the
bloomin’ winner—
An alteration has been made in the seating
of our Intercolonial crew, Simpson being shifted
up to No. 6, and at latest the crew was fixed up:
—Johnson, Moppett. Scale, Kennedy, Brodie,
Simpson, Martin No. 7, and Bros, stroke. We fancy
a fatal mistake has been made in placing Simpson
NO. 6; but we have not much doubt their “ coach ”
will find that out before the men settle down to
steady work on the river. Had we the fixing-up,
we fancy they should go:—Simpson, Moppett,
Johnson, Seale, Kennedy, Brodie, Martin No. 7, and
Bros, stroke.
Commotion’s second victory over Malua
since the Melbourne Cup makes it'almost look as
though the champion was an unlucky horse in
losing the big event. His admirers think so, of
course. On the other hand, plenty of good judges
think that Malua, lit and well as he was on Cup
day, could always beat Mr. Pearson’s horse, but
that he is not such a cat-and-come-again customer
as his famous rival. It’s quite certain that, if
again to"assert supremacy, he’ll require a
rest. After the Essendon Stakes he pulled up
decidedly leg-weary.
An interesting professional sculling match
was to come off on the Thames at the end of Feb-
ruary, over the Putney and Chiswick course.
Sixty-four men entered, including a large number
of Northerners. J. Largan is put at scratch, while
8. Perkins receives 4seo. start; G. Bubear 6sec.,
W. Godwin 9sec., and W. Elliot lOseo. The limit
man Is Joe Cannon, with 40sec. start. From the
many entries It will be seen that there are a largo
number of scullers of a certain class in England,
but It is doubtful if the race will unearth a man
good enough to challenge Hanlan.
The Coventry Machinists Company have
constructed a new bicycle, which, while it retains
all the improvements and speed of the tall
machine now in such common use, is of such re-
duced size as to bo almost identical in dimensions
with the “ bone-shaker ” of 1(1 years ago. Mr.
Charles Spencer, who rode from Loudon to
Brighton in ten hours in 1869 was to commemorate,
the anniversary of his former journey on 18th
February by travelling, on one of the new
machines, the same ground, but expected to do it
In half the time occupied on the first occasion.
The contingent has not started without
Its’quota of sports. First, they have Mr. M. Keating,
able to pot his Arab on the bottom button of his
waistcoat at a thousand yards, five times out of
six; then comes Mr. Shipway, open to give any
Arab with pedestrianio aspirations a spin for any
distance between Souaklm and Khartoum; and,
last but not least, comes Mr. James Meonan, who,
when passing Larry Foley’s during the procession,
rushed in and borrowed a set of Larry’s mittens
to take with him, to be all prepared, should the
Mahdi (desire a Jround or two to keep himself
warm.
In Yankee land “Fritz’* Emmet has gi en
£800 for Rector, a pure bred 8t. Bernard, said to
be the largest canine in the world. When placed
under the standard used for measuring horses
Rector touches the bar with his shoulders when
elevated to a little over 34 inches. Measured from
the Moor to the centre of the shoulders with a tape
the measure shows 37 inches. He has a brindled
head and a brindled and white body, and, what is
remarkable in a dog of such proportions, he stands
as straight on his legs as a terrier, and carries his
14 stone of bone and muscle with surprising
activity.
At the Gaiety Theatre on Saturday after-
noon last, Keatiug and Peadon wrestled—Cumber-
land, collar-and-elbow, and catch-as-catch-can—for
£100 aside. Peadon was too much for his oppo-
nent in the first style, and rapidly gained a couple
of throws—Keating in turn proving as much
superior at collar-and-elbow, at which game the
men wore jackets, and Keating obtained a couple
of easy falls. The jackets were cast off for the
decider, the catch-as-catch-can event, when Keat-
ing threw his man twice, and was proclaimed the
winner. L. Foley and G. M, Robinson acted as
referee and time-keeper respectively.
The Glebe Rowing Ciub have a handicap
skiff race on for next Saturday afternoon, to be
rowed over a course from Young’s wharf to the
Club shed, a distance of aboutone mile. No less
than 15 aspirants for aquatic fame have entered,
but five heats will be rowed off during the week,
and the respective winners will row off three heats
and the flual on Saturday. C. Williams stands top
of the handicap with a steadier of 501b.; Robert-
son, 45'b., Ickerson, 40lb.; Durrell, 351b.; Smith,
351b.; Hastlngden, 351b.; Walford, 25ib.; Cox, 351b.;
Coker, 25ib.; Brierly, 101b.; Maitland, 101b.; M‘Gre-
gor, 101b.; M’Crea, 101b.; Doutty, 51b.; Amess,
feather.
Kingwood’s win in the Australian Cup was
a crusher for the people who argue that a course
of schooling over the “sticks” must necessarily
deteriorate a horse’s pace. Last year, when he
was beaten out of a place for the same event, the
cuckoo cry of “ not class enough ” was raised, and
pretty generally accepted as wisdom. Last Thurs-
day’s performance, though, proves that Ringwood
is, to the full, as good as he always looked, and
when we say that a more blood-like, stylish-look-
ing gentleman never negotiated a hurdle, we don’t
fancy we’re very wide of the truth. By the way,
one of the fastest horses that ever ran in England
started public life as a timber-topper. That was
Lowlander.
Professor Miller may be observed strolling
about the Melbourne streets, just now, with a
hungry, unsatisfied gleam in his dark piercing
eye. He has posted a challenge to slogger Sulli-
van, and eagerly awaits the word to set forth for
“Amurrika” and lay the hitherto unoonquered
one at his (the Professor’s) number fifteen feet.
He la wrong to chafe under the delay. According
to all accounts, the slogger is carrying on a game
which can’t last, and in twelve months time, bids
fair to be a “soft thing” for a really good man.
“ Booze ” is about the best knocker-out we know
of, and if the mighty Miller will only be patient
for a while, and back “ time,” he may—we say he
may— run rings round Sullivan, as soon as he gets
him inside one.
While Donald Dinnie and Graham were on
the war path in the back-blocks, rumours by the
score used to reach Sydney as to the manner in
which the pair said they could chaw up Larry
Foley, either with or without the “mittens;”
Graham going so far, it was alleged, as to state that
he could put our champion through with one hand
only. After the wrestling match on Saturday,
however, Graham stood forth on the stage and
said that the rumours were entirely false. “So
far,” continued Mr. Graham, ‘‘from desiring to
tackle Mr. Foley with one hand, I have too much re-
spect for myself to tackle, even with both maw-
leys, the btst man of his weight the world can
E reduce.” We really felt for ingenuous Larry in
is embarrassment, as the blush of modesty man-
tied to his classic features.
Murdoch and company have at last wrung
the neck of the goose that laid their golden eggs.
It was bad enough their miserable haggling on
their English tour, when they had the excuse of
heavy expenses, and the idea that they had
travelled so far just to put money In the coffers of
the English ground people, but when they ask, on
their native heather, to evenly “ whack ” the pro-
ceeds with a team of cricketers who earn their
bread and butter at the game, can we wonder at
the English amateurs coming to a determination
to put a full stopqio the rosy little game of the
Murdoch and Company Amateurs—save the mark!
By cable we learn: “ If any of the Australian team
who visited England last year should be chosen in
the eleven for next year’s campaign, they will be
excluded from Lord’s Ground, the Oval at Ken-
nington, and probably from the Oval at Notting-
ham,” and we feel sure the verdict throughout
Australia will be, “Serve ’em right.”
A trial of speed between oars and sculls
came off recently in England, and it is scarcely
necessary for us to Inform our readers oars came
off second best. Eight members of the London
Rowing Club had a trial against an eight manned
by the leading Thames professionals between
Putney and Hammersmith. The professionals
commenced by using sculls, whereas the amateurs
used oars, and the former won easily. Boats were
then changed, and again the Jsuperiority of the
sculls over oars was made manifest. The follow-
ing are tho names of the crews:-London R.C.:
G. R. B. Earnshaw (bow), C. Earnshaw, W. Beigh,
J. F. Stilwell. G. G. Ousey,; F. Earnshaw, J. T.
Crier, H. C. Roberts (stroke), W, F. Sheard (cox),
1. Professionals: B. Phelps (bow), C. Phelps, T.
Gibson, W. Driver, J. Largan, G. Bubear, C.
Brightwell, G. J. Perkins (stroke), 3.
The recently-formed Sydney Amateur
Boxing Club held its opening meet last Satur-
day evening, at 410 George-street, when some very
good work with the gloves was gone through.
The club, which already numbers 50 members on
Its roll, has started with the present object of fos-
tering athletics generally, and, should there be a
good time coming, it is Intended to resolve the
modest beginning into a gymnasium worthy of
the queen city of the South [Are you training
for a billet on the Nooze ?—Ed. B 1 On Saturday
evening some good sparring was gone through.
Messrs. Brlnsmead and Brannon’s set-to proving
the event of the night, Mr. Brannon, who has a
big say over Mr. Brinsmead in height, making a
really good show with the ex-amateur champion
of England. The terms are very moderate: 10s. 6o.
entrance and 3ls. a year, and we trust to seethe
new club go ahead like a house atlre.
Translation of a paragraph from a recent
number of the Paris Gil Blas:—“ We hear from
London of the death of the famous prize-tighter,
William Keenne, the hero of all the boxing
matches of the United Kingdom. It was William
Keenno who, in days gone by, beat Tom Belis, a i
redoubtable Australian, who could smash a brandy- I
cask with a blow of his fist. Keenne would never
light without gloves. He leaves a large fortune
to his daughter, the wife of Lord Paget’s hunts-
man.” The French journalist who wrote the
original of the above takes rank as an authority
on all things British with the German novelist,
Von Winterfeld, who, in his amusing story, “ Ein
bedeutender Mensch,” introduces bis readers to a
London rufllan named Bill Throat, a Scottish lady
named Philly Macnahcochokoulloch, who belongs
to the clan Macmucferrellen. and who lives at
Ardcheanocroohan; and a Lord Mayor of London,
who, at the head of a band of musicians, serenades
an astonished Teutonic butcher who is staying at
the Charing-cross Hotel. Our Continental neigh-
bours do not oven yet thoroughly understand us.
Last Wednesday we received a hint to the
effect that a bit of sport with the “ mittens” would
probably eventuate at Larry Foley’s White Horse
on that afternoon, between a well-known list,
footballer and our crack local amateur boxer.
Some months since the pair tried conclusions at
one of the rowing club sheds, when the big ’un
got all the worst of it, but he evidently was not
quite satisfied with a besting on that occasion, as
when we dropped in about half past 4 on Wednes-
day afternoon, the pair were just commencing
operations. “Jumbo” looked really formidable
when he put up his hands, looming a perfect
Hercules alongside his opponent, who was giving
away fully 3st. Science, however, told its tale,
and the little ’un, taking a decided lead in tho first
round, held it ail through, and finished the fifth
round and the show with a terrific left-hander in
the region of his opponent’s right eye. The big
’un, though short of condition, stuck to his work
in manly style, but whatever show he had of
getting in a chance heavy one, he spoiled by all
through making play, and allowing the little one,
who was in tip-top condition, to draw him out and
mill on the retreat.
That little “unpleasantness” which at-
tended the defeat of Monte Christo by Uralla in
the Vale Stakes set us thinking over a similar de-
monstration once witnessed at Home, when Lolly-
pop played second fiddle to Midlothian for the
Steward’s Cup, at Goodwood. Both of these horses
were the property of the Duke of Hamilton—the
former being the swell performer and public
fancy, the latter carrying the bulk of the stable
money. At tho finish, the pair came clean away
from the field, so nothing else being near enough )
to trouble Midlothian, the better nag was oblig-
ingly eased, and the noble Book landed his coup.
Curses, loud and deep, proceeded from the lips of
the poor punters, but by the public at large the
owner was considered to have acted fairly within
his rights, in so far that he “ declared to win ” with
Midlothian. For tho Va'e Stakes, of course, no
declaration was made in connection with Mr.
White’s pair, nor would anyone venture to assert
that the horses ran other than strictly on their
merits. Whether Hales’ weak condition, and pos-
sible Inability to make the most of Monte Christo,
had not something to do with the favourite’s de-
feat is another question.
On the first day of the Englishmen-Junior
Cricket Match, on the new Ashfleld ground, when
the fizz whs circulating, Lillywhite very truly re-
marked, “ that cricket languished for the want of
cricket grounds in Sydney. The Ashlield ground,
he was sure, would do a great deal of good for
the game; and he was of opinion that every suburb
should have Its cricket ground. Melbourne had
any number of well-appointed grounds, and he
wondered how in consequence that New South
South Wales could so well hold her own in the
annual intercolonial cricket matches.” The Ash-
fleld ground is a quarter of a mile in clrcumfer-
ference, and as it is intended for athletic sports in
general, and not cricket in particular, it is pro-
posed to lay down a cinder track for cyclists and
pedestrians ; and in case, evidently, that the
suburban athletes may not Indulge too much in
the games for which it is stated the ground is in-
tended, two billiard tables are to be added to the
list of pavilion fixtures. As a paying spec, the
tables will no doubt prove good, but we are afraid
they will pay well at the expense of athletics, an
opinion we have expressed before now in connec-
tion with the Association Cricket Ground.
Pedestrlanism, remarked Sir Charles Dilke,
the other day, was one of the oldest of athletic
sports, but since Weston and O’Leary started walk
ing there had been a wonderful advance made;
and so it was with bicycling. In 1875, he believed,
the champion of the world rode 20 miles in 1 hour
33 minutes and 8 seconds; but now the champion’s
time was 59 minutes and 6 3-5 seconds for the same
distance. There could be no doubt that cycling
gave an immense amount of healthy exercise and
recreation to a large number of people in this and
in other countries. It was a curious fact that tri-
cycling began in. France, but that England was
now at the head of the tricycling world, while In
other countries, except the United States, It had
remained almost stationary. Coming nearer home,
our cyclists appear to be smelling the coming
season from afar. The Wanderers held a soiree
last week at Baumann’s Caf5, and the following
clubs elected officers as follows:—Balmain: Presi-
dent, Mr, J, 11. Elliott; vice-presidents, Messrs.
Toogood, Parker, H. Tidswell; captain, Mr. F.
Peers; sub-captain, Mr. H. Cronin: treasurer, Mr.
S. Thompson; secretary, Mr. W. H. Hughes ;
bugler. Mr. J. Macdonald. Oriental: Captain, Mr.
J. W. Gosbeli; vice-captain, Mr. 8. 8. Pie:d; trea-
surer, Mr. J. H. Mayes; hon. secretary, Mr. W. H.
Poole; delegate to the New South Wales Cyclists’
Union, Mr. 0. Harris; bugler, Mr. Waddell.
Mr. Barry Byndes.
Mr. Harry Hyndes, eldest son of Mr. Robert
Hyndes, Mayor of Maitland, was born in Sydney
December 4,1883. He began his musical studies
at an early age under the guidance of the
Dominican Nuns at Maitland. Afterwards studied
some years in Sydney under Signor Gioiza, where
he appeared at the latter’s benefit concert In 1880
with great effect, obtaining splendid criticisms
from all the papers. In the beginning of 1881, this
promising youug pianist went to Italy and studied
in Milan for three and a half years, under Aodreoli
Italy’s greatest pianist, head professor of the
pianoforte in the Royal Conservatoire of Milan,
in the different salons and clubs of Milan,
Mr. Hyndes created quite a sensation by his
rendering of Chopin, so much so that notices
and caricatures of him appeared in some of the
Milanese papers describing his playing of Chopin
“so beautiful, so sweet, and soft as a whisper.’’
After finishing his course, and before leaving
Milan, Mr. Hyndes gave a series of concerts, one of
which was at the Royal Conservatoire, when Dr.
Fllippi, Italy’s famous critic, was present. The
following is one of his criticisms of Mr- Hyndes’
performance, which appeared in the Perskve-
RANZA, the first journal of Milan, dated March
30th, 1884;—“ Speaking of pianists, there is in
Milan a young Australian, Mr. Harry Hyndes, who
came here to perfect himself in the study of the
pianoforte. Mr. Hyndes has been taking lessons
for the last three years from our eminent profee-
sot, Andreoli, and his success, both in mechanism
and style, does great honour to the excellent guid-
ance of his master. Mr. Hydnes' touch is soft and
pearly, his execution refined and clear; he plays
with great expression and good interpretation, as
I noticed in his rendering of Chopin’s * Lento and
Presto,’ etudes op. 35, in a beautiful nocturne of
Raffs and a barcarole of Rubenstein’s. Mr. Hyndes
is about to retarn to Sydney—his native place—
where he intends to dedicate himself to the art of
music and practice the profession, and I publish
these facts of this talented young foreigner for
the honour he reflects upon Milan.— Filippi”
The Corrieue DELLA Sera of Milan, dated April
5, 1884, also gives Mr. Hyndes a most gratifying
notice, and considers his command over his instru-
ment to be “ perfect.” Mr. Hyndes studied com-
position under Bazzina. His nocturne “ Addio ” is
dedicated to his friends in Milan, and his “ Ricordo
d’ltalla,” a homage offered to and graciously
accepted by Her Majesty the Queen of Italy. The
Marquis dl Ylllamarina (Knight of Honor to Her
Majesty) wrote an exceedingly kind letter to the
young composer tendering the thanks of Her
Majesty, who was pleased to express her apprecia-
tion of Mr. Hyndes’ gift. The following is Mr.
Hyndes’ diploma from the Royal Conservatoire of
Milan :—
, “March 30tb, 1884,
“I have much pleasure in stating that Mr.
Harry Hyndes, having brilliantly persued his
finishing studies under my direction, has now
attained that degree of ability and knowledge,
both technical and ideal, which constitute the
finished artist, and he is worthy of aspiring to the
very highest honors in tho rank of pianists and
professors. I authorise him to make use of this
my declaration, bearing the stamp of the Royal
Conservatoire of Music, to which I have the
honour to belong as Professor of the Pianoforte,
in any circumstances in which Mr. Hyndes may
consider it useful 1 and honourable to do so.—
Signed, Carlo Andreolo, Professor of the Piano-
forte in the Royal Conservatoire of Music, Milan;
and witnessed by the director, A. Bazzini.”
Upon leaving Milan, the Director of the Milan
Conservatoire sent to Mr. Hyndes his photograph,
and wrote on the back of it—“To tho eminent
Eianist, Mr. H. Hyndes, in remembrance of the
►irector of the Milan Conservatoire.”
Mr. Hyndes is now settled in Sydney, where he
proposes to practice as Professor of the Piano-
forte, and has a suite of rooms at A. and C.
Huenerbein’s, 318 George-street.
HE COULD NOT AFFORD IT.
She tried hard—very hard: coaxed him,
petted him. “No! I can’t afford it; you don’t
want it. Servants are not so bad as you make out.
I’m sure Mary is a tidy, thoughtful girl, and makes
the place comfortable.” Next m orning, early, the
wife was s'artled by a terrific clatter on the stairs,
and, running oat, beheld her lord and master sail-
ing swiftly down on the broad of his back, his
legs spread-eagled, and grasping in his right hand
a bucket, which came bumping after him, dis«
charging on its way a deluge of dirty wpter. He
shot down and along the hall like a Canadian
Tobogganer till the hall-door brought him up with
a round turn. Maddened by his wife’s involuntary
laughter, he jumped up and screamed—“ Jumpin’
Moses! what are you laughing at! Every nubble
of my back-bone’s skinned! That minx, Mary
left a piece of soap on the top of the stairs, and I
trod on it. I clutched at the bannisters and
grabbed this blamed bucket!” So saying he
promptly flung that useful and inoffensive utensil
out at the door, and ruined for ever a brand-new
stovepipe hat that was coming up the road, for-
tunately a little in advance of its owner—a local
magnate, with a seat upon the Bench. “ Get rid
of that girl at once,” he roared. “ Buy what on
earth you like, and let a man be safe in his own
house.” That same evening, when the wife had
just finished inspecting her newly-purchased
“ Wonderful Wertheim Sewing Machine,” and was
sitting down to sooth her battered consort wilh
the strains of her “Sweet Hapsburg Piano,” in
walked a blue-coated guardian of the peace with
the annonneement that “Mr. Endymion Bak-
slyder was ‘wanted’ for an aggravated-assault
upon a magistrate, while under the influence of
drink I” Verb. sap. When your wife wants a
Sewing Machine or a Piano, go to Bea’e and Com-
pany, of George-street, at once. It will save
trouble.*
CHANGE IT.
“Alderman J. D. Young stated last even-
ing that, although Clifford was beaten he was not
disgraced, and that his backers still had confidence
in him.”
Let’s shut our ears to this dull stuff.
Which savours nor of sense nor wit;
Of this rot we have had enough.
Though spoken by a man of grit!
How can a wight attain “ disgrace”
By losing an aquatic race ?
You’re up, UTev'ry move, .
From fighting cocks to that dull “ walk; ”
Now, as you are one whom we love,
Why can’t you learn, old boy, to talk 7
Though you’re Demosthenes to Beach,
You ought to learn to falee a speech.
Of Hanlan’s style some think a lot,
When he “ hopes the best man will win; ”
But, analysed, it’s “ awful rot,”
And all bis raphsodies “ too thin.”
Yet Hanlan, It Is also true,
Is a Demosthenes to you,
You should have said—“ Without a doubt,
Though strange the page in pulling history,
Our Clifford has quite ‘petered out’
Another droll ‘aquatic mystery!’
His heart was in his boots, they say —
Well, there is room there, any day I ”
You'd get a laugh for this small wheeze;
Then speak of the inclement weather,
And how these sports the colonies
Effectually “linked together; ”
Conclude with tears—“This night, 1 say,
Will always be my proudest day.”
Don’t use large words in our small lives,
For pulling is a little thing;
And those tremendous substantives
Have such a weary, hollow ring!
A weary, weary, hollow ring;
For pulling’s such a little thing I


notice of removal.
tic
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
to
No. 3 Hunter-street,
SECOND DOOR FROM GEORGE-STREET.
a>HEY have ARRIVED.
An immense delivery
of'
YANKEE RUBBER
BABIES.
Goes in the waistcoat poc
ktt; blows out to life size;
is washable, durable, and
unbreakable ; resembles
life, for like the real article
it coos at pleasure and yet
screams awfully if smacked
Experienced fathers are deceived by these laugh-
ter-producing infants, and no home is really a
happy one without their presence. Price (post
free): largest, Is. 6d.; medium, Is. 3d.
Also, just in, a large assortment of Conjuring
Tricks, catalogues on application.
41
THE WIZARD CARDS.
Changing from eights
to deuces, from black to
red, and back again at the
pleasure of the per-
fsrmer. Post free, with
fall instructions, Is. 2d.
I’m a Daddy ; I’m In
Love; T he Mother-in-law;
I’m a Farder; and Be
fore and After Marriage.
The funniest pictures ever issfied, 5 in each set.
Price, 6d. per set, or 5 ?ets for 2s.; by post, 2s. 2d.
The Three Donkeys. The newest “ have ” out.
Bend for them, but keep it quiet. Price, Is.; by
post, Is. 2d.
The Sooner Dog—a wonderful little animal;
roars of laughter follow him wherever he goes.
Is. 6d.; by post, 2s. 6d.
Napoleon In Council, very rich, Is. 6d.; by post, 3s.
HORTON and CO., 401 George-street, Sydney,
Box 641, G.P.O.
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST,
Graduate In Medicine and Surgery, Registered
Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours : 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., 7 to 9 on Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday Evenings.
Ladies’ Waiting Room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.
11, 52 Castloreagh-street (upstairs.)
Send for Free Treatise on Vitality and Nervous
Debility, Diseases of Women.
Illustrated Works on Deformities, Electricity
and its Application. Hernia (ruptures), Varicocele,
&c* &c.
Address—Australian Medical and Surgical In-
firmary, Sydney ; or B. O. HOLTERMANN, Esq.,
M.P., President, Box 120, G.P.O.
Consultation Free by mail or in person.
Deformities, Specific. Female, and Nervous
Diseases, a Specialty.
IN THE PRESS, and to be published shortly, the
HISTORY OP THE YEAR 1884.
A complete record day by day of every event of
interest to the colony, in town or country. Com-
piled with great care, and intended to fill, as a
work of reference, a long-felt want.
Send 6s. 6d. stamps to
JOHN WOODS AND CO. (Limited).
Bridge-street, Sydney.
ALCOCK& CO.'S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
BOLE AGENTS!
■P
375 George-st., Sydney.
TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED.
CQOLALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 George-street
(Beneath Paling’s.)
GOMPAGNONI CATERING GO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 7 7
N.S.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mayor,
Municipal Council of Sydney, the A.J.C., City Club, ic., &c.
Tne Dining haloons fnr Ladies and Gentlemenlare_the Finest, Cooelest, and loftiest In the colony.
1 livo I*LLAob WiiiN U DAI Lx . PfiVfttB (rood Wino T.iof-
GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 I m to 11 n m lafter the
Theatres. Select your own steak, *c , and see it grilled in the room* This
aL 1 ntv^hib n wa, t - C.ub of the Prince Alfred So
and City Club, upstairs. E. II. TOLEEMACHE, tieneral Ml summer.
Foster’s Bugle Brand.
jr-
I
V
Vjs*
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE AtiE.
USTKALIAN MUTUAL FIliE SOCIETY.
Established 1873.
Capital--£100,C00 with power to increase to £1,000,COO
BONUSES—20 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
CHURCHILL’S SYRUP OF THE HYPO-
PHOSPHITES.
THESE SYRUPS have so thoroughly obtained
the confidence of the Medical Faculty that they
are now prcicrred to any other preparations as
Genernl Tonics.
The Syrup ot Hypophosphit.es of Lime has proved
itselt for many years most useful in cases of Con-
sumption and diseases of the Pulmonary Organs.
It js also most beneficial to debilitated constitu-
tions proceeding from any cause whatever, as it
contains two of the mos»t necessary ingredients for
building up the Human Frame, namely. Phospho-
rus and Lime.
Churchill’s Syrup of the Hypophosphite of Iron
is one of the best preparations ot Iron and Phos-
phorus that has been offered to the public. As a
permanent tonic it has been found more service-
able than any other preparation of Iron, and is
especially recommended to those suffering from
the effects of a long residence in a hot climate.
Churchixl’s Compound Syrup of the Hypophos-
phites contains Lime, Iron, and Soda, and as a
general Tonic has been found most useful. Deli-
cate children have derived the greatest benefit
from going through a course ot this medicine,
which supplies nesrly all the elements necessary
to develope in perfection the Human Frame. To
Ladies sufi’ering from General Debility, any of
these Syrups can be taken with most beneficial re-
sults, but as almost every constitution differs, one
may give better results than the other. To be had
trom all Chemists, and Wholesale from ELLIOTT
BROS., Pitt-street, Sydney.
SENT FREE, by POST ONLY, In an Envelop®.
SOCIAL SCIENCE,
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders which
cause Impediments t© Marriage, and all
Chronic Diseases; also, How to choose a partner
for life, so as to live happy and produce healthy
children ; and how to regain and preserve your
health, &c, &c.
Address: H. T. SELBY, Medical Herbalist,
Devonshire-street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
BALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA.
ANB
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognao.
J. T. QAYBN’B
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS'
Bdlnbuxgn Pale Ate.
h
sa
ESTABLISHED 1860.
J. L iff LEE,
608 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL-PLATED
BEDSTEADS,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRASSES,
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR,
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX,
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
&o., &c.
BLEND
[trade]
-a
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.—This is a rt i
of the PUREST MATURED WhiLu?, *
of body, with piquancy and deUc
and flavour. CATTELL & CO. 1
ASTS PAPER Hoop Iron, and
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, B
u
II
B.
Head Offices. ®sJS)
First Fire Society established in the colony on
the Mutual principle, giving policy-holders back
part, of their Premiums as a cash tonus out of
profits every year.
Policy-holders are perfectly free by law from
all liability.
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
The BUST ALB and STOUT in the Market
BOLD BT ATX STOREKEEPERS AND WINBJ
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
» K 8!e(IR»'S
e only infallible remedy for
//ERybi/s Jdebi'LijyT
THIS Invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes Incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustlve derangement of the system: regenerating
all the Important elements of the human frame,
and enabling naan to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 12s„ or four quantities is one for
ids.; If by coach, 2s. (id. extra. Agents for Sydney,1
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from Georga-strect South.
VENETlA WALTZ:
Tht Air to h* wsll mrir/avi, Caroline C,owTi(fAif.
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stool
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &o.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues will be ready in a few days anc
sent gratis on »pplication.
Stationery —Account Books, Letter and Not<
Papers, &o , at lowest prices.
Printing.- Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed In best style and promptly.
Books for Pi events and School Prizes, in parcels
■£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &o
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday ana other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most Important Copying
Instruments ever Invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygi aph, the cost ol
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM ~BULLARD,
342 GEORGE STREET.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Offlces-PITT and KING STREETS.
'Watch and Clockniakcr to the Victorian
Government.
T. CAM!
Watchmaker,
GOLDSMITH,
297 and 299
George Street,
se
after oeforg MOUSTACHE and WEISEEES- etpons after
Boyd's Beard Elixir did this, and
I will do it on cither bald head or
bare face. Fo ; res heavy Mans*
tar he in from 2 to 4 weeks and nc ver A
Jails, 2*',(XXJ young men already -
Copyrighted, wear full beards, having used 1 to Copyrighted,
3 phts. Ao injury, easily applied, certain in effect. Packets Is. Gd.
each, 3 for 3 s. (id., post paid, sent under cover, free from observation•
Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent,Box 730, G.P.O., Sydney,N,8. W*.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found it at
last with the Argosy Braces at Q owing Bros.
m
$
m
m
wmmmm
‘i /f.mn
mu
GOWING BROS.
Hare just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. fid., 3s., 3s. Od.,& 4s. fid
GOWINGBROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, &c.
332 and 408 George-street.
298 George Street, Sydney.
Every description of Shirts made to measure
A perfect fit guaranteed.
m
m.
m
SMITH & MANNELL,
THE SHInT MANUFACTURERS OF
AUSTRALASIA,
-6 MARKET ST $YPN EY


JJ1DRNITUK1 SHOW ROOM
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTAND8,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES.
READING and LOUNGE CHAhlS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, in EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
\\T AltL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.
▼ T VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
ARBLB-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for (dubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &o.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON.
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney,
Eight-pound bedroom suites.-tao
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 3 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 30s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 37s. 6d.; Washstands from 13s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s-
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s.; Clothes Horses, froml0s.6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
3
jQQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
CwOtl strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, In handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashlon-
able designs In Black and Gold, with Side
also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
UCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
Just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
OConnell-strect.
NAMELLED and JEWELLED MIRRORS, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for Are grates. Very
olfonnell s f r E j^. DLBY > NEWT0N > and LAMB,
RA™G-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
r A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES,
lees, from 13a 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
O
M
CH AIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and Inez-
penBlve. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’CcnpeU-st*
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
F D^&. £ £ JITES for DINING-ROOM—SIDE-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAINS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Ccanell-street.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 30 feet.
D
! ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
“ Patented.
'<
adjusts itself to any position, from
its
uvwwu, TTumo auiuuittuuuiy. ± lie ftbOV©
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet Invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort Is desired.
The frames arc of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when tc Jdcd. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
3s. 6d. extra.
AGATBLLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
B
S/IRAMBWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
J- and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS. —A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered In
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Framework for dining-room fukni-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak.
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to .Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets. *
BEDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrasa
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
B
EDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rate®
w
ASH STANDS, with marble, from 3Ss each
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB 08011
G A r, 309: Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY. NEWTON, and LAMB. O'Connect reet.
ver r applet.
Assortment, best make, low cist prices.
Our New Governor.
Wa give In this page a copy of one of the mild
caricatures which weekly appear with London
Vanity Fair, the subject in this Instance being
our new Governor-elect, Lord Carrington. In the
accompanying letter-press Vanity Fair remarks:
** Few men have better reason to be satisfied with
things as they are than Lord Carrington. Fortune
has given him, of her own sweet free-will, every
single one of the advantages for which other men
are struggling all their lives, and mostly without
success. He is remarkably well-looking, rich,
good-tempered, and amiable, and his father died
when he was yet but 23, leaving him a title and all
that command of things and men which in Eng-
land results from it. He has already also other
claims to be considered one of the prominent
men of London. He was In the Blues, and he bad
started a coach between Windsor and London,
which be drove with the ability and finish of a
professional coachman, so that even before he
became a legislator, “ Charlie ’’ was already one of I
the most popular men in society. Ho has the dis-
tinction, too, of being a staunch friend, and will
boldly stand by any man whom he holds to be
unjustly and unfairly attacked.
In Melbourne, they are talking about
putting up a monument to Dan O’Connell. They
have been erected to many worse men. But old
Nelld, the Herald correspondent, objects to It.
He would see no objection if It were Intended for
George IV., Europe’s first blackguard, or his suc-
cessor, “Silly Billy,” the nation’s premier fool.
And this reminds us that the atrabilious Sawbones
was, a short time ago, looked up for a couple of
hours in the dead-house of the Melbourne Hospi-
tal. The official who released him was compli-
mented. He should have been beheaded.
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance In display
consummated. 60J Hunter-street, Sydney.*
SOCIAL
A feW friends gracefully tendered Mons.
de Wlllimoff a benefit concert last Thursday night
in one of Mr. Bruce's rooms at his piano store.
There was a comfortable attendance of fashion-
ables, and some of the music, which was really
excellent, was well received. Mons. de Wlllimoff,
for his playing of “ Souvenir do Moscow,” re-
ceived a very pressing encore, but ho is one of the
few artists we know who is content to bow his
acknowledgements on a hot night, and thus pre-
vent the concert from being lengthened to
such a degree as to become wearisome. Upon
this occasion all was over by 10 o’clock,
so no carriages were kept waiting, and
suburban people had ample time to catch
trams and trains. Other concert-givers might,
with advantage, take a hint from this. Mrs. A.
Levy, who is a pianist of no ordinary ability, took
part in a duet for violin and piano, and also played
a solo “ Phantasie Sthck ” (Schumann). The lady
has a crisp, vigorous touch, and plays with
musicianly taste. Miss Sheridan Head was in good
voice, and her song, “ Touch of a Vanished-Hand,”
was much applauded. We have twice heard Mr.
Farmer sing the patriotic song “ Comrades,” lately
—once with a cornet obligato, and once without—
we much prefer it without. His mellow voice
quite filled the room, and, perhaps, that’s why the
cornet had such a poor show, or maybe some hairs
off the player’s moustache got into one of thevalves,
whatever it was it didn’t go well. We have heard
this same cornetist play infinitely better many
times. A lady amateur took the piano part of a
quartette for three strings and piano very credit-
ably, and a string quartette with variations on
“God Save the Queen” wound up the concert.
By Instinct everybody rose as soon as the first bar
was commenced, and it was only after Mons. de
Willimofl had nearly shaken his head off in his en-
deavours to make known to them that upon this
occasion they weren’t to consider It as the “ Na-
tional Anthem,” but only as a string quartette,
that they slowly and hesitatingly sank Into their
seats again. The misunderstanding nearly spoilt
the quartette, though. Mr. Percy Jones distin-
guished himself—by his absence.
* * *
The Ashfleld recreation ground was opened
on Thursday last by a cricket match between the
All-England II and 18 N.8.W. Junior Association.
It cannot be said the grounds are yet In sufficient
good trim as to make them altogether desirable
for a match. No doubt, when time has mellowed
things a bit, they will have a more classic appear-
ance, but at present the newness of things is
almost oppressive. Take the grand-stand, for in-
stance. It may be that it is only a temporary
affair, just run up for this match; but, even so, a
little consideration for the ladles’ dresses might
have been shown in planelng the seats a bit more.
When the charge of admission is the same as is
that for the commodious and comfortable stand at
Moore Park, it is only just that a certain amount
of comfort is to be expected. But the Ashfleld
boys are young yet—when they are a few years
\ /
older they will think more about the ladles, an!
will not only have the seat-; planed, but will doubt-
less have them made with sloping backs. Mrs.
Devlin, of course, graced the stand with herpre
sence, and was attired in a myrtle-green satin
dress, elaborately trimmed with wide cream lace.
Her two elder daughters wore cream dresses and
hats, and two younger ones in peacock plush
dresses and large grey felt hats looked very
pretty. Two young ladies from Summer Hill were
charming In russet brown dresses, with long-
pointed aprons, surrounded with cream lace. On
Saturday the attendance was much larger than on
the two previous days, but nothing in the cos-
tumes of the ladies was worthy of mention. The
colts played fairly well, but very little interest was
shown in tho match from first to last.
* *
Last Thursday evening, the Wanderers
Bicycle Club held their annual gathering. About'
65 were present and spent a pleasant musical even-
ing. Baumann, the favourite caterer, looked well
after the creature comforts.
(For continuation of Social, see next pave.)


Thei austral asian’mutual live stock
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital £100,000.
Head Office ; Melbourne.
Sydney Branch,: Boyle’s Chambers, Bond-street.
Victorian Directors:
John L. Dow, Esq., M.P.,
Chairman
Hon. J. F. Levien, M.P.
Thomas Learmonth, Esq.
N. 8. Wales Directors:
I Andrew Town, J.P., Esq.
I Frank Cowley, Esq.
! George 8. Yeo, Esq.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs Insured
against death from Accident, Disease, or Natural
Causes on land, rail, or at sea.
Marine Bisks on Stock covering mortality or on
Merchandise accepted.
The only Live Stock Insurance Society in the
colonies.
Full particulars can bo obtained from the under-
signed.
Active Agents wanted where unrepresented.
J. A. WILKINSON, Branch Manager.
Office, Boyle’s Chambers, Bond-street.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney. 10th March, 1885.
TEN DEBS for PUBLIC WOBK8 and SUP-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
P. A. WEIGHT.
NOTICE Is hereby given that a Special Meeting
of the Metropolitan Licensing Court will be
holden at the Central Police Office, Sydney, on
Tuesday the 24th March Instant, at noon, for the
consideration of any business that may be legally
brought before the said Court.
C. DELOHERY,
CPS*
Central Police Office, Sydney,
March 0,1885.
C. B. MODINI,
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS.
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
G. B. M. further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
.the following Firms.’—JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
don; THOS. BLAND & SON., London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London: W. POWELL & SON,
Birmingham: CHAS, OSBORNE & CO., London.
G. B. M. Is also AGENT for the eminent firm of
BUSSY & CO., London.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 Georfle.st., Sydney,
Where Inspection Is Invited.
BLAKE’S IMPROVED
STEAM PUMPS.
H. P. GREGORY & GO.,
17 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE ABO\ E,
and have In Stock and to arrive—
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULATING PUMP
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING PUMPS
SEND FOR PRICKS AND ALL PARTICULARS
CATALOGUES FORWARDED FREE.
Annual Income exceeds One Milllom
Lightning and Qaa Explosion Damages Paid.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OP THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
Academy of music
(Late Albert Hall).
Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
The coolest and most comfortable Hall in Aus-
tralia. Seating capacity, 1300 ; stage: depth, 48ft.;
width, 68ft.; height of grooves, 16ft.: proscenium,
26 by 20; dressing accommodation unlimited. Rent
or shares. For open dates, apply to DUVAL and
SMITH, Lessees, Tattersall's Hotel, Brisbane.
Infants and Children
■What gives our Children rosy cheeks, <
What cures their fevers, makes them sleep;
1 Castorla.
When Babies fret, and cry by turns,
What cures their colic, kills their worms.
Castorla. '
What qnickly cures Constipation, •
, Sour Stomach, Colds, Indigestion ;
y Castorla. -
• Farewell then to Morphine Syrups,
I Castor Oil and Paregoric, and
HallCastoria.
“Castoria is so well adapted to Children
that I recommend it as superior to any medi-
cine known to mo.”—H. A. Akcheb, II. D.,
HI Oxford St., New York,
Elliott Bros., Sidney, Agfeht*.
COTTACt VILLA or BUSINESS SITES
vO’NI MAIN LO.O KXSTC5
LIVERPOOL RACECOURSE -
CLOSTTO RAILWAY £
fE'XTRA LINE SURVEYE.D REpiUjCINCiOlSTAN CEtfOjJ,
14 MILES FROM SYDNEY
LOTS PAYABLE Sj- .PERJvION JxH j ,N,0 iLN J.EREST,
PLA N S f R EE . JB/JYJJ $ JOtfC
/&*'££#6 ■ P/rr S t Syd*£y
Is the lar
eannot
BOUEKE,
best-appointed T'amiljr Hotel In the Western District* the Table and n n „ nM
be surpassed, eyen In the Metropolis. Private Suites for famiii®. pfrsiciass &iblPn^
THOMAS Proprietor.
(Social, continued from page 16.)
The bridal dress worn by Miss Payn, upon
*i.I occasion of her marriage the other day with
Wr George Earle Buckle, editor of-the Times, was
• white plush short skirt, cream crape de chino
sranery trimmed with white fox; fur net, veil,
•nd wreath, of orange blossoms. The brides-
“r<Tids WO re dresses of yellow silk, cream lace
fronts looped with dark brown ribbcn, and brown
lei vet beefeater hats with yellow-shaded plumes.
Their ornaments were gold buckles and pearl
brooches, the gifts of the bridegroom.
•» • •
In the way of cheap amusements, Mel-
bourne is certainly ahead of us. There are the
“„ an recitals at the Town Hall thrice a week,
which can be heard for the modest sum of one
shilling—David Lee, presiding at the organ, of
course; and then there's the aquarium at the Ex-
h bition Building, which can be got at for the
Mine small coin. The big seal walrus, with its
beautiful eyes, losks quite comfortable in its arti-
ficial home. The caves, which are made of
cement, look very natural, and the coloured lights
which shine on the pools of water give a charming
effect. Each glass case, containing the smaller
fish has a glass tube running through it, which
carries the air from the air-pumps to the flsh. On
a hot day there is nothing more refreshing than a
visit to the aquarium.
* » •
Miss Essie Thomas hasn’t escaped the
patriotic fever, but as she's a young girl, why we
freely forgive her. She (Miss Thomas) proves her
patriotism by composing an “ Australian Patriotic
March,” which she respectfully dedicates (with
permission) to “The i3on. William Bede Dailey.”
Tne March is short and sweet, and the harmonies
simple and correct, but the most partial ears will
fail to detect anything strikingly original in the
theme. There is the usual introductory bugle
call and the indispensable repeated notes here and
there to simulate the kettle-drum. It is got up in
nice style, and is well printed.
• » •
On Friday evening last a return social
party was given to Mr. and Mrs. Gehde, at their
«• home,” Crown-street. Surry Hills, by several of
their friends. About 50 couples were present, and,
as both plain and fancy costume were worn, the
spacious ball-room looked very charming indeed.
Some very pretty dresses were displayed. Miss
Davies and the Misses Coleman, in white, looked
well; and Miss Baker, Miss Walthers, and Miss
Mills in fancy dresses looked very charming, and
their dancing was much admired. Some 24 dances
were got through, to Mr. Sauerbier’s accompani-
ment. Table was well laid, and to Messrs. Forbes
and Green the company are indebted for their
efforts in making the affair such a success.
• • *
Mrs. Wallace, the Australian Langtry, was
very quiet in her costumes at the Melbourne races
the other day. On dit that the sombreness of her
attire was out of respect to the racehorse, Le
Grand, to whom she was passionately attached,
and who died last Friday fortnight. One of her
dresses was a dark myrtle green, peppered with
crimson spots: green felt hat, with crimson veil.
Not such a mournful costume after)all, excepting
for Mrs. Wallace.
♦ * *
Last Tuesday week the newly-formed
troup of Light Cavalry sat’Idown to luncheon at
Baumann’s, which they enjoyed to such an extent
that it was proposed that they should return and
repeat the operation at 7.30. Notwithstanding that
the day was a holiday and things not easy to
obtain, the dinner went off to everybody’s satis-
faction, and a very enjoyable evening was spent.
Songs and recitations ad libitum. About 50 sat
down to the luncheon, and 35 to the dinner.
• • 9 ■
Peculiarly rich and becoming’dresses have
been seen in all the theatre circles during the
week. One of the most striking was worn by a
pretty petite dark lady, and was a mixture of black
Spanish lace and silk, with bertha composed
entirely of white roses; a wreath of smaller roses
was worn round the orown of the head, and was
very effective. Flowers worn in the hair look, as
a rule, old-fashioned, but this wreath was an ex-
ception. A beautiful russet brown velvet, with
slashings of cream silk, was very much admired. It
was cut in aldeep.equare at the neck; short sleeves,
with loose hanging straps composed of the silk. A
lady, who evidently wished to bo conspicuous,
wore a small grey jockey cap one night; but, as it
was entirely out of place, it caused more surprise
than admiration. In the Royal on Monday night
two Brisbane belles graced the circle by their pre-
sence. One looked very charming in a dress com-
posed of cream satin and muslin, cut square at the
neck and very short sleeves. The other, in black
satin ornamented with crimson flowers, was
very graceful. Long tan gloves are still fashion-
able for evening wear, and silk ones, reach-
ing above the elbow, also find much favour. A
crimson satin opera cloak, reaching nearly to
the hem of the skirt, was very beautiful. It was
worn by a handsome lady in a black dress, with
open lace sleeves. Miss Annie Mayor, in “ Haunted
Lives,” wears one very pretty costume. Over a
petticoat of brown velvet she has an over-dress of
old gold satin, with deep cream lace falling cross-
wise over the front of the skirt. A plaslron of the
dark velvet relieves the well-cut bodice, and looks
very stylish. Miss Jenny Watt-Tanner, over a
soft, flounced cream skirt, wears a most beautiful
golden-brown, brocaded velvet spenser bodice and
long train—long tan gloves and fawn-coloured hat
and feathers. Another of her costumes is a black
skirt with gold and black striped satin polonaise,
made very long. A striking and becoming cos-
tume, and, at the same time, very neat,
♦ ♦ *
Orange was en fete on the 26th ultimo,
when the Ministry visited the town, and attended
a ball at night given in their honour. They en-
tered about 10 o’clock, and proceedings com-
menced by Mr. Dailey and Mr. Cohen dancing tops
and bottoms in the opening quadrille. Great in-
terest was taken in the Attorney-General’s per-
formance; the ladles being all agreed that he
danced nearly as well as he “speechifled,” Mr.
Lohen seconded the efforts of his chief with great
success; though the Hons. Norton and Farnell
were either too stiff, too venerable, or too much
overweighted with dinner and dignity, to venture
upon terpsichorean experiments. However, the
ministerial train left about midnight, and bore the
majestic representatives of Government away
irom the gay scene, where dancing was afterwards
carried on till dawn. The most noticeable cos-
JfiP® 8 that of a mar ried lady in pink, of two
u ?*lV nd pink > the ladies Glenroy,
in iVor^ 1 Lac * h u lan ’ and of . two Cudal sisters
8pent° y ’ Alt °S ether an enjoyable night was
■ • i
«m^ e u T *u EG ? Apn ' its usual accuracy,
lt + ,P a J r not generally be known
lu q ,„ Mr -. s Pencer, the American Consul in Sydney
Ma 7 person.’’ That’s 5 Tulte
cmp in generally known, for it isn’t the
isn't a ulti a he fir8t P lace ’ our American Consul
w>oonfi Mr r: 1 Spenc , er ~ hi8 name ’ 8 and. in the
cousin At 10 !’ h ifi 18 ? fc u tlle American beauty’s
Anektencl- he was called her uncle,
shin I ? ot - qi l lte correct, either, as the relation-
Bonttn 8 ! 8 ,!, 11 his being brother to Miss Ander-
8 step-father, which makes him her step-uncle.
XT * * •
John Hordern and Son, of Pitt-
exam’iphaV nf deter mlned upon following the
S “P i ¥ our larj?est flrms b y winding
hitherto 1 on Sa pnrday8, Instead of, as
for »H°di P m - This is as it should be,
forget lldiPH ff n< l no playis n’t healthy. So don’t
to trim no vniil new * laces and ribbons
On Qjjtnu/f Sunday bonnets, go before noon
ney S forno a thlngf ° U don,t ™ nt to have four*
U * * * *
Jicnfi k°st w n eek ab Fl e h ha £ the !, r 8ixth ann ual
nag, and the afia'i- Lach cab was decorated with a
Mr. W p air P a88e d off very successfully..
,W,C * 8hl Pway. late Bon* Treasurer Baatern
Suburbs Amateur Athletic Club, presented with
handsome chronograph and albert, previous to his
departure for Soudan. Mr. H. B. Hughes acting
treasurer in his absence Each time Anthony
Hordern gives his employes a day’s holiday it
means a loss of £370 in wages alone—not much
to a rich man, certainly, but it’s a nice little pre-
sent, all the same On Saturday afternoon, two
score cyclists rode out in the glaring sun to Home-
bush, where they had tea at Sturt’s Hotel. All
clubs were represented, and there was plenty of
fun, the evening after tea being devoted to songs
and smoke. The wheelmen got home at all hours
between 8 and 13 Next month Messrs. Needs
start a series of fortnightly assemblies in Niths-
dale Booms. Evening dress, and Cinderella hours
to be strictly kept. Wednesday Is the night—
Last night (11th) tho Sydney Owls had their fourth
soiree of the season. Bemarks next week—This
Friday, the Sydney Bicycle Club entertains itself
at tea in Baumann’s Oaf6, as a prepartion to
tackle the business of the annual meeting —The
Melbourne Botteu Bow is still well attended by
fashionables, and it’s a rare chance for squatters’
daughters to show off their riding. But there’s a
fly in the honey, in the shape of a few “ galloping
cads,” who annoy the nobility terribly .. AboutDO
friends of tho Mayor of Waverley entertained him
at a picnic on board the Invincible last Thursday.
. .On Saturday, Mr. Elkingtoh made 75 adults
and 50 children happy by giving them a picnic
on a large scale at Pearl Bay, for which Baumann
catered in first-class style A pleasant afternoon-
tea was given to a large circle of friends by Mr.
Fitzhardinge, on Saturday last, at Figtreq.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
"An old Subscriber”: Wo don’t remember the
social Item you allude to. Give us a due, and
we’ll see if we can’t satisfy you as to its non-
appearance.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Liedertafel Concert, Exhibition Building, to-night
(Thursday.)
Booksellers’ Annual Picnic (Botany) March 12.
Picnic of the Amazon Sailing Club (at
Tennyson) March 14.
In a recent lecture on “Dress,” Oscar
Wilde said he had just seen a bonnet comprised of
nothing but a stuffed bird alighting on a piece of
tulle. That did not strike one as very sensible
material on which to make a head-dress in a cli-
mate such as that of England. On a Paris fashion-
plate he had seen, under a bonnet of the stuffed-
bird-and-tulle school, a note to this effect: “ With
this kind of bonnet the mouth is worn slightly
open.”
Phew! From the Bega Standard “Scan-
dal.—It is currently reported that a resident of
this district extended his hospitality to a profes-
sional man, and that the guest proved like the
viper taken home by the countryman, and re-
warded kindness by debauching his host’s wife,
herself the mother of a family.” They manage
these things better in Islam. The doctors there
never cause a “scandal about Queen Elizabeth” or
anyone else. We undertake to say that did one of
these Oriental medicos come over here and estab-
lish himself in College-street, he would soon build
up a very fine practice. The only trouble would
be that when the gentlemen were at their offices,
the ladies would be sending out by mistake for the
other doctor. Oh, and don’t forget this;—When
the 11 missus ” has at last lighted upon the “ only
doctor who understands her constitution,” sell
your practice, gird up your furniture, and tlee.
That reminds us that the last medical man whom
it took three-quarters of an hour (timed by our-
selves in the next rdom) to feel a lady’s pulse, is
now practising in the wilds of Canada. He was
persuaded by a pistol that it would be better for
all parties if we each had a hemisphere to our-
selves. He then put an Instrument under one arm,
a galvanic-battery under the other, and fled.
Talk about separating from old England,
why the ties that bind us are stronger than ever,
judging from recent events. It would be as easy
to divide parent from child, as witness the thou-
sands that have offered to shed their blood in
behalf of old fatherland—could more be done for
a parent? Fathers and mothers,and those who are
not parents, *oan obtain all things necessary for
home wants in china, glass, and crockery at the
old house so well known, Bray Bros., 403 and 404
George-street, Sydney, who import direct from the
potteries.*


A Bishop, so says a lively legend which is
going about, bought a brand new sot of teeth
from a small country denti.t; but when tho
anxi sus moment came for the “ case ” to be tested,
his Lordship grinned before the glass and said a
word that was not “Salvation.” The anxious
artificer of teeth urged that at first there might
be "a little discomfort, but after a time ”
“ Without doubt ho shall perish everlastingly.”
interrupted tho prelate, with pious vehemence.
“But indeed, my Lord, if you wi'l but have
patience,” pleaded tho dentist, "in a week’s
time ” “What do you mean?’ inquired tho
Bishop, with a bland and apostolic smile. “The
teeth lit me beautifully; it ii the first time I havd
found myself able to pronounce the Athanaslan
Creed for twenty years.” Which reminds us,
when Uncle Toby heard someone repeating the
Athanasim Creed he observed: “Our armies in
Flahders swore terribly', but never anything like
that.”
They had a boiler explosion down on the
bank of the Y?.rra the other day. Mefsrs. John-
Aon and Co. have a large iron foundry down there,
hod part of the fittings was a vertical boiler 9ft.
hisrh and 31in. in circumference. It went through
the roof On February 17, scooted up to a height
Of 100ft, and returned sloping through the startled
Jtmosphere, descending through another root
lyds“ off. There was nobody killed, but several
neople were seared Why do we narrate this in-
cident ? Not so much because it is fact as because
It stirs a reminiscence. We were once blown up
by a boiler. A'f least we always think it a boiler.
It was when we were young and thought Tilda
loved us. The trysting ground between us and
»nida was beside the boiler. It was a warm spot,
but. bless you, at that halcyon period we could
stand most things. Our belief now is that
Til la didn’t love us a bit, We had been
recklessly squandering our affections on her,
wh’le all the time she kept her mouth for
Big Bill. One evening wo were more than usually
Sertinaclous beside the boiler. We wanted her to
x it definitely, and let us ascend to the heaven of
connubial bliss. We spoke deprecatingly of our
rival and laughed scornfully at the awkward at-
tempts of Big Bill to imitate us in the line of ama-
tory prettiness. We heard her say, “Oh, Bill,
don’t!” and were about looking round when the
boiler bursted It must have been the boiler.
Talk of a hundred feet! why, we went at least a
thsusand feet right into tne azure firmament!
And talk of descending with a slope, of thirty
yards! wo descended in a different colony alto-
gether. Like the people down on the Yarra, we
were not much hurt, but were considerably
scired. We didn't go back since, but the mere
mention of a boiler makes us think of 'Tilda and
Big Bill, and we go over and lean against a wall
and shudder.
According to that comic paper, the N Z
War ’Owl, this is flow a petticoated Capting re-
organis! d the Harmy and filled theplato at one of
the new stations. It would appear that, before
the advent of this brilli mt strategist, the attend-
ance of the public at the Harmy’s ’eadquarters
ha I fallen off to one or two larrikins with pockets
like Joe Tnompson’s after tho railway disaster—
that is to say. chock full of “nix.” The new
commander, therefore, gathered her warriors,
male and female, together and gave certain orders,
in obedience to which the bl-sexed soldiers ap-
peared at the rendezvous next evening each with
an empty kerosene tin hoisted on his or her
shoulders. Attached to each tin was a stout piece
of cord or small rope. The Capting herself was
similarly armed, and thus bedight the valiant
corps passed down the main street, followed by
the whole population of the place wondering from
their boots upwards what on the face of the earth
this turnout could mean at all, at all. On reach-
ing a vacant piece of ground at the end of
the town, the Capting called a halt and started a
hymn. After a short service, during which the
population was beginning to fade away, the Cap-
ting suddenly picked up her skirts, dropped her
tin with a bang, and twisting the string attached
to it round her wrist, started for the Hall at the
other end of the town with the speed and impetu-
osity of a March hare out for exercise, dragging
the noisy tin behind her and followed at a short
distance by the rank and file of her brigade, all
dragging their tins behind them, and shouting
“ Allerluyer,” and raising Cain generally to such a
hideous extent that an aged and reverend William
goat in a section which they passed fell into con*
vulslons, and finally turned up his toes and gave
up the ghost from sheer fright at the terrible
spectacle. The population, young hnd old, fol-
lowed in hot pursuit, thinking the Harmy had
gone clean mad at last. On entering the hall, the
soldiers filed on to the platform and banged away
at the tins with sticks and fists till the building
overflowed with people. Then a collection was at
once Inaugurated, and ever since, the Harmy has
flourished like a green eucalyptus in that dis rlot.
All Captains who cannot fill their halls and keep
the plate circulating successfully, are strongly re-
commended by the N.Z. War Cry to go and do
likewise.
The Braidwood Dispatch relates the fol-
lowing:—“A day or two ago, Mrs, Miller, wife of
Constable Miller, of Araluen, upon going outside
the house, came suddenly upon a large brown
snake. Being alarmed, she screamed, and her hus-
band, wondering what was the matter, ran out,
when the snake, not liking the appearance of the
officer in full uniform, made its escape under the
flooring of the building, Miller, believing that
music has power to charm snakes, set to work
upon h's concertina, and played the popular air,
“ Come back to Erin ” with such effect that the
reptile gradually wriggled itself out from its hid-
ing-place, and met the fate it merited. It was
between six or seven feet and length.”
The Philosopher and the Bird of Prey.
But, oh 1 to chronicle this tale,
Why was the print so tardy 1
He and his music should have gone
To execute the Mahdi.
Ah I would that he had gone out there
For, had he gone and played his
Instrument before the roe.
They’d Joined that snake in Hades.
Or, would that Miller had but lived
With Eve. for had he played an
Overture, the snake had died
Before he met the maiden.
What blessed lot had then been ours,
Not then we’d gaze, in terror,
At sight of Journal pictures, or
The penny Evening Error.
Not then had we been forced to drink
Our rum half drowned In waterl
And oh! what joy! we had not seen
A Telegraph reporter.
A Philosopher was recently taking a siesta beneath the umbra-
geous shade of a gum-tree, when he espied a large bird of prey
some distance overhead with somethiug in his talons.
“ Wonder what the deuce the blooming quarry
is,’’ quoth the Philosopher in scientific language. “ I
shall precious soon find out, in the interests of
science! ”
And when the bird had reached exactly over-
head, “Shoo!! ” the Philosopher exclaimed, sud-
denly opening his umbrella.
The frightened bird of prey dropped the quarry, and
the Philosopher caught it in his hands—all in the inter-
ests of science*
The Doctor succeeded in extracting most of the porcupine quills—and that’s where science
stepped in.
But meanings such as these will make
My lyric all too solemn,
And vain regrets, alas I won’t sell
At so much cash per column I
aid wood men, we trust that you
Will have no hesitation
In showing to this gallant “ trap ”
Substantial approbation.
D you would have your Miller fight
With hydra, drunk, or Gorgon,
Just rally up and give to him
A little grinding organ.
Its strains will be of use to him
This Orpheus-like snake-charmer.
And, in the larries’ fierce attack.
Twill serve in place of armour.
Law-breakers, then, will find its notes
Have power to overawe them.
And harmony, with subtle cords.
To hominy will draw them.
From Braidwood comes this little tale
About a trap named Miller,
Who now may surely take the cake
As champion serpent-killer.
'Tig said that Orpheus played so well.
That all the brute creation
Came near and listened to his song,
In silent adoration,
fits strains had power to draw the brutes,
And with such joy to fill them;
But Miller can do more than that I
His stirring strain can kiU them.
The difference ’twlxt these rival bards
May thus be made the clearer:
One executed airs, the other exe-
f'.utpjt his hearer.


A.J.C, GIGAE DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SALOON,
91 King-street-
ISf N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
\
READ THIS I
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Price.
. t i
Silver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£3 10a. each,
Warranted for three years, J
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 Piil-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER
Black Swan Hotel.
GREEN WELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting. Ashing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magaiOoient s.s. Illawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o clock.
"I AHA DOMESTIC PAPER FASHIONS
AUUv/ shown in our Illustrated Catalogue
Price, Threepence ; by Post, Focrpenoe.
CHAP PEL & CO.,
Late Johnston & Co.,
Paper Pattern and General Sewing-machine
Agency"
740 GEORGE ST., HAYMArKET, SYDNEY.
Machines repaired, and all fittings, &c., kept In
stock.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GENT.’S 50, Is. 6d.; 100, 2a. 6d.
LADIES’ 50, 2s. Od.; 100, 3s. 04,
Address, 6d. extra.
Meat Business Cards.
100, 3s. 6d.; 250, 6«. 0d.; 500, 10s.; 1000, lag.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATIJ,
Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
H. A. BROWN & CO., ~
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS.
3G0 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-street.)
From the Strand, London.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
pyer Paling’s, 354 and 356 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody fcpows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody Ifhows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia.
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment.
Everybody is informed that this Studio is carried on for the benefit of the late Mr.
Boyd’s children, by his executrix.
Everybody should remember the address ;
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manager.
, and CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
IM, mm, ail MACB1RY MERCHANTS,
Importers of
and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY,
HAIL MTmNa N rp^n™n CON J T^ ACTOK8 ’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS,
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDBRS’
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, &c.
BAR, PLATE. SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSHWARE
FENCING WIRE,
WOOLPACKS
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
\
V'
iSSJeRs
ft
PORTABLE, FIXED
and SB Ml-FIXED EN-
GINES
VERTICAL and HORI-
ZONTAL BOILERS
and other
LATHES. PLANING.
SHAPING, SCREW-
maV°n <, e B DWLLINO
[STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
f FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLED
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER. &c.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
Head Warehouse -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Office -
- 54 YORK STREET.
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR,
SYDNEY.
• r - 85 GRACEOHURCH STREET.
D
ISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Boathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured hy
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Bcautitiors, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers', Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a singlo application of
Cuticura, /the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, aud Dandruff * destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, aud beautifies the Skin.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
With Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-i
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I hate been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin aud Blood;
■ have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy.
slcians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the CoricuiiA Remedies,
which have cured me, aud left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
. Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
Cnti«cura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable iu treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn , and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
C uticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers aud Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
d ruggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and Now
Sbealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
:$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cants i Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $i.oq
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co,, Boston, U.S.A.
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER,
LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOE LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,
Holiday Presents.
W. H. PALING
AND CO. (Limited),
HAVE JUST RECEIVED A MAGNIFICENT SHIPMENT OF
COTTAGE,
UPRIGHT GRAND
SEMI-GRAND,
CONCERT GRAND
PIANOS,
by the
MOST RENOWNED
MAKERS
in the
WORLD.
| AMERICAN
'organs,
I b
BELL and 00.,
PALACE CO.,
STORY and CO.,
at
PRICES to SUIT ALL
CUSTOMERS.
These instruments have been SPECIALLY SELECTED by Mr. W. H. PALING, who is NOW
IN EUROPE, and may justly be considered
TIE GEMEE5T ME MOST fflEECEE SENT
of Musical Instruments ever introduced to Australia.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash ; or Easy Terms.
Mr. PALING has also FORWARDED a COMPLETE ASSORTMENT of
IIUSICiiL BOSSES,
FROM TWO TO SIXTEEN AIRS.
These Goods will be Sold at' Unheard-of Prices.
W. H. PALING & CO.(Limited),
356 GEOKGB STREET, SYDNEY.


W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON and STTBITEIT-
Catalogues Catalogues-
POST FREE.
W. WALKER
and SONS
are one of the
Largest
Stockholders
and
Manufacturers'
m
m
Hijch-tlass
FURNITURE
mum
ENGLAND
POST PRfife;
ALL STOCK
in thcif
[SYDNEY
HOUSE
Supplied
DIRECT
from their
Loudon.
M anufa otor y,
and Latest
London Styles
G UARANTEED
SYDNEY BRANCH :
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Robe Makers.
Trousers from 21s. to 40s.
N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Farmer and Cct.
W. Shearsby & Co., xilbert House, Temple Court, Elizabeth-st,
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
REMEMBER THIS,
IP YOU ABB SICK.
If you art) sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you weu
again when all else tails. ,
If you are comparatively well, but teei
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you arc made a new
being by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any other of the numer-
ous diseases of the stomach or bowels,
it is your own fault if you remain ill,
for
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of all coun-
tries—malarial, epidemic, bilious and in-
termittent fevers—by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, HOP BITTERS
will give you fair skin, rich blood, the
sweetest breath, health, and comfort.
In short, they cure ALL Diseases of
the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver
Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
£500
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in the them.
That poor, bed-ridden, Invalid wife,-
sister, mother or daughter, can bo made
the picture of health by a few hoMAas of
Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
Will you let them suffer?
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doe
tors’ bills to pay.
WeakNeimsMen
S Whose d«blllty, exhausted'
powers* premature decay
and failure to perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
-THE MARSTON BOLUS.
stomach drugging nor
.instruments. This treatment of
Nervous ISe bill ty and
Physical Decay isumfonnly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct methods and absolute thor-
oughness. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician Of
MARSTON REMEDY CO.. 62 CastUreagh St., Sydney
Christmas Presents and N ew
Year’s Gifts I
J" UST RECEIVED, a Large Assort? nentof
Gold & Silver Jowellcjry,
SUITABLE FOB PRESENTS.
Ladies’ Gold Dress Bings, from 10s.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, from £310s.
Gent.’s Silver Watches, from £3 10s.
And other articles too numerous tc, mention.
c . oTa n t ,
WATCHMAKER AND JF jWELLER.
584 George Street, Sydney.
Country Orders promptly fattented to.
SOLE IMPORTER OP
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
SOLE AOBNT FOR THE
SMITH ORGAN.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
MllillllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllHIIIIIIIIIIIIllUHt
m
* am -in,
ram
IVliill
ANALYTICAL. BEPOIIT.
Melbourne.
My examination of a sample of
navnrlan Hop Bitters has elicited
the following among other particulars: It is a
clear, pale fluid of low density (99731) containing'
2 2 per cent, of extract, which is all vegetable, the
ash being nominal, less than many potable waters.
.... They have a pleasant light hop flavour,
modified by presence of other herbal bitters. I
have not been able to find any noxious Ingredient
or injurious contamination. ... I think they
may fully be expected to answer the purpose for
which they are designed.
SYDNEY GIBBONS. F.C.S., Analyst.
DR. fiCOTT’8 ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSH!
A HONEST REMEDY. Prescribed by the BEST PHYSICIANS.
THEY WILL POSITIVELY
a Nervous Headache in 6 minutes I!
I" I 11! t Bilious Headache in 5 minutes 11
I I K r Neuralgia in 5 Minutes 11
U U I 0 8— Falling Hair and Baldness I!
■— Dandruff and Diseases of the Scalp I
Promptly Arrest Premature Grayness. Make the Hair grow long
and Glossy. Immediately Soothe the Weary “ '
Ho. X Hair Brush
Ho. 2 Hair Brush
Ho, 3 Hair Brush
ITo. 4 Hair Brush
Ho. 6 Hair Brush
5s. Od.
7s. 3d.
3s. 6d.
11s. 6d.
13s. 3d.
m
Brain
%
7
M-
-'Tv
Handsome
Dr
BRUSH
Unbreak
Elegantly Ca
ible
The
I
Crewkerne, Nov. 12, 18S0.
Sir, —My patients have given
me a very satisfactory account
of Dr. Scott's Electric flair finish.
One lady assures me that she gets no
neuralgia in her face if sho uses it, and
others state that by r, few minutes’ brush-
ing with the Electric Brush, a nervous headache,
or one arising from overwork or debility, is quickly
removed. The invention is, I think, very valuable.
I am, your obedient servant, G F Wills, ME., M.R.C.S.;®.
From I>T. Lr.MPrur.aK, D. J.J
Gentlemen, —I have known and appreciated the great advanta ,
I feel it my duty, as well as my pleasure, to earnestly rocomr nend
Your Flesh Brush is only one more proof of the enormous fi iture
Broshes are Indeed a wonder, and well worth the money.
Their Boyal Highnesses the PRINCE and PRINCESS of WALES, PRINCE
BISMARCK, and the KING of HOLLAND each use a pair of Dr. Scott’s
Electric Hair Brushes, and a long list of Distinguished Patrons could be pub-
lished, and their Testimony added, did space permit.
The Brush Handle is made of a new odorless composition, resembling ebony 1 a combination
of substances producing a permanent electro-magnetic Current, which acts
immediately upon the Hair Gland* and Follicles. This power can always bo
tested by a silver compass, which accompanies each Brush.
PURE BRISTLED—NOT WIRES. Wire Brushes injure the Scalp,
and cause baldness and irritation.
The Bight Honourable WILLIAM E. GLADSTONE, M.P.,
has written upon the merits of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair
Brushes, and libs added them to his Toilet.
Lady A. CHURCHILL—daughter of the Duke of
Marlborough (hero of Blenheim), and sister of
lord Randolph Churchill, of Parlia-
mentary celebrity—uses them regularly
and thinks them unequalled for
the hair.
Mounted-
Ac., St. John’s College, Oxford. Dec. 28, 1881.
>f your Electric Hair Brush for come time, and, as I find the benefits increasing,
it. No one who has not tried It can possibly imagine how material its comfort is,_
open to the scientific development of useful and beneficial domestic appliances.
Yours faithfully, C. Lbmpriere, D.C.L., &c.
T Send for Circular of
. Scott’s Electric Flesh
Brushes, Corsets, & Belts
for Ladies’ and Gen-
tlemen’s use.
These Brushes oan bo obtained of all Chemists and Fancy Store’ ™,. n
direct to any part of N.9.W. or Queensland open receipt of prlc< ; a named. 1 • it], i„
miUance. can bo made In Cheques, Drafts, P.O. Orders, Stamps, orOnScne] '
crossed Union Bank of Australia, toe that the name of Dr. Sc' Jtt jf 0 T.wXout whidb
none are penninc. ** ulwluuv
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
" 64 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
P.O. BOX 22!.
Mr. Nicholson, of Serpentine Creek, -frerit
jn for some rather questionable fun the other day.
He saw a largo animal with a white head swim-
ming about in the creek. It was about six feet in
length, and of marked obesity. Mr. Nicholson
went down to his bouse for an axe and invited his
IfrlendS to partake in the little amusement. The
white-headed swimmer, seeing the crowd coming
along, and surveying for an instant the face of the
man with the axe, did his best to get out on the
opposite bank. Thereupon the crowd started
round with the axt and stopped him. The
Swimmer accordingly bolted back again. So did
tfae crowd, still with theaie. At last the swimmer
b&ved in, and rested his white head on the bank.
He was watching the crowd to the south of him,
but Mr. Nicholson came from the north with the
axe, and, with one well-aim! d blow, cut the white
head off. This is what they call exciting fun
round about Serpertine Creek. They tied the
head up and sent it off as a curiosity, saying they
believe it to be the head of a groper. Malta
while. What will Mr. Nicholson say when it is
identified as the head of a suburban alderman i
What will the whole crowd say ?
The author of “ Old New Zealand ” relates
a curious experience he once had among the
Maoris. A band of warriors returning from a war
expedition, were mot by the tribe with whom he
lived, and a big feed of pork and potatoes was fol-
lowed by the usual high old blow of speechifying.
Customary on such occasions. Finding the speeches
rather dull, the author took a stroll to a rising
ground at some little distance, where he thought
ne saw a company of natives sitting together.
They appeared to be better dressed than the
common people among the Maoris usually
were. “ I, therefore, concluded,” he siys, “that
they were magnates or personages of some conse-
quence, arid determined to introduce myself. As
l .approached, one of these splendid individuals
nodded to me in a very familiar sort of way, and I,
not to appear rude, returned the salute. I stepped
Into the circle formed by my friends, and had just
commenced a tena kouton when a breeze of
wind came sighing along the hilltop. My Iriend
nodded again; his cloak blow to one side, and
what do I see? or rather what do I not see?
The head has no body under it. All the heads had
been stuck on slender rods, a cross-stick tied on to
represent the shoulders, and the cloaks thrown
over all in such a natural manner as to deceive
anyone at a short distance. I fell back a yard or
two, so as to take a full view of this silent
circle, and felt as if I bad fallen into strange
company. I began to look more closely at my
companions, and to try and fancy what their
characters in life bad been. One had undoubtedly
been a warrior; there was something bold and
defiant about the whole air of the head. Another
was the head of a very old man, grey, shrivelled,
and wrinkled. I was going on with ray observa-
tions, when I was saluted with a voice from behind
—• Looking at the eds, sir ? ’ ‘ Yes,’ said I, turning
round ;quicker than usual. The speaker was a
pakeha whom I had met at the settlement.
•’Eds has been scarce,’says ho. ‘I should think
so,’ says I. ‘ We ain't had a ’ed this long time,’
says'he. ‘The devil ?’ says I. ‘ One o’them’eds
has been badly hurt,’ says he. ‘I should think
all were rather r so,’ says I. ‘Oh.no; only one on
’em,’ says he; ‘ the skull is split, and it won’t fetch
nothin’,’ says he. ‘Oh, Jmurder, I see now,’
says I. ‘’Eds was werry scarce,’ says he,
shaking his own. ‘ They had had to tatoo a slave
a bit ago,’ says he, ‘ and the villain ran away
tatooin’ and all,’ says he. * What ? ’ said I,
‘Bolted before he was fit to kill,’ says he. ‘Stole
off with his own head ?’ says I. ‘ That he did, the
wagabone, ’ says ho.” The author explains, with
regard to the above that the skippers of many of
the colonial trading schooners were always ready
to buy a “ real good head,” and used to commis-
sion such men as this pakeha to pick up a few for
them, it is a positive fact that some after this
the head of a live man was sold and paid for be-
forehand, and afterwards honestly delivered as per
contract. The unmitigated scoundrel of a slave
who ran away with his»own head, after the great
trouble and expense that had beeu gone to in tat-
tooing it to make it more valuable, is no fiction,
either. Even in these good old times people would
sometimes behave in the most disgracefu and dis-
honest manner. But there are good and bad per-
sons to bo found in all times and places. The
appalling villainy of this slave, however, was long
remembered among the Maoris and whalers on the
coast where the crime was perpetrated.


Royal Hotel,
Bungendore:
FIRST CLASS ACCOMMODATION.
J. McK&AHON, Proprietor.
NO MOKE CORNS 1
CORNS AND WABTS removed without pain
by the use of Palmer's Painless,
and Effectual CORN AND WART REMOVER.
This preparation Is the most wonderful ever used
for Corns, Warts, or Bunions. If applied accord-
ing to the directions, it will effectually remove
them in from six to eisht days.
PALMER’S
Kl faci/e
CURA IK
For Neuralgia, either Chronic or Local.
This most wonderful Preparation has surpassed
all others in speedily removing this excruciating
and most distressing complaint. It matters not
how long or severe the suffering has been, a single
bottle has never failed in producing the desired re-
sults : and it can be most contldently recomme dod.
Sold retail by all chemists and druggists and
general stores: wholesale by Messrs Elliott Bros.,
Sydney : E. Prosser and Co., Sydney ; Felton,
Grlmwade. and Co., Melbourne; Kempthorno and
Prosser, Dunedin.
NEUSTADT and CO.,
COMPLETE
FURNISHERS,
39 , 154 , 156, & 158 OXFORD-ST]
SYDNEY.
HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
Either for Cash or Time Payment.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash. Purchasers.
IflANHOOD RESTORED!
A Clergyman having tried every known
remedy for the Cube of Nervous Exhaustion,
Premature Decay, &c., has at last discovered a
simple Self-Cure, which for the sake of suffering
humanity, ho will send FREE the Prescription
which CURED him. Address, with self-addressed
stamped envelope—
Dr. E. A CLARKE, P O. Box 293, Sydney.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strenghtens, and beautifies the hair; it con-
tains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ EALYDOR is a most cool-
ing, healing, and refreshing wash for the face,
hands, and arms, and is perfectly free from any
mineral or metallic admixtures ; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &o.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TTRE pro-
duces immediately a perfect change in red or grey
hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a and per
manent brown or black, whlcVi colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 80, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents: Elliott Bros. E
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING.
WEST END HOUSE,
168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Two Doors from Compagnoni’s.)
THE undersigned, recognising the want of a
FIRST CLASS TAILORING ESTABLISH-
MENT, have OPENED the premises lately occu-
pied by the Bank of Australasia, at 168 PITT-
bTBEET (THE WEST END HOCSE) where they
intend to carry on a High-class and Fashionable
Trade.
The public may feel assured that we shall be
able to maintain a high standard, when we state
that our Mr. Ward has bad some years’ experience
in the best houses in Lo don, Paris, as well as in
first-class Sydney Establishment, namely, Farmer
and Co’s and David Jones and Co.’s.
Our Mr. Wilson has had fully 80 years’ expe-
rience in the Australian trade, and has just re-
turned from England, where be visited all the
principal Woollen Mills, including that of Hud-
derEflel 1, as well as West of England and Scotch
Mills. This will he a sufliclent guarantee that the
tastes and requirements of the public will receive
the attention they deserve.
In conclusion, we desire to say that we hope to
obtain a fair share of patronage, in return for
which we guarantee first-class work, all hand-
made, well shrunk, perfect fit, and all in the latest
London and Paris styles.
Soliciting a trial, we remain,
Very truly yours.
FREDERICK WILSON,
HUGH WARD,
Fashionable Tailors, Rohe and Habit Makers.
West End House,
168 Pitt-street, Sydney.
-A/brsuto.a.anci.’s
Fill©
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy!
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteen lb cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
808 GEORGE STREET.
J.u.
IM.
'CELEBPttf 1 *:
°*&Scot
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINK and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
BOLB AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS,
LITHUANIAN
HAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
’ MANUFACTURER OP THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
THE
The SIMPLEST, CHEAPEST, & BEST MACHINE
ever introduced Into Australia.
EASY TO WORK, EASY TO LEARN,
EASY TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Machine In the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modern
Science, and of the Best Possible Materials.
Sold on TIME PAYMENTS la Town and Country.
Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE to
any part of the colony.
B. O. Holtermann & Co.,
Son® Agents,
674 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.'S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-straet,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
1 DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
&T" Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect nt
guatantecd.
A. & C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse ,
318 GEORGE STREET.
Next Peapes and Shaw.
The most liberal house for Pianos and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Invited,
A. & C. ZZuenerbein,
318 GEORGE STREET.
W. H. GHARD AND GO.
WOOL BROKERS.
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
LIBERAL ADVANCES made on WOOL er
other PRODUCE shipped to their London
Agents, Messrs. Redfern, Alexander and Co., 3
Groat Winchester-street, B.C.
The Careful Personal Supervision of this well-
known firm is given to all consignments.
DENTIST.
■ ■ ■
I (Of America)
G UARANTEES
Print Fit ail Matin.
PRICES MODERATE.
Corner George and Market Streets.
OVER HUNTER’S BOOT PALACE.
SulpHoline
Lotion,
the cure for skin diseases I
K ®ssSTSi
Sci? Made only by J. PEPPER and Co., London
peppers
QUININE & IRON
" k ~- y , tonic
r HR AT BODILY STRENGTH I
TREAT NERVE STRENGTH I
nnPAT MENTAL STRENGTH 1
r rkaT DIGESTIVE STRENGTH follows the U88
‘of PBPPE1PS QUININE and IKON TONIC.. It
nromotcs appetite, dispels langupr, depression.
L c la a remedy for Neuralgia, Cnest alfections,
wnd wasting diseases. Bottles, & doses. Sold bj
riiemists everywhere. Insist on having 1 epper s
Made solely by J. PEPPER and Co.. London,
Special'y suitable for the colonies.
XdOclr^rer’s
SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
THE BEST. THE SAFEST. THE CHEAPEST.
Restores the Colour in a few applications.
Large Bottles. Is. 6d. Made in London.
mm
or
life
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL W0EK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mill are Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses maybe
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt tins should pur-
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
or Self Preservation. A book for every man, young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows bow lost health may be
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
any physician. 300 pages, boundinheautiful French cloth,
fall gilt, guaranteed to he a finer work in every sense than
amv other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will be refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
modal awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
* The Science of Life should he read by the young for
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all. —London Lancet.
Address the World’s Dispensary Medical As- Ilf A I
sooiation, or Dr. W. R. Parker, No. 69 Hunter f| L M L
Street, Sydney, N.S.W. The author may TUVQFI F
be consulted on all diseases requiring I fl I OLLI
skill, secrecy, and experience.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OFA1LTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
MOULTON’S
[VER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON’S
atJlT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
a can prove what we say. There are no failures and nc
sappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
1 /BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
EPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relievo distress from too
jarty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
imulato the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
HE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
n6wn, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of fruit)
hey ore as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to bo.
jgold Everywhere, /Price li. 3«1.
c. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor
MfAlS
TONIC NERVINE
aBGIBTBRBD.
A SAFE, CERTAIN. & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache. Nervousness, Indigestion. Loss oi
Appetite. Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints. Loss of Vital Power, &c. By its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
tor Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL B
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4s. 6d., or 25s. a case.
Sole Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS, M.P.8.
Manufacturing and consulting Chemists, 104 and
108 Market-street, near Hyde Park, Sydney, and
B Pltt-street, Circular-quay. TAKE NO SC B8TI-
TUTB.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
IS
• H
£8
||»
Hi
&
</>
*13®
8
3
n
o
0? to m
11 o ©•
\
3$
►
Cj
on
n
rt
!«
3
'rzr
ft $
3
3
%
o
£
©
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOU^EN^ELLEO
A
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
J
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
3c3elia/tole Svig-grles!
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING-, Merchant & Importer
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)


A POPULAR MINSTREL MADE HAPPY;
OR, FROM JEST TO EARNEST.
“ For seven years,” writes Mr. Horace Bent, of
the Federal Minstrels, “I have suffered from tn
acute neuralgic affection of the right knee and
rheumatic gout, which became so severe during
our season at the ‘ Gaiety ’ in September, ’83, that
was obliged to relinguish the active duties of my
profession and keep my room for a couple of days.
I had tried several strong liniments at various
times, some of which gave me partial relief. In
the course of my lecture and sketches I had fre-
quently mentioned, jocularly, St. Jacobs Oil; but
it never occurred to me to apply it to my own ail-
ments until a friend who happened to be in my
room whilst I Avas complaining of intense pain re-
minded me of its claims, and sent out for a bottle
right away. I used a little of it immediately, and
found instant re ief, repeating the application
again later on in the evening. From that night I
have never felt either the neuralgic affection of
the knee or the rheumatic aout return, and I
would have sent you this acknowledgment earlier
but I thought it best to thoroughly establish tht
permanence of the effect; and have to subscribv
myself a firm believer in the virtues of St. Jacobs
Sold by all chemists and druggists in N.S.W.
price 3s. 6d. per bottle.
Printed and Published by Thb Bulletin News-
paper Op. (Limited), 24 Pitt-st., Sydney, N.8.W.
CAROLS OF COCKAIGNE.
(BY OUR OWN AHENT-QENERAL.)
London, January 23.
The biographer of the Rev. Dr. Dodd (who
was hanged for forgery a hundred years ago)
relates in the preface to Dodd's “ Prison Thoughts’
that at one period in his strange career the doctor
•‘sank so low as to become a newspaper editor.
But it is the Stage, and not the Press, just no w
which Is being made to feel the force of the insult
offered to “theprofession,” when Augustus, to de-
grade a certain patrician who was his enemy, con-
demned him to be a “ mummer.” 4 recent num-
ber of the leading paper of the United Stales, the
NT. Herald, contains a splendid satire on the
modern stage. Here it is:—“Miss Harriett Jay
assumed the role of the youth, the Hon. Cecil
Brookfield. In the first act she wore loose white
trousers, and the venerable gentlemen in the front
row took very little interest in the play. The rear
view of Miss Jay's legs was certainly very unsatis-
factory, for they seemed to be bulky and given to
Inclining inward at the knees. There was a plea-
sant surprise in the second act, when Miss Jay s
legs appeared in velvet knickerbockers and black
stockings. They were plumplsb, light-comedy
sort of legs, but very vague in the region of the
knickerbockers, where the general appearance
was that of decided stoutness. Miss Jay is two
inches taller and a few pounds heavier than Lord
Abercrombie, and when she cried defiantly ‘Hit
one of your size,’ she made a fine comedy hit.
Throughout the last act her legs were clad in tight
grey stockings and shooting breeches. In this she
made her best points tell,” The Refere ’, an
organ of London theatricals, says of the foregoing
extract:—" This is the sort of thing which in Ame-
rica passes for dignified journalism.” The huge
humour of tho Yankee writer is lost on the crass
Englishman, who cannot perceive that It la the
Stage and not the Press which is degraded by such
a criticism. Tho N.Y. Herald says, in so many
words, that the audience merely went to see Miss
Jay’s legs—that when they saw more of them they
were pleased, and that when they saw less of them
they didn’t like it at all—in other words, that all
certain gushing and interested persons say about
the morality and refining influence of theatres and
acting, and theatrical managers, is sheer bunkum.
♦ * *
The theatrical morality question is up-
permost just now. Mr. F. C. Burnand, the well-
known dramatic author and editor of London
Punch, has written a paper in the Fortnightly
Review, wherein he plainly and plumplysefs down
nis deliberate conviction that no woman, save she
who is the daughter of theatrical parents and has
been, so to speak, born on the stage, can now-a-
days get her living as an actress and remain pure
In soul or body. At this “ the profession,” natur-
ally enough, froths at the mouth.
* * *
Mr. Burnand, who is, perhaps, best known
as the author of “ Happy Thoughts,” is an Oxford
man, and now about 42. Some years ago, be was
’verted to Roman Catholicism through the strange
Influence of Newman operating on a mind en-
slaved by punning. At first ho Intended to become
a priest, but as the punning more than kept pace
with the piety, he abandoned the idea and took to
writing burlesques.
• * •
It is related by Burnand that, after his
“ ’version,” and while at a H.C. college presided
over by tho attenuated gentleman who is now
“Cardinal ” Manning, he was moved by heaven to
undertake the spiritual enlightenment of his
father, a rugged old heretic of a country gentle-
man, for whose edification he wrote an elaborate
theological treatise. This he decided, in the first
place, to submit to his venerable preceptor, Dr.
Manning, on whom he accordingly waited. Dip-
ping his hand into tho wrong pocket of his cleri-
cal-cut coat, he presented a bulky M.8. to the aged
ecclesiastic, saying that he would like the Doctor’s
opinion on it, as he was about to transmit the pre-
lection to his father. Manning commenced to read
it with a grave face, and, without relaxing a
muscle, waded page by page through a mass of
puns and comic ballads of the “ Cinderella ” order,
which have since been worked up in many a “ leg-
piece” for Nelly Favlen at the Gaiety Theatre.
Then he carefully folded it up, and, with an un-
moved countenance, said: “Mr. Burnand, I do not
advise you to send this to your father.”
♦ * *
It has already been stated that Burnand is
editor of that most ghastly of all : so-called
“ comic ” papers, Punch. As F. C. B. is a good
Catholic, the poor old Pope, who used to serve as
a kind of Aunt Sally for the staff in the palmy
days of Douglas Jerrold and John Leech, now en-
joys a complete rest for 49 weeks in tho year.
During the balance of the f2 weeks Burnand goes
off, in one of his pious fits, for a little “ meditation
and seclusion,” and at this period Burnand gets
very much worse and Punch very much better.
Burnand, no doubt, composed bis theatrical essay,
“ Behind the Scenes,” in a fit of piety—probably
as an act of practical contrition for having in bis
time married two minor actresses. However this
may be, it is certain that “Behind the Scenes”
forms the severest indictment of the stage which
has yet appeared in any secular paper. To read it
would afford infinite solace to Dean Cowper and
tho Social Purity Society of Sydney.
* * *
Doctor Johnson was a good man and true,
and though he tolerated David Garrick—whom he
allowed no one to abuse but himself—he had tho
utmost contempt for acting and actors. One
night, so Bothwell tells us, he went behind the
scenes as Drury Lane, and began to talk loudly
while Garrick lay in the middle of the stage in the
death-throes of the aged Lear—one of his finest
bits of “mumming.” On someone asking him to
“respect Mr. Garrick's feelings,'and lower his
voice,” “Sir,” said the great old Doctor, “Punch
has no feelings.” Johnson, it would appear, also
recognised tho inherent immorality of the institu-
tion, for, on another occasion, he remarked to
Garrick: “Davy, 1 shall come no more behind
your scenes, for the short skirts and plump bosoms
of your actresses excite my amorous propensities.”
It’s just as well for brave old Samuel's peace of
mind that he can’t visit Drury Lane pantomime of
to-night under the refined amplcea of “ Gus ” and
“ Charlie ” ’Arris.
• * *
Mr. John Hollingshead has been inter-
viewed on this subject of “Theatrical Immo-
rality.” Mr. H., who is known as “Practical
John,” was formerly sub-editor of the Daily
News, and is not only famous as manager of the
Gaiety Theatre, but also as the man who intro-
duced to Li ndon Sara Bernhardt, and the best of
the French companies which have ever crossed
the Channel. He is a clever, well-educated cynical
man who cannot humbug himself as many of his
more ignorant managerial confreres contrive or
pretend to do. He is, in every way, worthy of
being regarded as a superior type of manager, as
managers go, now-a-days, and this is what, wiih
brutal frankness, he says in print;-“Tbe masher
is not a patron of my theatre. I take it he goes
to any theatre which gives him what he wants—
physical beauty and snort skirts, rows of pretty
faces and shapely limbs.” Hero, to bo sure, we
have a noble artistic ideal! To “ give the ‘masher’
what he wants ’’—that is apparently the end and
aim of Mr. Hollingshead’s work at tho Gaiety. In
another part of the conversation he has set forth
his estimate of Stage essentials in a form even
more precise, thougn not quite so broad. “ I want
in a woman a pretty face, a sympathetic voice, a
lissom figure, a good presence . . . There is no
profession so easy to succeed in. Take the case of
a young woman, if she can read and write, and is
not afflicted with the h malady.” It such a young
person has a “good appearance, a good voice, a
good figure,” fortune awaits her on the Gaiety
boards. In the course of fifty nights she has an
opportunity of displaying her charms before
thirty thousand people, including—Mr. Hollings-
head reverently adds-tho pick of Society. Brains
are immaterial. Aptitude for acting is not much
of a consideration. If only the young person
“tritk the shapely liipba and no repugnance to
showing them” will wait, she will achieve the
happiness denied to the foolish maidens who stay
at home and keep house for their mothers. Some
one or other of the thirty thousand spectators will
fall a captive to the ‘‘young person”—or the
young person will fall a captive to him.
'■ * • •
But, it is objected by the Stage’s cham-
pions, all this only applies to the Gaiety, which is i
a burlesque house. Then let us take what is sup-
posed to be high-class poetic drama. Let us visit
“ Claudlan ” at the Princess’s, and ask ourselves
what has attracted the sons of idle men, aud still
more idle women, to the house nightly. Mr.
Wilson Barrett, as the hero, is made up to look the
very ideal of a lascivious and almost nude youth.
Mr. Wills, the author of the play, Intended the
heroine to be a lowly farmer s daughter, living in
rustic simplicity. She appeared, in the person of
Miss Eastlake, in a gorgeous silken robe fitting like
serpent’s skin to the figure, of which every move-
ment is shor.n—her arms, neck, and shoulders
bare, her fingers covered with diamond rings.
This is High Art. Watch the fhces of the
men and women in the stalls, and say whether the
actors’ habiliments are not far less modest than
nakedness—whether the high-class “Claudius”
(in blank verse), as here represented, is not far
more suggestive than all the “ short-skirt ” pieces
put together. The conclusion is inevitable that
the glittering and seductive pageants of Hollings-
head. who glories in his shame, are at least as
moral (they are more honest and open) as the
“ aesthetic ” spectacles witnessed in the fashionable
hot-house of Wilson Barrett, and in 20 other
theatres In London.
* * *
Burnand, who apparently writes more in
sorrow than in anger, tells us that the Stage of
to-day is utterly and hopelessly immoral. He
himself has written all sorts of pieces, from the
virtuous and high-toned comedy down, or up, to
the most leggy of burlesques, aud as he has been
nearly all his life about theatres, he ought to
know. Hollingshoad, when appealed to on the
subject, tells us plainly and bluntly that he “ deals
in legs—that he is a big merchant,” that you
“ can’t padlock an actress’s eyes and keep her from
winking at the stalls,” and that “ it is not his busi-
ness what she does when she leaves the theatre.”
* * :V
Mr. “Johnny ” Toole is out with a most
indignant, but very weak attack on his “ dear
friend ” Burrand. It is sincerely to be hoped that
Toole does not say all that is to be said on the
other side of the question, for if pe does, the case
for the prosecution must be. considered proved.
“Johnny ” asserts that “ the actor is content with
bis social status, which is equal to that of the
soldier, the painter, the doctor, the literary man.
or any other profession. The which is of oourde
mere bosh. For even those who hold that the
actor Is the social equal of the doctor or the
soldier, must admit that be is not, and never has
been so regarded, “Many of our statesmen,
lawyers, doctors, aad members of the literary pro
fessions,” continue Mr. Toole, “ have chosen their
wives from the stage.” Which (thouRh I should
be sorry Indeed to asperse in any way the ladies
of the profession) is a very bad argument indeed,
considering that several eminent Australian
Judges have married their cooks, and that per-
haps the greatest modern English authority on
jurisprudence got his wife from the pavement.
The Stage of to-day needs a more logical apologist
than Mr. J. L. Toole.
» * *
To the unbounded delight of the entire
theatrical profession, Mrs. Langtry’s debut as a
manageress, before a moat brilliant assemblage,
has been signalised by an undoubted failure. The
newspapers are almost unanimous in their con-
demnation, and the objections made are based on
different grounds. One journal calls Dumas’s
“ La Princesse Georges’’—tor such is the name of
the play— “ A Milliner’s Triumph,” which is satis-
factory, perhaps, in the sense that most of the
successful pieces nowa-days are destitute of mil-
linery and every other kind of clothes. The piece
is denounced in most influential journals as an
outrageously immoral affair, whose production is
an insult to virtue and an eternal disgrace to the
official Examiner of Plays. Its plot is simplicity
itself, but cannot be fully described without a
liberal use of the language found, as a rule, only
in the records of the court presided over by our
excellent judge of loving spouses, Mr. Windeyer.
In Act 1. the Princess discovers that her husband
is carrying on with her most intimate friend, Syl-
vanle—the Princess forgiving her husband because
she is passionately fond of him. In Act 3 the Prin-
cess discovers that her husband has once more de-
ceived her and has renewed the intrigue. She
turns Sylvanie out of her house at a ball where
she is reigning hello, and informs the husband of
Sylvanie that his wife has a lover. In Act 3 the
Princess is informed of two things—fire t, that her
husband intends to run away with Sylvanie ;
secondly, that Sylvanie’s husband Intends to' shoot
the lover, whoever he may be. She hesitates
whether to give the Prince up to death or not.
He decides the question by rushing out to his
doom. A shot is heard. Enter the Prince. What,
not dead ? Who, then, is killed? Lover No.31 a
poor innocent sparrow of a lad. “ Pauvre en-
fant;” observes an excellent lady. “Rubbish!”
replies the redhanded murderer; “ Moi, jetuerai
quiconque touchera a cette femme qui est a
moi.” Whereupon replies a sententious servant:
“ II tuerait le monde. Je vais le faire arreter.”
Mrs. Langtry’s fizzle is due, in great parti to her
having: tried to play a too naughty piece in too
nice a way. She emasculated Dumas’ “Society
drama” by leaving out the bits that were too
shocking. She “toned it down,” as the 8.M.
Hebald reporter said of his editor in the Clontarf
case. Willing to wound, she was yet “afraid to
strike.” She hesitated, and was lost. While toy-
ing with Cupid, she caught sight of Diana. She
spared her sheep, and has been metaphorically
hauged for her innocent little lamb. Casting aside
the question of her rather feeble acting, the
Jersey Lily's squeamishness has ruined the chances
of her first piece. For instance, in the second act,
where the Princess drives her rival from the
house, she answers in the original his demand
“Why?” with the words: “Parceque tu es la
maitrjsso de raon mari; parceque tu as passe la
nuit dernlere avec lui; parceque tu viens chez moi
me braver, me voler mon bonheur, ma vie, mon
ame; parceque je te hais et te mdprise; parceque
tu os la derniore des titles perdues.” In Mrs. Lang-
try’s version, the two opening phrases are cut out,
and so the sentence is utterly bereft of force. Ada
Ward was to have played in “ Princess Georges,
but her part was taken at the last moment by
Amy Kos.'-tte, an actress who so splendidly imper-
sonated Cynisca at the Lyceum that she played
Mary Anderson right out of the piece.
• * *
But Mrs. Langtry, though she now must
change her bill, will yet succeed managerically.
She is “ a woman of mind.” When last she went
to America she took with her, as “leading man.”
an exquisite who, after the manner of many lead-
ing men, was all cuffs, hair-oil, and impudence.
One day this high-toned young person—who had
been accustomed to deal very familiarly with
“ leading ladies ’’—airily bounced into the theatre
at rehearsal with a cigar in his mouth and con-
tinued to smoko in the presence of the Lily, whose
remonstrance on the subject was most ungraci-
ously received. Whereupon Mrs. Langtry took
unto herself another leading man; and, though
she paid her English friend his full weekly salary
of £35, as contracted, for the full term, did not
allow him to play with her once during the tour.
• • *
News of General Stewart’s “glorious vic-
tory” over the Arabs (“ some of whom,” savs the
Times, “were armed with rifles”) arrives just as
Europe is debating whether we shall not be evicted
from Egypt with costs. Thus our desert triumph
is but Dead-sea fruit. Mr. Gladstone is urged to
resist the Powers. We have in Europe two possi-
ble allies—Italy and Turkey—one of which would
bo invaded and the other partitioned on making the
slighest sign. Our navy, we are told, is in a rotten
state; part of our army is in Egypt, partin South
Africa, and we are to have “another Afghan
war.”
An Arab spear-thrust has put an end to the
martial ardour of that unquiet spirit. Colonel Fred.
Burnaby, who stood six feet five in his stockings,
and was a fine specimen of a pugnacious sporting
Englishman. He liked shooting men just as he
liked shooting pigeons. For years past he has
been fighting desperate elections, making long ex-
peditions into never-never lands, going up in bal-
loons, or “potting” savages, either as a regular
soldier or as a volunteer. At El Teb ho killed 40
Arabs with a shot-gun. This may not have been
very valorous, but Burnaby was a rare plucked
one, and would have neen equally delighted to
shoot Germans or Frenchmen. Such enthusiasti-
cally warlike tendencies may have been utterly
out of harmony with the spirit now dominant in
British politics; but, deny it who may, Colonel
Fred. Burnaby was a fellow of the sort which, in
the words of Cromwell, has “ made the name of
Englishman feared throughout the world.”
• * *
Joseph Co wen, the great Radical Impe-
rialist, is very ill. In the office of his journal,'the
Newcastle Chronicle, the late Ebenezer Syme,
founder of the Melbourne Age, got his journalistic
training, and it was Mr. Cowen, who lent Ebenezer
the £50 which took him to Australia—a loan subse-
quently repaid. But the gallant and honoured
Ebenezer discharged his debt in more ways than
one—for is not the name of his eldest son, now
junior partner in the Age, “Joseph Cowen”
Symel
* *
George Augustus Sala, who is lecturing in
America en route for Australia, seems to have
made a great success. Here is a new story about
GA.S. At an evening party ho was introduced to
Attenborough, the illustrious London pawn-
broker, whom he gravely bowed to, and calmly-
surveyed from head to foot. At last he said (with
visions in his mind’s eye of the little box-like com-
partments, with the counters waist-high): “lam
glad to meet you, Mr. Attenborough—I have never
seen your legs before.
* * ♦
The other day I read a poem, by one F. P.
Swinborne, which reminded me much of Sladen,
whose style has evidently become popular in Eng-
land. Here is a piece from F. P. :—
“ Gustavus took up his residence
In the Elector’s palace in the town he had won,
And the sweets his Swedes experience
Of hard-earn'd rest now the campaign is done.”
Sladen is still here—still writing letters to the
Morning Post, and churning out verses for pub-
lication. He, alas I has not;yet learned that
A man no more can make himself a poet
Than a sheep can go and make itself a go-et.
Edmund Yates, of the World, has gone
to gaol as a first-class misdemeanant for four
months for bis alleged libel on Lord Lonsdale, and
Edmund’s son has married a gushing and musical
widow. Which Is the more direful fate may be
partially gathered from the aphorisms of the
elder Mr. Weller. A flrst-claes misdemeanant is
allowed by the gaol regulations to drink half-a
pint of wine (or one pint of beer), and to receive
one newspaper and several visitors daily. Before
marching off to prison, Mr. Yates expressed
a hope that the newspaper people would let him
alone during the incarceration. However, the
Press men generally don’t much pity the man who,
with a view to saving his own skin, gave up the
name of his contributor. By-the-way, Messrs.
Ramsay and Foote, of the Freethinker, when
imprisoned for blasphemy, were treated as com-
mon misdemeanants. It would thus appear that
insulting a lord means one thing, ahd insulting the
Lord quite another. They have in England an
idea that the Almighty Maker of all things is help-
less and needs protection. Thank Heaven, we are
still a religious and a lord-loving people!
• • •
The British hangman has been busy lately,
and has just professionally attended several Eng-
lish and Irish gentlemen who had loved their
sweethearts even unto cutting their windpipes.
In one case, that of a love-mad billiard-marker,
Horace Jay, the culprit, who desperately at-
tempted suicide, had his neck carefully mended at
the hospital only in order that he might have it care-
fully broken at the gallows. Now, had Jay merely
cut his own throat and died, the Intelligent
coroner’s jury would have returned a verdict of
temporary insanity; but, as he cut his own throat
and the girl’s throat, too, and lived, the Court de-
cided that he was accountable for his actions.
Thus, if you cut one throat you are irresponsi-
ble; if you cut two throats you are responsible-
provided you don’t die. British law is, indeed, as
Sir James Martin observes, but the essence of
common-sense. And, by-the-way, they have guil-
lotined at Dijon one Monsieur Marquis, who had
shot a judge and the judge's son, and who, on the
scaffold, said he hated the bourgeois and their
wretched social system, and gloried in having had
his revenge. At the autopsy a fungoid growth
was found on the brain of Marquis, who must
have been mad.|Truly an exquisite satire'on medi-
cal jurisprudence. How happy we should be to
think that the more scientific doctors of Australia
never allow an insane man to be executed I Bah I
What a hideous farce is this pretence of estimat-
ing human responsibility—this grim blasphemous
mockery by which, in the name of the Omniscient,
you put a rope around a "man’s throat and cast
him out into the darkness.” d
* • *
There has been some trouble at Hoxton,
a London suburb, where the Reverend Vicar
Puttock, wishing to become a full blown profes-
sional instead of a mere amateur priest, erected in
the local Anglican Church a confessional, concern-
ing which the ewe lambs of hia flock had naturally
much curiosity. They longed, like the boy with
the corpulent doll, to “see what was inside”—
they yearned to eat the mysterious forbidden
fruit, j ust as our good mother Eve yearned to bite
the golden pippin. Some of the Hoxton males
objected. There was a scuffle during service in
which the curtains were torn down. A police
court case followed, and the curate, when asked
what the confession-box was used for, replied that
“ it had nothing to do with him ’’—meaning, possi-
bly, that it had a good deal to do with his rever-
ence the Vicar. “Ah, my friend?,” once ex-
claimed a witty Melbourne auctioneer, when put-
ing up for sale a copy of Michelet's “Priests,
Women, and Families”—“Ah, my friends, is it not
astonishing how those three things go together?”
That “Pieter.”
“ We’s got in for a good thing,” said one
lobster-coated hero, who was seated next a fat
old woman who had been plying him with
comfort and something from a bottle in the
bows of the troopship. “ We’s got in for a good
thing.” “What’s up?” asked a paladin next to
him, who had been awakened out of a delicious
dream of heaving rocks at some picnic pavilion
for a "lork.” “Why?” whined the others; “it
seems them Mahdis is terrors. They’re not a bit
like this ere picter what I got guv me ’for
I listed. Why, lookit here. These coves has
got real guns, and instead of runnfn’ away
from the English, they run arter ’em. No
sooner was I passed by the doctor than
they let mo run through the barricks; and the
first thing I came across on one of the tables was
this here, of which says the readln’ which belongs
to the picter thero’s 380,000. Look.” And he laid
down on the deck an engraving of a seven-foot
Arab on an 18-hand charger. “ Scissors ! ” ex-
claimed Warrior E, ruefully; “ I wish I was back
at the wood-carting. They wasn’t bad times.
D’you mind the day I flung a stone through old
Grooby’s window, and knocked his sister Sal'8
eye out. That wasn’t bad sport.” But his com-
panion in arms did not respond. His soul was
burled in gloom. At length, turning to the
old lady, he said in broken tones : “ You—
you’re my mother, aint yer?” “I is,” re-
plied the old lady, who was consoling her-
self with sandwiches. “Do you love me,
mother ? ” he asked, in a quavering voice.
“Yes, son; I does. See what I done for you. Mind
the time you kerosined old Doodle’s pug ? You’d
a got a sixer, if I hadn’t a ‘ squared ’ it for a couple
of 4 stiffs.’ Then you was fined £6 different times
last quarter, and when you knocked that there
Bed Kate’s teeth out I ” “ Yes, yes, mother,”
interrupted her son, nervously; “1 know. But
time passes. Mother,” he sobbed, “do you want
your son’s bones to bleach on an Arab strand?”
44 What I” cried the old lady, 44 don’t they bury
yez ? Why I thought,” looking round, “ that all
these old gents in black was undertakers engaged
a purpose.” The dutiful son eyed her askance for
a moment, and then said, “ Look here, I want to
cut this. Come down in the rope-hole and let’s
change clothes. It was all the fashion in the
holden time.” “ But I could never get in to them
regiminstrels,” cried the poor woman. 44 Yes, you
can. Come along,” he cried, dragging her up—
“ have a little perseverance, mother, and you’ll lace
in.” But it was too late. The last bell sounded,
the old lady was hustled off, and Bill is now well
on his road to glory,
THAT “PIOTER.”
