

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No, 87.—New Series.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 10, 1885
Price—6d.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 10, 1885.
A Grand Conspiracy.
A oauleqram recently stated that the Con-
tinental press generally admitted that
Prince Bismarck has been directing his
foreign policy to discredit and, if possible
break down the Gladstone Cabinet in
England. This has elicited in various quar-
ters the reasonable objection that Bismarck
is not in the habit of communicating his
projects and motives to the Press, unless
when to do so will help to the aecomolith-
ment of his aims; and that nothing could be
better calculated to strengthen the Cabinet
of Mr. Gladstone in Great Britain than the
knowledge that a foreign minister was in-
triguing for its fall. This objection is per-
fectly reasonable; but it entirely fails to
cover the ground. The motives of even so
astute a diplomat as the German Chancellor
are not capable of concealment in all cases.
There are other ways of discovering plots
besides the confessions of the conspirators*
It is open for any man who watches the
course of events to draw inferences, and,
while it is in the highest degree improbable
that Bismarck would declare a purpose of
discrediting the present Administration of
Great Britain, it is quite probable that the
signification of his proceedings has become
so obvious that, throughout Europe, jour-
nalists have simultaneously arrived at the
same conclusion as to what his objects are.
Bismarck is a master of diplomatic tricks.
He is the champion liar of Europe. No one
can absolutely tell whether what is obvious
in the course of his policy is meant to be
obvious, and intended as a feint to cover
deeper designs of a totally different nature,
or whether universal observation and rea-
soning, inductive and deductive, have pene-
tiated real purposes. There is no room for
doubt' respecting the public and positive
unfriendliness of the German Prime Minister
with respect to the present Government of
Great Britain. It was Bismarck who chiefly
encouraged the British Cabinet to resort to
extreme courses with respect to Egypt—
courses which many writers, ourselves
among the number, protested against at the
time as being calculated to rupture the
cordial friendship till then subsisting be-
tween France and England, and to furnish
not.a point of strength but a weak and
vulnerable place in the event of England
ever being embroiled with a European
power. This was, of course, apart from the
immoral side of the affair-the stifling of a
national growth and the maintenance of a
system of plunder. Since landing England
inextricably in the Egyptian fix, Bismarck
has not failed to use the advantage thus se-
cured. His support has been given to the
reclamations of irritated France when the
English Cabinet sought, in her perplexity,
alleviation for the financial responsibilities
which fell upon her as the real Government
of Egypt. In Southern Africa, Bismarck
has held out a hand of distinct encourage-
ment to the Boers, and in other parts of
that continent has demonstratively set an
example of competition for territory, while
countenancing and encouraging every claim
antagonistic to British pretensions. He has
just unceremoniously flouted the British
Government by wholesale annexation in the
Pacific—snapped up under the very nose ot
British squadrons, Commodores, Special
Commissioners, and other representatives
of the might, bravery, and wisdom of Great
Britain.
» • *
These proceedings appear to us more sug-
gestive of contempt than indicative of a
design to provoke a war, as some writers
have chosen to regard them. That there is
ill-feeling, seems unquestionable. But that
there is either a purpose of proceeding to
actual open violence, or even an expectation
that England will be aggravated to the point
of an appeal to arms, we do not believe. No
man can tell what is the purpose of the
modern Maohiavelli; but there are ample
and suggestive materials for rational specu-
lation. Our impressions are that Bismarck
otfer-estimates the patience and under-esli-
mates the pride of Britons, and reckons that
he can secure all he wants iu the way of colo-
nizing prestige for Germany and correspond-
ing loss of prestige by Great Britain, with-
out being interfered with. The cynical
effrontery of his methods appear as part of
his plan for disgracing, not the present
Ministry of England merely, but the British
as a Power. It needs not a Bismarck to
know that a Liberal Cabinet in England is a
peaceful Cabinet, and that, in the event of
war, the Tories generally come to the front
and into power. The course pursued by
Bismarck is certainly such as tends, if per-
severed in, to bring about the fall of the
Gladstone Ministry. The people of Eng-
land must become impatient ,of a Govern-
ment which subjects the nation to be foiled
and flouted at every turn. But if the
Liberals were thrown out for such a reason,
and Prince Bismarck’s friends, the Tories,
suceeded to office, it would be pledged to a
war. And only by briskly plunging into
war could the Tories, in such case, hope to
hold on to office. This, we reckon, is not
what Prince Bismarck is planning for.
There is a factor in the political problem
which we have not yet referred to, but
which has to be taken into account, and
which, it seems to us, constitutes the key of
the whole situation. Readers will not ha'-e
lost recollection of the recent meeting of the
three despotic sovereigns who remain in
Europe. The progress of liberty has reduced
all monarchs iu the civilized world to the
status of mere hereditary Presidents of re-
publican communities, with these three ex-
ceptions. And the course of events persists
in the same direction. The hereditary Presi-
dents are every day threatened with pro-
gressive deprivations. The servile adula-
tion of their persons, which is a survival
from the time when the Roman Emperors
were worshipped also as gods incarnate, is
nearly at an end. Only the meanest natures
now voluntarily beslobber the average men
and women who wear crowns, who. stripped
naked, could not be distinguished from
cleaners of closets, and who, instead of
beiur abler or better than the average
man or woman, are ordinarily corrupted by
their surroundings and the temptations due
to their false and artificial situation into
being stupid and vicious, even their best
qualities being invariably disfigured by a
monstrous and iniquitous pride. On every
hand and in every European nation there
has been a birth of mind among the masses,
and the pretensions of the few to live in
idleness upon the industries of the many is
becoming more disputed every year. Here-
ditary pretensions to rule without ability or
merit are concurrently criticized The arti-
zan has set the example of iusistance that he
shall have a fair share of what his labour
produces, Trade*’ Unions &ave pot yet
conquered and abolished King Capitalist,
but they have reduced him to a constitu-
tional so rereign ty. The people —the vulgar
—are mastering the aristocracy, and the
logical consequence of modern ideas and
principles already in recognised vogue must
necessarily subvert the entire existing order
of rrraogements. People require a sufficient
reason for everything. They are not satis-
fied that a man should be regarded as great
because his great-great-grandfather was
great. They are not content that a man
should be a ruler because his great-great-
grandfather was the offspring of a liaison
between a tyrant and a titill. They are
not content that a man should enjoy wealth
and luxuries which he has not personally
earned or produced. They are not content
that a man’s gains should be proportioned
to his capacity for taking advantage of the
industry of his fellows. The new idea is
that a man is entitled to so much as he per-
sonally is capable of producing, or its equi-
valent, by honest exchange. If these con-
ceptions be permitted to grow, and are car-
ried into practice, the era of castes and pri-
vileges—of unearned increments, and mono-
polies, which demoralize those who hold
them, and reduce to misery and debasement
those who do not—is hastening to a close.
Democracy represents to-day the motto that
“ Right is right.” Despotism represents the
motto that “Might is might.” Conservatism
is the handmaid of Despotism.
♦ • *
Now, Despotism is in dire straits. As we
have pointed out, but three despotic Sove-
reigns remain in Europe, where, prior to the
English Revolution of 1GS8, all mnnarcha
were despots, and until the French Revolu-
tion just about a century later (1789-1792)
all monarchs except the Sovereigns of Great
Britain were absolute. The historical and
revolutionaiy cycle has again revolved*
Another century has elapsed, and a repeti-
tion of the centennial movement of the
peoples is indicated in every country. The
three Emperors remain in a position to offer
open resistance. They have still a party.
Every class of men and every individual man
who is instinctively conscious that his con-
dition is superior to his personal deserts, or
that he enjoys more than he produces, is a
partizan of despotic government. The case
of all such individuals is identical in princi-
ple with the case of the sovereign or the
noble who squeezes from his fellow-men
wealth to be spent in gratifying his personal
indulgences, in ministering to his pride, and
m making secure his advantage. The three
Emperors are the last hope of the system of
artificial inequalities of condition. They see
that system crumbling around them. In it«
universal disintegration their own citadels
are involved. They cannot hope to suppress
the efforts of their own subjects for con-
stitutional rights, if every country but
their own fell into democratic government.
France and England are two mighty nations
where liberal ideas grow and develop with-
out restraint, and where at this moment the
actual demos— the classes hitherto held iu
bondage, denied the right to have a voice in
their own government, and consequently
incapacitated from preventing the plunder
of labour by capital and privilege being in-
corporated in the laws of their country—aro
stretching a strong baud towards the reins
of power. The case of despotism and Privi-
lege is hopelessly lost, unless the systems
of Government in France and England be
stamped out. Now, these systems are in-
grained into the very hearts of every French-
man and every true Briton. Among the pri-
vileged classes there are some reactionaries.
But the people, as a whole, make Constitu
tional Government a part of their very
religion. Not only so, but a growing party,
which promises ere long to dominate these
nations, holds opinions which, if carried
into effect, will abolish all Sovereigns, ex -
COLONEL STEWAUT.


CHRISTMAS 1881.
C. W. EGBERTS’
Single Battle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9s.
Small Bottle, , 4a. 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
Prom Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINK
FOR INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
la. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
3s. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT
3s. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts,
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
Is. 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke’s Prize Medal Brand,
in stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST SIZE.
IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
C. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
SYDNEY
oept Sovereigns truly by the Grace of God
—that is to say, born leaders of men, and
all nobles except men of noble minds.
* * *
The three Emperors and their astute
counsellors perceive the desperate condi-
tion of their case. They have met, and
there is no possible doubt that they met to
concert measures for the repression of
democratic principles and practices. They
have concocted a conspiracy against Liberal
progress throughout the world. A neces-
sary feature of any plan for strangling the
growth of these principles is the destruction
of the British Constitutional system and ol
.French Republicanism. These can obviously
only be extinguished by the enslavement or
extinction of the two nations. To discredit
Mr. Gladstone and his Cabinet, and bring
about a Constitutional crisis which would
place the Tories in power, would do nothing
towards stopping the progress of British
Liberalism. It might even accelerate it.
But if France and England could be egged
on to fly at each othei,it would be an ad-
mirable device. To divide and conquer is a
plan which has seldom failed. We, there-
fore, do not believe in a plot merely to up-
set the Qovernmentof Mr. Gladstone, The
thing is too small and too ineffective to
have attractions for so far-seeing a man as
Bismarck. We do believe in the possibility
of a league of Depots against Democracy—
a league which may with perfect reason-
ableness include in its projects, and, in fact,
regard as an essential item, the destruction
of the British nation and the obliteration
of France from the map of Europe.
Neither accomplishment need be impos-
sible, could the three Emperors sink
their mutual jealousies. Neither need
be very difficult. If. as a preliminary, a bone
of contention could be thrown between
England and France, such as Egypt was
evidently designed to be; and if these two
nations of comparative free men could be
humbugged into flighting each other to the
point of exhaustion, the next step would be
even easy. We think a conspiracy against
Freedom is possibly in existence. Its Iran
sient consequences may be terrible, indeed,
and yet how impotent to accomplish the
main purpose. The spirit of Liberty is im-
mortal, and no magnificence of crime can
save Despotism from its inevitable doom.
To support the luxury of tyrants, a numer-
ous people is necessary. A numerous people,
once inspired by the idea of equal rights,
will not consent to support the luxury of
insolent idlers. Britons and Frenchmen
might he extinguished in one gigantic heca-
tomb, but the hordes who heaped them on
the flames would themselves be the heirs of
their principles.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Scotland for Ever!
When the Irish trouble was at its heighth, and the
8. M. Herald and Holt Howl, Imitated by num-
berless other colonial journals, were declaring
with mere or less directness that the root of the
mischief was the natural perversity of the Irish as
a race, and their malignant wickedness as Roman
Catholics, The Bulletin preserved its faculties
and declared that the affair was esssentlally an
agrarian one, and that any spirited people of any
race and any religion would act just in the same
way as the Irish, under similar conditions. The
case of the Skye crofters has since occurred to
endorse our opinions, and the following quotation
from the London Standard, the Tory paper
which the S.M. Herald has selected as the paper
most in harmony with its own ideas to furnish
those wonderful lying cablegrams which are
offered to the Sydney public as “news” from
Great Britain, shows how accurate was our diag-
nosis. The wrongs of the Scotch Highlanders
have been of less long continuance and less infam-
ous and exasperating than those of the Irish. The
clansmen have been robbed and impoverished,
expatriated and oppressed, indeed; but their
injuries have been inflicted by (heir own chiefs
mainly, and have not been aggravated by the
insulting insolence of alien masters. Hence, their
resistance has been proportionately' tempered.
But, if the Government persists in sending men-
of-war vessels to take the part of the rack-renting
landlords, and in marching marines upon the ham-
lets in the islands, the trouble will surely grow.
The choice of the Royal Marines to do this dirty
work was remarkably ingenious, but will scarcely
serve when inland hamlets have to be intimidated*
The extract we give will serve to show how wide-
spread is the sympathy for the Highland clans-
men. And anybody who knows how Scotch
boys are educated—and we know—will com-
prehend that it would not be a judicious
proceeding for any British Government to march
an English regiment into the Highlands to operate
against a Scottish resistance. We can answer for
it from our own experience that, even so late as
flve-and-twenty years ago, Scottish boys were
taught the history of Scotland, and learned to
blaze with enthusiasm for Bruce and Wallace,
and to detest, with true patriotic hatred, the
“fause Southern,” up to and even beyond the
days of the Union. There is probably not now a
Highland regiment of which the men are ail High-
landers, or even Scotchmen. But in the kilted
battalions there is still a sufficient infusion of the
Gaels to make the dispatch of such a regiment
against the clansmen a very hazardous proceeding.
The officers. Indeed, are all safe enough. The
crofters’ trouble, like the Irish trouble, is an
agrarian one—a struggle by the plebs to retain a
right to draw a subsistence from the soil, which
the patrician caste would fain deny them. The
struggle is, in fact, a repetition of history, and is
as old almost as the early days of the Roman
people, in \> hich the rich appropriated the public
IjificU while the husbandmen fought the battles of
the nation, and subsequently reduced these
veterans or their sons to the choice of life-long
servitude or exile. The officers of (he Highland
regiments—mostly patricians by birth, and if not
by actual birth, still more patrician than the pa-
tricians by reason of affectation and pretension-
may be trusted to serve the cause of these iand-
embezzlers, the landlords and their assigns or suc-
cessors. We recall. Indeed, the fact that among
the most oppressive of the landlords of Scotch 1
crofters is General Traxll-Burroughs, an ex-
Golonel of the 93rd Highlanders, and successor
not by direct descent to an estate whereon the
tenantry were never racked when their old lairds
remained. But a Highland regiment could
scarcely he trusted to enforce evictions in the
Highlands. An Irish regiment could be trusted
nut at all. An English regiment would put all
Scotland in a simmer of wrath. The idea of
employing those nondescripts, the Marines, in
Skye, was, indeed, ingenious. The Marines are a
corps whose esprit de corps ia governed by shame-
less traditions. They have ever been loyal, ever
faithful—to oppressors; ever disloyal, ever faith-
less to their own brothers. Was Jack flogged
and tormented to a pitch cf despair— did he,
knowing that he thereby wove a rope round his
neck, resist the intolerable brutalities of a tyrant
in epaulettes—the Marine was ever ready to shoot
him. A servile corps, that of the Marines-a
corps with no history, save the history of the
pandar. But enough of this. Here is the extract
from the Tory Standard, which has suggested
the foregoing rambling reflections:—
** Everyone win be rejoiced to hear that the
efforts of the Rev. Mr. Macdonald to induce the I
Crofters of Syke not to offer resistance to the j
force of Marines and police despatched to vindi- |
cate the acthority of the law have proved success- ;
ful. At the same time, it is clear that the agita-
tion is likely to spread, and to affect the whole of
the Western Highlands. In Caithness and ether
counties of the northern mainland there are
agrarian troubles of old standing, which are certain
to re-assert themselves in sympathy with the
movement in the Western Islands, even though
there should be no open demonstration of violence.
From the large towns not only of Scotland, but of
England, exhortations have reached the Crofters
to stand firm, along with promises of substantial
assistance; and the political organisations which,
before the inquiries of the Commission which re-
ported last Spring, we re sending e missaries to in-
struct the tenants as to their * rights,’ are alleged
to have already despatched large sums of money
to the centres of disturbance. The Crofters have,
as far as the objects of the agitation are concerned,
though, of course, not with regard to the means
employed, the sympathy of the majoiitv of the
ministers of the Dissenting Churches who
exercise immense personal influence throughout
the Highlands, and of a large body of cultured
opinion at the Universities. with exponents
among the best-known Professors, prominent
among them, of course, the popular Professor
Blackie, whose labours for the conservation of
the Gaelic tongue are well known, and who has
thrown himstlf into the agitation with character-
istic enthusiasm. More significant than this is the
fact that the success of the land agitation in Ire-
land is well-known to the Crofters in the Western
Islands, many of whom spend the Ashing season
upon the Iiish coasts, and have brought back at
first band accounts of the working of the Land
Act which have proved a standing topic of dis-
cussion among the whole Crofting community.
The programme of the 'Three F.’s’ is as familiar
to the Skye Crofters as four years ago it was to the
Irish peasant. The dispute which led immediately
to the present agitation in Saye was peculiar to
certain localities, but it was only a development of
grievances common to the Crofter population of
the whole of the Highlands, and the discontent
caused by which has made itself occasionally mani-
fest for half a century past. At the bottom of the
sense of injustice under which the Crofters are
smarting is the conception, traditional in the com-
munity, of the tenure under which their fore-
fathers held the land which they now till, and the
comment of the Commissioners themselves is that
‘ The the small tenantry have an in-
herited, inalienable title to security of tenure in
their possessions while rent and service are duly
rendered, is an impression indigenous to the
country, though it has never been sanctioned by
legal recognition, and has long been repudiated by
the action of the propriett rs.’ About 1745 the
clan system, as was inevitable, came to an end,
aod cams to as vo<J ia {.he only wav §§tural to the
time, when the struggle for life was lesa keen than
it is now, and the interests of the many less
thought of—by the unconditional transformation
by an Act of the Legislature of the Highland Chief
into a landlord of the English pattern. The tenants
offered no protest—as a matter of fact, for fifty
years later they had little practical reason for pro-
testing, The Chiefs scarcely seemed to have realized
the new position, or to have felt little disposition
to take advantage cf it. The old military sorvice
was still rendered, though now to the British
Crown instead of to the Chieftain, and till the time
of Waterloo there was no want of employment of
a sort for the men who filled the splendid regi-
ments raised in the Highlands, and commanded by
the Highland aristocracy. The old security of
tenure long remained. In course of time, howevor,
inevitable changes took place in the Highlands, os
they had done in the Lowlands, and must do
everywhere where primitive social systems coma
into contact with the forces of an advanced civili-
sation. The capitalists came to the front, and the
landlord, whose tastes had grown more expensive
as his views expanded, began to see that a larger
rental could be made out of the sheep farmer than
out of the Crofter, and thus in the beginning of
the present century began the ruthless clearances
which have left such bitter memories in the minds
of the Highland people, and the story of which it
would not be easy to tell in unimpasaioned lan-
guage.”
Lashings
The hatred of the Irish which ia a mark of the
bourgeois Englishman, and the detestation of
Rome which stamps the vulgar order of Protes-
tant parsons, have been any time during the past
twenty years exemplified most exquisitely in the
columns of the Sydney Morning Herald. The
writers of that paper were never seen to so great
advantage as journalists, and so little as philo-
sophers, as when the late Archbishop Vaughan’s
denunciations of the Public School system were
being combatted by the Herald. For once In a
lifetime the writers permitted themselves to go
straight. They abandoned the compromising tone
which ordinarily makes the leading columns of
the Herald the laughing-stock of journalists
throughout Australia. They did not say that the
Archbishop was obviously and totally wrong, with
the exception that he might very likely be plainly
and comprehensively right. They said he was
wrong, and stood at that; and they spared no
device of language to convince “ all right-thinking
people ” that he was a confounded fool. The
articles were almost always neat, and sometimes
even slashing. And now Dr. Vaughan’s suc-
cessor, Dr. Moran, is receiving similar sauce. It
is evident that the S.M. Herald ecclesiastics keep
one eye constantly upon the rival priest, and espe-
cially lie in wait for him because he is an 1 risbman as
well as a Papist. A rchbishop Moran told bis people,
recently, that in the early times, Roman Catholic
convicts had been flogged as a consequence of their
religion. The Herald immediately jumps down
Dr. Moran’s throat; and, while just falling short
of suggesting that he is a liar, very plainly intimates
that he is a fool and a bit of a scoundrel—a fool
for believing improbable yarns, and a scoundrel
because “ not unwilling to fan the flame of religious
strife." Now, if Archbishop Moran be chargeable
with fanning this flame, what is to be said of the
Herald priests? They never fail to pick a quarrel
with the Roman Catholic clergy or the Irish when
the slightest chance offers. We can t see that in
this instance Dr. Moran iseither fool or scoundrel.
In the old convict days, men had the power to flog
on very slender pretences, and were not under any
particular necessity to allege the right one. A man
in charge of convicts need never lack an excuse
for getting one of his men a flogging. It is
only requisite, therefore, to conceive that there
existed warders, or mea in authority, who were
actuated by the same spirit towards the Papists
among their charges as the Herald or the Holy
Howl writers towards the Archbishops or Priests
to-day, and flogging became an obvious proba-
bility. Seeing that the demure editors of the S.M.
Herald are perpetually going out of their way
and seeking occasion to trounce and belabour the
Papist Ayvbfcistiop and the horrid Irish, wh«^
occasion is there* to doubt that there may have
been convict warders in the old days stimulated by
equally contemptible prejudices and animosities?
Surely a convict warder might sink as low as a
bigotted Methodist.
Active Service.
When the bushman boils, his billy at six in the
morning, eats his bit of damper, and sallies out
with a billy of tea in his hand and an axe over his
shoulder, he is off for “active service.” His axe
rings hour after hour, a pile of slabs and palings
are around him by the evening, and—he retires
from active service with that day’s work scored
to the goeu of his country. A few v ecks ago a
French man-of-war was in this port, aiid, after rhe
usual interchange of hospitalities, the commander,
in taking leave of ids Australian friends, was good
e nough to expiess profound regret that he was
not do.mr “ active service ” down amongst the
Chinese. And this is looked upon as a highly
creditable aspiration in a military man—a
mark of fine spirit, which the world is
bound to admire. So, it comes to this: a
highly-trained man. a Christian man, finding him-
self provided with a great engine of destruction,
is wretched, because he is not allowed to go down
and pound a few miserable Chinamen, burn their
villages and towns, make their harbours reek
with floating human carcases, spread misery and
destitution amongst a harmless race, poor at all
times, and All the land with the moa as of hungry
heartbroken women and children; while he, all the*
time, sits behind steel walls, twirls his waxed mous-
tache, smokes his cigars, looks fierce, and indites a
despatch which will cover him with la gloire! It is a
naked and ghastly fact, when properly looked at,
that nations calling themselves Christian held in
very highest esteem the motives of men whose
hope of tame rests on the possession <of ferocious
instincts, and on the success of equally ferocious
statesmen who draw the weak into compli-
cations, and then spread desolation over the
earth. We give the highest human rewards
to a elasa of men professedly kept from
common human labour for the maintenance of
peace; and that leisure is turned to the infernal
purpose of contriving projects for the prevention
of peace. To these men, smiling cornfields and
thriving homesteads are splendid countries for
forage. “Mein QoxtI” was old Blucher’s first
remark on seeing the greatest and wealthiest em-
porium the world ever saw—London—“ Mein
Goxt, what a city to sack!” No thought of any
pain outside his own miserable old skin; of bitter
poverty made still bitterer, and of the accumu-
lated wealth of millions of people burnt to light
his wretched pipe, or to satisfy the heartless greed
for blood and plunder and notoriety of similar old
schemers tottering on the brink of a Christian
grave. The existence of great armies, Instead of
being a guarantee for the preservation of peace,
is a menace to the world. All that in the indi-
vidual we strive to subdue is encouraged
in the warrior. We deify the devilish in
man, and we are pinching ourselves to fat-
ten the monster who will devour us. That a
For continuation of “ Plain English,” see next page
A “ EASTER.”
CUSTOMER: “HOW OFTEN AM I TO TAKE THIS MIXTURE?”
DRUGGIST: “THREE TIMES A DAY, AFTER MEALS,”
CUSTOMER; BUT, MISTER, I ONLY GIT ONE MEAL IN TWO DAYS.”


Hark! the holiday bells are ringing
Down the village with laughter glad;
Haste the children, cheerily singing.
Hand in hand each lassie and lad,
and this because each pretty little boy is wearing
one of those pretty little suits manufactured by
the far-famed Summertleld and Co. Every lady
should procu'e our Illustrated World of Fashion,
32 pages, elaborately engraved, with the newest
London and Parisian styles. '‘Wear resisting
fabrics,” our registered trade mark. Summerfisld
and Co., the Great Juvenile Outfitters. 235 33?
ntt-streetj gydoeyj*
(“ Plain English,” continued f rom page 4.)
handful of crowned loafers may wallow in wealth
and ease, milllor.s of men are kept from the soil f
or only return to it to fertilize it with their man-
gled bodies. Tens of thousands of others are
trained as gentlemen to oflBcer these, and a hand-
ful of generals and diplomatists are honoured by
the crowned loafers with a ribbon and a star. Then
comes a “meeting of the Emperors,” and they
laugh till the tears run down their beards. The
soldiers of fortune instead of sacking cities will
have to be “sacked” themselves. It is useless to
say that there always have been and always will
be wars, and that human nature will never
change. Human nature has changed, and does
change. With the spread of a knowledge of the
true interests of the producer, gradually grows
the determination to have the produce of toat
labour. When the producers of wealth fully re-
cognise that to die tor Fatherland is really to die
fora worthless reigning family, and that to be taxed
first and shot afterwards is the reward,they will also
see that the wealth that sustains this gigantic
fraud can, when organised, also take it away. The
human nature of the modern civilised man, as
compared with the love of cruelty and violence in
his savage ancestor, has changed in favour of
peace to an extent fully equal to the distance be-
tween that savage and his hairy ancestor; and
there are fair historical grounds for believing that
our repugnance to the cruel sports of our fore-
fathers will gradually extend to an organised
resistance to all cruelty whatever. The instincts
ot the time are running into a Socialist channel;
and as the generations go on, the gentlemen who
want “ active service ” will have tc take to other
fields—armed with a hoe.
A Baltimore preacher has been bounced
for attending a circus He quoted in vain the un-
deniable fact that Daniel, the prophet, bad been a
lion-tamer, that Jehu was a professional driver,
and that Shadracn, Meshack, and Abednego did a
triple tire-king act to oblige Nebuchadnezzar,
Probably the congregation of the Baltimore domi-
nie preferred making a holy show of themselves in
opposition to the tented article.
“THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession .]
I’m sorry,” said one Romeo,
As on the two did stalk,
“ That when yon played at Omeo
The ‘spectre ’ didn’t walk—”
“ The cursed rain,” he did reply,
“ Which those dull rustics bless;
But all admitted, sir, that I
Achieved a grand success.
“ At Hay, your landlord he did talk
(Now don’t get in a huff) —
Said though the ghost could never walk
That you walked quick enough.
“ Your boxes, there, are not quite right,
The kids gave up their tops;
And, oh, it was a funny sight
To see them with your * props!’ ”
“ A lie! A lie! 1 ’ cried Romeo one;
“ No lie, upon my word—
I think £ see the blacksmith’s son
Play soldiers with your sword.”
him to do his “turns” nightly—Independently of
those matinees at which “ every child receives a
present” (generally a tin whistle), and the air of
the neighbourhood grows thick with parental
curses! Arthur Vivian and the extensive Helen
are slid having a desperate struggle with the un-
fortunate “Woman of the People” at Port Adelaide,
and have thrown her heavily several rimes. They
seem to think she deserves it, “which the poor
girl never did.” Dunning's at it with “Rip,” at
the Adelaide Royal, and Dave Clinton’s company
are doing a pantomime at the Academy, “ localised
by Mr. Fred. Harvie Linklater ”— of illustrious
memory... Cates has been giving recitals to the
swells at Garner's there, Warwick Gninor singing
songs whenever Frank was wiaJed, or a character
gave him a more than usually hard back-hander.
The L.V.G. says that “Frank sent a carriage and
pair for every reporter.” Their representative,
however, did not turn up. He probably wanted a
sandwich as well—Fancy, too, the “Mascotte”
Opera (Howard Vernon’s) recently gave a sacred
concert at Inverell, and they have been doing
“Olivette,” etc., also, to good biz. Donald Dinnie
has been to the fore there, also ; and, by latest
advices, he was still alive—The Cricket Club at
Forbes has been acting and singing much to their
own entertainment and that of their relatives;
and Professor Armand has been conjuring, up
America, and several other stars of less import-
ance have entered into Australian engagements;
and it’s a fact of some significance that they have
ail chosen the same route. So far as Sims
Reeves is concerned, since he won’t sing three
songs under Something like £130 a night
and his expenses, the speculation for the pro-
moters should be one of gorgeous brilliancy. We
have had bushels of this splendid stuff thrown at
us lately, and we are always amused at it. But it
is one of our most prominent characteristics to be
easily amused. Old Leltch and little Charley
M’Mahon are making: a bit of money at Hobart
with Majeroni, which is a good hearing—especially
for Majeroni; thenoo-perambulation of the legen-
dary ghost at the T- R., Hobart, being proverbial.
. ..At the Grand Theatre, Islington, George Dar-
rell’s “Sunny South” is a big draw. Society
says Georgie is manly, natural, and sometimes
powertul in his acting of Mat Morley. We should
have gone further than that and have said he was
manly, natural, sometimes powerful, and always
handsome. Y-e-s. There, now, George... Jenny
Lind announces that she intends to pay the United
States a farewell visit She will be terribly disap-
pointed to find that her dear old friend, George
Washington, has been dead and buried nearly one
hundred years ago. And yet Jenny is a mere
spring chicken alongside of Ristori Teddy
The Germans in New Guinea.
“ Outl minion!” quoth the other pro.,
“ Or this to all I’ll say:
You have no socks, and have, you know,
To wear your tights all day.”
“ Indeed, indeed!” sneered Number Two
(Who felt a trifle hurt),
“ But I, e’en if this tale be true.
Don’t wear an iron shirt!”
Said Number One, as he did glow’r,
“I’d like your head to punch.”
They parted then: it was the hour
George set his counter-lunch.
■•••It seems that St. Leon’s Circus has recently
been performing before Bailey in Gundagai: and,
of a certainty. Dam pier has been a big boom in
Newcastle; while Rainer’s Diorama has climbed up
as far as Tam worth.... Equally Lecocq’s new opera
is an enormous succe-s at the Paris Varietes, and
the joyful news that Harry Lynch and his bell-
ringers are at Townsville, with their company re-
inforced by one “Mr. Thomas Gilpin, the cele-
brated baritone from the Crystal Palace and
Charles Hall s (sir) concerts.” We don’t know
Thomas, out we've read a good deal about his
brother John, who, it will be recollected, was “of
credit and renown.” “Farron (the inimitable)” is
also with the push, and, as be is likewise playing
m Chicago, be must have all big work cut but for
Barcoo way —Millis, in New Zealand, has been
diving after members of his company as they fell
into the Opawa River, but whether he has been
saving money as well as lives does not appear.
Ward was the name of one of the company Millis
fished out, and—but there! It was Christmas
time!! ..And we can tell you, too, about a
Catholic concert at Adelong, at which the local
Evans sang “Rashers in the Hair;” and an Anda-
lusian warbler (named Lonergan) gave “Pom
Pom” with much effect Mary Andarson ex-
pects the critics to wear white kid gloves at her
performances—and two socks of the same pattern.
Here she would be regarded both as a vision and
a yision-ary—The splendid personage who is
writing to the Rum from London—or Dubbo —
seems to be In it to a large extent from a theatri-
cal and social point of view. Either he calls on cele-
brities, or they climb up to his attic. G, A. Sala,
however, didn’t climb. He was waited upon in
Mecklenburg Square. G. A. 8. seems to have ex-
hibited the loquacity of the oyster, and merely
confided to the Rum gentleman that which every-
one had heard some six weeks before—that he was
going to Australia via America. He didn’t, how-
ever, state—what is pretty patent to the cognos-
centi—that he will be taken sick during his Ameri-
can tour, and will return to his beloved Piccadilly,
without enabling us to catch a glimpse of him....
tjjms Keeyea is also coming to Australia, via
M Lean is to the fore again, at the old Masonic,
with a gorgeous variety entertainment. Including
the “Conquest Pantomime.” We must spend a
night with him. Special fun for children Up
Bathurst and Grafton way, Radcliff and Rita are
“knocking ’em.” Charley Huenerbeln accom-
panies them, and three country editors have had
their heads shaved through excitement. “The
rendition of this delicious morceau was received
with a furore of acclamation,” and * His rendering
of ‘Rule Britannia’ on the eight-keyed flute was
sufficient to stamp him as one of the greatest,
flautists of the age,” show how unsettled things
are up there.


Personal Items
The present Lord Lytton, at the end of
his preface to the biography of his late father,
says: ‘ His errors were the errors of a good man.
and his virtues were those of a great one.” Then
biting one’s wife’s cheek is the error of a good
man; and dubbing one’s self “oo’e poodle ” is the
virtue of a great man.
In a new London play, the lady who is
pleased to call herself Miss “Florence St.John”
appears with a counle of big live snakes coiled
round her waist and bare neck. Miss St. John is
evidently on as good terms with the serpent as was
our amiable mother Eve. The snakes are well-be-
haved. and don’t hiss, but the audience might be
pardoned if they did.
A young Australian correspondent from
Switzerland has often, during last autumn, en-
countered the Princess Dolgoroukl with her
three children driving by the Lake of Geneva.
The impression made on the Australian by the
Princess is just simply that “ she looks as proud as
Lucifer, and as hard and cold as steel.” The Prin-
cess and children were still wearing deep mourn-
ing.
Mr. Henniker Heaton is vigorously prose-
cuting his Canterbury intrigue. The latest is that
he has boon entertaining at dim* ar privately Lord
George Hamilton (an ex-m ember of the English
Oablnetjby the way), who is a brother of the Lord
Ernest Hamilton in whose company J.H.H. is to
run for the constituency named. This dinner was
an affair altogether separate from the elaborate
shivoo at St. Stephen’s Club, to which Henniker
invited Colonel Soratchley, Admiral Tryon, and
others.
The Tamwoeth News says of the Hon,
Joseph Docker, who died recently, and who was a
member of the Upper House since sometime Be-
fore the Flood, that “ bis name is associated with
mildness and unobtrusive usefulness.” This does
not seem a very flamboyant panegyric, but there
are not over-many of his survivors in that House
of Relics of whom it could be said with anything
approaching to truth. Of some of them, Indeed,
the only true thing that can be said when they die
—and won’t be said, of course—will be that their
careers were chiefly characterised by obtrusive
nothingness. So rest in peace, Joseph Docker I
Sir Saul Samuel is the only one of the
colonial Agents-General who goes in seriously for
entertainment. Hardly anyone of official mark
ever leaves London for N.S.W. without being
previously invited to meet a tolerably large com-
pany at dinner at the house of the ambassador of
N.S.W. Murray Smith, the Victorian representa-
tive, who is by no means a rich man, can’t
afford to do much in this direction on his
salary of £2500, which, it is worthy of re-
mark, exceeds that of Sir Saul by £500. Sir
Arthur Blyth, of South Australia, keeps a tight
grip on his dollars, and Sir Dillon Bell — who
is .perhaps the best and most successful of the
Australian delegates to St. James’—neither gives
nor receives hospitality.
A very mysterious volume of poems s
about to be Issued. It is entitled “ Love Letters,
by a Violinist,” and we understand that the pub-
lishers themselves are in total ignorance as to the
actual Identity of the author, the business part of
the arrangements having been effected through
an intermediate hand. But there is a vague and
growing rumour that the volume in question is by
no less a personage than the Duke of Edinburgh.
He has long been favourably known as a “ Violin-
ist,” but, if the present report be true, it is cer-
tainly the first appearance of any of Her Majesty’s
sons in the realms of poetry, and, as such, there is
no doubt whatever that as soon as the book ap-
pears there will be a rush upon the edition, which,
it is said, will be a limited one.
The Rev. 8purgeon has just been presented
by an admirer with “a veiy handsome cairiage,
painted in a black and tan colour, with trimmings
to match, and weighing only 7cwt. Noiseless
springs have been used, and there is a patent foot
level to apply the brake. The fittings are exquisite
in the extreme. In the front boot are several
shelves for books.and parcels, and, above these,
card and cigar trays are fixed, with a handsome
looking-glass In the centre.” A delightful Chris-
tian is Spurgeon, who, being gouty, will continue
to follow Christ—in a brougham. Think of the
meek and lovely Nazarene, who knew nut where
to lay His head, meeting Spurgeon in Hyde 1’ark
with his card and cigar trays, his patent ioot-
lever, liveried flunkey, and “handsome looking-
glass.” EheuI
Memo, for Queen-worshippers, Prince-
worshippers, and Lord-worshippers. Sara Tytler’s
“ Life of the Queen,” in two vols., with thirty
engravings and a preface by Lord Ronald Gower,
is now out. Miss iytler, “ who has enjoyed some
special advantages for her task,” says an English
paper, “ has availed herself of all accessible infor-
mation, and has told the story of Her Majesty’s
life with taste and discretion, weaving therewith
abundant anecdotes of an authentic kind relating
to the Court and Royal family and the private and
public career of the Queen.” In other words, we
suppose, this latest Tytlerian production is the
life of the Queen by the Queen herselt, and is as
strictly to be depended upon as is thatcharming
account given by Miss Genevieve Ward ot her
romantic adventures at St. Petersburgjduring the
reign of the bombed-up Alexander.
Dr. Johnson once said that, next to (he
Newgate Calendar, the biography of authors is
the most sics ening chapter in the History of Man.
We infer a deal from the following paragraph in
an English paper, concerning the lately deceased
poet, Mr. Richard Hengist Horne, once a Victorian
goldfields cunmissioner, and long known to fame
as “Orion HorneSome of the belongings of
the late ‘ Orion ’ Horne were put up to auction this
week, and the prices realised in many instances
were miserable in the extreme. A friend ot mine
bought 64 volumes of the works of Jean Paul
Richter for 3s. The same lucky purchaser bought
a gold Geneva watch worn by tue deceased poet
up to tne time of his death for £1 13s. ‘The
Germ,’ a long since extinct magazine, to which
William Morns, Dante Rossetti, and Burns Jones
were contributors, was more popular with buyers,
and fetched £3 13s.”
Cornwall, of “ Dublin scandal” notoriety,
has applied for a rule nusi for a new trial in the
libel case wherein a Dublin jury gave a verdict
lor the, defendant, Mr. O’Brien, of United Ire-
land. Cornwall claims that the verdict in ques-
tion was against the weight of evidence, and his
counsel, in submitting the application, said the
Judge most distinctly told the jury that, unless
there were certain acts, there was no felony, and
there was not a shadow of evidence of these facts.
Mr. Justice Murphy said, supposing that the evi-
dence went to show that the plaintiff had been
guilty of indecent habits, and that on the ground
that the felony was not proved, the jury gave a
verdict for a farthing damages, would the Court
be justified in sending the case back ? He. for one
would not be a party to doing so. From this, it is
quite plain that Mr. Justice Murphy knows no-
thing whatever about libel law—or, at rdv rate,
about the sort ot law dispensed by Judges in
New South Wales.
We are deeply grieved to notice that a
Hull paper has reproduced an impudent paragraph
which lately aoneared in the Federal Austra-
lian concerning the alleged matrimonial Inten-
tions of a certain reverend old gentleman of Mel-
bourne, who Is, in a sense, the Or. Arnold of Vic-
toria, and who enjoys the enviable distinction of
having, in bygone days, been tutor to the cele-
orated Mr. Walter Bagehot. The reverend doctor
js a Hull man, and the paragraph in question, os
everyone remembers, was to the effect that the
venerable gentleman, after deciding to marry a
very young lady, subsequently changed his mind,
and wisely determinedtoadoptherashlsdaughter.
** e remember hearing the doctor give a lecture
yea lM entitled ‘‘Beyond the Grave,” The
vacillating but still by no means discreditable con-
duct Imputed to him by Mortimer Franklyn does
certainly appear to go beyond the grave, and to
border on the gay, and how such an absurd story
ever found its way into print must ever remain a
mystery.
We met the versatile Jerusalem Smith the
other day. “ An'don’t vou forgit itl ” He is con-
tracting now—contracting! But that is not the
point. We wish to give his opinion about the
peerage, and we will give it in his own words,
homebody happened to make a remark relating in
some way to the aristocracy, and, thereupon,
Jerusalem was asked for his view of the question.
I think n’ more of ’em than thaht,” he said, and
snapped his fingers. Then, after a pause, he added
in a tone of profound gloom, ‘‘I saw a Jook once.
“ was at a big dinner. 1 watched him. After a
while one of the waiters came round my way, and
I said to him, * Are you sure that’s the Jook ?’ Oh,
yes, he said; he was certain. That was enough for
me. Why, gahdammit,” continued Jerusalem,
lashed into excitement by the sound of his own
eloquence, “what do they mean by talking of
their lords and nobility ? Gahdammit, a Jooh
kyant eat ’n’y mor'n Ikyan!" That is the touch-
stone of greatness with Jerusalem. But it is not
at all a bad epigram.
The late sainted Czar, whom our own
Plddingtonskl so loved, and whom his own sub-
jects so hated that his portrait has had to be
removed from all public places, because it was
perpetually insulted and smeared, was an excellent
husband—to his mistress, and a tender father-to
his bastards. The Paris papers have announced
0 in consequence of heavy losses at play,
of M. Etienne WJasoff, who had lived in grand
style in Paris, after passing most of his life in
Italy. M. wlasoff was *• the natural son of one of
the greatest personages of Russia, who died two
years ago under circumstances of a very dramatic
nature. Neat way of putting things, these Pari-
sian writers have! We wonder who Mrs,—we beg
Pftrdon. Miss—WJasoff was, and also how many
Wlasoffs and such have these poor ground-down
wretches of Russians to provide with handsome
fortunes from the fruits of their Industry. If the
holy Czar hadn’t been killed when hewas.it would
have, to all appearance, absorbed the entire earn-
mgs of the Russian people to provide dowries for
his harlots, and handsome fortunes for his bas-
tards.
We hear very contradictory accounts of
our friend Cave’s chance of success in his claim on
the Newburgh estate?. The latest arc that Messrs.
Arnold and Co., of Lincoln’s-Inn, who are solicitors
of the trustees, declare that Mr. Cave's pretension
hasn’t the slightest foundation, and they are in-
structed to take immediate proceedings against
the claimant in the event of his committing any
act of trespass, and also to defend any proceedings
he may commence to assert his claim. Now, we
don’t know anything about these people who are
at present deriving benefit from the property, but
we do know Cave to be a jolly good fellow, and
would like beyond everything to see him installed
—that is, of course, if his claim is anything like
square. He isn’t, for instance, the sort of man to
worry his tenants nor to keep second-class cigars
and whisky for his visitors. From what we re-
member of his peculiarities, the £40,COO per annum
would not trouble him wor h a straw—trifles like
that never did. He would get through it with as
much ease as an ordinary man would as many
farthings. He’s just the man who ought to have
£40,000 a year.
At a debate noon “Smoking” among the
members of the .British Association many speakers
denounced and others advocated the practice.
Professor Huxley said: “For forty yeais of my
lile tobacco bad been a deadly poison to me. (Loud
cheers from the anti-tobacconists.) In my youth,
as a medical student, I tried to smoko. In vain;
a[ every fresh attempt my insidious foe stretched
me prostrate on the floor, (Repeated cheers.) I
entered the navy. Again I tried to smoke, and
again met with a defeat. I hated tobacco; I could
almost have lent my support to any institutiofl
that had for its object the putting of tobacco-
smokers to death. (Vociferous applause.) A lew
years ago I was in Brittany with some friends. We
went to an inn. They oegau to smoke; they
looked very happy, and outside it was very wet
and dismal. I thought I would try a cigar. (Mur-
murs.) I did so. (Great expectations.) I smoked
that cigar; it was delicious. (Groans.) From that
moment I was a changed man; and I now feel that
smoking in moderation is a comfortable and laud-
able practice, and is productive of good. (Dismay
and confusion of the anti-tobacconists; roars of
laughter from the smokers.) There is no more
harm in a pipe than there is in a cup ot tea. You
may poison yourself by drinking too much green
tea, and kill yourself by eating loo many beef-
steaks. For my own part, I consider that tobacco
in moderation is a sweetener and equalizer of the
temper.” (Total rout of the anti-tooacconists and
complete triumph of the smokers.)
The Rev. J. A. Dowie, who heals his fel-
low-men by faith and his Anger touch, is an awfully
deadly diving when you rubhim the wrong way.
That same spiritual power,fwhioh enables the lame
to walk and the blind to see, provided they have
sufficient faith in Howie, can be exercised with
very, very different results upon such as lack the
aforesaid quality and make hold to meatjon (he
circumstance. Down Ballarat way, where Dowle
has lately been preaching the now take-up-your-
bed-and-walk doctrines, unbelievers are plentiful,
and the Eev. Alexander, to use his - own expres-
sion—“ dealt with them.” This fact was revealed
at a divine service, held at the Academy, when
also the enraged apostle took the opportunity of
explaining the probable result of his mysterious
action. Having, during some period of his career,
come across a man “ who had done something
wicked,” Dowie informed his awe-stricken au-
dience how he had “ dealt with this man” (on the
same lines as he hgd just followed with two of the
Ballarat unbelievers), and “ since then the indivi-
dual In question had lain on a bed of torture,
while his wife sickened and children died.” If
this be a true story—and it’s impossible to doubt
Dowie—we must really beg to offer a mild protest
against this out-and-out system of visiting the
sins of the father upon the children of anyone
“ who has done something wicked.” We shouldn’t
like to think that one of our stray pecadllloes
coming to Bowie’s ears would bring about such
wholesale family slaughter as the good man spoke
of. When he pays his next visit to Sydney, we do
hope he’ll discriminate a bit.
A correct list of the landed possessions of
the late Duke of Buccleuch, the tather-in-law of
“ the cousin of Lady Clarke,” is given by the Lon-
don Land Agents’ Record as follows:—
England.
County Acres Gross Annual Value.
Northampton ... 17,965 £26,531
Warwick 6,881 12,567
Huntingdon 1,065 1,312
Bucks 891 2,769
Lancashire 369 447
Surrey 7 708
Scotland.
Dumfries 253,179 £91,549
Roxburgh 104,461 39,457
Selkirk 60,428 19,828
Midlothian 3,436 16,338
Lanark 9,091 1,544
Peebles 272 318
Fife 60 15
458,108 £216,473.
Even this extraordinary" list of possessions did not
represent the wealth of the late Duke- He held
the Beaulieu estate in Hampshire. He.had lands
in Middlesex. His minerals and quarries, not in-
cluded in the above list, were worth £4000 a year.
Granton Harbour brought in £10,600 a year. He
had Metropolitan properties; but, as in the case of
the Duke of Westminster and other great owners
of house property in London, the value of them
was not known; and all this huge income for the
enjoyment of one maul It is monstrous.
Mr. Dinnis O’Toole is what may be termed
a splendid sample of the disinterested oatriot of
the 19th century. During the recent Cleveland-
Blaine tussle for the Presidency, Dinnis was hold-
ing forth for Blaine, but, by some means or
another, managed to drift into a Pat Ford vein,
and, bursting out Into a loud panygeric on dyna-
mite as a medium of social reform, the gifted
orator yelled: ,‘ Yls, be me sowl, jintilmin, as long
as Inglind tramples on th’ rorghts av Oirishmin,
wc have t’ foight hur in ivory way we can; an’, be
th’ same towken, we’ll sthab hur in th’ back ivery
toime we git a chance to face her. D’ye moind
that, now?’’ “Are you a naturalised citizen of
the Yewnited States, sir ?” demanded a Cleveland
vpter. “ Howly murthir, nol” thundered Dinnis,
“ Oime thrue to owld Oireland to th’ lasht—
‘ Ye may brake, ye may shattir th’ vars af ye will,
But th’ heart av O’Toole bates far owld Oireland
sthill.’
“ Yaas, that’s pooty good senterment, too, I
guess,” said the other; "but I should think you’d
want to become a citizen of this, th’ grandest
countree in th' null world, so as to have th' benefit
of its etarnil advantages.” “ Divil a bit,” roared
the Blaine boy; “for it’s meself, Dinnis O’Toole,
moight git 'into thrubble some day, an’ thin,
wudn’t it be moighty handy t’ call on th’ British
flag to protect me, it’s persycutid subjict, frum
harrum ? Th’ O'Toolo* ar’ stanch paythriots t’ tb’
back bone, but they he not sick d—d mules as t’ let
thair paythnotism git ch’ betthcr avthaircommun
sinse. D’ye moind that, now I" Falx, we do
Dinnis. And we wouldn't have to travel far to
find patriots of vour stamp, even among our own
sweet selves. For example, there are but, no—
we’ll draw the curtain on them for the present.
Two items about our Future Monarch.
He is colonel of sixteen reriments in the English
Army. That seems a trifling military responsi-
bility to begin with. But that is not all. He holds
a numberof colonelcies inioreigu armies, andisthe
head ot the Bluchor Hussars. His position would
be rather a delicate one if, say Germany and Eng-
land went to war, and he had to lead one ot his
own regiments against that Hussar regiment. But
we suppose, if he even did go into actual warfare—
a wild enough supposition to begin with—that
they would fix him up as they did when he went
tiger-shooting. Perhaps they would send him
aloft In a balloon, and let him fire down on the
enemy—an international agreement having been
previously arranged that the enemy were not to
reply. We have a shrewd suspicion, however,
that be would prefer to fight out the campaign
over champagne and truffle s. The truffle is a deli-
cious shell-flsu, which the Prince is said to be very
fond of. (This piece of natural history is thrown
in, by the way, forthe information of our plebeian
readers who have not had the chance of moving
in tbe higher aristocratic circles so familiar tq
Henniker Heaton and Garden Honey), The other
item about His Highness is more of a thriller. A
leading London journal says—in its report of his
visit to Doncaster recently—that he was" cheered”
by the Inmates of the Deaf and,Dumb Institution
on his way to the course. This is something like
loyalty. But why talk ? We bet if Bob Smith
were to turn dumb—which the gods forbid: we
could not spare those accents of Hybla — and
such an occasion were to ariSfe, he would And
voice to justify it. It’s all in the loyalty, you
know. Speaking for ourselves, if our Future
Monarch were to come out here, we should never
be too “stuck-up” to drink with him. There is
no nrean pride of that kind about us.
The late Joe Slack, champion litigant of
Australia, has provided a lot more excitement
since his departure for that land where law courts
than even during his worrltting
lifetime. When the poor old boy was found lying
dead in his dreary domicile at South Melbourne,
with a gashed throat and a razor in his left hand,
and when a coroner’s jury had complacently found
suicide while of unsound mind,” the Melbourne
newspaper men agreed that it was j ust what they’d
always expected, and came to the sorrowful con-
pi11®}011 that Joe Slack had furnished them with
his final par. Little did they reck, that bold Barnes
the burglar would appear upon the scene with
such praiseworthy promptitude to babble of
bloody deeds and supply columns of copy. Oh I
he s been a true friend to the evening journals,
has old Slack. His “ Shocking Suicide ” has de-
veloped into a “Mysterious Death,” and will ulti-
mateiy mature-unless the bold Barnes is a liar—
mtp Horrible Murder.” And, by the way, if Mr.
B isn t a liar, then he’s the mostunfortunafe mur-
derer of modern times, for according to present
appearances he will not die happy and fly straight
to Abraham’s bosom like other disciples of Cain
have done. As a murderer gone mad, “after the
tact, Barnes is deserving of our sincere sym-
pathy. His present lot can hardly be cheerful if
he is truthful in stating that “Slack, with his
white hair and a gash in his throat, comes to see
me at night.” Nor is the luckless man’s future
welfare assured unless he dies on the scaffold. It
isn t sufficient to merely murder a man; you must
also be ‘ launched Into eternity” for it, if you
want to be certain of salvation. Providence and
the prison chaplains have arranged that all men
who are hangea go to heaven, uow.-a-days; but if
Barnes has to eke out the remainder of his life-
time in a padded cell, and peg out like ordinary
mortals, there s no telling where he may go to.
Meanwhile, Joe Slack's nightly visitations will be
a poor substitute for that spiritual comfort which
soothes the Inst hours of murderers of sound mind.
Tidings of an unparalleled crime, a blood-
curdling outrage, are watted to us from Mel-
bourne, through the breezy medium of the
Herald. A woe-stricken correspondent of that
journal writes to the effect that-but bear with us
a little while we quote—" The Scots’ Church Ses-
sion asked permission that their old and beloved
pastor, the Rev. Charles Strong, should preach on
Sunday, and the Moderator, who is the mouth-
piece of the Presbytery, have refused to allow him.
Such an act of cruelty to a large and influential
congregation, such a direct insult to a brilliant
preacher, has never botore, and we trust never will,
be offered in the Southern Hemisphere [Amen I—
Kd. B.] Mr. Strong was simply to be asked to
preach on Sunday, as any ether stranger to Mel-
bourne is asked to preach in the Scots’ Church.
But simply because Mr. strong has a nunuer 01
sworn enemies in the Presbytery, and none out-
side, this crushing insult Is paid. No one in the
Presbytery or Assembly dare accuse him of heresy
or say a thing against his character. Still, this
spotless man (!) this brilliant orator (II), this deep
thinker (!!!), this man beloved by thousands [under
the mark, say millions—Ed. B.Jis to be damned to
please a few narrow-mindeu, bigoted, jealous
Presbyterians. But will the citizens of Melbourne
stand it, and allow Mr. Strong to leave Melbourne,
or starve here, to please men beneath contempt ?”
Our pen trembles on our paper, our head swims,
and our very soul revolts at the thought of this
much-advertised parson being damned and per-
mitted to starve. True, ’tis barely twelve months
since the enthusiastic gentlemen and ladies who
formed his flock handed him over the little trifle
of three thousand pounds sterling, so he can hardly
have come down to his last crust; but he may
reach tnat distressful condition—observe, he maw
do so—unless the citizens of Melbourne pull them-
selves together, and refuse to “ stand this.” Let
them stand anything else they choose for their
beloved pastor—rum hot, ginger ale “with a dash,”
even colonial beer —but don’t let them stand
‘this.” Picture the poor priest staggering through
the Melbourne streets, as hungry as Jane Shore,
with a revengeful Presbytery at his heels forbid-
ding the populace to supply him with broken
victuals. And this is what may happen, if the citi-
zens of Melbourne neglect to nip these “acts of
cruelty” in the bud, and suffer their spotless hero
to be d—d by a jealous clique. But, stay! An idea
dashes through our dazed brain. Why should not
the Rev. Charles d n the Presbytery and adopt
some calling less remunerative than pulpit-punish-
ing, but more respectable ? All may yet go well.
Sir Moses Monteftore was two months old
when Dr. Johnson died. The storming of the
Bastille and the Reign of Terror are among the
memories of his childhood, and he followed the
campaigns of Bonaparte and of Wellington with
the romantic interest of youth. All the London
papers publish elaborate accounts of Sir Moses’
centenary. On the day after his hundredth birth-
day, the venerable Hebrew talked and jested with
the vivacity ot a youth in high spirits. His voice
is clear and unbroken, his perceptions keer, and
his memory, to all appearance, perfect. A strange
and fascinating picture met the gaze on entering
his bedroom. There, in the right-hand corner of a
large high-backed, old-fashioned chintz sofa, sat a
patriarchal figure supported by pillows. This im-
passive picture of age tended by love and respect
was lighted from the right witu a stream of sun-
shine which poured through the upper panes of a
large angular bay windoV, and rested gently upon
a grand head full of character, fringed with a short
closels-cut, snow-white beard. One hand was
thrown negligently across the tall arm of the sofa,
the other rested upon the ample skirts of a purple
snk dressing-gown. Close to the head of the'sofa
stood a table covered with baskets and great
bouquets of flowers. Sir Moses assisted at a private
service in his own room, performed by the Rev
Herman Adler, delegate chief rabbi. The aged
patriarch would insist on standing during a part
of the service, and even though bent with the
weight of a hundred years, he was the tallest man
of the little congregation. All day the court-yard
of his house was lull of the carriages of callers.
Eight hundred letters and six hundred congratu-
latory telegrams were received, two-thirds of
the latter being couched in foreign languages
Sir Moses’ birthday was appropriately cele-
brated by the Jewish members ot the Masonic
craft, of which Sir Moses is a very old member.
At the public ceremony, the most interesting per-
son present in the Synagogue was an old Jewish
lady, who was said to be in her 103rd year, and who
certainly appeared fully that age. She resides in
Spitalflelds, and is supposed to be an Austrian of
the name of Rachael Brussac; but her utterance
was so indistinct that the latter point is not clear.
She was dressed entirely in white, and attracted
much attention. On his birthday, the ancient
Jewish baronet was unable to receive any visitors.
The fact is, that though his intellect burns dear
and bright, his booily strength is not great. He
has not been out of doors for a whole year—not
even to visit the synagogue—and only once during
the height of the past summer, was he wheeled
into the drawing-room. It is seldom that he rises
from his bed before three o’clock in the afternoon,
and generally retires a few hours later. With
assistance, he can still walk across the room.
Nevertheless, he is able to attend to business, and
to dictate answers to his numerous correspon-
dents in all parts of the world. His diet consists of
strong beef tea, essence of meat, spirit and water,
and milk, but he does not eat any solid food. The
Synagogue in which the old gentleman's hun-
dredth natal day was celebrated is the one in which
Isaac D israeli worshipped. Amongst the congra-
tulatory telegrams was one from the Empress of
Germany, while from the Jewish communitv in
Nice came a wonderful bouquet nearly three fee#
in diameter, form d chiefly *bf roses camellias,
and orange blossoms.
SIR, MOSES MONTEFIORE.


Tho High Commissioner for New Guinea is
a very able man, whose career thoroughly justifies
the appointment, important as It Is. After serving
six years in the Army, Major-General Scratchley
was selected in 1860 to proceed to Melbourne in
command of a detachment of Engineers to con-
struct works of defence. In 1863 he returned to
England with the rank of captain, and a year later
was made major for his services in India. He was
th n employed on the defences of Portsmouth,
and was appointed Inspector of Works in the
Manufacturing Department of ihe War Office. In
1874 he was promoted to the rank of brevet lieu-
tenant-colonel. In 1877 Lord Carnarvon selected
him to return to Australia, in order to assist Sir
W. Jervois in advising’ the Government upon the
colonial defences, for which service be was created
a Companion of the Order of St. Michael and St.
George. After his return he acted as military
adviser to the Agent-General for Victoria in Lon-
don, and has been for some years Commissioner of
Defences for the Australian Colonies. He received
the rank of colonel in 1878, and last year retired
from the Army with the honorary rank of major-
general. He is forty-nine years of age, and has
the reputation of being, not only a high authority
on military matters, but an excellent judge of
men.
Earl Granville, who occupies the position
of Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs in the
Gladstone Ministry, may, like his chief, the
“Grand Old Man,” be called a veteran statesman,
as it is now close on half a century since he began
to take an active part in the political wo> Id. Lord
Granville (George Leveson Gower) is the eldest
son of the first Earl of Granville, and was born on
the 11th May, 1815, and, consequently, is now in his
rOth year. He was educated at Eton and Chr'st-
church, Oxford, where he took his degrees in 1834
and the following year he became attachd to the
British Embassy at Paris. In 1831, he was first
elected to a seat in the House of Commons for the
borough of Morpeth, and was re-elected by the
same constituency in 1837. In the early nartof 1840,
Lord Granville was appointed Under-Secretary of
state for Foreign Affairs, a post which he held
for some months, but shortly afterwards he forgot
his first love, and took his seat in the Commons
for Lichfield. While in the Lower House
he always supported the Liberal party, and
was an able, earnest, and consistent advocate of
Free-trade. On the death of the first Earl, in 1846,
he succeeded to the peerage, and, two years later
he was appointed Vice-President of the Board of
Trade. He obtained a s-at in the Cabinet in 1851,
and in December of that year he succeeded Lord
Palmerston in the Foreign office, retiring with the
Russell Ministry in 1853. Lord Granville, who held
the offices of Master of the Buckhounds, Pay-
master-General of the Forces, Chancellor of the
Duchy of Lancaster, and Treasurer of the Navy,
was appointed President ot the Council in 1863,
and in 1855 he undertook the Ministerial leadership
of the House’of Lords. He acted as Vice-President
of the Royal Commission in connection with the
Great Exhibition otl851, of which he was one of
the most diligent working members, and in 1860
he accepteu the chairmanship of tie Commission
for the Exhibition of 1862. In 1856 he was sent
upon an extraordinary mission to St. Petersburg,
as representative of the British nation at the coro-
nation of the Emperor Alexander If. Lord Gran-
ville retired with Palmerston's first Ministry in
1858, but was re-appointed President of the Coun-
cil (having failed in forming a Ministry himself) in
Lord Palmerston's second administration in 1S59,
and retired on the fall of Lord Russell’s second
Ministry in 1866. In December. 1868. he accepted
office under Mr. Gladstone as Colonial Secretary,
which position he retained till Juiy. 18T0, when he
was appointed Secretary tor Foreign Affairs in
succession to the late Earl Clarendon, ar d occupied
the office till the resignation of the Liberal Cabinet
in 1874 At the commencement of the following
year, when Mr. Gladstone retired from the leader-
ship of the Opposition. Lord Granville became, by
general consent, the leader of the Liberal party,
Lord Hartington being chosen as its spokesman in
the House of Commons; and when the Liberals
came into power again in April, 1880, on the for-
mation of Mr. Gladstone’s present Ministry, the
veteran statesman again received a portfolio.
Says the Paris correspondent of the Eba :
—“It is an open secret that poor Fedora’s attack
of nervous fever has been brought on by a violent,
sudden affliction, which has abruptly terminated a
twelvemonth's uninterrupted happiness. She had
given her whole heart to a brilliant poet, and
powerful, if not yet very successful, dramatist,
who, it will be remembered, appeared on the stage
by her side for a brief period as tae interpreter of
the principal role in or e of his own pieces. This
tender chord has suddenly been snapped, and
Loris has left Fedora for ever.” Thus the World:
-“Whoever undertakes to write the life of Sara
Bernhardt will have the materials for a most curi-
ous volume. Her talent, her adventures, and her
amours aie equally remarkable. At the present
moment, the celebrated actress is lying danger-
ously ill in her villa at Sto. Adresse, near Havre.
W bat ails her ? Is she sick morally or physically ?
When one reflects upon the life that Sara Bern-
P®rdt has led curing the past four years, since she
left the Franfgise— the continual and ter-
ribly hard work which she has performed during
that period In order to earn those 2,800,000 francs,
which she has spent to the uttermost farthing, as
18 P r e ve d by the recent seizure of her furniture,
and her perpetual struggles with her creditors;
when one thinks of the travelling, the ner-
vous excitement of acting almost every night,
the agitation of a dally life, every hour of
which was occupied, and in which she neverthe-
less found time to indulge in ardent caprices of
passion and sentiment—one need not be surprised
to find nature at last giving way. The strongest
constitution could not resist suchastrain for ever.
But physical fatigue is not the only cause of
Calypso Bernhardt’s dangerous condition. The
real truth is that Ulysses Rlchepln, who succeeded
M. Jacques Damala, who succeeded many others,
in the favours of the great tragedienne, has quar-
relled with his charmer and left her. The scene
of violence, accompanied by menaces and gestures
of head-breaking with andirons, occurred last
week after Calypso’s return from Holland, In
which tour she was accompanied by the author of
‘Nana-Sahib,’ ‘La Glu,’ and ‘La Chanson des
Gueux.’ Ulysses Iliehepin has returned repentant
to the bosom of his family, where his Penelope
welcomed him back in spite of two years of aban-
donment; the newspapers have publicly congratu-
lated the poet on having given up the attempt to
combine, like Dumas’ ‘ Kean,’ disorder with
genius; and Calypso Bernhardt, in despair, has
tried to poison herself. Such, I understand, is the
true and faithful account of the causes of the
state of prostration and nervous excitement in
which Sara Bernhardt is lying at the present
moment. Her condition is very dangerous, but in
spite of appearances, Madame Bernhardt has such
an exceptionally elastic temperament that there
is no reason to despair at present. The great
actress has always gone on de plus forten phis fort,
so that wo may hope that the life of our Calypso,
after the departure of Ulysses Riehepin, will prove
even more interesting than the chapters which wo
have already perused.”
The monstrous sum of £10,000 awarded to
Miss Finney, otherwise Forte=eue, in her breach of
promise action against Lord Garmoyle, was, it is
pretty well known in England, squeezed out of
defendant by the fact that the other side held
possession of certain letters (written by Earl
Cairns, Viscount Garmoyle’s father) wherein were
blended in a manner that would have made the
empire roar, the unctuous piety of the conventicle
and an unsentimental worldliness which would
have well befitted a Scottish Waxman. The Cairns
family, perhaps, did well to arrange things by
giving the pert, square-jawed chit a third of the
gigantic pile at which she modestly assessed the
value of what she was pleased to caliber “wounded
feelings; ’ for the letters in question, though
worthless to Rarl Cairns, who is not a humorist,
would have furnished such pabulum as no comic
papers or burlesque writer has ever had since the
foundation of the world. Miss Finney, who, while
in court, sat beneath the gallery, somewhat
screened from general observation by a crowd of
bewigged lawyers, was plainly attired, and bad no
doubt followed the directions as to costume which
barristers invariably give to their injured clients
on such occasions. She is a young lady with a
fairly good figure (it had much improved when
she left court after annexing the ten “thou.”),
who promises tc become, in a few years, a squat,
matronly-looking person enough; she has a rather
listless expression, attributable for *he most part
to the vacant look in her big eyes, which, from
their weeping and deso'ate appearance, seem to
have been specially designed by “ Providence ” for
use in breach of promise or divorce cases. While
waiting for the proceedings to commence, she pre-
tended to read a book—it was evidently one of
the properties ” in this new version of “ Trial by
Jury,” and had no doubt been lent her by her
counsel, for it was labelled “ A abort Manual of
Bankruptcy Law, ’—and she from time to time
elevated to the bridge of her semi-Grecian nose a
pair of eye-glasses with thick gold rims. The small
court was crammed to suffocation. One of the
sights of the case was a big tin-box almost as
h\g as a coffin,; with “F. v. G.” ominously
inscribed in white paint on its sides, which was
dragged into Court and hoisted into a prominent
position beside the barristers’ table. It came out
in the statement submitted to the jury Dy the
eminent Mr. Charles Russell that Miss Finney was
born In 1859, and is the daughter of a reduced coal-
men hant; that she commenced her stage career
at the Savoy Theatre in 1880, at a salary of three
guineas a week, which, as she attained greater
proficiency (Mr. Russell did not add “ and as para-
graphs appeared in the papers concerning the
serious penchant entertained tor her by tha Bari’s
son ”), was gradually increased to six guineas; that
on July 11, 1882, Lord Garmoyle, “who had met
her in society,” proposed, and was accepted. Mrs.
and Miss Finney urged the “noble” victim to tell
his pa and ma at once. He, after the manner of
young men in such cases, told his ma, and then he
wired to hi? pa, who “gave. If not a cordial, a
guarded approval of the engagement which had
been made. Then Lady Cairns wrote to plaintiff:
—“ Dear Mies Finney—a name by which In a very
short time you will not any longer be known—my
son has asked me this evening to write to you, as
his visit to Switzerland will delay a little while his
seeing you. ... I trust it will please God to
grant His blessing to you and him, for experience
Bas made me feel that without God’s blessing no
life can be happy, and no permanent good can be
attained. I have no more intense desire than that
you and my truly beloved son shall be really
nappy,” and to this Lady Cairns added. “There is
a kindly desire to further his and your Interests on
the part oi every member of his family.” To
which Miss Finney repliedDear Lady Cairns,—
I cannot teh you how deeply I appreciate the
kindly feelings which prompted the letter you
sent. You have been, from all your son has told
me, the most affectionate of mothers, and I can
truly say my only one wish will be to make Lord
Garmoyle thoroughly and absolutely happy in a
true and real way,” and Miss Finney concluded by
expressing a hope that in so acting Lady Cairns
would “some day forgive her for having married
her son.” Alter an interview on the subject with
his lather. Lord Garmoyle wrote to his inamorata:
—“At last I have seen the dreaded parent, who, I
find, Is overjoyed at my having decided to do any-
thing at all, and much more so to find I am doing
bo sensible a thin* as to marry;” and, a little later,
he, like Archibald Forbes, was so foolish as to
himself become a party to the publication of
newspaper paragraphs announcing his intention
of fretting marri d. By and bye he told Miss Fin-
ney that his parents looked upon her profession as
frivolous, ungodly, and profane, whereupon she
agreed to give it up, and persuade 1 her sister,
wno is also a theatrical genius, to do likewise. Miss
Finney, having been thus purified, was considered
good enough to be received as a guest in
the ancestral halls of the Cairnses, where
she was introduced to a lot of very distin-
guished people as the future Lady G-armoyle.
Then his lordship tore himself away from his
beloved “to complete hismilitary studies at Sand-
hurst,’' but “ ho does not seem to have been him-
self so keen about Sandhurst as his friends, and
Miss Finney seems to have written urging him
very strongly to be sure and follow up his exami-
nation to the end.” Many letters pas c ed between
the parties, and on the 15ch October, 1883, plaintiff
wrote to the defendant this letter with reference
to some very handsome present Lord Garmoyle had
made her:— [Memo.: Did she keep press copies of
her outward billets doux ?]—” Dear Old Sweetheart.
—I wore your present at dinner after you left, but
I do want you to remember what I say when I beg
you not to give me anything else foi a long time,
sweetheart, for, besides, you see, being a loving
pair, we are a sensible man and woman, who, car-
ing for each other more than anything else in the
world, have settled to pass our lives together. If
this is to be successful, you must get in the habit
of treating me as » woman, and not as a mere
plaything upon whom jewels and toys are to be
lavished, as if these were thj only things to make
her happy. Now, dear old boy„you must feel the
fact that you have great expenses, therefore you
cannot put your income round my neck and arms
without getting your affairs into a muddle. All
the pretty things you love to give me are, as I
know, so many signs, or as you say, a kind of
public witness of your affection for me, but y r ou
must give me what I do ask you, compliance with
my wish in this particular. You see I am not
simply a brainless doll, with a spurious kind of
love, to be kept alive by all sorts of tributes to her
vanity, but a loving' woman who, besides thinking
of the pleasure of the moment, wants to see the
future clearly on the same lines. Do you think I
do not appreciate the sweet thoughts which
prompt you to give me the prettiest jewels ? Now,
I only want you to see these things from my own
point of view. You and 1 owesomethlng to other
people, by which I mean that as you and I have
done something a little out of the way, we are
bound to make it a great success for each other,
so that other men and women in a similar position
may say: • These two took their own lives Into
their own keeping, and gave up many things for
the sake of each other, and they made a success
of it, as we will do.’ That seems to me rather a good
thing in life, to try and help each other, being
strong and brave, and doing what Is right.
This reads so prettily that we really believe
the Finney family must have had a theatrical
critic on the premises to write their love letters.
His Lordship replied nicely and gushingly, saying
that this was a letter to be in every way appreciated
on account of the spirit which prompted it: that it
was a womanly and a wise letter; and he con-
cluded—poor devil!—by pointing out that It was
“ only since he had known Miss Finney that he had
felt aspirations as to what was good.” What his
previous aspirations had been—whether they had
taken the direction of dog-fighting, or rat-shootlpg
(as did those of a breach of promise man recently
made an example of at Stafford), or bigamy, or
burglary, was not stated. However, It all ended
up in this—that, after he had, at Bournemouth,
expressed for the girl all sorts of love and respect,
and so on, he sat down and wrote her a letter
—which was not read in Court—breaking off the
engagement on the ground that his people objected
to her profession. Having stated his client’s case
up to this point, Miss Finney 's lawyer gave utter-
ance to a passage which vividly recalls to us the
most affecting point in the peroration of Serjeant
Buzfuz:—” Gentlemen, Iwlll not trouble you with
the answer written by Miss Finney. You may
suppese;that what she said was sad and touching
The dream of her life, which In its realization was
to bring happiness to her, had vanished. What was
she then to do ? She had abandoned the stage at
the request of Lord Garmoyle, and In deference to
the conscientious feelings of his friends and rela-
tions. Her sister had also done the same, and Mies
Finney had her mother and sister still looking to
her for support. She might have led a life of idle-
ness, and then come into court. She had left her
profession, abandoned it to become Lord Gar-
moyle’s wife, as she had every right to expect to
be. and her profession was closed to her. But she
did that which, I think, every honest man and
woman will approve of. ‘I must earn bread,’ she
said, * for myself and those dependent upon me,
and there is only one way open to me;’ and, like
a brave woman, with a large and generous
heart, Miss Fmney resumed her profession-
resumed it, I may say, with a sad heart, resumed
it for the decent support of herself and her mother
and sister. Now, gentlemen, I have told you the
whole ef this matter. If I had words or force of elo-
quence, which I don’t pretend to have, they would
not be needed in this case, because the strength
of it—the strength of the demand which this lady
makes to you for reparation—rests on a simple
narration of the facts I have put before you, and
not one of which will be gainsaid by my learned
friend.” After some inconsequential preliminary
observations, defendant’s counsel said his client
consented to a verdict being entered for Miss
Finney for £10,COO, adding; “I wish to go further.
Lord Garmoyle is desirous to have It said that from
his first acquaintance with Miss Finney, through
the whole of his engagement with her, from its
first inception to its termination, there was nothing
in the bearing and course of conduct pursued
by Miss Finney but was becoming a high-minded
English lady. He also desires to state that break-
ing off this engagement did not result in any way
from any act done, or from any course of action
by her, but was effected irom considerations ap-
plicable to himself alone. It is not necessary for
me to state what those considerations were. I
trust it will be believed that Lord Garmoyle
believes them to be paramount and imposing a
heavy duty upon him; but whilst they were con-
si- erations that ho felt ought to affect his judg-
ment above all others, they could not and cannot
afford any answer to the just claim Miss Finney
has upon him. Therefore he has consented to the
verdict I have mentioned. And I have on his be-
half to add this statement, which I hope you will
regard as having been conceived In a generous
spirit of consideration towards Mias Finney.” So
ended this cause celehre.
* * •
Oscar Wilde says “he would have every
article of dress express a law.” The only such
article which, so far as we know, docs anything
of the kind is the Darllnghurst gentleman’s broad-
arrowed pair of pants.
* * *
John Bright was 73 on the IGth Novem-
ber Lord Charles Scott, husband of “ the cousin
n Lady Clarke,” gets £40,COO only under the will
of his father, the late Duke of Buocleuch, whose
total estate amounted to about a million The
American Methodists are denouncing St. John, the
Prohibition candidate for the Presidency. It is
more than likely that St. John has threatened to
issue another volume of his Revelations—this
time at the expense of the Methodists, who seem
to take lees kindly to being revealed than any
other sect on top of this earth.
Emmeline Josephine was a well-beloved
daughter of the illustrious house of Smith. She
was beautiful as the hourl oi a Turk’s paradise,
and as learned as a dozen professors of every-
thing. She had teeth ot pearl, lips of roses, and
every feature was more exquisitely perfect than
ever sculptor wrought, limner painted, or poet
faneied. She sang divinely, played every instru-
ment, from the jow’s-harp to the autophone, and
sooke every language, from English, Welsh, and
Chinese to Hindostanee, Cherokee, and Double
Dutch. Her appearance in public defied descrlp-
tion — the treasures of the East, the West, the
North, and the undiscovered South each cootrl-
buted to add lustre to this transcendently lovely
belle of the South. Her beauty was the gift of
nature, her accomplishments were the result of
natural aptitude a id earnest study, and her tog*
gery was all bought at Anthony Hordern and Sons.
Palace Emporium, Haymarket.*
Wbat may Happen to a Girl in Australia.
—We often bear of what may happen to a man in
Australia, but how seldom do we learn the ex-
perience of the poor girls who have to fight the
battle of life in our great cities. Here is a brief
narrative of one of them. She was born in the
remote bush, and lived there until her 16th year,
when her father, who was a boundary-rider on a
station, died—leaving her mother and a large
family totally unprovided for. She had received
no school instruction of any description whatever
and her sole capabilities were the capacity to per-
form the ordinary household duties and work a
Sewing-Machine. The use of this implement had
been taught by theitravelllng agent from whom
her father bought it, and by its aid she supported
the whole family for a while after her father’s
death. She soon finished all the work the district
could furnish, and, reduced to the last sixpence
bravely determined to try Sydney. Here she was
for a long period out of employment, and endured
innumerable hardships. A fr eed, however, re-
commended her to seek woik at one of the
leading dress-making establishments m our city
She did so; but notwithstanding her ill fortune
and distress of mind and body, she could not re-
strain from laughing when she saw the cumbrous
and antiquated engines they presumed to call
sewing machines, with which they were endeav-
ounng to get through a vast quantity of work.
The tables were piled with it—it was Christmas-
tide, and the head of tne establishment was in
despair. “Send at once to Beale and Co.’s I’’ex-
claimed our heroine, “and tell them to forward
one of their ‘ Wonderful Wertheim Sewing Ma-
chines as quickly as possible, and I’ll undertake
to finish the loti” They were amused at her de-
claration, and appeared incredulous, but acceded
er , v ist ? e ®: They immediately procured a
Wonderful Wertheim,” she sat down, and much
to their delight and astonishment, finished off the
whole of their uncompleted work before evening.
Good fortune continues to smile on her: she makes
sfilapdid wages as a teacher to the rest of the es-
tablishment. and they now have no other machines
upon the premises.* *
MAJOR-GENERAL SCRATCHLEY.
EARL GRANVILLE.
EXTRACT FROM A SERMON OF AN EMINENT AMERICAN COLOURED DIVINE,
“NO, BREDDERIN AND SISTERN, DE LEPPERD CAN’T NEBBER CHANGE HfS SPOTS.
WHY, DO YOU SPOSE DAT THE MERE PACK OB OLE MARSBR BISMARK GWINE TO
NEW GUINEA TO LIB, AND TAKIN’ GERMANY WID HIM, WILL EVER MAKE A DECENT
NIGGER OB HIM, OR OB DE GERMANS? NO, BREDDERIN AND SISTERN. IF YER
WANTS TO BE A ‘SPECTABLE BLACK NIGGER YOU MUST BE A TALLER P1CANINNY
FUST! * DAT S WHAT DE 8CRTPTER SAYETH.”


DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Vm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINK of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
OrriCES: 43 KING STREET,
Wharves ; Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay
every fortnight
Fleet or Steamships;
BUNINYONG EDINA KONOOWARRA
BARRABOOL GABO LEURA
BURWAH BALMAIN MORETON
CHEVIOT GEELONG RODONDO
DERWENT KE1LAWARRA YOU YANQ8.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited).
43 King Street, Sydney
J. MASSEY, Jrnv.,
PIANOS UI DESMS,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
SENT FREE, by POST ONLY, in an Envelope.
SOCIAL SCIENCE,
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders which
cause Impediments t® Marriage, and all
Chronic Diseases; also. How to choose a partner
for life, so as to live happy and produce healthy
children ; and how to regain and preserve your
health, &c, &c.
Address: E, T. SELBY, Medical Herbalist,
Devonshire-street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
Wharf Labourers’ Picnic
and Regatta.
THE aboVe will take place at CORRYS
GARDENS, Fdrramatta River, on
Wednesday, uth January, isss.
Over £ 100 will be distributed in prizes, including
the Deeble Trophy and 150 yards handicap, prize
£10. Entries tor principal sports will close on
Monday, 12th instant.
The fast steamers. Waterview, Balmain, and
Admiral, will leave the floating jetty at Circular
Quay every half-hour during the day.
Banquet to take place on the grounds at 4 p.m.
R. M'KILLOP, Pres.
D. B. DORAN, Sec.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
First open date, Monday. January
10th, 1885. Share or Let. Terms on applica-
tion to
J. B. HICKIE,
Lessee.
N.B. Only responsible managers treated with.
pkd:
N
N
Q
. KOF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite ol
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
In Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &o. Leigh House Academy, -ol
Castlereagh-street, near Bathurst-street. ir.H.
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can au he
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
soring floor, &c. No decorations required.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OP THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, cate of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
SPECIAL NOTICE—ALTERATION OF AR-
RANGEMENTS at the
LAVENDER BAY
Swimming Baths
(the enly pure sea-water baths near Sydney.)
Open every day for Ladies and Gentlemen from
6 a.m. till dark.
Admission. 3d.; Children, accompanied by adults,
2d.; 100 tickets, 21s.; Monthly Tickets, 5s.; An-
nual Tickets, from 1st September, 21s.
SWIMMING TAUGHT by Mr. Frederick
Cavill, the world-renowned swimmer, who swam
from France to England in 12 hours, 30th August
1877. Six Lessons, 21s. The North Shore Ferry
Steamers leave the Circular Quay for the Baths
every quarter-of-an-hour.
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST,
3raduate In Medicine and Surgery, Registered
Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours ; 10 a.m. to 4pm., 7 to 0 on Monday,
SVednesday, and Saturday Evenings.
Ladles’ Waiting Room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen s, No.
11, 52 Castlercagh-street (upstairs.)
Send for Free Treatise on Vitality and Nervous
Debility, Diseases of Women.
Illustrated Works on Deformities, Electricity
md its Application. Hernia (ruptures). Varicocele,
SfO., &c. _ , , .
Address— Australian Medical and Surgical In-
ftrraarv, Sydney ; or B. O. HOLTERMANN, Esq.,
M.P., President, Box 120, G.P.O.
Consultation Free by mail or in person.
Deformities, Specific. Female, and Nervous
Diseases, a Specialty.
Professional Directory.
HISCOCK8’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. HlscOcks..
W.
Sydney
HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks’ Federal
Minstrels, dl the Academy of Music,
TO AMATEUR THEATRICALS;—Scenery Sup-
plied or Lent. G. Perriman, Scene Painter,
No. 1, back of Academy of Music, Castlereagh-st,
T A L
Theatre r p
Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Muborovb.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager—B. N. Jones.
THE ONLY PANTOMIME IN SYDNEY
is
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD.
THIS and EVERY EVENING, at 7.45,
THE G RAND COMIC CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
entitled
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD,
or
HARLEQUIN BOY BLUB,
The Good Fairy and the Naughty Wolf.
PRICES: Dress Circle, 6s.; Stalls, 4s.; Family
Circle, 3s.
Tickets for all parts of the house at East way’s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4 at Theatre.
N
E W
OPERA HOUSE.
Lessees ... E. Majeroni and W. J. Wilson.
This Thursday Night, last night but one of
MAJERONI and WILSON’S
COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
In LUSCOMBE SEARBLLB’S NEW OPERA
BOBADIL BOBADIL BoBADIL
BOB ADI L BOBADIL BOBADIL,
With the following powerful Cast
Miss Grade Plaisted Miss Frances Savlllo
Miss Minnie Desmond Miss Blanche Leopold
Mr. Chas. Harding Mr. Geo. Leopold
Mr. F. Wentworth Mr. Oily Deering
Mr. A. Davies Mr. W. P. Morrison
NEW SCENERY by Mr. ALFRED CLINT.
Grand ORCHESTRA under the Baton of
Mr. LUSCOMBE 8BARBLLE.
Leader HERR KU8TER.
SATURDAY. JANUARY 10. 1885,
LA F1LLE DB MADAME ANGOT.
Box plan now open at A. and C. Huenerbeln’s
Music Warehouse, 318, George-street.
Gaiety
Lessee
Manager for Mr. Reeve
THEATRE.
Mr. Wybert Reeve.
.. Mr. G. A. Coleman.
SIXTH WEEK
and
CONTINUED SUCCESS
of the
MONTAGUE-TURNER ENGLISH OPERA
COMPANY
THIS AND EVERY EVENING,
H.M.8. PINAFORE.
H.M.S. PINAFORE.
H.M.8. PINAFORE.
H.M.S. PINAFORE.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Prices: 5s., 3s., 2s., Is.
Doors open at 7, overture 7.45.
H. TREVORAH, Business Manager.
DUNCAN MACALLUM, Agent.
rHE AUSTRALIAN
WAXWORKS
Opposite the Cathedral,
Have been visited by 17,000 persons; and pro-
lounced by the public and press to be the best ex-
iJbltlon ever opened in Sydney.
Open daily from 10 a.m. till 10 p.m.
Admission, One Shilling; Children, half-price.
OF MUSIC.
C A D E M Y
Lessee and Manager
Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING.
S1SCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
And Speciality Union,
vlth fresh faces and new business, and all the old
favourites.
THIS and EVERY EVENING.
GRAND BLACK PANTOMIME.
O
LD MASONIC HALL, Y ORK-8TREET,
M’LEAN’S CONQUEST PANTOMIME CO.
Rlrst Afternoon Performance for Children:
Saturday, 10th January.
Doors open at 2 p.m. Prices, 6d. and Is.
Usual Evening Performance. 6d., Is., 2s. Doors
open at 7 p.m.
CEAD MILLS FAILTHE.
Grand Irish Fancy Fair
GRAND IRISH FANCY FAIR!
IN AID OF ST. BENEDICT’S CHURCH AND
A w XHB CONVENT FUND,
Held in St. Benedict’s Hall, Abercrombie-street,
off George-street West.
Messrs. J. H, Rainford, Alderman Conlin, Fred.
Leston, HaUewell. T. Banks, and J. HInchy have
kindly consented to assist.
y Pole and other Amusements day and night.
GREAT ATTRACTIONS !
first-class band in attendance every evening.
nd Pianos kindly lent by Messrs. Huenerbein
and Beale.
pen from 7 till 10 p.m. nightly, also from 3 till 6
from 7 till 10 p.m. on Saturdays.
ms and ’buses stop at the door; also within
two minutes’ walk from Railway Station.
M. E. O’BRIEN, ) pr nn SpC8
JOHN DELARGY, 1 Hon ’ SeCS ’
ROCKHAMPTON, QUEENSLAND.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL.
CONSIDERABLE Additions and Improvements
/have been made to the above Hall, which is
w the most commodious place of entertainment
Rockhampton, and is in the centre of the town,
in thoroughly furnished and fitted, seated for
people/and ha™ a large Stage and Gallery,
npie means of access and egrws have been pro-
b'd . also thorough ventilation. Traveling
mnanies will find special facilities for giving
tertainments in this Hall. Terms moderate,
.rtloulara on application to the Secretary.
Medals Gained against the World
First Prizes ana Exhibition.
MR. F. WARE,
SURGEON-DENTIST.
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George Sc Market Streets, Sydney
0T Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughing Gas
JSther Spray, Methyllne, and Chloroform.
~|"N THU PRESS, and to be published shortly, the
History of the Year 1884.
A complete record day by day of every event of
interest to the colony, in town or country. Com-
piled with great care, and intended to All, as a
work of reference, a long-felt want.
Send 5s. 6d. stamps to
JOHN WOODS AND CO. (Limited),
Bridge-street. Sydney.
and
(J. A. ROBERTS. R, J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMERS, R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS
. HARDWARE, d U1IDI
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOtS and REQUISITES. WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY,
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTHACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS,
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHUUILDERV
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, &c.
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU*
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSHWARE
FENCING WIRE,
WOOLPACKS
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
Ufi
■sr ,
PORTABLE, FIXED,
and SEMI-FIXED EN-
GINES
VERTICAL and HORI-
, ZONTA L BOILERS
-S— ? STEAM and other
PUMPS
LATHES. PLANING,
SHAPING, SCREW-
BHibCUt 1NG, and DRILLING
_, MACHINES
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLED
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, &o.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
B
Head Warehouse -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
- 54 YORK STREET,
- HAY" AND ENGINE STREETS.
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR,
SYDNEY.
London Office - - - - 85 GRACECHURCH STREET.
EOSSiiLIE.LLb'rD <35 CO.
4s. in the £, or 20 per cent. Reduction.
GREAT SALE OF~REALLY NEW GOODS!
Disposal of the Balance of Spring and Summer Imports,
at a Discount of 4s. in the £.
PRIOR to our Half yearly Stocktaking, at the end of JANUARY", we intend D eposing of all
SURPLUS SUMMER SEASON’S GOODS, at the very large Discount of 4s. in the £.
ROSSALTE, LLOYD and CO. have not reduced the prices of their goods, but they make a
bond Me deduction of 4s. in the £ after the hill Is made out. Hease note that you buy in the usual
way, thus : If your purchases amount to £6, you only pay £4 16s. This is the only genuine way of
selling off.
LADIES WILL DO WELL TO INSPECT THIS MAGNIFICENT STOCK.
ORDERS ENTRUSTED TO US THROUGH POST WILL HAVE OUR BEST CARE.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.,
3S4: Cl-eorgrc-street, S3rd.r3.e3r
(Near the Post Office, and directly opposite Wynyard-street).
A USTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1873.
Capltal-f lOO.COO with power to increase to £1,000,100
BONUSES—20 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
—-
—V.
“ - „
«*£S Head Offices. ®*5S)
First Fire Society established In the colony on
■he Mutual principle. Riving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out ot
3r poUcy-holde^ a are perfectly free by law from
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
ae Damage I by U lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Offices—PITT and KING STREETS.
DENTIST.
(Of America)
GUARANTEES
III 111 II I I
{ST - PRICES MODERATE.
Corner George and Market Streets,
OVER HUNTER’S BOOT PALACE.


-
♦ mtt"
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
THIS triumph of musical invention is acknow-
ledged on all hands to be the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It is a wonderful little Instrument, which, while
it weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL-SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and executes its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 33 reeds, plays in three keys, and all tfiti
parts ef most difficult music.
To Mr. H. B. Horton, the inventor, the World
was first Indebted for the Orgamtte; but that was
too expensive to come within the reach of all.
After years of persistent effort and intelligent
study, ho has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of cost and crudeness.
It requires no skill to extract from it any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it play scorn prising selections
from Hymns. Oratorios, Operas. Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, &o , &c., &c. A child can
play any of these selections with perfect accuracy.
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that are sent with each
instrument, and are so plain that “ he who runs
may read.” It is best adapted to * he kind of music
which suits an organ best, in which chords pre-
dominate ; but it has also wonderful power in
executing very lively pieces. It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card-holder for convenience
in singing. It will be found invaluab oforCountry
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and
for Dancing. Every shanty in the bush should be
supplied with one ; and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autophone. It will afford greater and better
entertainment than four times the price can pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Sole Agents for this marvel-
ous little instrument in the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
OF
474 George Street, Sydney.
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the colonies. Orders have
come to us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonely
shepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the cities-from
everywhere, in fact. And one of the best argu-
ments we can offer as to the genuineness of the
instrument, is the fact that, in all our corre-
spondence, we have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they will recommend it
to their friends.
It is conceded by all educators and moralists
that music is the great refining influence, and
especially with children its effect for good is
boundless. The love for music which music in
the family engenders, is more potent in forming
dispositions and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, end parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm which renders an other
wise hard task an easy one.
The price of the Autophone is 30s.,
and where good music can be procured for such a
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
be without it. With each Autopbo © for 30s. we
smd three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
All orders for music are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it our
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogues of tunes at any time.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Sole Agents for Australia!
ORIENTAL GOLD COMP AN f,
474 George-street, Sydney, 474
Opposite entrance to Fruit Markets.
Thb Ratus or Subscription to Thb Bulletin
ar« —For one year, 31a.; half-year, 12a. 0d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
Thb Advertising Rates are 5a. per inch ■
special positions in the paper 7a. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10a. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods- as followsOn ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions
Ifi per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 26 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under ill, postage stamps of any Australlaa
Colony ;nny be sent. If more ijonvenlont.
They walked on in silence, he appraising
In his own mind some of the fine equipages which
were standing at the shop doors, she striving to
rouse her courage sufficiently to propose buying
one of the beautiful toilet .gets of chinawtere at
Bray’s, 403 and 404 George-street.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
thmatb* BOTAL-“ Little Red RidlngHood ”. .p. 8
opvra House-” Bobadil ” - ?*>.
naibttTheatre— Moutague-TuimerOpera., ib.
Academy or Music.—Hisoocks 1. Minstrels ib.
During the Christmas week the various
Places of popular resort (how we love those dear
drivelling old expressions !) were sufficiently at-
tended to enable the artists to defy the butcher
«nd meet the oaker’s threats with contempt.
Vnr is it from the performers’ standpoint alone
that tierful Christmas faces are pleasant. To us,
barnacled, battered, old flotsam-hardened with a
inner sou 'gle against the coldness of an artificial
society ana adulterated gin-the iudiscriminating
rnirthof the sun-tanned countrymen and the noisy
lighter or well-fed children recil the times when
we too, thought every dameuse a Titania and
every “ Bully Bottom” an uberou. Ehcu!
« • • «
The Turners during last week stuck to
“ Maritana,” “ Carmen,” and the “ Bohemian Girl ’
-that exemplary young woman who preserved an
austere virtue while her companions were mending
saucepans Iduring the day and surprising clothes-
lines and hen-roosts at night. Like Arline, we ve
often dreamt of sleeping in marble halls, only to
find ourselves in the morning looking over a
regiment of spikes into the hard face of an un-
sympathising minion who received with insulting
incredulity our poor statement of what we knew
concerning the obtrusive black eye and bandaged
head of the apprehending officer, between whose
story as given from the witness-box and ours as
hiccupped from the dock there appeared to be
some serious discrepancies. Miss Montague’s Ar-
line is always pleasing, and sometimes more. Her
intonation is true—you never caceh her at vari-
ance with the orchestra—and her acting spirited.
She grows upon you, and can always be de-
pended on to keep the audience silent while she
sings and noisy wnen she ends. From a rather
weedy-looking child she develops into a robust
woman, with sound views on morality and sturdy
Uower extremities. This is probably due to the
free open-air character of gipsy life in Bohemia,
combined with a full diet of purloined poultry.
Mr. Turner’s Thaddeus is satisfactory throughout.
Bohemia agrees with him too, far better than
facing Cossack lances In Poland, and so he remains
maaing love to Arline, and putting on flesh. He
is successful in both. His “ Fair Land of Poland ’
and “ When other lips” caused applause allied to
enthusiasm. But the indifferent support accorded
the chief performers is a real stumbling block.
♦ * *
And yet Miss Lambert made a presentable
Queen, and Mr. Brennira not unacceptable Count
Arnheim. But, here again, the remembrance of
the “ only one”—the resplendant never-to-be-for-
gotten “ Bill”—obtrudes itself, and will not be
denied. And to think that he so nearly secured a
six-foot freehold in the gorgeous East I To ade-
quately fill the void left by Verdi, Mr, Brennir
might devote a little more time to assimilating
beef. And this applies to many others of the com-
pany. They want “ filling out”—some about the
logs, more a little higher, few about the feet.
Toe heart bowed down” — the disconsolate
father’s lugubrious piece de resistance—was well
received, (n the clarionet solo, introducing this
touching ditty, we thought we recognised the
gifted Howard’s cunning, till a brother “ dead-
head” next us said that poor Howard had,
years ago, secured a six-foot brass-plated,
satin-lined “ piner,” and that it was Mr. Hodge
(gods!) who was now wrestling with the in-
strument. “ From Howard to Hodge, ” he
went on, “bah 1 it’s from Mercutio to Tybalt
You shouldn’t expose your Ignorance like this. ’
This crashed us, and for the rest of the piece we
kept a morbid and dejected silence.“As DevU’s-
hoof, Mr. Gordon looked an undesirable person to
meet on the Bondi road on a dara night. But his
by-play was forced and artificial. Even Arline
seemed at times to resent his obtrusiveness, while
some ladies of the chorus just behind received
his well-meant attentions with ill-concealed con-
tempt. On the whole, he took his part well; and
you felt that, if he were attached to one end of a
rope with some villagers at the other end towing
him through a horse-pond, you would give the
rustics a band.
* * * *
Let’s see—Is ’there anything fresh to be
said about the Pantomime at the Royal ? Not
much, certainly, except that now in the second
wee* there i> nearly a whole seat for everybody
in the dress circle; so, come now, that’s better than
nothing at all. Prices, heat, and everything con-
sidered, the crowd keeps pretty strong, and for
less than two pins we’d enter into partnership
with Williamson, Garner, and Musgrave, and
would never think of crying off as long as things
remain as they are at present. It bothers us to
know what or who it is that attracts all
those doddering old beaux to the dress circle.
The paltry excuse that they go to take
their grandchildren and other folks’ grand-
children won’t wash, tor the kids are mostly
all big enough to take care of themselves. Is it
then, that they go to gaze on the Fairy’s faultless
form, or on Lucy Long, who is as pretty as a
picture, and who has kept her pinny nice and
clean, or to see Buy Blue snow her muscle to the
wolf, or but, maybe, we are unjust; we quite
forgot there was such a thing as second childhood
which will, perhaps, account tor all these grey
heads in tne circle. That it’s all great nonsense
everybo ly knows, but what pantomime Isn’t ? If
It wasn’t we should find fault, so que voulez-vous 1
At the same time, a little more attention
to detail would be acceptable. What, f,r
Instance, is there to prevent the wolf from
looking more wolf-like ? Nothing, excepting the
price of a good skin. At present, even the most
trusting of children find it hard to believe this is a
real wolf, and complain that it doesn’t look like
the animrl in their story-books; but, when we
explain tnat it shed its skin that hot-wind day
just after its arrival in Sydney, it pacifies them a
bit. As, however, we have an objection to having
to Invent excuses for this wolf, we have deter-
mined to expose him next time, if he gives us any
more trouble.
* * *
* People never seem to be able to get enough
of the Matthews brothers; and they are clever boys,
there’s no mistake about it. But if you think we
are going to tell you any more about the Panto-
mime this week you're mistaken, for it’s easier for
you to go and see it for yourselves than for us to
single the best or worst things in it just for your
benefit. We will simply give you this nit of advice:
If you mean to go, go now, whilst the costumes are
fresh and clean, an.i before the principals weary of
their parts, which they almost invariably do to-
wards the tail-end of a Pantomime season. There;
that’s all. No charge.
« * * *
A good crowd met at the Gaiety on Mon-
day night to see fair play in the advertised strug-
gle between the Turners and “Pinafore.” Tne
betting was pretty even at the start, but as tne
scuffle proceeded tha odds la favour of “ Pina-
fore” increased till at last two to one could be
obtained on all sides. Miss Montague did not
apnear. Sne required a rest, and (this in a whis-
per), besides, it was tacitly understood that how-
ever pleasantly she migut warble the musicabotted
to Josephme, sue could uot ha exorcted to look
the pari without subjecting berseif to severe phy-
sical discomfort. So Mbs Lome was the Joseph-
ine, and got througn in a manner very creditable.
When last we saw the male chorus they were
bandits and tramps, and as such appeared more
comfortable and to the manner born than as
honest British tars. This, however, might have
been overlooked but lor their melancholy deter-
mination to dance a hornpipe. It was then you
felt that the chances of Britain’s ever again ruling
the waves were remote and worthless.
♦ * ♦
F Sir Joseph Porter, K.C.B., is a fair-spoken
old lady whom plrcumstances have made a lord.
Mr.’ Trevorah filled the part, and appeared to have
a good grasp of the author’s intention. But his
voice is against him. “Perhaps,” suggested Cap-
tain Corcoran to Sir Joseph’s complaint that Miss
Corcoran wouldn’t do—“ perhaps ’tis your exalted
rank dazzles her.” Of course we in the audience
could see the real cause. It was his legs choked
her off. Morbleu ! The old women we’ve seen iu
high places in both servic-s—guiding and govern-
ing men when they should have been mixing
mortarl And Little Buttercup (Miss Lambert),
what shall we say of her? Weil, just this—that if
Gilbert and Sullivan sac out Monday night’s per-
formance, they would look gloomily Into each
others iaces, return to their homes in silence, in-
terview the furniture with an axe and the manu-
scripts with kerosene, and—apply for a job on the
railway. We would not take the trouble to speak
so frankly but that we know what a useful, all-
round artiste Miss Lambert is, and so our surprise
at her reading of Buttercup is bewildering. We
don’t, of course, question the originality of the
conception—in fact, It was as original as sin. And
the physical exertion, too, required in carrying it
out must have been trying. Indeed, an athlete, ap.
patently in training, who sat next us said he
thought he was at the Highland sports, where one
of the events was a standing long jump by bum-
boat women. Even when the performance was
over, idle people loitered round the doors as if to
see whether Buttercup would bring matters to a
climax by standing on her head.
* * ♦
Mr. Brennir was overweighted as Ralph
Rackstraw. Mr. Turner’s Captain Corcoran was
effective. He looked far more at his ease as a
“skipper” than as a “tar”—a remark which re-
quires to be reversed In Rackstraw’s case. This
might have been owing to there being but one
naval uniform among the lot, or it might not. It
is hard to say. The Bill Bobstay of Mr. Farley and
Mr. Gordon’s Dick Deadeye call for no special re-
mark. As the Mi ishipmite. Master Quealy caused
some amusement when he stood still, which de-
veloped into mirth when he danced—and, as he
was dancing most of the time, he soon became a
favourite. “Pinafore” will probably run during
the week.
* * * *
This week sees the last of “ Bobadil ” at
the Opera House. Its run has been long and
lucrative. It would be as difficult to say anything
fresh about it as about the works of Voltaire.
We’ve heard over and over again that our opinion
about the music and its proper status was formed
too hastily*, and so we obtained a copy and worked
our way laboriously through it with a concertina.
Well, there are pretty, taking, airs in it; and it
may have been that, when we first heard them,
the spell of Offenbach, Lecocq and Sullivan was
upon us, and our standard of comparison con-
sequently too high.
♦ * * *
Take them all round, you get, perhaps,
more for your money—certainly more fun—from
Hisoocks’ crowd than from any other crush in
Sydney. If you are content to have an occasional
old joke with a new face fired into you, and can
stand an odd piece of tomfoolery, with no particu-
lar beginning, end, middle, or moral to it—then
spend a couple of hours at the Academy some
night; and if you are not.readier to lend a friend
half a crown when you come out at ten than when
you went in at eight, it is b cause you are a bad
man, who probably reads the Protestant Stand-
ard, or preaches the glad tidings of all but uni-
versal damnation at Salvation Army meetings.
On Saturday night the temperature of the house
was sent up so by a packed audience, that, in a
barometer over our heads, the mercury got out-
side and sat there with nothing on but its socks,
till the mob dispersed. There was no particular
change in the programme; but it would have to be
alphenomenally stupid one, indeed, if the vagaries
of Messrs. Bent and Keenan couldn’t pull it
through. When do we think Bent is at his best ?
Well, you see, that’s a leading question. We can
only give you our individual opinion, and if that
should clash with the opinions of others, why—so
much the worse for the others. We think, then,
we saw him at his very best one night when a
black brother had to say, with proper accent,
peut-itre illsou. and jerked out pewter mooshure.
The way Bent on that occasion kept his murderous
impulses under control, touched the sublime.
♦ * * *
Signora Fabris still at the New Masonic
with “ Maritana” and “ Don Checco.” It was the
Ghana’s night we went, and Miss A. de Fontaine
the Gipsy. This lady has everything in her favour
but abandon. Looking at her graceful figure and
pretty but immobile face the truth of the French
siying, “Cold as an Englishwoman” keeps run-
ning in your head. Think less of yourself, Made-
moiselle. Forget, if you can, that you are cast in
the Vere de Vere mould. Think of the many oc-
casions (we trust they are many) when you took a
hand in “hunt-the-slipper,” “rounders,” and
“ klss-in-the-ring,” and enjoyed them. Learn low
to play the tambourine, but (this is for your ear
alone—you won’t betray us, will you ?) don’t go to
Miss Montague for lessons. She is a better Mari-
tana than you will (probably) ever be, but you tie
her at tne tambourine. We would recommend Mr.
Samuel Keenan for a quarter's instruction, but we
fear the fascination of his mouth. No female
under forty could view that crater and preserve
her heart Mr. Gross gave an average reading of
Don Caesar's part. Lazarillo (Miss Fabien) took
the cake with little effort. We shall speak in
greater detail of these performances by and bye.
BRIEF MENTION.
A London man has been fined for throw-
ing hot pennies out of a window to a crowd. We
have sometimes wished —at 2 a.m. —that we could
throw our “ hot coppers ” out of the bedroom
window.
A writer in the Fcho says that the whale
threw up Jonah because he was a prophet. No-
thing of the sort. It tnrew him up because be had
been chewing tobacco.
“What! You will not trust me for one
more drink ?” said a thirsty, but Impecunious
Nooze man to a publican the other morning.
“Tneo, sir. I consider you have none of the rum-
and-milk of hum n kindness!”
The Bega Gazette man says he has sent
us a sheaf of Christmas soup-tickets. With him
prosperity and prodigality seem to go hand in
hand. But we have laid them aside for him. He
will need them one ot these days.
And this, after all our talk about him!
It now seems—if the AthenjEum is to be trusted—
that Mr. Froude is not coming out here. We know
the reason of this—the Bega gazette man has
frightened him. We thougnt it would be so.
They are going to establish a society of
journalists In England. This is a good idea for
Australia. We should begin with a society in
Sydney. For our own part, we will contribute a
suggestion, which is—that the meetings of the
society should be held in A lfred’s hat.
The Christmas holidays seem to hare
passed off very poorly at Maitland. The local
paper says that “ the spirit ot law and order pre-
vailed throughout.” And it seems this was the
only spirit that prevailed. On the whole, we would
just as soon have passed our Christmas in a diving-
bell as at Maitland.
“ F.M.” of the S. M. Herald must have a
remarkable idea of what constitutes feminine
heroism. H« says he can conceive no higher in-
stance than for a woman to kill a dog and feed its
blood to her starving baby. We can conceive no
higher heroism than that of our butcher. He kills
sheep daily and feeds their flesh to quite a number
of people who would otherwise starve. What con-
stituted the surpassingly “ real, strong, true,
womanly heroism,” “F.M. ?” Killing a dog, or
offering dog’s blood to a hungry baby? Turgid,
“F.M.,” turgid.
Tha local paper says that “ a lire took place
at Flirtation Hixl ’’—which is near Mudgee—a few
days back.
It is not strange to us
That this should happen thus—
Of course you will not mind
Our larks;
We’ll tone down by and byel
But surely to a cat
It must seem plain that at
Flirtation Hill you’d find—
We’ll say it if we die—
The sparks 1
[Perhaps it would have been better to have died
first, alter all.— Ed. B ]
Two teachers of languages* were discussing
matters and things relative to their profession.
“Do your pupils pay up repularly on the first of
eaco mouth?'" asked oq« of ttusm. “No, they do
not,” was the reply ; “ I often have to wait for
weeks and weeks before I pet my pay, and some-
times I don’t get it at all. You can’t well dun the
parents for the money,” “ Why don’t you do as I
do. I always get my money reg ularly.” “How do
you manage it?” “It is verjr simple. For in-
stance, I am teaching a boy French, and on the
first day of the month his foltks don’t send the
money for the lessons. In tha t event I give him
toe following acuteness to translate, and write ouc
at home: ‘I have no money. The month is up.
Hast thou trot any money ? Have not thy parents
got money ? I ueed money very much. Why hast
thou not brought the money ibis morning ? Did
thy father not, give thpe any. money? That
fetches them, .Ntext moraing/yoU bet, that hoy
brings the mowy.”
LITTLE DAISY.
(A SUSSEX-STREET IDYLL.)
“ That Parsons’s little Daisy,
Fair as a fairy star;
Yet she beetle-poisoned mother
And kerosened her pa.”
“ So that is little Daisy I”
The good old parson said,
Then he girded up his gingham.
Gave a startled look, and fled.
My Old Pipe!
Thou charr’d and ugly piece of wood ? ?
Thou sure must have an innate soul,
Since I extract the “ highest good ” ’ J
Prom out thine old capacious bowl; *
For as I draw thy life away.
There comes a sense of peace and rest
And memories sad or bright or gay
Come trooping round at thy behest. J
E’en in the smoke that upward floats
What forms and faces can be seen ; %
Imagination fondly gloats
Upon the now— the might have been 1
What wine can such a feeling bring ?,
What passion, be it e’er so ripe.
Evolve such pleasure ? So I sing
My A dearest friend, my old black pipe.
S. N.
, | know ’tis not a classic thing
gush about dull modern times,
Uffl* naore “ au fait,” I feel, to sing
Of by-gone days and other climes;
A/I think it better, and more fair
To make an elfort—be a typo
r" 1 Of honest purpose and sincere—
And hence this stave to my old pipe.


PEPPER AND SALT.
HER LUCK.
J\Ut before Christmas Day, Miss Sarah
Smuggle, a lady of repiitatlon in the reticule
fobbing line, was sentenced to two months’ im-
prisonment for being discovered in the exercise of
her profession. The words She made use of to the
Beak ” on learning her sentence, were, “ D n
it all. You had a right to let me have this Christ-
mas out of gaol. 1 haven’t had one out of gaol for
the last fifteen years.” Therefore these verses:—
The Cootamundra Debating Society re-
cently wrestled with the question “ Whether it Is
better to have loved and lost than never to have
loved at all.” Eloquent speeches were made in
favour of either view. Then the society gravely
divided, and, so, gravely came to the conclusion
that it was better never to have loved at all than
to have loved and lost. After this the debaters
shook in the hat for drinks. It is encouraging to
notice this desire for improvement—this reaching
upwards to the ideal, so to speak—among the
young men of our country towns. It is an evi-
dence that the floe old spirit of speculation is still
among us. Let it not die out, young
men; and take the advice of old veterans in these
things—always see that there is no catch in the
ining of a hat before you begin to shake, so your
days may be long in the Mid.
* • •
A nlan has jitst invented a Hew tblejfhonic
instrument by which the crying of a baby may be
heard at a distance of a hundred miles. Now, we
expect to hear of another man who will invent an
ice-cream trumpet which may be beard across the
globe, and yet another who will provide roosters
with an apparatus which will increase their crow-
ing power about ten th usand-fold, besides induc-
ing them to rise up about midnight and lie
about the dawn. (V.B.—No wonder Peter pre-
varicated when he heard the cock crow. Cocks
are the greatest liars in the animal creation). And
yet there is plenty of grave room on the earth.
Why, then, thould these perverted geniuses bo
allowed to go about inventing fresh tortures for
an already overtortured humanity ? At the same
time, we will not deny that the man who will con-
struct an instrument by which the crying of a baby
—your own one, say—will be heard a hundred miles
away—or say in the drawing-room of your enemy
just as he is giving a musical party, and his eldest
daughter has sat down to sing — and not at
home—will deserve well of his fellow-men. That
is the kind of inventor we are prepared to tolerate,
and even patronise. We are not here overlooking
the view that some of our enemies might avail
themselves of the opportunity to play a similar
game on us. But then, as a matter of fact, we
have no enemies—only the milkman.
• ♦ •
The pretty daughter of a Maitland publi-
can was married th* other day, but her husband
has gone to Silverton, and she lives with her
father and helps in the house as usual. She com.
plained to her father that a commercial traveller
named [ah! would you?— Ed. B.] had attempted
ti take liberties with her. “ But,” said she, with
dignity, “ I soon let him know his mistake. I let
him see that I am not an unmarried girl now.”
Here is a joy for high Art. We quote from
the Echo (an infallible authority on all matters
concerning art—and muffins): “An unusually large
oil-painting of Coogee Bay, executed by himself,
has been presented by Mr. E. Combes to the Aus-
tralian Club.” This painting is said by those who
have seen it to be very natural. You know the
class of studio stories beginning with Apelles and
the Grapes? Well, here is another addition to
them. A member ol the Club is said to have been
so much impressed by the real sm of the pictureof
Coogee Bay when he saw it hung up that he tried
to drown himself in it. And now he goes about
under the hallucination that he was providentially
preserved—by the agency of one of the waiters
from suicide. We do not say that this story is true,
but we believe it to be as true as the others of its
kind.
* ♦ *
The Americans are still ahead of the rest
of the world in speculatien. An American firm
has just bought up a Mexican volcano—Popocate-
petl, or Ipecacuanha, we lorget which-with the
intention of mining it for sulphur. We suppose
they will buy up Hell next and mine it for brim-
stone. And then where wiil the poor Devil go, and
what will become of the Salvation Array who live
on him ? This is a dreadful thought.
The following is told of a Cupid like solici-
tor, Not having been able, during the regime of a
former governor, to obtain the entire to the
gubernatorial premises, never having penetrated
nearer the scene of his hopes than the sentry-box,
he was speaking rather disparagingly about hjs
Sweet Sarah, we are sure that you
Would at this sentence buck
No more, sweet Sarah, If you knew
Itow much you are In luckl
If you, this one day of the year,
No merriment might make,
Think I—if you had no Christmas cheer—
You had no Christmas ache.
TOO TRUE.
(WRITTEN ON NEW YEAK'S EVE.)
What miscreants are these
That load the midnight breeze
With gruesome cries that freeze
The blood ?—
Dread sounds that make us wince,
Sounds that no sense evince,
Suggestive of a mince
Of mud!
(Those last two lines were for
The rhyme’s sake, nothing more)—
Are they the Furies or
The Fates—
Or rum-fiends in a bar
That so the midnight mar ?
Alas, not so I—They are
The IFaifs /
THE ICE-CREAM MAN.
What have we done to the ice-cream man
That ho should treat us so ?
Why does ho stop his painted van—
Why does he pause, this ice-cream man.
Under our nose to blow ?
Why not give someone else a turn
With his trumpet-blunderbuss ?
Surely our woes some respite earn ?
Why not give someone else a turn ?
Why always pitch on us ?
We love not either his wares or him.
Nor yet his painted cart;
We could cheerfully rend him limb from limb,
We love not either his wares or him.
And never, never “ part.”
He leaves the rest of the street in peace—
Strange that it should be thus!—
How is it they should get surcease ?—
He leaves the rest of the street in peace
To come and blare at us!
Mining and Undermining.
No Indigestion troubled you.
Whose festive fare would be
That palatable dish, burgoo—
And eke the hominy,
besides, whatever the event,
You know one thing at least—
That a paternal government
Was founder of the feast!
Is he by some fell fiend possessed ?
Or is’t his mind is gone ?
He might sometimes surely give us a rest—
Is he by some fell fiend possessed
Who madly drives him on ?
Yet no malice he seems to bear.
No wrath he seems to nurse,
but a wooden instinct to blare, and blare—
No malice, indeed, he seems to bear,
Which makes the matter worse.
Here he comes with his cursed bray.
Our door he will not miss I
Our nerves are shattered for this good day 1
Here he comes with his cursed bray—
We drop our pen at this I


Excellency in a prominent hotel to another dls.
consolate peri of his own persuasion. Suddenly he
found himself addressed by a tall gentleman whom
he did not know, but whose face, nevertheless 1
seemed somewhat familiar. “I must request you
to withdraw those remarks concerning his Excel-
lency,” said the tall gentleman, twisting his mous-
tache. “On what grounds, sir?” enquired the
little man. “Enough for me to say,” retorted
the other, “ that, unless you do as I request you,
immediately, you will have to render me satisfac-
tion.” “Why, who are you?” enquired Cupid
with'some firmness, but keeping his gaze fixed
upon the back door. “I am His Excellency’s
aide-de-camp,” was the reply; “and, without
further parley, I demand instant satisfaction,’’
“Only his aide-de-camp,” retorted the little man,
his lip curling with scorn; “pooh I sir, I couldn’t
fight one in your position, but, if you must have
blood, I refer you to my managing-clerk.” And
he strolled out, leaving the other dumbfoundered.
• • •
The other day, at the Fishmarket, a turtle
was sold for £2 10s. for the table of a well-known
newspaper proprietor, and it was taken for him
alive to Compagnoni’s. 'When it arrived, he went
round to look at it. “ What funny feet he’s got,’*
exclaimed the N.P.; “they’re just like engravers’
tools.” Here he grew Can he sing ?”
enquired the N.P., gazing at the turtle with much
interest. “No, but he can bite,” was the gallant
young fisherman’s reply. “ What do they live on ?”
“Almost nothing,” was the fisherman’s rejoinder.
The paper man then asked, musingly, gazing on
the turtle, with additionallinterest: “ Are they in.
telligent?” “ I nerer saw one perform,” replied
the fisher ; “ but with] patience, sir, I daresay It
might be taught to dance.” The opulent journalist
on this ordered a turtle to be sent ]round to his
office, ... As will be seen now by the readers
of a certain journal, published, we believe, in the
vicinity of Market-street, he is now on the engrav-
ing staff.
• • *
He was seated at his stable writing for
bread—literally, for his baker had turned sour as
his own dough—and the proceeds of this article
were to raise the nutritious loaf from that light-
weight champion. But there was a subdued gloom
over his pensive visage, and his beard hung down
in dreary and despondent shagginess. The very
flies which settled on his gloomy brow were ap-
palled by the ebasmy wrinkles, and only stayed to
rub their fore feet together, heave a sigh, and
buzz away to inspect the ham-bone on the wall.
His wife peered into the room, but fled before his
scowl. And so he wrote mournfully on. He had
intended tojwrite a sparkling love] sketch, full of
roses and delight, and his pen mect&nlcally ran on
graveyards, eternal punishment, worms, skulls,
small-pox, universal corruption and vanity. At
last he had finished the dismal screed—headed it
“Murder and Misery,” Inked his hat-brim,
wrapped up his feet in his brown paper socks,
pulled on his boots, and, with a groan, started
for the door. But, turning back, he went into the
kitchen with a fiendish glare at the partner of
his joys and woes, and, lifting his arm to-
wards the ceiling, he said, “ For a man to write in
this infernal house, to be worried to death with
noises, to have the brilliant conceptions of his
mind reduced to cinders, to dwell in Cimmerian
gloom, and to stick infernal pins into his throat
because his neck stud cannot be found.—If that
stud is not found by to-night, so help me ," here
his voice failed him; and, while he still held his
hand on high for a final malediction on disorderly
houses, she smilingly looked up in his face, and
said, “What’sthat in your cuff, Alonzo, dear?”
He saw. The band came down. He sneaked back
to his desk, quietly placed the stud in position,
tore up tho Murder article, and in two hours read
to his wife the funniest thing you ever saw in
your life.
jk 3k 3k
WHY HE SWORE.
He was as fine a bishop as
Ere held a good fat see.
Or milked his flock and skimmed the cream
With apostolic glee.
He drank his wine and fed upon
The fattest and the best.
And whilst be made the pious fast
He sank “ full-up ” to rest.
His sermons all were in the mould
To rend the sinner’s heart.
His dues fell off and duns fell on,
His cellars all were stripped.
And he himself with fraud was charged
And back to Rome was shipped
To clear himself before the Pope;
But though his eloquence
Convinced the world, he got condemned—
“He’d brought no Peter’s Pence.”
And now in vigorous fast and prayer
Within a monkish ceil,
For months he ate his crust and thought
That here on earth is hell.
But through the time of all his grief
And heart bowed down with care,
He never swore, though Nick would come
And whisper, “ only swear.”
Then back again unto his see
He came with shriven soul;
His flock came back and once again
He filled the flowing bowl.
NEW GUINEA (loq.): “HOW HAPPY I COULD BE WITH NEITHER.”
And dwelt on hell in lurid terms
When brethren failed to “ part.”
Like other men, he ne’er denied
That he in sin was born,
But on his oath he could declare
He never once had sworn.
He had to own that in his youth.
Just like the giddy throng,
He’d liked his women and his wine.
Also a dubious song.
But sanctity had banished all
That was of sinful taint,
And now if he should never swear
He’d die and be a saint.
And so old Nick rolled up his sleeves
And moistened his warm palm—
“ I’ll see,” he said, “ if I can’t make
You raise a little d n.”
Then heresy did spread among
His flock just like foot-rot,
And Lutheran wolves bid fair to seize
And gobble up the lot.
“ Give us a jest,” he cried in glee;
“ A new jest make for me,”
And then an austere priest began—
“ I’ll tell the jest to thee.
Why should the desert-stranded man
Not die of hunger spare ?
Why not? He needn’t die, because
Of the sandwiches therel”
Then through the cloisters, through the church
And out upon the air,
A deluge of most thundering oaths
That holy man did swear.
He cursed the heavens and the earth,
Ai.d man and bird and beast,
And seized a whisky-jar and smashed
The skull of that same priest.
And Nick went down in glee below.
And roared “ Pile on the coal.
They’ve hanged a swearing bishop, and
Just look—here comes his soul.”


Wom a n Items
The medical profession in Paris is greatly
exercised about the claim made by young ladies
striving to obtain medical diplomas to be admitted
as house-students to the Paris Hospital. The
claimants do not want any special privilege. All
they asit Is to enter in by the broad door of the
common examinations A number of elderly,
middle-ae ed, young, and coming doctors stand out
against them. Of the 260 existing house-students
and the 175 hospital doctors, ninety' of the former
and thirty of the latter are against the ladles, in
whose favour a petition signed bv thirty-six
hospital physicians and surgeons, of whom thir-
teen are professors of the faculty of medicine, has
been handed by M. Paul Bert to the Prefect
ot the Seine. A great argument of Despres is
that serious work would be neglected for flir-
tation, and that the hospital servants would
not obey young girls. This is all nonsense.
Matches, and very happy ones, too, are not rare
among young doctors and doctresses. But there has
never been the slightest giddiness of conduct In lec-
ture-rooms on the one side, or of disrespect on the
other. The male students are more on their good
behaviour since young ladles have been admitted
to work with them than their predecessors were.
Rows In the School of the Faculty of Medicine are
very unfrequent of late years. This is altogether
due to the presence of lady students. One oppo-
nent asserts that It would be very disagreeable for
sick men to be treated by young ladies. This,
again, is rank folly. One of the effects of severe
pain is to obliterate the idea of sex. Prudery is
indecency in a hospital or sick room. Modesty Is
the safeguard ot the youth or maiden, but it
ceases to be instructive when we arrive at matu-
rity, and have will and sense enough to control our
passions. It is then more entirely a thing of rea-
son, with a basis of habit, and is very charming
when it shows itself in delicacy of expression or of
action. But false modesty has been a serious ob-
stacle to progress, standing, as it does, in the way
of social reformers, artists, poets, novelists, anil
dramatists. There is no worse enemy to truth
than the prude, male or female.
Still another queer case of “ breach of
promise" at Elgin, Scotland. Helen Clark, a domes-
tic, sued Robert Ray, a contractor, for £100 for
breach of promise. [As Miss Fortesouo s claim
was £30,000, young ladies will note that an actress
Is, in her own opinion, at least 300 times as good as
a “ slavey.”] It came out that just after taking
her act! m against Ray, Helen had made the ac-
quaintance of another man—Simpson Reach, a
savr-mlller—whom she married while the action
agaimt Ray was pending. Defendant’s counsel
ple-ided that the woman could not sue without
the oouourrenoe of her husband, who had not been
joined in the action. “ In giving bis decision,” we
read, ” the Snerlff said the action, in so far as it
was an action for damages for alleged breach of
promise of maniage, was absurd and inapnlloable.
The elements of damage in such a ease arose from
the loss of the expected husband, and what the
older lawyers described as 'loss ot market,’ with
some allowance for 4 wounded feelings.’ The pur-
suer having married since the prtsent action was
raised, had ceased to be the subject of any such
damage. She had been already compensated, and
had put It out of the power of the defendant any
longer to offer himself to her even if he was inclined
to do so. It was to be hopei the husband she had
got was as goodlas the one she said sue had lost; she
did not say that he was not, and if he were better
then she had a distinct advantage. But, at all
events, it was not the functions of the courts of
law to attempt to appreciate the difference be-
tween them, or to decide that the one was worth
so much more or Jess than the other.” Here again
we venture to differ from the lawyers. We can-
not admit that tne peculiar position of Helen s
husband in any way debarred him irom taking a
partin the proceedings. Why should not the man
by whom the gentle Helen has been caught have
an opportunity of revenging himself upon the
other fellow, who, not having carried out his con-
tract, has been the indirect means of saddling him,
Simpson Reach, with a wife? Half the married
men we know would much like the chance of pro-
secuting the persons to whom their wives were
formerly engaged; and we are aware of several
instances in which incontestable proof of heavy
damage sustained could in such cases be submitted
for the consideration of the Court.
Jewish young men who allow their
Oriental amorousness to prevail over the more
practical elements in their nature are, as the Aus-
tralian public knows, very entertaining persons
Indeed. In London, Miss Esther Rebecca Good-
man has sued Mr. Abraham Lyons for breach of
promise, and has been kind enough to root up ail
Abraham’s love-letters for the diversion of this
cvnlcal and cruel world. “Dear Hyman,” wrote
Mr. Lyons to the brother-in-law of the girl whom
he afterwards so heartlessly deceived, "my en-
gagement to dear Father makes me very happy,
and nothing will be wanting on my part to make
her happy and comfortable.” In another epistle
he wrote: 44 Dear Esther, Came safe home. Isay
4 home.’ They say, 4 What is a home without a
mother?'” (Laughter.) Mr. Justice Hawkins:
Without a mother. What does he mean by that 1
(Laughter.) Mr. Winch: The writer went on;
44 Tell me what is a home without a wife ? (Laugh-
ter.) Ah, never mind; I picture our own home
that is to be, and P consoles mo for my present
Inconvenience, although my landlady, dear old
thing, does her best.” (Laughter.) Mr. Justice
Hawkins: 44 Dear old thing ” Is in a parenthesis, as
if it were unimportant. (Laughter.) Mr. Winch:
He further said: 4 ‘I received no letter this morn-
ing. I dare say I shall have a letter to-morrow;
If I do not I shall go distracted.” (A laugh j
And he concluded. 44 1 will ever remain your fond
lover, Abraham.” In another letter he said, 44 1
am, as the butchers say, In prime condition. (Loud
laughter.) Hoping that you nave no cause to
complain.” (Laughter.) It came out that the en-
gagement was broken off by the defendant—he had
got 44 mashed” on another girl with more money—
after a house had been taken, and the bride had
bought her trousseau. 44 Darling Abraham,” wrote
the afflicted Esther, 44 ... I am near four
months engaged to you, and now, within live
weeks from the appointed wedding, you want to
break off the contract. I would ten thousand
times have preferred death than that I should ho
the public talk —I remain, your troubled Esther ”
Defendant was shabby enough to put in a plea of
“infancy.” and, as his father proved that he was
not yet 31, a verdict adverse to Esther was given.
It is quite plain that we shall again hear of the
wondt rful infant, Lyons, junior. If such things
be done in the green leaf, what may not this enter-
prising Hebrew do in the dry ?
In Scotland, a young Baptistparaon named
Scott fell in love with a girl of his own.name, Mary
Jane Bishop Scott, and proposed marriage to her
in the following very proper and parsonic epistle:
— 44 My dear Mary Jane, According to promise and
with the deepest pleasure I now write to you, and
In doing so I desire to state my feelings and inten-
tions. You are aware, from what I have formerly
said, that my Jove for you and my attachment, to
you is still ardent and fervent; and my affections
are firmly sot upon yon; in lino, teat I love you
with all my heart, and I herein solemnly promise
(having thought over it, as I have said before)
that I at present, and when I shall have left you,
shall consider myself pledged for life and bound to
you; and my intention is that, should Providence
see fit to spare me, and iUff wise you, till such time
98 I shall be able to prove ipylove still further,
II shall do it by taking- you to myself in conjugal
relation: and l earnestly desire and pray, and ask
you to do likewise, that God will seal and ratify
this declaration, that He wilt guide us in all we do.
and bless us in all that pertains to us. Of course 1
need not say that I abide by this only if you prove
true to me, and of this I really cannot doubt, but
I have the utmost confidence in you. And now,
having thus written, I commend you and myself
to Him who is able to keep us.—Yours in truest
Robert Scott.” Mary Jane duly accepted
this fair arrangement, whereupon he wrote, ‘‘It
seems so sweet our hearts should be as one,” and
" not a day passes but I am in Ho wick and in your
room. Also, “ my love is bound up in youand,
My own dear Mary Jane, Oh, how it delights
me to hear from you. I feel as if I were looking
at your face, so sweet to me, and yet lam far from
you.” This kind of thing went on for two years,
when the amoro is sucking divine penned tne sub-
joined letter:--” Dear Mary Jane, I am sorry that
my letter hurt you. I sympathise with you, and
wish I could bear all, but it is only honest on my
part that I tell you out the truth. I condemn my-
self for not telling it to you twelve months ago.
However, if you wish, in the face of my declara-
tion, viz., dissatisfaction towards you to be my
wife, I will keep my word, even though ray love is
gone. The future is now in your hands, though
l would advise a discontinuance of the engage-
ment. This is not *a hasty conclusion, but ihe
outcome of deliberate and thoughtful con-
sideration.—I am, yours in sympathy, ll Scott.”
Miss Scott, as is the invariable custom of young
ladies under such circumstances, replied to this
that she would be ‘‘the same to the reverend
gentleman as before.” The holy one thereupon
renewed his love,” but six months afterwards
wrote:—“Dear Miss Scott, I duly received yours
of the 20th. You hope your letters are as agree-
able to me as they once were. Well, they cannot
be. You are quite willing to live with me as you
once were. Yes, you may be: but do you think
that I could live with one whom I did not love ? ’
And he concluded, “ I am yours, K. Scott ”
Several strong letters, written in a similar strain,
followed, and in the end the engagement was
Anally broken off. Miss Scott, the plaintiff (who,
being under age, sued In the name of her
father), deposed that “when the connection was
broken off she became ill, suffering both In
body and In mind.” Her former sweetheart
she said, “ was a clerk, and the engagement with
him was of four months’ standing; out she dis-
missed that young man at tbe defendant’s request.
In 1881 or 1882 there were some differences between
them. She objected to his smoking in her pre-
sence, and there were some disputes upon doc-
trinal points.—Were they discussed with bitter-
ness?—Very little. She wrote in a jesting manner
that there was bitterness, and that she had been
guilty of very cruel conduct towards him.—Did
you use bitter words towards him ?-Yes, a little
bitter. She did not, in fact, treat him very harshly.
She said so in a jesting way.—Are you given much
to jesting’—Sometimes. After this he wrote to
her of his having lost his love for her, and she
believed it. She still thought that they two might
be married, and that they might live happily
together. She was ill after her engagement
with tbe defendant was broken off, and she was
attended by a doctor for about a month, and
she also ceased to attend to her employment
for a time. That employment was in a warehouse.
She had ceased altogether from that employ-
ment now, and simply attended to household
duties. The defendant wrote to her that he hart a
Stipend of £110 a year to begin with at his chapel,
with allowances. She dirt not know that only £80
of this was derived from the chapel. She w rote to
him congratulating him on one occasion that he
was preaching three times a day on Sunday, and
was getting 15s. a week clear tor doing so.- Mr.
Justice Hawkins; That is5a. a sermon. (Laughter.)
—This concluded the case tor the plaintiff; and no
evidence was called for the defence. In the re-
sult the jury gave a verdict for plaintiff for £10011!
Another delightful instance, truly, of the uobie
British breach of promise system. Here is a girl
not yet 31 years of age who, according to her own
statement, has dismissed a man to whom she was
formerly engaged for four months, in order to
take up with another. When her second lover in
his turn changes his mind, and tells her straight
out that he made a mistake n saying he could love
her always, she Insists on his carrying out his con-
tract and gets a jury to screw £400 damages out of
a man who earns £2 4a. a week. V© gods I And
yet women yell for tbe franchise on the ground
that they are hardly used and always “ taken ad-
vantage of.”
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“-Admirer”: It would be hazardous to
say which of Gerald Massey’s works is the best
Tout a son omit. They should all be obtainable in
Auckland. Any Sydney or Melbourne bookseller
could give yon all particulars “ P. J. Curley
Send along —E. J. Woomfey wishes to know “the
day and date of the railway accident that hap-
pened some years ago on the Zlg-zav, near Emu
Plains.” Some reader may know ** Subscriber ”;
We don’t know exactly why we prefer Tennyson's
poetry to yours. Possibly because we read his,
and put yours in the Are “ P.T.O.”:—
“ Roll on, then, in your carnages, and
8eek all th** comfort at hand,
For ’tis certain to bo denied thee
W hen before His Throne you stand.
“ For each Individual being 1
Will dc called upon to pay
His allotment of the penalty
Betwixt this and Judgement Day.”
This is what you send, and you wonder we tore a
constable’s tunic last night! Do you? “Lance
Lenton ” : Received “ W.U.” : Thanks. We
left out all the names, as you wished, Yes, and
we left the tale out, too “8. MTnerney ” wants
a receipt for making “good hop beer.” Alas! it
is on the drinking, not on the making of liquor,
that we are prepared to back ourselves “ Eng-
lishman”: You are right. The humiliating posi-
tion in which Australia finds herself is due entirely
to her politicians and her writers. Her writers say
to England, “Beware! Your conduct will
alienate us, and, perhaps, by and bye, we will
be driven to set up house for ourselves.” Eng-
land answers, “ Well, supposing so ? That is
just what we wanted you to do, any time these
twenty years. Our present connection weakens
us and exposes you to dangers and snubbings from
which, as an independent power, you would be
free. It is you who are afraid to accept your
autonomy, not we to yield It. Yo-u babble about
the ‘Confederation of the Empire,,’ but, to com-
pass it, what are you prepared to sa orifice ?” It is
when the matter is put plainly like this that our
Services and Stuarts draw back and! say, “ Please
do not cut our leading-strings. Do not oblige us
to keep fleets and armies like other nations. We
love you so. We want to get rioh, and we want
you to guard us while we are filling our money-
bags.” Is It a wonder the colonies cut such a con-
temptible figure in the eyes of British statesmen ?
“But this is treason,” howl the scribblers. Well,
friends, call it wbat you like. It’s common sense
at all ©vents... “student”; Abel's murder was his
own fault. He said co Cain “ I was dispersin’ some
swugmen. Bis person'll stand no nonsense ?” What
could Cain do but smash him? We notice this
flash of humour appears in the Royal Pantomime.
• ■ ■ “ Musician ”: It is uncertain which instrument
has broken up most families and led to most sui-
cides—the flute or the bassoon *• Dari inghurst ’’;
Political success—at least in the colon ies—means
the never making a statement witho ut having
well considered how to contradict it. , ‘ Law and
Order”; So you think you’ve cornered us by ask-
ing our remedy for brutal larrikinism ? You’ve
not. Serve each trustworthy policeman on parti-
cular beats and on special occasions i/lth navy
revolvers, and a more crushing blow will have
been struck at the roots of regressive It irrikinism
than by erecting triangles at every stret t-corner.
Considering the idolatrous love we have
for some of the inspired statutes of that giddy old
hoy, King Charles II. of glorious memory, the
wonder is our sapient Solona do not ins ist on the
strict observance of the lot;. Now, here s j i marvel-
lously useful littlo* measure called the Sinful Pos-
ture Act, which we venture to think wt mid take
well, and give great pleasure to all—especially
during toe festive picnic season now t ipon us.
This statute was passed in 106!), and says : “Who-
ever shall inveigle or draw the affectioi is of any
maide, <>r maldo servant, either to himself or
others, without first gaining the consent of her
parents, shall pay to the State for the first offence,
rorty shillings, the four pounds; for the
third be shall bo Imprisomed or corporeouuly pun-
ished.” Under this iovdly little law, at i| Court
held in May 1670, one Roger Ridley and Sarah
luttle were stuck for 40s. tor “setting down on a
chestle log together, his arras around her walste,
and her arnxe upon his shoulder or about his
neck, and continuing in that sinful posture
about half an hour, in which time he kyesed
her and she kyssed him, or they kyssed one
another, as ye witnesses testified.’' The beauty
of this very desirable law is thut ir only interests
itself on behalf of “maids.” Married women
and their “ Roger Ridley’s ” could squat down on
a “ chestle” together with their arras about each
other’s waist, and continue sitting in that sinful
posture until they just about took root ou the
spot and began to grow, without the sllghest fear
of being called upon to show cause why they
suouldn’t be sot in ye public stocks and be oor-
poreously punished with dead cats, decayed vege-
tation, and eggs laid during the old Plesiosauri n
period. And this makes it all the more strange
that ye Sinful Posture Ait is not duly enforced
amongst the British dominions at the present day.
Put it in operation here, you know, and the forty
bobs that will be scooped before the Christmas
season alone is over will be found to be more than
sufficient to clear off the whole of Treasurer
Bibbs’ last loan.
This time there’s no mistake about the
frolic whatever, A civil war is about to tear up
the whole of Great Britain and set it straight on
end, and the whole of the trouble appears to be
the diabolical work of that fiend in human form
who acts as Lord Steward of Her Majesty’s house-
hold. This omnipotent persouage is entrusted with
the duty of appointing the various tradesmen who
supply the wants of the Queen—from the humble,
unostentatious purveyor of cat s-meatto the feline
population of the Royal Court, up to the hook-
nosed, lynx-eyed jeweller, who supplies our Sove-
reign Lady with tiaras of diamonds, and duplicate
regal crowns. All appointments of this description
are made by warrant, but in the early part, of the
present reign it was customary to grant honorary
titles to shoals of country tradesmen, a little pro-
ceeding which enabled some of the Court officials
to reap quite a harvest of “perks,” and so make
things nice and comfortable at home whenever the
proverbial rainy day arrived. The appointment
conferred a sort of recognised right to use the
Royal Arms in connection with the fortunate
tradesmen’s establishments, and as a large number
of Britons are born snobs, scarcely a tingle
trade could be found that was not honoured by
the special custom of Queen Victoria. Hat
stores, tobacconists’ shops, tonsorlal saloons, false-
teeth manufactories, all cheerfully proclaimed the
fact that their wares were specially patronised by
Her Majesty; but the climax was probably reached
when the same old legend was hoisted over a dyer’s
shop in Fleet-street. This notice seldom failed to
stiffen the attention of strangers to the modern
Babylon, many of whom sincerely believed after
spelling over the sign, that part of the Empress of
India’s autumnal chat at Windsor ran in this wise:
—“ Beatrice, deah, will you tell the Duke of Con-
naught to leave out his old grey trousers before
he goes away, and I’ll put a new ceiling in them,
and send them down to my dyer’s this afternoon
along with Alexandra’s spring stockings and the
coildren’s pinnies, and get them coloured some-
thing nice and dark for winter?’" So far «s the
city is concerned the game will still roll on, but
the Lord Steward has just decided that no more
“By Special Appointment” placards will be al-
lowed to be.hoisted in the provinces for the future;
and hence it is that all the provincial tradesmen
are now dancing about as mad as so many wet
hens, and fervently praying that the tooth-ache,
face-ache, and ear ache may jump on that Lord
Steward all at once, and stand by mm as long as a
master-tailor’s memory.
On New Tear’s Eve, the Salvation Harmy
turned out in great force at Newtown, and had a
big Gospel corroboorte, the bucks and the gins
competing who could make most howling. About
1.30a.m. a fluent saint got the ear of the meeting,
and improved the occasion in the following terms,
which we present as a specimen of the sort of
“ personal items,” or * society religious items,”
which constitute the attraction of these meetings.
The id.a of fitting people for heaven by narrating
such mundane rubbish as this sainted officer did
would be groteque were it not so sad a reflection
upon the intelligence of the average well-meaning
man. Here’s what he said:-”Friends and ladies
that are now in our house of meeting, it comes
somehow that you expected me to get up and speak,
but somehow I feel Incompetent to deliver such
words in Christ’s name as 1 ought to. Nevertheless,
it shall be my endeavour to uphold the giorjous
cause, and with His help make no dou bt I shall move
you to him—Him the Kever Forgotten One. Al-
though it is New Years Eve, yet wo don’t—at
least I hope so (“ Amen,” from the ero wdj- at any
rate. I’m sure we sometimes think of Him for
whom we work, and I„ us an officer, though umble,
ask your ready belief in the tew words which He,
the Lamb, has thought proper to put in my
mouth.” LOur readers are invited to give special
attention here. It is to be understood that what
follows was presented by the speaker as words put
in his moula by the saviour, and it will be ob-
served that, if this b<? true, the Saviour interests
himself about singularly trumpery affairs.] “ Only
two months ago, 1 went into partnership with a
man—I would say friend, but he has been a de-
ceiver—and at first I was to pay him a sum of
seventeen pounds as a partnership concern, and a
friend whom I now love as a brother helped me to
come to terms. And what happened ?—oh, the
villainy of my trusted brotherl What did he
do? Why, he went insolvent, and left me and
my friend to regret we had ever known him.
So what did 1 do, but I went to another friend, a
friend, my friends, that was a friend, indeed—ana
he said: * Pray, my brother, to One who is always
a help to those in trouble. So I took his advice,
and what came of it? Why, I gained a verdict
against my partner, who was, 1 am sorry to say, a
devil’s child, and for whose sinful career I am
sure you will, with me, ask forgiveness of our
Bie»sod Lamb. I am no great talker, my friends,
but the villainy of some men isawful, and we musi
in duty bound pray for them. Amen. Yes. And
that wasn’t the worst cf it. After me refusing to
press him, as the law allowed me to do, I tried—
yes, my brethren and sisters—I tried hard to draw
him to Christ, but be woulan’t. No. He preferred
the devil, and hi has him now. Wnat shall we
say for him ? We will ask the Lord, our Captain,
to forgive him, and open our arms to him and re-
ceive him as a brother. Far better for one sinner
to repent than a hundred who would rather not.
\nd. my friends, don’t think me unworthy of
your kind attention, for lean relate several things
that have occurred in our own neighbourhood.
Not that I wish to make any harm, but it is hard
tnat a neighbour cannot visit another in the Lord’s
name without people talking about them. Only
last Sunday—and we all know it was a grand gala
day for us—I went with my missus to spend a few
hours in prayer with a dear triend and sister, who
is, I may say, now with us, and because we didn’t
go to some other place, we were jeered at; but we
didn’t mind, not we. Wo were on the Lord s
errand, like the shepherds of old, and we treated
them witn disdain. Yes, my hearers; we must
make allowances, for here we are beset witn
suaree, and who is to take care of us ? Why, the
Lord, of course! He has no business troubles.
He has no jealous neighbours, like we have. He
is a Lamb. And, friends, what of the tortures my
partner must suffer? Oh, let us not mention
them. His sins were great, no doubt; but bis
wife and child—what must become of them ? God
knows, my friends; but it is hard to say. And
many things I could tell you, but am directed
otherwise. What is to be done ? Shall they suffer ?
No. Let us raise our voices against that, ami
sing—
For he Is gone to glory high;
He was a sinner bad,
But now he s dead we’ll glorify
The incident so sad.
And now, in conclusion, my friends, don’t think
that I’m so mean as to say anythink against a re-
pentant sinner. Not me. He did h s utmost, and
he failed. What could a man do more ? But not
only that, he was a warbler of heaven s music’" and
if his voice is hushed In death now, you will bear
him, some day, warble like a cherubim on high—
singing praises and ’eavenly songs, with glorv
shining bright. t Shall we meet him half-way, and
altogether, with clapping of bands, salute him ?
AN EPISODE OP THE LATE MUNICIPAL ELECTION.
“I BET ON THE RIGHT MAN THIS TIME, AND NOW I’M COLLECTING THE ‘SPOILS.’”


THE LOVELY LARRIKIN.
Let us take him as he stands. No matter
where he stands, whether he stands at a George-
street corner, or whether he stands at the corner
of a small suburban Jane, he Is always the same.
You all know him. You know him from his soft
felt hat, dinted in a way solely peculiar to his class,
to his high-heeled shoes turning over on the out-
side You also know him from his coat, nearly
always black, and his nether garments, suggestive
. a debouched Jockey, also black. Then, again,
hi« look Thlre is no word in the English lan-
„ eeanohle of expressing this look, except one,
£n^that P one is not English-which sounds Irish,
Ihot matter. The word is “leery.” We are
not certain whether this is the correct way of
it or not. but we are not trifling over
orthography in tne present instance. You know
him too from his white shirt (it is a most peculiar
thMg buL nevertheless, true that this, the
dirtifat moral section of civic humanity, affects
white shirts —without collars, or with paper ones,
vL it Oftid) with a few gewgaw studs in front, ex-
uosed as much la possible, and from his habit
we have no doubt at about as much
froubll as would suffice to teach him an honest
trade, of expectorating through his teeth. Fi-
nally, you know him.
• * *
- you know, too, how he goes in gangs. A
single larrikin is a forlorn thing. So Is a single
inckal But, taken In the mass, he Is formidable.
Then he expectorates at his sovereign pleasure.
Then he blows his nauseous’eigar smoke into the
face of a lady with impunity. Than, too, if it hap-
pen to be in a place where there are no men near
Twe do not say decent men, or respectable men, or
anything of that sort, because we regard the lar-
rikin. of whatever age, not as a man, but as a
disease), and a gentleman and lady—you and your
wife sir, who read this article, for instanoe-he
will make lewd remarks concerning the lady, and
if you do not choose ifco condescend to hear these
(as If you are a sensible man you won’t, unless you
hold the lives of five or six of him in your coat
pocket) he will, If in sufficient numbers, assault
Wa rd leave her for dead because you defended
her. In event of your obtaining any assistance, he
will vanish. That is the real full-blooded Wool-
ioomooloo larrikin. There are, of course, half.-
breds and quadroons, so to speak, who do not rise
to this audacity of villainy, but they are generally
looked down upon as of low-caste by the thorough-
breds of the species. The»e-the half-breds and
others—seldom rise above picking the pockets of
drunken men, or joining in an assaul.t upon a
drunken woman, though sometimes the aristocrats
of the class are not above participating with them
tn these sports eyen.
• * *
We believe the larrikin is peculiar to Aus-
tralia. He differs from the American “ hoodlum ”
and the English “rough” in that the two latter,
though equally desirous to rob you. are willing to
fight you, man for man, for what you are worth.
Not so he. If he meets you when he is alone, l e
slinks aside like a beaten hound. Sometimes—if
you happen to be a very small and weak-looking
man, an invalid, say, or lame, or blind —he may
attack you single-handed; but anything like a
sharp show of resistance cows him immediately.
He is only courageous In numbers. The late
Bondi affair is an instance of this. If there had
been six policemen there instead of two, there
would have been a different tale to tell. And it
even those two had been armed —armed with re-
volvers. as they should have been—they could
have driven the gang before them as a flock of
geese. Why mince matters in cases of this sort ?
It is all very well for certain philanthropic gentle-
men, who have only to take up their paper in the
morning, and say “ hum, hum, one constable with
head brosen, other severely wounded—hum-
hum; dear, dear, dreadful affair,” and so on. to
Calk about the undesirability of entrusting what
are, in grim earnest, facetiously called “ the
guardians of the peace ” with the power of life
and death, but If they had to risk their own lives
as those poor blue devils at Bondi did, they would
probably want to be armed with howitzers, and to
have a park of artillery to accompany.them. The
propinquity of the danger makes all the difference.
Blit wb believe this error of allowing policemen
to risk their lives without proper means of defend-
ing them is to be rectified. And none too soon.
• • *
For, look you, the organisation of the
Sydney Police Force is one thing, and, perhaps, a
good enough thing in its way, but the larrikin or-
ganisation is another thing. Is there a larrikin or-
ganisation ? That Is exactly what there is. strange
as it may sound. In Woolloomnoloo, there Is a
perfect specimen of the kind. This band has its
passwords like any other society. The police are
known to it; the detectives are known to it. Not
a member of it. but knows either better than either
know him. It is a Yehmgericht of villains. If
one gets into trouble, the rest makeup a subscrip-
tion and employ a lawyer to defend him. If he is
fined, they pay the fine—if he goes to gaol, he
comes out a hero. And in their wicked way they
are true to each other. You could not open the
mouth of one of them with a chisel and a mallet, If
he thought you wanted to draw evidence from him
that would incriminate another of the band. The
Woolloomooloo outrage Is an instance of this.
There, one of the most shocking crimes possible in
the downward range of depravity bad to, practi-
cally, go almost unpunished, though there were
over a score of the gang concerned In it. And
why ? Simply because they stood by each other,
and because they knew as much about cross-
examining as tho lawyers who examined them. It
is as much their business as it is that of the law-
yers. What chance, then, have the police, however
vigilant, against such an organisation as this?
What If they do arrest two or three, now and then ?
The others stand by them. What, then, is to be
done ? That is more than we can even suggest in
this article.
♦ * *
We were going to describe the Female
Larrikin, with her draggle-feathered hat and her
frequent black eye—affectionate testimonial from
her masculine mate—her trapesing walk and toss-
ing head, but it is unnecessary. She is in every
respect a counterpart of her mate of the other
sex, and quite as lovely an ornament to society. It
comes with something of a shock to think that
decent citizens—you and we, dear readers—are of
the same race as these creatures. Surely we have
no Instincts in common ? Yet, where did they get
their evil instincts? Not altogether from bad
example, because you will And every small bush
township in the country has Its little knot of
larrikins. Yet the fathers and mothers of these
Juvenile scoundrels are respectable hard-working
people. Then where the devil—heaven pardon us!
—does the black blood come from ? Is It in them ?
Suppose we grant you that it Is in a few, yet It
can’t be in all. A whole generation Is not made up
of born malefactors. then ? Merely a truism
that one rotten apple will taint a easeful.
• • •
It is the father amj mother who are to
blame first, last, and always. The license that Is
allowed children in this country is simply scanda-
lous. From high to low, in all households, the
children seem to be first and the parents nowhere.
We have been in families where the position of the
parents would have seemed to us truly pathetic If
it had not been also ridiculous. The Head of the
House would gravely open his lips to make some
remark upon (say) the state of trade or politics,
when a whippersnapper of the age of twelve
would cut him short in order to deliver Ms opinion.
And this would be listened to with deference by
the father, and delight by the mother, feelings in
which the unfortunate guest would bb supposed
to share, or submit to be considered a boor and a
pagan. “How clever the dear boy is!” the de-
luded mother would whisper in a loud aside
to us. And there the smirking little ass
would stand and listen to it all arrested, in
mental development f rom that moment. And from
that moment would be to him only a
good-natured old chap—an old man—an old buffer —
well enough for his day, perhaps, but altogether
behind the times, and his mother a good old soul
who knew nothing of the ways of the world. This
promising youth, when he grows up, becomes the
better-class larrikin—the larrikin who does not
steal because he is not in want of money, but who
delights to insult helpless women because the
black blood is In him and has not n squeezed
out of him while he was young. It may be pos-
tulated to a certainty that the child who will not
reverence his parents will not, when he grows up.
rgYerenioe himself. And the young man who does
not reverence himself is thenceforth a criminal
In the moral sense, and only wants oppor-
tunity to be so In the civil sense also. In
the families of the poor, things are even worse.
The children are allowed to run riot. The fact
that Billy has turned upon his mother and that
his mother has beaten him, is the signal for Billy’s
father to knock down the lady in question and
perform popular dances upon her prostrate body.
And so the play goes on, till the boy, fearing no
authority at home, fears none abroad, meets with
others of his own kidney, thieves, gets into gao',
and is turned out of that institution a ripe young
ruffian. This is merely an outline of the genesis
of t he larrikin spirit, but we are convinced it is
correct, as far as it goes. Is there no remedy?
There is, and we shall state it when we have quite
got over the holidays.
As he sat in the homely sanctum of the
Narandera Argus, with the office scissors lightly
poised in his dexter band, and the humble but
Indispensable paste-brush firmly grasped In the
other, the profound Kldred, In contrasting his own
sorry lot with that of the pure-bred Berkshire
hog, involuntarily, as it were, drills into a solemn
train of thought, and musos thusly:-“ The pro-
spects of piggy are certainly brightening In the
colonies. For a considerable time past breeders
have recognised his importance as a profitable in-
vestment, and, If he bo only of aristocratic porcine
pedigree, he is placed in a luxurious stye, his
epicurean last* s consulted, and upon him is be-
stowed a lordly name. Mr. F. Cowley, of Illabo
P -rk, has for a long time bestowed a great deal of
attention upon pig-breeding, and has amongst his
imported stock a number of highly-bred animals
of the improved Berkshire type. Messrs. W.
Jones and Co., of the Narandera Brewery, have
recently obtained two sows and a boar of this
breed at a high figure. The joys of being a
brewer’s horse have been already celebrated in
song; but ambrosia of grain and nectar of colonial
beerl—how much Jollier to be a brewer’s pig.”
Yes, indeed: It is a deuce of a sight jollier to be a
well-bred “Berk.,” even without "a lordly
name,” than a Narandera editor minus the six-
pence of commerce wherewith to replenish bis
stock of rum. Poor scribe! Happy hog!
Ingratitude is beyond doubt the basest
of all offences, for it Is the only one to which no
man, no matter how vile he may be, will ever
plead guilty. Men are to be found in hundredg
who will boast of being rogues, and liars—In fact,
we once knew a fellow who was so dead to shame
that ho owned up to being a suburban aldorman—
but we never yet struck a man who was willing
to admit he had received a favour, and returned
it with a wrong. Ingratitude being, therefore, the
very lowest of the vices, gratitude should be placed
way up on the top shelf of the virtues, and hence
it is with real pleasure that we have to record an
instance of it being performed to-day. firrnnmer
Drlgoods, of this city, was driving along onp of our
Northern roads when he espied a tattered-looking
deadbeat plodding on foot in the same direction,
and, being in a charitable humour, he asked him
If he’d like a lift into town. “ Don't mind if I
do," said the animated rag-stack, as he shinned
over the buggy-whe.ds; “ I’ve seen better days
myself, an’ the roads about here are not quite as
good as they’d be if I were Premier, you bet.”
Drigoods didn’t exactly see what the “ sun-
downer’s” having seen better days had to do with
him; but, however, tho pair Jogged along very
comfortably, and when the town was reached, the
drummer’s companion was most profuse in his
thanks for the friendly lilt, and clung on to the
side of the trap begging his new acquaintance
would tell him what he could do to show how
grateful he was lor the kindness shown him.
Don't mention it, old man,” replied Drigoc ds,
“ It s a mere nothing— tat-ta—see you again some
day.” “ Notyet, my generous friend,” yelled the
deadbeat; “ I really must do something In return
for your Christian condescension, but I’m so
devilish poor that—but, stay, 1 have it now—I bold
just one sixpence In this world. Lend me another
yourself, and then i’ll take y’ Into tho Royal and
shout for the two of us.”
Here’s one of the many ingenious little
dodges by which the prudent traveller bluffs the
unsuspecting Goodcbap, and travels on the
“never.” A few days ago. a well-known “com-
mercial ” was seated in his first-class railway
saloon at Werris Creek, wondering to himself why,
in this Iron Hors* 1 age, the snail was still consid-
ered the emblem of slowness, when an oily-looking
party, wearing a suit of shiny black clothes and a
purple, bloated face, that seemed to be making
desperate efforts to swallow nis chin, got into the
same compartment, and as the procession moved
along, the new-comer leant over to his fellow-
traveller, and handing him half a dozen slips of
printed matter, unctuously observed: “ Pardon me,
sir, but here’s something to while away a little of
your dreary ride.” Perceiving that the things
were tracts, the bagman declined the offer with
thanks, at the same time remaralngthat whenever
his system wanted attention, he preferred castor
oil, or Cockle’s pills “ Oh, Indeed,” exclaimed the
other, as he replaced the sacred treasures; and
right there the conversation ended, until the oars
had rolled a few miles further on, when the drum-
mer carelessly observed : “8’pose you wouldn’t
have a game of Nap., or euchre, would you, Just to
while away a little of our dreary ride, as
you thoughtfully remarked Just now, sir ?”
This was the bagman's little Joke, but be was
agreeably suprisod when the pious party opposite
reolled, “ Well—ah - really—you see, cards are
things, which, from the naebah of my calling, I
rarely or nevah touch ; but. howevah, Just for
company's sake, and to dispel the weariness of our
Journey, as you say. I don’t mind if I do try a
game of euchre.” By the time Murrurundl was
reached, the drummer found his little Joke begin-
ning to smell most offensively, as the simple-
minded man of God had scooped him for fits. 6d,,
and the guard was now excitedly demanding to
see their tickets. Mr. Softgoods at once produced
his season medallion, but his companion, graciously
1 smiling on the official, and waving his hands as if
he was distributing the benediction, exclaimed—
“ It is all correct here, my good guard ; I’m going
right through with my charming friend here.
Farewell, guard I The Looard bless you.” Shortly
before Singleton was in sight, the holy man shot
the drummer for 30s. more at the game which,
“ from the naohah of his calling, he rarely, or
nevah, played,” and then the train pulled up at
the platform, and an iron-jawed porter with a look
on hlsl'acetbat would takethesouroutof alomon,
stepped round, and rasped out—“Tickets here.’
“ Tickets again ? ” exclaimed the preacher with a
pleasant little laugh; “ well, now, some men
would look upon this as quite a bore indeed, but
it's all right, my dear guard, I can answer for rny
?■ ood friend here, who is going to buzz round the
rivolitles and playshahs of the modern Babeelon
even as the loolisn moth doth around tho candle’s
garish glare. As for me, I am going right through
slso. You seem to want rain badly about
these parts, guard, now don’t you ? ” “I
want to see your ticket, an’ I want t’ see
it pooty smart, too," snapped the grim official.
“ It’s all right, I can assure —.” “ No. yer can’t;
I want your ticket, or out you get.” After a dral
of fumbling, the pasteboard was produced, and
after one hasty glance, the unbelieving porter
yelled, “ I thoughtso-workln’ a first-class passage
on a second class fare; that's yer game, la it?
Now, out y’ come, unless yon ante-up the differ-
ence.” “Pooh I pooh I” exclaimed the now Indig-
nant passenger; “ I know nothing of your first-
classes or your second-classes, or your fifty-seventh
classes either. I was shown into this car at Werria
Crock, and, therefcah, if there’s a lault at all, it’s
with you careless railway officials.” Just here the
fiorter brought the station-master along, and was
oudly explaining the whole business, when tho
insulted apostle shouted, “In the name of common
sense, what is the meaning of all this disturbance ?
Bather than be tho innocent cause of such un-
seemly tumult, I will get out here and put up with
tho second-class inconvenience.” ‘ That’s all
right, sir,” blandly replied the courteous station-
master; “ but, first of all. you'll pay the extra fare
from Werris s Creek, and you’ll also settle a little
matter in the way of having ridden on the cheap
fron Sydney up to Arrnidale on the 21st of last
month, sir. Now, hand over quickly, or I'll have
tn adopt another measure.” And having satisfied
the debt in full, the man of God was forced into a
second-class truck which was stuffed full of nav-
vies and Chinamen, and smelt worse than a rag-
mill on Are. or the back cad of a fish nuukct after
a heavy sale day.
“ TV aerostat electrioue ” is the name given by MM. Tissandier frercs to their new balloon, which is supp sed to mark an epoch In lurostatiou. In L’ Illustration, of the
4th October an account is given of a trial tiip made in it by the brothers iissandier, accompanied by an old sailor, M. Lecom te. By means of a screw, worked by electricity
nerforminc 190 revolutions a minute, the royageur* were enabled to more than hold their own against a breeze blowing at tho rate of 10 feet a second (seven miles an
Tn fofith nf this wind the balloon travelled at the rate of two miles an hour—equal to nine in still air.
softe of MM Sssandier’s Ingenuity, the problem of mrial navigation is Just as far from solution as ever. So It will continue, till seronauts got by heart the Duke of Argyll s chapter ou the
*-‘$lghp of birds,” and learn that the way of an eagle through the air is compassed by means of weight, not buoyancy Ed. B.]


N OCTOGENARIAN'S GRATITUDE.
A FACT.
George-street, Sydney, September 1,1884.
Messrs. Mtehs and Solomon.
Gentlemen,—It gives me considerable pleasure
to tender you my best thanks for your kind re-
commendation of St. Jacobs Oil. Acting upon
your advice, I tried It, and am happy to say the
very first application brought me instant relief;
and, by following it up for a couple of days, I felt
completely cured. Before using St. Jacobs Oil I
suffered severely—more especially from swollen
knees—and had tried many other remedies without
the least effect. However, I have to thank it for
making me myself again, and shall be careful to
recommend It.
I may mention that I shall be 80 years of age in
October, and believe that through its use I shall be
able to spend a pleasant birthday.
Yours faithfully,
JOSEPH HENRY.
Sold by all chemists and druggists in N.8.W.;
price, 2s. 6d. per bottle.
A GREAT SMALL POX SCARE.
One of the city carrying companies who employ
a number of men of all nationalities had just
engaged a now chum from Deltcherland, giving
him the usual orders to deliver parcels as directed.
Amongst his responsibilities wen-' included a very
valuable box consigned to an old lady whose nerves
had been recently disturbed by the appearance of
small-pox in proximity to her residence. When
the vanman appeared with tbesmall box, beseemed
undecided as to the right address, and looked
overwhelmed with conflicting emotions, How-
ever, he pulled the bell, which brought to the
door the servant (one of Erin's fair daughters), to
whom Hans exclaimed. “ Dot he had prougbt one
small pox for the lady.” The old lady, overhearing
the conversation, in frantic spasms yelled, “ Shut
the door,” “Turn him out,” “Send for Dr. Mae-
kellar-qulck, quick;” “ Scald the wretch.” “Fu-
migate him,” *• Turn the hose on him.” The van-
man turned sadly awey, and in unspeakable
anguish wiped the corner of his eye with his
rolled-up sleeve, taking a mental inventory of the
number of that house for evermore. The old lady
had a fit—in fact, two fits; and her equilibrium
was only restored by the energies of the best
medical talent In the city. The terror spread to
the adjoining residences in the terrace; doors were
barricaded and blinds drawn down in every house.
It finally turned out that the “small pox ” which
Hans bad conveyed contained nothing stronger
than a sample of Anheuser Busch St. Louis Lager
Beer, which can be obtained at any first-class hotel
in Australia on ice.*
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
Mashers.—The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 653 George-street, Brickfield Hill.*
A timely use of Hop Bitters will keep a
whole family in robust health a year with but a
little cost. Read.
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
ouaiity, may be purchased from Hookings and
Co , 143, Pitt-street.*
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
The exceptional increase in the sales of
Wolfe’s Schnapps may be attributed to its
marked superiority over other Spirits.
“I declare, Milly, you are an uncommon
sensible little woman I You have secured one of
those lovely decorated dinner sets that were only
opened the other day at Bray Brothers, In George-
street. They are the talk of the town, and surpass
anything of the kind I ever saw.” *
John T. McInnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham-
bers. 90 Pitt-stkebt, Sydney. tST" Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
Saw Mill Plant, &c. No commission charged for
buying. fST" Agents for the sale or purchase on
commission of Puro-bred Sto<?k.*
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general.]
RACING.
B G)!ra January 14,15.
Svdnov T.C .......................... J anuary 38,
LawrenceJ.C; • • January 36.
Blayney January Ji, *t.
New England
Burrowa J.C February 5, 6.
Cootamundra T.C • .February 11,13.
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) February 11,12.13.
Tasmanian T.C February 18.19.
Murrumburrah T.C. (Annual) February 18,19.
Glen Innes £ e l bru ? r £*f’ £2’
Moree February 35, 38.
V.R.C.'Autumn Meeting Feb. 28. March 5 7.
Tumut “arch 25. 26.
Hawkesbury R.C ...... March28,38.
AQUATICS.
Snail’s Bay Regatta on
Anniversary Regatta January ~8.
Hanlan v. Clifford T^K b f,o™ y os'
Clifford v. Beach reb Mo?«£
npuph v Hanlan•• Mwon mo*
Hanlan v. Clifford (If Clifford beat Beach)... .April 18.
Newcastle Regatta January 1.
Intercolonial 8-Oar Race ..April
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
J. Fagan, of Carooar, in a cricket match
against Mount M’Donald, stayed at the wickets
■over five hours, and put together 121 not out.
"YFred. Archer’s record, from March 24 to
November 14 inclusive, was 677 mounts, 241 won,
; a nd 330 lost. C. Wood came next with 539 mounts,
158 won, and 383 lost.
The English papers are beginning to think
it stranao that Clifford, a man unknown in the
first flight of scullers, should be backed with such
confidence against all comers.
At the Newcastle Annual Regatta on New
Year’s Day, Messenger and Pearce won the all-
comers’ double sculls; and tv. Hughes won the
light skiff handicap, defeating Campbell and Mes-
senger.
Mr. W. A. Long’s Dame Agnes at latest
was at hundreds to six for the English Derby, to
be run on June 3rd. Bell’s Life of Nov. 19th
says, “ In despair of making bettor terms, a com-
missioner took loOO to 00 about Dame Agnes.”
Bell’s Life says: “The bolt stolen from
Greenfield, a publican at Birmingham, was not
that of ‘the Champion of England,’ which Sayers
and Heenan fought for, as that belt Is now, and
has been f-r many years, in the possession of Jem
Mace.”
The pull-off between Fittes and Ainloy, in
connection with the Challenge Sculls at the recent
Melbourne Regatta, came off on Christmas Eve,
when the champion Fittes with ease proved him-
self the best man. What about the Brett-r ittes
match 7
The St. John’s Rowing Club, of New
Orleans, announce their Intention of holding a re-
gatta next May on Lake Ponchartaln, on a large
scale. Both professionals and amateurs will be
catered for, as much as £800 being sot aside for the
former.
On Nov. 14th a prize fight took place be-
tween James Wulder, the champion light-weight,
of Birmingham, and Frank Murray, of London.
The men fought near Birmingham for an hour
«nd throe-qmrtors, and Walder was declared the
winner, Both men wore punished severely.
Hearn, the champion sculler of New Zea-
land, and Harrington rowed at Wellington, on
Friday last, tor £300 and the championship of Now
Zealand. When half the course had been covered,
Harringtm’s boat filled, and Hearn paddled over
the remainder of the course, an easy winner.
Perkins, the English sculler who recently
defeated Bubear, with the aid of a five seconds’
start, is stated to have improved greatly In Style
since his last appearance In public. It will be re-
membered Perkins visited Australia in 1883-3, when
he was twice defeated by the elder Macdonald,
once in a match and handicap respectively; and
defeated Charley Messenger on the Clarence River.
Mr. G. H. Warren, of Liverpool, England,
who sent the racing cutter Maggie to American
waters on the deck of a cargo steamer, and after-
wards successfully sailed his yacht in matches
against native vessels, has commissioned Mr. A.
Richardson, of Liverpool, to get out the design of
a 47-ton cutter, with which he Intends to challenge
for the oup won at Cowes In 1851 by tho schooner
America. The new craft is to be built by Fay, of
Southampton.
In a match between the English bllliard-
Ista, J. Roberts, Junr., and J. G. Sala, the former
conceding 3000 out of 10,000, Roberts won by 1625
points. Roberts commenced well,and ran together
500 In remarkably quick time, but after t ds he
was attacked with a complaint to which he is sub-
ject-ague. Notwithstanding this lllners, during
tho progress of tho match, he exceeded the cen-
tury no fewer than twenty-four times, and once
exactly reached it, his best breaks having been 288,
203. 187, 185, 153, 150, 148.143, 138, 138, 139. 138. 134, 134,
134,118,113,113, 111, 109,107,103,103, 103, and 100.
Malone thus airs himself in the columns of
theJN. Y. Clipper:—“Sir, In reply to Mr. Fred.
Harmon’s challenge to the world, I hereby accept,
and shall run him on his own ground by his allow-
ing me reasonable expenses, lor any amount, any
distance from 100 to 440 yards, or any man in tho
world. It Mr. Harmon’s offer of expenses does
not suit me, I will allow him an additional £30 to
run me In Australia. I am prepared to put £100
as forfeit-deposit la the bands of the Town and
Country Journal or th Sydney Bulletin to
bind a match. I am, sir, yours truly, T. M.
Malone, champion sprinter of Australia.”
London Bell’s Life has been going in
heavily for the *• coupon" business, its last reck-
less offer being a prlz of £50 “ to any person or
persons who shall name the absolute winner of
the Midland Counties Handicap, the Grendon
Nursery Handicap, and the Leamington Grand
Annual Steeplechase at Warwick, and tho Lanca-
shire Cup and the Manchester November Handicap
at Manchester.” And, v, ith about the only bit of
humour wo have seen In Bell since old “ fighting
days,” It adds:—“ In the event of more than one
person being successful in guessing the five win-
ners, tho money will be divided la equal parts
amongst the successful guesaors.” Reckless Bell !
The latest man of science who has llown
across the briny to that paradise of prizefighters,
or rather gloveflghters, America, Is Mr. Alfred
•Oveenfleld, who claims to be “ Champion of Eng-
land.” and whose advent In the States was thus
-described by tho Morning Journal:—“Since Mr.
Herbert Spencer vhltei America no representa-
tive Englishman of science has come to New York
until yesterday morning, when Mr. Alfred Green-
field walked jauntily down the gang plank of the
Oregon, and was received with tremendous and
tumultuous cheers.” Greenfield met Sullivan on
November 17, In a four-round glove contest,
Queensberry tules, winner to take 85 per cent, of
the net proceeds, and loser 85 per cent. Two des-
perate rounds were fought, said to have been In
Greenfield’s favour, when the police stepped In
and stopped proceedings. Greenfield stands 5ft.
T'in. in height, and, In condition, turns tbe scale at
eleven stoae and a half.
Farnan is still fighting his newspaper
battle with Foley in the old style, the only differ-
ence being that he has transferred his affections
from < he Sportsman to the Melbourne Herald.
Amongst other things, he say.-: “Inconsequence
of the report in the Evening News that I only
wanted to box amateurs, Mr. Leei will excuse me
accommodating him. In tbe meantime, be can
make a name for himself In tbe boxing lino, as
there are plenty who are willing to give him a
turn, although he is Professor Miller’s pet, and got
up for the occasion.” We were under the Impres-
sion that the Lees who wished to fight—or rather
said he did—Farnan, was the boxer and club-
swinger who performed with the Miller-Foley
combination in Sydney. If we are not mistaken,
will some kind friend forward us the definition of
a boxing amateur, in order that we may have it
framed and placed alongside the description of an
amateur as laid down by tho Sydney Sailing Clubs.
For months past, or rather years past, we
have advocated the reconstruction of the New
South Wales Rowing Association, and we are now
pleased to see that both the Sydney Mail and
T. and C. Journal are following In our wake.
Tho latter paper very sensibly suggests a con-
ference of all the clubs, and, as the Sydney Is
tho senior establishment, we think It should take
the initiative in the matter. On all bands it is ad-
mitted that tho Association is a perfect farce, and,
unless the Sydney Rowing Club takes the step we
suggest, it will appear as if they are content to
put up with the present imbecile Association for
the sake of * rowing-over” for its prizes, as the
Mercantile is the only Club that can raise a senior
crew, worthy of the name, to meet them. At the
National Regatta last year, the Mercantiles won
tbe junior sculls in outriggers, senior fours.
maiden fours, Laidley sculls, junior fours, ard
junior double sculls; and it is needless for us to
observe that an Association, without representa-
tion from such a Club, is worse than useless.
With regard to the recent misunderstaudi-
ing between Matterson and Edwards at the so- i
called aquatic carnival on Albert Park Lake (Vic.),.
Visor” says in the Australasian 1 “ If it wdE
afford any consolation to Matterson, he may learn
that, notwithstanding the umpire adjudged Ed-
wards the winner, ho has not received the prize-
money, and he has consequently instructed a
solicitor to take proceedings to obtain payment of
the amount. With regard to the offer to Increase
the stakes, James Edwards tells me that he made
the offer through Manders to add £25 or £30 if
Matterson would do likewise, ar»d make afmatch
of it. It is probable, therefore, that the offer was
not made known to Matterson by the person men-
tioned. Robert Edwards now saj's that he is will-
ing to row Matterson on the champion course here
for £100 a-side, and names about, the date for the
Australian Cup (March) as the best time for the
race to take place. A match between the young
scullers would be highly interesting, and we hope
to hoarof Matterson’a acceptance of the challenge. ’
Matterson has gone home for a long spell, but a
gift of a century will no diyubt prove a strong
temptation to draw him out b etore the termination
of the period of his proposes! rest. Of course Ed--,
wards would allow him expe meee. ’
The idea of having a professional two-mile
bicycle race at the Highland sports was a good
one. Whatever objections amateurs may have to
mixing with professionals at their own meetings,
there can be !no doubt that, at a comprehensive
gathering like the great Scotch anniversary, such
a race added great interest to the programme. It
was not, however, except at the finish, a brilliant
exhibition. Several men rods* roadsters, and
were never In it at all. Pletz, Palmer, and
Grant (who has only lately joined the pros.)
were outpaced. Chapman, an undoubtedly gpod
man, must have been out of form; he couldn t
vo a little bit. It was disappointing that
Clingan did not start, as from his splendid run-
ning at the Exhibition, a few weeks ago, he ought
to have pushed tho champion. As it was, there
were only two men really concerned, and when
they started the last trip, with Phillips fully 60
yards ahead, It was questionable whether Rolfe
would catch him. It seemed Impossible to get up
a spurt against the wind at the back of the course,
but with sheer persistency Rolfe rode up to his op-
ponent, anG passed him by a couple of yards on
the post. Phillips had 180 yards. The time from
scratch was given as about 7mln. 7seo.
Tat-tersall’s Club Annual meeting duly
came off on New Year’s Day, and barring a spill
for Fallon off Right Bower during the running for
the Hurdle Race, the day passed off without bitch
or accident. The Hurdle Race fell to Dr. Cortis
Despatch, followed by Student and Carlsslma, who
ran a dead heat for second place; Ellington beat
Orator by a length and a half for the Flying Han-
dicap, Mascotte third; and Bryan O’Lynn won the
selling race by a neck, after a grand tussle with
Wallangra. For Tattersall’s Club Cup Brown and
Rose started at 2 to 1, but was unable to get nearer
than fifth. Little Dick led into the straight fol-
lowed by Orator and Tom Brown, but a little fur-
ther on, Tom Brown, with Nicholson up, shot to
the front, with Merlin and Minerva in attendance.
Minerva mad« a gallant struggle, but Tom Brown
had too much in hand, and won ratder comfort-
ably by half a length, Merlin, three lengths away,
third. Oorday led into the home-turn for Tatter-
sail’s Foal Stakes, but Cardigan drew on her. inch
by inch, all the way up the straight, and after a
great race, the pair finished a dead heat, Angora
third. The Two-year-old Selling Race fell to Astrea,
Brown Eagle, four lengths away, second, Toward
third; and Balmoral beat Merlin by a head for the
New Year’s Gift, Tom Brown third. The day e
snort finished with the run-off for Tattersall’s Foal
Stakes, when Corday and Cardigan raced together
into the straight, from which point Cardigan com-
menced to draw away, and finished with a good
two lengths and a half to the good.
Fully 20,000 spectators put in an appear-
ance on the Association Ground on New Year's
Day, when the Highland Society of New South
Wales held their seventeenth annual gathering.
Money was plentiful, life at the Antipodes seem-
ing to altogether change the home instinct of the
“canny Scut.” Indeed, we have heard it stated
that rats have oven been seen on rare occasions on
vessels owneed by colonial firms run by Scotch-
men. The cunning rodent is never found on
vessels hailing from Scotch ports. There are no
scraps. W. Mathison threw the hammer 98ft. 7i.-i.,
J. W. Bvrnes covered 44ft. lOin. In a hop-step-and-
jump, E. C. Smith (50 yards) won the mile amateur
walk, C. Kemp (a Nelson man) won the single-
stick contest, J. Byrnes cleared 5ft. 8in. in the
running high jump, R. G. M'Whlnnale won the
mile maiden bicycle race, Paddy Honer cleared
6ft. 2in. in the dog jump, M'Namara put the shot
30ft. 3lln., Renfrew and Horn both cleared 10ft.
7in. in the pole vault, P. Connelly (16 yards) won
the 150 yarns’ handicap, A. Larcombe tossed the
best caber, J. Thurlow (Redfern Bicycle Club) won
the two-mile open bicycle race, tho Nelson won
tug-of-war, A. Renfrew of Wallsend won the
mixed wrestling match, T. Brown (50 yards) won
the quarter-mile handicap. J. Rolfe won the all-
comers’ two-mlle bicycle race from scratch, J. C.
M‘Rae and J. Keating divided for the all-comers’
wrestling match, G. Sheddon (120 yards) won the
mile handicap, and various minor events filled up
the day’s sport.
Professor Miller must be feeling himself
again, as he Is about to fix up an athletic combina-
tion with which to worry the colonies. The “ Pro-
fessor” still hankers after his little meeting with
John L, Sullivan, and is about to send a challenge
to the much-sought-after John L. for a glove
fight of four rounds, eight rounds, or one to win,
tbe trifling matter of gate money to be divided,
ortho winner to take two-thirds and the loser one-
third, Miller to receive £200 for expenses. The
demon drink has been having a heavy wrestle with
the American slogger since Miller first opened up
negotiations, and, from all accounts, it would ap-
pear as if the odds at present are about ten to
one on the Demon knocking the Yankee big gun
out before Miller gets a slap at him. Sullivan’s
recent set-to with the heavy-weight Laiflin
showed that he has lost a deal of the “devil”
for which he was so noted. The match was
of the unsatisfactory four-round class, and Laff
lin’s chief aim appeared to get down and escape
punishment. Lulllin was down three times in the
first round, and continued in the same strain the
first half of the second, but Sullivan suddenly ap-
peared to collapse, upon seeing which Lafflin put
In some fair blows, and drove Sullivan against the
ropes. Now was Lafflln’s chance, and had he fol-
lowed up his advantage there is every probability
he would have bested his adversary. But he
lacked courage, and when Sullivan pulled himself
togi ther and nit out, Lafflin gave way, and allowed
the champion to force him back to the ropes. Laff-
lin, after this, nevtr made a show, and Sullivan,
weak himself, managed to knock him out before
the end of the fourth round. Lafflin, who is de-
scribed as a powerful, heavy man, no doubt dis-
tressed Sullivan by the manner in which he
hugged and clung to him, but it is evident, from
all accounts of the fight, that months, or rather
years, of debauchery has done Us work, and that
the Sullivan who showed weak before Lafllin is
not tho fighter of old who polished off Wilson,
Mitchell, and Slade in such desperate fashion.
PARADOXICAL SORROWS.
Among the recent disclosures of scientific research, the most startling is the discovery that the
Duck-billed Platypus, or Ornithorhyncus Paradoxus as ho is called for short, which has heretofore
been classed among the mammals, is no longer so to be considered, for It has been discovered that
the female of the species lays eggs, and hatches ’em out, too—like any other barn-door fowl. And
letters are beginning to be received by Australians from friends abroad, applying for a few dozen
platypus eggs I Wo have seen one such letter to an American gentleman resident hero, who goes
about pestering old residents for platypus eggs!
O, the duck-billed platypus sate on her nest,
And pensively thought of the morrow.
“To-morrow,” quoth she, “this egg will pro-
duce
A duck-billed child of sorrow.
“ For many a day, and for many a year,
I’ve baffled those chaps scientific,
Who call by hard names what they don’t
understand,
On the shores of the Southern Pacific.
“ They classed me With mammals for many
a year,
Though amazed at thy duck-like proboscis.
They called me the link that was lost; what
of that 7
I really don’t see what the loss is.
“ Now they’ve classed me with birds, and
I’m down in the books
As a rum paradoxical chicken ;
And I’ve got to lay eggs, and to cackle and
crow; —
My word! how my miseries thicken.
Thus the ornithorhyncus sate on her nest,
And morbidly dwelt on her sorrow ;
But her seance whs pregnant with mighty results,
For her chick was hatched out on the morrow.
Hop.
“So I’ve built me a nest, which Is not a suc-
cess,
For I’m new at the work; and the thistles,
I quite inadvertantly mixed with the grass,
Scratch my body like porcupine bristles.
“ Then I laid me an egg, and I really don’t
see,
As I brought no experience to it
(Though tho egg, as an egg, is a stunning
success),
However I managed to do it.
“ And I’ve sat hero for weeks like a lump on
a log.
In a state of profound agitation,
Awaiting the while for my chick to mature —
They call it, I think, incubation.
“ I call it hard lines, for I tell you, old man,
An egg's not a nice thing to sit on :
Your legs get asleep, and your body some-
how
Its rotundity don’t seem to fit on.
“O, make me a mammal again, if you please
Ye learned soieutittcal navvies,
O, leave incubation, and that sort of thing
To the creatures you class as the aves.”


COMPAGNONI CATERING CO. (Limited).
The Leading: and Oldest Catering Establishment in N.8.W. Caterers to the A.J.C., &c., &c.
THE Catering and Sole Management undertaken for Balls, Weddings, Banquets, Dinners, Lunc eons
The IHNI^G 8 an f d d SALOONS, both for Ladies and Gentlemen, are the finest in
the city. First-class Menu daily. Rooms for Dinner-parties up-stairs. . ,, n +i . ll m
PRIVATE BAR AND SMOKING LOUNGE. Beef Tea daily, 11 a.m. Coffee In the Bar until u p.m.
E. D. TOLLEMACHE, Licensee and General Manager.
Compagnonl Catering Company, Pitt-street, Sydney.
BOURKE,
Is the largest rend beet-appointed Family Hotel in the Western District. The Liquors
cannot be sui passed, even in the Metropolis. Private Suites for families, lirst-class Stabling.
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knot's that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’ 1 #, 35t and 356 GEORGE STREET.
y:
Everybody should, know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia.
Everybody is invit«d to inspect the Establishment.
Everybody is informed that this Studio is carried on for the benefit of the late Mr.
Boyd’s children, by his executrix.
Everybody should, remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manager,
Notice is hereby given that the partnership lately subsisting between
US, THE UNDERSIGNED,
Charles Edward Crampton and William Bruce,
as Music and Musical Instrument Dealers at Sydney, in the Colony of New South
Wales, under the firm of
“ CHAMPION AND BRUCE,”
I was this day DISSOLVED by mutual consent, when the said Charles Edward Crampton
retired from the business, and that all debts due and owing to or by the late firm
will be received and paid by the said William Bruce.
As witness our hands this 31st day of December, 188t,
(Signed) CHARLES E. CRAMPTON.
(Signed) WM. BRUCE.
Witness —
(Signed) Robert Astlby,
Solicitor, Sydney.
NOTICE OE REMOVAL.
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
TO
No. 3 Hunter-street,
SECOND DOOR FROM GEORGE-STREET.
m
■«
R.BURGIS I
TAILOR.. I
TRY BURGIS’ JE3 38. Suits, to m easure. Trou tens
from 16s. 6d. au uaua-mauc, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 130 PlTT-STREET.
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for sc/‘-measuring
forwarded to any Dart of the colonv
C. B. MODINI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osbobnb ; also Angelo Bor-
donl, of Brescia, Italy.
f
%
I
THE YANKEE RUBBER
BABY.
THE unprecedented de-
mand for these inter-
esting infants has ex-
hausted the supply a full
month earlier than we an-
ticipated. A fresh supply
will, however, be received
in time for Xmas and New
Year's amusements ; it is,
therefore, advisable to send in your orders as
early as possible, and we will forward the infant
as soon as received. Post free. Is. 6d.
THE WIZARD CARDS,
changing from eights
to deuces, from black to
red, and back again at the
pleasure of the per-
former. Post free, with
full instructions, Is. 2d.
I’m a Daddy ; I’m in
Love; The Mother-in-law;
I’m a Farder; and Be
fore and After Marriage.
The funniest pictures ever issued, 5 in each set.
Price, 6d. per set, or 5 sets for 2s.; by post, 2s. 2d.
The Three Donkeys. The newest “ have ” out.
Send for them, but keep it quiet. Price, Is.; by
post. Is. 2d.
The Sooner Dog—a wonderful little animal;
roars of laughter follow him wherever ha goes.
Is. 6d.; by post, 2s. 6d.
Napoleon in Council, very rich. Is. 6d.; by post, 3s.
Metal Puzzles, the best in the world. Of these
we have a large assortment, priced as follows
New Challenge, Is. 6d.; New Favourite, Is. 6d.;
Arrow Heads, Is.; Afghan Maze, Is.; Mystic Rings,
Is.; Magic Heart, Is.; and many others. On single
puzzles add 2d. for postage. On receipt of 3s. we
will send, post free, to any address, one 18d. and
6&ch<
HORTON and CO., 401 George-street, Sydney.
Box 641, G.P.O.
<r
Foster s Bugle Brand.
>7 r
XV
55
•S*.*
ft
h
•sri
tu
1
■f*~m
a\
rtw*<
n
r=
v»
5^
S'
r
r- :■-
=>
* n -.
j,5
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALB and STOUT In the Market
BOLD BY AT.L STOREKEEPERS AND WINB3
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
flWHOOD^vtCOUKjfm
?.K)eORffS
m
fe only intauime remedy for
Jjebi’LijVT
THIS Invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustive derangement of the system; regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 13s., or four quantities is one for
Me.; if by coach, 3s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,’
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from Georgo-street South.
ALL WOMEN
HAVE YOU USED
T 0
MAViS X'
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax
Soap
TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, in either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERY
IN SOAP 1
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with it;
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
pg~ Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
6d. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers :
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
YEN ETTA WALTET.
TV Air to fm wall marked. 0 ABO LIT 8 Lowtoiaji.
ppF 7 caiitabiU
Fed
ML
Pci
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &c.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &c.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
Catalogues of above post free.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers. &c. „ ,
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads. Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &c.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
The display of CHRISTMAS CARDS this year
will be the finest ever seen ; many beautiful kinds
have already been received.
Call and see the two most impertant Copying
Instrument 0 ever invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygi aph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
WILLIAM ~BULLARD,
342 GEORGE STREET.
ATRIMON
HEALTH and HAPPINESS.
Parents, the Newly-Married,
and those about to Marry, may
obtain much valuable informa-
tion,by simply Bending a stamp-
ed addressed envelope for reply
to C.C.W., Box 766, G.P.O., Sydney.
W.
Sv
TV. R. DRAPE & CO.,
MINING BROKERS AND AGENTS,
Mining Exchange,
FITZROY STREET, ROCKHAMPTON.
Commissions entrnsted to our care executed with
judgment and despatch Latest Minin# Intelli-
gence from the surrounding fields.
PHOTOGRAPHS! PHOTOGRAPHS!
Imported direct from the Continent. Studies
from Life for Artists, Classical and Mythological
Undraped Figures, Statuary (Sacred and Secular),
Photographs, Portraits of Celebrities, Pretty
Women, English and French Actresses. Selections
sent for approval on receipt of deposit of £1 and
upwards. Catalogues and price-lists free. The
Trade supplied. Colonial Agents wanted Address:
The Continental Novelty Co., 106 Strand,
London, W.C., England.
OXYGEN IS LIFE.
Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne.
THE only Reliable Remedy for Indigestion,
Nervousnses, Nervous Debility, Liver Com-
plaints, Female Complaints, Lassitude, Loss of
Power, Mental and Physical Depression, Decline,
and all Functional Derangements. Thoroughly
recruits and re-establishes Health. Highly recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty. J3?“ CAUTION.—
The indubitable proof of the groat value of Dr
Bright’s (the only genuine) Phosphodyne is the
various worthless imitations which are being made
up. Therefore ask for Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne
and refuse useless and possibly Dangerous Substi-
tutes. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROTHERS.
Been hunting for case all my life, and found itat
last with the Argosy Braces at Qowing Bros.
m
sS
'/a
A
y
y
y
AC
as
GOWING BEOS,
Have Just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. Gil., 3s , 3s. Oil., & 4s. Gil
GOWING BROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, &c.
332 and 408 Gcorge-strcet.
Royal Hotel,
Bungendore.
FIRST CLASS ACCOMMODATION.
J. RRcMAHON, Proprietor.
WASTE PAPER Hoop Iron, and Bmoty
Cat te for Sale. Apply Publisher, BmtLBrxw
Office,
298 CcorgeStrcct, Sydney.
Every description of Shirts made to measure
A perfect fit guaranteed.
i
V-’
SMITH & HARWELL,
THE SHIRT MANUFACTURERS OF
AUSTRALASIA,
JAS. LAWSON & SONS,
■ART-FURNITURE MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Comer of William-street, Hyde Park.
High -class Furniture
At Very Lowest Prices, compatible with the finest
workmanship and finish, for entrance halls,
dtninir-rooms, dm wina- rooms, bedrooms,
and libraries.
CARPETS
TTST NEWEST DESIGNS AND
FINEST QUALITY.
WILTON CARP RTS, BRUSSELS CARPETS,
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS,
With II earth tugs to match.
CORIICINE AND LINOLEUM.
BEDSTEADS IN BLACK AND NICKEL AND
BLACK AND BRASS,
In all sizes and various designs.


Jjl DBBITDEI 8 H BOOM
' "BRADLEY NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
BFALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS, and
A CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
T IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
JU TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES.
READING and LOUNGE CHAtRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion : well worthy of
'ngpectioia. Bradley. Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINET? for Choice China, kc.
VERY ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley.
Newton, and Lamb.
TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for dubs, restaurants
amoving rooms, &c.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
SS5 I ? 8 i«^ 1 V l L variet y- BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB. Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
"J1IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
piate-gliua door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
£ laas attached; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and § CANE SEAT Off A IRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEF, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 20a.; Kitchen
uressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.;
Cheat of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s-
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s.6d.; Writing
Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
PIANOFORTE, guar
strong, and durable, Trichord full
ompass CelesteJPedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
guaranteed sound
'*J strong, and dural ‘
apaJMt
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
O
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashlon-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices,
BRADLEY. NEWT* >N. and LAMB.
iCCASIONAL '1ABLES, elegantly finished In
' Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
IHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
O Connell-street.
NAMELLED and JEWELLED MIRRORS, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for flro grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
O Connell-street.
|RA WING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
9 A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
ices, from 13s 6d. Bradley. Newton, and Lamb.
C
rvrv
n
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
T
[OILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
~ ' GLASS and WASHSTAND,
P
OVE
with swing
marble top, 80s the pair.
1ULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM —SIDE-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
- fBRMANTBL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARvI
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-street.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
lELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAlb-
Patented.
*
This chair adjusts itself to any position, fron
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames arc of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when ft Jded. Price 30s T ”‘ ‘ ”” "—
and LAM B (only),
2s, 6d. extra.
- - BRADLEY, NEWTON
Packing in canvas, if required,
B
FRAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
AGATBLLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
slve assortment _
and other designs,
ONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
ia Chippendale, Early English,
s, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
ITRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FUENI-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, In Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
BEDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDSTEADS, ail kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptio:
BRADLEY. NEWTON,
nell and Spring streets.
and LAMB, O’Con-
r A8HSTAND8, with marble, from 23s. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
■A R DEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Chairs,
, INMAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY. NEWTON, and LAMB. O’Connell-street.
B
ENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment; beet make, lowest prieaa.
SOCIAL
Glen Innes was enlivened*on Boxing night
by a plain an<l fancy bail in aid of St. Joseph’s
fonveut. It was in the Masonic Hall, and nearly
60 couples came, mostly in evening dress. A well-
known honifaoe, well over 6ft. in height, made a
grand Brigand Chief ; and a leading storekeeper
appeared as the Devil, with tail and horns. A
brother and sister made a good pair as the Merry
Maiden ana the Tar. A young “ C ickrtoo” was
attired in a full suh of skyblue silk. Armidale sent
a most fascinating Lady Gymnast. Chadband was
a portly squatter, whose son was Guppy. The local
band played from 10 till to 4, and a little Grey-
street modiste, in the character of Buttercup, wa*
unanimously voted the prettiest girl at the ball.
Catering was in the hands of several ladies of the
towns, and was fairly done, with a view to estab
lishing a decent profit. Financially, the ball was a
success and greatly enjoyed by all, except one
young man who wasn’t there. This festive, but
forgetful youth, accompanied by a lady in snow-
white attire, stepped boldly up to the window, and
called for a double ticket, but, on explotinghis
Sockets, utterly failed to produce any coin. He
ad lef t his porte.'monnaie on the chiffonier. The
face of bis young lady was an interesting study.
Its colour at this precise moment was in deep con-
trast to her snowy irock. In vain, he protested
ho “ would send the boy up In the morning;” the
vendor was inexorable, and the unhappy youth
had to retire, his confusion being somewhat en-
hanced by the lady, who remarked, emphatically,
as took her away, “ Well, you are a condemned
fooll”
* * *
About six score gentlemen sat down to the
first annual dinner of the Commercial Travellers
Association of N.8.W., on the 30th December. It
was served by the Compagnoni Co., in the Town
Hall vestibule with the accompanying melody of a
small but elficient band of musicians. Judging
from i he general aspect of the commercials, travel-
ling agrees with them; they were all in first-rate
condition, and those that have been suffering
hardships in the far west must have quickly re-
covered. The Hon. G. B. Dibbs was in tne cnair,
and he favoured the company with some statistics
which conclusively showed the progress of the
colony, and the inadvisability of Mr. Luscombe
being allowed to write to the papers about protec-
tion. Mr. D. Marks, and Mr. George White (presi-
dent), who supported the chairman on either hand,
both made speeches which were sympathetically
received. Other speakers were Messrs. Trotter, F
Thomas, Pattle, A If. Lee, Cunningham, Kelier-
mann, Aldous, and Heaton Mr. James Inglis
made a cogent speech bearing on the sub-
ject. There are two sneers, said he, and
one is that we Britons are a nation of shop-
keepers. Well, the greatest deeds that have
sprung from the loins of England have been
actuated by a desire to spread the operations ol
honest trade. Second, “ Ob, he’s only a commer-
cial traveller.” Well, a commercial traveller is
the representative of the honour of his house.
Now-a-days, the merchant cannot sit waiting for
buyers to come to him; he must send out a repre-
sentative in whom he places the utmost con-
fidence, a man of self-respect, of intelligence, and
of unimpeachable probity. Mr. Inglis strongly
asserted the ne essity for federation, in order that
their rights might be represented and maintained;
and, fiuaily, they should not be unmindful of in-
tellectual development. Mr. Guodcbap, with
whose actions as Commissioner for Railways the
commercial travellers are considerably concerned,
was loudly called upon, and promised that tbelr
claims should always be rightly recognised by his
department. Before the company separated, a
valuable gold watch and chain were presented to
Mr. E. G. Kosenthall, hon. secretary of the Asso-
ciation, as some recognition that th ) services he
had rendered bad not been forgotten, and the gift
was duly acknowledged by him.
♦ ♦ *
A fine way of spending Christmas was
adopted by a party ot Adelong residents, namely,
an exploration of the famous YarrangobiUy Caves.
The caves are a day aad a half's journey from that
town. At Yallowin, Mr. Wilkinson was picked up
as a guide, and at midday all arrived in front of the
noble arch which forms the entrance. Horses seen
to, candles were lighted, and with intervals to
refresh, the exploration lasted till long after mid-
night. The caves when lighted with magnesium
were a grand sight: the gleaming wet sides, the
dripping stalactites, the crystal pools, and weird
white light forming a must romantic picture.
Many curios were gathered, and then a start was
made for Yallowin, whence Adelong was reached
again next day. Most of the country is rough, and
the scenery charmingly picturesque; and it a party
of enterprising young men wanted a change from
the routine of ordinary town holidays, they couid
scarcely do anything better than enjoy a week’s
campaign in the grand district of the Yarrango-
billy Caves. ,
• • •
At Plattsburg, a curious day’s proceedings
consisted of the Welsh Eisteddfod, which lasted
all day. Among other competitions for prizes
were: those of singing a solo in Welsh, one tenor,
one treble; nine contested reading Scripture out
loud; aud three sent lu poems on the subject
“Jesus Wept.” There were prizes for Welsh
recitation, lor quartette singing, and reading
music at sight. Four competitors entered for the
extempore speech, the chairman announcing as
the subject, *• The Moon.” Three talented young
Welshmen divided the prize given for best love-
letter. But the most unique item was " poem ef
praise to Mr. J. Fletcher, M.P.” And the world
will grieve to hear that of the poems sent in not
one was deemed worthy of a prize. The subject
was too nigh.
* • •
It ia said 20,000 people were present at the
Highland sports. We didn't count them, but con-
sidering the inconveniences which have for years
past been patiently suffered by persons who desire
to reach the Association Ground, this was a sur-
prising number. Of course these iuconveniences
are not in any way the fault of the Highland
Society, who did every thing to make the day
pleasant. The Sahara ot sand that has to be waded
through—the extortions of cabbies—the infinite
plague of dust—and the eccentricities of trams, are
ail evils for which somebody ia responsible; but
nobody seems to care much. Sydney citizens,
verily, are a much-enduring people. But once in-
side the “ Asso,” the preliminary annoyances faded
out of mind in the national enthusiasm and the
good-natured greetings of numoerless friends.
It’s a great day tor Scotchmen, is the first of Janu-
ary. The sports were splendidly managed, and
fifty-eight events for one shilling should surely
satisfy anyone. An extra shilling was charged for
admission to the stand, which was also densely
packed. It was a real friendly gathering; children
sported round full of noise and joy, mothers clasped
sweet babes In their arms and fondly fed them
till their darling faces were shining with happiness
and stickiness. KUts and sporrans, dirks and
stockings, and brawny knees in Nature’s undis-
gmse, were leading features of the day. On all
hands were greetings given in guid braid Scotch,
while the penetrating monotone of the bagpipes
never ceased for eight long hours. The day was a
great success; the punctuality kept, amid such a
multiplicity of events, was wonderful, sometimes
two or three going on at once. Captain H. J. Chis-
holm was a thorough manager, and his kindly
face and scarlet uniiorm (that of the 42nd High-
landers or famous “ Black Watch ”) were scarcely
ever absent from the ground. Lord Loftus and
suite came about noon, and stayed a short time
before going on to the races. The Petersham
brass band performed a programme of music.
The coveted prize for the Campbell’s piping was
won by Hugh M’DonaJd, and, according to the
conditions, the winner was frequently called on
during the day to puff out further epecitoeas of
his skill. The chief prizes for adult dancing went
to R. Moore, Paterson, Christian, and Hamilton.
Dancing by young ladies in costume was an in-
teresting item, and the three prizes went to Bella
Pirie, Lizzie M’Rae, and J. Robertson. A
dog jump was novel, the winner clearing
6ft. 2in. without touching the bar. The pro-
fessional bicycle race was an intei estimr in-
novation, and resulted in a spirited finish,
J. Rolfe winning on the post by a few feet. The
handsome prize of £10 for the tug-of-war brought
entries of no less than seven teams of 10 men
each; and it would be strictly accurate to call
them all men of weight and influence. After a
lot of ferocious straining, the Nelson sailors won.
Th :ir plan was 10 put their weightiest warrior at
the end, and this substantial man, coolly hitching
'he rope round his waisl, dug nice little holes for
his teet, and then sat down. Nothing less than an
earthquake would shift him His efforts wore
crowned with success. A number of gentlemen
had given liberal prizes, which were banded to the
winners on aturday night by Mr. Fraser Martin,
hon. treasurer. At the committee lunch, on the
ground, the Hon. Alex. Campbell, M L C., pre-
sided, with Mr. G. Munro and Mr. T. Playfair be-
side him. After the orthodox toasts, the health of
the new Mayor was proposed, Mr. Playfair reply-
ing. Of the many societies seeking public patron-
age, none perhaps has a claim like the Highland
Society, which provides the best of sport, is social
in its alms, and whose charity inquires not into
the creed of th' se in distress.
• • •
To celebrate the passing of the Old Year, a
surprise party was arranged by a number of inti-
mates, to visit the house of a well-known hospit-
able merchant in Woollahra. It was unique, be-
cause the surprisers wont in fancy costumes-a
happy idea only conceived by one of the conspira-
tors a few hours before; but the others nobly re-
sponding, the result was brilliant. Assembling at
a rend, zvous in Ocean-street, at 8 o’clock, they
commenced the attack, and marched in assorted
couples up the garden path. They were met by
the hostess, who stood amazed at this incursion of
all nations—for such they seemed; while the host,
in a daze, presumably of delight, rapidly changed
his lounging coat for more suitable attire. The
affair partook more of the spirit and abandon
of a foreign sociality, there being none of
that peculiar stiffness and amc which characterises
most English attempts at such fun. Despite the
brief time allowed, the fancy dresses were aston-
ishingly varied and picturesque. The host’s son-
in-law at first defied recognition in a long grey
beard, with monk’s hood and gown; and he was
followed by a tall Mephistopheles, then came a
Jester with Jangling bells, and a Javanese gentle-
man had a perfect dress. Two young gentlemen
with histrionic tendencies contributed the comic
element, and made more than half the fun of the
evening. Two barristers shed their legal light,
and of one it was remarked that it was a pity he
was not always disguised—he looked so much
better. A Bushman, Volunteer, Firsman, Knight,
and :a French Footman, all scored points in the
varied scene. A valued Government officer made
an inimitable representation of Quilp:—though
he’s no doubt considered a prize to the Govern-
ment, yet the comic stage has unquestionably lost
a luminary. It ought to have been place aux dames,
but on this occasion let the ruder sex take prece-
dence, as they actually did. There was, among
the ladies, a charming Peasant from the Black
Forest; and a Night, who attracted many other
knights to her. Near by was a diminutive Masher
—a perfect burlesque of that obnoxious animal.
Except that a short check skirt took the place of
the usual garments, the lady held the mirror up to
nature so well that it was scarce possible for any
masher to look at the ridiculous little puppet
typified without resolving henceforth to leave the
ranks, and try to be a man. The host’s daughter
was Carmen, so was another lady; and a fair, tall,
graceful Flower Girl had hosts of admirers to
smile on, as usual, and proved quite equal to the
demand on her smiles. A Hospital Nurse made
one almost wish to take ill. Two strange figures
flitted to and fro; one with all white raiment, the
other in black, with face to match —representing,
presumably. Heaven and Hay. At midnight, the
host's health was drunk, and soon afterwards all
dispersed, all equally satisfied wiih the New Year's
Surprise Party.
* * *
An entertainment given at Elbien, Hun-
ter-street, on New Year’s night, showed that even
bachelors are not quite so bad as they are painted.
Mr. B. Freshman managed in first-class style.
There was dancing, of course; but It was very
warm, so long gaps were filled with instrumental
music, songs. &c., and other gaps were filled with
ice-cream and soon. There was a grand spread,
and about four dozen guests helped to dissipate
its substance, la pale-blue silk, with variegated
chenille trimmi ng, it was generally thought the
host’s sister-in-law took the helleshlp, notwith-
standing the fascinations of a lively—even flirty-
girl in black grenadine. Of two sisters, one in
black and one in terra cotta, one was a magnifi-
cent pianist, and Darlinghurst certainly took the
palm for music.
* 9 m
Wickham was all joyful last Friday on the,
return of Mr. John Ritchie and his newly-made
oride to their future home; and, as a token. 9
banquet and ball was given to the employes of t’p e
now amalgamated firms of Ritchie and Hudson
in the School of A rts. Mr. and Mrs. James Rite hie’
who were also recently united, shared in the
demonstration of {food feeling. During the flay
S laces of business were gaily decorated, and the
all was a picturo of what friendly hear ts and
cheerful hands ccmld arrange with flairs., ever-
greens and flowen4. The employes with their
wives and sweetheurts, to the score of about 150
were present. TSIie banquet was
catered, and th© toasts. 13 in number, compre-
hended everythin)* and everybody that could
possibly be made a toast of. Speeches were, how-
ever. cheerf ally brief, and one of the most grati-
fying things to t he young wives was to hear the
hearty and kindly way in which everyone spoke of
their husbands. The ball was set rolling early in
the evening, and did not cease till the lovers of the
mazy had squared and rounded off the 23 dances
on the programme by 4.30 a.m. Many dresses were
exceedingly pretty* but simplicity was the rule
Mrs. John Ritchie s bridal toilette was the great
attraction to the local ladies.
• • •
Mr. and Mrs. Kennedy, of Clarence Villa.
Balmain, gave an enjoyable party to about 60
ifuestson New Year’s Eve, in the local Temperance
Hall. Good music was supplied by a Rnimain
band. Mrs. Kennedy wore a rich black silk dress
trimmed with broche and jet; and Miss Kennedy
a pretty dress of white and cerise satin, suiting
her blondeuess. Three sisters from Darlinghurst
looked remarkably nice, one in a lovely cream and
two in cardinal madras. Emm Botany came the
belle, whose exquisite figure was perfectly set off
by her pure white dress. A Pyrmont young lady
looked neat in a tambour muslin, and a married
lady from Riiey-street well in rich brown satin
accompanied by her pretty little daughter in
heliotrope. The richest dress was worn by a fair
girl from Aston-terrace, a rich pink satin elegantly
made and elaborately trimmed with rare old lace.
Three sisters from Balmain all looked nice, parti-
cularly one in heliotrope, draped with lace. Sup-
per was served in first-class style, and the host and
hostess toasted in champagne, and the sun was
shining ere the last of the guests departed.
* * * ♦
At Kiama, on Boxing night, the local
Y.M.C.A. bad a Christmas-tree, a tea, and a con-
cert, the two latter conducted by the Misses Ken-
dall— It is announced that Commodore Erskine
has capitulated to the Bishop’s niece. Miss Con-
stable. who will be married to him in England ...
The Queensland commercial travellers Bad their
first annual dinner in Brisbane the night after the
Sydney men—The Mayoress of West Maitland,
Mrs. Hyndes, earned a silver cradle “ A humble
admirer in Auckland ” sent to Miss Mary Ander
son, through Consul Griffin, a splendid volume of
photos., called “The Wonderland of New Zea-
land.”— On the 36th instant, the Burns Club will
devote a concert and its proceeds to help the Ken-
dall Fund Sir William Stawell, C.J. and Lieu-
tenant-Governor of Victoria, left Melbourne In
the Valetta for England on Thursday... Victorian
commercial travellers held an annual dinner in
Melbourne Town Hall, Mr. John Blyth chairman.
Intended to found scholarships for sons of mem-
bers.. Although there was no “ Messiah” in Sydney,
the 33nd annual performance of the oratorio at
Melbourne thronged the large Town Hall. People
were at the doors at 6 o’clock. Governor, Bishop,
their wives, and the crust of society all crushed in.
There’s either more music in Melbourne, or more
spirit The best-dressed Highland lassie on New
Year’s Day was Miss Bella Pirie, daughter of Senior
Sergeant Pirie, Darlinghurst, and she wore the
Black Watch tartan and other Highland gear—
It’s a difficult thing
At all times to assess
A young lady’s charms.
Plus the charms of her dress;
But of Bella we ll say
She needs no enhancing
In the Judgment of those
Who have once seen her dancing.
(For continuation of Soeui* see next pagej
OVERHEARD BY THE MILKMAN.
EARLY BIRD: “WHAT’S WRONG? LOST YOUR KEY?”
LATE BIRD: “NUZZING O’ THE SORT. CAN’T (hie) FIND THE KEYHOLE.”


M. A. BROWN & CO. p
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
260 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-street.)
Prom the Strand, London.
Annual Income exceeds* One Million;
S&S5s^iiS»
Lightning and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
C°- TS\t*
*sS5£
Department of Publio Works.
Sydney, 6th January, 1885.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are Invited for the fol-
lowing Publio Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
le kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced. If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Construction of Syphon across
Cook's River, Contract, No. 111
Construction of Harbour Steam- I Tuesday,
ers'Jetty, Woolloomooloo Biy 1 20th January,
Bridge over South Arm, Nam-1 at 11 o'clock.
bucoa River, netr Bowra
Supply of Building Sand, Rail- I
way Department, 1885. I
F. A. WRIGHT.
OK THE
D3ric]s±Leld. Hill.
OH STAY All CHUT IGFAKTMEHT.
/(?
C D
I
c#
#'0
UO
\
H
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Free or Charge.
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPERM BUSKS),
2s. lid., 3s. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4s. lid., 5b. 6d., Gs. Gd., 7s. 6d., 8s. Gd., 9s. 6d., 10s. Od., 12s Gd.
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS, 668, Brickfield Hill.
N.B.—Orders from the Country will receive Immediate and careful attention.
(Social, continued from page 18.)
Visit of the Ministers up North will be impor-
tant. At the Nundlo banquet on 22nd Inst. five
are expected to be present. Mr. Dailey will speak
«a several places. Great preparations are help?
made.., A number of magistrates and other gentle-
m n met tor a social farewell to Mr. T. A. Browne
bfew days ago at Armidaie. who is being trans-
ad from Police Magistrate there to Chairman or
Land Board at Aibury. Mr. Browne is ‘ Rolf Bqldro-
wood,” one of the cleverest of Australian writers.
An Auckland agent, having advertised
for a wife for a Maori chiof, was a good deal
laughed at. But he laughs last, as, a few days
before Christmas, he duly shipped olf the young
person by steamer to her lord aim master. She is
bukom girl of 28, not strong and
healthy, who was at service for 15s. a week when
she answered the advertisement. And she had a
balance in the Savings’ Bank. There were
five other white girls applicants, who ex-
B-essed willingness to marry Maori chiefs,
ft teems t at the Caucasian is about played
out in that part of the world... A large
testimon’al raised for Dr. Ellis at Newcastle
* A Geelong couple celebrated their golden
wedding at Turkeith, near by, on Christmas Day.
Mr. and Mrs. John Camm were married on that
merry day just 50 years ago, and a beautiful
presentation address, given by their descendants,
bears a sketch of the church were John took his
first legal kiss from the lips of the then blooming
Mrs. C. Any he might have had before that dldn t
count.-,. Alter an event of that kind, Mr. and Mrs.
James White seem mere children. But, anyhow,
they gave a party on 30th Dec., at ;Surry Hills, to
dsafk their 25th anniversary, or silver wedding
day. A supper, plenty of singing and dancing,
belued towards a happy evening for the young
friends they gathered round them—On New
Year’s Eve. Mr. and Mrs. Gehde gave a plain and
fancy ball at their residence, Crown-street, in the
bijou ball-room at the back, which was decorated.
Fifty guests displayed pretty costumes, and
dancing was kept up until morning. Several
gentlemen rendered good songs, Mr. A. Teller
being in excellent voice, and Mr. A. Gehde sat to
the piano ...The Garrick Club gave their third
entertainment at the Cambridge Club on Tuesday.
. ..Messrs. J. and J. Toohey, the well-known
brewers, gave a party at Parramatta last
week on a large and liberal scale—Hivervlew,
near GlenfieJd, was the scene of a three days’
party during Christmas, when the host and hostess
entertained some two-score guests all the time
with a varied programme of enjoyments. Fire-
works, musto, dancing, and unlimited ice were
among the attractions On New Year’s Day. Miss
Hutchison, only daughter of theR.W C. Templar of
N.S.W., was married to Mr. w. Bradley, of H M S.
Nelson. Rev. George I.ane performed the ceremony
at Mr. Alex Hutchison’s residence, Shaoklin, N.
Burwood, and there was a large gathering of vir-
tuous abstainers.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Ball and Supper (Taftersall’s Hail) ....January 8.
Banquette* Mr C.J Roberts (Exchange) January 20.
Anniversary Regatta January 26.
My Dear Belle.— The latest craze for English
ladies who have nothing else to do, is going out
shooting with their husbands, brothers, or other
people’s brothers; and many are the cunning de-
vices brought to bear upon these shooting-cos-
tumes, which, of course, in order to make them
look jaunty and bizarre, and at the same time not
too mannish, require an immense deal of careful
consideration. At best, however, they look harsh
and unfemlnlne, and 1 can’t Imagine any but a
fearfully strong-minded woman (my pet aversion)
donning one. For my part, Belle, dear, I don’t
approve of this female intrusion on the manly
sport—they don’t want us, I’m sure, for they know
all the time that if an accident were to happen we
should faint, or scream, or do something else
equally ridiculous. It was only the other day
Lady Somebody shot her husband through the calf
of his leg, and of course she went off into a dead
taint as soon as the accident happened. I don’t
suppose she will try shooting again in a hurry, for
She must have felt dreadfully small when she shot
her tame duck instead of a wild one. Believe me,
coz, dear, it would be infinitely better if we, at
such times, were to stay at home and dress the
salads, see that the beer and wines were properly
iced, &c., for I have noticed that nothing
in this world makes a man so mad, when be
comes home from sport in a thirsty and hungry
condition, as to find his beer tepid and shaken
and his meat insufficiently cooked, whilst, on
the other hand, if his table comforts have been
well attended to he is ready to accede to the most
extravagant demands you may choose to make.
And besides being worried by the thought of our
helplessness in case of accidents happening, it is a
melancholy though certain fact that there are
times when men would gladly dispense with the
society of the female element. Isn’t it just the
same with us V Isn’t it a positive relief when they
keep away from our kettle-drums H Of course it
is—certainly w« don’t hurt the dear fellows’ feel-
ings by allowing them to see that we should be
happier without them at these socials: but oh I tbo
fun when none of them come ! Why, we can talk
upon any subject—scandal, dress, or babies—with-
out feeling that they are being shocked or bored.
So I think if we stay at home when they go out
shooting, and they keep away from our kettle-
drums, it would be a mutual benefit.
Edith came to see me this morning. Poor girl,
she looked so sad and dejected. It appears her
pretty French muslin, which she had made for our
last picnic, doesn’t wash. I can t conceive why
these prints and muslins cannot all bo made in fast
colours: we should be so much less worried when
purchasing them to feel that they were all quiie
safe. The pr<ce of them is no guarantee at all; for
I have paid the very highest sum for a cotton dress,
thinking that by so doing, I should ensure
the durability of the colours, and have been mor-
tified to find that they faded after one visit to the
laundry, when, perhaps, a cheaper dress would
come back to me looking as good as new. It is
very aggravating, and I think the manufacturers
should do us the justice and let purchasers know
which will stand the wash-tub and which will not.
It is no joke after paying, perhaps, a guinea for
the material, and—to put ft mildly—the same sum
to your dressmaker, to discover that the dress is
almost useless after the first wash—indeed, it is a
very serious matter, and frets me greatly. Now
that feathers are so much worn and good gloves
are so very expensive, one is compelled to “con-
sider the guineas, how they melt.” Isn’t it so ?
What queer people one sees sometimes, to be
sure! Yesterday I went into a restaurant with
some girls to have ices. At the table at which we
sat was a lady having tea and half a yard of coffee
cake. After she had finished her delicate repasi,
ehe took out of her eatebot a small paper screw,’
Ihtd which she dropped two lutllps of silvar trota
the basin on our table. I suppose we looked rather
astonished at this strange proceeding, for she
hastened to say “I hope, young ladies, you do
not think I am taking what is not my just
due, but, ss I do not take sugar in my tea,
I am quite entitled to this. 1 don’t see why
the proprietors should benefit, if I have eco-
nomical tastes, so I always take as much as I
think would sweeten a cup of tea—no more, and
no less—home to my little canary who is very fond
of loaf sugar.” When this not-ro-be-done-out-of-
her-rlghts Udv had finished herfPeectt and scraped
the crumbs off her gown, she, to our intense re-
lief, took her departure I am sure, had she de-
layed a moment longer, we must have laughed
right our, for it was only by looking anyw acre
but at each oiher that we had managed to keep
our countenances thus far. Poor lady I 1 don’t
think she intended to bo the least Lit funny, but
It was the best entertainment we had that day, by
a long way.
lam sorry I am not ftblfi lo tell you anything
about this Industrial Exhibition, but the fact la 1
have never yet found time to pay It a visit. I
1 don’t know that there is anything there which
would be very interesting to girls, out I mean to
go and see for myself, now that all the Chr.stmas
fuss is over and one has a bit of breathing time.
There is no dearth of amusements herb just now,
such as they are; and I am really glad that our old
friends, the Federal Minstrels, are back again.
They are funnier than ever, and Sam Keenan’s
mouth seems to have grown a full inch since be
has been away; whilst Horace Bent is as brimful
of humour as he can be. The night we were there
the beat was so intense that before the entertain-
ment was over they looked liae a lot of half-
oastes instead of black niggers. 1 suppose that
was due to perspiration and the all too unstable
properties of lamp-black or burnt cork, or what-
ever It Is they Use. It is like Edith’s French
muslin—It doesn’t wash. I would suggest that
they use a solution of nitrate of silver in hot
weather, as I can guarantee ( hat to stand a night’s
wear, and many more nights besides. Now, it
they were possessed of one grain of gratitude tney
would thank me for this suggestion; but man,
after all, is an ungrateful animal.
Did you evbr wonder, ma Belle, how it happens
that nearly all lady pianists are plain looking ? 1
often have, and it was only lately that I had the
reason of it explained to me. When a girl who has
average good looks enters the Conservatoire with
the purpose of drudging at the piano, the master, as
soon as he acquaints himself with the fact that she
has a decent figure, a mouth of not too great
dimensions, a nose which is not too much “heaven
tilted,” and good eyes, beckons her out of the
Siano school, and marches her off to the vocal one.
Ie Informs her that she Is too pretty to waste her-
self as a pianist, and must go in for a singer.
Sometimes, of course, she protests, but you may
be suie no girl gets downright angry und.r
the circumstances. Occasionally It is, “ But, sir,
I have no voice.” “ Bab! that doesn’t matter, we
will soon build you a voice good enough for comic
opera: so come along.” “ Comic operal and wear
tights ? No, never 1” In case of these objection?,
of course she is allowed to keep to the piano, but.
as only about one out of fifty has such squeamish
notions, it explains why a pretty pianist is quite
an exception. I know one in Sydney who was
considered in the Conservatoire to be wasting her-
self as a pianist, when her personal charms entitled
her to go in for opera: but, as her voice did not
justify expectations of either a second Patti or a
Nilsson, [she deemed it wise to keep to the piano;
besides, she fought shy of the tights. And, for-
tunate It is for our young Sydney pianists that she
decided thus; otherwise, (hey would not have the
advantage of being instructed by one of the
cleverest and most painstaking of music-teachers.
I am sorry to see that they are fussing over
hand-made luce and embroidery again at home,
just as they used to do years ago, and the yellower
and older It is the greater the price it fetches.
Now, when you consider how many pairs of eyes
have been ruined by makb g this same lace, and
after all how little better it looks than that which
is made by machinery, doesn’t it seem great non-
sense ? 1 do assure you that after washing a piece
of really good manufactured lace in coffee, which
gives it the much-desired old and discoloured ap-
pearance, it has been just as difficult to distinguish
It from the real thing as it is to know Morgan the
singer from his brother. It is a waste of labour
and eyesight, and I really think It should be dis-
couraged. Frivolous as we may be here, I do not
think we should ever go Into such raptures over
fads such as old laces and old china as they do at
home. But they have their ideas of what s nice,
and we have ours: I prefer ours—much. It has
made me feel as tired as possible jus think tag about
these poor lace-makers, and cross besides—too
cross to write any mere, excepting to say I am
always your loving MAB.
Ball Boom Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated wltb
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 60i Hunter-street, Sydney.*
Look deep into my soul, dear. Steady!
Will you be true for ever as now,
As your boat through the bright waves
Passes the deep sea caves ?
That blush! Ah, love already I Then I will win
another girl; and, in order to make a fresh mash,
I must purchase one of Summerfleid and Co.’s
splendid fitting suits to measure for £3 3s. The
biggest stock of woollens In Australia. Eight
high-class cotters, Summerfleid and Co., merchant
tailors, 235 and 237 Pitt-street. Country residents,
write for patterns.*
Providential Escape from an Appalling
Death—A Snake Story —Last Christmas night, a
party of young people, of whom I was one, were
assembled round the hospitable table of Mr- J .
a well-known squatter in the Western district. It
was a homely gathering of old friends, such as
might meet in the house of a warm-hearted,
genial-natured man at such a festive season. The
neat was oppressive, and the French windows
fronting the verandah were thrown wide open, in
order that we might get the full benefit of the
evening breeze. Seated on the verandah, halt-
hidden by the drooping foliage of a jessamine,
were Miss L , an exceedingly pretty and
winsome girl, and Mr. K , to whom she will
shortly be married. They were engaged in
a whispered conversation, when, to our horror
upon turning our eyes in their direction, we
beheld, coiled beneath her chair, that dreadful
reptile, the Anguia Niger Australiemis, or black
snake, the bite of which is well-known to be
almost instantly fatal. The fearful intelligence
passed from one to another of our party, while she
remained wholly unconcious of her danger, cot -
versing with her lover, whose gaze was flxea
on her face. She happened to suddenly look
round, when our blanched and terrified facts
filled her with amazement. To her enquiry,
“ What is the matter?” came the whisper. “ Ft r
Heaven’s sake, Miss L., don’t movel There s
a black snake within an In h of your loot I
Her awful and helpless position seemed about
to induce a fainting fit; but. with extra-
ordinary self-control, she mastered! the weak-
ness, and sat like a statue of marble, pale arm
horrified. Oh 1 for the pencil of Salvator Kosa to
depict, at that moment of awe-struck suspense, th<->
rigid face of Miss L. and the group of terrified
spectators. Meanwhile, our hostess, collecting
her scattered faculties, stole quietly, with a
woman’s intuitive readiness, to the sweet Hapi-
burg Piano, and proceeded to play a very plain-
tive air. The snake raised its head, appeared to
listen, and then softly glided towards the Sound.
In a moment Mr. R.’s heel was on the reptile’s
head, though at the evident risk of his own life.
Hearing shouts of jubilation at the successful
termination of this hazardous adventure, our
hostess rose from the piano, and came quickly
towards us, but, in the dim twilight gloom oi the
room, did not notice the large cabinet, “ Wonder-
ful Wertheim Sewing-Machine,” which Bridget
had utilised as a side-board and piled with dishes
and china, and, consequently, came into violent
collision with it; but, beyond breaking a few
dishes and spoiling her drees, she suffered no
further.*
Colonel Stewart.
I The portrait on our front page is that of
Colonel Stewart, whose untimely fate, long en-
shrouded in uncertainty, has at length been ascer-
tained. On the 18th of January, 1881, he left
Charing-cross with Gordon, on an adventure as
bold as any to be found in the pages of Romance.
It was to hold Khartoum against the Mahdi'e
forces which were closing round it. The annals
of modern warfare can show nothing like
the figures of those two Englishmen, cut off
from civilization by dr* ary stretches of desert,
and struggling to bringtosomethinglikeorderthe
barbarous, semi-hostile tribes among whom they
had cast their lot. The venture reads more like a
chapter from some old chronicler than a life
episode of thtse dull times. There was no need
tor either Gordon or Stewart to go to Khartoum
in search of fame. In 1883, Stuart pubushed the
standard work on the Soudan. By personal obser-
vation be collected the materials, and wove them
into a masterly and exhaustive report. Since his
murder, Gordon Is the only Englishman to look
over the ramparts of Khartoum for the coming
of the long-delayed relief daily approaching under
Wolseley.
A Critique.
Some numbers of Onck-a-Month, “ a magazine
for Australasians,” have been seut to us to review.
Certainly; here you are. To begin with. Onck-a-
Month has a cover which is a praiseworthy at-
tempt to be as “Australasian” as possible. One
of its features is a nearly lull-length portrait of
one of Lord Loftus’s long-legged white hens wad-
ing in mud. The colour of this mud varies from
month to month— e.g., on the November number it
was pea-green, while its successor, the December
number, was purple. We prefer the purple mud
ourselves, as it seems most true to nature, and, on
the whole, more distinctively Australasian. Among
the literary matter, we find biographical notices of
two great men, to wit the Hon. A. M. Stuart, and
the late Napoleon Bonaparte; and we must say
that the contrast between these two appears
to be decidedly to the latter gentleman s dis-
advantage, as shown forth in Onck-a-Month.
The portrait which accompanies the Stuart article
is reproduced from what the author believes to be
“the best photo ever taken of the hon. gentle-
man.” We believe so, too, for it does not resemble
him in the slightest. According to this portrait,
Mr. Stuart is a blonde young person, with eyes
like a startled fawn, a sweet, lady-like mouth, and
no chin to speak of. Whiskers, to be »ure, are
hinted at, but they do not match the hair. The
nose and the shirt front we admit to a certain ex-
tent. But the portrait, as a whole, is a failure.
The article which faces the portrait is written by
a well-known Sydney man of letters, and discloses,
in a manner that should thrill the heart of every
Australian boy, how that, “ when still quite young,
he (Mr. Stuart) was entrusted with the entire
charge of a flax mill in Fifeshire.” He is
next heard of in Calcutta, and, the cdmale
not agreeing with him, he resolved “ with
characteristic energy to shift the scene to
New Zealand,” with many other thrilling facts
which go to make un the sum total of the character
of a great man. The author spares us the usual
anecdotes that are Inseparable from the task of
writing up the lives of gre it men—from which we
infer that Mr. Stuart never committed any: if so,
it is greatly to bis credit. Of the article upon
Napoleon Bonaparte we will not speak at length.
Mr. Bonaparte did not belong to our colony, it
would apoear: and, besides, according to the
article, " Napoleon Bonaparte the Great Belittled,”
ho was too small a man “all round ” to be dragged
into an even limited space. , . . The pictures
in the magazine are forcible illustrations—of the
fact that Art in Australia does not keep paoe with
the progress of literature: of which fact the work
before us is an example.


Political Points
The South Australian Minister for Educa-
tion has developed quite a new way of answering
deputations. He sometimes plainly says “ No ” to
ridiculous deputations.
Whilst the daily papers are crying out
“federation” with as little knowledge ot what
that means as the pig had of a holiday, “separa-
tion ” is the talk in Western Australia and Queens-
land. LWe should combine both.—Ep. B.]
In appointing Mr. Alfred Bennett to be a
Commissioner to the Colonial Exhibition, the New
South Wales Government had in view the proper
representative of the system of State education in
the colony, and the adoption of a uniform system
of purely phonetic spelling.
During last session there was a good deal
of talk in the New Zealand Parliament about a
Customs, treaty with Victoria, and reciprocity in
the way of Imports, cereals, wine, and beer. But
overtures just made to the Victorian Government
have not been favourably received.
M. de Lesseps, it appears, does not believe
that the English will remain in Egypt, his argu-
ment being that no foreigners have ever produced
a second generation in that country. His trust in
the success of the Panama Canal scheme is un-
shaken, and he expects it will be completed in four
years.
The Walqett News gives' the old advice
to all about to take up homestead leaseholds in the
Western Division, namely—don’t. The paper says
that intending homesteaders had much better go
over the border to Queensland, where the land law
is more favourable to them. This is very nice; but
when we remember that the News is just a little
“squattah’s” paper, its advice may be in the
interests of its friends, who do not want any
homesteads taken up on their runs.
“ ‘ What,’ asked Cromwell of Pym, ‘is the
great root of all our grievances ?’ ‘ The Aristo-
cracy,’ said Pym. * Give us their true history,
and you unriddle the secret of every national
embarrassment.’ Truer oracle than this was
never spoken. For more than eight centuries of
dishonour the story of our Old Nobility is one of
all but uninterrupted and, alas I generally success-
ful crime.” The foregoing is quoted from the
Echo. The Loudon Echo, of course; not the
Bydney parvenu lickspittle of the same na ue.
The Nooza and the Rum are quite excited
In showing that each was the first to warn the
world of the dark designs of Germany on New
Guinea and the Pacific Islands. General M’rver
backs the News. Public opinion on the merits of
the case was crystalised by a young Australian in
a Parramatta railway carriage a few days ago. He
was reading a newspaper and his father asked him,
“ What’s the last about New Guinea ?” And he
replied, “ Why, the Hawkesbury fixtures, Guineas
and all, were in yesterday’s paper. The news to-
day is that Sammy Jones made 59 at Melbourne.’’
A Russian officer tells a yarn aneut the
mobility of the Chinese armies which tickles the
Freneh very much. This officer narrates that on
an insurrection breaking out at Kashgar, troops
were despatched from Pekin to suppress the ris-
ing. They marched in three bodies. The first was
made up of an escort conveying weapons and
munitions for the soldiers. The actual troops
constituted the second body, and the third was a
train of sutlers and provision carriers. The march
being thus facilitated, the army moved forward
with so much rapidity that they arrived at the
scene of the trouble in—seven years.
No notice was taken of the political claims
of the Irish until they began to shoot landlords
and kill ofiiclals, No notice uas been taken of the
agrarian claims of the Scottish crofters, so they
have started a rebellion. And, the other day, a
clergyman, who had unavailingly written and
telegraphed to the Home Secretary as to the want
of a cemetery in his village, sent that apparently
deaf official a box containing the body of a dead
child. The village wilt have a cemetery now. The
clergyman has been denounced as a ruffian, but he
can at least claim that he has only adopted the
modern system of political reminder.
Here is a little bone for Messrs. Dibbs and
Luscombe to row about. The Victorian Govern-
ment have accepted the tender of the Longlands
Foundry for 9150 tons of iron pipes, at £9 Is. 9d.
per ton, and rejected the tender of an importing
firm at £8 9s. 9d., including £3 duty. By the way,
this item does not appear iu tbe Sydney dailies.
Their people are too busy to notice such matters.
The Hehald men have done nothing but think,
since they saw the gallery |of living statuary.
A present of canned sheep's tongues has
left the Rum people no time to spare, and
Alfred’s literary stall are holding a meeting .to
see about presenting him with a shilling photo-
graph of himself before ho goes to England.
At the time of the Restoration, land
yielded the State nenrly half its revenues. Ot this
most just obligation the nobility relieved them-
selves at a blow in 1660 by substituting Customs
and Excise Duties for the Land Tax. They subse-
quently undertook to pay 4s. in the pound ou true
annual rental; but they have since fraudulently
kept to the original valuation of 1692, with the
result that they are now paying one million per
annum when they should be paying forty, Mr. W.
A. Hunter, than whom there is no better authority,
has calculated that whereas forty working men
with an aggregate income of £2000 (£50 a year for
each) contribute £16 in £100 to the revenue, one
man, an absolute non-producer perchance, with
£3000, contributes but £3! So much for the effects
of the notorious Land Tax swindle, which has
already caused the loss of £1,350,000,000 of State
revenue.
Patrick N. Fitzgerald, charged with trea-
son-felony, was acquitted, as were also all the
other Tubbercuny prisoners, against some of
whom the Crown, after keeping them in gaol for
a year without trial, had to enter a nolle prosequi.
The evidence urged against Fitzgerald consisted
of documents on which the prosecution put as
strained an interpretation as that given by Ser-
geant Buzfuz of Mr. Pickwick’s le ters to Mrs.
Bardeli. Dr. Webb, Q.G , in addressing the jury
for Fitzgerald, said that “prisoner was charged
with attemnting to subvert and destroy the Con-
stitution. If that was an offence. Cabinet Mini-
sters were equally guilty. The House of Lords
was part of the Constitution. One Cabinet Minister
was an avowed Republican; a late Cabinet Minister,
Mr. Bright, had for the last fifty years engaged in
a crusade against the Upper Chamber; and at the
present moment Mr. Chamberlain and other Cabi-
net Ministers were engaged addressing crowded
audiences in favour of the abolition of the Hmse
of Lords. He asked was that a crime ? If it was.
Cabinet Ministers ought to be put upon their trial.
Mr. Chamberlain, however, was in the Cabinet;
but Mr. Fitzgerald was in the dock. But, so far as
the overt act lay, the offence was equally partici-
pated in by the two.”
How near the oppre sion of the landlords
came to causing an absolute armed rebellion in the
Highlands, may be gathered from the telegrams
from Ulg a day or two before the marines were
landed. A hopeful sign of the situation was that
the fishing boats went to sea overnight. The ©x- I
cltement, which was subsiding, was somewhat re-
newed, however, when a letter was received pro-
mising the Uig men the assistance of 200 crofters
from Barra. The Kilmuir crofters had agreed to
the terms proposed by the London Highland Land
Law Reform Association, and submitted on the
condition that if the proprietor. Major Fraser,
carries out his intention of evicting them when
the six months’ notice required by the Agricul-
tural Holdings’ Act has expired, and if the evic-
tions are attempted in May next year, the London
Association pledges itself to send assistance in men,
money, and arms. Should the Government allow
any more arbitrary evictions in the Island, the
crofters and their friends are pledged to fight, an
eviction being, they assert, tantamount to banish-
ment, if not death. Mr. Henry George was pre-
sent at a meeting of the executive of the English
Land Restoration League, held in London but
recently, when a resolution was unanimously
passed expressing sympathy with the oppressed
crofters of Scotland, and approval of their deter-
mined resistance to landlord tyranny, and hoping
they wiil be content with nothing less than the
complete restoration of the land to the people.
Taking one consideration with another,
Lord Derby’s life cannot possibly be a very happy
one. Just at the present date, France is tantalis-
ing him, Russia menacing, Germany dictating, and
Victoria threatening to pull down the whole
British Empire about his jackass ears if he doesn’t
pay more attention to the official commands of
Dictator Service. But this is not all. The tiger
spirit of Nana Sahib—possibly the man himself—
still troubles India, and there now comes a warn-
ing cry from one of the coolest, shrewdest, and
most distinguished of India officials, which, if not
heeded soon, will bring about a storm, compared
with which that of 1857 will tone down to the mild
insipidity of a Sunday School picnic down the
’arbour. The great danger, it appears, comes from
the more than probable evsnt of a speedy and de-
terminate Russian advance upon our Indian
frontier. And, speaking of this, one of the very
best authorities in India says, in a recent letter to
the St. James’ Gazette;— “If India was entirely
peopled with a race thoroughly loyal to jus we
could meet Russian advances with a very light
heart. I know there are some who profess to be-
lieve that this is the case ; there arej others
who think, on the contrary, that India is
a seething mass of disaffection. I do not go with
either of these opinions. I believe there is much
loyalty in India. I believe the majority are indif-
ferently and passively loyal. But I believe there
are a large number (probably nearly all the Ma-
hommedans) who are thoroughly disloyal: who
would tike advantage of our hands being full in a
Russian war to raise up rebellion to the utmost of
their power. I have heard all that has been said
about our * having a highly-trained and well-dis-
ciplined army but I have no hesitation in assert-
ing that this is a simple suggestio falsi. We have
an army, it is true; it is well trained, it is well dis-
ciplined, and I believe a good deal ef it is trust-
worthy; but it can’t :do miracles.” But what, it
may be asked, is the likelihood of our having “our
hands full in a Russian war”? Listenl On the
4th of May, 1883, our military at Berlin re-
ported, from an “ unquestionable source,” that
the Russians were concentrating large forces “at
points within a much more convenient distance of
the Afghan frontier.” Now, this report—which
went first, of course, to Downing-street—did not
reach the Commander-in-Chief in India till nearly
two months afterwards! Pigeon-holed, of course,
by some of the Tite Barnacles of the Circumlocu-
tion Office, and so the Great Bear pushed further
along, until the Indian Foreign Office suddenly
discovered that the Russians had an excess force
of abou f 60.000 men concentrated principally in
the direction of Bokhara and Merv, or rather Sa-
rakhs. But while the Downing-street dodderils
were consuming acres of parchment and oceans of
ink in their wild endeavours “ how not to do it,”
there was time for Russia to throw this excess
force into Herat, to march other forces to coveted
points, and call up large reserves. It is strongly
suspected that all the necessary preparations for
such an advance are now being made, and com-
petent men who have given these matters their
most serious consideration have at last come to
the conclusion that “It is no use disguising the
fact: the buttons are off the foils in this struggle
between us and Russia. Russia can, in from eighty
to one hundred days, put 95,000 regular troops into
positions from which we can hardly drive her, and
from which she can undertake the invasion of
India at her own convenience, and with a fair
expectation of success. To meet such a force,
which would, of course, be reinforced by Turko-
man ard other troops, we could not oppose more
than 10,000 English troops, nor so many as 50,000
men of all sorts; and behind them there would be
no reserves.” These be parlous times. Indeed:
and, with the claws of the Bear in his back, and
the fangs of the Tiger in his throat, the old Lion
will have to fight all he knows in order to save
himself from being chawed up into cat’s-meat.
He has been fooled too long, and he may thank his
mud-head keepers for whatever calamities now
befall him.
John Duggan, an ancient labourer up
Narrabri wav, held a pound too much not long
ago, and beftg a perverse and sinful old cuss, he
not only refused to hand it over for the laudable
purpose of providing Bibles and tracts, and such
like soul-fodder for the niggers of the South Seas,
but actually said the poar little heathen could “ go
to the d—1 an’ shake hisself.” According to the
usual Sunday-school doctrine, John Dugg-in ought
to have bought a gun with his spare cash, ana that
gun ought to have gone off when John wasn’t
looking, and blown the irreverent old sinner slap
on top of the hottest stove in hell; but nothing of
the kind came off whatever. In point of fact
John Duggan sent his “ quid ” along to the bosses
of Miller’s Melbourne Cup Consultation sweep, and
happening to drop into the Narrabri Post-office
one day last week, he found a letter which in-
formed him that he had drawn Malua, and was
therefore a clear winner of £950.
Just a simple tale from the telegraph wires.
About ten o’clock one night during the late Presi-
dential election in America, the United Press agent
was sending an account of a greatjpolitical meeting
in New York to a dozen country papers. The
words came almost warm from the speakers’ lips,
and the instrument ticked on at a slow and steady
pace becoming the dignity of an important message.
At tea-time that night, a wire had come through
from the Pittsburg operator: “Not very well to-
night—send along steady.” New York was send-
ing steady, and the speech of the evening was half
through, when suddenly from the Pittsburg end
came: “ Bk.—bk.—bk.— ’and his key was left open,
interrupting the message. New York had to stop
sending, and the oflices wondered what was the
matter with Pittsburg Five, ten, minutes passed,
then a quarter—New York was getting impatient,
and was just about to cut Pittsburg out and con-
tinue the report to other papers, when the key was
briskly closed, and a new Uand ticked out from the
interrupting office: “Cummins, regular operator,
just died. Hemorrhage. I’m his sub. Go ahead.”
New York went ahead, and they carried out Ned
Cummins’ body, and the old world went round as
before,
“ Gebman Sybup.”—No other medicine in
the world has ever given such a test of its cura-
tive qualities as Boschee’s German Syrup. In
three years two million four hundred thousand
small bottles of this medicine were distributed
free of charge by Druggists in the United States of
America to those afflicted with Consumption,
Asthma, Croup, severe Coughs, Pneumonia, and
other diseases of the throat and lungs, giving the
afflicted undeniable proof that German Syrup will
cure them. The result has been that Druggists in
every town and village in civilized countries are
recommending it to their customers. Go to your
Druggist and ask what they know about it. Sample
Bottles 6d. Regular else, 8s. 6d. Three doses will
relieve any case.
BILL NYE’S PICTURE.
No man knows how much the human heart can endure and vet not burst until he has seen his
portrait published a few times. Then he realises the wealth of woe that one soul may wrestle with
and yet not become unhinged and loosed from its frail tenement of clay. Men go on, year after
year, gaining the esteem of their fellow-men by an upright course, only to lose it all by forgetting
themselves at an unfortunate and weak moment, and permitting their portraits to be published and
their shame proclaimed upon the housetops.
Some years ago an alleged engraving was made from
one of my photographs, but the proof was sent to me in
time, so that I could by telegraph prevent its publication.
In that portrait the wood-engraver had taken the
liberty to tamper with the face, and put in little improve-
here and there, according to his ideas of beauty.
Among the rest, I remember that he had unscrewed the
lower jaw and let it down about an inch, so that the face
had the expression of a vacant lot in the early spring.
You pull any man’s lower jaw loose and lay it on his
heaving breast, and then turn his eyes up toward the
star-studded sky, and he seems to lack force of character,
somehow.
So I wired the house to “ kill ” that portrait and nury
it with the engraver when the violets bloomed.
Then another engraver took his life, and his cold chisel
in his hand, and blocked out a second one. He thought I
might be sensitive about my late front hair. So he put
some on in the engraving without additional charge. It
looked like the bunch of grass that springs up around an
old buffalo bull’s skull.
I do not care to wear improvised hair, even in an en-
graving. I am not proud. If Nature intended that my
Scandinavian hair should fall early in the fight, I cannot
help it. I cannot ask the engraver to help me out.
This portrait was averted by the use of electricity, and the widow of the engraver was asked tn
send her bill in to me for adjustment.
Later on, another engraver took hold of the matter.
He went at it hopefully and even hilariously, singing anon as he put his sheet-iron shade over his
eyes, and adjusted his boiler-iron com t, that he might be ready in easel should come in on him
while he was at work.
He made a specialty of the Adam’s apple.
He made a portrait that wasn’t so terrific, if he hadn’t thrown in an Intellectual waste of Adam’s
apple that would inspire a giraffe with awe.
He fooled along with
the engraving until
time to go to press,
handed it in with his
resignation, got a
copy of the paper, so
as to be sure that he
had done his horrible
work well, and then
went to interior Afri-
ca to make a home.
For a long time
after the paper was
published, my wife
would not recognize
me on the street, and
the children were
bathed in tears. I
suffered a great deal
mentally,but resolved
to live it down, and
to aid me in this great
undertaking a friend
offered to publish a
fine life-like engrav-
ing that would be cer-
tified to as accurate
and all former ones
denounced as base In-
fringements.
I agreed to it, and be
went at it.
After a good deal of
delay he sent me a
proof which bore a
striking resemblance
to me. I admitted to
him that it favoured
me, and we decided
to let it go forth with
my name attached te
it.
Gaily the press went
on with its low
rumble and grumble,
grinding out its thou-
sands of copies of
damp papers, herald-
ing to the English-
speaking world that
the subscriber wore
his brains open to the
Inclement weather
and pulled his scalp
down over his eye to
be facetious
The first copy of
the paper was a good
one, and the portrait
loomed up like the
Turkish towel mous-
tache of the young
man, but the next
revolution of the
press disturbed an em
quad or a loose canard
or something about the make-up of the paper, and in the onward march of the machine the whole
top of my head was removed and piled up over the off-eye like a study in olive-green and navv-
blue after an election fight. *
Stiff, we are getting a better class of engavers than we had five years ago. It seemed pretty harsh
to kill off the bad ones, but I am willing to make most any sacrifice for the advancement of art —BUI
Nye, in Puck.
“ Here, what’s all this? You’re surely not
goin’ to put stuff like that in my paper, are you ?”
shouted the only Alfred, as he did a war-dance
round his suh’s new room, and flourished a yard
of copy round his head. “Well, yes, sir; I was,”
meekly replied the party who holds the thin end
of the great Archimedlan lever which lifts the
world of pettifogging suburban council meetings.
“ Y’ see, sir, it’s the first time we got any corres-
pondence from the rising little town of Bringa-
bagoflouralong, and, as the writer happens to be
in a good position for obtaining news, he being
the only butcher-biy in the place, and, further-
more, as he offered to write for nothing, I thought
it would be advisable to take him on.” “ Oh, in-
deedl” cried the enterprising proprietor; “well,
these things certainly do tell in his favour. But
just drop him a hint that it is customary for all
our country correspondents to say ‘ The people are
intensely delighted with the reports that appear
in their cherished Nooze ’; or, ‘ The people here
are in raptures with the iast number of the Jeh-
nil, and bless the spirited and brilliant proprietors
from the bottom of their’arts’; or anything else
in that line, you understand, ’cause these things
take well, and, above all things, they—as you just
now sensibly observed—cost nothing. Has that
boy come hack with them pit* yet-hey ?”
HARD FACTS.
Glebe, Sydney, June 26, 1884.
Messrs. Elliott Bros.—Dear Sirs,—I am pleased to
inform you that the Hamburg Tea has afforded me
substantial and, I trust, permanent relief. I suffered
for years from a weak digestion, and was subject
at intervals to severe attacks of biliousness and
dyspepsia. Since leaving the “ old country ” these
have increased in frequency, and although I have
tried many other preparations, none have suc-
ceeded in yielding me relief. Noticing a case simi-
lar to my own, in which Hamburg Tea affected a
cure, I resolved to give it a trial, and am happy to
say the results were most satisfactory. Headache
—a troublesome symptom in this class of malady—
at once disappeared, and by steady persistence in
its use I experienced a gradual return of health
and vigour, and I have every reason to believe my-
self completely curod.
If this testimony is of any service to you, use it
in any way you please. 1
Faithfully yours,
A. THOMAS.
[If every individual and every family would be-
stow a tithe of the care requisite in any ordinary
attack of acute disease, in striving to prevent
and ward off its attacks, there would rarely he anv
use for calling in the aid of the physicians. In all
ordinary derangements of the stomach, bowels
hver, or kidneys, you need only a few doses of
Emil Frese s Hamburg Tea.]
Think and Act.—After many trials
Messrs. Dalm and Oertel succeeded in preparing a
most delicious Lemonade from Australian lemons.
They discarded imported, unwholesome Oil of
Lemons. Give it a trial. -i-Erated-water works, 403
Pitfc-street.* ’
Mr. DjoCoubot Bbownb (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,”
Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals, Mining Expert, Advisor, and Land and
Mmmg Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 52 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, «- Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, &T Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
mgs, Carpet Bags Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabric
or faney article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Each package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d.
ger package. Send 2d. stamp to Bax 181, G.P.O-
ydney, and you will receive a Sample Card of
Colours, See., &c., by return post,*
He went in a mask to the festival ball —
’Twas a mask of his own devising,
Made up of gentleness, grace, and truth,
The frankness and courage of innocent youth.
And looks that fait
eyes none suspect of disguising.
In head and heart
Reigned a base strong will,
But he played his part
With an expert’s skill.
And Flora went off to the festival ball—
Her mask, too, was fashioned discreetly;
Sweetness and modesty, sensitive pride.
And musical whisp’rings of lovo that died
At its name were all
Combined and compacted neatly.
And Flora played
With zest, the part
Of an angel maid
From a dry, hard heart.
Each found in time that the other wore
A mask when the vows were given.
Why does he blame her, and why does she blame
Was not the rule of both lives the same ?
Still, evermore.
While their lives run on under heaven
His thought will be
That she sinned to win,
And oer mind will see
In the past his sin.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Pair of Them.


T ACS THOMPSON,
A.J.O. CIGAR DIYAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SALOON,
91 King-street.
n.b.—i always back the field.
READ THIS!
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing IPrice.
Silver Hunting I‘a tent English
Lever, capped and jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£3 10s. each.
Warranted for three years,
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 Pitt-st., Corner Royaf Arcade
(COItNEK SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER ANu JEWELLER
Black Swan Hotel.
GREEN WELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Propb xetob.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, flnhlng and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oys ters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place Is unsur-
passed. The magaiflcient s.s. Illawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday ni, ?ht, at 11
o clock.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GENT.’S „. 60, Is. 6d,; 100, 2s. 6d.
LADIES’ ... ..50, 3s. Od.; 100, 3s. M,
Address, 6d. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
IDO, Ss. «d.; 250, 6s. 6d.; 500, 10s.; 1000, 15s.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
239 Pitt-street, Sydney,
EXTENSION OE PREMISES.
Opening of New Show Rooms,
Messrs. B, LL07T 2 CO.
GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WYNYARD STREET,
Ladies’ Underclothing & Baby-Linen.
iJwd ta \o”r„fsi," n E dT 0 s ffi ™ ■ eieoted
FIRST GRAND SHOW OF DRESSING GOWNS.
FIRST GRAND 8HOWOF TEA GOWNS.
FIRST GRAND SHOW OF UNDERCLOTHING.
An endless variety «f Dressing Gowns, Tea Gowns? Morning WrapsCash mere Rohea°rMiH NG- -
Washing Pelisses and Cashmere Frocks, crh “t*™"Robes, Children’s
£eInT(1b?AoT| “°° k •do“» n T
lRISHHAND-MAJ>E^J^DEpCL^TjnNQ. DNDKHCLOTHING.
- A - n array description. Moderate prices. Call and ask for illustrated Catalogue.
Itching Skin Diseases
ECZEMA, or Salt Rheum, with its agonizing'
itching and burning, instantly relieved by a
warm bath with Cdxicuba Soap and a single ap-
plication of Ctjticuba, the great Skin Cure This
repeated daily, with two or three doses of Cuxi-
CURA Resolvent, the New Blood Purifier, to keep
the blood oool, the perspiration pure and unirri-
tating. the bowels open, the liver and kidneys ac-
tive, will speedily cure Eczema, Tetter, Ringworm,
Psoriasis, Lichen, Pruritus, Scalled Head, Dand-
ruff, and every species of Itching, Scaly, and
Pimply Humors of the Scalp and Skin, when the
best physicians and all known remedies fail.
CUTICURA
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
CUTICURA, the Great Skin Cube (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Sold by all Chemists and Druggists.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
I HAVE been afflicted with a troublesome skin
disease, covering almost completely the upper
part of my body, causing my skin to assume a
copper-colored hue. It could be rubbed off like
dandruff, and at times causing intol arable itching
and the most intense suffering. I h ive used blood
purifiers, pills, and other advertised remedies, but
experienced no relief until I procured the Cuxx-
cura Remedies, which, although used carelessly
and irregularly, cured me, allaying that terrible
itching and restoring my skin to ita natural color.
I am willing to make affidavit to the truth of this
statement.
i Milan, Mich. S. G. BUXTON.
REMEDIES
CUTICURA SOAP, an exquisite Skin Beau tiller
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cdxicuba
is Indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes,
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
CUTICURA REMEDIES are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, orany other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
Price, Cdxicuba, 50 cents; Soap, 25 cents ; Re-
solvent, 91.00, Prepared by
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.8.A.
W- W. CATER, Importer, 193 & 195 Pitt-street.
ALL GOODS AT STRICTLY WHOLESALE PRICES.
atpws svstem of importing all goods from the manufacturers, and retailing them at wholesale
/prices, isbeing thoroughly appreciated, as shown by our largely-increasing trade.
FEENCU ° LQVBS '
our introduction of Glove-fitting at the counter as done in Paris, isa great sucaess We have
now both Lady and Gentlemen litters engaged.
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR FITTING.
THE LARGEST AND BEST STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
WHOLESALE PRICES.
"W- CATEE,
193 and 195 PITT STREET.
Holiday Presents.
w.
PALING
Ui
AND CO. (Limited),
HAVE JUST RECEIVED A MAGNIFICENT SHIPMENT OF
COTTAGE,
UPRIGHT GRAND
SEMI-GRAND,
CONCERT GRAND
PIANOS,
by the
MOST RENOWNED
MAKERS
in the
WORLD.
AMERICAN
ORGANS,
by
BELL and CO.,
PALACE CO.,
STORY and CO.,
at
PRICES to SUIT ALL
CUSTOMERS.'
These instruments have been SPECIALLY SELECTED by Mr. W. H. PALING, who in vrirv
IN EUROPE, and may justly be considered ’ 8 W0W
TIE BUST Ml MOST EBCEB SHIPMENT
of Musical Instruments ever introduced to Australia.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash; or Easy Terms.
Mr. PALING has also FORWARDED a COMPLETE ASSORTMENT of
MUSICAL BOSSES,
FROM TWO TO SIXTEEN AIRS.
These Goods will be Sold at Unheard-of Prices.
IV. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WRIGHT,HEATON&CO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents,
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALBSJ
SEANCE OFFICES.
Socthkut District, N.8.W.;
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Bouthrbk a_nd South-Wbstrrb Lora:
Brisbane Teulba
Roma Cam boo ya
Dalby
Central Lthi:
Rocknamptoc, CapeUa
Bogantungan Comet
Emerald
Nobthhrh Lon:
Townsville
Charters Towers
Ravenswooa Junction
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M'CULLOCH ft CO., LIMITED.
Agencies in all parts of the world.
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
S3
%
nyv
H OB
I
ft
rJplElS#
INVALUABLE ' J k
• or n r (no *~yl\
ti»°*f
T°
lOH
IS
ifpe
laTni
Ne
!>qu
ivcr
?He
*5
£en
m
fwz
'JgFECIALLr
,_AFTIO FOR T
Colonies^
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
EA U D E
4711
COLOGNE,
4711.
Established 1792.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1872; Prize Medal, Vienna, 18771
This Eau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 35 years, olv
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for its superior sweetness, strength,
and invigorating qualities, excelling all other com*
petitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the 41ite of
Europe.
The large and constantly increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Eau de Cologne, not only in
Europe, but also in North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi.
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number-4711 changed into 7411,1147,4117, &c., &o.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic bluo and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pitt,
street, Sydney.
To be had at the principal Perfumers, Druggisi
and Storekeepers, in town and country.
HEY WILL LOOK BETTER THAN NE
HEY VV1LLWEAR BETTER THAN NEW


' It
‘A
1ENNAIA
are unequalled.- ——
<■1 • •),
Jusf opened by
LANG,B
54* & 5(s Wi ll,i^>>4
F\oom Lacies&Sent
*" Tlje Pashry-, Tea. Cream , e^c
<1
The Cafe & Refreshmenf daily from S A M fa II 39 PM
On II P.M.
Orders Punc tua l e d ToiANx.&AfVT or Town to HPM
Specially Established for Private Trade
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
I
I
0
5
AT
uEs
th
Y
CV!
Ft{U
*v gltMil
agents for
Weaker*
PLATES
/w
&
ir
I
A
i
for Infants and Children.
Castoria cures Colic, Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Diarrhoea, Eructation,
Gives healthy sleep and promotes digestion,
■Without injurious medication.
“Castorl a is so well adapted to children that
I recommend it as superior to any prescription
known to me.” H. A. Archer, M. D., i
111 Oxford Street, New York. 4
Elliott Bros., Sydney, Agents.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
If you arc suffering from poor health
•or languishing on a bed of sickness,
* take ehecr, for
Hop Bitters will cure you.
“ If you are simply ailing, if you feel
* weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘knowing why.
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
‘ taxed yourself with your pastoral
* duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘ and work,
Hop Bitters will Restore you.
“If you are a man of business or
* labourer weakened by the strain of
* your every-day duties, or a man of let-
‘ ters, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghten you.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
* or drinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
4 nation, or are young and growing too
4 fast, as is often the case,
Hop Bitters will relieve yon.
44 If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
4 that your system needs cleansing, ton-
4 ing, or stimulating, without inttoxicat-
4 ing
Hop Bitters is what yon need.
44 If you are old, and yeur blood thin
4 and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
‘unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Hop Bitters will give you new Life
and Vigour.
44 HOP BITTERS is an elegant, heal-
4 thy, and refreshing flavouring for sick-
4 room drinks ; impure water, etc., ren-
4 dering them harmless, and sweetening
4 the mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ b ills to pay.
HOP 1 UTTERS
Is an Elegant, Pleasant, and Refreshing Flavouring
for sick-room drinks ano' Impure Water, rendering
them harmless, sweetening the mouth, and cleans-
ing the stomach.
WeakWervousHen
Whose d ebility, exhausted
powers., premature decay
i and failu re to perform life’s
duties pi'operly are caused by
excesses «srrors of youth, etc.,
will find < . perfect and lasting
restoration\ to robust health
and visroi end manhood in
, THE MA1VSTON BOLUS.
slot aach drugging nor
.instruments. This treatment of
1 Nervons BeblUty and
VV physical] >ecay isunffonnly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct methods "and absolute thor.
ouehness. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician, of
MARSTON REMEDY CO.. GZQ.stlereagh St., Sydney
Christmas Presents and New
Year’s Gifts I
JUST RECEIVED, a Large Assortment of
Gold & Silver Jewellery,
SUITABLE FOR PRE SENTS.
Ladies’ Gold Dress Rings, from 10s.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, from £2 10a.
Gent.’s Silver Watches, from £3 10s.
And other articles too numerous to mention.
C . GRANT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER.
B84 George street, Sydney.
Country Orders promptly attented to.
DR - . SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSH I
A HONEST REMEDY. Prescribed by the BEST PHYSICIANS.
THEY WILL POSITIVELY
_ _ _ ■■ Nervous Headache in 5 minutest!
I I fl L Bilious Headache in 5 minutes!!
I | K P Neuralgia in 5 Minutes I!
L Falling Hair and Baldness!!
w * ™ Dandruff and Diseases of the Scalp!
Promptly Arrest Premature Grayness. Make the Hair grow long
and Glossy. Immediately Soothe the Weary Brain.
Ho. 1 Hair Brush
Ho. 2 Hair Brush
Ho. 3 Hair Brush
Ho. 4 Hair Brush
He. 6 Hair Brush
5s. Od.
7s. 3d.
9s. 6d.
11s. 6d,
13s. 6d.
VO
y
■s
X
i
T A
S3
£6
A Handsome
Unbreakable BRUSH, ~
Elegantly Carved & Mounted-
Dec. 28, 1881.
The
/i
C. Lbmpribre, D.C.L., &c
k
wMcb
Crcwkerne, Nov. 12,1880.
Sir, —My patients have given
me a very satisfactory account
of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair Brush.
One lady assures roe that she gets no
neuralgia in her. face if she uses it, and
others state that by a few minutes’ brush-
ing with the Electric Brush, a nervous headache,
or one arising from overwork or debility, is quickly
removed. The invention is, I think, very valuable.
I am, your obedient servant, q.. p. Wills, M.D., M.R. C.S.E.
Prom Dr. Lemprirrh, D.C.L._f&c., St. John’s College, Oxford.
Gentlemen, —'
I feel
Your
Brushes are indeed a wonder, and well worth the money.
Their Royal Highnesses the PRINCE and PRINCESS of WADES, PRINCE
BISMARCK, and the KING of HOLLAND each use a pair of Dr, Scott’s
Electric Hair Brushes, and a long list of Distinguished Patrons could be pub-
lished, and their Testimony added, did space permit.
The Brush Handle is made of a new odorless competition, resembling ebony; a combination
substances producing a permanent electro-magnetic Current, which acts
immediately upon tUe Hair Glands and Follicles. This power can always be
tested by a silver compass, which accompanies each Brush.
PURE BRISTLES—NOT WIRES. Wire Brushes injure the Scalp,
and cause baldness and irritation.
The Right Honourable WILLIAM E. GLADSTONE, M.P.,
has written upon the merits of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair
Brushes, and has added them to his Toilet.
Lady A. CHURCHILL—daughter of the Duke of
Marlborough (hero of Blenheim), and sister of
Lord Bandolph Cbm chill, of Parlia-
mentary celebrity—uses them regularly
and thinks them unequalled for
the hair.
SST Send for Circular of
Dr. Scott’s Electric Flesh
Brushes , Corsets, <f- Belts
for Ladies’ and Gen-
tlemen’s use.
Yours faithfully.
These Brushes oan he obtained of allChemiats and Fancy 8toreteeperiA)rfwUl be forwarded
direct to any part of N.8.W. of (Sueensland upon receipt of pricea named, - rith 1*. added. Re-
mittance? can be made in Cheques, Drafts, P.O. Orders, Stamps, ori3urrenc r. Cheques can be
crossed Union Bank of Australia. See that the name of Dr. Scott la on the Box,without
, none are genuine.
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
‘ 64 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
P.O. BOX 22!
One good point about tbe daughters of
sunny New South Wales is that they are as quick
with their tongues when on the stroll, as they are
sure with their teeth when, as the only original
Alfred would say, “the tables groan beneath the
viands.” A fair Illustration of this fact was given
on Monday last, when a bank masher from George-
®treet, lounging languidly on the arm of another
‘ chappie,” stared stra'ght into the eyes of a
WaverJey girl who happened to be> waiting lor a
tram, and exclaimed. “ Rai Jovel that s a Pretty
good face, now. isn't it, Charley ? And then the
insulted one, drawing herself clean out or ner
boots almost, put, the critic carefully away by
replying, “Sorry I can’t say the same for you, but
you certainly have a pretty good cheek. item a
vulgah,” whispered the masher as the pair filed
smartly away amidst the derisive yells of the
25,000 bystanders.
In Memo Ham. Just by way of filling a
long-felt want [rather original that, we fancy!, and
at the earnest requestor the illustrious descend-
ants of the mighty dead, who, owing to circum-
stances over which they had no control [more
originality] were compelled to go down to their
silent tombs in those dark I enighted ages when
the charnel-house bard of the Even Ooze was
unknown, and when even tbe author of the
“ Brevity” jokes of the present day was an Inno-
cent, prattling little child, we have determined to
give the ancient heroes a show, and, by the aid oi
a few sweetly-flowing silvery rhymes, put them
on a fair footing with the more fortunate spirits
who managed to hang on to the thread of lire
until the poetical ghoul of the Nooze was kit-
tened. No sordid desire to increase the circula-
tion of The Bulletin beyond its present
95,000.000,000,000 copies has actuated us in taking
this much-needed step. Purely philanthropical
motives alone have prompted us to do it, lor nanny
a time and oft when the second jug was full has
our heart bled big drops of beer as we thought of
the sorrow which must fill the souls of the unsung
dead of old as they saw the portals of the golden
city thrown ajar to admit a simpering stuck-up
spirit who put on starched frills even before St.
Peter himself, simply because he could Hash a
little poetical send-off that he had just received
from the collin-chanter of the Nooze. With this
brief but earnest apology, we will open up to-day
with—
Adam.— In loving remembrance of Adam, the
beloved son of Nemo, aged 130 years. He was
a dutiful son, a most prolific husband, and he
was the first man who died “respected by all
who knew him.”—
“ Weep not for me, my wife
And children dear;
Tnat my time was so near
You did not think,
But it was all on account
Of that cussed drink.”
Methusadem.— At the residence of his parents,
Alberto Terrace, Paradise, Methusalem, the
Infant son of Patiick and Bridget Eaoch, aged
960 years.—
“ This lovely bud, so young and fair.
Called hence by early ooom.
Just came to show how sweet a flower
In Paradise could bloom;
He suck’d the paint off his little toys—
Now he's up to his ears in angelic joys.”
Brigham Young.— In fond memory of our deeply
lamented husband, origham Young, who died,
full of bliss and fortified oy the rites of his
Church and St. Jacobs Oil, on the 1st of March.
Inserted by the whole of his 37 unmarried
widows.—
“ Thy yap is now silent, thy bed is stone-cold,
Where thy smile and thy welcome oft met us of
old;
In vain do we search amidst Utah’s galoots
For a second old ducky to fill up your boots.”
Lambert.— In tender remembrance ef the late
Daniel Lambert, who died in three houses on
the 10th May, weighing 5631b. in his buff. And
of such is the kingdom ot heaven.—
“ A weight is from our household gone,
A voice we loved is stilled,
A place is vacant on our hearth
Which hardly ev< r can be filled;
To heaven’s bright throne his sweet spirit went,
And his pants would root in a circus tent.”
For a judicious blending of the grave with the
gay, we flatter ourselves the above little church-
yard poesies are simply unapproachable, and, ss
our terms are moderate and any sort ot colonial
produce will bo accented in lieu of cash, wo trust
the friends of the unhonoured dead will rally up,
and favour us with their orders. (N.B.—The
lyrical obituaries ot the late Messrs. Judas Isca-
riot, Cetewayo, and Martin Luther will appear in
our next issue. Not lost; but still unpaid for.)
INVALUABLE TO DYSPEPTICS.
HEATH BANK, Sandridge.
Dear Sir?,—I have during the last few weeks
advised several patients to try your
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
Tne result has been uniformly favourable. In
dyspeptic cases of long standing they will prove
invaluable.—Yours sincerely,
FRANCIS CHEETHAM
L. etL.Mid., R.C.P.,Edin


J. TURNER ROBINSON A CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Georga-street,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OP
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT PROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
pr Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
HIGt GUN'S
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCH W
147 YORK STREET.
A. & C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
318 GEORGE STREET,
Next Peapes and Shaw.
pr The most liberal house for Pianos and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
A. & C. Huenerbeiii,
318 GEORGE STREET.
W. H. CHARD AND G07
WOOL BROKERS,
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
LIBERAL ADVANCES made on WOOL er
other PRODUCE shipped to their London
Agents, Messrs. Redfern, Alexander and Co., 3
Great Winchester-street, B.C.
The Careful Personal Supervision of this well-
known firm Is given to all consignments.
iTlAA DOMESTIC PAPER FASHIONS
1UUU shown in our Illustrated Catalogue
Prick, Threepence ; by Post, Fourpenck.
C H A P P E L & CO.,
Late Johnston & Co.,
Paper Pattern and General Sewing-machine
Agency *
746 GEORGE 8T„ RAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Machines repaired, and all fittings, &o., kept 1ft
stock.
Pills
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy!
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth een-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they esn oe
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of pracmcal ex-
perience. They overcome the worst fovm of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
808 GEORGE STREET.
'CELEBPPtf*:
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
BOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY,
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
M AGBN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURER OP THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
THE
fa Ms Sewing Uk
The SIMPLEST. CHEAPEST, & BEST MACHINE
ever introduced into Australia.
EASY TO WORK, EASY TO LEARN,
EASY TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs, No Ratchets.
The only Machine in the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modern
Science, and of the Best Possible Materials.
Sold on TIME PAYMENTS in Town and Country.
J3f” Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE tc
any part of the colony.
B. O. Holtermann & Co.,
Sole Agents,
674 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TTALIAN EMPORIUM
A FANCY CHINAWARE,
comprising
TEA SETS, DESSERT SETS, VASES, ORNA-
MENTB See
FANCY GOODS IN GREAT VARIETY.
Silk Fans, Ladies’ Belts, Sunshades, Dolls, &c.
The Latest Novelties always on hand.
Best quality with reasonable prices.
B. MARMOT, 4-JO George-street.
PAINTS
OILS.
<r
WALL
v PAPERS
Office: 330 George-street.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT,
ur N.B. Pattern* and Price* *ent.
NEUSTADT and
COMPLETE
FURNISHERS,
39, 154, 156, & 158 0XF0RD-ST\
SYDNEY.
HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
Either for Cash or Time Payment.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers.
MANHOOD RESTORED i
A Clergyman having tried every known
remedy for the Cube of Nervous Exhaustion,
Premature Decay, &c., has at last discovered a
simple Self-Cure, which for the sake of suffering
humanity, he will send FREE the Prescription
which CURED him. Address, with self-addressed
stamped envelope— „
Dr. E. A CLARKE, P’O. Box 292, Sydney.
ROWLANDS ODONTO is the best, pur-
est, and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such Row-
lands’ Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS’ EUEONIA is a beautifully
Imre, delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and has
ately been much improved. Each box has inside
the Ud a certificate of purity from Dr. Redwood,
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c. Bold in three tins : white, rose,
and cream.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ ar-
ticles, ot 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations
Wholesale and Retail Agents, Elliott Bros., E.
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING.
WEST END HOUSE,
168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Two Doors from Compagnoni’s.)
THE undersigned, recognising the want of a.
FIRST CLASS TAILORING ESTABLISH-
MENT, have OPENED the premises lately occu-
pied by the Bank of Australasia, at 168 PITT-
8TREET (THE WEST END HOUSE) where they
intend to carry on a High-class and Fashionable
Trade.
The public may feel assured that we shall be
able to maintain a high standard, when we state
that our Mr. Ward has had some years’ experience
in the best houses in Lo idon, Paris, as well as in
first-class Sydney Establishments, namely. Farmer
and Co.’s and David Jones and Co.’s.
Our Mr. Wilson has had fully 20 years’ expe-
rience in the Australian trade, and has just re-
turned from England, where helvisited all the
principal Woollen Mills, including that of Hud-
derefleld, as wpII as West of England and Scotch
Mills. This will he a sufficient guarantee that the
tastes and requirements of the public will receive
the attention they deserve.
In conclusion, we desire to say that we hope to
obtain a fair share of patronage, in return for
which we guarantee first-class work, all hand-
made, well shrunk, perfect fit, and all in the latest
London and Paris styles.
Soliciting a trial, we remain,
Very truly yours,
FREDERICK WILSON,
HUGH WARD.
Fashionable Tailors, Robe and Habit Makers.
West End House,
168 Pitt-street, Sydney.
THE
M ~. M ° N
m-mmm
r'r-ias
M
L l iJf
FAMOUS
NEVER previously did any piano win such a hold
on the public as the Mignon has done since
Its introduction. Our competitors have no doubt
done their level best to rival us blazoning forth
their bald imitations with a tremendous flourish
of trumpets. What result hare they to show,
excepting to point to the gradual death of all their
offspring? The reason is soon found. Inferior
bistruments, with showy exteriors, have been
brought forth and attempted to be foisted on the
public. But the right-thinking public will have
none of them. The consequence is that the
Sales of the Mignon Piano
have Trebled.
THE MIGNON PIANO
has found its way into every town almost of all
the colonies—in Victoria and New South Wales,
from north to south ; to the far north °fQ u ®®°®'
land • in New Zealand, from one end to the other
of the islands. In South Australia and Tasmania
the mignon
can be found, and its name is really a household
word.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the people’s favourite.
THE MIGNON PIANO
for its size defies all would-be imitations.
THE MIGNON PIANO
guaranteed to withstand any climate in Australia.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the cheapest, because the best.
THE MIGNON PIANO
can be hadlon very easy TIME PAYMENT.
THE MIGNON PIANO
excels all similar pianos for flrst-class work and
richness of tone.
Illustrated Catalogue, with full description
of THE MIGNON and all other good instruments,
on application.
NICHOLSON AND CO.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
NEURALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHAC IE,
RAINS, BRUISES, MJRNS. SGALDl, &C- and
&ken internally cures DIARRHCEA, DYSE . j. Y,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other lutema aches
and pains.
Price, 2/- Everywhere.
Q. E. MOULTON, sole PR0Pn:.:0R.
MELBOURNE AND - DNEY,
PAINT
Mf*
TONIC NERVINE
REGISTERED * „ , « _
A SAFE,.CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE tor Ner-
vous and General DebiUty, and all
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia.
Toothache, Nervousness. Indigestion, Loss oi
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints. Loss of Vital Power, &c. By its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes ail craving
for Alcohol. By its richness in P h « 8 phorous ano
other powerful vitalising elements, MAKoUAL.l. b
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4s. 6d., or 35s. a case.
Sole Proprietors, MARSH ALL B HOT HKuS, M.PA.
Manufacturing and consulting Chemists, 104 and
108 Market-street, near ri s de Park. dne/. and
6Pltt-street, Circular-quay. TAKE NO SU >8Tl-
v QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
ESTIMATES GrIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
PT
Z
i§8
Et
s
O
CO £9
o-
0
£
U
*€
o
w
*
0
t
to
7*
3
*w>
O
1
%
5?*
<3
5!
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLEI
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
ZReliaTtole
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE ft MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
CORNER OP CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
best manufactured articles only kept in stock.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant ft Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)


MANUFACTURING HATTERS/
GEORGE STREET
sydn e: v:
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
Printed and Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), 24 Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
THE CURSE OF GLENVEIH.
“ In nearly every house there was some-
one far advanced in life—many of them tottering to
the grave—while thesobsof the children took hold
of every heart. When dispossessed, the families
grouped themselves on the ground beside the
ruins of their late homes, having no place of re-
fuge near. The dumb animals refused to leave
the wallsteads—as the night set in, the scene be-
came fearfully sad. . . . One man, named
Bradley, had lost his reason under the shock. . . .
There were old men who would keep wandering
over the hills in view of their ruined homes, full
of the idea that * Mr.’ Adair would some day let
them return. . . . They owed no rent-they had
done no wrong. . . . Here (at the cemetery) in a
body they knelt, flung themselves on the graves
of their relatives, which they reverently kissed
again and again, and raised for the last time the
Irish caoine or funeral wail; then, some of them
pulling tufts of grass which they placed In their
bosoms, they resumed their road to exile.”—* New
Ireland,” by A. M. Sullivan, M.P.
"Have I sung, O my brothers! condemning the
knife-
The trigger that leapt for such infamous life ?
Have 1 uttered a stave might unsteady the hand
That was lifted to cancel such lord of the land ?
Have I bade—in forgiveness—the outraged ab-
stain
From the righteous revenge ?
Tell tho story again!
TUI I hoar the caoine ring anew through the air
At the tale of Glenveih and the ruthless Adair!
“ Have I sung, O my brothers! Ill-gauging the cry
Of the outcast, thrust rootless, despairing, to die,
In a song, tuned to custom’s half-tones, to the
smart
Of the death-trampled hope and the desolate
heart ?
Have 1 bade—interceding—the finger refrain
When the rifle was true ?
Tell the story again I
TUI I hear the caoine pierce anew through the
air,
At the tale of GUenveih and the dastard Adair!
" Have I sung, 0 my brothers 1 forgetting the song
That sued for the wronger was aiding the
wrong ?—
For, like merciless monster, forgiveness to urge
Was aggrieving the victim — abetting the
scourge1
Have I dared—God forgive me I—the arm to re-
strain
While the steel gleamed undyed ?
Tell the story again I
While the fearsome caoine thrills anew through
the air.
At tho tale of Glenveih and the bastard Adair I,
" Have I sung, O my brothers!—’tis easy to sing.
To plead for the scorpion, unplerced by its
sting—
But the soul of like scoundrel be mine, if I feel
Not the chords of my heart clinging close to the
steel
As it rids—God-commissioned—the earth of like
stain
Of such cur-libelled hound!
Of such story again 1
While the fearful caoine rings anew through the
With the curse of Glenveih—of the blasted Adair I
** Have I sung—God forgive me?—decrying the
blow
That would strike such foul blot of humanity
low,
That could feast in a palace and sleep in a bed,
WhUe mother and maid lay, unroof’d and unfed,
With infancy, age, on the shelterless sod ?
Be the miscreant/s soul like evicted of Ood!
Be the hand of no leper so sbunn’d, shall com-
pare
With the leper of heart—the infernal Adair!
"I have sung—God forgive me the impotent
fire I—
To brand such blasphemer 1 No string of my
lyre
But shrinks from my touch—for the note for the
name
Of his infamous deed, of his infamous shame—
As I strive—God forgive me the impotent song—
To bear to the future the story along;
That never again through the awe-riven air,
To the God of the Helpless, like cry of despair
May appeal, unavenged , on another Adair 1
•• I have sung—so God help me 1—to hurry the day
That shall wipe the accursed evlctor away:
That our children, perchance, to their children
may say,
‘’Tis a tale of the past!—of the terrible crimes;
Of "expediency’s” laws and “expediency’s”
crimes;
When Government was but a barbarous tool
For Iniquitous ends, of iniquitous rule;
When the instinct of havoc for which we destroy
One beast, it abetted another enjoy;
When the bees were destroyed to make room for
the drone,
And the idler’s Jest was the labourer’s groan!
When the many were crushed at the flat of one,
And, to gladden a despot, a district undone.’
*‘ I have sung—O God, help me I—to hurry the hour
Shall strike from such despot such infamous power;
That our children may say, ‘how their fathers
had told
’Twos an ev’ry-day tale in the good times of old.
When Bright—John the Good—and when William
the Great,
In Victoria’s reign, ruled the councils of State;
When the scaffold rose high upon every hand,
And the law of the landlord was law of the land;
But those good times are past, and the wolf in
his lair
Shall as soon now be seen as another Adair!’
“ I have sung, and—God help me!—will sing to the
last,
Till this stigma on man be that * tale of the past.’
By each cry of the exile in agony torn.
By eaeh tuft from God's acre in agony borne.
By the suicide’s grave, by the maniac’s stare,
By the pitiless heart to the pitiful prayer,
In birth-throe and death-pang like outraged—I
swear
To devote all man can to ‘ tho curse of Adair I ’
I have sung! and, God helping, the response
again
Shall ring from each mountain, and valley, and
glen,
Till Brin, awaken’d from ocean to sea,
Till Scotia, from Sutherland’s vales to the sea,
Shall echo, in thunder, * The Curse of Glenveih
And bold be the felon thereafter shall dare
Evoke a like curse to ‘TheCurse of Adair’!”
We take these spirited lines from a volume of
poems entitled “ The Dawning Grey,” by J. H.
Dell, a subscriber’s copy of which has been sent as
a present from the author to a friend now in Aus-
tralia. The volume has not yet been published,
tout it has already been widely circulated. Its
author is an English artist, whose “ Nature Pic-
tures,” a folio of elaborate landscape drawings,
published some years ago at ten guineas, deserv-
edly went through two editions, and which is
highly prized by art-connoisseurs and collectors.
“The Curse of Glenveih” breathes an intensely
passionate, fiery, and even fierce, spirit, but it is
unmistakeably earnest; and behind the tornado of
the singer s wrath there is a self-control and an in-
telligence that carry him safely through the
emotionallstorm. It may, however, we must con-
fess. be doubtful whether a strain suen as this
might not prove too exciting for some of the more
susceptible of the Celts who have been the victims
of evictions similar to that of which the poet sings;
and we shall watch with interest the reception and
fortunes that will attend Mr. Dell’s “ Dawning
Grey ” in Ireland and the Highlands of Scot-
land, when it comes to be published. There
may be Irishmen who would be more ready
to respond to the incitement which this poem
powerfully administers to what has been called
‘•the wild justice of revenge,” than to what is the
author a evident, and, indeed, express object, viz.,
to induce his readers by every Constitutional means
*to hurry the hour” when the law—"the law of
the landlord ” —under which such dire suffering
*8 befell the poor tenants of Glenveih could be
Inflicted, shall be abolished. In Australia, at all
events, there is not the slightest dancer that the
most hot-headed will be driven to criminal courses
by reading this effusion. On the contrary, it can
only do good, as the stern and startling warning of
the evil effects that the same institution of private
property In land that prevails here may produce
among us when it has been as long in operation as
it has been in Ireland and in Scotland. We have,
consequently, no hesitation whatever in placing
The Corse of Glenveih” before the readers of
The Bulletin, and even in expressing the sym-
pathy we feel towards the evicted whose fate
inspired it, and our high appreciation of the service
Its author has rendered to humanity by bis un-
mitigated abhorrence and whole-hearted denun-
ciation of the wanton and savace cruelties perpe-
trated under the sanction and by the power of law.
We may mention that “The Dawning Grey” is a
very handsome volume, admirably printed on
thick, fine paper, and adorned with clever etchings
by the author, which are of quite exceptional
artistic merit. It is, indeed, a volume de luxe,
issued to subscribers at 15s. fid.; and so, therefore,
can hardly be said to appeal to the very needy
portion of the reading public. The etchings,
moreover, are Issued separately in folio at 21s., and
Iiroofs have been taken on india paper, quarto-
mperial size, for framing. We shall, probably,
refer on another occasion to some of the other
poems in “The Dawning Grey.”
This is the tale told by a man from Tumut
to the gullible old party, who, when he isn’t ped-
dling penn’orths o’ tape and fly-speckled “ Kris-
miss ” cards to the Gundageese, runs that fried
fish man’s delight, the fossil Times. What we par-
ticularly admire about the yarn is the utter
absence of anything like undue levity, or a care-
less handling of truth in Its narration. There is
nothing whatever In it about the good little
heathen boy who chopped off his grandfather’s
head and then sold it to a curio-collector in order
that he might be able to purchase a whole Bible of
his own, and not the slightest reference is made to
the Cooktown alligator, who, on hearing of the
recent bombardment of Foochow, stuca a tri-
colour flag on hi* tail, and broke up every Chinese
camp about the district. All is honest, and truth-
ful to a fault, and yet, withal, so modestly told
that there is not a single sentence in the whole
story that would bring the blush of shame to the
cheek of even a C.M.G. or a boiled lobster. It is
truly a round, unvarnished tale, and it tells of a
certain shearer who went down from Tumut to
Monaro riding one horse and leading another.
Whether this man was a new chum at the business,
or only one of those by no means rare individuals,
who have a happy knack of doing everything
wrong end first, our deponent knoweth not, but
certain it is that a pair of sheep-shears protruded
from a saddle-bag slung on the led horse, and in
cantering along, the shears ripped up the thigh of
the horse the man was riding. Naturally enough,
the horse drew his rider's attention to the fact,
and accordingly our shearer got off and reversed
the bags, so that the sack containing the dan-
gerous implements would be on the off-side of the
orse. However, he had no sooner remounted
and urged his steeds on their wild career again,
before the horse with the unlucky saddle-bags ran
suddenly round in front of the other; the sharp
shear-blades literally out the throat of the horse
the shearer was riding, and the animal at once
dropped stiff in its tracks, and bled to death. Just
here the story breaks off short, which is extremely
provoking, because we have a well-grounded idea
that the fatalities of that ride to Monaro didn’t
end with the death of that one horse. We have
every reason to believe that the mule-headed
shearer became so exasperated over his luck that
he swallowed the defunct horse in order to screen
his own stupidity, after which he crawled down
the throat of the other steed and kicked him to
death with a pair of boots he usually carried with
him for that purpose. While he was so engaged,
the saddle-bags bolted, and, falling into the river,
were drowned. A blackfellow, seeing them float-
ing about, ran into Tumut and reported that he
had seen the bunylp again, and 22 of the oldest
residents started out in pursuit. Three of these
sprained their necks on the way to the seat of war,
and 14 others were accidentally shot by their
brother sportsmen. These sad events have cast a
gloom over the whole district, as the saddle-bags
were almost new, and one of the unfortunate per-
sons shot had an unpaid account at the office of
this [the Times] journal to the almost ruinous
amount of 27s. Now, these little addenda of ours
seem to be In perfect keeping with the rest of the
scenery, and appear to form a more plausible and
tilting finale to the whole eventful business.
The stalwart tin miners of Herberton (Q.)
have recently experienced a sad and disheartening
disappointment through the want of proper con-
sideration on the part of their local solicitor, Mr.
Naunton, a gentlemanly limb of the law. Rightly
or wrongly, they had made up their minds that he
was—or, at least, ought tolhave been—dead; and
they took time by the forelock in the way of fix-
ing things up so as to give the corpse a good send-
off—a send-off in keeping with the traditions of
that lively community, and such as befitted a
member of the “devil’s brigade.” And this is
how the trouble commenced: The law-expounder
determined on spending the Sawbath day in the
tranquility and solitude of the classic neighbour-
bourbood of Nigger Creek, where he could study
the habits of the predatory alligator in its native
haunts, in his intervals of thinking out knotty
Eoints of law, and, as he did not turn up again at
is city office at the accustomed hour on the Mon-
day morning, his friends, not unnaturally, con-
cluded that he had permanently gone to board and
lodge, perhaps, with a hospitable cayman
Others, again, held it as being likely that he
got lost in the pathless forest, and proceeded
to organise a squad of black trackers to scour
the wild bush with the worthy object of at least
finding his remains, while a third section of the
community Interviewed the local undertaker with
the view of securing a neatly-fitting cherry-case
in which to stow all that would be left of the
defunct lawyer. The coroner, whose office bad
been a sinecure forsometime, began to put on airs
of importance, as he could see money in the affair,
and the “ sargint ” in charge buckled on his
“ soord in rale milit.hnry shtyle,” so as to run the
solemn affair for all it was worth—so, acting on
information “resaved,” he procured a set of bur-
gling tools, and invaded the sanctity of the law-
yer’s consulting-room, only to find it empty.
Later on, however, their joy was turned to mourn-
ing ; for, Just as a select committee had, with
almost reckless enthusiasm, passed the estimates
for the wake and funeral, and arranged for a pro-
cession with a brass band in front, the unconscious
object of their tender solicitude—whose premature
demise promised to afford some healthy relaxation
to the sons of toil and relieve the ennui that afflicted
the upper circles—appeared, and ruthlessly upset
the mortuary arrangements which had been so
cheerfully mapped out for the mournful occasion.
And when the unsophisticated miners realised that
their good intentions were all broken up by the
inconsiderate conduct of Mr. Naunton, a howl of
indignation arose at Herberton that could be
heard afar off, ana maledictions loud and deep
were hurled at the devoted head of the man who
so far forgot what was due to society as not to lay
himself out for a well-regulated corpse when such
elaborate preparations had been made for his
funeral. And now the undertaker has a second-
hand coffin for sale, cheap, the coroner wanders
moodily around in search of a fresh, or even a
stale, corpse, in order to turn over an honest
guinea, and the miners of Herberton clamour for
the head of their local lawyer on a soup plate.
Little wonder that they do so, either. We feel a
bit mad over the affair, ourselves, as it gives us a
grim pleasure to chronicle the successful planting
of a solicitor. Besides, we have no patience with
a man who could so deliberately and coolly spoil
, sport in a community where wholesome fun is so
| much appreciated.
James Tyson, the Queensland millionaire,
was in Sydney a week or two ago. Perhaps he is
here now—but not likely, as he has as much hatred
for walled places as an Arab, We saw him pass
down George-street, swinging his long arms, and
looking neither to the right nor to the left, but
straight before [him, as if he saw in the distance
his own broad lands and hordes of sheep. He is a
tall, loose-jointed, tawny-faced Scotchman, amd
delights to wear an old felt hat with a leather
strap around it, a coloured shirt, and a suit or
ancient grey tweed. No man living has ever seen
him spend sixpence where he could not see •
shilling coming from it; yet he is a lord of lane
half as large as all Scotland beyond the Caledoniat
Canal. He has no children, and is a confirmer
misogynist. As we watched him saunter down th
street, and thought of the cheques he could draw
hundreds of thousands—we had a fancy of follow
ing him, and representing that half-a-milllon woulc
come in very handy just now. We did not follow
him, having an engagement just then with a gen
t leman of the name of Hennessy—James Hennessy
But we have since imagined, merely for our own
pleasure and self-complaisance, what form the In
terview would have taken if we had done so. This
is something like what we pictured. Ourselves
‘ We are proud to see you in our city, Mr. Tyson
and charmed to find you looking so well.” Mr
Tyson: ‘‘Your kind remarks touch my heart. 1
am getting an old man, but I hope not a hard one
Is there anything I can do for you? You have
to say ;the word, and it is done.” Ourselves
We shall remember your generosity, sir, to ouv
dying day. The fact is. we are rather short ol
money.” Mr. Tyson: “ How much have you got?
Ourselves; “ One-and-threepence in coppers.” Mr
Tyson: “One-and-threepence! It is the nucleus
of a fortune. Why, sir, I started in life with
pence, and it was a crooked one, and you see what
I am now.” Ourselves: “Precisely! But that is
genius the genius of finance.” Mr. Tyson: ** No,
sir, the genius of economy.” Ourselves: “Well,
well, we will not dispute about terms. As for our-
selves, we have only the genius of expenditure.
But we humbly believe we have that in a highly de-
veloped degree. We are sure it would be a revela-
ii- oa r£° jr ° u 8ee how we could spend money.”
Tyson (grimly : “I have not the slightest
doubt of it. Ourselves: “But then you see we
have no money to spend. We have all the genius,
but none of the material to work upon. We do
not mean the spending of paltry pounds, but cool
housands. Then we modestly imagine we could
shine.” Mr. Tyson (brusquely) : “ Why not say
at once how much you want ?” Ourselves: “Well,
we think we could manage on a hundred thousand
to start with.” Mr. Tyson : “ I don’t think I can
see my way clear to letting you have that much.”
Ourselves (reluctantly) ; “ Well, perhaps we could
make fifty thousand do. You see, sir, you take no
pleasure in spending money. We do. You have
the money. We have not. As a Scotchman, you
will reverence logic, and you will perceive that
we should at once change situations. Aristotle
has said ,” Mr. Tyson : “ Never heard of him.
Where’s his station?” Ourselves: “In a place called
Hades, Just now.” Mr. Tyson : “Humph I Don’t
tnow it. Must be very far West.” Ourselves :
it any rate, we wish you to see that we
;ould enjoy wealth if we had it.” Mr.
Tyson (abruptly): “ What would you do with it ? ”
Ourselves (cheerfully): “ Oh, thousands of things.
We would, for instance, go down into the squalid
lanes and alleys of the city where wretched women
are working from dawn to dark all day and every
day to keep the breath of life in the bodies of
themselves and perhaps half-a-dozen fatherless
children. We would take them out of the fcetid
dens they lived a life-in-death in, and place them
in a wholesome atmosphere, where they could
think of God without cursing Him for their
misery, buy them a little stock of goods, and rent
a little shop for them, besides setting aside a little
capital for them to draw upon in hard times. We
would go up into grimy garrets and take wan
victims of disease away trom their wretched pal-
lets to put them where they could feel :the air of
Heaven blowing on their fevered cheeks, and
have kind hands to smooth their uneasy pillows
We would raise little children out of the mire of
crime in which they were born, and in which they
dwell, doomed sooner or later to be swallowed up
and lost to reclamation for ever. We would suc-
cour the forlorn and miserable—the widow and the
orphan-the aged and feeble. These are a few of the
things we would do if we had, say, a fortieth frac-
tion of the money you possess.” Mr. Tyson (much
moved): “.Strange I never thought of these thing* «
Ourselves (interrupting eagerly): “No, sir: not so
strange as you think. It is the way with all men
who have made the accumulation of riches the
ambition of their lives. The older they grow the
more self-centred they become, and the more for-
getful of and callous to the fearful misery around
them. But it is not too late for you vet.” Mr Ty-
son (fervently): “Thank Heaven! I have awoke
to my responsibilities. I have been deaf and blind
to them too long ” Ourselves (more eagerly) •
“ Then, sir ? ” Mr. Tyson (putting his band in
his waistcoat pocket): “ Then, sir, here is a shilling
towards the good cause. Give me sixpence change
You can pav me the other sixpence at your con-
venience. If you make anything out of the specu-
lation, of course you can afford to pay me a little
interest on the loan. But I don’t insist on that
In amatter of this kind, a man should be generous”
Good day, sir.” This is about what we fancied”
would occur in an interview with the man who is
worth over two millions of money. But, we sup-
nose thesixpence is the productof our own heated
imagination.
$500 for Nothing.
I will now state that I made a miraculous cure
of one of the worst cases of skin disease known
The patient is a man forty years old; had suffered
fifteen years. His eyes, scalp, and nearly his whole
body presented a frighful appearance. Had had
the attention of twelve different physicians, who
prescribed the best remedies known to the pro-
fession, such as iodide of potassium, arsenic, cor-
rosive sublimate, sarsaparilla, &c. Had paid §500
for medical treatment, with but little relief I
prevailed upon him to use the Cuticuba Resol-
vent (blood purifier) internally and the Cuticuba
and Cuticuba Soap externally. He did so, and
was completely cured. The skin on his head, face
and many other parts of his body, which presented
a most loathsome appearance, is now as soft and
smooth as an infant’s, with no scar or trace of the
disease left behind. He has now been cured twelve
months. Reported by F. H. BROWN, Esq., Barn-
wel, S. C. Reference, Bb. H. Baeb, Charleston,
S. C.
Indigestion, weak stomach, irregularities
of the bowels, cannot exist when Hop Bitters are
used. See.
What is Bristol’s Sarsaparilla?—It is rather
late in the day to propound this question. Forfy-
flve years of unbroken success as a remedy for
malignant cutaneous and ulcerous disorders, would
seem to establish the fact that, as a blood-depura-
tive, it stands foremost among modern medicines.
Colonial beer and longevity.—While there
may be exceptions to the general rule that a too
liberal imbibation of malt liquors superinduces
kidney troubles-in the fact of the ripe old age to
which some heavy drinkers of the beverage live—
they are few and rare, while those are legion
whose lives have been prolonged by the use of
that admirable stimulant and adjuvant, Wolfe's
Schnapps. Be sure you obtain Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
This pretty afternoon dress of dark blue zephyr material, with red de gn, has
collar, cuffs, and pointed waistband of red velvet to correspond. Two small kiltings
of plain red cretonne trim the skirt, and a long looped bow of red corded ribbon is
fastened just above the left hip.
