

THE BULLETIN
Vol 3 —No 130 -New Striae.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1885.
Frloe— 6d.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1885.
A Trio of Anomalies.
Fbom the clamour made by leather-lunged
Free-traders and their fuglemen in the
Press, a stranger landing in Sydney might
think he had visited a Free-trade country.
Before us is a “ schedule of duties ” contain-
ing about one hundred articles, commenc-
ing with “ bacon ” and ending with “wool-
packs,” to which free admission is denied.
Should our strange visitor happen to be
caught landing with any of these com-
modities, the possession of money alone
would prevent his first few months’ resi-
dence amongst us from being disagreeably
circumscribed. As a matter of fact, there
is no Free-trade country in the world. Even
in England, if you want to introduce
jewellery or tobacco, you have to pay about
22 per cent, ad valorem duty on the former
and 10 per cent, on the latter. But to return
to New South Wales. To call it a “Free-
trade” colony is merely to make a statement
which the “schedule of duties” to which
we referred shows to be incorrect. In New
South Wales, a consumer has to pay Gd. a
gallon duty on his kerosene, 40s. a ton on gal-
vanised iron, 2d. a pound on bacon, and so
on, through a list of over a hundred articles.
Suppose he pays the same in Victoria, why
should that colony be called protected and
this free? The glib answer will, of course,
be given, “Because Victorian imposts are
for the avowed object of fostering local in-
dustries, whole those of New South Wales
are for revenue purposes only.” On being
told that the extra 2d. a pound he pays for
his foreign bacon is merely for re-
venue purposes, the consumer of that
highly nutritious fool is supposed to go
thankfully away with his purchase. 'But it
is at least possible that he would have en-
joyed his meal just as well if informed
that the extra 2d. went towards protecting
the indigenous article from outside compe-
tition—to, in fact, teaching the native pig
manners and deportment. To say that a
country which obtains a large income from
the Custom House is a Free-trade country
is surely an abuse of terms. To return to
the pork illustration, we contend that it is
sailing under false colours to take our 2d., and
still let the local pig run wild. Mr. Reid or
Mr. Wise mignt at least tell us where Free-
trade ends and Protection begins. Does it
depend on the number of dutiable articles
or on the rate ? Would it be possible, for
instance, for a colony where an impost of 10
per cent, was levied on a number of articles
to be called “Free-trade,” while a neighbour
which charged 11 per cent, on the same ar-
ticles was dubbed “protective?” In a
word, does the application of these much-
misunderstood terms depend on whether
the Custom House income is put down to
“ revenue” or to “ protective” objects?
* " *
Take kerosene again. It has to pay a
duty of Cd. a gallon. Revenue purposes ?
Far from it. The men who keep the duty
on kerosene know that it is for the purpose
of giving a helping hand to the local pro-
duction of the oil. Yet they noisily protest
against being classed as Protectionists.
Tholr subterfuge is quite as mean, if not
quite so unpleasant as that of the Inquisi-
tors, who, to avoid the shedding of blood,
burnt their victims. If they were real and not
spurious Free-traders they would take the
Gd. a gallon off kerosene. But as this would
have the effect of throwing hundreds of men
out of work, they swallow their scruples
and salve their consciences with “revenue
purposes.” This deep strategy is not, after
all, so very dissimllaFto that of the child who
takes an apple off the table, puts it behind
its back, then turns to the door and gravely
walks out of the room, saying, “ Please, I
haven’t got it.”
• • •
There is one leading fact that should never
be lost sight of by those who, through good
and ill report, are struggling to develope the
resources of New South Wales by means of
a judicious system of Protection, and it is
that it was only by a hundred years of
bounties, premiums, imposts, and prohi-
bitions, that the great industries of England
became sufficiently robust to go alone. It
was when the country was able to supply
its own wants and leave a surplus for ex-
port that the ports were thrown open. Of
one thing we would remind those opponents
who so confidently say that Free-trade
principles are as universally applicable as
physical laws. Soon there will have to be
considered a question which bids fair to
send the bourgeois economists of England
back to their books. It is that of establish-
ing immense manufaoturies in China and
Japan, where labour and living are cheap.
It is that of making the East instead of the
West of the old Continent the workshop of
the world. China possesses an immense and
industrious population. She has stores of
coal and iron, compared with which those
of England are insignificant. With proper
machinery, it is certain that she could un-
dersell Britain, not alone in the markets of
the world, but in the English market itself.
Now, if the votaries of Free-trade are con-
sistent, they will look with complacency,
perhaps joy, at the trade of the world flow-
ing towards the Yang-tse-Kiang instead of
the Thames. That would be only in accord-
ance with the teachings of those clever
persons who think that to buy cheap and
sell dear is man’s sole reason for being here
below. But we know our countrymen better
than to suppose they would calmly sit
down and watch their trade drifting away.
They might first try the mild method of
putting an embargo on goods manufactured
in China. If that failed—if the Chinese
stupidly persisted in flooding the English
market with cheap goods, or refusing to buy
British wares—we have no doubt that an
adequate force of blue-jackets and marines
would quickly persuade the authorities at
Pekin that Free-trade, after all, was an
error if carried too far.
■ • •
To deny the usefulness of a second legis-
lative Chamber —nay, to go further and
affirm its hurtfulness—requires courage
equal to that of Geobgb when he asserted
that wages were not drawn from capital
and challenged the widely-accepted theory
of Mai/thcs. Whenever a system, a theory,
or a belief has stood undisturbed for genera-
tions it ia considered little less than impious
to assail it. Scientific Europe shot out the
tongue when told that the earth was wob-
bling through space; physiological Europe
did not attempt to conceal its laughter when
assured that the heart was merely a force-
pump employed in sending the blood
through the body, while religious Europe
could scarcely contain its mirth when
doubts arose as to whether the shells found
on the summits of the Andes were left there
by the Deluge. But we have fallen upon
better days—upon days when nothing is
taken for granted unless it appeals direct to
the understanding like an axiom, or is
capable of demonstration like a proposition.
“The Second Chambers of Europe and
America,” says a recent writer, “are
ing more than standing monuments of the
gregarious folly of mankind.” When we
remember the injury that has been inflicted,
not on England alone, but on the world—
the cruel wars, shameless robberies, and
bitter hostility to freedom —by the
British House of Peers, the truth of
Cablyle’s cynical estimate of his countrj--
men becomes apparent. As we pointed
out in a former article, during the most
glorious period in English annals—from 1049
to 1658—the country was without a Second
Chamber. Prom the time of the re-intro-
duction of the noxious bicameral system by
the fribbles of the Restoration down to the
present day England has had to pay an
appalling tax in men and money for the
privilege of being misgoverned.
• • •
Why it should ever have occurred to tmu
that a Second Chamber was necessary is
extraordinary. The least reflection, one
would think, would suggest that, if it held the
same views as the First, it was unnecessary ;
while, if it held different ones, it was in the
way. To either of these classes it must be-
long. It is] either superfluous or noxious.
In England, having lost all power but that
of causing vexatious delays, it is superflu-
ous. In America, having powers which
were never possessed by the House of Lords,
it has caused incalculable mischief, The
Senate of the United States is not oo-ordin
ate with the other House but superior to it.
It is this superiority the Americans have to
thank for the loss of a million lives and'
fourteen hundred millions of English
money. Had there been no Second Chamber
in the States it is extremely doubtful
whether any civil war would have
arisen. So that if America prides her-
self oh possessing a Senate second to
none she has at least had to pay for it.
Oddly enough, in the original articles of
Confederation for the thirteen States pro-
vision was made for one Chamber only.
Tbo members of this body would elect an
executive committee empowered to deal
with public affairs when the House was not
in eestion. The method of Government
intended by these early drafts was precisely
similar to our?, if we had no Legislative
Council and no Governor. What objection
there could be to this simple plan is quite
beyond our ken. Suppose, for instance, w
had no Governor and no Second Chamber in
New South Wales—that the supreme power
lay, as at present, in the people who dele-
gated it to their representatives, who, in
turn, passed it on to a committee of them-
selves. When the representatives lost faith
in the committee they appointed another.
When the people became dissatisfied with
their delegates they changed them. But
instead of this simplicity and its consequent
effectiveness, we have been saddled with a
Council which agrees with the country’s re*
presentative?, and eo becomes useless, or
disagrees and becomes a nuisance. And, as
if that were not enough, we are kept sup-
plied with Governors whose chief duties
consist in wearing oddly-constructed hats
on gala days, drawing many thousands a
year from our pockets, living in large,
rambling houses, and entertaining people
who possess original views on past parti-
ciples.
• * •
“ But,” it may be said, “ if so many Ubjeb-
tlons can be urged against the bi-cameral
method, how is it that so many nations have
THE BARONESS BURDETT-COUTTS.


AMUSEMENT
FOR OLD
AND YOUNG.
reoeipt of the advertised price, any of the
following 1 ricks will be sent by return post
TKE DISAFPEAIUNG CARD BOX.-A card
placed in the box Instantly vaulshes, and the box
is shown quite o npty. Price is., putt free Is. 6d.
BOX.' A capital multipH.
Three corks are placed In the box
tw?I C hh® 8e ? n bjthe audience to be quite empty’
Placed on. and when removed there are
found six corks within. Price Is., post free Is 6d
r OF the norths changing
J c . ard3 change Instant y to other
Sfon 8 ’ whilst held in the hand, in a most surprising
manner. Price Is., post free Is. 2d, "
THE GREATHAT AND DIB TRICK. A solid
compiotely through the ton of a gentle-
™go *j ataDd 8 found iD8l<1e< Price Is. CL, post
j THE MARVEL CIGAR CASE.-The case is
vanUih cra ™ m ® d full Of fine cigars, which instantly
X, ai j!fh; Excel lent, trick. Beamlfuliy made in
leather. Price 3). 6d„ post free ID. a
JJ E v AGIC ? nijff BOX.-A most excellent
if °P?Pi n< I can bo discovered anywhere
It looks just like a solid piece of wood, and m
° P6n 14 but the owner -
CARm PACK OP forcing
c °f | Jp ror with card tricks can pro’
Pni 1 ?.? £ form them. The most astound-
°5 n „ be Performed with them. Verv
superior cards, 3s. 6d , post free 3j.
DEMON HANDKERCHIEF —Indisnenaibe fn
o^^oon, juror. Watches, rings, coins“nd art?
68 pia ?*u under this handkerchief, insfautlv
nhnwf 8 !’ ‘hough the handkerchief is thorou* hiy
pS/oS^p^IrloS.' 116 ‘ Ud ‘ 0 “ C< ’ <J “ b
PACK 0F , flying car di.
i ade 4 ? J u ° U P and down the arm or
body, and elongated in the air two or three
nf Yhnm fan™ 084 beautiful regularity without one
post free 7 bounding. Price 2j.ej®
THE MAGIC DIE AND HANDKERCHIEF.-
A h ?°i id wooden die is placed under the handker-
chief, and felt to be there by the audience one of
whom may be allowed to hold it. The performer
Fresto I gone I ” and Instantly takes
to® ker chref and Shakes It to show the die has
vanished, and exhibits it tboroughlv whilst tha
articlo^V 8 ! f °u n d inside a canister or any other
article. Price 2s. bd., post free 3 1. 61.
Ro? E Th r «°£ D ? RFl7L Japanese drawer
P er fo riD or sends round a prettyli dt, e
box to the company, which they fill with, nlo 6
gloves, coins, &o. Directly the performer t • if
ic In his hands, without removing It from signf
the articles instantly van'sb, and the drawer is
shown empty. Price Is. 6d., post free 3* r wer 18
THS MAGIC DISSOLVING PACK OF CARDS
ar^no ac .£,,? f +E ayin ? car ds are shown to the au-
dience and th©n placed into a cipp i», v / tnmo
Kin 16 " 1, 0ne , of th e audience luelanOy
after this is done, opens ihe case, and finds if full
P38 8 t W free ? ‘> aDd the CMd8 vaQbbed "Price is. Cdl!
THE MT8TERIOT7S CANDLE AND nn
WITCHED HANDKERCHIEF-The peiforS?r
and Mlh?J7r ard n a C el ndle K° ut of a case
•P? i ig hts it. He then borrows a lady's handker-
thl e fii, burD8^ 4 *°ji a8be8 In the candle, and places
the ashes and eandlo in the cass again. The lady
1* tb ® n 0110 open tfa e ca«e, which is handed
to her. she does so, and finds t er handkerchief
restored therein but the cand o entirely gone.
Very excellent trick. Price 3s. 61., post free 3s.
eacfa 4 !™ 158 4al£en a4 Par ’ °t Jei C( donles add
Address all communications;
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT
BOX 641 G.P.O. 401 GBORGK-ST.,
. SYDNEY.
Between King and Mamet Streets, opposite the
Koyal HoteJ, and no other address.
C. W. ROBERTS
Slngla Bottle Department.
KRUG 8 CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE
Large Bottle, only .9s.
Small Bottle, , [4s. et.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. 8d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
*a. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BBAUMONT PORT
Is. per Bottle.
BUM,
In Flasks, Botties, and Imperial Quart*
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN—IN FLASKS.
ls» 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henkes Prize Medal BraM
In stone bottles and square bottles,
LA.RO 1ST siza.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Harkot Streets,
•YDNET.
adopted it ?” It is through man’s longing
to imitate—a passion that prompts him,
when an infant, to make faces at his nurse;
when a youth, to puff evil-smelling smoke
through his nostrils; and, when no longer
young, to strive to appear so by affectations
which make him ridiculous. This imitative
faculty was probably derived from a pro-
genitor of a lower type, as may be observed
by visiting a fairly-stocked zoological gar-
dens. This aspect of the subject opens up
a question too vast for us to do more
than mention. It was the National
Convention assembled after the revolu-
tionary war that gave America the
President, and Senate, which have cost
her so dearly. This was done in imi-
tation of the English. The men who
could drive the British from tho country
were unable to divest themselves of this
unfortunate imitative faculty to which we
have referred. Slill out of the thirteen
States, three voted against a Second Cham-
ber, the celebrated Jefferson being one of
the delegates who was strongly opposed to
two Houses. And now, in a late work on
tho American Constitution, we find a
powerful appeal made for the abolition not
of the Senate alone, but of the President
also.
♦ ♦ T
With the third anomaly we shall deal very
brielly. It is that of supplying us with a
Governor from England. We have already
mentioned the American proposal to wipe
out the President and Senate and let the
country be governed by a committee of the
House of Representatives. The British
Empire is governed by a committee of the
House of Commons—the Crown and Lords
forming what Herbert Spencer ca’ls Hie
“ceremonial” part of the Government.
There is no reason to suppose that the
Empire would suffer if this ceremonial por-
tion were swept clean away. New South
Wales is governed by a committee of the
Legislative Assembly, of which the Premier
is chairman. It, too, has its ornamental
adjuncts, the Governor and the Legislative
Council corresponding with the Crown
and the peers in England. Our contention
is that neither one nor the other is
necessary. Anyone acquainted with the
Second Chamber of New South Wales will
readily admit that it serves no useful pur-
pose. The truth of this nee Is no demonstra-
tion. With the Governor it is a little dif-
ferent. While convinced, ourselves, that
i • h an officer is unnecessary, and might
mischievous, we readily admit that
mere may he people of a different
opinion. But the opinion that it is
necessary for the well-being of colonial
society that a person should be sent from
the other side of the world to govern us—a
person who knows nothing about us, prob-
ably cares less, and in whose sekc’ion we
have about as muoh voice as the people
of Thibet—is one of those singular crot-
chets which are the belief of one genera-
tion and the laughter of the next. To a
foreigner nothing appears more curious
among the Briton’s many curious traits
than this desire to be governed by a stranger.
It is to this odd characteristic we owe the
fact that for two hundred years no English-
bian has ruled England. The colonial wish
to have a stranger for a Chief Magistrate is
but a replica of the Englishman’s anxiety to
have an alien for a King. It is time that
both desires should cease.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Gas and Gus.
In proposing the health of Lord Augustus Loftus
at the North Shore banquet last week, Mr. Dalley
said:—“While his Excellency’s administration of
the government of New South Wales has been un-
disturbed, as far as I am aware, by a single cir-
Oumstance which has tended in the smallest degree
to impair our confidence in his justice, it has been
signalised by one event which has made it, and
Will for ever make it, historical. It has been his
peculiar privilege, and perhaps greatest distinction
bf his life, to be the medium of conveying to his
Sovereign the most striking assurance of the
loyalty of her people in the most distant of her
possessions.” Concerning the latter part of this
extraordinary sentence we need only remark that
the “ striking assurance of loyalty ” alluded to
has culnl’nated in the kicking from Dan to
Beersheba and several other places of quite
a lot of the Soudan ” Ministers who jockeyed
A servile Parliament (which, too, has now been
pretty Wall wlpid out by the country) into com-
mitting one of the most infamous offences ever
perpetrated in the name of patriotism. It will be
the “ peculiar privilege ” of Lord Augustus
LOftuS, whose tenure of office has all through
been as inglorious a fizzle as even the Soudan nig-
ger-butchery itself, to assure Queen Victoria
that the odds are ten billion goldsn sovereigns to
the scanty and ragged beard of the deceased
Soudan goat that no more troops will ever be sent
from New South Wales to help British capitalists
murder men and women fighting for their free-
dom— rnd that an expedition intended to enfold
this country in the tolls of an effete dld-world Im-
perialism has had no other result than hastening
the advent of the Australian Republic. As to
“our confidence in the Justice of Lord Augustus
we have only to say that Lord Loftus
Is the Governor who, only the other day, while
Invested with the lloyal prerogative of mercy
told a deputation who waited on him with respect
to the case of Johns, a man under sentence of
death, that had Johns been properly defended his
trial might have resulted differently-and having
Slid this his Excellency proceeded to sign the
death-warrant, and hand over the convict to the
hangman!! We do not forget that on more than
ono occasion Lord Augustus Loeius has shown
himself to be most conscientious and merciful-
But there are qualities of the head no less admir-
able and necetsary In a governor than those of the
heart, and we arc compelled to say that while Lord
Augustus has in all cases no doubt done his duty
to the best of his small ability, he has too often
allowed himself to be swayed In the wrong di-
rection by his "responsible” advisers.
A Twisted Allegory.
The man who gets badly “slated” is generally
ready, as soon as h'S opponent is out of hearing,
to beast of his prowess. And the more shameful
the “ licking ” has been, just so much greater Is his
abuse of his victorand his glorification of himself.
Therefore It Is not surprising that Messrs. Dinus
and Dalley should have laid themselves out for a
display of brag and bunkum at the St. Leonards
banquet compared with which all their past per-
formances In this line appear but as the veriest
commonplace. The latter “statesman” called in
allegory to his aid, and describing the late elections
and the charges then discussed (and upon which
the whole country brought in a verdict of guilty
against the so-called Government of the time), be
at length asked: “Are you not ashamed of what
has taken place? The guests held down their
heads In silent acquiescence, and ho wont on
" I confess that, while we were In the midst of
it, I had a sickening remembrance of a passage in
one of theprosi writings of a great humorist of
our day, who describes a revolting quarrel in a
wretched Polish hospital, where, as he says, it was
horrible to hear how the patients mockingly re-
proached each other with their inflrmities-how
ono who, wasted by consumption, leered at another
who was bloated with dropsy—bow one laughed
at another's cancer, and this ono again at his
nela-hbour’s loo ted jaw or squint until at last a
delirious fever patient sprang out of bed and tore
awav the coverings from the wounded bodies of
his companions, and nothing was to be Teen but
hideous misery and mutilation. This general
election has up to this presented as revolting a
spectacle.”
So it has. and this allegory describes it all beauti-
fully. Did not Dibbs leer at Farnell’s son-in-
law-dropsy, when he shunted him to the Political
Benevolent Asylum, and did not Abbott, in his
address to the Gunnedah electors, consider the
land-agent system allowed by his colleague to be
a horrible cancer which must be at once removed
from the Cabinet? And did not all the Ministers
laugh at the squint which they taid Wright had
contracted from his having looked with one eye
at the Works Department and with the other at
Wright, Heaton, and Co., and apparently the
Ministers all agreed that Cohen had become
si wasted by consumption that his political life
had better terminate at once? Yet it was not a
delirious patient, but the electois of New South
Wales who arose In their might and ripped the
coverings from that diseased—the parallel is Mr.
Dalley’s, not ours—Cabinet. The mention of
lockjaw by the orator may seem inappropriate.
None who listened to the frothing fliedi of elo-
quence poured out at hen England was in a mess
and Napoleon Dalley pulled her out, can dis-
cover the member of the Cabinet who is asserted
to have been troubled with this aliment, but pro-
bably Mr. Dalley had In his mind the distressing
times when Ministers were asked to meet some
little accusations of political corruption. From the
silence which then reigned the Minister charged
might well be thought to be a sufferer from the
most obstinate form of lockjaw. From cancer and
dropsy the oratcr glided as follows:—
“I said some time since that it would be well
for our character if the records of our late Par-
liamentary history could be blotted out for ever.
(Hear, hear.) Men of all shades of opinion have
agreed with me in that sentiment It would seem
that, in proportion to the honour with which, for
a splendid and chivalrous action, we are regarded
abroad,” &o.
With the first sentence, if it refers to that Soudan
expedition, born of Imperial tuft-hunting, cradled
in contemptible vain-gloriousness, and fed with
the language of spurious patriotism, we coriially
agree. Better, far better, for our reputa-
tion for virtue and real honour that that
page had never been written. But what means
this reference to “a splendid and chivalrous
action?” If it refers to that same goat-slaying
picnic, Mr. Dalley should be well qualified to
speak In its praise, for was not he Its author ? Fit
subject then for one who could plan such an expe-
dition, and suitable man, he, to speak In fu'some
praise of one who could consent to and assist in
carrying out such a piece of work. Or, to put it
more plainly, we may assert that Dalley the
orator Is the best man to praise Dalley the mili-
tary hero, and Dalley the military hero furnishes
a fit theme for the eloquence of Dalley the
orator. Arcades ambo.
“What will Lord Carington say?"
“Just think,” howled Mr. Dalley at the St
Leonards banquet, “of the young and accom-
plished nobleman who in a few weeks will be in
New South Wales as the representative of his
Sovereign—who Is leaving England crowned with
the honours and prayers and good wishes of his
countrymen, and who Is ev dently coming to in
because he believes we are a loyal, honourabIe t
chivalrous people. Think of him, I say, reading
from day to day these filthy slanders (on the New
South Wales Ministers), and lamenting that he had
left the society of men of honour to rule over a
community of libellers.” fs Cabisgton's advent,
we ask, to Inaugurate an era of lluakeydom be-
side which the present grovelling of Victorians to
Sir Henry Loch would be but a mark of ordinary
respect? They arc alrealy all at It In New
South Wales—from the feeble little Echo, which
m Idly betrays Its indignation for those who
refuse to indulge In language of extravagant
adulation for the coming Lord, to the political
showman from whose varboso deliverance we
have quoted. But a few weeks ago the Sydney
Evening News Indulged In a burst of hys.erica!
lamentation because Angus Cameron, who had
spoken with but small respect of His Excellency
the retiring viceregal frost, had been made
Chairman of Committees, and then the soul-
stirring enquiry was made, “What will Lord
Cabington say ? ” If there be such disgusting
sycophancy in "high places” and In the public
journals, what supsrla'ive grovelling may we not
expect from the hangers-on at our burlesque
“ Court ? ” Who.is this Carington whom Age are
commanded to fall down and Avorshlp ? He has
not won fame in the Senate, although he has, as
the property-worshipping organa of Sydney will
find to their disgust, some ralher liberal
ideas concerning the obligations of landholders.
Nor is he a man of large ability. In short, tho
claims to celebrity of this young and perky
personage rest upon the fact that he was born
what in England is called a “ nobleman,” and that
he rendered some assistance to Albert Edavard
the Good when the latter stuck a pig in India.
And is the opinion of this “ Lord,” who was once
a Smith, to be the power which is to teach young
Australia to be chivalrous and honourable ? Is
his dictum to be the reward or condemnation of
our every action ? After all, we have a higher
opinion of Carington than these authorities
whom we have named. We belleA r e that nothing
he will experience here will bo likely to disgust
him, save the nauseating adulation of Geobung
Imperialists. Let the colonial toe kbsers pass a
Bill to make refusal to join’ In the national de-
basement they have ordered a penal offence, or
else self-respcoting men will be nerved to take mea-
sures which will make it Impossible for the tin-
pot aristocrats of New South Wales to grovel
with any degree of comfort or dignity in the
future. Nothing will raise up more opposition to
the Imperialistic policy lately so much adyocated
than the degrading attitude of the snobs who lead
the Imperial party. •' What will ‘ Lord’ Caring-
ton say ?” Booh I
A Ghastly Story.
It is a ghastly story, and It comes to us from
Queensland. It is a fitting sequel to the island
massacres and ravisbings which have made the
name of a Queenslander synonymous with that
of a kidnapper in the eyes of ignorant Europeans.
It was unreasonable to suppose that the savagery
which formerly found vent in shooting South Sea
Island women and children who endeavoured to
escape from slavery would be easily suppressed.
Blocked in one direction, it was sure to break out
in another. Deprived of the privilege of baiting
Kanakas, it makes up for the less of this kind of
relaxation by means of a flogging Saturnalia in
Brisbane. The entertainment took place on a
late Saturday morning, five culprits, including an
aboriginal, were “put through,” and the people
of Brisbane had served with their Monday morn-
ing’s coffee a delightful description of how the
men screamed, tugged at the cords, fainted, came
to, and swallowed water with avidity, as wounded
men drink to cool the fever of their blood. The
following, from a Queensland paper—an approving
Queensland paper, mind you—is what took place,
not In Dahomey, or Burmab, but in Brisbane:—
“ Drs. Hobbs and Wray attentively watched the
proceedings. At 10 o’clock Daniel Carmichael,
whose sentence was to receive £0 lashes, walked
up to the triangle and was securely lashed thereto
by the wrists with stout cord, and above the knees
by a strap. We will not attempt to give particu-
lars of the scourging. At the fortieth stroke Dr
Hobbs was in doubt whether the prisoner cou d
endure the remainder, but the Hogging continued
and he was cast loose in a fainting condition after
the fiftieth lash had fallen. His face was deadly
white, and he was unable to hold up his head to
drink, but recovered sufficiently to be led away
moaning between two warders.”
The humane Dr. Hobbs, it seems, was in doubt
whether the prisoner could stand the whole fifty
and survive, but, with a keen sense of duty, he
determined to try. His determination was re-
warded—Carmichael is still alive. But to pro-
ceed—still quoting from the Brisbane journal;—
“ James Toohey came next and received forty
lashes, and endured the torture with greater for-
titude than his predecessor, for, with the excep-
tion of a few low groans which he could not stifle*
he was not although the quivering of his
legs showed the agony ho was enduring. He drank
water witty avidity immediately afterwards, but
was led away in a partially conscious state. The
scourger then had to exenange bis cat, as the knots
had become loose through being soddened with,
blood. The third was a mere boy, W illiam Phil-
lips, the last of the garroters, and his sentence
was thirty lashes. He also bore up with great for-
titude, although the fourth stroke drew blood;
and when removed, he refused to take any water
and also any assistance. An aboriginal named
Johnny then received twenty-five lashes, howling
and yelling with might and main all the time. The
last to be scourged was a youth named Miles, sen-
tenced to five years’ penal servitude and one Hog-
ging of twenty-five lashes. He made little sign
while the strokes were falling except to ask the
scourger to ‘hit higher up, not underneath ihe
ribs.’ ”
And yet we have no doubt that the fair-spoken
old man who sentenced those wretches, the
officials who carried the sentence out—apparently
with commendable impartiality-and the people
who read the account in the morning papers,
would feel offended if told that their civilisation
and that of the King of Dahomey had many
things in common—the chief difference being
that in Dahomey a culprit was put out cf his
misery at once, a course considered too chicken-
hearted for Queensland. Thus we see that the
youngest of the Australian colonies vies with her
elder sisters in making the name of Australian
stink in the world’s nostrils. Reading of that
Saturday morning’s work in the Brisbane Gaol
makes one almost unpatriotic enough to wish that
some subsidence of the land would p rmlt a huge
tidal wave to roll unimpeded from Cape York
even unto the 30th parallel, or, failing that, that in
the whirligig of time, Cossack whips found their
way to soilie Queensland backs. Not that we in
New South Wales can boast. Our penal Jaws are
just as bloody as the Queensland ones. Infect,
this whole subject of torture opens up a curious
field of speculation. Over fifty years ago De
Tocqueville, after an exhaustive study of
American institutions, as well as Ihose of France,
concluded that the tendency of Democracy was
towards humanity. Such is undoubtedly the case
north of the Equator, but, as IE to show that Aus-
tralia is a land of contrarieties, a directly opposite
tendency is observable amongst us. Aust alian
Democracy makes for brutality. L'ke a man
blinded to run a wheelbarrow race and faced from
the it got a false start ar d continues
in the wrong direction. Whenever a change was
made In any Australian penal code, it was in the
direction of the savagery which other nations
were casting from them. If, as Max O’Rell says,
the brutality towards women and children, which
can be daily witnessed in England, would cause a
For continuation of “ Plain English,” see next page


Thb Rats a or Subscription to Thb Bullbtih
»re-For one year, 84a.; half-year. Us. 6d.;
quarter, 8s. 6d.—In advance.
Tea Advbrtisinq Ratss are 5s. per Inch!
- special positions In the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per Inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 18 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertionsf
IB per cent.: For 62 consecutive insertions, 36 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent In-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bn made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under 41, postage stamps of any Australian
Oolo'iv tn«v he pent, if more .convenient
The case of George Steelman v. Lord St.
Leonards was settled out of court. Mr. Stedman’s
claim was for board and lodging.—Melbourne
Paper.
There once was a notable Lord
Who went for a Journey abroad,
And there, so said scandal,
The man with a “ handle ”
Was backward in paying his board.
But after an action was brought,
The noble behaved as he ought,
And it's pleasing to hear
That, although he’s a peer,
He was never presented at Court.
(“Plain English,” continued from page 4.)
revolution in the poorest French quarters, what
would be the result in Germany, or France, or
New York, if such a thing happened as took place
In Brisbane Gaol that Saturday morning ? A hun-
dred and fifty millions of the foremost people on
earth can govern themselves according to modern
Ideas, but poor little Queensland, with a popula-
tion scarcely equalling that of a third-rale city,
must have her triangles and her clotted cat-o’-
nine-taile—her six-foot flagellators to make every
stroke draw blood, and her soft-hearted doctors
to see how near the victim can be tortured to
death without actually dying. Do the persons
who make those laws know the deep disgrace they
are bringing upon Australia ? Do they know that
it was truly said not long ago in a G rman
paper, printed at Adelaide, Gut if three
Australians were cast ashore on a coral island,
one would proceed to make a lash out of
any vegetable fibre the place afforded, the second
would commerce to erect a triangle, and the third
a gallows? Do they know that by enacting laws
unfit for Hottentots, while passionately howl-
ing against the deportation • of recidivisles,
they are convulslrg Europe with merriment?
If our origin is tainted, the greater reason for our
rulers to avoid drawing the world’s attention to
the taint. If we are convict-spawn, there’s no
necessity to proclaim the fact from the house-
tops.
THIS WICKED WORLD.
Mrs. Leavitt announced in a lecture the
other day, at Rockhampton (Q.), that "except the
Gospel of Christ there was no other question so
important as that of the liquor-traffic.” That is a
resurrection of the identical thought Lord Byron
had In bis head while inditing a certain graphic
passage In Don Juan—“Bum and true religion”....
The following “ birth ” is advertised in the Bris-
bane Telegraph On the 13th October, 1885,
in Hereford, Brisbane, Lafy Bulgin, queen, of
Israel, by the grace of God, of a son (prince
— A charming feature of the present N.S.W.
elections Is the regularity with which every can-
didate has received a vote of confidence. The
electors like to make things pleasant all round....
The expenses of conducting Victorian municipal
elections are charged to the shire fund. The
Local Government Act, however, ordains that
items must be duly set down on the face of the
voucher. A municipality in the GippGand district
accordingly presented a couple ot weeks ago a
ciaim for two bottles of whisky, one of brandy, half-
a-dozen ginger-ale, three bottles of beer, and a clay
pipe. A Melbourne dipsomaniac doctor is now ad-
vertising vacancies in his Inebriate Retreat. It is
rumoured that he has just sent away, clothed and
in their right mind, two editors from the Maileo
and a Croajlngolong poet who were brought to
him in chains and muzzled, foaming at the mouth
all the way. The fares to Melbourne are very
reasonable at this time of the year From the
Melbourne Evening Heraed:—" A lunatic named
James Davis escaped from the Sanbury Asylum
on Wednesday morning. He was traced as far as
Keilor, evidently on hij way to Melbourne.” It is
suspected he was going there with the intention
of joining the staff of Punch. He had apparently
heard of tho success of the other lunatic from
Kew Asylum on the same scintillating 1 journal.
Fact, this. Punch Itself acknowledged artistic
contributions from the Kew maniac. When the
Sunbury crank gets his hand in we may expect the
little comic curiosity to brighten up somewhat
Mayor Tooth, of Maryborough (Q ). took the chair
at Mrs. Leavitt's first local temperance lecture.
When he went home he took out the whisky
bottle, pondered over the lecturer’s words, said
to himself, “ Which shall it be—Leavitt or Gien-
livet ?” and tossed up for it. The whisky beat the
woman Loud-mouthed scoffing larrikins at-
tended n Maryborough (Q.) Salvation Army meet-
ing. Said the “ Captain ” to the biggest of them:—
“ Ood bless you, my friend, but if you don’t stop it,
I'll (?o for you." And on the next provocation the
Captain did go for his man, whom ho ran out on
his little pink ear.. Mr. Panton, the Melbourne
police magistrate, says that If he has got to adjudi-
cate on many more suits (for the recovery of
board-and-lodging money) against peers of the
realm and star actors, he wifi demand Increased
“screw.”...By way of proving that wealth does not
give a man social prestige In this part of the
world, Mr. Archibald Forbes, in his latest book,
informs his readers “that there are Australians
now In England who have entertained Royalty,
and whose guests have filled columns of the
Morning Post, yet who, in their native land,
have never, with all their efforts, got further
than the outlying fringes of Australian society.”
Salmon Wilson is, of course, referred to ...
A Queensland law-case, in which timber-measure-
ments played a conspicuous part, having been
decided not altogether in accordance with the
views of a scurrilous-minded litigant he left the
court muttering: “ The only experience of timber-
measurement these judges bave is when they are
buying a new bat.”— Mayor Carter takes high
moral ground In announcing his determination to
stand by the bottle and glass. “The teetotallers,”
he says, “lost Paradise; a teetotaller was the first
murderer, and teetotallers were so evil that Pro-
vidence swept them away in the Flood.” Is there
no teetotaller with enough chivalrous recklessness
of Biblical truth to deny that the statements are
facts?—“ We have ncitthe slightest doubt,” says
an English paper, “that Sydney will speed the
departing Governor as cordially as it will welcome
the coming Governor.” Just so. .. Nine ironclads,
with an aggregate tonnage of 80 000 tons, are, it is
cabled, to be built within the next two years. By
that time dirigeable balloons will have been con-
structed to sail through the clouds and drop nitro-
glycerine bombs within six feet of a spot no larger
than a wheel-barrow on the earth’s surface. The
larger the ship the greater certainty of destroying
it—The Kangaroo Plat correspondent of the
Bendigo Independent is at it again. This Is his
last:—"A chicken hatched wlfh two heads, three
eyes, three legs, and two beaks occurred at Mr.
Beatley’s, recently. The chicken did not survive.”
So this poor correspondent will have to find some-
thing else to take his place while he's at the “ Cup.”
— Thus the Silverton correspondent of the Wll-
cannia Times:—“One of the gravest mistakes is for
a person to allow his name as a guarantee to be
attached to a prospectus as provisional director,
unless he has at least some large stake in the ven-
ture, thereby giving it a colour of genuineness
by the capital he himself has invested. Now, in
the case of the B. 8. Smelting Company limited,
which has gone bung. 21 local names were attached
to the prospectus, which stated Silverton would
take up 6000. Of course it was thought that the
directors would t’ke up that amount, instead of
which 550 shares were all they held, and that
number by four only, as provisional directors I”
— You can't get to windward of a colonial
country publican. A Northern Territory host had
a live pig and no butcher’s meat. One day a
customer oame to the hotel, who, seeing the
porker hanging about tho house, and, to show bis
conversance with the use of firearms, drew a
revolver and shot It dead. The cook prepared the
pig for table, the lodgers fed off it for days, and
the shooting Incident dropped out of memory till
the sportive gentleman found himself debited 40s.
for the privilege of shooting theswinel”. ..The
Brisbane authorities were, the other day, so un-
reasonable as to “pull” and to heavily fine a
clergyman for having a dirty back yard. And yet
be bad a clean white tie £233 was co’lected at
Melbourne Town Hall where Rev. Chas. Strong
preached on Hospital Surtdav. At Mr. Strong’s
former church (Scots') only £S4 was nked in—a
decrease of £1731.. . Another goldfield rush has set
in in N.Q. 180 miles from Normanton, Ktherldge-
wards. Several good reefs have been come upon,
but no alluvial so far A Port Douglas (Q.) paper
complains that the street corners up there are
almost impassable ou dark nights. Sometimes it
Is pigs that are lying about, sometimes It is dogs,
and sometimes It is cows The editor fell over an
obstruction lately, and began to sing the usual
local hymn when the semi-conscious object sat up
and said: “Blank you, Jack, what the blank do
you want scrambling over my bunk for I” It was
a man-of-warsman this time The publisher of
the V.R.C.'s race-cards raised their price from 3a.
to 4 1. per doz. Tho boys-selling them at fid.—
objected and organised a successful strike. Hoys
engaged by the printer to sell the cards were not
only “boycotted, 1 ’ but bonnetted and their cards
confiscated vt et armis...Mr. George Coat: s. farmer,
of Brighton, Melbourne, prayed the Victorian
Assembly to so amend the Licensing Bill as to
cempel publicans to sell drink by measure, and
“thereby secure to the customer a fair quantity
for the money paid.” Legislation for girls is
proceeding apace. The protected age has been
raised to 14 in Tasmania, and to 16 in Victoria and
South Australia.
Anchor—hope. Sheet Anchor—despair.
A N.8. W. election campaign item from the
Mo long Express:—“Mr. Smith then came forward
and explained that he was very unwell, having
just had two mustard plasters on, which was not
to his advantage in speaking, and he also went over
his address, stating that he was born here, and his
earliest recollections were of this spot, and ever
since he had any knowledge of the place he had
tried,” &c.
The Euroa (Vie.) girls have given a prize
to be awarded to the “ prettiest man ” present at
the loch annual show. A Numurkah scoffer sug-
gests thH a glass-case for the hero-elect should he
provided n the fancy-work department. Unite
unnecessary. The girls are sure to decide in favour
of a bank clerk, and then they’ll bo able to look at
him through the bars once a month.
Modern Christianity is a rum kaleidoscopic
sort of thing which no fellow can make out. Here
we have the leading Christian of these localities
declining to go to a feast at one time because
another Christian was to have precedence of him:
and now ho won t even land at a neighbouring-
port because there is not sufficient pomp and cir-
cumstance to satisfy him. Somebody who was
not a Christian, we suppose, sal’, of those
whom he condemned: “They make broad their
phylacteries, and enlarge the borders of their gar-
ments, and love the uppermost rooms at feasts,
and the chief seats in the synagogues” He added;
—“ Whosoever shall exalt himself sha'l be abased,
and he that shall humble himself shall bo exalted.”
Another of the same teacher's remarks was:—
“ Blessed are ye when men shall hate you and
when they shall separate from you.” If this had
anything to do with Christianity, we should begin
to think that Joseph Symesmust be the pattern
Christian of these parts.
The editor of a Northern Territory paper
thinks that aborigines who get drunk ought to be
flogged. The South Australian Government
makfs laws for that distant part of the coSntry!
the bla ? ks from being deprived of
the little bit of reason they possess, fixes a heavy
tine upon the civilised white man who sells them
liquor. The edator calls this a Wtter^ojuitlw.
** the natlveB k °ow per-
♦v,bat, they do wrong by accepting
ffrog from tho whites. Lovely logic, isn’t It?
Uut what about the whip for the publicans ? This
and receiver should be at
least equally blest. After recounting some dini-
ng le .?wR Xp f*i enoe( \. ln the administration of the
law difficulties met with in the administration of
all laws-the editor convinces himself that “a
liberal application of the whip would settle the
wholo matter. ’ We are opposed to its application
in any case. Otherwise, “to settle the whole
matier, • we would allow an experiment on the
hide of that Northern Territory editor.
Two Birds With One Stone.
DAN. (spokesman): “SOME OF US BEIN’ ACCIDINTALLY IN MELBOURNE, YER IMINENCE, WE THOUGHT WE’D DHROP IN TO CONGRATULATE YOU."
CARDINAL MORAN: “I AM INDEED PLEASANTLY SURPRISED TO SEE SO MANY FAMILIAR FACE3. I THOUGHT THE ELECTIONS WOULD HAVE PREVENTED YOUft
DAN. (aside); “CDVER THAT DIRTY CUP, BAD CESS TO YE. HIS RIV’RINCE MIGHT THINK WE CAME TO SEE IT."


Personal Items
A London paper says “ General ” Booth of
the Salvation Army Is a Jew I
Black v. Black and Mai thus, is a Sydney
divorce case set down for trial. Malthui in the
divorce court. Terrible I
Rosebery advocates a colonial peerage.
This is the effect of our allowing Alfred Bennett
to go to England.
Mark Twain “ went his bottom dollar” in
the venture of publishing the late General Grant s
biography. The speculation has turned up trumps,
and Mark’s share of the profits will be not lets
than £50,000.
A most enterprising individual has just
scooted from Sydney to Yankeeland, and one long
wild yowl follows in the wake of the mail-
steamer on the deck whereof he calmly amckes
his cigar and slaps his well-lined pockets.
Mr. Dow, M.L. A., who went to America
with the Victorian Irrigation Commission, will,
we suppose, at once proceed to ’Frisco and enter
a libel action against the Newsletter for the
no less spiteful than shameful accusation made
against him by ‘’Silver Ton” in its issue of the
20th September.
Mr. Donald Gunn, well known in N.S.W.
and Queensland, died lately at Kangaroo Point,
Brisbane. Thirty years ago he was a Monaro
squatter, and followed up a successful time of it
thereby taking up the Wyrga.Toolburra, Plkedale,
and Glenlyon stations on the Darling Downs. He
wrote some interesting sketches in the Metropoli-
tan papers on the habits of the aborigines. He was
nearly 70 at time of death.
A “live lord” presented himself Hie other
night at Melbourne city watch-house, and insisted
that a fellow-boarder at the Albion should be
arrested on a charge of theft. *’ What did he
steal, your lordship ? ” asked the lockup-keeper.
“ My private diary,’’ was the reply. “ Oh, if that a
all,” said Mawhinney, “ you're sure to get It back
again as soon as the newspaper-man who took it
gets the true version of that little affair of yours
In England published.”
From the Rockhampton (Q.) Colonist : —
“The Rev. C. S, Anderson returned to Ipswich
from the Downs, and by all appearances this time
he has ‘ come to s;ay.’ Ho has doffed his clerical
garb and vone into business as a shoeblack, a line
which hitherto has not proved remunerative in
this town.” The humorists of the district have
been amusing themselves by sending the reverend
boot polishar bogus invitations to tike tea at the
house of various local clergymen. Poor parson!
He who should be polishing souls is scrubbing
uppers.
Another of the Queen’s faithful gillies has
fone to join John Brown. Bowman, her game-
eeper and humble toady “ hopped the twig'* in a
remarkably ingenious manner. The poor beggar
was crossing a wire fence when he got caught by
the wires and remained hanging, head downwards,
for the best part of a day. Somebody unfastened
Mr. Bowman at last, and rut him back in his
natural position, but as soon as he felt his feet
again, he turned his tons up. Of course the Queen
assisted at his last moments. She’d drive 20 mllei
any day to see a Highlander die. So would we.
Mb. Purvis, the pet Melbourne barrister,
disputed, on Wilkinson’s trial for making a false
declaration of his age when married, that every
■one could remember what they said and did on
auch occasions. Although he (Purves) had twice
gone through the suffering, he could recall
nothing about it, whether he took an oath or made
a declaration, or “ whether he stood on his head or
bis heels.” It was an ordeal req airing much c ici-
ness and courage, to which few were equal. Prince
Henry of Battenberg trembled so over 1 , when
marrying Beatrice, that he first dropped the ring
and next tried to put it upon the wrong finger.
The second white child born in Tasmania
was buried in the Melbourne Cemetery the other
day. He came into the world two years before Sir
Henry Parkcs, who. as everybody ought to koow,
burst upon a throbblngly expectant unlverae in
the year of the Battle of Waterloo. Mr. Patterson
—the second white Tasmanian-went to Victoria
In 1810, and lived there ever since a quiet and
honourable life, leaving to his friends the power
to proudly say that he bad never been a member
of Parliament. He probably thought that one
member of Parliament was quite enough la a
peaceable family. Mr. James Mlrame, member for
Colllngwood, is hlsson-ln Uw.
It is arrant nonsense to suppose that any
man, however facile his pen, oau come here and,
In a few days, write column on column of accept-
able matter upon Australian topics. Sala’s “An-
tipodean ” articles do not seem to be a success in
London either. The European Mail thus notices
a contribution of his In the London D.T.;—“With
the heading ‘Land of the Golden Fleece—Four
Hours In N.Z.,’ the reader naturally thought he
was about to peruse a brilliant account of colonial
life from the pen of the renowned ‘special,’ in-
stead of which he was treated to perhaps the
frreatost amount of twaddle that was ever pub-
Ished in a London newspaper.”
Mr. Harry Stookdale, the W, A. explorer,
and party, are expected to return to Sydney in
about a week. They have travelled the Ord River
region without finding any trace of Ashton and
Mulcahy, two members of Stockdale’s last expe-
dition who were left behind. Some time ago a
letter from Mulcahy’s wife appeared in.the Sydney
Evening News, stating that the men named were
abandoned by Stockdale—who thereupon insti-
tuted libel proceedings (which are still pending).
The explorer avers that so far from his having de-
serted the men, they remained behind at their
own wish to prospect for gold, and with their own
bands made an entry in his journal—which he can
produce—to that effect.
Richard Attenborough, Hie illustrious per-
sonage who had pawnshops all over London and
was the saintly patron of more than one fat living
In the Church of England, has turned Insolvent.
He had too many irons in the tire. He wasn’t con-
tent, apparently, to stick to the mortgages of flat-
irons resorted to by ladles of the laundry sect.
Sad that there should bo a “ bend sinister ” on the
shield which bears the three bezants, or, vulgarly
known as the three balls. What sang a bard, who
was neither the poet of all circles nor the idol of
bis own —
“ Who lives where hang three golden ball!,
Where my poor mother often calls
And pops her tippets, cloaks, and shawls ?
My uncle.”
How those Christians love one another!
Alluding to a recent interview with “ His Immin-
ince,” that diabolically funny journal, the London
Tablet, says: “Cardinal Moran remarked, touch-
ing the two Sydney R.C. papers, that the Free-
man's Journal was a fine property, and the
Express at one time was supported by Arch
bishop Vaughan. In fact, said the Cardinal with a
twinkle la his eye, it was sometimes thought to ho
the Archbishop’s organ still—a supposition which
added piquancy to the reading of the attacks it
sometimes saw fit to make upon himself.” This
Is a good double-barrelled libel, for it not only
Insinuates that the Distress has dealings with the
“spirits,” but that it is possible for a dead English
prelate to feel indignant at finding his place down
here filled by one of those horrid Irish.
The London Echo (in re Sala’s complaint
that the Sydney “aristocracy” lack “style ” and
luxury in their appointments) says that the “ main
reason is that men like Mr, Samuel Wilson, Sir
Daniel Cooper, &c., save there to splurge m
England. So long as a country is a colony its in-
habitants always have a latent sonse of playing
second llddle, and this tends to tempt the wealthier
to return ‘ home.’ ” “ Mr.” Samuel Wilson I The
Echo doesn’t even know that he is a knight. 11 at
lot us to business. Our obvious course, if we were
to have Salmon Wilson again amongst us, would
be to proclaim the Empire in Sydney and make the
podgy man of the- lUme-colourad whiskers our
first Czar. Another way would be to proclaim a
swingeing property-tax and follow it up with a
rasping impost on absentees. We lean to the
latter idea.
A critical article in Harper's, per last
mail, points out the late Lord Beaconfleld’s weak
point. Disraeli could do almost anything he tried
at. He edited a life of Paul Joms, he addressed
missionary meetings, wrote Revolutionary epics’
was first rate as a novelist, could write plays,
could lead the House of Commons, was a Chan-
cellor o f the Exchequer, and could, and did, make
Queen Victoria an Empress. The crucial test-
toe great test of real greatness and true ability re-
mained, and in that he failed-he could not edit a
newspaper I Murray, the publisher, lost £,.0,01X1 in
starting the Representative solely to try Dis-
raeli's power on the Pres n . We would not vain-
gloriously quote the circumstance did not an
American so force it on public attention. The
Australian public know well enough all about it—
they have daily evidence of It in some of our
dailies.
Commodore Scmmes, that dashing sailor
who, 21 years ago, was captain of the buccaneer-
ing Alabama, has, a cable states, committed sui-
cide. Ho had become commandant of the navy
yards, and held that cilice at time of death-tho
probable causes of which are not stated in the tele-
gram. The writer of this was a youngster when
Captain Semmes came one morning to see his
people, and after affectionately patting the head
of the present scribe, lifted him on to his shoulder,
‘‘What funny holes you’ve got in your face
loudly remarked the terrible infant, as he firmly
clutched the handsome moustache of the bold
buccaneer. Oa the captain's well-bronzed visage
there were, perhaps, more lines and furrows than
were ever borne before by the face of mortal
man, and “the stern blue eyes of a steel-blue
gre ynow closed In death I -were orbs such as
are seen but once in a life-time.
Mr. Andrew Lang wrote some telling
verses in a London psp. ! r during the days of our
Australian Contingent fever. The same rising
literary star has hit upon a novel idea, which he
is carrying out weekly in St. James Gazette
the puny rival of the Pall Mall. Some years
ago the World started a novelty in “ Letters to
Emineat Persons.” These were addressed to live
people, but Mr. Andrew Lang’s letters are only to
deceased ones. In this way he has addressed
Harriet Martlneau. Shelley, and Thackeray. There
Is no doubt greater convenience, beyond all
thought of libel law, in addressing “the aunty
dead.” You can say almost what you like when
so doing, and make it appear that your fads and
fancies were those ak.o of the deceased. You get
slso the opportunity of “corresponding ’ with a
superior class to what you are accustomed to.
Pappy-dogs can take liberties with dead lions.
Now that the ethics of editing are
the debated questions of the day, it is worth re-
calling an episode in the history of tnat brilliant
but short-lived j lurnal, the Mobbing Star. Some
years ago, the great London papers—which were
not quite so “nice” and “good” then as they
have grown to be—were satiating their readers
with lull reports of a loathsome divorce case. The
editorial stall of the Morning Stab held a con-
sultation. and decided that they would not publish
a line of the details in which the Times, the
Standard, and other pillars of respectability
were luxuriating. Prince Albert, whose nice
taste in matters of this kind was well known, read
and compared the reports in all the great dailies,
and at once gave orders that in future the Morning
Star should be the only paper suffered to lie on
the Royal breikfast table. The leading Radical
journal was thus the only political food which the
Queen’s children were allowed to taste. Is that
tne reason why the Prince of Wales is generally
supposed to be a Liberal ?
Mr. George Anderson, formerly M.P. for
Glasgow, now deputy-master of the Melbourne
Mint, and always a croohoteer, has commenced to
make his mark In Australia. He brought under
the notice of the Animals Protection Society 'the
fact that a dog and tiger are confined together la
the same cage at the Melbourne Zoo. Mr. Ander-
son considers that cruelty. He knows that If he
were shut up with a tiger he’d feel luxIoup, and
thinks that the dog must do ditto. No sympathy
was ever more misplaced. Tnis particular deg and
tiger love one another a good deal better than
most other Christians, and the secretary of the
Zoological Society has sat upon the ultra-humane
Anderson. That gentleman can never have read
the touching story of the lioa and the spaniel at
the Tower of London. But wo mustn’t be hard on
him this week of all weejis in the year. The man
who was the fatlur of the Betting House Act and
the persistent opponent of an adjournment over
the Derby Day in the House of Commons, must
bo sorely troubled in his spirit Just now. Only
wait till Mr. Anderson blossoms into an M.L.A.l
Melbourne Cups, boat races, pigeon shooting (his
pet aversion), and cakes and ale generally will be
banished trom the land. Somebody must have
had the ex-GUwgow M.P. in hla mind’s eye when
he called Scotland the Land o’ “ Cakes.”
Mr. T, A. Reed, who is supposed to be the
most expert phonographer In the world, has just
accomplished a noteworthy feat. A Boston B ble
and cushion-thumper, who has the reputation of
being one of the fastest speakers that America can
produce, was on a visit to London, He was
announced to deliver a sormon, and Mr. Keed
undertook the task of reporting it verbat im Tne
sermon lasted exactly half-an-hour, and the num-
ber of words which Mr. Heed got on his note-book
averaged 213 a minute, and it is said that the
characters were formed so distinctly that any one
familiar with Mr. Reed's method of writing Pit-
man's system could read the notes without any
difficulty. The greatest speed previously attained
by Mr. Reed for the same length of time was 205
words a minute. The fastest talker in Australia is
undoubtedly Mr. M'Elhone. We can imagine no
better test of a shorthand reporters skill than a
half-hour “turn” of stubbly John when raving
about free-selectors’ grievances. A report of a
speech by Mr. M'Elhone written by any one of the
many ambitious youths who may be seen at church
with a pocketful of neatly-pointed pencils and
about half a ream of ruled paper with and on
which to record the parson’s utterance, would be
an interesting production. The morals of the
youth would probably be very much shocked by
the time he had finished his “turn.”
Mr. Morrison, a, young barrister, and son
of Dr. Morrison, of tho Scotch College, Melbourne,
Is contributing to the Argus chapters of his
travel-talk about Russia. He is surprised to find
what a world of humbug this is, and especially in
religious matters. In the monastery called St.
Alexander’s Cloister tho handsome appearance of
the monks took him quite aback. His eyes were
soon opened to the nature of their very qnman-
llke devotions. By the queer usages of Russffi i
offending officials of high standing—peculators, i
defaulters, and the like-are punished by a sen-
tence to monastic life for the rest of their days.
If the idea is to deprive them of feminine society
it proves to work really quite the other way. Mr.
Morrison tells us that the “cells” of these celi-
bates are most comfortable snuggeries. That to
these handsome and jolly monks come crowds of
ladles for confession on the church lloor, and sub-
sequent religious comforting In the father con-
fessor's private room on the surrounding upper
floors. These holy men have their photos, taken,
which are exhibited and sold like those of theatri-
cal stars. Some of them do “ star” for a time as
the favourite of fashion of tho day on whom the
pretty devotees make quite a rugh. We are not
surprised to read further on that the monjis of St.
Alexander’s Cloister and other mentioned monas-
teries have been “ the cause of much domestic
unhappiness and many divorces,” also that they
are “ a scandal to the people who tolerate them,”
“Alfred Church, an old colonial identity,
has just died at Clth-Qln, Q. Forty years ago he
arrived in Sydney as steward of a man-of-war, and
left to enter the service of the late Mr. James
Landsborough, who then owned Monduran Sta-
tion. While there Church drove the first bullock
team that crossed the Kolan. Tie afterwards went
with Landsborough.to form Raglan Creek Station,
in about 1857. The blacks were troublesome, and
the party would probably have bpen murdered, as
their neighbour had a while previously been at
Mount Larcombe, had not a gin given Mrs. Church
warning. When the blacks shewed up they met
with too warm a reception and cleared. When
Cnnoona diggings broke out deceased went there,
and after varying fortune left for more congenial
work on the station. Thence Cnurch afterwards
went to bydney and Braidwood, but returned to
the North, working on Gin-Gin for some time Ho
then went with Mr. Hasiol to form Tantltha,
where he again had a narrow escape from the
blacks. While deceased was there the rurber
murder took place, near Maryborough, when
Church was one of those who volunteered to
scour the country for the purpose of exterminat-
ing the blacks. After serving for several years
with Mr. Barton, of Moolboolaman, and Mr. For-
rest, at Avoca, deceased settled down in the Walla
scrub, where closed his useful though humble
career.” That’s always the way with the Northern
papers. Anybody Is “useful” who kills niggers.
- Nearly everybody has heard of Mr.
Ormond, the generous Victorian millionaire. His
name has been before the public for many years as
the most Pincere and open-handed of colonial
philanthropists. He is, in fact, the Australian
Peabody. It is not so generally known, however,
that he is the son of a Scotch merchant captain
who came out to the colonies in the early days and
laid the foundation of the Ormond wealth with
the profits of hotel-keeping. His hotel was a way-
side inn on the high road to lUllarat, when
Ballarat was the familiar name for G olconda. His
son became a successful squatter, and, instead of
spending his riches like Sir tarn. Wilson in making
himself a mark for universal ridicule by parading
with the pomp of a proprietor through the halls
of dead statesmen, has devoted it to the ameliora-
tion of the condition of the working-man in his
own country, and many other things as novel as
charitable. Mr. Ormond is now in England, and
has been making the artisans and labourers there
green with envy by telling them of the wages
earned by their fortunate fellows in Victoria. Ho
seems to think that wholesale emigration is the
one thing wanted to make everybody happy. But
with the enthusiasm of the true philanthropist he
overlooks the probability of a wholesale inllux of
shilled and unskilled workmen cutting down the
present rosy rates of payment. The Australian
working man will not pray for him night and
morning it this should be the result of his practi-
cal philanthropy.
The Pall Mall tells a story—we think we
have heard something like it before—of a visit
paid to Bismarck by “ Herr Berchof ” (our frisky
contemporary should have printed “Berghotf”),
President of the Melbourne German Club some
years ago. The club gave their president a com-
mission to bring from Germany portraits of the
Kaiser, the Crown Prince, and Prlnco Bismarck to
adorn their walls. Herr Berghotf secured his por-
traits, but thought that ot the iron Chancellor
would look all the better for an autograph at
foot. He went to the Palace to beg one, and, as
luck had it, Bismarck himself stumbled upon him
as he was writing down his request. The portrait
was unrolltcj in an instant, and Bismarck being in
good humour the intruder was asked into his
study. With a quill pen the Chanpellor wrote his
name in bold characters, buf the pep split, and
Bismai ck threw it to the ground. The autograph-
hunter picked it up in a second. Might he keep
it, and take it back to show the great Chancellor s
countrvmen ilber Meerl Bismarck smiled con-
sent. Yet tyen now, with autograph and pen, the
man was not satisfied. Success feeds ambition.
He cast his eyes around the room. A pairs skier's
cap lay on a chair. He be'.hought himself that it
was in this verv kind of headgear that Bismarck
was generally sold to the public by photographers.
Might he have the cuirassier's cap, too, just for
the *ake dl Fatherland ? Yes. he might have the
cap as well. With this the fortunate man de-
parted, to bear homo acre s? t ho sea the autograph,
pen, and cap of Germany’s great Chancellor. We
don t know whether this anecdote relates to a re-
cent visit to Germany by Herr Berghotf or to one
paid by him some years ago when ne successfully
manipulated Bismarck.
Alexander Fitzgerald, anold-lima Sydney
theatrical favourite, died in the States In the
middle of September, ot bralc-lnfl vmmattnn. His
career on the boards covered a period of 33 years.
He was greatly liked by the Sydney public for his
manly style and general bearing, w hen he sup-
ported Barry Sullivan here as Shawn the Post in
Arrah-na-Pogue,” It was a moot point who was
the greatest favourite—Sullivan, Fitzgerald, or
Mrs. Hebert Heir, who took the character of
“ Arrah.” Filzrerald alto supported Madame
Celeste, with Ireland. Lawrence. Carry George,
Robert Heir, and others now distributed over
this world or the next. He made his first appear-
ance as an actor at the National Theatre, Cincin-
nati, in ’53, and gradually worked his way Into
New York. Mr. Samuel Colv.lle, in whose em-
ployment the deceased wss Isst engaged, said to a
reporter: “ I first met Fitzgerald la Australia,
wnere, in 1858,‘he s ’ppofteci Miss Avonla Jones.
He thereafter la 1851) became engaged to me
as heavy leading-man, character actor and
stage manager, and acted in these capacities in
Sydney, N.S.W., up to my departure from Aus-
tralia In 1800. 1 next heard of him with Barry Sul-
livan's company during the latter's management
of the Meluourne Royal. Ho returned to the
States in the early part of 1808. For the ensuing
two or three years he appeared in responsible roles
as engagements would offer until the late Ben De
Bar secured him as his stage manager and leading
heavy actor for the St Charles Theatre, New
Orleans, and Tneatre Royal, Montreal. Afterwards
he became a leading member of the ‘Danitcs’
Company, and then connected himself with the
• One Hundred Wives ’ Company. As stage mana-
ger for Mr. Samuel Colville, the deceased produced
‘ Taken from Life’ at Chicago lathe early season
of 1883-3, since which time he has been stage
manager of the Fourteenth-street Theatre, New
York, up to Bartley Campbell’s assumption of
management. Mr. Fitzgerald In his prime was
| considered a strong, virile, powerful actor. He
was a highly educated man, and his knowledge of
the crama and dramatic literature was extensive.’
The Irish lord, Cianmorris, who has gone
to Queensland to learn colonial experience, is
the guest of his uncle, Da Burgh Persse, of Tal-
rogalba on the Logan, and formerly of county
Kerry. Recently uncle and nephew paid a visit
to Hawkwood station, where (we quote from a
Queensland paper) Cianmorris “ saw a good deal
of bush life, having camped out several nights,
and had two hunts after scrub cattle.” 11 Here Is
something for him to bring home to astonish
Dublin Castle parasites and drawing-room dawd-
lers of Belgravia. But Cianmorris has also shown
great personal prowess. One morning the mirth-
ful manager of Hawkwood induced the noble lord
to jump off his nag and catch a young bull by
the tail, which he did, we are told, like any old
hand. It was fun to see him after the bull, but
the onlookers were convulsed on seeing the hull
after the blue-blooded softy. The station-hands
crowed when they heard that Cianmorris, being
brought to bay, bad to turn around and take the bull
by the horns, and the station-hands smiled scorn-
fully when they heard the blowing about his great
presence of mind and Irish pluck as he “rastled’’
with the animal, took a fall out of him, and
‘‘finished him with his knife.” And then
Imagine their infinite disgust when, “ after he had
got his wind,” he declared it to be “ the grandest
sport he had had during his lifetime.” How he will
embellish all this as h© lisps it to some simpering
lord or miss or noble spindleshanked companion I
The tales of the Roman gladiators will dwindle
into utter nothingness before his romance of the
Hawkwood bull. And this tale of a nobleman
recalls the story of an Irish Yerisopht who lately
taught the theatre people something of English
manners, doncherknow. One night as Nellie
Stewart warbled at the Brisoane Theatre, my lord
trotted Into the dr? s-cirole, and took his seaton
th© very first row. 0£ course, beiug the only
aristocrat present he must needs distinguish him-
self In some way. Accordingly, ho lolled back
with an air of intense indolence, and placed his
lefrs on the upholstered horsehoe balustrade of the
circle. Nellie could not seethe head so she warbled
to a number fourteen pair of boots.!
There are some queer people in the bush.
Old Jack Ward, who recently “ pegged out ” in the
cedar scrub, scoring 1 63 ere he was stumped by the
grim wicket-keeper, was a genuine sample of the
old-time bushman. Educated with a view to
embracing the profession of medicine, he got the
gold fever badly, left the old country, and shared
in the spoils of early Ballarat and Bendigo, and
afterwards of the West Coast goldfield. Tnen ho
studied the nature and properti s of alcoholic
beverages sufficiently well to empty his chamois
sooner than h e expected, and striking out back he
lived as best he could, “humping his drum” half
the year and working at odd times the other half.
Amongst his little peculiarities was an intense
love for carpet-snakes, and he generally had one
or more of these doubtful pets (they are easily
tamed) sharing the hut with him when camped
alone, shepherding or water-drawing. One day a
new-chum rode to the hut about dinner time
Intending to have a cut at the damper and a drink
of tea. Jack was absent, but sunning himself in
the doorway was an enormous carpet snake.
Dismounting quietly, the traveller dispatched
me reptile and sat down to await the com-
ing or the bushman, who, from a neigh-
bouring ridge had witnessed the proceedings.
He had shouted and screamed to save his pet, but
to no purpose, the wind, in his teeth, drowning
his voica. Bushing into the hut he snatched his
old single-barrel and, dashing to the doorway,
fired point-blank at the stranger. In his excite-
ment he missed him, and giving vent to a howl,
wild and wicked as the war cry of the Waddy-
alloes, he clubbed his musket and charged. The
visitor, whom the military display had taken by
surprise, decided that the bushman was slightly
‘off his pannikin,” rapidly executed a 1'iank
movement, and, crawling with the agility of a
centipede to the back of his bare-boned Bucepha-
lus, ho skipped across the ridge. Jack sat down,
and with an ease and elegance which would have
made the classic and refined features of Sala turn
green with envy, cursed that nomadic new-chum,
his heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns
unto the third and fourth generations, tor a lot of
meddling vandals at whose hands even a poor little
snake was not safe. He was scooping out a dam
site when death cut in and scooped him.
“It is not often,” writes an old drover,
“ that the back-block man forms a wrong esti-
mate of the capabilities of any individual in the
pigskin, as far as rough-riding is concerned. Yet
I was * bad ’ once, properly—beautifully got at.
I was on the South Australian s de—had gone
away up North with a mob of stores, and was re-
turning with a few horses amongst them a very
pretty half-bred mare, a real outlaw, though, not
with wickedness so much as cunning, for she was
as kind as a kitten until any of us attempted to
sit her. Then her nature changed, she became a
tigress, a veritable Foley in horseflesh, always
grassed her man the first round, and stood by
ready for a Griueo-Koman rally, if he showed any
intentions of remounting. We had all taken a
fall from her, and not being gluttonously inclined
rested content with so much. My private opinion
was that it would be neatly as easy to ride a vol-
cano with the lid off as to sit her tor un hour. 1
dared not sell her; I was afraid of the corgs-
quences. Massing a watering-place, on our re-
turn journey, 1 fell In with an old chum, and we
camped the night together. He had a mixed mob
of cattle, a few horses, and one or two real
greenhorns amongst his men. One, in particular—
he wore a white collar, starched and ironed. I
took his measure at once. He appeared to be
taking mine also. I now think his mental measure-
ment was the more exact Next morning as we
were saddling ttis Verdant Green came amongst
my nags looking them over somewhat critically.
‘ That’s a nice tittle thing,’ he said, pointing to the
outlaw * Yes,’ I answered, ‘a daisy; clean bred,
too.’ ‘Hike her look: Is she for sale'/' Now I
had no objee ion to killing this individual,
he was so very green that the cattle would
eat him eventually. ■ Well, no,’ I replied, ‘not
exactly tor sale, but if I got a figure I
might let her go. But anyway, she's no good to
you, she’d buck you into fragments in five seconds.’
•Ohl’ he observed, calmly, ‘It alnt much to lide
a buck.’ 1 was nettled, i could ride most horses,
but she had beaten me. * Well/ was my prompt
observation, ‘if you can tit her five minutes I’ll
give her to you.’ ‘ Done,’ he at once answered,
and in a very short time we had her tackled
ready. He darted to the waggon, returned in a
couple of minutes, guernsry, bieeches and boots,
his sole attire. 1 was had. 1 knew it. He popped
on to her; she went to ‘ market; ’ he sat as if in a
rooking chair, swaying to the bounding as though
he had neen part of her. Five minutes passed, she
had bucked pretty fairly, and, growing tired of
tho exertion, steadied down a little. He dis-
mounted. ‘ Outlaw, ain’t she ?■/ he queried, laconi-
cally. I nodded. ‘Lend us yer hooks, Joe, and
that whip.’ Ho put on a pair of long-necked
spurs, and, remounting, Hogged and raked her till
she gave in, and would buck no more. Dismount-
ing, and taking the saddle off, he handed her to a
black boy near. ‘ Here—you put 'em hobbly, bell,
long a tnls fellow, let ’em walk long a creek I •
‘ Now,’ 1 asked him • if it's a fair question, who the
devil arc you ? ’ ‘Ms? oh, I’m Tommy Power;
heard of me, 1 deFSay ? ’ Heard of him ? Bather I
The crack rough rider for the police force—had
been chosen to ride Luckj amptrs for the amuse-
ment of tneDukeof Edlaourghl Yes, Indeed, hncj
heard of him. ‘What are you doing up North V’
‘Oh, looking for mugs,’ he drawl >d quietly, as Joe
called out to him to ‘cut it short.’ Since then I
never judge a horseman by his collar.”
It has been said at various times—and
chlelly by persons who were conscious of having
written album -verses that were much admired by
their friends but carefully kept secret from tho
prolane public—that there is no encouragement
tor poetry in Australia. ThD, too, when the
columns of the T. and C. Jerneu bristle with it
nearly every week. tfi)t perhaps they are not fpr
from right in their complaints. Probably cine of
the most effectual deterrents from the produc-
tion of poetry in Australia is the prevalence of
lecturers on it. Only tne other day a certain Mr.
Hlggins-preeumably an exiled fole-gave a lec-
ture entitled “ The Muse in Australia,” in no less
learned a place than the Melbourne University'
This is one of his sagacious remarks:—*' Australia
had produced a great deal of workmanlike poetry,
although it was true that it had a distinctly Aus-
tralian flavour.” In our ignorance, we used to
think tnat one of tne chief merits of the poetry of
any country was that it should have the flavour
of the soil from which It sprung. Mr. Higgins
does not seem to think so, judging by the qualifi-
cation he makes Probably he would prefer Aus-
tralian poetry to have a Polish, or even an Irish
flavour. Then he begins to be more particularly
critical. Listen:—”The founders of Australian
poesy were unquestionably Kendall, Gordon, and
Brunton Stephens, who, notwithstanding some
marked differences of style, greatly resembled
each other. They were poets througn taeir deep
reading of the poets of England, and all three
were melancholy anl horsey. Their literary turn
gave them fellowship with their native land, their
horieyness brought them en rapport with Aus-
tralia, and their melancholy with tne world. Each
and the three seemed to have been influenced by
the pessimistic philosophy of the day. Gordon
had made horse-pcetry a fpeclality, and ap •
peared to be in reality a Centaur, and re-
sembled Swinburne in big turbid sensuousuess. ’
There now is analysis for you 1 We will not say
that there is not the slightest resemblance be-
tween the work of Gordon aud of Kendall, but
we can safely venture on the assertion tnat there
is so little that only the eye of a Higgins
could discover it. Gordon was pre-eminently the
poet of the plains—the breath and freedom of the
bush is felt in his song—he takes you on long
journeys, riding rapidly, or “ sitting loosely in the
saddle all the wnlle,” and speculating upon the old
riddle of Whither, Whence and Way, wnlle
“ . . The bells on distant cattle
Waft across the range,
Through the ffolden-tuf ted wattle,
Music low and strange.”
But Kendall was the poet of the glens-tlje gullies
—tne green glooms and crystal torrents of tho
fountain lands rf Australia. There is a sense of


PE APES & SHAW'S
SPailS SHOW!
1PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING MILLINERY.
PEAPE’S and SHAW’S SPRING COSTUMES.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING DRESS
PA BRIGS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING FABRIC
GLOVES.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT
KID GLOVES,
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING HOSIERY,
from J. and R, MORLEY’S.
PEAPES and SHAW'S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
LACE GOODS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
EMBROIDERY.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
iPARASOLS.
ESPECIAL NOTICE1
All tho above goods are
Now Open for Inspection.
Large Shipments
for other Departments are
CLOSE AT HAND,
and a constant flow of
NOVELTIES
will be opened up
DURING THE SEASON.
PE APE’S & SHAW,
IMPORT El S and MANUFACTURERS,
324, 326, 328 George Street
Allen’s Black Wingen Oils.
THEY WORK LIKE A CHARM.
TO those who have been suffering from Rheu-
matism or Sciatica, we come with glad tidings
of the wonderful cures that have been effected by
CHA8. ALLEN’S BLACK WINGEN OILS. Num-
bers have been cured, and can attest to the great
and miraculous powers of these already famous
Oils.
There is now no reason why anybody should be
be racked with pain, when for the small sum of
2s. 0d„ a bottle of CHAS. ALLEN’S BLACK
WINGEN OILS may be obtained from any che-
mist or storekeeper. On how many occasions,
when you have been laid up with a severe attack
of lumbago, would j ou have given anything to
get relief ; also, when you have been rendered
sleepless through neuralgia or toothache, have
you sought in vain for a cure. Suff« r no more :
keep the balm by you—a bottle of Chas. Allen’s
Black Wingen Oils. It is needless to further recom-
mend, as a simple trial will prove to the most
sceptical the merit of Allen's Black Wingen Oils.
“TRY THEM.”
COSTELLO & GREY,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
ALLEN’S BLACK WINGEN OILS, stand un-
equalled for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
saddle girth, and wind Galls, Strains, Stakes,
Sprains, Bruises, Sweat Boils, Fistula, Wounds of
all descriptions No ’bus proprietor, carrier, or
stockowner should be without them. They will
heal any sore, no matter if freshly done or oi
years’ standing. No spell required to effect a cure.
“TRY THEM,”
May be obtained from Chemists and Storekeepcn.
COSTELLO GREY,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Agents.
P. KIRBY,
From tho late Mr. Jambs C jrtis,
"CTrsud-ertsilser,
S4 HUNTER Ac PHULLIP STREETS.
V JN3RALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Clrby was In the employ of the
Mr. James Curtlj for sixteen (18) yean;
Manager for over ten GO) years.
BEAD THIS!
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS.
Manufactured by
THE GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS CO.,
SALE.
Certificate by Win. Johnson, Government Ana-
lytical Chemist
“ Government Ana’yt cal Laboratory,
•‘Melbourne, July 14tb, 1884.
“ I have examined Trood's Hop Bitters (manu-
factured at Sale). They are remarkably pleasant
to the palate, and as a general tonic and promoter
of appetite for invalids and young people are no
doubt eacellent. The Hop Aroma is delicately
combined with a fragrant fruit flavour, producing
a really elegant preparation, which may be relied
on as beneficial to health and free from anything
deleterious.
(Signed) “ WM. JOHNSON,
“Analytical Chemist.”
THESE celebrated Bitters have been proved by
analysis to be a pure, del'cato. palatable com-
pound, and are invaluable in affording relief in all
cases of disorder i of the blood, stomach, liver,
nerves, etc.
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Will be found a perfect “ Balm of Gilead” to all
whoi are suffering irem shattered nerves, an over-
I worked brain, or lassitude; they are, in fact,
nature's brain and nerve food.
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Are an excellent appetiser, and may bo taken
with perfect safety by the most delicate invalids
and young people.
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Enrich and purify the blood, and are an exquisite
tonic and stimulant. If you are sick, no matter
from what cause, use
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS.
The large and increasing consumption has
gained for the Gipptlacd Hop Bitters Manu-
facturing Co. a wide celebrity.
Beware of Imitations,
And use only those manufactured by the
•GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS CO.
The v are pronounced to be the best and only genu-
ine Hop Bitters manufactured in the colonies.
Sale, Nov. 11th.
THOMAS TROOD & CO.,
Prprietora.
To be obtained from all the leading merchnnts,
chemists, and hotels in the colonies.
Sole Agent for Sydney—A. W. KBESON, Foy’s
Chambers, Bond-street, Sydney.
J. NOAKE,
320 ft 446 George Street,
AND
Pall mall, hunter STREET.
Just Unpacked, ex s.s. Rome,
12 Cases Rea / HA HAM A CIGARS
(Finest Brands), consisting of
“ ANTONIO MURIAS”
“ VILLAR OP VILLAR8”
‘ HENRY CLAYS”
“REAL”CABANAS
“LARRANAGA”
“ R1TICA”
"MORALES”
“ FLOR DE NARKS”
“PARTAGAS”
“ INTIMJDADS”
" FLOR DE CUBA”
“ EfSPANOLA ”
"LA CORONA”
«l. NOAKE,
320 & 446 GEORGE STREET,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
S88
'»IHE . REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY. RAPIDITY, EASE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves
labour, stationery, and time, writing much
fatter than expert penmen, and condensirg matter
to less than one-half the space occupied by pea
writing. Reautiful copies may be taken in the
usual manner ia the letter-press. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and author?,
reporters, and all men of business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
1MRAY and CO.,
85 Clarcnce-strect.
PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT—ELECTRIC BELTS
MESSRS. NEILD and CO., on behalf of The
Magnetical-Electrio Appliance Company,
earnestly desire to call the attention of the public
to the fact that, In consequence of the success
attending the sale of the above Company’s Elec-
tric Belts, Corsets, &o, a so-called Caution has
been published, emanating from an agent for
Electric erticles. who, prompted by a motive to
attempt to monopolise the sale of such articles,
the principle of which we emphatically assert has
been known to the world for at least twenty years
and are now being manufactured In Great Britain
by dozens of Arms, and variously styled lor the
purposes of a trade mark only, but avowedly par-
taking of the same nature, being an adapta-
tion of the element of Magnetloal Electricity.
Wo ask, therefore, those who desire to adopt
the treatment of Electricity for constitutional
or looai derangements, to compare our Elec-
tric Belts, Corsets, &c, with those of other
manufacture, as they are undoubtedly of su-
perior Electrical Strength, design, quality of
material, and elegance of finish. The 15s.
Gent.’s Belt is the best ever offered to the public
for ekctrical strength and quality. Gent.’sspecial-
power Electric Belts, 20s. These Belts are manu-
factured ei press! y for tropical climates, and are
very durable, as also are our Electric Corsets,
Lung Invlgorators, Spine Bands. &o.
THE
MAGN ETICALT
;
*
The “ Msgnetlcal Electric” Appliance Company’s
ELECTRIC BELTS, Corset Lung Invlgorators,
Spine Bands, Kneecaps, Insoles. &o, &c, is the
only perfect method for generating the curative
properties of the continuous current of Electri-
city, without the aid of batteries or use of acids,
without Incurring any risk of undue action upon
the mest delicate Invalid, and Impart Health and
Vitality to all who wear them.
The MAGNE1TCAL ELECTRIC TREATMENT
is now admitted by Medico-Electric Scientists, and
many leading Physicians, to be the most valuable
Electrical Remedial Agent for the Cure of all
Nervous Diseases, Affections of tho Heart, Epi-
lepsy, Spinal Complaints. Rheumatism, Lumbago.
Sclaiica, Paralyses, Gout. General Debility, Indi-
geslion. Female Complaints, &c„ &c , and is now
adapted for the Successful Treatment of all Lung
Troubles, hitherto without the domain of Electric
Agency.
One of Special Features of this Treatment Is
the MAQNBTICAL HLBCTKIC CORSET, which
is unsurpassed for Its curative properties in all
female troubles, and is of superior ebape and
manufacture. Plica, 10J,, lot, and 20i.
The Guinea Special Power Eltctric Belt lathe
same as sold in England for £3 3s. Thousands of
people of all ranks in the United Kingdom have
ttstifled to the beneficial results of the Magnetloal
Electric Treatment; and Testimonials from lead-
ing Medical and Scientific Men are in our pos-
session,
GENTLEMEN'S BELTS are manufactured of
superior material, in the shape of a riding belt,
and are very durable. Send size of waist, outside
fitst garment. Price, 15t, and 20j. ; if mailed, Is. 6d.
LUNG IN VIGOR AT OB S, 203.;
71. (id.; SPiNE BANDS, 10s.
INSOLES, invaluabjn tor cold feet, chilblains, and
detective circulation, 5s. (id. Send size of boot, or
paper pattern of iuside (Is. Gd. for postage).
All correspondence treated with the greatest
despatch. Post-office orders to he made payable to
E. S. NEILD & CO., 158 Pxtt-stkeet,
Sole Proprietors “ Magnetloal Electric” Appliance
Company, London and Sydney.
— . —'— s — 11
:
V "
Is
*3
ECONDMICALFURNnURBlnif ECONOMICflLFURNITURE
THE LARGEST AND ONLY LEGITIMATE
TIME-PAYMENT FURNITURE WARE-
HOUSE IN THE COLONY,
365 PITT STREET.
The success of Wolfe's Schnapps in these
Colonies has been unparalleled.
My mother drove the paralysis and neur-
algia all out of her system with American Hup
Bitters —Ed. Oswego Sun. See
The best internal disinfectant is Wolfe’s
Schnapps, the purest spirit known. Beware of
imitations.
Full many an aehirg heart is sad,
With weary sickness sore—
But clothed in tweed from Summerfl?ld’s,
Man yearns for nothin# more.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps. The public should
demand and take none but the genuine WoI/Fe’s
Schnapps.
Notice I—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for Invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hockings, 143 Pitt-street.
J. fUHNEH ROM NS ON &
TAILORING EHTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-straot,
Established U61
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OP
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS,
C'®'” Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guaranteed.
QUOD FACIMUS VALDE PACIMUS.
(What we do we do well.)
YOUR PHOTO,—If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what la hut well-meant
counsel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
arrayof port ralture, not of select-
ed specimens, but th a every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
f or and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices—C-D-V.,; Cabinets' 30s. per dozen.
CBEEX.MAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADE.
An&aal lumt honSi eu miasm.
4>
Lightning and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
BEST IN
THE WORLD
-*js
OFFICE
A
EE
I
LOWEST
IN PRICE
SCOTIAN -HORIZONTAL ENGINES,
‘ALBION” UONGSTROKE HORIZONTAL ENGINES. a
"CLIMAX” VERTICAL ENGINES & BOILER'S.
'“CLIMAX” PORTABLE-HOISTING ENGINES.'
i“BRITON”HORIZONTAL COMPOUND LAUNCH ENGINES.
INVERTED COMPOUND MARINE ENGINES.
.?• PORTABLE STEAM CRANES.
VERTICAL.CORNISH. g MARINE BOILERS.
rwm
imij
*>9
m
rilMitii
LARGE STOCKS;FOR*FULL PARTICULARS AND PRICES APPLY TO,
D.S W.ROBERTSON,SYDNEY, SOLE AGENTS ... NEW SOUTH WALES..
J.W.SUTTGN &C0. BRISBANE.SOLE AGENTS "-QUEENSLAND. 1
ROBISON CO.MELBOURNE.SOLE AGENTS '.-VICTORIA',
dreaminess and cool repose in his poems, which is
never found in Gordon’s. If there is anything
more than another, he distinctly is not, it is
“ horsey.” Brunton Stephens is different in very
essence from either Gordon or Kendall. But per-
haps the crassest Hiaginslsm is the assortion that
Gordon “ resembled Swinburne in his turbid aen-
suousness.” This is simply stark nonsense. Gor-
don has as little of the sensuous in his poetry, as a
poet can well have and vet remain a man. His
most Swinburnian poem—in manner and matter—
is “ The Rhyme of Joyous Guard,” and of that the
most sensuous verse—and tee most sensuous he
ever wrote, for the matter of that—ruts thus:—
“ Now I know full well that the fair spear shaft,
Shall never gladden my hand, nor the haft
Of the good sword grow to my fingers;
Now, the maddest fray, the merriest din
Would fail to quicken this life stream thin,
Yet the sleepy poison of that sweet sin
In the sluggish current still lingers,”
We have Italicised the last two lines, which con-
tain in themselves the essence of whatever of
seusuousness there may be in the whole of the
poem. And we do not think that they are much
to blush over—certainly not in the sense that some
of the ballads of Swinburne are. Gordon was a
clean-thinking, clean-living, manly man. Swin-
burne is not. Therein lies the difference. After
the verse quoted, Gordon makes Lancelot say:—
“ Would God I had slept with the slain men, long
Or ever the heart conceived a wrong
That the inmost soul abhorred—
Or ever these lying lips were strained
To her lids, pearl-tinted and purple vein'd,
Or ever those traitorous kisses stained
The snows of the spotless forehead.”
There is not much of the Swinburnian sensuous-
ness about that. Mr. Higgins says that Gordon
made horse-poetry a specialty. There is still
room] for Mr. Higgins to mahe a speciality of
jackass poetry. The only drawback we can ima-
gine to the popularity of his poems if he did this
is that the mass of readers might consider them
too introspective! But that is &, side question just
now. The weird lecture of the extraordinary
Higgins wound up with the characteristic-
ally extraordinary observation that “ the Aus-
tralia of to-day resembled England at the
time of Queen B'izabeth, so rich in poetry,
and possessed all the materials for poetic
culture.” Thank you, Higgins—student of his-
tory and Rhadamanthus of rhyme I You do us
proud, but we cannot blind ourselves to the fact
that the only resemblance between the Australia
of to-day and the E ngland of the time of Elizabeth
la In prevalence of profanity and mad lecturers.
You can stand down, Biggies 1


Professional Directory.
GEORGE PBR HIMAN. Scene PaJnter, Theatre
Royal, Brisbane. Disengaged.
m H B A T R B s O Y AL.
' ■ 1 Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musa rove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo.L. Goodman.
Established Success of „ _
WILLIAMSON. GARNER, and ML8GROVES
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING,
IOLANTHE IOLANTHE
IOLANTHE lOLANiHB.
Great preparations are being made for the pro-
duction, on the evening of Saturday, November
14>b. of Gilbert and Sullivan’s Japanese Opera.
THE MIKADO; or, THE TOWN OP T1TIPU.
Admission : Dress Circle. 5j.; Stalls, 3s.; Family
Circi e 2i« i
Tickets for all parts of the house at East way s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre dally from
10 till 5. No Free List.
N
B W OPERA-HOUSE.
Under the Lesseeship and Management of
MAJERONI and WILSON.
LAST WEEK BUT ONE
of the celebrated Australian Actor-Author,
Mr. GEORGE DARRELL,
and the splendid company
RENEWED SUCCESS RENEWED SUCCESS
of
GEORGE DARRELL’S
most popular and attractive Sensation Drama,
TRANSPORTED FOR LIFE
TRANSPORTED FOR LIFE
TRANSPORTED FOR LIFE,
its seventh production in Sydney.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Huenerbeln’s Music
Warehouse, 318 George-street. Tickets for all parts
of the house may be obtained at Roberts , tobac-
conist, next theatre.
JOB BROWN, Business Manager for Mr. Darrell.
A I B T T T HE A T R B .
Proprietor .. •• •• Mr« Jobn Solomon
Managerfor Mr. Solomon, Mr. B. N. Jones
Manager for Mr. Dampler, Mr. F, Gunther.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING,
LAST NIGHT of
THE BLACK FLAG.
FRIDAY EVENING. NOVEMBER 0th,
BY UNIVERSAL REQUEST,
The Immortal Tragedy,
HAMLET HAMLET HAMLET
HAMLET HAMLET HAMLET,
received on Friday last with unbounded approba-
tion, hundreds being refused admittance.
The general opinion that Mr. Dampier’s Grand Im-
personation has never been equalled in Australia.
Prices—Boxes, £ 1 2 j.; c i c jcstra chairs, 4s.; stalls,
3a.; parquette. 3j, ; ' nteeny, Is. No Free List.
Box plan now open at Nicholson and Co., Music
Warehouse, George -street.
Gr
rriH
IHB
ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL
_ George-street, Haymarket.
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING-
THE HOME OF MINSTRELSY and MIRTH.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
MINSTRELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
UNPARALLELED SUCCESS
Unparalleled Success of the
ALHAMBRA VARIETY COMPANY.
Refinement without Vulgarity.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 3s; stalls, Is;
balcony, la.
Artists of acknowledged ability disengaged,
please communicate with Mr. Frank Smith.
THE OLYMPIC
(late Old Masonic Hall, York-street).
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. M. L. Raphael.
Stage Manager .. Mr. H. Trevorah.
Brilliant Success and Increasing popularity of the
OLYMPIC BURLESQUE COMPANY,
now in their 6th week.
THE ONLY PLACE FOR BURLESQUE.
EVERY EVENING,
Byron’s Famous Rurle que,
DON JUAN. JUNIOR,
produced with Magnificent Costumes and new
Scenery. All the latest Songs and Dances.
The most complete Burlesque Company that ever
appeared la Sydney.
The Orchestra acknowledged to be unequalled,
and under the direction of Mr. G. Rivers Allpress.
Million Prices—Stolls, 3s.; Gallery la.
seats, at Nicholsons, 3a.
Reserved
Our next production, in’grand style, will be
ORPHEUS AND EURYDICB.
Academy of music.
Under the Management of
RIQNOLD. ALLISON, and HI8COCK8.
Established Success of the
RTCKAKDS-LEETE COMBINATION.
IMMENSE RECEPTION NIGHTLY.
The Great and Only
HARRY RICK ART) 3.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING,
BuIC-A-BRAC.
LIGHTNING CARTOONIST
Nightly Sketches National Portraits and leading
Sydney Celebrities.
; Prides-fs., 3t., 3s., and Is,
Box plan at Nicholson and Co.’s Music Ware-
house, 333 George-street. No Free List.
Manager for Harry Rickards— Huchan Hepburn.
Acting Manager G A. Co reman.
TO THEATRICAL MANAGERS—Miss FANNY
SHARPE is open to Engagement for Bur-
lesque, Opera Boulfe, &c., &o. Address Post
Oflice, Melbourne.
“THE LYCEUM,’’
Newcastle,
SITUATED IN THE BEST PART OP THE GIT'S
It Is capable of seating 500 people,
and suitable for
MUSICAL & DRAMATIC ENTERTAINMENTS
The Stage (40ft. by 34ft.) Is furnished with
STOCK, SCENERY. &c.
For Terms, apply
COLIN CHRISTIE.
"The Lyceum,”
Newcastle.
E P P S’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
a
BEAT
8 U C C E 8
of
FRYER & CO.’S CIRCUS,
EQUINE PARADOX and TRAINED ANIMAL
EXHIBITION,
DIRECT PROM AMERICA.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY). NOVEMBER 5,
and each evening until further notice.
Belmore Park.
A Chaste, Moral, and Unique Exhibition-as
novel as interesting.
Twenty-live Ponies, Dogs, and Goats, whose
like do not exit on the face ol the earth. They
speak with eloquent action, and demonstrate
superior sense.
A troupe of
FINISHED ACROBATS, GYMNASTS & CLOWNS
r
RIDING GOATS,
BIDING DOGS.
GRAND MILITARY DRILL BY A REGIMENT
OF PONIES.
Admission— 4i, 2s. 63., Is.
Doors open at 7.30, performance begins at 8
o’clock sharp j carriages ordered at 10.15.
Special MATINEES, for Ladies and Children,
EVERY SATURDAY, at 3 p m,
for
infants and Children
[ What gives our Children rosy cheeks,
L What cures their fevers, makes them sleep;
& Castoria..
t When Babies fret, and cry by turns,
t What cures their colic, kills their worms, ,
f Castoria. i
t What quickly cures Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Colds, Indigestion ;
I Castoria.
Farewell then to Morphine Syrups,
Castor Oil and Paregoric, and
Hall Castoria.
“ Castoria- is so well adapted to Children
that I recommend it as superior to any medi*
cine known to me."—II. A. Akcuee, M. D,
111 Oxford St., New York.
Elliott Beds., Sidney, Agents.
A Blessing in every Family.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world
where the healing virtues of these grand medi-
cines have not been recognised by thousands of
sufferers.
In all the ordinary aliments of humanity their
benlflcent action is at once recognised.
Fullest directions are supplied for their use In
every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxi'onn-BT., London.
Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots If the address is not 533 Oxford-
street, London, they are spurious.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 20th October, 1885.
TENDERS FOR RETAINING WALL, TAt
PAVING, AND REPAIRS.
TENDERS arc invited for the Erection of a
Retaining Wall, and for Asphalting and
Repairs, at the Public School at Alblon-street.
Plana and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of tho Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Retaining Wall,
Asphalting, and Repairs, Albion-sireet Public
School,” must be lodged with the Under Secretary,
Department of Public Instruction, at or befoie
10 o'clock a.m., on Tuesday, the 10th November ■
188.').
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
TO Country Journalists.—Leaders, Telegram
and Sydney Letters, supplied by competer
literary man of long experience, on moderal
terms. “ Beta,” Bulletin Office.
ex
LIMITED,
356 George-street,
Have the
LARGEST AND REST
SELECTED STOCK
of
FI&NOP, ORGANS,
and
MUSIC.
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EASY TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices cn Application.
W. H. PALING & Co.
350 Ceorpre-street, Sydney.
DR. BOYD,
53 CASTLBREA GH-STREET, SYDNEY
(TJ nRfftJyfi)
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY
Registered Physician of New South Walts.
, Office Hours: ;
10 a.m. to i p.m. Monday, Wednesday;
Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and Female Diseases a
n _ Specialty.
Box 130 G.P.O.
CONTINUED SUCCESS
OF
RILEY BROTHERS'
ORIGINAL
£5 MiPERI BALES!
PACKED In CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
Carriage paid by mall all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been In operation for la
during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever
and carriage arrangements quick and safe, ’
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
£5 LADY’S BALE.
8 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 dignt-gowns
4 Ladles Camisoles
3 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Nlght-gowcs
3 Petticoats
Tho above are made
of good longcloth and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, olher articles may
be ordered Ir stead of
any of the above.
es MOURA INC BALE.
25 yds. Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 di z Crape Trimming
1 Black SI awl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Htt
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVES.
On receipt of 3j, j n
stamps, we send, p
free, a pair of 3 or 4.
button kid or silk uloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For accouohements, w e
have also a Bale oontaln-
Infants Clothing.
ii a 5 y *i lnen ' Christening
Kobe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5.
13s.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady s New Accouche-
ment Beit for fifteen
shillings, or a pafr of best
Nurfirg Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, ore-
ove |j 8 ‘ ad y °f ftreat experience, and shal
amo a 5 py to f orf«d Patterns of the most fashion,
able dress materials Silks, Velvets, &c with
If allied to? in8tructl0Q for aelf-measuromTut
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Itreet, Sydney.
Originate; s of the celebrated £5 BaP-s of Drapery
. „ WEAK pi/itfij
!i°ess V etc'* J I P wilT al “‘ i nonh-
certain simple, cure*
tree of Charge. Address, in confidence! ’
Prof. M. L. TAYLOR,
68 Elizabeth St.,
SYDNEY N.SW.
OHAS. OTTE & CO.;
Electrical Engineers,
113 Pitt Stkeet.
Electric Batteries for surgical and household use, Electric Bells
Private Telephones, Electric Lights, Lightning Conductors Dyna-
mos, and all Electrical appliances fitted at the shortest notice at
25 per cent, under usual price. J
CHAS. OTTE & CO., 113 Pitt Street
THE
Mori Model Funs!
SALE ON THE GROUND,
Saturday, November 7 ; and Prince of Wales’
Birthday, Monday, November 9.
Special Steamer will leave No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay a t 8
mg passengers on to the Model Farms, and returning at 5
buyers ; or, intending purchasers can travel by °
a rn . on both days, convey-
p TO. Fares, 5s —allowed to
THE OVERLAND ROUTE,
retur * tame day ; or by special arrangement from Saturday to Monday
PLVNS, TICKETS, PAMPHLETS, AND PARTICDLA.U3, FROM
BOYD & KING, Auctioneers,
OG 3Pltt Street.
m~ The Term? of Sale are a 5-ACRE BLOCK for .£75 navabl-i -eo
balance £2 per month. No Interest. Torrens’Title. Assistance to oniirt anc
to settlers requiring several blocks. ' build, special termi


/a
* '
er THIRTY SHILLINGS.
thirty shillings.
The Auto phoneS
% —•
rflHIS triumph of musical invention is acknovr-
I.. ledged on all hands to be the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It is a wonderful little instrument, which, while
it weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL-SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and executes its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT,
It has 22 reeds, plays in three keys, and all the
parts of most difficult music.
To Mr. H. B. Horton, the inventor, the world
was first Indebted for the Organ etto; but that was
too expensive to come within the reach of all.
After years of persistent effort and intelligent
study, be has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of cost and crudeness.
It requires no skill to extract from it any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas, Waltzes, Poikas,
Marches, Popular Songs, &c., &c., &c. A child can
play any of these selections with perfect accuracy.
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that are sent with each
instrument, and are so plain that “ he who runs
may read.” It is best adapted to the kind of music
which suits an organ best, in which chords pre-
dominate ; but it has also wonderful power in
executing very lively pieces. It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card-holder for convenience
in singing. It will be found invaluable for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and
for Dancing. Every shanty in the bush should bo
supplied with one ; and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autophone. It will afford greater and better
entertainment than four times the price can pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Sole Agents for this marvel-
ous little instrument in the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
or
474 GE0R6E STREET SYDNEY
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the colonies. Orders have
come to us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonely
shepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the cities—from
everywhere, in fact. And one of the best argu-
ments we can offer as to the genuineness of the
instrument, is the fact that, in ail our corre-
spondence, we have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they will recommend it
to their friends.
It is conceded by all educators and moralists
that music is the great refining influence, and
especially with children its effect for good is
boundless. The love for music which music in
the family engenders, is more potent in forming
dispositions and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, end parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm which renders an other
wise bard task an easy one.
The price of the Autophone is 30s.,
and where good music can be procured for such a
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let bis household
be without it. With each Autophone for 30s. we
send three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
All orders for music are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it our
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogues of tunes at any time.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Sole Agents for Australia:
Oriental Gold Company.
474 Cxeorge-street, Sydney, 474
Opposite entrance to Fruit Markets.
Wolfe’s Schnapps.—It has often been
pirated, but never had a rival.
Wolfe’s Schnapps the only genuine brand
of Schnapps in the world. Beware of imitation.
I will go, said the lover, and ask her papa;
And although he's a bit of a brute,
Thruth he may not like me, he Is certain to smile
On my superfine Summerfleld suit.
WOLFa’s Schnapps is sold by every respect
able publican. Accept no other.
When purchasing Schnapps specify
Wolfe s Schnapps, as it is the only genuin
Schnapps.
Why persist in drinking lemonsde manu
factored from Imported mostly adulterated ‘*Oi
of Lemons,” if you can obtain a genuine article
prepared from Australian grown lemons, a
Mtssrs Dalm and Oertel, Water and Cordia
Manufacturers, 103 Put street ?*
All persons who have tasted Wolfe’s
Schnapps unadulterated fully appreciate its
superior qualities.
The gates of all the marts of the world are
open to Wolfe’s Schnapps, because it is the
purest spirit known.
WILLIAM BEACH—“The Champion Sculler's
Opinion.”—Mr ssrs. Butcher, Fehon and Co„ 11
FUt street. Dear Sirs,—I used your St. Louis
Lsger Beer during my training for the late cor-
test with Mr. Bdwerd Hanlan, and think It the
most refreshing drink I have ever tasted. It does
not affect tho head or make me sleepy, as a great
many other beers would do. I snouid advise evt ry
man who is going to train for a bard contest to
drink the Anheuser Butch St. Lou s Lager Beer.
(Signed) Yours truly. WM. BEACH.*
It is admitted that no purer spirit is placed
before the public than Wolfe's Schnapps. Be
sure yon obtain Wolfe’s.
Every year Wolfe’s Schnapps gaius in
favour with a d seeming public, while other
liquors are cast into oblivion.
An item of fashionable intelligence from
Tumnt, N 8. W. Mr. T. Campbell and Miss H.
H'.md, two re-adents, got inside the matrimonial
vinculum last week, and the felicitations of the
local hoollums vented themselves through the
musical but tempestuous tin kettle. The bride’s
sisters had saved up for the occasion. They bed
saved ancient eggs. A basketful. As the ti- -
kottlers settled themselves in front of the house
for a substantial solid harmonious bout, the
sisters started dealing out their maiden tribute of
odoriferous recognition. Ten musicians went
away without claiming backsheesh or whisky.
Wolfe’s Schnapps taken before meals is a
wonderful appetizer. Try it.
When the lamp of life burns low, use
Wolfe’s Schnapps. It will give you a new life.
MacLaughlin’s Bodega, 308 Gleorge-street
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best v ne-
yards of Australia— by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &c.*
Insist upon having tho genuine Schnapps
which bears the name "Wolfe’s Schnapps ” on
the label.
Drink Wolfe’s Schnapps, tho purest
stimulant in the world. Invaluable for the liver
and kidneys,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
THiATRi Royal—"lolantho”... p. 8.
Gaiety Theatre— “ Tbe Black Flag” „
The Olympic -Comedy and Burlesque „
uiKRA Housa— “ Transported for Life” „
Alhambra —Variety Company „
Fryer’s Circus, Belmore „
Although the weather was treacher-
ously tbroatenng 01 Saturday evening, the
revival ot “ lolanthe” at the Sydney Royal bad
the effect of filling the theatre from floor to cell-
ing. Some changes have been made In the cast
since the opera wps last presented. Mr. Howard
Vernon takes the place of Mr. Brough, Miss Alice
Barnett of Miss Trevelyn, and Miss Ida Osborne
of Miss Chambers. The recalls were numerous
and the whole piece went gaily.
* * *
Mr. Vernon’s articulation was not suffi-
ciently distinct. No doubt it was as distinct as
a Lord Chancellor’s usually is, but it is one of the
privileges of that high functionary that he is not
obliged to sing patter-songs to a critic il audience.
The fooling was also a little too emphatic for the
delicate sense of burlesque conveyed by the other
parts. “ Love, hopeless love,” is, as it has always
been, a disturbing element wherever it takes up
quarters, but the convolutions it puts Mr. Vernon
through are much too elaborate and difficult of
execution for passion of any kind to inspire. He
played on his part of the play. Gilbert’s idea was
to make a Lord Chancellor whose opinions and
actions would, without showing consciousness of
purpose, reveal the incongruities that constitute
humour. Mr. Vtrnon showed a strong, settled,
wilful, vicious pre-determination to be an inex-
tinguishable joker.
♦ * *
Miss Ida Osborne sang the music allotted
to lolanthe with cire. The ballad beginning “He
loves ” was executed with tenderness and power.
Miss Birnett was, however, the most notable of
tne new people. Her massive proportions and
general evidence of substance and weight sent her
words in, point first. It was for her the part of
the Fairy Queen was originally written, and the
light pen of Gilbert is detected in supplying her
with such phrases as these—“Who taught me to
curl myself inside a buttercup ? lolanthe I Who
taught me to swing upon a cobweb? lolanthe!
Who taught me to dive into a dewdrop-to nestle
in a nutshell—to gambol upon a gossamer ?
lolanthe!” Miss Barnett looks to weigh some-
where about 20 stone lj Besides, notwithstanding
some peculiarities of voice, her song, “ Oh, foolish
fay!’’ was the gem of the night.
- • •
The other performers were treated to
notices on the first appearance of the piece. It
need only be said that on this occasion they act
and sing creditably. The scenery and appoint-
ments enhance the reputation of the company, and
the instrumental music was well rendered.
* • * *
“I’m to be Amliok,” said the American
tragedian, “an’ 1 want you to touch up the piece
a bit. Jest make mo boss of a rink, and to elope
with Mrs. King in the 3rd act. Theu yer might
wedge some scalpin’ and Red Injuns into it some-
how. That ought ter make the taing hum.” But
even without such improvements and additions
Mr. Dampier makes “ Hamlet ” hum at the Gaiety.
On Friday night last “standing room only” was
posted ten minutes before the curtain rose, and
throughout the performance every part ot the
house was packed with an Interested and discrim-
inative mass of humanity.
* * •
Mr. Dampier announced the production
with becoming modesty. He looked rather to the
Intrinsic merit ot the “play which has been pro-
duced In every part of the civilised world during
the last 375 years, and each time with it creased
enthusiasm,” than to his own individual effort.
His interpretation of the name-part, although
hardly to be compared with that of some actors to
whom “Hamlet” has been a life-study, was a
strong and popular performance. The finer
triumphs of the art of an Irving are caviare to the
general, and the majority applaud the reputation
of the actor rather tnan the perfection of his art.
But Mr. Dampier obtains sympathetic plaudits—
the tributes of sincere and intelligent admiration.
He has made every action of the unfortunate
Thane the subject of special study, and yet his act-
ing is natural and rarely blemished by rant or ex-
travagance. Perhaps his least pleasing effort was
in the delivery of the famous soliloquy. In this
he less commended himself than at any other time,
for his voice and action seemed tqually deficient
in force, but in the ensuing tete-a-tete with Ophelia,
as well as in the players’ scene, his art attained a
very high level of excellence.
* * *
Mr. B. N. Jones made his points well as
Polonlus, and Alfred Boothman was successful as
Laertes, but Mr. Stoneham’s Claudius was hardly
on a par with these two. He did not appear to
have a thorough grip of the situation and its
dangers, and asked "flow now?. What hath be-
fallen ?” in the same manner that one might en-
quire whether John Davies was likely to be next
Premier, or if it were true that the Kyardinal
usually wears yellow pants. Harry Lestoa was a
thoroughly conventional first grave-digger, and
this is the highest praise that is possible for the
part, for. according to all the traditions, anything
original in this part is necessarily as vile as original
sin. Horatio would do well to be letter perfect
before the next production ol the piece.
* * ♦
It is proposed to give Shakespeare a show
on every Friday night during the season. Thu de-
termination should be equally profitable to the
management and pleasing to the public. But in
one particular wo would like to sec an improve-
ment, and that is in the conduct of the “ talent”
m the gallery. Such interjactions as “Go for the
eld un, Amlick” may be exceedingly witty, but
they interrupt the sentiment. Not only at the
Gaiety are the “push” troublesome, they are
present and noisy at all the theatres. It is told of
a Frisco amateur performance of “ Hamlet ” that
the boss of the local fire brigade, who was the
Ghost, turned the hose on to the jeering audience
In like manner, we would like to see a half-inch
nozzls turned onto the occupants of the gallery
and would watch the operation with still greater
Pleasure if a small quantity of scented soap were
mixed with the fluid.
* m m «
The “Black Flag,” a sensational four-act
drama by Henry Poititt, was produced at the
Gaiety on Saturday night to a well-lilled house,
ihe play turns upon the adventures aud villainies
rn Harr y an( i John Olyndon, the sons of Owen
Glyndoa, a hard-hearted and tallow-brained old
farmer. Love, murder, forgery, burglary, are In-
cluded in tho plot, but in the last act Virtue turns
up with triumph written on her brow aud a 30 o p.
Bmild playing around her visage. As a dramatic
work the “ Black Flag” is gorgeous, as a moral
lesson it is huge. The acting calls for no special
comment. Dampier played Harry; Edmund Hollo-
way, Owen Olyndon, aud Bojtham, the would-bs-
Parson. Captain riandiside and Lszuus, two
modela of beauty, were played by Stoneham and
stark. We are uot surprised at Lazarus' loan-
mine going bung, ts his face was quite suffleieut
jo keep anyone who wanted to do business in his
ujie at a respectable distance. Miss Lily Dampier
Played Naomi, and impressed the audience with
the tact that beside* ability in acting she is also
Possessed of plenty of lung-power. Miss Rote
jumpier, ss Ned the street Arab, played well, but
u she would only drawl her voice a little less it
would add to her success in the part. I he minor
Parts were filled by Mbs K Russell and Mias Julia
rl e , rt dpaul G. Leopold, J Cieiar, Harry Leston,
".“U Kenzie, The icanery by Kincheia was
good, but what the bill announced to be “the
great mechanical change from the quarry to the
’Pen sea” wss hardly an artistic success or a
'“On ph of mechanism. Infacf, we are morally
„5”tam that tho mechanism employed to shift tho
cone was a navvy—a glimpse of whose hobna’led
u.teens we cmght as the chanae was taking place.
xne ’ «ed« ” again made tae gallery hideous with
shouting, hooting, and back-slum repartee. A
half-dozen good “chuckers-out ” among them
would do some good in preserving order, and add
aarood deal to the comfort of those who occupy
t “ e lower parts of the house—especially the ladles
—who had to sit and listen to the coarse jokes of a
mob of human fiends.
* * * »
As Mr. Farrell proceeds with his plays one
gets surer ground tor forming an opinion on bis
dramatic capacity, and the view he takes of the
u® es art. On Monday night ho presented, for
p.®i® hrot time in Sydney, a piece of work called
Transported for Life.” This professes to be a
sensational drama of a peculiarly fascinating kind.
The announcement of its appearance bad the
effect of drawing a large number of spectators to
the Opera House. The applause and general evi-
dences of interest they manifested proved their
tastes had been considered and their expectations
realised.
♦ * *
The story is trite. Hubert Cluados is
transported for the murder of a miser. The
actual murderer is James Tyrrd, a ilval of
Hubert's for the hand of Edith Vaughan. On
Hubert’s release on a tioket-of-kave the men
meet. Tyrrel sets himself to destroy Hubert, and
finally to destroy Edith also. He fails, of course,
but his efforts constitute the threal of the drama.
* * *
The picture of the mining-camp is well
drawn. The pannikins are too bright for an estab-
lished digging field, but the general vraisemhlance
is carefully produced. The ship at sea and i he sea
itself are finely represented. From a mere spec-
tacular point of view they are admirable. If taken
out of the play and set up for use in a magic lantern
entertainment they would go well. The sensations
are also striking. Hubert is thrown down a shaft
of great depth, and stays there till he is wound up
Edith is chloroformed and thrown through the
port-hole of a ship into the raging sea. Hubert
after a while dives after her. Through the blue
waters he swims withj her on his arm, for, ap-
parently, something like six or seven weeks. B jth
are conslderatly exhausted by this time. They*
had not had a chance of bringing provisions with
them, and were so hard worked that they could
not even do a little bit of fishing. From the
appearance of the water it should have been a
good place for eels. At last, however, a sailing
vessel arrived, and flung them a rope.
* m m
When the mechanical effects have been
described there remains little to be said about the
piece. The performers were substantially the
same as in the former plays, and although the
conditions changed, stuck substantially to the
same old phrases. It is a healthy thing to go to
one of Mr. Darrell s performances. What happens
on the stage is not the only valuable consideration.
'The great body of the spectators are a hygienic
influence. Their terms of approval when the
hero clenches his fist to hit the vlllian are so un-
sophisticated, their interest in the love-making
scenes so Arcadian, their commendation c f virtue
and condemnation of vice so thoroughly in accord
with the best moralities, that we question very
much whether Mr. Darrell should not apply to
Primate Barry for permission to give performances
in St. Andrew s Cathedral.
* * * *
Tbe management at Sydney Olympic have
made a greater advance by substituting “ Don
Juan, junior,” for “ Acis and Galatea,” than they
did in replacing “ Quits” by the latter. To run
•‘Don Juan,” three more artistes have been added
to the company. Miss Dot Head is the most
notable of these, but the others—Jessie Howard
and Annie Boleyn—supplement the symmetrical
beauty of the choir. Byron’s metrical romance
merely furn shes the characters for this burlesque,
and in the action and dialogue the erratic pro-
clivities land sinful conduct of Don Juan are not
even suggested, much to the disappointment of
the giddy old boys. Amy Horton is the hero, and
dressed in swallow-tail coat and fixings, dots
much to refute the objections to the sdoption of
this “ divided dress ” by the sex. The only valid
of jection to the abandonment of petticoats by
the daughters of Eve, has been that girls would
41 look horrid without them,” but if ladies could
only assume these garments with as much suc.oss
as the feminine “Sydney mashers,” even single
girls would yearn to 41 wear ’em.” Emily Fox,
as Haidee, sets with aplomb, and verve, and is
chic [now give us some Engl.sh. -Ed B] but in
one particular does not dress the part correctly,
for Byron’s island beauty, though very tall, had
tresses which reached her heel. Perhaps, as Miss
Emily has only been Haid<Se-camp to Lambro for a
while her locks have not had full time to
grow. The dialogue of Don Juan is foamy and
bright, and the topical songs, 4, Oh, my, certainly
not,” and, “He’ll have to make other arrange-
ments,” are piquant and smart enough to secure a
demand for the encore verses. To oorrow a quip
from the epilogue, the burlesque, although only a
piece of clever 44 patchwork,” does not deserve to
be “ quilted,” ana should be good for a compara-
tively lengthy run. Ic will be succseded by ‘ Or-
pheus and Eurydice.”
♦ * * *
There are many points in Fryer’s show—
the Equescurriculum—at variance with the ortho-
dox circus of our youthful days, and we could
have fallen upon Mr. Fryer’s neck and wept when
it first broke upon us that Miss Montmorenci of
o d, with usual accompaniments of paint, pads
powder, and played-out jukes .would be rendered
conspicuous by reason of her absence from the
magic circle. The ponies show some eiever train-
ing. Braco and Humpty play see-saw with the
gusto of a couple of school-boys—at least Braco
does—but Humpty don’t seem to catch on kindly
to sitting down In the chair, and as it takes a con-
siderable amount of whip to persuade him to do
so, it seems a pity Mr. Fryer cannot see hig way
clear to allow the little fellow to stand up during
the performance. Equestrian goats take part in
the entertainment, but they nave a far-off, ur-
nappy look, as if they would much prelor the
free, if scanty, herbage of the Soudan, to the
gilded slavery of the circus-beg-pardon, the
equescurriculum, A pony, called Ensign, jumps
a five-foot fence with three ponies ranged along-
side of It, and a troupe of trained dogs make up
the sum total of the four footed portion of the
snow, fumbling, double horizontal bars, contor-
tions by the “ man serpent,” and a remarkably
clever act by the three 44 Marvels of Peru,” make
up a show that, judging by the crowded houses is
&c., &o, &c.
* * * *
The Lynch people make a move towards
Melbourne on Monday, They go overland, playing
at Windsor, Ooulburn. Yass. &o.. en route Their
career in Sydney and its suburbs bus been what the
NOOZB would call an “unpreoeddoted sucoesj.*'
* * * «
“Nita’s First” and “ Writlen in Band,”
two trifles that, were produced In Sydney eight or
nine months back, have been put up at the Mel-
bourne Dijou with a strong company. Business,
though, is scarcely as brisk as it might be. The
first-named farce has had the stieg taken out of it
by Confusion,” while " Written ia Sand” is not
substantial enough to draw by itself. The literary
tnent of this little comedietta, though, is undeni-
able. The dialogue ia very highly polished—too
much so, at times. Talk usually has to be shar-
pened at somebody’s expense, and the “ Written in
r, P e °Pl e use one another as grindstones
Dion Boucioault, the younger, and his sister aie
lorn Potts and Kate Shirley, originally played
here by H. H. Vincent and Miss Annie L’aylor, and
Miss Trevellyan succeeds Miss Jenny Watt-Tanner
as Sister Winilred. Too latter lady was strongly
suggestive of the F«iry Queen in “lolanthe.” if
all bisters of Mercy were as handsome and got
their gowns cut at the ssme shop as this on®,
wouldn’t we just fall sick to-morrow. Only once
before In our life have we come across a real
pretty 4 ’Sister.” She kindly undertook to show
us though a monastery, or nunnery, or something,
with a lot of winding passages about It. She
looked so tempting in the dim light that we finally
summoned up courage to “give her one.” The
Jin-devotion we believe to have been acceptable.
We left her blushing and counting her beads.
♦ ♦ ♦
Herbert Flemming was once more the
manly but unpleasant “intended” of Kate Shir-
ley. Tltheradge renewed acquaintance with us
in the character of Frank Seaton, the lucky man
whose nime Kate writes in the sand with artless
unconsciousness and the point of her parasol. He
was
“That landscape painter who did win her heart
from she.”
Mr. Titheradge’s make-up spake eloquently of his
cailinar. He wore long flaxen tresses and a brown
velveteen coat. To make assurance doubly sure,
he painted a picture—With chalk, we believe. It
was bold in conception and a rich brown in colour.
Looking at this masterpiece, young Tom Potts
said, “ Ah, I wish I could paint like that.” The
face of the wily flatterer was turned from the
audience as he breathed this wish, but we noticed
his shoulders shake with what we charitably pre-
sumed to be suppressed emotion. Mr. Boucicault,
by the way, revel ed in the character of Tom
Potts, and Miss B. was certainly the daintiest little
Kate that ever elected to sit on the edge of an
empty well to make love. She usually tolls her
lover a charming legend about this same well, but
the night we looked in it had quite slipped her
memory. The prompter told us a few of the lead-
ing incidents, and the nst was left to our imagina-
tion.
♦ ♦ ♦
We were favoured with another peep at
Miss Boucioault. She was Nlta—and the very
nicest of Nitas, too. Her “First” —that’s the
baby with such an adventurous career—played la
natural, unaffected style, and lent a certain
harmoniousness to the closing ec;ne by crying a
little. Mr. Robert Brough was not well suited as
Mr. Irascible Pizzleton. R's humour is too dry for
that class of character. Very much better was the
Mrs. F zzleton of Miss Jenny Watt-Tanner. Her
portrait of the harmless, garrulous mamma was
excellent. By the way, a Melbourne paper, speak-
ing of her performance, says: "The Australian
stage need look no further for a sterling, unexag-
gerated delineator of old-woman parts.” Kather
rough this on a lady whom butlateiy we saw play-
ing a giddy girl of seventeen In the “ Parvenu.”
Tltheradge and Hans Phillips took up their old
characters acceptably as ever, and Misses Tre-
vellyan and BmmaChambersdid everything that’s
possible as Mrs. Fred, Fizzleton and ner servant.
To Miss Emma's lot fall two or three • spiry”
lines, anri none of the spice was lost in her fair
bands. Yet, in spite of all these good things,
“Nita’s First” has not been a paralysing success.
* * * *
“Lights o’ London” drawsgood “gates” at
Melb urne Opera House. There are no subtle
shades of character about G. K. Sims’ dramatic
creations. Virtue is so virtuous and vice so
vicious that the gallery boys can tell t'other from
which at a glance. Judging irom the nlght'y de-
mot aerations at George Rignolh’a theatre, we
should say that the gallery has been educated up
to a keen abhorrence of everything t fiat’s wicked.
Tnis piece is well mounted, and the characters are
satisfactorily cast. There are plenty of policemen
in it. Mr. Kignold seems vary happy in his stage
“ coppers ” We fancy, though, that it doesn't re-
quire much study to make a man a competent
member of the force. We stayed to see the big
scene of the Boro’ on Saturday night, but fan-
cied some of the “auxiliaries” hardly threw
enough soul into their work. Perhaps their “screw”
doesn’t run to it. By the way, there s a good story
told about the last revival of “ Lights o’ London”
at the Princess’s, Lon 01. For this Boro’ scene
ha'f-a dozen bona fide iur-capped " costers” were
engaged to run on to the assistance of the heroine
just as the curtain falls. They were exhorted
times out of number to “ be natural.” “ Say just
what you would la the streets,” entreated the
stage-manager. They did. .At the manager’s sig-
nal those six costers rushed on with one great
shout of “ Leave the — woman alone.”
» • mm
The British public, which has long and
breathlessly awaited the appearance of Mrs.
Langtry in boy’s clothes as the hero of Mr. Wills’
play, “ The Little Tramp,” was disappointed when
the event actually came off. The “duds” con-
sisted of a pair of easy-fltting knee-breeches and
a long smock coat. The acting of the lady was
well spoken of, but the costume was painfully
modest. Mary Anderson recently euchred her
elderly admirers in much the same manner when
sae appeared in doublet and top-boots as Rosalind,
at Shakespeare’s Theatre. A large class of piav-
goers are so devoted to their favourite actresses
that they can never see enough of them. Much
ballet has wearied them of raiment.


BRIEF MENTION.
Baal budgery—Badgery.
J ohn Davies headed the poll. Vox populi,
vox J. Dei.
Bad news from Burmah. The account of
King Theebaw’s murder is a Ham.
“ Want is the twin brother of alcohol,”
says the Melbourne Age, Exactly. When a man
is in alcohol he wants more.
“ Cardinal Moran is the bearer of the
Pope’s blessing to the Australian Churches.” It
is rumoured that he carries it in bis hat—his car-
dinal's hat, of course.
The last thing out in Sydney is a society
for the prevention of cruelty to fish. In a short
time every animal but one in Wales will be
by law protected from cruelty- Ihat one is man.
Bh, Sir Alfred I
A lot of people in Melbourne have been
agitating lor an Inebriates’ Retreat.” This
puzzles us. We don't find, in a general way, that
Inebriates want a retreat. They often ask for an
advance, though.
N.S.W. has two country editors named
respectively Braine and Beer. As in much of the
journalism of the present day Brain and Beer are
each the complement of the other, the pair should
pull well together.
Of all the bands that played throughout
Melbourne and Its suburbs on Hospital Sunday
the Richmond band deserves the greatest credit
for kindly thoughtfulness. It played opposite the
I cemetery. No other band seemed to think that
the poor corpses wanted cheering up a bit.
In Hunter-street, Sydney, an old house Is
i to be pulled down to make room for a new one,
and this is how the local D.T. alludes to the cir-
cumstance ” The Moloch of progress will shortly
devour another landmark in Sydney. And yet
people cavilled at the New Jersey man for begin-
ning his address to the ocean with “Profound
Dampness I”
A seizure of so-called blasphemous litera-
ture was made last week by the Melbourne Cus-
toms autnorities. It was only a small consign-
ment of tracts, but one of them bora the title of
41 Sinful Saints and Sensual Shepherds. That was
where the blasphemy came in. Shepherds
never sensual. Sometimes they get filled with t
spirit—nothing more.
The Bundaberg (Q ) Star has
to grip a tuft of commonsense on the Dana
life, and is therefore borne away by the xoa
From Friday till Monday.—The Cruise of the “Nameless.”


torrent to the swirling maelstrom of sick philoso-
phigrns. This Is one of his reflective gurgles: —
*‘ The assaulting of women, stealing of knives, and
general blackguardism, is rapidly becoming
characteristic of Nineteenth Century civilisation.”
This drought may ruin N.S.W. Prayers
and humiliations are without effect on J. Piuvlus.
The Government should arrange for a review of
the military at an early date. That sad spectacle
always makes the rain-god weep.
Advt. from Melbourne Argus, 24th Octo-
ber:—‘‘Salvation Army.-Soldiers, Attention I—
The funeral of the late Thomas Elliott, who fell
asleep in Jesus In the Melbourne Gaol on the 23nd
Inst., will move from the Prison Gate Brigade
Home, corner Russell-street and Flinders-lane,
this day, at 3.30, proceeding up Russell-street to
the Melbourne Cemetery. A special band accom-
panies the funeral. Jambs Barker, Major.”
Grim, isn’t It ?
The French have revived an old revolu-
tionary law which makes the State take charge of
every seventh child of a family In necessitous cir-
cumstances. from the age of six. We would
favour some such bonus on big families wirh a
limitation, so that in future the Stephen, Lucas
and La-key families could not ‘‘ring in ’ more than
six or seven dead-bead babies each on the bleeding
colony of N.S.W.
There has been quite a boom in the bur-
glar industry in Melbourne during the Cup week
and for some time previous. It is somewhat
gratifying to the present writer’s pride to notice
that several of the moit clever robberies have
been accomplished by Sydney artists. It is also no
less satisfactory to hear that a number of these
artists are now being boarded and lodged at the
expense of the Victorian public. And yet, with
these facts glaring them in the eye, there are
people who decry the usefulness of races—of
course, we mean races In another colony. It Is
passing strange and unaccountable.
The question as to whether or not ex-
change of pulpits enlarges Christian sympathies
admits of Indefinite discussion among pious pew-
owners. A parent writes from Surry Hills to a
Sydney daily last week, declaring that his Church
of England children were “ got at" recently in
that way. The pulpit-swapping bad resulted In
giving a real old Presbyterian Sheollte a chance of
nailing Calvin over the mantelpiece of immature
Anglican Intellect. The father has been drawing
the nails with bis teeth ever since. He now in-
dignantly yells for the Primate. The tone of bis
yell indicates that this very parent is just the type
of narrow bigot and hardshell chewtr of theo-
logical quids who would, were he oice converted
to Calvinism, become the Boanerges of the creed
of cursee.
The smallest drop of brandy and the
smelling salts, please. Somebody has been ‘‘set-
ting about ” a blshrp. Not in Australia—Heaven
be praised 1-but in Croatia. Bishop Lloko bad
occasion to rebuke a priest for intemperate zeal as
an agitator. And what did that priest do, friends
and brethren? Why, he just chivied that bishop
up one street and down another, till ho finally ran
the plump prelate to earth at bis lodgings, where
be proceeded to administer the castigation hinted
at above. The cries of tho bishop fortunately
brought a crowd to bis i eecue. It is satisfactory
to reflect that the bishop will get his chance in the
gmat Hereafter—
Though a bishop’s a man of much mitre
He’s seldom “great shakes ” as a fighter;
But this good Bishop Lioko
Will give that priest “ toko ”
When they meet In the realms that are brighter.
A correspondent of the Melbourne Age
states that “ one of the Churches in Sandhurst,
which arrogates to Itself the epithet ‘ holv,’ has a
brewery and several public houses as a source of
revenue, left to It by a deceased clergyman.” Of
course the deceased clergyman is the late Dean
Backhaus—a suggestive name in connection with
such a legacy. The writer of the letter seems to
think that this is an ignominious thing, which is
absurd. We think that it is a masterly illust: ation
of ecclesiastical astuteness in dealing with ihe
Devil What is paid him with one hand is taken
back from him with the other. The brewery and
the public h.- usfs are those willing and, let us say,
able, to damn the weak man, butqbe revenue from
them supports the Church whose doors aie open
to save him. We think it a very lair deal—wi .h
the odds considerably in favour of the Church.
Indeed, one cannot help a feeling almost amount-
ing to sympathy with the poor Devil at seeing him
cheated in this barefaced fashion. His Jifo Is not
all beer and skittles in these days, we reckon.
There is an undei taker in Melbourne who
calls hlmsilf, in bis advertisements, a ‘‘Funeral
Economist," and follows the assertion by the ab-
rupt and lugubrious announcement; "six different
we presume the originator of it has developed It so
tar as to run a regular line of hearses to the Necro-
polis twice a ween or tbeieabouts—trusting for
passengers to the state of the publia health. If be
only'takes six la a hearse be ought to do h good
steady dupigosi all the year round. Our purn Klrbv
should make a note of this. Ho has invented somH
ingenious things in tho way of bears's himself,
but nothing so practical nor, wo may s*y, so
chetrful ai this Oorp e CaiCh. We believe the
time has come when the old prejudice which sup-
posed a corpje to bo of a sullen and taciturn dis-
position, preferring solitude to the society of
other oori ses. should be dispelled. How sociable
now is the picture of half a dozon deceased parsons
jaunting out amicably to their little tombs to-
gether! Their enjoyment would be quiet, of
course, but—[That will do. You esq go back to
your vault.—Ed, B.l
funerals.” This phrase has haunted us ever since
it first met our eye. What does it mean ? Is It in-
tended to imply that a lifeless person who entrus s
the business of bis burial to this undertaker will
be tooled out to the cemetery in six hearses, or
carried backwards and forwards—for the gloomy
glory of the thlng—six times before he is finally
planted ? We fear this interpretation is loo good
to be true. It does not reconcile itself to the idea
of thrift expressed In the title of Funeral Econo-
mist. Then what is the meaning of the phrase ?
We have It, It means that the advertiser runs
joint-stock hearses containing six different com-
partments for coffins so that six poor families
can club together and bury their dead de-
cently at a sixth of the expense incurred by
those who send their corpse off to the tomb In
lonely grandeur. The Idea is an excellent one, and
The Application off tho Parable.
At the St. Leonards Banquet Mr. Dailey, referring to the “ scandalous abuse ” heaped upon the New South Wales Ministry, remarkedI had a sickening remem-
brance ol a passage in one of tlie prose writings of a great humourist of our day who describes a revolting quarrel iu a wretched Polish hospital, where, as he says, it
was horrible to hear how the patients mockingly reproached each other wUh their inflrmities-how one, wasted by consumption, leered at another who was bloated
by dropsy—how one laughed at another’s cancer, and this one again at his neighbour’s lock-jaw or squint.”


B
BACH’S
CONSULTATIONS.
SIR JOSEPH BANKS HANDICAP
I0U0 Subs., 10s. Bach, Now Open.
1st Pi)Z9
2nd „
£200
90
3rd
4th
Starters .,
Non-starters ...
50
30
65
65*
£500
Also. SUMMER CUP—100D Subs., 10s. Etch.
1st Horse £300
100
3rd „ 50
starters 75
Non-starters 75
£500
TATTERSALL CUP-,MOJO Subs
1st Horse
3 id
3rd „
Sluters
Non-startera
at
£1 Each.
...£1000
... 4(H)
.. 300
.. 300
... 300
£2000
Address—BEACH, care of J. J. Deeble, Dec bio’s
Hotel, King - and Pitt streets, Sydney Please
regigter letters, and apply early, with sta :ped
envelope for reply. And thanks for patronage
received.
The world-renowned tonic and stimulant
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Don’tbe put off with any fictitious brand,
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the genuine article.
Mb. DbCoubot Brown* (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
‘‘Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Berosford Chambers, 52 Caetle-
reagh-street, Sydney, sar Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, 13T* Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter or record in*the Departments and
Supremo Court-*
Beware of inferior spirit being passed on
you as the genuine Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Thousands have recovered robust health
by taking Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The Referee.
BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
The heavy wind and sea completely spoilt
the rowiiig races at Double Bay annual regatta
last Saturday. Crews from Balmain R C and Syd-
ney R.C started for the junior-senior double-
sculls. S. J. Law and J. Fraser, Balmain, led
round tho Island, and at the bow of the flagship
had a clear Jergth to the good, but when half way
do wni the vessel they either stopped, thinking the
race over, ora s<a stopped them, for tho Sydney
men, C. Thomson and Sharp, managed in
the last few strokes to push the nose of their boat
a few feet to the front, and were awarded the race.
Only H. Messenger and Stannard started for the
residents’ handicap Messenger swamped soon
after the start, and Stannord merely paddled over.
Balmain-Martin and A. Fraser-won the maiden
double-sculls, during the sculling for which Tiley
and Smith (S.R C ) swamof d. For the all-comers’
handicap, M. Pearce (55 b.). C. Messenger (451b),
and A. Hall wore the only starters. Pence, who
Eulled in a club skiff, thinking she would carry
im better than a lighter boat In such a heavy sea-
way, had no show with Messenger, who rowed a
light skiff with a washboard evidently nailed on in
a hurry; and tho senior double-sculls, as usual, fell
an easy victorv to ilia Mercantile Rowing Club.
Toe "black” North easter male lively times for
tho sailing craft, Loth large and small. Sirocco,
Assegai. Srn. and Dr is started for the all-yachts
handlcan. The Sao and Doris made a fair start,
but the Siroc 10 and A-segal got away very badly,
the former fully a minute behind, and the
A segai, in a regular mess, with her jibs to wind-
ward, and with a couple of men trying to hoist
h sr ton sill wii h the sheet bard down, a couple of
mioutes behind the Slrocno. The powerful St-
occo soon established a le<.<1 from the Sro, which,
with Dr. Milford at tne tiller, sailed like
the little witch that she Is The Sirocco c m-
tinued- to increase her lead all through, but she
was unable to give the smaller boat her 18mln.
handicap, and the Doctor made a popular win
with neaily a minute and a-half to the good, tho
Victorian crack and the Doris being completely
out of ihe hunt. The Alloen. handled in work-
raanliae style, made a win of the 24 foot open
b rjvt race rrorn the Dreamland, the Lottie not
completing the course; Sid. Wilson, in Golding's
new creation, the Nereus, showed the 20-foot hail-
deckers round the course; Drlsy won the 16-foot
dingy race, that saucy jade, the Soohla, as per
usual, putting her crew “in the gutter;’’ Tomkl
won the “canvasser” race: and the Vision had
thelt-foot rac-' all to herself, she being the only
dingy to complete the course.
* ♦ *
The Mercantile Rowing Club—or rather
Messrs. Brett, Seale, and Martin—must have
powerful friends in the various regatta commit-
tees, or the latter woul i surely discontinue placing
tuch a one-horse race on their programmes as
serinr double-ECulls. Hart and Tnomson (who
with a doggedness worthy of a bettsr cause, con-
tinue regatta after regatta to row desperately in
the attempt to get within some hundreds of yardd
of a pair from the above trio, who take it in turns
to appropriate the “pots”) appear about the
best pair the Sydney Rowing Club cm place
in the field. In face of this fact, the va-
rious committees might well give the pub-
lic something more exciting for their money than
Brett and Seale, B.ett and Martin, or Martin
and Seale paddling along at a pace scarcely fast
enough to keep themselves warm, with a couple
of nlne-stoners struggling along some quarter of
a mile in the rear. If the Mercantile must have
their double-scull “pols,” it would bo far better
to make them a present, and save the public
farther intiictlons of this sort. The Meroaniiles
are possessed of by far the fastest club skiff in the
harbour, or, if all accounts are true, it would per-
haps be more correct to say that Messrs. Brett,
Seale, and Martin are possessed of her, as the fol-
lowing fact would show that she is, to all intents
and purposes, reserved for the trio. Messrs. Bull
and Bull, two members who cm show about
tho greatest length of service in the Club,
entered for the junior-senior race on Satur-
day last, but upon making application for
the racing boat in question, were informed
that she was reserved for senior representstive
crews. We have had many years’ experience In
rowing clubs, but this is the first time we ever
hoard of such a rule. We could well understa d
them refusing to allow a couple of raw maidens to
row such a valuable boat, but we fall to see on
what grounds they could refuse her use to a
couple of experienced senior scullers Why this
particular boat should be reserved, whilst the
Junior members are allowed to use more valuable
fours and eights is beyond the ken of all outside
the Mercantile magic circle.
• *■ *
Lovers of aquatics may shake hands with
themselves over the making of a match between
Champion Beach and young Neil Malterson for
£200 aside, a sum which, we trust, will never be
exceeded in championship matches between scul-
lers resident in the colonies. As suggested by us
some time since, a departure is to be made from
the old rule of share and share alike, so far as re-
gards “gate,” the articles of the match under
notice stipulating the winner to take 75 per cent.
Outside the few immediately at Matterson’s back,
the race Is looked upon as a foregone conclusion
tn favour of Beach, for the youngster has cer-
tainly never done anything in public to warrant
any other opinion.
* • •
The defeat of Ilanlan by Teemer provoked
a funny little article from tho Melbourne Herald.
Wo are told that “when ho succumbed to the
superior prowess of Beach there was a very na-
tural and easily understandable feeling of exulta-
tion among colonists, but, somehow, one cannot
help feeling a sensation of regret when a man like
Hanlan, the ex-champion of the world, is beaten
by new men.” Quite right. Herald, and probably
Beach feels that sensation ot regret a good deal
stronger than anyone else. In fact, there’s no
getting away from the fact that the “ superior
prowess” of Teemar considerably discounts
Beach’s victory. Ned Hanlan’s last licalog cer-
tainly seems to favour the theory that a man Is to
bo considered a veteran at any branch of athletics
not so much by his age as by the number of yeais
he has been in training. How tmllsh all the
Sydney and Melbourne idolatry of Hanlan begins
to look nowl Only the other weak wo were
hazarding a conjecture that Courtney might beat
the Canadian. Latest developments make even
that event stem fairly probable.
* * ♦
Speaking of the scratching of Coronet for
the Caulfield Cup on account of the owner being
». forestalled ” in the market, we suggested that 1c
would bo well for disappointed owners to get back
some of the long ortna from such backers as had
unnronriatcd them. Something like t his was done
di the care of Nordenfeldt for ihe V.R.C. Derby.
We are told that “ a gentleman who supported him
very heavily generously offered to let the stable
connections have a large proportion of his wagers
at a satisfactory price.” Perhaps there wes more
common sense than generosity about that gentle-
man’s securing a run lor his money.
* * *
The strong work that was slipped into
Dunlop after he ran second to Ringmaster in the
Caulfield Guineas, doesn’t appear to nave done the
colt much good. At Caulfield he certainly ap-
neared a little above himself, but when stripped
for the V.R C Derby the state of things was
clearly reversed. J edging from results, we should
now say that the South Australian horse shap.s
best when a bit “jolly," or else the Guineas’ form
was altogether of a poor description.
• • •
Speaking of the Sydney settling over the
late Caulfield meeting, the S M. Herald unbluih-
ingly declares that the "proceedings, on the
whole, were satisfactory.” As a matter of fact,
however, the settling was one of the very worst
ever held. When the pencillers had paid over
their little piles, scarcely another stroke of busi-
ness was done, and some of the principal “books.”
declare that not more than one-eighth of the
liabilities of the general public had been squared.
This should have been known to the Herald on
the settling night, and yet we are told that the
proceedings were “satisfactory.” A ’eadingturf-
man assures us that he hasn’t yet collected half-a-
crown in the pound of his scores.
Jockeys are tough. The four apparently
dead ones carried away from Caulfle d course
have all cheated the undertaker. Or these four—
Tuomey, M'Grado, Cracknell, and M’Grath—the
doctors expressed very poor hopes. The heart of
wre of them was said to be displaced, and the ribs
of other two crushed into their lungs. Yet Tuomey
was well enough on the following saturdav to be
walking about at Moonee Valley races. Of the
others, one Is walking in the Hospital gardens, and
the other two wish to join him, but are tem-
porarily restrained from doing so.
* • *
Melbourne Derby day turned out wet and
uncomfortable, but a big attendance put in an
appearance at Flemington notwithstanding. For
the Derby. Iscnomy was the first to show with a
lead in the straight, and he heldprld- of place
until the distance was negotiated, wh«?n First
Chester came on the outside and cut him down,
Uralla, with Hales up, dying out shortly after
entering the straight running. Nordenfeldt, with
Kills in the pigskin, then drew level with First
Chester, and Kelso and £*1 lis, drawing their whips,
settled down to fight it out to the bitter end At
this point, Chester swerved and collided with Nor-
denfeldt to the loss of the New Zealander. Nor-
denfeldt again drew level, and again they collided,
but the son of Musket was not to ba denied, and
the pair raced nose and nose till almost to the post,
when Nordenfeldt, by a supreme effort, drew clear
and won the Melbourne Derby of 1885 by a short
head in the very slow time ot 2tnin. 48M*ec. The
winner started at 5 to 1, and First Chester at 14 to
1. Acme, with Hales up, won rhe Marlbyrnong
in a common canter from Madeline; Trenton de-
feated Sheet Anchor by half a length for the Mel-
b jurne Stakes; Lesbla appropriated the Hotham
Handicap by a clear length from Mentmore; The
Agent took the Weight-for-age Hurdle race; Al-
banus annexed the Selling race; and Bohemian
marched off with the Coburg S :akes a length ahead
of Lantern.
* * m
Last week we suggested the probability
of Winchester running better in the hands of a
man than he did with little Huxtable on his back
in the Caulfield Cup. Winchester’s third for the
Derby was not such a surprise as tho horse’s posi-
tion in the market would seem'.to indicate, but the
feet of Thunderbolt finishing behind him was a
terrible disappointment to the stable connections.
According to private estimate of the relative
merits ot the pair, Thunderbolt should have won
the Derby pretty easily. Another stable mistake.
♦ * *
The result of the V.R.C. Derby proved a
most satisfactory vindication of public form, and
the winner and First Chester have, on paper,
asserted their claims to be regarded as far and
away tne best three-year-olds of the season. The
great show made by the latter was a facer to some
of the men who had taken liberties with the colt
on the strength of rumours to the effect that he
wes ‘’sore ’ and “stiff.” There was no stiffness
orsorentss percepilble about First Chester as he
led hts field down the straight, and once again we
are taught that “ the book ’ is more reliable than
touts’ whisperings If ft had not been for the
"early birds,” Flr,t Chester would have started a
better favourite than two or three others whose
sensational gallops had been against the watch
Instead of against such a real, live test as Norden-
feldt. By th-' wav the two first horses were the
only ones that had not made wonderful times on
the training ground, and ihe “watch” wonders
signally failed to come off in the actual raca,
which was the slowest run during the last ten
years.
• ♦ ♦
The arrangements at Flemington, on
Derby Day, were certainly not worthy of the
" high falutin ” that had been indulged in before-
hand, Of course the “energetic and courteous
secretary ” was not responsible for the rain lu ru-
ing newly-laid gravel into a quagmire, nor lor
trains stopping for half-an-hour at the platform,
but ho certaiuly might have taken care that the
luneheon-room had its full coruplem ont of waiters.
The Argus ollice was inundated with letters from
hungry men who hadn’t had their “whack.” A
correspondent grew quite pathetic over tho woes
of " one well-known gentleman who got tongue
and bread for his lunch.” It’s shocking to hear
of “ well-known gentlemen” being treated in this
way, but he must console himself with the re-
flection that many more obscure Individuals—
cursed with equal capacity of stomach—got
nothing at all.
• • ■
Backers of Mr. Whittingham’s horse,
Mentmore, In the Hotham Handicap, on Saturday,
were not altogether pleased with the way la
which he was ridden. At the finish, Mentmore
was “all over the shop,” and a general idea was
that if Trahran or Simmy Cracknel! (still on his
back in the hospital; had been up, the resultmight
have been different, although Lesbla won by more
than a length.
* 9 m
Acme’s victory in the Maribyrnong Plate
was gained with such consummate ease that very
little interest attached to the positions taken by
those that finished behind the Hying filly. The
people who were so mightily indignant with Mr.
White for scratching Pnillip Augustus for this
race must now be Sony they spoke. Even if the
colt was as good as rumour whispered, there was
certainly no necessity for Mr. White to spend £35
over running him when his stable companion had
the race at her mercy. And, on the other hand, If
Phillip is a clinker it would have been madness to
withdraw him before the acceptances were due.
Acme might have “ gone off ” in the meantime.
♦ ♦ *
The improvement that Bohemian has
made since Mr. Smart parted with him is some-
thing remarkable. In the Coburg Stakes on Satur-
day Bohemian ran a really good horse, though
some of those that finished behind him ( unhacked)
may possibly show very different lorm ere the
meeting closes.
• * *
The inauguration, at Flemington. of a
weight-for-age hurdle race must be regarded as a
genuine succiss, and the victory of The Agent
was thoroughly in accordance with the fitness of
things For a moment it looked as though the
outsider, Gasulier, was about to effect a surprise,
but Mr. Hart s grand little chestnut responded
pluekily when called upon, and finally got home
by a bare length amid the plaudits of the “gods.”
An amusing feature of this race was the perform-
ance of a horse called Molrow. What earthly
chance it was supposed to possess in a field of $ucn
calibre, goodness only knows. Anyway, the brute
had to be ridden hard to enable him to get any
notion of the way that the other horses were gal-
loping and without making a mistake in held,
poor Molrow lagged at least 250 yards In the rear
when The Agent passed the Judge s box.
• ♦ ♦
UraFa jumped to 6 to 1 at the finish for
the V.R.C., but the mare made a miserable show.
With all due deference to Mr. White’s very natu-
ral desire to win with a horse of his own breeding,
we can’t help thinking that his to'.lcy of putting
up the crack jockey on his second string is a mis-
taken ono. Certainly it may bo that Hales, who is
not in rcbust health, could not have got as much
nut of a lazy horse like Nordanfeldt as did little
Ell s; still, it the latter had Just got beaten, regret
would have been expressed that “ Tommy” didn’t
have the mount.
» • •
If the “ books” had a bad day last Satur-
day it certainly wasn't In consequence of the ex-
travagant prices they laid. In all the principal
events of the day the betting was Immensely in
favour of the penoiilers, and, judging from the
prices which backers were content to acoept, we
should say that anyone making a fairly Judicious
book at the post could not have been much out.
Of course they grumbled. But it’s part of the
chosen people’s business to grumble.
• * *
Here is the Referee's version of the
four-mile championship race between George and
Cummings at Edinburgh on 13th September;—
*‘ The people of Edinburgh arc credited with
knowing something about pedestrlanlsm and the
ways of pedtstrians, and ever since the announce-
ment was made that Powderhall Grounds were to
be the scene of action in the present instance, ex-
pectation did not run particularly high as to a
brilliant performance. Thera were sage nods of
the head and sinister whispers of that suggestive
word ‘ gate,’ so dear to the heart of peds, whether
thoroughbred professionals or ex-amateurs.
Opinions as to the result there were none, and bet-
ting there was less, yet when the day drew near
the race was on every tongue, and the attendance,
with luck, was sure to be enormous. Unfor-
tunately, however, meteorological considerations
interfered, and to-day turned out as bad as it was
possible to imagine At 13 on Friday night it be-
gan to rain, and never ceased until the men were
on their marks, while an aggravating westerly
wind did not tend to brighten matters. Never-
theless, quite 7000 people must have been present
when the start was effected at five minutes past 6,
p-evioua to which some attempts at speculation
were made on the ground, 5 to 2 on George
being the ruling price, but whatever was done
was Insignificant. Cummings, winning the toss,
took the inside berth, and the pistol was fired to a
good start. George at once rushed into front
position, took inside place, and then what may be
called the race began. Detailed description is un-
necessary, as the following facts and figures may
be allowed to tell their own tale. The quarter
occupied 71sec.. the half 3min. and the
first mile 4tnin. with George two yards in
advance. No change whatever took place when
two miles had been covered in 9uin. 53>£sec..
George still leading two yards. In the last tap of
the third mile Cummings went to the front, and
when the post was passed showed the way ny three
yards (Htnln. 50iec.). George supplanted him the
next lap, but hits pioneering duties were not long-
lived, and as they passed tne stand the Scotchman
again passed ahead, and entered the next circuit
with a decided lead. This he increased going
along the back, and when twenty yards ahead
George stopped, and then a shout went up that
might have been heard at Paisley, if not at Wor-
cester. Cummings eased, and trotted leisurely on
to finish the distance, but the crowd breaking in
he had to rest satisfied with going three miles and
three-quarters, his time for which was 18mln,
4Csec C. Rowell, the long-distance wobbler, was
starter.”
The Australian stockman is a true Con-
servative. He adheres cloiely to old-time speech
and Institutions. A gentleman passing a mob of
overlanders remarked briefly to the man in
charge, “ Fine cattle.” “Yes,” said the drover;
”a nice mob of beef.” “Beeves, you mean, I
think,” said the traveller, patronisingly. He was
in search of colonial experience, which he ob-
tained—eventually. “Bees!” echoed the trover,
scornfully; “ well, I’ve heard blanked new chums
call cattle different names at times, but I’m
injured, if ever I beard ’em called bees before.
P’raps you’d like to sample some of their honey ?”
*’ I am right, I assure you, my friend.” “ Oh, you
are, are you ? Hey, Jack, Charley, come back
here! Now, then, ’ as his mm rode up. ” how long
have you been droving, Charley ? “Five years.”
“ Did you ever hear a mob of cattle called bees ?”
“No.” “How long have you been on the road.
Jack?” “Twenty-two years.” “Did you ever
hear a mob of cattle callel anything but beef?”
“No.” “Now. look here. Mister, you may be a
well-learned faao, and Jografy and grammar might
be your holt; but if anyone ever asks you any-
thing about cattle, you swear you don’t know arid
that'll be right. Bees, by . Go on, chaps; start
the lead. He’s all right; a bit looney, that's all.
Beesl I’m d dl The country’s comln to some-
thing when a blanked klonial experlemcer stoos a
mob to tell a man he’s ‘tailing’ gory bees! Yoh,
hey, back up here, Drover!”
If anyone doubts Ihe precocity of Vic-
torians, let him read the Parliamentary reports of
the debate in the Legislative Council of Victoria
on Berry's new Licensing Bill. That measure con-
tains a clause making it penal for hotelkeepers
to supply liquor to persons under 10 years. Mr
Melville, M.L.C., thought “ the age might bo raised
to 18 years.” Mr. Brr mell hop;d “ the clause would
bo struck out. At 18 yeuts manhood was attained
in this colony. When he was 18 he was married.”
(Laughter.) Mr, Lorimer observed, that “ in this
colony persons of 18 years of ago were men.”
Mr. Wallace thought “ It was a mistake not to give
children liquor. In his own family he gave all
his children a little whisky. (Laughter.) He made
them tipple and tipple when mere children, so
that they hated whisky when they grew up.
(Laughter.) That wss how he made his child, en
sober. (Laughter.) In the course of time tney
became thoroughly disgusted with spirits.”
(Laughter.) Mr. Wetieahall had “ such confidence
ia his fellow-natives toat he believed they were
quite competent to take care of themselves after
they had reached their 16th year. In his constitu-
ency there was a young man married and had a
family at 16 (Laughter.) Surely the House would
not deprive that jouog man of home comforts.”
( (Renewed laughter.)
CORRESPONDENCE
[Corretpondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
C.J.B.”: N.S.W. is completely behind
the other colonies in legislation, and will never do
anything till Parkes and Rooertson disappear
from the political arena. . "J.B.R.” (Brisbam,
Q.): It is possible that something maybe done in
tne matter. An effort of the kind has long been
uniler active consideration "Cudgee Bay Resi-
dent”: You say your “sketches are a veiry poor
Idea of the reality.” This definition is too ex-
clusive. They do not give an idea of anything.
You say you “will look for the sketches in th s
paper.” Do so by all means If looking for them
gives you pleasure, your bliss will be endless
“Justice”: Your idea seems a good oue. If Mr.
Ryria gets £1000 to cover cost ot enquiry into the
conditions of sheep-farming in Soutn America, it
would be only just that the same sum should bo
granted for a commission to ascertain inducements
offered by the United States to the labouring
classes. But it would be unwise to look despon-
dently at the present condition of colonial affairs.
Carington is coming, so is Honourable (by permis-
sion within the colony) Lloyd, and the Jerml
will, doubtless, issue a Krlstmlss supplement
‘C.M.”; Yes; keep a scrap-book. That is the
right way to go about it. Bring specimens of
your work to editors, and you will be very likely
offered £50 a week not to write lik<* that any more.
— *‘C. O’Mick”: No opening in Sydney for you
at present. And we don’t think you will ever fill
a literary position. A well would be the most
suitable opening for you — “A Civil Service Cor-
respondent ” : We can’t understand why you
grumble because the “boss of the office” sleeps
all day at the nearest pub. He is bettor employed
at that ttaan in winning your money at “ nap.”
“F.L.”: Not In it this time. Do you think that
your time is so much more valuable than ours,
that we should be asked to spend double hours
reading your screed faintly and carelessly
scratched in smudgy pencil ? Kh, Mister ?
— "R.S.” (Mount Hope): Wnen your dear friend
Johnnie brains you with a shovel, we will print a
verse or two of your poem as an obituary send-off.
— “Jane W.” (Tasmania): We suppose he will re-
spect your objection to love-letters turned out of
a type-writer. But being ourselves proaaic per-
sons out of whom ail the romantic nonsense has
been knocked by a protracted and varied experi-
ence of the dames of many lands, wo don t see
why you should kick agaiust tho machine-made
article, provided he signs same with his own auto-
graph, not necessarily for publication—though you
may have an idea of running him into court—but
as a guarantee of good faith. The words of wis-
dom now here set down are traced with a type-
writer, and if we had a girl we’d most assuredly
address her through the medium of that machine.
We often write libels, but when we see them in
type, we strike them out. Similarly, people often
pen loollsh love-letters, which, were they put into
cold, brutal print by a type-writer and then calmly
read over, would never reach any destination but
their author’s dust-box. The type-writer Is des-
tined to be the grand dlsillusioner, the buster-up
of maudlin sentiment, the guardian-angel of the en-
amoured swain against the fangs of the lawyer
“R.A.”: An Anglican Bishop wears “lawn sleeves”
because it is, for some reason or other, meet and
holy that he should look as if he had become
entangled with the bed-curtains “C.S.”: You
talk about the “federation cf the Anglo-Saxon
races.” Bosh I Why, you can’t even federate the
Australian colonies ...”M. Laine” (Suva): Your
Incoherent poms is butthe offspring of atlghtened
waistcoat and a hazy brain. We’d swear it was
written after dinner—“C.C J.”: In the words of
the Talmud, “Don’t tell your friend what you
wouldn’t tell your enemy.” “ U. Skene”: You
are an unintentional humorist of the most
brilliant type “Sam Poole”: Very well
“C.E.H.”; A dear old friend, trotn the French, it
originally appeared in the Figaro,...“C.R.”:
Nonsense. One Chinaman can easily be dis-
tinguished from another. A dab of printer’s ink
on the ball of Mr. Departing Chinaman’s thumb,
the impression of that member upon his certifi-
cate, and the thing is done; it cannot be erased, it
cannot be altered, and Mr. Arriving Cninaman,
with the thumb ot him inked, cannot counterfeit
it. The lines of the bail of the thumb are not
alike in any two human beings. E rerybody knows
that—“A. W. Charles” (Adelaide): Y r our story
is an English one ten years old. Wh in Benson, a
convict, airily called Mr. Montagu Williams, bar-
rister, who was examining him, hie “learned
friend.” and was rebuked for it by the lawyer, he
blandly remarked, “ Well, 1 withdi a w the learned. ’
....“A. Sufferer”: We intend to remorselessly
show up the whole affair, from beginning to end,
and take the consequences, at an early date
* J W.” (Molong): Much obliged. Are always
glad to have newspaper clippings of interest
W.Mt.J S.’’; Thanks. Next week, perhaps,. .
“H.K.”: What does your “ hoplon of hums ”
mean? Is it your “epinioa of horses?” Walt,
then, till wo write our opinion ot asses, and vou
shall have a front seat, doncherknow *’A.D,*':
The answer did refer to you. This is what you
call a poem:-
Baldwin. ,
“ There ones was an old fellow named Baldwin,
Whose leg was snapped off by a shark,
Wnen loudly the tempest was howling,
And the night uncommonly dark.”
Now, take our advice and don’t hint to anyone that
you wrote this, or your letter next time will De
borne to us by the steamer from Tarban Creek
•Tumut Election”: Your little trouble is not a
solitary circumstance beside what happened in
other electorates * L.D.N.”: Yes; very good...
Woiumla ” (NSW.): Will consider .“Busti
Rit : Ditto—” E. Dyson ” (Melbourne): Held
over.... “ Plump ” (Bogan;: Next week, probably.
!• Love’ : Will deal with your letter. .
Monaro”; You really ought to know that Mr.
Harold Stephen was a nominee of Parkes, for
whom he has been acting as a sort of agent.
O Mara s rejection is discreditable to the electors,
but the defeated candidate has only himself to
blame “R.R.”: Walt till you see in detail the
evidence for the defence in the Paul Mall case.
We have already heard by cable that the testi-
mony of the woman Jarrett was of “a startling
description.Oyster Johnnie”: Held over.
...” George Thompson ” (and many other corres-
pondents): Wld receive attention in next issue.
AFTER THE CUP.
Stone-broke, my pippin, not a cent.
Have I left in my pocket;
Unlucky dog! I lost the scent
Wheu I went Nap. on Rockel;
They told me she must get a “shop”’—
No mortal means could stop her;
I thought I had a blooming “ cop
I’ve not a blooming copper.
The mare got badly off—good-night I
I'm badly off all through it;
Would I had kept my fifteen “white ”
How qreen of me to " blue it.”
The “even tenor of your way ”
Men talk about—that’s “ guiver,”
It's my hard luck to go my way
Without an even “fiver.”
But then the tide ’ll turn, of course —
It does with other people;
I’ve got my h’ve upon a ’orse
That’s bound to win the Steeple.
I’ll let you have the “tip.” you know.
But first a “ quid ” I’ll borrow;
That's what they call a quid pro quo—
I’ll pay you back to-morrow.


A Melbourne correspondent thus writes
us:—‘“The Right Rev. Father in God, Joseph, by
the GiaceofGod, Archbishop of Victoria, as he
styles himself in his show-posters, has succeeded
in proving that he is an exception to the rule
which says that ‘a man who is is own lawyer has
a fool for his client.’ Upon being presented to
take his trial before his Honor, Mr. Justice Higln-
botbam on a charge of keeping a disorderly houeo,
he appeared in the dock wall'd in by whole shelve-
fulls of calf-cornered volumes taken from the
Supreme Court Library. Dressed In plain
black, with faultless linen and gold spectacles,
Symes looked muca more like the dhsenting
parson of olden limes than the truculent icono-
clast of the present. As was to be ex-
pected of a layman, ho occasionally trans-
gressed the limits of legal procedure in his exami-
nation of the witnesses, but His Honor—probably
the most abo iously conscientious Judge in Aus-
tralia—abowe I him th? most extreme, latitude.
Mr. Chomley, the Crown Prosecutor, however, was
not so indulgent, and brought Mr. Symes pretty
smartly to book whenever he caught him tripping.
The evidence concluded, Joseph braced himself
f 9 f to Is grand tffqrt, and proceeded to take fall
after fall ©ut of all elerical comers. Secularism,
he raid, was civilisation stripped of hypocrisy,
superstition, and Immorality, and he, Joseph
Symtg, was proud to be its prophet. During his
connection with the Melbourne Secular Associa-
tion, he had preached more science and more true
morality than any other public man in the city,
so fsr as Disown personal character was concerned
he resembled Daniel, with whom his enemies
could find no fault except his religion. He
had been accused of ridiculing his clerical oppon-
b.ut j n r do j n * 80 hrt had on| y followed the
example of Luther, of Milton, of Borns, of WesDy
and of Byx-on. He always Jik s to travel in
h«°h H 0I ?. pa ? y, does Jo8 ' P h - ho denied that
he had broken any law. but he would op-
pose to the death all interpretation of the
“ la‘ d down hv the Supreme Corrrt
and the Government of Victoria Ho said it with
great respect but it was true for all that, if the
i‘i.1 R K 8 k , waQted w t^ e true re *diog of the Act under
toe was being prosecuted, they must come
to him, Joseph Symes, for it. He was not being
prosecuted for saying openly wha thousands
believed In private, and If they convicted him,
they would virtually proclaim themselves on the
side ©f hypocrisy. He might have subpoenaed
members of Parliament to give evidence on his
behalf, but, out of cons deration for them, he had
refrained from doing so, for such was the state
of religious feeling that to say a word in his
favour would probably cost them their seats.
Finally, he appealed to the gentlemen of the jury
not to kindle ths fires of Smithfield in the fair
colony of Victoria. Four solid hours this speech
took in delivery, and then that legal Iceberg, Mr.
Chomley, proceeded to reply. ‘Considered as a
rhetoric»l effort, ’ said the learned Crown Prose-
cutor, “ Mr. Symee’ speech was pretty fair, but it
had left the main issue untouched. It hul been
proved beyond any shadow of a doubt that the
prisoner had conducted an entertainment In the
Hall of Science on Sunday, for which admission-
money had been demanded at the doors,
and this clearly brought him under the scope
oj tnti Act." His Honor, in summinir-up,
a , once completely blasted the hopes of the fero-
cious Calvinists who tad tried to hound down
Byrnes,' The main question to be decided by the
jury, said Judge Hlglnbothara, was this—Were
the Sunday meetings at the Hall of Science con-
ducive to amusement or to instruction ? If the
former, Symes was guilty. But if they wsrs for
honest discussion, he had a perfect rlvhtto chanre
for admission. He was no more guilty than tt®
churches whichjieoelved money, either directly
at the doors, or Indirectly through pew-rent ’
Nall up the Hall of Science, said Judge HigiaJ
botham in effect, and you must also barricade the
ohuron doors-If you gr. nt that Symes’ discourses
were given not merely for the sake of money, i he
?P d Joseph was bound over to
at tl i e next criminal sittings Re-
i^«°n^ 8 s Dtok^ UC9 n Mp| b'iurne has met with one
itn Hmiw w a 1 * ° w ~ ] not , b f0f eItwastime.)Another
Vi ill double it up completely.
“General ” Booth has now curiodrdntcn-
tiona with regard to the British colonies. Ho is
?™ m , 0tln *- the , notion of giving us supplies of
afr eets I emigrant8 ~ t0 be c ' )]lette ' 1 0,r th « London
Schnapps really 0U S lit t( > drink Wolfe’s
“ li’s a Foolish Bird,” Ac., Ac.
“Language that would have disgraced any society has been adopted as the fitting utteiances of persons who impudently pose as statesmen I «m r „ ,• „
have been humiliated.”-Mr. Dailey’s speech (at the St. Leonards banquet) concerning the Parliamentary imputations against members oi the m T *
STATUE OFN. S. WALES: “IF I AM BLACK IT IS YOU WHO HAVE PAINTED ME THIS TIME.” uons against members Ol the Stuart Mumtry.


1
HE ••BEALE” HIGH-ARM PATENT SEW-
ING MACHINE.
MESSRS. BEALE and COMPANY take this op-
pcrtunity or rendering cordial acknowledgments
to the public of New South Wales tor the generous
measure tf support, accorded to since their
entrance upon the Sewing Machine trade.
More than six years of unprecedented succefs
have amply vindicated that foresight which lea
them to fix upon the “ Werthiem ” Machine, as
being undoubtedly the best fitted, at that time, by
Its incomparable combination and balance of
power and quality, for the requirements of the
Australian people, who have justly it the
name of “Wonderful.” A verdict spontaneous
and unequivocal has been recorded in its favour.
The rapidity with which it has won its way to
general appreciation has only been equalled by tho
steadim ss and tenacity with which it has main-
tained its well-deserved popularly.
Year by year, however, instances come before a
careful man of business in which improvements
can bo made, to the manifest advantage of bis
customers, here to save )ab( ur, there to make
work more simple; this appliance is too compli-
cated, that is net sufficiently portected. Influenced
considerations, and impressed with tne
belief that they might be able in the future to do
even better for their good frfends than they have
done In the past, Messrs. Beale and Company have
not been slow inputting tneir idea to proof. In
May of the present year the principal of the firm
left for Europe with the avowed intention of de-
voting his long and varied experience to the pro-
duction of a Mectiue that should represent the
highest results up to the present attained by me-
chanics, and that should be lulled in an eminent
degree to the requirements of the discerning Aus-
tralian public.
Late advices testify to his complete succo's, and
Mtss s. Beale and Company have now the pleasure
to announce the advent of
THE “BEALE” HIGH-ARM SEWING MACHINE,
for which—built, as it is, under personal super-
vision, and to well-considered plans—they predict
a still more brilliant career than that which, under
their auspices, attended the ‘ Wonderful Wer-
theim,” and for which they only need to ask “a
fair field and no favour.”
Some advantages of the
BEALE HIGH-ARM PATENT SEWING
MACHINE: —
Efficiency Simplicity
Elegance Slier ca
Ease. Strength.
THE MINUTEST INSPECTION IS DESIRED,
No Soaping of Seams.
No Sp?rm Candle Greasing.
No Casting or Tacking.
No Folding by Hand.
No Breaking of Cogs.
No Escaping of Shuttle.
No Breaking of Check Spring.
No Missing of Stitches.
No Moving of Work, Alteration of Tension, or
Breaking of Needles in creasing thick seams.
The “ Bealo ” High-arm Patent Machine will hem,
fell, bind, braid, cord, rullle, quilt, gather, luck,
embroider, and make Crewel-work, Rucbicg,
Frilling, etc., automatically.
The "Beale” High-arm Patent Machine is tho
best for the Family, the Dressmaker, the Tailor,
the Bootmaker, the Saddler, the Coachbuilder, the
Tentmaker—in short, the bast for every class of
work that can be named.
Very large engagements have been entered into
Cor the production of this magnificent machine,
tnd extensive shipments are arriving by the P.
tnd O. steamers Shannon and Billaarat- _
THE “ BEALE” IIIGH-aRM PATENT SEW-
ING MACHINE is now to be seen at bur City Snow
Rooms, „
386 and 613 GEORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS,
151 OXFORD STREET.
BEALE and COMPANY,
Aleo Sole Agents for the
‘ Wonderful Wertlieim” Sewing’ Matliine
TRAVELLERS and BRANCHES THROUGHOUT
THE COUNTRY.
Liberal terms of time-payment.
PEPPER AND SALT.
This is a S.M. Herald telegram. Whether
Tumbulgum is In Burmah, or on the banks of the
limpid Murrumbldgee that murmurs Its liquid
“hear hear” to the undaunted Dlbb?, our map
does not say i-'Tumbulgum, Saturday. A Chinese
undertaker, named James King Long, was fined
£5 at Murwillumbah Police Court yesterday for
giving a certificate of burial, whereby the body of
a man named John Murray bad inadvertently been
burled in private property just outside tho
boundary of the cemetery. The latter is not
enclosed, and the body was interred by some cane-
cutters —mates of the deceased —the burial service
being read by Mr. W. H. Brett, an auctioneer in
business here.”
Tnere is a gentleman now living in one of
the country d strlots of Victoria who has at one
jump earned for himself the eternal gratitude of
married men of email Incomes and the undjing
dislike of married women In a similar position,
besides securing the respect of bachelors and the
scorn of young ladles still unwed. T his is n good
deal to do at one stroke. Hut Mr. AUxander
Kelly his done it. In a letter written by him to
the Donald Times he “complains that mothers
sadly neglect to train their daughters to darn and
execute neat patches on worn and torn garments,
and signifies his intention to offer at the forth-
coming show a special prize of £1 for the bes
patch on a coat-sleeve at the elbows and trouser
at the knee; also for a sock or stocking darned or
with a new heel knitted In, the competitors to he
girls under 16.” II Mr. Kelly Is rot by this time
tarred and feathered by the indignant females of
the Donald district, he may appreciate the follow
Irg vers- s, which we dedicate to him with much
reipect:—
GLORY!
We clip the following advertisement from
the Melbourne Age:— “‘ AntRoue.’-Seata near
Sir Henry Loch’s may be had. Dunn and Collins,
or H. Smith Having, Beehive-chambers, Bllza-
beth-street.” Mark how the astute commeicAl
mind seizes upon the weakness of the wealthy
colonial citizen. These seats were, of course,
bought up at the advertised price, and, equally
of course, will be sold for, perhaps-, ten times tha t
price. This will show you what a fine rank-
scorning Republican spirit is abroad In Australia.
The matter merits a few verses—and will get
them. Attend I
The Sydney and Melbourne land-sale
auctioneers have pretty nearly exhausted the
Possibilities of invention in their advertisements.
Take the following as an instance-it appears In a
Southern paperFound, a respectable elderly
gentleman In an apparent state of Intoxication
from drinking In the wonderful scenery at the
lovely Lushing ton Estate, Grog Flat.” Of course,
we have changed the names of the estate and the
place somewhat, not caring to circulate advertise-
ments for the mere glory of the thing. But the
rest of the quotation is literal. The rivals
of the enterprising advertisers will probably give
them one better—something alter this fashion
“Found dead, a gentleman of mature years. On
the body of the deceased was discovered a pocket-
book with this inscription on the Hy-leaf:—‘ Carry
me home. My address is pasted in my hat. Having
seen the ravishing beauty of the Hoghole Gully
Demesne, I feel that to live longer would be an
artistic mistake.’ ” The possession of land is said to
be one of the desires of aU men. And yet what a
lot of lies it takes to sell it I
* • *
Weak and credulous persons, who be-
lieve In a wise overruling Providence and a
chance of a good time somewhere beyond the
grave, had better skip this paragragh. It is not
written for them. It is written to supply a long-
felt want of the Scotch members of Joseph Syme’s
congregation, as expressed by one Mr Watson, a
wffne.s for the defence in the Symcs case, which
was tried in Melbourne the other day. This worthy
old gentleman stated in the course of his evidence
that he did not approve of tho music at the Hall
of Science. On being further questioned by the
astute Crown Prosecutor, he admitted that “he
did not like songs, as a rule, except Scotch, and
they could not Bing those properly at the Hall of
Science.” Also, that “ some English people
(imagine the snort of scorn with which he must
have said this!) tried ‘ Auld Robin Gray,’ but they
made an abortion of it.” We should think
so. At the same time, we know for a fact
that there are quite enough Scotch bodies
In the fold of Joe to sing concerted hymns
expressive of their faith, or rather want of
faith, written In the Scotch dialect and bet to Scotch
airs if the hymns were forthcoming. That they
are not forthcoming shows a lack of poetic ability
among the Secularists which approaches the
pathetic. We will not see them go hymnlesa for
all that—even although wedonotquitesympathise
with their way of thinking. Be good enough to
imagine here a hiatus of half-an-hour. We have
rung up the Scotch bard from tho cellar. (Look
in our next Issue for a description of our new
patent Laureate Lift.) It didn’t take him long to
reel them off, but ho got through an appalling
quantity of whisky In the time. Here they are,
anyhow, fresh from the throbbing brain of the
hard:— _
By wire from Charters Towers, Q., we
learn that in the libel ac'ion, Buchland v. near old
Thaddeus O'Kane, plaintiff got a farthing damages,
and had to pay his o*a costs.
A s a contrast with the rapid dying-oil' of
the black race in Australia.lt isinterestiog to note
tnat the coloured race in America are increasing
faster than the white by more than 5 per cant. It.
1870 they numbered 4 888 387; in 1880, 6 580,793. The
wbite population is swelled by immigration, while
in the case of the coloured i eople the increase Is
solely due to the excess of births over deaths.
During the hearing of the Byrnes case in
Melbourne, Messrs Carrington and Wilson, two
newspaperjreportere, were called by the prosecu-
tion to prove that the entertainments in the Hall
of Science were of the nature of amusement and
not of religious worship. The Calvinists will not
put newspaper men in evidence on the rights of
religion any more. These two men swore posi-
tively that they “ would not say in what way reli-
gious worship differed from amusement.” They,
no doubt, remembered that the plate went round
In each case.
We are iu receipt of a short pamphlet
with a long name. Its title is “A Suppressed
Poem by Robert Burns and Miss Ada Campbell s
views upon Religious and Social Matters.” The
pamphlet hrs been compiled by ”fnterviewer,”
and published from the Mercury office, Hobart,
Tasmania. The poem has nothing cnaracterisilo
In it. It is a fair sample of Kreethought verse
dressed in Scotch dialect. It is not too good for
Miss Campbell to have vs ritten it. The rest of the
pamphlet Is devoted to the purpose set out In the
title. Mies Campbell’s views on the matters re-
ferred to are pretty well known. A fresh thought,
we petite, is that she expresses a great “ horror qf
marriages of convenience or wealth,” on the
ground that "they degrade the man and doubly
degrade the woman.” The compiler has not been
careful. At tmge 9 he confounds David Syme
with Joseph Symes—which Is a deadly insult to
both.
The last number of the Imperial Review
contains 84 articles within the space of 80 small
pages. It goes without saying that the articles
are scrappy. On the other hand, variety is great.
The first article deals with General Grant, and the
last with Parnell Neither tells much that is new.
The article on “Bible Disintegration” is thrown
together. It is a mere series of random jots. In
one place It slates Judge Williams’ late work, la
another it slates its own opinion. “ The Bible,” it
says, “Is a speculation. There la profound anxiety
as to whether it will pay. Fingers were burnt
over the Revised New Testament—such a perfect
fiasco that It has almost dropped out of notice.
The speculators found themselves in the same
quandary as those who buy up tickets for a new
play-actor's show and cannot got rid of[them.”;Ti: e
Review" is published by M'Klnley and Co., Mel
bourne. It seems to be written, sentence about,
by Joseph Symes, David Syme, Bishop Moorhouse,
and the staff of the local Puxca.
Bushranging, as a business, seems to have
dropped altogether out of the market since the
memorable battle of Glenrowan. “It wss a
famous victory,” and why it has never, been
placed upon immortal canvas is a mystery.
The burning house, the child and drunken men
moaning in the llames, the women screaming, the
police shouting, tho dogs barking, and tho leaden
hail rattling on a nail-can inside of which tho out-
law stood. It was a gorgeous scene. Thiee dead
men and a dying one, a house burned to the
ground, and a child killed in the Iray. And a
cannon telegraphed fori To capture four drunken
men. Wh»t a glorious institution is the law I But
for that Glenrowan massacre, Kelly would not
have been taken yet. However, it la of Harry
Power we would tell you. Years ago he was a
power in Victoria, his name was a password to the
best society. He has not a black record. On nata-
tion near Yackandandah Harry pulled up one day
for lunch; he shot a sheep, cut a loin chop or two.
and, having grilled them on tho coals, made a
frugal meal on these, with a biscuit, and a drop of
old Jamaica. He had just concluded, called his
hack, and was about to ride away, when the over-
seer and proprietor of the station rode up. To
say that the oveiseer was astonished, would be to
put it verv mildly. Sheep-killing, almost in sight
of tho homestead. It was awful. The end of tho
world was surely at hand. He rode up cool In his
majestic anger. “Did yon kill that sheep?”
Harry saw fun ahead. “Yes, sir, 1 was very
hungry, I don’t know the country, I am lost, but
I’ll pay you for him.” “What! compound a
felony ; endorse your evil-doing! No, my man,
you’ll come with me to the station; I am a Justice
of the Peace. I shall punish you. Do you kuow
that in England, not so long ago, they would have
haeged you for this?” Harry confessed that he
didn’t know,!and pleaded to be let off for this time
only, without avail. “ Well,” at length remarked
the white haired outlaw, “you've told me what
you are, would you like to know who 1 am ?” “ No
£ don’t care a who you are.” “ Urn, well, I'm
Harry Power.” Hia cheek’s hue came and went,
&o., y*. u know. “Oh, Mr. Power, of course, any-
thing you want, of course ” "Yes, that’s ail
right,” said Harry; "I think your horae is freslu-r
than mine—get down.” He did promptly, his knees
rattling a quickstep to which his'chattering teeth
kept time. “Now I will come up to tho station
with jou,” observed Mr. Power, “and you can
keep my horse till I come for him.” And he did
go up and dine, and any time he likes to call
round that horae is there for him. Harry always
said that he wanted a good mate. Letters ad-
dressed Jack Ketch, G.P.O., will find us.
MURRAY'S MOURNER.
Some lay their bones In marble vaults,
Some In the deep blue sea;
Some in the paupers’ corner of
The public cemetrie.
O’er some the pealing anthem swells
Adown cathedral aisles.
And great and rich ones follow on
In long becraped files;
And hypocritio tears are shed—
Enough a tank to fill—
By keen relations who dart back
Top-speed to hear the will
And bless or curse the late deceased
As legacies are read—
The lucky mourn effusive, while
Th’ unlucky curse the dead.
But not in vault nor cemet’rle —
For John no funeral song.
But planted by an auctioneer,
Assisted by King Long.
Wc see our Brett with hammer raised,
And “ going, going, gone,”
For “ashes unto ashes,” is
The dirge above poor John.
Perchance the undertaker, not
Anticipating less,
Likewise put in a feeble prayer
Commending John to Joss.
A prayer, alasl he soon revoked.
For ’twas not "tacred ground
And Murwillumbah Police Court
Wade Long put up five pound.
And now, while Murray peaceful tierps,
The night wind bears along
The only mourning Murray has—
The mourning of King Long.
“ Wha’ for?' ’ ho raves, and at one wrench
His pig-tall he uproots;
And kicks his ccfflos round the shop,
And llings around his boots.
“ Wha’ for me pay all same fl’ poun’ ?
Wha' for no holy gloun’ ?
Wha’ for not Mister Blett all same—
Him know him gloun’ all lound ?
“ Him lead, him playab, all same a Joss;
Mo belly coffin well.
Me lose five poun'. Me hope him Joss
Shove Molly, Blett, to—Sheoil”
TO MR. ALEXANDER KELLY.
All bail, great Kelly 1 Hail,
Great solver of the marriage piddle 1
Upon its head you’ve bit tte nail,
The target you’ve struck in the middle I
You’ve let us know, groat head
(Though now you may be plumed and tarry),
Why many maidens are not wed,
Why many young men do not marry.
You’ve shown, In fashion ripe,
With tumours which the male mind catches,
That woman’s mission is in life
“To darn and execute neat patches ”—
And not to merely dress
Regardless of expense, and pound on
Unfortunate pianos. Yes,
Their little game you have turned round on.
Wo have in our mind’s eye
Your picture—as a type, bold Allok,
Of those strong men of days gone by
Who made the noble law called Salic.
Wo see another scene—
The wind shrieks by us with a moan there—
A grave within a graveyard green,
And these lines graved upon a stone there
(On which, in votive way,
Hang footless socks, torn sleeves and others)—
Here lie the bones of Alich K ,
The victim of the Donald mothers !
m ■
Why do these people pour
In here, a living stream,
To see revived once more
The Sophoclean theme ?
What go they in to see,
These persons one and all.
The Attic tragedy
“ Sweep by with sable pall ? ”
Scarcely, iadeed not much;
Such things to them are mocks—
They crush in just to clutch
“ Seats near Sir Henry Loch’s.”
0 spirits high and free I
O spirits fine and frank I
Contented but to be
The fustian fringe of Rank I
Though you be hailed with jeers
Just now—Time brings its cures;
Lo! in the future years
What glory will be yours 1 111
With condescending tone
You’ll tell your famllee
“ I were at Autigoau— %
The Guvviuer and mel ”
And when you are ensconced
In your cremation crock,
They’ll say, “ Step light, he wonst
Sat near Sir Henry Loch.”
"HYMN TO THE PROTOPLASM.
(Air,— “ Auld Robin Gray.”)
“O gude wee Protoplasm-braw gorm o’muckle
worth I
A’ things hae sprung frao oot ye—tbe Heevlrs
an’ the alrth;
An’ fush, an’ fowl, an’ beas' - , and man the laird
of a’;
Ye hae them 1’ yer wame -the big i’ the sma’.
Borne folk they hae hope o’ life—o’ life ayont the
grave;
An’ frae the fires o’ hell they try their souls to
save;
But, guile wee Protoplasm—beep this thing to
yersel’—
We hae nae hope o' Heevin—nae fear o’ Helll”
We rashly stated that the Bard had wiitten
several other hymns, but wo find we have been
MISS MAGUIRE’S IMPROVER.
“Mildred!” “Yes, mamma.” “What are you doing with that landbox?” The
fair gill hung low her head, and a blush mantled her rosy cheek. “Speak, child,” con-
tinued the mother, sternly ; “speak, I say. What are you doing with that bandbox? ”
Mildred Maguire looked up defiantly. *• I cannot tell a lie, mother,” she said, calmly ;
“I stole your bandbox to make a bustle for my Mother Hubbaid.” “Foolish girl,
murmured the mother, fondly ; “why don’t you use a hogshead and g© instyle?
deceived. The above is the only thing he has done
—and to think of all that whisky gone I Anyhow,
it Mr. Watson will be good enough to try the
stanza given, we think he will find it will run as
smoothly to the tunc of “Robin Gray” as rum
down the throat of a policeman.


T
COMPASNONI CATERING CO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. * 1
HE oldest and leading Catering Establishment In N.8.W. Caterers to Hla Worship the Mayor,
Municipal Council of Sydney, the A.J.C., City Club, &c.,&o. v
The Dining Saloons for Lad ins and Gentlemen are the Finest, Coollest, and loftiest in the colony.
FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY. Private Bar-Good Wine List.
GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be h»>l at any time from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. (after the
Select your own steak, &c., and see it grilled in the room. This is one of tne acquisitions
Th6&tr69«
oi the ciiy, and a'long-felt waet.
and City Club, upstairs.
Inspection invited. Club rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Clue
Ei D. TOLLENiCHE, General Manager.
■
1885 Universal Club, a thoroughly reliable and easy-running
machine. Bail bearings to both wheels, and improvements.
THE SYDNEY SPORTS
DEPOT,
889 GEORGE-STRBET SYDNEY'
(Opposite Royal Hotel.)
BiCYCLESrTfilCYCLES,
OUR
1885 Pattern Bicycles
and Tricycles
Have Every Improvement,
OUR SPECIALITY
New Cheap Roadster,
THE UNIVERSAL CLUB
BICYCLE,
fitted with Improved Ball Bear*
ipgs to front and back wheels.
Hollow Forks, Patent Head and
Detachable Bent Handle Bar,
Easy Slide Spring, Hubs Plated,
Black Enamelled Spokes,
Price, £1S IDs. At the price
we defy competition.
JAMES MARTIN A COMPANY, 388 Qeorga-st., Sydney.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
OWING GEAR. Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
.Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, Ac.
r Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing,
Plumbing, Gaefitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’S "PLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE.” & "PAN” CLOSETS, "VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &o.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Pan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application
OO
<—3
60
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wilson’s Ame-
rican "Extra Toast "BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incomparible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Street, Sydney.
PRANGS-’S
CHRISTMAS CAROS
AND
CHRISTMAS SATIN ART PRINTS.
ALL STATIONERS.
Sole Agents, ROBERT JOLLEY & CO.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
e us® \ FEMELUS
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
Is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.'
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
1 8S1 Cleorve-street, Sydney.
EBlu
s
AND
INDIGESTED WHEN ALL
'OTHERKINDSOFFOOD ARC
"rejected atallchemists in .
'rJgk&m IOV 20 02 BOTTLES
ViYsSg? C ARNOLD ©BRIDGE S T
DR. THOMAS
may be consulted oi
Nervous Debility, Skin and Contagious Affections.
Medical Establishment, 203. Elizabeth-street,
near Bathurst-slreet.
Hours: 9 till 10 dally.
Dr. Thomas Is the only medical man advertising
in Australia who has passed the degrees of an Eng-
lish Physician and Surgeon. Examinations passed
—Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians,
London, 18"4; Member of the Royal College of
Surgeons, London, I'a®.
AYER’S
Hair Vigor
restores, with the gloss and freshness of
youth, faded or gray hair to a natural, rich
brown color, or deep black, as may be desired.
By its use light or red hair may be darkened,
thin hair thickened, and baldness often,
though not always, cured.
It checks falling of the hair, and stimu-
lates a weak and sickly growth to vigor. It
prevents and cures scurf and dandruff, and
heals nearly every disease peculiar to the
scalp. As a Ladies’ Hair Dressing, the
Vigor is unequalled; it contains neither oil
nor dye, renders the hair soft, glossy, ami
silken in appearance, and imparts a delicate,
agreeable, and luting perfume.
Mb, O, P, Brichek writes from Kirby, O..
July 3, 1882 : “Last fall my hair commenced
falling out, and in a short time 1 became
nearly bald. I used .part of a bottle of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor, which stopped the fall-
ing of the hair, and started a new growth. I
Lave now a full head of hair growing vigor-
ously, and am convinced that but for the
use of your preparation 1 should have been
eutirelybald.”
J. W. Bowen - , proprietor of the McArthur
(Ohio) Enquirer, says i “Ayer’s Hair Vigor
Is a most excellent preparation for the hair,
I speak of U from my own experience. I is
Vise promotes the growth of new hair, and
iia - ’ " ’
makes it glossy and soft. The Vigor is also
g sure cure for dandruff. Not within my
knowledge lias the preparation ever failed
to give entire satisfaction.”
Mr. Angus Faibbairn, leader of the
celebrated “ Falrbairn Family ” of Scottish
Vocalists, writes from Boston, Mass., Feb. 0,
1880 : “ Ever since my hair began to give sil-
very evidence of the change which fleeting
time procureth, I have used Ayer’s Hair
Vigor, and so have been able to maintain
an appearance of youthfillness — a matter of
Hsiae
considerable consequence to ministers, ora-
tors, actors, and in fact every one who lives
in the eyes of the public,”
Mrs. O. A. Prescott, writing from 18 Elm
St., Charlestown, Mass., April 14, 1882, says :
“ Two years ago about two-thirds of iny .hair
came off. It thinned very rapidly, and I was
fast growing bald. On using Ayer’s Hair
Vigor the falling stopped and a new growth
commenced, and in about a month my head
was completely covered with short hair. It
has continued to grow, ami is now as goo,,! as
before it fell. I regularly used but one bottle
of the Vigor, but now use it occasionally aa
a dressing.”
We havp Ifqpdreds of similar testimonials
fp, efficacy of Ayer’s Hair Vigor. It
needs but a trial to convince the most skepti-
cal of its value.
' PREPARED BY
Dr.J C.Ayep&Co.,Lowell, Mass.
Soldi by all Druggists.
ELLIOTT BROS, and 8. HOFFNUNQ & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
spied before ROUSIACHS andWHISIEES. «EF0R2 AFTER
Boyd’s Beard Elixir did thin, and
HU
1 do it on cither bald head or
bare face. Forces henry JIous-
tar he in fromSto 4 weeks and never ,
' fails, 20,000 young vien already
wear full beards , having used 1 to
3 plots. No injury, easily applied, sertain in effect,
each, 3 for 3s. 6 d.,post paid, sent under cover , free from observation .
Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent , Box 730, O.P.O. . Sydney,W'
Copyrighted .
Copyrighted
Packets 1«. 6d.
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION..
P
bottling „
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTELL & CO.,
Bole Agents.
Dime C /f/en e
«/” Metssier?
f ce-%^
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &o.
Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues can be had gratis on applica-
tion.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &o., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed In best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, In parcels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, Ac.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Christmas and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock,
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most Important Copying
Instruments ever Invented. The Trypograph
t ikes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
S nd and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM ~BULLARD,
842 GEORGE STREET.
CLEARANCE SALE. BONA FIDE.
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st., Sydney
(Established 1800).
FRONT PREMISES having BEEN CONDEMNED,
the
WHOLE STOCK MUST BE CLEARED
AT A SACRIFICE.
SALE CAN ONLY LAST ONE MONTH.
NOTE-ONE MONTH ONLY.
BEDSTEADS 1 f
BE DOIN'*
COTS I MUST
s I k®
I CLEARED. |
J ' I
MUST BE CLEARED
to admit of
NEW PREMISES BEING ERECTED,
for which tenders have been called.
SALE CAN ONLyTaST ONE MON ! H,
So Purchase Early,
BARGAINS! BARGAINS I BARGAIN? 1
at
J. Lawler's,
003 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GLASSES
PURNITC
CHAIRS
BLVNKE
QUILTS
J STOCK,
I £15 000.
O. B. BODIII,
DURING his recent visit to Londoni carefully
■elected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the moat celebrated English
soakers.
dwdres to apprise hla customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms :-JoHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
& SON., London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London ; CHAS. OSBORNE
CO., London.
sgslt t co.'‘L^ao B n KTtor thc * r “
Game Bngs, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, Ac., and all
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
B02 Goorge.st., Sydney,.
Where Inspection Is invited.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found
last with the Argosy Braces at Gowlng Bros
A v «
38
YA
V
//A
m
m
X
m
w
p-
GOWING BROS.
Have Just Opened their Twelfth Cona’gc-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces I
—
Argosy Braces, Ss. 6d„ 8s., Sa. 0d.,A 4s. «
GOWINGBROS.,
MIN’S MERGERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, ft
ESS snl 488 Gurn>itrMt,
"Mr. William Ball.-Dear Sir,-Allow me to aay
that I find your ‘ Bloom of Peaches’ superior to
anything of the kind that I ever used before.—
Yours truly, Emblib Melville.”
“ Dear Sir,—1 have never used anything equal to
your ‘Boonof Peaches.’— Maggie Mooli.”
Dear Sir,- I have the greatest pleasure in re-
commending Mr. Ball’s ‘Bloom of Peachrs’ ?nd
‘Fett-Puder’ as being invaluable—Yours truly,
Alice Kefs.”
To be obtained of all chemists.
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
“ PETT-PUDER,” a delicate ard Invisible
D'wder for the face. Beautifully perfumed.
White, Pink, or Cream, to fault all complexions.
Price, 1/6 per box.
Tht
Manufactured only by
WILLIAM BALL,
“Professional” and Pharmaceutical Chemist,
61 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Whoksale Agents for Sydney ;
Mesirs. E. PROSSER & CO... Wholesale Chemists,
G. F. PRIDDY ft GO.
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS,
Beg to announce that, on and after APRIL 7th
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Days
at 6.30 p.m.: Saturdays as usual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
UMBRELLAS
Rli&OVIMA
—ilUTUDI ECONOMY
IP and
Have yourUmbrella Framer
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to Now, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly szs
•ales


Jjl UKNITUHB SHOWROOMS
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HATBTAND8, end
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
Library eurnitcrk, centre ana siua
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in bXqdisite
teste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, «o.
VERY ELEGANT, just receive A Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
N
OVELTIBS In BOUDOIR and BOW WINDOW
8UITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
■ED ROOM SUITES complete In various woum,
and very handsome designs, with 7-fe-t
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
E
a lOMT-POUND. BKDRO,OM SUITES.—Tue
„ , buiijbo.—iue
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table ar
glass and two chairs. The lot for *8. BRADLEY
NEKTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-otreet.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).-WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
PUlte-gJass door; WASHSTAND. with marble top
and tile back and Towol rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached ; ’PEDESTAL CUP
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT (JhaIRS,
BRADLEY, NEWTON^and^LAMfi!"
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from Ids.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 20s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstends from 12s. 6d.;
Cheat of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s ;
Cedar Chiffonier, from 80s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from JB310s.; Clothes Horses, froml0s.6d.; Writing
Tftbles, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
i?QK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
o&Oll strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Casa. Free at rail or wharves for cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
AAYBRMANTBL MIRRORS, Handsome Faohion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also la Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
O
CCA8IONAL TABLES In all Woods. Immense
_ variety of designs; also elegantly finished in
Embroidery, Plush, &o.
WHATNOTS, effective designs.
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
OOonnell-street.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, tor
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
O Connell-street.
rhEAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
U A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 8d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and Inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
PULL SUITES for DINING - BOOM — SIDE-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS. CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-street.
D
ININQ TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented.
a
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
Bitting to reclining and rice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet Ingenious In its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained. Instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort Is desired.
The frames arc of the best Eastern ash—strong.
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
mpyiii
pleto, and occupying only four Inches In thickness
when ti ided. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
2s. 6d. extra.
S
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
for
B
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS. —A very exten-
sive assortment In Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
T71RAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURN1-
JD TUBE, Handsome and Massive, In Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery,
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
B
ED8TEAD8, nickel-plated and black and brass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell and Spring streets.
W
ASHSTANDS, with marble, from 28s. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
e AWN and PARK SEATS 6 feet long. Rustic
L| Cast-iron Standards; 15s. each. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb.
t ENT WOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Agfoxtraent; bate make, low *«t prices.
If out of sorts try Wolfe's Schnapps.
Wolfe's Schnapps taken three times a day
will make a different man of you.
Why will people dose themselves with
medicine when they have Wolfe’s Schnapps?
SOCIAL
The Liguria, which bears back the Cardinal,
has also brought an interesting bridal pair to our
shores, Mr. and Mrs. A. P. Lucas. The wedding took
place at St. John's Church, Lewes, a few days
before the steamer left for Australia- The bride
was Mias Bessie Arabella Luckraft, third daughter
of Captain Luckraft, R.N., Governor of the Royal
Naval Prison, Lewes. The bridal gown was white
satin covered with lace, and a train and bodice of
rich moire; tulle veil fastened with orange blos-
soms and pearl ornaments. The bride carried a
lovely bouquet, tied with the Zingari colours in
compliment to the bridegroom, a member of that
well-known cricket club. A ball was held in the
evening to honour the event, and a reception was
held upon the same day at Admiralty House, the
residence of Captain and Mrs. Luckraft. The
presents were very numerous and valuable.
♦ ♦ •
Hitherto the matinees given by the
Sydney Imps have been brilliant and enjoyable
affairs, and it is perhaps the comfortable know-
ledge of this Let that has Induced carelessness,
for the entertainment they shambled through at
the Opera House last Thursday was, with a few
exceptions, a long drawn agony. Several of the
best Items down on the bill were omitted with the
greatest coolness, and, for all that, It necessitated
nearly a three-hours’ sitting to give all that was
left a hearing. These lengthy programmes are a
perfect terror, and are enough to keep the
greediest amusement-seeker from patronising
them. The orchestra, under Bro. Rivers Alpress s
baton, gave tne overture to “ Semlramlde ”
really well Rivers is becoming a great man here,
and many whisper that his strength lies in his
superlative hair, whilst others reau genius in the
broad snowy brow. But wherever it lies It is un-
questionably there, and doesn’t fail to asrert Itself
when opportunity offeis. He played a violin
solo later on, which was one of the very few things
worth listening to that afternoon. Howard Ver-
non sang a solo, and if It hadn't been for
the eyes and dainty moustache which pro-
claimed the singer to be our Bunthorne
it would have been difficult to credit that tie could
sing in so carelesj and wooden a style. He sang
as if under protest, and bad far better have left it
alone. Oae act Irom “ Brought to Justice” was
played by the Dampier people—we don’t like one-
net exhibitions, as a rule—and Bro. Clyne recited
• The Portrait - ’ again, but hardly as successfully as
he his been heard to give it at previous matinees;
at the same time, it was by no means amongst the
worst items. And then Hlnchy sang DMany's
sweet song, “ The Dell of Dreams.” Hlnchy was
the first man to sing this song before a Sydney
audience some three or four years ago,
but he is hardly the same Hlnchy now; he
has been accumulating bulk at tho expense
of voice, consequently the song soffered. Bro.
Gilpin took part In the beautiful duet, “The
moon has raised her lamp,” with Bro. Hinchy,
and the two voio-s blended exoeedlogiy
well. Bro. Teeoe chose for his recitation
“Papa's letter,” which might have been good
enough choice for a schoolgirl, but for a man who
makes elocution his profession—bah I “Sharaus
O’Brien ” was a trifle overdone by Bro.
Meade, but it pleased the people, so that’s every-
thing. Fred. Dark gave an amusing sketch of a
“Children’s tea party,” and Miss tVangenheim
sing "Robert, toi que j alme” with many extra
flourishes. The entertainment concluded with
me fares “The Steeplechase,” which Oily Dsering
had the greatest possible work to keep from fall-
ing 11 itter than it did. So then, this matlnda wasn’t
one of the Imps* successes notwithstanding that
the whole thing was under the management
of the great a. a. Coleman, commonly known as
“ Little Mala.”
* • •
On Friday, October 23. at the Petersham
Town Hall, Mr. Alien P. West gave a children’s
lanoy-dress Cinderella party to bis pupils from
Mrs. Masters, Mrs. Muuro, Miss Parsons, and
various boj 8 schools. About 103 children attended
besides a large number of adult visitors. Some
very pretty fancy dresses were wore, and It was
quite a day out for the juveniles.
♦ ♦ •
The Walcha bachelors waited in vain this
year for the ladies to give them a ball in return
for theirs of last season. Finally they resolved to
heap coals of fire upon the heads of the fair but
forgetful oms, by entertaining them a second
time. The evening of the 23rd was chosen for the
occasion, and It is needless to say the affair was a
success. The honours of the evening were divided
between two tail ladies—one charming in pink silk
and Ivy leaves, «.nd the other almost equally so in
cream broche and roses A Busy Bee la blue
flitted about energetically all the evening, and a
dot in ruby satin and cream lace looked well. Two
sisters, the one In coffee-coloured costume and
the other In cream lace, were generally admired,
and Rlmbanda sent two nice partners to delight
all the rising young sprigs of the district. An
amiable lady who is always obliging in supplying
the music for " extras,” was attired in pink satin
and beautiful white lace. Daylight was the signal
for all to depart, carrying with them nought but
pleasant memories of the night’s dissipation.
* * •
The annual plain and fancy dress hall in
connection with the Brighton Club took place last
Friday, at Leigh House, Paddington. About
25 couples were present, and succeeded In passing
a very enjoyable evening. Some of the fanoy
dresses were pretty, notably Daughter of the
Regiment (Miss Storme), Little Red Rldiog Hood
(Miss Grllllths), Peasant Girl (Misj Fisher), and
Coquette (Miss Martin), and a pretty little girl
was a sweet Sailor Lass. Miss Baumann wore a
handsome blue silk trimmed with white lace; Miss
Nancarrow, a ruby bodice over a white lace skirt;
MBs Handcock, a simple but graceful pale-pink
muslin. Several gentlemen appeared la fancy
costumes, the best being that of a Highlander,
worn by one of our Soudan warriors. Callaghan
did some good catering for the occasion.
* * *
Mr. Allen P. West’s pupils tendered him a
p'ain and lancy dress ball at bis Academy on
Wednesday, 28ch ult. About UO couples were
present, all excellent dancers. Only one fancy
dress was affec ed by a lauy. being that of Ruth,
of “The Piratt s.” About 10 30 an adjournment was
made to tho supper-room, when Mr, Q. H. Reid
seized the opportunity to propose the health of
Mr. West, and spoke in glowing terms of his
ability as a dancing master. Mr. West briefly
responded, and stated that he had taught over
34C0 pupils during the last year.
• * •
The Northern Hunt Club ball which even-
tuated on Wednesday night, the 33th Occober, in
the School ot Ans, West Maitland, was a gigantic
succe s. The room was decorated with exquisite
taste, hunting emblems and pictures lu the midri
of greenery and floral iiruamontatlon forming the
most noticeable feature of the temporary adorn-
ments Many visitors from tho metropolis and
northern districts were conspicuous amongst tue
throng. The members ot tics Hunt Club came
out in full hunting costumes, their red coats lend-
ing additional brilliancy to the scene. The on.-
irrammes were daintily got up by Sands of
Svdney, the back reprcsentlog a pack of
hounds in full cry. Taken altogether, the commit-
tee may be congratulated upon their successful
essay to make the ball one of the most enjoyable
of the season.
• • •
The handsome drawing-room of Wood-
lands, the residence of Mr. R. A. Golding, was, on
Thursday morning, the 15th ult., the scene ot the
first Jewish wedding celebrated In Townsville,
Queensland. The bride, Miss Rachael Cohen, is
the step-daughter of Mr. Golding, the happy
bridegroom being Mr. Lou’s Golding, of Hughen-
den. The elegant bridal dress was composed of
rich Ivory broche, with a graceful square train
lined with ivory satin; the front of the skirt, also
of ivory satin, was enveloped in a rich lace flounce,
fastened here and there with large pompons of
opal beads, a fringe of the same adorning the
satin sash just below the bodice. A choice spray
of orange blossoms adorned the neck and head,
and the long veil wes fastened to the hair by a
diamond butterfly. Seven bridesmaids attended,
and all wore gold horseshoe brooches and carried
bouquets, the gifts of the bridegroom. They were
the three sisters of the bii le, two Misses Rodgers,
Miss Benjamin, and Miss Myers. The guests were
a select few of the most Intimate friends of the
bride’s family, and were, with one or two excep-
tions, all descendants of the favoured race. The
numerous presents alone testified to the popu-
larity of the bride. Honeymoon, Sydney and
Melbourne. v
* * *
Dr. Ahearne, the well-known Queensland
medico, wss entertained at a banquet In Towns-
ville on the 16th ultimo. There was a great
gathering of the leading residents, with several
visitors irom neighbouring districts. The banquet
was given in the Town Hail. Flags and ever-
greens decorated the building and enthusiasm ran
high. The object of the entertainment was to give
tho doctor a cheering send-off on his mission to the
Imperial Government. Ho goes to England as the
delegate of the North Queensland Separation
Council. He is provided with petitions and statis-
tics, whereby ho hopes to show that the demand
for Separation made by the parties he represents
is founded on reason. The southern portion of
Queensland is, of course, opposed to the move-
ment. Dr Ahearne will have, therefore, to com-
bat in London the general Influence of the Queens-
land Government, as well as the special ana pecu-
liarly energetic hostility of Mr. Garrick, the resi-
dent Agent-General. It la a bold mission, but the
doctor is a brave man. Sooner or later Separation
will come. If the present delegate does not succeed,
his efforts will have helped towards the success of
a successor. Almost coinoidently with entering
upon the apostolate of territorial separation the
doctor has entered upon th* apostolate of ma-
trimonial union. Six days aftqf the banquet he
was married to Miss Cunninghame, a daughter of
Mr. E. Cunninghame, of Woodhouse. He will
take bis wife to England, and, if bis mission suc-
ceeds. her friends tell her she may come back Lady
Ahearne. At all events, the doctor has had two
great events In one week. The otner day he held
a N Q. Separation meeting in Sydney.
• m *
An enjoyable dance was given by Mrs.
W. H. Kent at her residence, Kedron Lodge, Bris-
bane, on the 39th. The bail-room was tastefully
decorated with green leaves and crimson flowers,
and the floor was excellent. The hostess wore a
handsome trained dress of lavender moire antique
with panels ot rich white laoe; Miss Kent was
charming in black pompon net with wreath of
white roses on the shoulder; two younger sisters
in cream satin trimmed with white jet lace, and a
third in pink. Misslmrie wore a becoming cos-
tume of pink broche and muslin; Miss Byrne,
pale-blue and white laoe; a favourite musician,
black lace and pink flowers; a recent arrival in the
colony wore fawn broche trimmed with exquisite
lace in same shado and crimson ro es on the
ooisige; Miss Hunter’s drers of white frosted laoe
was much admired; Miss Taylor wore pale-blue.
An excellent supper was laid in the spacious
cining-room, and guests took their leave just
before dawn.
♦ ♦ ♦
The Tenfcerfield Hospital ba 1 l held last
month fairly eclipsed all preceding events of the
kind there.
• o •
Mr. Collins, of Deepwater, celebrated his
birthday—something short of 100 years—by a ball
and supner at toe Commercial Hotel the other
night. E very thing went off satisfactorily, except-
ing that through illness the toted one was unable
to be present. His worthy spouse, however, at-
tended, and made quite a neat speech In reply to
the toast drunk in her husband’s honour.
• * •
A fashionable wedding was celebrated at
Sfc. Stephen's Cathedral, Brisbane, recently, the
chief actors being Mr. Hedley H. Tooto, of Clif-
ton station, Darling Downs, Queensland, and Miss
Bella Clements, of Kangaroo Point, Brisbane.
The bride wore an uncommon dress of satin in
ekphaut’s-breath shade. A wreath of orange
blossoms and tulle veil completed the toilette.
The two bridesmaids were a sister and cousin of
the bride, and eacn wore a handsome gold brace-
let presented by the bridegroom. The wedding
breakfast wild partaken of at the residence of the
bride’s parents, alter which the bridal pair took
their departure for Sydney.
♦ ♦ ♦
On the evening of the 27th ult. the town
of Yass was enlivened by a bail given by Dr. and
Mrs. P. T. Thane In the Protestant Hall, which
proved most successful. Over 50 guesis were
present, and dano ng was kept up with great
spirit until 3 o’clock. The principal notabilities of
Yass were present, amongst whom were Mr. and
Mrs. R. Pearson, Captain and Mrs. Fisher, Mr. Ice-
ton, Mr. and Mrs. Freeman, Mr. Anderson, Dr. and
Mrs. Hoets, &o.
* * ♦
The Amazon Quadrille Club held their an-
nual picnic and garden party on October 33th, at
Sir Joseph Banks pleasure grounds, Botany. The
ladies dressed themselves charmingly for Le occa-
sion, and after a good day’s enj oymeat all returned
to town about II p.m.
9 9 9
Ballarat was cn fete last month on the
occasion of Sir Henry Looh’s visit to that city.
Lady Loch did not accompany him, owing to an
attack of illness. The Governor with the two
Misses Loch, Madame Himmons, and Captain Traill,
arrived about 1 o’clock and drove to Craig's Hotel.
They aiterwards proceeded to the School of
Minos for the purpose of opening the Museum
In connection with that Institution. The gal-
lery was reserved for the ladles, and some
very elegant costumes were to be seen. In
tho evening the Ballarat Lledertafel gave a
grand concert in the Alfred Hall. His Excellency
and suite attended, and the large ball was packed
with a brilliant assemblage. Madame Himmons
wore a dress of costly cream lace, and dolman
trlmmid with swansdown, hair drossel hlgb, and
small rose coloured bow, fastened slightly on one
side of the bead. Tho Mayoress was in pale
mauve, and carried a pink fan.
9 9 9
Mr. H. Perry, of Brisbane, was recently
married to Miss Leila Markwell at St. Andrew a
Church. The wedding was a remarkably quiet
one, but as if to compensate tor this, It la ru-
moured that the happy oms intend to spend uo
cad of money on their weddiog tour.
9 9 9
The marriage of Captain Loftus and Miss
E. Laber,ouche was postponed from the39th Octo-
ber to the 3jd November, owing to the bride
elicVs Illness The wedding came off on Monday
mo nlcg at Brunswick, Melbourne.
9 9 9
An engagement is announced between a
rising suburban medico and a lady who bails from
one of the Points.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Metropolitan Social Evening (gentle-
men only), new Masonic Hail November 5.
Second Annual Highland Gathering
of Thistle ulub, Moore Park November 9.
Picnic to His Worship the Mayor by
the citizens of Sydney, Botany...November 24
Wednesday, November 4
Dear Peg,—Let me at oncipluogri/imedXaa res,
as I know >ou are particularly anxious to hear
about Lady Loftus’ farewell reception on Friday
afternoon la«t. It was not largely attended, and
certainly not enthusiastic In its expressions of re-
gret over the coming parting. Ou the whole the
atmosphere was rather flat, peoole walked and
talked, talked and walked, through the reception
rooms, out into the cool garden where a band dir-
coursed sad strains occasionally— at least, the tunes
were not really sad, but the time was melancholy,
and one Involuntarily thought of the broad-faced
jovial man who tried to assuma the expression of
long-drawn woe for his friend’s funeral, but failed
miserably. Next Monday will see this vice-regal
tenant shaking the dust of our city from off her
shoes for ever; rejoicing most of all that she will
see our face no more. We do not pretend to
grieve—obligations on our side have been neutra-
lised long since. Maybe, we have been unjust In
condemning the people, whm, perhaps, circum-
stances have been most to blame. One cannot
always be young, or even middle-aged; one may
arrive In time at that stage when the “larkicesi”
of youth, or the “geniality” of prime, are boih
forgotten in the soUl-absorblng pursuits that have
the ultimate good of generations yet unborn
as their aim—even If this philanthropy does not
extend beyond the purifying of the gallinaceous
tribes I Her Ladyship’s poultry-rearing hobby has
assumed the proportions of a grim joke, for we do
not altogether relish the feeling that she Hods
more pleasure in the company of the strange-
feathered bipeds, than in man's god-liho form and
Intellect as we know It in this colony. And I think
there is much of human nature on both sides.
But we people of N.S.W. are all too apt in con-
struing “domeo” In its full passivity to need the
wholesale leaven that was originated at St. Peters-
burg and aggravated here. It is not .suffi-
cient for a young colony that its Governor
should be a courtly diplomat, whose pro-
fessional success arose from his power of abiding
in silence, the while he imbibed knowledge; while
his wife could discourse glibly In half-n-score of
languages, or turn meal-tubs into elegant drawing-
room ornaments by a few strokes of the brush tor
Charity’s sweet sake. We want the stir' of occa-
sional frivolity; the energy of buoyant spirits to
loose stiffening muscles on one side, and to direct
lavish display on the other. Their Excellencies
are probably two In ten thousand, only we have
bad the misfortune to occupy too distant a social
plane to have even the chance of discovering their
virtues, and if their friends succeed in getting up
a testimonial for Lady Augustus it will deserve to
be highly-prized as a memento from the privileged
few who were admitted into the sanctum-sanc-
torum of the home-life of Government House, and
could best judge of their worth. But, to out-
siders, they are simply the roundest people that
ever tried to fit Into a square hole.
All this while I have forgotten the recoption,
and kept you cooling your heels on the threshold
of expectation—if you have not skipped judi-
ciously to find out who was there and what she
wore. Soon after three, people began to arrive,
and by four there was a goodly muster (only, as a
truthful chronologer, I must admit many well-
known faces were conspicuous by their absence,
partly because of the Melbourne Cuo, to which all
go who can). The Lieutenant-Governor, Sir
Alfred Stephen, Lady and the Misses Stopher,
Lady Stuart, Mr. K. Stuart, Sir John and Lady
Hay, Mies Isabelle Hay, Lady Martin, the Misses
Martin. Sir William and Lady Manning, Miss Man-
ning, Sir Patrick Jennings. Lady and Miss Jen-
nings. the Primate and Mrs. Barry, Colonel
Roberts, Lieutenant-Colonel and Mrs. Airey, Major
and Mrs. Penrose, Captain and Mrs. Le Patourel,
Captain Taylor (H.M.8. Wolverene). Captain Mil-
ward, Mr. Wm. Bed* Dailey, Mr. Rollmton, Mr.
H. Mort, Mrs. and Miss More, Hon. B. Knox. Mrs.
and the Misses Knox, Mrs Darley, tne Misses
Barley, Mrs. Massle, the Misses Massie. Miss Watt,
Mrs. and M ss E Busby, Mr. and Mrs Donkin, Mr.
and Mrs J de V. Lamb, Mrs. Merlvale, Judge and'
Mrs. Forbes Mr. George Forbes, Mrs. and MJsi
Wilkinson, Mrs. Campbell Williams. Mr. Severn,
Mr. Dillon, Mrs. F. P. Adams, Miss Murnln, Mrs.
Eustace Smith, Mrs. Backhouse. Mr. and Mrs. Salo-
mons, Miss Salomons, Mrs. Leigh Lord, Mrs. and
Miss Chadwick, Mrs. and Miss street. Mrs. Wrench.
Miss Throckmorton, Mrs. B. R. Wise, Mrs. Nott,
Captain Mann, the Misses Mann, Mr. and Mrs. G.
North Ash, Mr. and Mrs R. L. Tooth, mIes Tyson,
Mr. and Mrs. J. Armstrong, Captain and Mrs.
Deane, Mrs. O’Brien, Mrs. Sivage, Mrs. Bridge},
Mrs. Squier, Mrs. Bouverle, Mr. and Mrs. Monte-
flore, Mrs. O’Malley Clarke, Mr. land Mrs. Howard,
Mrs. and Miss M’Farland, Mr. and Mrs. Docker,
Mr. and Mrs. Walker, Miss Denne, Mr*. Henry
White, Mr. and Miss Mitchell, Father Petre. Mrs.
Cecil Darley, Mr. Labertouche, Captain and Mre.
Bunbury, Mr. B. Fosbery, i»-e Misses Foadery.
There were many others, but the constant eob and
flow of arrivals and departures prevent'd one
guessing numbers accurately.
The dresses worn were summery, as suited the
day, and many were exceedingly pretty. Canvas
held almost undisputed sway, out the kingdom of
materials is like the German Empire— divided
amongst a large number of hereditary grand
princes, who each claim precedence, except in the
presence of royalty. So when oauvas was not
conspicuous by its elegance, cotton crape, biscuit
muslin or zephyrs, and striped oambrlci claimed
the foremost place in fashion's ranks. Bonnets
were more worn than hats; all the newest ones
seem to be made on a transparent gold frame
covered, not hidden, by lace or gauze. Mrs. R. L.
Tooth wore a beautiful toilette de.visite of mush-
room-coloured spotted silk, with a tablier skirt
of stone-canvas, handsomely embroidered in
chenille of soft-contrasting colours, with a
“ cherry” fringe ending in pink and lake “ bobs.'
The bodice was trimmed to match, and she wore a
bonnet of the semi-transparent kind, with
aigrettes of pale pink. The Misses Knox wore
charming drosses of white cotton crape, with cow-
slip-yellow ribbon?; white straw bonnet trimmed
with white and yellow rosettes and yellow aigrette.
The Misses Martin were remarkable for their most
pretty, quaint gowns, The material was soit
stone and blue; the skirts made in long, looee-
llowlng style with a kilting of blue peeping out
from the regions ot the hem; j icktt bodices, with
odd scarf jackets that made believe to tie acrose
the chest with a small pink knot; large, exag-
gerated Olivia bonnets, with frills and resattes of
stone ribbon, tied under the chin, completed cos-
tumes of marked Individuality. Miss Throckmor-
ton wore a stylish dress of biscuit tint and high-
crowned hat, with large, upstatd eg rosette of
cream and mauve. Mrs. Bouverie, a pretty dresi
of bright electric-blue oashmer- aod broche. A
small lady looked fresh and ratty in a brightly-
striped Turkish crape, innecenc of all trimming
save its own perpendicular lines. Another small
lady wore a pretty, lady-like gown of soit sage-
green cashmere. Miss Lillie Darley wore a paic-
b uo and cream striped Turkish crape, stylishly
made with long pointed lines; a very high bat,
bristling with stiff gilded feathers. Lady Augustus
Lottus wore dark olive-green satin, relieved by
Moresque lace. One lady looked as If she had re-
signed herself into the hands of a jest-loving dress-
maker, who had seized the opportunity to turn
her out as a symphony la white
urt uui m a
a hybrid canary.
CORRA LYNN.


OAK ASrOR GRECIAN CHAIR,
Cane Seat,
. „„ Price only 3j. Od.
ANTHONY HOROERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket only.
Universal Providers.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, November 3, 1886.
Tenders for public works and sur.
PLIES.—TENDERS are Invited for the fol-
lowing: Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Govbrnhbnt Gazbttb, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of tho Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received at
this office.
Bridge over Par won River, at
Brewarrioa
Erection of Courthouse ard
Post and Telegraph Office, St;
Leonards
Laying Wooden Pavement in
Cio -vn-street
Construction of Settling Tanks,
Albury Water Supply
Additions to Public Instruction
Department, Bridge-street
Supply of Smiths’ Coals and
Building Materials, Railway
Department, 1886
Bridge over Dingwall Creek,
road Wardell to Broadwater
Construction of Wharf at War-
den, Richmond River I
Construction of Wharf at Swan I
Bay, Richmond River
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Qoodooga i
A dditlons Police B irraoks, G raf-
ton
Bridges in approach to Howlong i
Prldge I
Erection of Passenger Station,
Wall mg Shed, &c, at Stan-
more
Erection of House for porter In
charge at BJaukheath, G.W.
Railway
of Passenger Station at
Millthorpe, G W. Railway
Annual Contracts, Colonial Ar-
chitects Department. 1886
Erection of Lands and Survey
Offic.s, Armidale
Supply of Small stores. Harbors
. 59?.. alver8 Department, 1886
Additions to Post and Telegraph
office, Grafton v
Bridge over Wangoola Creek,
road Sheet of Bara via Wood’*
Fiat to M’Donald-road
Erection of Drivers’ Quarters,
Eveleigh. Contract No. 10
Supply of Twelve Portable
Water Tanks
Tuesday,
November 10,
At 11 o clock.
Tuesday,
November 17,
at 11 o’clock.
W. J. LYNB.
Department of Public Instruction.
Sydney, 36th October, 1881
TENDERS FOR NEW WATER-CLOSETS Ai
IMPROVEMENTS.
TENDERS ars invited for the Ereclion of n
Water-closets, and for Improvements t
Wupsrior Pubi c School, at Newtown. *
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and For
£ of the
Public School, mu t be lodged with the Unc
Secretary, Department ot Public instruction
November, m3° Ck ft m ” oa Wednesday, tin 11
t b ‘ ndblmMlt ‘° *«•
w. J. TRK’KKTT
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 33 th October, 1883
TENDERS FOR TEACHERS RESIDENCE.
TENDERS are invited for the Krect ; on nf«n.
_.ooL eaCher ’ 8Ke3iden ° e at th0 ym'tnileld Pub
Plans and Specifications may be seen and Pn.,
of Tender obtained at the ofllce of th? n,™
ment of Public Instruction? Sydney- and a? t
Teacher?^ 00rdrramHtta » on application to tt
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for new Teacher
Residence Smithfldd Publ.o School.’’ mSst t
lodged with the Under Secretary.
ot I ubllc Instruction, at or before It) u'elon
a.m. on Wednesday, tho 18th November 1885
’SS’tSSS* bl “ d Mm “ U
w. j. tricks rr
A German oculist of note says the electric
H#rht produces colour-blindness.
About the best thing you can take is
" olfe s Schnapps.
Scientific judges confers Wolfe's Schnwpvs
has no equal. ‘
Always ask for Wolfe's Schnapps and take
no other article.
Ball Room Specialities —Sale and Dare.
Bli-roonu tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 604 Hunter-street, 8yd cs,*
Recommended for hot climates—Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Render the system disease-proof by taking
Wolf s Schnapps.
Wolfe's Schnapps has become the moa
popular drink throughout the Colonies.
Woife£schoapp*,° rt * ia * l0t Uw
There is uo recruiting medicine eo prompt
And ©ihcient as Wolfe’s Schnapps.
It is agpod thing to keep a bottle of Wolfe’s
Schnapps In the hous ?.
Woman Items
The Chinese are progressing to olvilif ation.
At the Korolt (Vic ) show the other day. Ah Chow,
a thriving local store and livery-stable keeper,
drove a four-ln-haud. In it was a Chinese lady,
Mrs. Bam Hing, but laloly from the land of chop-
sticks. Well, what evidence is this of civilisation ?
Clel! Ah Chow doesn’t drive his own wife to the
show
Mrs Edith O’Qorman Anffray—hurroo!—
is lecturing in Auckland, N Z., on “ Life in a Con-
vent ’ ilrom, of course, a Pastor Aik-n point of
view), and will—joy I-shortly be in Sydney. Hu-e
Is a sample of the commodity traded in by Ellth,
who is decribing how, after orating at Paisley,
Scotland, she found herself amidst a crowd of
‘‘Howley Romans When I Walked up that
terrace through the. howling throng of fierce
human wolvt s, I felt that Daniel In the lions’ den
could not have needed God’s powerful protection
more than Ineedei It then, while my ferocious
foes of both sexes were raining heavy blows upon
my head, back, and shoulders. Tearing off my
bonnet, the hair from my bead they tore out in
haudluis. At one time, one male and two females
were pulling my long hair like a tope. Twice I
was forcibly dragged back from the cab by the
hair of my head, my face all scratched and bleed-
ing, bearing the marks of their claws." Come
along here, old girl, and stir ’em up once more.
Parkes will help ye. In Sydney, just now, we’re
" blue-mouldy for want of a batin’.”
The lady who wrote some time ago in the
8.M. Herald, contending that the destruction of
rabbits would he best secured by the employment
of cats, has, it seems, been the cause of a piece
of outre waggery in the land of St. Patrick. One
day lately the Dahlia papers contained an adver-
fsement stating that a gentleman returning to
Australia desired to bring with him a large con-
s gnment of cats, and that, as the speculation was
hound to be highly lucrative, he was willing to
give 2 1. for every cat sent to him, with half
that price for every kitten. It was stipulated
that they were to be brought in smalt baskets to
Carlisle bridge at a certain time in the after-
noon, and the advertiser, who gave a name, con-
siderately added that the baskets would be ” al
lowed for ” on application. As the cats were to be
brougnt on the same day as that on which the
advertisement appeared, there was little time for
an extensive raid on them : but the London
Chronicle learns that about 150 people responded
to the pies sing invitation, and did not always
limit themselves to carrying one specimen. The
" gentleman ” could not, of course, be discovered.
There is little doubt that he was on the pier, for
he would he pretty sure to desire to observe the
result of bis offer. If the lady correspondent or
the Herald only knew how many fierce ana
themas she was the cause of tending to the even-
ing sky from the bridge that spans the turbid
Liffey, she would not again Interfere in the work
of the animal kingdom.
*Tis so seldom a parson speaks any but
honeyed words to the ladies that a recent address
of the Rev. G, Walters, of Melbourne, comes upon
us as a painful surprise. Mr. Walters Is trjlng to
destroy our ancient faith in the amiability, meek-
ness, patience, and sweetness of—prepare your-
selves for the shock I— girls. This reverend vandal
says;—“The truth must be spoken, and the plain
truth is that they can be very disagreeable and
sour-tempered at times. I do not say that boys
cannot bo unpleasant and quarrelsome, but they
generally get into a right-down bad temper and
have done with It, while many girls will sulk cr
say spiteful things for days after the quarrel has
occurred.” Great Scott I the damsels snail not be
condemned unheard. Bring hither a score or two
of Nature’s fairest daughters and we will discuss
this question with them. Now placa cushions for
the ladies and pass down the lute: —
Hero a another staggerer from a recent
Sydney Evening News Lonely Literary
Woman would correspond with journalist or man
of genius. Ambition 1 , G.P.O.’ Wo know thet
lonely party well. There are about 130f) of her al
together in theeo’onles to-day fihe is 140 yee.isof
age. wean cow-nide boots wlm the hair iaslfe, has
her thumbs in a chronic state of ink, sports a wart
on her nose as big as a lirebe l 1 , ano spends halt her
tlmain soullul yearning over a dog-rared fools-
cap diaiy- «-er head is full of Young Ladies'
Journal trash which describes how ‘ the mys-
terious stranger then suddenly threw aside his
c'oak and exclaimed, ao he caught the eirapturtd
Angelina Maud in his wild embrace. ‘*Ti« I—your
own adoring—your own long lost Adolphus Mont-
morai cy de Plantarenet.”‘ Every time she
fl’rikes slush like that she goes clean off
her “kadoova” and moons round for an APol-
phua of her o »n. like an old dazed hen dodglrg
about for a per h 1 o roost on. We are glad (o find
She Is ambitious Last time we met her she was
simp y bilious We are afraid she will hardly
strike a journalist just now, however, ts, like the
kookaburra®, they are out of season at present.
But she can’t go wrong in her search for a genius.
They areas plentiful as fleas In a blackfellow’s
dog, and can be found at any hour holding up
threepenny bars with their backs and talkirg
learnedlv on some such topic as Wilhelm Melster,
the pre-Raphaelite school, or the quality of the
last land sale free lunch. Wade in, Mies Am-
bitious, and when you rope your genius send us
round a chunk of cake. There’s a gas-collector
here that we badly want to lame.
THE MELBOURNE CUP.
[BY WIRE.]
„ Melboukne, November 3.
ihe Cup of Dovlls or the Crown of Life”-such
waa the solemn alternative offered us by the
reverend Dowle. We had to choose, along with
every other Melbourne man, and we stood
on the steps of the General Pcs; Office this
morning to survey the city and make momentous
decision. It was evident that the city was
iodifferen to the “ Crown of Life It was going to
the devil by omnibus, waggon, and rail. If we
PP“* < J > have “spotted” but one just man out of
the thousands thronging Bourke-streot who was
not bound for the Cup we would have thrown in
cur lot with him, and gone, neck or nothing, for
the Crown of LUe. As it was, we bartered it up
right away lor a ticket to Flemington.
,, Tb ® railway arrangements were vastly better
than on Derby day. and the little struggle on the
platform was nothing to speak of. When fifty
people are bent on enjoying the accommodation
FL^iV 16 ' teB ’ d , lffereu ccs of opinion naturally
result. They mostly took place between people
wedged In doorways. We had our difference with
a man several sizes smaller than ourselves. We
lost our equanimity and i.ur umbrella, but
enjoyed tbe satisfaction of leaving him for
dead upon the platform. As the tram steamed
out ot the station the porters appear* d to be csr-
n'lngotf the unsuccessful candidates on trucks,
yet from the aspect cf Flemington course an hour
o/e theflf Bt race one might have thought that
all Melbourne had already arri/ed. The grand
stand was packed with determlned-looklog women
who had come early and intended to stay late.
1 hero was more an air of business than splendour
about them. Toilets were noticeably dowdy and
countenances somewhat gloomy. Presently,
though, we perceived a bright ripple of gladness
ftgitdtG the fca of laots. The Governor had driven
up in his drag. The ladies, with seats adjoining the
gubernatorial private-box at once loosed almost
frolicsome. To enjoy a good view of “ the quality”
a i el1 88 thc Cup 1D the Victorian nation’s dream
of bliss. On this occasion the Vice-Regal entry was
not as imposing as usual. The drag was not driven
round on the course, but Sir Henry and party
entered the stand by a side staircase, still it was
a sufficiently affecting picture. The abject
loyalty ot tbe gentlemen who received His
Excellency was touching io the extreme, and tne
simultaneous uncovering of 10 000 heads to the
accompaniment of *‘Gou Save the Queen” was
religiously suggestive of church. We were par-
ticularly charmed with tbe manner In which Mr
Byron Moore, Stcretary °1 the V.K.G.touk charge
of -Lady Loch s wrap. He bent over It as reveren
tially as though it had been tbe shroud of the
Queen of Sheba, A good deal of disappointmeut
was expressed over her ladyship s costume by the
fairer s, x. We, however, jiked it. It was
oopper-co.oured, and shimmered in the sun like
the new kettle which glistens In trie llre-llght as
you sit brewing whisay-bot la the gloaming
When the dress had given us sufficient joy we
turned our attention to the first race.
For this, Isonomy simply romped In, and Nor-
denteldt, inconsequence, hardened somewhat for
the Cup. The Two-Vear-Old Stake* was another
good thing lor the favourite, Maddelina, and
packers, especially South Australians, went to
luncheon with faces wreathed In smiles. Luncheon
in the members* enclosure was a sight for the
gods. It was pleasant and wonderful to see the
large pieces of venerable chicken that stowed
themselves away in the smallest of rosebud
mouths. We say nothing about champagne. The
day was hot, the favourites had been winning, and
the men would fill their glasses; but it Is a remark-
able tact that ladles in a general way did not
team to care about walking much alter
luncheon ; in truth, the panorama on the
much-vaunted awn was not up to the form
ot some preezding years. Promenaders were
more scanty, and so were the r dnsses. In
old times we remember treading upon many a
gorgeous train sweeping the lawn In silken splen-
dour. But to-day the feminine substitute for the
Big: D. was not hiesad in our ear even once, lor
there wus soarce a tall to step upon; short dress s
were de ngueur, and boots were brought into bold
relief, lu the matter of feec Fienungton never
made a more Imposing show. Tnen, again, the
queens of comedy/and the empressts of opera-
boutfe hardly shone In their wonted variety
and splendour, a lot of them either stayed at
home or e.se studied character on the flat,
(speaking ot Hat. let it be known that the drees-
Improver w h s almost extinct on the lawn. Gene-
vieve Ward we looked for In vain. For her wtre
?° Cu° J^Jw ev 5 l8 i* ap P ar enDy, and the recollec
tlonof Mias Ward Invested the fashionable world
with a weird interest. Two out of three, we
rillec.ed, had booked seats for Genevieve s per-
formance of “Antigone” at the Town Hall on
As we looked upon their happy faces and
listened to their laughter, made more silvery bv
champagne, we murmured, “ Eat, drink, and be
merry, for on Friday you will probably die.” We
from pur gloom to hear the bell for the start
of the Hurdle. For this Gasalier, who warmed
up th? great agent on (Saturday, was made eooal
favourite with drigand, but In the end, the pa“r
were beaten by yet another South Australian-
Ruby, to wit. This mare ran almost unbacked by
the public, and her victory was a foretaste of the
woe to c ime. After this there was a rush to
secure seats for the great event. But two or
three odd thousands were content to remain on
? wn ,. of f,* 1 ® stand and trust to the
chance ot Providence placing a short man In front
of them to get a decent view of the struggle
J, gai K St t^ e ralls and looking up
at the hllu beyond, one could see nothing
tut a dense, level mass of heads. If those
heads wore only as level as they looked, the
bra n- r ower of Melbourne must be gigantic Oi
tbe tl»; the swarm was almost as close, while
away oa the right w?ro more traps than ever
assembled at Fiemlbgton before. For concentra-
tion of human.ty tne Melbourne Cup surpasses
Epsom Derby; Its only fair, however, to add
that the latter com s out stronger m welshers.
But to return to the race. In the preliminary
canter nothing went better than Grace Darling.
As Mr. Srnar s p.ir came down together Brown
and Rose pAea too small for the jjuroey. ano
Despot cut a very mean flguie by the side of tbe
Deroy winner. The Jot were started at the maiden
attempt, »nd pass ng the stand for tbe first time
LiyerpO'ih IVm crown und Prometheus led the
B ® d> t B ®f° rd a , mi ® and a half had been covered
though, the mighty Liverpool collarsod in much
thestnmstylo as dir Winchester in me Camflem
u. up . F tbe straight, Nordenfe'dt flattered
his admlreis, ana Trenton looked lijte winning
easily, but only for a moment Two hundred
yards from home Sheet Anchor had the best ot it
and although G.ace Darling and Trenton made a
nretty do .e finish, we were inclined to think M et
Q’Bren won with a bit in hand. Scarcely tie
gnost of a cheer could t.ne whole of the 130 COO
or BO muster aneng ttepi. Tiey trot pod aown
irom toe stana In solnnn eingle-flle with al
t jo gentility of mutes-then went as mourners iu
bury their woes at the bars. ) ittle knots gathered
r >ui d the bookmakers in the paddock—not to
reoe ve, but to look with reverence on siuh as
came to “clutch the greed.” In some instances
the expectant crowd was disappointed, for no
lucky one came. A Iter this things got very quiet •
the stand emptied rapidly, and. by (he time
1 clipw Jacket had won tbe next race there was a
«:reat ruoh for homo. The road was as lively as
of yore, hut the train-loads were otherwise-the
plcure of a never-ending procession of long faces
borne by desponding legs. The scene coming
down Colllns-stieot, from the Melbourne ter-
mipus, win never be effaced from our memo y.
A ,V°? kl pakenr Cup is an Amtralailan calamity.
_ Wd backed Trenton. We knew he would win.
we told The Bulletin editor soln a private wire
And now we wish we had gene for “the Crown of
“Ever weaving something new—all that
has been done but earnest of the things which wo
shall do I" sings Charles Mackay—and truthfully
enough. The latest invention—by an American'
of course—Is a portable little machine for short-
hand writing. The reporter’s work will hence-
forth be easy enough. It can be learnt in five
months and 300 words a minute can taken down
WJ thease and accuracy. It is but an adaptation
of the type-writing machine to shorthand pur-
poses. When we think of the years we took in
learning shorthand-how difficult to write it. and
more difficult to read it—we feel that we shall be
entitled to ask for compensation when this new
method comes into use.
Sala, in his last communication from N.Z ,
falls foul of our American adventurers. He says
that tbe bulk of them arc** vendors of or agents
for Yankee quack nostrums,” and only “ ambitious
to take money away with them, and have not the
remotest intention of leaving any behind.” He
continues in the same regretful strain, “The
people of Great Britain are the most empirio-
riddon people in the world, and it is a sin and a
shame that they should continue to pour scores of
thousands sterling every year into the gaping
pockets of Yankee charlatans.” Those be sad re-
flections, but it is sadder still to read that we are
advised to go and do likewise. 11 Surely) Australians
should be able to grow its Dra. Dulcamora and
Katerfelto on her own soil.” We thought we
were pretty well off for quacks, but Sala forgets
that 1V.S.W. Is a Free-trade country at present,
lbs notion of protecting the native quacks
against their Yankee rivals may, however, de-
serve the attention of our next Parliament. Some-
thing should certainly be done for, or to, our
quacks, and the sooner the better.
The stomach is the sensitive centre around
which the uuman system revolves. It prods the
man of prose, and he goeth forth to labour for
the needful coin. It prods the man of poetry, ard
he gocih forth to borrow the lustrous large half-
crown. The workings of so omnipotent an organ
are well worthy of Inspection. If tne nroperstudy
of mankind is man the proper study of man should
be his stomach. Hence the deep interest that at-
taches to a late invention of a French doctor. Dr.
der Bocher has patented a stomach lamp which
turns the inside of your stomach to the light of
day. Fixed in a tube 181n. long Is a Queen Mab
electric light; it is let down Into the stomach,
something like a diver Into the sea, and by an In-
genious system of glasses, throws a shining, but
not burning lighten an Sin. surface of the stomach,
revealing thus the condition of its cjats. Nay,
more, a photo can be taken of the interior. It is
worth our while to have lived all these long dant
years, and to have borne our sufferings as we have
done that all may now be able, with the assistance
of a Bocher lamp, to see why we have to curl up.
The Caroline Islands have come into
notice lately through German and Spanish claims
to them. Every n-»per is repeating a paragraph
about them. It is to he effect that on two of the
group—Ponapa and Rustle—are to be sven rub s
of m ;88ively-DuUt store temples. These remains,
and the sculptured figures they show, bespeak as
much wonderment to us as do the ruined cities of
Central America. J bey are clearly, to begin with,
no work of the semi-savage ancestors of the
Malay race now peopling the Carolines. Who
w.-re their builders will puzzle all antiquaries
Another greater puzzle should suggest itself The
Caroline group of islands are all of coral forma-
tion. Whence, then, came the stone with which
these ruined temples were built ? So large are
these stones that they equal the wonders of Bial-
beo. Some of them measure 35 feet in length by a
width and depth of 15 feet. The Carolines are far
removed from any land whence such stones could
begot. How were they conveyed thither? And
by what skilfully-constructed machinery raised
and placed in position? “Oo, Earth! what won-
ders thou hast seen,” s'.ngs a great poet, and such
evidence of it makes us echo his saying.
Prince Allogogha, of the Brass River,
West Africa, is a nice old man for a small funeral.
Some time ago he was converted to Christianity
and so zealous was his piety that It b-gauto be
regarded as an open secret among tbe missionaries
that If ever there were a bishop of Brass River.
Allogogha would be the nan. At one time it was
seriously proposed to export him to England as a
sample of what missionaries could do with the
benighted heathen when they spread themselves
on the job, but on second thoughts they con-
sidered ic was better to let him stay where he was,
and be a shining light and pious example to the
stubborn pagans who still remained unconverted.
All this was very edifying and very encouraging
to Exeter Hal), and the name of Allogogha was as
rum-and-milk in the mouthsof all who went round
with subscriptlon-iisti la the interests of the
f oreign missions and the Gospel Society. But since
a certain ship arrived ia the Thames from the Brass
River coast tbe name of Allogogha has fallen in re-
pute several degrees below anathema. It appeals
t ns ship brought news to the effect that the Model
Prince, while trading in a village belonging to
some other potentate, was shot at and wounded in
the shoulder. As the sprightly sportsmsn who
thus made a butt of a probaole Bishop could not
be founi, the latter caused his own men to
promptly capture nine of the villagers and carry
thorn away as hostages, promising, at the same
time, that if the man wno fired at him was dis-
covered and given up they would be returnedIn-
tiet. But after keeping them two or three days
V,® ancient leaven Itegan to work within the noble
Allogogha, till at last his whit;ned ash of Chris-
tianity pseled off him, and he stood upright in the
sun once more a floe old Afrlcm savage, all of the
o den time. ” Let them be killed,” he said They
won killed. “ And cooked,” he continued. They
were cooked. Tnen he sent out invitations to all
taei Darling Pointers of his dominions to come.to
a big spread such as they had not seen since the
good old days before the mis nonaries came. They
came-sharpening their teeth with flintstones ail
toe way. We draw a tarpmlln over the orgie
that followed. It is sufficient to say that all that
was left of the nine boscages when the proceed-
ings of the evening had terminated—to borrow a
phrase Irom the banquet reporters; and. by the
way, what a piece of blood-curdling humour one if
the S.M Hkrald young men would make of a
o innihal dinner partyl HumphI—“ Alter full
justice had be' n done to the vianda" (th°
viands be lag c >oked conspirators or potted
pirates, sar), but enough—all that was l«it of
them, we repefi, might have been carried away i i
a knue-basket. Toe Brnss River region has no v
returned to its old ways and is seven limes more
heathenish a id lamibai die than ever it was. The
missionaries have moved They hid got too fat
to live there wlthsPety since the tide of publlo
opinion began to change. It is, no doubt, a gcod
and glorious thing tj die a martyr for toe faith,
when you have evr n an approximate Idea of where
to lay ycur hand upon your bo y when yon waut
it ngnia, but we see no fun in 11 filing upwar d when
you know that your body is a centre-dish, round
which a score of hungry heathens a-e congregated
with a view of making an April fool of you when
you come to look for it at the Resurrection
Maidens, prithee, gather near
And give theise words a contradiction;
Whtspef fondly in our ear
That all be states is naughty fiction;
With your velvet Anvers stroke
Our rough cheeks, and truly tell us.
Is not this a cruel joke
Played on you because he’s jealous?
Has not your trao ucer vile
Been by ssme fair sister slighted—
Sought in vain a tender smile,
And thus your scorn with sneers requited ?
Axe you the divinest things
Ever in this world eraated—
Fairies, minus wands and wings—
Or what Mr. Walters stated ?
Blessed with beauty for jour dower,
Can it be that little matters
Ever make you cross and sour—
Mad, in fact, as little hatters ?
Smiling as a Summer’s morn
When your visitors are present.
Can it be that when they’re gone.
You are apt to look unpleasant ?
Bo those mouths like Cupid’s bow
Ever say a word'that's spiteful ?
Do those bosoms, white as snow.
Harbour wicked thoughts ? Ob, frightful!
Is it true you sulk for days -
Envy, hatred, malice nursing—
Worse by far, as Walters says.
Than a moment’s hearty cursing ?
Maidens, prithee, gather close.
Gaze into our eyes, you darlings;
Say, are you at times morose,
D > your smilings change to snarllnga ?
No I We knew it could not be—
L p like yours are not deceiving;
gince you bid suspicion 11 ac—
We will still go on believing.


Psoriasis, ihs Modern Leprosy.
I have bad the psoriasis for nine months. About
five months ago I applied to a doctor near Boston,
who helped me, but unfortunately f had to leave,
but continued taking hi? medicine for nearly
three months, but the disease did not leave. 1 saw
Mr. Carpenter’s letter in Philadelphia Hecord, and
his case perfectly described mine. I tried the Cxm-
cura Remedies, using two bottles Resolvent,
and Cutxcura and Cuticuha Soap in proportion,
and call myself completely cured. —L. F. BAKN-
ARD, Waterford, N. J.
Imitations of the genuine Wolfe’s
Schnapps are more or less adulterated fiery com-
pounds. Therefore shun them.
Temperance clergyman, lawyers, ladies,
and doctors use American Co.’s Hop Bitters, as
they do not intoxicate, but restore brain and nerve
waste.
Wolpe’s Schnapps and water make the best
and most agreeable drink in hot weather.
Why persist in drinking lemonade manu-
factured from imported mostly adulterated “ Oil
of Lemons.” if you can obtain a genuine article,
prepared from Australian grown lemons, at
Messrs. Dalm and Oertei, Crated Water and Cordial
Manufacturers, 403 Pitt-street ?♦
Wolfe’s Schnapps. Only those whe never
used the genuine article are imposed upon.
1 do not seek to offer thee,
A simple love like mine,
Nor lay it as the rose is laid
On some romantic shrine;
Yet would I tell, this like romance
Will make thy bosom glow,
That if you want well-fitting pants
Try Summerfleld and Co.*
To avoid mistakes ask for Wolfe's Schnapps.
Anything you require from Sydney for-
warded at cost prick. No commission charged
for buying. In extending our country and inter-
colonial business, which during the last three
years has made great headway, we are prepared
to purchase and forward to country residents, free
of commission charges, goods of any description,
never mind how small the value. No trouble is
spared to obtain for clients whatever they require,
at the lowest possible cost. Letters receive most
prompt attention, and the goods or answers to
inquiries are forwarded by return. Our complete
knowledge of the markets of the city enables us
to extend to country buyers benefits which they
would not otherwise attain. Write for what you
require, and we will suit you. Note the Address:
JOHN J. McINNES & CO„
ComniseitfB Merchant*, 90 Pltt-etreet, Sydney.*
Political Points
How to convert a political defeat into a
victory in N.S.W. Give a dinner and put Dailey
la the chair.
No, indeed! It was not beer that carried
Burdett Smith to the head of the poll at the
Macleay. It was Beauty.
Halloa! In its issue of Monday the
Sydney D.T., which has been abuelng Parkes,
swung clear round in his favour. Some of the
leading shareholders in the paper are bosom
friends of Slrenree.
The Earl of Rosebery advocates the crea-
tion of o flonialpcers. So do we, but for a differ-
ent reason. He thinks such creations would
strengthen the House of Lords: we, that they
would destroy it. It must soon go, anyhow.
Stephen Merritt, the undertaker of the
Grant funeral, opened his campaign for State
Senator lately with a mass meeting in Liberty
Hall. New York. This cOmes of letting the fame
of Nlnian Melville get abroad. A man would be
making coffins a long time before he could pocket
a cheque for £25.
The Faversham (England) Liberals ob-
jected to the name of a certain barrister being put
on the electoral list because he was at the time
a member of a lunatic asylum. The Tories de-
fended the claim on the ground that the Act pro-
vided that “ lunacy was not a continuous disease.”
and the vote was allowed.
Mr. Bowman, M.L.A. for the Hawkesbury,
went one better than his opponent in the late
election. Mr. M’Quade proposed to flog persons
guilty of obscenity. Mr. Bowman professed him-
self willing to assist in bringing in a Bill to hang
them. The “ taint of the olden leaven ” is strong
at the bloodthirsty Hawkesbury.
W© read that Mr. Travers Jones, one of
the candidates for Tumut, “ after denouncing the
supporters of Mr. Hoskins in bitter terms, said
that he could throw off the garb of a digger at
any time, and mingle with the best society in the
land.” Mr. Jones must have been mlsreported.
It is hard to believe that any man would be cap-
able of throwing off the garb of a digger for the
purpose of mixing with what is known as the
•’ best society ” in N.S.W.
The man who plumps should be deprived
of the right of voting I It’s a barter of his birth-
right as a free man for considerations of a purely
personal character. It's an abrogation of his
liberty, a self-stultification. It's the last dodge of
the run-to-earth Parliamentary fox; its the dis-
creditable weapon of men with whom se'flsh in-
terests are more than great principles. A true,
falr-and-honest voter would plump for nobody.
It’s like choosing to have an arm or a leg repre-
sented in a nation’s council instead of the whole
body. It is politioal self-murder.
“ As I proceeded in the contest I found w©
were opposed by men who had other desires than
the welfare of the country at heart,” said Mr. Henry
Badgery. lato N.S.W. Minister for Works, at the
St. Leonards banquet. This sentence will serve to
show the country that Mr. Badeery’s tenure of his
portfolio was not less brief than it should have
been. Wo know not the persons to whom refer-
ence is made, but it is clear enough that a man
who thus adroitly slanders his victorious opponents
and wraps himself in a halo of self-satisfied glory
is much too narrow in mental range to become
anything more than a more wretched municipal
politician.
Little Mr. Mirama spoke up pluckily
against the proposal to provide the Governor of
Victoria with a country residence. Mirams has
discovered tnat the much-beslavered Victorian
Governor already costs £30,000 a year to the colony
in which—as Mr. M. fairly put it—“ the great body
of the people knew nothing about him, and did not
care to know anything about him.” But what
chance had the little man, after all 7 Governor
Loch has hand-shaken himself into the affections
of the men who nold the public money, and
they're all tumbling over one another in their
eagerness to give him what belongs to the people,
who neither know nor care anything at all about
His Excellency.
At the Parliamentary nomination for
West Macquarie, N.S.W,, one of the free and
Independent asked Mr. Candidate Fitzpatrick what
bis opinions were on the Social Purity question.
Mr. Fitzpatrick frankly owned up that ne never
beard of the denied thing before, but in order
that his opponent, Mr. Copper-King Lloyd, should
not escape the poser, he had the same question
nut to him. Determined not to be bluffed out by
such a trifle, however, the latter candidate em-
phatically declared he considered it was a first-
class idea, and, furthermore, “he thought the
main sewer of it ought to bo emptied out at
Bondi.” We need scarcely add Mr. Lloyd was
triumphantly returned.
The Melbourne age thinks N.S.W. has a
steep hill to climb before getting politically level
with Victoria. In many senses the Age la right.
Practically, it says, the Sydney working man is
not represented all either in the daily Press or
in Parliament. The consequence of this is that
legislation favours the propertied and neglects the
working classes. Hence, as the Age cites irom
the last census returns, the unemployed in Vic-
toria and N.S.W. numbered respectively 4478 and
9813 And while N.S.W. had twice as many men
out of employment, she had seven times as many
women entered ia the returns as being
out of work. The suggestions made are to
Sat aside for the present all discussions about
[r Henry George, and to agitate for a stoppage
of Immigration, lor protection of native industries,
and a land-tax.
A week ago we heard of the statesman
who wanted to get into the N.S.W. Parliament on
the dog-tax question. The subjoined letter, sent
in all seriousness by an elector—” an old resident ”
—to the Bega Gazette, throws another lurid side-
light on Cornstalk politics:-” Mister Kditur, plese
nut this in your paper that I pade Henery Clark
every penny I ode him, and he was my best frend
wen wattel bark was my only stop between ruin,
and me no credit for flower for bred for me and
mv familee. But that aint politiks, and I alnt no
scoller, but eny man as’ ud hit Henerey Clark and
I seen him I’d soon be on Clark s side in the row.
But I aint going to vote for him for awl that when
there is a man like Walker who knose the land law
and knose every road and creko in the electorate.
So no more at present, from yours, etc.” The
poor local editor, in printing this model epistle,
cautiously remarks that his correspondent “has
more common sense than ability to write to the
papers I”
Things look as little rosy in New Zealand
as they did to the fellow sitting in the chair in
Hogarth’s picture of the “ Rake’s Progress.” He
is looking at the long file of unpaid bills which the
steward shows him as due, overdue, and coming
due. Such is New Zealand s case—groaning under
a load of liabilities, and seeing no way of meeting
the interest on the loans she has filed up and
overweighted herself with. Of the labouring
classes the best are leaving for Australia. Mort-
gage securities have depreciated to just half their
value five years ago. As the price of wool and
grAta has gquo dqwa lAtely. things have a despe-
rate look indeed, and more so than they ever yet
had in New Zealand. Loan companies, of course,
are doing well—the N Z. Trust and Loan Company
paying a dividend of 30 per cent. We all know
what things are come to when the pawnbroker is
doing best business of any. To make things worse.
Parliament has reduced by half a million its in-
tended expenditure on public works.
The Rev. Mr. Tuokwell, an anti-Soudan
Anglican parson, has addressed the newly-en-
franchised electors of Rugby. Here Is a sample
of his sledge-hammer style:—“Do not think first,
Sir Stafford says, of your empty bellies, a id poor
ragged children, and your foul home, and your
slavish toil. Think of our foreign relations with
the Czar and with the Ameer; and when you
munch your dry crust and onion under the hedge;
and when your wife recovers from her confine-
ments upon bread and treacle and washy, mllklees
tea; and when you are turned out from your
miserable cottage through spite or through ca-
price, and have to find another home two miles off
your work, Sir Stafford Northcote bids you rise
above such little parochial trifles, and take pride
in the thought that you are smashing an unknown
Mahdl, or protecting a rascally Khedive, by pour-
ing out the blood of men taken from your own
class, and squandering money which your toll
created, and which if spent on you would make
you light-hearted and happy.” Every parson who
does not speak and think like the truly reverend
Tuck well la a conscious or unconscious fraud, an
enemy of Democracy and of Christianity.
Some time ago we announced that Mr.
Thaddeus O’Kane, of the.Charters Towers Miner,
had been solemnly baptised into the fold of North
Queensland Separationists. The announcement
was-well, premature. The Townsville Press,
which originated tbe rumour, is taken to task in
fine frisky style by the misrepresented veteran.
He derides our notion that “ the feeble and false
arguments of Mr. Coote could affect the edltof of
the Northern Miner.” He is, as he always was,
opposed to Separation. “ There is,” he continues,
“a cool reckless audacity about the lying of the
Townsville Press which is apt, at first, to impose
upon strangers.” That is how we were got at.
We looked at Townsville as the Eden of the North.
In the leading articles of its papers we tasted the
salt of the stainless sea and smelled the sanctity of
a primitive innocence. Taste and smell and pre-
conception lulled suspicion. We trusted. Now
we listen to Thady:—“ Honesty and Intelligence
do not belong to the Townsville Press, and the
Townsville Standard Is the bigaeat fool of the
lot. In order to allow no excuse for further lying,
let it be distinctly known that the editor of this
journal Is not in favour of bepara'ion.” We put
another drop of ink on the end of the stick we
write with, and hereby let it be known.
John Bird, sometime M.L.A. for Grenville
(Vic.), amongst the first batch of paid legislators
for the southern colony, turned his political coat
very shortly after his election. He was asked to
resign. Not he. Petitioned. “No, sir.” Bullied.
He held on. Then the electors tried another
dodge. Carngham, one of the electoral divisions,
had kept quiet all through the worry, and had not
figured at all prominently in any attemnt to de-
Srlve John of his £300 per annum, with cheap
llliards and free railway riding. Carngham was
asked to banquet Bird. The electorate was
mastered and nearly all the voters were at the
muffin worry. The first toast “The Queen, God
bless her.” The second, “J. B., G d him,”
with this addendum to the simple formula which
accompanied the loyal toast, “ May the hounds of
hell chase himlover the mountains of damnation 1”
The frantic moving of 500 boots, and the sudden
seizure of as many hats announced the intention
of the free and Independent to attend the meet,
but John, who was “ officod ” in time, made his
escape. At the general election, however, the
voters decided that a spell washing tailings would
mature his views and cure his “ rat ” tendencies.
So Bird left the senate and returned to the sluice-
box where inconsistency mattered little, so long
as the water supply kept good. Aliok Young took
his seat.
Labouohere’s politioal programme1.
The raising of the public revenue by a graduated
income-tax and a graduated succession duty, great
care to be taken in arranging the former so that a
proper distinction be made between income de-
rived from trades, professions, &o, and that
derived from realised property in the way of
rents, &o., to the end that the incidence of taxa-
tion may be more equally distributed. 3, The
creation of a “ peasant proprietary;” the abolition
of entails; and tenants’ fixity of tenure and
ownership la their improvements; the establish-
ment of courts for regulating rents, as in Ireland;
the abolition of the game laws; the confiscation to
the public use of lands that are allowed to lie
waste; such amendments to the law of real pro-
perty as will encourage the breaking up of large
estates; and the equalisation of succession duties
on real and personal property. 8. The dlsendow-
ment and disestablishment of the Church. 4. The
abolition of the hereditary right to legislate. 5.
The establishment of universal or manhood suf-
frage. 6 Payment of Members of Parliament by
the nation, and of election expenses by each dis-
trict. 7. Reduction in the term for which Parlia-
ment is elected. 8. A thorough overhauling of
the pension and salary list. 9. The est ibllshment
of local legislative bodies in each county with
extensive powers. 10. Irish “ Home Rule.” 11.
A cessation of Royal grants.
It is the Sydney Echo speaks this time
about the St. Leonards election:—“In spite of the
result of the polling, Mr. Dibbs was still the repre-
sentative of the reason and intelligence and moral
dignify of the constituency.” What Sir Henry
Parkes (the successful candidate) represents is
now puzzling us. Here, for the benefit of our
spiteful contemporaries, we quote some portions
of tho catechism formulated by the gifted Burdette
of the Brooklyn Eagle, which slides along in this
fashion:—” What is a statesman? ‘ The gentleman
who runs our caucus in ward Four.’ Yes. And
what is a pothouse politician ? ‘ Tne heeler
nominated for President by the other party.’
Right you are. What is a paean of victory ?
‘Three cheers for our candidate.’ And what is a
hideous howl from a score of drunken throats?
•Three cheers for the other candidate?’ What is
meant by the million of free hearts and honest
bands upon which rest the hopes and destinies of
the Republic? ‘Us.’ And to whom does ‘the
grovelling horde of blatant demagogues that
wallow in a cesspool of festering corruption’
refer ? * Them.’ ” And, by the way, we never yet
met a defeated candidate who did not believe that
all the honest and intelligent electors voted for
him, although their number might not have been
sufficient to give him a valid claim to his little
forty; nor do we ever remember the S.M. Herald
to have mildly advocated anything without assert-
ing that all " right-thinking persons ” would admit
its justice. This is a strange world.
A DEAL TOO TOUGH.
A wooden leg has lately been successfully fitted to a cow. We hope that when her lime
comes, find her beef is distributed, this leg will not get into our boarding-house.
CASSARQUBLLI;
or,
COONAMBLE A L'OUIDA.
CHAP. I.
Cassarquelli ? Cassarquelli? and the crowds
shouted the mystic password Interrogatively in
the deep sandy streets and for drinks in the bar;
but I was young, and understood not the language
of the Castlereagh.
Chap. II.
An4 now, having learned a new wrinkle, I, Scotty
the Wrlnkler, yell Cassarquellif and stagger from
Ha sear d’s to Crook's, into the bars, into the new
pub., into Dave M’Cullough’s, and all the rest, and
drink free, free, and freely. I think that Cassar-
quelll is the password to Heaven.
Chap. III.
I meet a man I know; a gentleman In a boiled
shirt, but the mask of grog that I have assumed
dims my vision. Still I’ll try it, and I howl at him
Cassarquellil Eh?
Chap. IV.
Why did I do it ? In a moment I see my mistake,
for my acquaintance is Signor Boss! Superstazzioni,
and he runs me into an alley.
Then in an awful whisper he says: “ Look here,
Scotty, if you touch another drop till you’ve
plumped for Sir Patrick, I’ll Cass or Kelly you off
the station.”
Chap. V.
And now I am dead, not the dead that die in the
Lord; on the contrary, dead-drunk. The bullocky
cracks his whip, the wheels creak, and I, with If
other free and independents, lie on the clean hay
provided by the station.
We quaff the good red rum, when from time to
time we wake up and sing, “ ’Ray f’ Jennings,”
but ever through my brain runs the keyword of
all happiness: Cassarquelli I what’ll you have 7
Hibam A biff.
The reader conversant with history will
remember a hundred instances, from the fall of a
Caesar or a Disraeli to the defeat of a John Davies,
where the falling hero has wrapped his toga
round him with dignity, taken his gruel like a
man, and dropped to earth with a whispered
. request net to wfce AW the basia aq4 spoon just
yet, as he might wake up and want to administer
some to his victors whenever their turn to fall
should come. These speeches have been diligently
preserved for the instruction and encouragement
of posterity, and there are few things better cal-
culated to encourage a belief in the Inherent
dignity of man than to recal some of the farewell
deliverances of the Pitts, the Chathams, and the
member (that was) for Tenterfleld. We do not now
refer to the farewell address of Townsend M’Der-
mott, once Solicitor-General in Victoria. When he
appeared as the beaten and howled down candi-
date for Ballarat Bast, “Gentlemen,” he roared,
as an ancient egg whisked past bis ear, “I have
done with such a mob for ever. you I One half
of you I have defended, and I have prose-
cuted the other half.” This was nasty and ill-
mannered. Now, when John M’Elhone found he
was 30 votes behind at the Upper Hunter (N.S.W.)
election, he didn’t do that. He retired to a room
by himself, and made use of a few expressions,
which we may print somo day when red ink is in
fashion, and then he marched out and said it was
the proudest moment of his life, go long as he
could see Parliament filled with men who yearned
as he had yearned to see the destinies of this great
country shaped in debates conducted with that
suavity and polish he had ever aimed at, and so
long as honourable members followed in his steps,
subduing every feeling of jealousy and resent-
ment, he for one could live and dlo happv. He
then returned to bis committe-rooms and made
other remarks on the intellect and morality of
the past and coming Parliaments, all which, as
we said, we keep back until the reign of flaming
red ink sets in.
“flow are the mighty fallen!” At the
N.S.W. general election in 1882, John M’Elhone
was returned in triumph for two constituencies,
but at the recent election he was ignomlniousiy
defeated in the “ pocket constituency ” he has re-
presented all through his remarkable political
career, the two successful candidates being un-
tried men. The day of reckoning has come, and to
a man who, for a number of years, has revelled in
an arena where he has been sheltered by unassail-
able privilege, the retribution must be a trying
one. Some of M’Elhone’s friends account for his
defeat by the fact that he did not visit the elector-
ate and did not make any special effort to secure a
seat, but this explanation is of no value whatever
considering that he was returned with an immense
majority over other candidates on the previous
occasion under precisely similar circumstances. It
must be remembered that Handeaker, the ex-
Inspector of conditional land purchases, whose
name has been so peculiarly associated with
M’Elhone’s, was a well-known resident of the
Upper Hunter district. Can M’Blhone’s rejection,
after all his former triumphs, be regarded as any-
thing other than an expression of local approval
of the summing up of the Chief Justice, and the
verdict of tho jury in the M’Elhone v. Evening
News libel case ? When nominating J. D. Young
for West Sydney, M’Blhone referred to him as a
“ worthy successor ” of his. Let us hope for the
credit of Parliament that the reverse will be
the case. And what has become of the great
Dawvld Buchanan ? Surely it is a “ most
atroshus" reflection on the intelligence of the
community that no one ventured to nomi-
nate David for any constituency! In a letter
which he wrote to the Herald the day, David
said that although be been in Parliament over 30
years, he had never been asked to pay a penny
towards his election expenses. This was intended
as a slap in the face to certain people in the New-
castle district who had asked him to stand for the
Northumberland electorate, but did not accom-
pany the suggestion with a promise to risk the
£40 deposit and otherwise stand the racket. “ The
circuit courts are in full swing and I cannot attec d
to electioneering matters just now; but there is
plenty of time, and before the elections are over,
several constituencies will seek my valuable ser-
vices.” This was, in effect, another statement
contained in the same letter. Poor David I The
only thing left for him to do now is to join Sydney
School of Arts Debating Club, and to entertain
the young aspirants of that institution by thunder-
ing forth his stock of long adjective phrases
which have such weighty influence with the 13
“ good yokels and true ” who are run into the jury
box in country districts. N.S.W. is to be con-
gratulated on the fact that these political hum-
bugs, who bad survived their usefulne ss, are among
the list of ex-members of Parliament. Where
is Mr. Arrogant Water-pipe Wright with his
political incorruptibility ? He has been relegated
to the obscurity of private life from which he
ought never to have emerged. And where is thn
Railway-oustomer-Minister Badgery the 7th ?
His friends, ~ too, have told him plainly that
his proper sphere is in tho saleyards knock-
ing down fat bullocks. What has become of
the honour and glory which were to attach to his
name as the member of the Opposition Govern-
ment who volunteered to move the resolution
approving of the action of the Government in
committing the unconstitutional action of sending
away troops without the authority of Parliament 7
The Government rewarded him by giving him a
fat billet and the electors of Camden quietly
kicked him out of it. And where is Honest James
Squire Parnell? He was afraid to offer himself
for election and consented to take a seat in the
home of played-out political bummers and miser-
able nonentities. If the general election has had
no other beneficial result it has taught future
Cabinet makers the lesson that the electors will
not tolerate as Ministers men who are not beyond
the breath of suspicion.


Never Travel Without It.
EFFECTUALLY
NOXIOUS
FLEAS. FLIES. BEETLES MOSQUITO ES
AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS
FOWLS OR OTHER
ANIMALS
DESTROYS
*
*
O
DOGS
oir
&
AV ~ i 1, ~ ’ rrrigu^ALL
feltongrimwadewc?
~*-g- 1 - MELBOURNE -
IN TINS
* WU,I * K
. VbyALlchemists
STOREKEEPERS
JV ~ V WHOLESALE
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
"Wanted in Every House.
Wanted in Every House-
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Dieecnes of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Liosq of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cutioura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
I tolling and Burning: Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of ray disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians ; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skia and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
B. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
J
IpUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
' V ner, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
, and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
i it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticns-a, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautiflcr
and ioilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies arc the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury
arsenic, lead, zinc,‘or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00, Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle. ’
Prepared bt the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, B.S.A.
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THB
AMERICAN CARRIAGE A MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OP CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS,
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES
California and Eastern Backboard Wanoons
W BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant A Importer
S3 & 24 Olarenoe-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
(J. A. ROBERTS. R, J. ALCOCK, G, C. CHALMERS, R, G. WATKINS )
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
m, mm, Miciim iiok,
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES WOOD-WORlTTwn ix .
RAIL WAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT AGRTOTTf TTIHA r
MINING. CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT,’ PUMPs7cOAOHBDILDBR^’ BNT8 *
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES,
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC; TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRU8HWARB
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACK8
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
Ill
i y
s t
Price Lists and
PORTABLE, FIXED
and aSMl-PIXED EN-
VERTTOAL and HORl.
, ZONTAL BOILERS
~~:rr. TEAM and other
sl; pumps
,
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLED
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, Ao.
Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.
Head Warehouse -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
Loudon Office
- 54 YORK STREET.
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR.
SYDNEY:
• - - M GRACJCCHUROfi STREET.
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.;
Also, at London, Mayence, Paris, and Brussels.
LARGEST STOCK IN THE COLONIES.
Alex. Borthwick. r .
WALLPAPER, PAINT, &o. U,aS5,
2S1 O-eorgre-st., S3rd.ra.e3r.
YANKEE DOODLE
CONQUEROR
O
r \:
CL
06
H
co
£
COliQ
aOR
5 #
N
H
xQUEr
TO BACCO
DIXSON A SONS. SvdnBV. Possess the largest Factory, Manufacture more
Tr"**®**”" ****** * ,^ U,,1 *XJ Tobacco, and consume more American Leaf
than any factory in the southern hemisphere. *
!.L. YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR, Sir Roger, Champion, and Dixson’s Cut Tobaccos
ZDa.rllra.gr HarTooiar Hotel,
HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Railway Gates).
STEPHEN HOPKINS (Late of Wagga Wagga), Proprietor.
VT ESPECIAL ACCOMMODATION FOR COUNTRY VISITORS.
Baumann,
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
WT LUNCHEON AND RBTBBSHMBNT ROOMS TOR LADIB8 AND OBNTLBM1N.
gENT POST FREE FOR Is. STAMPS.
Social Science.
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders, Chronic
Diseases, Impediments to Marriage, &c., How to
choose a partner for life so as to live happy, How
to Regain and Preserve your Health, &c.
Address—B. T. SELBY", M H,, Devonshlre-street,
Surry Hills, Sydney.
JIHiOOD* RESTORED I
' A Clergyman having tried every known rented)
„ « for the CURE of NERVOUS EXHAUS-
TION, PREMATURE DECAY, Ac., has at
Last discovered a simple SELF-CURE, which, foi
the sake of suffering humanity, he will send FREE
the Prescription which CURED him. Addressj
with self-addressed stamped envelope—
Dr. K. A. CLARKE, F.O. Box 292. Sydney.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that It is un-
equalled for impart Ins: a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. AVholesale by Elliott Bros, and B.'Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street: W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge; Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless Imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTERFIELD. Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Street, Kedlern.
Xjlziexx GKLoss


W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON 1 and SYDNEY.
Catalogues
POST PBBB.
W. WALKER
and SONS
Catalogues
POST FRBB.
ALL STOCK
. i. i|i r
In their
[SYDNEY
are one of the
Largest
HOUSE
Stockholder*
Supplied
and
DIRECT
Manufaeturtn
from their
■Urh-olass
FURNITURE
BN'3 l AND.
Loudon
Manufactory
and Latest
London Stylo*
6UABANTBID
SYDNEY BRANCH';
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
REMEMBER THIS,
IF YOU ARE SICK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails.
If you are comparatively well, out feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of American Co. s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any of the numerous
diseases of stomach or bowels, it is
your own fault if you remain ill, for
American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
' to American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a "Balm -
in Qilead ’’ in the use of American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of malarial,
epidemic, bilious and intermittent
fevers—by the use of American Co. s
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
akin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, American HOP
BITTERS will give you fair skin, rich
blood, the sweetest breath, health, and
comfort. In short, they cure ALL
Diseases of the Stomach, Bowels,
Blood, Liver, Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
JB500
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
American Hop Bitters, costing but a
trifle.
Will you let them suffer T
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
American Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
ft - See If the name of Dr. Soule Is blown
In every bottle. If not It Is counterfeit.
THE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital £100,000.
Head Office : Melbourne.
New South Wales Branch : 171 Castlereagh-street.
N. S. Wales Directors
Andrew Town, J.P., Esq.
Prank Cowley, Esq.
George S. Teo, Esq.
Victorian Directors:
John L. Dow, Esq., M.P.,
Chairman
Hon. J. P. Levien, M.P.
Thomas Learmonth, Esq.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Figs, and Dogs insured
against death from Accident, Disease, or Natural
Causes on land, rail, or at sea.
Marine Risks on Stock covering mortality or on
Merchandise accepted.
The only Live Stock Insurance Society in the
olonles.
Pull particulars can be obtained from the under-
signed.
Active Agents wanted where unrepresented.
A. J. WILKINSON, Branch Manager.
Office, 171 Castlereagh-street,
EA U D B COLOGNE,
4711 4711.
Established 1798.
G oli Medal, Moscow, 187*; Friz© Medal, Vienna, 1878
This Bau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian publie during the last 35 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and Plrst Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for its superior sweetness, strength,
and invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
petitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the <llte of
Europe. ,
The large and constantly Increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Bau de Cologne, not only In
Europe, but also in North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence effits superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious Imitations with the genuine
nvmbcr—4711 changed, or to 7411. .1147, 4H7, &c., &o.
The real genuine avticie whiari carried off the
Frizo Medal at the Vienna. Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothio blue-and-goJd label (different
from all the others), and narked 4711.
Wholesale Agents--ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pltt-
afroel, Sydney.
To b© had at the nrlnolpal Perfumers, Druggists,
and Storekeepers, in town and country.
SOLE AGENT FOR THE
SMITH ORGAN.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
187 FITT STREET
SOLE IMPORTER OP.
Only Iron-fframnd Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET,
HI! i
i.nl...
Depot for tie World’s Patented Articles
GEORGE ST., Opp. Wynyard St.
7 AMERICAN
NOVELTY CO.
FANCY GOODS
SffHfc,. NOVELTIES
l'u
Bring your Wife and Children with yOU-
Nobody pressed to buy.
WANTED a number of Gentlemen who will have their
heads shaved as above, and guarantee to attend all
meetings and side-walk gatherings. SALARY LIBERAL.
Tier DU IDT rUMUNT to* mending China, Glass,
UuD IIiAriL vLilflijii 1 Wood, &c., and everything
but Iron. Is. Bottle.
TOOTHACHE TINCTURE. application. Don’t be
afraid tc use it freely. No trouble to the Teeth. Is. Bottle.
The proprietor of Wolfe’s Schnapps has
succeeded in making a spirit which is appreciated
by the wholeworld.
When the -vital system has been weakened
—use Wolfe’s Schnapps to renovate it.
No case of an affection of the throat or-
1 lings exlstslwhlch cannot be greatly relieved by
the use of Ayers Cherry Pe.tohal, and it will
always cure when the oisase la not already beyond
the control of medicine.
When buying Schnapps, be sure you
obtain the genuine Wolfe’s Schnapps.
OFFORD & CO.’S HATS
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
Next to Eoyal Hotel, and at 652 G-eorge Street,
OBTAINABLE PROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW ANdT aRIELL’S
BISCUITS AID DALES, TREACLE AID SOLDER STRIP,
Self-raising /Erated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE. *00
8. & A. have obtained First Awards all over the world, inclining Two Gold Medals, Sydney I.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4,
Sydney Agents s W. H. ARIELL * CO., 343 end 340 Kent-street.
In the Queensland Assembly, the other
day, attention was called by two member* to ‘ the
horrible cruelty shown to prisoners-preeumably
innocent persons-before trial.” Mr Palmer said
while la Townsville he saw prisoners brought
frcm the gaol to the Court-house. “They were
dragged handcuffed on a chain from the gaol, over
a mile away, along a dusty, hilly road, under a
scorching sun.” The Colonial Secretary said he
fully agreed that that ought not to be done. “ He
had neA r er heard of It before. There wss a vehicle
at Townsville for the conveyance of prisoners.”
Mr. Bailey remarked that “In visiting different
towns, both North and South, he found that
lockups and places of confinement for persons
charged with offence a were in a most deplorable
condition; there was not ordinary accommodation
in them, and in some cases the imperative requlro-
ments of decency were not provided for. A person
charged with an offence, no matter how Innocent
he or she might be, was placed in a cell of a lockup
in which there was not even a wooden bench upon
which they could He down. Indeed, the treat-
ment in lockups was far more severe than the
treatment in gaols. Ho would lust give one in-
stance—a case that occurred in Brisbane. A short
time ago a man was supposed to have com-
mitted a theft, and the police, failing to
find him, took bis wife into custody. The woman
with a child at her breast was taken to the lockup
and put into a cell with nothing but the floor and
a blanket to He upon. She was kept there until
her husband surrendered himself, and he believed
both man and wife were afterwards found to be
Innocent of the offence with which they were
barged. They were arrested simply because they
happened to be In a house where there wss some
stolen property. Another case, worse still, occurred
up North, where he found a man who had been
some six or seven weeks penned In a cell with no
proper ventilation, and with no pretence of a bed
or bench on which he could He down. The police
to'd him (Mr. Badey) that they bad to get witnesses
tn that case from a distance of 500 miles. Thatwas
to secure a committal; and how long that poorfel-
Jowwou’d have to stop In that collhedld notknow.”
All this recalls to us a back-blocks incident of a
few years ego. A bushman well known In N.8.W.
was arrested by a irooper on a charge of having
improperly converted to his own use the proceeds
of the sale of a mob of cattle. The trooper on
overtaking his man, who had a high reputation
for darieg, covered him with his revolver; then he
ran him Into the adjoining township and had him
handcuffed to his stirrup-iron. The trooper rode
and the unhappy overlander walked—at times, was
almost dragged along-in the direction of a settle-
ment 50 miles or more away. Towards sundown
this unnecessarily brutal minion of the law halted
and relying on the advantage given him by
the possession of his pistol, took the handcuffs
off the weary prisoner whom for eight hour? he
bad pushed along the dusty road in the fierce
glare of the summer sun. The constable had
reckoned without his host. The prisoner “ rushed”
him at once, wrested the revolver, and threw it
away. “ Now,” said he to his friend in blue, “ I
am a man, and you, without cause, have treated
me like a brute. Put up your hands.” As there
was nothing else for It, the trooper did put up his
hands, and in a very few minutes, although the
overlander was a small man, the mother of Con-
stable X wouldn’t have known that gentle-
man. The bushman then picked up the re-
volver and made the trooeer handcuff him-
self, and walk ahead, while be, the prisoner of but
a few minutes before comfortably rode the Go-
vernment moke. On arriving at their destination,
the bushman gave himself up and explained
matters, at the same time handing over the police-
man, his horse, and revolver to the IcsDeotor In
charge. Not a word was ever said in public about
this curious episode, and not many months after-
wards 'he ill-used bushman had the satisfaction of
receiving at the hands of a Supreme Court jury a
four-figure award for the injustice done him by
his wrongful prosecution.
A POLICE COURT BALLAD.
THE LEERY BARTY.
By Her Bloke.
Her fingers to her nose she laid;
Quite young, but cieehy, werrr, ehs;
Barefooted came that bpggar maid
the “beak” stipendyeree.
With orful frown the ‘'beak” sat down
To try her from the judgment-*eat;
“ It is no wonder,” said the "cops,”
“ The cheekiest ’ bart ’ on this ’ere beat
As shows the clothes in brokers’ shops,
She in her pore attire w os seen;
Wun twigged her ancles, wun her chops,
Wun her black eye and leery mien.
80 young a “bart,” such bloomin’ art,
Before that “ beak ” wos never seen I
The gal she swore a boomin' hoath
That loiterin’ she had never been.
“ You’ve loitered by the bobby’s beat,
You’ve used bad language on the road;
You’ve ’costed men In Regent-street,
Six months in quod will do you gooa I
Her fingers to her nose she laid —
Quite youcg, hut cheeky, werry, she;
“ ITi do It on my nob,” she eald,
Asfrom the “beak” ehs walked so free.


A BOON TO THOUSANDS!
Yianhood and Vigour of Youth
Restored in Four Weehs.v
DR. RICORDS
ESSENCE OF LIFE
Raitwct manhood to th* moit shattered and debilitated eoa
illtution from whatever cauie arising, in FOUR WEEKS,
failure is impossible if taken according to the printed di-
rections, which are very simple, and require no festralnt “
. , - _f AppetftL.
Sleep, Trembling Sensations, Ditiiness, Spermatorrhoea, all
Urinary Deposits, which cause incapacity and degeneracy,
total and partial prostration, and every other exhaustive de-
rangement of the system ; regenerating all the important
dements of the human frame, and enabling man to fulfil his
nest sacred obligations. . . , , .
fa cases at iss., or four quantities in one for ]6s.; if kf
reach, as. <d. extra.
NATURE’S GREAT REMEDY!
•til
DR. RICORDS
SANATIVE PILLS
for strengthening the system, purifying the Wood, regulating
the bowels, and removing all vitiated humours, bilious am)
Liver Complaints, Rheumatism, Gout, Scorbutic Affections,
Costiveness, Skin Eruptions, and all diseases of the nervous
This never-fhilint remedy affo
system.
never
Tease of life to the s aged of both sexes, imparting
beautiful and clear complexion, a sure sign of health,
remedy affords at once a new
strength, and vigour.
_ sure sign
Price, as. ; by poet, ad.
extra.
AGENTS FOR SYDNEY I
Messrs. W.BARCLAY & CO.,
AS 00 VLB VBW STREET,
Oxx Doox rsoM Gxoaou Stkmt South,
Lad may be had of mast Chemists. Q
•arctls pack"! ttcurely and frto from •h.mrtfox, •«* fa
hrtsmtamf, Now Zoaland or •/ ****♦!»«
Oolonltt, on ncilpt of Pott Offteo Ordor or ttompo.
NERVOUS DEBILITY,
Lost Vitality, &C.--A simple and positive
means of Self-Cure, by an eminent
French Hospital Physician- Sent Free
Medico, P O. Box 766. Sydney.
th
CIEhlCE
ofm
LIFE
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORE on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses may be
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur-
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
or Self Preservation. A book for every man, young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
nil acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
■20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
.any physician. S00 pages, bound in beautiful French cloth,
full gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will he refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
The Science of Life should be read by the young for
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all. —London Lancet.
Addressthe World’s Dispensary Medical As- Mril
sociation, or Dr. W. E.Parker, No. 69 Hunter mIIAL
Street,Sydney,N.S.W. Theauthormay XUVOCI IT
be consulted on all diseases requiring | || I OuLl
skill, secrecy, and experience.
MOULTDirS
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MGULTONT
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and n<
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
Ftimulnte the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
the BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit),
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price Is. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PIUS
m is
NERVINE
TRADE MARK—“ TONIC NERVINE.”
Aoufk, Captain, &SPBBDY curbtor Ner-
vous end General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia.
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
Ac. By Its tonic and soothing effects It at once
removes all craving for Alcohol. By its richness
In phosphorous and other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NBRV1NB nour-
ishes and gives vigour to the whole system.
Price, 4s. 6d., or 35s. a case Sold everywhere.
Proprietors, MARSHALL BKOTHBJbtB, Registered
Chemists, 104 and 106 Market-street, near Hyas
Perk, Sydney, and 5 Pltt-street. ;oir<uii«*-ouxv
N.B.-All imitations Illegal. TAK1 NO 6UB6TI-
TUT*.
A U T I 0 N
NOTICE"TO THE PUBLIC.
In consequence of an attempt to substitute in-
ferior and spurious articles for “ Dr. Scott’s Elec-
tric, ” the Pall Mall Electric Association, 64, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, desire to caution the public
against purchasing any counterfeit of the follow-
ing goods “ Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets, Dr.
Scott’s Electric Belts, Dr. scott’s Electric Hair,
Flesh, or Tooth Brushes, Dr. Scott’s Galvanic
Generators, and Dr. Scott’s Electric Insoles.’
Every genuine article bears the word “ Electric”
and the name of Dr. Scott, as also does the box
containing same. The extent of our trade, and the
marked appreciation of the public having induced
certain parties to manufacture a line of worthless
goods, having something of the general form and
external appearance of ours, and variously styled
"Magneto -Electric or Electric Magnetic,’
we respectfully ask that parties who have been
influenced by the many testimonials we publish,
all of which are strictly genuine, or the universal
reputation of our goods, to give electricity a
trial, will see that the name of Dr. Scott and the
word “ Electric” appear on every article purchased.
In addition to this, we have recently registered a
now trade mark—an oval label with our local
address, “Pall Mall Electric Association, 54, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, N.S.W,” in marginal lines,
encircling the device of a mailed hand holding a
group of thunderbolis.
d.
06
$
CIO
<4
As we are the only parties in Australia importing
these goods direct from Dr. Scott, and are prepared
to guarantee the genuineness of every article
bearing this label, we advise purchasers to see
personally that this trade mark invariably appears
»n any and every Electric Corset, Belt, Insole,
Generator, Hair, Flesh, or Tooth Brush, they may
desire to purchase. This borne in mind, much
vexation and dlsappolntmt ut will be saved; and
we respectfully request th t any person who has
been induced to buy any of those imitations under
the impression that they were Dr. Scott's Electric,
will at once communicate with us.
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
ueat and accurate fit, and aidiEg by . he
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continenta
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
nillion ladies, and as they do not exceed in
iost th® ordinary goods of other makers,
.without the electricity or .therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
rial it
L =
n
Dr. Scott’s Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice.
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &o., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressiEg oases, after all other remedies (so-
called) have failed.
The prices are as follows
No. 1
No. a
No. 3
No. 5
Electric Belts..
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electric-Magnetic
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece ©f common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque,
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
cm ASSOCIATION,
54 Margarat-straet,
SYDNEY.
P.0, Box m.
> , a
CENCt
New
Pl£i
*SiaJ*
SS6
WARE HOUSE. S. SYDNEY.
lit lew ZtiU Liu and Mercantile Agency Lip;
(LIMITED)*
HEAD OFFICE
LONDON.
Capital - - £3,500,000.
THIS COMPANY WILL CONTINUE TO DISPLAY AND SELL
WOOL!
ON THE MELBOURNE SYSTEM,
At their Magnificent Warehouses,
BEIDOE STREET,
SYDNEY.
jy EVERY LOT WILL BE CAREFULLY VALUED, AND SPECIAL ATTENTION WILL BE
BESTOWED UPON SMALL FARMERS’ PARCELS, WHICH WILL BE PLACED ON A FOOTING
OF EQUALITY WITH THE LARGE CLIPS.
If reserves are not reached, the nominal charge of one shilling per bale only will be made.
WOOL BALES, EVERY TUESDAY. iHEEPSKlNS ANt) HIDES, EVERY FRIDATT,
Way Bills and all information can be obtained on application, or will be sent by return of post.
H. H. LANG, Produce Manager
Sydney Wool and Grain Warehouses.
\ I
w
-4b.
v
". \-j
•S. 5tV
4
w
U
NEW AND INGENIOUS READY-ACTING DOG-TAIL AND CAMERA ATTACHMENT, FO
TOURISTS.
A patent is now pending by the inventors.
They claim the dog’s tail and the Instantaneous shutter, also the combination of the shutter and
dog’s tail, also the whole dog, and the general application, in the mannersubstantlally and for
the purpose described.
ray <S& Xj iohtner,
32 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
Complete Photographic Outfits, in great variety, from £3. Catalogues post free.
THE LATEST WORKS ANO PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
SOLE AGENTS for BAKER'S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID in the Market,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies.
i
§
Caterer and Confectioner,
6B4 GEORGE STREET.
WEDDINGS, BALLS, PICNICS, AND PARTIES A SPECIALITY,


Printed end JPubiuti,.. us Tai iwnt-
»»»»! Oc. Idmltod), Si Pltt-it.. Sydney. NJ.W,
LITTLE DORA ON GENERAL
GORDON.
The late General Gordon owes a deep debt of
gratitude to uj— which, under the circumstances,
we freely forgive him. When the papers were
howling lamentalions-quite gratuitous, by the
way, as Gordon woul I probably have given the
writers in charge if he had known them in life-
over his untimely end, and yelling for somebody
to get up and avenge him in the gore of Arabs we
kept calra, and, though feeling sorry for the fate
of a gallant, if visionary, soldier, did not think it
necessary we should rip round the country charg-
ing like mad bulls at people for subscriptions to
set up statues and build Idiot Asylums in his
honour—however much we may have thought
that free quarters in the latter for a section of the
Press and the Government would be desirable, and
even advantageous, at the time. Neither did we
think It necessary to print yards of invertebrate
verbiage in praise of him as other papers did.
What did the writers of all this spineless stuff
know about Gordon to warrant them in lavishing
half the adjectives in the English language in the
course of a column-length obituary notice ? Wore
they acquainted with him personally ? Had they
even watched his career carefully ? We think not.
They had a certain amount of pulpy reflections on
hand, and these had to be used up over somebody.
Gordon was the victim in this case. Yet, before
even the intelligence of his death has had time to
“cast a gloom” over the Never-Never country,
we And most of the hysteric statements made
about him being reversed every day by English
periodical*. But let that go. What we wish to
say is that, considering we left the manes of the
lament'd General in peace so long, we have some
little excuse for introducing his name to public
notice once more, in the form of some extracts
from a prizs otsay on his llfo—a copy of which
essay we received the other day. Let us explain
that the prlzs was offered by the Gordon Commit-
tee in Melbourne for the best essay on Gordon,
written by a young person of either sex, under 14
years of ago.
The prize was £3, and was won by a young lady
of the ripe and reflective age of 13. We quote
some of the essay as a model for the imitation of
such Australian infants as prefer giving their
nights and days to Addison to playing at bush-
rangers, and being hauled two or three times a
day out of a duck pond, where they were person-
ating “shfprock saylers on a raft.” Were we not
small boys ourselves once, and have wo not still
the marks about us I We know what a daring
and romantic heart may throb behind a bib and
tucker, and so we will even go so far as to whisper
the name of the good little girl who won the prize,
so that they may think of her every time the
future is made a blank for them by heartless
coquettes of cooks and housemaids, and go out
In the rain pretty often, and grow up fast, so that
they can marry her, and get her to write prize
essays, and keep them—we mean one of them, of
course-ln rum and tobacco while she lives. The
name is—Dora I Dear little Uoral And this is
what she writes.
“A hero 1 Who does not wish to be one ? Who
does not feel the heart leap and the blood thrill
when reading of noble and gallant deeds, the per-
formance of which have lifted men from the level
of everyday life and placed them higher than
their fellows? A great poet tells us that ‘one
touch of nature makes the whole world kin,’ and
so long as generous sentiments and noble aspira-
tions, unfettered by nationality or creed, throb
within the human heart, so long will the memory
of Charles George Gordon fill the highest niche in
the temple of Hero Worship. In studying the
character of this truly great man, wo cannot help
noting how strong a feature is his bravery.
General Gordon was brave in a double sense, for
his moral courage was as high and dauntless as his
physical fearlessness. How the bright records of
personal bravery are dimmed and sullied by acts
of moral cowardice, the pages of history too often
sadly reveal. Clive was a brave soldier, but he
was cruel and oppressive. Napoleon the First
waded through the blood of gallant men to satisfy
his unscrupulous ambition. Nelson, the sturdy
upholder of our naval power, has blots so dark on
his moral character that we mournfully exclaim,
* The good alone are great I ’
So far little Dora; but as too much of little Dora
undiluted might have a tendency to cloy, we will
throw in a word or two of our own in a cynical
way as seasoning. We would like to hoar what
business a little girl of 12 years old has to know
about the blots on the moral character of Nelson.
It the little girl who wrote this essay belonged to
US we would—while admiring her sentiments and
literary style—certainly send her to bed without
her supper, if we did not go the length of patting
her on the back with a brick. And now to
return to little Dora. 8iys she: —
“The emoluments of office, wealth, rank, or
fame, bribes that lure and dazzle the thoughts of
ordinary men, were to him so much unheeded
dross. On the paper of the recording angel his
name beads the Hat for love to God and his fellow,
men, in brighter characters than ever the bene-
volent Arab saw in his vision.”
The benevolent Arab Dora alludes to was one
Abou Ben Adhera, discovered by Leigh Hunt. It
is not every little girl of twelve who is able to
scatter references to the standard writers through
her screed and sow it with philosophical reflec-
tions upon the vanity of “ollicj wealth, rank, or
fame, bribes that lure and dazzle the thoughts of
ordinary men.” Nothing lees than toffee or hokey-
pokey would bribe little Dora, we presume. But
let her finish:—
“His piety was deep and marked, and his resig-
nation to the will of God during those terrible
days In Khartoum is most touching. As far as it
Is possible in human nature to be perfect, as far as
It was possible to utterly annihilate self and ad
vance others, Gordon more nearly approached the
highest standard of Christian excellence than any
man whoso life is written in the annals of his lory.
The few faults he had were such as are almost
Inseparable from generous and impulsive natures,
and so small and insignificant are they, when
balanced with his many virtues, that they need
only bo referred to as proving man’s liability to
error. A grand and effective lesson is taught by
hts life. He sought not fame, but in performing
the everyday duties that lay about his feet, he left
an example that the world honours and applauds,
and that will intiuenoa not only the present age,
but posterity. He sheds unfading lustre on the
nation and profession to which he belonged, dying,
as he lived, a Christian hero.”
There now! What do you think of that from a
kid of 13 ? At an age when others are playing hop-
scotch when they are not going out for beer for
their parents, little Dora is burning the midnight
kerosene, and putting the most profound moral
philosophers to shame by the depth of her insight
into human nature. Yes, indeed, it would be a
pretty story if it were true. But, unfortunately,
there are doubts about it. Wo have received a
communication from our Melbourne correspon-
dent (a man of hitherto unimpeached veracity) in
which he says that he has seen the original manu-
script of the essay as written by little Dora. He
encloses us a copy, which we print below:—
“ ESSY ON JENNEHUL GOREDUN.
“ Jonnerul Gorodun wos a grate Heero. Ho wos
a sojur in the Soodan. Ho wos a Chineymar.
That’s why thay cauld him Chinees Goredun.
Mother owes a Chlneyman 3 shtliins for Tee. He
ses he isseut rod to loeve onny more till he gets
pade wot she os him. Qoredun wos a fine ater.
He used to kill hunderda and hundords of Arribs
with a big sored. My brother Tom sts he cud flte
him with one hand tide behind his back. But
mother can llek Tom eesy with her slipper
Goredun wos killed in a place called Cartoomb by
a Arrlb with a battleax. My brother Tom out his
to with the woodax the other day wen he wos
playin little Gorge Wasshinton. Father ses it
served him rite, and that little Gorge Wassington’s
father was a ole fool. That’s awl about Goredun.’’
Wo are afraid our correspondent has been en-
deavouring to work upon his reputation for ver-
acity in sending us the above as the original essay
written by little Dora. Little girls of 13 can usually
spell better than that in these days. It is really
hard to choose between this essay and tho one that
obtained the prize as to which is the real thing.
But our correspondent says ho knows a man who
winks whenever the latter is alluded to, and wasn't
sober for a week after the three “ quid ” wero
disbursed. It is a world of counterfeits anyhow.
Wolfe's Schnapps is a pleasant remedy.
A high-toned but irreverent ’Frisco paper
thus objects to the personal habits of certain
members of the British aristocracy who have
visited California and acted on the idea that " any-
thing is good enough for America:—“ Would It
not be a fit question to be considered in our next
treaty with England, and a provision inserted to
control the dress and deportment of Englishmen
visiting America as private travellers and as public
officials ? Our Government, as well as that of Her
Majesty, has established official regulations con-
cerning diplomatic costumes. We would be glad
If England would go a step further, and provide
that consuls, gentlemen, and noblemen visiting
America should so far conform to the habits of the
gentlemen of the country as to keep clean and
smell sweet. Like all provincial barbarians living
beyond the coniines of civilisation, we have our
narrow prejudices, and, while we do not undertake
to justify them, we should be so glad and so very
much .flattered if the consuls of Her Britannic
Majesty, and the baronets of England, and
the occasional nobility visiting us, would some-
what vary their costume, and occasionally—
say once in four or 11 vo years — purchase a
new suit of clothes. Scotch tweed of broad
check, made for aheep-herdera in Australia,
does look so dirty after a few years, and
gets so greasy about the seams, and so worn in the
seat of the trousers, that we wish there could be
Inaugurated some slight reform-say corduroys;
and then the coat is so short and the pantaloons so
tight that we become uncomfortable. A cheap
straw hat can be obtained for half-a-crown, with a
ribbon on it. A hunting jacket, especially if old
and nasty, seems so inappropriate for a dinner-
party, that we sometimes wonder that English
baronets and noblemen do not discard it, especially
as we understand that they wear ‘ claw-hammers '
and white chokers at home. We find it difficult to
reconcile ourselves to blue woollen shirts and
tailor neckties worn when visiting at our clubs,
especially when the garments are unclean and the
titled wearer is a baronet of ancient family.
Nothing can justify this disregard of our local
prejudices unless the clothes are inherited family
heirlooms, and even then they might, we think, be
scoured or washed Those remarks are intended to
apply only to English lords, baronets, and consuls
temporarily residing in the country, or passing
through it, and to the merchants’ * darks ’ and
tailors’ apprentices, who, like the small-pox and
other zymotic diseases, are often with us. A well-
known English nobleman, when recently a guest
tt a country resort not far from San Francisco,
went to the dining-room In his ‘Pyjamas.’ While
our readers are blushing over the incident, we
may, In justification of the inappropriate conduct
of the English lord, remark that the ‘Pyjama’is
not a night-gown, but what the ladies call a * com-
bination,’ which is admissible for Englishmen to
wear in India at tiffin upon exceptionally hot days,
but which seems to us to have been inappropriate
for any other purpose than to facilitate the kick-
ing of his lordship. A noble lord is a noble thing;
but should a noble lord pull oil his boots and take
his siesta upon a club lounge in his stocking feet,
smoking a stiff old briar-wood, with cut
navy plug ? Once before we described an incident
at the Yosemlte, when Sir Somebody Stepney met
in the valley General and Mis. Staring, Mr. and
Mrs. Olla-podrlda, and several other highly re-
spectable gentlemen and ladies, and, as is the cus-
tom of the valley, made one of the large party
that climbed to the heights of ‘Inspiration
Point,’ 3C00 feet above the valley; there meeting a
photographic artist, an arrangement was made for
taking a picture of the party, and when the
picture was presented, lo! the hindmost side of
Sir Baronet Stepney I One of the gentlemen of tho
party was greatly minded to take the baronet by
the ears and gently drop him over the cliff. That
this was not done illustrated the amiability of the
gentleman, for the wretched little English snob
was a small man and bis gentlemanly valet did not
accompany him up the mountain. We might
multlply L incldents and give the names of travelling
Englishmen, some genuine, some brumagem, some
titled and honorable, and some of the veriest cads
that ever wandered abroad, who have visited San
Francisco and violated every rul<? of good breed-
ing that Is presumed to govern the conduct ot
gentlemen in all countries and under all circum-
stances.”
WHAT IT WAS.
It was lying with its ear upon the kerb,
it was lying la the gutter on its back,
Its touzled hair was twisted in its teeth,
One eye was bloodshot and the other black.
“ What is this thing ?” we said, In wonderment;
“Can this be human? Are these dreams orfaets?”
A voice came from the creature: “ Can you ask ?
Sir, I'm the man who writes the Temp’rance
Tracts .”
WHAT STRUCK HIM!
Boston HERALD.
“ How are Americans liked in England ? ”
And Mr. B. F. Larrabee, of 13 Chester Square,
ex-director of the “New York and Boston Des-
patch Express Company,” who has recently re-
turned from a considerable residence in London,
answered: ‘ If they have good recommendations
and behave themselves they are well treated, but
they will like the English people, any way, when
acquaintance ripens into confidence,”
*• How do the English compare with Ameri-
cans ? ”
“ The finest looking men In the world can be seen
on pleasant days of the London season, promenad-
ing Piccadilly. The English ladies, however, are
neither so neat in appearance nor so graceful of
form and movement as the Americans, but they
seem to enjoy more robust health.”
“Are English people longer lived than our
people ? ”
“I don’t know. I have not fully investigated.
But I remember once hearing read a newspaper
paragraph entitled, ‘Why do Englishmen Live
Longer than Americans ? ’ That paragraph, by
the way. once solved a great mystery for me.”
“Ah, indeed, another ‘tribute to the power of
the Press ? ’ ” suggested the reporter.
“ Yes, if you so please to call it. In 1879, when I
was residing at the Commonwealth Hotel, in this
city, I had occasion to do some business in Wash-
ing ton-street. When I got to the corner of Frank-
lin, I seemed to feel a blow in the breast and fell
to the pavement like a dead man. When I re-
covered consciousness I was taken to my hotel. I
first thought perhaps some enemy had struck me,
but my physicians assured me that such could not
be the case, and advised strictest quiet. For six
long weeks 1 was unable to lie down. I was vio-
lently ill, and my physicians said 1 would probably
never walk the streets of Boston again. I did not
want to die, but who can expect to live when all
doctors say he cannot?" And Mr. Larrabee
smiled, sarcastically, and expressed himself very
freely concerning the number of common dis-
orders which are controlled by remedies which
physicians will not employ.
“ But how about that paragraph ? h
“ Yes, yes. When I was obliged to sit up in bed
day and night for fear of suffocation, and hourly
expected death, my nurse begged the privilege of
readlrg that paragraph to me. 1 refused him at
first, but he persisted. It described my condition
so exactly; tnat for the first time I began to realise
what had prostrated me. I was filled with a
strange hope. I at once dismissed my physician
and immediately began Warner’s Safe Cure. In a
few months I was restored to perfect health, not-
withstanding mine was one of the worst possible
oases of Bright’s disease of the kidneys, which
all my physicians—and I had the best specialists in
Boston—said was incurable. I tell you, when a
man gets into the desperate condition I was in, he
doesn’t forget what rescues him.”
‘ But were the effects permanent ? ”
“That was live years ago,” said Mr. Larrabee,
and for do years 1 have not been so well as during
the past five years. If 1 had known what 1 do
now, I would have checked the matter Jong ago,
for it was In my system for years, revealing itself
in my blood, by frequent attacks of chilis, jaun-
dice, vertigo, typhoid fever, nervousness, wakeful
nights, etc., etc. I took over 40 bottles before I
got up and over 150 before I was well. 1 have
commended that treatment in thousands of cases
of general debility, kidney and liver disorder, etc.,
and have never heard ill concerning it. I bank on
“ Speaking of paragraphs how do English papers
compare with American, in this particular ? ”
■‘ Well, they have fewer witty paragraphs, bat
the smaller papers, like the Pall Mall Gazette, St.
James' Gazette, and Truth, abound in sharp, in-
cisive paragraphs without wit. In general,
American papers make the most of nows, the
xoadon papers make tfie most of opinion.”
The aboriginal Adam and Eve of Australia were Bri and Boru. So the special re-
porter of the South Australian Advertiser says, and he ought to know, being a
Kerry-man himself. Uh, you bet this is a deep paragraph.
