

THE BULLETIN
Vol 3 -No. 134 -New Series.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1885.
Price— 84.
The Bull
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1885.
George’s New Book.
In the Argus hare begun to appear the ad-
vance sheets of a new work by the author
of “Progress and Poverty.” “Protection
or Freetrade ” is the title of this new publi-
cation, and so far, it shows no falling off
in the nervous perspicuity to which much
of the success of Mr. George’s works is due.
The charm of style is a potent one. In the
pages of Buckle, of Fboude, and of Macau-
lay, are to be found errors so faultlessly
dressed as truths that even a careful reader
is apt to be misled. When Buckle saw in
the Exhibition of 1851. the symbol of an era
of universal peace and good-will; and
when, a few years later, he ingeniously
accounted for the Crimean. War by pointing
out that it arose between the two most
backward countries in Europe—countries in
which Western ideas had made little pro-
gress-many of the foremost minds in Eng-
land believed him. But the alterations
which have since taken place in the Euro-
pean map as the result of bloody struggles,
together with the fact that at the present
moment millions of armed men are with
difficulty held in leash, show that’in this
opinion, as in many others, he was wrong.
So with George. Some of the positions
already occupied by him in “ Protection or
Freetrade,” and defended with the dialectic
skill of which he is a master, we hold to be
untenable. While defending his front with
a show of overwhelming force, he leaves
Lis flanks and rear dangerously exposed.
• • •
Even in the few sheets of the new book
already published a large amount of ground
is covered, and there are many indications
that the scope is to be wide, and the inquiry
exhaustive. At the very outset, a heap of
rubbish is cleared away by the determina-
tion of the writer to keep clear of that style
of reasoning known to logicians as the post
hoc ergo propter hoc method—a method
that frequently attiibutes effects to ante-
cedent causes with which they have no
necessary connexion. For instance, America
is, generally, prosperous. So is England.
To attribute to Protection the prosperity of
the one, because that fiscal policy preceded
such well-being, is just as illogical as to as-
sign, for a similar reason, the success of the
other to Free-trade. It is on abstract prin-
ciples that George has, so far, proceeded.
Examples illustrative of those principles
will no doubt, be forthcoming as the work
proceeds. And here it may be remarked
that, in human affairs, the result of the ap-
plication of sound principles is not always
happy, nor is the consequence of following
unsound ones always deplorable. Assum-
ing for instance, that the true history of
the’Saviour’s life and teachings has come
down to us in the New Testament, it is cer-
tain that by conforming to those teachings
not as they are conveniently interpreted by
paid advocates who,, clad in purple and
feasting sumptuously, humorously claim
to be imitators of the Nazarene, but by
reading them as they came from the mouth
of the Christ Himself-civilisation, as we
now know it, would have no existence.
Again, it is wrong to lie. But there are cir-
cumstances under which an untruth is not
alone allowable, but meritorious. We have
said so much for the purpose of showing
that, even if the canons enunciated by
George were unassailable, their application
would not be necessarily beneficial. But are
they unassailable? Let us see.
• * *
“ The protective theory asserts a general law.
It Is, and of necessity must he, advocated as a uni-
versal principle, as true of one country as of
another. American Protectionists contend that—
at least up to a certain point in national develop-
ment—Protection is everywhere beneficial, that
the prosperous nations have built up their pros-
perity by Protection. . . . And this they must
do if their argument is to have any plausibility,
for it would be absurd to assert that a theory of
national growth and prosperity applies to some
countries and not to others.”—“ Protection or
Prse-trade.”
The singular thing about this statement is
that it is Free-trade, and not Protection,
that “asserts a general law ” that “must be
advocated as a universal principle, as true
of one country as of another.” Not even
the most uncompromising Protectionists, if
living in a country where fruit could not be
grown, would think of placing a duty on
oranges, except for the purpose of raising a
revenue. No body of New England Frateo-
tionists, if transplanted to a Pacific island
where sheep could not be raised, would put
a tax upon wool. It is Free-trade that de-
mands universal acceptance for its prin-
ciples—that teaches that industries natural
to a country must remain undeveloped until
the cost of production, including wages, has
been brought down to the point where the
country can compete with other lands in
which similar industries have been firmly
established, and wages are but one remove
from the starvation point. For instance,
immense beds of coal anl of iron exist in
America. Similar deposits are to be foundin
China. In one place wages are high—low in
the other. According to Free-trade the Penn-
sylvanian deposits should not be touched
until the American workman could produce
as cheaply as the Chinese, or, in other words,
was prepared to live on the same pittance.
To go to Nature for an illustration, it is
Free-trade that claims to be of universal
application like the law of gravitation,
whose workings can be traced in the re-
motest bodies in space just as well as in the
planets that spin round the sun. Protec-
tion, on the other hand, may be likened to
the quality of iveii/ht which depends entirely
on circumstances. If there is one quality
which, more than another, appears inherent
in matter—inseparable from it—it is pon-
derosity. By a certain effort a man lifts a
body from the ground and concludes that
fixed weight is one of the body’s attributes
just like its bulk or its length. But such is
not the case. On some planets his utmost
strength would be powerless to move such
a body at all, while on others he could
throw it to a considerable distance with
little effort. Indeed, positions in space can
be easily imagined where the word
“ weight” would have no meaning—where a
feather on one scale would balance a ball of
lead on the other.
• * ♦
George was at one time a Protectionist.
He is now a Free-trader. What caused his
views to change ? Let him speak for him-
self :—
“ As he [in able American Protectionist whom
he heard lecture] urged that American Industries
must be protected from the competition of foreign
countries, that we ought to work up our own raw
materials, and allow nothing to be imported that
we could produce for ourselves, I began to see
that these propositions, if true, must be univer-
sally true. For the first time I began seriously to-
think of what this theory Involved, to realise that
If It were (rue, not only should every nation shut
itself out trom every other nation; not only
should the various sections of every large country
institute tariffs of their own to shelter their indus-
tries from the competition of other sections, but
that the reason given why no people should
obtain from abroad anything that they could
make at home must apply to every family. It
[Protection] implies that a federation of mankind,
such as that which prevents the establishment of
tariffs between the States of the American Union,
would be a disaster to the race. . . . Such a
theory might consort with that form of Polythe-
ism which assigns to each nation a separate ar d
hostile God, but it is hard to reconcile It with the
idea of the unity of the Creative Mind and the
universatlty of law. Imagine a Christian mission-
ary expounding to a ntwly-disoovered people the
sublime truths of the gospel of peace and love—
the fatherhood of God, the brotherhood of mar.
. . . Could he in the same breath go on to de-
clare that, by virtue of the laws of this same God,
each nation, to prosper, must defend itsvlf against
all other nations by a Protective tariff? . . .
Natural and revealed religion alike teach us that
ti e highest good of esca Is to be sought in the
g< od of others. . . . To make that a crime by
statute which is no crime in morals, is inevitably
to destroy respect for law.”
To begin with the last excerpt, until man
has developed qualitits of which he at prt-
stut gives no promifp, there will be statute
crimes which are not moral ones. Universal
Free-trade would have no more effect in
preventing this than universal Protection
in causing it. To distil spirits without a
license, dispose of goods by lottery, or, if a
barber, shave customers on Sunday, are
Statute offences, but certainly not moral
ones. If the tendency of this class of crime
is to destroy respect for law, respeot for law
would long since have disappeared. Geobob
finds it hard to reconcile Protective tariffs
with the “idea of the unity of the creative
mind.” It is odd that such an astute rea-
soner should endeavour to strengthen his
position by a statement of this kind. It is a
dangerous one to make. To first imagine a
Creative Mind and then condemn or deny
certain facts because they are not reconcil-
able with the attributes which you attribute
to that mind is surely the height of unrea-
son. Nothing has tended to retard human
progress so much as this desire to make
facts fit in with preconceived notions of a
Creator’s attributes. Behind the pheno-
mena of Nature the theologian finds—or
thinks he finds—a Being all-powerful and
all-good. But the scientist looks out upon
Nature itself, and sees in it a vast shambles
where the weakest go to the wall—an Inex-
orable mother who sacrifices millions that
one may live. The difficulty that Geobgb
finds in reconciling imposts with the “idea
of the unity of the Creative Mind ” is but
another form of the difficulty the theologian
experiences in combining the incompatibles
—an omnipotent Creator and a world full of
evils.
* * v
It all men spoke the same language, were
on the same plane of civilisation, obeyed
the same laws, had but one central govern-
ment, and had no preference for one country
more than for another—if, further, labour
were so thoroughly organised throughout the
world that the soul-destroying competition
which many foolishly think to be the “life
of trade,” were held within bounds, there
would be no need for Protection, Freetrade
means not alone the right of unrestricted
commerce, but the right of every man to
carry himself and his labour to the best
market. Consider what would be the result
of this in the present state of mankind.
Among men the “survival of the fittest”
does not necessaiily mean the survival of
the highest types of humanity. Orientals
will live aud thrive where Europeans starve.
Brought into competition witu Chinese —a
race taught frugality, patience and obedi-
ence, by ages of oppression—the free-bom
and independent American and Australian
cannot hold their own. Does this prove
THE LATE KING ALFjNSO.


AMUSEMENT AND YOUNG.
On receipt of the advertised price, any of the
following Tricks will be sent by return post
THB DISAPPEARING- CARD BOX.-A card
placed in the box instantly vanishes, and the box
is shown quite empty. Price Is., post free Is. 6d.
THE MAGIC CORE BOX."A capital multipli-
cation trick. Three corks are placed in the box,
which is seen by the audience to be quite empty.
The Ud is placed on, and when removed there are
found six corks within. Price Is., post free Is. 6d
THE WIZARD OF THE NORTH’S CHANGING
CARDS.—These cards change instantly to other
cards, whilst held in the hand, in a most surprising
manner. Price Is., post free Is. 2d.
THB GREAT HAT AND DIB TRICK. A solid
die passes completely through the top of a gentle-
man’s hat and is found inside. Price Is. 6d., ;post
free 2s.
THE MARVEL CIGAR CASE.—The case is
shown crammed full of fine cigars, which Instantly
vanish. Excellent trick. Beautifully made in
leather. Price 2s. 6d., post free 3s.
THE MAGIC SNUFF BOX.—A most excellent
trick. No opening can be discovered anywhere.
It looks just like a solid piece of wood,' and no
person can possibly open it but the owner. Price
2s., post free 2a. 6d.
THE MAGICIAN’S PACK OF FORCING
CARDS.—No conjuror with card tricks can pro-
perly perform without them. The most astound-
ing tricks can be performed with them. Very
superior cards, 2s. 6d., post free 3s.
DEMON HANDKERCHIEF.—Indispensable to
every conjuror. Watches, rings, coins, and any
articles placed under this handkerchief, instantly
disappear, although the handkerchief is thoroughly
shaken and shown to the audience each time.
Price 2s. 6d., post free 3s.
THE MAGNETIC PACK OF FLYING CARDS.
—Can b© made to run up and down the arm or
body, and elongated in the air two or three feet
apart in the most beautiful regularity without one
of them falling. Very astounding. Price 2s. 6d.,
post free 3s.
THE MAGIC DIE AND HANDKERCHIEF.-
A solid wooden die is placed under the handker-
chief, and felt to be there by the audience, one of
whom may be allowed to hold it. The performer
exclaims, “ Presto 1 gone 1 ” and Instantly takes
the handkerchief and shakes it to show the die has
vanished, and exhibits it thoroughly, whilst the
die itself is found Inside a canister or any other
article. Price 2s. 6d., post free 39. 6d.
the Japanese drawer
BOX.-The performer sends round a prettyllbrtue
box to the company, which they fill with mgs,
gloves, coins, &c. Directly the performer tafias
it In his hands, without removing It from sight,
the articles instantly vanish, and the drawer Is
shown empty. Price Is. 6d., post free 2s.
THE MAGIC DISSOLVING PACK OF CARDS.
—A pack of playing cards are shown to the au-
dience and then placed Into a case lust large
enough to hold them. One of the audience instantly
after this is done, opens the case, and finds it full
of sweets, and the cards vanished. Price Is. 6d.,
post free 2s. *
THE MYSTERTOUS CANDLE AND BB-
WITCHED HANDKERCHIEF.—The performer
brings forward a candle out of a tight-fitting case
a pd lights it. He then borrows a lady’s handker-
chief, burns it to ashes in the candle, and places
the ashes and candle in the case again. The lady
is then called on to open the case, which is handed
to her. She does so, and finds der handkerchief
restored therein but the cand e entirely gone.
Very excellent trick. Price 2s. 6d., post free 3s.
N.8.W. stamps taken at par, otnei colonies add
Id. to each Is.
Address all communications:
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT
BOX 641 G.P.O. 401 GEORGK-ST., SYDNEY.
Between King and Mamet Streets, opposite thd
Royal Hotel, and no other address.
C. W. ROBERTS
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9s
Small Bottle, . [ta. M.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
la. 6d. per Bottle.
liURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
to. P’)T Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BBAUMONT PORT,
to. per Bottle-
RUM,
In Flasks, Potties, and Imperial Quart*
At lowest possible Prlo a.
GIN-IN FLASKS,
Is. 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henkejs Prize Medal Brand*
in stone bottles and square bottles.
IiABOSST BIZ*.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets*
■YDWffiT.
Th* Rates ot Subscription to Thb Rullbtiw
are—For one year, 81a.; half-year, 12a. 6d.;
quarter, 6a. 6d.—In advance.
Thb Advertising Rates are 5a. per Inch:
special positions In the paper 7a. 8d. per
Inch. Paragraph advertisements 10b. per Inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive Inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive InsertlonsT
15 per cent.: For 62 consecutive insertions, 36 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under ill, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
Next Week’s “ Bulletin ”
Supplement.
w
iTH Next Week’s Bulletin will be pre-
sented, as a Supplement,
TINTED WOODCUT PORTRAITS
OE
LORD AND LADY CAR1N6T0N.
Henniker Heaton elected to the English
House of Commons. He Is a Conservative. So
are all colonials who hanker after baronetcies
Sir Salmon Wilson also In for West Bucks. A con-
sistent course of grovelling: would seem to be the
passport to distinction (of a kind) In England.
their inferiority ? Far from it. If the higher
races would stand their ground at a'l, they
must either accept the conditions—low
wages, cheap diet, and unremitting toil
with which the Chinese are content, or they
must control the influx of the latter. And
what is this but Protection? Owing fealty
to one Government, and peopled by the de-
scendants of Europeans, there is no more
necessity for hostile tariffs between the
various States of the Union than between
the departments in France or the shires in
England. But suppose that, owing to the
absence of restrictions, a million Chinese,
with their wives and families, landed yearly
on the Pacific coast, and spread over the
country, it would soon be found that the
principles of Free-trade wore not uniyer-
versally applicable, and that American
■civilisation, if it would live at all,
must protect itself from such competition.
We have heard intelligent Americans and
Australians rail at the un-Christianlike laws
Which prevented an industrious man from
landing in their countries until he had paid
a poll-tax. But, if they saw their children
perishing for food and their race passing
away through inability to accept the condi-
tions under which the new-comers lived and
laboured, it is probable that their views on
Freetrade and its advantages would be
imperially modified.
. • *
Take the case of Ireland again. Atone
time certain industries for which that coun-
try was adapted flourished there. But
restrictive laws of a peculiarly high-handed
description on the part of the sister island
crushed them out. Yet there is no doubt
that, with a little encouragement—“ coddl-
ing,” the Free-traders call it—the lost in-
dustries would revive. Why do they not re-
vive now ? it may be asked, considering that
the barbarous legislation which killed them
has long since been removed ? Tae answer
}s at hand. England has secured too great
a start, In the event of Ireland obtaining
the legislative independence on which she
appears to have set her heart, it is certain
that, either by bounties or by imposts, she
will endeavour to regain lost ground. Mr.
ParnbIjTj’s last speech foreshadows such a
policy. At the same time he tells his coun-
trymen plainly that in some manufactures
they can never hop© to rival England. This
Is the true theory of Protection—assist when
there is a fair chance of success, let alone
when assistance would be obviously useless.
It is the middle course between the extremes
of Free-trade and Protection. From the
Btand-point of the Free-trader, who views
mankind as a whole, and dreams of a future
When racial differences shall be no
tnore, and nations shall have beaten their
Words iilto ploughshare? it matters
little where the greatest prosperity is to be
found. But to the man who would see
growing industries where stagnation now
feigns— i who would see in the country of his
birth well-fed workers take the place of
starving peasants—it matters a great deal.
If the Americans had left their coal and iron
beds undisturbed until such time as they
could compete with England in the
world’s markets, no ground would have yet
been broken in Pennsylvanian mines. A
statement of the well-being enjoyed by the
Victorian workman can be read in the pages
Of the Government statist. Who will say
that that prosperity has no connection with
the policy which gave it birth ? It may be
said that such success is purchased at too
high price—that labour is diverted from the
natural channels in which its rewards would
be greatest, and forced into others where
much of its productive power is lost. This
aspect of the question is one with which we
shall deal at some future time.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Judicial Impertinence.
TltK Sydney papers quote, with the endorsement
of their own approbation, the remarks made by
Judge Wind kyer to the jury who returned a
verdict of “not guilty” in the Fodlebton arson
case, and also his utterances to the Attorney-
General on the following day. To tho jury his
Honor said that he had “ never seen a clearer case
Of arson in his life,” thus either Insulting their
Intelligence or impugning their probity, by assert-
ing that they had given a manifestly wrong deci-
sion. This should not be allowed to go un-
noticed. Mr. Windeyeb should know, and we
suppose he does know, that to the jury
pertains the exclusive right of recording
their opinion on the evidence submitted; to
the Judge belongs the office of pronouncing a
decision upon points of law, and determining the
sentence of a prisoner when convicted. The
functions are separate and distinct, and the Judge
has no more right to condemn the deliverance of
the jury than the jury has to censure the dictum
of the Judge on a point of law, or to condemn the
sentence which he may see fit to impose. Had the
foreman of the Jury which convicted Ada Ful-
i>er risen, when the Judge sentenced her to be
Imprisoned till the rising of the Court, and said,
“ Kemember, that is your sentence, not mlnel 1
never saw a worse case in my Ilf e,” his im-pertinent
Interference would have boon.on a par with that of
Judge Windeyeb in the case under review. And
not only was It an insult to the jury, it was also a
libel on the prisoner. The jury had acquitted him,
the Judge asserted his guilt. The verdict having
been given by those men in whose exclusive pro-
vince It is to determine upon facts, the prisoner
I could not bo again made to stand his trial for that
offence on the evidence submitted. His Honor
took it upon himself to pronounce a verdict of
guilty when the jury had asserted the contrary.
It might possibly be urged in favour of Judge
that he spoke hastily and without due
consideration, but his speech to the Attorney-
Generai relieves him of that excuse, for, after a
night’s rest, he is reported to have said:—
“The verdict was absurd, and can only be ac-
counted for on one of three hypotheses: either
that the Hading was corrupt, or that the jury
sympathised with crime, or else from their stu-
pidity they were unable to draw proper inferences
from the clearest evidence. I do not believe that
there was corruption, but,;neverthelees, a gross
miscarriage of justice has been committed, und I
hope the Attorney-General will see that the jurors
concerned will not have another opportunity to
defeat the ends of justice.”
The Attorney-General, in reply, said that, un-
willing as he was to interfere with the high pre-
rogative of a jury, still he could not help express-
ing his astonishment at the verdict returned. He
should direct that the jurors concerned should not
be empannelled in another jury.”
It was very kind of his Honor to say that he did
“not believe there was corruption,” and in the
same way we will admit that we don’t believe
either the Judge or the Attorney-General meant to
I intimidate jurymen, although the utterances
quoted will undoubtedly have that effect*
And the conduct of the Attorney-General
is open to misconstruction. He himself has
been conducting criminal cases at this Court.
Is he then to be allowed to direct what
jurymen are to be empannelled and what
men struck off ? The public will be apt to believe
so, and also to imagine that the Judge and Crown
Prosecutor are anxious to obtain, not justice, but
the conviction of the prisoner. That is why we
protest against these utterances. Sir James
Martin, at Gosford a few days ago, is reported to
have told some jurymen who deliberated over
their verdict for three hours, that they ought to
have come to a decision without leaving the box,
and that If he were Attorney-General he would
have them struck off the rolls. This is another
utterance which tends to arouse an unworthy
suspicion touching the impartiality of judicial
officers. These words of censure must lead to in-
timidation of jurymen, and discount, be it in ever
so small a degree, the value of fortfccnming ver-
dicts. If, therefore, Mr. Windeybr desires the
administration of justice to be entirely above
suspicion, he must refrain from these petulant
and ill-considered remarks. When at the bar, he
was noted for his ferocity, legal ferocity, with
opposing witnesses. He must not try the same
tactics with jurymen.
The Happy Hudsons and the Virtuous
Wright.
It Is doubted, after all, whether Mr. Wright, the
Iex-Minister for Works (New South Wales) is the
politically reliable gentleman that even his most
bitter opponents represented him to be. It will
be remembered that there was a howl of indigna-
tion at the action of the Stuart Government in
giving the over-pampered firm of Hudson Bros,
a contract, without competition, for the construc-
tion of temporary waterworks, but public feeling
was calmed to a considerable extent by the ex-
planation made at the time by Honest Frank
Wright. Recent disclosures show that Mi*
Wright's explanation was entirely incorrect, or
else that his successors have been guilty of a
highly reprehensible proceeding. Summarised. Mr.
Wright's statement was this: That Hudson
Bros, were the only firm who could be asked to do
the work, for the reason that the proposed scheme
was entirely their own; the absolute cost was to be
£65,000; the work was to be completed within four
months, and then not less than 3,500,000 gallons of
water were to be conveyed to Sydney dally. When
questioned as to the penalties to be imposed, Mr.
Wright used these words: “ Payment when the
work is finished; that is the heaviest of all penalties.”
Further: “The firm have placed themselves
absolutely at the mercy of the Engineer-in-Chief
for Harbours and Rivers, who can condemn the
whole thing when it is completed.” Combining
these statements, the fair inference is that no pay-
ment was to be made to the contractors until the
works were completed to the satisfaction of the
Bagineer-ln-Cbief. What are the real facts as now
revealed ? The cost of the work will be £73,000.
not £65,000; the contract time has been exceeded;
public officers have reported against certain parts
of the work as having been done in a “slop’'
manner; when the water was turned into the
pipes, it forced the lead out of the joints; and
£45 000 has been paid to the oontractoi s on account.
It will thus be seen that every essential condition
of the contract, as it was described by Mr. Wright,
has been violated. But the worst featm e of all is.
that it is now reported that, owing to ttc low state
of the river from which the water is to be drawn,
not more than 1,000.000 or 1.500 030 gallons will be
available, even assuming that Hudson Bros,
succeed in stopping the various leakages which
have been found. The only justification for the
construction of these temporary works is that
they would be the means of averting the serious
consequences of an insufficient supply of water
for the city, to say nothing about the suburbs.
Who is to be responsible for the deficiency in the
available supply ? Hudson Bros., whose Mr. H.
Hudson, according to Mr. Wright’s official state-
ment, “ made a definite and positive offer that for
the sum of £65,000, his firm would bring into Syd-
ney, within four month?, a supply of from 2 500,000
to 3 000,000 gallons per day or the Government; ?
Two points upon which further explanation is de-
sirable are whether any part of the £45.000 already
paid to the firm, was paid while Mr. Wright held
the position of Minister; If not, who authorised
the payments, and who is responsible for the in-
crease of the contract amount from £65,000 to
£73 000 ? The Job is a huge one as far as quantity
of work is concerned. There can be no doubt on
that point, and whether it is a huge job in any
other sense we decline to say. It must be borne
in mind that, apart from meeting temporary re-
quirements, the works will be of no value what-
ever, as Mr. Moriabty says the Prospect water
scheme will be completed within 18 months.
Mr. W. T. Stead.
With this Issue we give the portrait of the most
virulently-abused, the most highly-lauded, most
fervently-hated, and most doeply-reverenced man
in British dominions, Mr. William Thomas Stead,
editor of the Pall Mall Gazette. Of his early
journalistic career, it is needless to speak. All his
former achievements are lost to sight in the blaze
of his latest triumph. Triumph it is, although ho
languishes In prison, while the aristocratic villains
and noble blackguards, whose brutal lust Im-
pelled him to risk his liberty for the sake of their
unfortunate victims, are giving entertainments to
nobility on the Continent or yachting in Royal
state on the Baltic. That he is so punished not
only shows the viciousness of our law and its op-
position to the clear claim of justice, but also
proves its pliability to the demands of nobility.
Kngland is run in the interests of aristocracy.
The people toil that the nobility may revel, and
law and administration conspire to pander to the
worst vices that have ever disgraced a nation. A
brief survey of the facts of the Stead case shows
this. A fearful tale was told in plain and relent-
lessly severe terms. It was alleged that the
nobility and the wealthy were in the habit of
committing social crimes for which Hodge would
nave been hanged ;tbat establishments were carried
on to permit of these crimes; that doctors made a
living by certifying that Lord This and Prince
That would not be deceived in their bargain for
the pollution of Innocent humanity; and, finally,
that the fountains of the nation’s honour, the
noblest men in England, were the chief supporters
of this nefarious traffic. Mr. Stead further stated
that, if to justify, his conduct it were necessary to
do so, he would put the Heir-Apparent himself
into the witness-box to prove the existence
of the organised system of outrage. This was the
gist of the articles. Unsophisticated mortals, re-
membering that the Bible is the secret of En-
gland’s greatness, would think that only two
courses were open to the authorities: either that
the charges must be shown to be false, or else that
the traffic must be stopped and the aristocratic
criminals punished for their past offences. Bat
the authorities knew they were unable to do the
first, and neither desired nor dared to attempt the
second. Happily for them they were able to adopt
a course of action in conformity with the nobility-
pandering spirit to which we have referred. In
prosecuting his enquiries, Mr. Stead had been
deceived by one witness. Acting upon this wrong
information, he abducted the girl, Eliza Arm-
strong. For this he has been tried and punished.
Thus English authority has stated its will that
lust may devastate the nation, but that the man
who attempts to cheek its ravages, if he err in one
trifling Inconsequential point, must pay thelelon’s
penalty. This Eliza Armstrong story might have
been cut out of the revelations, and their damning
force would not have been in any degree lessened.
It was unnecessary to the Indictment, if not
utterly irrelevant. And yet it is for this error that
our social Luther suffers. But if the attitude of
administrative authority excites our indignation,
the conduct of the Church arouses our contempt,
and that of the Frets our disgust. Take the
former first The Church, as the depository of
sanctity, should never have ceased her denuncia-
tions until the perpetrators of these atrocities
were visited with the deserved penalty. The
Church did nothing of the sort. Her ministers
met the charges with the protest that they were
stale and obscene, and cried tor the punishment
of the man who had dared to reveal crime. The
Church of England, like the responsible Cabinet
Minister, refused to enquire whether the charges
were true; it only sought to punish the man
who made them. Lastly, it is of interest to
notice the attitude of the Press—the colonial
Press—it being granted, for the purpose of argu-
ment, that a creation amorphous in form, and
boneless in composition, can put itself into an
attitude. The local journals have unanimously
accepted the verdict against Stead as a refutation
of his assertions, and consequent testimony to the
uprightness of England’s nobility. It seems im-
possible to Imagine the intensity of superlative
ignorance necessary to enable a person to
conscientiously hold such an opinion as this. In
the first place, the articles which reached every
home in England, and were spread half over the
Continent, were circulated for weeks before the
Home Secretary took action, although Royalty,
nobility, and even the Secretary himself were
charged with participating in the worst social
crimes known to civilisation. Then at the trial,
Mr. Stead was stopped whenever he diverged in
the slightest degree from the Eliza Armstrong
case, this restriction alone proving that the par-
ticular case was not essential to the general
charge. And further, although the political and
ecclesiastical dignitaries looked upon Mr. Stead as
a dangerous criminal, the people crowded in thou-
sands to hear him, and met him at railway stations
with cheers such as the Heir Apparent never
heard. It seems utterly impossible to recognise
these facts, and conceive that press-writers believe
that which they try to teach their readers. Yet,
on the other hand, it is inconceivable that any pub-
lic writers can, beholding and acknowledging the
corruption, wilfully sell themselves, body and
soul, to the devil of lust which Imperils the pros-
perity, and even the existence, of the Empire
whose greatness is, we are told, attributable to its
reverence for the Bible. “He who allows
oppression shares the crime.” Can it be that any
of our exceedingly moral contemporaries are co-
sharers with the Honourable Jack and Sir Carnaby
Jinks ;in the pollution and ruin of Magdalenes
whose agonised screams for aid have bean heard
by none save those who were conspiring for their
destruction ? As we said, in introducing this sub-
ject, England is run in the interests of the aris-
tocracy. Every power in the State must be
worked for the benefit of a favoured few—their
very vices must be worshipped and held sacred
from criticism. This case of the Pall Mall
Gazette Is the triumph of Imperialism. May we
in Australia never be cursed with such a political
system. Some of our New South Wales legisla-
tors are working to fix it on the colony. Our
Churches here are as ready as ever they were in
England to worship him who lays most money
at the altar. And the Sydney dally journals have
shown most clearly ihat they desire the advent of
a season of nobility-worship, to which idolatry
they have already irretrievably committed them-
selves. It is, therefore, the work of true Aus-
tralians to resist every attempt made by politician,
parson, or newspaper to rivet upon us such a sys-
tem of Imperialism as that which in England
delivers over, with the approbation of contltuted
authority, the daughter of the poor man as the
helpless prey to the lustful Prince or licentious
Peer.


Wolfh’9 Schnapps. There are many imita-
tions but by using ordinary Intelligence you need
not bo deceived.
Judging from appearances, the average
witness up Mount Perry way does not hold a very
reverential idea of the majesty of the law, ora
very strong notion of the sacred solemnity which
should surround the throne of Justice. A few
days ago a number of oath-slingers connected
with a shanty-keeper’s trouble were rounded up,
and variously swore to the contents of the same
bottle as consisting of every drinkable fluid In the
known world—except water. They weakened on
water, as many of them had never tested it since
they were baptised. One witness, who coolly
struck a match on the southern end of his mole
RSins alter kissing the Book, and prepared to com-
fort himself and refresh his memory with a “ blasnt
av th’ dhudeen,” was struck with a drop-down-
deadness fit when told to “take that pipe out of
his jaw and remember where he was.” Another
strolled into the box with his cabbage-tree “ oady ”
on his touzlei nob; and a third, who bad evidently
determined to tell nothing but the truth, by way
of a change, on being asked where he lived, cau-
tiously replied he "be hanged if he knew, but
anywhere would do at present.” Now we know
why the comic shows give Mount Perry a wide
berth whenever there’s anything particular on the
programme of the law court.
It is with a full cargo of over-proof horror
and indignation that we find certain unprincipled
scientific wretches are endeavouring’ to throw
discredit on the veracity of that grand old de-
nouncer, Jonah, and to prove that he was nothing
better than a nineteenth-century cable correspon-
dent. One of them. Dr. Schaulbaohe by name,
has just taken the uncalled-for liberty of pointing
out that If the whale really did swallow the pro-
phet (as If anyone could doubt Itl) in the Mediter-
ranean, and vomited him out again near Nineveh,
he did a clipping three days’ voyage, for he must
have carried him through the Straits of Gibraltar,
round the Cape of Good Hope, up the Persian
Gulf, and into theTlgris. Well, what if he did ?
Does the bald-headed old saurkraut-wolflng Pro-
fessor think that a whale is as slow as one of our
own antiquated floating-coffin coasters ? Why we
knew a wnaie once that had 36 harpoons in him,
and yet he managed to tow 11 schooners and 14
brigs from off Cape Farewell in Greenland, way
down to Bio de Janeiro Inside of 48 hours-but. on
second thoughts, we’ll not tell that yarn to-day.
or some other scientist will start up to prove that
wo ourselves are the real original and only Jonah
—a fact which would certainly turn the respectable
portion of the people against us at the next
elections.
The “ night side ” of Melbourne life has
been brought up lately by Mr. Anderson, who has
stated “ from information received,” that not less
than 400 girls under 14 years of age are leading
improper lives. What the number may be it
Ph^ 1 iL proba * bly be hard t0 but a visit to the
fh b i a rf^ ( ? uart « r ? l i? W8 much towards proof. It is
the fashion of visitors to Melbourne to go round
ThVate , at ni * ht under °» r « of a Xeofelve.
rhf is one very convincing of what the
Thi^ e8 a.,K°^. ln tb £ way of demoralising a city,
subsidise old women to hunt up girls of
thcre r are , dra **' ed to their dens to be
there stupifled by opium and petted with sweet
meatsan<f pretty clothing. In a ISzSS ofThlse
dens visited lately were some pretty and childish
girls—two or three of them in one hut. The
“bitter cry” of such “maiden tributes” to vice
was plain enough, and visitors can but wonder
why in our midst such outrageous doings can be
overlooked.
Amenities off tlie New Soutli Wales Assembly.
MR. COPELAND (interrupting Sir Henry Parlies’ speech): “YOU ARK GIVING THEM SOFT-SOAP, NOW I”
SIR HENRY PARKES: “SOME COMMON SOAP IS WHAT WOULD DO MOST GOOD TO THE HONOURABLE MEMBER.”


Personal Items
Mr. M. H. Davies, the member for Nor-
manby, is said to be the handsomest man in the
Victorian Assembly. It is not muon to say.
" The Duke of Edinburgh,” says a London
paper, " is about to spend Christmas in the
country.” We are glad to hear that he Is at last
about to spend something.
Thank Heaven! Another peer will soon be
amongst us. Lord Byron, " whose father was
second cousin to the poet,” is a passenger to Aus-
tralia in the Kalser-i-HInd. We make this an-
nouncement now in order that the young ladies
in boarding-schools may have time to look up
their "Don Juan.”
Some one has affected to discover that
John Milton plagiarised “ Paradise Lost ” from the
work of a Dutchman named Vondel, If such
statements are made about the Immortal John,
what great author is secure from calumny ? We
shall soon be hearing that Douglas Sladen’s
greatest works are translations from the Welsh.
The S.M. Herald reports that the mem-
bers of the Geographical Society’s New Guinea
expedition "are greatly surprised at the fuss be-
ing made about them throughout the colonies.”
The expeditionists have got hold of the wrong end
ot the stick. In Sydney, at least, the fuss was
made by men who wanted to make afuss about
themselves.
Although it is cabled that King Alfonso
died of dysentery, he really succumbed to phthisis,
from which he had long suffered. By the w«y,
another distinguished personage upon whom con-
sumption has set its hand is Kate Vaughan,
the fascinating danseuse, for whose sweet take
Colonel Fred. Wellesley abandoned his own good
wite, the daughter of Lord Augustus Loftus.
Kate, according to late accounts, is rapidly sinking.
A lately-appearing popular lecturer had a
decidedly "jolly nose.” Ho could have piayed
Blueskin In “Jack Sheppard ” without any facial
making-up. When we heard him in a two hours’
lecture never trip for a word, and appeal not to
manuscript, I called our companion’s attention to
the goodness of his head, as a thing not to be
expected by one who haa evidently been a bon
vivant and general free liver. “You see,” she
said, “it never gets as far as the brain-it stops
abort at the nose, and comes out there! ”
Henniker Heaton, we fancy, is somewhat
Indebted to Dr. Beaney, of Melbourne, for bis seat
in the English Parliament. Beaney is a great man
at Canterbury. During his rt-cent visit to his
native city the doctor has been feeding old women,
giving away diamonds, and " upholding the
onour of Australia ” in numberless ways. Hen-
niker, no doubt, has done a little of the same sort
of thing himself, with the result that Canterbury
voted " Australian ” almost to a man. Hennlker’s
majority is a large one for such a small constitu-
ency.
Mr. Stewart, the new Mayor of Melbourne,
was lawyer to the Scots Church, and made a re-
markably good thing out of it till he took sides
with Mr. Strong. Since then he has been harassed
to such an extent that he has had to resign his
appointment, which has passed into the hands of a
child of light who knows more in his generation
than a scboolful of the children of darkness. There
is a general suspicion among the outside public
that the members of the Melbourne Presbytery
have bought over Peter and made a ring to con-
trol the gates ot Heaven. They would hardly act
as tney do It they had not made sure of the game
beforehand.
Faith in destiny and fate, as ruling all of
us, la largely Increased in the King of Spain’s early
death. He had so much crammed into a short
life finishing at 28. It is often that way with tnose
destined to early death. He was a King at 18. and
baa experienced since then all of bachelor life, the
life ot a married man, that of a widower, ana whai
it i« to have a second wife and be lather of h
family. Also what it is to have domestic strife,
and be for two years a grass widower, and to
become noted for too many gallantries during that
time Except that he had not experienced the
usual Spanish sensations of a revolution and de-
thronement he had nothing much for which to live
• onger.
Mr. Justice Harding, of Queensland, is a
bit of a humourist in an official way. He recently
detained some jurymen for more than three days,
and they, in accordance with the usual custom,
sent la their cards, with a request tor extra lees
on account of the delay. Looaiag at the Girds, nn
noticed that moat of the names were followed by
"Eaq.” He said: "Oh, I don’t think you want
extra pay, as you are gentlemen of leisure.
Thereupon they discovered that they were not
gentlemen at all, but tradesmen, so their request
was, on that admission, complied with. Mr. Jus-
tice Harding bids fair to become unpopular with
the Queensland snobocracy.
Ireland must have altered mightily since
the days of the Liberator, or else his descendants
have fallen away from the family traditions.
Perhaps a little of each. Anyway, it comes as a
shock to read that Mrs. Morgan O’Connell, a grand-
daughter of the great Daniel, is being “boy-
cotted ” in the most determined manner at Kll-
dysart. All shopkeepers and labourers have been
warned not to provide food or work for Mrs.
Morgan. Most melancholy to state, the Liberator s
grandchild is "under the protection of the British
Government.” The whirligig of Time brings
strange changes. Fancy an O’Connell in the direct
line being unable to procure a dhrop o’ whisky in
ould Ireland, except through the intervention of
the perfidious Saxon!
Aggressive men must learn to restrain
themselves. For knocking down an aged broker
of 69, a Melbourne solicitor has been mulct in
£500 la. damages. The odd shilling is what toe
defendant bumptiously paid into Court as, in hia
opinion, full satisfaction for all damage done. The
jury thought otherwise of the matter, and Mr.
KUngender will, in damages and a double set ot
costs, learn, at a heavy loss, not to let his angry
passions rise. He had speculated heavily in Bar-
rier Ranges stock a year ago, and blamed the
brokers, and the plaintiff among them, for a 50 per
cent, decline in the value of hia shares in this
stock. If we could knock down all folks of the
professions identified with our losses, the streets
would be strewed with them.
Even lords can be put to some use. When
Lord Castierosse was at Dandeuong (Vic.) last
week, be gave the blaok-traokers some sport. The
distinguished nobleman (brother to Lady Loch
and Equerry to his Excellency—no Jess) made his
way into the bush, and after a while the darkles
started on his track. Unfortunately they soon
found him, or—as the Herald put it—"ran Into
their titled game.” If the "titled game” could
have been lost for a while, the cause of science
would have been served. Little Clara Crosbie,
who was lost in the bush, lived for three weeks
without food. The world is anxious to know how
long a lord could hang on under similar circum-
stances. It is easy to put on “jam ’’—the question
is, will it sustain life in the busn ?
For a good old shut-your-eyes-and-trust-
to-luck-to-hit-something snot, commend us to the
following par from the Campbelltown Penny
Post:—" At the last meeting ot Lodge Tranquility,
No. 1563, E.C., Mr. Quong Tart was admitted a
Mason. We have no doubt he will prove a more
acceptable brother than many who have whiter
skins—but blacker hearts.” As far as skins go,
there is not much difference after all between
Mr. Q. Tart and Mr. John Davies, except that
Jannery John’s is several inches the thicker; bu-
when it comes to a case of hearts, why—we’ll pass
the subject for the present, This, however, we do
know-Quong is the boss tea-maker, and John the
boss tea-drinker in the colony. That cask of wine
was for purely medicinal purposes only.
We heard awhile ago that poor Maxi-
milian’s demented widow was getting her reason
again. It is not so, however, as later news shows
her to be suffering from that form of mania
known as “ exaltation.” She imagines herself to
be still what she calls "the Great Empress of
Mexico,” that her husband is alive and reigning,
also that he will yet bo a greater Emperor and have
other dominions. Dresses made for her are re-
jected In this lofty style: "I will not have them —
they are not good enough for the great Empress
of Mexico.” Music and needlework are her exer-
cises, engaged in which she is always silent. The
music of the church organ seems to have most
influence on her, but her restoration to reason is
considered by the faculty as now hopeless.
Here is an item from the theatrical
columns of a Melbourne paper:—‘ Charles Kelly
died last year. Ellen Terry s lather went to the
funeral. Ellen had jufit then returned to London
from America, but sbe would not postpone her
stage appearances In consequence of tier husband’s
death. They say sne is also married to Watts, the
artist.” The Devil 1 tso it is possible to continue
to be married to a dead man. ‘ She is also married
to Watts, the artist.” H this is right as a point of
law, then it is only due to the good feeling of
corpses that the courts are not reeking with
actions for bigamy. The more we think about it,
the more we are convinced that there will be a
Sheol ot a time for the great majority of the
population of this planet at the Resurrection.
Poor George the Fourth has been scoffed
at unmercifully for vexing his mighty mind over
the shaping of a shoe-buckle. His Royal relative,
‘ Wales,” is deeply interested in introducing the
custom of drinking toasts "with flying topsails”
to naval banquets. Tis an awfully poetic custom.
At a given signal, all the guests fling their dinner
napkins up in the air, and cheer us tney gracefully
flutter down again. They “topsalled” the plump
rrinoe at a dinner in Norway, and since then he is
dying to witness another performance in Eogland.
May he have bis wish. These quaint old customs
are very pleasing. We were at a free-and-easy the
other night, where the health of "The Queen”
was honoured by everyone expectorating on the
floor That struck us ns being a peculiarly Aus-
tralian demonstration of loyalty.
The mad King of BaVaria has had the
toothache. Mo laruhs, as Die Kens said of beadles,
are but men. The eccentric King, who is building
a second Versailles Palace with the people's
money, has now had his money-spending freaks
stopped by the Parliament. Treating him as in-
sane, he will not be allowed to spend any more
funds in such freaks. His toothacne developed a
brutal side in his disposition. He knocked about
all his attendants, and was quite outrageous.
When persuaded to have the tooth out he declined
to take chloroform, fearing, he said, an attempt
on his life while insensible. The dentist drew the
tooth—the King bellowing most furiously mean-
time. The operator had to run for his life when
the tooth was drawn, as the King made after him
full speed, vowing he suould be similarly tortured
when caught.
Mr. Zox, M.L.A. of Victoria, when in a
mixed company, lnv<rlably makes it a point to
disarm criticism by retailing some little joke at
the expense of his oo-rellglonists. This is one ot
his latest. Jews are debarred, in acoordance with
the Mosaic Jaw, from eating shelltUh, and some
little time ago the Grand Chief R ibbi (or whatever
he Is culled), who lives in Amsterdam, was peti-
tioned to grant a special indulgence in favour of
oysters, Tne Rabbi was adamant, however, and a
London Jew was bewailing the hard fate which
left him no alternative but either to give up the
succulent bivalve after which his soul longed or
to sacrifice his religion, when an unsympathetic
Christian remarked—" And a good Job, too. From
my experience of Jews, only once allow them to
eat oysters and Christians will have nothing left
but the shells.”
Mr. Moss is a Departmental clerk of the
Victorian Railways Djpartment. His functions are
the settling of passengers’ claims upon the com-
pany. We have interviewed him often as to lost
luggage, and our claims for money payments for
our missing portmanteau. He was always too
much for us, and .the sight of his jewelled
fingers seemed to tell of how many grate-
ful acknowledgments had fallen to his share. His
name now turns up in the House of Assembly as
one of those whose services are to be dispensed
with. Mr. Bent Is the champion of the departing
Moss, and blames Mr. Lavater for the dismissal.
If such excellent arrangements have been made
by the new Commissioners that no more luggage
will he lost, then, of course, “ Othello’s occupa-
tion’s gone,” and no need of the negotiator with
claimants who will no more appear.
A bush life tends to make some men very
eccentric. We have an Instance of it In one John
Gillard, who says that he has been for five years
"droving and shepherding up and down the Dar-
ling.” During that time he forgot his wife alto-
gether, until she met him one day when he had
wandered down to Melbourne. She recalled him
to memory in the police court, when it appeared
that he had £40 in ready cash, and freehold estate
worth £3000. He was ordered to pay his wife £20
and to allow her 10s. weekly for the future. His
answer was—“Good Lord, I can’t do It I” He could
dolt easily enough, but the compulsion i a not to
his liking. So to prison he goes until he can alter
his mind, which, at present, is shown in his mut-
tering constantly, "Couldn’t do it! couldn’t do
itl” To hear him saying it recalled Maggie Moore
in the "Fool of the Family ” singing “Shouldn’t
wonder, shouldn’t wonder I”
The rubicund Mr. Zox, member for East
Melbourne, called a blush to the cheeks of his
fellow legislators during the debate on the Fac-
tories and Shops Bill. Dr. Rose suggested that
chemists should close at 7 o’clock as well as other
people. Coming from a medical man the proposal
is horribly significant—but, no matter. " But
suppose my child should be taken ill after 7
o’clock,” roared Zox. The good doctor gazed
sadly at his interlocutor and reminded him that he
was a bachelor and "should have no children.” It
was an awful moment for Zox, but he was equal
to the emergency. “ I meant, suppose my grand-
mother was takep 111,” said the unabashed member
for Bast Melbourne. The House breathed freely
again. Zox was taken back to their virtuous
bosoms Immediately. The hoarse whisper of sus-
picion resolved itself into a murmur of admiration
for the man so solicitous about his grandmother’s
health.
There is pretty strong evidence of a Con-
servative reaction at "home,” in the fact that
little Howard Vincent could defeat such a man as
Samuel Plimsoll, the sailors’ friend. Vincent
evidently made a lot of political capital out of his
recent Australian trip. In fancy we can hear him
piling on the agonv about the German acquisition
in New Guinea. Well, let him laugh wuo wins.
Vincent, who, apart from family influence and a
rich wife, has nothing to recommend him —who
was such a muff as chief of the Criminal Investi-
gation Department that the post was abol-
ished, will now be a "coming man.” Mean-
while, Sam Plimsoll, whose plucky fight for
the seaman is commemorated on the hull of every
merchant vessel sailing from a British port, has to
hide his diminished nead. Fortunately he will be
able to hide It in the bosom of a brand new wife,
for Sam made a second bid lor matrimony only a
few weeks back.
Good evidence, indeed, of the increased
and increasing value of colonial city property Was
given in the suit of Har»t v. Hurst, lately before
Judge Molesworth, of Victoria. The late Rev.
George Hurst. Wesleyan minister, of Burwood,
Sydney, had laid up for himself treasure upon
earth. With £13 000 of this filthy lucre he bought
Temple Court, Melbourne, just 33 years ago. This
purchase has now increased to olx times in value,
bwlng set down f«r probate duty valuation at
£74,573. That is not all that is noticeable in the
case. By Mr. Hurst’s will this property was be-
queathed to hij wile during life and widowhood
only. On her marrying again it would go to
deceased s brother, to whom it has now gone. Her
second husband can, therefore, well assess his
value to his present wife, and the figure is a tall
one. We daresay that there are many who would
rather have our society than £100 a week in cash,
but we have not met with them.
Now that poor little Alfonso is dead,
some giddy revelations anent the amorous son of
Isabella and Marshal Serrano will probably be
forthcoming. The deceased monarch was every
inch a king in his dealings with ihe fair sex. Even
the watchful eye of his queen was occasionally
eluded. Christina, it will be remembered, returned
to her mother at Vienna, in consequence of one
ot hubby’s peccadilloes. She traced him to a quiet
little retreat, a few miles out of Madrid, and burst
in unexpectedly upon the "guilty pair.” Enraged
at such unqueenly interference with his Royal
pleasures, Alfonso smacked the face of his Chris-
tina, and it was then that the daughter of the
House of Hapsburg went back to mother. Since
their reconciHat on, Alfonso either turned over a
new leaf, or else kept hia affaires remarkably
quiet. Christina, by the way, is very unpopular
with the Spanish Court. Her manners and ideas
of etiquette are too thoroughly Austrian to please
the old Castilians, and the waning of Alfonso’s
popularity was largely attributable to his Queen’s
want of tact.
We are struck with glad surprise to learn
from a Victorian paper that “the name of the
young lady to whom Baron de Felgle is engaged is
Riddle, not Hiddle.”
People in London,” writes our corres
pondent, " want to know who Henry Palmer is.
He is now, I believe, in Sydney, but he was very
much here the other day. Not to put too fine a
point on it, he instituted legal proceedings against
four persons one of them a solicitor—for having
conspired to defraud him, by means of false pre-
tences, of a valuable reversionary interest in land
situate at Darling Harbour, Sydney. The case was
adjourned in order that the magistrate might com-
municate with the public prosecutor, and when it
again came on it was announced that Mr. William
Henry Palmer was on his way to Sydney. Under
the circumstances, the magistrate decided to ad-
journ the case sine die, a decision which occa-
sioned a scene in court between the magistrate
and the great barrister, Charles Russell, who, as
counsel for the solicitor implicated, vigorously
protested against such a course, contending that
the entire charge turned upon the value of
Palmer’s property, which that gentleman very
much over-estimated. Is Mr. W. H. Palmer com-
ing back again?”
Writes our London correspondent"The
Rev. John N. Dalton, whom Sydney will remem-
ber as bear-leader to the two young Princes when
they visited Australia, has, as a recognition by the
Queen ot his services in that capacity, been ap-
pointed Canon of Windsor. The billet is a cosy
one—three months’ work in the j ear and an income
of something over £1000, Who wouldn’t be bear-
leader to a Prince I A leading weekly paper waxes
very wrath over this appointment, which it de-
scribes as an ‘ outrageous job,’ for which ‘ Her
Majesty might well blush.’ • The Queen,’ says the
writer, ‘has deliberately abused her rights of
patronage, because she saw a cheap way of heap-
ing honour and wealth upon a Court favourite, if
Her Majesty and the Prince of Wales felt them-
selves in any way indebted to Mr. Dalton as the
tutor of the two Princes, it was for them to dis-
charge the obligation out of their own private
purses, n«t to tender him one of the rewards that
should be reserved as an encouragement to the
working clergy. We would remind the Queen
that she is not endowed with the privileges of an
autocrat.’ ”
Cancer on the liver has for some time
past made an invalid of Mr. Goldsbrough.
Richard Goldsbrough has been for the past 30
years known in Melbourne by the pet name of
"John Bull.” In his tall and ample proportions
he well looked the gentleman farmer of the Eng-
lish provinces. There was a sporting look also in
the way he wore his hat, and a charm in the
bonhomie of bis ways. He arrived in Melbourne
about 1847, and started in business with Mr. Row,
who was his partner for many years. The wool-
broking business he so successfully conducted was
four years ago turned into a limited company, of
which Mr. Goldsbrough became, and has con-
tinued, chairman. His visits to England since 1860
have been numerous, and but little alteration wap
noticeable in him until lately, when his healthy-
looaing farmer-like face seemed to lose its colour.
As one of the “Identities” of past and present
Melbourne, Known by sight to everybody, equally
with the Town Hall and the Post-Oliice, this
change of his appearance was a subject of much
remark and deep regret. It was not thought,
however, to be prophetic of such an entire break-
down as soon followed.
To a casual observer, the Hobart Mer-
cury is an Inoffensive, mild publication. But it is
deep—very deep. It takes a quiet rise out of ft
man, and leaves him in doubt wnether an insult or
compliment is intended. For instance, an acci-
dent happened lately by which the Hon. John
M.L.C., and three sons were thrown out
of their cart. The affair was duly reported in the
Mercury, with particulars—" the horse was cut
considerably, and the cart slightly damaged.” But
whether the Hon. John and three sots arrived
home whole or in sections was not deemed in-
teresting to the general public. Now, th« Huon
representative, like Mrs. John Gilpin, has "a
frugal mind,” and to a man of business a cart pre-
sents many advantages over a more pretentious
vehicle—one could hardly deliver a case of XXX
or demijohn of whisky from a phaeton or ouggy.
However, a week later, mentioning the accident
in a ’* Summary for Europe,” the Mercury trans-
forms the cart into a buggy. The question is, was
the alteration effected with a jealous regard for
the dignity of colonial “ honourables ” in the
minds of “ home readers,” or was it a gentle hint
to remind the Hon. John what is due to his
position ?
"The hon. gentleman who occupies the
dual position of head of thegreat solts goodshouse
ot Sargood and Victorian Minister of Defence, is
not having a very happy time of it just at present,
Colonel Disney, the Commandant cf the land
forces, has long been in open rebellion, and now it
is stated on good authority that Captain 'Thomas,
R.N., the senior naval officer, is about to resign.”
This is pretty hard on Colonel Seftgoods, as he i»
sometimes irreverently called. He has a rooted
idea that he possesses the stuff (nothing personal
is intended) out of which such cltizsu-soldicrs as
Grant and Lee were made, and, not unnaturally,
declines to be dictated to by more professional
soldiers and sailors who do not know a yard of
tape from a bale of calico. "The sea-fights of
England were won fighting yard-arm to yard-
arm,” ho is understood to have said at a Cabinet
meeting the other day. “ English bowman con-
quered at Polctiers and Agincourt with their ell-
long arrows. Only give me the absolute control
of our army, and I shall undertake to split into
ribbons any invading force that may threaten the
selvage of this country.” Anyuow, it is a very
pretty quarrel as it stands, and we may expect to
hear, at any moment, of the Imperial officers, who
were imported to Victoria at so much expense,
resigning in a body.
Tbe schedule of Mr. Henry Henty sets
forth his liabilities Incurred while a member, with
his brotuer Herbert, of tne old-established firm of
“James Henty & Co.,” of Little Collins-street.
He end his brotner left this firm some months
back, when it was reconstituted. It is down as a
claimant lor £16,000 on the insolvent estate. Ihe
losses are large indeed. In specs, with Mr* I*.
Bowman, the tea-broker and M.P. for Mary*
borough, no less than £34,000 has gone. In horse
shipments to India, with Mr. W. H. Dodd, nearly
another £24 000 has been lost. With Neill Bro8.,oi
Dunedin, some £30,000 la gone, and with Luxe
Williams & Co. no less than £74,000. The most
curious loss to find in the schedule of a, gonerai
drygoods meroeant is tbe next item—" The Vic-
torian Review Co., £33,3399s. 4d.” Thtre was cer-
tainly much of dry goods in this Review, and our
wonderment was often great as to who paid tor 1
all. Now we know. The National Bank is caroiu
to inform the public, through the daily,P ap ®„.’
toat the £75 000 debt scheduled by tne insolvent. a»
due to the Bank is endorsed by good substantia
names as to £50,000 of it, and that the continuing
partners now in the firm are liable for and are Dei g
now sued for the balance. Tne Bank will n
prove its debt against the estate, which looks as
ths prospect of dividends was not an alluring on •
In his speech on the "want of confidence
motion, f* r Henry Parkes referred to the leading
Yes, we tell you Baron Felgle,
That this news to us is regal.
We would blow upon the bugle,
At your wedding, Baron Fugle,
For you happiness conjugal,
But we fear—we fear—a muzzle.
But in earnest, Baron Fogle.’
Wcat a boy you are to ogle I
Thougn you did not marry Hiddle,
Y r et you have not acted vainly.
For, in marrying fair Riddle
You have still a fifteen-puzzle.
PRINCE ALEXANDER OF BULGARIA.-(See next page.)


THE SOUDAN MEDAL AND THE ORDER
OF SOLOMON.
The annexed outs show the medal which is
to be awarded for the recent operations in
the Soudan. The device on the obverse side
is a floe impression of Her Majesty's head,
while the reverse shows the Egyptian
Sphinx. The clasps show the “chief actions ”
flSOTLH 2@§<l'3S
1
&
O
i
%
'a I
for which these tokens of alleged bravery
have been awarded. It will be observed
that this medal, given to commemorate the
slaying of some half-armed Arabs, carries as
many clasps as did the medal given to the
troops opposed to Napoleon’s great captains
in the bloody battles of the Peninsular War.
Such is military glory at the tail-end of
“ this so-called nineteenth century.”
QDOli FACIMUS VALDB PaCIMUB.
(What we do we do well.)
TOUR PHOTO.-If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
counsel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices—C-D-V.,: Cabinets’ 30s. per dozen.
CREELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADE.
J,
TURNER ROB!NS ON & co.’i
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKED CLOTH HALL,
478 Goorgo-stroat,
Established 1861.
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
TN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM TH« MANUFACTURERS.
Fashlonabl- and First-class O *RMRNTS to
order, well made, wed shrunk, and a perfect fit
guarantied.
A NNUAL CHRISTMAS FBBTITAL.
PEAPESand SHAW
invite special attention to their large assortment of
FANCY A HTICLE8, SUITABLE FOR
PdKSBNTATlON.
They comprise almost
EVERY CONCEIVABLE ARTICLE OF LUXURY
CHRISTMAS CARDS,
ranging in price
FROM ONE PENN if TO ONE FOUND EACH.
f Ladies' Hand Bags, with
and without Atticgs
I The largest stock of beau-
I tlful Fans in the city
Scent Caskets, Boudoir
1 Nicnacs
! Card Cases, in silver,
I ivory, pearl, and Rus-
I slan leather
Purses, Memo. Tablets,
Pocket Books
Cabinet and Carte de-
Vialte Screens
Photo. Cases, Photo.
Frames, Albums
Pocket Mirrors, Tourists'
Cases, Writing Cases,
Writing Desks
Fitted Dresdng Cases,
and bags, &o.
PEAPES & SHAW’S ,
ELEGANT
ARTICLES -i
for
PRESENTATION.
PICNIC LUNCHEON CASKETS,
all sizss.
HILDEGARDE,
the now game of cricket for ladies.
PARLOUR, FIELD, and LAWN GAMES,
in great va iety.
f Lawn Tennis Sets, Cricket
I ditto, Croquet ditto,
Rimrolette, James the
Janitor, Parlour Skit-
tles, Toys for the little
ones, solitaires, Ger-
I man Tactics.
-i Mechanical Toys, Horses,
. Dogs, Cows, Sheep, Rab-
{ bits, Monkey", Rocklpg
Horses, &c., &c.
j Work Baskets, Work
Boxes, Combination
I Boxes of Games. Com-
L bination Boxes of Toys.
DOLLS. DOLLS, DOLLS, LOVELY DOLLS.
BOY DOLL**, GIRL DOLLS, BABY - DOLLS,
TALKING DOLLS, CRYING DOLL",
LAUGHING DOLLS* SLEEPING DOLLS.
PEAPES & SHAW’S
GRAND
ASSORTMENT
of
TOYS and GAMES.
PEAPES & SHAW’S
SPECIAL SHIPMENT
CHRISTMAS
MILLINERY.
r We shall show This Day
I a special Shipment of
I Millinery, imported di-
rect from Paris rxprefs-
ly for the Carutmas
: Trade, Choice and Scj 1-
ish Goods, and they « ill
be found chrap. being
marked at a minimum
I rate of profit to meet
the extraordinary com-
petition now existing.
I
JUST OPENED,
the
NEW CARINGTON SQUARE-SHAPED
PARASOLS.
COMB AND SEE THRM.
They are the Fashionable Novelty of the Day!
f Novelties la Rutilings,
I New Linen Sets, New
I Laco ditto, Fichus and
1 1 ace Mantles, Black
Spanish Mantillas,beau-
tiful Fnnch Cambric
and Farcy Handker-
chiefs.
A Special Importation of
beautiful Heal and Imi-
tation Laces, In every
, width, colour, and de-
ISOlipTlOB.
Our Lacs Department is
crowded with New
t Goods and Novelties.
A BEAUTIFUL ASSORTMENT
of
EVENING JERSEY BODICES,
in »U the
NEW LIGHT SHADES.
JERSEY JACKETS IN ALL COLOURS,
63. lid., Is. 6d., S3. 6d , 103. 0J , and 123. 6i.
COMB AND SEM! THEM,
THEY ARB EXCEEDINGLY CHEAP.
PEAPES & SHAW’S
LACE
DEPARTMENT,
Full of NOVELTIES.
PEAPES & SHAW’S
GLOVE
and
HOSIERY"
DEPARTMENT.
BEST MAKES.
LOWEST PRICES.
f Our Hosiery and Glove
I Department is replete
with all the newest and
• most reliable Goods.
Our Hosiery from J.
end R. Morley s, our
' Kid Gloves from Depfs
and our Fabric Gloves
from Fowm s Brothers’.
It is well known these
makers cannot he
beaten, and we are sure
I our prices cinnot be
t either.
324, 326, 328 George-rtrbet.
MAOAME VAILLANT, Pariaienne Dress-
maker, Las the honor to notify that she
has left Mesa's -ucklev and Nunn s, and started
a firKt-c'sso Dbkssmaking, Corset, and Mantle-
making Establishment with Madame Ilxsb, of
128 Coblhs-Birect Kact, Melbourne.
PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT—ELECTRIC BELTS
MESSRS. NEILD and CO., on behalf of The
Magnetical-Eloctrlo Appliance Company,
earnestly desire to call the attention of the public
to the tact that, In consequence of the success
attending the sale of the above Company’s Elec-
tric Belts, Corsets, Ac, a so-called Caution has
been published, emanating from an agent for
Electric articles, who, prompted by a motive to
attempt to monopolise the sale of such articles,
the principle of which we emphatically assert has
been known to the world for at least twenty years
and are now being manufactured in Great Britain
by dozens of firms, and variously styled tor the
purposes of a trade mam only, but avowedly par-
taking of the same nature, being an adapta-
tion of the element of Magnet!cal Electricity.
We ask, therefore, those who desire to adopt
the treatment of Electricity for constitutional
or local derangements, to compare our Elec-
tric Belts, Corsets, Ac, with those of other
manufacture, as they are undoubtedly of su-
perior Electrical Strength, design, quality of
material, and elegance or finish. The 15s.
Gent.’s Belt is the best ever offered to the public
for electrical strength nnd quality. Gent.’s special-
power Electric Belts, 20s. These Belts are manu-
factured expressly for tropical climates, and are
very durable, as also are our Electric Corsets,
Lung Invlgorators, Spine Bands. Ac.
MACN'£TICAir
&
The “ Magnetical Electric” Appliance Company’s
ELECTRIC BELTS, Corset Lung Invlgorators,.
Spine Bants, Kneecaos, Insoles. Ac., Ac, is the
only perfect method for generating the curative
properties of the continuous current of Electri-
city, without the aid of batteries or use of acids,
without incurring any risk of undue action upon
the most delicate Invalid, and impart Health and
Vitality to all who wear them. __
The MAGNETICAL ELECTRIC TREATMENT
is now admitted by Medico-Electric Scientists, and
many leading Physicians, to be the most valuable
Electrical Remedial Agent for the Cure of all
Nervous Diseases, Affections of the Heart, Epi-
lepsy, Spinal Complaints, Rheumatism, Lumbago.
Sciatica, Paralysis, Gout, General Debility, Indi-
gestion. Fernsfe Complaints, Ao„ Ac., and is now
adapted for the Successful Treatment of all Lung
Troubles, hitherto without the domain of Electric
Agency.
One of the Special Features of this Treatment is
the MAGNETICAL kLECTRIC CORSET, which
is unsurpas ed for its curative properties 1b all
female troubles, and is of superior shape and
manufacture. Price, 10a., 15s., and 20s.
The Guinea Special Power Electric Belt lath©
same as siid In England lor £3 3s. Thousands o 1
people of all ranks In the United Kingdom hav©
testified to the beneficial results of the Magnetical
Electric Treatment; and Testimonials from lead-
ing Medical and Scientific Men are In our pos-
session. . , „
GENTLEMEN'S BELTS are manufactured of
superior material, in the shape of a riding belt,
and are very durable. Send size of wai«t, outside
first garment. Price, 15s, and 20s.; if mailed, Is. 6d,
extra
LUNG INVIGORATOBS. 20s.;
7s. 6d.; BPiNE BANDS. 10s.
IN SO LK8, invaluabjo tor cold feet, chilblains, and
defective circulation, 5s 6d. Send size of boot, or
paper pattern of inside (Is. 6d. for postage).
All correspondence treated with the greatest
despatch. Post cilice orders to be made payable to
E 8. NEILD & CO., 158 Pitt-BTRKKT,
Sole Proprietors “ Magnetical Electric” Appliance
Company, London and Sydney.
i
m
ECONOMICAL FURNITURE Him E.CONOMICALFURNITURE
HT THE LARGEST AND ONLY LEGITIMATE
TIME-PAYMENT FURNITURE WARE-
HOUSE IN THE COLONY,
365 PITT STREET.
Be certain you make no mistake: ask for
and take no other but the genuine Wolfe's
Schnapps. Demand Wolfe's.
Wolfe’s Schnapps taken occasionally is an admir-
able remedy aaaiust coughs and colds. Accept
nothing but Wolfe's.
Here is Summer upon us, causing a mighty
thirst. Don't fail to obi aln your supply of Lemop-
ift ie. Seltzer, Soda Water, Ginger Ale, Tonic, Potass
and Llthia Water (for gout), of Dalm and Oertel,
•dSrated Water and Cordial Manufacturers, 403 Pitt-
street. Delivered regularly In town and suburbs.*
Wolfe's Schnapps may be used with impunity
Its Ingredlenis having been tested by medical men,
and found absolutely pure.
Ask for Wolfe's Schnapps, the purest, stimulant
In the world. It is far superior to brandy or
Whisky.
“We all have our fancies,” as the old
woman said when she klcsed her cow. The public
show their fancy for certain business houses, and
tae old established China and Glass house of Bray
Bros , 402 and 404 George-street, near King-street,
have been honored with the patronage of an ap-
proving public. They will always strive to com-
mand It.*
Ask for Wolfe's Schnapps— the only alcoholic
invigornnt that does not overspur the brain. Be
sure and obtain Wolfe's.
Exercise and a judicious use of Wo fe's Schnapps
Will keep you in tue oeat of health.
BEST IN
THEWORLD
HI
I
;
OFFICE -31 LOMBARD ST. LONDON
ft: 'i '* -ft
&W-
US !
iy II
FR OM 2TO 1000 HORSF POWER.
A
EE
I
lowest!
IN PRICE
SCOTIAN -HORIZONTAL ENGINES,
‘ALBION” LsONGSTROKE HORIZONTAL ENGINES,
“CLIMAX” VERT I GAL ENGINES S BOILERS
“CLIMAX” PORTABLE “HOIST INS ENGINES.
“BRITON’TJORIZONTAL ©OMPOUND LAUN6H ENGINES.
INVERTED COMPOUND MARINE ENGINES.
■ PORTABLE STEAM CRANES. '
VpR'.'iPAL GORNISH.¥ MARINE BOILERS.
v ’ 1 v t ~A V — I iLL'iLuiiWir
dm
wr - *!
mTTTniminmmTTiTTiniiTgripjinitiiiffiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiJuiuiiiii’iiii^iiiiiiuiiiii'iiiiiiiuiiiiii
5T0 C KS TOTfFOT’L'TARTl GotaRTANdPRICE S' APR LY TO
lOBERTSON. SYDNEY, SOLE AGENTS *o» NEW SOUTH WALES.
TTtfN &C0 BRISBANE.SiSLE AGENTS"».Q0EENSlAND*
N BROS,*. CO. MELBOURNE, SOLE AGENTS '.■.VICTORIA
*3*
SffX.
■articles In the Goulburn Herald as having been
pronounced by Sir Hercules Robinson fit for the
•London Times. The author of these articles Is
Dr. Ellis, editor of the Goulburn Herald, and
Parkes and Sir Hercules are quite justified In their
*?ulogiums. Dr. Ellis would shine ss a journalist
anywhere, except perhaps in the S. M. Herald
establishment, where, whenever they by any
chance secure a brilliant man, they Immediately
muzzle him, and “ tone him down ” until his writ-
ings cease to be an aggravation to the dominant
mediocrities. Wo remember a journalist
being engaged to take an editorial posi-
tion in the 8. M. Herald establishment on
the strength of a reputation for ability he
had acquired elsewhere. He commenced cor-
ruscating m the style which had made a name for
him. Gentle, but significant, and monotonously
constant objection and remonstrance rewards his
brightest effort. At last ho lost patience, and,
t aturviewing the great Panjandrum of the con-
cern, "Mr. Fairfax,” he slid: “I belGve that, if
you were to engage a celebrated danseuse, you
would directly put a pair of hobbles on her, and
then be greatly astonished if her dancing did not
continue to be as attractive as ever. If you hobble
me, I can’t dance either.” The horror of the
illustration—the idea of his engaging a danseuse to
■do anything whatever—almost took away the
boss’s speecn, but the hobbled one did not remain
long a Herald man. and. finding an audience of
his own, is now' on the way to fortune.
Another well-known colonist is prostrated
with what is thought to be a general break‘•up of
the sysiem consequent upon old age only. Mr.
,J. B Wen- was, until lately, a fine specimen of a
man and of an old colonist There was a veritable
perceptible presence about the portly-looking old
Kentieman that caused him, when in ball-rooms,
to be noticed as somebody of “consequence.”
The decorations he would then wear as Consul for
Portugal, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, and Brazil
helped much to thatond, as aiso to bis being mis-
taken by many for the Governor himself. The
orders, foreign and British, to which he belonged
added half the alphabet as lettered additions to
his name. Jonatnan Burns Were arrived in Vic-
toria, with his brother Nicholas, as long back as
1839. Shortly afterwards followed the man who
made the fortune cf them both. This was Dendy,
Who brought with him the purchased right to the
Acres on which Brighton now stands. Dendy
*Ot into difficulties some time in the forties, ann
had to mortgage his property. It was shortly
■after sold by tne Sheriff, and the Weres became
the purchasers of the equity of redemption for a
mere trlfte. In a year or two the township of
Brighton was laid out by them, and then came the
♦liggings with that llow of the tide of fortune
whltth nss made Brighton so wealthy a possession.
As the Weres sold the land, purchasers paid Dendy
•Mi extra £1 each to (oc mpiimentarily) confirm the
hale The poor man worked as a clay labourer,
and died some three years back as a shepherd in
Qippsland. Nicholas Were retired to London in
1853, and has since remained there. His brother,
who accompanied him, returned in 1857 to begin
business again «s a stockbroker, in which he con-
tinued up to the time of bis death. But three
years back, when turned of 70, he married a slsier
of Mr. M‘Arthur, the late superintendent of the
Bank of Australasia. He had a large family by his
previous marriage.
Prince Alexander of Bulgaria.
'Prince Alexander, whose portrait appears oh
this page* is tne eldest son of Pr noe Alexander of
Hesse, brother of the Czarina, consort of the late
<Gzar of Russia. His mother was the daughter of
HuaOk, once doorkeeper at a Vienna theatre.
Prince Alexander was formerly a gentleman at
I urge with very uncertain prospects in life, and is
said to have been a suitor for the hand and dollars
of the Princess Beatrice when that young lady
was much less mature than she is now, but a
vacancy occurring at Bulgaria, he applied for
tne billet of Prino« of that country, and
was appointed or elected, and recently, with the
consent of the Eastern Roumelians, also annexed
their territory, and is now the ruler of United
Bulgaria. How long he may remain so it is for
their most Christian majesties to decide. It is
well known that the Czar is unfavourable to him.
and it is quite possible that Prince Karagcorge-
vlci of Servla may, with Russia's help, be able to
upset the present arrangement which Germany is
said to favour. Prince Alexander, besides being
involved in war, is mixed up in a little love affair,
his inamorata being the Princess Victoria, second
daughter of the Crown Prince of Germany. Tne
lady with womanly wisdom is waiting till affairs
settle before she will say that she “ always did love
him.”


Professional Directory.
GEORGS PBHRIMAN. Scene Painter, Theatre
Royal, Brisbane. Disengaged.
▲ L.
Ml H B A T R B R o T
Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garnish and Musqrovi.
Leasee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo.L. Goodman
TRIUMPHANT SDCCE38 of „
WILLIAMSON, GARNER, and MUSGBOVB 8
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
and until further notice.
THE MIKADO
THE MIKADO
THK MIKADO
THE MIKADO
or,
THE MIKADO
THE MIKADO
THE MIKADO
THE MIKADO;
THE TOWN OF TITIPU.
Admission : Dress Circle. 53.; Stalls, 3s.; Family
Circle, 3s.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre dally from
10 till 5. No Free List.
NBW OPERA HOUSE.
Under the Lesseeship and Management of
MAJBRON1 and WILSON.
Continued Success of
Mr G. W. ANSON.
Miss FLORENCE WADE,
Mr. HKNRY ALLBYNB,
and Majeroni and Wilson's Comedy Company, in-
cluding Mr. J. L. HALL,
THIS THURSDAY EVENING,
will be repeated
The 3-act comic drama, written by Harry Poulton,
Esq , entitled,
NOAH’S ARK
NOAH’S ARK
NOAH’S ARK
NOAH’S ARK. „
NEW SCENERY painted expressly by Mr. CLINT.
In preparation, the latest of H. J. Byron s comedies,
P P HOUSE. . „ .
Prices as usual. Box plan at Nicholson s Music
Warehouse, 335 George-street. Day tickets at
Cole’s Boole Arcade, George-street, i urniture
supplied by the Globe Furnishing Warehouse.
Business Manager for Mr. Anson, Mies Wade,
and Mr. Alleyne, LlDDx.
G-
AIBTY THEATRE.
Proprietor Mr. John Solomon
Manager for Mr. Solomon, Mr. B. N. J ones
Manager for Mr. Dampier, Mr. F. Gunther#
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING,
The Emotional Drama,
THE NBW MAGDALEN.
MR. DAMPIER AS JULIAN GRBY.
Miss MYRA KBMBLE AS MERCY MERRICK.
NEW Mr. DAMPIER
NKW an M AGJJ A
NEW JULIAN GREY. MAGDALEN
NEW
NBW
NEW
Miss MYRA KEMBLE MAGDALEN
as MAGDALEN
MRRCY MERRICK. MAGDALEN
FRIDAY NEXT, December 4,
our usual Fashionable Night,
HAMLE I.
Tickets may be purchased during the day at
Cole’s Book Arcade. Box Plan at Nicholson and
Co.’s.
The Olympic
(late Old Masonic Hall, York-street).
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. M. L. Raphael.
Stage Manager .. Mr. D’Arey Stanfield.
ESTABLISHED SUCCESS
of the
OLYMPIC BURLESQUE COMPANY
in their
MONSTER PROGRAMME,
COURT CARDS AT HOME.
The magnificent costumes the theme of admiration
THE BEAUTIFUL MINUET,
Also, the world-renowned burlesque,
THE MAID AND THE MAGPIE;
Or, The Fatal Spoon,
In which Miss Amy Horton and the full burlesque
company will appear.
The Champion Orchestra, under Mr. G. RIVERS
1 ALLPRBS8.
Million Prices—Stalls, 2s.; Gallery la. Reserved
seats, at Nicholsons, 3s.
H. TREVOR AH, Business Manager.
I 0.
4 OADBMY OP M U 8
Under the Management of
RIGNOLD. ALLISON, and HI8COCK8.
Fifth Week. Unabated Success.
RIOKARDS-LEBTE COMBINATION.
THIS and EVERY EVENING,
SPOONS. SPOONS. SPOONS. SPOONS.
Lightning Cartoonist Sketches, National Local
Celebrities.
Prices, 4s., 33., 3s , and 13- Box plan, Nicholson s.
No Free List. Manager tor Mr. Rickards, Buchan
Hepburn. Acting-Manager for Rlgnold, Allison,
and Hiscocks, G. A. Coleman.
f| 0 ACTORS, ACTRESSES, MANAGERS, &C.
THE THEATRICAL NEWSPAPER
BUREAU.
All the chief London Theatrical Papers on sale,
including “ Stage,” “Theatre,” "Topical Times,
“Dramatic Hcview,” "Bat,” &o., at moderate
prices. Postage free to any address in Australia.
Write to Manaf^ r i MPERIAL CHAMBERS,
Bank Place, Collins-street, Melbourne.
NOTICE.
DVBRTISERS and others will please take
- notice that Mr. FRANK A. HALL is NO
NGBR CONNECTED WITH THIS OFFICE
Canvasser, Collector, or other wise.
W. H. TRAILL,
Managing Director.
he Bulletin Office,
Sydney, November, 1885.
E Ymoloote ! PEMBLLS
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT 18 MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
i Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
'he PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
ICTOE1& FLOUR MILL,
8S1 George-street, Sydney.
NOTICE.
ART~UNION.
account of all the
4 accoum. oi hii mo xwu™, * getting de-
* w stroyed in the late Fire at Mossvale, the
Committee have decided to refund the money.
Subscribers, by applying to the agent. wiU receive
their money on production of the tickeL y AM g.
THE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George-street, Haymarket.
Leasee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
THE HIT OF THE SEASON.
Triumphant Success of the
NEILLSON FAMILY NBILLSON FAMILY.
Houses packed from floor to ceiling.
Hundreds unable to obtain admission.
Enthusiastic Reception of
Miss ALTCI A DEARLOVE, the Elecrio Sparkl
Audience perfectly electrified.
rong after song encored,
Highly refined Entertainment.
The most powerful combination in the colony.
THIS (Thursday) EVENINGat 8 o’clock,
and until further notice.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 2s; stalls, Is;
balcony, Is.
Artists of acknowledged ability disengaged,
pleas* communicate with Mr. Frank Smith.
A CHANCE to secure a first-class
Farm at Gosford, for £15 per acre,
payable at the rate of 2s. per acre
per week and no interest, is an oppor-
tunity for a profitable investment that a
WISE MANrHS
month a large number of actual set-
tlers availed themselves of this liberal
offer by the Vendors of the Model Farms,
nni |OI IT Bloeks, and com-
KllllllH I mencec * improve-
UUUUII I ments on choice
lands, well adapted to dairy, live stock
and general farming purposes, from which
AP A DRI can be selected that
!■ A Ic lyi cannot be excelled
I rill IT I in the Australias.
FOB PARTICULARS, MAPS, ETC., WRITE TO
BOYD & KING,
AUCTIONEERS,
96 PITT STREET,
STDXrST.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, De cember 1, 1886.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
Is kept at every Post Office In the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenden
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
With.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received [at
this office.
Repairs, &c.. Telegraph Station,
Murrurundl
Additions, &c , Lookup. Cowra
Bridge over South Creek at
Bringelly Road
Bridge over Gunrock Creek, on
road Moss Vale to Wallen-
derry
Purchase of Bight to Co'lect
Ferry Dues at Wentworth,
Darling River
Renting Railway Refreshment
Rooms, Murrurundl
Erection of Pumper’s House,
Granville
Tuesday,
December 8,
At 11 o’clock.
Construction of Railway from
Pearce’s Corner to the North
Shore, with a branch line for
coal traffic to Bald’s Head
Contract lo, Road up Burrago-
ratg Mountain
Supply and Erection of Foot-
way and Widening Roadway
of Lennox Bridge, Parramatta
Supply of Billet-wopd, Railway
Department, 1886
Tuesday,
December 15.
at 11 o’clock.
Additions to Reformatory,
Shaftesbury _ ,
Additions to Water Police Court
Additions to Spectacle Island
Magazine
Fencing, Tank, &c., Courthouse,
Qulrindi
Bridge over Paopenharra Creek,
road Upper Hastings to Port
Macquarie
Supply of Building Stone, Par- i
ramatta Gaol, 1886
Tuesday.
[December 22,
at 11 o’clock.
Bridge over Mebi River, at Tel-
leraga, road Narrabrl and Mo-
gll to Mungendl
Tuesday,
December 29,
at 11 o’clock.
T
W. J. LYNB.
Department of Public Instruction, ,
Sydney. 35th November, l»t»-
TENDERS FOR GIRLS’ SCHOOL AND
CLASSROOM. . .
ENDEK8 are invited for the Erection of a Rigs
_ School and Classroom at the Camdenv
Public School. Forms
Plans and Specifications may beseem anai ru. _
of Tender obtained at the office of tho Deg
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney. .
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Girls' 8o l h ,?° inU ,t
Classroom. Camdenville Public School. ™ ent
be lodged with the Undersecretary. Denar.uj
of Public Instruction, at or before 10 o oio
a.m , on Monday, the Uth December.
The Minister does not bind himself to accep
lowest or any tender. w y tbIC kBT£T.
TENDING VISITOU8TO THB1 OLD £0 V NTB Y
Should Carefully Preserve this Notice.
“THE wonder" coach
ARRIBD 1935 PASSENGERS LAST SEA
Hr. P. J. Rumney, of RIDGE 8 Fwv g
still running his celebrated lou nn( jon and
acb, “ THE WONDER,’’
. Albans, leaving Hatchett ■ Howl, in Pi plc .
mdon, every morning at 10 4o returning
imple* Ume* fallowed at
otm of*be FINEST'andHjLDBST IN »B«
i°he L tmp is one of the most
taken, and tho price charged for tne re
WONDER Coach Office, Hattn»
ccadilly, London, England.
William Ewart Gladstone Stewart was
chftrifod at a London Polio© Court wltli drunken-
ness and disorderly conduct. What else could
have been expected from a man with such a
name ? And this tempts us to remember tnat we
never yet knew a girl who owned •* Fairy ” as a
front name possessed of a figure in anything like
accordance with the prevailing notion of a fairy;
nor did we ever see a boy named Hector who was
not of the meek-and-mlld order, and usually grew
into a thin curate of the muffln-and-goloshes
species. The latest ironv of nomenclature was
seen recently in a North Queensland Police Court
when Wilfred Lawson Brown was fined for sly-
grog selling.
A BEAUTIFUL CHROMO
SUPPLEMENT
(PRINTED IN BIGHT COLOURS),
“When Fortune Smiles/’
Will be Presented Gratis with each
copy of
The dims Brail
THIS is the finest specimen of colour-printing
ever produced by a colonial establishment,
and we cannot undertake to supply any but early
orders.
Our Agents are therefore requested to send in
their full orders with the utmost despatch.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT
SOCIETY,
HEAD OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
DIVISION OF PROFITS.
INTENDING Policy-holders are reminded that
all policies effected before the 31st instant,
will share in the distribution of profits to be then
made.
RICHARD TEBCE,
Acting Secretary.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket only,
T;RIN BUSTS
m
RERRECTiEP.
OUR CORSETS ARE PERFECTION.
The “ A., H., and S. Corset, 3/3.",
The “ Emporium ” ,< 4/9,
The “ Haymarket ” ,. »/-
The “ Universal ” ,, Uo,
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket only.
CORRESPONDENCE
[correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed. ]
“ Churchman ”: You say that you think
the colonial bishops deserve our sympathy, b^
SjiAS over tbe Oontlnon*. you me»a; don t
vnn ? “ J.M.”: We have tried to tell youtnat
you can’t write poetry, but you B ?nf vour last — "
ing to us. Now, look at this versa of your last.
Just cut your stlcks-rnor stop turn
And hie thee back io thy creditor.
For one’s the cove what runs the concern
And the other chap’s the editor,
fudged from a literary standpoint, you see, the
foreloing fc perfection ..." L.M.” (Rookhampton,
Q)* You^knock Figaro out in ope round about
tne hamring business, but to print your letter
would only be to repeat what we ourselves have
2Lid on the subject in meeting these dear old ar-
guments which our hanging friends fondle so
lovingly Figaro’s article will only tend to make
the present system of legal revenge unpopular
wlthall who read the masterly d ®^ e we C have re-
from in your letter — Amicus . We have re
ceived the roll of paper you forwarded, and are
much obliged to you for your thoughtful-
ness .“Enquirer”: No. Lord Carington’s butler
and coachman are not to be canaidered
members of the Legislative Assembly. Kven f
they were, they would probably resign tbeir seats
after they had listened to the speeches for a night
ortwo f/’Hyskos”: Your friend is right, and
vou are wrong. You should have made
Cohen the referee. It Is an oddity in Judaism not
much known to Gentiles that theL f v
Cohens claim—and have their claim
other Jews —to be descended from Aaron the High
Priest. They are, therefore, debarred by the
peculiar sanctity of their descent from entering
any house in which there is a dead body. This
was ventilated in London some time ago. A Jew
of the name of Cohen was subpoenaed to
serve on a coroner’s jury. He dldnt obey
the summons, and was consequently fined by the
Bench, whereupon the Chief Rabbi wrote to the
magistrates and explained the facts of the case,
making a quotation from the Book of Leviticus
showing that it la generally contrary to Jewish
custom to enter a house in which there is a corpse,
and stating that, though the obligation a «ral°Bt
entering such a house did not apply to all Jews, it
was inexorable in the case of the Cohens, as pre-
sumed descendants of Aaron. The explanation
was accepted, and the fine remitted. We wonder,
by the waT what the High Priest Aaron would
say if he knew what some of his descendants are
doing now! Probably give them his blessing.
Aaron, if we recollect aright was the brother of
Moses. This revelation will, therefore, tend to
knock all reverence for the great Lawgiver out of
the Gentile mind. Just think:—’ And the Lord
said to Moses (Cohen), behold.’ etc.; And Moses
(Cohen) said to the people, etc. It is terribly dis-
illusionising. We have taken some trouble to
answer your questions fully, and, as one good turn
deserves another, you might do us the favour of
impressing upon the minds of your friends that
this is a journal devoted to the spread of brotherly
love in general and the Gospel tidings among the
heathen in particular—terms, 6s. 6d. per quar-
ter in advance; payment not taken in tame
paddymelons or opossums, nor in farm pro-
duce of any kind. You might also in-
form your friend, while you are about It, that
there is no ordinance in the Mosaic code for-
bidding the Cohens or any other Jewish family,
whether descended from high priests or prophets,
from entering a house in which there is time-pay-
ment furniture not fullypald up and seizing-upon
the same....** J.M.R.”: Thanks for your offer of
sending in “a few more things in a similar vein
from time to time,” but the cold weather is past
now, andlwe have put out the office fires. Hold
them over till next winter. “Alaroos : We do
not in justice to yourself print your poem, The
Bari would Wed/’ There is enough grit in it to
show you can do better. The opening is good, but'
the climax is feeble. You should work in the
manner in which Edgar Allan Poe professes he
wrote the “ Raven”-commenoe at the end with a
strong climax and work back to the beginning,
proportioning the strength of the stanzas as you
go. Your two first stanzas are the best. It all
the rest were as good we would print the poem
with pleasure. Let us see how they look: —
“Wheelman”: No; we are not fond of bicycling.
There is no romance about a bicycle. Give us a
good horse with some tire In him, and an inclina-
tion to walk on four legs rather than on two, and
you can have all the bicycles In the country for
us. There is no companionship about a bicycle—
no exaltation of spirits — no overflowing of
generous Impulses-none of the things which a
man feels who Is on the back of a good horse. You
remember wnat Gordon says
“ The stimulant which the horseman feels
When he gallops fast and straight
To his better nature most appeals,
And charity conquers hate.”
We think of hiring a country editor for the sum-
mer “ L.R.8.”: Too late. Your funny story has
been told before—by Noah. It wiled away many a
dull hour in the Ark, but it has been repeated so
frequently since that it has lost much of its
original freshness. However, a man who can
think in the same groove as Noah will
always command our respect ‘‘Agnostic’ :
Yes. Charles Bright did say that ** it was
a remarkable fact that, in all civilised, com-
munlties the masculine idea of a Deity pre-
vailed," and that “ God was always talked about
as He,” hut the fact is by no means remarkable
for all that. If God were feminine, She would
have got tired of the world and damned the whole
of its population in a lump thousands of years
ago. She would have stood no nonsense from the
Bradlaughs, or Brights, or Symeses either. She
would have sent them spinning down to Tophet
on a Hash of lighting. It is only a masculine God
that has the patience to bide His time... yiveur :
Your story is a reflection upon the moral charac-
ter of the Devil. We cannot afford to print it.
Send it to the Protestant Standard people.
They are always running him down.... Justuia
and Equality”: You will see something on the
subject under “Plain English.’..... Constant
Subscriber”: If the bold volunteer did send his
wife to the window to howl murder, when the cat
broke a plate in the pantry, while he onixenched
himself in the blankets, we don t think that this
shows that Bill Dailey's military enthusiasm is
dying out. Probably the doughty warrior was
afraid of catching cold, and, besides, it is a wires
first duty to save her husband from all possible
risk. He should, we think, be appointed officer at
once, for it is evident that he knows how to rule
his own household... " E.W.”: Mr. Traill has re-
turned. The remainder of your letter is, to us, an
inscrutable mystery. Will you kindly call some
day, and let us know what it is about ?.... G.B. :
Your verse is not perfect, but we will try to use
your prose....“ Juror in the Foulerton Arson
Case”: We lightly touch this subject in another
column. If, as you say, you had “a strong doubt
as to his guilt,” you w*re perfectly right in giving
the verdict you did. You alone, as jurymen, were
empowered to consider the facts of the case,
Judue Windeyer to the contrary notwithstanding.
“A.W.M.”; The idea is good with a little
alteration, but the drawing is not up to
the standard....“ B.C-” (Kilkivan, Q.): Thanks.
Will work up “ Harvey Birch ” : Glad to
hear from you again—“ W.K.T.T.’ (Murrum-
bungul) : Many thanks. Next week.j.....
“Gwen” : Give him the crusher that Kate
Vaughan gave the barber who used to talk her head
off:—“Are you hair-dressing me, sir?’......
“ARH.”: You say you “ have been wooing the
tuneful Nine.” If so, it is certain that they have
“booted" you, for your verse is execrable....
“Argus”: You are wrong. Mr. G. A. Lloyd is
Honourable (by Royal permission) within this
colony. Your remark as to what he would be in
Queensland is entirely superfluous.... H. Valen-
tine”: It will be necessary for you to write direct
to the secretary...." Geebung ": Held over for a
week ..." J.P.B.”: Satiated (that is less vulgar
than “ full up”) this week — “ Brawny Abbott' :
Not half as funny as a Plenary Council session....
“ H.H.H.”: Very sad. Don’t you think that pain
in your breast may bo the result of indigestion or
the effect of too much smoking ? May use it (the
poem, not the pain) next issue. If not we will
hand it to one of the local undertakers.... B.L. :
We have every reason to believe that the story
about Mrs. Doctor Potts, or rather “ Doctor Mrs.
Potts,” having been found to be a man in woman s
clothing, and as to her arrest by the police, is a
first-class lie—a first-class libel. All the Sydney
women, who went and consulted her when she was
in Australia, are not such fools the wicked dally
papers are trying to make out.
“ The Earl would wed. It was a soft Spring day;
Bright shone the sun that makes the happy
The hedgerows blossomed In the breath of May,
And winged odours wandered far and wide,
While thrush and linnet, in their wild sweet
SanjTteyous carols from each oovert green;
And ’mid the apple trees the goldfinch gay,
And in the blue above the lark unseen.
With piping blackbirds on the blooming thorn,
Made merry music for a wedding morn.
“ And merry was the music of the bells,
Hilariously rung by village churls-
Who ever hall with rapture aught that tells
Of long continuance to the race of earls—
Though one was lately it* the county cells
For filching firewood from my Lord’s domain.
And one had had the cot wherein he dwells
Pulled down about his ears—though built
again—
For running round his field a fence of scrub
Without leave granted from the Fox-hound
Club.”
So far your rhymes run smoothly, but you begin
to goad your jading Muse In the next verse.
Thus:—
“ The village maidens, rising at the dawn.
Had decked the little church with dewy
flowers; , ■ ,
Proud was the parson in his sleeves of lawn,
Proud in their Sunday suits were hinds and
ploughers;
Right well on Rank and Riches could he fawn,
For he was worldly-wise, this man of God-
As for the hinds, with less of brain thin brawn,
Slaves they were born and bred, and far more
At hearing the Earl’s carriage rattling by
Than at God’s thunder crashing through the
sky.”


■
v-'
H
w miRTY SHILLINGS,
®r- THIRTY SHILLINGS.;
The Autophone!
rflHIS triumph of musical Invention is acknow-
I. ledged on all hands to he the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It Is a wonderful little Instrument, which, while
it weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL-SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and executes Its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 22 reeds, plays in three keys, and all the
parts of most difficult music.
To Mr. H. B. Horton, the Inventor, the world
was first indebted for the Organette; but that was
too expensive to come within the reach of all.
After years of persistent effort and intelligent
study, he has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of cost and crudeness.
It requires no shill to extract from it any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas, Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, &c., &o., &o. A child can
play any of these selections with perfect accuracy.
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that are seat with each
instrument, and are so plain thaif “ he who runs
may read.” It is best adapted to the kind of music
which suits an organ best, in which chords pre-
dominate ; but it has also wonderful power In
executing very lively pieces. It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card-holder for convenience
in singing. It will be found invaluable for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and
for Dancing. Every shanty in the bush should be
supplied with one; and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autophono. It win afford greater and better
entertainment than four times the price can pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Sole Agents for this marvel-
ous little instrument in the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
or
474 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the colonies. Orders have
come to us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonely
shepherd on » far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the cities'—’from
everywhere, in fact. And one of the best argu-
ments we can offer as to the genuineness of the
instrument, is the fact that, in all our corre-
spondence, we have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they will recommend t*
to their friends.
It is conceded by all educators and moralists
that music is the great refining influence, and
especially with children its effect for good is
boundless. The love for music which music in
the family engenders, is more potent in forming
dispositions and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, end parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm which renders an other
wise hard task an easy one.
The price of the Autophone Is 80s.,
and where good music can be procured for such a
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, ol
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
be without it. With each Autophono for 30s. wo
send three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
ah orders for music are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it our
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogues of tunes at any time,
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Sole Agents for Australia;
Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-street, Sydney, 474
Opposite entrance to Fruit Markets.
Said a magistrate to an actress: “Your
prolession, mademoiselle ?” “Artiste.” “Your
age?” “Twenty-two.” “Usher, you can now
swear the lady to tell the truth, the whole truth,
and nothing nut the truth.”
Demonstrations over Queens of Song
hardly appear to be as genuine in “ ould Ireland ”
as in other European country. Some years ago
a Dublin crowd insisted upon dragging tne
carriage of the late Madame Titiens to her notel.
This compliment was considerably discounted by
the facttnat the horses were stolen meanwhile.
The other day another Dublin crowd pressed its
attentions upon Madame Marie Koze, and in the
excitement, Colonel Mapleson, the prima donna s
husband, lost a silver cigarette-case out of his side
pocket. Some enthusiast wanted it for a keep-
sake most likely.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is imitated “Your
Rogue loves a shining mark.” Be sure and obtain
Wolfe's.
Be not deceived by specious representa-
tions—see that you get Wolfe’s Schnapps. Accept
no other.
Spurgeon says, “ Brick by brick houses are
built. Blbow grease is the only stuff to make
gold with.” It is by steady and patient service of
the public, by giving them at all times superlative
value tor their money, that SUMMBBFIKLD and
COMPANY, the Great Juvenile OutiUters. are
building up the biggest trade in Australia Ladies,
kindly mepeotlour guinea Long Trouser Suits, to
tit boys of nine years to sixteen.*
“ Health is wealth.” Therefore everybody who
drinks Wife’s Schnapps is wealthy, Decause it
gives nealt b.
The human system will be braced up against
changes of temperature by drinking the well
i Ijagtyc touio, Wolfe’s Schnapps.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
T ASi.TR* ROYAL—“ The Mikado" p. 8.
Gaiety Theatre— “ The New Magdalen”
Th® Olympic—“ Court Cards at Home ” »
Opera Hods®—“ Noah’s Ark” ,.
Alhambra— Variety Company
Academy of Music— Riokards-Leete Com-
bination
“Court Cards” is still the first course at
Sydney Olympic, and the business has been so far
altered as to make it rather, or at least almost,
comical. Mias Annie Schrader has resurrected one
of her best songs, “ Sweethearts,” which usually
earns an encore, although the singist for two or
three nights has been suffering apparently from a
slight cold. The same indisposition seemed also
to have affected Miss Emily Fox, who does not
give “ One Kiss More ” with the customary smack.
Miss Fanny Sarony does not seem fortunate in her
choice of songs, for her “ Beautiful Dream ” is
decidedly nlghtmaiesh. Fr.d Dark sings a sarcas-
tic ballad entitled Never could happen here.
This is about the best thing he has yet struck, but ,
so far It is not so enthusiastically approved as it
should be. Miss Annie Martin and her sister come
in at the conclusion of the piece, and the former
exhibits the skill of her laundress, who, we must
ourselves admit, “does ’em up beautiful,” and
advertises that elderly (the laundress, not Annie)
but estimable female with an effect warmly
acknowledged by the demonstrative dudelets who
wait at the doors of the Olympic from 7 o’clock, so
as to be sure of a front seat.
* * •
The 44 Maid and the Magpie” constitutes
the piece de resistance. The formel* we critically
adore, but for the latter we have nothing but
deep and unspeakable contempt. In the fitst
scene the magpie does not appear at all, the cage
is there, but the bird is not, and when it flies in
during the second scene, it la so utterly despicable,
such an Insult to the race of magplesi that it only
serves to excite the haughty derision of the
youngest tow-head in the crowd. The plot turns
ubon the “ fatal spoon,” in this case not an unfor'*
tunate flirtation, but an electro-plated article;
Ninette, the village beauty—Miss Emily Fox—re-
ceives a spoon from her burglarious and long-lost
father with instructions to 44 spout” it. She does
this, and the transaction is noticed by the magis-
trate, who is, to judge from his 44 on-the-nevcr”
tret-up, one of the latest New South Wales
Sir Patrick batch. In a subsequent scene,
Ninette accepts an invitation to dinner, and
after the feast (on a property ham), the host-
ess solemnly counts the spoons (a usual pro-
ceeding we believe, at Italian banquets), and
finds tnat there is one missing. Then the magis-
trate, Ninette s rejected lover, gives his evidence
about the spouting business, and 44 the village
beauty” is promptly and artistically lumbered. In
the last scene the spoon is found in the magpie’s
nest. Ninette is cleared, everyone marries some-
body* and the rag descends triumphantly.
• *
Amy Horton, as Pippo, has not very much
scope, but makes the most of her opportunities,
and Fanny Sarony is a picturesque Gianetto. Dot
Bead does not make an effective man. She is not
masculine in voice, figure, or pose. Men do not
pout, nor incline their little heads on their right
shoulders, nor do they continually refresh be-
holders with perennial smiles (we come from Tip-
perary) of seductive sweetness. Miss Read does
all these things, therefore her conception is, mildly
stated,not perfect. As a god she is a “ringer’
as a man, an interesting failure; but as a woman,
let us give it a breeze, and say that
There is many a chappie Who
Would marry, doncherknow,
If but the wedding day would bring
Him such a handsome dot.
(N.B.- On reflection, it seems that the above pun
is not so good as somo we have made.) Fred Dark
has a lot of the broad humour of the piece, and,
as one of our contemporaries remarks with the elo-
auence of native genius, does ample justice to the
songs allotted to him. With Harry Sullivan we
are not so Impressed; if he talks; and sings the
44 Tramway Car” in Italian or native Irish, we
must admit that his grasp of those languages is
marvellous, but if he sings in English, we are con-
strained to lament that his enunciation is not
equal to the necessities of the characters he
assumes. His make-up is excellent. He wears
three hats, of course, and whoa he came
in a lady on our right insisted upon
it’that he was John Davies, for, she said,
44 that’s ezakly how they has him in the
BuhLiNTiNE.” A comely half-dozen nymphs of
the company are the belles of the village, but, un-
like most bells, their clappers are not much called
into play. It is the audience who are the clappers.
• • *
“The Maid and the Magpie” is a bright
and sparkling piece, and embroidered with the
songs it contains, and fringed with the melodies of
Rivers Allpress, of the Beautiful Hair, should
win its due meed of admiration.
♦ * * *
Full houses continue to greet the 44 Mi-
kado ” at the Sydney Royal, and the habituS begins
to notice a number of familiar faces, a fact which
shows that the intrinsic merit of the production
is sufficient to attract those who are already rairly
acquainted with libretto, scenery, and music-and
each of these adjuncts are worth more than a
second visit. The humour is so essentially Gll-
beftian that bad we not been led up to this, the
climax of the author's creations, by • Pinafore
and -Patience,” the “Mikado,” from its very
noveltv, and-to coin a word- 44 uniqueness
would have lost some part of its romantic absur-
dity. The audacity exhibited in the evolution of
the situations, startling at first, loses none of its
humour from familiarity; and the music reveals
a succession of iresh beauties after a superficial
acquaintance with its numbers has been gained.
It is not surprising, then, that the attendance
should be on a par with the enterprise of the
management.
♦ * •
Yet, with all this, we notice a distinct de-
terioration in the performance as it progresses. A
variety of humour has been introduced, which
does not harmonise with the native wit of the
piece. Mr. Woodfleld, Pooh Bab, is the most
notorious sinner in this respect. He amplifies the
business in a manner never, we are certain, con-
templated by the author, and his additions stand
out in evident and unpleasant relief on thei original
work. His reading may commend itself to the
Family Circle, but detracts much from the artistic
effect. Mr. Vernon, as Ko-Ko, does not often ex-
aggerate his business, but when he does, especially
la the absurd 44 Tit-Willow ” song, the humour of
the situation suffers. Gilberts work never re-
quires extension, it merely asks tor faithful inter-
pretation. To clothe it with added charms would
he to out a petticoat on the Venus of Milo,
tet it seems Impossible to make tb0 v ,£!*:
jority of actors acknowledge this. Either
they themselves, inebriated with the bub-
bling absurdity of tnelr parts, try to cap the
c imax and only succeed in bringing about an
anti-climax, or else they apparently lack the
faculty for the appreciation of in j more deep and
subtle humour, and so try to substitute that which
is broader and, sometimes, less refined. One other
thing which offends the critical eye in this per-
formance of “The Mikado” is the inattention of
some of the members of the chorus in the first act.
The interesting and humorous conversation car-
ried on by several of the Japanese nobles should
be postponed until they have retired.
* * *
If there IS one artiste who is deserving of
unqualified praise it is Miss Alice Barnett, and her
efforts are more powerful and consistent In each
successive presentation. Miss Nellie Stewart’s
Yum-tum is also deserving of special attention
and compliment. Her make-up is excellent, a*, d
every pose and motion is a testimony to the
amount of study she has bestowed upon the part.
• » *
Considered as a whole, The Mikado ” is
the best production that Sydney has ever seen.
With the blemishes of which we have written
removed, we think that the artistic triumph would
be still more complete.
* * * *
“Spoons” at the Sydney Academy of
Music, is a decided improvement upon its prede-
cessor, “Bric-a-Brae.” Even then it is not much.
“Spoors”is the work of Mr. Garnet Walch, or
else “L’Entracte” libels him by saying so. If
anyone said We wfote it we would make either his
life or his money atone fot the InSult. This Is not
saying that we could write anything better. Still,
if we wrote anything equal—just equal—to it, the
man who wanted to read the MS. would have to
search for it amid the ashes of a bonfire. As this
“ New, Original, Musical, and Farcical Absurdity ”
(we sarcastically quote the programme) was writ-
ten to introduce the specialities of the Rickards-
Leete combination, Mr. Garnet Waci was some-
what fettered in his choice of incident, and wrote
under similar restrictions to those which hamper
the gifted individuals who invoke the] Muses
to state the perfection of slop-made pants
manufactured by Messrs. Blather and Skite. As
these cheap-pants poets, no matter how they may
begin, are forced to conclude with the unvarying
eulogium, so the Melbourne litterateur is bound
to make his dialogue a mere cement in which to
fix the bricks of the company. So there are ex-
cuses for Mr. Walch—and his work needs them.
* * ♦
We do not desire to write a detailed notice.
Rickards might think us wanting in perception of
humour, deficient in brotherly kindness, or too
refined, if we laid ourselves out for a column
about his show. After all. nothing succeeds like
success. The treasury is the best index of the
popularity of a performance, and, judged by this
standard,.the show is a tfiosiv artistic one, for it
draws like its own cartoonist, Edgar Austin;
* • • »
“ The New Magdalen ” is still in possession
of Sydney Gaiety, and drawing fair houses. In
this piece four months are supposed to elapse be-
tween the prologue and first act. They nearly do.
This is otir gentle method of hinting that the first
wait is too lotig. Hamlet” is announced for
Friday next.
« * * 4
Hiscocks’ Federals are doing good business
at the Victoria Hall. Melbourne, their old quar-
ters. This is about the only crowd that can in-
veigle the public into the hall, by the way. It is
quite refreshing to see ’em roll up. Engaged
couples, we find, appear to be strangely fascinated
by this show. Some of tfce ballads are of the soft
sentimental pattern so dear to the heart when it is
young. Edwin and Angelina look into one
another’s eyes while the low notes are going on,
and the amount of hand-grabbing they get
through is suggestive of Sunday evening service.
The merry laughter of the maidens when Horace
Bent patters is something to see. Every mirthful
wriggle brings them closer to their “ fellow,” and
they do Iook so happy. Alf. Moynham is asso-
ciated with the great Horace, and W. B. Warner
keeps company with Samuel (there’s a respectable
ring about that) Keenan at the other end. We
thought we should lose Warner once. He made
a reckless lurch towards Samuel’s mouth when
that gentleman was gaping. Fortunately, Warner
recovered his balance at the very entrance to the
cavern, and the audience breathed again. E. B.
Dunbar knocks them considerably with his bal-
lads. Evidently Mr. D. has not got quite used to
having his face blacked. We observed him em-
bellishing “Killarney” with a wealth of facial
expression somewhat out of harmony with the
burnt cork. Amery, again, takes his glasses off
when he warbles a solo. This is a mistake. Be-
hind the goggles he makes a picture replete with
pathos. With frequent changes of programme
Hiscocks’ warriors seem booked for a long
innings, more especially as Emerson’s opposition
crowd are just bidding Melbourne a long adieu.
m * » m
Leon and Cushman are installed at the
Melbourne Nugget and filling the pretty little
house well. Tne travestle of “ Fedora ” is cer-
tainiy a merrier trifle than most of its kind. Lson
seems to get more ladylike every day, and when
Cushman bangs his colleague’s head against a
chair the business is quite painfully suggestive of
married life. Leon’s shrinking sylph-like form
and quivering bustle seem to plead mutely for
mercy. Not exactly the sort of performance, this,
to foster in young Australia a respect for the sex
—but no matter, young Australia likes it much.
We like it. Of all the female impersonators we
remember to have seen, Leon is king, or rather
queen. In general appearance he only differs
from lovely woman in one particular. He is quite
too modest and retiring.
• ♦ • •
A dramatic version of Goethe’s immortal
“ Faust ” is drawing plenty of money to the Opera
House. The bill gives no hint as to the adapter’s
name. No acknowledgment even is made of
Goethe’s services. This is perhaps as well. In
London, it is no unusual thing to hear cries
for “ author ” raised at the conclusion of a Shake-
spearian tragedy. Similar enthusiasm over
“ Faust ” might produce awkward results, for, as
the drama is truthfully described as supernatural,
we might have the deceased German answering
the call. ’Tis better for the poet’s post-mortem
abode to remain a secret from his admirers.
• ■ •
Operatic and burlesque settings of “Faust’ ’
are familiar enough, but some years have elapsed,
we believe, since the legend was introduced on
the English stage in purely dramatic form. We
have a recollection of seeing a “ Faust ” at Drury
Lane, with the Phelps—father and son—as Mephis-
topheles and the misguided doctor. Mrs. Hermann
Vezln, too, was Marguerite, but our memory is
very hazy about the merits of the show. The ver-
sion then played differed considerably from that
selected by Mr. Kignold. It was certainly longer,
and probably heavier. This latest production is
modernised to suit present day tastes. Lucifer, as
we now make his personal acquaintance, strikes
us as being a decidedly pleasing person. He is tne
sort of man to shout for the crowd, and lure weak
humanity to ruin by the agency of rum.
• * »
George Rignold figures as the demon who
so readily responds to the invocation of Dr. Faust.
Some of his wickedest little speeches were deli-
vered with a humour suggestive of Henry Irving
(who, by the way, will shortly be playing the
character hlmselt), but at other times Mr Rignold
struck us as being too pronounced in his diablerie.
Anyway, he succeeds in making the character a
popular one. Mephlsto, we were not surprised to
find, exercised a particularly malign influence
over the people coming away from Mass. The
only man proof against his devilish spells was a
priest. Tnis holy fathers successful struggle
against temptation aroused a furore of enthusiasm
—naturally enough—among the “gods.” Other
times, other manners. Priests and dissenting par-
sons are not what they used to be. The char-
acter of Faust is doubled. To Mr. Cathcart
falls the unthankful task of delivering the
philosopher’s long-winded soliloquies. The re-
juvenated doctor, emerging from the wings as
the r id boy retires, is Brian Darloy, resplendent in
a blue satin “snoot.” This mode of metamor-
phosis ia, perhaps, preferable to the “lightning
change ” we saw at Drury Lane, when tfle vener-
able Faust whipped off his long cloak, beard, and
wig, and pitched them down a trap door. Mr-
Darley is just the sort of gallant to do a successful
“ mash,” but an unfortunate bronchial affection,
not unsuitable to the villain of melodrama, is a
terrible drawback to impassioned vows. Still,
there is an Impetuosity about his wooing which,
taken In conjunction with a fine figure, would be
good enough to set the average Marguerite dream-
ing on a piece of wedding-cake. That very sus-
ceptible maiden is played by Miss Lucia Harwood.
The yotlog lady improves. Her Marguerite is
something more than pleasing. There is an art in
her artlessness. Her iovemaking In the garden
is quite delicioOsly spontaneous. We see poor
Marguerite is in jeopardy through her very inno-
cence, and everyone is pleased when she ultimately
sets to Heaven. There are worse than she there,
we guess. Miss Flora instead does well as the
giddy old Marthe, who offers herself as a willing
sacrifice to Mephisto. A Mr. Appleby scores as
Siebel. None of the others call for flattering com-
ment. The impersonator of Valentine would be
better respected if he didn’t sing a song, and a like
remark applies to some German students. The in-
evitable soldiers’ chorus, however, is played with
good spirit.
• • »
The scenic effects in “ Faust ” are appro-
priate and beautiful, and the supernaturalness of
the story is thereby well sustained. The apo-
theosis of Marguerite is so managed as to Impress
even the irreverent. It impressed us. We forgot
to rfiention that Faust is not so fortunate as his
“ mash.” In the other torsion we spoke of, the
young man was redeemed from the Devil’s
clutches by the love of Marguerite# afld the demon
went back to brimstone empty-handed. At the
Opera House, Faust meets his deserts. George
Rignold takes him down to the place where so
many of us will join him sooner or iater—we hope
later. This finale is “ nuts ” for the Social Purlry
Society.
m * * #
Friends of Dr. Simms, the phrenologist,
will regret to learn that he unfortunately hap-
pened to bo on a bridge at the moment of its col-
lapse, and in the subsequent confusion his left
arm broke near the wrist. He values that arm at
£2000, for which sum he has entered an action —
“ Palmer’s Seven Stars” seem to be delighting all
within their orbit, if one may judge from North
Queensland pipers. Of Course, if there is a hand-
some woman in the troupe it is unwise to take the
comments of the Press in tnat region except cum.
grano salvs; but the houses, at least, seem to be
such as the ever-verdant Palmer would desire.
Fred. Midis takes a large part in the entertain-
ment, so does W. B. Warner. And here we are
more than a little bit for the gifted
W. B. was quite lately with the Federal Minstrels
in Melbourne, Can there be two such Australian
comiques? We trow not—Dan. Barry’s crowd
has been doing good business in the Wagga district.
* * * *
Writes our London correspondent —The
best thing to see in London now is ‘Olivia,’ at
the Lyceum, a play written by Wills, and founded
on the Vicar of Wakefield. The play and tho ex-
position are simply perfect. It is by far the most
beautiful stage-piettire I have ever seen. Nothing
could surpass the acting of Irving as the Y i ? ar ’
and Ellen Terry as the daughter Olivia. Lniess
that wondrously-talented couple eve# visit Aus-
tralis, I fear you will not see * Olivia.’ Mies -iSrry s
third husband died the other day; but, alas I Mrs.
Irving still lives, and she is too spiteful to appeal
for a divorce. In his version of * Faust,’now un-
derlined for productiou after * Olivia,’ at the
Lyceum, Mr. Wills has, I am in a position to state,
kept very close to Goethe’s text, discarding the
supposed Improvements Introduced into the
modern acting versions of the atory. Themiseen.
seine depicting the * Walpurglsnaoht ’ will exceed
anything that has yet been arranged at the Lyceum.
A burlSsque on ’Olivia’ entitled ‘The Vicar of
Wideawakefield,’ IS a great draw at the Gaiety.
And here your old trietld Agnes Oonsuelo got
another chance. She was engaged to take the
place of Violet Cameron, who had other engage-
ments to fill. Did ever a woman get so many
chances-golden chances—as our Agnes? But,
alasl she has not sufficient ability to turn any of
them to account. Sue was seen at the Gaiety for
three or four nights only. Her next venture will
be in connection with the Opera Comique Theatre,
which she is taking in conjunction with a man
named Harris (not Qus of that ilk. of course). A
new comic opera, by Hermann and Jones (musical
conductor at the Princess'), will be presented,
with Agnes in the leading role. The present crowd
at the Gaiety do not bear thefbest of characters.
A leading man was locked up all night, and lined
5s. in the morning for being drunk and disorderly
last weefe. Binee then there was an awful “shinny
on the stage onS night. Yard ley, one of the
authors of the pitstfe# and Harris, Consuelo s
pardner, got at it with thCir mailers. 'IhcaiTair
ended in a free light, in which aftisto of both sexes
were engaged. I don’t think you can beftl that in
the oolonh s.”
* * * *
A London correspondent writes us thus
—“ I went to see Mrs. Langtry in ‘ Peril’ the other
night. I had a chat with her manager, and am
able to inform ® 0 u that it ia her intention to visit
Australia in 1887. When you first see her you wil
be disappointed with her as a beauty; but she will
grow upon you, and you will soon discover that,
in addition to beautiful eyes and teeth, she has a
pocketful of varied and beautiful expreesions of
countenance to th#ow at you. I was most agree-
ably disappointed with hef acting, and with the
couple of years’ further experience she will have
the benefit of before you see her, I believe you
will find her a very fair actress. Mr. Keogh, her
manager, will be remembered by many 1 or your
readers. He knocked about the colonies for some
years, and cannot be forgotten at Tattersall s.
His lines have fallen upon much pleasanter places
since he left the colonies. Mrs. Langtry s manager
is ‘ somebody,’ I can tell you Miss Alice Lingard
tus made a hit in ‘Dark Days.’ She plays the
heroine, of course, and the part is a very much
better one than Pauline in ‘ Called Back.’ I am
going to call upon Miss Lingard in a day or two,
and perhaps 111 tell you what she says about you. ’
WHY WAS HE SAD?
He stood at the door of th* Olympic,
And bis mind seemed not at rest.
For his fingers searched the empty
Pockets within his vest.
I asked him what was his trouble,
And why was he crossed with care;
But he only deigned to utter
What seemed like a naughty swear.
Till at last the words came slowly.
In a tone that was sad and faint —
“ I bet that that chap with the violin
Was a girl— and I find he ain’t.”
*• But who was the chap,” I enquired,
“ Who gave you thus away ?”
“ Why, him as has the auburn looks,
And sits in the orchestray.”


PEPPER AND SALT.
When we come to think it over, we believe
we have done a comparative injustice to our late
lamented Governor. We have mildly hinted at
times that he has been somewhat wanting in
generosity—he s not slung his salary around, so to
speak. Well, he was to us an alien—alien in feel-
ings, in ideas, in everything. He did not want
anything to do with our aristocracy we oast no
blame on him for that; he did not want to “ lead
the brawls” in our social festivities- he wanted to
do nothing but automatically go through his
necessary duties, and save his salary to spend at
home among people of his own set. We blamed
him for that. We said that it was the duty of a
Governor having such a large allowance to be
hospitable, and represent the colony In a dignified
manner. Lord Loltus did not do this. Wo did
him no injustice In sayirg so. We merely told the
truth. But we did do him a comparative irjustloe
when we blamed him for waiting till he get to
England before he spent his money. What a
crushing reply he could have given to this If he
had chosen. As thus:-*' I wait till I go homo be-
fore I spend my money, do 1 ? Well, I do—and
why not ? 1 am no native of this country. 1 have
no possessions here. I have no interests after my
term of office is expired. You have the imperti
nence to speak of my conduct in thii strain, while
yeur own rich men, who were bred araorgyoi ,
and made their money among you and out of you,
go home to spend it, even as I do with mine I If
they do this, what have you to say against my
doing it?” The question, if it had been put,
would have been a staggerer. And it would have
been a worse staggerer had Gussy added; * B. sides,
I had no money to spend. I had even to borrow
to pay my tradespeople before I left, and a writ
was out against me.”
• * ♦
The newest thing in temperance circles is
a Pink Ribbon Association which has lately started
in Ballarat. It is not a rabidly teetotal affair. The
members only pledge themselves not to “shout”
—or be “shouted” for. If they had cor.tented
themselves with the first pledge the land would
have blazed with pink ribbons in the course of a
month. But the second will break them up. It is
not given to average human nature to bo able to
refuse a drink when modestly preferred. An
association somewhat similar to this was once
started In America, but the astute Yankees did not
make the mistake of inserting the second clause
of the Ballarat prospectus In theirs. These we re
tholr three rules—which they very justly called
“ golden ”: —“ 1. Never ask a man to take a drink,
because by doing so you might lead him into ex-
cess. 3. Never refuss a drink, because you might
offend the man who asks you, and thereby
make him your enemy for life. 3. Never care a
blank what happens to anyone so long as it does
not happen to yourjolf.” We believe the Institu-
tion is still flourishing—at least, we have seen a lot
of its members over here.
* ♦ *
Professor Wittrock, of the Swedish An-
thropological Society, has recently stated that
brown eyes were more common amongst women
than amongst men, the numbers standing—men,
416 per cent.; women, 44 3. In families where the
parents hart the same colour of eyes, 80 per cent,
of thechl.dicn of parents with brown eyes had
brown r> es, while 93 0 from blue eyed parents had
blue • o ». The Professor read an exhaustive
paper on me laws of hered ty thus brought out,
and we cheerfully present him an obstrvation of
our own which has not before appeared in print.
Our ej es were of an ethereal blue when we walked
out to the milk-cart yesterday morning with the
jug, and asked for some milk—any milk different
from the colour of our own translucent orbs. On
looking into the glass shortly atterwards, with a
comb in one hand and a brush In the other, we
were astounded to find that our eyes were of a
deep purple verging on black. We called our be-
loved’s attention to this startling phenomenon,
and asked whether our next was likely to have
black eyes. “ You’d better ask sou e smaller milk-
man,” she murmured, gently spreading a pound
of raw meat over the eccentric optics.
♦ * *
Dr. Diamond Beaney is still giving ban-
quets in London. He gave one at the Criterion
lately, at which there were a number of dlstin.
guished gentlemen of his own profession. So you
can imagine with what a grim chuckle they heard
him say, in his speech in reply to the toast of
“The Reserve Forces of the Empire,” that he
could answer by the card for tho Victorian mili-
tary forces, “ many of whom had passed through
bis own hands.” Alas, poor fellows, they did not
live to die upon the goaty field of glory I
• * •
This is how the Melbourne Age sneers at
sacred things“ Wo have received,” it says, “ the
• Westminster Confession of Faith,’ with Introduc-
tion and notes by the Rev. John Macphcraon,
M.A., being one of the hand-books for Bible
classes, edited by the Rev. Drs. Dcda and Whyte,
and dealing as lucidly with ihe mysteries of tri-
ginal sin, perfectionism, foreknowledge, the nature
of the Godhead and such like as their utter incom-
prehensibility will allow.” This is a pretty thing
to appear in a paper that confesses to a circulation
of over 5T),000— the largest by far of any journal in
Australia. Goo would have thought the names of
all those reverend doctors would have been suffi-
cient guarantee against such sacrilege. But, no.
However, it is some comfort to the orthodox to
know that when both emigrate to the next world,
David Syme will have as much reason to yearn for
an occasional spell in an ioe-house as even Joseph
Byrnes.
1 • • •
“Snaix is in,” and tho country editor’s
soul is as full of joy to-day as if a new saveloy
shop had just teen started across the road, or he
had been placed on the Iccil hospital committee
with power to vote on the advertisement distri-
bution question. A few days ago a Southern
digger with the word “Truth” tattooed in job-
type letters across his faoeand about 17 different
strata of mud on his clothes, took his seat on a
sub-editor’s candle-box and remarked that he’d a
bit of a yarn to tell. When the yarn was told, it
appeared that this Truthful James had been filling
up an old mining shaft when he discovered that
thousands of swallows bad built their pests
started housekeeping In the said shaft, and were
loudly expostulating with him as he shovelled
in the dirt. Being a determined sort of man,
James shovelled away till his appetite struck
8 a.m., and then he cleared home to his tombstone-
damper and salt-horse dejeuner, and returned at 9.
Meantime, the Indignant swallows had held a mass
Indignation meeting, at which the usual “ we view
with alarm,” and other important resolutions
were carried nem. con. Pretty soon Truthful
James, as he dumped in the clods, felt a cold t
slimy sensation, like the dab of a C.M.G.’s hand, on
bis bare shoulder, and, on groping round, he was
rather more startled than pleased to find a wrlggl-
Icg snake banging on, and apparently looking out
for a tender, juicy spot. Carefully removing the
festive plcnlcer, James was about to wade in again
when he suddenly discovered that something like
an eclipse of the sun was taking place, and, look-
ing up, he beheld a cloud of svallows, fully
two square miles in extent, hovering overhead.
Every swallow held a hissing snake in his claws,
and was evidently waiting for a fair chance to
drop it on the rash intruder’s back. Truthful
James came away from that shaft at once. Not
that he was afraid, for he had been married 17
years and death had no terrors tor him; but be
felt that those swallows had a right to that hole,
and he wasn’t going to lower himself to the level
of an Irish evicting agent for all the shafts in
creation. The sub-editor said he was sorry there
was nothing but pain-killer and bug-disinfectant
in the cupboard just then, but if James stepped
round to the Dead Finish Hotel, and told his tale
to tho editor—a man who wore bed tick pants and
a rlpe-tomato nose—he had no doubt that the
spirit of truthfulness and honour which charac-
terised the narrator would meet with Its due re-
ward. James stepped, and that editor ran the
next issue into a third edition.
* * •
Nine months hence our gracious Queen
will enter upon the jubilee year of her reign.
Three of our bards are already wrestling with an
(de to celebrate the occasion. We find it necessary
1o employ a number of them when we want a
v oris of any magnitude performed, because they
die off so quickly. A course of struggling with
anapaests and dactyls, varied by tooth-and-nall con-
flicts with two-headed snakes and red-eyed hob-
goblins, soon wrecks the strongest constitution.
But in a matter of this kind—when our loyalty Is
put to the test—we say, to quote hercwn laureate,
“ We care for nothing, all shall go.” If we have
to sacrifice the whole of our poetic staff, that
Jubilee Ode shall be ready when the time comes.
* * *
A gentleman with a fistful of bank-notes
was found lying in a state of oblivion In a Mel-
bourne gutter the other night, and humanely
locked up by the police. In the morning he was
al'owed to go out for a couple of hours to get a
cup of coffee to brace him up to meet the magi-
stral s. He returned indue time, and, on being
placed in the dock, expressed a desire to light any
man in the court for any money he liked to name.
He also observed that he could lick every san-
guinary “beak” on the bench with one hand tied
behind his back. The presiding magistrate, disre-
garding the generous challenge, remarked that he
gravely suspected the prisoner had taken some-
thing stronger than coffee during his two hours’
liberty. It is wonderful to note how keen a man s
perceptions become after a long Police Court ex-
perience. The prisoner was sent up for another
two days, and led away breathing scorn and con-
tempt tor the pugilistic abilities of the whole gory
universe, excepting himself.
mm*
it is said that the appointment of Lord
Carington to the Governorship of N.3.W. is a
kind of guarantee that His Royal Highness the
Prince of Wales will visit the colony soon. Well,
any time he chooses to drop in upon upon us we
shall bo glad to entertain him. It we are not In
when he calls we hope he will make himself at
home. He will find a bottle of pretty good Bour-
bon and a corkscrew, also two tumblers, in a
cavity in the floor under our editorial ohalr. We
have to keep it thus ingeniously hidden in order
to avoid a personal conflict with our poetical staff.
But, by touching a little spring, the door ot the
miniature cellar flies open, and the contents can be
sampled without trouble. We will confide the
secret to the Prince first time we see him. We
have also fixed on the wall, with four nails, a
couple of churchwardens labelled respectively,
"Wales” and “Carington.” The tobacco-jar is
behind the pigeon-holes. If they want anything
further, all they have to do is to strike the kero"
sene-tin under the window with the thigh-bone
which they will find on our desk. Should we come
in while they are there we will make things hum
for them. We are not much versed in the man-
ners of courts, but when the occasion arises we
flatter ourselves we know how to do the stylish
thing as well as any man living.
* * ♦
Mr. Henry Henty, merchant, of Mel-
bourne, has gone insolvent for the nice little sum
of £156,634 4s. lid. We are sorry for this, as
Henty is a fine old name in the annals of Victoria.
Among tho losses named as the causes of insol-
vency is a sum of £33,339 9s. 4d. set down to the
ViOTOHiAN Kevxeav Company, the manager of
which is tho enterprising Mr. Mortimer Franklyn.
It will be recollected that this gentleman ran for a
long time an evening paper, with nice wide
columns in the American style, which was called
the Would It was held to be a high authority
upon the Central Asian question, and its views re-
garding the policy that should be pursued by the
British Government were dignified and decided.
On this account it was said (on the authority of
the produce-reporter and two or three of the com-
positors on the staff who ought to have known) to
have incurred the deadly enmity of Bismarck.
Wheth r this was the reason why it was suddenly
snuffed cut of existence will probably never be
known. At any rate, Mr. flenty was the principal
shareholder, and he is now insolvent. This re.
minds us that we saw Mr. Mortimer Franklyn out
at Flemington on Cup Day. His horses were
first-class, and he was looking very well.
• ■ •
The obituary poet of the Melbourne Age
must be dead. There Is now no play of funereal
fancy—no sorrowful sporting with the secrets of
the sepulchre—none of the old familiar conceits
that gave a sad joy to many a bereaved boson,
and made the corpse-columns the most attractive
part of the paper. IchabodI Its glory has departed.
Instead of these, there is a monotonous repetition
of one Intellect-wrecking quatrain which ii made
to do duty for every name that turns up. You
know it, of course: —
“ Early wert thou taken, Bobble,
And wo know ’tls vain to weep,
Tears of ours can never wake thee
From thy sad and silent sleep.”
In the same Issue in which this appears, there are
two others, beginning—
“ Early wert thou taken, Johnnie,” &c.
“ Do. do. do. Johnnie,” &c.
We have had our joke at the obituary bard often
enough, but we did not know his worth till he
was gone. His metre might have been occasion-
ally In need of crutches, and hia rhymes might
have lacked the polish of Pope’s, but he was
able to throw an atmosphere of geniality around
his gloomy subject which made his verses exceed-
ingly cheerful reading. And now he has gone to
join all those he eulogised with such a fluent nen.
Alas, poor YorickI We knew him weil,!M‘QufflaI
♦ r •
It was in a fashionable bar in King-street.
There were a good many well-known men there—
lawyers, litterateurs, and men of buslness-but in '
a corner by hlmtolf stood a distinguished-looking
stranger sipping a glass of sherry, and surveying
the group with an air of condescension that almost
amounted to pity. Ju.c then a now crowd came
in. They ranged up close to where the distin-
guished-looking stranger was standing, and one
boisterous member of the party slapped him on
the back, and asked him what be was going to
have. “Sir,” said the D.L.S., “ do you know who
I ham?” “ No,” was the irreverent reply, “and
I don’t give a to knew. I only want to
know what you’re going to have to drink.”
“ Then, sir,” said the D.L.S., ignoring the latter
part of the sentence, “you will be told. I’m the
’ed walet of Lord .” And with a sniff of
scorn that Included the entire population of the
bar, he turned on his heel and walked majestically
out accompanied by a yell of laughter which
might have been heard at Circular Quay.
* * *
There is a gentleman in Parramatta—ac-
cording to the testimony of the pre-hlstoric but
truthful Fergy—who now looks the whole world
In the face, for he is going to be burled for no-
thing. Fergy gays that just before the elections
up there a local undertaker, whose thoughts were
incongruously occupied with the affairs of living
men, made a bet of a free burial against a new hat
that Varney Parkes would not be returned. Of
course he lost, and the winner may be seen at his
shop two or three times a week inspecting every
lot of timber that comes in. The undertaker
wanted to put him off with a varnished plner
with tin mountings, but he insists on a Ger-
man-silver-mounted rose - wooder, at least
though expressing a preference for teak, If
procurable, as being more able to withstand
the ravages of the early worm. Half the
people of the town, Including Fergy—who, by
the way, is said to have been dead and buried for
nearly a year, but got tired and resurrected him-
self because there was no whisky to be had in the
tomb—have bets on as to which of the two—the
undertaker or the other man-will die first. We
are willing to back the other man. We have never
yet seen the funeral of an undertaker. Great
Scott I do we not remember the grisly veteran at
the undertakers’ picnic who beat men half his age
in a foot race, after giving them a start of several
yards, tool As he overhauled and passed them
one by one, we could not help thinking with a
shudder that he was the very Skeleton Death in
person 1 Yes, we will win money on the under-
taker if anyone chooses to wager with us.
• • •
Kangaroo scalps are paid for at the rate
of 9d. each in some parts of sunny New South
Wales. Wallaby scalps are only worth 4d. There
are very few wallaby scalps sold. Well, what odds
if the bushmen do Binge the hair off, and make the
scalp of one marsupial like unto the scalp of
another bounding kangaroo ? The scalp-receivers
don’t know the difference, and the scalper, with a
face as expressionless as a grindstone, takes his
money and goes his way to shoot more wallaby,
and add to his wealth by disposing of kangaroo-
scalps. Thus does the yellow dross circulate, and,
as the State pays what matter ? But the “ Myology
of the Marsupial” would be an interesting work
for some of these noxlous-animal-infected-dis-
trict money distributors to study.
Church prayers have been invoked for a
variety of absurd purposes, but an English arch-
bishop has capped the absurdity by Issuing a form
of prayer for the church party to be used during
the elections. Now, supposing his party wins, he
will be credited with having introduced a new
power Into elections, and If they lose, religious
people will doubt the efficacy of prayer. We
would advise the Archbishop not to be too cock-
sure about the result, although we think it likely
that his man will win by the aid of Providence If
he spends plenty of beer-money. At elections the
Almlghtv usually favours the man who has the
biggest beer-barrels.
From a newly-published German work on
musicians, it appears that there was nothing more
remarkable in the lives of the greatest composers
than the obstacles they had to overcome on their
march to fame. At six, Handel commenced the
fiddle. His father stood it for a week, but, recog-
nising after that time that life, with a Jad of six
creeping through chromatics in the next room,
was mostly gloom, promptly hung the fiddle up
behind the lire. We do not blame the old man- i l
ie only right that oarents should sacrifice some-
thing for their offspring, but the line must oe
drawn somewhere. And, if not at Addle, where
th°n? The work before us does not say whether
young Handel revenged himself by saving up o' 8
pocket-money and buying a trombone. At io-
Bach was forbidden to play or even look at some
of his brothers’concertos, so the boy got UP «
night, and spent six months copying the pieces oy
moonlight. Gluck s instruments were ipekea up
by his rather, a jew’s-harp alone being left 0UI-
it would appear that if your son shows any
aptitude for music, your best way or en-
couraging him is to borrow his instruments ac
play upon them for half-an-hour with a main,
the room above us in Woolloomooloo is a miao
aged man, who spends three hours a night lfi-d 81 *
a flute. What the instrument has ever donetoDi
to deserve such treatment he keeps m
own breast. It is while listening to him pi»yj£K
“ The heart bowed down ” that we realise the co
dition to which old Handel was reduced before
put his child’s fiddle in the ashes. If in order i
become a musician, it is necessary that your
struments should be destroyed or'locked [up
you are young, it is certain that the person aoo
us has either never been deprived of his oio
curdling Instrument since he was weaned, ore
ho procured a duplicate key of the cup-bar
where it was hid. Alas 1 If he d on y had a
like Herr Handel-one to put the
and, by mistake, plant the player beside it—jj a?e
an element rv kunwledir« the writer would
ox ihut pruiuulty iu wl ioh he uovv wallows*
ON THE RIGHT ROAD.
REV. GENTLEMAN: “YOUR TEACHER TELLS MB YOU’RE THE WORST BOY IN THE
SCHOOL. NOW, IF YOU CONTINUE IN THIS WAY, WHAT DO YOU EXPECT TO
BE WHEN YOU GROW DP ? ”
DUNCE: “SAME AS ME FATHER.”
REV. G.: “WHAT IS YOUR FATHER?”
DUNCE: “CITY MI8-A-NBKY-GOING TJBB A PARSON.”
The Luck of Lucknow.
A N.S.W. MINING LYRIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Frederick’s Valley lives the boas—
Deep-sinking boss of Lucknow;
The reef shows bravely, not a cross,
Risht golden is his luck now—
Bold Newman’s luck of Lucknow I
So bold to drive, so prompt to sink
Through thousand feet of “ muck ” now,
That envious miners rashly think
’Tis not his skill but luck now—
Just Newman’s luck of Lucknow I
Now fire the mine, then flashed the spark,
The hillsides shake and rock now,
A mighty rumble—thunder, hark 1
Will this again bring look new ?—
Bonanza luck to Lucknow I
And Orange city hears the sound,
The bulls and bears may buck now,
For shares go upward with a bound,
Fresh “ pockets ” found at Lucknow—
’Tls Skill combined with luck nowl
In Frederick’s Valley lives the boss,
Bonanza King of Lucknow;
The “ Juker ” may play pltch-and-toss—
Right golden is his luck now,
Since he “ chummed ” in at Lucknow I


SUPPLEMENT TO "THE BULLETIN.” SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA, DECEMBER 12, 1885.
