

THE BULLETIN
VoL 2. —No. 94.—New Series.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1885.
Frloe—64.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 3d, 1885.
A Splendid Business.
If the spirit of the noble Gordon could re-
visit the earth and observe the situation
created by the tidings of his death, no
Banshee shriek would be louder than the
wail of lamentation which the horror-
stricken ghost would utter. As we do not
profess, like the priestly caste, to know the
secrets of the great Hereafter, we may ex-
plain whence we derive the confidence with
which we ascribe particular emotions to the
wraith of Gordon. We simply reason by
deduction. We deduce the probable senti-
ments of Gordon, dead, from the ascer-
tained sentiments of Gordon, living. The
British nation is stirred to its heart’s core
by the death of perhaps the noblest man
which the nation, in all its long and splen-
did history, has produced. And, being so
stirred, even to the extremities here in far
Australia, what is it that the mourning crowd
propose? To <wc,ngc Gordon I Say we not
truly that the wraith of the soldier-martyr
would groan over the fearful mistake. Ven-
geance for Gordon’s death. Well might
Sir Thomas Strickland refer to the un-
happy Soudanese as “ Saracens.” The idea
of vengeance for Gordon belongs to the
barbaric age—to the days of the Crusades,
when swarms of Christian men, smitten
with a shameful enthusiasm, which they
imagined to be virtuous and noble, flocked
to the Syrian deserts to slaughter Saracens
for the love of Christ. When we see and
hear around us the cries of wrath and the
shouts of devotion —the marshalling of
fighting men and the embarkation of the
machinery of destruction — it seems as
though we were back in the dark ages, and
that the impassioned voice of Peter the
Hermit were ringing in our ears.
- * * *
Across the mental vision of a number of
the people of Australia emotion has cast a
veil. They have ceased to be reasoning
creatures. They permit themselves to be
impelled by a sentiment, excellent in itself,
but, like even the noblest sentiment —love
of God— liable to frightful perversion.
• • •
We believe we shall not be contradicted
by even the most frantic of the enthusiastic
crowd, when we offer the following as an
analytical definition of the sentiments
which have wrought up the fighting fever.
The Government and its sympathisers in
this matter, and the actual volunteers for
service, have tendered to the old country
the support of a military contingent, be-
cause the dear old country needs help—
because it is desired to give practical ex-
pression to Australian loyalty. Our soldiers
go, and our capitalists open their purses
because their bosoms swell with patriotism.
An admirable sentiment. But, great
heavens, does no man pause to think ? Is
no one among these emotion-tossed zealots
inspired to view the reverse of the shield ?
If it be noble and elevating for Britons in
Australia to offer their lives and their for-
tunes (nobody has yet done the latter) for
their mother country’s sake, is it not noble
and elevating also for the Arabs of the
Soudan to lay down their lives and fortunes
for the love of their mother country ?
• • •
Granted that the tender and the accept-
ance of a contingent from New South
Wales will cement the affection between the
mother country and Australasia, Is it well
that affection should be cemented with in-
nocent blood —aye, the blood of patriots ?
Patriotism! that noble word has been, dur-
ng the past fortnight, written in tinsel, and
flaunted as an advertisement for “ enter-
prising” firms. Of what quality is this
patriotism with which, as with a flapper,
men have been patting themselves ou the
back, when compared with the patriotism
of the poor savages we go forth to help tq.
slaughter and pass under the yoke ?
• ♦ •
Let the matter be looked calmly in the
face, and the hollowness of the whole busi-
ness is at once apparent. In the first place,
the dear old country is not in lack of our
help. Such as it is, its acceptance was quite
fortuitous and was plainly attributable to
politic motives altogether remote from any
Soudan question, or any military necessity.
That tbe incident has warmed up the some-
what chilly relations between New South
Wales and the old country is indubitable.
and as an advertisement its value is pro-
bably incalculable. But we probably granted
too much when, a few sentences back, we
hypothetically conceded that the affair will
cement the affection between the mother
country and Australian colonists in general.
It already threatens to leave the colonists of
Victoria morose and affronted, and conse-
quently to operate more powerfully to
create obstacles than to accelerate a federa-
tion of the Empire either in sentiment or in
organic form.
* • *
What is it that the] citizen-soldiers of New
South Wales go forth, amidst cheers and
emotion, to aid ? Had it been the rescue of
Gordon, it would have been a mission, in-
deed. But Gordon is dead. To fight the
Soudanese, then. A noble enterprise, truly I
is the great heart of Australia moved by the
conception of assisting to crush the resist-
ance of a brave and devoted people against
invasion and subjugation ? Surely not. The
great heart of Australia does not pulse in
this enterprise at all. It is the smaller
vessels only which beat. Once more let us
review the situation into which, unin-
vited, we are impelled by Mr. Dallbt’s
impulsive nature and the excitability of
the thoughtless. Let us trace the trouble
from its commencement. The people of
Egypt, plundered and oppressed by Turkish
satraps, who had handed them over to be
squeezed by the usurers of the European
bourses, resolved to change the form of Go-
vernment which, in lieu of protecting them,
operated as an instrument of foreign spolia-
tion. Led by the patriot Araui—who staked
his life on the issue, a very different kind of
patriotism from that which ofn/ra a thousand
a year of superfluous wealth—they had ac-
complished, without bloodshed, their revo-
lution, when the naval forces of the nations
whose money-lenders had ground them
down interfered. Confusion and riot en-
sued. The British fleet, which, like Cour-
bet’s French squadron at Foochow, had in
time of peace taken up a position which ren-
dered torpedo defences unavailable, bom-
barded their maritime capital and its Incom-
plete defences. Great Britain surrounded
the paltry Tbweik, who had shewn himself
prepared to retain his place as the servant
of his people, if no better might be, with a
hedge of bayonets, and ordered him to recall
his old, evil, unpatriotic advlseis. The
Egyptians, to a man, supported Ababi, who
took the field for the liberties of the people.
The unwarlike race, emasculated by cen-
turies of oppression and slavery, fled before
the British battalions; and the wretched
Tbwpik distributed “honors” and decora-
tions among the foreign conquerors of the
people he should have died to preserve from
their hands. So miserable a wretch Is he
that even now his masters talk of dismissing
him, as too feeble even for his billet of
bailiff. The government of Egypt thus fell
into British hands. But before the rising
of Ababi the Khedives had hungered after
more people to squeeze for the sake
of the commission they would retain
as the usurers’ agents. Ismabl had over-
run the Soudan. The garrisons of Tbwtik
were still in that half-conquered country.
And a Saviour had arisen, against whom an
army of Egyptians, led by an Englishman,
holding a General’s rank in the Khedive’s
service, was marching. The Saviour des-
troyed that army, and killed its mercenary-
leader. Desirous, too tardily, of repairing,
or at least of limiting the original crime and
blunder of crushing a national reformation,
the Liberal Cabinet of Mr. Gladstone an-
nounced a policy worthy of tho enlightened
principles of its great chief. It would extri-
cate the Egyptian garrisons, and permit the
Soudanese to work out their own redemp-
tion, as a preliminary to leaving to the
Egyptians a similar opportunity. But if, In
pursuance of this, and in addition to it,
something might be accomplished to assist
tbe Soudanese to establish a stable and
organized Government, it would be well.
Gordon, former Governor of the Soudan,
devoted humanitarian, and totally unselfish,
appeared tho man to combine both objects.
He accepted the task, and carrying, from
the hour he entered the desert, his life in his
hand, he penetrated to Khartoum, the cen-
tral focus of the compromised garrisons. He
had reckoned upon the influence and affec-
tion created for him by the beneficence and
vigour of his former rule in these regions.
Nor had he reckoned without reasonable
grounds. Alone, and with a bag of gold, he
was able to gather around him a body oj
devoted adherents. But he had under-esti-
mated one opposing influence. Superstition
and sentiment lent to the pretentions of the
Mahdl—the Messiah—an influence which tho
personal prestige of Gordon was Inadequate
to counteract. He found himself unable to
extricate the garrisons, and in lieu of being
able to organize any form of Government
among the Soudanese, he was isolated with
the little band whom his extraordinary per-
sonal magnetism attached to him, and
restricted to holding with difficulty, a single
city. In lieu of extricating the Egyptian
garrisons, he himself became in need of
rescue. The Soudanese, led by their native
Messiah, preferred to accomplish their
liberty by their own methods. They forgot
that Gordon had been the most beneficent
ruler their country had ever known, and
remembered only that he was an English-
man—the representative of those infidels
who held the true believers of Egypt by the
throat, while greedy hands extorted from
them plunder, in the shape of oppressive
taxation. They fought Gordon like heros.
They conquered him like —great generals.
That is to say, what they could not accom-
plish by force they gained by fraud. When
the city was entered Gordon was slain. It
was a soldier’s death. The mqn wl$o be-
trayed him deserved punishment. The foes
who slew him deserve none.
• • •
Hi* death closed an episode. His mission
MAJOR-GENERAL S. G. GRAHAM, V.C., K.C.B., COMMANDER OF THE FORCES IN SOUAKIM.


Th* Rates or Subscription to ihi Bulletin
ar*—For| one year, 24a.; half-year, 12b. m. ;
Quarter, 6s. fld,—In advance.
Tim Advertising Rams are St. per inch!
special positions in the paper 7s. M, per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as followsOn ad-
vertlsements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions
16 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 36 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments erdored for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under postage stamps ef any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
Annual Income exceeds One XlUlom
Lightning and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
C. W. EGBERTS’
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S OELEBRAP .. t /II AMPAGNB,
Large Bottle, only 9s. , *
Small Bottle, , 4s. fld.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
A J8TRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEB PORT,
2s. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT
as. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts,
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN-iN FLASKS,
Is, 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke’s Prize Medal Brand,
in stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST SIZE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Markot Streets,
— / ~— - BX9V£T«
was to give peace to the Soudanese, not war.
If they, in their folly, slew him, is vengeance
wiiat the circumstances require? We can,
In the spirit, catch the last murmurs of his
paling lips, as he falls under the bullets of
the people for whom he bad sacrificed his
life, They were old woi*ds. familiar to Gor-
don, ancLwtHihtok not unlikely to have em-
ployed hvtlast 1»<,eat%. Forgive, them, for
they know not wfcat they do! ' !
But no! “Cry havoc, and let
slip the dogs of war!” NewSouthWaJ.es
to the rescue! Book at our Loyalty I Please
to admire our Patriotism (patented, any
imitation by other people will be prose-
cuted). 11 A thousand o-year to the patriotic
fund for crushing patriots.” God bless
our fiag. God bless our troops. God
bless the war. God bless the devil broken
loose among usl Let’s go and help kill
some Arabs of the Soudan. It is noble
sport. They fight (for their country, their
liberty, and their rellgioil—but no matter)
like tigers/ and about the same
sort of vreapeps and the same chance of
getting of us. Now and again a
bold sportsman falls under their claws; but
only enough to give the spice of risk re-
quisite to make the game exciting. Oh! it
is an inspiring Incident. It is a gratifying
and heart-warming chance that the first oc-
casion in which Australian colonists prac-
tically evince their sympathy with the
mother country is when opportunity occurs
of joining heart and soul in an iniquitous
war against a people who have sought no
quarrel with England, and are simply en-
deavouring to shake off the yoke of that
miserable Tbwvik, whom our Government
proposes to dismiss as too mean a creature
even for a ‘‘man in possession.” We will
conclude with a sentiment, and anybody
who does not like it may lump it. It is not
“ God bless our troops,” nor “ God save the
Queen,” nor ‘‘God prosper our arms.” It
is simply ‘‘ God help the Right.” Sounds
'* unpatriotic ” when you come to think of
it—doesn't it, now ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Constitutional Drawback.
MR. Ballet's voluntary contribution of a colo-
nial contingent to aid the extinction of the
Mahdi's aspirations was challenged at the outset
by Sir Henry Parses as utterly unconstitutional.
This impeachment has been averted more by
Oblique causes than by responsive logic, Mr,
Ballet is the one groat public man whose popu-
larity has been an exquisite evergreen; and this
has served him in good stead to repel the Insinua-
tions of a politician who always bids for the ad-
miration of some men by earning the well-rooted
hatred of others. Besides, It cannot be said that his
critic comes into the witness-box with clean hands
It Is no worse In theory to pledge Parliament to a
war than to commit the country to the fulfilment
pf unauthorised purchases of vloe-regal mansions
and of Art atrocities that oven the Post Office
adornments can put to the blush. So, too, the
glamour of glory with which novelty and news-
paper exuberance have encircled the first Austra-
lian military expedition 1 has helped to shunt the
oonstitational Impeachment. But In cooler mo-
ments the public will he apt to ash the question
Whether this Is not the first instance of a country
becoming embrqjled In war without direct Parlia-
mentary acquiescence. Granted that the national
exigency may have been so pressing as to warrant
the Impetuous committal of the colony to a mili-
tary expedition, It must still appear obvious that
It was the duty of the Cabinet to seek the earliest
possible Parliamentary endorsement of their
action. If it was expedient to summon the peo-
ple’s representatives hurriedly together to quell
the crisis caused by an eccentric Judicial anathema
against steam trams, it is surely as urgent
to invito them to assent or reject the propo-
sal to wage unsolicited and unprovoked war
against distant tribes of patriots, with whom this
country has never come Into contact. Otherwise
the precedent Is established that a Ministry may)
during a Parliamentary recess, at their own
orotlon, empty our military depots of their martial
inmates, and despatch our troops on foreign ser-
vice, without either seeking popular approval
through tho medium of Parliament or making
provision to meet the unsanctioned expenditure.
War is not all glitter, grog, and glory, as some of
the sensational organs of the city would seem to
Imply; and the Government that resolves upon
lending its troops, even to tho mother country,
should be careful to ask an early assent from Par-
liament, and be prepared to accept the political
consequences of refusal. The hazard of office
should be the Council’s contribution to belligerent
action; and, since time well permitted, it is unfor-
tunate that Mr. Ballet did not add wisdom to
patriotism by Inviting nthe concurrence of the
Legislature before the day fixed for the embarka-
tion of the troops. The verdict which Fouche
passed on Napoleon’s worst action— “It was
worse than a crime; Jt was a blunder’’—will be
the Judgment reluctantly affixed to Mr. Ballet's
neglect by even his warmest admirers. The ap-
proval'of the elect of the people must be Invited
at some time or other. To delay seeking it till a
negative verdict would be a burlesque, or till time
has tested the wisdom or folly of the proposal, is
as unwise as it is unparliamentary. Loyalty is
always creditable, and patriotism is the noblest
impulse of thy political heart; but the statesman
needs to superadd to both a veneration for the
cardinal ethics and orthodox obligations of the
Constitution.
Public Pride versus Public Benevolence.
Thb extrema dealre manifested by all sections of
the community to augment the Patriotic Fund for
the representation of Australian valour in Egypt
Is a deserving source of congratulation. It shows
tbRt oyr Jeftding cpjopist* are eu*o«ptjb)e of being
roused to liberality when they regard the honour
and interests of the British empire as being in
jeopardy. It exemplifies the perpetuation of that
devotion to her Majesty’s throne and person by
which it is hoped to cement the Imperial union. It
repels the sneers of critics at the preponderance of
loyalty of the Up over allegiance of the heart. As
a solid evidence of public spirit, it is, therefore, a
refreshing item in the episodes of the year. Were
we bent on flattering the colonial characteristics,
what showers of adulation, what a deluge of eulogy
might be poured out in delineation of so commend-
able an exercise of patriotic Uberallty I If we ab-
stain from such puffs prudential, it is because
we reluctantly contrast the present spontaneous
generosity with the lack of it in Instances quite
as fitted to evoke it. When last year witnessed a
positive famine among the ranks of the unem-
ployed in this city—when sturdy Britons, in the
absence of facilities to earn a crust, had to beg the
charity of the State—when wretched men slept in
the Domain or in the streets because they could
not obtain the price of a bed by honest labour—
when hungry men broke windows that they might
be in a position to demand the hospitalities of the
gaol—when weary wights were sent to prison for
the crime of having neither means nor proba-
bilities of support—did any of our charitable
colonists demonstrate their benevolence by the
gift t of a thousand pence to the relief of their
starving [countrymen ? In sorrow, we admit the
defection. Public pride is more potent in the
phlebotomy of the purse than public benevolence.
The former extracts its pounds without a
sigh; the latter oft languishes for pence. The
distinction between the two is one of the cardinal
points of a Jingo all the world over. You may
prick his pride with the point of a pin, but you
cannot bestir bis benevolence with the bosom of a
broad-axe. No sooner does martial ardour enter
his breast than he religiously cuts off a slice of his
patrimony and presents it to the State. The same
sentiment is as strong in the “lords of the land " as
in *‘ the princes of the purse,” and as potent in the
commercial Crichton as in either. Hence the
gifts In kind as well as in coin—the donations to
our soldiers of hogsheads of rum and oases of
oofllns, stanzas of music and bars of soap. All this,
as it stands, is highly creditable, but it would be
more refreshing still did human benevolence ally
itself to national pride in the breasts of our pat-
rician philanthropists. Inordinate though the
generosity may be dubbed, yet is there not more
real charity in the conventional “cup of cold
water ” to those who sadly and sorely need it ?
No Evidence of Intent.
The actual net value of a human life differs in
different communities. Thus, while the civilised
centres atone for the murder of one man by the
hanging of another, the Exeter Hall doctrinaires
-assess the life of an irreligious South Sea trader at
a drove of hogs or a cartload of coooanuts. From
what transpired at Newcastle lately, It would seem
as If some ef the magistrates of that seaport swore
hard by the mawkish mania of the drivellers at
Exeter Rail. The master of a ship, receiving an
affront from some kindred soul, formed within
his breast a resolution to wipe out the Insult with
blood. Arming himself with a revolver, he pro*
ceeded In quest of his adversary, whom he per-
ceived leisurely Ashing on the wharf. Without
word of warning, the master discharged one or
two shots at the man, fortunately without any
further effect than to make the Ashes In the har-
bour Imagine themselves transported to the rlve r
Nile. To his horror, the Intending man-slayer
then discovered that he had been Arlng at
the Iwrong man, and, like an honourable man,
he apologised. When charged before the New-
castle Bench, the two unpaid justices who heard
the case discharged the accused, on the ground
that It was not shown he Intended to kill the
prosecutor when he Ared at him. Now, if this
decision does not outshallow good old Shallow,
what can ? If a man coolly discharges two barrels
of a revolver at your carcase, you can hardly In-
fer that he wants to confer a personal beneAt
upon you. It Is safer to bet that he wants to
bury you rather than marry you. But the Bench
evidently think apologies are antidotes to at-
tempted assassinations—though why they did not
make the prosecutor apologise to the defendant
needs some little explanation. If one of these sen-
timental shreds of jurisprudence found a howitzer
at bis oar, and an act! ve operator at the touch-hole,
would he doubt the latter’s Intention, or would he
pine for proof 1 Of a truth, some men are too
sceptical. If they bad evidence that an accused
lodged a bullet In a blind man’s brain, they would
probably dismiss the case if the blind man was
unable to swear he saw the trigger pulled.
“ This Russian Government has despatched 30,000
troops to the country In Asia Minor, southward of
the Caspian Sea. It is believed that Russia and
France have agreed to divide Asia Minor and
Syria.” Such was the telegram that reached us
some days ago, and upon which no comment has
so far been made by any of our Journals. But no
such momentous news has come to us since the
wire told how British Ironclads and Russian
cavalry were converging on Constantinople. For,
it will be remembered, that It Is over this very
Asia Minor and Syrla-or Turkey In Asla-that we
have a sort of Indefinite protectorate, dating
some six or seven years back.Jwhen >o secured
Cyprus. Disraeli engaged to defend it in
the interests of Turkey, and that engagement
still holds. But against Russia and Franco we
are powerless to defend It. Combined, they
are as strong as we at sea, while any land forces
we could send against them would scarcely make
a decent mouthful. But is the news true, and, if
so, has it any connection with Mr. Gladstone’s
inexplicable conduct in hastily summoning a
Cabinet meeting, ordering the Channel fleet to
prepare for sea, and embodying the militia ? And
this suggests that Mr. Dalley’s precipitancy may
have induced him to venture into a pit without
having well considered how to get out of it. If
European complications arise we are committed,
la a measure, to join them. It would never do to
withdraw our men—on the contrary, the force
would have to be quadrupled. It would never do
to have It thrown In our faces, ‘‘You Joined us
against a naked fanatic when we didn’t want you -
When we do, you slink away.” Thus It Is possible
that. In pursuit of the Wlll-'o-the-wisp of ” lmpe-
rial consolidation,” Mr. Dallby has begun a pol?cv
, which may mean the loss of thousands of lives and
loillignsof twssure to w*j e g, * } - 0
In St • Andrews’ Cathedral, on jBunday. there will
be a ■). ’ecial service to Intercede with God for the
safety t * the N. 8. Wales troops ■proceeding to the
Soudan. The Primate, Dr. Bari it, Is oast for the
leading p trt, and as he has had a good deal of ex-
perience in’ these matters, and k nows the manner
in which th e First Cause should be at tproaohed,
his engagement has given wide~sprea<l satisfac-
tion. The Int ended service is chfefly idne to the
fact that no ole rgymen are allowed to a ooompany
the troops. There was too great a di versity of
religious belief amongst them, so that unless a
clergyman could be sent with each pri vate, two
for each sergeant, and so on, little . real good
could be looked for. It is to make up fa r this that
Sunday’s service is intended. Dr. Baju it thinks
that one powerful intercession by ti he whole
strength of the company might last our s aon, at all
events, as far as Souakim, when they could be
taken In band by the Imperial chaplt .ins, who
would pn* them safely through. But wh at an odd
idea of the most elementary truths h mght by
Christ must those learned doctors hav e who so
blasphemously appeal to the Great Arc hltect of
the Universe to extend His) protection o' ver those
who go to lay waste a country—as of old He mad®
the sun stand still to enable a barbarot is race to
murder a few thousand extra of a rao< > equally
barbarous ? There is nothing so Iner pressibly
mournful as this dull persistence of pre sumedly
learned men in tbetr p uny efforts to humb ug God 1
One would think that the Englishman alone was
the only person formed In God’s image—the only
one to whom His protection can be justly ex-
tended.
WARI
Has Peace, then, come ?
The bright fulfilment of prophetic song,
The prelude to the over throw of wrong ;
Or do the dumb
Red stains that rest on naked swords
Withdraw the virtue from the Gospel
words —
Peace, Peace, on eatrth !
That fell on peasant ears at the Messiah’s
birth ?
The battle’s flood
Still whelms in ruin many a hapless land—
On verdant slopes, from near to farther
strand.
The sprinkled blood
Of thousands sinks unheeded in the sod,
While clenched hands invoke the curse of
God.
Peace I!Peace hath fled.
And giant War grinds down the children’s
lives for bread.
Through tinted glass
We watch the sun in process of eclipse,
And, as he stands with shadow on his lips,
Away we pass,
And dream that earth has features full aa
fair—
But clouds of battle in the darkling air
Create a shade
In which her glories into deepest darkness
fade.
We look at war
As at a picture, and we change to rose
The hue of blood; the horrid clash of foes,
Heard from afar.
Strikes as heroic music on our ears ;
The groans of strife are heard not for the
cheers:
In battle cloud
We see a stormy grandeur—not a soldier’s
shroud.
It matters not
That foes are often cruel as the beast,
And rush to war as to a relished feast;
On us the blot
Bests darkly; that our actions and our
creeds
Are not consistent—every wound that
bleeds
Is evidence
That in our vaunted love for man is much
pretence.
Opinions strange
Find strange exponents: in the mildest
heart
Strange passions into wildest action start;
Desire of change
Or mad adventure calmest minds may
sway;
While careful, careless thousands kneel
and pray,
Each Sabbath morn.
For Peace—such peace as in their hearts was
never born.
Is there no hand
To stretch forth o’er the troubled sea of
life?
No voice to quell the tumult and the strife
With high command ?
Is there no spirit of Divine control,
To banish hate from every human soul ?
Nay! all is vain,
And all the world throbs on beneath the
curse of Cain I
Rise! Sons of men!
Say not, like sluggards, that ye will not
jet;
Can ye not see, in battle’s bloody sweat.
What tongue nor pen
Could teach you ?—for the world’s a book
Wherein, if men with naked eyes would
look.
They soon could read
A tale to teach them that tliey hav6 been
blind indeed.
J. W. BRAMD.
Sydney, February 5J4,
"El Mahdi to the Australian Troops.
And therefore have they oome, this war*
like band,
That o’er the ocean many a weary day
Have tossed; and now beside Suakim’s Bay
With faces stern and resolute, do stand
Waking the desert’s echoes with the drum—
Men of Australia, wherefore have ye come?
To keep the Puppet Khedive on his throne
To strike a blow for tyranny and wrong, ’
To crush the weak and aid the oppressing
strong I "" *
Regardless of the hapless Fellah’s moan
To force the payment of the Hebrew loan
Squeezing the tax like blood from out t’h«
stone?
And fair Australia, freest of the free,
Is up in arms against the freeman’s fight;
And with her mother joined to crush the
right— -<■
Has left her threatened treasures o’er the
sea,
Has left her land ef liberty and law
To flesh her maiden sword in this unholy
war.
Enough 1 God never blessed such enter-
prise—
England’s degenerate Generals yet shall rue
Brave Gordon sacrificed, when soon they
view J
The children of a thousand desert’s rise
To drive them forth like sand before the
gale—
God and the Prophet I Freedom will prevail.
EL MANDI.


BRIEF MENTION.
“ What! you going to the Soudan 1 ” cried
one reporter to another; “ what for ?” “ To eat,”
was the gloomy reply.
Another insult. “ Here’s the Ev’nin’
News; want to see it?” “No, thanks. Just got
yesterday’s Melbourne Age."
Our troops are to embark on the 3rd
March. It is proposed to observe the day as —
one of humiliation and prayer.
“Eyes ’ight! ” cried the drill sergeant to a
squad of volunteer warriors. “No, they ain’t,”
cried one recruit; “they’se brown.”
First exclamation of Lord Wolsely when
the Iberia is sighted with the contingent: “Holy
Moses! Who are all these firemen ?”
Billy Hogan, a Parramatta larrikin, after
getting 13 lashes, said he could take another dozen.
What a hurry some people are in to be sure.
Evening News telegramArabi Bey is
reported to be exiled. £Thls appeared in the
second edition of the paper on February 37th, 1883.
—Ed. E. N,]
“ What grounds have you for complaint ?”
asked the proprietor of a 6d. restaurant of excited
diner. “Those of your d —- coffee,” was the
furious reply.
A man named Augoit ran away from his
■wife, at Mudgee. directly after the wedding cere-
mony. It was the first time he had seen her foot
in a satin shoe.
On what day in the week are we most
musical in this office? Saturday, of course. Be-
cause It is on that day that we are all fingering the
loot. Funny, Isn’t it.
If the woman who shot O’Donovan Rossa
turns out to be mad (which they say she is) It
would be advisable to consider the expediency of
setting all Bedlam loose.
In sinking a Sandhurst mine, throe
petrified oysters were recently found at a depth
of 750 feet. The body of the fourth Supreme
Court juryman is still missing.
It is stated by the Catholics that the state
ment made by “(CathoUcus ” in the Vespehnai.
Frank, that the Celtic Club was bought out of
Land League money, won't Walshe.
“ One of the benefits of the expedition will
be the practical experience which will be obtained
by the men who will be engaged in it.”—RUM-
Yes—in digging graves and filling ’em.
“Will you join me in anything?” said a
well-known M.P. to a member of the Him staff.
“ Certainly,” be replied: “we’d better go in here—
it’s three courses and a small beer for 9d."
Nothing like living in a free country! The
only gentleman who had the courage, at the meet-
ing on Friday, to rise and to move an Important
amendment, was “ biffed out on his head.” ]
“I am advised of a letter for me,” said a
flippant young gentleman, to a delivery clerk at
the P.O. “ I know I shan’t get the pound that was
in it, but kindly give me the remains of the enve-
lope.” 1 J
He plunged headlong into the hamshop.
“Here is gold,” he cried in hollow tones; “for
God’s sake give me a sausage-roll.” He had just
been “entertained by his Grace the Duke of Man-
shecter.”
At the Buffaloes’ gathering on Saturday,
Brother Webb said he wanted badly to go to ;the
Soudan with his corps as a body. He needn’t
fret; he’s pretty sure to come back with his body
88 a “corps.” oirr -uiih - TeH I 1
“So you think you would do for one of
the bush cavalry ?” said Col. Richardson musingly,
to an applicant with a fixed eye and two odd boots.
“Yes, sir," was the eager reply—“I can boil the
<WIt s <«n yearn" i v( ■'4 olrfatmoBnl no njoriw
We learn from the Rum that “ A woman
named Henrietta Neiff escaped from the Walgott
police on 1’huisday night while travelling in cus-
tody on the coach to Narrabri from Walgett.”
Well; we are all human.
Flannel cholera belts are to be worn by
“ our troops ’ in Egypt. There’s not enough flan-
nel in Australia to provide belts for the cut-
throats Alfred was willing to lead to glory if .he
ever laid down the pen.
“So you’re going to the Soudan with the
army,” said a well-known carrier, meeting a
former clerk; “ well, I suppose they’ll see you in
the van.” “No van for me,” replied the clerk,
Ida deuced sight sooner walk.”
“What’s the Mahdi, Jim?” said one re-
cruit to another, over a martial quart. “Oh,
well,” rejoined the other—“something like the
ahah o’ Proosia—’oepting this»oce rides about all
on a oamel in a woman’s nightgown.”
Little things pbmse little minds. Says a
Queensland exchange:-” A new at one of
® Maryborough hotelslmpunts a huge Improver,
ana all the mashers go there to see the thing
wobble.” (Query—Is this a little thing after all f) )
The unexpected (are you listening, Dai-
ley?) In politics always turns up. Witness the
aooentauce of the New South Wales offer. Come
on, W. B, D. Did you think the bait would take ?
Trust us, mr,n ami, you’ve been had, you really
have.
A solicitor recently told a bankruptcy
judge that “if he would doff his wig, and put a
dishcloth round his head, he would be in his proper
position as a waiter.” We suppose that in Sydney
this would be almost considered contempt of
Court.
We notice that several Sydney religious
papers try to make capital out of the alleged fact
that an American sawyer has been “struck dumb
while swearing.” We have heard of at least six
good clergymen who have dropped down dead
while preaching.
The Prince of Wales, at the Sandringham
spree on bis son’s coming of age, said, “ 1 have
always followed the example of my father and
mother." What we wonder now is to whose wife
his late dad wrote about 70 letters, all signed
Albert Saveloy ?
When Cyrus was fined 40 “bob” for travel-
ling without a ticket, he lifted his eyes piously up
to the heavens, and exclaimed—’’ What is clutched
by Belial will be repaid by the Lord.” Up to going
to press, however, Cyrus was still, we understand,
a couple of quid to the bad.
“Hasn’tshe sent home my pants?” inquired
one of Frank’s “ crickets,” ruefully of his room-
mate. “ No—and Its awkward, too—the flower-
show and—.” “ Well, leave the waistcoat, any-
way,” retorted the other, testily; “I must have
something to go about In.”
The Herald tells it“ The Rev. Professor
Gavan, of Magee College. Londonderry, was
choked to death by his Christmas luncheon, and a
similar fate overtook a labourer In Buoklnham-
shire.” Well, If labourers will try to imitate their
betters, what can they expect ?
A doctor recently read a paper before the
London Medical Society, relating the experience
as to alcohol of over 300 professional vocalists. We
know one or two professional vocalists whose ex-
periences as to alcohol couldn’t be got Into a
doub e number of the S.M. Herald.
On Monday night a meeting of the citizens
of Prahran (Vie.) was held at the local town hall
for the purpose of expressing regret for the death
of General Gordon. Resolutions to that effect
were carried unanimously. General Gordon will
now of course “reconsider his position,” and
come to life again.
Mr. Aaron Isaac Moses Lazarus, on going
to the County Court on a Saturday to draw out
some money that an unfortunate debtor of his
qhad paid in, being chaffed by, the County Court
official for working on his Sabbath, retorted,
Vell, this is not vork, It Is pleasure.”
“What will Europe think of us?” yells a
patriot In the Nooze. If Europe thought about
us at all, this la probably the shape Its thoughts
would take:—“Let It be recorded that the ttrst
military expedition of Now South Wales was to
crush a people—with whom it had no quarrel—
who aspired to be free.”
Looking at the number of “feet” in Mr.
Jordan's verse, it is but fair to conclude that the
gloved one, at one period of his existence, has
swallowed a centipede. And all that the martial
situation requires, now, to make It perfect, this
reminds us, is an “Ode” by Lewis Scott, and a
letter from “ Timothy Fogarty.”
The most remarkable thing in connexion
with our first warlike effort is the number of men
who are anxious to leave their wives and families
to the public care while they guard navvies
(Gods!) in the Soudan. “Can we give a reason,”
did you say ? We might, if we saw the men; we're
sure we could if wo saw the wives.
The Scriptural story is that Jacob served
Laban as a sort of station-overseer for seven years
in order that he might have the felicity of yolk-
lug on Laban’s youngest daughter, Raouel. That
was soft on the part of Jake. He should have
taken the ooaohmaa's billet, aad then the loving
pair would have eachred the old man before the
first month was over.
Startled traveller, just arrived there:
“Not a bottle of soda-water in all Windsor, waiter.
Why, what’s the reason of that?” “Don't you
know, sir,” replied the waiter, in a low tone of
voice, “that Her Majesty is temporarily indis-
posed? Thunder I” cried the traveller, “then
it’s no use my calling for dark brandy. Good-
bye. And ho was gone.
At Wolseley’s head-quarters, the British
soldiers are said to be jubilant over the approach-
ing arrival of colonial troops. No wonder. What
a wind-fall it. wiil be to the 18th Royal Irish and
the 4Snd Highlanders to be relieved of convoy
duty and camped with men having over two shil-
lings a day to spend. Ciel! How the canteens
will palpitate with patriotism I
There will shortly be held an international
Christo-Jewlsh_ Conference, consisting of 35 real
Hebrews and 35 alleged Christians, representative
of various countries. We are deeply Interested In
this corrobboree, By the time It finishes, each
Jew will be able to walk away with a pro. note for
£ ou £ ? w Ure ?', be * r ! n a 1400 per shent interest,
backed by at least six Rood Christian names.
“ A Leichhardt alderman said at the meet-
ing of the Council last night that three persons la
that suburb read the Evening News to one who 1
reads any other newspaper.” yes; but he forgot
to add that as the circulation of the Nooza goes
up so do the statistics of the criminal and insane.
Three-fourths of the patients in Gladesville were
regular subscribers to that excellent journal.
From the Rum:—“A mau named Thomas
Palmer, who was committed for trial on Monday
at Geelong for committing a capital crime on his
daughter, aged 13, was brought before the court
again yesterday, aud committed for trial on a
charge of Indecently assaulting his other two
daughters, aged 8 and 11.” And yet C. T. Studd,
the cricketer, has gone out to convert the—
Chinese.
“ Whell, can ye pay yer rent this mar-
nln’?” enquired the gentle landlady of a lot of
South Sydney rookeries a few days ago. “I’m
afraid not," faltered the poverty-stricken party la
arrear. “ My husband’s in the lock-up, an’
“That'll do,” roared the “ proputty ’’-holding
dame;” “now, ye’ll clare out av this to-night, or
I’ll get me loyur t’ sarve ye wld an injection In th’
maruin’. D’ye molnd that now.”
“Yes,” said Brown, as he hobbled homo on
Friday night from the meeting, coughing out
teeth as he wont; “I’ve been up in a balloon,
down in a diving-bell, marooned In Terra del
Fuego, and a fortnight on a raft in the doldrums,
but If ever I move another amendment at a public
meeting in Sydney, I hope my two shm bones'll
turn into fifes t.i play my soul to —well, what I
meant to say was, ‘Blast the Mahdi!’”
From the Wollongong Argus on Mrs. E.
M. E. Browne:—“She pointed nut that certain
sections of the people took credit to themselves
for being moderate drinkers, and never Indulging
to excess. This she pointed out as being a delusion,
and a state of false security, as It was Impossible
to point out," & o. What we “point out’ r to the
proprietor of this splendid publication Is the stern
necessity on his part of laying on another worn*
bat.
Put the responsibility on the Rum. It said
It. “ Yesterday there was an exhibition of honest
sound pluck that showed In the flushed cheeks
that the New South Welshmen were up In arms
and ready t« face any enemy.” .The only enemies
we saw them face that day were the bar at the
Britannia Hotel (opposite the Barrack gate) up to
7 o’clock; and from that till midnight,(every lamp-
post and letter-box from Paddington to Elizabeth-
street.
He called on us with a very heavy roll of
M.8. “ What’s this 7 ” we naturally enquired,
“ It’s a serial story,” said the visitor, in a nollow
voice. “ What do you want for it ? ’* we enquired.
“Something to eat,” he responded. “Why, we
thought that Frank .” “ Oh, yes,” replied the
story-writing shadow, “he’ll give something to
eat, but you don't get enough of It.” He got a
square meal, and at present the dog is “devour-
ing ” the story.
There was a carter blocking up the passage
from Macquarie-place to our office. “ You’d better
get away out of this quick, my man,” wo said, as
we squeezed through the spokes of Ida second
wheel. “When, sir?” ho asked, wonderingly.
“ Oh, be as quick us you can, for we shall soon
want the whole lane,” we replied. We shall
remember until the army departs the dazed and
despairing look. He was thinking how soon his
“ occupation would bo gone.”
News from the front (Circular Quay}:—
“ Mr. M’Mabon, of the bonded stores. Circular
Quay, has forwarded a hogshead of the best rum.”
—Evening Paper.
“ What shall I send our warrtors bold ?”
M’Mahon said, and then looked glum;
While down bis nose the big tears rolled,
Till, jumping up, he shrieked out, “ Holdl
I’ll send, by Jovel a cask of rum.”
The Vespebnal One reports:—“A cer-
tain Mr. Hose (at the School of Arts Debating Club)
was called on to move a resolution to the effect
that a check to increase the population would be a
benefit to humanity.” We know, of course, there
Is a deep, esoteric meaning in it. Anything to
increase the population would be welcome—even
if ’twere “a check.” The worst of it is the pro-
prietors of the Vespeunal are bent on diminish-
ing the population by 100 able-bodied men—and
this also by a cheque.
With Bibles fetching nearly £5000, quite a
fresh reading is thrown on the little hymn we
used to sing in our more or less innocent boy-
hood’*days:—
“ Holy Bible, book divine,
Precious treasure, thou art mine.”
We have it from London that some days
after his historical banquet, when Hennlker called
round on Lord Grosvenor, he was promptly shown
in—to the pantry.
The police at Summer Hill are complain-
ing that there is no watch-house there, so that
when prisoners are arrested after the laqt train the
traps” have t<? walk with to Newtown.
Yes—It Is a little bard on the force, but what
about the prisoners ? The last time wo were “ run
la” ’twas from Summer Hill. The remembrance
of that sombre march, and the brutal taciturnity
of our attendant to the most absorbing questions.
Is still fresh upon us. Something must be done
for the “ suspects,” If ’twas only a wheel-barrow.
Very naturally, bustles are causing quite
a commotion in the alligator land. From one
Northern exchange we learn that a lady descend-
ing from the top of a ’bus, a few Sundays ago, was
suspended by her rear outwork*, and tor a time,
of course, all business was suspended In her vicinity
a :! 0, . The Maryborough Chronicle (Q.), draws
attention to the fact that a new barmaid at one of
the boss hotels has just mounted a double-bar-
relled, baok-aotlon, compensation-balance bustle,
and all the local mashers roll up in gangs to see it
wobble.
A Rum reporter recently heard that a
Sydney publican had a sparrow who used to hop
out of his cage every morning, and get blind
drunk, before breakfast, on whisky, and what
through nipping all day, becimo perfectly satur-
ated in aloonol. “ Would you like to have that
soarrow ?” asked a friend, casually, of the man of
letters. “No,” replied the art produce critic;
“ but I should like to eat him." Then, as an after
thought—“ Well boiled down, with a few raisins
thrown Into the billy, wouldn't he makean elegant
snap-dragon 1”
Thus a Melbourne paper:—“As indicating
an advance of liberality in Scotland, It is worthy
of notice that the * Messiah ’ was performed In
St. Giles’ Church, Edinburgh, a few evenings
before Christmas, when a full string orchestra, in
additlen to the organ, was employed.” Well, what
If It was? We’ve heard the Salvation Harmy play
the “Wearing of the Green" through the boule-
varde de Woolloomoolon on a brace of tambourines,
accompanied by an aathmatlcal ooruot a"d a jows-
harp. And some of the “ bhoys ” showed their
liberality with decayed tomatoes, too.
“Several £5 notes were passed,” says the
Rivorina Star, “ la Cobar. on Saturday last, on
the Bank of Australasia. They bore the number
31520. They were passed by a stranger, who it is
supposed was disguised. No trace or the offender
has yet been obtained.” What terrors these wild
western communities are. In Sydney, a mau who
, has a £5 note to spend, can do so with a certain de-
§reo of Impunity, and can generally dispense with
Isgulse. Now, take ourselves, for Instance ; wo
are never disguised until we have cashed the note,
and then wo are only disguised in liquor.
When the 42nd Highlanders (Black Watch)
arrived at Korti, on the Nile, there was “ hardly a
sound garment In the whole column, which re-
sembles Falstaff’s ragged regiment rather than a
body of British troops. The tartan trews of the
Black Watch have been patched with old sacks,
with native cloth from the bazaars, and even por-
tions of biscuit tins have been sewn on to the
trousers to repair the wear and tear made by row-
ing/’ We are glad to see that the possibility of
our gallant defenders being effectually assailed by
the Mahdi with kicks on the rear has thus been
thoroughly obviated.
Here’s a tale they tell of the gentle John
from the Upper Hunter. During his recent visit
to the Modern Babylon, he fell in with some of the
rulers of the “ Queen’s Navee ” at home, and
amongst other chat one of the sea-dogs observed *
“ Tell me this, Mr. M'Elhone. In case the Aus-
tralian Squadron was attacked by a hostile power,
do you candidly believe it could hold its own ?”
“Hold its ownl” exclaimed John with supremo
contempt; “why the biubby thing isn’t even lit
enough to run away." And yet this man calls
himself a patriot, and wants to go to Khartoum
and eat the Mahdi raw.
Scene; Private parlour in a bang-up
Sydney hotel. Squatter from the back Baroooand
a eouple of friends are actively engaged in “paint-
ing the city red" when waiter enters, and the
shepherd king calls out: “ Here, Mister Public-
house—lesh have two bottles Lou’ Roederer
‘fizz.’” Ingenuous Walter; “ Yessir—real Roe-
derer, or the imitation1" The Imitation, wo be-
lieve, costs about 43s. a dozen here, and this is the
kind of game that enables the poor, but respecta-
ble publican, to keep the wolf from the door, and
comply with the bulk of the clauses of the Licens-
ing Act which refer to Sunday closing.
Gordon planted missionaries at Lake Uke-
rewe, in Africa, right lh the middle of as choice an
assortment of pirates as ever scuttled ship on the
Spanish Main. Still, they did very well till the
Homan Catholics, hearing of their success, sent
preachers there also. These it la said, started by
telling the king that, whatever show his people
had of salvation while they worshipped Mumbo-
jumbo. as Methodists they had none at all—only
one Wesleyan having ever succeeded in getting
more than a peep into Heaven, and that only when
Peter was busy in the lodge with a straight flush.
Sowber, the African monarch, saw how the Chrls-
i tians loved each other—he Interviewed them one
morning with hippopotamus-hide whips—told
them to agree among themselves or go. It was a
cruel dilemma. Agreement was, of course, out of
the question, so they “ got.’’ And now there are
no jollier cannibals in the world than those natives
round Lake Ukerewe, although their views on
Purgatory are by no means clear, and they laugh
gerlslyely at the mention of bell.
The N,S.Sp Co.’s New Steamer, The Newcastle a —See page 13.


Personal Items
Never before in the course of English his-
tory has an eldest son of the Prince of Wales at-
tained his majority while his father was still Heir
Apparent.
Dion Roucioault has a brother in Australia
who spells his name “ Bourcicault.” Dion, we
read, originally called himself “ Bourslquot,” and
he has now reverted to “ Bourcicault.”
Several persons have, wo see, recently
been lined for blasting—but the ancient biastlng-
maohlne at Watson's Bay appears to have escaped
the notice of the authorities. Perhaps, however,
it is outside the metropolitan blasting radius.
Anyhow, It Still blasts.
General Lewal, the new French Minister
of War, until last Autumn had the reputation'of
being altheorlst. Last year’s manoeuvres, however,
showed that he admirably cd r bined theory with
practice, and both foreign and French olllcers were
struck by the energy and precision of his move-
ments and the rapidity of his concentration. j
The memory of the German Emperor is
falling, and, what is even more inconvenient, so
are his limbs. He is liable at any moment sud-
denly to fall to the ground, which, apart from the
possibility of his seriously injuring himself, in-
flicts a constant terror on his mind. He is, in
truth, now in his 89th year, and his hitherto mar-
vellous strength of body and mind cannot be much
longer maintained.
Some men are always In luck. Just look
at this Chapman, for Instance—the news comes to
ns in a Herald telegram—who was to be married
in a fortnight, and had saved up £40 in notes for
the sacrifice. His house was broken into, and his
wealth taken. No doubt, the match will be
broken off. O. will probably take to drink or start
for the Soudan (the same thing), and to bis dying
day will load with curses the man whom he should
have festooned with blessings.
The Queen has been most generously care-
ful of her poor German connections. There is
Count Gleichen, for example. A painter and a
sculptor, he has a studio at St. James’ Palace, and,
In one capacity or another, enjoys from the
country or the Civil List, a sum of £1800 a year
Prince Leinlngen, as we have goad reason to know,
occupies a conspicuous post in the navy. Prince
Edward, of Saxe-Weimar, has for years held an
appointment worth £3300 annually, and has lived
in a house built for his use by a grateful country.
The list.might be almost Indefinitely extended.
The Princess Louise is unwilling that Lord
Lome should come to N.8. Wales, D’you see in
England she can always keeps a country or so be-
tween them, while if he accepted the appointment,
she would be obliged to come, too. In that case
no doubt, while the noble Marquis was adminis-
tering the Government in Sydney, the Princess
would be residing in a palace at—Tenterfleld.
Talking of the Marquis, it is reported that when
he had been a Benedict about a year, his brother
Archie said: “How do you like being married,
Lome ?” “ I hardly know,” was the grim reply.
“Mr. Yates has not all the amiable
geniality of Mr. James Payn, whose ‘ Literary Re-
collections ’ we recently reviewed. He, indeed,
has not all of Mr. Payn r s humour.” This is what
the Australasian says. But, then, you see,
James Payn writes “London Town Talk ” for the
Arqub, and goes into hysterics whenever a starv-
ing Irishman insinuates a pound of swan-shot
under the waistband of the landlord who—to
fatten deer—turns his wife and kids out to die in
the snow. Under these circumstances, 'tls no
wonder that Yates does not possess Payn's humour.
Heighol
On 29th Deo., the 75th anniversary of Mr.
Gladstone’s birthday, the aged stateman walked to
and from church. He seemed as fresh and as hale
as at any period during the last four years, and
faced the biting easterly wind at 8 o’clock in the
morning with no other protection than that
afforded by a shawl loosely thrown over his
shoulders. The morning post brought Mr. Glad-
stone an unusually large pile of letters, in addition
to nearly 200 gifts of various kinds. He also re-
ceived an immense number of congratulatory
telegrams from all classes of persons, from the
Prince and Princess of vv ales to a workman en-
gaged In the railway-yard at Holyhead.
Mr. Eyelyn Douglas has published a book
of “ Poems, Lyrical and Dramatic,” which lead off
with a “ Hymn to Eros,” of which this is a verse;—
“ For thee the wild horse shakes his mane,
And snuffs the wind with back-laid ears,
Or over swelling waves of plain,
Spying the mares afar, careers;
For thee the lion roars all night,
The wolf about the sbeepfold prowls;
For thee fierce stags Join jealous fight.
And to the moon the wild dog bowls;
For thee and thine the squirrel stows
His winter hoard, Eros I Eros”
To make this stanza complete Mr. Douglas should
really have found room for an allusion to the
melodiously erotic cat.
The very oldest inhabitant in Australia,
bar none, is Mrs. Ann Msrgan, of Pltt-street. Red-
fern. This lady arrove with the “second fleet,”
in 1791, and may be said to have been a “ stow-
away,” in a certain sense, as her name was not
entered on the vessel’s books when the “fleet”
sailed. In point of fact, she was born on the voy-
age out. She owns up to 94 years to-day, and is
still hale, hearty, and a great-great-grandmother.
Her memory is still good enough to recall what
Sydney was like in the first decade of this century,
and all things considered, the old lady thinks she
sees signs of some improvement. Our street-
watering carts, however, remind her of childhood’s
happy days, and she recognises many old friends
in the venerable jokes of the “slashing” Brevity
sllnger of the Bvensnooze.
Vice-Admiral Courbet, who, in command
of the French fleet in China, has been filling a con-
siderable space in the eyes of the world of late, la
one of those products of the present age—a dis-
tinguished Admiral who had scarcely seen active
service in war until he bad achieved a high com-
mand. As the same is true of almost every one
of our own Admirals who is not too old for action,
we have no occasion to crow. During the last 38
years, which is the term of Admiral Courbet’s ser-
vice. there has not been one real naval war, nor a
single battle of fleets or of ships of any descrip-
tion, in which either England or France has been
concerned. The bombardment of Alexandria
doesn’t count os a serious engagement any more
than the bombardment of the frogs by the boy in
the fable. It was serious for the frogs, of course
but it was fun to the boy.
Mr. Healy, M.P., has been presented by
his Monaghan constituents with a thousand
pounds. The amount is a substantial one, con-
sidering the poverty of the subscribers, and the
presentation is interesting as an extension of the
system of payment of members. Probably no
member of the House of Commons has better
claim for payment by his constituents than the
member for Monaghan. The presentation recalls
two remarkable incidents in Mr. Healey's life. On
the day on which he took his seat in Parliament
he made his maiden speech ; and on the day on
which he was called to the Bar he appeared in
court with a brief. Probably this never happened
before to any member of Parliament and bar-
rister. Mr. Healy, from being an ordinary rail- I
way porter, rose to be private secretary to Mr
Parnell; then he was called to the Bar.
The Reverend Paton, in “showing cause,”
in the PALL Mall, against the annexation of the 1
New Hebrides by France, says:—“Mr. Hlggensen,
an Irishman, formed a French company in New
Caledonia, with a capital of £32,000 which was
avowedly subscribed within twelve hours of the
proposal, to colonize the New Hebrides with
Frenchmen, and to remove all the native popula-
tion to New Caledonia to work as slaves on their
plantations and in their mines while they live.’ ”
The holy one's artfully spiteful reference to “ Mr.
Hlggensen, an Irishman , is thoroughly In keep-
ing with ordinary missionary tactics. Mr. Paton
has missed the mark by over-stating his case. It
is utterly impossible that any proposal of a kind
Involving slavery could have been openly made
under the French flag. Mr. Higgensen will no
doubt settle accounts with his reverend traducer.
His name was Johnston, and, as he was
earning bis bread in accordance with the post-
Adamite curse on the Queen’s Wharf, Melbourne,
a boozer, who’d “ got ern bad,” essayed to seek re-
pose in the sweet-smelling waters of the Yarra,
whereupon without waiting for any ceremony,
Johnston plunged in alter him, and hauled him
out by the scruff of the neck. The suioider was
brought before Mr. Call, P.M., at the police court,
and Johnston attended to give his little version
of the story. When the magistrate, after mildly
lecturing the victim to snake-juice, and passing
him over for medical examination, said: “I think
something ought to be done for the rescuer,”
“ Excuse me, sir, but I won’t take anything; I
only want to get back to my work as soon as I
can,” replied Johnson. “ May I leave now ?”
“ Certainly,” said the P.M., taken slightly aback
as he complimented the wharf labourer on his
conduct; but before he had time to do so, John-
ston was on his way down Swanston-street to the
wharf, where he earned his “ bob” an hour heav-
ing coal and humping spuds. Uis record will take
a lot of beating.
The Times speaks of the eldest son of the
Prince of Wales as “ Prince Edward,” and so do
most of the other papers. The Standard is an
exception, and like the St. James’ Gazette, calls
the young man “ Prince Albert Victor.” “ A por-
tion of the public,” says the latter paper, a grovel-
ling organ of the extreme Tory order, and of very
limited circulation, “ seems resolved to disregard
the style by which It has pleased the Queen that
the eldest son of the Pripce of Wales should be
known. No doubt the feeling which makes many
persons like to speak of his Royal Highness as
‘Prince Edward * is a laudable one, springing as it
does from a proper pride In the historic glories of
the monarchy and the nation; still, it has always
appertained to the personal prerogative of the
Sovereign to determine such questions; and for
loyal subjects, the fact that ‘ Prince Albert Victor’
is the designation of her Majesty’s choice ought
surely to be sufficient. Nor should it be forgotten
that—whatever it may have been half a century
ago—Albert is now a common English name.
Ves, Albert is now a common name—among the
sons of pawnbrokers—and is usually associated
with such patronymics as Cohen, and Brown, and
Goldstein, and Smith.
John S. Phillips, until quite recently, held
the position of Postmaster at Walkerville (S.A.),
and John S. also held a commission (captlng, or
lieutenant, or something) in the local contingent
of the Salvation Harmy, thus, to a certain extent,
knocking the bottom out of the Scriptural text
which states that no man can serve two masters.
Mr. Phillips was equal to the task, anyhow, and his
earthly affairs were flourishing like the green bay
horse—or tree, maybe—until the myrmidons of a
tyrannical Government swooped down upon him
and carried him away into durance vile. John 8.,
though keeping one eye on “his title clear to
mansions in the sky,” kept the other pretty
well fixed oa the ready road to wealth in this
wicked world. Part of his duty to his coun-
try was to receive the accounts from the
youth of the district who devoted their spare
time to (he destruction of the sparrow pest,
and, having certified to the correctness of the
documents, to forward them to head quarters,
whence he got in return the wherewithal to liqui-
date them. As most of his customers in that line
were of the small boy persuasion, the enterprising
postmaster reckoned that ho would go in for some
of the “unearned increment.” So he got those
simple country youths to sign blank receipts for
the amounts paid under the Sparrow Destruction
Act, and then filled in the documents to suit his
own book, which, It is needless almost to mention,
were considerably over the sums that he paid to
the sparrow-hunters. And it is reasonable to sup-
pose that in the course of time, as he waxed in
years, he would grow proportionately wealthy,
had not hts little game been dropped upon.t So the
Adelaide Bench sent him up for trial, las week,
and the prayers ot the Harmy are requested on his
behalf. Hallelujah 1
When General Booth sent his bony be-
gotten son, Ballington, to the sin-ridden regions
of Australia, there were not wanting scoffers to
assert that the old veteran had some deep financial
Intent. The thought that Major Barker had ten
thousand pounds worth of property for the Board
gathered together In the abort space of ttyejyo
months, was said to have set holy water trickling
from the Gln’r’ls mouth, and awakened him to the
necessity of keeping 1 the “new find” strictly in
the family. The scoffers were right. It’s seldom
wo are able to endorse the opinions of this class
of people, but, just for this once, we really do
fancy that the Instinct of the lost ones was not at
fault. Bear with us one moment, while wejdefend
our heresy. Barker, a hard-working, bullet-
headed little child of light, was sent out to Vic-
toria some two years ago, on the “ off chance,”
and without any particular portable property,
save a wife and the inevitable grace of God.
This latter being an unpawnable item, it can’t
fairly be said that Booth’s emissary started his
Australian campaign with any exceptional advan-
tages in his favour. Quite the other way, in fact.
History tells us that Major Barker and his missus
made their debut in one of the Melbourne
suburbs, that they flopped down on their knees in
the falling rain and with scarcely one earthly
friend—not even an umbrella. [Think of thatl—
Ed. B.] But the coup came off. Within a year
the little Major had dropped hundreds into the
fountain, and sent home a balance-sheet which
testified qu>te as decisively to his own real smart-
ness as to the gullibility of his spiritual clients. In
return for all this, what did our old friend the
General then for him ? He sent out his son Bal. to
take charge of the bank-book (in God’s name), and
to offer poor Barker a free passage home again.
In our more reckless moments jwe have darkly
hinted at jobbery in connection with certain ap-
pointments in the British army, but, after this, we
retract our unkind remarks. Even with Gordon’s
unhappy fate before our eyes, wo should consider
it better biz. to enlist under the Union Jack than
the banner of the Loard.
“General” Booth wants to attain the
position of a Pope, combined with that of an
Anthony Hordern. The annual report of the
Harmy Indicates that his organization is still in
full vigour. The total receipts for the past year
have been considerably over £74.000, and besides
this the Army have had a spacious Congress Hall
at Brighton, worth £7000, given to them. In fact
so greatly have their halls and “ barracks ” multi-
plied, that we may hope, within a reasonable time,
to And them holding all their services under the
friendly shelter of their own roofs. If expenditure
is a sign of activity, the Salvationists are certainly
active almost beyond the bounds of prudence, for
they have managed, in one way or another, to run
through the whole £74,000, and have a balance of
only £448—barely two days’ expenditure—in hand,
while the treasurer is urgently demanding £30,000
In order “to maintain the work.” One paragraph
In the report will probably be the most in-
teresting to the public, and will certainly
attract the attention of tradesmen. The trading
transactions of the Army last year realised a net
profit of nearly £7000, and we read that the force
has added to its mercantile operations by the sale
of “musical instruments, watches specially de-
signed to remind the soldier of his God and his
duty, mottoes and other articles for home use, all
contrived with the same end in view; and now,
last of all, tea, and other things which cannot, ex-
cept by means of covers or marks, have so direct a
bearing on the propagation of the truth, but
which will at least answer another great purpose
which experience has taught us we may safely
aim at—the raising of funds by trade profits.” The
sale of musical instruments as a direct stimulus to
religion we can, from the Salvationist point of
view, understand; but scoffers might be inclined
to ask in what a watch “specially designed ” to
remind the soldier of his God and his duty,
differs from the ordinary products of Waltham,
Geneva, or Clerkenwell. Is there a new Salvation
escapement, or a combination of watch with
alarum ? General Booth tells his followers that
ths raising of funds by trade profits is a “ great
purpose,” which, he has been taught by experience,
is “safe.” We will not deny that the raising of
funds has. with him, always been a great purpose,
but that it is safe for a religious community to
combine trading with Evangelisation, is certainly
not the teaching of experience. Not to quote
ill-natured things said of some African and South
Sea missionaries in the present day, did General
Booth ever read the history of the eighteenth-
century Jesuits who tried the very experiment
which he thinks safe, with such scandalous results
that Prance was driven to expel them, and Popes
to disown them ? We doubt If he will succeed
better than they did in uniting the interests of
God and Mammon. When two men ride on a horse
one must ride behind, and in the case supposed
the Almighty is pretty sure to get relegated to the
back seat.
It happened this way. By means of ex-
periments ou rabbits and donkeys, Professor Per-
rier, of Paris, discovered how to locate any lesion
of the brain. Certain mental symptoms showed
themselves. At once he would diagnose the cause,
and put his thumb on the precise spot where the
injury, or whatever it was, might be looked for.
And now mark the result. A Bendigo (Sandhurst)
councillor, named Blayne, showed unmistakable
signs of mental aberration. Those signs were
many, and conclusive. He allowed, for instance,
tbe hired help pa lx §ome mustard a ppt in-
stead of preventing: waste by allowing: each »n Mt
to mix what he wanted for himself. No furth««
proof was required to show how serious!*
the mind was affected. So the two
bones, Hinchcliff and Boyd, were called in
“Jimmy” said ’twas water, and “Teddy” «
tumour. Both agreed an operation was neomC
sary. They told Blayne that such an onem
tion had never been performed before, that if
might cure, but was more likely to kill, and that if
was Professor Perrier’s discoveries that put it in
their heads to try it at all. Poor B. plucklly con
sented. “Life is getting: very dreary to me.” he
said, “ I find myself acquiring dissolute and extra!
vagant habits. The other day I paid sixpence for
a ride from Eaglehawk, when I.’might just as well
have walked (I must see if we can’t get threepenny
lares on that line.) Yes. I’ll stand the operation
provided you charge only half price if I recover’
and nothing if I die.” It took place. Hinchcliff
performed it, and at the exact spot where he said
it would be found, a tumour the size of an
ink-bottle was discovered. The neatness and
success of the operation were largely due
to some valuable suggestions made through
the press by Professor Fischer, a clever Baun-
pchiedist. Anyway, Mr. Blayne recovered
His intellect was never so bright before. His
friends all noticed the improvement. “ Bless me,”
said he, “ if I’d only had this job done when I got
that damaged coffee from Melbourne and sold it
to the diggers for prime Mocha, what a ‘pile’ I
could ’a cleared!” And now comes the really
strange part of the affair. You don’t suppose The
Bulletin would trouble itself about the skull of
a country alderman if there were nothing peculiar
in the ease. And this was the peculiarity: Passing
under a ladder that old Crowley had at the corner
of the Albion, poor Blayne came in contact with a
brick dropped from a hod by an Intelligent Celtic
patriot. Unfortunately, it missed his head, and
falling on his neck, killed him. There was an in-
quest. The cause of death was obvious. Still
Hinchcliff, partly in the interests of science and
partly through curiosity, would open the skull he
had opened once before. He did so, and then leant
against Tom O’Callaghan, the sergeant in charge
of the case, for support. The cause of poor
Blayne’s improvement since the operation was
apparent. Hinchcliff had scooped out the brain,
and left the tumour!
Most people have, doubtless, heard the
yarn about the bore who complained to Sydney
Smith that a certain person to whom he (the
bore) had been prosing about the Tropic of Can-
cer, had “ damned the Tropic of Cancer," and to
whom Smith replied, “Oh, that’s nothing. I’m
told ho doesn’t hesitate to speak disrespectfully of
theJEquator.” So with Reynold's Weekly. No*
content with giving a scornfully true history of
the Churchills, it has dared to give a true history
of the noble deeds which have distinguished the
family of our own Governor:—“ Lord Augustus
Loftus’ very name fills the popular soul with
something like awe. It sounds so like Tullus Su-
perbus, But for all that, the origin of this im-
posing patronymic is anything but aristocratic.
It is simply a corruption of Lofthouse—a planned
corruption—as fine an instance as we have of the
simple process by which a distinctly plebeian
name may be aristocratized. Malthus for Malt-
house is not nearly so happy, and Barnes for
Barn house is a decided failure. The virtue lies
in the loft. Loft is clearly akin to aloft—to some-
thing high, elevated, celestial;; and as for the us
it is redolent of antiquity in Loftus as in Augustus.
Why, indeed, should not the noble Marquis of
Ely be a lineal descendant of Caius Julius Caesar
himself ? It is well known that the groat man
visited these Islands before the Christian era. It
is also well known that be was much addicted to
gallantry. He had a son by the Egyptian Cleo-
patra. Why should he not have had another by a
British princess—say the daughter of Caaslvel-
launus, from whom the great house fof Loftus
is descended ? The College of Heralds had better
see to this at once. The founder of the family
was a certain Beverepd Adam Lofthouse, who
went to Ireland in the capacity of private chap-
lain to Viceroy the Earl of Sussex. This second
Adam must have fancied that he had recovered
in the sister isle the very Garden of Eden from
which the first Adam was expelled with such igno-
miny. He became successively Archbishop of
Armagh, Archbishop of Dublin, and la 1678 he at
tained to the dignity of Lord Chancellor of the
unhappy island. He had two sons, both of whom
were, of course, handsomely provided fer. The
elder. Sir Dudley Loftns (Lofthouse no more),
had a second son, a great slnecurlst and matri-
monial speculator, and he, in turn, had an equally
rapacious son, who became the first Viscount
Loftus. The Viscount’s son mounted the second
round of the aristocratic ladder. He was made
Earl ot Ely. At this stage the male Loftus line
became extinct. The Earl was succeeded by
Charles Tottenham, the issue of a Loftus lady.
This gentleman dropped the Tottenham patrony-
mic, and became a Loftus. He had more than the
Loftus knack of * getting on.’ He became succes-
sively baron, earl, and marquis. By the marqul-
sate hangs a tale. It w&s part of the price paid
to Loftus by the British Government for his
vote for the suppression of his country’s liberties
at the Act of Union. The other portion of the
‘compensation’ consisted of £46,000 down! The
best that can be said for the base miscreant is that
he was not worse than twenty other Irish peers
who were equally ready, for a suitable considera-
tion, to betray their country. Castlereagh got
through more than £1,500,000 of Secret Service
money. But how any human being could bear to
wear a title so won passes all comprehension. The
Scottish Montelths, almost to a man, had the grace
to change their name after the treason of their
kinsman, Sir John Monteith, to Sir William Wal-
lace. If the Loftuses had any sense of shame, or
any lingering love of country, they would do the
same. Of the marquis’s sons, the elder contrived
to become Postmaster-General of Ireland, Teller
of the Irish Exchequer, and Commissioner of the
Treasury. The younger was made Bishop of
Clogher—an excellent ecclesiastical plum, to which
was attached a trifling pendicle of 27,000 acres. He
had eight sons, all of whom he contrived to q uarter
on the State. The third marquis’s sons did like-
wise. They squeezed their way into the army, the
Church, and diplomacy. Great have been their
rewards, small their services.”
Mr, P. J. M‘Dermott, who lately lectured
, Henry George ” to a large audience in War-
wick (Q.), is a brilliant young Queenslander whom
Greeley Lukin, whilom editor of those journals.
discovered ” and brought to the front. Though
not much more than a boy in years, he has very
few equals in Bananaland as a Press-writer, public
speaker, and debater. He is good at everything
in the newspaper line-from a telling leading
article to a stinging political squib, and, in debate,
is a master of logic and possesses a fund of wit
and sarcasm which enables him to make merciless
sport of the dunces who are proof to argument.
His reading is something prodigious, as he is ac-
quainted with almost every English classic, and
being gifted with a phenomenal memory which
has never known a day’s illness, he can flood with
whole chapters of books the unhappy wight
whom an inscrutable Providence has delivered
into his hands. Some time ago, “ on one fine morn
in clear December,” he dropped into a little one-
horse township and paid a visit to the office of the
local Thunderer, whose leading contributors
were the poundkeeper, the barber, and the bell-
man s lovely daughter, fresh from Soubiaka. The
proprietor of the concern—who had just printed
one side of his weekly issue, and was “distribut-
ion the type for the other side—was in an agony
of despair. The genius who had combined in his own
person the gorgeous and multifarious duties of
editor, reporter, canvasser, book-keeper, collector,
and runner, had suicided in the local lock-up, the
Oxford graduate who was appointed his successor
had not arrived, and 27 of the 39 subscribers had
threatened to stop the paper” unless a special
Christmas number was forthcoming. NowT Mao
has a kind and generous heart, and was filled with
pity at the harrowing tale of the unfortunate
printer, so, arming himself with a quart of ink. a
bundle of quills, and a ream of foolscap, he took
possession of the editorial room for a week. On
Christmas E ve the paper appeared with a polished
leader on what the writer called “ the greatest of
Christian festivals, a Christmas Carol ” by Henrv
Kendr a “ Prose Idyll» by Marcus
v stor £ hy Wafter Swan, a Christmas story
hy an acting charade by Garnet Walch,
CONTEMPTIBLE !
SHE: “WOULDN’T IT BE SIMPLY AWFUL, COUSIN TOM, IP YOU SHOULD TUMBLE
OVERBOARD?”
BULKY ADMIRER ( delighted, but greedy for more); “OP COURSE IT WOULD; BUT, ER,
ER, WHY, NOW?”
SHE: “OH, I WAS THINKING OF THE DISTRESS THBRE’D BE WHEN THE SPLASH
BEACHED SHORE!”


Kew York letter, a Paris letter, a London letter,
o fairy tale (written specially for the young readers
nf tee Greenhlde Gully Sentinel) by Lewis Car-
rnll and “Fashions for January,” cribbed, we
orie’ve to say, from an ancient number of the
rtirzEN. As the paper did not circulate beyond the
nearest wire fence, the authors imitated never
lAfirned the use to which their names had
hpen put* But, though Mr. M'Dermott does
a number of things admirably, there is one
thine he does execrably. He was not long
in finding out that, In the bush, ;phllosophy,
noetry, rhetoric, and brilliant conversational
powers have to take a back seat when an addle-
nated idiot makes the acquaintance of a time-pay-
ment piano, and, with its assistance, starts to solve
tee conundrum: “ Why do summer roses fade?”
a,, having purchased a life of Handel, a photo, of
<4ims Reeves, an unpaid liquor bill of Ylnosnt
Wallace’s, and the 47th number of the Australian
Melodist, he started to learn music, and with
such success, that in a week he knew a sharp from
s flat, and In a month had tota ly discontinued the
practice of applauding, under the impression that
fi wflS the overture, at tee opera, when the or-
chestra bad flnisht d tuning their instruments. In
a vsar he grew bold enough to take part at tho
Dingo Crook Church concert, and (the bullock-
flrlver’s beautiful and accomplished daughter pre-
siding at the piano), told the footlights to ting the
* Blue Alsatian Mountains,” inadvertently holding
the music sheet upside down. He had hardlyreached
tho fourth bar before the whole audience engaged
in a ** go-as-you-please ” race for the door, and
since that eventful night he has given the “ divine
art” best, and now when asked to sing at an even-
ing party, excuses himself on the plea that he has
forgotten to bring hla piano with him, or his music
has been sent to the booksellers to be bound. But,
notwithstanding his little misadventures in the
musical line, be is as manly and true-hearted a
young fellow as ever breathed, and we are con-
siderably at fault In our estimate of character If
he be not destined to play a great part In the
Queensland politics of the future.
* • ♦
Lord Bute has caused some excitement in
r C circles by subscribing to the funds of the
Wycliffe Society for the publication of Wycliffe’s
writings In English.. .At the funeral of the mother
of Louise Michel (Louise herself is now alleged to
be insane) Henri Rochefort walked behind the
hearse as chief mourner, leaning on the stick pre-
sented to him In Sydney by David Buchanan.
Behind him was a group of anachists, bearing a
huge red cap. A Phrygian cap surmounted a flag-
staff.
Political Points
Among the knowing ones, the betting is
even whether the English Blue-book or the Ger-
man White one will contain the most—mis-state-
ments (we prefer the word).
The New Zealand Minister for Justice is
about to appoint official shorthand writers to the
higher Coart of Justice. That is very well, and
the example might be followed in New South
Wales, but what Is wanted most of all is an official
to teach J.’sP. justice.
Agent-General to British War Office:
"Wo offer two batteries, <&c.” War Office to
Agent-General: “ Declined — we mean one bat-
tery accepted with thanks.” But what the War
Office people saldjto themselves was: “ We don’t
want a lot of confounded amateur soldiers.”
Some Queensland people want triennial
Parliaments in order to test the continued popu-
larity of members and Ministers when they pre-
sent themselves for re-election, also as an efficient
check Imposed upon the Parliamantary conduct of
the one, and the consistent conduct of the other.
A. G. Taylor’s “ Iron Hand” lecture has
" knocked ’em” atJMorpetb. Amongst other things
he said the metropolitan .Press was corrupt and
biassed, but the country Press was singularly fair
and Impartial. No wonder, after this, that the
Morpeth lollie boy gave him four columns all to
himself.
They gave A. G. Taylor a lunch at Mor-
peth, and the local Pooonoski says the table
groaned beneath cold fowls, bottled liquors, and
other fruits. Perhaps the fruit had something to
do with the speeches, for Adolphus George said
that ho had only to make up his mind to be a
Cabinet Minister, and he would become one.
The younger Boers of Stella and Goshen
are urgent for war, and profess themselvess fully
capable of driving the Rooineokes (English) out of
the country. They can muster 1000 men without
difficulty. With recognised aid from the Trans-
vaal, the number might be Indefinitely increased,
and might possibly amount to a very large
number.
The Queensland Premier nearly, but not
quite, got the focus of the New Guinea question.
It he had said that the Australian Governments
did not know exactly what they wanted, that the
Bogllsh-Colonial office did not know what It
Wanted, and that Bismarck not only knew what he
wanted, but took It, Mr. Griffiths would have been
fight to a Tee.
From the Cologne Gajjette “ If John
Bull thinks ho can thwart our colonial policy In
this manner he had better be told that he is giving
himself bootless pains. Germany Is resolved to
keep a hold of what she has got, and she knows
the vulnerable points in the colonial empire of
England well enough to pay the Britons back in
their own coin.”
A good many anxious mothers waited on
the New Zealand Treasurer and represented that
the clerks in the Civil Service would not marry,
and that the consequences—well, no matter about
the consequences. Sir Julius Vogel sent out a
circular saying that In making reductions in the
Civil Service, the single men would have to go
first. .And then there was much marrying and
giving in marriage right off.
The Armidale AnT Him, has a leader about
Mr, Farnell and the Glen Innes Lands office, and
“cads it, “ Reptile or no reptile.” Wonder if the
Minister for Lands will write to the Attorney-
i ,t° know what he ought to do about this.
Ana will the Attorney General prepare a minute
in reply, to the effect “Reptile” has now become
a recognised expression of opinion on the merits
* Pnblic man. If he does, we know a talented
author ready with a word on “ human snakes.”
King Alfred hung 4t Justices of the Peace
P ne year for delivering false Judgments and
iif j Cea contrary to the jury. Now, If King
A ere 0Dly alive and in New South Wales
LQuestion upon the discussion of which
you are plainly entering may be a very good one,
WrrL w^? I(i occupy too much space here. Try the
tney have room for O’Sullivan’s letters on
xne Soudan expedition, and surely would accent a
little essay of yours of about six]columns.—Ed. B.]
* n . Russia, to-day, everyone employed in a
establishment is searched by the police as
r. e Qf ® avea the office. They think to find seditious
ORklm. Imbeciles 1 What rebellious mat-
finrf ?. ear ?i e ? away is stowed where you cannot
, Ifc Is swelling each lobe of his braln-
nwl. u each convolution of his pia
inaier. Make your minds easy, mes amis-you’U
discover It In time. And when you do, you’ll wish
the devil had you, as he probably will 24 hours
afterwards.
The political question of the moment in
Queensland is whether at the* recent Ministerial
banquet at Toowoomba they did or did not drink
the Governor’s health with enthusiasm. And one
newspaper correspondent says, disloyally, that he
does not care how the toast was received, out is
anxious to know what the liquor was like, for if
It was that generally got in Toowoomba people
might not be enthusiastic whilst drinking It, but
very soon afterwards they would mistake the first
man they met for the Mahdi, and want to hit him
in the eye.
What Wolseley’s position is now, good-
ness knows. Even before the fall of Khartoum
an English paper wrote:—" Much anxiety Is felt
by the highest military authorities as to Lord
Wolseley’s position. It is believed his ‘luck ’ will
pull him through; but nothing could be more
critical than the fate of the whole expedition, and
it is said that bis Royal Highness the Duke of
Cambridge is far from being confident in the suc-
cess of the undertaking.” Not, however, that
the Duke of Cambridge Is recognised as a military
authority.
Whilst the British Navy is reported to be
gone to the dogs, and the national Industries are
supposed to be following the Navy, It must fill
every well-conditioned Briton’s heart with de-
light and pride to learn from the papers that the
repairing and fitting of the Royal yacht are Just
complete. The bill is only £50,000 sterling. "Tho
yacht has been fitted with electric bells through-
out, and a newly-devised system of extinguishing
fire has been adopted. The new stove in the Royal
breakfast-room is a most artistic production, and
cost from £700 to £8001 ”
From the Standard:—“That there is a
German scare in South Africa is undoubted. That
the Boers have been coquetting, and even more,
with the German Empire is equally a fact. This
fact must bo met with a decisive policy, and we
must be prepared to take our stand both east and
west If we mean to retain our hold of'our South
African possessions.” We read in Mr. Charles du
Val’s recently-published work on South Africa
that the German Emperor not long since presented
to the Boer Republic some of the cannon taken
from the French in the war of 1870,
Te Kooti, who, with his followers escaped
from Chatham . Islands, aud then killed men,
women, and children at Poverty Bay, has now offi-
cially met Mr. Ballance, the New Zealand Native
Minister, and presented him with a greenstone
mere and a dogskin mat. It is only just to say
that In what was known as to the Poverty Bay
massacre, Te Kooti aud bis people were merely in
Maori fashion asserting their right to land of which
they considered they had been wrongfully dispos-
sessed, and that those in New Zealand who know
the native ways, directly they heard of the escape
from the Chatham Islands, predicted what would
happen.
Per Rercule I but we are a mighty race
Indeed. Not only are we witty in ourselves, but
we are also the cause, of wit In others—even in
such a ponderous old' fossil as London Punch.
Galvanised into something like his old form, Mr.
P. recently observed :—" We are so thoroughly
well acquainted at least with the names of our
colonies, that we are apt to forget the varied con-
ditions among which our kinsmen live. We talk
of Australia, Queensland, and Canada as if they
were Kensington, Fulham, or the new Parlia-
mentary borough of St. George’s-in-the-East. It
Is well to be occasionally reminded, as we are by
the telegram from Queensland which the Agent-
General published the other day, that things are
not as they seem. Amongst the items of intelli-
gence given it is telegraphed: ‘Parliament pro-
rogued Governor yesterday.’ Now hare, as every-
one knows, it Is the Governor (the Queen) who
prorogues Parliament. At the Antipodes things
are naturally Just the reverse, and it is the Parlia-
ment that prorogues the Governor. A strange
world, my masters!” This Is certainly the best
thing the Queensland A.G. has done since he an-
nounced that a bachelor Governor’s wife was con-
fined of twins.
He appeared to know what he was talking
about—at all events, this Is not far from what he
said:—“Give In at once, Dailey, old man—you’ve
been had, clean. No colony did as much against
federation as yours, and now yours is the only
contingent accepted. Ah, if you could only see
the cypher telegrams that have passed between
Jimmy Service and his Agent-General Smith!
Victoria could have planted her men in the Soudan
just assoon as you, but they were not “necessary,”
as Summer was coming on. Booh! And now
you’ve gone so far, and scruffod us along with
you, that the deuce only knows when we’ll get out
of it. And the Queen sends you her congratula-
tions—through Lord Derby, who preferred Ger-
many to you in New Guinea—and the women of
England will work a little silver banner for the
boys, and Hang it, man 1 can’t you see how
you've been got at? A couple of hundred miles
of railway could be made with the money that’ll
have gone down the gutters before this job Is
through. And there’s no knowing when it will be
through. For if a big row rises out of it—and
’twouldn’t be hard to get up a big muss in Europe
just now—there’s no get away at all for us. We
can’t go and bring our lads home if any European
power chips in. ’Twould be the same as saying,
‘I won’t light your Frogs or Sour-krauts, as they’re
armed as well as 1. What I came to fight was nig-
gers, with about one gun among every 20 men.’
No, my little man. It’ll take a heap of money and
lives to get us out of this hole. And you, too,
above all others! that have sat at old Badham’s
feet, and might have learnt from him the value of
such half-a-crown-a-column hog’s-wash as ‘the
thrill that went through a nation,’ the ‘ manifest
destiny of the Anglo-Saxon,’ the ‘ throbblnga of
the great pulse of humanity,’ No, Dailey—you’ve
been got at, clean! ”
How can you leave your wife and little
ones to battle with the troubles of the world,” we
severely asked yesterday of a sergeant who had
“ passed ” for the Soudan. We had known him in
other days—been, in fact, a tept mate of his during
the New Zealand, Asbantee, and Abyssinian broils.
He smiled. "Come closer,” he said; "You and I
[ho could speak aud write English] have served to-
gether In barracks and under canvas. Do you
mind [this In the sense of remember] the time when
jL w p u / and ® d from the Crimea, and had to start
for Delhi 7 We were kids, of course, hut we can
remember the poor devils of married men when
they heard that a grateful nation would allow their
wives sixpence a day, while they were chasing
‘Nana Sahib.’ You see how things are changed.
I get four bob a day for myself, and as I’ve six
youngsters, all under 14, the old woman gets8s. 6d.
a day—£3 a week, by the Lord—while I’m away,
with the certainty of something being done for her
and the brats if I never come back, why, old man,
whether I come back or not, it’s the biggest patch
I ever struck since the morning that d- — French
sentry made me (you were in the "swindle”
too, though you managed to got off clear) plank
down tho swag I was shunting from the palace at
Canton. I did five years for that job. Take my
advice, come too. There ain’t much hanging to it
at present for a bachelor like you, but (this be-
tween us) how do you know that we can’t get up a
row with the French, or Germans, or Russians
before it’s all over ? ” We saw this warrior as far
as Castlersagh-strset this morning, shook him
warmly by the hand, said wo would think about
Joining, and walked home on our hands, thinking
of the fun there’d be If a big row arose from this
Soudan “muss,” and we had to keep 5000 instead
of 600 men in the field.
They woke the Mahdi up in the middle of
the night to tell him that the Australian soldiers
were coming to fight him. After a glance at the
hour—[We do not want any details of the harem.—
Ed. B. You are always pulling me up without
reason; I am not going to say anything about
hourls.—Writer.]—at the hour-glass at his side,
he found teat it was only two in the morning, and
ordered those who aroused him to be beheaded.
Then he said: “Who is there knows these infidel
swine ?” and ho went out into the courtyard. And
they brought before him one, a thin and hungry-
eyed young man, in rags, and half dead with fear.
And they said, “ After the last battle, this dog of
a giaour was found hidden in an empty rum cask
and he told us that he came from Australia, and
was a member of the Press, and he demanded to eat
and drink, and called aloud on some false god who
he named ‘ Free-list.’ ” The Mahdi scowled and
said: “The father of lies begot this fellow; what
truth can he tell us? But we will ask him one
question—What love you most, thou son of a
burnt father.” ahen tin prisoner answered—
“ Colonial beer.” An attendant here cried, “ Bis-
millah, but I know Australia, and the unbeliever
speaks the truth.” The Mahdi gave orders for the
attendant to be bastinadoed presently, but in the
meantime commanded him to speak. So he went
on: “They have a false prophet, whom they wor-
ship, called M’Elhone, and when be speaks words
of fire and brimstone come from his Jlps. They
are children of the devil and sons of burnt fathers,
but they have houris who show themselves at
their theatres at a few parai a week. They sing In
the chorus of comic operas, and their legs ”
and here the attendant was overpowered by bis
recollection, and became silent. And the Mahdi
countermanded the bastinado,‘and said, “ Give him
clothes and treasure, strangle the infidel, and when
the Australian soldiers land, dig in front of them a
deep ditch, and let it be filled with colonial beer, so
shall they pass no further into the land. Call me at
eight, and have the rum and milk ready. When
we have killed alljthe giaours, we will conquer
Australia and take their houris luto our harem.”
“London, February 17th. Negotiations
between Russia and England for the settlement of
the Afghan frontier are still proceeding. Russia
claims that the Paropamlsus Mountains, running
just northward of Herat and Cabul, shall be fixed
as the frontier. The British Government has re-
jected the proposal.” Nothing sensational in the
above cablegram. Certainly not. But after read-
ing It we took up our budget of clippings from
the English papers; and the first we laid our hand
upon was this, In the Times:—“(By Telegraph.)
St. Petersburg, January 7. The following gives
the full force of several passages In General
Sobolefl’s letter In the Russ which were only
slightly touched upon in my former telegrams on
tho subject:—* England lays a heavy hand upon
her dependant peoples, reducing them to a state of
slavery, only that English trade may profit, and
Englishmen grow rich. Tho deaths or millions in
India from starvation have been caused Indirectly
by English despotism. And then the English
Press disseminates far and wide the idea of Russia
being a country of barbarians. Thousands of
natives in India only await Russia’s crusade of de-
liverance. As to our course of antagonism In
Asia, England herself threw down the glove at
Sebastopol; and if the Russian flag now floats
over Merv the English have themselves to blame.
We accepted their challenge. It now rests with
them whether there is to be a Russian invasion of
India or not. We should all the same prepare for
this campaign, in order to let England know that
we are getting ready to deal her a blow. But we
hope the time has come when English strategists
will take into consideration the 200,000 troops of
the Caucasus, and the 100,000 In reserve of Turke-
stan and Western Siberia, besides another army of
half a million men behind in European Russia, and
will look on the map and see what must happen If
a Russian corps of 200,000 men, accompanied by
another of 100,000 splendid Irregular cavalry, pass
through Herat and Balkh into India and proclaim
the independence of the native population. Let
England think well of the consequenca of Russia
deciding to take up arms against tier. We do not
want India, we want the Bosphorus. She has yet
time to meditate on our offer.”
• • *
Mr. Qiblin, the Tasmanian Attorney-
Goneral, having made himself a Supreme Court
J udge, wishes his late constituents “ much pros-
perity.” They have done very well for him; now
be hopes they will do very well for themselves
The preparation of the new electoral rolls on
which the coming general election will be held has
In some districts slightly interfered with some
other duties of the police. In Bourke, a few
murders and ravlshers are at large, as the
police have no time just now to hunt them up....
The editor of the Central Australian does not
believe In the possibility of educating anyone be-
yond bis shpere. No, but this kind of spelling is
evidence that a man can take drink beyond what
he can comfortably carry....Mr. Speight, the Vic-
torian Commissioner for Railways, has a short way
with deputations. He only allows a couple of
members to speak, and so gets rid of a deputation
in the average time of ten minutes.
THE KOOKABURRA.
A woman who had buried three husbands,
was Inconsolate over the loose of the fourth. It
? ft ece8 sary to order the funeral paraphernalia,
SJl,i«u ew 5 8 if she had any preference as to
which vindertakershould be employed . “Oh, g-go
’ she sobbed. “ H-he has been my
f°r twenty > ears, and a-always given
the best of s-satisfactlon.”
Just as a lover dropped on his knees and
the Question, a pet poodle, who
daSh proceeding rather strange, made a
dash for him. With remarkable nerve fora woman,
reached over, grabbed the dog by tho neck,
at the same time calmly uttering: “Go on, George
dear, x m listening to what you are saying.”
and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 652 Georg e-street. Brickfield Hill.*
“ \ ou have a very large house,” said a guest
to the owner of a magnificent mansion. “Yes; but
there are times when It isn’t half big enough,” he
dee P* drawn 8i «h. ‘‘When Is that 7”
iiushl I oant tell you now. Here comes my
mother-in-law,’’ he replied, seizing bis bat and
darting out the back door.
Wines and Spirits, ef reliable
SffSS P^stree^ 0^4 fr ° m HocKINaa &nd
deah boy, do you know I’ve got a
beastly cold? ’ “How did yon catoh It, old fellah?”
evenl pk I Prank a glawss of wine, don’t
5 a *v.’ an P 1 too neah the waitah when he
opened the bottle, don t you knaw. The dwaft
caused by the cork flying through the air was too
much for me, you knaw.”
Balmy sleep, good digestion, rich blood,
elastic step and cheerfulness in Hop Bitters. Read
and believe.
Last Sunday, a lady appeared ready for
church in a magnificent new silk dress. “ Won’t
you feel unoomfoi table in that dress at church ?”
asked her husband. ‘ The weather is warm, and it
seems to fit you very snugly, ’ “Ithink not,”she
said. No woman ever foend a new silk dress un-
comfortable In oburch.”
A household Perfume. Every family able
to appreciate and enjoy the pleasure afforded by
a really healthful and delicious perfume, should
supply themselves with tho eremiine MURRAY
aud LAMMAN’S FLORIDA WATER. It is the
most delightful and most lastlngjof all fragrant
w aters.
“ How are you, old fellow?” called one
friend to another be met in the street; “ what are
? “ F111 j D k a Jong-felt want.”
Thunderation, man, you don t mean to say you are
conducting a newspaper ?” "Not hardly/ “ Then
i Why, I married a rich old maid who
had been wanting to get a husband for the last
thirty years.”
One of the mottoes at a Church meeting,
presided oyer by an unmarried minister, was: “ It
is not good for man to be alone.” Loneliness la
not the complaint of the wife or husband, but be-
ISn? 8 P ro Perly to the dwellers on One-Tree-
HUl. When about entering the blessed state of
matrimony remember Bray’s, 403 and 404 George-
street, are famed for crockery of all kinds.*
Hang out our banners on tho outer wall.
The cry is still they come.
Fling to the breeze the diamond-shaped shield
bearing the inscription W.A.S., for ail through
the markets of the world the horde of servile
Imitators are still essaying to substitute their
wretched concoctions of gin for that delicate
unadulterated,palatable cordial known as Wolfe’s
Schnapps. Be sure you obtain Wolfe’S Schnapps.
“I have been living pretty high for several
days,” said the millionaire’s daughter to her friend
who made her a visit. “ Why,” returned the latter.
“1 hoard your father had kept you locked up In
thoyarret a week, for fear you Intended to elope
with the coachman ?” “ Weil,” replied the million-
aire's daughter, " isn’t the garret pretty high?”
The friend didn’t answer. She had tainted.
The other evening a young lady was walk-
ing home and was approached by a dude, who
ambled up beside her, and proceeded to make
himself agreeable. “ May I—ah—carry—ah—your
purse ?” said he. “ Oh, I don't mind," she replied.
He took It and seemed delighted to be of any
service. They walked and walked. She, wishing
to get rid of him, kept silent while thinking about
something funny to say. “Miss Clara, ” ho finally
, v^5 tu L ed > 1 don * think you have much money
left. This purse seems a little flat, he! hel he!*
“Flat? Well.lt is a little flat, sure enough, but I
don’t mind that; it’s a big flat that I object to.” Ho
left her at the next corner.
Mr. DeOourot Browne (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the " Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Mlnerais. ’Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 52 Castle-
reagh-atreot. Sydney, sar Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
A young artist was greatly attracted by the
beauty of a young lady who sat at a window in the
house opposite his studio. He sent glances of ad-
miration up to her window whenever ne passed Into
or out of his room. At length, one day seeing her
In the street, bis artistic taste ran away with his
good judgment and reaching her, panting with the
haste he had made, gasped out : r ‘ Oh, miss, your
oyely blonde hair 1 1 am dying to paint It.” The
lady with a quick movement put her hand to her
head, and then holding her hair at arm’s length ex-
claimed : Take It, there It is I Send it back when
you are through with It, and stop staring at my
window ; my husband Is dreadfully Jealous, and
will thrash you for your Impudence.’’ Tho crest-
fallen artist nas not been on a chase for “lovniv
blonde hair” since. *
Why does a donkey prefer thistles to corn 7
Because he’s an ass. Why will our volunteers
make a good show when they got to the front in
Egypt ? Because the feeding department Is being
properly looked after, and men always fight better
on a full meal than a short one. As to the first
proposition there Is no possible doubt as to the
asinine nature of the proceeding, and with regard
to the latter It is a solid undeniable fact. The
great Duke of Wellington, rather a judge of such
matters, not the donkey affair, used to look as
sharpely after the beef as after the gun-
powder; and that Is why he never lost a
battle, because he loaded his men as well as his guns
There is another problem which can be solved in
an equally satisfactory manner. Why do the
young ladles of Sydney cry if It is wet the day be-
fore a holiday ? Because they can’t get to the
Palace Emporium, Haymasket, to buy new
gloves.*
They were fairly off the scent, and repose
once more made life enjoyable. The butcher sat
for three afternoons on tho doorstep at Moore
Park, and even went so far as to offer spurious
deliveries of chops at the back-gate with a view to
drawing us out. The sewing-machine man was
perpetually calling for weekly ’arf-crowns at the
little place at Coogee—and not getting them with
remarkable uniformity. Two bailiffs successively
took possession of the vacated place over at Rai-
main, and the earliest arrival chucked out the
second comer after a prolonged battle, in which
the furniture—it was a furnished cottage when we
rented Ic-suffered, and two odd ears and a thumb
were scattered about the premises. They were off
the scent, and in our new home we chuckled and
ran up fresh scores with the agility of a monkey
climbing a cocoa-nut palm. But Sands’ Sydney
Directory came out. We regret to say that it is
accurate to an extreme. We have, however had
the satisfaction of hitting the grocer (his
amount) on the nose with ft. on tf
the knee of the water-rates. Wo wish* Banda
would send us another copy. We want to find mV*
tbeaddrexot theoomptlir. ilrn'iShU” SSthSJ
‘r S ?T ,Dt • 0dr ° ,,On «»
A PERAMBULATING PERPLEXITY.
Dude: ‘‘Waal, what are you looking
a t f ”
Boy : “ Pon me soul, that’s what I’m try-
ing to find out.”
TIME WAITS FOR NO MAN.
Young Party : “ My watch isn’t going, is
yours ? ”
Old Party: “Going—why—it’s—gone.”


Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, Pith February, 1885.
TENDERS FOR ADDITIONS TO TEACHER’S
RESIDENCE.
TENDERS are Invited for Additions to the
Teacher’s Residence at the Drultt Town
Public School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Insruction, Sydney.
tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Additions to
Teacher’s Residence, Drultt Town Public School,”
must be lodged with the Under Secretary, De-
partment of Public Instruction, at or before 10
o’clock a.m„ on Monday, the 9ch March, 1885.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
W. J. TBICKETT.
ffiRY BURGI8’ £8 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
I from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, am}
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STKEET,
’ ey. Samples and diagrams for se it-measuring
‘ ed to anv part of the colony
j ijalvfjVQpartnieni of Public Instruction,
8yd ney, 17th February, 1885.
TENDERS FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
TENDERS are invited for improvements to the
Public School premise* at Waterloo.
Plane and Specifications may bo seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Department
of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Improvements,
Waterloo Public School,” must be lodged with the
TTnder Secretary, Department of Public Instruc-
tion. at or before 10 o’clock a.m., on Monday, the
9tb March, 1885.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender. „
W. J. TRICKETT.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 16th February, 188o.
TENDEH3 FOR FENCING.
TENDERS are invited for Fencing at the
Kogarah Public School.
Specifications mav be seen, and Forms of
Tender obtained at the office of the Department
of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Fencing Kogarah
Public School,” must be lodged with the Under
Secretary, Department of Public Instruction, at
or before 10 o’clock a.m, on Monday, the 2nd
March, 1885.
The Miriister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tedder.
W. J. TRICKETT.
Department of Public Instruction.
Sydney, 19th February, 1885.
TENDERS FOR RETAINING WALL, AND
IMPROVEMENTS.
rflENDERS are Invited for Erection of a Retaln-
I log Wall, and for Improvements at the Forest
Lodge Publlp School.
plans and Specifications may bo seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained nt the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Retaining Wall,
and Improvements. Forest Lodge Public School,’
must be lodged with the Under-Secretary, Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock
a.m., on Wednesday, the 4th March, 1883.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
MADAME CHARRONNET KB LLEIl MANN’S
CONSERVATOIRE DE MU61QUE,
140 Phillip Street.
Madame KELLERMANN, having; secured a
commodious residence in a healthy position
two minutes from Domain, is willing to receive
pupils from the country or neighbouring- colonies
as Boarders Exceptional references given and
expected. Apply HO Phlllip-street.
A Bazaar & Art Union
IN connection with tbo Union Masonic Lodge,
of Berrima, 081 E.C., in aid of the
WIDOW AND ORPHAN FOND,
under the patronage of the District Grand Master,
John Williams, Esq., of the District Grand Lodge,
Constitution.
£7000 Worth of Works off
Art, Pictures, &c.,
to be disposed of In Shares of £1 each on the Art
Union Principle, and to be drawn for at Moss Vale,
time and place of which will be given in public
Press, and the drawing will be under the super-
vision of the following gentlemen, who have
kindly offered to act
John Williams, Esq.
I. 8. Ponder, Esq.
Jas. Taylor, Esq.
W. MoCourt, Esq.
lit Prize-Picture, &o„ valued at
Sod—
3td —
4th—
6th—
6th—
7th-
8th—
9th—
10th —
11th—
12th—
lath— -3S
From 14 to 24-’io prizes of £20 each.
100 Prizes— Pictures, valued at £3 each.
Tickets will bo forwarded by the Secretary, on
receipt of £1.
jTs. HYAMS, ' l
Hon. Secretary,
Moss vale.
£3(00
1200
700
500
370
300
300
300
200
200
130
H'O
100
100
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, 24th February, 1865.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are invited for the fol-
owlng Public Works and Supplies. For full partl-
mlars see Government Gazette, a file of which
• kept at every Post Office In the colony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the tenders
LfA opened, and the name of the success nil
■enderer will be announced, If possible, before the
lutles o* the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
ess the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
*The Government does not bind itself to aooept
;be lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tendersoan be
received a t
this office.
xtonslon of Jetty at Edou,
Twofold Bay
rectlon of Lock-up Milltown
rectlon of Courthouse, Ar’luen
ompletion of Open Canal below
Prospect Reservoir ; Con- I
struct Ion of Pipe Hoad, Ba-
sil), Ac., Contract 21, Sydney
Water Supply .
legistrar-Qeneral's Office, Ad-
ditions _ „
Irectlon of Courthouse, Wollar
rectlon of Post and Telegraph
office, Dubbo
Irldge over Mutran Yarreln
Greek, Road Moama to Mou-
lamein
lonstraction of Bridge, Pelican
Flat, Lake Macquarie
Irldge In Broulee-street, Bcga
(rldgaover Creek in Campbell's
lane, Road Bega tO Bodalla
Irldge over Hoskinson’s Creek,
near Barraba
lepalrs to Bridge over Cabra-
matta Creek, Main South road
near Liverpool
Irldges over Green’s and 8u-
blaco Creeks, on road Ryde to
Parramatta '
Jontraot 30n, Stone and Iron
Culvert over Spring Creek, at
Bexley, and work on road
frbm Rocky:Point road, near
Rockdale station, to Forest-
road (Bay-street)
Supply of 200,000 Cedar Rail
Wednesday,
4th March,
at 11 o’clock.
Wharf, Pittwater, Broken Bay
Erection of Wharf, Trial Bay
Erection of Engine House, &o ,
Pumping Station Wolka, near
West Maitland
Manufacture and Supply of
lfio.000 Tons of Stoel .Rials.
Erection of Polloo Buildings,
Station, Par-
ramatta
Erection of Carpenters Shop at
Goulburn, G. S, Railway
Erection of Driver s Quarters,
at Wellington
Erection of Offices for Running
Foreman, Eveloigh
Bridge over Throsby's Creek,
road Wickham to Bullock
Island
Bridge over Snowy River, at
Buckley’s Crossing
Tuesday,
10th March,
at 11 o’clock.
Fencing, Stabling, &c., Post
Office. Hay
Erection of Courthouse and
Lock-up. Mllparinka
Erection of Lock-up, Granville
Repairs to Wharfs and Bridges
In Sydney
Rooting of Police Buildings,
Goulburn
Ironwork for two Tanks, at
Bathurst
Tuesday,
17th March,
at 11 o’clock.
Ereot'on of , UI .ation Build-
ings, &o,, jSuneee, G. N.
Railway
Erection of Court-house and
Lock-up, at Cobar
Erection of Police Quarters,
Adelong
Tuesday,
24th March,{
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Lock-up, Balranald I
Tuesday.
31st March,
at 11 o'clock
lupply and Delivery of about
2900 tons of Pipes and Castings
required la connection with
the reticulation of country
towns ■' ■
brought Ironwork for Flumes,
Sydney Water Supply
Tuesday,
7th April,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
14th April,
at 11 o’clock.
IT. A. WRIGHT.
Professional Directory*
Sydney
HORACE BENT, with Hlscocks’ Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
TO AMATEUR THEATRICALS.— Scenery i 8up-
U plied or Lent. G. Periuman, Scene fainter,
No.7, back of Academy of Music. Caatlereagh-st,
L .
Theatre r o y a
Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and MnsoBOVE.
Lessee. Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager—Mr. H. H. \ in cent.
Doors open at 7 30 commence at8. Carriages, 10.10.
Third Week, and Continued Success of the Royai
Dramatic Company in the two New Pieces .
An Elegant Comedy in one act, entitled—
WRITTEN IN SAND I WRITTEN IN SAND 1
and the Screaming Farcical Comedy, in 3 acts,
NITA’S FIRST I NITA’S FIRST I
The same programme will be repeated every even-
ing until further notice.
Special Notice—Prices op Admission.- The
Management beg to announce that the prices of
admission which have .been ijo
Stulls. 3s. :
admission wnmn imvo ’r'-stHiis ft* •
Theatre Royal, viz , Dicss Circle, Os.. stalls, oi.,
andFamily Circle. :i3, havebeen reverted to.
TiokX tor aif parti of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4. No free list.
N
BW OPERA HOUSE
Leasees & Managers ... B. Majeronl & W. J. Wilson.
Treasure. r and Secretary ... Mr. Joe Brown.
Stage Manager ... Mr. George Leopold.
MAJERONI and WILSON’S
COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
LAST NIGHT but ONE
of the
OPERA SEASON.
TUTS EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
° pera ’
LA PbHICHOLB
LA PBR1CHOLE.
Prices of Admission .—Bo»es, £2 3a.; Dress Circle,
5§.; Stalls, 3s ; Parquet! o, 2s.
Box plan now open at A. » d n ,C* HUMerbelp’s
Music Warehouse, 318, George-street. Stalls and
Parquetto Tickets may be purchased at Roberts ,
tobacconist, adjoining the theatre,
v w OPERA HOUSE.
Lessees, Messrs. E. Majeronl and W. J. Wilson.
Under the Management erf
RIQNOLD and ALLISON.
SATURDAY NEXT, FEBRUARY 28th.
•reduction for the first time in Sydney of Derrick’s
Great Eccentiio Comedy, „ ,
CONFUSION I CONFUSION !
i
cknowledged by the press and public to be the
funniest comedy ever written.
Confusion ran for over Eleven Consecutive
Peeks to crowded houses nightly at the Bijou
ORIGINAL CHARACTER,
supported by Rignold and Allison s specially-
selected Comedy Company.
The elaborate furniture used In Confusion, from
he renowned firm of Messrs. Anthony Hordern
ud Sons, Haymarket.
Confusion box plm at A. and C. Huenerbeln s,
IGeorge-street. Day tickets at Roberts , tobac-
" " Pi'
mist, Opera House.
Treasurer...
?rices as usual.
G. A. COLEMAN.
aiety theatre.
G Lessee .. .. *• Mr. Wybort Reeve.
Under the Management of A. T. and J. F. Dunning.
THIS EVENING.
THE EVENT OF THE SEASON.
ENTIRELY NEW and ORIGINAL OPERA
COMIQUB,
in 8 Acts and 6 Tableaux, entitled
HIP VAN WINKLE
RIP VAN WINKLE
FIP VAN WINKLE
„ The Soeolal Engagement of
Mb. HOWARD VERNON,
Under whose direction the Opera is produced.
Adlhlsslon 1— Orchestra Chairs, 5s. ; Stalls, 3s. {
family Circle, 2s. Box Office, Nicholson s, George-
treet.
V
Loi
C A D B M Y_
issec and Manager
OF MUSIC
_ Mr. F. B. HiSCOCKS.
IISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
ttnd SPECIALITY UNION,
tremendous Success of W. H. Bout a New loplcal
THE EGYPTIAN QUESTION.
Two New Sketches, “ The Coming Man, and
*• Hard to Kill.’’
Admission, 4s., 3s., 2s.. and Is. Box Plan at
•allng’e. Carriages at 10.15. _______
H E
A U 8 T R
WAXWORKS
A L I A N
Opposite the Cathedral,
Open dally from 10 a.m. till 10 p m.
3mission, One Shilling; Children, half-price.
ij-fVTAo n > no! 1 ai d 1 ‘J ’ —
ifHftnn'JH'Ji'HHiii i.i -- ■ —
i HALL, GOULBUBN.
ul jcoif a ill ot
lB18»handeo«DOfDI(Jdu TheatP=>, completely re-
7-modekIod; lB fltU»d wlOh every couvenience,
haft on*'Of thobost stages iti the colony (50 x
vrvpv moderate
KHUiOllWIUiy Ml Ull DO - , r- --
mauls, 500.1 TBrnpopumtion of the city is nearly
li’and the Hall; which is now the most popular
»;ofi ■amusement, is situated* In the' most cen-
- position of the maid street. Mr. Charles
•nen <si the Montague»Turner Opera Company,
Hall I consider neoond to none In New
th Wales. The acoustics are good; the stage
i J L. - 1 -'' -- — - n nnnno m /wl d flIt ifl fill HftPl HP TO
ntlnn.iul
SIC
, _ ,.c A ,D E nlfe Y • i i M u
J , Suate Albert Hall).
STREET, BRISBANE,
flae coolest and most comfortable Hall In Aus-
ilia. Seating capacity, 1800 ; stage; depth, 48ft.;
(Rb, r>8ft;i height of grooves. 10ft; proscenium,
b-y 20• dressing accommodation unlimited. Rent
shares. For open dates, apply to DUVAL and
UTIL Lessees, Tattersall’fl Hotel, Brisbane.
h ti 4a-
.‘dSOt® O R I A iH A C I N G
ilstdw nt jOtlJab !>»*»*—
o- ri .CHAMPION MEETING, 1885,
il nTiri' ' i’FLEMINGTON COURSE.
Bo oicw v o
f> iSXrUHDAY. 28th FEBRUARY,
HANDICAP,
ti Jl it. THURSDAY, 5th MARCH,
‘>*A DMUM — • ■'
CLUB.
cup -
S MARCH,
CHAMPION STAKBB.
'mlnstat Excursion Fares. Tickets
lUahlerfuQHSrtlhe evening of Friday, 27th Feb-
irv. to Monday, 9th March-
1 y ’ tf. BYRON MOORE, Beo. V.R.0,
mow 1J [
Is the largest and best-appointed Family Hotel In the Western Tvjgtrlct. The Table and LiqUors
cannot be surpassed, even In the Metropolis. Private Suites for families. 1; irst-class Stabling.
THOMAS HUQGINS, Proprietor.
BARGAINS! BARGAINS!! BARGAINS! !
, . n / t ... 5ZLZ \ C\ iD i .. .. 1 Ilf \ • I \^.W
• j ■ ■■ >
Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale.
EOSSiiLlE, 3LLOTT3D <Ss CO.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO, ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.
Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale.
Ladles should secure the
CHEAP LACES AND UNDERCLOTHING AT ROSSALIE, LLOYD Sc CO.’S SALE.
4s. in the pound taken off your Bill.
Thousands of Remnants of Laces. Remnants of Laoes. Remnants of Laces.
Remnants of Ribbons. Remnants of Ribbons. Summer Millinery. Summer Millinery.
A MAGNIFICENT STOCK ALL INCLUDED IN THE SALE.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.
Umbrellas Umbrellas. Parasols. Parasols.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.,
NEAR TBB GENERAL POST OFFICE.
*
I
m
i
[IE
f.
QV
Fqu
1
a?
AGENTS FOR
i^'BAKER 3
»»V PLATES
'aTis/w
7,
m
MM.
ml
Carnrick’s Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk
(Composed of about equal proportions of Pure Cod Liver Oil and Condensed Milk digested).
IT affords us much pleasure to announce to the Medical Profession and the Public that we have suc-
ceeded in combining these nuiritive substances Into a permanent, palatable, and easily assimilable
Cod Liver Oil and Milk has the following advantages over the Plain Oil and the
Emulsions now in use 1st. Plain Cod Liver Oil Is unpalatable to most persons, but in combmat on
with condensed ( digested ) milk, as exhibited in this preparation, it will usually be taken by the youngest
child with a relish. Sad. oils are prepared for assimilation principally in the duodenum ; con' equently
Cod Liver Oil. when taken plain, often .ffonds the stomach, The Oil and Milk in Peptonized Cod Liver
Oil and Milk are digested, and it. will therefore usually agree with the most delicate stomach. 3rd.
Peotonized Cod Livtr Oil and Milk contains double the nutritive and llesh-forramg principle-* found in
the Emulsions of Cod Liver Oil. 4th. It is well Known that the Emulsions of Cod Liver oil usually
contain from 00 to 75 per cent, of water. Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk contains o‘3 per cent, of
best Cod Liver Oil, and in the place ot water we use condensed milk, in mcmi in our labora-
tory 5th. The milk is condensed to the consistency of the Cod Liver Oil, and when combined, as in
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk.it forms one of the most pleasant and nutritious compounds that
can be conceived or produced.
rw This Preparation is acknowledged far superior to any of the Cod Liver Oil Emulsions ever
introduced, it being already digested, it may be retained on the weakest stomach.
Wo also manufacture the above preparation combined with I1Y©PHOSPHITES OF LIME AND
SODA. To be obtained of the Principal Chemists and'Druggists in the colonies.
The Mai tine Manufacturing Co., Lim., 24 aud 25 Hart-st., Bloomubury, London, WC.
Wholesale Agents in the Colonies :-rElliott Bros.. Sydney; E. Prosser & Co.. Sydney; I elton. Brim-
waU.e, & Co., Melbourne; Nocke. £ Co.. Melbourne; Duerdm & Samebury, Melbourne; F 4.
Faulding& Co., Adelaide; A. M. Bicktord & (lo., Adelaide; Berkley, Taylor, & Co., Brisbane; Elliott,
ptos. jc Co., Brisbane; New Zealand Drug Co., Brirt$lfc| 0 , inft ,, t -riodw fovol* ’at V«w« somm/orM
Samples and Full Particulars may be obtained pf * j— £) rjj lf f aid no odol dpae saillaws si }I ,ji hi
W. T. PALMER, 104 King-street, Sydney. ,>■”«


Waltham Watch Agency.
REVOLUTION IN THE POSTAL SYSTEM.
PRODIGIOUS efforts aro being made bv the
8o + uth ? al <* Government to bring the
H™l Department up to the requirements of the
nc ? Pledged [to the introduction of the
boon i'n °the y n^s W^. ch 5 88 proved a national
qP„°JL vl*a United Kingdom and the United
States, the Sydney Minister is expediting the work
of making his Department a safe, cheap, and
med * u ®? °? transit for all descriptions of
portable merchandise. This means that goods
be despatched through the Post ?)ftloe
and delivered as qulokly as a letter to any aclBress
JhS?*PTt* e significance of the thing is
Irtua;liy brings tne most distant resident
th ® doorstep of the best and cheapest
T' 8 ht^.f hme v? t l Q t *?® E r . eat tree-trad© metropolis.
The man who has led the way in encouraging this
new and benoflolal system of trade, is undoubtedly
th« H 0^^9 C o K !. Jcwe ' ler and watchmaker, of
Wnrm J^» e S 8 Sr d ? e /’ A V® traJ ‘ an Agent for the
World-renowned Waltham Watches. For the past
***** M . r> T. M. Aloock has been doing business
with people who have never been in Sydney, and
have never seen or entered bus shop.
8 i ra, / ht ? oing ’ bonesfc treatment of
. u P d r? da °* miles away has won him a
permanent hold on the entire inland community
colony, a.nd he now does a larger paroels-
Siai business In Jewellery and watches than any
other three houses of either city. The Waltham
Watch has given Mr. Alcock a further hold on the
w publl °- & Personal negotiation with the
W a ‘t ham proprietors at their works, Massachu-
setts, Mr. Aleook secured concessions as the Wal-
tham agent which placed these famous watches be-
fore the Australian public at manufacturer’s
prices. The parcels-post system completely links
the whole Australian public, as it were, on to the
great Waltham factory. Mr. Aloock forwards
these watches to any address in all Australia, pay-
ing the postage, and taking all the risk of safe de-
llvery. By these means Walthams have gone
broadcast throughout these colonies. Mr. Aloock
handles every watch before despatching it, and ho
alone executes the order. Of upwards of 10,000
purchasers there is not a single customer who has
complained or expressed disappointment at Mr.
Aloock s treatment of their favours.
THOUSANDS in ALL GRADES to select from at
MANUFACTURERS’ PRICKS.
Mr. ALCOCK gives a Three Years’ Guarantee
with every Waltham Watch, and, in addition to
this, issues with eaoh watch sold the Company’s
Certificate, as follows:—“ Watch. No. , and en-
graved with our Trade Mark, was manufactured
a 5 our works, and is guaranteed by us to be made
of the best materials on the most approved prin-
ciples, and to possess every requisite tor a reliable
Timekeeper.”
For any defect in material, workmanship, or
performance under fair usage, we at all times hold
ourselves responsible.
i£?S?JV a .l£ ge 9 t8 ’J2 r the American Watch Co.,
RO B BINS and APPLETON.
„ T. M. ALCTOOK’S Trm ‘ am -
In Hunting or Open Face, with Crystal
Glass Sterling Hall-marked Cases.
„ , KEY WINDERS.
No. L—Seven jewels, steel balance. A
sound reliable timekeeper .. .. £2 10 0
No. 2.—Seven Jewels, steel balance. Extra
heavy full size oases, specially
built for bush use
No. 8.—Seven Jewels, good balance. Very
superior finish. Perfect time-
keeper
No. 4.—Full Jewelled, compensation ba-
lance. Very highly finished; suit-
able for extreme climates
No. 5.—Compensation balance, extra
Jewelled. In separate settings t
very superior movements
No. 6.—Three-quarter plate bands, to set
v, - at back, good balance, seven Jewels 8 6 0
No. 7.—Three-quarter plate, eompensa-
tion balance, full Jewelled. Spe-
cially rated
8 10 0
8 6 0
3 16 0
4 4 0
4 0 0
PATENT KEYLESS.
No. 8.—CELEBRATED RIVERSIDE, adjusted
keyless fine movements, three pair extra fine jewels
in setting, exposed pallets, eompensatlon balance,
in silver case, 7 guineas; in massive gold oases 16
guineas. Note. —Read Swiss Commissioner’s speech
re this watch, and if you are in want of a perfect
time-keeper, buy one at manufacturer's price of
the agent, T. M. ALCOCK.
No. 9.—CELEBRATED HILLSIDE, seven Jewels,
compensation balance. Very highly finished, and
perfect time-keeper, £415s, and £5 5s.
No. 10. —Full-sized extra stout oases, compensa-
tion balance, full jewelled. This movement is
specially built for hard usage, and Is a perfectly
reliable time-keeper. In two prices, £5 5s. aad £5
108.
No. 11.—Full sized, three pairs of extra fin©
Jewels, In settings. Adjusted. This la a very
superior movement. £7 7s.
No. 12,—Named “P. M. BARTLETT,” Waltham,
Mass., four pairs extra fine Jejveis, In settings,
compensation balance. This watch is the acme of
perfection. £7 7s.
No. 13.—Ladies’ very superior, full Jewelled, com-
pensation balance. Engraved oases. £4 10s. and
£6 59.
LADIES' AND GENT’S GOLD WALTHAMS,
In Hunting or Open Face, with Crystal Glass,
Standard Hall-marked Gold Cases, of various
rrrn < 1 no
£8 8 0 £11 11 0 £17 10 0
996 14 00 2000
10 10 0 16 15 0 up to 75 0 0
A magnificent stosk of every grade of Watch
made by the Waltham Company, including a Mob
collection of Presentation Watches, in plain and
fancy engraved cases,
Duplicate parts of every Watch made by th§
Company kept In stock. Waltham Watches re-
paired with the Company’s Materials on the
shortest notice.
THE ENGLISH PATENT LEVER WATCHES
ALSO COMPETE IN ALL AUSTRALIA.
Recognising the value of the better class of
English Patent Lever Watches, T. M. Aleook,
while la England, visited the great watch factories
of London, and entering into large contracts,
arranged for the manufacture of a splendid and
superior class of English Patent Lever Watch,
the BEST and cheapest ever imported to Aus-
tralia.
No. I*—Crystal Glass or Hunting Case'« .. £3 10 0
No. 2.—Ditto, extra Jewelled and superior
finish
No. 3- Ditto, highest grade, full-jewelled
No. 4.—Ditto ditto, superior adjusted
No. 5,—Rotherham’s celebrated Levers .. ,
No. 6.—Rotherham’s Compensated Balance 5
No. 7.—Rotherham’s Chronometer Balance,
highest quality .. .. .. 6
No. 8.—Rotherham’s Adjusted, compensated
balance, very superior 7 , „
An unequalled stock of the above in 18-carat
gold oases, from £12 to £30; in keyless. £20 to £50.
4 4 0
6 6 0
6 6 0
4 10 0
5 0
6 0
7 0
SUPERIOR CHRONOGRAPHS.
T, M. ALCOCK is now In a position to offer to
the public generally the Cheapest and Best
CHRONOGRAPH for racing and timing purposes
ever made.
Illustrated Catalogues Forwarded Free.
All communications to be addressed,
T. M. ALCOCK,
Waltham Watch Agent,
613 George-**,, Haymarket, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOUTS.
to*atbi Rotax— “Nlta’s First” p. 8
np*BA Housk—” La Perichole ” „
n *iktt Thkatuk—“ Rip Van Winkle ” „
academy of Music. — Uiscocks’ F. Minstrels „
We were just in time at the Opera House
. Saturday to see—Searelle we were nearly say-
(n0. tmt he Is away la Melbourne, engaged In a
different sphere of activity—a fresh conductor
/we forget his name) sink defiantly into his seat,
Irlare around and bring his baton viciously down,
if the Mahdi were under it. Why were we so
nearly late, did you say? Well, the fact Is, in
King-street, Just before you reach the Opera
House, there’s an auction room opening on the
street, and apparently run by sleek-looking
Israelites, who appear bent on rulnlnfc themselves
by selling expensive merchandise at ridiculously
low prices. It is on account of this foolish passion
for vending goods below cost price that our
Jewish fellow-citizens so seldom succeed in trade.
Among the chosen people we have many staunch
friends in business, and have frequently warned
them against this absurd habit of flying in the
face of all economic laws. But our warnings have
been received with a coldness bordering on irrita-
tion. And so we are forced to stand idly by and
gee generous men commence as millionaires and
end as mendicants. This, we fear, will be the fate
of those who “boss” (we’ve no time to pick our
words) that auction room. At present they seem
to thrive, wear massive chains of pure gold, with
lockets as big as a life-buoy. It was in keeping
up one of the posts in front of this mart that we
spent an hour on Saturday night, and nearly
missed the overture, fascinated by the fine irony
(when no buyer for a six-set of shoebrushes could
be found) of a person whose ancestors probably
were in the brick trade under the Pharoahs, and
0ed bones to Miriam’s tambourine when the
Sea was safely “ negotiated.”
• • •
“ La Periohole ” is well known in Sydney,
and nearly always in connection with Leopold,
whose conduct on seeing a woman for the first
time for twelve years is creditable to his head and
his heart—especially when it is remembered that
gbe is tied to a post. His absurdities are as mirth-
moving as ever, and the manner in which he
helped the poor governor to straw, met with noisy
approval. In “La Perichole” there are many
pleasing airs, one especially that will live though a
wet sponge were passed over the others. It is
Plaisted’s song:—
“ Oh, dearest, believe when I swear
That I love you with all my heart.”
To come across, in opera bouffe, a streak of true
melody like this, is like dropping on a ton of coal
that weighs SO owt., a pocket of sugar without
land, or a barber who couldn’t give you the tip
for the Melbourne Cup or a recipe for baldness.
For it Grade got a vociferous “ ankor,” but the
air itself is so taking that it would arouse enthusi-
asm even if played on a drum. But the worst of
these melodious sparkles is that they all appear to
bo cribbed. With the exception of a minor third
here and a flattened seventn there, you appear to
have heard them when you were at the breast.
Talk about literary piracy—its not a circumstance
on musical. Then, in one of the stage boxes was
a wonderful crown of flowers, with G.P. worked
beneath it. From a hole in the roof swung a long
blue ribbon intended to swing this pretty offering
to Perichole’s feet when the proper time came.
We don’t know who had the engineering of the
concern, ;but, from the wayjGeorge Thornton
dodged in and out concluded that he was mixed
up with it in some way. The proper time came,
but nary a budge from the crown. There it stuck
like a leech to a black eye, or a loafer to a lamp
post. The house became interested, then impatient,
W*n derisive. It was seen that if anything hap-
pened to the string the presentation would be
made to the leading fiddler, and probably maim
him. This took the eyes of the orchestra off their
books, evoked a howl of badinage from the pit,
and made little Flaisted look round for a brick. Of
course the string gave, and there was a fall in
crowns. At lastjit was scruffed on to the stage
gome way, amidst the Jeers of the stalls, seasoned
with a fiddler’s incisive blasphemy.
• mm
Then came the piece de resistance— the
patriotic war song. Harding sang and “ Charley”
conducted. It was received with fervour,
although the fiery flag so defiantly waved by
Harding was attached to a piece of wood, pain-
fully suggestive of the handle of a hoe. In the
ditty Itself many of the bars were pleasantly
familiar. “ God bless the Prince of Wales” was
bubbling In Charley’s brain when he wrote it.
God bless him—Wales we mean. Bismarck may
try his best to Isolate England, but so long as
Albert Edward is left to us to put himself at the
head of the Guards—like his grand-uncle at Water-
loo—we can bite our thumbs at the world. Why
continue ? The world has heard but one war song.
Compared with it, all others are meaningless. It
was made to mark the grandest event in noau’s
history, and will go rolling down the ages when we
with our puny loves and bates, our bastard pa-
triotism and mock heroism, are forgotten. It was
composed when a great nation awoke to the fact
that men and women had long enough been the
playthings of kings, and pimps, and harlots- To
circulate it, millions of men have marched cheer-
fully to death. It is the “ Marseillaise.”
* ♦ *
We thought Mr. Wentworth was the
Governor of Lima till he assured us that ’twas
Umar he bossed. This relieved us ®f some
anxiety. Harding’s and Plalsted’s guitar accom-
paniments would have been pleasant if they could
Play. As It was, they were the most depressing
make-believe. The ” Hoop-la ” duet was given
with great effect. In the fun of it, wee Plaistod
seemed to revel. Seeing the very good terms on
which these tramps appear to live makes one
wonder at first why they pine so for the four
dollars to get married or what fresh pleasures
matrimony could bring them. Then her song,
I m tight,” although extremely clever, leaves an
unpleasant taste on your mouth. We are not yet
educated up to that point when the sight of a
drunken woman is irresistibly funny.
v * *
Among the “cousins” we noticed Miss
Amy Spencer, who, we were told, has but quite
lately taken to the stage. She has a pleasant
voice, which promises to improve by practice, and
a presence and bearing seldom observed among
amateurs, whose confusion on seeing a packed
house is sometimes so pitiful. In the second act
the chorus (female) started without music and
three octaves too high. When they
nad to climb a bit higher they came down with a
run, and hid their smiles behind their fans, while
an unfeeling public Jeered.
♦ * ♦
“ La Perichole ” finishes the season. On
oaturday (28) “ Confusion,” which has been so suo-
18 to be P ut on - So ter, Ma-
and™l80n have had nothing to complain
nf ♦hi’* ifc would be a pity, now that the end
oi me term is so close at hand, for any contretemps
Place. And somebody’ll be killed to a
those pillars to which Perichole and
ner woke are tied are not properly fastened.
♦ » « *
Thh k* 2 - a t> all places during the week,
iio*„h t at ’ e , spread-eagleism, and the cricket
fhtsupplied subjects tor talk without going to
Bi»h t *^ re8 for them. At Hiscocks’, on Monday
mere was no need to endanger the public?
steading in the passages. You could
annth2?» upled three chairs for a lounge, and
for 8 sphtoop, without causing much ln-
appear odd after the
have bombarded the place up to a
oin’M™! 0 . hut then, even the “ Colonel
tlonVohH! or a ev « r - and * considering the opposl-
hold h h? a h “ lnSydQey ( he has, so far, managed to
serifv ho 0 o WQ yer 7 well. Still, it looks as if pres-
to made him cautious and determined not
els# P ho 8 so ?i mor ® than he can help, or 1
us tush *oT 0uldn t continue shovelling into
•uea fatuous originalities as “ The Colour-
ed Wedding” Tand “Hard to Kill.*’ If there
are writers In Sydney wl'io can “ jooalise ”
a pantomime surely there ai ■© those whom the
offer of an adequate subsidy w> mid induce to Rive
the “nlRRers”somethlnR new . *nd “topical.’' It
is really too much to expect \ T -r- Bent to appear
every night, and at the same tim « keep up such a
supply of original and elaborate h umour as is con-
tained in “ The Coloured Wedding ’ and others of
equal merit. And this reminds i w that Horace
was not there on Monday night, , was ‘ indis-
posed” (quid rides?) and Alf. Moyi 'ham took his
place. We stood Alf. for a long time .as there was
a hook-nosed man, with a week’s bet ' r ®. a red tie,
and a big stick, at the door, and st waenow we
didn’t care about going out that way w vile he was
glued to it—he mightn’t see us. But Vhen Alf.
told us about the egg that smashed onl his aose
having been laid by an “unhealthy h<m. t pru-
dence was thrown to the winds and we sttn ed for
home. Any danger we would have ch ee, "fully
braved rather than submit to another outr ago like
this—to have this story, that was told by thti Qi ieen
of Sheba to Solomon, again “ chucked ” at us.
Goaded to madness, we regretted that whim the
egg struck him the hen wasn't outside it. W e
bow pleasant it would be to go to the Sou’da.1.
Even the half-savage Soudanese would have nioro
human feeling than to treat inoffensive mem to
Jokes like this.
♦ * •
“Porter” was down for the “Valiant
Knight,” but gave us something about a sailo.r's
life Instead. Not even the “swill” that knoo.t-
kneed, flat-footed, dissenting clergymen write
about their “runs threugh the Holy Land,” oi"
“Missionary labours in the South Seas,” can
equal the “rot” concerning a sailor’s life, for
wbich we have to thank Fenimore Cooper,
Marryatt, and that crowd. Once, on board a man-
’o-war, we observed a mariner on his knees holy-
stoning the decks. We were young, and ap-
proached him. “Mr. Sailor-man,” we said,
“though your present occupation may appear
humble and unworthy of a British hero, still, look
aloft to that flag that has flaunted defiance in the
face of breeze and battle for full a thousand years
—liberty follows in its wake, the sound of its
dru— ’ Then we found ourselves clawing at the
lee-scuppers. We believe that holy-stone,
directed by the mariner, sent us there. The word
“liberty," it appears, broke him up, as, the day
before, the skipper had slipped two-dozen into
him for spitting on the quarter-deck. And (Heins!)
how we read of Captain JKidd and his merry men,
and screamed with, laughter at the people who
had to walk the plank In the Spanish Main; and
then the knives we used to conceal about our per-
sons, and the dreadful belts with huge buckles we
wore, the hats we drew over our eyes, and the
stealthy manner in whleh we approached our
young brothers and sisters with “ What, hot abaft
the binnacle, there! All aboord!” But Porter’s
song was cheered. It was a good song and well
sung.
* * ♦
Beaumont Road still cultivates the
“ mother ” business, but the stopes are getting
poor, and it is high time to knock off and prospect
tor another lead. He’s working up his “ mother’s
photograph” this time, but if ho would only bury
the old lady once for all we would subscribe
liberally to get her a least-iron coffin, guaranteed
to keep her safe till Gabriel struck that note on
his trombone that’ll make some people we know
“ squirm” when they hear it’s time to get up and
give an account of the coal, smuggled cigars, and
highly-promising scrip (reef goin’ mor’n ten
ounces) they ran into us in the long ago. Bra-
ham’s ballad, “ Evangeline,” was about the most
lugubrious wail ever neard since the female pro-
genitors of our modern pawnbrokers, instead of
washing their clothes in the waters of Babylon,
took their harps down there to howl. It must
have been sung in the interest of the adjoining
“ pub.,” for, after hearing it, nothing but alcohol
would restore the mental balance. Amery’s song,
“ Balling,” was well given and received. The
jokes were spectral. A “Hindoo quail ” was “ a
pork-pie with a feather stuck in it,” and an “ Irish
sandwich,” a “ potato between two bricks”—me-
lancholy this. Of the “ Coloured Wedding,” we’ve
already spoken. “ Hard to Kill” was first pro-
duced here by Hussey. Nothing less than a mil-
lion could have secured the right to produce these
bewildering works.
* * * *
At the Royal, too, the attendance has
fallen off. “ Written in Sand ” and “Nlta’s First ”
are still running.. ’Tls quite time they were
shunted now—eve »n of a good thing we can have
too much. There is really nothing fresh to say
about the performers. They go through their
parts without a noticeable bitch. To say more
would be fulsome- -to say less, untrue.
♦ * * *
At the Gaiety, too, the number of empty
seats is depressing , although it is no matter for
surprise. The fao t is we’ve had a dose of “ opera-
bouffe” in Sydney this time that would make us
welcome a circus or a dog-light, if only for a re-
lief. There are times, my friends, when even
Offenbach's drinking songs seem dull, and Lecocq
and legs cease to draw. But at this place there has
been pne welcome change—the substitution of
Vernon for Appleby in “ Eip.” Of course no such
change would have been necessary if the proprie-
tors had left strict orders with the British soldiers
to let Appleby alone' while he confined himself to
acting, but to incontinently gag him and stand
him on his head if be a ttempted to sing. But some
people never take kind ly advice. We are one. It
is due to this terrible desire to “ sing ” that wo arc
permanently maimed. The cowardly and brutal
treatment that resulted in our premature baldness
and defective articulation, arose from our starting
“ Croppies Lie Down ” iti a mixed company at one
of the New Zealand diggings. Till that night we
never knew there wore so many shovels in the
world, or what fun could be made out of them
when a big Irishman had a grip of one end and we
were close to the other.
** * *
And now “ Confusion” is coming. (Many
muy say we have quite enough here already.) We
suppose there is something in it, for it has had a
spin of—we forget how many hundred nights In
London, and close on eleven weeks in Melbourne.
It is now marked down for the Opera House on
Saturday next, opera bouffe being—than G (No
swearing!—Ed. B) marked down for destruction.
And with “ Confusion ” comes Phil. Day, Solange
Novaro, and Mrs. Marcus Clarke (nee Marion Dunn).
Bheu! How we used to crowd to see Marlon in
-Auckland in the brave days when we were 21, and
how jealous we felt when we read of her marriage
with Australia’s first litterateur. And the genial
one (not “ Dan” this time, but “Coleman”) will
be there, having left the Gaiety. “ Confusion ” is
described as the “ funniest of all plays.” We shall
be there to see, and if not, the little hatchet comes
down off the wall.
• • « «
This is a whisper. It is reported that
Harold Stephen has written an opera, ” The Hos-
podar’s Daughter ” (no leas), and Juncker has sup-
plied the music. And what’s more, we have it
from a friend who was never out in his judgment,
except once, when he challenged Larry Foley, and
retired to the hospital for a month, that words and
musie are good. Nous verrons.
* • « «
The Musical Union held in the University
Hall last Monday night attracted an unusually
large audience. Even after omitting several
parts, the “ Messiah " proved to be too lengthy a
production for nearly half the audience, some of
whom, in the most considerate way; made their
noisy exit just at the commencement of solos.
Nobody objected to their going—not a bit; in fact,
the fewer people left in the hall *• ye better for ye
music,” as poor Handel used to comfort himself
when his oratorios were so little appreciated that
the houses would be nearly empty. But if they
must go, why not go immediately after a chorus or
a solo, instead of waiting until the next item was
Just about to be commenced? But if we
begin to teach Sydney people manners, we
shall soon be worked to death, so we will
decline the task and put them in the long list of
“ our troubles.” The massive chorus gave Herr
Kretohmann plenty of work in keeping them
together* but there’s no mistake about It, they
sang oilt bravely. The orchestra was fairly good,
but sonie of the violins wore careless and came In
at wrong times. The first flute was out of tune
and muddled some of the rapid passages, but the
two oboes were more effective and better played
than usual. The organ, played by Mr. Sydney
Moss, was a great acquisition, Now for the
soloists: Miss St. Clair was at her best in “He
shall feed His flock ” which she sang with exqui-
site expression, but Miss Moon’s well-cultivated
voice is beginning to show signs of wear, and in
her enunciation she has Intensified some of
her mannerisms which do not tend to improve
the effect of her singing. Still she worked
conscientiously through her part of the pro-
gramme, which was a heavy one. Mr. Smith,’
whom we have missed of late from our concerts.
successful in all his solos, if we may except
i, utthou didst not leave,’’ In which he made a
slight slip, at which time, however, he showed
such presence of mind, that it was unnoticed by
the greater part of the audience. One drawback
to 1 , Mr - Smith’s singing is his apparent want of
self-confidence. If he could persuade himself
that he has a first-rate tenor voice which he uses
artistically, he would feel better about It, and It
vould give him courage to do himself the utmost
Justice, it is extremely rare that a tenor
ringer is wanting in concelt-Mr. Smith is
Agtiute an exception. Mr. Hallewell always
abmes in oratorio music, and was quite up to
the mark upon this occasion, “Why do the
Nations being his best effort. Indeed, it is a
Question whether the “ Messiah ” could be pro-
need in Sydney at all just now if we had no
Hallewell. We were turned round the other way
itt order to face the organ, which, to say the least
or it, was a variety. Three mortal hours we sat in
our chairs to listen to what we have beard scores
upon scores of times before, but that just shows
what a big man this Handel was. Show us another
who could effect as much I
W * * »
We are glad to say Mr. Harry Hyndes has
quite recovered from his recent indisposition, and
that bis debut concert will positively take place
(O.T.P., f.e„ gathered thumb permitting) in the
New Masonic Hall on Tuesday evening, March 10.
....Madame Pauline Blta-Radollfl’s grand benefit
concert. Old Masonic Hall, York-street, to-ulght
(Thursday 26th,)....Mr. Charles Huenerbein’s grand
concert, Exhibition Building, Saturday afternoon
next (28th.) ... Benefit concert tendered to Mons. de
Willlmoff, Mr. Bruce’s piano store, Pitt-street,
Thursday, March 5th.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspnndents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“N.A.” (Albany): Many thanks. You
will observe tbat the subject is treated from a
different standpoint.Carolus ”1 Put aside for
consideration next week...* 1 1.B.” (Fllnders-street,
Melbourne): Have taken steps to give practical
effect to your suggestion. The thing already be-
?ins to operate here, as since we noticed this
nature, the S.M. Herald has begun to follow
suit— “ Roaring Ralph ”: You roar like a sucking
“p ve -,- ‘ Ixlon ’: Proud to hear from you again.
you have wakened from your sleep
or 1000 years, you will continue to evince signs of
vitality.^..* 1 w.H.E.”: Thanks ; next week....
.. Jh.B. (Toowoomba): Handed to Mr. Hopkins....
The Festive Mickles”: Too spidor-weoby. In
other words, too much spun out.... “ Coma ”: We
can only reply tbat wo appreciate anything that is
tip-top of its kind, without other distinction save
brevity.... “Traveller” (Nowra): Your first letter
has been mislaid. We have the photo., however,
Write again and repeat your suggestion....“ F.
W. Hlllyard (Melbourne); Your best plan will be
to advertise... “Noibla ”: You ask us to put your
sketches in The Bulletin if we think anything
of them. Well, we think something or your
sketches, but won’t put them in The Bulletin.
You see, what we think of them is that they are
awful rubbish.
The £5000 to be made up by the employees
In the Government railways, as their spontaneous
contribution of a day’s pay to the so-oalled “Pa-
triotic Fund, is being squeezed out by very
energetic means. If the majority of the employes
—like the majority of the people of the colony-
do not regard the whole business as a piece of
bombast, at least a considerable minority do. But
the matter is being so worked that every employd
feels that, if he do not subscribe, he will be a
marked man. From the Government Printing
Office printed subscription lists have been issued,
and these are thrust upon the employes with so
much demonstrativeness that they feel as though
It .were a case of “Stand, and deliverYour
money, or ”
The Theatre Royal, last Sunday evening,
was, as might be expected, packed from floor to
ceding to hear Mr. Thomas Walker’s opinion on
the Soudan contingent. The lecturer made many
strong points which were thoroughly appreciated
by the majority of his hearers. At the opening of
his discourse it seemed evident that there would
be a regular riot, but the greater part of his
audience kept cool 9 and put their countenances
against Interruption. Now and again some loyal
subject would exclaim, “ Oh I ’’ followed by
Order, ‘ Sit down,” &o., but nothing was
allowed to prevent the fair delivery of Mr.
Walker s lecture, which was well delivered, and, at
the conclusion, it was proposed, seconded, and
SS rr *?nli? , l a 5!' mous ly (one hand only being against
w _ That the meeting show their disapproval of
Mr. DaUeys action !n organising the Soudan ex-
pedition without first consulting either the Par-
liament or his constituents; that, by so doing, he
took upon himself a great responsibility which
would plunge the country into debt.” Another
motion was put, that the lecture should be pub-
lished, and also that a collection be taken up to
defray the expense of such publication, and a
sum was collected to a considerable amount for
that purpose.
Use Hop Bitters once and you will use no
other medicine. Teat it. Be sure and read.
Britons still! Though absent far from the
dear old land, Britain’s cnildren and grandchildren
are to be found in thousands in this sunny Aus-
tralia ready to step to the front for duty in the
Soudan. Our respected Commandant is over-
whelmed with applicants for service. The Com-
missariat is left with confidence to specialists.
With equal confidence your orders for dinner, tea.
or toilet sets, and all kinds of crockery can be left
with Bray Bros., 403 and 404 Gecrge-street.*
I covet not houses, nor cake, nor riches,
Nor yet do I long for the statesman’s renown:
But 1 long for a new pair of Summerfleld’s
breeches—
The wonder, the glory, and prio; the town.
Summerfleld and Co., 235 and 337 Pitt-street, are
showing their first consignment of winter woollens
of a very superior description. Suits to measure,
£3 3s; trousers to order 16s. 6d.*
, A s new discovery.—Hoffman’s Eucalyptol
(registered) * Mixture and Injection.” They will
positively cure all kidney diseases and disorders,
»‘ l ft-mary complaints and discharges, irritation
scalding, inflammation, grave), pains in the back,
&o. A case incurable in nine months was actually
cured in eight days with Hoffmann’s Eucalyptol
Injectlonf purely vegetable ”). Bu-
calyptoi Mixture or Injection contain no mineral,
nosandalwood.no balsam, or anything Injurious
*° most delicate constitution of either sex.
Ask for Hoffman s, and take no substitute.
Whdesale: E. Prosser and Co.; Elliott Bros. Re-


PEPPER AND SALT.
The Bven Noozb Co., Limited— especially
as regards brains—has donated £1000 towards tho
wiping out of HI Mahdl, and, with its customary
modesty, has dubbed the Jbrnil a Grand News-
paper in consequence. Considering the cheap and
nasty style the Company’s papers are run, the
amount might have been made £10,000. A ton of
cheap flour ought to make a heap of paste;
second-hand scissors may bo bought for 6d. a pair
at Paddy’s Markets, and, as for the literary busi-
ness-well, here’s tv tale told by a Forbes scribe
which is too thoroughly characteristic of Alfred’s
generosity to tho literary profession to pa's unno-
ticed. It appears that a gentleman of ability and
some journalistic ability recently wrote to the
Jernil jokers to know if they would accept some
stray contributions from time to time, and shortly
after this he was delighted to receive a small piece
of paper,'evidently a sort of cheap circular on
which was printed, in small type, the following
legend:—” We have so many stories on hand that
we could not possibly take any more in, as to
poetry, very good verses will bo Inserted .free of
charge.” Apparently, “ very good verses ’’ are
never received—certainly they never appear—and,
as the Inference ifl that all kinds of rubbish will
be Inserted if paid for as unacknowledged ads,
the total cost of carrying on the Jernii, does not
probably exceed that of running a dog and
monkey circus. Lay aside the pen, Alfred, and
respect Nature’s intentions by clutching at the
shovel.
• * ♦
This notice Will shortly appear on the
Shop-board of a Sydney undertaker;—
None but corpses warranted fresh :
taken in here,
K t3T* Those with a musical taste pre- :
: ferred. :
• ♦ *
Bailey says he has got a lease of his’ plant
and premises for four years longer at Is. per
week. He is, therefore, still carrying on the G.
Herald. We suppose that when the supply of
paper runs out he will print it on his ears. A
rumour has reached us that the paper is delivered
fey a goat, but we don’t believe it.
• a •
The following are some of the questions
put to Colonel Richardson by one candidate for
glory who was willing to sacrifice his situation as
photographic tout, to fire his javelin at tho re-
treating enemy;—What am I to get ? When am I
to get it? How am I to get it? Am I certain to
got it? Supposing I don’t get it? If I’m killed
who’ll get It ? Wo expect groat things of this hero
—when the beef’s served out.
* * *
In the War Cht of February It there is a
specially glorious account of the life of “ Captain
Veal,” but it is headed in large caps, “ Liee of
Captain Frank H. Veal.”
For ways that are dark, the heathen
Chinee Is never “In It” by the side of a certain
J.P., who ladles out justice in a town situated
somewhere between the Cloncurry and the North
Pole. A few nights ago, a crowd of that vague,
mysterious, innumerable caravan called “The
boys,” were “Joining in the doxology ” atone of
the boss hotels. During the service, the gold-top
fizz rushed along like a mountain torrent during
flood time, and the man who was tho first to wade
in and the last to roll out was the Solon wo now
allude to. Next day, our judicial worthy fell over
one of the levellers who had pillowed his head in
the softest part of the fire-place, and was feeling
upwards with his feet for the ground Setting
him on the floor, the J.P. feelingly observed, “ By
Jove, old man, you must have walked into the nec-
lar divine pretty stiff last night! How much did
you score on your own account ?” “Seven bottles,”
replied the other, as he picked the ashes out of his
ears and began to paw around for his missing
boots. Just here a happy thought struck our
hero, and skipping down to the host, he enquired:
“ How many bottles of cham. did Mr. Blank slate
up with you last night ?” “ Only three,” replied
the landlord. “Ah,” said the high priest of Jus-
tice; "well, now, look herc-he thinks he scored
seven. Now, you take the four off my bill and
clap them on to his. He’s got plenty of greed, and
he’ll never know the difference.” But the land-
lord was a disobliging cuss, and not only refused
to work the job, but also went out of his way to
declare that the J.P. wasn’t up to much, and that
the man who would make such a proposition as
that would not only put salts in his grandmother’s
tea, but h?’d also steal the salts and tho grand-
mother in order to perform the operation.
• * *
Old Father Norton, having laid the foun-
dation stone of tho Tamworth Post-Office, said his
memory carried him back half a century. We
quite believe this. And, mind you, these are the
kind of men we want to hold portfolios in this
country. The next Minister for Lands we should
like to see have moss on him, and the successor to
Trlckett enter the House in a wheeled chair, with
a speaking-trumpet in one hand and a snuff-box In
tho other. Give the old boys a chance in the legis-
lature; they get plenty in the demure 17 or 18 line.
Why, it is a well-known fact now, amongst the
loveliest of Sydney's daughters, that if the suitor
has not a long hair on the end of his nose,
and one big front tooth—like a domino—they
wont look at him. Why, we knew an aged
man once, who, as Mr, Llllyvick said, anybody
would have considered himself safe from, who
euchred us. We played sweet airs outside her
window on tho gondola (11!— Ed. B.), and she used
to respond at Manly from her balcony by throw-
ing us encouragement and a maccaroons. But
one day, just as we were in the meridian of our
happiness, an old man with a crutch wheezed up
and scooped tho pool. Never mind, we thought,
he can’t last long, and we will wed the wealthy
widow. But he’s lasted, so far, pretty well. The
third! Wonderful, isn’t it? Something in the
crutch, perchance.
4 I •
It is slightly annoying, we have been told,
to have to rush for the tram, and find you have got
no collar-stud, or have left one boot behind. We
can’t say, because we shouldn’t miss one, having
been well drilled in journalism, and qualified to
analyse from the sole of our foot the relative fric-
tion of sandstone, asphalt gravel, and blue metal,
simply by the feel of the sturdy cuticle on a
bunion on the ball of the big toe of our left foot—
the said bunion having come, according to the
Scriptures, from an Ingrained habit of kicking
against the pricks and arrows of outrageous hum-
bug. But hero is the grievance. In the reports of
banquets and speeches which we are compelled
to pay a Gibraltar camel to crawl through,
our camel complains that he must throw
up his billet or have a truss of hay a week extra
His grievance is that he can’t get along ten words
without bashing his knees over this sort of thing
It is from a report of Mr. Froude’s speech in Mel-
bourne:—“Mr. said,‘On this occasion (hear,
hear)—Indeed, I may say on several occasions
(laughter)—I have noticed (cheers) that the people
of Australia (prolonged applause) have (hear,
hear, and laughter) more than once (laughter; a
voice, “ Twice.”)—I say once, at the least (ap-
plause) achieved —’ (Here the gentleman’s voice
was drowned in cheers.)” We admit the camel’s
claim. The extra truss of hay must be paid.
* * ♦
Now, read carefully. This is some of what
the Evening Frankankris copied from the
Washington Herald about the Princess Bea-
trlce-Duckworth business. When it was discovered
that the Princess loved her tutor: “A family
council was called. Tho Prince of Wales and Duke
of Connaught were rather in favour of allowing
their sister to follow the inclinations of her heart
[III! (though it would have been an unprece-
dented thing), and let the curate marry her. Rut
the Crown Princess of Germany and Princess
Alice Maude refused to hear of such a thing. ‘ She
shall give him up,’ said her mother, passionately,
* or I will kno w why.’ ” It certifies to the splendid
intelligence of the conductors of a paper when we
find this gorgeous bosh printed without comment!
And, further: “After the more eligible men had
all been canvassed without success, her Majesty
bethought herself of this young Highland model
of all the Christian virtues, and she directed
General Lord Ponsonby (sic). Private Secretary, to
summon the Duke of Argyll to Windsor.” And
yet each of the boys belonging to the paper which
ingenuously copied this rot are going to (and can)
give £200 a year to the Patriotic Fund—when it’s
called for.
* * *
Just as Colonel Richardson had about con-
cluded his business one day last week, a troupe of
perspiring men burst in upon him. “Gracious!”
cried the Colonel—“where’s the fire?” “We’re
not firemen, sir,” gasped the leader; “we’re —”
“ Turnkeys, of course. Then you’re not eligible-
Good evening.” “We’re net turnkeys, neither,”
growled the spokesman. “Then what the devil
are you ? ” cried the Commandant. Then came
the chorus—“Wo’re the Pyrmont Band.” The
Colonel mused a moment. “ Have you your in-
struments with jou?” he enquired. “fihey’re
only at the pub, sir.” “Then bring them over*
my good men; I should like to hear you play.”
They soon returned, and commenced to blast out
“ Why ?” we yell in tones of query,
High up in the treble clef,
“ Was tho blood-washed typo beery
When he dropped the useful ‘ f ’ ”
“ Why,” we shriek, “we shall consume, or
Know at once the reason why:
Was it hallelujah humour
Made the Captain’s life a ‘ lice ?' ”
We are helpless worms. May we bo
Hanged if we can really see
Whether piety or P.B.
Gave the word that funny “ e.”
No! to us it don’t seem patent
What mixed up that printer-youth;
Was it whisky— or a latent
Hanherino to express the truth 7
The N.Sf.W. Mouse and the Lion.
—-“AW I THANKS,” REPLIED THE LION, “I'VE .BROKEN STOUTER NETS THAN THIS ONB; AND, LOOK HERB, HOW IF A CAT SHOULD VISIT YOUR NEST WHILE
YOU’RE HERE?"


, MolUe Darling.” Being on their mettle, each one
played his loudest, and the efforts of the miscreant
on the drum wore of a striking nature. On the
•onolusloa of the performance, the Colonel called
the men aside and said—“I cannot give an answer
to your application before I see my colleagues. In
the event of our deciding to accept your services
for duty la the Soudan, It will not be, In my esti-
mation, necessary to send anybody else.” Then
each member of the band filed sadly out with his
faoe tied in a knot.
« * *
He was a new-chum cleric, and meeting a
bullock team on the way from Bourke to Warra-
weena, he enquired of the gentleman In charge:
“ Aw—you are, what I am told is called a bullock-
driver, are you not?” "Jest as y’ like," replied
the other; ‘‘but it’s bull-punchers we call ’em
here.” ** Oh, indeed,” said the divine; " well, now,
tell me, my good man, is It true that persons fol-
lowing your calling are in the habit of Indulging
rather freely In profane and blasphemous lan-
guage ?” “ Well,” said the puncher, “ when th’
roads Is good an’ things are goln’ straight, we’re
no better norwuss than most other people; but
when we get over our axles in a bog an’ start fair
an’ square on the oussin' racket, I guess the re-
cordin’ angel can’t go loafin’ round with his hands
In his breeches pockets then, you bet. Whoa—up.
yer b Strawberry, where y’ goln’ t’ now ?”
And as the preacher moved slowly on, he won-
dered how St. Paul would fare If he started to
convert a Warraweena ox-encourager.
mm*
Alderman Scott, of the Leichhardt municl-
pallty, said at the Council meeting the other
night that the Evening Haws had three times the
circulation of the Herald in that borough. The
other evening paper merely cries “ encore” to
the morning issue: but, whenever people want
original matter, they go to the Evening News.”
That about the circulation la true. Three copies
of the Noozs—all borrowed from Newtown—are
read In Leichhardt with great attention, while
only one copy of the Herald —stolen from a door-
step In Redfern—finds its way there. But origi-
nality. Morbleu! fLook at the Herald's tele-
| grams any day, and compare them with Alfred’s.
1 Yet Alf. will just get home in time to pose as a
Uterateur and a typlcrl Australian patriot pre-
pared to lead an awkward squad of pot-bellied
diners-out to !glory. Yes-thore is an after life—
there must be. If there’s not we must Invent one,
as Robespierre invented God. It would be etupld
to suppose that the things Mho come to the front
in the world can have their own way for aye.
Glorious War.— From Sovaral Points of View.


B KALE and COMPANY
SOLE AGENTS
In
NEW SOUTH WALES
and
QUEENSLAND
for the
SWEET HAPSBUBG PIANOS.
HAYDN ORGANS and HARMONIUMS,
and the
WONDERFUL
WERTHETM SEWING MACHINES.
Liberal Terms of Time Payment-
8HOW ROOMS.
Sydney :
386 GEORGE STREET,
618 GEORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS,
and
151 OXFORD STREET,
or from our Travellers in town and country.
Head Offices and Warehouses :
371, 373, 875, 377a PITT STREET.
BP" The most liberal terms to travellers In town
and country*
Commission only, or salary and commission.
“What are you doing, Frank?” asked
Chris., bursting in on that distinguished Journal-
ist, as be was deep in the throes of composition.
Frank looked up with a nervous laugh. “ Well,
look here, Chris ,” he said; “ I want to do some-
thing to send the army along, so I have written a
little patriotic song ’’ “A mere trifle,” sug-
gested Chris. “Just thrown off in a spare mo-
ment,” replied Prank. “ Shall I read it ?” “Do,”
rejoined Chris., in gloomy tones. “It’s oalled,’<
said Frank, “ the
WAR CLARION.
* Bound the War Clarion, hearts so true,
From the Waverley tram station to Jaraberoo;
We’re going to fight, and none need doubt it,
There’ll be, you’ll see, dear readers, no kid about
it I”
“Very good touch, that,” cried Chris.; "but l g
that all ?’’ Frank then gave a gratified smile (upon
which Chris, drew hastily bach), and said: “No;
not half of it,” “ Go ahead, then,” said Chris; and
ahead he went:—
“ Bound the War Clarion! with a sound eternal!
When on the burning sands of Egypt tell the cir-
culation of the Jbbnel;
Let all the Arabs know upon that sun-scorched
shore
That they can have their picture rolled and
glazed for 4d. more.
•‘Plenty of fire therel” cried Chris. "Thanks,”
said Frank, blushing, " but you are too ” “ No,
I mean It 1” “Go on I” “I dol” “You’re not
chaffing?” asked Frank anxiously. “No.” And
again Frank smiled; and again Chris, drew back.
“ There isn’t much more,” said Frank, perusing a
rather grotesque manuscript—" Ohl”
“ Blow hard in the clarion! We hope when victory
does you greet
You’ll sneak about our new big building up in
Market-street;
If you don’t win, and you pris’ners to be taken
chance.
Just tell the Mahdi that our terms are strictly in
advance;
Though discount—put it softly—we sometimes
fix
Upon what you might call a syndicate of six!”
“There’s the true ring there,” cried Chris., de-
lightedly. Much gratified, the poet went on :—
*’ Blow into it once more, and sound a vary wild
acclaim
To those which is going to seek foreign fame;
And leave all their pigs and their cocks and their
cows and
Their sheep (the circulation of the News Is forty-
five thousand.)”
“Splendid!" cried Chris.; “It sounds Just like
truth; how do you make it?” “It came upon mo
all of a sudden. I think it must be a gift,” was the
modest reply. Then, looking at his watch, he
Orled, “Thunder! we’d bettqr hurry up stairs
Chris., before the beef’s off."
* ♦ *
He was a strong, able-bodied, ugly-look-
fng customer, and when he covered the paper on
his knee with a paw like a paleontological taran-
tula while he felt in his waisooat pocket for a
match, we ventured—“Anvthiug fresh in the
journal this evening," sir 7 ” He glared at us.
"Young man," sald.he, “I’ve subscribed to the
Evening News off and on since its start, and
when I find that it begins to give telegrams that
have not already appeared in the Hebald, then I
chucks it. No, my son (here he grew affectionate),
if you can find here any intelligence that wasn’t
known in Australia twenty-four hours ago, I gives
up llteratoor.”
* • *
“ I’m in this push,” said something in a
very ragged suit, to Colonel Richardson. “ What
do you mean, sir?” cried the Colonel. “I see,”
said the stranger; “ you’ve got to pretend to be per-
tickler ;—the whole thing’s a deuced good joke ”
“ Slrl ” cried the Colonel again. “ Oh, it wouldn't
do to say so,” continued the visitor, taking a seat,
and thereby revealing the fact that he had a soul
above socks; “no. no I D’ye see, it’s bread and
dripping to you. It’s lucky this war’s come on;
for you was getting pretty mouldy this trip. Why
some of you sodger orfleers has creaked so when
you was a exercising at Dawes Point that you've
frequently woke up the Doss Club, as was fast
asleep under Lady Macquarie's Chair.” “ What’s
your bus —,’’ commanded the Colonel, be.
coming purple In the face. "No hurry, old
t-mcher," said the applicant;' affably ; “only
I want to be in this fake. You can just
put mo through the hanky-panky part, and
I'll be anything you like. A sergeant or a cap-
tain—it’s ail the same to me. Oh, and look! You
needn’t mind sending me to the front too soon,
for, though I'm rammed up to the muzzle with
courage, my appearance might, perhaps, belie my
valour. Give me a musket and something to read,
and let’s see who dare attack the bread-carts; give
me a sabre and a song-book, and I’d defend the
rum-waggon till I was steeped in gore ” “ The
best thing you can do,” fumed the Colonel
“is —” “Right, old bird; I know. You and
me wasn’t born yesterday. This little war’s as
good as a domino club to you, and I want to stand
in. When spons. and tinned salmon Is a Ilyin’
about, I want to cop my little portion. This can
all be arranged comfortable. You and me’s no
chickens at this game." Here he winked on the
exasperated Colonel and on the intrepid Nathan.
“ Well," ho resumed, “ I’ll go now, as theta’s
about two million candidates for oarrion shriek-
ing for destruction outside. Put me down for
something easy—M’Qlingetty’s my name (I was
christened Rlnaldo)—put me down for something
easy. Mum s the word. All friends here. If not
being Intrusive, I may say that I like my cabin
amidships—on the starboard side. A-jew!” And
he was gone before an Indignant umbrella could
reach him.
• * •
“Do you know you may never come
back ?’’ asked a missionary of a newly-enrolled
warrior. “I don’t Intend to,” replied the newly-
acquired treasure; “ I shall get sick at Suaklm,
and be invalided home to England. I lives at
Wapping,” he added. “ Well, take this, brother,”
said the missionary. “It is an affecting work.
Pause I Thy foot is near the pit.” “Pooh!” said
the recruited one, laughing; “ my foot Is not near
the Pitt now; but It was dangerously so the last
time I heard him recite poetry at a picnic.” “ Soof
ferl ” cried the missionary. “ Ta ta,” said the re-
cruit, And they parted—for ever.
• ♦ *
It is stated that some of the warriors who
are going In the gore-shedding expedition, are
somewhat in the position of prisoners whose de-
meanour denotes levity. In the dock. They don’t
seem to realize their position.
* * *
Of course Quong Tart must have a finger
in it. He would supply the expedition with tea
for nothing, and “ regard It as a great honour ” to
bo allowed te do so. The worst of it is that there
is a suspicion (groundless, no doubt) abroad that if
the contingent was Intended for service before
Pekin, he would be equally prepared—from purely
patriotic motives—to supply it with tea and—if
necessary—stink-pots. No, M. Tart; It’s too thin.
You say: “I am not of your country,” nut, believe
us, you are. Your cranium may be shaped dlf
ferontly, your features, though comely, not-
chiselled la the Caucasian fashion; but you are of
t«-at least, of that section ©f us which is always
at hand to jump on a weakly lad and polish the
boots of a strong.
The s.s. Newcastle.
It was generally thought when contracts were
taken for the construction of a railway from
Sydney to Newcastle that no further improve-
ment could be looked for in the class of steamers
trading between the two ports; but the directors
of the Newcastle Steamship Company, judging by
the arrival of the splendid steamer, illustrated by
us this week, have not, it would appear, the least
idea of quietly allowing the “ iron horse ” to mono-
polise the trade which, during the past nine years,
they have so energetically engaged th mselves in.
In April, 1883, the manager of the Company,
Mr. H. D. Porceus, went to England to order
a steamer capable of competing with the
railway when it started. Three important re-
quisites were to be kept in view, viz., very
high speed, easy sea-going qualities, and passenger
accommodation of the most superb and extensive
kind. That these instructions have been thorough-
ly carried out no one who has enjoyed a trip in the
Newcastle will, we think, be disposed to deny. At
the trial trip on the 13th February, although in-
ferior coal was burnt, a speed of 18 miles per hour
was reached, and with full speed, 19 will easily be
covered. As the sea journey la nearly 35 miles less
than the rail track, and the average rail speed is
not far in excess of 20 miles an hour, a full measure
of support may always be calculated upon for
a steamer fitted, as tho Newcastle is, with the
electric light and all the comforts and acces-
sories looked for in a first-class club or
hotel. The following description of this fine
vessel is condensed from the Glasgow Mail:—
“Yesterday (says the Glasgow Hbkald of the 6th
ultimo) the splendid new paddle-steamer, New-
castle, built by Messrs. John Kay and Sons, engi-
neers and shipbuilders, Kirkcaldy, went on her
trial trip in the Frith of Forth. She is a steel pad-
dle steamer of 1253 tons gross, 265 feet long, 32 feet
8 inches broad, and 23 feet 4 Inches deep, and built
specially for the passenger service between Sydney
and Newcastle, for the Newcastle bteamship Com-
! pany of New South Wales. There is accommoda-
tion in all for 170 first-class and 230 second-class
passengers, besides the usual officer and crew
space. The space between decks is unusual, being
8 feet 6 inches. Everything has been done to se-
cure coolness and plenty of fresh air on board,
and in the warm climate where she will trade this
is all-important. The main saloon is a splendid
apartment, upholstered in olive-coloured velvet,
with hangings to match. The floor is laid with
. encaustic tiles. The ceiling is covered with lln-
orusta walton, gilded and decorated, which
material has been found moat suitable for
Australia, and has been used on board where-
over practicable. The walls Are pannelled in
various woods, including walnut, rosewood, satin-
wood, teak, and oak, hand-painted, and the panels
are alternated with bevelled mirrors. In the
centre of the saloon are sofa seats, which, by an
ingenious arrangement, are convertible to tables
at meal times and into beds at night. The saloons,
state-rooms, and all parts of the vessel are fitted
with the Swan incandescent electric light on the
Swan-Edison system. Attached to the state-rooms
is every convenience in the way of baths, lava-
tories, &o. The state-rooms are specially well
lighted and ventilated. A small bar parlour open-
ing off the saloon is also fitted with sofa berths.
Pneumatic bells and speaking-tubes communicate
all over the ship. The ladies’ saloon is situated
above the main saloon, and is most elegantly fur-
nished. The upholstery work is in olive velvet,
and the panels, of various woods, are beautifully
painted. The roof and sides of the well are covered
with beautifully ornamented lincrusta. The
ladies’ boudour, on the awning deck, is another
very pretty apartment, furnished in peacock blue.
The panelling and mirrors are similar to those in
the saloons. The berths on this deck are so ar-
ranged that two separate berths only take up the
room usually occupied by one. Privacy is thus
secured without sacrificing space. There is a
handsome smoking-room on this deck. The en-
trance .to the second-class cabin is further for-
ward. Here the berths have been arranged In
three tiers, and by an arrangement of partitions
and doors the ladies’ and gentlemen’s quarters
will always be distinct, no matter how the one sex
may happen to exceed the other in numbers. The
warping gear for drawing the steamer close to the
quays is driven by steam. The Newcastle is fitted
with two compound oscillating engines, with
cylinders 64 and 100 inches in diameter respectively
aud a 78-inoh stroke. Steam to 1001b. pressure is
got up by four steel boilers. The construction of
the engines was superintended by Mr. James Mat.
thews, who will be chief engineer, while the whole
vessel was designed and constructed under the
superintendence of Captain W. Anderson, who
will command on board.
Oh, sweet is the breath of health-giving breeze
As over the harbour it floats;
But 'tis not half so sweet as the fit and the style
Of Summerfleld’s trousers and coats!
Ladies should not fail to examine Summerfield
and Co.’s latest fashions in boys’ and youths’ cloth-
ing just received from their London house, 51 and
53 Leadenhall-street, B.C. Pretty knicker suits,
8s. lid. and 10s. 6d. Summerfield and Co., Great
Juvenile Outfitters, S35 and 287 Pitt-street.*
OUR ADDRESS TO THE ARMY.
Brave soldiers! sons of steel and sinew!
TTeknow, 0, warriorsl what is in you!
Let each his tunic just unki ver—
There beats a heart there—not a liver;
Or, if not—let us this impart—
A liver that’s so like a heart I
Oh, heroes of the muster roll,
Whose thoughts of glory fill the soul,
Be brave now in all that you do—
The universe's eye’s upon you!
Droop not; for, till the fatal fray,
You’ll get your “ little eight ’’ a day;
Your rum and beer, to warm each heart.
And not a single cent to part!
Your duty do, ye bold recruits!
Think now, at last, ye have whole hoots—
A thing which but last week did seem
The tail end of a fairy dream I
When in the breach just give as one
Your hiccup, and tho Mahdl’s done!
Oh, Hearts of Oak! whom Jordan’s sung,
You must all now “ put in the bung;”
And, though ye fall ’neath Arab knives.
This campaign may have saved your lives!
For what is surer death—now come —
Than Redfern ale or Pyrmont rum ?
Refulgent Braves, be not forlorn,
We’ll think of you when you are gone;
But, p’rhaps it would be wise, now, mind j
To leave a molar each behind you.
For of you we, in days to come,
Might but an ear get and a thumb—
Or, perhaps, a private’s blucher, say,
In which a soldier sailed away.
Our little Joke! We know full well,
Ye Braves! that ye will powder smell!
Your duties you will all discharge—
You’ll do, at least, to “ break a charge;”
Or, if not, your bold file and rank
Can “hang on to the en’my’s flank”—
Or, possibly, it must be clear
The Mahdi “ harass In the rear.”
But, listen I Thus it may befall;
They might make sextons of you all;
Keep you at digging—labour dread—
The graves of the already dead!
We think—we really do—don’t start!—
That this will be your noble dart.
Let clarions sound and faulchions flash!
Let trombones grunt and cymbals clash I
Let banners wave; triumphant song
Be chaunted as ye march along!
Oh, Bayards! quitting this fair shore,
The grocer man will rave no more,
And, in the dreary eve, make scenes
About “ those pig’s feet and sardines.”
Outside a pub., as on you Jog,
You need not fear the grim “ mad dog ”
That yells, “ I know your dirty tricks—
You keep away for three-and-six.”
Ob, Sons of Sinew, all bedlght
With scarlet red and helmets bright.
As you tramp ’neath the heavens blue
We’ll vow we’ll see—the last of you!
A GLEAM OF HOPE.
“It is reported that Lieutenant Nathan,
A.D.O. to the Governor, will not accompany the
expedition.”
Wo dreamed a dream, the other night,
That gave us terror and affright;
We woke up pallid and forlorn,
Gazed wildly on the coming day.
While whisp’rmg bogles seemed to say—
“The gallant Nathan's gone.”
What, gone! We’ll no more hear the sound
Of hts sword’s clank upon the ground;
Nor mark his tones so soft and low,
As, with d(gagi air, he will
Read to her ladyship the bill
When she "commands” and sees tho “show.’
With Alrey gone and Bouverie,
But desolation we can seel
And Spalding’s in the van!
Yet for protection we, who’ve sinned,
Our trembling faith and hope all pinned
Upon one valiant man I
THE ROMANCE OE WAR.
AT PADDINGTON -.-OFFICER (to enthusiastic Volunteer)! “DON’T TRAIL TOUR RIFLE
ALONG THE GROUND LIKE THAT, BIR.”
ENTHUSIASTIC VOLUNTEER: “I WAS TIRED OF CARRYING THE BLOOMIN’
THING. WON’T THAT DOT"
OFFICER (indignantly): “ NO, SIR.”
E. V. (pulling out document from hie pouch): “THEN I’LL JUST TROUBLE YOU TO
SETTLE MY SMALL ACCOUNT. HERE YOU ARE.”
NOBLE COMMANDER (read*): “TO ACCOUNT RENDERED, APRIL 1, 1874-1 BAH
SOAP, «d.; BLUE,].!.; 2 RED HERRINGS, 3d.; RAG OATMEAL —(Impatiently mmHng
off). “YOU CAN TRAIL YOUR RIFLE.”
Now, where is gone that faulch<on brave
Which was our hearths and homes to save,
And steep itself in fame ?
We felt secure, we feeble few . . .
Now what in thunder would we do
If Bismarck’s Germans came ?
A doubt I—Then, with expectant thrill,
We cry, “ He’ll be left to us still I
His flashing eye and splendid braid.
His solmetar and pistols will
Be for our protection still.
Now—' who’8 afraid V "


Lord Sherbrooke, better known as Robert
Lowe, has married again at 70. Wonderful fel-
lows, theso old men! What splendid supporters
they all are of the shops that sell trousseaux—sbud
layettes. Especially layettes. Of course, you’ve
all heard the rumour that Madame la Baronne de
Lesseps—talk of a grand old man! We are re-
minded by this of the following:—Suitor (to
father): “It is true that I am well on in years; but
I am rich; y .mr daughter loves me—is It on ac-
count of my age.” Father: “ It is, sir. Your
wealth, considerable though It is, would not
suffice to enable to properly sustain your family I ‘
“The prayers of the righteous avalleth
much,” And this reminds us thatjprayers were re-
cently offered up In several of the Adelaide
churches for the speedy restoration of peace In
Egypt and the safety of General Gordon. Two
days later word catne that Khartoum had fallen,
and Gordon had been assassinated. Profiting by
the lesson contained fn the above, a local editor in-
formed his defaulting subscribers that unless they
anted up before the month was out he would have
prayers offered up for their temporal welfare in
every church throughout the land. Next day he
had to hire an extra clerk to enable him to check
off the thousands of money-orders that rolled in
upon him. yilnaro-rnoVi •!« fine nifiT
• Amachaw concerts;
how we love them. Mafiy
a time and oft, in this
city, have we peacefully
snored through some, and
at others sat up wide
awake and cursed our
ignorance of the Choc-
taw language which
prevented our knowing
what all the trouble was
about, when a shaggy
bearded basso profunda
with a glass eye and no
brains, toed the foot-
lights, and told us “Rock
tin th’ oak radleov thede
eep,” or when some all
gush-and-gause young
heart-breaker gave a
scientific sort of cow
kick at her train and
whispered softly that she
was “Rearln onderRine.’’
Posterity has acted con-
demned shabbily to the
man who Invented ama-
chaw concerts In not pro-
viding a statue to his
memory, and if we only
knew the exact spot
where he’s buried, we’-d
dig him up to-morrbw—
and roast him with the
wood of his own coffin.
And talking of the weak-
ness the bulk of our non-
professional warblers
(and many professionals
also) have for singing in
the Choctaw tongue, re-
minds us that one Sims
Reeves (you may have
heard of him before), on
being recently asked how
he managed to put such,
pathos and feeling into a
song and make It a suc-
cess, while other vocalists
were mercilessly * goosed’
on trying the same piece,
replied: “ It is because I
have always studied my
words. I have read them
and phrased them In
every possible way, asked
myself what they meant,
and Interpreted them ac-
cording to my feeling. I
try this line and tiw that
until I feel that I have
struck the right idea.
But I am never satisfied.
Now-a-days singers do
not study elocution suffi-
ciently, if at all. In a
recitative, for instance,
the words are sacrificed
to the music. In my
method they are of equal
importance.” W o’re
rather inclined to think
there Is something in
Sims’s method after ail;
but at the same time
there are many songs
knocking round to-day,
the words of which are
as destitute of meaning
as a Rum leader, or the
JLIndley Murray squelch-
ing addresses of some of
our suburban aldermen.
Wei earn that at the
execution of Duffy, In
Western Australia, the
rope broke and cut his
head nearly off. The body
had to be cut down Im-
mediately after the drop.
As may bo Imagined, the
corpse was very indig-
nant at this scandalous
treatment, and quite a
scene occurred in the
laying-out room after the
reporters had been ex-
cluded. Then it grumbled
at the quality of its
shroud ; and threatened
to write to the Times re-
specting the small a-
mount of quicklime that
had been ordered for its
cofl0n. Then, with the
words—“ Never mind a
monument ; a marble
cross will do for me”—
was, after some difficulty
nailed down and canted
in to-tha burial hole.
Among the amenities of the late patriotic
meeting. Scene: Ground floor of building, on the
outskirts of crowd. Stalwart possessor of sten-
torian lungs, standing straddle-leg upon two
chairs, interjects at platform; “ Why don’t 1 yer go
to Egypt yerselt ?’’ Gentleman (standingon floor):
“Why don’t you go? You’re not wanted here.”
Stentor: “TThat?” Small bystander (anticipating
the retort courteous): “,1ell the gentleman we
just do want your sort here, and we could better
afford to lose the Jingos.” Stentor: “Haw! haw!
haw! Stick that in your pipe, governor, and go
yerself.”
“A Patriot” indignantly draws atten-
tion to the fact that at least two-thirds of
our heroes who are now offering themselves for
service in the Soudan are married men. He
thinks this reflects infinite disgrace on our yoqng
and single warriors. We don’t. For, if the whole
world were put to the test, it would be found that
a married man—especially one of long standing—
Is always more willing.to die thaua bachelor HolL
has no terrors for the man who has to slog the
children to sleep in the nursery, or put “shine" on
the boots in the kitchen while his better three-
quarters entertains her distinguished guests in the
parlour. By the way, what In thunder'ds a
* Patriot?” We know what patriotism is well
enough, because Dr. Johnson has defined it as
being in many oases the “ last ref uge of a scoun-
drel." ct y -wj
And a Mr. Henry Cobb, of Braldwood, has
his little bid for Immortality by means of another
war-song—a truculent one this, hurling defiance,
allied with contempt, in the face of a fearful
worlds—
" ’Tis a voice across the main,
• Gordon by treaoh’ry slain;’
,j*, f England will bis death requite.
Who will join us in the fight ?”.etc.
The severest measures should be at once adopted
by the authorities for the purpose of suppressing
this description of literature. It’s bad enough to
send a handful of undisciplined men to fight in a
quarrel that is none of ours, but that’s no reason
why they should be discouraged 1 * fore starting
by having such “ calls to arms” as lue above fired
into them.
And talking of this ferocious desire of N.
S. Wales to “ squash ” El Mahdl, reminds us that
we once Joined a regiment to do our level best in
sitting on the King of Abyssinia for his cheek in
proposing to our Gracious Sovereign when he
hoard she was a widow. We tell this for the bene-
fit of those of our Infantry who may think that
the free-and-easy discipline to which they have
beqn used will bo observed In their new corps. An
express took five hundred of us to Cork—the port
of embarkation—where, between lines of armed
men; we were run on board the ship alongside.
Vepturlng to drop out of the ranks for a drink of
water, about two Inches of bayonet were deftly
Insinuated Into our system, and a murderous-
looking warrior, with three stripes on his arm,
mildly observed, “My orders is to see you
aboord,’ so you don’t get out here—leastways not
this time; so you’d better get.” We got.
The infection has extended to Henry
Falloran. His is the worst case as yet. Hear him :—
“ Then hurrah I for the 1 Southern Cross ’ wher-
ever it appear,
The men who throng beneath it can ‘forward’
with a cheer;
For It tells their trust in heaven when battle’s
breezes blow
Its bright folds over men who march against
‘old England’s foe.’”
The “Southern Cross wherever it may appear,” is
good. For a few billions of years it has appeared
in the same place, but—you can never trust tne
stars, when “ battle’s breezes blow ” there’s
nothing tetter than a firm trust in heaven—except
breach-loading rifles. With a good appetite, a fair
icotnmissanat, and plenty of ammunition, it would,
bo as well to let heaven alone for a bit.
Its quite time enough to “requisition" it when
pouch and stomach are both empty.
. There’s a hunk of common sense carefully
stowed away somewhere in the following legend,
which, when found, we would prayerfully recom-
mend the Harmy oaptlngs to take note on :-Mlss
Booth, a “ Marechale ” of the Salvation Harmy
recently officiated as chief nuptial-knot tlest at a
“Salvation wedding,” In the village ofVeyrier,
France. When the solemn affair was duly fixed
up, “Colonel” Cllbborn opened his mouth and
said, “ Dear sisters and brethren,—If you wish to
testify your interest In the welfare of this newly-
wedded couple, an opportunity will now be
afforded you of doing so. A collection will be
taken up to pay one year’s rent of the lodgings
which they are to occupy.” And then the hat was
sent round, to trombone and tambourine accom-
paniment.
“ Yes,” he said, as he finished the pint and
wiped his mouth. “I served morn’n 30 years In
the 50th—the old Dlc-hards. Up every mornin’ at
five, drillin’ an’ firin’, an’ marchln’, an’ exercisin’.
An’ it took two years o’that afore I was passed for
foreign service. An’ now we’re sendin* out a lot
o’ Joskins that never wore uniform for a week
runnln’. Wot’s your use atellln’ me they’ll fight
well ? O’ course they’ll fight well. Ye don’t sup-
pose I mean that, considerin’ my own son’s gotn’,
an’ I’d back the brat to hold his own anywheres.
Wot I say is, it’s onfalr to send the boys out
among disciplined sogers. So wot’s yourn, an’
’ere’s to my Bill as belongs to the Snd Regiment,
an’ was passed for service yesterday. His ol’ dad’ll
miss him, but, my oath, if them there Arabs thinks
they’ve got a ‘slouch’ in Bill, they’ll be sucked
in, you see. I seed him one mornin’ put a bobby
on his head, in Woolloomooloo, ’fore you could
ask the loan of a sack. An’ if the worst comes to
the worst, an’ these yere niggers gets him in a
corner, by Jingo, he’ll remember.his dad’s ol’ regi-
ment, an’ * die hard.’ ”
A simple tale of rustic love, from the
mountains. At Tumberumba young ladies are
scarce, and dear. So, when a fair one of ravish-
ing charms came to visit a station near by, a local
youth (a very dude, indeed), Immediately esta-
blished what he considered a Arm mush. Time
went by, the lady had to go home, and then the
tender vouthlet lode out, immaculate as to collar
and cuffs, to bid her farewell. To bis disgust, as
the coach started, a rival dude sat on the box.
Torn by emotions, he turned away, and it was only
next day he learned from the coachman that not
only had the hated rival eloped with the belle,
but that as soon as the coach got out of to »n the
hated rival got inside, and executed a series of
mantEuvres in mashing, beside which all the
primitive efforts of dude No. 1, were but as the
merest beginning In small things. That atternoon,
the body of a youth was found by the roadside,
his neck in a coffee-tin collar, and a revolver in
his hand—a chamber recently discharged. But
no wound was discovered. It is surmised that,
being the first of his family who ever came in close
contact with a revolver,he pointed the wrong end
of tfie weapon, and then fainted at the report!
A Captain Walton gives his views in a
Melbourne paper. From the great number of
Officers—In proportion to men—killed in the Sou-
dan, he argues that the men had to be led. We
are consumed with a desire to see this “ Captain’s ”
birth certificate and commission. Did ho ever
hear of any men—savage or civilised—fighting
without being led ? Were It not for leading their
men, ollicers would have no raison d'etre. Even
Moltke, when the success of the greatest cam-
paign the world has seen, depended on his safety,
rushed to the front, cap and riding-whip in hand,
to show his troops his contempt for danger. “ Had
to he led! ” Bah 1 The captain must think that all
battles are like Tel-el-Keblr, and all officers like
the Duke of Connaught, who so distinguished
himself by his splendid composure—In the rear.
“ Australia’s name shall ring,
Throughout east, north, south, and west,
With honour, when home they bring
Our flag with victory blest,
Chohus.—Raise high Australia’s banner,
May glory crown our name," etc.
These are some of the words of that masterly
composition—“The Patriotic War-song”—byrneans
of which Mr. Leopold Jordan has reached what
country papers call “ the great heart of the peo-
ple." What do we think of it? We think Mr.
Jordan should be sent to the Soudan to sing It to
the Mahdl. Then there’d be no necessity lor an
expedition. El Mahdl would never survive the
first verse, when ’twas properly explained to him.
A Boer is reported
to have Written to his
father a letter in which
the following passage ap-
pears:—“Papa, I havegot
here in the land of Goshen
seventeen farms, and I
have again entered upon
another war for another
farm, and hope that the
Lord will hold His pro-
tecting hand over us and
protect us from the bul-
lets of the enemy.” This
Boer not only aggrandises
monstrously, but prays
the Lord to assist his
work. If he had served
his time as Foreign Secre-
tary for England or as
Anglican Primate of Aus-
tralia, he could not have
learnt his business better.
They have a peeler
in one of the Melbourne
suburbs, whose cranium
is stored with an amount
of Intelligence that Is
positively astounding for
a policeman. Just bark
you. At about two
o’clock on the morning of
the 7th, this particular pie
womer was walking nis
beat (don’t laugh sarcas-
tically, dear reader, it is a
positive fact), and musing
over the heartless con-
duct of Mary at No. 11,
who threw him over, just
when his night beat was
coming on, for a mam-
moth eared, monkey-
faced, militia-man. who
shaved his upper iip,
and curled his hair with a
slate pencil. In the midst
of those bitterrdlfections
his eagle-eye caught a
? ■learn of light iesueing
rom the half-opened
door of a certain boot
factory. Bobby paused
to consider whether he
should investigate the
affair, or go and see if
there were not a China-
man at Councilor
Murphy’s hr** - bouse.
After mature* considera-
tion, he decided to have
a squint through that
door, so deliberately re-
moving his boots, he
strung them together,
and hanging then/ to his
ear, stealthily crept up to
the door. One glance
was sufficient to show
that the burglars, if such
they were, had tothlcg
more blood-thirsty about
them than a lead-pencil.
8o assuming a front, bold
as. an .insulted chicken
rooster, he strode in. A
venerable looking old
gentleman was handing
boot-making materials to
a party in a white apron,
who deposited them in a
bag. The venerable pie-
trmrch looked up as tbq
peeler entered, and said
quietly: “ G’d’vning con-
stable. How do you find
the air to night? Pretty
cool, eh ? " “ Yes, r-ather
eool,” answered the
bobby, taken aback by
the other’s nonchalance.
“It’s all right, constable;
I suppose you know rae,
I’m W , the owner of
this factory, and I’m just
giving out some work to
this man; he’s got a small
wife and a large family,
and must keep them
some how.” “Ah, enj;
yes. That is—Oh, cer-
tainly,” said the
peeler, sneaking out and
going round the cprner
to punch himself. Of
course It was quite in the
ordinary run of things,
for a man to be giving
outwork at two o clock
In the morning but, as it
happened, six uours later
those two men were
wanted for robbing that
factory. And now that
constable is deliberating
whether he shall get into
Parliament, or go and
join a mob of dingoes.
An accident which happened to a servant
girl at North Shore recently, gave a Knuze re-
porter a chance of elaborating on the harrowing
details. Ho described with startling accuracy and
painful lucidity how this young party, while in
the execution of her ordinary, domestic duties,
“fell from nn attic window, with great force, on
to the garden below, and had several teeth
knocked out, and her wrist broken.” But the
worst Is to come. Lotus again quote: “The un-
fortunate part of the affair is that she had only
been a few days at the Shore.” (!!!) Now, had she
been the “oldest inhabitant” of St. Leonards, or
even a resident of a few months, it would be a
matter of small concern, but to have been a
few days only on the Shore—" why, damme, ’twas
too bad.” And right underneath “this gem
of journalistic enterprise" (Alf.), we stumble
across the following quotation “ Literature
happ.ns to be the only occupation In which wages
are not given In proportion to the goodness at the
work done.”—(Proude). That furnishes us with a
key to the Lara-like gloom which overshadows the
proprietor of a free-lunch bar, when a Knuzq
scribe eheerily remarks, “put that glass o’ rum
down to me, ’ and then proceeds to wrap himself
round the oorued-beef sandwiches. Uut they
must live. 9
A Terrible Poser.
THE SPITS’NX: “IS PATRIOTISM A VIRTUE IN ENGLISHMEN, YET A CRIME IN SOUDANESE?'*
(The Sphynx . a fabulous monster which figures in the Egyptian mythology. It laid part of Boetia under continual alarms by proposing an enigma
and devouring the inhabitants if unable to explain it. -Popular Mythology.)


GENTLE, BUT EFFICACIOUS.
Wyndham-street, Alexandria, Sydney, Feb. 14, 1884.
Gentlemen,—I beg to Inform you that I have
used Emil Prese’a Hamburg Tea In my household
with good results. My children have taken It as
an aperient, and Its action has been gentle but
efficacious.
Yours faithfully,
JOssth Linoard,
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
VERDICT OF A POPULAR BONIFACE.
I have tried Hamburg Tea, and my household
have pro* ed It to be gentle but efficacious as an
aperient, and I can strongly recommend It.
G. A. BROWN,
Exchange Hotel,
West Maitland.
“BEACH’S”
INTERNATIONAL CONSULTATIONS.
FRANK SMITH’S
GREAT SHEFFIELD HANDICAP,
NOW OPEN.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10s. EACH.
Address—
"BEACH,*’
Care of J. G. Deeble,
■ Hotel, King-street, Sydney
J. NOAKE,
320 & 446 George Street,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
Just Unpacked, cx s.s. Rome,
12 Cases Real HA VANN A CIGARS
(Finest Brands), consisting of
“ANTONIO MARIAS’*
“ VILLOR OP VILLORS ”
“HENRY CLAYS”
“ REAL” CABANAS
“LORRANAQA”
“RITICA”
“ MORALES"
PLOR UE MORES ”
“POUTO^Aa”
“ 1NTIMIDADS”
“FLOR DB CUBA”
“ EBt'ONOLA ”
“ LA CORONA”
J. NOAKE,
320 & 446 GEORGE STREET,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
PAINTS.
OILS.
&
WALL
Office: 330 w
STORES: MILLER’S POrNST.
N.B. Patterns and Prices sent.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We than be glad to have thii index vetted up by
eeeretaries of racing elubi and managen or
•porting event «in general .1
RACING.
Moree February 25, 26
Taralga (Annual) February 25, 26
Manaro J.C. (Annual) February 25, 26
Yass R.C ,. March 5, 6
Canterbury Park R.C March 7
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting Feb. 28, March 5, 7
Goodooga J.C March 11,12
Orange J.C March 11,13
Goulbum Turf Club March 12,13
Barmedman R.C March 17
Liverpool J.C March 17
Bombala J.C March 17.18
Glen Danes J.C March 17,18
Gundagal J.C March 17, 19
gaw fee’s Bay (N.Z.) J.C March 17,19
mowlndra J.C. March 20
Wellington J.C March 24, 25
OowraJ.C ....March 25, 36
Sumut March 25, 26
awkesbury R.C. (Autumn) March 26, 38
Tarraman ........ Aprll6
A.J.C, (Autumn) April 6,8,10,11
Hosohlll R.C April 18
Mudgee Tattersall’s R.C ....April28, 24
Canterbury Park R.C May 16
Rosehlll R.C .May 23
Wollongong T.O. (Autumn) May 25
Walkers ton (nr. Mackay, Q.) II.C. Annual... May 25
Rosehlll R.C June 30
Rosenlll R.C .July 18
Canterbury Park R.C August 1
Boeehlll R C August 8
Canterbury Park R.C * • * * September 5
Hawkesbury (Spring) September 10 12
A.J.O. (Spring) September 19, 23, 24, 26
Rosehlll R.C October 3
Canterbury Park R.C October 17
Canterbury Park R.C „ December 19
Rosehlll R.C. December 28
AQUATICS.
Clifford v. Beach February 28
Woolloomooloo Regatta March.
Rowe v. Kennedy, Nepea n March 14
Balmain R.C. Regatta March 21
Bench v. Hanlan March 28
Hanlan v. Clifford (if Clifford beat Beach)... .April 18
Intercolonial 8-Oar Race April
ATHLETICS.
Narandera Sheffield Handicap March 14
Sir Joseph Banks Sheffield Handicap, Botany
March 14,18,21, and 23
Athletic Sports, Brushgrove March 17
Oddfellows’ 100-Gulneas Handicap, Show
Grounds, Wollongong April 6
CRICKET.
Shaw’s Team v. 15 of Cumberland,
Parramatta., March 13,14.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
It Is said Dan O’Leary is making n pile at
walking against roller skaters In the States.
At Albury, Engelhardt and Kappler ran
150yds. on Saturday last for £80, when the latter
won in the stated time of 15J4seo.
A Yankee paper says Fred. Archer talks
of buying a farm In the States, with a view to es-
tablishing a thoroughbred nursery.
| For “A.S.’s” special edification, we may
state Charley Reynolds holds the record for the
Parramatta champion course, with 20mln. 8sec.
We understand that the demoniacal
sculler, Largan, has lately turned out a great suc-
cess on the Surry side of London—as a boot-black.
The N. Y. National Police Gazette
sports a splendid portrait of our only Reach. The
Gazette says that in his vocation of ferryman he
gained great experience In the use of the oar.
George D. Novemao, who set himself the
task of walking 5100 miles In 100 days, at New
York, on December 27, finished the last day of his
elgth week with a score of 2448 miles, walking the
last mile fair heel and toe, In a fraction over 10
minutes.
Scotton showed bad form when given out
on Saturday last. However, If he was wrongfully
sent to the pavilion, his own umpire equalised
matters by letting Flowers off. We were In a good
position to Judge, and Flowers appeared feet away
from bis crease when the bails were knocked off. j
An American paper of January 3, says—
“The steamer Australia, of the Anchor line, which
sailed the other afternoon for London, had on
ooard the second boat ordered by Hanlan from
Ruddock. This boat being Hanlan s racing shell.
Is built expressly for speed, being a model of
beauty.”
Slade, the Maori, appears to be steadily
f olng down the ladder In the States. On December
7, at San Francisco, he met John Brady, the
champion of the Pacific Slope In a glove contest
for an alleged £500. From all accounts Slade al-
lowed Brady to knock him out with scarcely the
semblance of a struggle.
At Leeds “ the Claimant” took part in a
pigeon shooting contest, two matches for £50
aside, at 25 birds each, his opponents being Mr. W.
Graham, London, and Mr. G. H. Fowler, “ cham-
pion small-bore shot of the world." The Claimant
was defeated In each match, Fowler killing 13 birds
to the Claimant’s?, and Graham 18 to his 17.
It is cruel the manner in which the
“push” gruel Young, Alderman J.D., anentthe
good thing he had In Clifford for the recent Hanlan
race. “ Larry Foley has started the * White
Horse ’ just up the street, you ought to change
your sign to the * Dark Horse,’ ” quoth one would-
be funny man the other night. As this is a reli-
gious paper, we are unable to quote J.D.’s reply.
We know the first portien of a sculling
race Is usually the most exciting, so wo can sym-
pathise with the gentlemen in blue In their endea-
vour to see the best half. However, if next Satur-
day is no exception to the rule, and the old hands
carry on the same old game. It is to be hoped the
authorities will run in a few specials to keep the
course clear when the scullers are approaching the
Brothers. Last race the scene was disgraceful.
Bourko, of the North Shore Rowing Club,
should have been placed in the Intercolonial Eight
before at least two men belonging to the Sydney
Rowing Club. Bourke is a strapping young fellow,
and as good a judge of rowing us Victoria can
boast of gave it as nla opinion that the Shore man
rowed second to none or the Welshmen in the race
last year. Weight is wanted in an elght-oar crew,
and until our selection committees cultivate It,
Victoria will assuredly continue to add to her list
of victories.
The times given for the various heats of
Kelly’s Handicap were wonderful—if true. We
find Russell (14yds.) won the third heat of the
fourth round in 13 9-lOsecs.; he then ran a desper-
ate heat with “ Bristol,” and finished up. after all
this work, by winning the final in 13 4-5seos., a
couple of yards over “Evens.” Could anything
bo more preposterous—if wa except the alleged
time made bv Malone 7 When the dallies publish
these times for gospel, can It be wondered at the
American and Home papers poke “borak” at
A ustrallan “ records ” 7
>/In our humble way we beg to offer a drop
In the ocean of suggestions that have been thrown
out *n re, the Soudan campaign. Why not send
a couple of competent dockers out with the
foproes." When our warriors are lolling on the
f»0<4 #omp hundred yards or so from the navvies,
and tho children of the desert for the first time ap-
pear la the distance, who can tell the records that
may be made by the “first night ” in their eager-
ness to seek safety in the rear of the navvies’
picks. Anyhow, we make the suggestion, and we
now leave the matter In the hands of Mr. Triokett,
Our sporting member.
“Ubique,” in Land and Water, says:—
I am authorised to issue the following challenge
fromthe Australian Amateur Champion sculler,
Mr. W, G. Brett. Mr. Brett challenges any gentle-
man amateur in England, America, or the world
to scull him oyer the Championship Course on the
Parramatta River for a £500 trophy, or he will
I™' 011 the Thames course, taking or allowing
£100 for expenses, adding an extra £50 as an In-
ducement to any one to go over to Australia.”
The London Echo remarks:—“ We may state that
English amateurs do not contest for £.500 trophies,
and Mr. Brett should appeal to professionals.
L & r ry F ole> y ia making a big show in fixing
up the old White Horse, In George-streot, latterly
known as Nlsaen’s Cafd. A large bllilard-room,
containing three tables, has been fitted up, and
better still, in our opinion, a sparring apartment,
with shower and “ flxlns ” that cannot fall to take
the most msthetlo lovers of tho noble art by
storm. Larry has some “ clever ” s parr era amongst
his pupils, and when we dropped In one day last
week, we were treated to a really scientific show
“7® couple of amateurs. If Larry provee as good
at the bar as he has In the ring, his venture should
turn up trumps. Anyway, we can safely say
Larry s arguments carry more force with them
than those of any other gentleman at the bar In
Sydney.
Sir Richard Lutton, the owner of the
yacht Genesta, which has been doing such won-
ders In English waters, has forwarded a challenge
to the New York Yacht Club, In which he agrees
to sail against any yacht in America for the
America s Cup. The Genesta Is an 80-tonner, and
although she only made her maiden appearance
last Summer, already ranks amongst the crack
cutters of England. During last season she won
seven first-class prizes, eight second, and two
third, which brought her owner In £775, the yachts
ahead of her In this respect being the 40-ton out-
ter Tara, the 68-tonner Marjorie, and the yawl
The America's Cup Jhas been re-
talned In America since 1851, when the yacht
America won it at Cowe's, England. *
Next Saturday will be the seoond of the
big seulhng matches, and the result will, of course.
have a biff say In the contests billed to follow.
On public form—an unreliable guide certainly—
we cannot see any odds on next aaturday’s race,
Hanlan was dolnff his best with
™°™ - 'which, by-the-way, w« very much doubt
—the big un did better than Beach with the Cana-
dian, for 1$ miles. We do not consider Clif-
fords defeat by Hanlan—the latter in condition—
as showing he is not In the first flight behind the
Canadian, and although we look on Beach’s style
as more calculated to stay over a long course tlran
..,??!? ntryman ’ a ’ we 8ha11 visit the Parramatta
with the expectation of seeing one of the grandest
sculling races ever rowed on the champion course,
for at least half the distance. That Beach will
win we believe, but we shall not be at all sur-
prised to see Clifford lead him past the mile beacon.
It would be just about as easy to throw a
dam across Port Jackson Heads as to dam the
sporting proclivities of the Irrepressible Naran-
I derlans. Scarcely had the excitement over the
celebrated billiard tournament abated when pre-
parations for the annual sports, in laid of the
Narandera Hospital, were commenced, and last
week we an attractive programme of
events, to come off on March 17 next, 8t. Pat-
?Jr a /' ever >t on the programme is
the loOyds. Sheffield handicap of £50-flrst prize
£Jo, second £10, and third £5—but the contestants
will probably consist of locals only, as the Naran-
dera committee have, fatally for themselves,
picked upon a date that clashes with the Sir
Joseph Bank s handicap. However. It is not too
late to alter their programme, should they wish to
make a bid for some of the Sydney peda.
L. D. Copeland, of Phoonix, Arizona, U.S
of course, has perfected and taken out a patent
u/t J .; oycle .,'f hlch runB by steam. He gave an
exhibition of its powers In the Mechanics’ Pavi-
lion, Han Francisco, Oal., December 21, and the
few gentlemen present were united In praise of
the Invention. A reciprocating engine Is attached
to a Star bicycle on the bar which connects the
handle with the small wheel In front. Benzine Is
used for heating purposes, and steam can be got
up In a few moments. At the present time the
supply of the fuel and water have to be replen-
ished every hour, but with anticipated Improve- j
meats supplies enough for several hours will be
provided for. Ninety pounds of steam can be
carried, but the machine can be run with twenty
pounds. The machine averages about five minutes
a mile over any ordinary road. The pedals can
be used In conjunction with the steam power
whenever neo-esary, and the speed will be Increased
*ke p owerg that be In connection with the clubs
nnL (? u t i obl i vlou8 t0 the future, and we sup"
BgfiiyA e “ Proses and Brodies are laid on the
22l5^iL e r«y 11 1 °P nfc ®nt to let the Intercolonial
mS™ d rn*H t, T» t ii 8a8 f t ’ ,c ! fa f as New Smith Wales is
SSPSJVhl* nr T SH?* for toetanoe, young Will Free-
a ypunprster sound of wind and
limb, who promises to thicken out Into a 13 or 18
•“®“? man - Has he ever been taken out with a
Food crew and shown how to row an oar 1 We
f» G n a ?h and wh en he has acquired
faults Impossible to throw off, he will not be worth
“,V n f. up. If we are to reduce the already Ion*
odds of five to two, It is certainly time some efforts
m®F® to raise fresh blood. Queensland and
are t°o youmr at the game to expect a
w!n e i*l.m ald ® n eftort, but their appearance
If 1 * 1 , add additional Interest to the race, and the
show of four eights on the Parramatta river, will
make a best on record for the old champion
course,
The Victoria Racing Club certainly *' take
?h^ c # *u r - the l P® riod of the year fixed upon by
them for their Autumn meeting. The worst of
theheat has passed over, equlnes are fit, and pre-
yious running has given the handlcappor a “ line ”
w«r n ri loh mt xol^l nflr flushes may be looked for-
ward to. The Champion race this year promises
P9 h° a « reat race, as last year’s victor, Le Grand,
Cun g wfnn 0 i^°M e l Commotion, and the Melbourne
CUP winner, Malua. will no doubt fight a battle
flaiMii, 8 r r p i t0 *^ he 8ister ootony. with a risk of
»?i t o9 lay 1 i9 reek thrown in. The first day, Febru-
o°f PeD ( W u! h f the Essend on Stakes, a mile
tnr,a 0 h Q al^ afc for age, with a couple of cen-
turleB and a sweep of five sovs. t'or the winner-
with Monte Christo, Uralla, Dunlop, and a host of
other good uns; tke Ascot Vale Stakes, 850 soVs.
?h« si sh °uld prove a good six furlong’s race; and
l e Ceger, with Kufus (the Derby winner),
C avld - and many others In the first flight, should
P ro Y e a * rand k et-to. Then follows the New-
market Handicap, with its one hundred and three
Mahi, atl a mpngst them Le Grand and
Sir <$K er ?' 8l i ch i. J M Countryman,
, C ar u et ’ Yately, Archie, Helene, Dirk
Hatteraick and others of similar calibre- then
comes the Hopeful Stakes; and the BruMwfck
Stakes Handicap winds up the day’s sport. The
second day, March 6, opsns with a hurdle raae SCO
1 two* r mi?2? ? d a ed i# 8w ®«P*takos of 10 sots
I two miles and a-half. The Sires’ Produce Stakes
comes next, and the two-year-olds that will
n L Ug8 &*°A stake should be worth watch-
iDflT, The Corinthian Cup is the next event on tho
programme, in which silk will bo weru by mem-
accordingly. When the steam power only Is used
the pedals are brought Into requisition for foot-
I rests. By the unscrewing of two bolts the entire
machine can be taken off, and there remains the
ordinary “ Star ” bicycle in Its ordinary form. Th
boiler, water-tank, engine, benzine tank, and a
the appliances weigh only 181b. The engine
furnished with quarter-horse power.
There’s no “ borao ” about this. Up Boorak
way there’s a black pedestrian named Little
Tommy, who Is far ana away a whiter man than
moat sprinters of our acquaintance. In the Forced
Handicap at the athletic sports, recently held up
there. Little Tommy, starting from scratch, am
one Hunter Smith, who had a few yards’ start, ran
a great race, and, to all appearance, the latter won
clearly. The Judge, however, thought differently
and awarded the race to the darkey. When the
settling night arrived, the prize was handed over
to Little Tommy, who, in the most unolvlllset
manner possible, at once passed It over to Smith
with the words; “That no b’long ’em me. This
pfader win him fairly.” What In thunder are our
aboriginal missionaries about that such deeds as
Tommy’s are recorded. We are beginning to think
that all the good greed we have contributed to-
wards the Improvement of the pore little heathen
has been misapplied, and. In future, we’ll devote
the same to consultation sweeps or something else
In which we will have some faint chance of getting
a return for our money.
Several changes have taken place In the
constitution of the Intercolonial eight-oar crew.
Martin and Searle have very sensibly reconsidered
the matter and consented to row, and the orsw
now stand«:-0. A. Bros, 8. H. Martin, J. B. H.
Kennedy, J. A. Brodle, G. Seale, R. Moppett, B. P.
Simpson, and N. Johnson; emergency, R. Bourke.
The crew, with the exception of one man.
Is about the best the selection committee could
raise from the very limited talent at its dis-
posal, but If the Melbournians send the best heavy
crew they can raise, and don't hold our men too
cheap, however it may be against the grain to be
compelled to express It, we are of opinion the
Welshmen will not be in It. It seems a remarkable
thing that with rowing clubs In every nook of the
harbour we can only raise 11 men class enough to
pull In an lutoroploaial race—the niae picked, and
Gaden and Brett. This state of affairs has been
brought about chiefly by senior club crews
sticking together and never taking In a young-
ster of likely physique and style, and knock-
iS! 8 ? shape. That there are numbers
or likely youngsters we have no doubt, but
bexa of the V.R.C., V.A.T.C., or M.H.G, Then
follows the Australian Cup. one of the most In-
teresting handicap races of the jear; run over two
mile* and a-quarter, last year’s winner turning up
In the Ill-fated Sydneyite, Morpeth. The Steeple-
chase comes next, and the day finishes with the
Bourke Handicap of seven furlongs. The Malden
Stakes opens proceedings on the last day, followed
by the Nursery Handicap. The Autumn Handicap
of a mile and five furlongs will bring a host of
good ones together, and then comes the big
weight-for-age event, the Champion Race. The
All-aged Stakes, a mile, follows, and the Free Han-
dicap, a mile and a-quarter, brings the meeting to
a close. a
“ Pendragon,” in speaking of Tom White,
Who died recently In Queensland, says:—“ News of
the death of Tom White, whose two races with
Bob Chambers will be ever memorable among re-
Presentatlves of what may now be fitly called the
old school of rowing, carries us back a quarter of
a century, and shows once again how changed we
may become Jnst at a time that radical (manges
seem almost impossible. When White rowed
Chambers here on the Thames It was generally be-
lipved that the science of sculling had reached Its
highest conceivable pitch. Londoners may bar?
bewailed their want of a fit and proper representa-
tive, but they did not doubt that whenever that
representative chose to oome forward the very
finest conceivable display of sculling would be
given by him and his North-country rival. It was
well known at the time he rowed Chambers that
White was not the best man the London river pos-
sessed; for some extraordinary reason Kelley for
six years took his inglorious ease, then came
out again and avenged the bitter defeat he
and the Southerners had received so long
before. Strangely enough, when Kelly one?
began again, he went on almost like a novice, and
might even now, though it is nearly 30 years since
his second start, lower the colours of many a pre-
tentious youngster. White was chosen in 1860 to
represent Thames against Tyne, partly because
Londoners were desperate in their desire to bring
back the championship, and partly because, though
Chambers had already beaten White on the Tyne,
the latter excused his defeat on the ground that
he would have been killed by the Geordiea had
he don® his level best. Whatever he might have
done If he had tried upon the Tyne, Whit© was no
use whatever to ‘ baud awa’ Bob ’ on the Thames.
Bob was undoubtedly a very good man, but It
must be conceded that between 1859 and 1867, when
2 U £ ®8'®ln and defeated him in manner
which knocked the Tyneslders completely silly,
the Northern champion was opposed by some very
poor creatures.”
A MISTAKEN OAE.EEB,
motw™™ 7 mr>WW1SAL ’ " m TBAr ' M0 ' HAIN " r ™ * pht na warknt a
2nd. DITTO: “WHY, WHAT YB TALKIN' ‘BOUT ITHAaO** btmi a
MUTHLE LIKE THAT. AN’A HIDIN'OF’0S8ES ?” ’ ITHAACS ? Ml A CHUNK 0’
l«t. DITTO: “WHY. THAT’8 JUST WHERE 'TITH OLD FETTT-tj. ttv> ,
THE BLOOMIN' HEADTH OFF OF 'EM!" D 1 ELLER, HE COULD PULL


NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
BE H CUTLER,
TAILORS.
Late of 418 George-street,
TO
No. 3 Hunter-street,
SECOND DOOR FROM GBORGB-STRBBT.
X
%
I
THEY have ARRIVED.
An Immense delivery
of
YANKEE RUBBER
BABIES,
Goes in the waistcoat poo
Ret; blows out to life size:
Is washable, durable, and
unbreakable ; resembles
life, for like the real article
It coos at pleasure, and yet
screams awfully If smacked
Experienced fathers are deceived by these laugh-
ter-producing Infants, and no home Is really a
happy one without their presence. Price (post
free): largest. Is. 6d.; medium, Is. 3d.
Also, just In, a large assortment of Conjuring
Tricks, catalogues on application.
THE WIZARD CARDS,
changing from eights
to denees, from black to
red, and baek again at Hie
pleasure of the per-
former. Post free, with
full instructions. Is. 2d.
I’m a Daddy ; I’m In
Love; The Mother-in-law;
I’m a Farder; and Be
fore and After Marriage.
The funniest pictures ever Issued, f in each set.
Price, 6d. per set, or 6 sets for 2s.; by post, 2a. 2d.
The Three Donkeys. The newest “ have ” out.
Bend for them, but keep It quiet. Price, Is.: bv
post, Is. 2d.
The Sooner Dog—a wonderful little animal:
roars of laughter follow him wherever he goes.
Is. 6d,; by post, 2s. 6d.
Napoleon in Council, very rich, Is. 8d.; by post, 3s.
HORTON and CO., 101 George-street, Sydne-
Box 641, G.P.O.
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST,
Graduate in Medicine and Surgery, Registered
Physician of Now South Wales.
Office Hours : 10 a.m, to 4 p.m., 7 to 9 on Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday Evenings.
Ladles’ Waiting Room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.
11,62 Castlereagb-street (upstairs.)
Send for Free Treatise on Vitality and Nervous
Debility, Diseases of Women.
Illustrated Works on Deformities, Electricity
and Its Application. Hernia (ruptures), Varicocele,
ko., &o.
Address—Australian Medical and Surgical In-
firmary, Sydney : or B. 0. HOLTBRMANN, Esq.,
M.P., President, Box 130. G.P.O.
Consultation Free by mall or in person.
Deformities, Specific. Female, and Nervous
Diseases, a Specialty.
JAS. LAWSON & SONS,
ART-FURNITURE MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Comer of William-street, Hyde Park.
High-class Furniture
At Very Lowest Prices, compatible with the finest
workmanship and finish, for entrance halls,
dining-rooms, drawlng.rooms, bedrooms,
and libraries.
CARPETS IN NEWEST DESIGNS ANE
FINEST QUALITY.
WILTON CARPETS. BRUSSELS CARPETS.
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS,
With Hearthrugs to match.
STCORLICINE AND LINOLEUM.
BEDSTEADS IN BLACK AND NICKEL ANI
BLACK AND BRASS,
la all sizes and various designs.
Foster’s Buq/e Brand
GOMPACNONI CATERING GO., LIMITER,
PIOT STREET, SYTjnEY. 7 7
mu *r a 1 , x OOM now Open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a m. to 11 n m tafter the
ox h theclcT Jodi’S * c * and ® eo In the room. This fa one of tL acquisition
Mdclty «f«te' £eltwaLt - Inspection invited Club rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Ciuo
ana city uub, upstairs. e. D. TOLLEMACHE, General Manager.
4
iV
>T*~
m
-s
mm.
«c
>.£
<<•
0*
S3
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ATjBL
USTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1872.
with Power to increase to £1,000,000
BONL 8ES—20 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
CHURCHILL’S SYRUP OP THE HYPO-
PHOSPHITES.
THESE SYRUPS have bo thoroughly obtained
the confidence of the Medical Faculty that they
are now preferred to any other preparations as
General Tonics.
The Syrup ot Hypophosphites of Lime has proved
itself for many years most useful in cases of Con-
sumption and diseases of the Pulmonary Organs.
It is also most beneficial to debilitated constitu-
tions proceeding from any cause whatever, as it
contains two of the most necessary ingredients for
building up the Human Frame, namely, Phospho-
rus and Lime.
Churchill's Syrup of the Hypopbosphlte of Iron
is one of the best preparations ot Iron and Phos-
phorus that has been offered to the public. As a
permanent tonic it has been found more service-
able than any other preparation of Iron, and is
especially recommended to those suffering from
the effects of a long residence in a hot climate.
Churchill’s Compound Syrup ot the Hypophos-
phites contains Lime, Iron, and Soda, and as a
general Tonic has been found most useful. Deli-
cate children have derived the greatest benefit
from going through a course or this medicine,
which supplies nearly all the elements necessary
to develope in perfection the Human Frame. To
Ladies suffering from General Debility, any of
these Syrups can be taken with most beneficial re-
sults, but as almost every constitution differs, one
may give better results than the other. To be had
from all Chemists, and Wholesale from ELLIOTT
BROS., Pltt-street, Sydney.
BENT FREE, by POST ONLY, in an Envelope.
A
SOCIAL SCIENCE,
TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders which
cause Impedimenta to Marriage, and all
Chronic Diseases; also. How to choose a partner
healthy
■I how to regain ana preser
health, &c., &c.
for life, so as to live nappy and produce 1
children; and how to regain and preserve youp
Address: R. T. SELBY, Medical Herbalist;
Devonshire-street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
. __ —
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always In STUCK, for 8ALB
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS. CHINA,
in
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS. AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and OO.’B
Cognac.
J. T. G A YEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVuTand SONS’
Edinburg n Pale Aie.
ESTABLISHED I860.
as
j. linen,
608 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
U if HIM.
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL-PLATED
BEDSTEADS,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRASSES,
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR,
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX,
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
&0., &0.
fcOLl/f
BLEND
MARK
/COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.-Thls la a B T B
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, *
sranar saas: wl &5te ojr r ara
Agents. **
WASTE
Cases for Sale,
Office,
PAPER Iron, and Bapty
Apply Publisher, Bumrarat
£D Head Offices. ®*ta>
First Fire Society established in the colony on
the Mutual principle, (dying 1 policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
prefits every year.
Policy-holders are perfectly free by law from
all liability.
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
BOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINKS
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
mm
&
mor€Eo*-L
TZ
ledyfor
roils JjebiIijyT
THIS invaluable add acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
baustive derangement of the system: regenerating
all the Important elements 01 the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 13s., or four quantities is one for
Ms.; if by coach, 3s. Sd. extra. Agents for Sydney,5
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from Oeorge-street South.
CLAS
RfcfeOYEBEd,
CSTUDT ECONOMY
p and
HaveyourU mbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
511 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted
VENETU WALT#.
TV Air to As woli marhqi, Oa* oun Lo*r«lir
PV&cnktabOL
"WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
MM of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, Ac.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues will be ready In a few days and
sent gratis on application.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, Ac., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed In best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
. £1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums. Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, Ac.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons* Cards, splendid stock
solicited to all the leading maga-
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever Invented. The Trypograph
copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost oi
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 GEORGE STREET.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Hoad Offices—PITT and KING STREETS.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—ALTERATION OP AR-
RANGEMENTS at the
LAVENDER BAT
Swimming Baths
(the enly pure sea-water baths near Sydney.)
Open every day for Ladles and Gentlemen from
6 a.m. till dark.
Admission, 3d.; Children, accompanied by adults,
2d.; 100 tickets, 21s.; Monthly Tickets, 5s.; An-
nual Tickets, from 1st September, 21s.
EiT SWIMMING TAUGHT by Mr. Frederick
CAViiiL, the world-renowned swimmer, who swam
from France to England in 13 hours, 20th August,
.1877. Six Lessons, 21s. The North Shore Ferry
Steamers leave the Circular Quay for the Baths
every quarter-of-an-hour.
HOhESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
ORNP
B.N
AND
It is of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should be carefully compared, as large
quantities are being Imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LORNB HIG HLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will find a difference
of at least 10 per cent. In favour of LORNE HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
J. MASSEY, Jim.,
mm mi muu
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found it at
last with the Argosy Braces at Gowing Bros.
>; >
7-
/y
A
r<
A
/A.
m
ii-V
SBHX
. /
GOWINGr BROS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. Oil . 3s., 3s. 8d.,ft 4s. Od
COWING BROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, &o.
332 and 488 George-street.
298 George Street, Sydney.
Every description of Shirts made to measure
A perfect fit guaranteed.
Vi
L
SMITH & HANNELL,
1HB SHIRT MANUFACTURERS OF
AUSTRALASIA,
CJ UPFBBHR8 Afflicted with Nerveus Debility
Lost Vitality, Ac., be your own Physician.
The FRENCH HOSPITAL REMEDY will soon re-
store you to health and manly vigour. Prescription
free. Send your address on a stamped envelope to
C. C. W„ Box TOO, G.P.O., Sydney.


JJjU « N I T U K B O HOW BOOM
BRADLEY NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Sprint streets, Sydney.
Hall furniture. hatstandb.
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
T IB]
Ju .1
BBAD
IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
•TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
INQ and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the vety latest faflfiltm i Wbn ■worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, fee.
VERY ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand.
SOME STANDS, for dubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Eight-pound bedroom suiTES.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB. O’Connell-strfeet.'
EDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel .rail; TOILET TAI
B
TABLE,
PEDESTAL CUP-
SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
with swing glass attached
BOARD, and 3 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
HBAF FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 30s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s, 6d.; Washstands from 13s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s-
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3Ids.; Clothes Horses, from 10s.6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
OQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
oWOt) strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, In handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rati or wharves for
cash only. Bradley. Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Haadsame Fashion-
able designs In Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.^
CCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly 'tlniahed in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, «o.
WiU
, Just received* Bra
QWBPjUrtltowrtdaaUlijy
THNAMELLED and JEWELLED jfift.RORS, for
J2l Wall and Table JardlnlSPesy .with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire ffratefi. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
street.
GREAT VARIETY of NEW STI
Prices, from 13s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
JJRAWING-1
m
)ILKT PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
® ASH8TiND '
T7IULL SUITES for DINING -ROOM- SIDE-
[ *4"BOARD, DINNER
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match»oa view at Show Booms, Q’Counell-strcet.
TNINING TABLES, with patent extending
1 I screw, from 8 feet long and up to 30 feet.
• ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIN—
Patented. 3 -
m
This ohair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reelining and nice vena, at the will of
the occupant; - It is simple, yet Ingenious In Its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that oan be obtained, Instantly, an* with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It Is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort la desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches In thickness
when f< Jcled. Price 80s. BRADLEY. NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
2a, 6d. extra.
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
s
-ROOM SUITES
-A very exten-
Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
RAMBWORK for DINING-ROOM FUKNI-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, In Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
F
MO KOCCO Materials *f or oiatery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Oonnell-streets.
B
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbr ass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
B
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rate
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Coi
sell and Spring streets.
iK/ ASHSTAND8, with marble, from 26a. eao
W BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
ARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah Chair
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. J3RAJ
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Conn ell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNI’J’URE.-A very eomple
AMortmeat; best make, loeoet price*.
EDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
SOCIAL
There was a goodly mixture of youth and
beauty, axe and homeliness, at the orloket match
on Saturday. Two of the most noticeable dressy on
the lawn were a beautiful garnet silk a^l t °!^ a i?
lace, and a deep olive green 8at * a
with a petticoat of green and awber brooaded
satin. A biscuit-coloured silk was so rich and stiff
that the wearer could hardly bend her arms in
fact, the material was almost too
texture to bo quite graceful. Pink Iwonot prloge
made a strange contrast to the dre8 ®»
gethor unpleasing. Mias Jay or ® a f ® r H eat ?.^u® 8
draped with salmon-coloured spotted broohe.
Mrs. Wyatt, a steel broche with tows and long
ends ot orange ribbon velvet taken from the
shoulder almost to the hem ofthe 8b i£** 0 nfvniiinS
Thenipson looked very pretty in a o r eam veiling
dress, with green straw hat and
Mrs. G. Jones, white lawn, trimmed with coffee-
coloured lace. Miss Conny Do f*' w J^ ltA tr lPP^ d
airily up to tne stand in a simple white dress,
flounced to the waist. Miss Goslett wore bronze
brown satin and fawn veiling, small brown b °
with floral trimming and long Swede gloves. A
most piquant costume was of bine serge with
white walscoat, and a hat or 9*P. between a Tam
and a jockey—that is to say, we blue
velvet crown was full, and drawn in with a rod
velvet band on to which was attached a smafl
Jockey llipe. It was quite a Jaunty head gear and
attracted a great deal of attention. Another re-
markable dress was a rather deep blue-almostof
the royal shade-with a heavy scarf of autumn
brown velvet taken over the tups, * n a
loose knot behind. The effect of the uncommon
combination of colour was slightly marred by the
bonnet, which, instead of repeating the brown
velvet of the scarf, was a deep crlmson. Mrs.
Broughton, in black, was accompanied by her two
fair daughters in light dresses. A buttercup
broche looked exceedingly well over a black skirt
much adorned with luce. Tne Misses Perks, in
simple white drosses with black hats, sashes, and
long black gloves, looked extremely neat. Our
new contralto. Miss Thorn, wore M eamveiling
handsomely trimmed with embroidery—white hat
and feathers. A nice contrast to the gay-coloured
drosses was a plain black velvet worn with a taste-
ful white hat trimmed with black velvet and white
feathers. Almost every other dress was either
spotted or trimmed with spots, and spotted jerseys
were in groat favour. There was one which
was spotted In almost every colour of the rain-
bow, which, worn In conjunction with a neu-
tral-coloured skirt, looked very stylish. A salmon-
coloured shot satin was draped with an exceed-
ingly beautiful striped broche, which was wonder-
fully effective. A remarkable bonnet was just
one mass of marguerites, with neither mountings
or strings. Mrs. Munro wore black, and her
daughter a light flowered dress. Parasols were a
feature—some of them looking almost too dainttf
for use. A white satin had each division loaded
with cascades of lace, at the termination of which
were tiny bows of ribbon. Another, which could
hardly have been the slightest use in keeping olf
the sun, was mad© entirely of the softest, richest,
and most beautiful lace. It looked as beautiful a8
It was frail and useless. The weather was glonousj
and the Australians played like men, and, as long
as the band held Its peace, everybody was content
and happy. , ,
The Metropolitan Liedertafel concert of
last Thursday niprbt was, heat considered, well
attended. If we say it was the best concert they
have ever given, wo deceive ourselves and the
truth is not In us. Certainly allowances must be
made for the change of conductor who has hardly
yet had time to drop into the run of things, but,
as moflt of the choruses were old friends, they
should not have suffered so much. It may have
been more due to the heat than to anything: ©Iso
that they sang out of tune and with but little vtrn,
—it was hot enough to melt the voice and starch
out of any man. The Three Chafers, with Mr.
Hallewell taking the solo, was, perhaps, the best
ot ttoohoruL; but, to be Irish, the success was
mor6 probably due to the solo part than the
chorus. In the serenade, the tenoriwho|tekefl the
«irood night ” bit has learned to say good night
very creditably since last concert, and, as he has a
nice, sweet tenor voice and is open to take advice,
why, wo congratulate hint. Tenors, as a vale, are
such conceited fellows that ten ta one if you
tell thorn they have no voice at all they
get huffy. Even this amiable fellow would no
doubt look put out if wq told him so, but we don t
intend to tell him that. for. as a wle, we - keep to
the truth,-especially when there is nothing to be
gained by doing otherwise. There Ian t the slight-
est doqbt the Metropolitan is weak In soloists
among themselves. They appear only to have Mr,
Clancy and this bravxs tenor (by toe way, oW fejt
whilst we are on the subject of you, don (
throw your chin so high up In the air, it makes you
as far as we can make out. Certainly, they make
un for this deficiency by running In the very best
outside talent they can get, but it really Is surprls-
ing to find such a scarcity of soloists amongst so
many men. There’a.one thing to be said-lt speaks
might say a “ draw." It did draw, and no mis-
take, and is, perhaps, the most elaborate thing
overwritten for flute and voice. Mons. Leon
Caron wrote the song and obligato expressly for
Madame Itlta and Mr. J. BadcUff, and it will make
a delightful addition to their repertoire. It con-
tains a most wonderfully difficult double cadenza,
which was faultlessly sung and played by the
nalr. Mr. Kadoliff played a solo In perfect style,
not a note of the difficult variations being missed.
Mr. Hallewell, who did not arrive till late, sang
“ Oui Sdegno” (Mozart), as only he can sing It.
His voice was In capital trim, and brought down
the house. Herr Patek did mot choose one of his I
best solos, and was decidedly raspy on his final
notes; but we put it all down to the heat, or, to be
more correct, pererytration. The same short-
comings were also discernible In Mona, detwil-
llmoff s solo, but to a lesser degree. The string
orchestra was a nice change, and Played fairly
well all things considered, Mr. Ashcroft Edwards,
the new conductor, will not, we Imagine, find
such good material to work upon in the Metropo-
litan as he met with in the Sydney Liedertafel.
However, we shall see, as times goes, what he can
make of them. Mr. Charles Htienerbeln acted as
accompanist, and It gooe without.saying he ac-
quitted himself in that oapaWty faultlessly.
* * ’ *
The opoponax and mille flours audience
which assembled In the new Masonic Hall to listen
to Miss Kachaei Gray’s concert almost took our
breath awav by the splendour of their attire and
perfume. In case, no doubt, of clashing In their
colours with the audience, the singers decided
amongst themselves to wear either white or black,
With natural flowers. The effect was quite charm-
ing. Miss Elvy, in her simple white robe with
colourless passementerie trimming, was a pretty
picture. Miss joaephson—black lace, cut low—
nad bunches ot natural maiden blush roses fast-
ened crosswise over the skirt. Miss Thow, a white
tulle skirt with numerous rows of white satin rib-
bon at the hem. No colour, not even natural
flowers, marred the purity of this costume. Some
wore bunches of flowers so large upon the
right or left shoulder that they couldn’t possibly
see who was sitting next them on the flower
aide. But they wore beautiful, these flowers,
and to cull them must have created havoc
in many a Darling Point garden. Miss It.
Gray wore black satin with white lace, and re-
ceived two beautiful bouquets during the even-
ing. A rich and oostly-Looklng opera cloak (or
concert .cloak, If you like), wm a beautiful oar-
dlnal plush; but phew I how hot It must have been.
Mrs. GIllls la a light flowered silk looked well. Miss
Marks wore an uncominon-tooktng flowered de-
laine (very fashionable material at present) made
high up to the neck, and her pretty golden hair In
one thick lovely hanging plait. A charming dress
was a white tulle with maiden-hair fern glued
over the skirt, and a spray of the same in the hair,
An Infinite amount of trouble must have been
expended over this dress, and all for one evening
too, but the effect quite justified it in our eyes,
for you see we had none of the trouble, and we
could look at it as much as we chose—and we did
choose believe us. AJhandsome lady, with a
prettily-shaped bead, wore a dress of black
Spanish lace with satin bodice and lace elbow
sleeves. By twenty-two o’clock the concert was
over and every body went away well satisfied with
Miss Gray, the singing, and, by-the-way, their
dresses, compared with the rest there.
• • *
Society favours nothing for long. It is
change that keeps It, and the parasites who fatten
on its follies and fashions, in roseate prosperity.
Dude and masher have had their turn and are
now going out—that is, the names are, not the
nasty things themselves. Those curious excres-
cences on manhood are now to be known as
“ Sooners.” The etymological dictionary falls to
give the origin of this word, but it is probably
derived from the fact that the young gentlemen
enclosed in the jampot collars would sooner society
thought them idiots than anything else. There is
nothing in which society would sooner oblige
them.
• • •
Kurimble, Waverley, was, last Thursday,
the scene of an enjoyable garden party. About
eighty guests assembled to do justice to the un-
bounded hospitality of the worthy hostess. As is
usual upon such occasions, there was a charming
commingling of youth and beauty, and the well-
kept lawn was studded with the fair wearers of
beautiful and seasonable costumes. The hostess
wore a superb combination of black broche and
amber satin, and her two charming daughter*.
Misses May and Ethel Hill, woreslmple costumes df
white plus a fleck of colouring. A Darlinghurat
belle wore fawn and pink, A la Mary Anderson.
The Qreclan-llke features of a Newtown lady were
much admired, as was also her newly-married
sister attired in a tasteful costume of fawn and
brown. Miss A. Martin wore pale green and pink.
Miss Cross, In a pretty toilet of white with mauve
waistband and ribbons, looked bewitchlngly pretty.
Her pretty companion wore a similar costume.
Miss Laurie in cream and cardinal. Miss Davis pale
blue, Miss Stewart white and pink, and Miss Wool-
cott in pale green and honiton lace, were also or-
naments on the lawn. Other tasteful costumes
were pale pink, fawn, lavender, and gray. After a
dance in the brilliantly-lightod and decorated ball-
room, the guests departed.
» * *
The popular conductor and composer of
'music,!Mr. Luscombe Searrelle. .was last Friday
married to Miss Blanche de Fontaine Spencer, the
voung lady who lately distinguished herself in
Signora Fabris’ Amateur Opera Company. There’s
a combination of beauty and talent, if you like.
# ♦ •
Last week a ball took place in the Gunne-
dah School of Arts, in aid of the local Convent
School. Though the attendance was uot large, the
music w&8 sod the bB.1* cnjoy&blo. Mtpy
fanov drosses were worn, and the supper tables
were arranged by Mrs. O’Neil and Mrs. IJourke.
Misses Bourke were “Gleaner” and Farmers
Daughter,” respectively; Mrs. Hurley. Night;
Miss Murray was “ Brin.” and Miss King Star-
light ” But the fair creature who attained the
coveted honour of being most stared at, sighed
for, and generally idolised—in fact,
The best of them all, the belle of the ball—
More dangerous far than a Russian—
In cream dress arrayed, was a fair girl who made
Every young heart rebound with con-Cushan;
She wore trimmings of blue, and between me and
you —
To finish this short contribution-
Each Gunnedah youth is half-killed, for. in truth,
He barely escaped exe-Cushan.
l)» a* * j>o .Ite , *8
Last Thursday night a very select party
came off at the Academy of Music, Carooar. A
charming young lady, daughter of a farmer at
Lyndhurst, caused many of the bachelors’ heart?
to bob up against their waistcoats like a marble
inside a kettle of boiling water. Many admiring
tm ii<w from the fair ones were oast upon a good-
looking gent, from Bathurst. Mrs. Watson and
her daughter provided excellent refrefhnlhnts,
which were done full Justice to. Miss Strickland,
the belle of the ball, wore a splendid costume of
pale blue brocaded satin. The Bathurst masher
occupied the attention of a dark young lady from
over the bridge nearly all the evening, which was
too bad to the other girls, and it’s a strange coin-
cidence that since that night several dudes have
signified their Intention of leaving for the Soudan.
*
The Wagga Wngga Liedertafel is coming
to a bead, and they have already appointed Mr.
Broadhurst as conductor, Mr. Fllzgerald hon. sec.
pro tem ., the Messrs. Craven, Mltchelmore, and
G. F. Baker members of the committee. Seven-
teen musical members have been enrolled, and
sanguine people believe that In a few months
time the list will number 30.
m * *
Last Thursday Mr. Robert Lee, plumber,
gave a complimentary picnic to his employes and
their families, which was numerously attended.
It was held In the pleasure grounds of the Sir
Joseph Banks Hotel, Botany, and pleasant musflo
was supplied by Mr. C. Austin’s band. Luncheon
at 3.30 p.m., with Mr. R. Lee In the chair, and Mr.
Richards, of the Soudanese contingent, the vlco-
chair. In replying to the toast of the Parliament.
Mr. Macintosh, M.L.O., said that although most of
the employers of labour In N.S.W. had been em-
ployed themselves once upon a time, still he had
never known so young a man as Mr. Lee rise to
affluence and collect so many good friends around
him In so short a time. The health of Major
Richards and the N.S.W. contingent wore pro-
C3d, and were responded to by the former. Mr.
then proposed a toast to his workmen and
their families, adding that no man had more rea-
son to be so proud of his men as he, they being
honest, industrious, and everything which became
a man to bo. Various sports were Indulged in
during the afternoon, which. If everybody didn’t
enjoy, they had only themselves to blame.
» « «
On Tuesday, the 17th ult.,‘ Mr. and Mrs.
Isaac Hlmmelhooh, of Lower Fort-street, cele-
brated the coming ef age of their eldest son, with
a ball. Nearly 100 guests responded to the Invita-
tions, and a most enjoyable evening was spent, the
night being tempered with a eool breeze, and to
the strains of Herman’s well-known band, dancing
was vigorously kept up until the day had far
advanced. The host and hostess were most assi-
duous in their attention to their guests. Many
handsome toilets; wore worn, which made the
rooms look like fairyland, amongst the most
nottceabl emay be mentioned—the eldest daughter
of the house, who wore a robe of a beautiful shade
of pink muslin, trimmed with white lace, with
short sleeves and square-cut bodice, which suited
the fair wearer well. Two cousins from Moore
Park were very attractive in pure white muslin
and silk, most tastefully trimmed with frosted
ivy leaves; three sisters from Princess-street out-
vied each other, one in black lace over amber,
another in white satin, ruby velvet bodice and
lapels, with white lace drapery, and the other in
cream; a young lady from Blizabeth-street wore a
simple yet effective costume of white muslin and
drawn thread drapery, relieved with cardinal;
while a lady from Victoria-street, in blue
satin and real flowers was perfection, a fair girl
from Dawes Point wore white and gold and Han-
lan’s colours. One of the most recherche dresses
was worn by a young lady from Paddington, com-
posed of a rich gold satin, and front drapery of
black Spanish lace with waterfall back, gloves and
fan enjsuite. A young married lady wore an ex-
quisite dress of a superior white satin trimmed
with pearls, flounces of point lace In front and
very long train also trimmed with pearls; a blonde
from Richmond shone out, being attired in a black
lace dress, which, although sombre, was attractive
and in good taste amongst the many dresses of a
gayer hue. Altogether, the evening passed off
with great eclat, and wasJpronounoed one of the
most enjoyable balls of the season. During the
evening, the health of the young aspirant to
manhood, Mr. Henry Hlmmelhoch, was proposed
by Mr. A. Isaacs in a brief yet excellent speech,
and responded to in a naive manner by Mr. fl,
Hlmmelhoch, while the toast of the host and
hostess was done ample justice to in the hands of
Mr. H. Isaacs, and responded to by the M.O., Mr. B.
nantor, In hfs usual eloquent manner. The toast
©f the ladies fell to Mr. J. L. Goodman, and|w£B
i esponded to by Mr. Gus. Davis.
(for continuation of SOCIAL, ace next page.)
A RELIEF TO HIS MIND.
DOCTOR: “I’M SORRY TO SAT. MR. O’FLANNIGAN, THAT YOU’RE DEVELOPING
VARIOLA.”
PATIENT: “BE JABER8! IS THAT 4.LL? SURE I WAS BEGINNIN’ TO THINK
I’D GOT THE SMALL-POX.”


PROP. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon elaasea. The suite of
rooms (9), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &o. Leigh House Academy, 261
Oastlereagh-street, near Bathurst-street. P.S.—
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
soring floor, &o. No decorations required.
Infants and Children
» 4
| "What gives our Children rosy cheeks,
I What cures their fevers, makes Viem sleep; y
| Castorla.
• When Babies fret, and cry by turns, (
. What cures their colic, kills their worms.
V Castorla. ).
4 What quickly cures Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Golds, Indigestion;
' Farewell then to Morphine Syrups, , i
», Castor Oil and Paregoric, and , 1
h V Hall Cawtoria,
“ Castoria Is so well adapted to Children
that I reconimond-it as superior to any medi-
cine known to mo.’’—II, A. Abcbib, )I. D>,
HI Oxford St., Now Vprk.
Etuorp Baos., Sidney, Agents.
u
DE
&
COMFORTAP.Lt TEETH
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are throe kinds
me ana decay of the
s, distinguished by a
Thread attached to
Is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
gums,decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
drops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Bed Is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Oaution.~To guard against fraudulent imitation*,
see that each Label bears the name, 44 Wilcox ana
Co., 289 Oxford-street, London.”
DE
ASTHMA.COUGH, BRONCHI!
One of these Cigarettes gives Immediate relief 1:
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchltli
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at High
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath,
them Invaluable, as they instantly cheek
buoui mvmuauio, as tney instantly check th
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pu
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may b
smoked by ladles, children, and most delioat
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
CauUon.—To guard against fraudulent imitation
see that each box bears the name of 44 Wilcox an
Oo., 339 Oxford-street, London."
ALCOCK& CO.'S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS;
CHARLES 11 til CO.,
375 Gaorga-st., Sydney.
>n hi .7 i JufL .$0 iNtitMcrfe 3 ddt rfoxn
w TOra FxiftiiS^jp&QpiBED.
Watch and Clockmaker to the Victorian
Government.
T. GAUNT
Watchmaker,
GOLDSMITH,
JEWELLER Ml RIM,
297 and 299
George Street,
C. B. MODINI,
BEGS to inform his customers and the public
generally that, during hia recent visit to
London, from which he has only .lust returned, he
took the opportunity of carefully selecting a large
and varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most celebrated English
Makers, consisting of Single and Double Barrel
Breech-loading Shot Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, and
Gun Tackle of every description, all of the latest
patterns and improvements.
G. B. M. further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that, he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms in London, whose names as
manufacturers of Firearms of Superior Quality
and Workmanship are too well-known throughout
the sporting world to need any comment on bis
part
JOHN RIGBY & CO., 13 St. Jamesstreet, London;
and 33 Suffolk-street, Dublin
THOS. BLAND & SON., London
JOSEPH LANG & SON, 33 Cockspur-street, Lon-
don
W. P#WBLL & SON, Birmingham
CHA8. OSBORNE & CO., London and Birming-
ham.
G. B. M. is also AGENT for the eminent Arm of
BUSSY & CO., London, manufacturers of
GAME BAGS. GUN CASES, CARTRIDGE BELTS,
&o., and all kinds of Sportsmens, Requisites
for the field.
A Large Assortment of various other Makers on
hand, viz.Greener, Soott, Hollis and Sons, Bor-
doni, Ac. Also, from the best Continental and
American Makers,
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 George.st., Sydney,
: Where Inspection Is Invited.
IN THE PRESS, and to be published shortly, the
HISTORY OF THE YEAR 1884.
A complete record day by day of every event of
Interest to the colony. In town or country. Com- ,
piled with great care, and intended to fill, as a 1
work of reference, a long-felt want.
Send 5s. 6d. stamps to
JOHN WOODS AND CO. (Limited).
Mr. John A. Wilkinson has much pleasure
In informing his friends, and the publie generally,
that on Thursday, the 26th Inst., he will have on
tap a cask of “ Must ” (wine in a state of fermenta-
tion), which will be procurable until the end of the
present season.
Monsieur John a Wilkinson a 1’honneur d’ in-
former le public de Sydney et des environs qu a
partir dejeudi prochain 26 rebrier et j'usqu a la
fln de la salson 11 aura en perce a son Bodega les
vins do la nouvelle saisons (vine doux).
Meinen Gonnern and abnehmern zur nachricht
oas wahrend der dlesjahrizen salson in melner
Bodega frisoher wein most verzapft wird.
John A. Wilkinson,
Coolalta Wine Cellars,
354i George Street.
11 8 P« oiali ties.—Hale and Dare,
as
(Bociajj, ttotttlttttfcd from page 18.)
Mr. Bail's# haa requested Mr. Playfair, the
Mayoh, tt'ot to carryout hla Intention of giving: a
Complimentary banquet to the oflicers of the
Woods who are about to leave for the Soudan, as
Colonel Richardson had Informed him that they
will be too busy packing theif knapsacks, &c.,
daring the short time they Will be here. The ban-
quet, therefore, will not take place. Next best
thing Mr. Playfair can do is to give a ball to the
“girls they left behind them,” which would give
the fair ones a tobanho to replace the departed
officers,
* ♦ *
At the weekly social of the Thistle Club,
bn Friday night, the head of the clan and much-
respected chief appeared for a few minutes to in-
timate that he had volunteered to accompany the
Engineer Corps to the Soudan, he being a member
of that company. His military uniform Bbethed to
kindle the native obaraateristlcs of his enthusiastic
fellow-clansmen, and with true patriotic spirit a
movement was at once inaugurated to mark the
•vent in A manner befitting.'the occasion. The
managing committee Invited the co-operation of
the other clansmen, and under the chairmanship
of First Chieftain James Munro some very busl-
hess-lika proposals were carried out. A “ Soudan
Committee” was formed, consisting of the chair-
man, Clansmen A. Hamilton, Charles Smith, R.
W. Burgess, M- A. M‘Leod, A. Much, James MTn-
tosh, William Sinclair, with R. Burns Callender as
committee secretary. It was arranged that this
committee should have full powers to arrange for
a grand social meeting, to be held next Friday
evening, 27th, and numerous suggestions were
made to make It a " right loyal nlcht.”-* Clansman
Smith made remarks of a very appropriate nature,
and he indicated that the Club should hire a steam
launch on the 2nd proximo, and to the warlike
strains of their native birooh they should turn out
In their Highland costumes and old a hearty fare-
well to their fellow-clansmen.
e • •
The socials which were held through last
season at Tattersall's Hail are being inaugurated
again this year—most probably in West's Rooms.
* * ♦
Clonourry, Iforth Queensland, was the
Scene of a bachelors' hall in December last, and
Hunts have only now reached us. The hop was
in the assembly-room of the Palace Hotel, and
sing commenced at 0 o’clock to the tuneful
strains of violin and piano—the latter instrument
In the hands of a magnificent performer. Among
the ladies’ dresses some were quite worthy of
mention. The wife of the police magistrate was
attired in blaok satin, with pale blue and silver
dowers. Her sister, charming and fresh-looking
an ever, appeared In cream muslin with scarlet
bash. A petite young lady from Hughenden wore
Indian muslin with satin bodice and blue flowers,
and Was much sought after as a partner. The wife
of a local medico wore blaok satin with tartan
Bash. A lady from Ramsay-street looked very
Stylish In a handsome cream and blue satin dress,
richly trimmed with lace and silver sprays. Her
guest, a young lady from N.8. Wales, wore helio-
trope satin, trimmed with cream lace and net. and
Commanded a large share of attention. A charm-
ing widow looked well in black velvet and scarlet
ttowers. From Clonourry East came a lady In
black, accompanied by her two 'daughters, who
looked very pretty in white and blue muslin; an-
other lady from the same part looked stylish in
slate silk. Amongst the gentlemen were a number
of neighbouring squatters. Dancing was kept up
with great spirit till 3.30 a.m. next day.
* * ♦
Mr. Malcolm, the pianist, haa decided to
try his luck at Maitland as a teacher of music,
where, we hear, they are badly In want of one.
We wish him success, if that’s any good to him.
• ♦ ♦
The Colonial Sugar Refining Company
gave their employes! a holiday; and a picnic at
Clontarf on Saturday last. The pleasure-seekers,
comprising the employes, their families, and a
number of friends—some seven or eight hundred
Infall—steamed over inltbe early part of the day.
and from the time of landing till near sunset, not
a moment was lost for want of excitement and
pleasure. The younger members of the merry
party were presented on landing with a liberal
supply of sweetmeats and toys of all descriptions,
and Che adults found enjoyment for themselves,
In competing for the various prizes and events as
per correct card. The prizes offered were both
numerous and costly, and everybody, from little
to big, had something to carry away. The matrons
showed most unmistakeable form with the waddy,
and Old aunt Sally got such a basting as she never
Sot before. Dancing was kept up all through the
ay to very excellent music by the Imperial band.
The committee sat down to luncheon (Mr. Pool-
man, manager of the company, in the chair), and
a list of toats were given and responded to—that
of Mr. Knox, sen., receiving musical honours. The
members of committee entered into their work
with such goodwill that everything went happily,
the only dissatisfied party, as far as could be seen,
was the unfortunate pig with the greasy tall,
whose racing powers were not equal to an emer-
gency like that of racing for his life. The excite-
ment and fun was kept up all the way home, and
everybody went home happy and thoroughly
pleased.
• • •
Bishop Barry left town on Saturday for
Wallerawang, on the Blue Mountains, where he
will reside until the repairs to Bishopsoonrt are
completed.
« 4 a «
To-day (Thursday) the Reform Club gives
a dinner, in honour of some of its members going
to the Soudan On Friday, 27th Inst., the Lon-
doners’ Club, at their rooms. Church Hill, give a
farewell supper to members who have volun-
teered, and are going to Egypt The series of
eight monthly assemblies held last year at Nlths-
djde rooms were so thoroughly successful and
pleasant that the affair will be again organized for
this year. The Assembly will probably have a
distinctive name; be limited in numbers, so as to
prevent the possibility of over-crowding, and the
first dance eventuates In Needs’ Rooms in March.
....Professor West is hack In town and starts
ms classes in his splendid room early next month.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Mdme. Rita’s Beneat (Old Masonic). Feb. 26.
Soudan Troops’ Parade (Moore Park) Feb. 28
Mr. Harry Hydnes’ Complimentary Con-
cert (new Masonic Hall) March 10.
Grocers’ Annual Picnic (Cabarlta) March 10.
Booksellers' Annual Picnic (Botany) March 12.
Sydney, 'Wednesday.
My Dear Belle, —Of course you hare heard of
Miss Rachel Gray ? Oh I yes, you must have, I am
sure, for the conducts her dWn concerts, and any-
one who does what others don’t do is bound to be
heard df. I don’t know how I could forget to toll
you about her concert, which took place on Tues-
day night week, when last I wrote, but I always
try to tell you the far back news first and leave
the most recent for the end of my letter. And
sometimes in this way 1 omit the most important
events which have happened during the week-
But, then, I always was a scatter-brains, so yen
must take me as I am, and make the best of me
and my news. Miss Gray wields her baton In a
most self-possessed and determined manner—in
fact, she has the air of one who has the utmost
confidence in both herself and her pupils. This
confidence is catching, and instinctively the com-
fortable sensation creeps over one that there will
be neither hitch nor breakdown. Her singing
class is very numerous, and, as is usually the case
(fact, dear), the ladies acquit themselves better
than the gentlpmen. Miss Klvy, in her solo, Over
Hill, over Dale,” made a decided success, and
nothing would content the audience less than a
repetition of the last verse. Miss Josephson
was also very successful, and, if she Is a
pupil of Miss Gray, dees her infinite credit.
The remaining lady soloist was a young con-
tralto, Miss Thorn, who has some nice deep
notes and sings unaffectedly, and in good style. I
think, dear, if I say nothing at all about the
gentlemen soloists, it would please them better—
that la If they knew I was writing to you about
the concert, and as for myself, I should be In-
finitely better pleased to leave them alone, for if
I can say nothing good of any one, I prefer to say
nothing at all—unless, indeed, they are atrociously
bad, and these gentlemen were not that by any
means; indeed the tenor and bass, who took part
in the trio, were almost quite good, but not quite.
The part-singing was really excellent, and you
know, dear, when I say that, it must have been
good, for I plead guilty to being dreadfully hyper-
critical concerning part-singing. I cannot endure,
for instance, to hear the basses dragging, the tenor
shouting, sopranos singing flat, and altos observ-
ing a severe silence. And all these faults are so
common in amateur musical societies, or badly-
drilled singing classes, that the exhibition at
Miss Gray’s concert was as surprising as
it was welcome. If I Twine a favourite,
I love to see him or her well received,
so I was gratified when Mons. de Willemoff
made his appearance and played a nioe solo very
tenderly. How they tried to bring him on again,
but he very properly declined, as he knew quite
well that as all the ladies were being encored it
would make the concert too long, did he give way
—so he didn’t. Mr. Cooper was down to play the
clarionet, but didn’t put In an appearance, which
was disappointing.
Let me see, what next? Oh I I know. The
Metropolitan Liedertafel had their concert last
Thursday, with!Mr. Ashcroft Edwards as conduc-
tor. There was not such a fearful crush as usual,
but a good audience all the same. I haven’t time
to-day to tell you anything about the music, but I
have no doubt you will be able to glean some in-
formation on that point elsewhere. Time passes
very quickly at these Liedertafel concerts, for
when we are not listening to the music, or ooserv-
ing the dresses, we occupy ourselves In trying to
find half a dozen handsome men in the chorus. It
gives us full occupation, I assure you, dear. There
is one, however, who has a beautiful, though,
truth to say, monotonous smile. As sure as the
singing commences be throws bis eyes upon the
conductor (poor conductor I) and smiles the whole
way through. I asked Edith If she could tell me
what made him smile so, and she was quite supe-
rior In her manner when she replied, “ Well, you
are a little goose, don’t you see be smiles in order
to Show his white teeth. And of course that was
his reason, and I was very stupid not to know it.
And at what ridiculous trifles people do laugh
at in a theatre, concert, or church. I remember
onoe getting a dreadful fit of tbe giggles In chproh.
just because our handsome young curate dropped
a pipe out of bis pocket as be walked majestically
up the aisle; and one night, when the chalk which
the minstrels use to clean up their collars bad
rubbed off on to some of their blaok necks, we
thought it intensely funny, and laughed im-
moderately, though, upon calm reflection, I con-
fess I could see very little humour in It. Well,
and this night, as Mr. Hallewell was walking up to
the platform, he made a false step and nearly
over-balanced himself. Now, what was there so
comical In this that everybody was so amused ? I
was quite angry, and told Ned it was very foolish
and ill-mannered in him to laugh so, but be only
laughed the more, and told me I knew nothing at
all about it. But he only wanted to tease me, I
am sure, for ho knows how highly I bsteem Mr.
Hallewell, and he was compelled to own that he
sang the delightful solo from Mozart’s ‘‘Magic
Flute ” right nobly. I think it was the first solo I
ever beard Mr. Hallewell sing in Sydney, dear,
when he took us all by storm with bis uncom-
monly powerful and musical voice. So I am par-
ticularly fond of it, and it just seemed as If some
fairy had whispered my thoughts to him, for I was
wishing with all my heart that he would choose it,
and he did; wasn’t It lovely? Of course’ he was
encored—he always is. Edith says Madame Rita
looks better in her beautiful blue satin than In
any of her dresses, and I am not so sure but that I
am of her opinion, especially when she wears such
a quantity of pearls as she did this night. I love
pearls, although they do signify tears, which I do
not love. I must tell you o f a peculiar and pretty
sleeve 1 saw In tbe audience. The dress was oream
and cardinal, and it seemed to me as ifftbe sleeve,
which reached half way to the elbow, had been
out too narrow to allow of its being sewn up, so
it was caught together by strings of cardinal rib-
bon tied in bows, leaving betwitobing gaps of
shoulder and arm between tbe ties. > he effect
was very piquant, and tbe style Is, of course, a
trick to enhance the beauties of pretty arms and
shoulders, which really are more effective through
this sleeve than if they were left quite bare.
Already we are having troubles in our kitchens
througb sending these men away to the Soudan.
Last night we were having a small dinner party,
so I just stopped Into the dining-room to give a
glance at the table to see that all was right and
nothing forgotten, when, to my dismay, I found
that everything was in estate of confusion, and
most dismal howls were filtering their way from
the kitchen quarters. I hastened down In great
there I found our pretty little
Irish housemaid crying and sobbing out aloud in
true Irish fashion. “ Whatever Is the matter,
Kitty?” “Oohl shure, Miss Mab, and here’s mi
Dinnls been to say he’s'golng away to be a soljer;
and what’ll I do at all, at all, if he comes back to
me as dead as that turkey there ? Ooh I Miss Mab,
darlint, what will I do ?” My mind was sore dis-
tressed both for the poor girl and for the dinner,
which must be held back until the table was ready;
so that between pity and worry I was just at my
wits ends. Scolding, I knew, would be of no avail,
so I tried other means. I assured Kitty that her
lover could not possibly come back dead, and If it
did happen that he never returned, “think,
Kitty,” I said, “ what a famous woman you will be
if it becomes known that you were engaged to a
soldier who got slain (here a dreadful howl) for his
country. Whenever you go to the harbour pionlos,
Kitty, people will point to you and say, * There’s
the girl who was engaged to the handsome soldier
who went away to fight for the honour and glory
of his country.’ Just think how grand that will
bel” This succeeded, the ready Irish tears were
dried up, and Kitty became quite jubilant in live
minutes’ time, and arranged the table better than
she had ever done It before and with twice the ex-
pedition. Indeed, I do believe It would be quite a
disappointment to the poor girl now if anything
should prevent her Dennis from going. These
Irish girls are quite a study, dear. They are affec-
tionate in a skin-deep fashion, but their vanity and
love of fame or praise overcomes everything else.
At all events, this is mu experience of them. Now,
the English have such a heap of pride about them
that they object to wearing their hearts on their!
sleeves, so keep their troubles locked up In their
own hearts, which hurts a good deal more than if
they threw them off la tears and wailings like the
Irish. And I suppose it is Just this pride which
causes the Englishman to he dubbed ooid-blooded.
He seems as ashamed of showing emotion as a
school-boy 18 of being found out In a good-
naturedaot. Queer, isn’t it ?
“ NIta'a First ” is still making people laugb at the
Royal, and if ft runs as long as It deserves to, the
little baby will have to be short-coated. It is Just
the dearest mite of a baby you ever saw, and con-
sidering it is only about two months old, it behaves
very prettily, and quite deserves a benefit. I heard
a gentleman sitting near ua say that Miss Annie
Mayor put her clothes on better than any girl he
knew, either on or off the stage. By which re-
mark I concluded that her neat and tasteful way
of dressing was as much appreciated amongst men
as amongstlus. There was the nicest piccolo solo
Flayed during one of the waits the other night that
have ever heard for a long, long time. It
was as clear and penetrating as the notes
of a bird, and I was quite sorry that no one
thought of giving marks of the approval which
they must have felt. But, there's this to be said,
that most of the men were out seeing other men,
or something, and it costa us poor creatures so
much in gloves If we aoplaud. I spoilt a beautiful
pair over Mr. Radoliff s solo at the Metropolitan
the other night. And Mr. Ripe's arrangetffont of
airs from all the comic operas was quite enjoyable.
I am very glad to see they have made an im-
provement in the music since last week.
The Musical Union had their concert In the
University Hall on Monday night, and Madame
Pauline Rita’s grand benefit concert, which was to
have been on Monday also, was postponed till to-
morrow (Thursday). This being the last of
Madame’s concerts, it is expected that everybody
of any musical note (that reads funny, doesn't it,
dear? But I really didn’t mean it for a pun, it
came itself, as it were) will be there.
And now I have told you nothing about the
crioket match, but it appears to me that I shall
have to pay double postage unless 1 finish off now.
Besides, I am so fearfully tired. So good-bye.
Your loving
MAB.


Is Your Blood
Impure and loaded with the poison of scrofulous,
inherited, or contagious humors, causing glandu-
lar swellings, ulcerous patches in the throat and
mouth, erysipelas, abscesses, carbuncles, boils,
tumors, cancers, ulcers, sores, loathsome erup-
tions, wasting of the liver, kidneys, and lungs,
rheumatism, gout, and neuralgia ? The Cuticuka
Resolvent will surely cleanse and purify your
blood, perspiration, and urine of impurities and
poisonous elements. whether Inherited or self
contracted, no matter how severe or chronK};
while the Cuticuba and Cuticitra Soap clear the
skin and scalp of itching, scaly, and pimply
humors, heal ulcers, sores, and wounds, soften,
whiten, and beautify the skin and restore the
hair.
Woman Items
Thus a London writer“Professor Blaekie
is a bold man to lecture on Scotch songs on Sun-
day—bolder still to declare that he loves to look
uponaTpretty female face; and yet he Is not so
bold as many men, for he says, * I look at a girl’s
face, but never at her ankles.’ I always thought
professors were studious men, and studious men
are apt to look upon the ground when they take
thair walks abroad. I always do, so that I sea
mare ankles, as a rule, than faces. Sometimes,
when the ankles are very neat, I raise my eyes to
see if the face matches; but I don’t do that very
often."
There has keen a terrific disturbance at
Sheffield, England, where at a “ Mormon Confer-
ence,” several elders from Utah were vigorously
opposed by an ex-Mormon and his friends, and
the police had to eject the anti-Mormons from the
hall. This was accomplished only after a stout re-
sistance had been offered. A second conference,
which wm intended to have been held in the even-
ing, had to be abandoned, as the anti-Mormons re-
turned in still greater force, and endeavoured to
mob the Elijers, who sneaked off. But it is no
wonder that such salacious impostors as these
“ saints’’ are listened to, for at Sheffield there are
at present over 10,000 person* receiving parochial
relief, a number which has had no parallel since
1858, Hundreds of families are earning no more
than from eight to ten shillings a week.
A reoent occurrence bids fair to render
the honeymoon of an estimable citizen a far less
mellifluous period, when looked back on from the
light of years to come, than it otherwise would
have been, says the Diamond Fields Times. The
bride and bridegroom, in order to enjoy that
period of seclusion which society fetters enjoin,
betook themselves to the bend of the river, and
occupied the retreat which is sacred to newly-
mated couples. They were, of course, happy in
each others society, and the outside world would
have rolled on oblivious of the two happy beings
raidlant in mutual Joy, but for—but why antici-
pate 1 The weather is warm—decidedly warm, and
a plunge in the waters of the Vaal River is grate-
ful to the happiest of mortals when the ther-
momenter is climbing around 95* in the shade. Of
course, the lady could not be trusted to bathe in
the treacherous Vaal alone, and equally of course
none but the husband could accompany and
guard. Besides, in case of danger from water, a
man, even though he be a loving husband, ready
to brave any danger to save the wife of his
bosom, would be far more useful in case of
emergency in the costume which Adam used
when he bathed. And so a shady nook far from
prying eyes was selected, and the happy pair
rowed across the river, and enjoyed their plunge
in the water so immensely that it was a long
while ere prudence induced them to come out.
It was then found that the towels had been left
behind, so that there being no one about, a little
row in the boat, under the hot sun. suggested it-
self as a simple substitute for Cash's patent.
No sooner suggested than carried out. But bathing
for too long a period engenders a tendency
to somnolence, and soon that boat, with its two
innocent occupants looked in the arms of Mor-
pheus (and in each other’s), was drifting on and on
towards the wide Atlantic. “ The scene is changed."
Lower down the river a picnic party is taking an
outing among the trees, and, after the style Of
picnic parties, the various members are enjoying
themselves after their own fashion. Presently a
boat, apparently empty, is seen coming lazily
down the stream. Of course, such an Incident be-
you saw little or nothing of the shapely head
under the Mother Hubbard hat, and the be-
jaoketed arms and shoulders might have been as
scraggy as those of the girl sitting opposite for all
you knew, A girl, then, with her hair tastefully
and hecominaly dressed, joined to a pretty seek and
shoulders, and plump white arms, has quite
the pull over the girl with a beautiful face,
and nothing else to balance it. Of course, when
she has all these good things combined it’s better
still, but it seldom or never happens so. And
when wiU they learn to understand that bony
necks and long shapeless arms never look so well
as when covered ? The girl you see sitting on top
there knew it, for you see she has drawn her dress
up to her throat and put as much glove and sleeve
on her arms as is necessary to cover them—she
knew better than to spoil the effect of her pretty
face by publloly sparadlng her Imperfections. A
sensible girl she is. And then, as to painting, the-
Sydney girls have not much to reproach them-
selves with in that line; they leave most of that
sort of thing to their Brisbane cousins, who don’t
scruple to daub themselves most glaringly, even
in the day time. We don’t say that our gins here
comes quite an event. Everyone wonders how
she could have broken from her moorings. The
craft gradually drifts towards the shore; at last
she touches, and then— tableau! Let us draw a
veil—in ths absence of a Ig leaf—upon the scene.
Those who choose may picture to themselves the
feelings of the pair stranded two miles from their
clothes, and the consternation of those amongst
whom they had dropped as if from the skies.
Some girls look their best in their neat
morning gowns, busying themselves watering
their flowers, and attending to various household
duties; others shine when sauntering along the
block, dressed in their fluffy pipes, Jersey jackets,
and becoming hats; whilst there are some who
never look so well as when dressed for balls or
theatres. There is a girl in Sydney who looks
almost insignificant in George-street; but, look at
this same girl as She sits in the Royal, languidly
fanning herself with a dozen or so of ostrich
plumes, and you will marvel how in the name of
fortune you could ever have ignored the fact that
she was quite a striking-looking girl. But you
soon solve the mystery. It dawns upon you that
are entirely guiltless In the matter of rouge and
pearl cream, but they are wonderfully modest
that way—they are, Indeed, It may be they don’t
require It as much as those bakod-np Northerners;
anyhow, we will be charitable, and suppose that
such Is the case. The hair, too. Why, in thunder
(bog pardon ladles) will they adopt the fashionable
bleach, whether it becomes them or not ? A sal-
low face, with golden hair, looks simply ridicu-
lous. But there are whispers abroad that the
bleach is going out and a dark dye is in favour.
This is better, for the golden solution is awfully
expensive; besides, if a girl is married, the same
dye her husband uses for his moustache, will
serve for her hair and will cost her next to nothing.
But our advice is—don’t dye, or bleach either,
girls. You may depend Nature has better taste
than you, and whether your hair be black, red,
golden, brown, or drab, leave it alone. For good-
ness sake don’t follow the fashion for fashion’s
sake, but find out what becomes you best and
adopt it, whatever it may be (in the matter of
dress, of course we mean; your hair’s all right).
Strike out for yourselves, and go for individuality
—then we—shall worship you even ’more than we
do.
Our Water Supply.


TiiCK THOMPSON,
A.J.C. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SALOON,
91 King-street.
HT N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
READ THIS I
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£3 lOs. each.
Warranted for three years,
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 PUt-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AN 15 JEWELLER
Black Swan Hotel p
GREENWELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
"ITilRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
ji lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magniflclent s.s. Illawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o'clock.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GENT.’S 50, Is. fid.; 100, 28. fid.
LADIES’ .. 50, 2s. Gd.; 100, 3& 04.
Address, fid. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 3s. fid.; 250, 68. fid.; 500, 10s.; 1000, 158,
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
|y Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
TIE DIE! SUPPLY CO.
DOMESTIC PAPER FASHIONS
shown In our Illustrated Catalogue
Price, Threepence ; by Post, Fourpbnob.
C H A P P E L & CO.,
Late Johnston & Co.,
Paper Pattern and General Sewing-machine
Agency,
746 GEORGE ST.. HAY MARKET, SYDNEY.
Machines repaired, and all fittings, &o., kept in
stock.
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
■. A. BROWN & CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
2,0 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-street,)
From the Strand, London.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 354 and 356 GEORGE STREET.
yfr.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia.
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment.
Everybody is informed that this Studio is carried on Xor the benefit of the late Mr.
Boyd’s children, by his executrix.
Everybody should remember the address ;
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, MANAOB*.
rmiim ail CO.
(J. A. ROBERTS. B. J. ALCOOK. G. C. CHALMERS. B. O. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
Ml mm, ul MACHINERY MBITS,
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY,
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS,
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHRUILDKRtt’
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, &v.
BAR. PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IKON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINO: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSHWARB
FENCING WIRE,
WOOLPACKS
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
halm
ffi
vT J
PORTABLE, FIXED
and SB MI-FIXED EN-
GINES
VERTICAL and HORI-
ZONTAL BOILERS
ff STEAM
PUMPS
and other
sLATHES. PLANING,
SHAPING, 8CBBW-
BfiftCUl DRILLING
MACHINES
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLED
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, &c.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
Head Warehouse -
Iron an;
Bulk St
Yard
London Office *
- 54 YORK STREET.
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR,
SYDNEY.
. 85 GRACECHCUCH STREET,
Giticura
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Bores, and every species of Itching,
Bcalv, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and syphi-
litic'Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Punlier,
internally, and Cuticura and CUTICURA Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiliers, externally.
Cuticura RuwuL.vn.iMi,me new
fler, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes. Instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application or
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will'speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when ail other means absolutely fail.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), Instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
morsfSkin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
bum, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skiu.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skiu and Blood;
have been obliged to slum public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors ; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure ns a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., Now South Wales.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiliers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
per Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and Now
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav.
ino Soar, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Prepared bt the
Potter Drug A Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.
Holiday Presents.
W. H. PALING
AND CO. (Limited),
HAVE JUST RECEIVED A MAGNIFICENT SHIPMENT OF
\
COTTAGE,
UPRIGHT GRAND
SEMI-GRAND,
CONCERT GRAND
PIANOS,
by the
MOST RENOWNED
MAKERS
in the
WORLD.
AMERICAN
'organs,
b
BELL and CO.,
PALACE CO.,
STORY and CO.,
at
PRICES to SUIT ALL
CUSTOMERS.
These instruments have been SPECIALLY SELECTED by Mr. W. H. PALING, who la NOW
These ms EUROPE, and may justly be considered
I
of Musical Instruments ever introduced to Australia.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash ; or Easy Terms.
Mr. PALING has also FORWARDED a COMPLETE ASSORTMENT of
MUSICAL BOSES,
FROM TWO TO SIXTEEN AIRS.
These Goods will be Sold at Unheard-of Prices.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


REMEMBER THIS,
IF YOU ARE SICK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature In making you well
again when all else fails.
If you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of
HOP BITTERI.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any other of the numer-
ous diseases of the stomach or bowels,
it Is your own fault if you remain ill,
for
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
In Gilead ” in the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of all coun-
tries—malarial, epidemic, bilious and In-
termittent fevers—by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, HOP BITTERS
will give you fair skin, rich blood, the
sweetest breath, health, and comfort.
In short, they'cure ALL Diseases of
the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver
Nerves, Kidneys, &o., and
£500
will bo paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in the them.
That poor, bed-ridden, Invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of i
Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
Will you let them suffer r
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doe
tors’ bills to pay.
WeakWervonsMan
Whose debility, exhausted
power., premature decay
and failure to perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will hud a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
.THEMARSTON BOLUS.
stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Nervous Debility and
, — Physical Decay is uniformly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis
now and direct methods and absolute thori
onghness. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDYCO.. 52 Oastlemgh St, Sydney
m
Christmas Presents and New
Year’s Gifts I
J" UST RECEIVED, a Large Assortment of
Gold & Silver Jewellery,
SUITABLE FOR PRESENTS.
Ladles’ Gold Dress Rings, from 10s.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, from £310s.
Gent.’s Silver Watches, from £3 10s.
And other articles too numerous to mention.
C . Q R A N T,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER.
584 George Street, Sydney.
’ Country Orders promptly attented to.
W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON and SYDNEY.
Catalogues
POST FREE.
W. WALKER
and SONS
I
I
are one of the
Largest
Stockholders
and
Manufacturers
m
High-class
FURNITURE
w
ENGLAND
Catalogues
POST FREE.
ALL STOCK
In their
ISYDNEY
HOUSE
Supplied
DIRECT
from their
SYDNEY BRANCH
London
Manufactory,
and Latest
London Styles
Guaranteed
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Robe Makers.' fT
Trousers from 21s. to 40s. J 1 a J
1ST N.B.— Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Fanner and Co
W. Sheabsbt & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabeth-st.
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
Ned Warmoll.
FURTHER VALUABLE TESTIMONY.
I have examined samples of
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
.... These popular Bitters are aromatic, clear
upon the palate, inviting to the eye, quite free
from any objectionable material, and are both
stimulant and tonic.
WILLIAM JOHNSON, Analytical Chemist.
r// e
cm
or
UFF
KNOW THYSELF
4 flwat MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debilitr. Pre.
tpalnre Beeline in Man, Krrors of Youth, and the untold
*®r^*y esul 1 tln » fr ? )m n | l,l| l sc ret | oi | ° r excesses maybe
yM tg( | , r ', ,rp(l - Those who doubt this should pur-
r r l i th . e new !^ ork issued b y tho World’s Dig.
?f ilcal Association, entitled tho Science of Life
hfleei 1 , a S< ' rT ? t i°i n ’ t A book tor every man, young,
and ? ld * I* shows how lost health may be
regained aud retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
alf acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whoso experience for
*0 years is such as probably never before fell to tho lot of
fnfT Physician. 300Wes, bound in beautiful French cloth,
fall gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
tVr, rj 0U V n . t . h0 connt Ty for 2 or the money
vrill be refunded in every Instance. Price, only 12 6 by
mail, post paid. Hlustrativo Sample, S stamps Gold
A^l + aWar< . le l th V uthor . V
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
Thes Science of Life should hi read by tho you tic for
affliCrt6d f ° r relief ‘ U Wil1 boncflt
Hunter HEAL
Address the World’s Dispensary Medical
soemtion, or Dr. W. R. Parker, No. 69 Hur
Street, Sydney,N.S W. TheaUthormay TUVOPl'p
i?«if onsub>ed on ad diseases requiring I H VSr I r
*M11, secrecy, and experience. ,,,IULW
MAIll'FACtURING HATTERS
•'FORPE STREET
S YD NEV
If/PUPTERS OF ALLTHt
NEWESTSHAPES.
SOLE IMPORTER OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
&
SOLE AGENT FOR THE
SMITH ORGAN.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT 8TBEET
u B
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSH?
Prescribed by the BEST PHYSICIANS.
A HONEST REMEDY.
t
THEY WILL POSITIVELY
Alinr Nervous Headache in b minutes! I
I 1 1 I U L S lllou ? Headache in 5 minutes 11
lillnr Neuralgia in 5 Minutes 11
UUI1L Falling Hair and Baldness 11
' Dandruff and Diseases of the Scalp I
Promptly Arrest Premature Brayaess. Hake the Hair grow long
and Blosey. Immediately Soothe the Weary Brain 5
\WjHW A Handsome
Unbreakable BIUJSH,
Elegantly Carved & Mounted
Crowkeme, Nov. 12,1880.
Sir, —My patients have given
me s very satisfactory account
of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair Brush.
One lady assures me that she gets no
neuralgia in her face if she uses it, and
others state that by a few minutes' brush-
ing with the Electric Brush, a nervous headache,
or one arising from overwork or debility, is quickly
removed. The invention is, I think, very valuable.
I am. your obedient servant, G F Wills, M.D., M.R. C.8.E.
t °T*S w tn s* of ‘I 1 c 5 emist * an<J ran ey Storokeoperafor will be forwarded
“y P? rt °f N.8.W. °r Queensland 'upon receipt of prices named, with Js. addol I£.
mittanow »a° be mad; in Cheque., Drafts, P.O. Orders; Stamps, or OurrenJv, CheouM can hs
Bcws^ryy«uuhi& k °* Aurtrf “ a- hBe that the n " m ® of Dr * ocott is ou thoBox, without which
Swa!^ : SS^^o P S J TOLS2iSi? r ? EIBB of WALB , B ’ PE1W0B
' Glands ai
accompanies l„,
PUBE BBISTLEg-NOT WIBES. Wire Brushes ininra tb« a™ir,
and cause baldness and irritation.
The Eight Honourable WILLIAM E. GLADSTONE M P
h Brr^h t « en H P i° n “ < l rit8 of Dr - Scott’s Electric Hair
Brushes, and nas added them to his Toilet.
CHUBCHILL-daughter of the Duke of
Marlboimugh (hero of Blenheim), and sister of
- Doid Eandolph Churchill, of Parlia-
mentary celebrity-uses thorn regularly
and thinks them unequalled for
the hair.
£3f* Send for Circular of
Dr. Scott’s Electric Flesh
Brushes, Corsets, & Belts
for Ladies' and Gen- I
tie me n's use.
0. Lhmpribrb, D.C.L., &c.
Yours faithfully,
PUL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
64 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
P.O. BOX 221,
B;
3
Vegetable Creek is a thriving little £lace
not far from Tenterfleld, and In our eager desire
for the opening up of the country we have ever
been desirous of doing our best to say a good word
to help the enterprise along. But there is such a
thing as going too fast, and sacrificing the sacred
rights of the Individual to the ambitious projects
of local authorities. We saw the Vegetable Creek
Times started on a Liberal basis, and wo said no
word, having every confidence that the wealth and
good sense of the community could endure even
that. But now we find that organ saying, “The
crossing near the Post Office is to be made good at
once, and the stump opposite Mrs. Robert’s hotel
is at last to be removed.” We lodge a frantic de-
murrer. We are already going the pace, and we
cannot afford to see all the old landmarks swep*
away in the revolutionary tide of modern improve-
ment. Where now can Mrs. Roberts’ cook chop
off the leg bone of the mutton ? And the town
drunkard I where shall that honoured and flexible
vertebral column, and that sturdy pelvis balance
themselves to advantage whilst he objurgates Mrs.
Roberts for daring to assert he “ had enough
already?” And then the Times column is being
ruthlessly robbed of a topic, and Tim O’PJanagan’s
dray wheel has no more the ghost of a chance of
coming into contact with “that long-standing
grievance." and of being “severely shaken.” We
maintain that that stump should have remained.
It is this headlong extirpation that is spreading a
contempt for old institutions, and leading the
people away from that solid steady progress which
alone furnishes a basis for permanent prosperity,
and it is this which, if not arrested, will plunge the
country into the vortex of reckless change. That
stump should be replaced, and at once.


THE
IGNO
IPistan-o.
mm m cn
FAMOUS
iMEigrnon
n-^fcro.
■naTE VER previously did any piano win such a hold
IX on the public as the Mignon has done since
Itt Introduction. Our competitors have no doubt
done their level best to rival us—blazoning forth
their bald Imitations with a tremendous flourish
of trumpets. What result have they to show,
excepting to point to the gradual death of all their
offspring? The reason Is soon found. Inferior
Instruments, with showy exteriors, have been
brought forth and attempted to be foisted ©n the
public. But the right-thinking public will have
none of them. The consequence is that the
Sales off the Mlgnon Piano
have Trebled.
THE MIGNON PIANO
has found Its way Into every town almost of all
the colonies—in victoria and New South Wales,
from north to south ; to the far north of Queens-
land ; In New Zealand, from one end to the other
of the islands. In South Australia and Tasmania
THE MIGNON
can be found, and Its name is really a household
word.
THE MIGNON PIANO
la the people’s favourite.
THE MIGNON PIANO
for Its size defies all would-be imitations.
THE MIGNON PIANO
guaranteed to withstand any climate in Australia.
THE MIGNON PIANO
Is the cheapest, because the best.
THE MIGNON PIANO
can be hadron very easy TIME PAYMENT.
THE MIGNON PIANO
excels all similar pianos for first-class work and
richness of tone.
Illustrated Catalogue, with full description
of THE MIGNON and all other good instruments,
on application.
NICHOLSOiT and CO.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
Montross
FRUIT
Pm-rn COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON'S
fHLIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
J® can prove what we say. There are no failures and nc
Appointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
CTtn!^ 0USNES3 > prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
rurbiA, promote DIGESTION, relievo distress from too
warty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
,&«LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
K BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
wn, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit!
ey Rr « « nearly perfect as it la possible for a Pill to be.
Sola Everywhere, Price Is. 3*1.
C. E, MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
Ao. w _ HBGIRTHnwn.
CERTAIN. SPEEDY CURE for Nor-
that G « neral Debility, and all complaints
Toothache fr S m I* 0 * of nerve forae, as Neuralgia.
Ann«tHo b % Nervousness, Indication. Loss of
ComDlainV/T male Disorders, Liver and Kidney
° f Vital Power. Ac. By its tonic
for Alnnhlvi* e 5 ec J? 14 Rt once removes all craving
nther Dowal*,,iLi t ?, rictin e88 In phosphorous and
TONI(?°Nw{^TM^ ta lnBr elements, MARSHALL’S
WwwKSS nourishes and gives vigour to
tSSPi M., or 26s. a case.
Royal Hotel,
Bungendore:
FIRST CLASS ACCOMMODATION.
J. McMAHON, Proprietor.
NO MORE CORNS I
CORNS AND WARTS removed without pain
by the use of Palmer’s Painless, Harmless,
and Effectual CORN AND WART REMOVER.
This preparation Is the most wonderful ever used
for Corns, Warts, or Bunions. If applied accord-
ing to the directions, it will effectually remove
them In from six to eight days.
PALMER’S
FACI/E CURA {ES
For Neuralgia, either Chronic or Local.
This most wonderful Preparation has surpassed
all others in speedily removing this excruciating
and most distressing complaint. It matters not
how long or severe the suffering has been, a single
bottle has never failed in producing the desired re-
sults: and it can be most confidently recommended.
Sold retail by all chemists and druggists and
general stores: wholesale by Messrs Elliott Bros.,
Sydney ; B. Prosser and Co., Sydney ; Felton,
Orlmwade, and Co., Melbourne; Kempthorne and
Prosser, Dunedin.
NEUSTADT anTcO.,
COMPLETE
HOTJSZE
FURNISHERS,
39,154, 156, & 158 OXFORD-ST\
SYDNEY.
HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
Either for Cash or Time Payment,
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers.
MANHOOD RESTORED!
A Clergyman having tried every known
remedy for the Cure of Nervotjs'Exhaustion,
Premature Decay, &c., has at last discovered a
simple Self-Cure, which for the sake of suffering
humanity, be will send FREE the Prescription
which CURED him. Address, with seif-addressed
stamped envelope—
Dr. B. A CLARKE, P‘0. Box 292, Sydney.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL nre
serves, strenghtens, and beautifies the hair: it eon
tains no lead or mineral Ingredients, and can nor
be also had In a golden colour, which is especial!'
suited for fair or golden-haired children and ner
sons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALTDOR is a most cool-
ing, healing, and refreshing wash for the face
hands, and arms, and is perfectly free from any
mineral or metallic admixtures ; It disperses
freckles, tau, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &o.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OP TYRE pro-
duces Immediately a perfect change In red or grey
hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and per
manent brown or black, whlcM colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer In perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless Imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents: Elliott Bros. E
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING.
WEST END HOUSE,
168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Two Doors from Compagnonl’s.)
THE undersigned, recognising the want of a
FIRST-CLASS TAILORING ESTABLISH-
WENT, have OPENED the premises lately occu-
pied by the Bank of Australasia, at 168 PITT-
8TREET (THE WEST END HOUSE) where they
intend to carry on a High-class and Fashionable
Trade.
The public may feel assured that we shall be
able to maintain a high standard, when we state
that our Mr. Ward has had some years’ experience
in the best houses in London, Paris, as well as in
first-class Sydney Establishments, namely, Farmer
and Co.’s and David Jones and Co.’s.
Our Mr. Wilson has had fully 20 years’ expe-
rience In the Australian trade,' and has just re-
turned from England, where he visited all the
principal Woollen Mills, including that of Hud-
dersfleld, as well as West of England and Scotch
Mills. This will be a sufficient guarantee that the
tastes and requirements of the public will receive
the attention they deserve.
In conclusion, we desire to say that we hope to
obtain a fair share of patronage, in return for
which we guarantee first-class work, all hand-
made, well shrunk, perfect fit, and all in the later"
London and Paris styles.
Soliciting a trial, we remain,'
Very truly yours,
FREDERICK WILSON.
HUGH WARD,
Fashionable Tailors, Rqoe and Habit Makers.
West End House,
168 Pltt-street, Sydney.
-A-Torajb.aaao.’e
Filled
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded'
Immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
[JAMES MACGREGOR,
80S GEORGE STREET.
SO
im a
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGBN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
’ MANUFACTURER OP THE C
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
CELEBRATED
THE
The SIMPLEST, CHEAPEST, & BEST MACHINE
ever Introduced into Australia.
EASY TO WORK, EASY TO LEARN,
EASY TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs. No Ratchet*.
The only Machine In the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modern
Science, and of the Best Possible Material*
Sold on TIME PAYMENTS In Town and Country.
EW Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE to
any part of the colony.
B. O. Holtermann & Co.,
Sons Agents,
674 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
J. TURNER ROBINSON A CO.'S
TAILORING establishment
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-streat,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED ’
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS,
%W Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
A. A C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
SIS GEORGE STREET,
Next Poapes and Shaw.
|2P" The most liberal bouse for Pianos and Organs*
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Intttbd,
JL. & C. Huenerbein,
818 GEORGE STREET.
W. H. CHARD AND CO.
WOOL BROKERS,
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Liberal advances made on wool «f
other PRODUCE shipped to their Londos
Agents, Messrs. Redfern, Alexander and Oo H B
Great Winchester-street, E.C.
The Careful Personal Supervision of this well*
known firm Is given to all consignments.
DENTIST.
(Of America)
G UARANTEE8
Ferfect Fit ail Mastication.
0T PRICES MODERATE.
Corner George and Market Streets,
OVER HUNTER'S BOOT PALACE.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
ESTIMATES GH7EN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
(7
%
t
o
S-
u>
<
•k
&
I
3
3
&
O
&
ssssm
—a-
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
■£B®3L3L€t"Toli€&
•v.
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS. 9
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waonona.
W best MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM Merchant A Importer
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s HoteL)


A POPULAR MINSTREL MADE HAPPY;
OR, FROM JEST TO EARNEST.
“ For seven years,” writes Mr. Horace Bent, of
the Federal Minstrels, “I have suffered from an
acute neuralgic affection of the right knee and
rheumatic gout, which became so severe during
our season at the * Gaiety ’ in September, ’83, that I
was obliged to relinguish the active duties of my
profession and keep my room for a couple of days.
I had tried several strong liniments at various
times, some of which gave me partial relief. In
the course of my lecture and sketches I had fre-
quently mentioned, jocularly, St. Jacobs Oil; but
It never occurred to me to apply it to my own ail-
ments until a friend who happened to be in my
room whilst I was complaining of intense pain re-
minded me of its claims, and sent out for a bottle
right away. I used a little of it immediately, and
found Instant relief, repeating the application
again later on in the evening. From that night I
have never felt either the neuralgic affection of
the knee or the rheumatic aout return, and I
would have sent you this acknowledgment earlier
but I thought it best to thoroughly establish the
permanence of the effect; and have to subscribe
myself a Arm believer in the virtues of St. Jacobs
Oil.”
Sold by all chemists and druggists In N.S.W.,
price 3s. 6d. per bottle.
Printed and Published by Tea Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), 34 Pitt-sL, Sydney, N.S.W.
VANITY FAIN.
“ A great many broad-striped pettlooata
are to be seen,” says a paper. We can only say
they’ve no business to be seen....Tightness and
compactness are the objects aimed at by most
fashionable girls. The object is easiest carried out
In some secluded place The new French maid
was assisting a young lady of thin proportions at
her toilet, when she stopped, as if puzzled, and
began to look about for something. 44 What is it,
Justine?” “I have not quite the run of your
dressing-room, yet,” she replied, innocently.
44 where does Mademoiselle keep her palpltators ?
....Fur, when wet, should not be put in a warn
Slace to dry. Put it in a cool airy room, or out of
oors in the shade and wind; and when dry, switch
It lightly with a cane. It will look as fresh and
crisp as ever The South Melbourne Swimming
Club gave an entertainment, at which quite a
crown of ladles attended. In one race, the contes-
tants bad heads put on them representing geese,
donkeys, fish, &o., and the result was comical. In
another item, the swimmers were blindfolded, and
then bad to push a bandbox across the baths—A
beautiful girl looked out and saw her brother
walking about the path on his hands with his No.
10 feet In the air. r4 Tom,” she said reprovingly,
“don’t, Tom, dear; I wouldn’t do that If I were
you,” “Wouldn’t?” replied the rude brother to
bis gentle sister, and his voice echoed with
withering scorn, “why, you couldn’t,”
An apparently fashionable lady was accused by
a Paris hotelkeeper of having stolen the mantel-
piece clock, which had disappeared from her bed-
room, and the detectives examined all her lug-
gage, but without result. At that moment, eleven
BaTf-smothered 44 tings ’’ were faintly but distinctly
heard. The olook was striking under her bustle.
It was the first time anything had struck there
since she was a very, very little girl .. An Ameri-
can Telegraph Co. has got even with its boys. It
makes them take out ail the urgent messages on
bicycles. They can’t go slow without falling off.
Women hate one another in society (says
Oulda) all the more because, in society, they have
to smile in each other’s faces every night of their
lives. Only think what that is—to grudge each
other’s conquests, to envy each others diamonds,
to study each other’s dress, to watch each other’s
wrinkles; to outshine each other always, on every
possible occasion, and yet always to be obliged to
give pet names to each other, to smother Jealousy
under smiles and compliments. Think what all
that repression means 1 While we are dying to
say 44 You hussy,” we have to kiss her on both
oheeks, and aay, “Oh, my dearest It* Society
makes women hate one another.... 44 ! am speak-
ing,*’ said a long-winded orator, 44 for the benefit
Of posterity.” "Yes,” cried a wag, “and if you
don’t hurry up, your audience will be here before
•rpu’ve done.” The example of Madame Clovis
Hugues has already borne fruit in France. A
Madame Chapter, while being interrogated on a
charge of embezzlement, suddenly drew a revol-
ver and fired at the magistrate’s clerk, whose bead
was grazed by the ball.... At London Lyceum, on
a recent evening, during the balcony scene, where
the Oupid-struok Romeo makes such unsuccessful
efforts to reach the outstretched hand of Juliet
(Mary Anderson), a gentleman In th.e gallery so
Interested himself in their behalf as to call out, In
a clear and audible tone, 44 Get a flower-pot I ” It
is marvellous that Shakespeare and Romeo never
thought of it before Mrs. Langtry Is turning a
handsome penny out of the sale of the photos of
her little Chinese page. She has Just bad six new
dresses from Felix, and she is to bo photographed
in each one of them....Miss Mary Anderson, as
Juliet la borne to the tomb in a deshabile of white
and silver, which Is said to ravish the eye when she
emerges from the tomb of the Capulets, and finds
the two or three families comparatively broken-up.
. ,* 4 Why is papa bald ?" 44 1 am his fourth wife, dar-
ling.".... Weddings In India will be unlucky if
celebrated during the next year. Every twelve
years in the Hindoo calendar occurs a year during
which It is held that no marriage must take place.
There is no such year of jubilee for bachelors
under the Christian dispensation.... The Deceased
Wife’s Sister Bill again comes before the Imperial
Parliament next session Among the attractions
of a recent London Salvationist performance were
"Jocko, the Transformed Giant, the Would-be
Suicide; Moggie, the Camberwell Wonder; Billy
Bray; Tommy, the Tramp; and the One-eyed Pro-
phetess.”....Augustus: “Now, Emily, doyou love
me, or do you not?” Emily: 44 Well, If I say I
don’t, shall I have to return your presents 7"—
Have you noticed how muon upon the Increase
are the Illustrated advertisements of young ladies
In corsets ? You musn’t say stays nowadays, but
you may draw them. Never mind, my dear, goon.
London girl who stole her mistress’clothing,
and then went to see a young man, a member of
the Salvation Army, at Peterborough, got six
month’s Imprisonment. She had also eloped with
a captain of the Salvation Army on another oc-
casion, and was then sent to prison f«r a month....
The ouohess of Somerset, Just deceased, was a
grand-daughter of Richard Brinsley Sheridan. She
was the ‘"Queen of Beauty ” at the memorable
tournament given by the late Earl of Egllnton at
Egllnton Castle, Ayrshire, In August, 1839...“ They
took their gruel together!” This Is a charming
euphemism perpetrated by an old clergyman to
explain his relations with an elderly female who
lived alone In his house with him. “We take our
gruel together!” Is likely to become a fashionable
expression ...Miss 44 Fortesoue ” Is now known as
• the complete letter-writer.”.. The new smelling-
bottles are larger thanever, and meanly suspicious
people are beginning to wonder what liquid is
carried In them.... Within five weeks of the pass-
ing of the Married Women’s Property Act In N.Z,
a Maori woman advertised in an East Coast
paper that she would not be responsible
for debts Incurred by her husband
The brothers Battenberg have married the
daughter and the granddaughter of the Queen of
England, and, oddly enough, the granddaughter
fell to the lot of the elder brother The Prin-
cess Beatrice is now betrothed in her 28th year,
the Princess Royal married In her 18th year, the
Prince of Wales was married when in bis 22nd
year, the Princess Alice in her 20th year, the Duke
of Edinburgh in his 30th year, the Princess Helena
In htr Slat year, the Princess Louise la her twenty-
fourth year, the Duke of Connaught in his
20th year, the Duke of Albany in his 30th year.
....A close observer states that nothing exasper-
ates a woman, who has been shading her eyes
from the gaslight with her band all the evening,
so much as to find that after all she had left her
best diamond ring on the wasbstand—Alma
Tadema says that a woman with a beautiful face
seldom has a beautiful form, and that a woman
with a beautiful form is almost always homely.
Alma should come over here and make the
acquaintance of some of the Australian girls ...
“ How like your little girl is to you, Mrs. Brown I ”
44 How odd that you should think so. She’s my
husband’s child by his first wife! ” 44 A—a—at all
events, I don’t think I’m wrong in saying your
little boy is the Image of Mr. Brown 1 ” “ He’s my
son by my first husband, Mr. Oreenl” The
French Duke de Beauffremont is now applying for
a divorce on account of his wife’s extravagance.
This lady has no fewer than 92 law-suits pending
with several Pads tradesmen. She has bought
£1000 worth of lace, about £14,000 worth of Jewel-
lery, and owes over £120,000 for borrowed money.
....Gladstone, in reply to enquiry as to his views
on the woman-suffrage question, says that 44 indi-
vidually he will be glad if this subject receives a
full and dispassionate consideration.”—The mis-
tress of Morin, the man killed by Madame Hugues,
sold to the magistrate at St. Lazare prison: “You
can have me arrested uow, for I warn you that I
shall kill Madame Clovis Hugues as soon as she
shall be released.” Here is another best on re-
cord:—“Thirty couples were married on Christmas
morning at St. John’s parish church, London. The
clergy were occupied from 8 o’clock until 11.”
Smart work, but alter all there were 30 bride-
grooms, so it is not a patch on the performance of
the Roman general mentioned by Gibbon in his
44 History of the Decline and Fall,” who, after the
Aaoture of a city, acted as bridegroom to 15 virgins
Hfi a single night While V lotorlen Strdou’s
brilliantly successful play, “Lcs Pattes de
Mouche,” was being performed for the first time,
in Paris, its author spent the evening pacing the
sidewalk in front of the theatre in a fever of
anxiety. 44 If it takes,” he said, 44 all right. If not,
tomorrow 1 start lor America, to found a French
newspaper there. 44 He remained in Paris
To Miss Foktescue.
Fair Fortesoue, full often I’ve been told
Our speech is silvern and our silence gold;
But now reversed this quip you may construe,
For Qarmoyle’s speech was surely gold to you.
A camel will work seven or eight days without
drinking. In this ’he differs from some men, who
drink seven or eight days without worklng...Doctor
(to patient): 44 You must first of all remove the
oause of this nervousness, then the complaint will
soon disappear.” Patient: 44 It’s no go; I should
have to kill my wife thenl” A German matri-
monial advertisement, from the Fremdenblxtt,
of Homburg:— 44 Marriage.—A young respectable
Christian German. Gentleman of noble character,
who was for short days In Homburg, desires ,to
meet on this, no longer unusual way with an in-
telligent, respectable, and good-healthed young
lady of refined manners, who would like to enter
serious relations with him. Please reply, with
Photo’s, which shall be returned, to 4 Delta, 13u
Haasenstein & Voglor, Franfurt, a.M.’”....
There is no earthly reason why a woman
shouldn’t be allowed to become a medical man....
In stockings, the latest are made of Brussels lace.
They lace up at the back by a cord, and cost 50
dollars a pair. ...15 years ago, Just as an American
officer had arrived at Vienna, the Empress, know-
ing that he had seen a certain princess much cele-
brated for her beauty, asked him if it was really
true that she was the most beautiful woman he
had ever seen. “ I thought so, yesterday,” he re-
plied ... Mrs. Julia Ward Howe’s famous “Battle
Hymn of the Republic,” beginning with the verse,
44 Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of
the Lore,” was written the morning after a visit
to the Union army in Virginia, when she and her
party came near being captured by Confederate
scouts. To save her eyes she followed her habit
of penning her words without looking at the
paper. ,
44 Father,” said the boy who had sat up
on the sofa with a newspaper round him (a dry one
for health—the D.T.) because his mother was
washing his shirt, “father, why do you write so
much ? Why don’t you do like Mr. Wilson, next
door—have your tea and sit down quiet and bring
us some apples and let’s all sing ?” And the stern
pressman brushed back his scanty grey locks and
laid down his pen impressively and said; “Because,
my son, I have a vocation. I am a man of learn-
ing, and the world is Ignorant. It is my duty to—
(Voice from the wash-tub : “ To got more shirts for
your children.”) “It is my duty, my son,” con-
tinued bis sire sternly, “ to spread —” (“ Butter”
from inside)— “to spread information amongst the
masses. I see around me”—(“Lots of furniture,”
from the tub)—' "people perishing for lack of”—
(“Proper food,” inside, again)—' "sound know-
ledge, and I endeavour to supply that want by
writing for the Press.” Son: “ And you get plenty
of money, father ?” “Millions, my son” (tub).
And the grey hair stood on end. And he rose and
seized his hat, felt in his pocket for threepence—
groaned—hung up his hat—scowled the boy off to
bed, and—resumed his pen.
Now that the pantomime season is dead
and buried for a time—Hallelujah—we seo no
danger of spoiling Paterfamilias’ rosy little gam®
by letting out the following anecdote. Mr. Gos-
hork, having bumped up against old Mr. Jobble-
wizzle in the Royal stalls, stammered out, “ Here
Jobblewlzzle, I thought you told me you didn’t
Intend going to the pantomime any more ?” “Well
Jou see 1 had to go,” replied the blushing Mr
obblewizzle, apologetically. “ I grow tired of the
damfoolery thirty years ago. Take no Interest in
it now, at all, you know; but the children’s fond
of it, just like you and I used f be in our boy-
hood’s days, and my little Bob ’id cry his eyes out
if he didn’t go.” ” Y—y—yess, that’s all right, of
course,” said Goshork, “but I don’t seo your boy
with you, how’s that ?” ” No, poor little fellow,”
responded Jobblewlzzle, “ he’s been down with
fypnold fever since last Sunday week, and so I
thought I’d come here to-night so as t’ be able t’
tell him all about it, and not disappoint him alto-
gether. Poor Bob! Children sot such store by
those foolish things, you know.” And then the
worthy pair filed off and flat right hack where they
couldn’t see the girls kick a bit for the rest of the
evening, and inwardly consigned each other to the
most sultry spots in the dim and uncertain future.
Great crises are the golden opportunities
of great men, and there is a melancholy satisfac-
tion to be derived from the fact that the
Egyptian fiasco has brought Into prominence
a patriot who promises to become the leading
spirit of the age. While you and we, dear reader,
have been scratching our little heads and wonder-
ing what ought to be done over the wretched
‘Khartoum business, a Melbourne gentleman has
supplied a prompt solution of the problem to the
local Herald. The suggestions put forward by
this correspondent stamp him as a born leader of
his kind. After putting to the editor the follow-
ing pertinent conundrum—” How shall this stain
bo wiped out, and the moral cowards who sway
the destinies of England be punished?” Our Mel-
bourne friend proceeds at once to answer his
query, and point out what is the best course for
Australians to adopt under present circumstances.
Says he— 44 1 would suggest the immediate holding
of a monster public meeting in the open air, and
a petition by cable to her Gracious Majesty to
dismiss her advisers from office and attaint them
as traitors.” Oh 1 excellent device. With anxious,
hopeful hearts, we await the issue of that cable-
gram. With Gladstone gibbetted, Derby safe in
the deepest dungeon, aud the Napoleonic Mel-
bournian at the helm of State. New Guinea
might yet be our own, and, of course, the moment
the Mahdi heard of the meeting, he would be
paralysed, and Wolesley would be saved.
In 44 The Robber’s Vade-Mecum: a Popu-
lar Guide to the Science of Larceny,” occurs the
following delightful passage:—” There is a method
of removing watches and chains that is likely to
get more and more Into favour as time go on, for
It Is easy, almost perfectly safe, and always un-
likely to be confided to the police. It is the one
indicated in the diagram—’ Sneaking a grand-
father’s clock.’ It can only be worked with the
assistance of a first-class mollhook (female thief),
such as may be enlisted off the Haymarket or
Waterloo-place at midnight. The Jay selected
should, if possible, he a stout, prosperous, credu-
lous old buck, witn two or more chins, and a rich,
jingling walk. The mollhook should have soft,
well-bred hands and gloves of crimson silk, not
kid, having upon them a small sprinkle of some
rare purefurae. When the moment for action ar-
rives, she is to clasp her hands over the eyes of the
Jay with a rich, tuneiui, and modest laugh, and
exclaim, 4 Who is it ?’ If Juggins should happen
to turn upon the siren distrustfully, she may laugh
or bog his pardon, allege that she took him for her
lather or brother and skip merrily away, but If he
does not, the gonoph in front may have a tine time
of it. As a rule the Jay contents himself at once
—especially if the siren kisses his cheek, which
she may do with Impunity, for it is not an assault
—and begins deliberately to make guesses. His
thoughts go for 40 years back, and he cries out,
4 It is Clementinal’ 4 No, sir, it is uot,’ says the
mollhook musically; 4 you must guess again, you
darling old,thing.’ 4 Then.’ says the hapless Jug-
gins, 4 it must be little Clara, surely.’ 4 Nearly
right, but not quite,’ says the wench, and so on;
until the deluded and denuded mug is permitted
to turn and face the blushing and apologising
young gentlewoman who has mistaken him for
her’dear old dad.’ ’Comeback, my child; I will
adopt you,’ said an elderly M.P. a little while ago,
in a street at Kensington, as he glance 1 mildly at
the curtseying and retreating figure of the only
woman who had ever embraced him. ’Come!
here is my card; I represent South 8o-and-8o in
the Conservative interest. May 1 invite you to one
of our picnics ?'•”
At the Wesleyan Conference, in Mel-
bourne. one poor parson put in a half-hearted
plea for the necessity of running trains on the
Sabbath day. With trembling voice and blushing
cheek ho mentioned how “he himself had been
absolutely compelled on occasions to use the Sun-
day trains. One instance he would give of the"
necessity. To fulfil an appointment, he had been
forced to ask a friend, who was in business, to
drive him to bis station, and the horse bad been
tje work all the week. He really had thmy±t
wtetner it would not finve been better to S9to
taken a train.” A torrent of abuse was poured
upon that man by his indignant brethren, but we
sympathise with him. The Rev. Henry Bath de-
manded to know 44 if there was a Wesleyan con-
gregation that asked any minister to soil his
conscience that they might get a sermon ? ” Well,
now, that’s a query which it’s impossible to answer
right out of hand. Of course there are some
people who wouldn't ask a Wesleyan parson to
soil anything—not even his boots—in order that
they might get a sermon. But on the other aide,
there are people who like sermons. Sermons are as
necessary to them as rum to a Nooze reporter,
and ought any scruples about damning a solitary
engine-driver’s soul to prevent a parson from
bearing the glad tidings to a whole congregation
of fellow-creatures, hungering and thirsting for
his discourse ? We trust not. Entirely do we dis-
agree with another opponent of our poor sat-upon
clerical friend. This gentleman (the Rev. J. C.
Symons) said: 44 Every minister should let 50 con-
gregations go without supply rather than ride in a
public conveyance on the Sabbath.” Mr. 8. is
wrong, we feel certain. He means well, no doubt,
because all parsons do that, and the church (as we
remember to have read somewhere) is 44 paved
with good intentions.” But, in this matter of sup-
ply, he doesn’t realise the responsibility that rests
upon him and his brethren. We cannot do better
than repeat to him one verse of a very beautiful
hymn we heard many, many years ago. It was at
a missionary meeting which we had dropped into
under the mistaken impression that there was a
circus performance going on, and the verse ran
something like this:—
Shall ye, whose souls are lighted
With godly gas, deny
That light to men benighted,
And cut off their supply.
Let no lone congregation
In darkness still remain.
But take to them salvation
By cab, or ’bus, or train.
The Japanese, that extraordiary people,
whose aptitude for appreciating and adopting all
that is practically useful in European systems, are
likely, before another generation shall have passed
away, to become a formidable competitor, even
for England, as a manufacturing nation. An
American gentleman, one of the most energetic
and capable men it has ever been our lot to know,
writes us as follows :— 44 1 must tell you in the first
place that my mission to Japan was entirely suc-
cessful, and I have succeeded in interesting the
Japanese in my scheme for the development of the
manufactures of that wonderful nation, who,
under this development, are going to astonish the
world by coming to the front and taking first place
among the manufacturing peoples of the world
within a few years. My plans have met the un-
qualified endorsement of the Ministry of Com-
merce and Agriculture, and has assumed the prac-
tical form of making a connection which is of tho
most Intimate character, and such as only one
foreigner, beside myself, has ever enjoyed with
the Japanese. My trip to New York was In the
Interest of my scheme, and was entirely success-
ful in that quarter, placing me In possession of all
the support that I can use. The Japanese Com-
pany, through which I have made the connection,
has a very large sum of money invested, and is
subsidised by the Government, and with the sup-
port that I have secured we shall have more than
2,000,000 dol, with which to work out something of
interest to Japan; and, knowing what I do and
what I can do with what these people can make, I
do not hesitate to say that they are going to make
the eyes of all the world stick out in surprise at
their progress. 1 looked carefully into the sub-
ject this time when I was in Japan to verify or
correct my impressions of the capabilities of the
Japanese to accomplish the task, and I return full
of an inoiftased admiration for what I think Is one
of the very first nations of the world. You, doubt-
less, know the statistical facts regarding Japan’s
area, population, &c. But, for purpose of argu-
ment, allow me to state that her area is a third
greater than that of England and about equal to
chat of France; that she has 36,000,000 of inhabi-
tants, and that these inhabitants, considered as
labourers, are more artistic, industrious, tem-
perate, intelligent, patient, painstaking, &c.,
than any other people on the face of the earth.
That owing to the simplicity of their habits, they
can live comfortably and happily on from one
third to one fourth of the sum that any of the
European natives can. In the sixteen years that
they have been learning to do as other nations do,
and take a place with other nations, they have
made a progress that is simply marvellous and
unprecedented in the history of the world. Now,
under the plan that I have in charge, they propose
to still further systematize their progress, and
guide it under the direction of a progressive
American, who is an enthusiast on the subject,
and who is as zealous of the accomplishment of
the object as any Japanese could possibly be. That
American is myself, and I hazard ail that I hold
most dear on the success of the plan. Our plan
of representation is comprehensive, and we
shall be in Australia in due season to show
the newest country of the world what one
of tbe oldest countries of the world can do.
This work is one in which I take an Interest
that la all absorbing, and it does not look to me
like anything but a play task, although it will tax
all the energies that 1 have to do what is expected
of me. What is to prevent the Japanese from
learning to make and use machinery of all kinds,
and to work raw material up into marketable
wares and export them to all parts of the world,
as England does; and to own and sail ships as does
England; and to grow rich as England has—only all
the more quickly in the light of the experience of
all tbe other nations, and with habits which are
inexpensive. England and France could not sub-
sist without the assistance of other nations, not
being able to raise wheat enough to feed her or
their people; but Japan is altogether self-subsist-
ing and does not need to go abroad for anything.
This development is going to take some time to be
sure, and you and I may be old men before much
will be accomplished, but there is enough that is
accessible at present that they can do that there is
a business for the immediate future which I think
is more promising than anything else that I know
of.”
Little lady to aunty, when passing post
office (general), and seeing party in red coat push-
ing people about, “Aunty, dear, why does the
owner of the post office wear u red coat and tin
things on his breast ? ”
The above simple but elegant costume finds most favour amongst those who possess
a sufficiently good figure to dispense with any embellishments such as lace, frills, &c.,
&o. The plain jersey bodice has cuffs to correspond with the striped material of the
skirt, and the long scarf of same material is fastened high on the left hip and the
long ends are finished off with a broad heavy fringe.
