

THE BULLETIN
Vol 3 -No. 137 -New Series. SATURDAY, DECEMBER 26, 1885.
rnoe-e*.
The Bulletin,
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 36, 1886.
A Suggestion.
On the occasion of Lord Carinston’s first
visit to a Sydney theatre, that astute citizen,
Mr. John Bennett, secured all, or most of
the seats in the dress-circle at five shillings
each, and, with a liberality which shows
that public spirit is still alive among us, let
them at a guinea a head. In opposition to
some metropolitan journals, we consider
Mr. Bennett’s action to have been com-
mon dably unselfish. Had he been churlish
he might have kept the whole of
the seats empty, and have shared with
her Majesty’s representative whatever
innocent amusement was to be obtained
from the performance. But, as will be
seen, Mr. Bennett possesses one of those
evenly-balanced natures whose chief article
of faith is that happiness should be
shared with others, being shorn of half
its value when enjoyed alone. It was no
doubt owing to this attractive trait in his
character that the loyal public of Sydney
were allowed the privilege of sweltering in
the vice-regal presence on Friday night. It is
scarcely necessary to point out how favour-
ably Mr. Bennett’s conduct compares with
that of King Ludwig of Bavaria. The
monarch builds costly theatres, scours
Europe for talent, and then sits down in
sullen solitude to glower at danseuse and
omtiatrlct. Not so Bennett. No sooner
bad he secured the right to keep the seats
empty than his better nature triumphed.
The still small voice that can so seldom
be entirely stifled rose up within him
and whispered : “ Your fellow-citizens may
have offended you, but, after all, they are
men and brothers. Do not send them coldly
away.” He did not. For an insignificant
premium—just enough to repay him for his
trouble—be threw the doors open to all,
irrespective of creed or country. It is not
the first time that Mr. Bennett has behaved
with a magnanimity which bids fair to keep
his memory green in many Australasian
bonus. Many years ago there was a concert
given in Auckland on the occasion of the
Duke of Edinburgh’s visit, and the throng
besieging the doors could scarcely find lan-
guage incisively loud enough to express
their gratitude on finding that scats could be
had for two guineas Outside the concert
hall that night more intricate profanity
in various European tonguts ascended to
heaven than a battalion of recording angels
could blot out with tears, wept they never
so moistly. But then there was a baronet
on the stage, and a Royal duke fiddling in
the orchestra. Had some other member of
the reigning family only been there, such as
the Prince of Wales or the young Duke of
Connaught, to dance a Highland fling or
even an Irish jig in national costume, it is
hard to say where the enthusiasm would
end. The conductor of the concert on that
historical occasion was a Mr. Quin, after-
wards well known in Sydney, the band-
master of the 18th Royal Irish Regiment.
When he turned round in his seat to tell the
Duke that it was to the hurdy-gurdy rather
Ifr an to the violin he should have taken, we
felt that the British Constitution was in
daager. But it was when the next morn-
ing’s papers told how Paganini was prejtty
fair in his day and Herr Joachim might be
gool enough for a country audience, but,
while they were merely fiddlers, the Duke
was a violinist, that we felt what a high
mission the Press possessed as an educational
institution.
* * •
A good deal of unnecessarily robust lan-
guage, some of which found its way into
print, has been used concerning this little
transaction of the ingenious Mr. John Ben-
nett. And yet there is nothing in it either un-
precedented or shady. It is purely a business
speculation of common occurrence in
Europe and America. A man possesses a
knowledge of human nature, particularly
of its vanity, and he backs his views just as
he would his opinion on a mine or on a
horse. He knows that, in the eyes of many*
prominent persons have a certain market
value, or, rather, that for the privilege of
sitting, or eating, or talking with persons
who, by accident or talent, have acquired
position, there are those who are willing to
pay. He may be mistaken in his oalcula*
tions and lose money. That is his risk. It is
when this standpoint is taken that the un-
reasonableness of those who complain of the
rise in prices appears obvious. Did they
want to witness the performance? They
could have done so on any of the preceding
nights or of the following ones. No, it was
not the play that attracted them. To them
it was a matter of iodifferenoe whether i
was “ As you Like it” or “ Box and Cox”
which was on the programme. The thing
of real interest was that a man and woman
of high social standing were to occupy the
front seats. It was a feeling precisely simi-
lar to that which induced Australian no-
bodies to hang round CARLTiiK’s door in
order that the poor broken-down old man
might throw them a snarl or write his name
in one of their albums. Illustrations of this
peculiar passion are to be seen oa all sides.
They may be noticed in ihe humiliations to
which men and women smilingly submit in
order to reach that haven called “ society
traced in the devices adopted by small men
to attain notoriety by hanging to the coat-
tails of the great, seen even in the means
chosen by the ’arrts of society in perpe-
tuating their names by cutting them on the
stems of choice trees or daubing them on
pedestals. It is vanity pure and simple—a
vanity which, seemingly innocuous, is
really hurtful, as it sets up an entirely false
standard of honour—a standard by which
men obtain respect, not for their actions,
their virtues, or their talents, but simply be-
cause of some adventitious circumstanoefor
which they themselves are in no way re-
sponsible.
• * m
As the theatre was well attended on Fri-
day the fortunate speculator must have
netted a handsome profit by his pluck. But’
in the face of a deficit of a million in the
national accounts, the question arises
whether some meaus could not be adopted
whereby the surplus would go into the
State coffers instead of into private pockets.
We suggest this new source of revenue
entirely in the public interest. If none of
the public estate of New South Walts had
been alienated, the rents which would now
accrue from the occupied lands would
render all taxation unnecessary, besides
leaving a plethoric Treasury where there is
now a void. Could not some means be
adopted, now that the land has gone, for
taking a hint from Mr. Bennett ? It is
proved that the Governor’s presence at a
public entertainment will indute many
people who can well afford it to pay guineas
instead of shillings for admission. Suppose,
then, that the Governor could be induced
to “ stand in ” and, by taking care to
secure all the tickets for a certain perform-
ance before proclaiming his intention to be
present, divert the extra charge into the
public purse, a new reservoir of revenue
would be tapped. He might be paid by a
fixed sum or by results. Instead of expend,
ing ten thousand a year on vice-royalty, we,
by judicious arrangements, might make ten
times that sum out of it. The more this
subject is dwelt upon the more fascinatii g
it becomes, and the stranger it appears that
it has not been hitherto broached. For It is
not to public entertainments alone that the
Governor's presence need be confined. Sum-
mons by popular preachers, meetings f r
the promotion of Social Purity, the spread
of the Gospel among the Jews—a peop e
who of all others require it badly, a: d
whom it is shameful to neglect for the pur-
pose of evangelising the natives around
“ Stanley Pool ’’—and many others, mig t
be included in the programme. Indee.J,
there is no reason why social gathering s,
marriages, christenings, and even funerals
could not receive attention. It would,«t
course, be impossible for the Viceroy him-
self to attend to all. He would have to con-
fine himself to the principal events, and lot
some of bis suite see to the smaller ones.
One| “ aide ” might be told off for music-
halls and Buffalo meetings, while anoih r
took up Dorcas Societies and funerals. Tl e
serving-men and maids in the meantime
might be working up the suburbs and coun-
try towns, giving away prizes at publ o
schools, presiding at Salvation Army meet-
ings, and making themselves useful in a
variety of ways.
mm*
It is due to Mr. Bennett to say that tl e
sketch we have given of the uses to whh a
a Governor and his following might be put
in the general interest was suggested by 1 Is
late action. The details are necessarily i i-
complete, but as occasion arose, fre h
arrangements could be made to meet them.
Owing to the unfortunate fact of oup
present Governor’s possessing ample priva'e
means, some difficulty might arise in Lis
ease. This could be got over in futuie
appointments by taking care that the oflk r
sent to rule us was a man of high rat
limited income, and laige family. If the
latter were grown-up, so much the better
as the children would be able to take
some of the more pressing duties tff
their parents’ shoulders. To provide for
cases where sudden indisposition Interfeuxl
to keep the Viceroy at home when he was
wanted abroad, a dummy or timulaorunx
could be kept on hand which would anew or
all purposes. These figures can now bo
made up to bear a living likeness to any
person, while, owing to the progress of
modern science, there would be no difficulty
in providing them with machinery which,
would enable them to walk, bow, return
thanks, and conduct themselves creditably
in every way. Almost anything could be
used as material. Rags have their advan-
tages, and so has sawdust. Indeed, it is x. ot
so long since a cast-iron man propelled by
steam was exhibited in Sydney, and his
manners and deportment left little to be
desired. We mention these things merely
to show the vast field opened by Mr.
Bennett.
mm*
It is time to return to seriousness. We
have said that Mr. Bennett’s speculation
was as purely a business one as that of the
publican.who lets his baloony in order that
people who wish to see a procession pass
may have a chance of doing so. If you hare
no desire to see the fete do not go on the
baloony. Similarly, if you can be happy
without sitting with a Governor, do not at-
tend the theatre when he is present. U Is
PROFESSOR MAX MULLER.


AMUSEMENT
On receipt of the advertised price, any of the
following’ Tricks will be sent by return post
THE DISAPPEARING CARD BOX.-A card
£ laced in the box Instantly vanishes, and the box
I shown quite empty. Price Is., post free Is. 6d.
THE MAGIC CORK BOX.-A, capital multipli-
cation trick. Three corks are placed in the box,
which is seen by the audience to be quite empty.
The lid is placed on, and when removed there are
found six corks within. Price Is., post free la. 6d
TSUI WIZARD OF THE NORTH’S CHANGING
CARDS.—These cards change instantly to other
cards, whilst held in the hand, in a most surprising
manner. Price Is., post free Is. 2d.
THE GRE43LHAT AND DIE TRICK. A solid
die passes completely through the top of a gentle-
man’s hat and is found inside. Price is. 6a., post
free 2s.
THE MARVEL CIGAR CASE.—The case la
shown crammed full of fine cigars, which Instantly
vanish. Excellent trick. Beautifully made in
leather. Price 2s. 6d„ post free 3s.
THE MAGIC SNUFF BOX.-A most excellent
trick. No opening can be discovered anywhere.
It looks just like a solid piece of wood, and no
person can possibly open it but the owner. Price
2s., post free 2s. 6d.
the MAGICIAN’S PACK OF FORCING
CARDS.—No conjuror with card tricks can pro-
perly perform without them. The most astound-
ing tricks can be performed with them. Very
superior cards, 2s. 6d., post free 3s.
DEMON HANDKERCHIEF.—Indispensable to
every conjuror. Watches, rings, coins, and any
articles placed under this handkerchief. Instantly
disappear, although the handkerchief is thoroughly
shaken and shown to the audience each time.
Price 2s. 6d., post free 3#.
THE MAGNETIC PACK OF FLYING CARDS.
—Can bo made to run up and down the arm or
body, and elongated in the air two or three feet
apart in the most beautiful regularity without one
of them falling. Very astounding. Price 3s. 6d ,
post free 3s.
THE MAGIC DIE AND HANDKERCHIEF. -
A solid wooden die is placed under the handker-
chief, and felt to be there by tho audience, one of
whom may be allowed to hold it. The performer
exclaims, “ Presto 1 gone I ” and instantly takes
the handkerchief and shakes it to show the die has
vanished, and exhibits It thoroughly, whilst the
die itself is found inside a canister or any other
article. Price 2s. 6d., post free 3s. 6d.
THE WONDERFUL JAPANESE DRAWER
BOX.-The performer sends round a prettyll Aj e
box to the company, which they fill with \ trot,
gloves, coins, &c. Directly the performer tiK38
It in his hands, without removing it froc=; signt,
the articles instantly vanish, and the drawer Is
shown empty. Price Is. 6d., post free 2s.
THE MAGIC DISSOLVING PACK OF CARDS.
—A pack of playing cards are shown to the au-
dience and then placed into a case just large
enough to hold them • Oo© of the audience iuplantly
after this is done, opens the case, and finds it full
of sweets, and tho cards vanished. Price Is. 6d.,
post free 2s.
™T£?UJ£ YSTERIOTTS CANDLE AND BE-
WITCHED HANDKERCHIEF.—The performer
brings forward a candle out of a tlght-lltting case
and lights it. He then borrows a lady’s handker-
chief, burns It to ashes in the candle, and places
the ashes and eandle in the case again. The lady
is then called on to open the ca«e, which Is handed
to her. She does so, and hinds her handkerchief
restored therein but tho cand b entirely gone.
Very excellent trick. Price 28.61., p ost free as.
N.S.W. stamps taken at par, otooi colonies add
Id. to each Is.
Address all communications;
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT
BOX 641 G.P.O. 401 Q BO RGB-ST., SYDNEY.
Between King and Mamet Streets, opposite the
Royal Hotel, and no other address.
C. W. EOBEKTS
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Largo Bottle, only 9«.
Small Bottle, , ’As. S4.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottlo.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT W1N1,
Is. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEB PORT,
V. p«r Bottle.
tOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT POST
Is. per Bottle.
BUM,
In Flasks, iottxos, and Imperial Quart,
At lowest possible Frio 3S,
GIN—IN FLASKS,
If, 9d. each,
Tho Key Brand, and Henke** Prize Medal Brand,
in stone bottles and square bottles,
LAROKST SIZS.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD ACID HALLOW.
in Flask?, Bottles, and Imperial Quart*.
G. W. ROBERTS
Gsorgo end Harket Streets.
■YDNET.
remarkable how soon speculators come to
their senses when they find the public un-
willing to support them. But it Is because
xperienoe has taught them the immense
mount of “ snobbery ” there is in ordinary
human nature that they buy seats and pro-
fit by the transaction.
Secularism and Denominationalism.
The Sydney Morning Herald and its evangeli-
cal correspondents have again been showing that
Cardinal Moran ought to be satisfied with the
New South Wales system of education. The posi-
tion held by the Cardinal Is, In effect, that secular
education. If not permeated with religion, will lead
to the wreckage of the social system. The New
South Wales Act makes it possible for a modicum
of religion to be imparted in the schools, hut this
In the Cardinal’s eyes. Is altogether Inadequate,
and the general admission among the heads of the
Anglican and other Churches is that he is so far
right. Tet tthese Churches accommodate them-
selves to the Act, and pietists of the Dr. Jefferis
and Herald stamp assume the special function of
proving the unreasonableness of Dr. Moran. It
is to be borne in mind that the Cardinal and his
critics enjoy highly enviable positions in this
social system. They are at one In accept-
ing the system as wise, if not divine. In
its Inception,! judiciously knitted together in Its
several parts, and, if not absolutely perfect,
settled on lines leading to perfection, and already
considerably advanced towards the goal. May It
not be that Cardinal Moran Is the only reasonable
man In the lot ?
v * »
If the social system be really as described, the
critics are right and the Cardinal wrong. Secular
enlightenment will intensify allegiance to good
aws. But, if the system be characterised, not by the
virtues stated, but by the opposing vices, secular
enlightenment will reveal to the victims of
vicious laws the iniquity of the system. To make
these people bear with the system, threats or pro-
mises from some region outside the system must
accompany the enlightenment. Is or is not the
social system vicious ? Is class dovet riled into
class on terms of equity 7 Take the first illustra-
tion that comes to hand. The people of Paris, the
most luxurious and most highly civilised capital
In Europe, are calculated to consist of 55 per cent,
indlgents, 28 per cent, a shade above indigency, 14
per cent, well-to-do, and 3 per cent. rich. Roundly,
83 out of every hundred have to keep on working,
hard, all of them in straits, many of them stranded
and some of them starving, so that 17 out of the
hundred may be able to fare sumptuously. As It
Is In Paris, so it Is In London, so it Is in Berlin, so
It must be In Sydney when Sydney’s civilization
attains the same proportions. The continuance of
this relationship between the masses and the few
is the central work of the social system. When,
then, secular education reveals to the masses that
under this system they are being eaten by the fewi
what will they do 7
• * «
If motives from outside the system be not In-
fused they will refuse to let themselves be eaten
to the ankles. Some of them will go In for consti-
tutional agitation. Others will not lose time
tinkering the system, but will lay themselves out
to grab whatever they can. The rest will revolt.
The agitators will not be drawn from the Indl-
gents. Hunger, and thirst, and rags, and dirt do
not inspire constitutional schemes. It will be
among those approaching the well-to-do class that
these views will be entertained. The great ma-
jority of the secularised mass will make for the
second and third vocations. Society can in some
way manage those who take the second course. It
n*w send some of them to gaol, and distribute
&M.G«-ships and the like among the rest. But
those who take the third course society will have
tobang. ,
Leave the masses ignorant and they can he
ground down. For ages that has been the rule
followed. Give them knowledge of the world
about them, but mix It well up with religion, and
still tbey can be ground. Tell the horny-handed
man, sweating to earn bread for a dozen hungry
mouths, that there Is a crown of glory awaiting
him In heaven, and you stand a chance of being
able to squeeze from him half his earnings in this
world for the support of a royal pauper or profli-
gate prince. When bis wife and children are very
hard-up. end bis eyes look a little dangerous,
drive it into him that the Devil Is stacking up a
tremendous fire to frizzle him if he say a word.
That Is the way to keep the social system together.
But o"n<t- religion, and give the masses to see how
bow they are yoked like bullocks, and whipped
and driven to an accompaniment of social oaths
for the satisfaction of the few: that is, give them
secular enlightenment only, and—well, what will
you do with them 7 There is nothing for It but to
send them to gaol, elevate them to the peerage,
or hang them., , B
If the social system could be adjusted and
amended equo pedc with the march of knowledge
B mnn ff the working classes, the issue might be
different. But only by hair-breadths, If at all, is
the system moving, while by leagues the cause of
popular education Is advancing. The Cardinal,
therefore, apprehends the true outcome. The
laws—that Is, the rules on which this system rests—
will cease to be reverenced, will cease to be
obeyed. If secular knowledge only hold the popu-
lar mind. The Cardinal and his critics look at the
social system from the same coign of vantage.
He, therefore, is logical in insisting that the more
annular knowledge Is given to the people the more
religion should he infused Into them: while his
critics, with a blindness that presages their de-
struction. belabour him for his pains. Those only
who regard the social system as a structure radi-
cally false are justified in championing a thorough
dissemination of secular knowledge.
The Coming Conquerors.
The story—fully told In last Monday's/B.M
Herald— of the seizure of the steamer Ogj/
hound by ten Chinamen armed with revolvers,
points a grim moral. The captain was shot dead,
the chief officer mortally wounded, the chief
engineer wounded also, and the crew kept under
£»tohee. an within 70 miles of Hong Kong, and
right in the track of vessels going to that port.
And by ten Chinamen 1 It is a bitter pill for the
proud Caucasian to digest. He has been going on
for hundreds of years making a moral and physical
certainty of the assumption that he had nothing
to fear from the under-sized yellow men of
Cathay, and despising them accordingly. Fitted
man to man and without arms, an average China-
man would, possibly, have little chance with an
average European—even from the South of
Europe. But modern weapons have made the
dwarf as powerful as the giant. A "Winchester
rifle is ss deadly in the hands of a boy who knows
how to use It, as in the bands of a man. So is a
revolver. A Chinaman armed with a Martini-
Henry and drilled Into using it skilfully, is a match
for any rifleman—English, French, German, Rus-
sian, or what you please. Ten thousand such
Chinamen trained to act together, would be fit to
take the field against ten thousand of any other
nation, now that battles are fought at long range-
If it came to a question of close quarters, they
would probably have a bad time of it. But
bayonet-charges are almost things of the .past.
The finest regiment falters before the murderous
fire of modern weapons. It would be next to im-
pofslblc for any body of men to advance over half
a mile of level ground In the face of an incessant
and deadly rain of bullets.
* * *
The argument of the bravery of race turning
the scales of battle might take on another appear-
ance if all things were equalised, in the matter of
training and arms, between the Chinaman and the
Caucasian. The former is noted for a patient
courage in the front of Death, which la the chief
requisite in the automatical soldier of to-day.
Blind obedience is what is wanted from modern
troops more than anything else. It was the pos-
session of this quality which, as much as general-
ship-for no generalship can conquer with in-
tractable materials—gave the victory to the Ger-
mans in the war with France. The stolid German
soldier standing still when he was ordered, and
steadily advancing when he was ordered, swept
the fiery Frenchman out of his path as a man
sweeps aside the smoko of his pipe with a wave of
his hand.
* * *
Dash is a good ingredient in any army, but it
should not be the sole ingredient. There are pro-
bably few regiments in the world that could storm
a breach in the style of tbs Connaught Rangers or
the Black Watch, but broaches are not stormed
every second day in a campaign. The Saxon
phlegm and bulldog obstinacy that refuses to ac-
knowledge itself beaten even when it is being
danced upon, is the quality that makes the back-
bone of the British Army. We do not say the
Chinese have this tenacity, but they have plenty
of courage when they are fairly well armed and
properly generalled. They have never been either
yet. In our war with China the weapons of the
Chinese Army were subjects of derision. It was
reckoned by military wags that more Chinese
were killed by their own guns than by ours. They
had, for instance, field-pieces which were borne on
the shoulders of two men and fired off by a third I
Yet they gave us trouble enough before we had
done with them. France has lately, out of sheer
weariness, concluded a war with China in which
neither gold nor glory was gained by the French.
The strength of China consists in this capacity for
tiring out an enemy. But should that tremendous
vis inertia) be changed into vis vitae— as there is
every chance it will when the rulers of China
come to properly realise the force that drilled
myriads will give them—there will be a power to
reckon with in the East which may soon settle the
conflicting claims of England and Rus fia.
♦ * *
This may seem an extravagant assertion, but
when it is recollected that China has a population
of over four hundred millions to draw from, it
will not appear so far-fetched. All that is required
are efficient weapons, drilling, and good general-
ship, with the word to go, for a horde more ter-
rible than the Huns—because better disciplined
and carrying deadlier arms—to sweep over Asia)
even to the borders of the Bosphorus—if it would
stop them. This, however, is a wild speculation,
as, in these days, an army cannot operate far from
a base of supplies and a background of reserve
forces. But the astute Russians are constructing
railways which may in time, and when carried far
, enough, and connected with future Chinese lines,
settle that difficulty, and make the groat Chinese
Invasion quite au easy and comfortable thing for
the invaders. The generation that sees this come
to pass will understand the boast of Attila-that
no grass grew where bis horse once trod.
* * *
What Is there to prevent such a thing coming
to pass? One obstacle is the want of arsenals
whore rifles may be manufactured aud cannons
cast independent of Caucasian supervision, and
dockyards where ships of war may be built In
sufficient numbers to defend the coast. China will
never he a great maritime power, because of the
cat-like antipathy that the Chinese have to the
sea. There are, of course, instances to tho con-
trary, but they are not many. The mariners’
compass was known to the Chinese ages before it
was discovered in Europe, and if tbey had not
been conservative lovers of land—“ buggers of
shore,” In fact—they would have made their ap-
pearance in Europe ages before Europeans were
seen in China. This conservatism of theirs has
preserved them as a distinct and peaceful nation-
hut, perhaps, it has also preserved Europe. If
they had been oast in the Viking mould, and had
appeared upon the scene as the Roman Kmpiie
was going to pieces, and before the Gothic King-
doms bad been established on a firm foundation,
the face of history might have been changed. We
might now he wearing pigtails if they had 1 But
they did not, and, therefore, they are not a mari-
time natiou-and never will be.
* » *
But, for that very reason, they cannot be
crippled, as other nations can, by the destruction
of their commerce. AU their trade Is done from
the wharf. It is by foreign vessels, under
foreign flags. 1 1 uultaneous scuttUng of all
these vessels wet. uut hurt China as a similar
thing would hurt a European Power. China
is sufficient unto herself. Taking for granted
then the statement that she is not and cannot be a
maritime pu tver, she has aU the, more opportunity
> of developmeut ai a military nation on laud
Asia is a wide enough field, even for her armies.
And there she will ha operating upon her own
base all along the line.
* * *
The difficulty about arsenals and manufactories
of arms can bo overcome with money, and that
she can afford. The best soldiers, inventors, and
mechanicians of all nations can be obtained for
money. A short experience with the Japanese has
shown that after a time they can dispense with
their European instructors and carry on business
for themselves. It is a popular fallacy to suppose
that the Chinese cannot do the same if they desire
to. It is also an old story that the Chinese are
good Imitators but poor Inventors. They have
not invented because until lately—lately In
Chinese chronology, to which a thousand years is
about equal to one of our centuries—they have
not had occasion to do so. The fierce struggles of
European nations were unknown to them. And
after all, how long Is It since our ships were no
better than their junks, and we fought with cross-
bows ? Some seven hundred years. How long is
it since we know the uses of steam 7 Not a cen-
tury. Railways and steamships and electricity,
and all the advantages which we possess, are of
recent date. And they are all purchasable. Tbey
are as open to the Chinese as they are to us—for
money. When the knowledge of this thoroughly
permeates the Middle Kingdom, and its inhabitants
take their place In the competitive lists of nations,
we may have to look to China for our newest
improvements and inventions.
* • *
And now Imagine a thoroughly equipped and
thoroughly disciplined standing army of five
millions of men—with a reserve of ten millions at
its back I All this is possible under a military des-
potism, wbioh is also" possible, and would have
been certain if the Tae Ping rebellion had been
successful. What holds them back from their
career of conquest? Generals. Here we touch
upon another prejudice of the dominant races’
They believe that a brilliant Chinese general is an
impossibility. But they forget that the Chinese
have had, comparatively speaking, no experience
in European methods of warfare. They forget
that the Chinese fashion of campaigning—fighting
in the summer and going home, or going into
quarters during the winter—was the recognised
style of warfare in Europe all through the middle
ages. The Chinese make war now as they did two
thousand years ago—leisurely. They also forget
—these military wiseacres—that, up till the time of
the first Napoleon, war was carried on by rule, and
strategy was a profound long-thought-out study
upon certain well-known lines, which It would
have been heresy to transgress. But Napoleon
burst all that up and Introduced a totally new
system of warfare by smashing through the
ancient and respectable method at every turn*
He himself stated that, according to the old plan
—the Grteco-Roman fashion, to speak In the
language of wrestlers—the Archduke Charles of
Austria was the g reatest general of the age. But
bis generalship availed him little against an an-
tagonist who defied every recognised rule of the
game.
♦ ♦ ♦
So it is with the Chinese. They have done their
fighting upon ancient lines up till now, so that it
is little wonder they have not made a great show
of brilliant generals. But when they come to
learn the new manner of murdering by contract
we shall he surprised if, out of a population of say
500 or 600 millions, a general of supreme ability does
not appear to scare the civilised world some day.
* ♦ *
"We have spun a long sermon out of a small text,
but we have thought of this thing so often before
that we should have written about it text or not
one day. Now we have it off our minds, and are
comparatively glad. We shall not be sorry for
the trouble we have taken if this article is the
means of inducing one small boy to refrain from
throwing stones at a Chinaman because John hap-
pens to have both hands engaged with vegetable-
baskets. Let that small boy and all small boys re-
member that the time may come when Chinamen
will pour into Australia without waiting to ask
the Custom-house people how much poll-tax they
have to pay.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Wanted—A “Live" Government in New
South Wales.
Mr. Dibbs, the ex-New South Wales Premier,
having retired, instead of waiting to bo kicked
from office, the leader of the Opposition, Sir John
Robertson, was u sent for ” by the Governor,
and undertook the task of forming a now Minis-
try. It is not surprising to learn that the Knight
of Cioveliy found the task a very difficult one,
and that he got considerably embarrassed by
reason of the fact that all the really desirable
men to whom he offered portfolios respectfully
declined the proffered honour. This circumstance
alone refutes the assertion so often made by
carping critics that the Assembly lacks intelli-
gence. It shows, at any rate, that there are some
members who fully recognise that in the leader of
the Government and of Parliament there are re-
quired qualities other than a sound judgment
respecting whisky, and that the necessities of
the times demand that the control of affairs
should be undertaken by a man of liberal prirr
ciples, and so constituted both physically and
mentally as to enable him to light for and enforce
them. Not one of Sir John’s most enthusiastic
admirers would be bold enough to assert
that he is strong either in mind or body. He
prtBunted a moat pitiable spectacle in the As-
sembly last week, when he made a speech on
the Financial Statement submitted by Mr. Dibbs.
For over thiee hours he tottered up and down the
floor, trembling all the time like a man afflicted
with palsy, and mumbling almost inaudibly. The
matter of the speech was even weaker than the
manner of its delivery. The distinguishing
features of it were a frequent reference to the
Almighty, and the use of adjectives which would
sound just as appropriately coming from the lips
of a sporting parson who had missed an easy shot
as from those of a man who in, presumedly, calm
and sober senses was addressing the highest repre-
sentative institution in the land. The speech was
an unmistakeable demonstration of the fact that
For continuation of “ Plain English,” sec nest page


Wolfe's Schnapps tranquilizes the nervous
system.
Puck Almanac, '80, 6d. (post, 7d.). Now
ready. 31 pages of splendid Comlo Illustrations
and letterpress. A real Xmas Bonnebouotae. All
booksellers. Alex. M’Klnley and Go , Sydney.
Another “ syndicate ” has been formed to
“Jump ” the famed Mount Morgan (Q.) gold mine.
Don’t be fooled into taking any other but
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Puck Almanac, ’89, 6d. (post, 7d.), Now
ready. 34 pages of splendid Oomlo Illustrations
and letterpress. A real Xmas Bonneboucbe. All
booksellers. Alex. M’Klnley and Co., Sydney.
Wolfe's Schnapps an unequalled specific
for diseases of the stomach and bowels.
("Plain English,” continued frompag® 4.)
the much-admired old man—we have never been
able to detect in him any particular virtue to
oall forth admiration—is in his dotage. Can it be
wondered at then, that strong-minded, capable
men declined to Join the crew of the ship
of State under such a skipper ? The politi-
cal principle (?) of men who would con-
sent to take office under such circumstances,
must simply be controlled by personal vanity.
It is a well-recognised principle that mental de-
terioration and ungovernable obstinacy usually
run together, and there is no reason to suppose
that Sir John Robertson will differ from ordinary
mortals ia this respect; indeed, the self-assertive-
ness displayed in his last speech affords convincing
proof to the contrary. Every member having
any perception of his duty to the country at th’'s
particular crisis, ought to have politely refused
to have anything to do with Sir John Robertson,
for the reason that there is no hope that the old
man will be able to do anything whatever in
the face of the strong party which will be opposed
to him, and—If future developments be such as
certain political know-alls predict—who will bo
equally opposed to any other man who has sur-
vived his usefulness as a politician being allowed
to handle the reigns of Government. What we
want in this country at present u a strong Go-
vernment team, with an intelligent, cultured, and
popular leader, and, in due course, we shall indi-
cate how such a team ought to be made up. All
that we need sayontbis point at present is that
the Assembly includes among its members at least
16 gentlemen out of whom a stronger Government
than any we have ever had could be formed.
Driven to extremes, Sir John had to offer posi-
tion* to men who would never have been thought
of by a powerful man who wished to form a O. -
vernment which might be expected to meet with
popular favour and be able to do something in the
shape of progressive legislation, and, of course,
these men seized the offers just as a child would
take a penny rattle. Fancy what an amount of
self-glorification the Ignorant, blatant blusterer
can Invest himself with when he proceeds to make
reference to the time when “ I was Postmaster-
General (or any other officer) in the Robertson
Government I” Is there any other man in the
colony besides Sir John Robertson who, at this
critical juncture, would have thought of placing
such a thorough nenentity, politically and socially,
as Mr. J. F. Burns in the office of the Treasurer ?
Mr. Burns may be very reliable in such work as
finding out the amount of interest payable to a
Building Society by its borrowing members, but
among the figures and difficulties which will con-
front him at ihe Treasury he will be as likely to
be successful t s a wanton boy would bo if he were
to attempt to swim the wild Atlantic with the
aid of a bladder or to stride over it in a Han-
lan boot. And is there any man besides
Dan. O'Connor who recognises In that in-
dividual the possession of any one quality
to entitle him to the office of Poslmaster-
General? Mr. O’Connor Is one of these men <o
whom we may safely apply the line, “ Not to
know him is to argue oneself unknown.” It is
because we know him so well that we are sur-
prised that, even on the verge of desperation,
Sir John Robertson should have off- red him a
portfolio. After this, one of those dreadful picnic
orations will be sufficient to make a sensitive man
wish to lay down ti. ’‘..I and turn up his toes;
llfe will have no further attractions for him
Who, outside of Parliament, ever heard of Mr. J.
H. Young ? We know him in Parliament as a
man who articulates as though he had a plum in
his mouth, and expresses antiquated notions in
such commonplace language as to suggest the idea
that he has something of tougher consistency
than a plum in his brainpan. Add to these things
an atrabilious temperament, and you have
before you a faithful representation of the
new Minister of Public Instruction. While
we have no difficulty In accounting for' the
acceptance of office by the gentlemen whom we
have named, we must coifess that Mr. Heydon's
action is a perfect enigma. A far-seeing man like
Mr. Hbtdon must be convinced that a Govern-
ment constituted as the new one is cannot last a
month unless the members of it resort to despic-
able political trickery and treachery, and why he,
with his literal ideas, his undoubted intelligence,
and the prospect of a successful political future
before him, should Join such a motley crew, we
cannot imagine. He can gain nothing as far as his
political reputation Is concerned, but he may lose
a great deal. Wo notice that the old Parkesian
and Robertsonian dodge of threatening a dissolu-
tion, with a vlewito secure tbe support of mem-
bers, is being resorted to. It is to be hoped that
the absurd threat will have no effect on members.
Of course the Governor has absolute discretion as
to whether to accept or not the advice to dissolve
Parliament, but the usual rule is for him to de.
ellne to do so unless be is perfectly satisfied that
the parties are so well defined and so evenly
balanced that there can be no possibility of any
useful work being done. It may be safely as-
sumed that Lord Cauinqton will have it repre-
sented to him that there is in the new House the
elements for the formation of a party which
will command the support of a large majority of
members, as well as the sympathies of the people.
Gladstone and Ireland
The statement in the London Standard was to
the (Sect that "Mr. Gladstone was prepared to
restore 1 he Irish Parliament while preserving the
union of Great Britian.” On the following day
the Pali, Mall Oazeitb commented and en-
larged on the subject by saying that Mr. Glad-
stone's sebeme “ embraces the establishment ef a
Parliament in Dublin with complete control of
Irish affairs; the Crown, however, to have the
power of veto upon the advice of the Irish Minis*
try.” This forced the Liberal leader's hand so far
as to induce him to “ disavow the accuracy of his
Irish policy as published by the Pall Mall
Gazette,” and to further state that “ nobody
knows his Intentions regarding this question.” So
the matter stands, and speculations are naturally
rife as to what his intentions ready are. Indec d,
it is extremely doubtful whether Mr. Gladstone
himself has mads up his mind regarding the ex-
treme limits to which be is prepared to go. Tb's
is not to be wondrred at, for the problem is by no
means so simple as It appears. Some measure of
local government is necessary. So much is con-
ceded by both sides. The question is whether
Ireland is to become a State in a Federal Union
like one of the States of Anferiea, or whether it is
to be granted a Constitution similar to that of a
British colony, such ns Canada or New South
Wales. The latter object would be attained by
restoring the Parliament of Grattan which was
traitorously surrendered 85 years ago. Under
such a Fa’liament the country would have the
power to coin money, raise troops, fit out ships,
adopt a protective fiscal policy, pass any measures
affecting Ireland alone which were not anta-
gonistic to Imperial policy, and, in fact, govern
herself just like a British colony. But she could
not send ambassadors to foreign courts, nor enter
into treaties with foreign countries, nor declare
war against nations with which Great Britain was
at peace. This is the form of Home Rule for
which Pabnbll and bis followers strive. It differs
materially from that of a Federal State. The latter,
while enjoying perfect local autonomy, is for-
bidden to coin money, build war ships, or adopt
a fiscal policy out of harmony with the
ruling one. There is no doubt that Free-trade
would be the proper policy for some of the
Western and Southern States of the Union. But
they have to accept Protection in deference to the
majority in Congress. We believe that any system
of Home Rule short of that which would be en-
joyed under the restored Parliament would be un-
satisfactory, and only lead to fresh agitation.
Under it there is no doubt that an astonishing ad-
vance ia population and in wealth would take
place. The fears affected by so many that com-
plete independence would be the next demand, we
regard as purely visionary. Irishmen have suf-
ficient sagacity to know that, even if obtainable,
it would be a doubtful benefit. For it would de-
prive them of all participation or employment In
the Empire which was built by their hands just as
well as by those of their English and Scotch
neighbours, confine their aspirations to a small
outlying European island, and, in the event of
European war, render their position far from
comfortable. But she oould not send ambassa-
dors to foreign courts, nor enter into treaties
with foreign countries, nor declare war against
nations with which Great Britain was at peace.
But, besides being undesirable, they know it to be
impossible. Tender no conceivable circumstances
—unless advancing science places in men’s hands
weapoi s which will render war impossible—could
Ireland successfully defend herself against Great
Britain. To suppose so is almost as absurd as to
suppose Corsica able to keep France at bay. Popu-
lation and resources must prevail. No one is
better aware of this than tbe Irish leader. When
Mr. Parnell obtains the power to raise his
country from the abject condition forced upon it
by centuries of misrule and start it on a career
of prosperity, wo shall have heard the last of
Irish famines, Irish indolence, and Irish crime.
Syme's Radicalism.
A storm is brewing between the Trades Hall
Council of Victoria and the Melbourne Age. The
Council wants provision made for alspecial repre-
sentation of labour in Parliament, whereas the
Age thinks that every good thing lies oapsulate
in manhood suffrage. There is a little of the
obj otionable snuffle that is becoming character-
istic of the A ok in the following sentence it
throws into the Trades Hall:—” To-day the leading
Radical agitators in England are men who, If not
bora in the peerage, belong to the pluto-
cracy of the country.” The implication, if g*od
for anything, is that Victorian plutocracy
can be depended upon by the Trades Hall for a
similar development of Radicalism. A peerage is
no more hostile to the people’s interests in a coun-
try like England than is a plutocracy in a colony
like Victoria. The working classes follow sound
Instincts in distrusting Its professions. The ques-
tion becomes slightly complicated by the fact
that manhood suffrage and payment of members
already exist in the colony. But the Trade s Hall
people should direct David Stmes’ attention to
the fact that twelve workmen-oandldates were
returned to the Commons at tbe recent general
election.
The New Administration.
Bib John Robertson has formed what he, with
much facetlcusnees, terms a new Administration.
The portfolios are distributed as follows:—
Premier and Colonial
Secretary Sir John Robertson
Colonial Treasurer Mr. J. F. Burns
Minister for Lands Mr. G. Spring
„ i. Mines Mr. Vaughn
„ „ Works Mr. J. Garrard
„ „ Justice....... Mr. L. Hbtdon; >
„ Education .. Mr. J. H. Young
Postmaster-General Mr. Dan. O’Connor
Attorney-General (with
a seat in the Council).... Mr. G. B. Simpson.
We deal with the composition and prospects of
this Cabinet in another oc luran.
Another disease removed from the Incur-
able list. Hydrophobia has to come down from
the proud position it once occupied alongside
phthisis, cancers, and club-foot, and take its plaoo
with measles and hooping-cough. It is M. Pasteur
who has suooeded la changing a mad-dog into i n
object of derision. When he meets one he J jst
stands and laughs while the animal is chewing
whatever part he likes beat. Then the savant n -
turns home,: inoculates himself with some <)ri*d
marrow taken from a rabbit that has died fiom
rabies, and goes about his business. Tbe other
day an Alsatian boy who’d been bitten by a mart-
dog was brought to him. Two other doctors ssid
the lad’s death was inevitable. Not so, M. Pas eur.
He treated the youth by inoculation with
happiest results. But bow was it known the cl?g
was mad ? Because-we quote—"when the animal
was killed, his stomach was found to contain hay,
wood, and other substances that he would not
have eaten unless he were mad.” This is the weak
point la tbe story. To suppose that a dog Is mad
because he eats hay and wood is simply childish.
Why there are some dogs will eat nothing else.
Indeed, in the yard behind ours there Is an animal
on whom, owing to bis peculiar vindictiveness
towards the moon, the neighbours have lavished
more caresses in the form of odd boots, decom-
posing vegetable*, and in extreme cases, candle-
sticks, then on ary mammal of his genus with
which we are acquainted. He eats every pro-
jectile. In tact, a dark suspicion Is gaining ground
that bis nightly address Is merely a deep-laid
scheme to supply his larder. He has not yet been
tried on mine ral in bulk, as wood instead of coal
is used in the neighbourhood. But from the way
he approached some earthenware sets which were
pitched over the fence to him the night before
last, the opinion Is gaining ground that if a bag of
coke, or a load of,bricks could be conveyed to him
from a sufficient height, and with proper aim. he
might rest satisfied. Mad because he ate bay,
wood, and other substances 1 Mad because be
couldn’t get them.
There Was More Money In It.
Tiie ascelio Archbishop Moran objected to his flock attending the proposed
intid of St. Vincent’s Hospital, Sydney. Dancing being a device
of the Evil One, he desired to put it down.
But he gave—see advls. and small bills—" his distinguished patronage ” to the “ Soudan
Encampment,” in aid of the same Hospital. One of the features of this entertainment is
a leg-show, in something like the above style. The enjoyment of the faithful may be
observed.


Personal Items
Lady Carington weighs seven stone ten.
Judge Bundey, of South Australia, says he
doesn’t think trying to kies a girl Is an assault.
Queen Victoria’s name isn’t Guelph; it is
Wettln. A N.Z. journalist says she is only Wettln
just so long as she is reignin’.
A Sydney cabman named John M’Elhone
Is charged with stabbing a rival Jehu, John
M’Blhonel What’s In a name.
Mr. W. L. Murdoch, the ex-captain of
the Australian Eleven, has permanently settled
In Melbourne, where he Intends to practise his
profession as a solicitor.
Our readers will regret to hear that the
eminent Judge , of Sydney, is no Ho l l ?
writing a book and has been a good deal troubled
with sleeplessness on the bench of late.
Talking of a certain recent appointment—
that, say, of Mr. Tobias Towzer Osoott-to the
Judicial Bench, reminds us of the time when Mr.
Osoott aforesaid presided at a certain polica-court
up South In his capacity as a J.P. An Illegitimate
child oame up to be dealt with by the Bench as a
stray waif. “ What’s your name ? ’’ queried Magis-
trate Oscott. “ Tobias Towzer Oacott, sir, was
t he little boy’s prompt reply.
Dan. O’C o n n o r,
(M.P.), will have a rival
In the person of Lord
Carington, whom every
second reporter has de-
scribed as “ Genial.” In
future, when you hear
*■ The Jayull ” talked
about, It will be necessary
to ask, “Which Jaynll 7”
Three voters, whose
aggregate ages foot up
the respectable total of
260 years, hobbled In to
Gundurlraba to vote at
the recent election. The
vouth of the party, a boy
of 79 summers, was care-
fully shepherded by a
gentleman who in tbe
game of Life bas made
the respectable score of
109 “not out.”
Tbe Western Aus-
tralian declares the
Mupieme Court of the
dalony to be “the hunting
ground of speculative
attorneys and levlers of
black mail.” It then
charges the Chief Justice
with being responsible
for this cheerful state of
things. Rough, isn’t It ?
Surely the law of libel is
tia-r in West Australia, or
ere this trouble bad been
brewing for that out-
spoken editor.
Bladen’s sonnet on
Sir Samuel Wilson pricks
“Attlous” of the Mel-
bourne Leader info tbe
following aokn- wledg-
ment : — “ Nevertheless,
the Biadenesque class of
poets are necessary to a
Samuel Wilsonesquo
world. Lord Tennyson
being under contract
only to write up the other
■ .oyal Family, the de-
scendant of King Alfred,
does only right in secur-
ing the service s of prob-
ably the only poet fitted
for the job.
The Carcoar Chron-
icle is edited by a lady,
Mrs. Garland, who, we
notice, gives In her paper
a verbatim report of the
maiden speech recently
delivered by her hue-
band (senior member for
Carcoar) In the N.B.W.
Assembly. It covers
close upon five columns,
that Is, almost every Inch
Of space the paper de-
votes to reading matter.
There is In this a solemn
sermon for bachelor poli-
ticians. It Is proof, too,
of the existence of a
matrimonial Arcadia.
And, further, does It not
show that as unto a
woman Is measured a
Eenerous woman repays 7
r Mr.Garland has heark-
ened to the protracted
curtain lecture, well,
then, here Is In return the
whole Chronicle at the
disposal of bis silver
voice I
The evidence in the suit against Mrs.
Langtry, In London, showed that she received
money from a gentleman to pay the bills for
which she was sued, and then refused to pay them.
Lord Carington, at his reception the other
day, met the N.8.W. Chief Justice. After the
ceremony His excellency strolled up to Mr Toby
Byan. and began to talk to that distinguished
personage, whom he had mistaken—horror I-for
Sir James Martin.
The Attorney-General of Victoria, Mr.
Kerferd, who has been engineered on to the
Supreme Court bench, was. In days gone by, a
rlvet-boy on the tubular bridge over the Menat
Straits. We mention this just to show Into what
a shockingly bad politician a rlvet-boy may de-
generate.
An old lady in Tasmania, whose daughter
married a Sydney resident, when asked how the
climate suited the younger lady’s health, replied:
“ She felt the heat greatly at first, but she Is get-
ting 'manured ’ to It now.” The sweet creature
must be a perfect Salamander If she could ever
be “.Inured ” to the heat of this season In Sydney.
Lord Carington, when he attended the
Sydney Theatre Royal, the other evening, went
out during the Interval and took a drink at the
Metropolitan Hotel. We hope his Lordship, In so
doing, didn’t think ho was setting the fashion. We
may Inform him that drinking Is fashion-
able in Sydney. It is also fashionable to drink at
the Metropolitan.
Mr. Howard Spensley, the Australian who
has lately been elected to the English House of
Cdmmonp, was once Melbourne correspondent of
ifbountry newspaper. That will show you what
Journalism will bring a man to. There he is—a
member of the first Legislative Assembly In the
world, while his readers lie mouldering in the
cold grave. It is the irony.of fate.
From an obituary notice in a Melbourne
paper we learn that Signor Canna, “champion
drummer of the world,” was drowned “ while
getting into a boat.” The boat should have been
paled out before the Signor was permitted to get
into it. By the way, we shouldn’t like to live
next door to a champion drummer. It must be
awful when he practises a new oratorio.
The author of the celebrated comedy
“ The Private Secretary,” which has had two suen
successful runs in Sydney, is Mr. C. H Hawtrey,
who, as tutor to a travelling youth, sojourned in
Maryborough, Queensland, some five years ago,
and created a bit of a sensation by showing his
stalwart proportions In classical costume at a
fancy-dress ball. Mr. Hawtrey Is playing one of
the parts in his successful piece.
They have a weird humorist in the Mel-
bourne Herald office. Ho is a compositor, and
was given a sorrowful and effusive article oh the
late lamented Sir Peter Soratchley’a funeral,
which told of the body being enclosed In a second
lead coffin. Tho grim comp, enlivened the screed
by setting up the words “ second-hand coffin.” In
the next issue the Gifted Winter fairly moaned
his regret at the unseemly levity.
Salvation Army Major Barker, of Mel-
bourne, has been ordered by General Booth, to
go to China and spread the tidings there. He re-
fuses. The whole of the Salvation Array property
and it is pretty extensive—Is locked up in his
name. He is a smart man, for an apostle, Is the
Major. GotoChina! “Goto j ” Was probably
his inaudible remark when he got the General’s
letter. The Maj or likes to attead to tbe white
heathen, and therein Is quiet right.
The Marquis of Waterford is a possible
visitor to Australia. The present holder of the
title isohiefiy interesting as being the nephew of
“ wild Waterford,” and brother to Lord Marcus
Beresford, starter for tho English Jockey Club.
The Marquis holds a snug billet—Master of the
Royal Buokhouads—which he is likely to resign
before starting on his travels. The duties of the
post are not arduous. The buokhounds do pre-
cious little work, and their Master does still less.
From an American paper: —“ The late Mr.
Underwood, of Queensland, had an antidote to the
fatal bite of the adders which infest that country.
He had many times demonstrated Its value in his
own case and that of others. He was fond of let-
ting the snakes bite him, and then of curing him-
self. He offered his recipe to the government lor
but the offer was declined. One
day, when Intoxicated, he was bitten by an adder.
His remedy was not near him, and he died.” Who
was Mr. Underwood ?
Mr. Thomas Jarman Hawkins, one of the
oldest residents of Bathurst, and once M L. A. for
Fast Macquarie, has just died, aged76. Hearrived
at Bathurst with his father (a retired naval officer)
and family In the year 1883 - 63 years ago—being
then 13 years of age. Mr. Hawkins leaven a widow,
a son and daughter—Mr. Henry Hawkins, of Bart-
letts, and Mrs. F. B. Buttor, of Bradwardlno The
body of deceased was interred In the family vault
at Kelso, which contains tbe remains of bis father,
who was burled there nearly 50 years ago.
So a Melbourne barrister has sued a local
attorney for professional lees. We always thought
barristers were too high-toned to think about
money. They took pay—they only accepted
an “ honorarium.” We were In an attorney’s office
not long ago, and saw there a barrister’s memo, of
fees owing. The items were given, but they were
not added up. The attorney explained to us that
It would have been against profeasioual etiquette
for the learned counsel to add up his bill, we are
so glad It iso’t against professional etiquette for an
attorney to add up his bin. The last attorney’s
bill we saw was 318 yards long.
The nose of the Civil servant has a keen
scent for a holiday. The public funeral accorded
Sir Peter Bcratchley In Melbourne had been hope-
anticipated by the local Government clerks.
A “day off” on which to indulge their grief
seemed a legitimate perquisite of the tight-
trousered fraternity. But they didn’t get It, and
what words cm paint their dismay I “Why not a
holidav ?” plaintively wrote one gentleman to the
Herald. Why not, indeedl Sir Peter owed his
death to his pluck In sticking to work, and minor
public servants ought at least to bave bad a holi-
day in order to celebrate such an exceptional
event.
Quite a batch of distinguished Victorian
citizens returned home by the B.M.8. Carthage.
Among them were James Munro, of the Federal
Bank; Mr. E. M. James, the distinguished surgeon
who accompanied the Marchioness of Normanby
to England, and remained with her until she died;
and Mr. Bruce, of the great softgoods house of
Patterson, Lang, and Bruce. Lady Scott was also
a passenger by the Carthage, and will remain with
her friends in Victoria while her husband, Lord
Charles Scott, is on tho Chinese station. Sir W. J.
and Lady Clarke leave for Europe bv the Car-
thage, and are expected to be absent from Aus-
tralia about a year.
“ Jack” Purves, M.L.A., who is a Field-
Marshal, or something, in that aristocratic corps,
the Household Cavalry or Guards—we mean the
Sydney Lanoe-ahs—fell off his chargeah on to his
little pink ear while proceeding home last Satur-
day, after the military chivoo and presentation of
prizes at the Agricultural Society’s Grounds, Syd-
ney. The gallant Field-Marshal was considerably
shaken, ana had to proceed home—like Burdett
Smith on a memorable occasion—” in a cab.” The
worst of the matter is, that the occasion was the
very first one noon which the valorous John had
worn la jvublio his pwetty new uniform. John’s
horse is, we regret to see, an outrageous
Democrat.
The Rev. Thumper Dowie, once of Sydney,
now down South, is becoming famous. Dr. Moxon,
In an article on tho falth-heallng imposture, in the
Contemporary Review, quotes the belligerent
Gospel-pounder lengthily, but only to prove one
of his faith-healing exploits all bunkum. The
International Conference on Divine healing and
true holiness held high corroboree In tho Agricul-
tural Hall. London, lately, upon which occasion
the Rev. Dowie’s account of how he had cured a
Mrs. Parker of cancer, was received with pious
acclamation. It seems he brought such a pressure
of faith to bear upon the cancer that it flowed
out. But the sceptical M.D. laughs at this, and
says all Dowie could have done was to press an
abscess.
i Moody and Sankey have been for a long
time unheard of. They are both alive and settled
I down, in Northfleld, Connecticut. Mr. Moody Is
the local king there, and has founded a large re-
olamatory school for waifs and strays. Sankey is
cultivating a large farm, where he is to be seen
working and directing the labours of his work-
men. when we interviewed him some years back
in Chicago he had an Idea that he might some day
visit Australia. He has given up that Idea now
altogether. He says that there is work enough
for his old days In America, and he doubts if
either himself or his neighbour. Sankey, will ever
again leave it, even to re-vis't England. We
thought that Sankey had died, but find such not to
be the case.
We did read that Mr. Stead, the im-
prisoned editor of the Pall Mall, was to be
treated as a first-class misdemeanant. Now we
learn that he Is In gaol with ordinary felons, in
ordinary prison dress, branded with the broad-
arrow, fed on hominy, confined In a cell so dark
as to prevent him from reading, and made to pick
oakum. A first-class misdemeanant is one who
is to be treated with tender consideration—all tbe
rigors of prison life are softened to him. He
must be content to remain for a season smoothly
folded down across the knee of Justice, but the
good dame’s retributive slipper will admonish the
place beneath with an amiable percussion like the
impact of a rose-petal ou the bloomy rotundity of
a fallen poach.
Last week Fincham, M.L.A., of Ballarat,
helped to stonewall a Bill in the Victorian
Assembly. Firstly, ho talked from 6 o’clock till
9, which was a tolerably long call upon his lungs
and upon such substitute for brain as be possesses.
Then Fincham started off towards midnight for
another three hours’ talk, which broke him up
altogether. He fainted at the end of that time,
and had to be led away from the Chamber • It Is,
no doubt, as laborious to speechify with u treason
as it is to walk without an object in view. The
time needs to be occupied sensibly to make
physical exertion endurable. The only nonsense
that can be talked for three hours with pleasure
to the talker is by moonlight, when — But doubt-
lessly Fincham knows all about that.
Vanderbilt dead I The cablegram comes
close upon our reading the description of the
splendid Eastern-world-like tomb which he had
been building for himself, just In time. Parody-
ing Prince Henry’s soliloquy upon the shamming-
dead Falstaff, we might say: “Could not all that
wealth keep In a little life ?” It was calculated at
about thirty millions sterling. It would seem that
building tombs for ourselves Is almost as un-
lucky as making wills. That is to say, supposing
that It can be called unucky to go from this
world to a better one. If we are to believe In
Heaven It should be a full belief, and shown by a
desire to get there. This tomb of W. H. Vander-
bilt rivalled his famous Fifth Avenue mansion,
and was thought to be the more splendid palace of
the two.
The inscription on
Lord Carlngton’s arms Is
“ Tenax in fide.” Thus
do tbe papers lie. We
bave the authority of the
chief groom of the bed-
chamber for stating that,
with the exception of
three vaccination spots,
His Excellency’s arms are
not marked In anyway.
A young Australian
aristocrat returned lete
the other night to the
Langham Hotel, London,
and suddenly thought
that a little pistol-prac-
tice would do him good,
and at the same lime let
tbe blaisted Britishers
see what fire-eating devils
we Botany Bay-ards are.
As the smoking-room was
deserted, and the only
moving thing In It hap-
pened to be the clock, he
thought it a capital idea
to kill time literally, by
popping away at the
ticker until he had roused
the whole hotel. When
the swelling had left his
head next day he apolo-
gised all round, and
squared up for the dam-
age done, but it Is said
that all tbe gold la the
colony would not com-
pensate a few ladles who
In their Irantlo terror
had darted into stiange
rooms with nothing to
shield their defenceless
forms but calico skirls
and curl-papers. This
little shooting freak is
another effect of the
fco jdan expedition.
To recover the ap-
rarentiy dead, it Is said
to be the beat thing to
search their pockets. If
there be any life In a man
that will disclose It—the
pocket is so intimately
connected with the heart
and brain. Like treat-
ment to this has brought
Judge Trench, of Vic-
toria, very quickly round.
He collapsed some days
hack under a paralytic
stroke, which, for an old
man of 75, was looked
upon as aifinal breaking-
down. Another Judge
was appointed to do duty
for him, and went up
country accordingly. The
new comer was surprised,
as were the others, to
find the sick man coming
into court and Insisting
upon taking his usual
seat there, and disposing
of the business before
the Court—the which be
did. Some Judges are
wondrous stickers- Such
were Lord Norbury and
Baron Lefroy, who stuck
to their seats until 90, and
such is Vice-Chancellor
Bacon now sticking on at
85, Instead of taking his
ease and his pension.
This Is what the Ameri-
cans call “ cuesedness.”
Samuel M‘Curdy Greer, who absconded
In August last from Portland (Vic) where he was
accountant in a branch of the Union Bank, has
been arrested In his father’s house, In Banbrldge,
County Down, Ireland. He will be brought back
without delay to the scene of his colonial triumphs.
Tbe total amount laid against bim is under £100,
so that, as defaulting bank-clerks go, this young
man deserves a medal for moderation. He Is the
son of a Church of England clergyman, with a
little church and a little manse In a small northern
village. He is a cousin of iGreer, who fired at M.
Soudry and his wife, and then suicided, in Mel-
bourne Opera House, five years ago; and he la a
nephew of Samuel M’Curdy Gresr, for many yaars
member of Parliament for the city of London-
derry, and one of tbe fathers .of Ulster Tenant
Right.
Sir Henry Havelook-Allan, we observe,
has been re-eleoted for one of the divisions of
county Durham In the present Parliament. Sir
Henry is not a very brilliant descendant of the
hero of Lucknow, and the Allan taoked on to
Havelock looks something like an Insult to an
honoured name. It means money, however.
Allan bequeathed something like half-a-mUIlon to
the present holder of the title for the privilege of
having his patronymic affixed. Mr. Ashmead
Bartlett became A. B. Burdett-Coutts when he
married the Baroness. There was money hanging
to that transaction, too. People take horrible
liberties with their ancestors for the sake of filthy
lucre, nowadays. So would we. Only leave us
balf-a-milllon, and you can call us what you will.
We wouldn’t stick at Loftus or Carington with
one 11 r.” But don’t, don't call us Smith.
There is a breeze of the Back-blocks about
this, from the Northern Miner:—” We find that
Duncan M’Gregor is not dead. Our authority for
stating so in yesterday’s issue was Mr. W. L.
Davies. On our reporter going to the Telegraph-
office immediately after being informed, he found
that It was also heard there that Duncan had
• pegged out.’ However, we are glad to know that
Duncan Is alive and kicking yet. He must be the
proverbial bard-beaded Scotchman. Some time
ago he was thrown from his horse and taken to
the hospital, when be got only a few minutes to
ANTE-UP.
In any game of “Nap.”
One aiways “ sights ” tho pool,
And, for cash, ’tls possible at times
To join a poker-school.
A crown will “see” a crown
At almost any game—
At billiards, loo, or Uncle Sam,
The rule holds much the same.
But in tho game of “cop,”
Played by “ the lucky three ”
Who ruled the Royal roost Rst week,
A pound a “crown” won’t sea
They’ve struck oil, as you’ll mark—
“ Mikado ” “ takes tno pie,”
And Carington and Sullivan
Will pay, or they’ll know why.
Still, as we said before
(A lord we dearly love),
’Tis hard a guinea must be s’aked.
To “sight” our local “sov.”
If he is “ on the show,”
Let’s ask in manner meek
To see our latest Governor
On Fridays In each week
Within a circus tent.
Or van, or barn, or hall—
A "bob a time” would pay him well
And "give delight to all.”


For a torpid liver'take Wolfe's Schnapps.
That indigestion or stomach gas at nicht
pr?ventinjr rest and sleep, will disappear by uslmr
American Co, a Hop'Bitters. *
Mind you get Wolfe's Schnapps.
BEALE & COMPANY
City Show Rooms,
386 and 012 GEORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS,
151 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS in EVERY
COUNTRY TOWN.
Addrcsi Letters of Inquiry-
3713 Pltt-streef, Sydney.
THE LATEST TRIUMPH of SEWING MACHINE
M BCHANJCr,
The “ BEALE ”
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
Wertheim Sewing Machine,
LiE_
The “ Kapsburg” Pianos.
SOLE IMPORTERS,
BEALE AND COMPANY.
THE “HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
[Sole Importers
BEALE AND COMPANY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES j
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANY LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER;
or,
BEALE & COMPANY
Sydney.
BOXING DAY.
BOXING DAT.
ERINA TOWNSHIP.
1JJ T
;P*I
Auction Sale, Boxing Day.
-*rf/
>^ii[
TI*
Passengers will be conveyed by Ocean Steamer (400 tons).
Tickets (return) and Luncheon, 2s. 6d.
OVERLAND ROUTE AT SPECIAL RATES.
TICKETS, PLANS, &c„ FROM
BOYD & KING, Auctioneers,
96 PITT-STEEET, SYDNEY.
Office open for issue of tickets until 7 p.m. To-night (Thursday;.
Steam er starts at 9 a.m. prompt. Overland route at 7,15.
llve from the doctor, who said he had ®° pc }i 88 iu“
nf brain. Duncan, however, awoke In the
D jght some time, and feeling rather dry. artsd the
todaman for a mouthful of ’ whuskey. The
wardsman was obdurate, so Dunoan bundled up
his traps, and concussion or no concussion, he left
in search of some • whuskey.
The mammoth divorce ease of Malpas v.
Malpas will be recalled by the motion lately made
for a new trial. The plaintiff got a .
£10,000 cost, against two co-respondents—Edwards
and Sullivan. Edwards made no appearanoe. and
accepts his fate. Sullivan shows fight, and moves
for a new trial on the score of weight of evidence
in his favour, and of evidence wrongly taken
against him. The Court decided only on the latter
point, and on a technicality greatly disgraceful to
law and lawyers. It is that the objectionable
evidence was taken on a commission, the copy of
the order allowing which should have been filed
within five days. By oversight of the plaintiff s
attorney’s clerk, this trlviall y was omitted, and
on that hair-splitting point th «
is to be allowed over again, and Sulllvan to get his
costs. Of course, the poor plaintiff will put.up
with the verdict he has got against Edwards, and
Sullivan will go free.
Mr. Alfred Bennett, of the Sydney Ivbn-
ino News, who has been in England for some
months, basking In the smiles of duchesses, is
about to return to N.S.W. Alfred has, no doubt,
heard of the advent of the and
back to crush his new-born rival. Which reminds
us that W. H. L. Bailey, the original promoter of
the Globe, sent u* a circular the other day saying
that he had left the concern; and I deem it right
to inform you that the cause of such severance
arose from my entire disapproval of the editorial
conduct of the paper in question. I established
the Globe purely as an Opposition journal, and a
thorough antl-Dlbbs organ, and to my disgust it
drifted into a Ministerial rail-sitter. However,
Bailey is going to remedy all that, and is Issuing
another paper, Bailey’s Sunday News, a corus-
cation of brilliant journalism, and contributed to
by all the leading litterateurs of Sydney, and con-
taining all the news of the world obtainable up to
daylight every Sunday.”
Mr. William Henry Palmer, of Sydney, of
whom our London correspondent wrote in a re-
cent issue, seems to have met with some shady
characters while in London. Three men of the
name of Beyfus, who were apparently concerned
In the lending of money to him on the security of
his reversionary interest in some Darling Harbour
fSvdney) property, have been charged with ob-
taining £5500, money paid for a release of his
security, by means of false pretences and con-
sniraoy. From the evidence In this ease, it seems
A . settlement out of Court was agreed to by
Mr. Palmer’s lawyer—Mr- Jonas—but that astute
irentleman was not sufficiently cute for the
Sewn JBeyfus, and, by an alleged trick of the de- |
fondants, was swindled out of both money and re-
leaso This case explains the disappearance of Mr.
Palmer. He was anxious to get away from
London as soon as possible when he found what
sort of men lived there. But perhaps he would
find a few scoundrels in Sydney If he were to go
on the money-lending racket here. [This is merely
conjecture.—Ed. B.]
Referring to our paragraph of some weeks
back concerning the first missionary from our
Australian Church, that man of Intense earnest-
ness and devotion to duty, Bey. Samuel Marsden,
a Southern correspondent writes:—” Holy .Samuel
Marsden was only one out of many flogging par-
sons. Parson Fulton, who was also a magistrate,
used to fall asleep on the Bench during the hear-
ing of oases against assigned servants, and upon
receiving a nudge from the clerk of the court to
intimate that the case had closed, his invariable
remark was, ‘Give the rasoal75. He is said to
hive seldom allowed the backs of his own ser-
vants to heal, so constant were his little attentions
with tbe oat. * Forasmuch as ye have done It unto
the least of these my brethren, ye have done it
urffo Me.’ ” We are much afraid that many of
ourearly missionaries will refuse to enter the
jasper gates because they “ haven t got a cat and
triangles in the whole bloomin’ place.” These
essentials of civilisation will have to be added to
the furniture of Heaven before it win have any
charms for many of tho Holy Fathers of the
Anglican Church of N.S.W.
Up South, in N.8.W., four men—an agent,
a lawyer, a doctor, and a squatter—were onoe
engaged in filling in that vacuum which Nature is
Bala to abhor. They did the filling In with whisky.
When they had each hidden something like a
auart. the agent asked the lawyer what was the
price of a legal oplnioo. “One guinea to you,”
was the reply. The money was planked, and the
Question propounded. “ I want to know,” said the
agent. “ who is the biggest thief in this room ?”
The lawyer thought for a moment; modesty pre-
vented him from naming himself, policy strove to
keen him from indicating Lynch, the six-foot
sauatter. At last whisky upset policy, and the
opinion was “Missher Lynch long way sher
blggesh thief here.” He was the biggest man
tooTand before they could pull him off, the lawyer
had a broken nose, ditto collarbone, and two ditto
ribs upon which to ground an action for assault
and’battery. And now if you catch that lawyer
in a nub. and ask him for a legal opinion, he looks
as if he had swallowed an aggressively decayed
egg. and moves for a change of venue with much
celerity.
Bala has the reputation of having the best
memory of any living journalist. We see that he
is not to be trusted, however, any more than other
men when It comes to remembrance of things of
45 years ago. Apropos of the wlllo ws fringing the
river Avon at Christchurch, he quotes a verse
of the onoe popular song known as “ All round
mv hat.” He gives it thus—with preliminary and
just praise to it as a good old English song,
“ tender and touching in words and melody”;—
H ah round my hat I wear a green willow.
And If anybody asks me the reason why I
wear it;
It is because my true love is far, far away.”
Now for our recollection 'of it—in its proper form,
with apologies for correcting G.A.8.:—
•• All round my hat I wear a’green willow.
Ail round my hat for a twelvemonth and a day.
And if anybody asks me the reason why I
wear it, ......
I’ll tell them, for my true love, who Is.far, far
away.”
And we shall be happy also to whistle the tune of
It to him when he’s next round this way.
Thus a correspondent:—” I was present at
Melbourne University when Miss Bella Guerin,
B A received her degree of Master of Arts, and
very pretty she looked in her trencher cap, black
gown, and violet hood. There were about 150
people in the hall, and when Miss Guerin was pre-
sented to the Chancellor by Professor M’Coy, 149
of them, by a curious coincidence, immediately
quoted from “ The Princess,"
“ With prudes for proctors, dowagers for deans,
And sweet girl graduates with their golden
hair.”
1 was the solitary exception, because, while taking
misa Guerin’s sweetness for granted, I could see
that her hair was not golden at all, but black, or
very dark-brown. I could see, too, that she
sported none of tbe external attributes of the
conventional blue-stocking. The bridge of her
pert little retroussi nose was disfigured neither by
spectacles cor ptnee nez, and under her trencher
a few straggling looks of her bang were plainly
perceptible. Somehow or other I had formed a
presentiment that I would see in Mies Guerin a
prototype of Miss Cornelia Bllmber, as she is de-
pleted in ‘Dombey and Son,’ but I was very
agreeably disappointed. Miss Guerin is a native
of Ballarat, and only 31 years of age.”
Whatever may be thought of the political
views expressed In Tennyson’s new poem in
Macmillan s Magazine, It certainly more nearly
approaches in vigour and imagination his earlier
works than anything be has done in recent years.
The poem is written in that lilting, elastic mea-
sure to which he has set many of his most beauti-
ful thoughts. There is a touch of “Locksley
Hall ” in it, although less of hope than in “ Look-
jjey Hall”— a flavour of "Maud" about it, but
less than the bitterness of “ Maud.” The only evi-
dence of decadence it contains is the tendency to
look doubtingly upon the forward movements of
the world. Freedom, that used to be with Tenny-
son a magnetic word, is now (Tennyson has
slavered his way into the House of Lords) but
another name for thraldom. Victor Hugo <Ud not
think this, though he was seven years the English
Laureate’s senior. But, wonderfully as Tennyson
has retained the wealth of fancy and power of
words, he has not kept his hopes fresh as Victor
Hugo, or Longfellow, or other poets did. The
world seems to him to be growing old. What an
error this is I It is not the world that is growing
old. It is the poet. Here is his poem
“ Vastnbss.
“ Many a hearth upon our dark globe sighs after
many a vanish'd face.
Many a planet by many a sun may roll with the
dust of a vanish’d race.
“ Raving politics never at rest—as this poor earth's
history runs—
What is it all but a trouble of ants in the gleam
of a million million of suns ?
“ Lies upon this side, lies upon that side, truthless
violence mourned by the Wise,
Thousands of voices drowning his own In a popu-
lar torrent of lies upon lies;
“ Stately purposes, valour in battle, glorious
annals of army and fleet,
Death for the right cause, death for the wrong
cause, trumpets of victory, groans of defeat;
“ Innocence seethed in her mother’s milk, and
Charity setting the martyr aflame;
Thraldom who walks with the banner of Free-
dom, and recks not to ruin a realm in her
name.
“ Faith at her zenith, or all but lost in the gloom
of doubts that darken the schools;
Craft, with a bunch of all-heal in her hand, fol-
low’d up by her vassal legion of fools;
“ Pain, that has crawled from tbe corpse of Plea-
sure, a worm which writhes all day, and at
night
Stirs up again in the heart of the sleeper, and
stings him back to the curse of the light;
“Wealth, with his wines and his wedded harlots;
Flattery gilding the rift of a throne;
Opulent Avarice, lean as Poverty; honest
Poverty, bare to the bone;
“ Love for the maiden crown’d with marriage, no
regrets for aught that has been.
Household happiness, gracious children, debtless
competence, golden mean;
" National ffiatreds of whole generations and
pigmy spites of the village spire;
Vows that will last to the last death-ruckle, and
vows that are snapt in a moment of fire;
“ He that has lived for the lust of the minute, and
died in the doing it, flesh without mind;
He that has nail’d all flesh to the Cross till Self
died out in the love of its kind;
“ Spring and Summer and Autumn and Winter
and all these old revolutions of earth;
All new-old revolutions of Empire—change of
the tide—what is all of it worth ?
“ What the philosophies, all the sciences, poesy>
varying voices of prayer ?
All that Is noblest, all that is basest, all that is
filthy, with all that is fair ?
“ What is it all, if we all of us end but In being our
own corpse-coffins at last.
Swallowed in Vascness, lost in Silence, drown’d
in the deeps of the meaningless Past ?
“ What but a murmur of gnats in the gloom, or a
moment’s anger of bees in their hives ?—
“Peace, let it be I for I loved him, and love him
for ever; the dead are not dead but alive.”
THIS WICKED WORLD.
A man now in Bathurst Hospital merits a
place in the scrap-book of awful instances. John
Richards, of Burraga, “ went on the spree ” and
got lost in the bush. When found he was dying.
His eyes were fly-blown. His eyesight was com-
pletely destroyed, tho eyeballs having been eaten
out The “Aaous is requested to state that Mr.
Frank Bugg is not the Bugg referred to in the
maintenance case of Woollett, reported in our
issue of Thursday.” Some time ago a witness
giving evidence before the Victorian Titles Com-
mission, stated that after the first survey of Mel
bourne 40 odd years ago, the original quarter-acre
allotment at the corner of Elizabeth-street and
Collins-street west, was sold for £15. The other
day 33 feet of the Collins-street frontage of thie
same allotment was sold for £1140 a foot...
A Yankee tourist, to whom an Italian monk was
recently showing a consecrated lamp iwhich
bad never gone out during five centuries, gave
the flame a decided puff, and remarked with cool
complacency, “ Well, 1 guess it’s out now.”—To
mend a hole in a Hobart road would have cost the
Corporation, say a shilling or two. A man fell
into it, and has got a verdict against the city for
£500 Re the proposed removal of Melbourne
Hospital, it is now said that it is the doctors who
carry the erysipelas infection about from bedside
to bedside in their woollen clothing. Fevers are
known, and puerperal fever especially, to be thus
disseminated. In India the hospital doctors
always wear clothing of cotton for other reasons
than the mere warmth of the climate — So far,
63,000,000oz. gold, worth £250,000,000, have been
S reduced in N.S.W. and Victoria alone—The
[elbourne brewers’ employes held their annual
social in the Temperance Hail last week. Sarcastic
people, those brewers.... At Maryborough (Q.)
State school this Christmas a half-caste aboriginal
lad and a full-blood kanaka boy secure first places
in their respective classes. Much comment is
being made upon another circumstance, namely,
the awarding of special prizes for “tho most lady-
like girl ” and “the most gentlemanly boy.” The
latter is probably the blaokfellow—At a recent
Melbourne Salvation Army meeting, Mr Booth
said“ In a flash house not far from the Temper-
ance Hall, he had seen 10,11, and 13 young women,
some ef theta under 10 years of age. One was a
Judge's daughter, another the daughter of a
clergyman, and another the daughter of one of the
leading lawyers in Melbourne.”—A Chinese
gardener speared by blacks near Palmervllle. All
his rations were taken away and subsequently the
wall-eyed Pagan was assimilated by the digestive
process of the dusky savage. This somewhat
complicates the Day of General Resurrection.
* * v
The other day, in Derbyshire, a clergyman
who was solemnising a marriage, and was in a
hurry to catch his train, got on swimmingly with
the service till he came to the question, “Wilt thou
have this woman to be thy wedded wife ?” Tho
groom then responded, “ She hasn’t come yet,
sir.” The bridesmaids were there, but not the
bride. So true is it that the more baste the lees
speed Ore vide, in his memoirs, describes tbe
review of the Guards in honour of the visit of
Czar Nicholas to tilngland in 1844. When the Em-
peror praised the pageant, the Queen remarked
that her troops were few in number, to which the
Emperor replied: “That she must consider his
troops at her disposal exactly the same as her
own.” Just ten years after this generous speech
the sanguinary Crimean War broke out In
Milan a company is performing “ Norma” by
whistling only. The part of Oroveso is whistled
through by a damsel of 15 only, whose notes are
deseribeded as “ fluta-llke.” .Lord Carnarvon
says be was struck with tho vast resources of the
West of Ireland. Previous Viceroys have
generally been struck with bricks, and the
Prince of Wales was honoured with an onion—
The Chinese in San Francisco employed in the
cigar trade have struck against the employment
of white men in the same factories with them.
more Is our civilisation proved a failure
a r 97 al victory registered for the
wail-eyed Pagan. Ho-ki-le-ma, Bnglssyman mug’
fih M7i G ne I al ,,X i8C0unt Wolseley. K.P., G.C.B,
G.o.M.u-., and all the rest of if, must have spent a
Quart d’heure at the London Mansion
“9, U8 ® 9 n a recent evening. It must have been as
f althis vain courtier-soldier
F? „„ e ,.^P rd Mayor describe Sir Frederick
Roberts as the most illustrious soldier” in the
. Despite her sacrifice of valuables,
Sarah Bernhardt is said to still owe £30,000.
IV i i J . ondo 9 Undergraduate’ hailing from
Lincolnshire, has been advertising for a post
as tutor, terms 8i. weekly.”.,. .The great
African diamond found a year ago in Kim-
berley weighed 457 carats in the rough. Us value
has been estimated in London at about £300,000,
but, according to the rules of valuation of the
famous Tavernier diamond, its value would more
nearly approximate a million sterling I The great
Orloff ” diamond in the Imnerial sceptre of Rus-
sia is said to be worth £800 000.... A Texas surgeon
succeeded lately in grafting bits of dogs’ bone
into a missing section of the left clavicle (the bone
joining the shoulder and breastbone) of a man
who had lost two inches of that portion of his
frame by a gunshot accident. Bones from twenty
or more different dogs were used in the operation.
■ ■ .According to Iron, there is a likelihood that
40,000 tons of steel rails for the Victorian Govern-
ment, to be ordered shortly, will be successfully
tendered for by German makers.... Robert Rome,
once schoolmaster to Thomas Carlyle, has died,
aged 86—“The late Mr. Carlyle,” says Vanity
Fair, “was a very fractious and annoying person,
who wont about preaching silence through
a fog-horn” —An American paper hastens to
deny the report that Henry Irving’s Hamlet
tights have been enlarged for umbrella covers....
“ The moral of Dr. Frazer’s death, perhaps,” re-
marks a home paper, “ Is that bishops ought not
to marry when past 60.” In the first volume of
tho new edition of George Eliot’s life, we read
that discrepancies between religious professions
and practical conduct were one of the chief causes
of her repulsion from Christianity The Earl of
Dysart, the great English matrimonial catch of
three seasons, has been landed at last—by a Miss
Newton. The Earl has £80,000 a year At a
recent English political meeting, Mr. Labouchere
remarked that the Radicals did not want Royal
dukes In the service, nor for the Army and Navy
to be led by jackasses —Lord Rosebery is con-
sidered by his friends to have a very pretty wit in
public. The other day he was conducted over a
factory of some kind where the workpeople make
use of their toes as well as their fingers, and this
singular circumstance inspired his genial lord-
ship with several exquisite jests, leading up to the
remark that he had “never heard of the toe
being useful to anybody but the Pope.”
The 23 offices which exist in Paris for the pur-
Eose of sending out circulars of different kinds
ave such a keen eye to business that an enter-
prising tradesman has only to apply to them in
order to get a list of all the persons to whom he
can with advantage offer his goods, whatever they
may be. Thus, for instance, the agencies have a
list of curiosity collectors, stammerers, persons
with bald heads, bad teeth, and other imperfec-
tions— “Dagonet” in the Referee:—“The
nations are one by one dropping coffee and taking
to tea. Everywhere on the Continent the English
custom is gaining in favour, and even the Arabs
put the teapot on the table for their guests. The
reason is not far to seek. Tea is as stimulating
and refreshing as coffee is the reverse. Coffee
clogs and clouds tho brain; tea braces and clears
it. Properly brewed and taken in moderation tea
is the best stimulant the brain-worker can take."
— “ Well, may I hope, dearest, that at some time
1 may have the happiness of making you my
wife?” " Yes, I hope so, I am sure,” sne replied,
‘I am tired of suelng fellows for breach of promise.’
. ■ It la said that, “ if you play on an accordeon near
an oyster, the oyster will open Its shell.” This is
probably because it wants to escape..." Jim,” said
an honest coal-dealer to one of his drivers; “ Jim,
make that ton of coal 2001bs. short. It is for a
poor, delicate widow, and as she will have to carry
all of it up two flights of stairs, I don’t want her
to overtax her strength.” These are hard times
A deaf and dumb man went into an office tho
other day, and, seizing a paper, wrote—” I am
hungry.” The broker took the piece of paper,
read the unhappy words, and scrawled under
them, “ So am I.” Women are in a hurry to get
married, because, before marriage, they have to
cope with their own sex, with mothers or aunts.
After marriage they are matched against
men, over whom victory is easy and final ...
A New York crematory “begs the patronage of
its friends.” Walk right in and take a roast At
a recent English wedding tho usual order of things
was reversed. After the wedding breakfast, tbe
guests and the host and hostess drove away, leav-
ing the recently-married pair to enjoy their honej -
moon in comfortable seclusion a contemporary
speaks of “ the bustle of the future.” The future
is before us. Is the bustle to be worn the same
way? Indigent young man: "I would respect-
fully ssk your daughter’s hand in marriage, sir.”
Rich father (In Indignant surprise): “Whatl You
want to marry my daughter?” Indigent youtg
man (somewhat flurried); “ Y-yes, sir. W-why
not? You don’t know anything wrong with her,
do you?”.. .An authority on Japanese fashions
says that the obi, or broad band worn by Yum-
Yum and her sisters, in the “Mikado,” and often
called a saeh, is not a sash at all, but a sort of
swathing fold, wound about the body, and obviat-
ing the need of both corsets and buttons, as
Japanese women do not use either of these
alls in making up their costume ...English iron-
clads are to be hereafter coated with indiarubber.
It is queer no one ever before thought of putting
goloshes on things that are out in the wet so
much. Sir Jaro«s Paget has been tracing tb><
course in life of 1000 medical students, taken at
random from an English institute.” This is good;
Pi 1 i i( L 81r Jamfi8 wants to undertake a >job
taat he can finish much more easily, l»e
him trace the course through life of their
patients All he will need • to do will bo
a " a,k nearest cemetery
Jones: What business are you in now'?" (Smith:
,,1,35 meat business” Jones (inoredu-
* *“ 8l: *2 = Where is your shop ?” Smith: “I haven't
a*n* 1 Trr a u m ham ln tta j advertising
h - ei l Job heard that Absalom was
“ n h l*v. hfti £ to a t , ree ’ Chuckled and said,
i„'r>o-L i9 up * tha °fc goodness. The other day,
American dentist brought aloomplalht
S“ 8 ‘ hi servant for having left him suddenly
0 £ 'f lvinar 1 notice. The servant justified his
?ho d H^, fc f by - teaming that all the whllejie was in
hd r e v. not a sin* 1 * patient, made his
appearance, whfle he was obliged to sit near the
bPflevT by th ® *? our to-make people
the 1 t TP Were bei^ff pulled inside by
e8a e " Y ou w lsb to Jay up some-
a rainy « ay > 8teal an umbrella......
Charitable person to Brown: “ I am getting uo a
la8t S wifik 0a wni P00r Mrs ; 8 ’ who8e husband d?ed
o-. W il A you p . ufc y°ur name down for
something? No. Husbands die every
day. Mrs. R. ls.no worse off than many othhr
widows. Charitable person; “But mv dear
the fou F, th husband Mrs.’s, has had.
its no ordinary case. ... Th© Pitcairn IsJandepa
are C enn d te Dt t 8 0 uf be mutlne ers of the ship Bounty*,
exeent th2t thL th ever J’thIng In their isolated Ufa
except that th« women are short of corsets. It
would be easy to sett e this discontent. Tell the
sal™short* 4iD Pari8;)uitnow corsets are unlver-


9 1 A T R B BOTAL.
_ Under the management of
Messrs. William sow, Garner and Mttsgbotb.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo.L. Goodman.
THIS (Thursday) EVENING,
LAST NIGHT of
WILLIAMSON. GARNER, and MU8G ROVE’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
In the success of successes,
THE MIKADO THE MIKADO
THE MIKADO THE MIKADO;
or,
THE TOWN OP TITIPU.
CINDERELLA,
on
BOXING (SATURDAY) NIGHT NEXT.
Admission : Dress Circle. 5s.; Stalls, 3a.; Family
Circle, 2s.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre dally from
10 till 5. No Free List.
New opbba house.
Under the Lesseeship and Management of
Messrs. B. MAJERONI and W. J. WILSON.
Brilliant Success of
OUR GIRLS OUR GIRLS.
CAPTAIN QINGAH .. Mr. JOHN L. HALL.
Played by him over 300 times in the oolonirs.
Miss Maggie Knight, Miss Blanche Lewis, Mr. B. N.
Jones, Mr. H. N. Douglas &o., &o,
% On CHRISTMAS NIGHT, December 25,
GRAND SACRED CONCERT.
Conductor Herr 0. KU8TBR.
BOXING NIGHT, Saturday, December 26,
BAFKLED. BAFFLED.
BAFFLED. BAFFLED.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Nicholson’s Music
Warehouse, 325 Qeorge-streefc. Day tickets at
Cole’s Book Arcade, George-street, Furniture
supplied by the Globe Furnishing Warehouse.
Doors open at 7.15. Curtain rises at 8 o’clock.
Carriages may be ordered for 10 40.
G
AIETY THEATRE.
Lessee Mr. John Solomon
Sub-lessees and Managers, Williamson, Garner
and Musgrove.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING,
LAST NIGHT of
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.
Mr. FRANK THORNTON, as
THE REV. ROBERT SPALDING, will bid
;FAREWELL TO SYDNEY,
Mr. J. R. GREVILLE has been specially engaged
to support Mr. Frank Thornton this season, to-
gether with a Specially-selected Cast.
BOXING NIGHT, SATURDAY, December 26,
THE CRICKET ON THE HEARTH.
Tickets may be purchased during the day at
Cole’s Book Arcade. Box Flan at Nicholson and
Co.’s.
rflHB ALHAMBRA
and Director
■ George-street, Haymarket.
Lessee
MUSIC HALL.
Mr. Frank Smith.
TO-NIGHT. TO-NIGHT.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
IMMENSE SUCCESS. IMMENSE SUf" 388,
of the Alhambra Variety and Speciality I -ion in
their Refined Entertainment,
On FRIDAY NIGHT NEXT (Christmas tight)
a GRAND SACRED and 1N8TRUMEN TAL
CONCERT will be given.
On BOXING NIGHT, Saturday, December 26th,
KING COCKATOO, or THE ENCHANTED
ELEPHANT, an entirely new and original
Extravaganza, by Leopold Jordan, Usq.,
will he praduced with great splendour.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 2s; stalls, Is;
balcony. Is.
Artists of acknowledged ability disengaged,
please communicate with Mr. Frank Smith.
T YNCH FAMILY BELLRINGERS
JLi (Organised 186T»
Manager Harry Lynch.
NOW ON TOUR SOUTHERN DISTRICTS, N.S.W.
Bega (last two nights)—Thura. and Sat. Dec. 24, 26
Cobargo—Monday, 28th, and Tuesday, 29th Deo.
Bodalia—Wednesday, 30th December
Moruya—Thursday and Friday, 31st Deo., 1st Jan.
Neliigen—Saturday, 2nd January.
Milton, Nowra, Kiama, Wollongong, &o„ to follow.
Kuster's
SACRED & CLASSICAL CONCERTS,
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING,
NEW OPERA HOUSE.
Doors open at 7 p.m., commence 7.30. For pro-
gramme, see Saturday’s papers.
Seats—2 j., is., 6d.
Conductor Herr Kuster.
ACTORS, ACTRESSES, MANAGERS, &0.
THE THEATRICAL NEWSPAPER
BUREAU.
All the chief London Theatrical Papers on sale,
including “ Stage,” “Theatre," “Topical Times,’*
"Dramatic bevlew,” “Bat,” &o., at moderate
prices. Postage free to any address In Australia.
Write to Manager,
10 IMPERIAL CHAMBERS,
Bank Place, Colllns-street, Melbourne.
Choice Presents
For Children I
For Adults!!
SUITABLE FOR EVENING PAR TIE 3, OR FOR
INVALIDS.
Choice Perfumery, Is., Is. 6d., 2s., 2s. 6d., and 3s. 6d
„ American (boxes) Confectionery, lOd.
„ French Crystalized Fruits, Is. 6d. and up-
wards.
„ English Confectionery, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d.
„ „ Calfs-foot Jellies, variousiv flav-
oured, and plain, Is. 6d., 2s. and 3s. each.
„ Toilet articles for Ladles and Infants.
„ American Cashmere Soap, Is., and others,
6U., 91., and Is. each.
„ French Soaps, 6d. and Is.
„ Ecglish Soaps, 2d., 3d., 4d , and 6J.
„ Pear’s Soaps, 6d„ 3 for Is. 4d.
And a thousand other articles of every-day con-
sumption, including the inimitable
AUSTRALIAN RELISH,
that modern appetiser, at Is.
Send for price-list (post free), and save money.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
177, 268 ant} 26* rlTT STREET.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, December 21 1836.
Tenders for public works and sup-
PUES.—TENDERS are Invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Govkrnmhnt Qazbttb, a file of which
la kept at every Post Office In the colony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of tho Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration un-
Isssthe terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accent
the lowest or any tender. v
Nature of Works and Supplies
Bridge over Mebi Hirer, at Tel-
leraga, road Narrabrl and Mo-
gll to Mungendl
Construction of Public Wharf
at Wickham
Erection of Shed for Volunteer
Engineers, Victoria Barracks
Supply of Building Sand for the
Existing Lines, Branch Rail-
way Department, during the
year 1886.
Hydraulic Elevators for Gene-
ral Post-office
Construction of Collecting
Sewer, Liverpool-street to
Comber and Great Baroom
streets
Erection of Courthouse. Corowa i
Entrance Gates, Piers, &o, Gar- I
den Palace Grounds
Erection of Post and Telegraph t
Office, Waverley
Bricklayers' Work, Colonial I
Architect's Department, 1886 |
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received [at
this office.
Tuesday.
December 39,
at 11 o’clock
Duplication of G. s. Hallway,
from Goulburn to J oppa J unc-
tion
Construction of Railway from
Tenterfleid to Queensland Bor-
der
Supply of Ship Plates, Harbours
and Rivers Department
Tuesday.
January 19.
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Tramway, New
castle to Wallsend and Platts-
burg
Tuesday,
February 2, 1866.
W. J. LYNE.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 17th December, 1885.
TENDERS FOR SCHOOL BUILDINGS.
rpENDERS are invited for the Erection of
° rPubllc Soh ° o1 purpo8es ’
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
0 m I , * 1 , at the office of tho Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endowed “ Tender for School Buildings,
D rr a School,” must be lodged
. . Vt j X * wvuuuii Ul U»L U ‘j iOCJfired
with the Under Secretary. Department of Public
Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m , on Tues-
day, the 29th December, 1885.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender. M
W. J. TRICK BTT.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 19th December, 1885.
TENDERS FOR ALTERATIONS AND
IMPROVEMENTS.
• ENDEKS are invited for Alterations and
Schoo I i mPrOVementa tQ the Foft - str eet Tralniog
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Formi
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed "Tender for Alterations and
Improvements. Fort-street Training School.’ 1
must be lodged with the Under Secretary,
Department of Public Instruction, at or before
10 o clock a.m., on Monday, tho 4 th January, 1886,
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender. M
W. J. TRICKKTT.
Capital X100.000.
Head Office : Melbourne.
Victorian DirectorsThomas Learmonth, Ksq.
Chairman; John L. Dow. Esq., M.L.A.; J. I
Levlen, Esq., M.L.A.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs Insure*
against death.
Marine Risks accepted on Lire Stock (ooverlni
mortality); also on Merchandise and Hulls.
New South Wales Branch ; 171 Castlereagh-stree*
H. S. BADGERT, Managing Director.
H. M. HAMILTON, Manager.
TO FARMERS.
THE CHEAP RAILWAY EXCURSION TRAINS
to GLEN INNK8 during the next few weeks,
s flora a favourable opportunity to lispcot the
celebrated
FURRACABAD FARMS,
ADJOINING GLEN INNES,
now for Private Sale, on remarkably easy
terms.
Wonderfully rich and fertile soil.
Cleared and ready for t he plough.
Permanently watered. Droughts unknown.
SMALL DEPOSITS, and LONG CREDIT.
The local manager on the estate will be pleased
to drive visitors over it, and give every informa-
tion respecting prices and terms.
JOHN W. DUBSBUYY,
General Manager-
Offices; Corn Exchange, Haymarket, Sydney.
•^ToraJn-staacL’s
E»Uls
The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mereury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thorqughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
Immediate relief.
i 484 GEORGE STREET.
THE PALACE EMPORIUM, HATMABKET,
Is the home of all others for
CHEAP AND GOOD BEDROOM FURNITURE,
3ft. Half-round Marhlo Wa-shstands, from 17/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS.
Palace Emporium, Haymarket only,
FrafvasioiuU Directory.
/3.E0RGB PERHIMAN. Beene Painter, Theatre
»JT Royal, Brisbane. Disengaged.
The Olympic
(late Old Masoelc Hall, York-street).
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. M. L. Raphael.
Stage Manager .. .. Mr. D’Aicy etanfleld.
BOXING NIGHT,
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 20th.
Magnificent and elaborate production, on a sca’e
of splendour second to sona in Sydney, of the
great Drary Lano
GRAND CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
MOTHER GOOSE
And the Enchsnted Beauty,
including a Grand Transformation Scene,
and Harlequinade by superior artistes.
10 MECHANICAL CHANQESI
THE GORGEOUS and COSTLY COSTUMES!
TWENTY SPLENDID NEW SCENES!
Thegreat procession of 25 Handsome Ladies.
New and Novel Lime-light Effects
All the newest and original music specially
arranged by Mr G. Rivera Allpms
Original and Unique Properties
For further and full particulars of c st, &c., see
future advertisements and bll s
Special Engagement of Miss IDA 03B0RNE,
from the Theatre Royal (by kind perm ss’on of
Messrs Williamson Garner, and Musgrovei.
Mies EMILY BE\UMONT, and many other
artistes, lor this production-
Million Prices—Stal s, 3s ; farquette, 2s.: Gallery,
ONE SHILLING. A few reterved sells at Nichol-
son’s, 4s. Box plan now open.
H. XREVuRaH, Business Manager.
Academy op music.
Sole Proprietor and Manager.. F. E. Hlsoocbs.
CHRISTMAS KVB. THURSDAY. December 24,
RETURN HOME I RETURN HOME I
of
HISCOCK’S FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and only Speciality Union.
GRAND SPECIAL PK09RAMME
for the Opening Night
Entirely New First Part, New Sonts Befrairs,
Jokes. Anecdotes, &o., and the Greatest Mmstiel
rirgt Part I'inhlo ever pro/ 1 "— J
BRIEF MENTION.
* Lady Carington entered the hall lean-
ing on the arm of Mr. Justice Windeyer. Beauty
and —Mr. Justice Windeyer.
The Mudgee Independent gives a cure
for lockjaw. The cure is something you drink.
Mudgee Taylor, M.P., was once on the Indepen-
dent.
This is how Reuter’s Melbourne Cup cable
reached LondonCup. Sheet Anchor, 1; Rlein-
oub, 2; Pancake, 3! ’ The whole world seems to
hare stood on end on Cup Day.
Advertisement from the S. M. Herald,
19tb December:—“A Young Mania willing tootfer
bis Services to any squatters who are Infested with
vermin, &o. Gun,268, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
A soap-mine was discovered in America,
the other day, and not far from it an ink mine, if
similar discoveries were made In the vicinity of
the Sydney Nooze office, what a throw-in It would
ha for Alfred and the hoy* I
At Sydney Town-hall bazaarSmall
▼outh to pretty girl at refreshment stall; “Gimme
a ha’porth of ice, please.” Pretty girl: We don t
make ha’porths.” Small youth: Ah, do please,
Miss. It’s only to shove down a cove s back. Fact.
We read in the Sydney D.T. that a blsok
follow has voluntarily surrendered himself to the
Sollce as the murderer of a white man whose
ones he says ho can point out. According to this,
an Australian aboriginal has a conscience. Bosh I
A t Wagga, among the rabbit and kanga-
roo’ scales given in ;the other day were fount! the
sealps of three dogs. As three of the Wagga
aldermen went out fishing shortly before, and
have not since returned, the authorities might
cert unly make some inquiries.
The Lismor© Chronicle accuses a local
hank-manager of spelling “ revsrend” “ reverent.”
Well, it’s a free country, and perhaps the question
of rent is more prominently before the financier
than the subject of religion. We know a man
one J who spelt “ usage’’"yowsitoh. '
A N.S.W. country paper complains that
the names of a large number of the new Js P. are
mlasoelt in the Government Gazette. .We are
aorrv But we are certain that few of the great
arm v of back-block Bolens will ever come to know
It. ixoept by hearsay. And they wouldn’t know
It even if they saw the Gazette.
The sagacious Sydney Evening News re-
mai ked on Friday“ Matterson pulled a grand
stern chase, hut it was a hopeless one, for he could
never see the way Beach went.” We are pleased
to note this fact and to observe that as Matterson
eat with his back to Beaoh, he could scarcely be
expected to see the way he went.
M r. Aaron Vaxman (giving his little boy
Jacob a lesson in percentage): “ Now, Bhaoob, ven
von ouys somedlngs for vun poun’ und soils him
tor two poun’. how much per cent, vas dat?”
Jacob* “Dot vas vun per cent.” Mr. Yaxman
learnestly): “Ya, dat is right; but remember,
Phscob, dere la no money In dot vun per cent, plz-
nees.”
They have started a series of open-air
concerts at Melbourne Zoo. We pity the poor
animals. When the vocal talent gets up among
high notes, the hyaena will crawl into a corner
with a sad low laugh, and remark, "Well, I'm
done. I was a bit of a curio, here, but now they’ve
got In a whole family.” And he will never be
Observed to smile again.
Rev. Hill (Wesleyan), of Wagga, says that
while *'Journeying ” on a recent Sunday he saw
e tat drunken men on four miles of road. A
jAnai publican retorts In the Advertiser that Ihe
"drunken men ” were probably labourers resting
bv 1 he wayside. "The labourer," says the sooff-
1m grog-seller. “cannot afford to drive at ease In
• buggy, with a lazy-back, and covered with a
hood.”
Nothing like taking a man at his word.
A lew days ago the presiding Judge at the Parra-
matta Quarter Sessions, endeavouring to refresh
the memory of an old lady who was giving evi-
dence, observed-" Now, my good woman, we will
go back to the public-house.” "Certainly, yer
P_nrer” replied the ancient dame, as she wiped
her mouth suggestively, and began to shuffle out
of the box amidst the explosive laughter of the
court.
Our camp cook, Scotty the Wrinkler,
noticed that one of the men always "rushed the
duff ” and cut out a big hunk before he bad
flnli hed his meat. One day the brownie-scoffer
found that his knife would not go through a fine
rolly-Dolly In front of him. “ What the incan-
descence is this, Slushy ?’’ said he. “ Only a lesson
in manners,” said the cook. Scotty had boiled a
rolling-pin in a layer of paste, and put it exactly
opposite where he knew the gorger would sit.
The Premier of Victoria, when asked in
the House, the oth. r night, why excursion tickets
should not be 1stu rt to Geelong, replied, “Gee-
long is a business <"wn.” This astounding state-
ment paralysed U* “louse for a moment, and then
a member said, hat’s that?” In awe-stricken
tones. " Well, 1 mlt.” said Mr. Service, depre-
oatingly, "that . oold statement.” We should
think it was. G ng is considered a business
town by only one sa of people—undertakers.
An advertisei‘ eut in a daily contemporary
runs:— 1 “ Man, young, strong, able to speak tbree
languages, wants employment.” He should have
little difficulty in getting employment as a cab-
driver. The objurgatory advantages he would
have over the rest of the drivers In the knowledge
of tbree languages should get him a seat at the
back of a hansom at once. We suppose, by his
■tailng he Is "strong,” that the three languages he
■peaks are German, Welsh, and-perhaps Sussex-
streetese. A man would have to be strong to
■peak these three.
fays the Cooktown Independent “ We
have no doubt that for many years to come there
■me men in New South Wales who will loaf, live,
and thrive on the glory of that bloodless campaign
in the Soudan.” We hardly think It. As far as
the men are concerned they are already cast aside
like the skins of bananas. The gorge of the coun-
Urose at the stupendous burlesque of bravery,
v even the Government that sent them out to
out throats was, as soon as the country got a
obanco of speaking, kicked to pieces and now lies
wriggling In fragments under universal contempt.
No'there’s not a pub. in Sydney in which a Soudan
kero could raise a drink on the strength of his
martial achievements.
“ Keep my name out of the paper.—This is
a request which is often made to us, and In many
instances the publication of names Is of little Im-
portance. and no public interest. In such oases if
culprits wish their names kept out of print we will
comply with the request on the receipt of a dona-
tion of from 6s. to 3ds. to the Hospital In accord-
ance with the Importance of the case or person.
We have now in hand 5s. received In this way
■which the secretary of the Hospital can have on
application.” This is from tho Wilcannia Iimes
Kow that our pleasant little contemporary has
fixed a rate of hush-money for uninteresting
drunks, it should really fix a scale for prosaic
forgers and ordinary arsonists.
King Solomon, the wholesale matrimo-
nlallst, has had a reputation for wisdom. In spite
Sfhla connubial profuseness, because he dis-
covered which was the mother of an infant. A
M S.W. justice did a much more difficult thing
■ome time ago. He discovered from the features
at an infant the identity of (its father with the de-
fendant in a maintenance case. The evidence was
very conflicting, but when the cause of action was
brought bowling into Court, a decision was at
oSewrlved at. « Just Us Wft’s bow,” m the
mother, decidedly. ** Exactly like his father—only
younger,” was the profound observation of the
“ beak,” and the order was signed without further
delay. In future cases, it is intended to take the
infant’s evidence first.
At one of the railway refreshment-rooms
between Sydney and Bourke there is a waiter, a
'vert either to Tom Walker, Charles Bright, or
Jos. Byrnes, or peradventure to all three. And
this waiter mixes up his peculiar beliefs and his
business in a most laughable manner. “ Boup, sir,
yeesir. It’s a mysterious thing, sir, this idea of
a Deity—oxtail, soup, sir; a Supreme Being or a
’Eveuly Father, as ho is called, roast-beef, 'arloot
mutton, and ‘ stooed’ oxtail, sir, being so cruel not
to save them little children; veal and am pio,
sir, yeasir, not even to move on their behalf;
blankmonge, jam roll, and custard, sir, when a
hearthly parent would have died so to speak for
’em; cup o’tea, sir, ye-slr, Iiwas most religiously
brought up myself, but this has sickened me;
mote blankmonge, yessir, and ploui as I was once
I give the Deity now, sir; choose, yeaeir, I do that.”
Memo, for Australian hash-hou*e keepers:
—I bog your pardon, sir,” observed a waiter in a
Now York restaurant respectfully to a gentleman
who was laboriously sawing a tough piece of beef-
steak with a dull knife, “but you have the wrong
knife.” “Eh?” “Yes, sir,” continued the waiter,
as he handed him another knife, with an edge that
was almost as keen as a razor's. ‘ You had the
tender-loin knife. You see,” went on the servitor,
" most people judgements by the way they cut.
When a steak cuts easily, they say it's tender, so
we keep a set of knives here for each kind of
meat. When a man orders fillet of beef, we give
him a dull knife. When he orders sirloin, we give
him one a .little sharper; and, when he calls for
round, we give him a razor-blade. Wo keep the
sharpest knives for the toughest meat. In this
way wo save lots of grumbling and please every-
one.” At our boarding-house, somehow or other,
wo always manage to get hold of the wrong knife
—the one they keep for the tender meat.
Here is an item which, now that Asiatic
cholera has arrived in Australia, will, in the im-
mortal words of Mr. Alfred Bennett, tho gifted
managing proprietor of the Sydney Evening
News, “ take well and give pleasure to all.” The
other evening a newspaper man bought some
fruit at a little shop la Hunter-street, Sydney.
Being too cultured a person to indulge In the
ordinary Australian habit of eating in the street,
he, by tho exercise of much self-denial, controlled
his appetite until he had reached his lonely
lodgings,Iwhere he read on the brown-paper fruit-
bag the following legend in large printed letters
(surmounted by the arms and motto of the Prince
of Wales)
66 and 81 Hunter-
Street,
P. KIIIBY,
From the late J. Curtis,
UNDERTAKER.
Funerals neatly executed.
And 117 Crown St.,
W oolloomooloo.
The surpassing vigour of Mr. Kirby’s perception,
as shown In this combination of the fruit and
coffin business, should give him a front seat in the
ranks of genius. It is only a few weeks since a
man at Pyrmont ate a banana and died within
four hours. Now, if that banana bad been
wrapped in a Kirby fruit-bag, there is no doubt
whatever that our humorous and enterprising
friend would have been promptly “ on the job "
with a pine-liner; as it was, be probably lost the
“case,’’ for that is the cold-blooded phrase by
which a corpse is known in the trade. As fruit so
often has a promptly fatal effect, and considering
also that it is largely consumed by persons in the
last stage of wasting disease, this brilliant idea of
the gifted Kirby is Inspiration of an IS-carat order.
There is only one higher step of commercial
genius which is left for him to attain—he should
get his ads. posted below the “ directions for use ”
on medlciae-bottles.
No more the postman whistles'
When you are deep In cares.
And lets you for your letter
Run down eight flights of stairs;
He climbs the stairs and bands you
Your letter with a smile.
Because he knows that Christmas
Comes in a little while.


Oriental Gold
Christmas Gifts!
CHRISTMAS RIFTS I
THS
ORIENTAL GOLD GO.
B
E ™$™£ ra T.u at , t8ntlon to the reduced
PRICES of their
Uigoifat Mn!
OBSERVE PRICE LIST BELOW.
Indies’ Handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 10s, IBs.
17s 6d, and 20s each
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 4s and 6s per pair
Ladles’ Choice Necklets, 6s each
Ladles’ Choice Necklets, best American Plate, 30s
each
Ladies’ Elegant Bangles, 4s. 6s, and 10s per pair
Choice Lockets, 5s each
Handsome Gem Rings, 4s and 8s 6d each
Wedding and Keeper Rings, in Solid Gold, 7s 6d
each
Ladles’ Handsome Lockets, 10s each
Ladles’ Elegant Crosses, 4s, 6s, and 6s each
Ladies’ Brooch and Barring Sets, from 5s to 16s
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, Os 6d eaoh
Gents’ 0. G. Watches, Hunting, Open-Faced
Crystal Glass, and patent Keyless, 90s each*,
warranted 3 years J ''
Ladles’ (same as above.)
HF“ These watches are mads specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark; the-
movements are of the highest finish, and Jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, eapped
and fully Jewelled, In hunting or open
faced crystal glasses
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
Jewelled, and compensation balance ..
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levers
Ditto ditto, compensation balance
The celebrated Waltham Watch, In hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses..
Ditto ditto, compensation balance
A written warrantry for three years'
dT
44 0 -0
46 Ofl
= raO
44 10 0
46 0 0
43 16 0
44 16 0
accurate.
48 0 V
46 0 0
performance Is forwarded with eaoh watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph,
Ditto, extra Jewelled, of the highest
grade
Ditto, in hunting oases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket 48 10 0
We Import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of au the saving thus effected—about 36 per cent*
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for 43 as can bo sold for 46
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our 46 watches would not
cost less than 48 to 410. , ,
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 4a
eaoh. if J
Gent’s Oriental Gold Rings, half round buckle
flat broad buckle, engraved, good luck rings -
2s 6d each.
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 3s, 4s, 5s, and 6s 6d per set.
Same as above, only harf sets, Is 6d, 2s, and 8s per
set.
Best American Patent Spring Solitaire Suites,
5s per set.
Gent’s elegant Seals, 4s eaoh.
Gent’s Elegant Compasses, 4s eaoh.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberts, 64 eaoh.
Gent’s Oriental Gold handsome Scarf Pins, lA v
6d, 2a, 2a 6d, 3s, 8a 6d, 4s, 4s ttd, 5s, and 6s 6d eao
Very best American Pencil Cases, 2s 6d eaoh.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Match Boxes, 4a eaoh.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Sovereign Purses, 4a each.
Richly engraved Bracelets, 6s eaoh.
Handsome Bracelets, beautifully Jewelled, 8s. 10s.
12s, and 14a eaoh.
Broooohes, Brooches, Brooches, Is 6d, 3s, 2B 6 J, 3s
3s 6d, 4s, 4s 6d, 6s, 6s 6d, 6s, 6s 6d. 7s, 7s 6d, 8s, 8s
6d, 9s, 9s fid, and 10s eaoh.
PLEASE NOTE.
All goods will be sent post free, with the excep-
tion of the watches, orders for which must be ac-
companied with an extra amount of two and six-
pence to defray postage expenses. Send In your
orders early,-as the goods must be sold, and no one
should miss this chance of procuring the beautiful
gems at less than coat price.
Nora thu Address :
The Oriental Gold Co.,
474 Goorga Strut,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS. £
If you are low-spirited tnke Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Puck Almanac, ’86, 6d. (post, 7d.). Now
ready. 24 pages of splendid Comic Illustrations
and letterpress. A real Xmas Bonm bouche. All
booksellers. Alex. M'Klnley and Co,. Sydney.
A WORD OF WISDOM.
If the heart of man is oppressed with care,
It won’t help him any to go on a tare—
He should always keep hla head qu.ro clear
By nothing but ST. LOUIS LAGER
BEER.*
To’ avoid all mistakes ask for Wolfe’s
Schnapps,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Tmm Royal—" The Mikado" P* 8.
Gaiety Theatre—" Private Secretary ”
Opera House—" Our Girls ” ' ••
Alhambra—Variety Company «»
Academy of Music.—Federal Minstrels.... ••
All the most accomplished grovellers of Syd-
ney attended last week to see the production of
a comedy called the “Governor,” with Lord Caring-
ton in the title role. The first performance was
given at the Theatre Royal on Friday, and
although there were some in the circle who came
to see another piece, called the “ Mikado,” which
was played simultaneously, the combined attend-
ance was not sufficient to crowd the circle. The
theatre was decorated with what looked to us
suspiciously like three copies of the Supplement
of the Jernil, and various articles of beauty
which we always look for, and invariably see,
whenever there is anything special on at the
Royal. His Excellency gave a very even render-
ing of his character, and dressed the part ad-
mirably. There is but little variety, and absolutely
no plot in the piece, but it nevertheless transfixed
the gang who had given guineas for their tickets*
They sat in palpitating admiration, and gloated on
the performance. Did Carington smile—they were
effusively hilarious. Did he look pensive, they
looked as glum as did certain departed Sydney
residents when ordered out for another seventy-
five. Did he look bored, doncherknow—they said,
“ Dammit—by Jawve I” in the gloomiest of
tones. For a display of straightforward toe-
kissing grovel we have seen nothing to ap-
proach Friday night’s performance since Prince
Alfred and his “ sweet ” were raised up to
receive the soul-debasing prostration of the
gutter-snipes of Sydney society. The inten-
sity of the self-abasement of some of the
crowd showed how deeply they have been
affected by the line of boot-licking toadyism
encouraged by the Sydney Heralds and Daileys,
under the name of loyalty; but the comparative
fewness of snobs of the very aggressive order
proved that but few even of the parvenus of the
Tittlebat-Titmouse stamp are willing to kneel
down and worship the brazen-faced idol with feet
of clay, which the slobberers of the daily papers
have setup. Do you think that such language is
vulgah? We admit it, but find it impossible to
speak of social muck in other than “mucky”
terms.
* * * *
Lord Carington attended the Sydney
Opera House on Saturday night, when “ Noah’s
Ark ” was produced. Great preparations had been
made for his visit. Decorations of fern and
palm-branches were effectively disposed about the
walla, and some fiower-bouquets added to the
brightness of the scene. Above the vics-regal
head a punkah swayed to and fro with a monoton-
ous “swish,” and two attendants In gorgeous cos-
tumes. a cross between that of a beef-eater and a
circus-clown, stood in gaudy magnificence at the
head of the stairs. They merely bowed in admira-
tion as we passed, but it was rumoured that they
detained two scribes from a certain quarter,
to point out that sardine-tin patches on blucher-
boots were not the usual adornments of those
whom they admitted to the presence of vice-
royalty. Finally, a compromise was effected, and
the gifted writers allowed to sit in a back seat,
conditionally upon the keeping their feet well
within the shade of the proceeding row of chairs.
It was intensely amusing to watch the attitude of
the tuft-hunters in the circle. Many of them
would audibly snigger at the points in the dia-
logue, but never ventured to applaud unless Car-
ington did. As his gracious approval was seldom
notified, and then only in a somewhat languid
manner, the applause was not deafening enough
to delay the piece much. Once we dared to bring
our little clappers together effusively, when
the Great Mikado (or should we say Pooh-Bah ?)
was motionless. We repented of our tem-
erity. A hundred pairs of eyes glared sav-
agely at us. We turned and looked indig-
nantly at the man behind us. He was apparently
of a retiring disposition, for, noticing that the
glance of popular hatred was bent upon him he
grabbed his hard-hltter, and departed in confu-
sion. The men of the vice-regal party all wore
white or cream dress vests, while the gilded youth
of this city had the orthodox black. But there
was one of the latter who was not going to be out
of fashion Just for the sake of a vest. During the
first act of the piece we noticed that his vest was
as that of the others, but later we were astonished
to observe that he bad undergone a transforma-
tion, and his front was as white as that of Lord
Bertie. This was not, our glass informed us, be-
cause he had changed the waistcoat, but because
he had taken it off. There must be real grit in that
fellow, and we believe that if he goes to a ball
some night and finds Lord Carington there in a
black shirt, then, sooner than be out of fashion he
will take bis shirt off, and trust to the duskiness
of his hide for the effect he desires. Some fellows
will never be behind the fashion.
« « « •
Deep mystery enshrouds the forthcoming
pantomime at the Sydney Theatre Royal. We
have George Washington Musgrove’s word for it
that the production will be the grandest ever
exhibited beneath the Southern Cross, and we
believe this, for he is as truthful as a circus-poster
and nearly as beautiful. But still there is a mys-
tery about it. Every day fc covered hot-pie cart is
driven down to the stage entrance, and something
goes in for rehearsal. One rumour asserts that it
is the “ Little Boy at Manly,” and that on him the
burden of the piece will fall; others again say that
Sir John Robertson will bo pantaloon. We believe
this, but his appearance in that rile will be in the
Assembly, and “ for a few nights only.” Another
whisper is that John Lucas is to flltabout as Queen
of the Fairies. Boxing-night will show which of
these reports is in conformity with fact.
* * *
The management at the Olympic have
closed up for a week to allow the preparations
for the advent of “ Old Mother Goose,” the Christ-
mas pantomime, to progress. Miss Ida Osborne
comes from the Sydney Royal to take the leading
part, and Emelie Beaumont (of Melbourne), Maggie
Walsh, Ida Francis, and several more histrionic
maidens reinforce the talent already under the
command of D’Arcy Stanfield. The localisation
has been effected by Mr. Duff—Plum Duff, no
doubt; good old Xmassy cognomen 1—of the Aus-
tralian Sportsman, We always thought there
was a lot In Duff. What of, we can’t remember
just now, but a lot of something. Apparently It
was soul-stirring ballads and rollicking satire;
for, on the authority of Mr. Raphael, we are told
that the piece Is chock-full of such things.
Mother Qoose and duff supply a bill of fare
splendidly suited for this festive season. The
dresses atone by their quality for their want of
length, and will satisfy everyone except the Syd-
ney D.T. man, who has his own ideas as to the
amount of dress necessary for a nymph on the
burlesque stage. Oh I by the way, some little time
ago 20 chorus girls were wanted at the Olympic.
Fred. Dark, whose singular beauty is only equalled
by his remarkable bashfulness, happened to be in
one of the rooms off tbe stage the day after the
ad. appeared, when a huge Connaught girl, with
bone and red hair enough for a champion sculler,
sailed in. She showed her testimonials from a
Woolloomooloo hash-house, and smiled with
onion-branded fragrance. Fred, managed to
stammer out something to the effect that her
loveliness was of too rare a kind to be
wasted on the burlesque stage. She understood
the purport of his excuse, but it did not daunt her.
“Ah, mlsther,” she pleaded, “ yer don’t know how
purty I am. Just run and get me a pair of them
tights and I’ll show yer —.” But she was talking
to space, for Fred., with both hands up to his oars
fled from the scene, and when wo met him an hour
afterwards in the Domain, his blush was so intense
that it shed a luminous glow over the placid
waters of Woolloomooloo Bay.
Mr. J. L. Hall’s 331st representation in the
colonies of Captain Gingah, did not draw an over-
whelming crowd to Sydney Opera House, on
Monday night. When we strolled in, just before
8, and wandered through the prevailing gloom
to our seat, we felt as lonely and companionless
as a man of intelligence would in a suburban
municipal council. Becoming nervous in the
weird solitude, we gave a co-ee, which was faintly
answered from one of the boxes, and then we
knew that we were not like one who walks alone
some banquet-hall deserted. By twos and threes
a sparse audience filtered in during the overture,
which was linked sweetness long-very, very, long
—drawn out, but we were never inconvenienced
as to elbow-room, for the usher, or something,
with a pardonable want of discernment, had
escorted us to the Governor’s box, and made a
nice little speech, saying how glad he was that
our Excellency had dropped in again so soon, and
wouldn’t we send for tbe missus. With a shudder
we refused the latter request.
• ♦ *
Captain Gingah is very funny. Johnnie
Hall is just a trifle more so, therefore the combined
character is a very choice morceau. The pompous,
designing, and quite too utterly conceited captain
is represented, uot as though for the 331st time,
but as though Mr. J. L. Hall had never been
anything else. An equal compliment is due to
Harry Power, who exhibits Pipkins, the little fool,
as if he were 44 to the manner born.” Mr. H. N.
Douglass made a very deliberate Fanahawe, and
acted just a little too like a suburban burglar in
tbe first act, and a central detective in the last.
B. N. Jones was the philanthropic stage doctor,
who never seems, like his prototype in real life, to
have his mental power concentrated on “ accounts
rendered,” but is bent only upon the consumma-
tion of tbe apotheosis of mankind in general and tbe
lovely and distressed heroine in particular. Miss
Maggie Knight had a reception which was justified
by the quality of her after-acting. She sung that
little ballad 4 ‘ Constance,” whose musical beauty
is not more remarkable than its hopeless and
drivelling Imbecility of sentiment. To the frantic
appeals for an encore, she was politely immove-
able. Miss Blanche Lewis was tbe happily loved
maiden, and, as she has often been that way
before, as might naturally have been expected,
her reading was impassioned and consistent. And
Miss Docy Main waring. How tbe management
have succeeded in getting a succession of girl-of-
the-male persuasion characters for her we know
not, but this seems about the sixtieth time that
we have seen her as a loud-voiced, prudish,
woman a-rights sort of woman, with a savage con-
tempt, but intense yearning, for a specimen of
the genus homo. No one who despises the Cap-
tain can wish him a worse fate than his capture
by the widow. Therefore when the curtain is
rung down, everyone is satisfied. 41 Battled ” la to
be the Christmas production at the Opera House.
* * * *
The Federal Minstrels, after giving per-
formances in several of the suburbs, re-open at
the Academy of Music on Christmas Kve. As all
the stars still shine with undimlnished brilliancy,
the crowded-out contingent is likely to be as
numerous as the admirers of Dan. O’Connor, and
their name is legion. They admire him, not for
his eloquence, but for the excellence of his un-
equalled tripe and cow-heel. (No extra charge for
this ad.) Horace Bent and Biily Warner are re-
ported to have some howllngly funny new busi-
ness, but this, after all, is 44 only what we’ve been
told, you know.”
• * * *
“The Cricket on the Hearth” is Mr.
Dampicr’s Christmas piece at the Sydney Gaiety.
Considering the authorship of the stories under
this title, it is only reasonable to suppose that half
Sydney will 41 go to the Dickens,” but it is equally
certain that they will also return.
* * * *
The Lynch Family continue their levy on
the pockets of the guileless Southerners. Where-
ever they visit they leave nothing but posters and
empty pockets behind them. The Queanbeyan
Age, doing a grovel to the troupe, closes his
notice with the sage remark that 44 it is a question
whether there will ever bb another generation of
bellringers.” This is evidently a hint to Harry
that he should marry, if only for the sake of his
profession.....Dan Barry, with a good company,
has been playlnjr “Colleen Dawn," “ Dark Days,”
Euchred, ’ and other soul-stirring dramas In
rassand other Southern towns to sit-on-your-
neighbour s-lap houses. One of the local papers
specially admires the ardent manner In which
George Herbert makes love. That Is what catches
the rustics. If George can only oatch on to some
new style of hugging or kissing, he will bring
down the house every time at Yacs. They do a
lot of It there In a blundering agricultural way.
— Miss Clara Stephenson, with a clever company,
was at Tumut last week, where good biz was
done. Her Impersonations are said by the local
rag to range from Lady Macbeth to Aladdin,
and apparently include everything between, but
we wouldn’t believe a cauntry editor on his oath
when writing of Clara or Cora MTan. We know
how impressionable the young hearts of these pro-
vincial slaves to the quill Invariably are.
* * * *
Poor Massartio, Melbourne’s well-known
“aster of the ballet, has done his last dance- He
will figure as Harlequin no longer In the Xmas
pantomime?, and train no more troops of super-
numeraries to do their fancy groupings and lime*
lighted evolutions. H s spare little figure and
thin fiat face will no longer be seen doing grand
pus down the centra of the stage, and then waiting
at the wlnps to direct the movements of the troop
of gauzily-dressed girls who filled up his breathing-
time. Mops. Massartio had a hard-working life of
it about Xmas and Easter times for 20 years past,
but finished up quickly the other day while
rehearsing pantomimic effects at the Princess
Theatre. Taken thence to his home, in Fitzroy,
he never recovered from the fit which had seized
mm upon the stage, and so, like Jackson, the late
comedian, may be said to have died while in har-
ness. If one half of the coryphees whom he
taught had followed his funeral, the procession
would have been a very long one. It should have
been ‘stepped’’ to the solemn music of the
“Funeral of a Marionette.’’
• » * «
The Only Leon is luring a lot of Melbourne
people to the Nugget—a house which, in the usual
way. Is left severely alone by the “ hupper
suckles. The girls, bless their hearts 1 seem to
study Leon’s little feminine tricks with an eye to
business. We have observed wily mothers In
charge of fair bevies of sirens occupying front
seats. “ Set a man to catch a man, my dears,’’ says
mamma; “ there Is much to learn from this enter-
tainment, if you watch it closely.” And the little
darlings, ever on the alert to light on something
new, take lessons from the " Gay Masherette.”
Mr. Frank Cushman, too, puts In some good work,
and the show In its tout ensemble is a thoroughly
live one. Otherwise, It couldn’t “ drag ’em In ’’ to
the Nugget, anyhow.
* * * «
The habit of going out to see a man
between acts is exceedingly mischievous. We
went out to see him before the last act of “Saints
and Sinners” at the Melbourne Royal. Presumably
we must have stayed In his company and dreamily
Imagined what that last act ought to have been.
The author and ourselves are at variance In our
ideas. We told you last week that the gay deceit-
ful Captain dies in India, and the parson’s daugh-
ter unites her bruised heart with that of her rustic
admirer. Perdition eatoh our soul for lingering so
long over the rum I-nothlng of the sort occurs.
The Captain’s lawful wife died while we were
taking refreshment, so like an and a gen-
tleman, he—Instead of dying hlmself-came back
with a wedding-ring In his pocket, and made
Letty Mrs. Fanshawe In real earnest. The
naughty man would have died In India (as we
still maintain he ought to have done), bat the
honest, humble rival saved his life. But for such
Idiotically unselfish conduct this George Klngs-
mlll might have enjoyed the bliss we apportioned
to him. As it was. he lost his bride and “queered ”
our narrative altogether, confound him I No
matter! “Saints and Sinners’’ has run its
allotted course now, and Melbournians are pant-
ing for the Pant.
» m » »
“Faust” has just withdrawn from the
Opera House to make room for “ Henry Vee ”
P 1 * y® promised in this revival. One-
half of the adult male population of Melbourne
has taken the Queen’s shilling, and enlisted in
George Rlgnold’s harmy. The other half is ex-
pected to roll up and see how the troops acquit
themselves in the field. We have the pleasure of
knowing one of the bravest of these warriors, and
from him we learn that “the boss is going to
give the Frenchman ‘ fits ’ this Haginoourt.”
* * * m
At this season of the year pantomimists
are objects of melancholy Interest, so we may be
excused for mentioning that Fred. Evans, the
Drury Lane clown of many seasons past, has
stolen his last string 1 of sausages. Fred, was a
muscular and fairly merry member of the mori-
bund fraternity of clowns. His wife—Amy Rosa-
lind—died only a few months before her husband.
Birlow, of “Blue-Tailed Fly” celebrity,
is, though 298 years old. still alive, lie was last
heard of at Hamilton, Vic.
* • • »
Eugenie Legrand, who, while in Australia,
was never much of a theatrical * access, has
‘ struck oil ” in a part at the London Uoyalty. All
the papers—even the Times— admit I-,. Eugenie
onoo tried her luck in New York-and made a dis-
mal failure. All her stage experiments have of
lato years been made under the plat mlo patron-
age of a very wild Victorian “young blood." It
has at last come out in England that K rle Bailewls
married, and that Eugenio la his wife. Uad news this
for the boarding-school misses, for Ki rle, although
his long curling Jocks are turning vei y grey, is the
masher actor of the English stage, a very killing
Eart of his was Correze, In “ Moths, 1 ’ Even Ouida
erself ought to have been satisfied with such a
godlike rendering of the character.
LAWN-TENNIS.
Certainly a very passionate game seeing
that one is forced to put a barrier between
the players.
With The Bulletin’s Compliments to
Melbourne Punch.
ATTACKS OP ENGLISH COLLA.RER.
“ The Neck
Stretcher.”
‘‘The Chin
Scraper.”
“ The Nose
Ti kler.”
9
DkCMMBBII 2d, 1886.
THIS BULLETIN.!


PEPPER AND SALT.
The Prince of Wales, as we recently stated
on the authority of a London paper, is capable of
being many things to many men. We can quite
believe this after reading the effect of the Royal
presence on Mr. James Munro, of Victoria, pietist
and M.L.A. Mr. Munro’s impression ia that the
Prince Is “ a quiet, practical sort of man.” As re-
gards “ practical,” that is a wide term, much in
favour with pillars of the Church, as being capable
of a good many different constructions. Perhaps
Wales is practical. But Mr. Munro certainly places
himself In a false position by speaking of our
gracious Prince as “ quiet.” Let us explain with a
banjo;—
A London paper enquires, “ Why doesn't
lh« Prince of Wales write a book?” Now, may
Heaven forbid that His Royal Highness should do
anything so rash. The Queen certainly has written
two or three books without materially Increasing
the death-rate among her faithful subjects. The
1’rlnoesa Alice wrote a book of sustained interest -
that ia to say, the last chapter was quite as thrill-
ing as the first. The Marquis of Lome wrote a
book—which was probably responsible for his Ices
tfa seat In Parliament. But we don’t want
Wales to write a book. We would spare Albert
Kdward the harassing trials incidental to author-
ship. And, to tell the truth, we don’t think he
could write a book. But there is an excellent
•importunity for our Prince (o distinguish himself
In the literary line since he has gone In bald,
beaded (the scant!ness of locks compels Albert B-
to go In for everything—dinner, evon-baldheaded)
lor the turf. He might make a book. Tax-payers
wouldn’t mind handing over their half-crowns
in that sort of way. The impecunious Teck could
officiate as the Royal clerk. Oh, by the way, the
latest style of referring to Princess Mary's hus-
band Is as Prince Tick.
* » #
“An inquest was held to-day on the body
of tbe woman, Jane Irwin, who died at the Mel-
bourne Hospital after being beaten, on Saturday
last, by the man with whom she lived. Almost
with her dying breath she endeavoured to shield
tbe man by saying some larrikins bad knocked her
down and beaten her.”—Melbourne paper. A true
woman, was Jane. If that man bad been a rich,
noble-hearted, lawful husband, she would hgyo
“pulled ” him for assault if he had as much as
blown a piece of paper at her. We take our own
ease. Three of our wives died from Injuries re-
ceived with a forgiving smile upon their Ups. The
fourth, on whom we lavished tenderness unspeak-
able, bolted with the groom. Pass the guitar.—
Another road to Heaven has been opened
up by “ Major Fakir,” of the French Salvation
Armte, You have probably heard of It already.
It Is a species of water route. The “ Malor ”
wrote the name of the Deity upon 20,000 slips of
paper, and threw them Into the water for the pur-
pose of sanctifying 20.000 fishes. As possibly
one fish out of every 20,000 ia captured and
consumed by men, it is fair to presume that
at least one soul will be saved by each Issue of the
” Major’s” scrip. One or more will eat of the fish,
which will immediately commence missionary
work In the brains of Its consumers, and so con-
vert their hearts to Christianity. Fish is a brain
food, as we know, henoethe “ Major’s” selection.
He might have crammed some of his billets doux
down the throats of oxen, but the result could not
have been the same. A sanctified steak would
merely purify the stomach, and pills do that just
as efficaciously. Henceforth, then, fish-shops agist
be regarded as lotteries containing one prize to
every 10.999 blanks. The prize Is the Crown of
Life. Let a Bulletin bard sing of one lucky In-
vestor:— f
Miss Eva Nogg, a young lady charged with
larceny at a Melbourne Police Court, has a
thorough knowledge of the Harmy and its re-
quirements. Prisoner’s sister suggested that the
girl wasn’t quite right In her mind. ** Well,” said
Eva, “Major Barker will take me back.” She
knew, bless you! Girls with Eva’s Infirmity are
the very backbone of that religious organisation.—
in the precession formed to receive Lord
Carington some uniformed firemen carried um-
brellas. An umbrella will. It is understood, in
future be part of the costume of every fully-
equipped Sydney Pompier. There are sometimes
so much as several buoketa of water knocking
about at a Sydney fire.
In Borneo, when a man commits any
offence worthy of severe punishment, he is taken,
bound band and foot, and the flesh cut from his
bones with a piece of edged flint. The medicine
man stands by and keeps tally, but in the rich en-
joyment of the scene he sometimes forgets the
score, and, as tbe victim falls weltering in the
Mood from his wounds, the teller calls “enough.’
This comes of sending missionaries to Borneo.
In Coonamhle, N.S.W., lately, at a concert,
a lady performer was Ipdlsposed, and a gentle-
man, e lawyer, gave a song In lieu of the one ad-
vertised. The district *’ sport’’ bad come specially
to learn the missing song, and as soon as the sub-
stitute was announced left the room in a huff,
spying, “I’ll have my good greed back. They
ain’t running according to the c’recc card. We
don’t pay our blooming coin for a go-as-you-please
concert.”
This is how an acute baok-blocker
his practice as a Mason:—"If a swagsman hails
me as a Mason, I sympathise with him and tell
him I can do nothing for htm, as I am only acting
fur another man. Bit if a man owning property, or
holding a billet of £1000 a year gives the sign of
distress, I pour oil into his wounds and set him on
my own beast, on the principle of casting bread
upon the waters. I acknowledge no Mason who
has less than £500 a year.”
Two young policemen, who went on duty
for the first tune in Melbourne Uat Saturday, were
subsequently found drunk in tbelr uniforms.
They were fined a smalt amount, the fact being
considered that ‘ the wcatHfer was very hot, and
they were not properly on duty." Particularly
the latter wo should imagine. In future, upon hot
days we may expect to find the ‘ foorce” coiled
up In the shade sleeping off the effects under the
protecting influence of this precedent.
There will soon be room for an Australian
Victor Hugo. Extract from a r. port by a Vic-
toria! Inspector of Police:-"The eldest child,
when the house was visited at night, mbs eittlcg
near a sofa, on which a Chinaman, not related to
her, was reclining, smoking opium. The younger
girl, with her face blackened, wss dancing on the
Hoor to please him. Uostalrs the («uropcan)
mother of the children, ‘the bigge : t woman In
Victoria,’ a female weighing aoout 35:t, wns
found smoking ” Wherever there ii muchof man,
there Is more of the beast,
At Paris, tbe Burmese Envoy recently
stated that U was a crying Injustice, out as ol-ar
as day, that England, having taken half the bur-
mete territory, was determined to get the re-
mainder. All the pretences she had invented to
quarrel with Burmah bad been directed towards
that object. England saw that Francs was estab-
lishing her,self in Tonquin. She was therefore
seeking to obtain the shortest commercial route to
China, tticd to become mlstrers of the Iirawaddy
the great artery which oonneeti the Bay ofieesgii
with the Funnau territory.
At the unveiling of tbe monument to
General Chauzr, at Mans, the other day, there was
a great gathering of the officers and men of the
army of the Loire, which the General commanded.
There was a procession too. In which an interest-
ing feature was tno part In which were envied the
various kinds of fire-arms with which, In Frances
extremity, ths soldiers of the Loire army weie
provided. There were no less than 18 dffsrent
varieties, Including tbe charscpot, the regulation
cartiae, the American Remington, the Rpanlsh
ditto, the Snider, the Springfield rifle, the Spencer
carbine, the Eofl'fid, (he Soharps, and many othera
chiefly of the earlier sorts of the military rifle.
Only imagine the difficulty of procuring amrnun -
tlonfor an army thus divi rstlyurraedl The wonder
is not that it was defeated so soon but that it bald
out so long.
James Carrington, aged 4G. got drunk and
assaulted a constable the other day, and at the
time the new Governor of N.S.W. was receiving
the salute of 21 guns James was receiving the first
of a gaol warder’s salute of 14 davs. Such are the
vicissitudes of families—while one Is rolling in
riches and carriages, the other Is rolling into an
officer of tbe State; while one is taking the oaths
of vlce-royaltv, the other is shocking the ears of
Her Majesty’s truly loyal and religious subjects
with the oaths of Circular Quay and the beer of
Woolloomooloo. And can we wonder that the old
man was carried away with true patriotism and
family-feeling when he raw the preparations to
welcome a Carington? And what more natural
than to wish to assault somebody ? For our part,
if one of the O’Mulllgans came as Governor, we
would empty a 500 gallon vat, and challenge the
whole volunteer and police foosoe of the colony.
Wool not now presenting muob prospect
of profit, Australian settlers are turning their
attention to other industries. Ostrich-feather
growing is having a fair trial at more than one
ftatlon on the Murray. Another speculation is
that of bee-keeping and honey-producing on the
lines upon which it Is found to have been profit-
able in America. At a stati n we lately visited
we found 36 beehives full of bees, wax, and honey.
The statistics were as follows: The hives were
made on station by bush carpenter. Seen at a
little distance they would be mistaken for dog-
kennels until It was noticed that an aperture of a
thimble’s size only represented the doorway.
These hives cost a mere nothing. The bees cost
next to nothing. Their food costs nothin*. Tiny
require no attention whatever, and are subject to
no sickness—foot-rot, tick, fluke, or other ail-
ment. One youth of 18 attended to the 26 hives
and will attend to those others now nankin*. It is
the intention of this bee-farmer to have 500 hives
at work next year. He had no previous experi-
ence as an apiarian—learning everything from an
American book. Each hive produced 491bs. of
honey per quarter, summer and winter, and each
pound of honey sefis in ths comb, wholesale in
Melbourne, at Is. 31. per lb. This is all nett to the
producer. Each bee knows its hive and needs ho
branding for identification. “Better than wool
growing,” is what Is said of it.
For the several-thousandth time we are
told that the N.S.W. Postmaster-General's De-
partment doesn’t pay. We’d like to know how It
could when such Jackass-regulations as the follow-
ing are In vogue: The charge for telegrams to
Victoria is Is. for the first 10 words, and 2d. for
every additional word. Supposing, therefore, that
a person wished to send a message of 50 words, the
cost. If sent in one message, would be 7s. 8d„ but
by splitting It up Into five messages of 10 words
each, It would only come to 5s. The address and
signature In each case, even If they came to 30
words, would go free, and so on; not only
would the Department lose 2s. 8d. on this small
transaction, but they would waste much valuable
time over the transmission of the extra address
and signatures, and perhaps three or four
separate deliveries would be Involved as
well. This Is one of the keys to Mr. Garvan's
trouble as to why the reoeipts of some Govern-
ment departments run in an Inverse ratio to the
business done. The te’egraph-stamp nuisauoe is
another very doubtful sort of reform, and no
small amount of brewery language was Indulged
in by the Sydney receiving clerk, a few days ago,
when one of the leading metal loianf, having 100
words to wire, and, being In a facetious mood,
decorated the form with 193 one penny stamps.
All these had to be obliterated by the oounter-
clerk, and by the time he was through he felt as if
his right shoulder was stuffed with lead, or bad
just been caressed by the heels cf the Soudan
donkey. Our first-fi ght efflolsli tre pretty spry
when their own prvate business is at stake, but
when that of the public has to be guarded they
seem to be suddenly struck with a bad attack of
the “simples.”
The Tramway Company in Melbourne still
thinks its tramways are superior to those of Syd-
ney. They are certainly saftr, for a man might
fall asleep on the line and the wooie string cf car-
riages run over him without wakiog him What-
ever the Sydney tramways may bo, the local tr m
engines are able to inspire respect in the breasts
of draymen, which Is more than oan be said for
those in Melbourne. As a proof of this, we quote
the foil wing remarks from a letter published In
the Age :—“Fancy about a dozen horse-oarts
laden with sand, crawling along, as they usually
do, with the drivers half asleep, taking up tbe
middle of the road where tbe tram line Is laid.
The drivers hear the guard’s bell to clear tbe line,
which they do at a funeral pace. The result Is the
tram car has to pull up, much to the annoyance of
passengers.” Yes. And why dees the tram con-
ductor pull up? From motives ef humanity?
Not much. He pulls up because a collision with a
dray would mean bad luck to the tram car. Now,
the Sydney trams—what Is this the Evenoozb used
to call them ? The iron monster and Juggernaut
we believe were the mildest terms It used—would
wipe the heaviest dray on tbe read out of their
way and leave the amorphous wreck of It behind
without the passengers experiencing more than a
slight jolt, rather agreeable than otherwise. The
drivers, too, are noted for ape imperturbability,
begottou of the knowledge of power, which IS
worth money to see. But the drivers of the Mel-
bourne tramg-if the exprsfslon driving can be
used with regard to a thing that is towed—would
be afraid to run oveiwa cat lest it should overturn
the whole caboodle. It is stated that a go it kept
the cars at bay for a full half bout on tbe Rich-
mond-road one (jay. The Melbourne people pow
familiarly allude to these tram oars as the “ ice-
cream parts.’ Tb.y are the funniest things v?a
hpvp ever seen in the wej” of vch p.es,
Oh, James Munro, In this, we ween,
Some longing you evince—
As faithful subject of your Queen—
To butter up your Prince;
Quito practical he is, Indeed,
In point of drink and diet,
But surely, James, your words mislead
When you pronounce him quiet,
A quiet man In your eyes, James
(Unless obscured by scales),
Would hardly play tbe little games
Attributed to Wales;
It don’t occur to you, mayhap,
That, If you’re not In error
And Wales is such a quiet obap,
You, James, must be a “ terror.”
LIST!
As now the dreaded otaolera we’ve borrowed from
Madrid,
We’ve got a little list —we’vo got a little list,
Of social disturbers of whom we would be ilJ,
And who never would he missed—who never
would be missed!
There’s the Parliament’ry fossil who subsists on
acts long past—
Tbe statesman who has nailed his tattered colours
to the mast—
The agent enterprising, with his fifty-guinea fee,
And that undermining person, the teetotal O.M.Q.—
The bore who cannot speak, yet on speaking will
Insist—
They’d none of ’em be missed—they’d none of ’em
be missed!
Chorus.
We *ve got ’em on our list—we’ve got ’em on our
list,
And they’ll none of ’em be missed—they’ll none of
’em be missed I
There’s the ioe-oream-vending foreigner, the
whole street-crying breed,
The vi’linlst and harpist—we’ve got ’em on the list 1
Those people who, when dining out, are noted for
their greed!
They never would be misted-they never would
be missed!
The new-ohum Idiotic who's always running down
Our food, drinks, climate, customs, and who
doesn’t own a “ brown
The lady In the stalls who wears the stage-conceal-
ing bat,
Beneath whose brim umbrageous we’ve all too
often sat;
And that swift and silent Juggernaut, the road-
way bicyclist—
We don’t think hs’d be missed—we’re sure he’d
not be missed I
Chorus.
We’ve got him on the list—we’ve got him on the
list.
And we know he won’t bo mkstd-we’re sure he'll
not be missed 1
There’s the after-dinner speaker whose mouth
seems always full,
The comic vocalist—we’ve got him on the list!
The noisy little folks next door, who never go to
school—
They’d none of ’em be missed—they’d none of ’em
be missed!
Tbe ass who walks the crowded streets bis cane
beneath bis arm,
The fool who asks “Is’t hot enough?” whene’er it's
overwarm,
And the yokel lathe office who will introduce
you to
His auntie from the country, who’s got up (a re 1
and blue—
Wa know of several hundreds more, but here we
must desist,
Though they’d none of ’em be missed-they'd
none of ’em be missed I
Chorus.
You may put ’em on the list—you may put ’em on
the list;
And they’ll none of ’em te mlssed-tbey'll none of
’em be missed 1
A WOMAN'S LOVE.
A woman’s love is—some men say—
A rose that bloometh for a day;
That smlleth when the sun Is bright,
Till chilly breezes come to blight—
When, one by one, ita petals walk
And leave us nothing but the stalk.
No, woman’s love It is a tree
Whose roots strike deeper than we see;
It grows apace In barren soil—
Is mostly reared by “sons of toll
Scant sunshine have Its branches seen,
But yet their leaves are evergreen.
Chop, lop, maltreat It as you may,
You cannot take its life away;
Hacked at by brutal Dick or Bill,
'Twill galu new strength and flourish still—
Unless It know that fatal "ring,"
And then It may succumb, poor thing!
But, tend that tree with gentle care,
From axe, and blow, and kick forbear;
Put palings of affection round
As though it grow on hallowed ground—
Then you will find that, bye and bye,
That wayward tree will surely die.
THE INJURED PLAINTIFF.
THE BOIJRKB (N.S.W.) WATCHMAN LIBELLED THE HORSE OF A LOCAL DOCTOR.
A SYDNEY JURY REFUSED TO COMPENSATE THE ANIMAL FOR THE MENTAL PAIN
IT HAD SUFFERED BY REASON OF THE WANTON ATTACK.
THOMAS'S MISTAKE.
Tom and Richard Brown were brothers-they, in
point of fact, were twins—
With a turn for drink and gaming, and a lot of
other sins:
They gave their lives to pleasure and, like many
another one.
Did things that they ought not to do and left the
rest undone.
Now “ beating round ” one evening when ’twas
getting rather late,
They lurched Into some supper-rooms, with
strange, unsteady gait—
Tom called for stout and oysters (he was rather
thick In speech;,
And Richard, too, was willing, so they had a
dozen each.
Well, Thomas ate his dozen and he drank his
bottled stout.
And nothing would content him but to shy the
shells about;
Then he hiccupped out a chorus (we have said hi*
voice was thick),
But like a graven imago grew the face of brother
Dick.
Tom chaffed him on his silence, as he slapped him
on the back,
But Richard merely shook his head, and muttered,
“ Oh, alack!
This world Is full of wickedness, and I a sinner
am.”
To which profound reflections, Thomas answered
him with “ D n I”
He turned away In sarrow, did poor Richard,
when he heard
His brother use such language (for It is a nauglty
word),
Then fell upon his knees, and—wiping tear-drops
from his eyes—
Begged Thomas to remembsr there’s a world be-
yond the skies.
“I’m well aware,” cried Richard, “that I once
drank and swore—
Now something seems to tell me not to do so any
more;
At every solemn subject, Tom, I used to jeer
and joke.
But since I ate these oysters—oh, I’m quite
another bloke.”
“ It must have been the second, for it tasted salt
and strange.
And wasn’t down an instant when I felt my
nature change:
It gave m<? a sensation that no words could well
explain—
To put the matter plainly, Tom, I think I’m born
again.”
Lo! erehe slept that evening, the pledge young
Richard signed,
And now he is in every way a model for mankind,
For that oyster (you have gu;ssed it), in its travels
far and wide,
Had “wolfed” a slip of paper borne along upon
the tide.
But Thomas—not so lucky as bis brother Dick had
been—
Still drinks and uses language which Is vulgar and
obscene;
And often when in liquor he is heard to whimper:
“ Blank!
For what I am this moment there Is only me to
thack.
See In me a sad example of the irony of fete;
1 put that holy oyster on my brother R chard’?
plate.
And sneaked what looked a better—so my cunning
brought about
Dear brother Dick's redemption, and my sin has
found me out I ”
WHAT THEY WANP.
A maid who’s Inclined
To be wrong in her mind.
Whose brain Is a Utile bit “ barmy,”
la just the recruit
Very certain to suit
The people who manage the Harmy.
Now, to play tambourine
Not an Intellect keen
Nor morals too sound and supernal
Are sought after—but
If a girl’s off her “ nut,”
She stands a good chance to be “ kernel.”


Carlngton, as a Commercial Speculation.


Renovate your failing frames with Wolfe’s
Schnapps
Puck Almanac, ’£6, Gd. (post, 7d.). Now
ready. 21 pares of splendid Comic Illustrations
and letterpress A real Xmas Bonnebouche. All
bcohsellers. Alex. M'Kloley and Oo., Sydney.
Hereis Summer upon us, causing a mighty
thirst Don’t fell toobtaln yoursupplyof Lemon-
ade, fellzer. Poda Gintrer Ale. Tonic, Potass
and I.lthla W4-r (for Gout), of Dalm and Oertel,
JR ated Water and Cord'al Manufacturers, 403 pitt-
street Delivered regularly in town and suburb?.*
Puck Almanac, VG, Gd. (post, 7d.). Now
ready. Illustrated Ihrouphout with splendid
Wood-outs in colours, &o. Buy a copy I All book-
sellers. Alex. M'Klnley and Co., Sydney,
Be sure you get Wolfe's Schnapps,
BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
Friday’s race for the sculling champion-
ship was another instance of the fallacy of the time-
test, at least so far as contests on tbe water arc con-
cerned. When young Charley Matterson lost his
nee with Nelson, on the previous Saturday, his
party credited his defeat to extreme nervousness,
It being the lad’s first race, but there could be no
excuse of that sort In connection with the elder
brother, for Neil was brimming over with confi-
dence when he rowed to the post. Confidence is a
great point, no doubt, but there can be such a
thing as over-confidence In a young sculler, which
means that if he cannot get away from his man
as anticipated, the reaction shuts him up limp as a
wet rag, and we have an idea that that was Nell Mat-
tered! s complaint on Friday last. The day was a
regular scorcher, but Matterson’s friends very
foolishly allowed him to put out on the river
without any covering to his head—if we except
a well-kept crop of hair parted very carefully
down the middle—thus giving both nis ears an
equal chance to flap. Beach came out from Ryde
la the buff, but with a white cap with a protection
for the nape of the neck, and, taking into con-
sideration the length of time tbe men were fiddling
at tbe post, we reckon that, all else being equal, tbe
head-gear would have won him the race. Mat-
terson was floe, very fine, at lOst. 61b.. and we
fancy he would have done better with a little more
avoirdupois. Beach, as usual, looked a grand
specimen of manhood, and there was a subdued
air of confidence about tbe man-quite distinct
from bravado—which boded ill for his youthful
opponent. Matterson, who had choice of position,
took tbe Southern station, and after a
deal of finessing, the men struck the water
together, and dashed off on their event-
ful journey. The steamer was well on to
Ryde before the pair broke away, and at tbe angle
Matterson looked as if be bad slightly the better of
it, but as the men drew abreast of the Inflexible,
it was seen tbat the Champion was slowly but
surely forging his outrigger to the front, where-
upon his principal supporter offered a shade of
odds in hundreds that Beach led past Uhr’s Point.
Matterson steered a course perilously close to the
shore, and at one point we fancied ho stirred up
the bottom with his left scull. At Chr'a Point,
shot in Imln. 69sec., Beach bad some ten feet to
the good, and as he opened out daylight between
tbe boats further on, it dawned upon the specta-
tors that the oft-recurring procession would be the
(rder of the day. Aunmaching the mil*. one of
the Deerys offered £1000 to £2J0 f.galnst Mat-
terson without response, and after this the race
does not require description, for Boacr made
ovary point a winning one, and let the youngster
off lightly at the finish by only "completing the
course with a It lengths’ lead The times at the
varloui points werer-TJhr’s. Imln. 59ieo.; mile,
Onln. 59<eo.; Putney, lOmio. 20ieo. ; Cubarlta,
16nln. 55ieo.; Gladeavllle, 18nia. 27seo Beach
then eased down, and allowing the youngster to
d'-aw up, paddled to theflig boit, In 2tmln Itiec
If Matterson has any sense ho will not bo ho wed
down and disappointed over this beating. His ex-
perience of defeat has. no doubt, done him good,
aod if he does feff any regr-t. It should bn that his
t oo generous backers helped him to “ shin up ” to
the top of the tree when they could no doubt have
got on another match with a man with whom he
might have had a show of winning. However,
Matterson H a young man. and. provided ho docs
not row many more races at 10 stone and a-half, ha
may one day. In a race for the world’s champion-
ship, finish at the Brothers with feelings the re-
verse of those be experienced on Friday last.
* * *
Professional boat-sailing may now, in
Sydney, be looked upon as a thing of the past, aud
much as the lovers of a well-bandied craft may
deplore the fact. It cannot be lost sight of that the
professlonals did their level best to extinguish
themselves by their exorbitant demands on boat-
ownem, who found that winning a race meant a
good round sum out of pocket. With tbe fisher-
men, however, it is a different matter, and In their
Interests we are sorry the National Regatta com-
mittee cannot see their way clear to put a race on
their programme. When fishermen go in for such
boats as the Admiral, Wild George, Ettle, and
others, as fine open boats as the harbour can pro-
duce, they deserve some little consideration. The
committee of the National Regatta can scarcely
know these, or they would surely never en-
courage the canvasser at the expense of such
noble craft. We understand the National Regatta
people say their programme Is full. Then strike
nut one of the mosquito races, and give the
tollers of tbe sea a chance.
• •» •
We were th<re on Sunday morning— we
bDe our h* ad In shame, but duty compels us to
nuke tbe confession-and saw as fine a set-to be-
tween a couple of amateur nine-stoners, as the
mut fast 1 1 us lover of the noble art could wish.
There va< on arger and no stake, 1 he meet being
mer’ly to prove who was the better lad of the two.
Some 10 rounds were fought—with the gloves, of
course—before the bigger of the two orlod a “go,”
the only damage being a little carmine tapped
from the nose of the winner, and a out lip on the
part of the loser.
» • •
Herbert A. Slade, the half-breed Maori,
whom Mace took over to the States to whtp all
creation, and slogger Sullivan In particular, has
had rather a bard time of it in the land of the
almighty dollar. He duly met Sullivan, but the
whipping was the wrong way about; then he got
the worst of a set-to with, at that time, amateur-
now ex-amateur—Robinson, of ’Frisco, who was
recently in Sydney, and at latest Slade was run-
ning a whisky-mill at Sacramento. One Cooper
tried to obtain a drink at Slade's “on the never,”
and upon Slade trying to eject him, Mr. Cooper
tried to bore a hole through the slogger with a
Derringer bullet. 3 be ball struck the Maori lu
the right breast, going through his shirt and then
striking his ribs and glancing off. Cooper was
charged with attempt to murder.
9 6 8
The Sydney Rowing Club had a most
enjoyable reunion on Saturday afternoon last at
the “ Branch,” when races for maiden single-sculls
and senior double-sculls were gone through. Mr.
“Joe" Rowley, who won the single-sculls, bore
bis blushing honours with becoming modesty; and
the brothers Kennedy made an easy win of the
double sculls from Hart and Thompson. The
Kennedys are a couple of strapping young fellows,
are coming on as fast as a tornado, and, with care-
ful coaching, should make a formidable pair.
■ • •
A fair attendance put in an appearance at
Canterbury Park on Saturday last. Rebus, a 4 to6
chance, won tbe Flying Handicap from Arista;
Leumeab, at level money, took tbe Selling Race;
Sawdust snatched tbe December Handicap from
Bonnie Bee; Presentation won the Prince of
Wales Stakes from Howlong; and Peter the Welter
Handicap.
*66
The Hanlan-Teemer race in America has
raised no end of mud, and from accounts gleaned
from various Yankee papers, the affair looks very
much like a “ double cross.” Teemer says Hanlan
wanted to make “ a cross ” of it, but Hanlan says
the boot is on the other foot. In support of his
statement, Hanlan produced the folio wine bright
productions from Teemer’s crowqulll:—" M’Kees-
port, Pa., September 1, 1885. Friend Edword,—I
gesthis letter will explean every thing until! you
and I met on the koroe. Volk my backer dont
want me to com on with hem to make the match,
now Kdword wen be coma to make tbe match you
tell hem that you wont to row for fifteen hunderd a
side and the wener to take Sixty percent and the
Loser two take forty percent of the gate muoey.
Kdword wen yon get this letter you red it very
oarful and dont make eny mistake, be shut and
hold ouc for fifteen hunderd a side and the gate
muney to be divided as stated In the letter, and
won you go to make the match put for more hun-
derd up and tbe thousand to be put up for
days b'ifor the race take place, and wen we met
wo can setl all. I hope this will find you all rite.
T reman Your Friend, John Tekmer.” The second
leMer ran; M’Keesport, Pa, September 2cb,
1885. Friend Kdword,—1 will not be In New York
Satdary to make tbe match. Volk dont wont me
to go; he Bed he kood hanle ovry thing as well
without me. dont you leve hem make It a sent
less than fifteen hunderd a si lo. Ed, try and make
it for the last weak In September, you dont need
to be a f rad of me If you are not In condition. 1
will do eoy tblug you ask me lo do to mak you
wen the race, be shur and make it as sun as
posebl, for I wood like to row Gaudaur after I row
you. be shur and make It sun. I remain Your
Friend, John Tekmer If tbia Is all rite drop me
a fu lines; be at the offls 1 pm Sat.” Teemer
claims that ho wrote the above letters knowing
that Hanlan would not row unless he (Teemer)
c iBSented to make It right for the Canadian to win.
A N.Y. paper gives the following account of the
race:—“Teemer weighed 1691b.. Hanlan 1561b Both
men used cedar shell*. Hanlan’sls31fr.long,l(%in.
beam and weighed 37ib. Ho used Donohue sculls
and Davis rowlock and seat. Teemor’s shell Is
30ft. 9in. long, lllu. wide, and weighed 29 b. He
used leg-of-mutton sculls and Inclined si de to his
Beat. Shortly after 4 o’clock Referee Ormond
called the men to the starting point. At 4 50
o clock the men were started. Teemer had won
the tots for position, and chose the inside course.
At the word ‘ go ’ they drove their sculls into tbe
watsr, and when the str ike was finished Haitian's
bow-tip was In front The pace from the start
was terrific, Teemer rowed Hanlau’s own race,
sprinting from the start. He rowed 32 strokes to
tbe minute, and pulled his blades clear through
with a dash. Hanlan rowed In his well-known
style, and bent his back at every stroke. The
Pittsburger seaured the lead after the first dozen
strokes, and would not let Hanlan go In front.
Spurt was answered by spurt, and at tbe half-mile
point Teemer was leading by a length. At the
mile Teemer had a length and a half lead. Teemer
turned the mile and a half buoy about three
lengths in advance of the Toronto sculler, and his
backers cheered loudly. The utmost excitement
prevailed, and it became apparent that Hanlan
was overmatched and outrowed. When Hanlan
reached his stakeboat he fouled It with his sculls,
and then gave up the race, Teemer being left to
finish it alone. The Plttsburger made the three
miles In 21min. llsec., good time, considering the
current and the easy manner in which he rowed
the last mile and a half. After the race Hanlan
claimed that he might have won had he not fouled
the stake. John Teemer is the fifth oarsman
Pittsburg and its suburbs have furnished who has
won the single scull championship of America
during the past 23 years. James Hamillwasthe
first, Henry Coulter the second, Evan Morris was
the third, William Scharfl the fourth, and Teemer
the fifth.”
• • •
The P.F. Newsletter remarks that “ re-
ports from the Australian papers show distinctly
tbat Miller, Dlnnle, and Whistler [A
£500 000.000 libel Is here excised by order of tne
editor.]
a ★ •
A N.Y. paper, with a great flourish of
trumpets, announces the projected return of
Richard Mathews to the States, “after winning
11 battles in Australis.” This is scarcely correct,
as Mathews’ slaughterings, so far, have been con-
fined to half-trained outsiders in New Zealand.
< et Mathews come over and "put through”
Foley, Newton, Jackson, or a few others we could
name, and we are quite willing lor him to take
the reputation across the Herring Pond with him,
but so far he has not beaten any but the veriest
novices. Mathews says upon his arrival in tbe
States, he will box any man they can raise bar
Sullivan. Bah! We can find an amateur a stone
or more under his weight who will give him all he
can take.
« * •
We notice a controversy now going on
in the Melbourne Sportsman as to the respective
qualifications of ** Black Perry ” and Bob M’Laren.
Perry was a magnificent specimen of humanity—a
mass of brawn and muscle. The "yarn” goes that
Perry wb b the best man England could produce,
and tbat to prevent a black gaining the champion-
ship a “ plant” was put upon him, and transporta-
tion ensued. Whether he was the best man in
England we cannot say, but certain it Is we never
bad a man in Australia who could live with him.
When shaping. Perry would crouch low, making
the most awful grimaces and keeping well away
from bis man. Then, like a tiger, he would bound
forward, striking as he rose, and we have heard
“ old-timers ” declare that the punishment be
inflicted was appalling to beheld. Our cham-
pion amateur also springs as he strikes, but
he stands remarkably erect, and makes the
most of his 5ft Sin. The amateur In question
is a great punisher, and. standing as ha does, with
his awkward position, right foot foremost, we
believe him to be a match for anything In * us-
tralia, at his weight, be he amateur or prof tonal.
To return to Perry, a story is told that when the
black wss at Cockatoo at;one time, one of the offi-
cers on the island wishing to eeo some fun, in-
vited a well-known Sydney pugilist to go lo “ the
Island,” and have a quiet set-to with a “fellow
who rather fancied blms If ” The Sydney man
consented, and when the boat was putting off
from the Quay.be asked the officer who the man
was Upon bearing It was Black Parry, the fellow
didn't wait to hear any more, but Jumped over-
board and swam for shore. Ho had been
slaughtered by Perry before.
• • »
Michael Angelo Nathan, in reply to hi<
Christian namesake Dooley, has given forth that
he has retired from the boxing arena on account
of “ bad hands.” Leaving out the question of bad
bands, either Dooley must be a poor boxer, or
Nathan must’be a remarkably good one for the
pair to come together with any show of a good
contest, when tbe disparity in size Is taken into
consideration. Nathan’s hands are knocked about
a good deal, without a doubt, and we cannot blame
him for declining to again box When a man’s
bands are in that state, tbe punisher suffers as
much, if not more, than the Receiver-General.
• 9 m
A correspondent writes us that John
Douglas Young has still another dark ’un in hand:
—“ Sixteen minuter, a'holp me—’gainst a black
north-easter and a floed-tlde.” Our correspondent
gives a fictitious name—not so mueb ss an evi-
dence of good faith—so that J.fi Y.Jwcn t hick him
as high as tbe Joint Stock Bank cherub.
• • •
Tbe compilers of the “Ttsmanian Year
Book” have been the victims of a cruel hoax.
Some heartless joker sent them in a list of tbe
boats owned by members of the Launceston
Yacht Club, and addtd thereto several Insglnary
vessels named after tbe abodes of various local
females of much beauty and gaiety of life. The
editors of the ’’Year Book” did not “drop,” so
the world Is authoritatively Informed that the
Shutters (XXX flag). Iron Tank, Spoondredge,
Roaring Gimlet, and Soapstlok (liag, Brown Wind-
sor) are in the Launceston fleet. It is not safe to
1 ask one of those compilers for Information about
yachting now.
♦ * * S '
The published list of likely members of
the next Australian Eleven has provoked wither-
ing sarcasm from some of tbe fallen idols who
haven’t been Invited to join; but in Melbourne, at
any rate, public sympathy leans towards the
young’uns. Tbe last thing tbe ‘old identities’
chose to remember is that for some years they
played more cricket continuously, and played it
more together, than any other men that ever
I'ved. What they called phenomenal ability, other
people are irreverent enough to call practice.
Shaw’s team individually showed splendid form
all through the last English season, because they
had been batting and bowling in Australia while
their brother craftsmen at home were attending
to other business. Murdoch’s men bossed things
over here because they had the run of two
countries, just in the same way. It’s time the
rising generation bad a chance of showing what
they can make of similar opportunities.
* * *
Pedestrians have found their champion in
an old ’un of 65. This antiquated athlete, one
Spencer, has done a walk, la London, of 6000 miles
In 110 days, beating thus the vaunted performance
of Weston on the teetotal tack. Spencer is not a
teetotaller. He now issues a challenge to walk
anyone 3000 miles for £100 a side (eight-pence a
mile!) and adds to his advertisement that “a tee-
totaller will be preferred.”
♦ • *
The Intercolonial University match duly
eventuated on Friday, Saturday, and Monday last,
and resulted la an easy victory for the Mel-
bournians by an Innings and 144 runs to spare.
Sydney were put out in their first innings for 83,
when Melbourne ran together 352. Rain on Satur-
day and Sunday spoilt any little chance the Sydneys
may have had, and they wore all disposed of for a
total of 126.
• ♦ *
What a jockey can do bv keeping “ at it ”
was shown In the Harvest Handicap at Moonee
Valley (Vie.) In this event William Tell was con-
ceding 13 pounds to Muscat, and evidently had the
race in hand as they came down the straight.
The boy eased William Tell too soon, and young
Sanders, seeing a faint chance, brought up Muscat
with a rush and snatched a head victory on the
post. That this race was fairly pulled out of the
fire was proved when <he same pair met again in
the lest event of the day. Muscat certainly had
to put up an extra seven pounds for his lucky
victory, but for all the chance the horse possessed
the penalty might have, been dispensed with.
WUJlan Teh, with Robertson in the saddle, won in
a common canter.
• * *
Yet another illustration of the eccentri-
city of brokers wss furnished in the race won by
Gratitude at thr last Moonre Valley (Vic.) meet-
*ng. Mr. Tot hill’s mare, with the nice weight of
8-t lib. on hf r four-year old buck, started at 3to 1 in
h field of nine horses, altogether below her class.
Vet each of the other eight was backed, the
highest price laid hi ing 10 to 1. Of course Grati-
tude won easily, as, In fair health and condition, the
mare was bound to do. She was as good an even
money chance as over started for a race.
• * •
There Is a good deal of “fishiness” about
selling-races ail the world over, but for trans-
parent “ barneys” In this line the minor Victorian
meetings take the rate It Is no unusual thing
nowadays for eight or nine horses out of a field of
twelve to start absolutely unbacked. The three
or four that are quoted at a price have the race
entirely to themselves, the favourite almost In-
variably getting away with a long lead. Thatsuch
daylight robberies continue to be so openly
perpetrated Is no credit to the astuteness of those
in authority. As for the general public, they
must be either very unsuspecting or long-suffer-
ing to the last degree.
Ballade of Youthful Follieo.
At night, o’er a pipe and a glass,
’Tis solid enjoyment to sit,.
Unheeding the hours that pass.
The shadowy phantoms that flit.
When the tire and chandelier’s lit,
Shining bright on the boards where we play,
We don’t care for sorrow a whit —
But we pay for it all the next day !
In laughter each seeks to surpass,
No song or bon-mot we omit,
And a toast circles round to the lass
Whose charms we are pledged to admit.
From duties and cares we ’re acquit,
And wo drink to our idols of clay ;
Ob, we fancy “Old Time ” we outwit—
But we pay for it all the next day 1
When during the social ouirassj
We dance till the gray dawn is lit,
A man never thinks what an ass
He has made of himself. Not a bit
Does he care if his white kids are split,
That his ooat is with pearl-powder gray;
He has flirted, and p’raps be is emit—
But we pay for it all the next day I


Ask for Wolfe's Schnapps, (and take no
other.; -*<
Puck Almanac, ’86, Cl (post, 7d.). Now
ready. Illustrated torou>. hunt with »pl&ndid
Wood cuts In colours &o. liny a copy I Au book-
sellers. Alex. M Kinley and Co., (Sydney.
Wolfe's Schnapps as a tonic aud stimulan
cauuot be surpassed.
Mrs. Longshore, M.D., in a letter to a 8yd- 1
hey dally, Indignantly denies the report that has
been published that Mrs. Anna Potts, M.D . well-
known in these colonies, is a man In disguise.
Mrs. Potts, she asserts, Is an estimable woman,
with a family of children who are devotedly at-
tached to her. It's quite a pity that Mrs. Long-
shore didn’t think of letting ns know this before.
Another injustice to Ireland. Councillor
Pat Hunt, brother to Tom Hunt, M.L.A. for Kll-
more, moved at an up-country Municipal Council
meeting In Victoria, the other day, that a message
be sent to Parnell, congratulating him on the tact
that he was about to achieve Home Rule for Ire
land. The president refused to put the resolution,
and the meeting broke up in disorder. That presi-
dent will get a solid Irish vote cast in his favour
when he next seeks re-election.
All the sheep-statims about Walgett,
N.8.W., are nearly deserted In consequence of
drought. At Rioketson’s there are only two
Chinamen now employed to tend the garden. At
Wolseley’s Euroka Station there are only a few
crawlers in place of 80,000 skeep. At Wlngadoe
but 40,000 out of 200,000 sheep remain. Nowland’s
mailman had to hump the malison his back be-
tween Walgett and Goodooaa, as thsre was no
food on the track, and none to bo bought.
Daniel Hurst suicided at Ballarat on Wed-
nesday week. He was a miner, and had occasion-
ally used dynamite. Growing aweary of the
world, he placed a plug of the explosive In his
mouth and touched it off. Two seconds later his
whlte-wlnged soul was cleaving the ether, and his
head was higher than it ever was borore. Coro-
ner’s verdict:—“ Blown up, uninsured.’ This La
patent way to suicide. The inventor w.-s » Char-
ters Towers miner, who blew his own head off a
few years ago.
The Gear Meat Preserving Company of
New Zealand last week iavit a a number of
gentlemen to a banquet at which the pieces de
resistance were the productions of the Company,
moistened by the wines of the Coolalta vintage,
provided gratuitously by Mr. Wilkinson. Mr.
Wood, the representative of the Gear Company In
N S. Wales, was host on the occasion, and a very
pleasant evening was spent, the speeches being
short, and agreeably relieved by excellent vocal
and instrumental music.
The much-derided Chow possesses a super-
abundance of brothsrly love. Wee Loo, of Bal-
larat, a slant-eyed Celestial, is going home to the
Flowery Land, and intends taking the bones of his
much-lamented cousin, Yen Len, along with him.
Notwithstanding that Yen Len has been dead for
20 years, his affectionate relative has had hla re-
mains disinterred, labelled, andjplaced In a bag for
conveyance to holy China, the only place where
the late Yen Len ctn rest with the calm serenity
of a respectable corpse.
A story of the bush from Gilberton,
Queensland.—A constable and a tracker from that
place. In search of a man who had been reported
lost, found him 12 miles from the township. The
dead man was sitting against a tree, and his dog,
which was sitting between hla knees, had to be
shot by the constable before ho comd gain access
to the corpse. The omstable aud companion
searched the body, took the money from the
pockets, and buried It at the foot of the tree,
wh'ch the constable marked thus:—“ George
Harris, a native of London, perished for want of
water. Not dead, out sleepeth. By Constable
Thus. Hawley.”
On last Sunday Mr. Soo Hoo Ten, a
C'alnrst catechist, was ordained a deacon of the An-
glican Church at St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney.
The new Chinese Church at Botany Is to be placed
la r.1e change. It was him the archbishop of Can-
terbury probably had in bis eye when, a few
unontna ago, tue Is said to have given orders that
n) o doclally-ordalned clergyman would beeuf-
f red t > preach In ao English Church. Scepticism,
hla Lordship thought, was travelling on fast
enough without getfirg a helping baud. Even
the most devout chore a warden would I egln to
tlirtwith it fidelity If be saw a Chinaman in the
pulpit. The reason why Buddhists turn Christian
Is, we suppose, because “ Nirvana ” Is not hot
enough for them—they want Hell, a fact which,
from our knowledge of them, we would be the
last to deny. If It should happen that, owing to
the sermons of Mr. Soo Hoo Ten, the Mongolian
agriculturists of Botany neglect to water their
gardens oo Sunday and so raise the price of cab-
bages, the prayers of the converted Chinese will
ascend to Heaven punctuated with the blasphemy
of hashhouse-keepers.
Old Ned Atkin was charged with pooket-
ploklng at Sir Peter Scratch ley's funeral. Ned
was observed shifting about among the crowd in
a manner that admitted of but one interpretation,
and he has been remanded for a week. And yet
the old fellow might plead justification of his con-
duct. He was only too literary Interpreting the
words of the burial service: “ We brought no-
thing Into the world, neither may we carry any-
thing out.” As he fumbled around each particu-
lar coat tail, Ned probably communed with him-
self ia this wise: “ In the midst of life they are In
death, and they oughtn’t to carry anything out.’’
Religious eonvlctloDi are constantly getting men
Into hot water.
“The Casino Land Board allowed a Mr.
Poott, solicitor, 25 guineas professional costs
against a selector. Noble profession, liberal
Court If Mr. Poott's client had brought Mr
Pilcher or Mr. Barley from Sydney, probably
the Land Board would have allowed £150, but can
U legally be done? ’ So whimpers a country
contemporary. The client referred to is the
owner of a station In the vicinity of
Casino, on which, it was alleged, lady friends of
the lord of the manor selected and secured blocks
of land. In the 'Ouse the hon. gentleman was
severely siaied, and the settlement was more
prominently before the public than in its In-
land laob.uon it r«r deserved to be. We are
phased to notice this case. The land laws of the
gloiloua colony of N 8. W. are calculated to effect
the «stab Ishment of “ a thriving yeomanry on the
Boll” —or in the Insolvent Court. Between land-
sharks and land boards, lawyers, and land agents,
the free-selector has a time with which a Chowder
Bay chop-worry is a funeral feast. " It la the
law, my friend.” What funny things you see
when you haven’t got your gun.
The unprincipled meanness of the Sydney
Press is shown in the fact that not a single Journal
gava the address presented at the levde by the
Salvation Army, and this, although space was
found for the stuff sent in by the Antediluvian
Order of Buffaloes ana other societies of an equally
meretricious character. The following li a copy
of the Salvationists’ address to which Lord Caring-
ton gave a courteous and suitable reply: -•* May it
please your Lor ‘ship. We are at present so much
occupied la making life uncomfortable for the
Devil that we trust you’ll excuse this hurried
welcome. The fiend who has charge of Woolloo-
mooloo is of a singularly wide-awake character
and gives the sisters a good deal uf trouble. Toe
triangles, the drum, and the two tambourines
pursued him through Crown-street one night last
week, when he took refuge la the Steam Laundry
This Is said to he one of his favouiite haunts. A
powerful knee-dril prayer sent him howling out
the back way when he was kept In sight till he
turned into the Parliament House la Macquarie-
stroet, where It Is behoved he still lingers. Your
Lordship can always count upon us to keep a
vacant place on the penitent form for you or any
of your family who may honour us with a visit.
Signed, on behalf of the Army, Willtam (his x
mark) Rykks. and Adjutant, iatc Area-
sueak, Durand’s Alley.”
The Robertson Ministry and Its Political Godfather.
“SIR HENRY PARKE3 DECLINED TO JOIN SIR JOHN ROBERTSON IN FORMING A NEW MINISTRY, BUT PAID THAT HE WOULD BE AT ALL TIMES READY TO ASSIST
AND ADVISE SIR JOHN.”— Daily PaPEHS


If you are a business man take Wolfe’s
Schnapps occasionally to keep your mental facul-
les In Rood order.
Puck Almanac, ’80, Gd. (post, 7d.). Now
ready. Emblazoned with splendid Wood-outs In
colours. A maifoillceat recaption awarded this
Justly celebrated work. All booksellers. Alex.
» Kmley and Co., Sydney.
So numerous have been their customers
that non-delivery of Roods when promised may
have disappointed some, but Bray Brothers nut
the kindly consideration of these, and the accept-
ance of their apology for what was unavoidable.
Glass and Crockery Establishments, 403 and 404
Georg e-street *
Here is Summer upon us, causing a mighty
thirst. Don’t fell to obtain your supply of Lemon-
ade, Seitz ?r. Sod". Water, Ginger Ale, Tonic Pote«
and Llthla Water (for Gout), of Dalin and Oertel
Aerated Water and Cordial Manufacturers, 403 Pltt-
street. Delivered regularly In town and suburbs *
A Terrible Cooah Cured— “ In 1867 I
took a severe cold, which affected my lungs I had
a terrible cough and passed night after night
without bIggp. 1 ho doctors g&vo uie up. I tried
Ayer s Cherry Pectoral, which relieved mv
lungs, Induced sleep, and afforded me the rest
necessary for the recovery of my strength Bv
the continued use of the Pectoral a permanent
cure was effected. I am now C3yearsold, hale and
hearty, and am satisfied your Cherry Pectoral saved
me ,P9£, A0E Faibbrotuer. Rockingham, Vt
July lo, 1883. ’ *
Advise your friends to drink Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Mb. Ds Con hot Brown* (late Deputy-
Chairman of the fining Board of New South
Wales). Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book”
"Mining Leasohoiders’ Guido,” and “Mnnualof
MincnUs, Mining Expert, Arbitrator, Adviser,
and Mining Titles Agent, Beresford Chambers,
63 Castlpreagh-street, Sydney.* *
Puck Almanac, ’86, 6d. (post, 7d ). Now
ready *u_’ >' u " r
Wood-
sellers.
Woman Items
Large buttons on ladies’ jackets are
growing larger. Saucers are fashionable to-
day—soup-plates will be worn to-morrow.
“ Frock before wicket ” is the term now
used In England when girls play cricket. The
other phrase might be considered rude, you
know.
“ Did you notice, Baron, my servant-maic
wears a diamond ring ? What do you think ot
that?’ “Well, if the ring Is true, the woman Is
fa.ae; If the ring Is false, the woman Is true.”
Bishop Barry is converting the Chinese.
One Hoo Hoo Ten, of Sydney, is now a deacon ol
the Church of England. Son Hoo Ten's country-
men will now, we suppose, abandon the barbarous
Chinese custom of buying their wives at auction.
They wilt learn to buy them at private sale, as Is
done In the Primate’s country.
A young mother was giving the child of
hrr bosom a touching description of the misery
into which the Prodigal Son had fallen: “ Far, far
away from home and his kind father and mother,
obliged to take care of the swine, and with nothing
to eat but the husks left by them, friendless and
hungry ” “ Why didn't he eat the pigs ?”
LOO-ED.
My latest love was a lass named Loo,
I thought how true, and I thought she’d do
To wed;
Sho was faithful, till a city dude
Trumped her heart, on suit, and I was Looed;
I've lost my Loo: she sings, " Dude’ll do
Instead!”
One night at a ball in New York a certain
Hdy appeared In a dress exposing her charms
without reserve—charms, hy the way. which were
of a lean and meagre description. Howard Paul
said In the hearing of Josh Billings: “ I wonder a
woman so bony can attire herself in that cUcclleti
manner.” “ She does It to protect her virtue,”
quickly replied Josh, with quaint malice In his
tone of voice.
Some ladies have reached a stage where
they never go out without a bit of chamois skin
covered with powder, which they deftly conceal
In their hand kerchiefs. The lady who carefully
wipes her face with her h ndkerchlef in a public
place will dofli unnoticed by 9!» out of every 100
men, but nea/ly every woman will observe the
ruse. There are no secrets of the toilet which one
woman cm hide from another.
When the whale was on show up at Pialba
in Queensland, a few weeks ago. it is said that
several young ladles of the district took quite a
fancy to visiting it two or three times a day. The
Journfy Involved being carried across Eli Creek In
iho arms of some stalwart acquaintance. The
amateur naturalists are nearly all engaged now.
The other young ladles of the district want to
know whoa the next whale win be on show.
The Bishop of London has written a letter
on the ethics of stage-dancing. He condemns the
ballet because It loads young spectators—especially
yourgmen—’Into most disastrous sins of the Im-
agination.” One eaper Irroveremly calls this
“ Pocksmffery In Excelsis.” Another paper re-
buk mthe Hlshon, on hehalfof t.ne baiK-t-ghl < for
wearing tight breeches amt short coat-tails. That
clerical habit Is dl8 B:roas to the feminine Imag-
ination.
Queen Victoria allowed Batteuberg and
Beatrice to belabours together ere she obtruded
herself upon their honeymooning. Waldemar and
Marie of Orleans—she wore no crlnolette at her
wedding, and she took a bulldog with heron her
wedding trip—who were married the other day,
were only man and wife 24 hours when they wei-o
visited by the bride's mother, the Queen of Den-
mark. The mother-in-law Is becoming more
aggressive.
The “ Captain” of the New Jersy (U.8.)
Salvation Army, having exceeded the niggardly
allowance of husbands which an austere criminal
code allows, she was called upon to explain her
connubial profuaeness. During the course of her
examination by a nasty inquisitive barrister, she
alriiy informed toe Court that she had joined the
Harmy because she ” was a good tambourine-
player and likea that s- rt of life.” Her piety did
not prevent a remorseless judge from “ sending
her up.”
Things are not all explained to us yet—
there are many matters we don’t understand.
Women are never Inventors. Their names are
never seen among the list of patentees, t hey
never write operas either, though they are always
t work upon the piano. They keep their hands
off other things, too, though they evidently would
not do so if they could help It. They can’t write
epic poems, and they can’t produce a drama that
will hold the stage for a hundr.d nights’ run or
live for a revival alter Its first production—and
damnation.
He had made up his mind to marry the
girl. And be choked off be wouldn’t. It was on
Monday, and ho was to be married on Thursday,
and he met an old friend who determined to do
his best in as brutal a manner as he oould think of.
“ So you are going to be married on Thursday ? ”
‘‘Tam.” “And do you think that girl will make
you a good wife?” “Ido.” Well, perhaps she
will. Old Doddington thinks so too. and he loves
her.” Wrath, rage, despalr-not a bit of it; only
the quiet reply; “ Well, ho musn’t love her after
next Thursday.”
A marriage between Mr. Downes and a
Miss Amiel is announced la the Melbourne Aan.
Let us give them a send-off: —
Boycotting liaa developed quit© a new
phase In Waterford county. A certain Mick
Hickey made himself unpopular la that region.
Very unpopular. Although he la a dashing young
bachelor, tno girls of Waterford, Tipperary and
Kilkenny, have resolved •• to treat with scorn and
contempt any matrimonial proposals from Michael
Hickey.” As Mick la presumably a marrying man
this resolution will upset him just at first, but la
time he may become reconciled to his fate
Married pals will whisper words of consolation,
and Mick will come to regard this conjugal boy-
cott as a very negative sort of evil.
Under the beading “Another Grievance
for Quid Ireland,” the following appears in the
current number of the Australasian Medic al
Gazette.— “Sir,-I think the following authentic
case well worth recording. I can vouch for Its
truth, as It was told me by the wife her-
self who Is now one of my patients. P.C, an
Irishman, married a woman by whom he had
twins. She died after their birth. He married a
second time. The second wife had twins six times
successively, and then died He married the third
time, my patient, by whom he had firstly a
daughter, secondly, twins prematurely born, and
thirdly, twins. So that in ten confinements, this
truly prolific father had 19 children born to him—
a record scarcely to be surpassed. I am, sir, yours.
&o., Charles E. Gray, B.A., M.D., Horsham Hospi-
tal, Victoria, November 18,1885.”
Following English example, the Victorian
Parliament Is discussing a "Protection of Women
Bill.” One legislator (Mr. Melville) proposes the
addition of a curious clause. It is that any girl
under 16, who has been “ deceived and dis-
honoured,” shall be at liberty to take a leaf out of
the law now exlsticg as to the bills of sale. The
registration of one of these documents may be
stoop'd by a caveat entered by any one having
claims upon the giver of the bill of sale. The like
is what Mr. Melville proposes shall be done by the
girl, the is to bo at liberty to enter a caveat
against bis committing matrimony with anyone un-
til her claims on him are satisfied. It is quite evi-
dent that such a caveat could not be sufficiently
notified to be of any practical use.
The refusal, by the Returning-oflicer, of
Miss Helen Taylor’s nomination at the Southwark
election, Is variously viewed. By many it is re-
garded as a blunder on her part and that of her
Woman’s Bights’ party. As nothing succeeds like
success, so nothing injures a cause so much as
failure Imprudently brought about. A London
leading journal rakes up Otway’s drama* to show
the opinion on woman's political rights In his long-
byvono day. Old Otway Is prettv loud about It
In his play of the “Two Orphans,” thus:—
“ What mighty Ills have not been done by woman 1
w ho waa’t betrayed the C ipltol ? A woman I
vvho lost Marc Antony the world ? A woman I
Who was the cause of a long 10 years'Iwar,
And laid at last old Troy In ashes ? Woman 1
Destructive, damnable, dec;itful woman.”
A Dr. Witbington has tabulated 108 oases
of consanguineous marriage collected from
various sources. In 86 Instances the relationship
was that of first cousins. He bas classed as healthy
only those individuals who appeared to be free
from any congenital defect or disease, and who
had an average deuree of Intelligence and physical
strength. He finds that 312 children out of a total
of 413, the direct offspring of consanguineous
marriages, were healthy. Of the unhealthy por-
tion, 12 were deaf mutes, 13 idiots, 7 Insane, 15
died of onmmptlon, 16 died In infancy, 8 were of
dellolent Intelligence, and there were such defects
as myopia, blindness, &o., In others. Only one
case of polydactyllstn was observed. There was
an average of five children per marriage. This Is
valuable evidence for tlrst cousins who are fond
of each other.
It was in Cooktowo. She was a maiden
fair with flaxen hair. In her Northern home she
was called the Queen of Beauty, One day lately
she sallied out covered with the best things In her
bandbox, and rushed for the train. It had gone.
Now was the moment for chivalry to shine. Elo-
quently the tropical paper describes the enthu-
slasm of baohelordom. Two gallants advanced
with a wheelbarro w. Dulcet Dulclnea was deli-
cately lifted in, and the push began. But the
junction was four miles ahead, and the road as
hot as If It led straight Into the gates of Sheol.
Dulclnea sighed for a sip. The dripping swains
rolled her up to a pub. Then the realistic Journal-
Mtam; “One amorous youth returned with an
artistically-painted eye, while ithe other, with a
peeled nose, led the blushing Queen of Beauty to
the hymeneal altar.” Such la courtship in the
land where the alligator flaps his wings and the
crocodile crows.
The “ Armstrong abduction case ” fills up
much ef the English papers received by last mall.
It furnishes one good item in a model of a child’s
letter to its parents. Little Eliza Armstrong,
aged 13, writes thus to her mother:—“ I live a long
way In France. I is very happy. I is in a very
good place In the country. I hope I shall come
and see you very soon. I Is a very good girl. I
hope you are not fretting about me, because I is
all right. 1 am not along with the lady 1 eame
with. She left me at a place, and she is a long time
fetching me again. I go to a meeting every night,
and hear them speak about God. I has good food
to eat, and all I want.
“ As I lie down on my bed
Some little thoughts came in my head;
I thought of one, 1 thought of two,
But first of all I thought of you.
A hundred kisses when we meet.”
The Woman’s Rights party have started a
weekly Journal in London, the Women's suf-
frage Journal. In It are chronicled the names
of the Parliamentary candidates favourable to
their cause, for whom, only, electors ere asked to
vote. The movement brings up fresh matter If
opposition. One paper quotes some alleging lines
by Sir Henry Taylor. Tney are from his dramatic
goem of Philip van Artevelde, a work by which
e is known as much as was “Single-speech
Hamilton ” by his “ first and only ” effort,—
“ A woman’s heaven Is vanity,and that Is overall;
What's giddiest ever pleases most her eyes.
What's noisiest has best entrance to her ears.
The clang and pomp of arms delight her most;
Wit, too, and wisdom, when admired of others.
She can admire. The glory, not the thirg.
An unrefleoted light never did yet
Dazzle the vision-female.”
The Southern marriage market is looking
up agala—to cheer the spirits of Dr. Balls Headley
and Mr. Hayter. Both of these pessimisms looked
dolefully upon the chances of Victorian maidens
—matrimonially viewed. The apathy of rich
squatters’ sons is now pesiing away, and they are
‘ selecting'’ for themselves-, and In a way as little
pleasing to their old folks as were the “ selections”
made awhile back upon their fathers’ runs. It
was but the other day that the wealthy eldest son
of a recently deceased wool king married a Hebrew
maiden, daughter of asuburban publican’s widow.
Another publican's daughter, whose mother Is
also a widow, has also been lately promoted in
marriage with the eldest son of a squatting mag
nate. It Is pleasing, bo doubt, to the Victorian
Registrar-General to see young men thusfu'flll-
log the duties expected of them. Terence, as
quoted by Horace, Insisted that love, having
neither reason or Judgment, could not be treated
by counsel and argument—a truth which parents
are often apt to forget, but which we may now
quote for their comfort.
A facetious writer in a Melbourne paper
says that “ going to Tasmania to get married Is the
latest. It Is thought that If love can stand the
test of sea-sickness It will last for ever.” It Is our
opinion, based on much experience, that love
pan stand more than this. The love of a husband
w never really lost by his wife till the first quarrel
arises as to who shall get up and take In the milk,
and he loses, and the love of a wife for her hus-
band remains constant and unwavering till he be-
gins to plane his loose change when he comes home
late from the lodge, instead of leaving It in his
trousers pockets for her to embezzle in the grey
of the morning when he is wrapped in the deep,
dense slumber that comes of whisky. But speak-
ing of going to Tasmania to get married, we
wonder that the Legislature of the little island
does not put a stop to the practice. It is an,in-
sult to the colony, W hat would be said to a man
who would buy cheese up at Litbgow and eat it at
Bodalia or potatoes at to batten upon
at Warraambool ? He would probably be tarred
and feathered. Bridts are distinct products of
Tasmania, as potatoes are of Warrnambool or
cheese of Bodalia. Every bride brought there
from another colony should be poll-taxed in the
interests of the local article. This is true Pro-
tection.
»t Evening News advertisement:—
Don’t forget. Come next week, darling. Sun-
shine gone; you come again; don't disappoint; do
come.—Lxxxxa.” This will be about-
Vanity Fair siys“Osoar Wilde is now
at work on a reform of ladles’ nlght-dresasa. The
present night-dri sses, he says, are unbecoming —
the colour, material, and shape must be altered,
soft silks of an ar latlc shade to suit the com-
plexion of trie wearer are advocated, and dlreo-
tlons are forthwith to be issued regarding the cut
and trimmings. I had heard of ladles sleeping In
black satin sheets because that was supposed to
enhance toe biilllancy of the complexion; but
even they dated not interfere with the time-
honoured custom of a white bad-gown. A spirit
of progress and change Is passing over the land,
however, and wo may soon expect to read the
meat high flown accounts of the bewitohlngfleep-
Ing costumes prepared for my Lady Beauty’s
trousseau.” Says another paper:—“The Apostle
of the Beautiful is behindhand for oncei We
have a distinct recollection of a sly peep at a
lady a trousseau that was afforded usV Among
other generally unmentionable articles of beauty
were two robes de nuit for use during the honey-
moon. The splendour of them dazzled us. One
was of soft pale-blue silk, trimmed with masses of
Valenciennes edging. The other was of palo-plnk
sllk-as beautiful as a maiden's blush-trimmed
similarly to Its fellow. The cost, we were told,
was twelve guineas the pair. Then we left. We
ought to have mentioned that we were shown at
the same time the night garments designed for
the bridegroom. They were cut according to the
usual pattern, so far as we noticed, but the fabric
waa the finest cream-coloured Indian silk. The
cuffs were elaborately stitched, so too was the
front; and some chaste things In the way of pearl
buttons appeared down “ oast. Dives, with
hii purple and flue linen, ni Solomon, in all
am glory, was not arrayed like these newly-
cuarried Sybarites.”
• • o
Mies Prideaux, recently appointed house-
surgeon to the Paddington-green Children’s Hos-
pital, is the first lady who has held aiioh a post In
London. She was successful over 19 male candi-
dates t nr , th . G P 08 ’'* a “Bachelor” of Medicine,
and "Bachelor ’ of Surgery of London University.
A PRECISE STATEMENT.
NERVOUS OLD LADY: “JOHN, YOU’RE DRUNK I”
THE NEW COACHMAN: “NO ’M ! BURRIWILLBE I WAl’ T’L I GBRRAT THEM
D'CANTERS ’F YOURS—SHEE A HOWLIN’ CYCLONE I ”
JOHN'S REPLY.
I don t forget, Louisa, dear,
My life with you for many a year,
Nor doubt but that your sunshine’s gone
Now you have lost your darling John.
Is pose the Hit-Iron's rusty-red
For Jack of friction on my head;
And that your soul is full of gloom
Now you can t club me with the broom.
•)h, yes, 111 come again, you bet—
111 come agaia-but not just yeti
I miss the dear old welcome home
Snapped at the door, “And so you've cimol”
I miss the usual old salute
Flung at me with the heaviest boot;
I miss ihe »cearas, the supper cold,
Also Ihe everlasting scold.
I’ll come again, you may depend,
And bring tbesunshine without end;
And, marm the day In letter red— •
The day 1 hear that you are dead I
EYES RIGHT.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Some men have luck In marriage, but
Few, Mr. Downes, such Juck as you—
You pulled otf In the lottery
A woman-and an Angel, too.
And you, the late Miss Angel, Hat I —
However fickle Fortune frowns,
Keep cheerful, ana remember this —
L ie has its Ups as well as Downes.
When Adam and Eve were created
They knew not the language of sound.
But they gazed on each other elated.
And a substitute soeedlly found
For the prompting ecstatic desires,
The rapturous language that flies.
The aparka from the love-lighted fires
That gleam from reciprocal eyes.
It was after the blissful fruition.
Whilst taking a vesperoal walk,
That Eye caught the taint of perdition
From hearing hia sorpentship talk ;
And so did the silly proceeding
On which man’s whole destiny hung
Begin-see the Biblical reading—
With the use and abuse of tbe tongue.
Had Eve but looked stralghtly at Lucif-
Kr s optici. the father of lies
Had been lolled in his discourse delusive
lor he could not deceive with his eyes;
But great things hang by little pendants.
And one grows half crazy to think
How wel! twould have served her descendants
Had she answered old Nick with a wink.
And so down the tide of creation
The language of love has no sound.
Excepting that called osculation.
Or when the heait-beatlngs resound.
The tongue with Its honied mutations
May entangle, entice, or deceive.
But the language that peoples the nations
Is the mute talk of Adam and Ev«.
ENTERPRISE IN THE DRAPERY BUSINESS.
FAIR WIDOW: “BUT DOES IT FADE?”
MR. SILKENSTEIN: “VELL, YES ’M, TO DELL YOU DER TROOT, IT FATES A LEEDLE
-BUT IT 8HOOST GOES OFF INTO A LOFLY VIOLET AEFTER SIX MONTS OR
SO—SHOOSTS LETS YOU DOWN MIT YOUR MOURNING EASY UND NATURAL.


GQMPAGNONI CATERING CO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 9 9
THE oldest and leading Catering Establishment In N.S.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mayor,
Municipal Council of Sydney, the A.J.O-, City Club, &o., Ac.
The Dining Saloons for Ladies and Gentlemen are the Firmer, Coollest, and loftiest in the colony.
FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY. Private Bar-Good Wine List.
KT GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. (after the
Theatres. Select your own steak, Ac., and see it grilled in the room. This is one of the acquisitions
oi the city, and a long-felt want. Inspection invited. Club rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Clue
and City Club, upstairs. K» D. TOLLEMACHE, General Hanscer.
WILLIAM BALL,
THE "PROFESSIONAL” AND PHARMACEU-
TICAL CHEMIST.
61 BOURKK-STREET EAST, MELBOURNE.
THE Toilet and Theatrical Requisites, manu-
factured by W. Ball, are composed of the
purest ingredients, and are guaranteed not to
cause the least injury to the most delicate shin.
There are few ladies now, either in private life
or of the Theatrical Profession, who do not look
upon the
BLOOM OF PEACHES
(REGISTERED)
as the one article that is perfectly safe and satis-
factory to use either for the
THEATRE, BALLROOM, OR PROMENADE.
Our.Cupids Manufacturing Bloom of Peaches
"Dear Sir,—I consider your ‘make-up' perfect,
and should never think of using anything else
while it is possible to obtain it.—Yours truly,
Ed. Farley.”
The following ladies and gentlemen have also
written, speaking in the highest terms of theee
Toilet Requisites Mesdames Louise Pomeroy,
Alice Deorwyise, Myra Kemble, Eva Davenport,
Roland Watt Phillips, etc., etc.; Messieurs George
Tltheradge, George ttignold, Sheridan, Henry
Hodgson, w. J. Holloway, Fred. Marshall,.
Barley, Frank Cates, etc.
i.To be obtained of all Chemists.
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
Wholesale Agents, N.S.W.;
Messrs. PROSSER & CO., Sydney.
Brian
m i
MARSHAM *RRC:
DENTISTS
133 ELI Z A BETH $T
W. I. Pill SCO
LIMITED,
356 Goorge-streetp
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
FZA.NOS, OBOANB
and
MUSIC
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EAST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W.H. PALING & Co.
3BG fieorge-Btrect, Sydney.
JJOLLOWAY’S PILLS.
A nevf r-falling rtmedy in all Derangements of
the LIVERsnd STOMACH, they maybe used with
peifeet confidence by young and old.
Their world-wide fame for the last fifty years Is
a guarsntee of their efficacy. Thousands of testi-
monials, from princes to peasant 0 , attest their
marvellous virtues.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxfobd-st., London
Pui chasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pols. If the addn es is not 533 Oxford-
street, London, they are spurious.
}£lse. tf jfetssier?
n
rf
1 p
WJ v*
m
a •
r-rt
r f
r<»-
\\f LLLIAM BULLARD has the Largest BtocS
VY of MUSIC In the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, Ac.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, Ac.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, In variety.
New catalogues can be had gratis on applica-
tion.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, Ac., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed. Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 Upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums. Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, Ac.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Christmas and other Seasons' Cards, splendid stock,
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most Important Copying
Instruments over invented. The Trypograpb
takes off 8000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLI AMI ~BULLARD,
M2 GEORGE STREET.
UMBR
LLAS
R££0VgBEd.
«V)GTUDI jroonomt
KveyourU mbrella Framet
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
fil George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumer. Repairs neatly axe
«ite/|
MADAME VAILLANT, Parlslenne Dress-
maker, has the honor to notify that she
has left Messrs. Buckley and Nunn's, end started
a flrat-oiass Dressmaking, Corset, and Mantle-
making Establishment with Madame Ilise nt
138 Coll ins-street £a£f,-Melbourne.
BULL DOQ ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
rriHE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thlrst-
I quenching properties of this worid-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given »t
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage In the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALB, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTBLL A CO.,
Sole Agents.
PRANG'S
CHRISTMAS CARDS
AND
CHRISTMAS SATIN ART PRINTS.
ALL STATIONERS.
Sole Agents, ROBERT JOLLEY & CO.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
S
Th R* THOM.
1 9 may be consulted on
Nervous Debility, Skin and Contagious Affections.
Medical Establishment, 203, Elizabeth-street,
near Bathurst-street.
Hours: 9 till 10 daily.
Dr. Thomas is the only medical man advertising
In Australia who has passed the degrees of an Eng-
lish Physician and Surgeon. Examinations passed
—Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians,
London, 1864; Member of the Royal College of
Surgeons, London, 1869.
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
mnmo.
27 YORK STREET,
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
[EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
LOWEST PRICES.
Mumu
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
i» i"V tvvv v SS
SYDNEY.
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOR CITY OR COUNTRY USE.
EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEED.
BEST IN
THE WORLD
I
i
LOWEST
I FI PRICE
OFFICE-31 LOMBARD ST. LONDON^]
FROM C TO 1000 HORSE POWER,
SCOTIAN -HORIZONTAL ENGINES, f&SMBSSgSg- 0
“ALBION” UONSSTROKE HORIZONTAL ENSINES.
"climax” Vertical engines s boilers.
/“CLIMAX” PORTABLE-HOISTING ENGINES.
"BRITON’TIORIZONTAL COMPOUND LAUNCH ENGINES.
INVERTED COMPOUND MARINE ENGINES.
, - ' PORTABLE STEAM CRANES.
CORNISH. g MARINE BOILERS.
I
MlHHftll
0
i 11 tea
ill
MT t .■ ,
M
V
~ry
'Albion 9 Longstroke Horizontal Engine.
■■
LARGE STOCKS:FORFULL PARTICULARS AND’PWCE'S APPLY VO .
0.& W.ROBERTSON.SYONEY. SOIE AGENTS •o-AIEW SOUTH WALES
J.W.SUTTON & CO; BRISBANE SOLE< ? QUEENSLAND T
ROBISON BROS,& CO, MELBOURNE, SOLE AGENTS '••VICTORIA'


F D
BH12EJEJS SHOWROOMS.
iSjSL4J3L3f, NifWTON, and LAMB,
O'Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
HALL FDBN1T USB, HATSTANDS,
chairs, large assortment.
Mi
F URNITURB, CENTRE and STDB
. tables bookcases, secretaires,
JtaADING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
DBAWINS.R° om SUITES, In EXQUISITE
taste, tb® very latest fashion 5 well worthy of
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OABINET8 for Choice China, &o.
YEEY ELEGANT, just received, Bradley,
wewton, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
™oma. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
gad LAMB, Spring and O’Connoll streets, Sydney,
I7\ I GET-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
JJ Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
The lot for «8. BRADLEY
NI.Wj. Oin, and LAMi=, O’Connell-streftt.
BDEOOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
piate-glass door; WASKSTAND, with marble top
and tile bach and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
With wring glass attached; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 3 CANK SEAT dHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, aud LAMB.
FURN1T URE.—Pine Tables, from 10a.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 20a.; Kitchen
iireascra, from 37s. 6d.; Wash stands from 13s. 8d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 4Cs.; Wardrobes, from 80s ;
ChiffonlGra, from 80s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3 lOe.j Clothes Horses, from 10a. Od.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from ROa. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
s
-I*!.
PIAJSOFutlTE, guaranteed sound
aad durable, Trichord full
Compaq Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, In handsome
Case. Free at nil or wharves for cash only.
Uradi©y, Newton, and
Ac ASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
•*-f rooms. New designs covered to order In any
material.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRd, elegant and restful,
a speciality. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
uconneli-street.
DRAWINILROOM'cABINETS.- Early English,
Anglo-Japanese, and Chlnnendaio designs.
Just opened, BRADLEY. NEWTON. & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring & O’Connell sts.
if FURNITURE.-The latest
of fashion. ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exqusita examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
IHLEGANT NOVELTIES in BEDROOM FCR-
'J NITDKE. full suites, in SATINWOOD, ROSE-
wo JD, and ether CHOICE WOODS, richly Inlaid.
Will well ropay inspection
BRADLEY, NEWTON, ai
and LAMB, O’Connell-st.
| jlOLDING-SCREBNS (3 and 4 fold) for the Draw-
JU ing and Dining Rooms and Office. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
O.ARDEN SEATS, 30a; Verandah Chairs,
jbf INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-stroet.
RATTAnTeraNDAH LOUNGES, 20s.; and
large variety of Caairs, &o.; special designs,
extra quality. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring & O’Connell sts.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
SOME STANDS, for (dubs, restaurant#,
smoting rooms, &e.
SELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented.
- i
rhl? chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
th-7 occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It Is superior
to anything yet Invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-ehoro, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames arc of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four Inches in thickness
When t( mod. Price 30g. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LA W B (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
2s. fid, extra.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES
Chairs, Stools, Disks, &c. Bradley, Newton
and Lamb.
I
C
RUN 8 A F ti 8, various sizes. BRADLEY.
NEW TON, and I AMB, Spring & O’Connell sts.
OPTING PRESSES. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
WA LLmTkRORS and BRACKETS—Novelties
in plush and velvets and in all woods.
from 5/6
TTT1 LtGANT VENETIAN MIRRORS.
sui enamelled in colours. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
JMModB CHAIRS; BIDETS, with PAN*
Stiaving Stands. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb
C
JAPA NESK BLINDS (extra quality), fitted with
rulloys and cords, 6x8, 9/6; 8x8,11/-; 9x8.
13/-; 10 x 8.14/-; 13 x 8, 16/6; 13 x 10. 30/-.
BRAoLay. NEWTON, and LAMB.
IcE CHESTS, with CUPBOARDsTaUsizes, from
27s Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Spring and
O’Couuell btreets.
UKNITUHE-THK LARGEST 81 OCKIFthE
. COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON. & LAMB,
Bprxng.and O Connell streets.
Puck Almanac, ’8(J, Od. (post, 7d.). Now
ready. Kmblazoiied with splendid Wood-cuts in
colours. A magnificent reception awarded this
justly celebrated work. All booksellers, Alex.
M Klnley and Co., Sydney*
SOCIALS
There was a bazaar held in the Town Hall
for two or three days last week, the profits of
which wera to aid some Church. What would
Churches do without bazaars? They seem to be
just the savins of them. Their chronic state of
distress is constantly being relieved by these gen-
teel swindles Well, there was nothing specially
attractive about tbit bazaar any more than any
other bazaar, excepting that It was to bo opened
by Lady OanDgton, and tor the pleasure of seeing
her ladyship’s pretty face end to hoar her soft,
voice “declare the b?zi*r open and that the
Governor joined her in wishing it every success,’'
visitors were charg d la G1 extra This was busi-
nesslike of the Church people, as it served to draw
a lair crowd to the Town Hall. Her ladyship
looked dove-like In her pale-gray gown with sott,
graceful draperies, gray undiessed kid gloves, acc
pale pink bonnet, with complexion veil He
sister was attired In a white dreie, deep yello v
straw bonnet, and yellow glov s. As soon as h
Excellency made his appearance in the hall, th
.National Anthem was played by somebody behiu
a curtain, then, to everybody’s astonishment,
man’s voice sang a verso, then a chorus joined in
after which a luinale voice took up the running
chorus again, and so on. for ub >ut a quarter of a
hour—or so it teemed to the weary listeners. How
ever, everything has an ending, oven the Nationt
Anthem, sung by a wen-meaning, but faulty
oholr, and as the last notes died away, the wrinkles
on every brow were smoothed out and tbe busi
ness of the afternoon attacked, when people pate
6s. for two-aud sixpenny dolls with the greacts
complacency. It was lor the Church, you know
so It didn't matter.
♦ * ♦
As was expeotei, Mr. Hallewell’s concert
given on the 17th inst., in the new Masonic Hall,
was a musical treat from beginning to end
with one exception-and a half. Toe latter wa
the duet from “Elijah,” sung by Mias Chapman
and Mr. Andrew Fairfax. Tbe lady sang her par
in a rich expressive voice, but there was alto-
gether too much effort perceptible In the singing
of Mr. Fairfax. The grand sonorous organ Isa ;
what It was, and worse than that, some of the old
finish seems to have been rubbed off as well
Altogether, the duet was only a partial success
and if Mr. Hinohy had forborne from sing-
ing Uelany's song, “I love ner, ’ it would
have been better for him, for the song
and a heap better tor tbe audience. Mr
Uallowell's first solo. “It is enough,” with a
delicious ’cello obligato played by Mr. Quin,
waan t half enough, mb most people would have
Stood more with tbe greatest pleasure. And then
Mrs. Riley’s “Judith” was a real gem. Tbereare few
voices in the city as sweet as this lady a, and tbe
pity of it Is, it is heard so seldom By tbo way,
“Judith” was making a double dehut in Sydney
on that night, as Mins Glendennlog was giving
It at the Town Hall at the same hour.
Mons. Kowalski enjoyed a grand reception,
and the two solos of his own composition
(bracketed) were noisily encored, upon which
the maestro gave th-.s *’ Emperor's Hymn” with
clever variations. *’ Fairyland,” written specially
for Mr. Haliewell by Mr. Hector M’Lean, requires
a second bearing to be properly commented upon,
but, at all events, the accompaniment is some-
thing quite out of tbe common. For encore, Mr.
Haliewell gave the “ Village blacksmith.” Miss
wouutcastlo is one of Mr. Halleweii’s show pupils,
and he may well feel proud of her. Her solo was
a real tre.it. and In the duet, “ 0 Maritana,” shared
witn Mr. Pier, she showed that both her voice and
musical talent were far above the average. A
simple and unaffected manner adds not a little to
her success. Miss Cowley (another pupil) was out
of health, consequently her singing suffered cou-
alderably. Nevertheless, her song was anything
but a failure. Some members uf tbe Metropoli-
tan Lledertafel gave two of their caoloest pait
songs, and Hallowoll’s Glee Party did some real
good work, tbe best of their efforts being perhaps
“ When winds breathe soft.” Many of the lead-
ing musicians attended the concert, and it was
gratifying to those interested to witness so large
an attendance, especially when no patronage bad
been solicited.
An enjoyable annual pupils’ ball was
irlven at Messrs. Need’s rooms, Nlthsdale, on
Thursday, the 17th December. Dancing began
shortly before nine, and did not cease until half-
put two o'clock. The main ball-room, delightful
anterooms, and entrance from the street, were
tastefully decorated with flowers, ferns, shields,
and lanterns, presenting a very pretty appearance.
The belle of the ball is said to have come from
Wynyard Square. Music was good, and although
the evening was warm, dancers did not think the
programme of 18 dances too long.
♦ * ♦
A pleasant concert and ball came off at
Manilla, near Tamworth, last week, to celebrate
the opening of the Mechanics’ Institute.
* * *
The Metropolitan Lledertafel concert,
given In the Masonic Hall, last Monday night, in
presence of a large, if not very enthusiastic
audience, fell—If the truth must be told—flat The
first part-song was limp and out of tune, and
although, further on, the singers seemed to brace
themselves up a bit, and contrasted the lights and
shades almost to affectation point, presumably in
order to fetch the people, still It didn’t bring them
somehow, as a lady in the audience remarked,
with more truth than elegance, a little of the con-
cert was very filling. Redeeming parts there were.
It’s true, and It must owned that Mr. Ash-
croft Edwards has done m ich towards improving
the society, but there was too much straining for
effect in nearly all the choruses on this particular
night. Light and shade are all very well in their
way, but it's quite possible to burlesque them.
Mons. de Willlmoff commenced his violin solo
charmingly, but finished it slightly otherwise, Mr.
Huenerbefn accompanying him to perfection, Mr.
Hallewell'a appearance was the occasion of con-
siderable applause, for the audience knew they
wore going to listen to one of the beat
thicgs on the programme, though, In order
to please several ladies, the song was
alttred at the last moment, from the “Wander-
ing Jew” to “ Still a soldier I.” Mr. Clancy has a
useful kind ofvo'ce. but it isn’t sufficiently sympa-
thetic for the beautiful recitative, “ Dear gift of
my sister,” followed by the song, “Loving smile
of sister kind,” which requires a voice of the
purest quality and capable of the tenderest ex*
presalon. This item was not a little disappointing.
Everybody seemed glad to welcome Mr. M'Quade
back to a Sydney platform, and it is superfluous
to say that each of his solos was given In perfect
taste and style. The zither trio was a novelty,
consequently it tickled the fancy of the crowd, who
insisted on a repetition. It was a matter of much
comment that no lady took part in the concert.
A good soprano solo would have been a nice
variety. Herr B. Wadrabe showed great facility
ia hia clarionet playing, and although not a Ryan,
he may, without aoy particular conceit, safely
consider himself one of the best clarlonetlsts Syd-
ney possess. There are about three, not counting
'ho men who plays in the German band. Mr.
Edwards cannot be too highly commended for
al.owing no encores, excs-ptlcg upon very rare
occasions—this dragging an entertainment to a
wearisome length just to satisfy the greed of a
few insatlables, being one of the chief deterrents
of those who would otherwise frequent concert
rooms, and theatres.
• ♦ *
Herr Franoik gave a pleasant afternoon
concert in the Uoiverslty Hall last Satur-
day. whlch waa numerously attended. Mr.
M Lean opened with an organ solo, which elicited
considerable applause. The chief features, how-
ever, of the concert were concerted pieces, Schu-
bert s quintette being particularly creditable.
Two ladies vocalised, and Master Laure gave a
violin solo, which although a little crude In places,
claimed for the young performer a considerable
amount of approbation.
♦ *
Mr. Donald Manson was entertained by a
number of gentlemen at a picnic an Saturday
last, In view of his approaching departure for
America, and in testimony of the high regard in
which he is held. The gathering was a most repre-
sentative one, Mr. Dibba, the Premier—pending
Sir John Robertson’s formation of a Cabinet-
occupying the vice-chair; Mr. Griffin, the U.8.
Consul, the chair; and all the liberal professions
having prominent place among the entertainers
An elegant luncheon was spread at Clontarf, and
a few speeches wore delivered, chiefly, of course,
in praise of the guest and the company which he
has represented in Sydney.
• * *
The Anglican Bishop of Sydney and Mrs.
Barry entertained Lora and Lady Carlngton,
together with a few select friends, at an •* At
Home last Tuesday afternoon, at Blshopsoourt.
• • •
Lady Carington’s costumes are examples
of what can be done with taste apart from extra-
vagance. Almost all the dretses she has already
2*°™, are of simple material, sparsely but
tastefully trimmed, whilst washing-gowns consti-
tute a large part of her wardrobe. Do you hear,
ladies ?
Wednesday, December 23.
Dear Peg.— There seems to be so much to say
this week that I scarcely know beat how to mani-
fmiate this embarraa de richesses, but the natural
aw of sequence shall Introduce you easily to the
pitch of exertion to which we screwed ourselves.
The weather lately has been nothing but wind and
sunshine. Those mean north-easters that come,
like a false friend, blowing so refreshingly, and
leave you in the evening vapid and nerveless,
have had a good time of it. They are still blow-
ing. Obversely, we are limp I But despite the
weather on Tuesday evening (December J5) the
residence of Sir James Marlin, Clarens, Potts
Point, was the scene of a gay assemblage, curious
to witness a very novel amusement.
“ Cymbellne ” wss performed in the open air, by
the light of a young moon and many and bright
lanterns. The Clarens grounds are admirably
adapted for such a purpose, being an open fore-
ground of terraces, with a back-ground of trees,
through which we caught peeps of the moonlit
Harnour. The guests were seated on chairs in
front of the fountain, and feeing an impromptu
stage of green sward and drapery, so disposed
from the trees as to combine a sylvan scene with
the rude approaches to habitations as expressed
the kingly state of early Britain. The actors In
the play were nearly all girls, and the impersona-
tion of such parts as Posthumus, lachlmo, and
Cloten, was most funny. In consequence. The
four younger Miss Martins took a large share in
the acting. The only drawbacks to the Arcadian
completeness of the picture, were the intervals
between the acts, which came like lingering
“ sweetness, long drawn out.” Certainly it gave
one the more lime to admire the ingenuity In ar-
rangement of the impromptu curtain and stage
appliances, to wander about the pretty grounds, or
to had refreshment* at the fountain, whose broad
ledge made a most fitting table for the accommo-
dation of coffee or claret cup. The guests were
numerous, and Included Sir James and lAdv
Martin, Mrs. and Miss Gilder, Mrs. Prlsby, Mrs. A.
Gilder, Lady Manning, the Misses Manning, Mrs.
A. Campbell, Miss Campbell, Mr. Gordon Campbell,
Mrs. Busby, the Misses Busby. Miss (Stephen, Miss
M‘£ntyre, Mr. Purvis, Mrs. C J. Roberts, the Misses
Roberts, Mr. and Mrs. W. P. Manning, Captain and
Mrs. Bouverie, Mrs. and Miss Salomons. Mrs. S. W.
Gray, the Mieses Gray, Lieutenant Arnold, R. N.,
Mrs. G. Montellore. Mrs. and Mis i Milne, Mrs. and
the Misses Icely, etc.
On Thursday afternoon, enroule to the barracks,
we dropped in at the Town Bail just In time to
see the opening of the North Shore bazaar. The
approaches were crowded with people, while the
ball itself was fairly full, the chief attraction
being the vice-regal party who were coming to
open It. Punctually at three. Lord and Lady Car-
Ington, Mias Harbord, and Lord Bertie arrived,
and were met at the steps by the Mayor, Bishop
Barry, and the Rsv. Mr. Yarnold, and were con-
ducted to a dais at the upper end of the ba'l,
where they stood while the National Anthem was
sung. Lady Carle gton wore a soft dove-grey
alpaca, simply made, with double rows of torohun
lace round the skirt and trimming the bodice
brace fashion; a close-fitting, high black bonnet,
trimmed with pale pink llsse, ending under the
chin la a neat little bow; a spray of autiftnn leaves
on tne left side, a plain ret veil, and a dark-green
umbrella completed a chara lag ensemble that re-
minded one somehow of the Princess of Wales.
Miss Harbord wore a thin whlte-embrcidered
dress, with a stylish, fancy straw hat, trimmed
with cowslip ribbons. Eacn lady wore her hair on
top of her bead, and a heavy, closely-curled
fringe, such as we bare thought lit to consign to
the next stratum of society for somo time past.
Now, I suppose, the hairdressers will rejoice over
the revival of an expensive fashion. To return to
the platform After the National Anthem was
naished, the Primate said a few words, thanking
Lady Carington for the honour she had done the
promoters of the bezaar in so kindly consenting to
open It, to which Lord Carington replied lor bis
W1 j j Plhhljr. Ltdy Oarlngton stepped forward,
ana declared the bazaar open. Then came the
usual presentation of flowers by some flaxen-
haired children to Lady Carington and Miss Har-
bord. A few people were introduced to their Ex-
*“1®n some vigorous cheers were given,
and the vice-regal party departed, and we turned
to examine the stalls. They were very prettily
arranged all round the room, and really possessed
attractions usually foreign to such shows. 1 hings
r .® “pstjj useful, good, and not specially ex-
orbitant; then one was not pestered to buy, which
was Quito aa unprecedented feature in my ex-
perlencp. Judging from the expression of the
stall-holders, I fancy It was a groat dieappolnt-
ment to them that Lady Carington did not go
round to inspect.
On Thursday afternoon the Barracks presented
a most festive appearance, the occasion being the
military athletic sports. It was as perfect an
afternoon as one could expect In the middle of
December, .‘and the north easier blew so freshly
across the grounds one oould scarcely credit Its
vamplre-llke qualities. I suppose the sports them-
selves ought to be disposed of first; they were
e8 P®°lally the obstacle race and
the sham-nigger troupe, which kept tbo ball going
la the rather long pauses between the different
games not that that was la the least tiresome, for
there were so many people to see one was apt to
forget the sports altogether. About five o’clock
wft8 a , stir, and a carriage drove up
with a, couple of orderlies. In it were Lady
Carington, Miss Harbord, and Mr. Wallington
(private secretary). Of course we were too well-
bred to stare at the muoh-talkod-of arrivals, we
only locked hard quietly—at least, wo fondly
Imagined wo did; probably another version reigns
elsewhere. Both ladles were in the same dresses
they had worn earlier in the afternoon. They
were met by Colonel Uoberts and Colonel Spalding,
who conducted them to seats In one of tno mar-
quej», where Mrs. Alrey, Mrs. Spalding, and Mrs.
Le Patourel did the honours. Presently there was
another little stir, and the band played “ God Save
tne Queen, as Lord carington rode up on his
mouse-coloured charger, accompanied by Lord
Bertie, and presently Joined Lady Carington. His
portraits have done him Justice, except that they
gave the Impression of a darker-complexloned
man than he Is. There Is » sort of ruling vitality
about him, and withal a pleasant good-fellowship,
which Is very taking. As this was Lady Caring-
ton s first appearance at any private entertain-
ment, everyone had donned best bibs and tuckers,
and so many pretty dresses disported themselves
around that my admiration grew bewildered, and
I have brought away only the molt vacuous ideas
on the subject. People generally wore clad in
fresh white dresses, soft biscuit-muslins, or can-
vas. Some a mass of beautiful embroidery, others
heavy white lace ruchmgs-all cool and summery.
Mrs. Alrey was in ficelle-coloured canvas, ornate
with coloured l«oe. Mis. Le Patourel looked
sweet, as usual, In pearl-grey cashmere em-
broidered in Indian silk. Mrs. Savage, a pretty
white dress and bonnet, relieved with black velvet.
Mrs, Macket zie, a successful combination of brown
and ficelle canvas. Don't ask who was there, un-
less you will be sa isfled with the answer, “All
you ever heard of, and a great many more
besides.’’
Lord and Lady Carington have been most self-
denying In their attention to public matters since
their arrival. Not a day has passed without the
announcement of some public appearance. On
Wednesday the hearts of many small Grammar
School boys were made to rejoice over the assur-
ance of an additional week s holiday, gained by
Lord Carlngton’s Intercession at the prize-giving.
On Friday Beach was honoured at his easy victory
by Lord Carlngton's presence, and his hearty con-
gratulations afterwards.
On Saturday afternoon there was an unusually
good military display at the Association Ground,
when Lady Carington added much to the attend-
ance at the annual presentation of trophies by the
Klfle Association by personally distributing the
prizes. The papers will tell you very fully what
wore the proceedings, so I shall spare you as much
of a resume aa I can. Th© troops were drawn up In
front of the presidential platform, which was gay
with bunting and canvas, leaving a passage—
through which advanced on one side, an open car-
riage with orderlies, In which were Lady Caring-
ton, Miss Harbord, Captain Gascoigne, A.D.O.,
and Mr. Terry, ADC. tslmnltaneously on the
other sloe arrived Lord Carington, accompanied
by Lord Beetle, A.D.C, both riding, and followed
by a groom, whore mount was even handsomer
than theirs. Both gentlemen were dressed
In the ordinary English riding costumes, which
was a novel feature to many au Aus-
tralian eye. Thtre was the usual salute, the
usual anthem, and most unusual <heeis.
The President of the Association, Sir William
Manning, received the party, and presented Lady
Carington and Miss Harbord with nuge bouquets.
The only other ladies within this enclosure were
Lady Manning, Miss Manning, and Miss Clara
Manning. After the President s speech, Lady Car-
ington presented the prizes with a gentle grace
that surely must have added to the value of the
glftl Bhevore a lovely costume cf lavender-
silk muslin —bonnet and veil, ana parasol all to
match. Mies Harbord was In white muslin,
trimmed with white moire ribbons, yellow straw
hat turned up with cowslip velvet, and simply
trimmed with upstanding ribbons of the sime
colours.
Lady Carington Is to hold her first reception at
Government House, on the 31st Dtceraber. We
may look lorward to au appalling crush.
This week has been one rich In juvenile delights,
for the holidays have been ushered In with many
a youthful ft sttval. Breaklng-up parties. Xmas-
trees, or rent grand juvenile dances b«*ve roie
con amove. Mrs. 8. W. Gray, of Elystan, Edgecliffe-
road, gave a largo children’s dance on Friday
night; while Mrs. Milne, of Longwood, Darling
Point, gave another on the samo night. Botn
were eminently successful, In spite of the great
heat.
Did I tell you that among the many passengers
by the Carthage, ten days ago, were Mr. and Mrs.
J. Mllbourne Marsh ? You know they went home
a year ago on a twelve months’ leave of absence,
in the hope that Mr. Marsh might recruit his fall-
ing health. He has returned looking decidedly
better—the fruits of a vsry pleasant trip and
entire rest /mm his magisterial duties. ’) hey are
again la their old residence,SMorton, Edged ffe-
road.
Mrs. George Lord gave a very charming At
Homo on Friday night, at her residence, Klrkton,
Darllrghum. The first part of the evening was
devoted to a short theatrical performance, fol-
lowed by dancing, which wan kept up with spirit
till about 2 p.m. The crush in the dancing room
was so great at times that many people preferred
to sit in the prettily enclosed verandahs or str 11
about the beautiful grounds in the bright moon-
light. The guests included Sir Edward Strick-
land, Mr. A. MacArthur, Miss Enid MacArthur,
Mr. and Mrs H. E. Lord, Mrs. Leigh Lord, Mr.
and Mrs. Wilfred Docker, Mr. and Mrs. Arthur
Docker, Mr. T. Docker, Dr. and Mrs. Bundle, Mrs.
and the Misses Metcalf, Mr and Mrs. Dickson,
Mrs. and Miss de Lauret. Mr. and Mrs. Scroggie,
Mrs. and the Mieses Bierney, Mrs. Eustace Smith,
Mrs. and the Misses Denne, Mr. and Mrs. Walker,
Miss Graham, Miss M’Lean, fiev. Mr. and Mrs.
Tovey, Rev. Mr. SallniAre, Mr. Alison, Mr. King,
Mr. C. Smith, Mr. Shaw, Mr. Brown, &o.
CORRA LYNN.
A WOMAN’S WAY.
“ That’s a very pretty dress of yours, dear.
It looks just like silk.”
“But It is silk.”
“ Oh, dear, I thought it was worsted ! ”


Everybody nowadays drinks Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
MaoLaughliu’a Bodega, 396 Qeorge-atreet
near Huntor-stroot. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia—by fflass or bottle. Families
suppllt d. Cold Luncheons, &c.*
A genuine source of health—Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
HORDERN’S
ON THB
IBrlclsrfleld. lEZill.
JOS STAY MO CORSET DEPARTMENT.
(d
CO
o-
m
a
\
- 1 .
;
sent to any Railway Station
Free of Charge.
Nursmg and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON DUSKS),
2s. lid., 3 8. 8d,, 38. 9d., 4a. 6d., 4s. lid., Bs. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., 8a. 6d., Da. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s 6d
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS, 666 and 668 Brickfield H,H
N.B.-Ordere from th. Country will receive Immediate and careful attention.
CORRESPONDENCE
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“ P. Jansen”: You are barking up the
wrong tree. There Is, properly speaking, no
Mount “ Victoria” in the Blue Mountains at all.
The mountain was originally named Mount Vlt-
torla, and has been cockney fled into “Victoria.”
...." Mudgee”: If any other member appeared in
the Assembly in the same condition as the politi-
cian to whom you refer, he would be regarded as
In a chronically beastly state of intoxication
“ C. Stuart”; We are sorry the £1000 was not voted
to the widow and children of Hugh M‘Coll, who
was a benefactor to Victoria and Australia at large
to ten thousand times the extent of that paltry
amount. Poor M'Coll was regarded as a crank.
Cranks march in the van of every big reform. The
great Australian irrigation movement was helped
on many years by the dead man. The Victorian
Parliament’s refusal to give a few pounds to the
widow of M'Coll, whose life was spent in a, to him,
hopeless struggle, which has borne such splendid
fruit all over the continent, is ineffably mean. J. M.
Grant’s people got a vote of £3000; but then they
are ever so much more ‘respectable’ than M’ColTs.
....“O. Martin “Mrs. Longshore, M.D ,” is still
practising in Sydney. She is the ostensible sister
of " Mrs. Dr. Potts,” who was the other day
alluded to by the papers as a man who, while here
masqueraded in woman’s clothing. She has Just
written to the local press denying the charges
made against her sister “CM.”; Dr. O'Doherty
will sit for Meath In the Commons. He returns to
Queensland only to settle his private affairs....
“R.A.”; No, but the Colonial Sugar Co. are im-
porting Javanese labourers—at 30s. a month with
rations and clothes....“ C K.G”’: The Mayor
was wrong. We wrote on the subject last week.
— “Charles Perry”; You had better appeal to
the Governor—“RS.J.”: It was the notorious
poet, Sladen—“ J.8.G.”: Mr. Gladstone has both
spoken and voted against flogging In the army.
....“YoungColonist”: Thanks....” W.W.” (Peak
Mountains): Sorry to say we don’t know the
verses referred to. Will enquire “RJ.”; Call
it “ The Carington,” and your business will double
at once. Every country public-house formerly
known as “The Loftus,” is now “ The Carington.
Tne king is dead—long live the king I... “A.
M'Donald”: We took Dr. Anna Potts to be really
a woman, because of her or bis plainness of feature
and the vulgarity of the name. For reasons quite
the contrary, we never swallowed Lulu the pretty,
or Zoyara the graceful, who both turned out to
be pleasing deceptions. If Potts be not genuine,
we shall begin to doubt soon about Leon....
“W.T.”: Dealt with in this issue...." Anon’’:
Tour “ Synopsis of Amy” should secure for you an
effusive reception (of which bricks would bo a
prominent feature) wherever you read the Hues.
Your verse is not equal to your admiration....
“ C.N.H.”; Your verses are trashy. The sentiment
is obscure, the metaphor mixed, and the metre
multy. If, however, you try to treat of a definite
subject In simpler metre you may possibly succeed
In writing something worth printing...." D.W.”:
When the policeman “ who is noted for the size of
his head,” called about your kangaroo-pup, you
should have asked him in to tea, or else when he
pulled you to court you should have “shouted”
for the beak. Possibly, though, you are particu-
lar about the persons with whom you drink....
•* J.C.W.”; You would most probably be a con-
tributor to our limbo of mediocrity only; poetry is
verse, but your verse is not poetry....“Good-bye
to Gay Associates' ’: First-rate verse. The subject
is worthy of your efforts, but its strong points
have not been touched... “A.E.”: No space for
the reproduction at present “D.F. : Your
points have already been dealt with. The subject
will be strongly taken up again shortly. Will try
and get you address of the Sydney Land Nationali-
sation League.... “ J.H.” (Victoria); The line divid-
ing sublimity from bosh is very narrow. Your
poem is on the wrong side of the line “ Shakes-
peare”: We do not think he has ever accepted the
Ohlltern Hundreds....” M.G.”: Cannot use this
time, although these verses have a true ring of
sturdy democracy which la their chief merit:—
“ Don’t notice the gew-gaws that’re worn by the
creatures
Such as old Darwin wanted to patch up his
chain;
Let no flaunting titles of man change your na-
tures,
But noble, unselfish, and upright remain.
11 ’Tls the duty of all creeds, my lads, to be loyal,
But don’t cringe and crawl like a lot of ba-
boons -
Respect is required by all persons royal,
Show that, but I pray don’t be royal spittoons.”
The foregoing lines should be framed, and sent to
a few of the Mikados of Sydney snobooracy.. .
** H.M.”; No space for your critique last week-or
any week. We always read suon descriptions of
amateur theatrical performances with a certain
amount of incredulity. You might let us know
some time whether you are the actor whose “ mar-
vellous ability cannot be too highly extolled,” or
the one “ whose pourtrayal well deserved the con-
tinual applause which was bestowed upon him”...
“ C. Moline”: The only purely comic paper In
Australia is the War Cry " T.R.W.” ; You
may be, as you say, under a spell, but that is no
reason why you should “ rhlte an erkount” of the
case to us. Write to the Jbrnil; they will re-
joice to find that they have not hitherto seen the
worst speller in the world — “ Cuthbert Green”;
Well written, but not worth the necessary space
....“ Celtic Club Member”: If you were here we
would not be particular about a Celtic club. Any
sort would do. ..“Fijian Bubsorloer’’: We shall
be glad of definite information. ..“Jargon”:
Right you are. It is. Will appear in an obscure
corner of next issue, if paid for as an ad. at the
usual rate...." R.W.” and “LG.”: No doubt dis-
trict matter would make the paper add.t.onally
interesting in the district, but it would be dead-
weight to all other readers—“ W.H P.”: Thanks
for cutting, which we notice...” C. C. Martin”:
He Is right and you are wrong. Beel-tea is a mere
stimulant, and Is of v.rv little more food value
than alcohol. ..“J.J.” (Port Dougiar); A purely
private matter of no public Interest whatever
“ J.J.”: We must lay aside your poem for the pre-
sent. For what present ? Why, for a present to
our ollioegoat....” J. W. Kidd”: Thanks “ Bar-
bara A.’’: Not usable. Declined with thanks
“ Adelong”: Your MS. was one prolonged howl
for a match — “ Arson”: If you are as old as your
jokes you must have died centuries ago. MS.
arsonlsed “ Wanderer”: You write:—” I feel In
the vein to rite a poam had I aeomidacion, but 1m
In the dezert fifty miles from knowen habi-
tation.” What has the sea done that you
Should not bo fifty miles down In It? Have ,
you flown to the desert to escape the pub-
lic wrath after writing that other poem?.. .
“Dunbar Man” (Sydney): You have been down
looking at the Gap, and the way the waters oome
in put it into your head to write a poem about the
great wreck, That’s two bad things these waters
have done. They wrecked the Dunbar and made
you think you were a poet. You seriously sit up
there on the top of the rook and drivel thus:—
“ The passengers had gone to sleep
With dreams reverse of dread,
Not thinking of the awful seas
That drowned them while in bed.”
Again -
“ Up into the Middle Harbour
The most part of the wreck
Had drifted, surely I’m wrong,
And also the old deck.”
Bosh I....” 0 R.”: As a matter of fact, the Sydney
Theatre Royal management didn’t sell the dress-
circle tickets at a guinea eaoh-that was done by
Mr. John Bennett, who had bought up all the seats
on spec. But why should Williamson, Garner,
and Musgrove be debarred from selling at a
guinea each if they can find the necessary number
of toadies ready to Invest in them at that figure?
John Bennett, who takes no risk in the theatre,
buys at five shillings and sells at a guinea—thus
making 16s. on each ticket. Tell us, please, why
Williamson and Co., who take all the risk, shouldn't
have all the profits ? What’s the use of a rich
Governor unless you can get something out of
him?...” A Citizen ” (Sydney): The vicious princi-
ple in your argument in favour of capital punish-
ment lies in the analogy you institute between the
life of a man and that of a lower animal. It is a
root error. Do you not see that, if human life be
only as sacred as a dog’s life, a criminal
need only possess a reason sufficient for the kill-
ing of a dog to Justify him In killing a man?
‘ Gerald Byrne ” (Sydney); You and your garotted
mate merit sympathy, but flogging the garotters
will not get the money back. Nor will it keep
them from sticking you up the next time you
come down from the bush. Indeed, flogging will
nave so unfitted them fer any honest labour
mat they will be bound to devote their future
years to waylaying wherever they can. Another
reason why you should not want to flog them is
that the lash was placed on the N.S.w. Statute
Be ok for men in your walk in life only. A man in
a good social position may rob to the extent of
thousands, and If he be well-connected, he may
plunder widows and orphans in N.8.W., and yet
none will speak of the lash in his superior
presence. Do you remember a gentleman getting
floyged in any part of the colony ? Gerald, it was
for bushmen like you and the "lower classes 1 ’ in the
town that the lash was put into the hands of the
nos- less hangman. By crying out for Its applica-
tion to the ruffians who robbed you, you approve
of the principle set up by those who look upon the
lower classes as brutes that can only be reached
through the hide. We think the ruffians you com-
plain of could be put in a gaol where they would
be kept close enough and made work hard enough
to demonstrate to them that the ways of trans-
gressors are hard " R.J.”: Nonsense. If the
Orangemen take up arms to oppose the restora-
tl m of the Irish Parliament they will be the
rebels....” J.S.” (Dubbo) : Thanks...." Loyalty-
even to the Soudan”: You are a warrior among
Quakers and a Quaker among warriors...." E J.
Bowling”: Will try and find space ” H.H.U. ’:
We believe not—can find no record of their hav-
ing done so....” Prince Jorum”: Will you please
forward your address? “Vectls”: Thanks for
your letter. But, despite Rusden, you can't get
over the undoubted tact that the ” Reverend ”
Samuel Marsden, whom Sir Alfred Stephen holds
up as a model of all the Christian and other vir-
tues, was a brutal man—a flogging parson. Ask
t ny old Parramatta resident. The ” de MortuU ”
business is bosh. Judas Iscariot is dead, and yet
he is maligned from every pulpit.
Nothing fit for publication will be too radical,
eccentric, startling, or ridiculous to receive due
consideration by Thk Bulletin. Our aim is
to bring to light the good things of every sort.
the two jovial mariners, with their feet
on the table, celebrating their own birth-
days and those of all their relations. The
sable gladiators marched on to the floor and were
just on tho eve of disorganising the anatomy of
two skippers and leaving two vacancies to be
filled up by the Marine Board, when the glass eye
was slapped down on the table, followed by the
wooden leg, with a crash like the—
“ Terrible trumpet shock
Of Regnarook,
On the Day of Doom.”
The chief and his three warriors reaobed tbe
upper deck with one bound, gave four wild, un-
earthly yells, and leaped overboard Into the canoes
followed by all bands. When the skippers climbed
unsteadily on to the deck they saw nothing but
three streaks on the ocean, where three war-
oaEoes were making the best time on record In a
life and death struggle to reach the nearest point
on the shore. That night the whole tribe gathered
round the chief to hear him relate his terrific
vision of the two Devils with wooden legs, stone
eyes, and iron teeth.
♦ ♦ ’ ♦
The world of the present day, from the
Arctic to the Antarctic circle, has thrilled with the
name of H. M. Chester, tbe “ buccaneering
policeman,” as one English paper audaciously an<t
irreverently styled him, who will go pirouetting
down to posterity as the immortal annexor of New
Guinea. Chester’s friends say he Is a thoroughly
sterling fellsw, but that all his best qualities are
neutralised by bis snore I The snore of Chester Is
a young earthquake. The first night be slept on
board tbe Victoria, with tbe return Islanders, his
preliminary snores nearly terminated the voyage.
Tbe kanakas had to be battened down to restrain
them from leaping overboard. One chief offered
to buy Chester and give two Islands for him. He
said he could feel secure against night attacks by
his enemies while Chester slept near tbe royal
gunyah, and if he could be taught to snore in tbe
day-time there would be no more wars in that
territory. Tbe first night Chester sleeps at an
hotel, the precursory war-horse snort from his
dread proboscis la tbe signal for a general insurrec-
tion. One half the boarders start to pack up, and
the other half go out to buy dynamite. Re-
cently he formed one of a party of 12, whj started
from Cairns to visit the beautiful Barr an Falls.
They slept the first night in the house of a selector
at tbe foot of the range. About two in the morn-
lag, Chester decided to have a snooze. His en-
trance to tbe land of dreams was heralded by an
explosion never before rivalled by the nosi of
man. It was like the death-defiant snort of a hip.
popotamus. The horses broke loose, an old cow
tethered outside fled bellowing through tbe sable-
skirted night, and two Chinamen and a tame
myall went away and hid in tbe scrub. Ob, for
the pen of Ossianl Such was tbe wild war-note
from the kingly nose of car-borne Chester, in the
bright years of tbe midday of bis life. Hark 1 in
the noon of night, when darkness bas descended
on the still bar-parlour, and tbe “Move on, wld
yiz ” of the gloomy policeman, son of dark-haired
Erebus, startles the despondent reveller, the while
he wends bis doubtful way to the high-bosomed
maid of his oboloe, as she waits pentl vrly and well-
armed for him behind the half-opened door I Lol
from the front room of the balcony, when ail
boarders are descended to the shadowy realms of
sleep, there comes a crash of sounds, line loot souls
flying from the dreadful Spirit of Loda. That Is
the nose of car-borne Chester, the first of mortal
men.
Apropos of Myers, the Yankee sprinter,
having out his record of half-a-mlle, “ Pendragon”
writes:—‘"Is Myers’ new record to be regarded as
the record of a professional or an amateur ? This
record is absolutely the best ever accomplished by
anybody, profess! mal or amateur. It would bo
just as well to krow which side—th« professional
side cr the amateur side—is to have the honour of
a feat which shows that, whatever else he may be,
Myers Is perhaps the best pedestrian from fifty
yards to one thousand that over put on a running
shoe.”
One can now drink sea-water. Science has
robbed shipwreck of its greatest horror-thirst A
little citric acid or citrate of tllver is added to the
sea-water, chloride of silver is precipitated, and a
harmless mineral water produced. An ounce
of citric renders a half-pint of water drinkable.
Seven ounces would furri h a shipwrecked man
with water for a week. Every ship should be
made to carry citric acid as well as condensers.
But don't try this scientific exper'mont on Wool-
loomooloo re i-water unless you have previously
added Condy's fluid iu the proportion of 200gal-
lons to evt ry pint of the briny.
Sala’s successor on the Illustrated Lon-
don News directs bis attention much to Australia
—his thoughts evidently following bis predecessor,
flo quotes tho squib given by the Age as the
lot't r of our late Premier to Service on the Feder
iuIuu question, wh ch we noticed when published.
He reiera also, as a fact, to the old fable of tho
sailor clalo.ijg the ownership of the site of one of
Melbourne's oldest established banks. A new
veislon is given to it. The mythical sailor is said
to have left a few pounds of bis pay In the hands
of a Melbourne attorney to invest for him. For-
getting all about it for many years, ha again visits
Melbourne, and (very likely, and of course) finds
that tbe lawyer takes him to see a splendid pile
built upon the laud bought with the money left
for Investment. Londoners will swallow this
story, and we shall likely have Sala embodying it
In his forthcoming book.
An English paper, speaking of the death
of poor Fred. Shorter, at Denillquln, N.8.W., says:
—“It would not be just to let this event pass Into
forgetfulness without saying that Shorter was one
of the best-mannered men who over followed
billiards for a livelihood.” We don’t quite under-
stand that an event passes Into forgetfulness, but
anyway the tribute to Shorter’s social qualities is
well-meant and well-deserved. He certainly was
quite the gentleman among his brother pros. It
was his trip to India, some six years back, that
settled poor Shortir. t he shop was too warm for
him. as It proved for 8. W. Stanley, who baa been
no good muoh as a player since bo returned from
the same journey. Yet the two veterans, Cook
and Roberts, made a lengthened Indian tour with-
out being any the worse for It. Either the brandy-
and-watcr suited them better, or else they took
less of it than Shorter -probably none at all.
THE LAND OF THE CROCODILE.
(BY MAROOGALINE.)
The cheerful Bishop Staunton, of N.Q.,
was once travelling on the North coast in a small
steamer, on which the name of the steward was
Bishop. The captain, as Is usual with coasting
skippers, was addicted to the habit of introduciog
new and startling innovations into the English
language. Moat of these innovations will remain
la comparative obscurity until we have a reliable
book on the habits and phraseology of pure-bred
Banana-men. Early one morning this choleric
mariner wanted the steward in fiery haste, and
broke up the local welkin by loudly yelling re-
peatedly, in stentorian voice, ** Bishop I Bishop I
Oh, where the is that b — Bishop ?'*
Then the benevolent face of old Staunton peered
softly into the captain’s cabin, and a sweet tenor
clerical voice exclaimed: ’’Ob, here lam, dear
captain; but wherefore all this profanity ?” Then
the captain crawled under the berth, and remained
there in deep silence until Informed that the
Bishop bad received a full and comprehensive ex-
planation.
• ■ *
In one of the North-coast towns of this
“Queen of the Colonies,” is a G.P.S., who is
happy in the possession of a glass eye. The fixed
and basilisk gaze of this artificial optic Is the
terror of all nervous wltneeses. It scares alike
the soul of the simple truth-teller, and the most
artful of accomplished liars. The owner of this
fascinating window of the soul occasionally raises
his eyelid and drops the eye into the palm of his
hand, or with a startling crash on to the table. This
simple, absent-minded operation has been known
to shorten the lives of men up for allowing dogs
to stray In the street, or owning unregistered
goats. On one occasion, a balf-oiviiised myall
called on the C.P.S. to lodge an elaborate com-
plaint, and take out a summons. *' Baal you tell
’lm me lie,” said the dread recorder of the
decisions of the local “ Fouquler Tlnville; ” “ you
see this fellow eye belongah me. Suppose you tell
’lm me b lie, this fellow eye tumble down I
Baal gammon!” Then the myall started with
bis nairatlve, keeping his gazr fixed, im-
movable, on the stony glare of that Ithu-
rian eye. At last there came one accusation
that Tom Pepper would have blushed to be
charged with, and the glass eye fell with an
omlnlous thump on the bare table. The myall
Just uttered one yell that was heard at the equa-
tor, and went through the window, carrying sash
and glass several yards into the open space. He
was last seen near Central Mount Stuart striking
out fur the North Pole, and Is believed to be tra- i
veiling still.
see
And this will dovetail with an antodote of a pair
of well-know skippers on two of the Queensland
labour vessels. Oae had a glass-eye, the other a
wooden leg. On one occasion they were lying-in
a double sense—off the Solomon Islands. All the
boats had gone ashore to recruit. The two skip .
pers fraternised on the schooner commanded by
him of the glass-eye. Seeing the boats away,
three canoes, full of warriors, stole quietly over
to the schooner, and the wild sons of the Pacific
stepped on board to “ clean out the whole
darned establishment.” The chief and three
others went down into the cabin, and found


A CELEBRATEj SURGEON'S BXPBRIBNCB.
Sandgate, Brisbane, Auguit 9,1885.
Gentlemen,-My wife had a severe attack of
Rheumatism, which flitted from joint to Joint, for
more than a week, when a friend (in my absence
from home) recommended 8t. Jacob’s Oil, and
after two or three applications according to the
lastiuotlons given, she found herself, much to her
surprise and delight, entirely free from pain, and
now always keeps a bottle of the Oil in tke house.
I am, sir.
Yours faithfully,
H. T. GIRDLESTONE,
M.R.O.S., Eng., L.A.C., Lond.
Wolfe's Schnapps cannot be approached
for its llavor and puray of spirit.
Puck Almanac, '86, Cd. (post, 7d,). Now-
ready. Iliustratsd throughout with splendid
Wood-ou f s in colours, &o. Buyaoopyl All book-
sellers. Alex. WKialey and Co., Sydney.
Notice!—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for Invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hockings, 143 Pltt-street.
The best value in glass, china, or earth-
ware, from the choicest »tock in the city. Is to be
had at Bray Brothers. 40.3 and 404 George-street.
Go and see for yourselves, their address is oppo-
site the Joint Stock Bank.*
Wolfe's Schnapps is the remedy “ par excel-
lence’ for kidney diseases, indigestion and debility
Puck Almanac, ’86, Od. (post, 7d.). Now
ready. Emblazoned with splendid Wood-outs in
colours. A magnificent reception awarded this
celebrated work. All booksellers. Aiks,
M Ivlnley and Co., Sydney.
Political Points
Population of Victoria on 30th September:
—981,466. an Increase for the quarter of 8063.
The Queen’s motto, “I govern all.” The
soldier's, “ t fight for all.” The parson's, “I pray
for all.” The working man’s, “ I pay for all.”
“The shadow of this transaction” (Ker-
ferd's appointment to the Viotm-iaa Supreme
Court Bench) “will go with him (Service) where-
ever he goes,”—Melbourne Age.
Old Jack Robertson, the played-out Rip
Van Winkle of N-8.W. politics, has, so we are told,
again gone through the farce of forming a Minis-
try. The news is too absurd for credence. It
reads like a slab out of the Christmas pautomiu e.
Bententiously observes the Wentworth
(N.8.W.) Advocate:-” When colonials get a little
wiser they will dispense with royal-birthday holi-
days, aristocratic Governors, K C.M.G.’s, and
other relies of the time when the aggregate Eng.
llsh mind was guided by Aristocratic leading
strings.”
Negroes are very slow to learn the science
of Government. Hercules Wilson, coloured, has
resigned his seat in the Georgia Legislature, giv-
ing a* hi* reason that he can make more money
by laying bricks at from four to five dollars a day.
No white man was ever known to make such a
humiliating confession
Berry’s new Licensing Bill has at last
passed through Its final stages in the Victorian
Parliament, and will come into operation in Feb-
ruary next. It is thought that before Gut »lm*
there will be such an exodus 'of publicans from
Melbourne that there will be no occasion to put
the provisions of the new Act Into force,
A pastoral issued by Dr. Walsh, the B.C.
Archbishop of Dublin, at the commencement of
the elections, contained th* recommendation: —
“ Let the candidate be, so far as you oan know of
It, a man of blameless private, as well as public,
life.” The outcome is that not one Liberal was
elected in Ireland. Now, Dr. Walfh was very near
c imlng to Sydney as successor to Dr Vaughan.
Had he come, and had ——. Well, never mind.
The Melbourne Age is at its old game of
waving the red rag in the face of the Protestant
electors of Vlctona-a game that that Jiurual
always resorts to just when a general election is
approaching. The Age b special delight seems to
bo in publishing articles that will inflame the Pro-
testant mind, and »o stcare the defeat of every
Roman Catholic who #s,fires to a seat in Parlia-
ment And this is (ha journal that pretends to be
the exponent of Democracy aud Liberalism in
Victoria
Wahanui, the Maori chief, has handed
over to the N.Z Govern ment ihe ncept oof war
of the great tribe of Nagatimenlap >tos of t*e
Waikato. The Ni/atlwbao ecadeuis wer." never
conquered by the British. We don’t wonder at it
Their verv name Is invuln'-ruble. It would take
the greatRo sian, Geo* no * Vt igoodwhski, all bi<
time to su'iugate th-m. G.jwt ver, they’ve now
“antea-up” to their late enemies their sacred
weapon of war-the Talha. This Implement is
described as a Jong shaft of hard wood clubbed at
the foot and pointed at the other extremity—the
point being oarved and decorated with dog's-hair
feathers. The handier over of this hair-pin Is said
to indicate that henceforth there shall be no more
war In the Waikato. 80 mote It be.
It is noteworthy that in the Parliament-
ary campaign Just finished In England, Cardinal
Manning and Cardinal Newman both pronounced
against the Kadioal effort to disestablish the Pro-
testant Church. Both hold that Church to be Eng-
land s great bulwark against Atheism, and al-
though they believe It to bo dootrlnally wrong,
they think everybody should be made to suppoit
it, simply to keep back the other. It Is fair to
construe this line of action as the fighting of error
with error.
An Employers’ Liability Bill is just being
hurried through the Victorian Houses. An excel-
lent measure, as originally framed, containing a
clause that “a workman should not be able to
make an agreement with his employer by which
In case of accident he could not claim compensa-
tion.’’ Uefortunately, that clause v-as struck out
on division. It was Inconvenient. Why shouldn’t
a workman be allowed to forego his Interest In his
own limbs under pressure of necessity? argued
honorable members. And so the Bill, as likely to
be passed, will resemble "Hamlet” with the
melancholy Dane left out of the show. By the
way, the only employer of M sL.A. Is their bleed-
ing country. IE the roof falls In when they are
putting In their time In the House, It is satisfac-
tory to reflect that they will have no claim on the
Government. Not If a proper agreement is drawn
up.
Mr. Gladstone says:—“The measure of a
people’s drink!og of Intoxicating liquors is the
measure of the national misery and disgrace. ’’ In
1882 the Sunday-closing Bill became the law of
N.S.W. Returns for convictions for Sunday
drunkenness at the Central and Water Police
Courts, Sydnev, are as folio ws
18*1.—Convictions, 1438
1883 „ 603
1883 „ 661
mu J 1884 „ 684
The week-day drinking has not diminished In any-
thing like th* same proportion. Thus, in 1881, the
totai convictions for drunkenness for the year
wore 13,238, whilst in 1884 they wsre 11,559, the
whole diminution kaviar taken place In Sunday
convictions. J
Who shall despair of Western science and
ways permeating the Flowery Land, when a Vice-
roy of Canton can promulgate the following
regulations to his troops ?-Chang Chlh-tung en-
joins hie soldiers to practise “ascertaining the
range and training of field-pieces," the “entrench-
ing of camps," the “ laying of mines,” the “ bulld-
ing of forts, tha " loose formation in front of the
foe, the “ dividing of battailota Into small frac-
tions in battle, the “ firing of rockets,” the “ set-
ting up of field telegraphs,” the “passing over
broken ground,” and the “fighting by night to
harass the foe.” Chang Chlh-tung tells his men
that, the old formations of troops, and swords,
tridents, gingals, &o., are no use nowadays; 'and
once a fortnight ho personally sees what progress
1* being made, “gives rewards for proficiency,
a id inquires Into remlssneis or inferior work.”
nil h mour to Chang Ohih-tungl
This is the kind of thing one constantly
n ads In the most powerful newspapers published
la America, the country which is going to help
the ' rest of the Anglo-Saxon race ” in their
hour of need’’:—“ While England has a happy
knack of getting out of her entanglements with
civilised and well-equipped nations, she Is ready
to hit the barbarian a rap when hla head pops up
too rashly. Theebaw of Burmab is now the ob-
ject of Great Britain’s wrath, and will have to
suffer for the humiliation the tight litt'e island
endured in the recent misunderstanding' with Rus-
sia. For a land of peace, progress and good-will
England is continually in hot water. She has done
more raiding, meddling, squabbling, and killing,
bombarding, advancing, retreating, decorating,
&c., than any country in the world. Theebaw will
be whipped, of course, and a good percentage of
the Burmese butchered before the troops are
called home and thanked by her Majesty and the
Parliament.”
It was Mr. Thomas Garrett who was
N.S.w. Minister of Lands when the notorious
revocation of the Yanko fieservp took place. Tnis
reserve was officially revoked on Tuesday (con-
trary to all precedent In the revocation of re-
serves), thus giving the squatter a decided advan-
tage, as he came in with his Improvement
purchases, mineral leases, volunteer orders, and
heaven knows what else, while the unfortunate
selectors could not get a show till the Thursday
following, and even then the squatters were ready
to applyfor any land left open after 1 heir previous
raids. Through this Tuesday revocation hun-
dreds of intending selectors, who were then
camped on the Yanko banks, were debarred from
selecting, as the h ssees bad secured the pick of
the land. For pastoral purposes this Yanko coun-
try Is equal to anything in Australia. The largest
holders of it are a firm of three brothers, and one
of those brothers is a son-in-law (oh, those sons-
in-law 1) not to Mr. Farnel), Out to even a greater
N.S.W. politician.
The other evening, in the course of a Par-
liamentary debate. Sir John Robertson, leader of
the N.S.W. Opposition, alluded to Mr. Dibbs, the
Premier, «s “indolent,” "arrogant,”and “Impu-
dent. Mr. Dibbs, after taking a stiff dose of
this sort of thing, at last turned upon Sir John,
whom, he said, had been tolerated In the House
as no other member had ever been tolerated, on
account of his years. The youngest member of
the Assembly had no right to be called a pup.
Sir John was always taking unwarrantable liber-
ties that were not allowed, to young men, and
applying to members, indirectly, language which
he openly dared not use. Sir JonnRobertion was,
In short, said Mr. Dibbs, “ the most insulting and
the most vlulent-tempered man on the floor of
this Cdamber. (• Ob, oh I ’) t rcpeat.it, and I a»y It
is through the Imbecilities of old age aud nothing
more. (‘ Oh, oh,’ and Interruption) 1 repeat it
again. He is the most disorderly and most insult-
ing member of this House; and in private life, in
social Ilf*, and la the walls of this House, as well
as in the refreshment-room, the hon. gentleman's
language would disgrace a low pothouse, (Cries
of * Ob, oh,’ and 1 Shame ’ from the Opnosttlon.)
I repost it again and again. (’Shame.’) You (the
Opposition) should be the first to condemn the
shame, and yet you support It. (‘ Ob, oh.) I have
sat here aud listened to that language, and now
that I protest against it you call ‘Oh, oh.’ and
‘Shame.’ What I have said new I have said as a
protest in the name of this House and the country
generally.”
The Hon. J. Campbell, Victorian Post-
master-General, is still being snapped at for sign-
ing the letters denoting his official position after
his name In the communication sent from Mel-
bourne to Mr. Stead of the Pall Mall Gazette.
The commuoioition expressed sympathy and
admiration. That gave the little question of
etiquette importance and piquancy. Those who
are glad Stead was Imprisoned would not have
minded the sympathy of James Campbell going
forth, but they fear they are compromised when
the Postmaster-General of the colony is the
sender. The point Is not a mere quibble. If
threshed down to strict right, the qyestlon ends
on the side of the malcontents. In his capacity
of Postmaster-General, Mr, Campbell is merely a
representative. He is as much a representative of
those who are glad as of those who are sad
about the fate of the London journalist. Outs’de
of the discharge of his official and representative
duties, he is not Postmaster General. But that is
cutting It very fine. As a matter of current prac-
tice, the people who flne*ee so dexterously in this
case associate the title of his political office with
the public appearance of a legislator on all other
occasions. If he travel in a train or steamboat, or
sit at a tea fight, he Is embellished with affixes.
I Temporarily, bis title is part of him, as the “Key.”
ot the cleric and the “Dr.” of the medico. The
controversy, however, shows how keenly critical
people can be of a man’s claim to a social distino-
tion if he attempt to employ it in a cause opposed
to their opinions or prejudices.
No wonder tbe Tories don’t want Brad-
laugh in the Commons. For pensions and com-
mutations of pensions the British taxpayer paid
last year close u ion £3,000,0001 Most of these
P®P®*ons are monstrous robberies. A pension of
*1145 Ha. is put dnvm as paid to John Holdshlp.
who held the office of “Chair Wax,” whatever
that was. Hon. J. H. Knox, described as “Ex-
Master of Butter.” has, since 1830. been
paid £107615s annually. To George Symonds. who
once upon a time was “Bag-bearer to the Gustos
Brevlum, is paid £117 annually; C. Panton and
K Harrison, who were “Officers of the Pipe” in
the Court or Exchequer, received £25 and £69
8d. respectively, the latter beimr “in perpetuity.”
and the former being “in addition to compensk-
tion allowances, amounting to £1450, as first
secondary and senior dlerk, Queen’s Bemem-
hranoers office.” The heirs or that stupid old
Dutchman, tho Duke of Schomberg, who was
sjoh a nuisance at the battle of the Boyne that
h s own men nad to shoot him to get rid of him.
"HU receive £984 a year from the State.
To oome to more recent times. Sir W. Parish, of
the Consular Service, retired in 1833, at the age of
38, with a pension of £1000 per annum, which he
•m 1 } M Henry Darley retired at the age of
39, in 1810, with a pension £2357, and is still living
Henry Finch was pensioned off 30 years ago at the
ayelof 19. for services rendered to the Mint Depart
ment W e also find that Fred. K. Brande was pen-
stoned off at the age of 33; William Gattyatthe
31 (£lo8ipaid annually for the last 40 years);
William Learmonth at the age of 37, and hundreds
of others whose names could be given, who have
not reached the age of 40. C. S. Chapman, Mr,
Dwight, and Mr. Goodbody were pensioned off on
the ground of ill health in 1841, 1858, and 1853 re-
spectively, but they still live; and there are scores
of others in the same position. We find, too, per-
eons drawing pensions who have attained the
patriarchal ages of 110, 108, 107, and any number
above 90 years’ old.
THE BASILISK.
Joy I that the startled eye no more does meet
The Basilisk in his familiar seat I
Faded is now that touzled jobbernowl,
Purged from the air the marrow-1 reezing growl
That proved for long, long years a most unholy
scare
To all the poor, faint hearts that trembled there.
He’s gone—biffed out I it seems too good for
truth.
That lost to gaze, at last’s, that thing uncouth,
That scavergtr, who cleansed and made all sweet
In ev'ru place but in hie own dark street!
Djlightlul news! We'll let our new hat soar—
The Basilisk is gone for ever morel
Tha Abolition of the System of “ Tipping 99 Waiters.
ONE CASE WHERE IT DIDN'T WORK.
The practice of feeing waiters Is a
pernicious one, James. I have decided
to abandon it hereafter.”
First Day under the New System —Kept waiting forty-eight
minute* for a chop and a cup of coffee.
Second Day.—Finds his favourite
table, which has invariably been re-
served for him, already occupied.
Third Day.—An “accident.”
Fourth Day.—Another “accident”—he gets the
only lickety chair in the house.
Fifth Day.—“The practice of giving
model ale lees to waiters is an exceedingly
sensible one, in my opinion—here’s a dollar
for you, James.”


DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors ; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
pUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Purl-
\J fler, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and Now
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
YANKEE DOODLE CONQUEROR
Never Travel Without It. **
EFFECTUA LLY D ESTR OYS
INSECTS.
FLEAS FLIES BEETLES MOSQUITOES
COCKROACHES V<r«V- c AND IS
AT THE SAME T IME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOGS
FOWLS OR OTHER
V.. • -
ANIMALS
ns
o
o
*4
'&:■' .o'
* - X l «UPWAKDS
STOREKEEPERS
mm
FELTON.CRIM
WHOLESALE
FELTON ■ CRIMWA D EV.C 0
— MELBOURNE -
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
Wanted in Every House.
Wanted in Every Souse.
3S3©l,l,©/’ble 33'uugrgries!
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES
California and Eastern Backboard Waonons.
tST BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK
WILLIAM FLEMIFQ, Merchant A Importer
8S & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty*# Hotel.) P
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. B. Q. WATKINS)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
p d Mm
, 7
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS end REQUISITES, WOOD-WOBKING MArarwrnr
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT. AGRICULTURAL IMPI
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT>UMPS, COACHBUILDSM’ W
MATERIALS. SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES &o.
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED OORKD-
GATSD and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PBRFO-
RATED ZINC; TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LE AD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSH W ARB
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACK8
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED U GIRDERS
-2
n
vr e
PORTABLE, FIXE
gasi*"-'™ i
and HOB
ZONTAL BOILERS
TEAM and oth
PUMPS
STEAM HAMMERS
— t— _M
ENGINEERS’ BBS
FOUNDRY
1 i? PATENT ROLL]
, SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, Ac.
Price List* and Catalogues furnished oa application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.
Head Warehouse -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London OJtoc «
M YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR
SyDKTETTi
• * - 8* GRAOKCHUECH
||^KEED03g|
m
tm
e y
S? 'oofe — ===^
sen.
HQS
TWIST & PLUG
i DIXS08I Hi SOUS. Svdnev-&°l se88thel^ r,!:e8tFactory * Manufacturemore
*** wjuiifcj9 Tobacco, and consume more American Leaf,
tban any factory in the southern hemisphere.
YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR, Sir Roger, Champion, and DIxson’s Cut Tobaccos.
IDstrli.in.g' UarToo-u.1 Hotel,
HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Railway Oates).
STEPHEN HOPKINS (Late of Wagga Wagga), Proprietor.
lar* ESPECIAL ACCOMMODATION FOR COUNTRY VISITORS.
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO is the best, purest
and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends ia a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such
Rowlands’ Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS BUKONIA ia a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet r owder, and
has lately been much Improved. Each box has
inside the lid a certificate of purity from Dr.
Redwood, Ph D , F.O.S , &o. Sold in throe tints :
white, rose, and cream.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had In a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands'
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail A gents -Elliot Bros.
E. Prosser & Co , Sydney.
S
ENT POST FREE FOR Is. STAMPS.
Social Science.
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders, Chronic
Diseases, Impediments to Marriage, &o., How to
choose a partner for life so as to live happy, How
to Regain and Preserve your Health, &c.
Address—R. T. 8ELB V, M.H., Devonshire-street,
Surry Hills, Sydney.
A8IHOOD
RESTORED
A Clergyman having tried every known rented)
of NERVOUS EXHA Ut>
a forth# CURE
TION, PREMATURE DECAY
last discovered a
the sake of toff
isoripi
with self-addressed stamped envelope—
Dr. IS. A. CLARkE, P.O. Box *«. Syd
ATURE DECAY, Ac., ha* at
simple SELF-CURE, winch, fee
lering humanity, he will send FREE
the Prescription which CURED him. Address
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY. EASE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
■ THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves
labour, stationery, and time, writing much
faster than expert penmen, and condensing matter
to less than one-half the space occupied by nen
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken In the
usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
reporters, and all men of business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY and CO.,
85 Clar joce-street.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and B. Prosser
and Co., Pltt-street; W. J, Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge: Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless Imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
street, Redfcrn.
Xdlx3.en O-loss
TO Country Journalists.—Leaders, Telegrams,
and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man of long experience, on moderate
terms. "Beta,” Bulletin Olllce.


W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON and SYDNEY.
Catalogues Catalogues
POST IKES,
W. WALKER
and SONS
are one of the
Largest
IS
Stockholders
ana
Manvjaetwtn
is®
; . s
Htvk'dlaii
FURNITURE
I1U
ENGLAND.
POST FREE.
ALL STOCK
m their
BYDNB Y
HOTTS8
Bttpplfed
OIKBOT
from their
London
Manufactory
ana Latest
London (Style*
Guaranteed-
SYDNEY BRANCH;
81 CL.AREN6E STREET, WYMYARD SQUARE.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
MITTAGONG.
FIRST CLASS ACCOMMODATION FOR FAMILIES AND TRAVELLERS, COMBINED WITH
CIVUITY AND ATTENTION
The Best Brands of Ales, Wines, and Spirits Stock.
BUGGIES AND HORSES ON HIRE OR SPECIALLY ENGAGED.
PETER MURPHY, Proprietor.
V
m i
co
on
/zo
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wilson’s Ame-
rican “ Extra Toast ” BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incomparible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Street. Sydney,
OFFORD & CO.’S HA IS
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
Next to Eoyal Hotel, and at 652 George Street.
READ IT ALL.
It may Sava your Life.
AMERICAN CO.’I
Hop Bitters
ABM
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buctiu, Mandrake, and Dandelion
“The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
‘and most effective curative properties
• of all other bitters, betas' the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘ and life and health restoring agent on
‘ earth.”
They Give Now Life and Vigour to the Aged
and Infirm.
"To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whoso sedentary employments cause
‘irregularities of the Blood, Stomach,
• Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
• Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
‘ highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
‘ without Intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Dont
‘ wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
•once. It may safe your life. Hun-
‘ dreds have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
"Do not suffer yourself or let your
• friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘ use the American Co.’s Hop Bitters.
“Remember, these Hop Bitters are
‘ no vile, drugged, drunken nostrum,
‘but the purest and best Medicine
‘ ever made, and no person or family
• should be without it.”
jy gee that the name Dr. Soule Is blown
In every bottle, none other genuine.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT
SOCIETY,
HEAD OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
DIVISION OF PROFITS.
INTENDING Policy-holders are reminded that
all policies effected before the 31st instant,
will share in the distribution of profits to be then
made.
RICHARD TBECE,
Acting Secretary.
J, TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’i
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKED CLOTH HALL,
478 Georga-straat,
Established 1861.
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURER*.
|ar - Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guaranteed.
QUOD FACIMUS VALDE PACIMU8.
(What we do we do well.)
YOUR PHOTO.-If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what Is but well-meant
counsel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries In the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creeiman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
\
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
fofegolng excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices- C-D-V.,; Cabinets’ 30s. per dozen.
CHEELMAN & CO.,
INQTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADE.
NOTICE.
ADVERTISERS and others will plfaie take
notice that Mr FRANK A. HAl L is NO
LONGER CONNECTED WITH THIi OFFICE
as Canvessrr, Collector, or oths rwise.
W. H. TRAILL,
Managing Director.
The Bulletin Office,
Sydney, November, 1885.
EVh e oVl°d d Sbe IPEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT
tn a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL.
881 Geor«e-street, Sydney.
Bad u b cologne-
4711 4711.
Established 172a
Golf Medal, Moscow, 1872: Prize. Medal, Vienna, 1873
This Eau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the Inst 36 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for its superior sweetness, strength,
and Invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
petitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the <iite of
Europe.
The large and constantly increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Eau de Cologne, not only in
Europe, but also in North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number—4711 changed into 7411,1147, 4117, &c., &c.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pltt-
street, Sydney,
To be had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
end Btorekcopers. In town and country.
Will KS'Donald’s Story.
T had eczema and salt rhtum forscventoen years,
t had It on my head. lace, neck, arms and legs. I
was notable to walk, only on my hands and knees
fnr one year I have not been aole to help myselt
fnr e'irht years. I tried hundreds of remedies; no t
one had the least effect. The doctors said my case
was incurable; so my parents tried everything
♦W nnmealopg I saw your advertisement, and
concluded to try Cutictjra Remedies The
rTi rirtmA brought the humor to the surface of my
akin It would drop off as it came out, until now
Tam entirely well-. All 1 can say is I thank you
mosthekr lily for my cure. Any person who thinks
thin letter a fraud, let them write or come and see
me*and find out for themselves. WILL. MCDON-
ALD. 2543 Dear-born St, Chicago, III.
Sworn to before the British Consul.
Tf vou wish to establish a name for your
house, fell the best brands-WoLFE s Schnapps
stands foremost.
Liver coughs often taken lor consumption
are cured almost instantly with Hop Bitters if you
use the genuine American Co.'s
Wolfe's Schnapps is superior to brandy or
W *TTo Ifc's Schnapps the great remedy for
dyspepsia.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIEL’S
CELEBEATED
BISCUITS ABB CASES, TREACLE ABB COLBEB STEEP,
Self-raising /Erated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
for SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE, *&£
ft. & A. have obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney I.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4,
Sydney Agents: W. H. ARIELL A CO., 343 and 345 KenS-street.
Joe.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
* No, he ain’t for sale; It’s no use talking.
There's the old woman, you’ll get your walking-
Papers sudden if she gets the idea
That brought you here.
“ Pretty, ain’t he ? 16-1 all over,
Out of a Warhawk mare-sire Red Rover,
By Gratis-Lena; that head shows Lena,
The sire's cleaner.
“ I know he’s a heavy ugly quarter.
A falling, that, of old Warha i k’s daughter;
That chest shows some of the G ratls breed.
Them pasterns signify spring and speed,
That’S one of them eyes that ‘ loves the lead;’
Yes, he’s pigeon-toed, and a bit in-kneed;
But that’s no fau't In a jumping boss
When heavily-timbered ground you cross,
He wouldn’t baulk at a six-foot wall,
Them pigeon-toed un's doesn't fall.
He’s juat a weaner.
“ Three off; that’s all.” “ Too young for you ? ’*
" Yes, boss.”
“ You want a steady settled-down old hcs ;
A young ’un wouldn't never have the stay
To work every day.
11 He’s got a wicked T” ” Oh, yes I that's so,
Awful wicked, ain’t you, hey ? Come here, Joe;
Oyer—good boy. There ain’t no fence stops hlm #
The wicked limb.”
• He wants to buy you, Joe, you wicked dog,
You plgeon-totd, la-kneed, long-headed hog;
If ho tried to buy a hair In your tad
I think he’d fall.
“ Don’t fool round there at his latter end,
He’s none too quiet; you ain’t no friend
Of his—he knows you’d buy him.
So don’t try him.
“ Why, won’t I sell him ? Go and ask the wife;
If food was money and coin was our life,
And you offered her money and wanted Joe,
She’d tell you go.
•' She’d tell you how, nigh on two years ago
(Joe can remember it. Can’t you, Joe ?
Though a baby yarraman you was then),
She expected a stranger—that’s him, * Ben,’
That yellow-haired boy near the weanera’ pan;
She got a hurt -well we’re married men.
We ought to know.
“ That meant ‘ boot and saddle ’ in red-hot speed,
No looking then for a favourite steed;
forty mile to be done —the doctor brought;
I snatched a bridle, rushed out and caught
Well, Joe was the only boss I could cee.
He’d thrown all the folks on the farm but me.
1 roped him, and drew him up to a tree,
Clapped the tackle on him, and set him free
When I cut the rope he gave just one boun d,
Then stood, and looked, and walked quietly
round;
I leapt In the saddle, and gave a ‘ cluck,’
Ho got over the fenos with a flying buck,
And straight away like a bullet fl sw.
No girth I tightened, no rein I drew,
He strode, as if of his mission he knew,
From the setting sun till the first cook crew.
Ere my seat In the saddle got fairly cool,
The doctor (he’s one of the sporting school)
Got astride of Joe, turned his head for home,
And before I got there young Ban had come.
Joe saved my wife,
Saved the youngster's life;
So now you know
Why I won’t sell Joe,
Pigeon-toed, ugly, bow-legged Joe,”
MAY DEN


A BOON TO THOUSANDS I
an hood and Vigour of Youth
Restored in Four Weeks.®
frdjt hifti
ThW ifiVWuiibU
til Wj»0 £Uff«r
«&bUng
t M
feuitr tt
„ f*nv«dy tfffcft .
f«r Wilting iftd will
; .jtsrti Manhood to th« mo»t shattered and dot
tnation from whkt<V« ian»« afUlog, d> rPVLA
’ -uiur« Is ilftpomibli r 1J *"“
>lont, Which Ait Vi
ytilidi.... _
lUf, Ui aMVklfktly
rwt M tMa«tf aad
df AnpltlU, DUflirb«d
fctflWerlMl, til
, , Ctust incipleitV tftd dcgcltdfecy,
„_1 and pirtlal prostration, and vVery oth«r •xhauitiv* d*-
.2g«ment of th« system ; regenerating all lb* Important
ito.nt* of the human frame, and enabling man to Mill Ms
<*at saordd obligations.
la oases at Its., or fear quantities la one hr j<s. j if Of
-•sk, tt. M. extra.
NATURE'S GREAt REMEDY I
indigestion, Loft <5f Ac
; Lip, Trefiitbling Sedtationi, Diiktnels, 5f
i.r.aary Deposits, which
IE
R RIRORDS
*<* strengthening the system, purifying the Wood, regulating
■it bowels, and removing all vitiated humours, bilious ane
t ver Complaints, Rheumatism, Gout, Scorbutic Affections,
ortivenees. Shin Eruptions, and nil diseases of the nervous
nrstem. This never-hilling remedy affords at eace
c »s* of life to the sickly and aged of be
s beautiful aftd cl
mengtk,
Stem, sms never-ruiing ■{*«'“f
its of life to the sickly end aged nf hotk lexei, imparttag
beautiful and clear eofftpl.xlix, a (Arc sin ef heallk,
rengtk, tad vigour. Price, es. j by poet, *«. elllra
AGENTS POP SYDNEY I
Messrs. W.BARCLAY & CO.,
. 43 00 VLB USB'
' Oss Doom most Onoxon ItsIIT t*vn,
S nd may he had of meet Chemists. <1
'treth p*»k red neurely and frtt from tkitnmlln,
frctntland, Ntw Inland. »r dnujUfi tf (fre AnttnHmp
Oe/en/M, en rtetlpt of Pott OJfiet Ordtr tt ttampi.
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
-» 7RALG1A, HEADACHE, TOOTH AC /E,
AAINS, BRUISES, 1URNS. SCALP 3, &c and
* <cn internally cures DIARRHCEA, n
1 AMPS, COLIC, and all other Vutfern- aches
-1 l pains..
r rice, Q/- Sold Everywhere,
0. E. MOULTON, sole prop:j '0R C
•[ELBOUENli A 1ST 10 oLDNEY,
TRADE MARK—“ TONIC NERVINE.”
A OjSJJS, OJsRT'aLN, & SPEED X (JURIS ior Wer-
,a3L vous and General Debility, and all complaint*
that spring from lack of nervo force, as Neuralgia
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss 01
Appetite, Fema'e Disorders, Liver and Kidney
"omplalnte, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power.
Art. By Its tonlo and soothing effects It at once
removes all craving tor Alcohol. By Its richness
in phosphorous an 1 other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE nour-
Dhei and give.’ vigour to the whole system.
Trice, 4s. 6d., or 2fis. a case Sold everywhere.
Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS. Registered
Chemists, lOi and 10(1 Market street near Ely 1
T»»k, Sydney, and 5 i’itt-atraet
N.B.-All Imitations illegal. »UJ! NO Sir ” crj
n-i’P,
&
EC0H0MICALFURN17UR
ECONOMICALFURNITURE
■
L 1
i3f~ THE LARGEST AND ONLY LEGITIMATE
TIME-PAYMENT FURNITURE WARE-
HOUSE IN THE COLONY.
365 PITT STREET.
I A TJ T I 0 K
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO THE PUBLIC.
la consequence of an attempt to substitute in-
ferior and spurious articles for “ Dr, Scott’s Elec-
tric,” the Pall Mall Electric Association, 54, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, desire to caution the public
against purchasing any counterfeit of the follow-
ing goods “ Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets, Dr.
Scott’s Electric Belts, Dr. scott's Electric Hair,
Flesh, or Tooth Brushes, Dr. Scott’s Galvanic
Generators, and Dr. Scott’s Electric Insoles.’
Every genuine article bears the word “ Electric”
and the name of Dr. Scott, as also does the box
containing same. The extent of our trade, and the
marked appreciation of the public having induced
certain parties to manufacture a line of worthless
goods, having something of the general form and
external appearance of ours, and variously styled
“ Magneto-Electric or Electric Magnetic,’
we respectfully ask that parties who have been
influenced by the many testimonials we publish,
all of which are strictly genuine, or the universal
reputation of our goods, to give electricity a
trial, will boo that the name of Dr. Scott and the
word “ Electric” appear on every article purchased.
In addition to this, we have recently registered a
rew trade mark—an oval label with our local
address, “ Pall Mall Electric Association, 54, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, N.S.W,” in marginal lines,
encircling the device of a mailed hand bolding a
group of thunderbolts.
vxITi tpSsl/.
£
£
£
As we are the only parties n Australia importing
these goods direct from Dr. cott, and are prepared
to guaiantee the genuineness of every article
rearing this label, we advise purchasers to see
.orsonally that this trade mark invariably appears
>n any and every Electric Corset, Belt, Insole,
Generator, Hair, Flesh, or Tooth Brush, they may
desire to purchase. This borne in mind, much
vexation and dlsappolntrm nt will be saved ; and
ve respectfully request tb t any person who has
been induced to buy any of those imitations under
be impression that they were Dr. Scott’s Electric,
will at once communicate with us.
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
oleasant support, encircling the waist with
jeat and accurate fit, and aiding by. he
i talising properties of electricity the funo-
ions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
he principal Royal Families of Europe, by
he elite of American and Continenta
ooiety, they are daily endorsed by over one
lillion ladies, and as they do not exceed in
ost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
f any kind, who will refuse to give them a
rial 7
Or. Scott’s Electric
Corsets and Belts
hre universally approved by leading Phy-
ioians as the best, safest, and most effectual
amedy for Spinal Complaints, Incipient
' Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
hsthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
'ebility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
rlysiena, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &c., and have
vured some of the most obstinate and dis-
i ressing oases, after all other remedies (so-
alled) have failed.
The prices are as follows
No. 1
No. 8
No. 3
No. 5
Electric Belts..
..8 6
... 8 6
.. 10 6
.. 15 0
.. 15 0
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
■ ompass, by which the Electric-Magnetic
influence can be tested. If you oannet get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in Now South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece ©f common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque,
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
64 Margarct-sftroat,
CONTINUED SUCCESS
or
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£9 mmi BALES!
PACKED in CANY AS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
W Carriage paid by mail all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for 12
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
£5 LADY’S BALE.
6 Ladles’ Chemises
5 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
i Ladies’ Camisoles
3 Ladles’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longcloth. and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the above.
«» MOURNING BALE.
25 yds. Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVES.
On receipt of 3s. in
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 2 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For acoouohements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £6.
15s.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials - Silks, Velvets, &c.—with
prices, and full Instruction for self-measurement,
if applied to.
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
Originators of the celebrated £5 Bales of Drapery
PAUL LIEBE'V^T
UNLIKE OTHERS
DOES NOT
FERHENI
AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral.
No other complaints are so insidious In their
attack as those affecting the throat and lungs:
none so trifled with by the majority of suffer-
ers. The ordinary cough or cold, resulting
perhaps from a trifling or unconscious ex-
posure, is often but the beginning of a fatal
sickness. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral has
well proven its efficacy in a forty years’ fight
with throat and lung diseases, and should bo
taken in all cases without delay,
A Terrible Cough Cured,
" In 18571 took a severe cold, which affected
my lungs. I had a terrible cough-and passed
night after night without sleep. The doctors
gave me up. I tried Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, which relieved my lungs, induced
sleep, and afforded me the rest necessary
for the recovery of my strength. By the
continued use of the Pectoral a perma-
nent cure was effected. I am now 62 years
old, hale and hearty, and am satisfied your
Cherry Pectoral saved me.
Horace Fairbrotheb,”
Rockingham, Vt., July 15, 1882.
* Croup. — A Mother’s Tribute.
“While in the country last winter my little
hoy, three years old, was taken ill with croup;
it seemed as if he would die from strangu-
lation. One of the family suggested the use
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, a bottle of
which was always kept in the house. This
was tried in small and frequent doses, and
to our delight in less than half an hour the
little patient was breathing easily. The doc-
tor said that the Cherry Pectoral had
saved my darling’s life. Can you wonder at
our gratitude? Sincerely yours,
Mrs. Emma Gedney.”
159 West 128th St., New York, May 16, 1882.
“ I have used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
< In my family for several years, and do not
hesitate to pronounce it the most effectual
remedy for coughs and colds we have ever
tried. A. J. Crane.”
Lake Crystal, Minn., March 13,1882. a
“ I suffered for eight years from Bronchitis,
and after trying many remedies with no suc-
cess, I was cured by the use of Ayer’s Cher-
ry Pectoral. Joseph Walden.”
Byhalia, Miss., April 5, 1882.
“I cannot say enough in praise of Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral, believing as I do that
but for its use I should long since have died
from lung troubles. E. Bragdon.”
Palestine, Texas, April 22, 1882.
No case of an affection of the throat or
lungs exists which cannot be greatly relieved
by the use of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
and it will always cure when the disease is
not already beyond the control of medicine.
* PREPARED BY «
Dr. J-C. Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
A Sold by all Druggists. &
BLLIOTT BROS, and 8. HOFFNUNG A 00.,
Wholesale Agents.
yy NNUAL CHRISTMAS FESTIVAL.
PE APES and SHAW
invite special attention to their large assortment of
FANCY ARTICLES. SUITABLE FOR
PKESBNTATION.
They compflse almost
EVERY CONCEIVABLE ARTICLE OPLUXURY
CBRISTMAg CARDS,
ranging in price
FROM ONE PENNY TO ONE POUND EACH.
PE APES & SHAW’S
ELEGANT
ARTICLES
for
PRESENTATION.
Ladles' Hand Bags, tHth
and without fittings
The largest stock of beau-
tiful Fans in the city
Scent Caskets, Boudoir
Nicnacs
! Card Cases, in silver,
ivory, pearl, and
sianleathtr
j Purses, Memo. Tablets,
j Pocket Books
Cabinet and Carte- de-
Vislte Screens
Photo. Cases, Photo.
Frames. Albums
i Pocket Mirrors, Tourists’
I Cases, Writing Cases,
Writing Desks
Fitted Dressing Cases,
L and Bags, &?.
PICNIC LUNCHEON BASKETS,
all sizes.
HILDEGARDE,
the new game of cricket for ladles.
PARLOUR, FIELD, and LAWN GAMES,
in great variety.
f Lawn Tennis Bets, Cricket
ditto, Croquet ditto,
Rlngolette, James the
Janitor, Parlour Skit-
tles, Toys for the little
ones, Solitaires, Ger-
man Tactics.
Mechanical Toys, Horses,
Dogs, Cows, Sheep, Rab-
bits, Monkeys, Rooking
Horses, Ac., &c.
Work Baskets, Work
Boxes, Combination
Boxes of Games, Com-
bination Boxes of Toys.
DOLLS. DOLLS. DOLLS, LOVELY DOLLS.
BOY DOLLS, GIRL DOLLS, BABY DOLLS,
TALKING DOLLS, CRYING DOLLS,
LAUGHING DOLLS, SLEEPING DOLLS.
f Wo shall show This Day
a special Shipment of
Millinery, Imported di-
rect from Paris express-
ly for the Christmas
Trade, Choice and Styl-
ish Goods, and they will
be found cheap, being
marked at a minimum
rate of profit to meet
the extraordinary com-
petition now* existing.
JUST OPENED,
the
NEW CARTNQTON SQUARE-SHAPED
PARASOLS.
COMB AND SEE THEM,
They are the Fashionable Novelty of the Day 1
Novelties in Buffings,
New Linen Sets, New
Lace ditto, Fichus and
Lace Mantles, Black
Spanish Mantillas,beau-
tiful French Cambric
and Fancy Handker-
chiefs.
A Special Importation of
beautiful Real and Imi-
tation Laces, In every
width, colour, and de-
scription.
Our Lao® Department 1s
crowded with New
Goods and Novelties.
A BEAUTIFUL ASSORTMENT
of
EVENING JERSEY BODICES,
In all the
NEW LIGHT SHADES.
JERSEY JACKETS IN ALL COLOURS,
03. lid , 7s. 6d , 8s. 6d , 10j. 61, and 13s. 6i.
COME AND PER THEM,
THEY ARE EXCEEDINGLY CHEAP.
PBAPES & SHAW’S
LACE
DEPARTMENT, 1
Full of NOVELTIES. I
I
PEAPES & SHAW’S !
SPECIAL SHIPMENT I
CHRISTMAS
MILLINERY,
PEAPES & SHAW’S
GRAND
ASSORTMENT (
of
TOYS and GAMES.
f Our Hosiery and Glove
Department is replete
with all the newest and
most reliable Goods.
Our Hosiery from J.
and R. Morley's, our
Kid Gloves from Dent's
and our Fabric Gloves
from Fownes Brothers’.
It Is well known these
makers cannot be
beaten, and we are sure
our prices cannot be
1 either.
324, 326, 328 George-rtreet.
CLEARANCE SALE. BONA FIDE.
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st., Sydney
(Established 1860).
FRONT PREMISES having’ BEEN CONDEMNED,
the
WHOLE STOCK MUST BE CLEARED
AT A SACRIFICE.
SALE CAN ONLY LAST ONE MONTH.
NOTE—ONE MONTH ONLY.
PEAPES & SHAW’S
GLOVE
and
HOSIERY J
DEPARTMENT. j
BEST MAKES. |
LOWEST PRICES. '
MUST BE CLEARED
to admit ©f
NEW PREMISES BEING ERECTED,
for which tenders have been called.
SALE CAN ONLY LAST ONE MONTH,
So Purchase Early,
BARGAINS 1 BARGAINS 1 BARGAINS I
at
J. Lawler’s,
608 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
NERVOUS DEBILITY,
Lost Vitality, &c.-A simple and positive
means of Self-Cure, by an eminent
French Hospital Physician. Sent Free
Medico, P.O. Box 760, Sydney.


Printed and Published by The Bueebtin News-
paper Co. (Limited), 24 Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
It was at the Katoomba Hotel“ I love
cold weather,” said Her Daintiness, as she sat
warming her feet—feet that, if she were Pope*
would make the most bigoted Protestant turn
Catholic. 11 1 like cold weather. It reminds one
of England and Christmas pantomimes.” “You
don’t mean to say,” said a youth, who was strug-
gling with a brandy-and-soda, and winning every
time, “that you like pantomimes.” “I adore them.”
“ What, the spectacular effects? ” “No; the good
old comic business. Nothing pleases mo bettor
than to see a harlequin with his concubine.”
Australia is not a new land. It is, in
truth, say geologists and naturalists, the oldest of
lands now above low-water mark. Professor Tay-
lor, the eminent naturalist lately visiting us,
argues that much from the presence of the queer
mud-fish of Queensland—a lish that is half a frog
and can bury Itself for months in a similar way.
This fish existed in Europe several millions of
years back, and its fossil remains are found in the
deep-burled rocks, and notably of those through
which the Severn has cut so deep a channel. Let
us be proud of ourselves, therefore, as dwellers
in a land of earliest creation. “Foremost in the
ranks of time.”
“Hurrah for a farmer’s life!” sings the
Smiling Tom of the stage. Not so sings the
farmer of the free selections. " I thought you was
farmin’, Joe,” said one country resident to
another. “ Farmin’ be blanked,” came t he reply;
“ I teas farmin’, or leastways, I was tryln’ to farm
on a selection. I used to go out at daylight and
dibble corn till dark. I slogged in for four days,
and the bandicoots used to come along and pick it
up, and at the end of the fourth day when I run
out of seed, I was j ust four dlbbk-holes ahead, and
the bandicoots was cornin’ on full of fight for
them four holes. There was nothin’ ever coma up
on that place but bandicoots. I suing farmin’ the
fourth day, and I ain’t tried it since. Bellin’ water-
cresses is good enough for me now.”
The Montreal Board of Health has re-
quired the Churches to close on account of a small-
pox epidemic. The clergy objected and refused.
We know of more than one church in N.8.W.
which was compelled to suspend the traflio in
souls owing to “small-box" epidemic. But
while the coin fell into the cash-box the clergy
feared neither small-pox nor scarlatina, burglars
nor boils. And why ? Their treasure was laid up
where “neither wasp nor moth can corrupt,” &j.
Little with contentment is great gain, and a little
small-pox goes a very long way with some of us.
Those who professionally defy the Devil and all his
works are, however, not to be deterred by such a
trifling circumstance as smali-pox fiom circu-
lating with religious regularity the saucer which
receives “ threepences ” of those who, as Christian
men, attend church, fear the Lord, and pay their
water-rates.
There is an evident disposition to traduce
the climate of poor old England among “ eminent
colonists.” A batch of eminent ones returned to
Victoria by the boat (singularly coincident that)
which brought Lord Carington. They were all
delighted to be back in Melbourne, bless ’em I
Melbourne has done its duty by these dis-
tinguished gentlemen, and the joy they expressed
at returning to the seat of their greatness was
but natural. But it is amusing to note how, in
their anxiety to butter the land which has
brought them the bawbees, they rush into exagger-
ated depreciation of the land of their birth. Mr.
James Munro and the other eminent ones who
hung on Carlngton’s coat-tails all agreed that the
climate of the old country was something quite
too dreadful. Now, " English climate ” is almost
as wide a term as “Australian climate.” There
are many parts of England which compare very
favourably with Victoria in matters meteorologi-
cal, although through a combination of circum-
stances, none of those places are money-making
centres. But perhaps, after all, it was the Scotch
climate that most impressed the Hon. James and
friends, only out of consideration for auld lang
syne they neglected to draw any material distinc-
tions. We can easl'y understand a man who had
passed the best part of his life In Nova Zembla
even getting full up of the Scotch climate after
a week. Taken in conjunction with the many
oases of mental aberration among members of the
family, it is a painfully significant fact that our
gracious Queen elects to Jive almost entirely in
the Land o’ Cakes. It isn't as though they didn’t
sell the same whisky in Windsor.
The gifted editor (ourself) was busy writ-
ing an impassioned and vigorous protest on behalf
of drapers’ assistants, and as he sent the slips up
others were carried down by a deputation con-
sisting of one sad-eyed comp, who bore a look of
deep-seated melancholy in his otherwise beautiful
face. It is not often that the composing-room
contributes matter, but these lines are so good
that we are under the Impression that we wrote
them ourselves, and have subsequently omitted to
remember the circumstance:—
Sad-eyed but otherwise beautiful comp, precedes
an Inkstand in his passage from the editorial apart-
ment.
A scene that would have been highly edi-
fying to the benighted heathen, if he could have
witnessed it, was enacted at a meeting of the Scots’
Church congregation, in Melbourne, the other
day. The meeting had been called to elect a
minister for the church in place of Mr. Strong,
who is now running a new Salvation Bureau of
his own on modern and Improved principles. The
Rev. Daniel M'Kenzte took the chair, and road
out the decision of the General Assembly, which
contained the following meek and charitable in-
junctions:—“ Direct that previous to any voting
about a call, the Presbytery shall take care that
the names of all persons known to be connected
with the new bo removed from the
roll of Sco:s* Church. . . . Declare that no
mental reservations are allowed to office-bearers
In signifying their adherence to the standards.”
The chairman wound up hla reading of this extra-
ordinary document with t he significant remark—
“ Any words will do no good, but will do harm.”
Somebody took exception to this,' and tried to
start a discussion, but was promptly sat
upon by the chairman. This kind of business, how-
ever, would not suit the gigantic M'Kean-a tower
pf strength in the congregation. Said be; ”But 1
wiU raise a discussion.” And he did. He raised
Sheol as well. This was the style of the colloquy
between him and the chairman. We quote from
the report In the ARGUS:—” The chairman: I
must interrupt Mr. M'Koan. I cannot listen to
this.’ Mr. M’Kean: ‘You will have to. If you
don’t wish to remain, we will appoint another
chairman.’ (Cheers.) The chairman: ’ I will close
the meeting with a blessing.’ Mr. M’Kean: No,
you don’t.’ (Cheers.)” The fact that a Presby-
terian congregation should crow at the man who
prevented one of their pastors from giving them
his blessing. Is a curious sign of the times. The
discussion came to a fit and Christian-like con-
clusion by the chairman remarking that if Mr.
M’Kean did not cease, he (the chairman) would
send for an officer.” “What officer? bel-
lowed M’Kean. “A police officer,” thundered
the chairman. “ If you do I will give you
Into custody,” said Attorney M’Kean, with
quiet but bitter emphasis. The end of the affair
was that the chairman had to apologise—and very
humbly, too—for his threat. Then he gave the
meeting his blessing 1 We are pleased to see this
manly vigour Imported into religious discussions.
It shows the speakers in earnest. A large body or
the Presbyterians believe that the old style of
saving souls is the best, and that members of the
Church must be saved that way whether they will
of not. This reminds ua of a Pive Dock father
who was converted by the Salvation Army one
night, and who was seen the next night dragging
his grown-up son along the street by the hair, ob
serving as he went: “You come along now and
bo saved, or by , I’ll knock h 1 out of you.
When New South Wales wants a professor
for her University she, as a general rule, sends out
of the colony for one. When she wants a bishop
or a Governor, she invariably sends out. Now, we
think a similar rule should be put in force when
she wants a hangman. It would make a genuine
old Ne w South Welsher green with envy to read
the account of an execution now lying before ua
in a French paper. The victim was a Nihilist
named Abramof Lissiansky, and on the charge of
having murdered an inspector of police he was
Sentenced to be hanged at Karkow in Russia. The
hangman spat on his hands and tackled the job.
Abramof descended, but, as the rope broke, he
was able to sit up on the ground and ask
after the health of the Czar. The hang-
man grabbed him, and telling the officials there
would be better luck next time, proceeded to
tie another rope round his subject. Again
Abramof descended, but this time his head came
through the noose. They hang In public In
Russia, and the clamour of the people became
rather deafening at this stage. There is no inti-
mation that Abramof lost his serenity. The cir-
cumstances were not such as admitted of a great
display of native dignity, but with as much of it as
he could muster, he enquired once more for the
health of the Czar. The hangman whistled the
Sclav rendering of the child-song, “Try, try
again,” and grabbed his man for the third time.
On this occasion he got through with his contract,
and humped the body triumphantly away. It
may seem that we have given reasons against Im-
porting a hangman, Inasmuch as the noseless one
of N.8.W. can mostly do it at one drop. But if
that be a valid reason for the employment of a
colonial for the duty of hanging, it is valid
for the employment of colonials for the duties of
professor, bishop, or governor. It is, however,
on broad general grounds we advocate the impsr-
tatlon of hangmen like the one we describe. If a
moral lesson is to be given to the rabble, why not
rub it in ? If dropping a man through a hole with
a rope round his neck lead to the higher civiliea-
tion, why not drop him through two or three
times ? It must be a matter of little difference to
him, and it sends the effect right home to the con-
oiousnoas of the most obtuse. We do not, in any
respect, disparage the efforts of the N.S.W. artist.
That he has genius we frankly admit. But it
seems to us, in looking, from the genuine old
N.S.W. standpoint of morality, at the way they do
things elsewhere, that our functionary misses the
finer touches of his craft. It is mainly on that
account we think that the office of hangman
should be filled up from the outside.
We learn from London that a number of
art commissions are being executed for the N.S.W.
Government. To start with, a Mr. Birch has got
an order for two marble figures 20 feet high to be
placed on each side of the new Government
offices in Sydney. They will represent Progress
and Knergy. Why figures representing these
qualities should be placed there at ail is not quite
clear, considering the character for masterly in-
activity so long enjoyed by State employes. And
Signor Giovanni Fontana, too, has nearly finished
a group in Sicilian marble for the outside of the
Post Office. The Queen is sitting in the middle.
It is not said whether the late John Brown has a
place in the group. There are two recumbent
figures, Great Britain and N.S W.—mother and
daughter—the latter with a fillet on her forehead
bearing the legend, “ Blood is thicker than water—
Soudan”—thus perpetuating in marble an episode
of buccaneering and murder of which all
free men should be heartily ashamed. The
Prince of wales la also there. And near
N.S W. there is a sheep which represents the
pastoral interest. Still, without the Soudan g«>at
and donkey, we think the group incomplete. It is
surely not too late to remedy this oversight. Oh, and
on this art subject Mr. Angus Cameron has a word
to say in the Sydney Daily Telegraph. It was
wrung from him by the fact that the Hon. H. C
Dangar appears bent on having the Post Office
carvings removed. Mr. Cameron says:—“1, tor
one, would as soon see figures having some re-
semblance to the manners and customs of the age
In which we live as Apollo, Ajax, Castor and Pol-
lux, or some equally heathen and inappropriate
exhibition. ... 1 feel convinced that it will be
a consummate piece of folly to wantonly destroy
what has cost so much to execute, to say nothing
of the injustice to the designer, who is now absent
from the colony.” Precisely. That’s what we've
said all along. Our objection is that the figures do
not illustrate the manners, customs, or forms of
this or any other age. If they fairly represent the
forms of this generation no stronger proof is
necessary that, In Australia at all events, another
fifty years will bring us back to the anthropoids.
Besides, it is just while the designer is away from
the colony that the truest delicacy would be shown
towards him by removing them, even if it were
found necessary to employ some of the Chinese
artists in Lower George-street to put a few things
in their place.
THE PAST, THE PRESENT, AND THE
FUTURE.
How IT WAS, HOW IT IS, AND HOW IT WILL BE
HOW IT WAS.
It Is nearly one hundred years ago nearly a cen-
tury—since the spirit of civilisation first hovered
over the great Australian continent. More thin
one navigator had sighted tho land in the days
gone by. There was a cold “ Portugee, in the 15th
century, and there were others be tore and later on,
but every sailor of them had turned up his nose
and sheered off on tne other tack- The first
rentiers were not a savoury class—they required a
good deal of something more than mild pe. suasion
to keep them In order; the principles of rneum and
tuum did not influence them much, and a Jalr or
rather the unfair proportion of them were not
willing visitors. But these morally dirty but phy-
sically powerful beginners did a world of good.
They laid the foundation of a mighty empire,
republic, or whatever may be the outcome In the
not far-off future; they cleared the way for those
who followed them, and are consequently, in a
certain way, and with a strong grain of reserva-
tion, entitled to our respect and admiration.
Sydney itself had very small beginnings, and it
would have required a wonderfully imaginative
temperament to have conjured up orpropheoied
the changes that 100 years have wrought. The
frogs croaked, the kangaroo bounded, and the
snakes crawled on many a spot where the genius
of bricks and mortal has long sinoo asserted its
sway. The Circular Quay wasn’t, the Post Office
wasn’t, neither its carvings; roads with wooden
blocks and granite cubes were conspicuous only
by their absence, and the general characteristics
of the Queen's highway were mud andjunevenness
in wet weather, dust and unevenness in the dry
season. Some of the mud is left now, and the dust
occasionally asserts itself, but in nothing like the
style of the days of old. There was no scarcity of
water in the time of which we write, perhaps
because there was no specially appointed and
scientific official to look alter it, or for the reason
that the then population, as a rule, preferred rum
as a beverage; and wash'icg, as a regular habit, was
not much thought of. George-street was little
else than a bullock-track, and sites upon which
magnificent buddings now stand echoed with the
“cooey ” of the native black man. Time went on;
the fame of the Australias as a land of promise
and as one flowing with milk and honey went
abroad; free labour and capital commenced to
flock in; the brain worked with the hand; thought,
muscle, sinew, perseverance, and pluck, made
their mark upon the tough soil; the bush began to
disappear; the rocks began to yield ; roads
branched out in various direct’ons; wharves,
jetties, warehouses, shops, stores, and other prac-
tical Indications of commercial vigour sprung up;
the black man slowly receded, and the hard-headed
Briton reigned in his stead.
HOW it is.
Time and tide wait for no man, and if wo wish
to keep our heads above water wo must do some-
thing more than meet the times—we must go right
ahead of them. Sydney is a bright example of
this. Sydney has always been in the front rank of
cities, and always will be; and if, in error, all our
publishers and printers were to score 1900 on next
year’s almanacs, instead of 1886, the mistake would
put a great many things right, for the capital of
New South Wales is most certainly 20 years ahead
of the times. It dots not require the very oldest
Inhabitant to toll what George-street was—men
and women who have not yet passed their prime
remember all that, and congratulate themselves
upon what it is. For tumble-down stores, magni-
ficent shoos; for lowly, uncanoy-Iooking shanties,
grand edifices and Imposing structures; for mud
and slush, wooden pavements and clean footways,
although with regard to the latter part of the
business we regretfully say we can only speak
comparatively. Thera used to be a little shop in
George-street, we forget the number, and Indeed
the numerical sign of this particular building is a
mystery, and has, even in well-balanced legal cra-
niums, been held open to considerable doubt.
However, it was there, and the number matters
not, for be it as it may, and although this shop was,
in the immediate time that skirts the present day,
only a little shop, yet it was remarkable in many
ways and for many things peculiar to itself. Thera
were always pretty things iu the window, and it
was evident there was sound management within;
yet with all this, who could have Imagined, a few
short years ago, that in that attractive little
store were the germs of a vast trade, and the seeds
that have in the present sprung up into the big-
gest concern in Sydney?
HOW IT WILL BE.
When Blp Van Winkle woke up ho rubbed his
eyes, for the legendary Dutchman was, to use a
Yankeeism, “fairly knocked.” According to the
story, he had been to sleep a matter of 20 years or
so, and we want our readers to Imagine the effect
that would be produced upon a citizen of Sydney
after waking up from a similar nap. Let him go
to sleep on the steps of the railway station, let
him slumber if he will in a dump-car in one of the
Kedfern sheds, just as he pleases, all we want him
to do is to keep quiet- to snore if he so please—for
the short space of 20 years, and then to wake up
and rub his eyes Different people have different
ways of expressing surprise, according to the
nature and extent of the shock and the tempera-
ment of the individual. We wonder how our
imaginary somnolist would act ? Would he stare,
gape, rave, or stutter ? Let us watch him and see.
He wakes, and without paying much attention to
the general mouidiness of his condition, rubs his
eyes just like our fancy friend Rip Van Winkle
did. He staggers to his feet, and turning him
round gazes with a fishy kind of stare. Oh! yes,
there was a railway station, certainly, when he
commenced his little nap, but this handsome edi-
fice—oh I dear, no. Trailing his sleep-ridden limbs
alter him, he shuffles Into toe road, and after on®
or two narrow escapes from the new arrangement
for taken drunken or apparently-drunken men to
curative homes, he at last plants his still feeble
understandings just about the corner of George
and Gipps streets. This was once a familiar spot
with the Morpbi ui-ftfllioled citizen, and the old
associations and tne pleasant rt collections seemed
to brighten his eye and clear his muddy brain. He
rubs his eyes again, and to some purpose this
time, for poor old Rip's astonishment was nothing
to his. Square, solid, imposing, of immense height,
and of architectural proportions touching on the
magnificent, rises up before his startled vision the
newest edition of The Palace Emporium, Hay-
market. The old characteristics ore there, but
how enlarged, and after walking down George-
itreet as far as Hay-street, turning down there
and continuing his ramble round Parker-street
and Gipps-etreet until be has made the complete
round ot ihe block, the now thoroughly-awakened
citizen hesitates and fairly gasps for breath. Yes,
there’s no mistake about it, there’s no deception
in the matter. Round again he goes to make sure,
till at lest the conclusion forces itself upon him
that the whole block is Palace Emporium, every
brick of it Anthony Hordern and Sons, every
stone of it in some way or other connected with
and belonging to The Only Universal Providers.
Well does he remember the 20 years-ago magnifi-
cence of the old resort; well may he be utterly
and entirely confounded by the significant and
almost magical splendour of the new arrange-
ments. Plate-glass, acres of it; Corinthian pillars
delicately ornamented; verandahs ehgintly
painted and gorgeous with ail the hues of the
rainbow—scoi oa ot theme, hundreds of yards of
the other. Uniformity, solidity, grandeur, all that
architecture can do, la there. Talk about buying
everything there, as old sleepyhead remembered he
used to do in the old days, why how about now?
And see bow he fumbles in his mouldy garments
for his cheque-book, for one of the first things
that cornea to him is that no doubt it is still all
cash down within. It is very patent to our
friend’s mind that if that was the case before, it
hss a double significance now. Fashions have
altered whilst he slept, but perseverance and
Argus-eyed activity never lose sight of the wants
of the day. Neootsltles have arisen from altered
times, new habits, and from other reasons, but
the “sleeper awakened ” is sure they are, as in the
days gone by, proptrly attended to. A butcher’s
Shop, a grocer s store, a sadd'ery department,
a?ticultural implements, engineers’tools, farming
appliances, dairy produce, and many other things
almost impossible to enumerate, evidence them-
selves through the shining windows ot the New
Universal Emporium, as ihe sleeper of 20 years
wanders round the block he remembers so well,
and which now so staggers him with its altered
appearance and the brilliancy of Its splendour.
Of course he entered; of course he tried to make
himself known; of course he was not believed—
the fashion of his coat and his general mouldiness
were against that; of course tney wouldn t take
his cheque because the paper was mildewed, and
the bank to which it relaled had gone—no matter
w here—yep.rs ago ; and naturally he retired to
look up his frimds, re-establish bis character, and
renovate himself gent rally and financially ; and
wbea he had done so, and when wo see him again,
which wifi be before long, we will relate his expe-
riences of the internal arrangements of The Palace
Emporium, Hay market, 20 years ahead.*
Sydney—Sunday.
Blest day which cometh once in every seven,
By some esteemed the greatest gift of Heaven.
A pause, enabling weaiied toll to seek
Recuperation, strength to face next week.
To toilers, haply Heaven’s beat boon, how then
Does it affect those highly-gifted men
Who’re not compelled to work ? Whose only way
To pass time over la some form of play—
If Labour’s praise is duo for their award,
How much our social drones should bless the
Lord.
This is the day, when overworked, you’d fain,
After your first awakening, dream again—
Bat hark, the “BjIIs of Sydney I” Rouse, poor
soul,
It is the Sawbath morning bells that toll.
Arise! array yourself In sombre black;
Bnatoh.from the board a hasty, ill cook'd snack,
And, hast’nlng through the dusty, gloomy street,
Enter the Shepherd’s Fold with rev’rent feet;
Then, sniffing at the " unction ” in your hat,
And feeling if your parting’s straight, hair flat,
With face of mute who’s paid to look sedate.
You settle down in misery, ton minutes late.
(A look from “ unco guld ” a wish deo’ares
To mention you for punishment in ’a prayers.)
The Reverend Cushion Pounder takes the flure —
Of all things, like Macaulay, he’s “cocksure; ”
If you have any llng’rlng doubts, he’ll qulok
De-bate them out of you, as with a stick—
Assure you three are one and one is three.
That tweedle-dum’s translated tweedle-dee,
And show you that a sentence plainly writ
May mean the very opposite; to wit,
A needle’s eye’s a camel-entrance—so
Our rich parishioner slips in you know.
But Cushion Pounder’s theme comes to a close,
A vagrant whiff of luncheon met his nose;
No locusts and wild honey for his Grace,
Continuous fatted-calf shines from his face—
Basted and larded with the best of cheer;
He keeps no fasts-one feast day—all the year.
The sav’ry odour spurs him through the prayers,
And then the organ bands you down the stairs;
Meekly, you slip a “ thripny ” in the plate,
While Midas clangs a sov’relgn in with state;
Humbled before you’re now confounded quite.
Till thought brings solace—’tis your widow’s mite.
Returning homo to lunch—find it begun—
The “ Missus ” and the beef completely done,
The children and the “ taturs ” balmed in grease,
The table graced with everything but Peace.
You struggle feebly with the morsels tough,
Till teeth and stomach cry out—Hold, enough I
No sparkling ale is yours to wash it down.
Does Midas feel the law that smothers Brown ?
No, Midas has his cellaret, his Club-
Brown, but the back-door entrance to a Pub.—
Must dodge, slink, bribe and beg to get a drink,
While landlords pay " the man In blue ” to wink.
If now, like Burns, you'd snuff the “ caller air,”
And smooth the wrinkles from the brow of care,
With stout ash-plant your languid steps sustain,
And wend your careless way through the Domain,
The sun and sky league with the bracing breeze
To drown your troubles ’neath the dimpled seas;
Nature’s inspired her sweetest smiles to give.
Here, then, is happlnesr—’tis good to live.
Look down the Central Walk, behold parade
The matron, nursing mother, and the maid
Sweet smiling on the youth who pleads his suit,
Yet in “ throe shoe ” she hides a “ seven foot; ”
And bravely doth her pedal pains conceal,
Wearing a heart and corset both of steel.
Now pats the tradesman and his buxom wife,
The only savings of their wedded life.
OadI What a troop cf children in the rear,
A tax on bachelors is wanted here.
If Jones, who’s single, earns bis two pounds ten,
And married Brown but fifty shillings, then
It’s plain that Jones each week can save a pound,
While debt pursues poor Brown the whole year
round.
Ten bob from Jones take, seven and six give
Brown
(Expenses swallow up the odd half-crown),
That I am right, you doubtless will agree,
It but remains for Burns thus to decree.
But what is this that challenges your gezs ?
A brick-kiln this, your wayward step that stajs—
Ah, no, good pilgrim; speak! where can you lick
it?
Behold, the Parthenon of Phidias Trlckett,
A gallery of Art here meets the view—
iuch Art as even Athens never knew;
But, add the P.O. carvings as a frieze,
Approving shouts will backward roll the seas;
Then Ruskln's taste at once would be excelled,
The dooms of Milan, Florence, loudly knelled,
Rome, from her proud pre-eminence bo hurled,
And Sydney stand the Art School of the World.
But if the eye Is hurt, so is the ear,
For Cider holds a tom’pranco meeting near;
“What’s that you whisper ?” That’s too rough;
oh, come —
You think his nose retained to plead for Rum.
Appearances deceive even now, as ever—
Gaze on that diagram, a drunkard’s liver.
But Cider speaks. “ He’ll soon bo hln the ’Ouse
To watch hold Holllffe has ha cat ha mouse.”
That’s quite enough, we’ll further go afield,
A little search some fresh surprise may yield—
Behold! a follower of “ the Lowly One,”
Whose meek looks, and hot words, afford some fun
To interrupters. Hark! one with a yell
He damns to an eternity in hell;
’Tis thus he’d gain adherents to the cause.
By dooming all who doubt to Satan’s claws.
Lo, where yon “ iron pot ” usurps the plain
(Another jewel that graces our Domain),
A large and orderly, if motley, ere v
Yclept the Democrats we'll interview,
They take the stump each Sunday in the year—
With what effect to none seems very clear.
Brave words are uttered, but no deeds are done,
At least our Chronicles can tell of none
(No Quintus Curtius leaps into the breach—
The only breaches here are of the speech),
For Demos wags loose tongue in empty pate,
And speaks as if ho held the helm of State; k
Talks In one breath of Bismarck and of Lusoombe,
The worldwide revolution which must come,
Of Burwood's morning trains, and of Bulgaria,
And of the free-selector’s grazing area—
Ranges the earth from “China to Peru,”
Then, all forsaking, turns to Woolloomooloo.
To walk the dreary round’s not worth your while,
At orthodox and atheist we should smile.
The day is waning, Sol has well-nigh fled,
So hie thee home to supper and to bed,
To sleep, poor soul, oh, be thy slumber sound,
To-morrow wakes thee to thy mill-horse round.
“THE COMP.'S (RESPECTFUL) PROTEST
“ Talk not of the slaves of the tape,
Men of measures, and yardsticks, and laco;
They are gentry beside the poor • comp.,’
Beside the poor slave of the * case.’
“ Drapers’ hours may be long, it is true,
But their calling’s so very genteel-
They move In a sphere so refined,
Lengthened labour they scarcely must feel.
•• Their hours, by the fair sex beguiled,
Doubtless pass like a beautiful dream—
Line a phantaamagorical view,
A floating down life with the stream.
“ Not so with the men of the Press,
From the editor down to the de’il;
Constant work is their portion in this,
Whate’er the next world may reveal.
“ Constant work with the bands and the brain,
Constant work, be they able or sick;
The scratch of the editor’s pen
Must answer the click of the * stick.’
“ E’en the ‘ devil ’ must have his deserts,
His ‘copy,’ his kicks, and the rest,
For the world must be furnished with news —”
[Quantum mff., that’s enough, give it bestl—
Ed. B., with much sternness.!
