

THE BULLETIN
V*l. 3.—No. 122 -Now Series.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1885.
Fries— 6d.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 13. 1885.
The “Mob's” Answer.
ISAitLT on the morning of the 13th August a
driver named Parkinson on crossing the
Canterbury bridge, near Sydney, found the
dead body of an unfortunate police con-
stable stretched in the roadway. Foul play
was apparent. The surgeon who subse-
quently examined the body found live
separate wounds on the head. Of these,
any one of three would have caused death.
For the murder, two young new-cbum
labourers- Thompson and Birch —were
placed on their trial. The evidence was wholly
circumstantial, but, so far as concerned
one of the prisoners, was almost as convincing
as if it bad been direct. Whatever doubts
might arise as to the precise extent of
BiScH’s participation, there could he none
at all regarding Thompson’s. He killed
the policeman with an aXe. This, in view of bis
original plea of “guilty,” was as patent as if a
dozen credible witnesses had been standing
by and had seen each particular blow struck.
To the surprise of most, the jury returned
a verdict of manslaughter. The Judge ex-
pressed his dissent from the finding, and re-
marked that such a verdict meant a great
miscarriage of justice. He then sentenced
the prisoners to the severest punishment
the law allowed—the one to imprisonment
for life, the other for a term of 15 years.
• • •
Does this verdict in the Canterbury
murder case-for iPnot murder it would be
hard to say what murder is-oonvey a
moral ? We think it does-a very pregnant
one which our rulers and judges cannot
learn too quickly. Let us explain. When-
ever the penalties attached to crime are so
severe as to shock the public sentiment-so
Draconic as to array against them the
opinion of even a fair minority of the com-
munity, the laws permitting them have a
tendency to defeat themselves. This might
be laid down as a legal axiom. It was well
exemplified in England under the bloody
penal code of 60 or 70 years ago, when the
penalty for stealing even a trifling sum was
death. The juries of the time determined
in numerous cases to rob the law of its
victim, and attained their ends by the inge-
nious if immoral, means of finding the
prisoner guilty, not of pwldnlag thejam
with which he was charged-if the theft of
that amount carried the death penalty-but
of a smaller sum, which did not. When the
evidence showed that the culprit stole 40s.
and the law said that the appropriating of
such an amount meant strangulation the
jury stepped between the thief and the
gallows by finding for S9s. lid. Thus, by its
very brutality, the law defeated itself, and
this was one of the causes of its being re-
pealed. 0 *
The same result can be also brought about
sn a different way. When juries find that
their recommendations to mercy are un-
heeded, that the Judge flouts them, or the
Executive ignores, they naturally say we
shall make no more recommendations which
may be laid contemptuously aside. We
shall take the matter into our own hands,
and either acquit the prisoner if there is the
least loophole, or find him guilty of a less
heinous crime if there is not.” When
men find that the felons they recommend to
mercy are hanged, while those they do not
are reprieved, they cease to recommend, and
make sure of their intentions by other
means, This is but human nature. If it is
discovered that the decision to kill or to
reprieve a prisoner is arrived at by what
tnay be termed the “rule of thumb,” what
is there to be surprised at should juries
resent such inconsistencies on the part of
Judges and Executive? In Sydney some
notorious cases illustrative of our meaning
have recently come to the front. Let us
begin with that of the Maitland poisoners.
Here a murder was committed —cruel, foul,
and deliberate. From beginning to end
there was no extenuating circumstance—no,
not one. A mother and daughter decided
to poison a young man, who was the son-in-
law of one and the husband of the other-
They set about it in a manner as stealthy
and cold-blooded as that of Palmeb some 25
or 80 years ago, or as that of any of the noted
poisoners of history. They saw, with never
a sign of remorse, their victim die in agony.
They were condemned and reprieved. For
them there was no jury’s recommendation
to mercy—no jury in the land would dare to
make one —but they escaped.death all the
same. And, if it be said that their sex
pleaded for them, we would answer, “What
should justice know about sex in face of
such foul crime ?” The elder prisoner has
now confessed her guilt.
• • •
Let us now take the case of the convict
Johns. Here there were many extenuating
circumstances. The man he stabbed —a
fellow-convict undergoing imprisonment for
a dastardly crime—is still alive and well.
Even the Governor admitted that “had the
felon been properly defended the verdict
might have been different.” The jury re-
commended him to mercy, and —he was
hanged. Thousands of reputable citizens
assembled in rain and sludge to plead for
him, but all to no purpose. The Executive
may have thought that to let him live
would have been to bend to the dictates of
a “ mob,” and so recommendation to mercy
and public petitions were alike disregarded.
The verdict in the Canterbury case is the
“mob's” answer.
* * •
In atrocity, there was no parallel between
Johns’ crime and that of the Maitland
women. We did not advocate their execu-
tion, for we object to capital punishment
on principle—condemn its brutality and
deny its efficacy. What we do say is, that,
while it is in the law of the land, and carried
out or not, according to what seems very
like caprice, there is no need to go very far
to find a reason for the Canterbury jury’s
verdict. It looks, indeed, as if to kill a man
outright in New South Wales were a much
safer proceeding than to half-kill him.
* * *
Other recent cases there are, to which we
shall presently refer. Before doing so we
would direct attention to what appears to
us a potent cause of the apparent crassness
exhibited by juries. Most leading nations
have adopted the plan of dividing
the crime of murder—splitting it up
into various “ degrees ” extending from
murder, sheer, brutal, and premeditated—
for the sake of gain, say— down almost to
justifiable homicide. The reasonableness of
this distinction needs no demonstration. It
is common-sense itself. Between the man
who batters in his sweetheart’s skull in
order to become possessed of the few shil-
lings he knows she has in her pocket, and
the one who, to avenge the murdered girl,
sends a bullet through her assassin’s brain,
there is a difference not only of degree but
of kind. So there is between the crime
committed by the well-bred scoundrel who,
from his cradle, has enjoyed all the advan-
tages of training and education, and that
perpetrated by the brutal wretch bred in
the kennels and fed on garbage. If mercy
has to be extended to cither, true justice
demands that it should be shown to Bill
Stkks rather than to the Bonaparte who
murdered Victor Noir. Foreign criminal
codes make provisions for all these distinc-
tions. The necessity for some suck classifi-
cation has been frequently mooted in Eng-
land. But so strong is the conservative
in-tinct in the English people, so great
their unreasoning obedience to the clumsy
sophisms of the “ law,” so strange their un-
willingness to acknowledge the good con-
tained in the criminal jurisprudence Of
other nations, that all such projects for
amendment have hem smothered in their
infancy. Australia is but a larger and.
in many respects, more conservative
England. Among us are laws which
would not be tolerated for a day in
the capital of the Empire. Possessing most
of the outward forms of Democracy, we
have little of its spirit. Cabinet Minis-
ters amongussay and do things that no Eng-
lish Minister would dare to do or say. O wing
to circumstances into which it is not our
province! just now to enquire, the fixed
policy of our ruling classes, like that of the
old “True Blue” school of British
seems to be that the people are to be
governed—not trusted. The result is that
juries —particularly Sydney ones —hav-
ing discovered some extenuating circum-
stances in a capital case, and having also
discovered that their views on the subject
will probably be ignored, naturally adopt
the only means in their power to baulk the
law’s inexorability.
• • •
The other oases to which we would allude
are two—one in Victoria, the other in New
South Wales. At Ballarat, a few days ago,
a man was hanged for attempted murder.
For some lime he had been an inmate of a
lunatic asylum. An influential deputation
of citizens, representing all creeds and
classes, waited on. the Victorian Executive
to beg for a reprieve. The past history of
the convict was urged, but in vain. The
authorities decided he should die. At his
execution the rope was badly adjusted, s >
that no dislocation followed the drop, and
the unhappy wretch was slowly smothered.
The marvellous thing in connection with
this affair is that the Victorian Executive
seemed to think that this convict’s death
would be more conducive to law and order
than his reprieve. It was the same with our
own authorities in the Johns’ case. But the
least consideration will show that this re-
solve to keep society together by opposing
its wishes, is a disintegrating rather than a
binding principle—that it undermines the
very superstructure it would fain buttress.
In the face of a recommendation to mercy,
and of a great popular agitation, Johns was
hanged in Sydney in order that murder
might be minimised. The verdict in the
Canterbury case is the response. In the
face of a powerful appeal—we are uncertain
if any recommendation came from the
j ur y_the ci deyant lunatic, Bushev, was
smothered at Ballarat. Is it not just within
the bounds of possibility that a verdict of
manslaughter may be returned in the next
Victorian murder ease? So weak in most Aus-
tralian JH xecutives appears to be this desire
to spare life, it would be scarcely too much
to say that if some of the authorities were
persuaded that by commuting every death
sentence, the yearly murder crop could be
brought down from ten to five, they would
still prefer to hang.
The last case to which we intend to refer,
is the New South Wales one known as the
MB. GBESLEY LtJKIN.


A NEW BOOK.
■
m
m
W\AG/g
MIRTH
250 Tricks and
WITH
Delusions
CARDS, DICE, and CONJURING APPARATUS
al8 °., co, ?, talnin * over 100 tr lck8 and deceptions
with cards, Hi nitrated wltn blocks and diagrams
fully explained, simplified, and adapted for home
amusement and social entertainments, forming
the most complete collection of its kind ever
offered to the Australian public. Mailed free to
any address ONE SHILLING. ree 10
T THE WIZARD'S CHANGEABLE CARDS.
change from Red to Black, from
eights to deuces and back again at the pleasure d
anH and elicit exclamations of wonder
SJJd surprlseftom all who witness them. Post
free, with fuUinstructlons. Is. 3d. OBt
.... CARICATURES.
-t, 11 !,® Fadder, I m In love,” “I’m a Daddv »»
“Before and After Marriage." “The Motha?
Law.” Five separate sets, each set
five character sketchings that have convulsed with
laughter every gathering at which they have
a PPeared. Price, poet free, la. 3d. y “ ave
WONDERFUL JAPANESE DRAWER BOX
The performer sends round a pretty little box to
the company, which they fill with rings, coins etc
Directly the performer takes It in Els hand the
articles Instantly vanish and the drawer Is shown
empty. Price 3i.. post free. «aown
_ GIVEN AWAY!
th i 8 advertisement out and post It to us en-
closing 5s. In stamps, or a P.O. order for
we wUl send you by return of post the abovSmen*
Ing° e rtlX :- ge FWlth either of the *oUowI
A LADY’S HANDSOME BROOCH or EARRINGS
GENT’S SCARF PIN or SET OF SCREW STUDS
of the finest American Roll-plate Gold, guaranteed
to stand the acid test, and to wear for 10 years
alone worth double the money, for which we *
MAKE NO CHARGE.
Idftoeachls? 1 * 8tak6n at Par ’ other colonlea add
Address all communications;
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT,
BOX 641 G.P.O. 401 GEORGH-3T„ SYDNEY.
J
TURNER ROBINSON 4 CO.f
ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Georga-straat.
tt < a m,.. , . Established 1884,
HAS THE LABGE8T c| ND f BEST-ASSORTED
WOOLLBNS
_ __ „ IN THE COLONY,
PROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMR wf* ».
SStfSSf** WeU Bhrunk ’ *JSSPit
C. W. ROBERTS
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only a 9«.
Small Bottle, , 4s. Sd.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. fld* per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
3b. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BBAUMtifttf PORT
Is. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Botties, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
lf«9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke;a Prize Medal Brand,
In stone bottles and square bottles,
LABOBST SIZB.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW#
In Flanks, Bottlos, end Imperial Quarts*
C. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
■TDNEX.
Again Mr. Speaker’s wig has been drawn
forth from Its morocco case to decorate and
beautify his classic head, and theN.S.W. Ministry
haying undergone a course of champagne and
sciatica, banquets and biliousness, once more ap-
pear to face the Opposition music The Ministry
m making the Governor their mouthpiece in the’
usual manner, inflicted upon him and his hearers a
deliverance more verboie, unmeaning, and self-
glorificatory than the majority of speeches penned
by the Attorney-General. The Estimates are pro-
mised for an early d te, and measures for Local
Government, public health, patems, preventing
mining under public reads, and for regulating the
opening of ro&ds are r amed. The plans for the
city railway extension are also promised for th)»
session. Of course, the Soudan larce is spoken of
in super-laudatory terms. “The local Land Boards
are performing their functions of administration
with satisfaction to the public.” Whether the
Minister is equally appreciated the Governor did
not think it necessary to state. His Excellency
was late, as usual.
Most popular amongst the ladies is Klngsford’s
Oswego Cornflour.
Over four thousand physicians have testi-
fied to the purity and excellence of Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour has no equal in
tne world.
Persons who suffer from sleeplessness
Sleep well 6 WoLFE ’ s ScaNAPp s and they would
Thb °* 3UB80BIPTIOW to TH1 BULUTIH
ar.'—For one year, 34s.; half-year, Us. 6d.:
quarter, 6s. 6d,—In advance.
Th« Adtktibino Ratbs are 6s. per Inohi
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
Inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are aflowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows Onad-
ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions!
16 per omit.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 88 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertlse-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
b* made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under «. postage stamps ef any Australian
Ootony nmy be sent, if more convenient.
To cure all kinds of symptoms use Wolfe’s
Schnapps. Be sure you obtain Wolfe’s.
Just give Kinpsford’s Oswego Cornflour a trla
when you sre next cooking.
"Without exception, Bristol’s SARSAPA-
KILLA is the Medicine I ever used. Ithas
instilled new lile into my veins; having suffered
for years with general debility and weaknes.
JAS. L. SAXTON, Sydney, N. S. Wales,
Wolfe’s Schnapps is now and has been for
many years a standard professional remedy.
To make a good Custard you should use Kings-
foad’s uswego Cornflour.
“ Wyndham outrage.” Here seven men
were convicted of rape on an old and
tipsy woman. They were all sentenced to
death. The sentences were commuted to
various terms of penal servitude with sundry
whippings. Oddly enough, the 8.M. Hkbald
suggested that floggings might he adminis-
tered in this ease. But a popular agitation
got the lashes remitted, and a subsequent
enquiry established the fact that at least
throe of the men were not near the house at
the time the outrage was committed, and
were entirely innocent. But for the agita-
tion all, guiltless and guilty alike (presum-
ing any were guillj), would have been tor-
tured. What reparation could be made to
the innocent ones for having the flesh torn
from their backs? They would probably be
told that it was quite a mistake, and would
be unlikely to occur again. From the cases
we have cited, the circumstances attending
them, and the Executive’s action, at least
two important conclusions can be drawn.
They are that the penal code of New South
Wales requires a new and thorough revision,
and that the men who now administer it are
out of harmony with European civilisation.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Politicians and Public-houses.
The Victorian has bsen working hard
of late to win a reputation for Spartan virtue*
The new Licensing Dill gave plenty of field. At
the mention of grocers’ licenses the tone of the
House grew severe. When it was suggested that
drink might be sold till midnight, the severity
deepened to sternness. The employment of bar-
maids was discussed, by the leaders especially,
with impressive modesty of manner, mingled
with a consciousness of the solemn obligation
they were under of protecting those young persons
■ from moral danger. An observer, looking at the
greyish and grey protectors of the nation s virtue,
would have found it hard to wink. The past his-
tory of the men fell away under the gravity and
■enthusiasm of this great opportunity for doing
good. It was a Chamber of refoimsrs. They
were delivering the traffic In liquor from hypo-
crisy, vice, and crime. So far all looked well. But
Professor Pearson came up one night last week
and presented the following motion: “That there
be laid before the House a return showing the
nabies of all public-houses in the city of Mel-
bourne, together with the names of their owners
and lessees, and of all persons holding a bill-of-sale
or a mortgage in connection with them.” He had
done it last year, and got rebuked for his rudenets.
Mr. Pearson is unsophisticated. Manifestly, he
considered that although he was defeated on a
former occasion, the high-pressure virtue of the
present would carry him through. The sting of
the motion is in the tail. It is well-known that a
large proportion of the public-houses in Mel-
bourne (as In Sydney) are under the thumbs
of brewers and usurers. The people whose names
are over the doors, and who stand before (he com-
munity as owners, are merely farming the in a
dustry. The brewer has a hand in one pocket of
the publican, the usurer in the other. He tries to
get ease from the brewer by letting the
usurer in farther. To meet both, he must
have a lynx eyo for the money of cus-
tomers. Those with their hands in his pockets
are bis masters. Often they are harpies. Often
they are vultures. Driven to the Aval), the man
grasps at Illegal gains. He lets out his grogshop
to remunerative debaucheries. Whatever profits
he makes go substantially to the vultures and
harpies. The usurer, with his bill-oDsale over
the moveable and personal property of the pub-
lican safe on his file, may attend a temperance
meeting. The brewer, with his bill-of-sale ove r
fixtures and tenements safe in his desk, may go
and sit in a front pew in church. They know the
interest they are wringing from the man is above
what ordinarily decent trade can afford. Still they
screw. The police smell the house. They crtch
the publican. He is pilloried as a blackguard.
The grinding brewer sits snugly in his pew. The
sucking usurer stands smugly on the platform
It is known that these people exist. It is known
they affect deep sympathy with the welfare Of
the public. It is known that their grinding and
sucking sink man after man in the slime of crime.
Yet their names are not known abroad. Each man
pilloried as a blackguard has added something to
their wealth. His infamy has helped to fill their
coffers. These are the people whose names Mr
Pearson wanted to print for the ej es of the
country. Most men who are bad, are bad through
want of some kind. Most public-houses that are
badly kept are so kept to cope with pressing lia-
bilities. Mr. Pearson’s motion was a direct step
towards the shutting up of low house?. The
honourable usurer and immaculate brewer who,
because the house is low, can now demand interest
at higher than treble rates, would either have to
retire or accept Identification with the stews. The
Victorian Assembly saw that. At the sight the
virtue they had been drumming into the cars of
the community vanished. Mr. Berry was the
first to denounce the motion. How many
honourable usurers and immaculate brewers
there may be in the House it is not neces-
sary to calculate, but Mr. Pearson was in.
formed that his motion was inquisitorial. It was
forthwith cast Into the limbo of legislative at-
tempts to make men honest. Though the motlon>
however, failed to unmask the direst fois of the
unfortunate publican, it successfully rifted the
virtuous pretensions of the leaders of the Assem-
bly. The purs moralities showered about the
Licensing Bill are shown to be specious platitudes.
It is not the morality of the people that is the
consideration. It is not the Cleansing of the
stables of civilisation Victorian Ministers propose.
As a party-trick the Bill has its place. As a lever
for public purify it is a sham. We don’t say the
Victorian Assembly possesses more than its share
of hypocrisy in handling public questions inti-
mately associated with morality. In Sydney, too
there aro flourishing specimens of the honourable
usurer and immaculate brewer. They get on plat,
forme and sit In front pews here too. And harried
publicans stand in the dock as blackguards here
also. Every man has his price. The victualler
will be vicious while the vulture and harpy prey.
In Melbourne there are 150 houses in the hands,
llcancially, of live or six people. It Is about the
same in Sydney. While this £oes on the drink
traffic "Will bo a blighting demoralisation. No
Licensing Act will regulate it. Nominal owners
of drinking premises will, while they are syste"
matlcally and ii a sense ’cgatly buffeted, cornered!
ground down, eaten, cut a hole in the most fanci-
ful legislation. Have we any member in the New
South AVales Legislature anxious to cure the evils
adhering to cur drinking dens ? If we have, Mr.
Pearson's Is the road.
Prosecution of the "Pall Mall Gazette.”
The cable Informs us that th3 editor, proprietor,
and others connected with the Pall Mall
Gazette will be prosecuted by the Treasury for
“ the publication of obscene details regarding the
alleged abduction of (he girl Lily Armstrong ”
The news will rejoice conventional virtue. Con-
ventionalism generally has had a bad two months
of it. The disclosures stripped it—ripped it. Its
contents were shown to be ulcerous vice and
malignant crime. The first howl was for the
of law. Law did not stir. Then the world was
besought to shut its eyes to leprous lechery. The
exhortation failed. The outlook was black. At
last word comes that the Treasury has made up its
mind to prosecute. Hopes are high that it will
win. If it win, conventionalism will be stitched
up, and things will go on in the old immaculate
way. The public must watch these proceedings
or they will be tricked. Rascaldom may avail
itself of a favourite artifice. It is to be
noted that one case only is selected by
the Treasury. As far as we at this side of the
world can at present judge, the time the Crown
has taken up bsfore intimating a determination
to prosecute makes it look likely that the
Gazette has erred in one or more particulars re-
specting thecise of Lily Armstrong. The ob-
scenity of detail, or the accuracy of detail, may
be made the crucial question. The Crown may
be reasonably supposed to have gone through the
whole record of disclosures. By limiting a prose-
cution to seine particulars of one case, it will be
bound to establish either that the particulars in
this instance are tjpical of the particulars of ail
the cases on record, or to virtually admit that out
of the lengthened list of criminal infamies
published in the newspapers the law-officers of
the Crown, with the people's money at their
back, were able to find errors only in some of the
statements concerning this girl. The Crown
should be held to that. It is in the air, however,
that if the Crown secure a conviction, the convic-
tion will be flaunted as a finding against the Pall
Mall disclosures generally, and will be employed
in the rehabilitation of conventionalism. The
artifice is familiar in our New South Wales Courts
of Libel. General accuracy in a newspaper article
does not condone for particular errors. In the
1 ogical, moral, and public tendencies of the article,
the particulars involving error may have no sig-
nificance. Yet the law fastens its tentacles on
these particulars. The defendant need hardly
plead the general scope of his article. Unless he
can prove true to the letter the one or two minor
points, his plea will be legally irrelevant and a
verdict will go for the plaintiff. The plaintiff’s
character may be actually blacker than the news-
paper article painted it. Nevertheless, avail-
ing himself of this legal trickery, he emerges
from Court with a verdict amounting to a
declaration that the newspaper article was
a defamatory lie. He flaunts this before the pub-
lie as a verdict covering the whole record of the
crimes imputed to him in the article. Assuming
the Crown to win a judgment against the Pall
Mall Gazette for one or more errors made in
the case of the girl Armstrong, we ask, What
then ? Are we to be treated to the familiar old
trick? Shall we find the Melbourne Argus and
S.M. Herald holding up the document and writ-
ing unctuously on the ex uno disce omneg princi-
ple ? If the Crown will traverse a substantial
portion of the record the Pall Mall Gazette
has drawn up, and will show that Judges of the
realm and Ministers of State and Princes of
the blood have not been dastardly abet-
tors in breaking the laws of the land, wo shall
glory in the legal success. It is these charges
and not subordinate statements relative to one
little girl thit constitute the spinal column of the
Pall Mall disclosures If the C-own will insti-
tute proceedings to prove that certain persons of
these classes, plainly enough designated for legal
purposes, do not only live riotously on the sweat
of labour, but employ a large part of the money
wrung from toil in setting and baiting traps for
the tollers’ infant daughters, we shall applaud the
Crown, aid rejoice if it triumphs. But if it comes
up -w 1th a verdict against the journal on a few
statements in the Lily Armstrong case, and ssks
the supremely Important part of the disclosures to
be, therefore, discredited, we shall have no hesita-
tion in saying that the English Crown stoops to
the dishonest dodges fraudulent bankrupts and
generally damaged political renegades have fami-
liir.'sod us with in Australia.
The Americans and the Pacific Mail.
Once more there is commotion among the Ameri-
cans, caused this time by the anticipated removal
of the tine steamers plying between Australia and
San Fra: cisco. To give expression to their views
on the subject a crowded meeting was held last
night. In addition to our cousins from the Great
Republic, many colonists eminent for their elo-
quence and ingenuineness were present. The
American Consul, Mr. Griffin, took the chair. He
explained the object of the meeting, dwelt
on the fact that one of the links binding
them to the fatherland was about to be bro-
ken—the bird of freedom (if they would par-
don the simile) about to be deprived of
one of its longest feathers. (Gloom). At this time
of the day, it was unnecessary for him (Mr. Griffin)
to dwell on the ingenuity of his countrymen. It
was proverbial. The audience would, therefore,
bear with him while he read some of the projects
sunmitted to him by American citizens for pre-
serving the connection when the steamers were
withdrawn. Silas Slocum, late of Massachusetts—
now of Marrickville—master mariner, proposed
that something might be done with the meridians
At present these lines were useless unless you
were travelling due north or south. There, for
Instance, was tbe 133rd meridian of west longitude,
touching the American coast a little above San
Francisco. It scarcely touched any other land till
it ran straight into the South Pole. For commercial
purposes it was, therefore, worthless. He (Mr. Slc-
cum) thought there was q ulte enough enterprise in
Australia to send a capable man South with an
axe to detach this line from the pole and hitch it
over towards Sydney. He— (Mr. Griffin was
here interrupted by one of the audience, who
assured him that he knew Slocum well, that he
was a noted crank, and supposed to be Identical
with a person who was tarred and feathered in
Texas for his inability to distinguish his “ear-
marks ” from those of his neighbours). The next
suggestion came from one Eli Titsworth. He bad
long entertained a project for utilising the rain-
bow. Whatever difficulty might be experienced
in ascending, it would be more than made up by
the facility in coming down. Besides, if the
natural phenomena appeared at uncertain times,
there was no reason why artificial ones could not
be made. The manufacture of rainbows was now
a recognised branch of industry where he re-
sided. (A person having explained that Mr. Tlts-
worth’s present residence was Gladesvllle, the
project was not entertained.) Malachi Aloysius
Finnigan, a native of the State of Maine, appeared
in person to explain his project. Mr. F. wondered
what the difficulty was about, considering that the
means for overcoming it lay at their feet. Bal-
loons, he was confident, would answer the purpose.
By this method of transit sea-sickness and ship-
wreck were avoided, while a speed of 40 miles an
hour could be depended on. “ But,” interpolated
the Consul, “suppose the wind wasn’t going your
way?” “Faith,” replied F., with a grin, “I
never thought of that. It isn’t the first
fine scheme, anyway, that has come to grief
through difficulty ia raising the wind.” Ex-Consul
Kahlo had no tangible suggestion to offer, although
he would be "more prouder ” to do so than dis-
cover silver in one of his Sunny Corner claims.
Mr. Dailey being called on, forgot apparently the
subject before the meeting, and said: “ In both
hemispheres can be felt the pulse-throbblngs of
the great English people—one In sentiment, In
language, and la race. Some tearful humor-
ists — dismally funny men, whose exasperating
persiflage raises the idea of justifiable homi-
oide in the breasts of the really witty—
sfifect In their puny way to laugh at a
glorious federation, embracing all people speak-
ing the tongue of Shakespeare, of Dryden, and of
Pope. I shall not turn aside to squelch such bab-
blers. Men of our race”—here some interruption
—during which the speaker sat down—was caused
by an eccentrically-mouthed man in the audience
whistling “Harvey Duff,” with apparently ex-
temporised variations. As the hour was getting
late, and no more projects—except one for cross-
ing the Pacific on stilts, which was justly con-
demned—were coming forward, the chairman ad-
journed the meeting to the tune of “Yankee
Doodle.”
Mr. Gresley Lukin
On the first page of to-day’s Issue we give a por-
trait of Mr. Gresley Lukin, for so many years
known to all colonists as the enterprising and
generous conductor of the Courier, and Queens-
lander newspapers, Brisbane (Q ). Meeting with
some reverses, Mr. Lukin relinquished his connec-
tion with those papers, much to the regret of the
journalistic profession, by whom there is no man
more esteemed. Mr. Lukin has, wo are glad to
know, re-established his fortunes in Sydney, and,
as the custodian of a variety of valuable trusts
(including the legal managership of the world-re-
nouned Sunny Corner Silver-mine), is reaping the
just reward of an undeviatlng career of probity
and perseverance.


For Flee, Puddings, Custards, Blancmanges, &o.
use Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour.
No family should be without it.'no remedy
is more reliable, none more infallible than Wolfe’s
Schnapps,
Tis hard to get rid of a debt,
A birth-mark, a wart, or the gout;
A hang-nail, a corn, or a stye
Is a diflicult thing to “ knock out.”
But with calmest contentment and ease,
We on these small worries may smile,
If our clothes are by Summerfleld made—
You can’t touch him for cheapness and style.*
Invalids and children—give them Kingsford’s
Oswego Cornflour.
For the making of ourselves and places
attractive, we draw largely on the dressmaker,
tailor, and architect; but the potter must also be
fused. What would your drawing-room, meal-
tables, bedrcoms, and kitchen be without his aid.
His works, in many forms, can always be seen at
40:i and 404 George-street, and for beauty and
variety crnnot ba equalled. See the sets for
dinner, tea, toilet, ana other purposes, and the
ornate glassware, showing at Bray Bros., opposite
Joint Stock Bank.*
Mb. DbCoxtrot Brown* (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, nmy be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 53 Gastle-
roagh-street, Sydney, V Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour superior to all
similar articles in the market.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“ C.M.” : No. Dion Boucicault has been a
‘ genuine Irish agitator.” In his boyish days he
was closely connected with some of the leading
national societies. All the same, we don’t
know why those who are going to give Dion
a picnic should have put so absurdly inflated
an advertisement in the Evening News....
“ Secularist ”: It was before Dr. Barry’s refusal to
oppose Sir James Martin for the Senate, that he
warned his followers to sharpen their little
hatchets and be ready for a conflict with Secularism
By withdrawing his nomination and thus promptly
skedaddling at the first shock of war, he has set a
good example of bravery, or at least discretion, to
his flock....” Ethel G. S.”: You may write songs
some day, but if the screed you send is a sample
of your ability as a poet now, it will not be in this
world, dear—not in this world. Your lyric may
be good enough for , the Hardshell Heaven,
but it’s not good enough for The Bulletin....
“ P.W.”: Your friend was evidently somewhat un-
sober when he wrote the verses. His highest idea
of happiness would be keeping a public-house In
Nirvana ..‘‘Rasa”: No. The Sydney trains are
run at a yearly loss of £.'19,00(1, and last year's total
loss on the Mudgee railway, when the working
expenses it failed to pay were added to the Interest
on the cost of its construction, amounted to
£45,000...,“ Mark Lane”: Your translation is a
very free one. Just as free, in fact, as that of
Victor Hugo when he translated “The Firth of
Forth” as “La Premiere de la Quatrleme.”....
“G.Agnew”: No, sir; we object to Bishop Barry,
or any other ecclesiastic, taking part In
tho control of Sydney University (the apex
of our secular system of State education)
on precisely the same grounds as those upon
which we object to a propagandist teeto-
taller, or a grog-seller sitting upon a licensing
bench. Bishop Barry would be as much out of
place at a secular university as Tom Paine or Bob
Ingersoll would be at an Anglican or a R.C. Church
Synod. All this haggling about the University
senate shows how little in earnest thousands and
thousands of N.S.W. electors were when they
voted the secular education ticket. They went
for State secularism only through sheer bigotry
“to dish the Romans.” And now, you see, when
they would return sideways to denominationalism,
the Romans and secularists dish them and leave
them “stewing in their own gravy.” We are
amused....“Vulcan” (Albury): When you want
to slate anyone, remember the judge’s advice to a
barrister, “ You should never show anger—you
should show cause.” When you start reproaching
Wright, Dailey, and Co. for their Victoriaphoblan
utterances you simply revile them, but these
verses are much stronger and—to borrow a glrly
word—nicer:—
“ Think ye, that the running water
Stronger is than tide that flows
Through the veins of friends and kinsmen,
That ye hope to make us foes ?
“ Though the Murray may divide us
From our brothers, do you think.
At your bidding, we will hate them,
Or their blood spill on its brink ? ”
These lines are really effective, and show that you
are an Al, full-rigged, clipper-built, copper-bot-
tomed genius. Try and send us some more in this
style “ Thomas Whitehouse”: You are wrong,
and so is the 8.M.; Herald, which in its leading
article on the Canterbury manslaughter puts your
argument in another way, saying:—“A man is
responsible for what he does when he is drunk,
because he is responsible for getting drunk; and
for the sake of society the more widely this is
known the better.” Notwithstanding that many
authorities can be cited in favour of this view, the
doctrine is morally wrong. A man preparing to
do anything is morally responsible only to the ex-
tent he sees. If a man gets drunk and when
drunk, in the moralist’s meaning of the word,
commits a crime not determined on beforehand he
is morally guiltless of that crime. If he learn
afterwards that while drunk he committed this
crime, he will be, should he thereafter resolve to
get drunk again, morally guilty of the commission
of this crime, even though on this occasion he
does not perpetrate it. The Herald does
not see that moral accountability and legal
accountability are totally distinct things
“Old Drover”: The writer was a young stock-
man, of Gundaroo Sorry we don’t more often
please you in such matters. We print all the good
busn verse we cm get —“Roderick”: Your
blank verse is the blankest we have ever read. It
is blank of all that it should contain. In fact, as
you ask our opinion, it is blanked rot....“Native
Born Ic is of course impossible to publish yqur
screed. You might, However, remember that you
are in a decided minority in your estimate of his
worth. Other of your arguments we have touched
n past issues....“Elector” '(Petersham): Mr.
Robert Hudson is eligible for a seat In Parliament,
although he may be, as you assert, a director of a
Arm contracting with the Government. At the
same time, we agree with you that he runs the
risk of placing himself In a falsa position. When-
ever Hudson Bros, secure a new contract from the
State, there will possibly be many persons ready
to impugn his action and question his motives if
he be a member of the House. Even now, some
suspicious people are asking how a gentleman
directing such an Immense business can afford the
time necessary for attendance in Parliament—
“ E. de G.”: Your screed is short; this is your only
claim to our forgiven ess.... “R O.”: If wejammed
two or three jokes into your par. it might, per-
haps, be worth insertion....“One who,” &o.:
Thanks for letter, which, however, is of no earthly
I use to us ...“D.A.G.”: Very good; but, is it
original? Let us know, please “C.L.”: A mag-
nificent illustration of the art of saying nothing
in 50 lines of verse.
Sir Dick Thatcher, of the R.A.O.B , writes to in-
form us that BuffaloDm does not cost a shilling
a week, as we stated, but, like Salvation, is free to
all, after the initiation fee is paid. We sit corrected’
“ Ned has run away with your wife, Mr.
Jones.” Mr. Jones: “ Poor fellow.”
Station-master, to suspicious-looking old
lady i ust entering first-class compartment: “Are
you first-class, Madam?” Lady: "Yes, thanks;
how are you ? ”
Equivocal: “ There, my dear Miss Florrle,
I have the pleasure of bringing you the books I
promised you, but you will excuse me for not
staying to-day, as I have something else to do.”
“ Oh, sir, you are only too good.”
She wrote the other day: “ My dear Ada, my
Charlie went away eight days ago, and I have not
bad one letter from him yet. I am afraid that he
P.S.—I am content. I Just got word that he
is lying dangerously ill at Parramatta.”
A young urchin standing outside the Par-
ramatta Theatre during the progress of the play
of "Richelieu” was heard to remark: “These
amateurs do put on ‘side.’ Why the other evening
they was rehearsling * Billy Doo,’ and now they
have the cheek to play * Rioheldoo!’ **
Lord Carnarvon, the new Irish Viceroy,
goes about Dublin without an escort. Lord
Spencer never appeared in public without being
surrounded by troops enough to form the escort
of a Governor of Poland, and wrecked a Cabinet
rather than allow the most stringent Coercion Act
of the century to lapse.
He was a spruoely-dressed swell, and had
declined to allow an industrious youth to shine
his boots in the street. But the bootblack per-
sisted. “ I said no,” angrily exclaimed the masher;
‘ can’t you take no for an answer?” “Well, bow
did you like to have a min say no when you was a
bootblack, master ? ” enquired the Arab.
The Coubt Cikccjlab announces that
“ H.R.H. Princess Mary Adelaide and the Duke of
Teck were prevented from being present at Lady
(Samuel) Wilson's last dinner party by the death
of the Duke of Teck’s father.” If ali old men
were equally considerate—and died just at the
right time—how pleasant this world might
made I ’>
New Guinea is filling fast with hold ex-
plorers. The party despatched by the N.S.W.
Geographical Society are on the ridges there. Tho
party Mr. Forbes leads on behalf of the Royal
Geographical Society are running down the rivers.
General MTvor’s party are somewhere about. Mr.
Stuart’s party are on the heels of M’lvor’s. There
are, besides, three or four groups of nondesoript
wanderers representing speculative “syndicates,”
on the heels of each organisation. The fun will
begin when those of the bold explorers who are
uneaten, return and begin to call each other liars.
Vanity Fair says that Princess Beatrice
“ looked a happy bride, but much more nervous
than the generality of young women who are
nowadays led to the altar. The bridegroom, on
the other hand, exhibited the Teutonic stolidity of
a graven image while waiting for a full quarter of
an hour, his back to the congregation and his
eyes on the altar-dishes, the advent of Princess
I Beatrice. Prince Henry, falling into the trap
which the marriage service lays for inoffensive
bridegrooms, blurted out his response to the ques-
tion, 4 Wilt thou have this woman to be thy
wedded wife?’ too soon; but in his case the
promptitude was especially pardonable. When
the service was at an end, kissing set in to an
alarming extent.”
This cutting, from an English paper,
presents crime and its punishment in a new and
more awful aspect 44 Singular Bscape from
Punishment.—An unusual termination to a cri-
minal prosecution occurred at Stratford Petty
Sessions. A young woman, aged 19, a domestic
servant, who pleaded guilty to stealing a watch
and other articles from her employer, was dis-
charged on the ground that her sweetheart, who
was in court, expressed his willingness to marry
her immediately, If she were not sent to prison. ’
It really does seem hard luck on this poor girl to
be sentenced to penal matrimony merely for
44 copping a clock.” But fancy when about to be
sentenced, as we certainly will be some day, if a
female enters court and propounds wedded bliss as
the alternative. Come 44 stepper,” come crank,
come oaku m, come skilly—
44 Stone walls do not a prison make,
Nor iron bars a cage,”
for the merry bachelor.
A correspondent puts the following
“ poser ” to the Sydney D.T. s—“ The engraving pi
the 1 Roll Call,’ dedicated by special permission to
the Queen, was published by tne Fine Art Society,
who sent out the copy which your correspondent
writes has been condemned by Mrs. Butler-
Thompson, who considers the faces not at all like
those ol the original. Seeing that the artist proofs
of the engraving bear the autograph of Mrs. But-
ler-Thompson, ic would be interesting to those
possessing the same to know whether It was made
after the original or after the copy.” We sincerely
hope that some one will take the trouble to put
before the leading art publications of London a
terse and forcible statement of the circumstances
attendant on the purchase for the N.S.W. National
Gallery of this—ahem—“ replica,” which turns out
to be a copy painted by a botching fellow who
had the cheek xo ask Mrs. Thompson to touch up
thh faces whose expression he had failed to catch.
We coi&rder that “ Marcoos Hindi,” of the Lon-
don Loan and Discount—we mean the London Fine
Art Society, is a personage deserving of every en-
couragement. ,• ' '
“ We had a remarkable collection.” writes
Capt. Owen, of the Salvation Army, in his last letter
from Crook well < N.S.W.) to head-quarters. “When
my wife went round for the offering,” ne says,
“ they put eight loaves of bread on theplate. So
she had to curry them up to the platform and go
back again, when, lo and behold! she received a
tin of treacle, a tin of jam, and a tin of sardines,
she brought tnem up, and went back ag'ain. This
time she got two pounds of butter, a lot of cake,
and a lump of pork. She disposed of her burden,
and went forth again, and received three lamp-
glasses and about seven shillings. Hallelujah I’
This looks very much like primitive Christianity.
It is giving tithes of whatever the believer pos-
sesses. But we suppose the captain and his wife
quickly commuted the gifts into ordinary obffrob
currency.
An enfant terrible, at a grand dinner party
given by his papa, blurted out, “ Father never
gave any dinner-parties until he became a trustee.
Something of what was of that youngster’s mean-
ing prompted a worthy son, likely to be left at
trustees’ mercy on the old man’s decease, to beg
of his father that he might be made “ executor
instead of devisee.” The popularity of “Trustees
and Executors’ Companies” is to be, therefore,
accounted for. The first one started—in Mel-
bourne, in 1879-sees its shares now at 200 per cent,
premium, and paying a dividend of 15 per cent..
which might bo as easily made 20. The two other
companies—started last year as rivals—are getting
their Enabling Bills passed In the Assembly. One
of them already finds Its shares at 30 per cent,
premium. This Company, “The Australian Ex-
ecutors’and Agency Company,” has just purchased
the premises of the English, Scottish, and Austra-
lian Chartered Bank in Ellzabeth-street, Mel-
bourne, for £3J,000. Possession will not be taken
until the Bank moves into its new premises—the
ugly, but costly, Gothic building of brown stoue
at the corner of Collins and Queen Streets. The
tendency of the times Is evidently to benefit the
many In place of the few. The part of “ first
robber,” as the old melodramas phrased it, will
now be played as a joint-stock business. We
strongly— very strongly indeed -recommend the
idea of a Trustees and iExecutors’ Company to
their Sonora the Judges of the Supreme Court of
N.8.W.
He was a tbm reporter, so thin that he was
frequently seized by the editor and used as a paper-
knife or a pipe-cleaner. He was highly Intellec-
tual, and could roll you off Herbert Spencer by
the yard. His llaancial position he himself has
described as being that of chronic climax. He
had 13 children and two or three decrepid mothers-
in-law to support, and the chief variety of his life
consisted in drifting from pleurisy to indigestion,
with occasional digression into the region of liver-
complaint and rheumatism. Latterly he had
changed the tune to incipient consumption, and
to bear him cough his way upstairs was a lesson
to the young that even a cough, if once under-
taken, should be maiked by thoroughness of de-
tail. And these things began to tell on him. for
to cough half the night and attend sick chil-
dren the other half is a bit trying. His natural
vivacity began to wane. His unslept eye
was mistaken for a victim of undue gin, and his
shaky hand was put down to tobacco and general
dissipation. 80 he became gloomy and hopeless.
Hut one day he pops up at the office beaming with
Joy. He was limping fearfully, and over his
dippers there wer? a pair of ancles swollen to the
size of melons. “Ha, ha, boys,” he roared, “I
never thought I should drop Into this. I’m the
first of our crew that ever had it. Always too
miserable in their feed and liquor. Give us your
hand. Whew 1 ” Here a look ol agony twisted his
countenance, but it disappeared, and again he was
all joy. “Farewell, coughs and colic, and all the
other ills of vulgar humanity. Now, this Is a bit
of pain a man can enjoy.” “ What’s up ?” asked
the staff. “Goutl”
Such a fool with money is not often seen
as Mr. Seymour Kobinson, the Hotham (Melb.)
branch Federal Bank clerk. He is quite pheno-
menal in folly. When Corbett robbed the Com-
mercial Bank and “planted” the proceeds at
Brighton Beach, he kept silent as to its where-
abouts for over a year. Kobinson takes nearly
£3000 to the same “planting” place and confesses
all about it within 24 hours. He loses two nights’
sleep over this caper. The record of this simple-
ton’s doings is short as the donkey’s gallop. He
goes to a dance ono evening, and then visits
several bars. He takes a “ young lady ” back to
the bank with him, of which place he has the
keys—-as his lodging. Presumably, ho wished
to show her the pile of money of which he
had sole charge. He breaks open two drawers
with a chisel, to that end. That the money
might be ssfer, we suppose, he put It In a
Gladstone bag, and then this Romeo and Juliet
start on their travels. At 3 o’clock in the morning
he bids her adieu, with a parting kiss, in Bourke-
street, and then puts himself in a cab for an hour’s
drive to Brighton beach. His hand trembles very
much as he fumbles out the cabman’s fare, and he
then goes to bury all the money in the sands. That
little business done, he goes back to the bank and
deads ignorance there of all that has happened.
Before the day is over he confesses all about it*
and the next night is occupied by him, and the
police, in unearthing the “plant.” The cabman
finds a bundle of £100 in notes on the floor of the
cab, and makes no secret of the find, as some cab-
men might have done. The delightful honesty of
the cabman and the silliness of his fare are quite
unmatched in these times of little rascalities.
INSULT.
SHE (innocently): “AND WHEN THE WAR COMES YOU LANCERS WILL GO TO DEFEND
GOYETT’S LEAP AND THOSE PLACES ON THE BLUE MOUNTAINS, WON’T YOU ?
IN THE MEANTIME, I SUPPOSE YOU WILL ESCORT THE GOVERNOR AND DO ALL
THE WORK THAT THE * OTHER TROOPERS’ USED TO DO.” (They don't speak now )
POEM ADDRESSED TO THE PRINCESS BEA-
TRICE, NOT BY THE POET LAUREATE.
I Two Sums of cash will fill a German purse.
Which e se, with ail Its pockets and elastic band,
Were utter emptiness—one, the round Sum down
Of £30,000, which brightens up the mother's eyes
And warms the child’s awakening. greed—and one
The annual Sura of just six thousand pounds
Which keeps her husband, and which helps the
child
To move in other spheres. The mother smiles
At that tray funeral of the people’s cash,
Her maiden daughter's marriage; and her thoughts
Are half of pleasure, half of pain—the coin
Is being spent—ev n leaving her! But thou,
True daughter, whose all faithful, filial eyes
Have seen the costliness of earthly thrones,
Will neither quit thy new half-crowns nor let
Thy nice annuity have risen In vain,
But moving thro’ the Mother’s home, between
Thy dividends and pension, lead an easy life.
Sway’d by each lump of cash, and swaying to each
lump
Like some fat Pluralist in clover dwelling
Between two Sums, and drawing down from both
Tae light and genial warmth of double pay.
Native Skeeter “ Your blood or your
life! ”


The public should avoid all imitations of
Wolfes SchnApps, Bs sure you procure the
genuine Wolfe’s.
For light pastry, cakes, &c„ just try Kingsford’fl
Oswego Cornflour.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is the most effective
blood-purifler ever devised. It is recotnended by
the best physicians.
MaoLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 George-street,
near Hunter-street. Wines from the beet vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &c.*
The enormous increase in the sales is a
Eroof of the growing popularity of Wolfe’s
CHNAPPS.
1 JB^ 8 ' 0^!! 08 * 0 * 0 Cornflour can be obtained
in Miib. and lib. packets.
Personal Items
.From an obituary notice in a Melbourne
paper— 11 Deeply regretted by a largo family, who
mourn her loss.” J ust so I
To make Prince Henry of Battenberg,
German pauper. Into a Knight of the Garter, cost
the British nation £1000 in fees.
Sir Henry Loch paid a visit to Pentridge
prison last week, and lelt 11 apparently satisfied
with his visit.” How different to some of the
others I
Interesting nows from London: 11 The
Marquis of Normanby is residing in Scotland, His
health and spirits seem thoroughly restored. Lady
Normanby is now about a year dead.” Yes.
From a South - Coast paper:—“ Judge
M’Farland will lecture at Built this evening on
New South Wales: Its higher requirements and
aspirations.’ The proceeds will be devoted to the
Vicarage Fund.” We smile.
Mr. Graves, of the Victorian Assembly, is
annoyed because the persiflenrs of the Press do not
take enough notice of him. Mr. Graham Berry is
annoyed for the opposite reason. It is hard for a
poor scribo to please everybody.
It is said that the magnificent horses of
the Prince of Wales attracted almost as much
attention in Ireland as the Prince himself. The
Irish are a hard race to understand. Surely the
horses never did them any harm ?
Prince Henry of Battenberg’s total
re venue from all sources, ere the grovellers of the
British nation took him into the Hoyal poor-
house, was £130 a year—the “screw ” of a second-
class band in an Australian boot-factory.
Colonel Sargood, the Victorian Minister of
Defence, is also Minister of Water Supply. Per-
haps this will explain why the Imperial officers in
the Victorian service complain that he “is always
throwing cold water on their suggestions.”
There is one beautiful line in Tennyson’s
latest “Ode,” wherein he refers to the marriage of
the Queen’s maiden daughter as “The white
funeral of the single life.” By-the-bye, what
would Tennyson call the marriage of a widow ?
The dynamite explosion at John Alex.
Dowie’s tabernacle, Melbourne, took place only
half-an-hour after Dtowle had left. Dowie, by-
the-way. thanks God for his escape, and says his
"only feeling is one of sorrow.” He may rest
assured that the universal feeling is one of
sorrow.
From Vanity Fair :— 11 One from Suakim
says that he who principally ought to have been
hanged for the flascoes out there was the Chief of
the Staff. It is not too late yet, perhaps, to have
the operation performed. This functionary’s pro-
ceedings might be inquired into at the same time
as those of Sir John M’Nelil.”
When Dion Coucicault was bowing his
farewells In the Melbourne Theatre Royal, he said,
in reference to the assistance given by his son and
daughter, that although he had produced many
works he did not think he had produced any better
than these two. Now, we shall see If he can top
this In his farewell to Sydney.
Mr. Hugh Childers, once Collector of
Customs at Melbourne, who has held office on two
occasions in Mr. Gladstone’s Ministry, has been
given a pension of £30OOi Privy Councillors who
make a declaration that they cannot maintain a
due position in society on their own means, re-
ceive this pension while out of office. On return
to office, the pension is suspended.
Mr. Pbiels. moved last week, in the Vic-
torian Assembly, that barristers should be released
from the necessity of wearing wigs and gowns In
courts of law. His contention was that man-mil-
linery is opposed to the spirit of democratic insti-
tutions. It is to be remembered that Mr. Sbiels,
who has married a lovely heiress, has one of the
best-shaped heads.ln the House, his crown being
a poem in pomatum. On Mr. Shlels’ account it is,
therefore, a pity that the motion was rejected
without a division.
After 20 years in, gaob—as a substitute for
hanging—we should not like our liberation made
too public. Constance Kent, 25 years ago, cut her
Infant halfrbrother's throat and kept quiet about
It for five years following, allowing many innocent
people meanwhile to suffer from suspicion. She
then confessedher crime and got a life-sentence for
It. Now, she Is liberated on a tlcket-of-leave. We
expect to learn by next mail the usual news that
she has had 39 offers of marriage, or that she is
writing sensational articles for the Pall Mall
Gazette,
As to the removal of Judge M‘Farland from
the Southern N.S.W. circuit, an Illawarra paper,
after recalling the cordiality of the welcome given
to the Judge when first he visited the district
officially, 17 years ago, says:— 1 ' Temper a mutantur ;
a guest may outstay his welcome; and, as human
nature goes, the familiarity that breeds contempt
may be generated during a period of 17 years. We
do not think that the majority of people will be
sorry to hear that his Honour has been promoted
to a more important district.” This last sentence,
though possibly well-meant, strikes us as being
rather left-handed.
During a debate in the N.Z Parliament,
Mr. Fergus said that several dead men were known
to have got up from their graves and voted for
Mr. Seddon, member tor the West Coast gold-
fields, otherwise that gentleman would not have
been elected. Mr' Heddon replied that this might
he true, but still his constituents had a live man
to represent them, whereas it was well-known
that the member who just spoken was defunct
himself and was only kept going by a species of
clock-work constructed by a clever Chinaman
called M'Tavish, well-known as one of his (Mr,
F.’s) supporters. Neat.
The repeated absences of Louise from the
unlucky Marquis of Lome are causing a certain
amount of scandal, of which the Marquis is not
the hero. There Is a feeling In England that, as
the erratic lady draws a big “screw” from the
nation for being a married woman, she ought to
behave herself as slch. It doesn’t follow because
she has given up all idea of garrisoning the nur-
sery that Louise is exonerated from her duties to
the man who has been saddled with the Queen for
a mother-in-law. Not at all. But Louise’s con-
duct is instructive as indicating the light in which
husbands are regarded by the Royal family.
Mr. John Davis, the author of “ Tracks
of M’Ktnlay across Australia,” died at Payneham
(S.A.) a few weeks ago. He spent many years in
the Northern Territory, and through che informa-
tion'he imparted, several blocks of country are
now In the hands of owners. He was a member
of the M'Klolay exploring party, and he also took
part in the Recipe Cliffs expedition. He had
plenty of enterprise and Industry, but his health
was always uncertain. After a life of adventure
on the outposts of civilisation he found his way to
Adelaide, and thought himsalf lucky to secure the
post of collector for the water works there. In the
harness of his office he died.
Everyone has heard of Tommy Corrigan,
the leading steeplechase-rider of Australia, and
neople will be surprised to learn that the patrony-
mic of that skilful and popular jockey has some-
how become uhiversally mispronounced and
mis-spelled. His real name is Corgan, although
now there Is very little likelihood of his ever
being known by any name other than “ Corrigan.”
Bv-the-way, this reminds us that Tommy Is sup-
nosed to be of a religious turn of mind, although
J, e not what might be termed a Psalm singer,
craw-thumpor, or hymn-singer. He is a devout
and staunch son of “ The One True Chureh,” and
adheres closely to its tenets.
A controversy between the Anglican
Bishop of Melbourne and the Venerable Arch-
deacon Slattery (ll.C.) has terminated-for a time,
at;any rate—and he of the “free and {flashing
sword ” has had the last and parting shot. Dr.
Moorhouse concluded by declaring that if his ad-
versary coilld prove “ the Papal Infallibility from
the Scriptures, he would turn Homan Catholic.”
Father Slattery replies by telling the Bishop that
if he cannot see in the promise of Christ to Peter,
and the constitution of his Church for all time,
the absolute necessity of an infallible head,” he
can neither “help him nor hope to convince him.”
This of course is a “clincher.” We expect at
once to see Dr. Moorhouse serving under the ban-
ner of the Pope.
The Hon. G. R. Dibbs, Colonial Treasurer
of N.8.W., Is, we are glad to see, out and about
again after five weeks and a-half of scarlet fever.
Mr. Dibbs’ first unofficial action of moment, after
arising from his couch, was to visit Hunter-street
and have his flowing locks abbreviated. This at
once brought about a severe relapse, for when we
saw him he was in the chair undergoing all the
agonies of a crucial cross-examination by the
barber on the subject of the Ministerial policy,
which, of course, he was ultimately compelled to
fully divulge. He arrived home in an utter con-
dition of nervous exhaustion, and, it is alleged,
though wo cannot say with what truth, that it was
only by the most strenuous exertions on the part
of bis medical attendants that ho was patched up
sufficiently to enable him to face the Assembly on
Tuesday.
Lord St. Leonards is not exactly a school-
girl’s beau ideal of an English peer. Not the
haughty noble of her dreams, with pale, classic,
Family Herald features, and long, thin,
Family Herald legs—far from it. His lordship
Is astltf-bullt, shortish, florid-faced patrician, with
—we shudder to write the disenchanting words—a
carrotty moustache. There is nothing particu-
larly dreamy about his lordship’s legs, but there is
an interesting circumstance to record about his
lordship’s boots. They fill your heart with pity
for the proud wanderer—so far from his country
and estates—as you look at them. In fact, St.
Leonards’ number fifteens are a bit down at the
heel. By the way, the family motto is, “Thou
sbalt conquer by labour.” Perhaps his lordship
has come over here with the intention of making
a conquest.
Our traducer—as to Sydney’s harbour, its
climate, and the character of The Bulletin—
gets a rough lick from London Punch. Hon. Finch-
Hatton has been making a statement, by word of
mouth, which it were well he had thought of when
handling the pen. What he has been saying is:
“ Truth is one of the prime necessities of political
life.” Why he should leave it at that only we can
understand—if others do not. Truth is not, la his
opinion, one of the “ prime neosssltles” of travel-
writing. Punch says that the “ honourable gen-
tleman must have been joking,” and should have
his double]name trebled toj“ ( Chair-Finch-Hatton
He’s a pen {that is tinctured with falsehood and
bile.
Shown in writings the critics have sat on;
He’s a mind that is muddled or tries to beguile
With a head that should have a fool’s Hat-on.
Two items. Thus the Sydney correspon-
dent of the Australasian:- 1 ' Mr. Abbott (the
N.8.W. Minister tor Mines) has been convalescing
slowly after a violent attack of rheumatic fever,
during the paroxysms of which the unfortunate
victim would sometimes become curiously deli-
rious, and rave about rabbits, ‘which he would
declare were burrowing in certain parts of his
body, and honeycombing it past all endurance.”
The foregoing is. wo hope, a joke. “ Tlmotheus”
writes:—” The Victorian Assembly is said to have
lost a learned law-officer through whisky, but he
lingered in full possession of his bodily strength
and mental faculties until past 00: and. on the
other hand, we have seen a learned judge never
rally after emptying a bottle of pickles; anl one
of the most popular of Premiers, a teetotaller, is
reported to have fallen a victim to a supper of
sausages.”
A jubilee to celebrate the 50th anniversary
of the Queen’s Accession is to be held throughout
the British Empire in a couple of years. The
jubilee is a peculiarly Jewish Institution. On its
recurrence eveny half century, all slaves through-
out Judea were set free, and ail land alienated re-
verted to its former owners or tnelr descendants.
As Christianity is but an offshoot of Judaism, we
may be sure—knowing the liberal character of the
House of Brunswick—that Her Majesty will not
only keep up the old custom by restoring to the
people all the estates conferred upon her House
during nearly two centuries, but will likewise
endeavour to induce her loyal subjects through-
out the empire to follow her example. We have
no doubt they will do so—especially in New South
Wales, For years we’ve had our eyes on a sweet
little suburban villa at Manly. And to think that
in a year or so we might get itl We can honestly
say that by the time we’ve occupied it for half a
century anyone that likes can have it.
Thus the Port Douglas (N.Q.) Times:—
“ One of the greatest—if not the greatest—of dis-
graceful scenes which has taken place in this town,
occurred on Thursday morning, when the Editor
of this journal had the misfortune to be unavoid-
ably mixed up in it. Conversing with a gentle-
man in the main street, a drunken fellow came up
and asked the Editor to give an explanation of
some paragraph which had appeared in his paper.
The Editor deeming it beneath his notice to replv
to this cub, was about to leave the place, when he
was struck by the hound. This man, who Is con-
nected with the CHRONiCAD.says he la a journalist.
Knowing well that he is a mere cipher in this
town, he thought he would make a dying struggle
to raise himself out of his obscurity by making an
attempt at something extraordinary to gain
notoriety. Ho succeeded to a certain extent, and
also disgraced himself Ignominlously. The time
has arrived for compelling persons to show some
qualification for being a journalist. As is the case
now, any ignorant, drunken creature can fill that
position.”
Ruskin, the great art-critic, has been advis-
ing on matters he is not likely to know so much
about. Why a divorced man who had no family
should lecture others about the bringing-up of
youngsters, is only to be understood by the pro-
verb about bachelors’ wives and old maids’ chil-
dren. He writes to a friend as if he knew all
about it, and really gives good advice. He has
seen that money not earned by our youths does
them no good—that the folly of our civilisation is
killing ourselves to make money, which too often
demoralises those to whom we leave it. He writes:
“ When they are strong enough, throw them out
of the nest, as the bird does—but let the nest be
always open to them—open even to the harlot-
daughter and son-thief—should they return. But
no fortune must be left them—the father’s house
open and nothing more. Honourable children will
have their own houses—if need be, and will pro-
vide for their parents —not their parents for
them.” Mrs, Ruskin, that was, may f xpect to hear
what Mr, R. has to say upon wives next. She is
now Mrs. Millais—wife of the great Royal Acade-
mician,
Poor George Augustus Sala was not
always happy while he was in Queensland. That
lambing-down ” of the Yorlcks at the Johnsonkm
fish-supper was a failure, and when he went North
with Sir Thomas, the understanding they had
apparently arrived at about a little mutual back-
scratching leaked out, to their mutual disgust. Sir
Thomas was to take the chair at Rockhampton and
Maryborough for George, and George was to do
the “straight” thing in the Land of the Golden
Fleece. However, George got on moderately—
very moderately well—at those festive places. On
the way down, in the steamer, one Sunday
night, ;he was horrified ito see a general vinous
frivolity on the part of some of the ship’s
servants. One of them came up to the smoking-
room where he was, and commenced to join in the
conversation with the greatest affability. The
great man stood this as long as he could, and pre-
sently asked his next-door neighbour whether the
ship’s name was not a native word. Yes, it was a
native name, “ And what does It mean (” asked
Sala. The man didn’t know—had never heard.
“ Well. I’ll tell you," said Sala; “I think It abo-
riginal for ‘ Go as you please!’ ”
From a lately-received London letter, we
pick these Items. “ Among returned Australians
doing London, I met Miller, of sweep-promoting
fame, also Clarke, the stock and sharebroker
of Ell2abeth-street, Melb. Your exhibition-pro-
moting Levey has come to the Bankruptcy Court
with his partner, Edgar Ray, formerly of Sydney
They courted coming to grief, by taking that dead
certainty of failure—the Alexandra Palace. I
thought Levey had taken better care of number
one out of all his many snug things connected
with exhibitions since 1870, but it would appear
otherwise. Even the Crystal Palace finds diffi-
culty in keeping on its legs, and is among the
things marked for falling very shortly. The South
Kensington attractionsthe ‘ Fisheries,' ‘ H eal-
therles,’ and ‘Inventories' have 'quite snuffed
out the allurements of the Crystal Palace. The
shareholders may make something, however, by
cutting up the land for building lots, as the neigh-
bourhood has largelyUnoressed, and the land will be
greedily bought up for building. Nothing so much
strikes a long absentee from London as the deca-
dence of dancing. Thirty years ago, this amuse-
ment was popular in half a dozen public resorts,
not one of which is now open—nor any substitutes
for them. Even the famous Mabille, at Paris, is
no longer open."
Dr. Beaney, the medical apostle of the Mel-
bourne young men. Is in England scattering
diamonds. Canterbury is Boaney’s native town—a
quiet, sleepy old place, whose inhabitants are not
much given to roam. Thus it is that the good
doctor’s gifts of gold, jewels, and precious stones
to the Canterbury charities have so Impressed the
townspeople that they have canonised him along
with the proud Archbishop slain In the Cathedral,
and consider that there isn't a pin to choose be-
tween St. A’Beckett and St. Beaney in the
divinity departments This feeling became in-
tensified during ithe good doctor’s recent visit
to his old home by reason of a specially
graceful act of Beane vean charity. On the
30th July, the good doctor gave a great dinner
to all the deserving poor of Canterbury. The
banquet was not given for the glory of God, or for
the purpose of filling the cavernous stomachs of
the feeders. No, there would have been nothing
particularly “graceful” about a table spread
under such conditions. The dinner was given “ in
celebration of the marriage of Princess Beatrice.”
The notion of celebrating the quartering of an-
other impecunious German upon an over-taxed
nation by a dinner to the “ deserving poor,”
was graceful In the extreme. It was more grace-
ful, even, than Beaney himself—in regimentals.
We fear that we have not given the
Southern Tasmanians their due amount of credit
for taking a cheerful view of things, and extract-
ing a joke where possible from prosaic materials.
They were invited the other day to send a repre-
sentative to a great Rechablte jubilee festival in
Melbourne, where gluttony, accompanied by
coffee-drinking, was made to take the place of the
cup that cheers and, at ths same time, elevates,
and where loyal toasts were pledged in any ma-
terial from vigorine to poa-Joup. Casting about
them for a likely personage, they picked upon
, the sporting writer for the leading organ—
the man of bets and tips, whom we can only fancy
leaning over the bar of the leading hostelry in the
small hours, getting the “straight griffin,” accom-
panied by doses of thegenerom spirit, from people
supposed to be “ in the know.” However, they
selected him and sent him, and, from anything we
have heard to the contrary, he made a first-class
tfmoerance advocate. We hardly know what
1 am OShanter would have said if he had thought
tbac a namesake of his would ever take part in a
Rechablte meeting. In the South of Tasmania, to
say that—
“Tam was glorious,
O’er a’ the ills o’ life victorious ”
would, no doubt, be flit blasphemy now. We sug-
gest the future heading: “ Turf Notes, by Father
Matthew.”
News comes from the North of Queensland
to the effect that Ciptain Armit is searching
around that sultry quarter for as many votes as
will enable him to enjoy free billiards in Parlia-
ment House, with, if Griffith cm press his mea-
sure, a probable £200 per session for an indefinite
period. We feared lately that the once-actlve
sub-inspector of native police had pegged out for
good. The fear was accompanied with regret.
The Captain, and we'feel no qualm in giving him
him the courtesy-title, is a man fit to do a lot of
good yet. Few men in Australia possess so inti-
mate a knowledge of the habits of the North-
Western aborigines. A couple of sketches
published some years ago in the Austra-
lasian prove that he also owns the right-
sized pen. Those sketches led to his em-
ployment by the Melbourne Argus as chief
of their exploration party in New Guinea. The
tour was a fiasco, and the Captain fell through hole
after hole until the general public lost sight of
him altogether. It is, therefore, cheering to find
him bobbing up, even though it be in pursuit of
votes for a seat in the Brisbane Assembly. The
Northerners do not appear to passionately favour
his candidature, his only vlgorously-aotlve sup-
porters being Messrs. Bevan and Chalmers. By
the way, Bevan is said to be correspondent of the
Sydney Daily Telegraph, and Chalmers is one
of the writers to the Sydney Mail, Thus the
quills are with Armit, whatever about the geese.
In Johnson-s treet, Collingwood (Mel-
bourne), there is a temple. The Rev. J. A. Dowle
is the chief Druid. Behind the tabernacle is a
room in which the High Priest prepares candidates
to carry on bis work when he is no more. For a
long time Mr. Dowle has been a thorn in the side
of the Evil One. They have wrestled together
“ under-and-over,” “ collar-and-elbow,” “ catch-
as-catch-can," and in various other ways known
to science. But the “ Morning Star” was always
worsted—always came away from the conflict
with distorted features, twisted spine, and dam-
aged hoofs. Indeed, on a late occasion, the spirit's
tail bore marks of wanton Ill-usage and teeth.
It would be absurd to suppose this could go on for
ever, and no attempt be made at retaliation.
Whatever else Lucifer is, he Is not a sneak—one to
put up with constant defeats without striking a
blow in return. So one night last week he con-
cealed himself under the floor of the small room
where our dear old Sydney friend was teaching.
He brought a stick of dynamite. He heard the
ministrations above his head, he felt the dreadful
explosive in his pocket, and he smilod y rum y. “ I
shall wait till they rise to go,” he thought, “and
then they’ll rise and go,” he added, significantly.
"J. A. should have stuck to me when he was on
my side, and not have given me away to mine
enemies.” But the prayers overhead made him
drowsy, and he slept. When he awoke all was
darkness. It was 11. “ Escaped me again, by—.”
A spasm shook his frame as he impotently
attempted to pronounce the sacred name. “ But
it shall never be said I returned to and brought
the dynamite with me.” He didn't. Next morn-
ing all Australia learnt that a hole was blown clean
through the floor beneath the table round which,
the night before, the Rev. J. A. Dowie and his
disciples sat to defy the powers of darkness. The
next time Mr, Dowie and Satan meet, one of them
will be badly hurt. It won’t be Dowie.
When first we saw Graham Berry take his
stand in an empty turnip-cart in Paddy's Market
(Melb.) and tell the assembled meat-pie and vege-
table men that they were ground under the heel
of a cruel oligarchy, we knew he would come to
something if spared. He has been spared and has
come to something. Whatever little weakness
might be ascribed to his logic, was more than
made up for by the fine dimensions of bis cheek.
Both those useful attributes appear to stick to
him still. Indeed, one seems complementary to
the other—when the reasoning Is a little inconclu-
sive the “front” la Jove-like. This is why we
say so. Young Duffy (son to “ Gavan,” beloved of
the Auaus) heard that all Victorian foundlings
were being brought up in the Protestant faith,
and with the slncerest contempt for anything
savouring of the “Real Presence.” It was bad
enough to have the wee waifs subjected to tem-
poral disadvantages, without having their eter-
nal welfare endangered. So Duffy, M.L.A., “tuk the
flure” in the Victorian Assemblyafew nights ago,
and wanted to know from Mr. Berry if the rumour
was correct. Was Graham taken alack? Go away
—you don’t know him—never heard him as we have
on an inverted soap-box, or you wouldn’t ask such
a stupid question. He answered that, as the
majority of the people were Protestants, it was
reasonable to suppose that all the foundlings were
the children of the majority, and it was, therefore,
quite right and proper that they should be taught
that no Papal Bull should be allowed to have its
way in a Victorian china-shop In this answer it
Is difficult to know what most to admire-the
ratiocination or the assurance. We hope Mr.
Duffy was satisfied—we know we would have
been. It is merely wasting time to argue with a
person who pretends to remain unconvinced by an
answer like that. Besides, look at the number of
vexatious questions it settles I In future, when a
Roman Catholic convict has to be banged and re-
quests a priest to shrive him, Mr. Berry’s decision
will veto the preposterous demand. “ The ma-
jority of the people are Protestants; It is, there-
fore, reasonable to suppose that every murderer
is a Protestant, and so your wish cannot bs
granted.” On many subjects—barmaids, morality,
and Sunday observance among others—we knew
the Graham of our youth was sound. But his
reply to Duffy is more than soundness—it is real
talent.
We have seen a good deal in the Sydney
papers about the recent row between Lord Lons-
dale and Sir George Chetwynd, who were said to
have quarrelled over Mrs. Langtry, whose lover
one of the individuals named was roundly asserted
to have long been. The circumstantial accounts
printed in Sydney come from American sources.
No English paper dares to make the insinuations
against the morals of the Jersey Lily which are so
boldly dealt In by the papers quoted in Australia.
\ anity Fair says:—“ Yesterday morning there
occurred in Hyde Park, at an hour when it Is
usually full of people, an affray which was very
discreditable to our manners, and which, as bear-
ing such a character, is of very serious import-
ance. Sir George Chetwynd was sitting on one of
the seats in the path that skirts Rotten Row, when
there came and spoke to him Lord Lonsdale, who
had walked up the path, accompanied by a friend,
to where Sir George was sitting. The two spoke
together for a short time, when Lord Lonsdale
was seen suddenly to strike Sir George with his
stick. Sir George returned the blow, sticks were
abandoned, fists were used, hats flew off, and for a
second or two a free fight went on among the
chairs, till Mr. Cecil Howard separated the com-
batants, when they walked off in different direc-
tions. No great harm appears to have lesulted to
either of the two principals, though Lord Lonsdale
carried away what seemed to promise a black eye
for the morrow. So far as the public is concerned,
nothing transpired as to the cause of this unseemly
brawl. The gossips of society Indeed, who usually
profess to know everything about everybody,
have at once assigned to it a cause which may
either be as correct or as incorrect as possible.
But the cause is of no consequence. It is com-
pletely and entirely allowable to two gentlemen
to have a quarrel, either of the most trifling or
the most serious kind; they may quarrel as much
us ever they please, about anything or nothing.
But what is not allowable and what deserves the
severest censure is that they should take methods
of conducting their quarrel which Involve a
breach of good manners and an outrage on public
decorum. To make a brawl in Hyde Park, in the
presence of ladies and before the general public,
is a very serious infraction of the rules which
good manners prescribe as to private quarrels
and public behaviour. When two navvies have a
dispute in a beershop their sense of propriety
usually impels them in the last resort, and when
all other methods have failed, to go outside and
have it out; and gentlemen of birth and breeding,
lik© Lord Lonjsddle and Sir George Chetwynd.
ought to show not less, but more respect for the
society in which they mix. If they must fight
with flats there is nothing to prevent them, but
they should go outside to do it, and it should be
done, not in rough-and-tumble fashion, but in a
decent and private manner, in a 24-foot ring, with
seconds to see fair play, and to secure a due obser-
vance of the laws of the Prize Ring. There seems
from the accounts given by disinterested spectators
to be little doubt that in this instance Lord Lons-
dale was the aggressor: and if that were so, there
cannot be much blame laid upon Sir George Chet-
wynd, for, when once a blow has been given, it is
almost impossible, however desirable it might be,
for a hum of spirit to avoid returning it. More-
over, in this case, as is usual in such oases, the
aggressor had greatly the advantage in size and
strength. But neither provocations nor blows
should be exchanged between gentlemen under
circumstances like those or in a place like this.
If they must quarrel, and if upon that quarrel
they must fight either with sticks, with fists, or
otherwise, they owe it to their order, to their
manners, and to public decency, to quarrel and
fight in a proper place and in a reputable method,
such as will bring their difference to an end
honourable to both of them, without causing
a public scandal certain to become all the more
public and all the more scandalous precisely be-
cause they ore gentlemen who are Justly ex-
pected to display better manners and greater
self-control than men of the people. And
this is not a time when gentlemen can
safely create scandals or be allowed to create
them without being very strongly and very
seriously condemned. The affair is certain to pro-
voke, among the old gentlemen who drink sherry
at the Senior United Service Club, the inevitable
lamentation over the disuse of the duello. They
will recall the time when men ‘ went out ’ for the
merest trifle, and will deplore the want of courage
in the present generation of men who will not, as
they declare, go out for anything at all. It is no
doubt true that Englishmen are, as a rale, averse
to the system of habitually duelling, and rightly
so; for whenever and wherever that system
flourishes it gives the practised bully far too great
an advantage over the unpractised man of
courage, and too often crowns deliberate outrage
by deliberate murder. And, above all, it does
nothing to mend men’s manners, but rather the
contrary, as may be seen by comparing the usually
mild and courteous manners of our own time and
country with those which existed ere a century
ago, or even with those which now xist In France
and the rest of the habitually duelling countries.
Nevertheless the procedure of the duello affords in
itself, apart,' from the abuses and exaggerations en-
grafted upon it, the most complete n admirable
method ever yet devised of settl g a tuarrel
between two gentlemen. The essence of that pro-
cedure lies in this: that it takes the quarrel en-
tirely out of the hands of the principals to it, and
places it for settlement in the hands of the seconds,
four men of honour, who view it and deal with it
as impartial judges. In the vast majority of cases
such men will find a way out of the matter hon-
ourable to both the principals, and without blood-
shed; but if that is not possible, he would be a
bold man who would refuse to risk his life in a
duel which four men of honour were agreed that
he must fight. In any case, the decision of such a
tribunal would be far preferable to that of sticks
and fists. That we should revert to the habitual
practice of duelling is far from desirable, but it is
undoubtedly desirable that we should revert to
the procedure cf the duel rather than descend to
brawls in the Park.” Lord Lonsdale, it will
be remembered, is the person who not long ago
got Edmund Yates imprisoned for aspersing his
virtue. It will now be Yates’ turn.


QUOD FACIMUS VALDB FACIMUS.
(What we do we do well.)
YOUR PHOTO.-If you are
undecided Where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what Is but well-meant
couusel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-i
mine your choice in their favour.
- You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices-C-D-Vm; Cabinets' 30s. per dozen.
CBEELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY - ARCADE.
OBUOXTS’S
SWISS CIQAK3
Have been recognised as the BEST for half a
century.
Asanal Iseom n«Mis Oh Milllami
Lightning and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
IMPERIAL CLUB HOTEL
Richard Street, Bourke.
\lH«*
THE above Hotel is now open for the accom-
modation of Residents and Visitors to Bourke.
No expense has been spared in the Furnishing of
the above, and the Proprietor guarantees that all
patrons of his establish meat will meet with every
comfort that modern civilisation can procure.
ROOMS CAN BE ENGAGED BY TELEGRAM.
Wines and Spirits of the Best Brands.
GOOD STABLING.
A. J. O’GRADY, Proprietor.
F
ISHJNG TACKLE
Wholesale and Retail, as under:—
Plaited Silk Fishing Lines, 2a.. 38., 4s., 10s., 203.
>aoh. Twisted Silk Lines, 3d., 3d., 4d.,6d., 9d., Is.,
.8.61., 2s , 3s., and up to 10s. each. FiahlngRods, a
arge assortment, from 2s. 6d. to 503. each- Winches
nr do, 23. 6d. to 303. each. Artificial Flies, all
liz.ps. Artificial Fish. Frogs, Insects and Spoon
Saits. Gut Casting Lines, Cork Floats, and Por-
mplne Floats. Hooks on Single and double gut.
looks on gimp and brass and copper wire. oeara
Hooks. Silver Steel Fishhooks, Hollow Point
Liimerlck Hooks, ordinary Limerick and Kerry
Hooks, Treble Tag Hooks. Our pwn mate ma-
3hino thread Fishiosr Lines, from 3(3. to 3 *. 6(3. each.
3ur Patent Hemp Undressed Fishing Lines, made
specially for fishermen. Also, our special TOO
rards Machine Thread Fishing Lines, wonderfully
strong, yet very fine. First-class Salmon Gut,
Colonial-made Lines of every description, i ishlng
Net?, Cork and Salmon and Herring Twine.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
Walshe’s Family Hotel,
Corner of
ELIZABETH & HUNTER STS. SYDNEY
J. W. WALSH B, Proprietor.
First-class Luncheon at one o’clock. Best Brands
Wines, Spirits, &c. &c.
PE APES &
SPRING SHOW!
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING MILLINERY.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING COSTUMES.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING DRESS
FABRICS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING FABRIC
GLOVES.
PEAPES and SHAW S SPRING SHIPMENT
KID GLOVES.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING HOSIERY,
from J. and R. MOHLBY’S.
PEAPES and SH VW S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
LACE GOODS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
EMBROIDERY.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
(PARASOLS.
JST’ SPECIAL NOTICEI
All the above goods are
Now Open for Inspection.
Large Shipments
for other Departments are
CLOSE AT HAND,
and a constant flow of
NOVELTIES
will be opened up
DURING THE SEASON.
PEAP KS & SHAW,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS,
324, 326, 328 George Street.
J. NOAKE,
120 & 446 George Street,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
Just Unpacked, ex s.s. Rome,
12 Cases Real HAVANNA CIGARS
(Finest Brands), consisting of
“ ANTONIO MU BIAS”
“ VILLAR OP VILLARS”
‘ HENRY CLAYS”
“REAL”CABANAS
“LARRANAGA”
“ RIT1CA”
“MORALES”
“ FLOR DB NAEES
“PARTAGAS”
“ 1NTIMIDADS”
“ FLOR DE CUBA”
ESPANOLA”
“LA CORONA”
J. NOAKE,
320 & 446 GEORGE STREET,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
ENT POST FREE FOR Is. STAMPS.
Sociol Science.
A TREATISE on all N.rvous Disorders, Chronic
Diseases, Impediments to Marriage, &c., How to
choose a partner for life so as to live happy, How
to Regain and Preserve your Health, &c.
Address-R. T. SELBY, M H , Devonshire-street,
Surry Hills, Sydney.
ANHOOD.RESTORED I
• A Clergyman having tried every known remedj
, (orthe CU REof NERVOUS EXH AU3>
TION, PREMATURE DECAY, &C., has at
last discovered a simple SELF-CU RE, which, fox
the sake of suffering humanity, he will send FREE
the Prescription which CURED him. t Address,
with self-addressed stamped envelope—
Dr. E. A. CLARKE, P.0. Box 292, Sydney.
s
ECONOMlCALFURNlTUR
ECONOMICALFURNJTURE
! , / . L '
THE LARGEST AND ONLY LEGITIMATE
TIME-PAYMENT FURNITURE WARE-
HOUSE IN THE COLONY,
365 PITT STREET.
D B. BOYD,
62 CASTLKREAGH-8TRBET, SYDNEY
(Upstairs).
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours:
10 a.m, to 4 pm. Monday, Wednesday;
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and female Diseases a
Specialty.
Box 120 G.P.O.
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£5 DRAPERY BALES!
PACKED in CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
Carriage paid by mail all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
WINTER BALE.
1 pair Largo Blankets
1 Large Marcella Quilt
10 yards good Sheeting
30 yards Strong Calico
13 Strong Cotton Tick
30 Wincey Dress Tweed
10 good Welsh Flannel
6 yds Strapping Tweed
All the above are good
wearing articles.
FREE SELECTORS’
BALE.
I pair Large Blankets
1 White or Colored Quilt
5 yards Strong Sheeting
10 White or Unbleached
Calico
6 White or Red Flannel
13 yards Dress Material
13 yds. Cotton Shirtings
4 pair Good Stockings
1 pair Strong Stays
1 dark Petticoat
6 Strong Gambroon
6 Brown Holland
4 Large White Towels
3 yards Good Trousers
Tweed, Buttons,
Threads, &c.
MEN’S CLOTHING
BALE.
1 Suit Tweed — Coat,
Trousers, and Vest
2 Crimean Shirts, largo
2 Best Cotton Shirts,
large size
1 Best Felt Hat, any size
6 pairs Strong Cotton
Socks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or Pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &c.
*5 LADY’S BALE.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladles’ Camisoles
3 Ladles’ Petticoats
3 Children's Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
For aocouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials - Silks, Velvets, &c.—with
prices, and full instruction for self-measurement,
if applied to.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for 13
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are notfr better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent poet free.
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
LOWEST
BEST IN
I
T
I
I
i
THEWORLD
OFFICE-31 LOMBARD ST. LONDON.
SCOTIAN -HORIZONTAL ENGINES. 0
“ALBION” UONGSTROKE HORIZONTAL ENGINEa. _
l“CLI MAX” \IERTISAL ENGINES X BOILERS.
'“CLIMAX” PORTABLE-HOIST IN© ENGINES-
“BRITON”-HORIZONTAL OOMPOUND LAUNCH ENGINEo.
INSERTED COMPOUND MARINE ENGINES.
>. PORTABLE STEAM CRANES.
V ERTIOA L.60RN I SH,J
T
llOT
Hlkff:
LARGE STOCKS;FOR FULL PARTICULARS AND PRICES APPLV TO
D.& W.ROBERTSON,SYDNEY, SOLE-AGENTS m NEW SOUTH WALES.,
J.W.SUTTON & CO, BRISBANE. SOLE AGENTS-"QUEENSLAND.;
ROBISON BROSJL CO, MELBOURNE, SOLE AG ENTS '-.VICTORIA
A Pescription.
(Fragment of a Frustrate Poem, written in Mid .
summer in a valley near the Hawkesbury, N.S.W.)
It was a day of sombre heat:
The still, dense air was void of sound
And life; no wing of bird did beat
A little breeze through it—the ground
Was like live ashes to the feet.
From the black hills that loomed around
The valley, many a suddenlspire
Of flame shot up, and writhed, and curled.
And sank again for heaviness:
And heavy seemed to men that day
The burden of the weary world.
For evermore the sky did press
Closer upon the earth that lay
Fainting beneath, as one in dire
Dreams of the night upon whose breast
Sits a black phantom of unrest
That holds him down. The earth and sky
Did seem, unto the troubled eye,
A roof of smoke, a floor of Are.
There was no water in the land.
Deep in the night of each ravine
Men, vainly searching for it, found
Dry hollows In the gaping ground,
Like sockets where clear eyes had been,
Now burnt out with a burning brand.
There was no water in the land
But the salt-sea tide, that did roll
Far past the places where, till then,
The sweet streams met and flung it back;
The beds of little brooks, that stole
In spring-time down each ferny glen
And rippled over rook and sand,
Were drier than a cattle-track.
A’dull, strange languor of disease
That ever with the heat increased,
Fell upon man, and bird, and beast;
The thin-flanked cattle gasped for breath,
The birds dropped dead from drooping trees,
And men, who drank the muddy lees
From each near-dry though deep-dug well,
Grew faint, and over all things fell
A heavy stupor, dank as death.
• • • * •
Fierce Nature, glaring with a face
Of savage scorn at my despair,
Withered my heart. From cone to base
The hills were full of hollow eyes
That rayed out darkness, dead and dull;
Gray rocks grinned under ridges bare
Like dry teeth In a mouldered skull,
And ghastly gum-tree trunks did loom
Out of black clefts, and rifts of gloom
As sheeted spectres that arise
From yawning graves at dead of night
To fill the living with affright,
And, like to witches foul that bare
Their withered arms, and bend, and cast
Dread curses on the sleeping lands
In awful legends of the past,
Red gums, with outstretched, bloody hands,
Shook maledictions in the air.
Fear was around me everywhere;
The wrinkled foreheads of the rocks
Frowned on me, and methought 1 saw—
Deep down in dismal gulfs of awe,
Where grey death-adders have their lair,
With the flend-bat, the flying fox,
And dim sun-rays, down-groping far,
Pale as a dead man’s fingers are—
The grisly image of Decay,
That at the root of Life does gnaw,
Bitting alone upon a throne
Of rotting skull and bleaching bone.
There is an end to all our griefs:
Little the red worm of the grave
Will vex us when our days are done,
Bo changed my thought; up-gazing then
On gray-piled stones, that seemed the cairns
Of dead and long-forgotten chiefs—
The men of old, the poor wild men
Who, under dim lights, fought a brave,
Sad fight of life, where hope was none,
In the vague, voiceless, far-off years—
It changed again to present pain,
And I saw Sorrow everywhere:
In blackened trees and rust-red ferns,
Blasted by bush-fires and the sun;
And by the salt flood—salt as tears -
Where the wild apple trees hung low,
And evermore did stoop and stare
At a drowned image In the wave,
Wringing their knotted hands of wo?.
And the dark swamp-oaks, row on row,
Did line the banks-a sombre train
Of mourners with down-streaming hair.
VICTOR J. DALEY.


Lynch Family Bellringurs
(Organised 1857)
GRAND MONSTER SUBURBAN CONCERTS.
THURSD 4 Y—TOWN HALL, M ARRIC K VILLE.
FRIDAY—TOWN HALL, RBDFERN.
SATURDAY AFTERNOON nd EVENING,
MASONIC H\LL, YOtilv SIR SET.
HAR-Y LYNCH, Manager.
Mi s Annetta Scasi
HAVING jested her voice furs x months, after
a long and sm c ssful tour through New
Zealand, would be happy to
RESUME HER PROFESSIONAL DUTIES ON
THE STAUE ONCE MORE.
ST Line of Business Ope. a Bouffe, Concerts,
■Burlciqueo.
This young lady artist *. being an eminent musi-
cian, would have no objection to travel with a
Qrs -caas company as Pianiet.
AH tbeatiicai managers please address letters,
for the present. Post Office, Young.
"THE TyCEUM’’
Newcastle,
SITUATED IN THE BEST PART OF THE CITA
It is capable of seating 500 people,
and suitable for
MUSICAL & DRAMATIC ENTERTAINMENTS.
The Stage (40ft. by 24ft.) is furnished with
STOCK, SCENERY, &c.
For Terms, apply
COLIN CHRISTIE,
“The Lyceum,”
Newcastle.
AULCON BRIDGE ART UNION.
The DRAWING for PHIZES will take piece on
FRIDAY, 23rd October.
Gentlemen having tickets for sale rre respect-
fully requested to furbish the r-'ecietary with
sia ement of sab s, and to return all unsold tick* t(
by the 30 h of this mont h (Sep tember )
Office: Commercial Union Chambers, Pitt and
Hunter streets, Sydney.
READ THIS!
GiPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Manufactured by
TUB GIPPSLAND HOP BITTER! CO.,
SALE.
Certificate by Wm. Jihnson, Government Ana-
lytical Chemist
“Government Ana'yfcal Laboratory,
“Melbourne, July 14tb,I881.
“I have examined Troods Hop Bi ters (msnu-
factured at Sale). They arc remarkably pleasant
to the palate, and as a general tonic and piomcter
of appetite for invalids and yourg people arc no
doubt ejcelient. 'lha Hop Aroma is delicately
combined with a fragrant fruit flavour, producing
a really elegant preparation, which may'be relied
on as bem fleial to health and free from anythi. g
deleteriou?.
(Signed) “ WM. JOHNSON,
“Analyticil Chemist.”
,'1 HESE celebrated Bl'lers have been r roved by
■ analy sis to be a pure, del cat?, p datable com-
pound, and are Invaluable in sir irding relief in ah
cases of disorder! of the bicod, stomach, liver,
nerves, etc.
GIPPSLAND HOP BlTTcRS
Will be found a perfect “ Ba m of Gilead” to ail
who are suffering iromshattered nerves, an over-
worked bram, or lassitude; they are, In fact,
nature's brain and nerve food.
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Are an excellent appetiser, and may be taken
with perfect safety by the most del cate invalids
and young people.
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Eorich and purify the blood 1 , and are an exquisite
tonic and stimulant. If you are sick, no matter
from what cause, use
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS.
The large and increasing comumption has
gained for the Gippsiand Hop Bitters Manu-
facturing Co. a wide celebrity.
Beware of Imitations,
And use only those manufactured by tte
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS CO.
They are pronounced to be the best and only genu-
ine Hop fi tters manufac'ured in the colonier.
Sale, Nov. lllh.
THOMAS TROOD & CO..
Proprietors.
To be obtained from all the leading merchants,
chemists, and hotels in the colonies-
m
i
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
-IMmTERSirFSlLTHE-
NEWESTSHAPES.
Prsfiiilonal Directory.
GEORGE PE IMMAN. Scene Painter, Theatre
Royal, Bri lime. Disengaged.
MISS EDITH PENDER having concluded her
engagement as Prlma Djnua to the Leon
Caron Opera Company, is now open ’or engage-
ment. Address care of H. Trevcrah, 533 Gecrge-
etreet.
rfl H K A T K K tt O If A L.
3 Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, Qaknjcm and Mtrsouova.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer. *4eo L, Goodman
Ac'ing Va iagrr. H H Vli out.
lUUCiOAULT SE I SO A
cf
TWENTY-FIVE N G HTS ONLY.
The foremost Author and Actor of his tine,
Mr. B )UCICAULT,
in Plays and Characters of hia own creation.
THIS (THURSD i Y) EVENING, SEPTEMBER 10
at 8 o'clock. caulfs taraooa in 3 acts,
T11R SHA UGiiKAUN
THE SHA’ltoHRAHN
Mr. Bouc'caultasConn; Mr Dion B juc'cauU, Jun.,
as Harvey Duff; Mias Rouiiciultaa Moyi.
Entirely new ccencry by Gnrd jn and Hennings.
Prices of Admission: Drits Circic 5s ; Stalls, 3s.;
Family Circle, 2s.
Tickets for all part? ol the home at Eastway's
Hotel.
Box plan open at theatre from 11 till 4. No free
list. Agent for Mr. B uc cau't, Mr. W. Mfcnahon.
N
E W OPER A ROUSE.
Under the Lecseesbipand Management of
MAJERONI and WILSON.
THURSDAY and FRIDAY, Scp(oxb?r 10 £.nd 11
(For Two Nights Onlj),
LA PERICHOLE LVPEUTCROLE
LA PERICHOLE LA PERICHOLE
LA PERICHOLE LA PERICHOLE
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBaR 12.
Grand production of Offenbach's Comic Ocera.
In 3 act-, with New Scenery and Costumes,
THE RR1GANDS
THE BRIGANDS
THE BRIGANDS
THE BRIG \ND3
THE BRIGANDS
THE BRIGANDS
Prices as usual. Box plan at Huenerbein’a Music
Warehouse, 318 George-street. Tickets for all parts
of the house may be obtained at Roberts’, tobao
conist, next theatre.
A I B T r
T H EAT R R 1
Proprietor... ... Mr. JOHN SOLOMON.
Lessees Messss. CLARK and KYMAN.
Acting Manager .. A. LITHERLAND CUNAKD.
Another Crowded House to Greet the F..mc us
RED STOCKINGS
and their Clever Entertainment.
RED STOCKINGS. REG S TUCK (NGS.
Mr. F, M CLUlKand Miss LILLIE LINDEN
received with clamorous delights of app'ause and
laughter.
Mr. GEORGE JONES, the ECCENTR’C
COMEDIAN.
Box plan at Sandon’s. next door Huenerbein’s.
Admission-Orchestra Chairs 3s. Stalls 2>, Balcony
la. Doors open at 7.30, commence at 8.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager . .. F. C. HlSOOCkS.
“ TH T 8 AND EVERY F.VEN1NG.
BRILLIANT SFCCESS of
THE GRAND DOUBLE COMPANY.
LEON and CUSHMAN CO MCI NATION
In conjunction with
HISCOCK'S FEDERAL M1N3TREI 8
Concluding with Leon and Cushman’s Con ij r po-
retta. Her Majesty's Opera; ir, Paul's Visit to
Rothschild's House.
Prices : Reserved Orchestra, 4s. ; Stalls. 3?.; Par-
quette, 2s.; Gallery, la. Plan box at Paling's.
THE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George street, Haymarket.
Lessee and Director ... ... Mr. Frank Smith.
CROWDED and FASHIONABLE AUDIENCES.
IMMENSE SUCCESS IMMENSE SUCCESS
of
THE ALHAMBRA VARIETY COMPANY.
Pronounced by the Press and Public the meat re-
flced Entertainment given in Sydney. Minstrelsy,
Olio, Faroe, Every Evening.
The whole terminating with a
SCREAMING FARCE.
Gentlemen ushers in attendance.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 2 ; ; stalls, Is;
balcony. Is.
CH AS. AUSTIN, Business Manager.
Artists of acknowledged ability disengaged,
please communicate with Mr. Frank Smith.
N E w
MASONIC
Castle reagh strec t.
HALL,
SEPTEMBER 22nd, 24th, and 2otH.
POETRY! HUMOlM! PROGRESS.!
Mr. M. HUME his made arrangemsnts with
Mr. Thomas Bracken,
the celebrated New Zealand Poet, Journa'ls*,
Lecturer, Humouilst, and Elocutionist,
for the delivery of a
COURSE OF THREE LECTURES
on the above dates.
1 THE POETS OF IRELAND.
2, THE PRINCE OF IRISH HUMOURIeTS.
3. THE TRIUMPH OF DEMOCRACY.
These Lcctur,s havo quite recently delighted
crowded audiences throughout New Z.aland—
were admitted to be a rich intellectual treat, and
eulogised by the entire Press of the Colony.
Admission, 3s., 2s., 1’.
TO Country Journalists.-Leaden, Telegrams,
and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man of long experience, on moderate
terms. •* Beta,” Bulletin Office.
CENCY
PIS
m
Mia
SSMS
BE
£ T-
viT
WAREHOUSES. SYDNEY.
The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Company
(LIMITED,
HEAD OFFICE ... .. ... LONDON.
Capital - - £3,500,000.
THIS COMPANY WILL CONTINUE TO DISPLAY AND SELL
WOOL!
ON THE MELBOURNE SYSTEM,
At their Magnificent Warehouses,
DDIDCrD STREET,
SYDNEY.
EVERY LOT WILL BE CAREFULLY VALUED, AND SPECIAL ATTENTION WITT tip
BESTOWED UPON SMALL FARMERS’ PARCELS. WHICH WILL BE PLACED ON A FOOTINO
OF EQUALITY WITH THE LARGE CLIPS. U u;N A BOXING
It reserves are not reached, the nominal charge of one shilling per bale only will be made.
WOOL SALES. EVERY TUESDAY. SHEEPSKINS AND HIDES, EVERY FRIDAY,
Way Bills and all Information can be obtained on application, or will be sent by return of post.
Sydney Wool and Grain Warehouses.
H- H. LANG, Produce Manager.
XjOcli.-Dla.ia. <5z> Sliamroc lr
3-Star 10-Years’ Old Whiskies. The Oldest, Purest, and Most Mellow imported. GOLD MEDAI S-Pni
cutta, N Z. and S. and W. Australia. HOLLAND & CO.'S OLD TOM GIN. G. H ADAMS 118 Pi<t
street, Sydney : and at Melbourne, Adelaide, and Brisbane, Agent. Kirker, Greer, & Co. (Ld.J
SYDNEY SPORTS
DEPOT.
389 GEORGE-STRBET SYDNEY
(Opposite Royal Hotel.)
bicycles ( jTricycles.
OUR
1885 Pattern Bicycles
and Tricycles
Have Every Improvement,
OUR SPECIALITY
New Cheap Roadster.
THE UNIVERSAL CLUB
BICYCLE,
fitted with Improved Ball Bear-
to front and back wheels,
Hollow Forks, Patent Head and
Detachable Bent Handle Bar.
Eaay Slide Spring, Hubs Plated,
Black Enamelled Spokes,
1885 Universal Club, a thoroughly reliable and easy-running Price, *13 10s At thn nrin«
machine. Ball bearings to both wheels, and improvements. we defy competition. P
JAMES MARTIN & COMPANY, 389 Georgo-st., Sydney
CHAS. OTTE&CO,
Electrical Engineers,
113 Pitt Street,
Electric Batteries for surgical and household use, Electric Bells
Private Telephones, Electric Lights, Lightning Conductors, Dyna-
mos, and all Electrical appliances fitted at the short st notice at
25 per cent, under usual price.
CHAS. OTTE & CO., 113 Pitt Street
To Architects, Guilders, and Parties about to Build.
AT WHOLESALE LONDON PRICES,
fpedal Inducements Offered in WOOD FIRE PLACES, and OVERMANTELS 10 MATCH.
Grates and Broughton Hearths,
AT EXCEPTIONALLY LOW RATES.
Ban.grlis2a. r-ci.rxa.itna.re
Of the finest make and finish, unsurpassed in quality, and 50 p r r cent cheaper than can be had
in the colonies.
GEO. BARTHOLOMEW and CO.
Finsbury, Lpndiin; anil 74 Wllllmii Street, Sydney.
Illustrated Catalogue Free. Samples, &o, on view.


< £ ' /
,7, • /;
wpMf* ;
?",W,S J -
..VS#- *
1
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Religious troubles have been disturbing
our friends the Maoris. The Chinese tore up the
English-made railway from Shanghai to Woosung
because it was one of the new-fangled fashions
which those true conservatives will not have.
The Maoris have now torn up a mile of the rail-
way from Tauranga to Rotorua because it passed,
forsooth over a corner of a native burial-ground I
Whenlwe consider how apart of the old Melbourne
cemetery was used for extending its new meat
market we can blush for the Maoris’ feeling pt
respect for the dead.
Hangman Jones, of Victoria, who was
accused of bungling the execution of Bushby,
determined to “clear himself.” So when he cut
down the body (which had kicked in the air 26
minutes ere it died) and humped it off as a butcher
bears away the corse of a slaughtered sheep, he
seized the dead man by the head and twisted it
half round, jocularly remarking: “Do they mean
to say his neck isn’t broken ? ” And this is Austra-
lian civilisation! Poor psychologists ye are, O,
legislators and judges! Such are thelthlngs which
breed murder in the land. Twenty centuries of
history give the lie to the wretched sophisms by
which you would uphold this man-butchery by
stipendiary murderers. A century more and your
descendants will see clearly what is now beheld
“through a glass, darkly,” that these murders in
the name of the law have incited more men to
crime than all the causes laid down by you In text-
books.
The Imperial Review, published by Alex.
M'Kinley and Co,, Melbourne, crowds a large
variety of subjects into the J uly number. Within
the compass of 80 pages, 43 topic! are discussed.
The editor’s purpose is, as he says, “ to cram the
Review as full as the young lady’s trunk which
had to be jumped on.” We have not tried the
effect of jumping on the Review. If we are cor-
rectly iniormed, it is all written by one man. He
has versatility, at all events. He has also audacity.
Further, he has a summary way of ending a de-
batable subject which, if generally adopted, will
supersede thinking altogether. He tells us Virgil
was “a prim© snob.” H© does not trouble to
argue, but planks down the unambiguous state-
ment that Moliere and Shakespeare had “ each a
trifle of the snob about him, and perchance a faint
suspicion of the cad.” He tells us “ Notre Dame
is Victor Hugo’s masterpiece; and then, to show
what an adept he is at instituting literary compari-
sons, he adds, “ It excels anything by Scott.’ Still
there are a good many facts in the Review, and
the conclusiors built upon them are often sound.
He has the right measure of General Gordon.
C
u
N
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO THE PUBLIC.
In consequence of an attempt to substitute in-
ferior and spurious articles for “ Dr. Scott s Elec-
tric,” the Pall Mall Electric Association. 51, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, desire to caution the public
against purchasing any Counterfeit of the follow-
ing goods:-" Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets, Dr.
Sco‘t’8 Electric Belt*, Dr. fcotfs Electric Hair.
Flesh, or Tooth Brushes, Dr. Scott s Galvanic
Generators, and Dr. Scott’s Electric Insoles
Every genuine article bears the word * Electric
and the name of Dr. Scott, as also does the box
containing same. The extent of our trade, and the
marked approbation of the public having induced
certain parties to manufacture a line of worthless
goods, having something of the general form and
external appearance of ours, and variously styled
“ Magneto-Electric or Electric Magnetic,
we respectfully ask that parties who have been
Influenced by the many testimonials we publish,
all of which are strictly genuine, or the universal
reputation of our goods, to give electricity a
trial, will see that the name of Dr. Scott and the
word “ Electric” appear on every article purchased.
In addition to this, we have recently registered a
new trade mark—an oval label with our local
address. "Pall Mall Electric Association, 5i, Mar-
garet-street, Bydmy, N.S.W,” , I ? ar K 1 aw «
encircling the device of a mailed hand holding a
group of thunderbolts
EWc
cv
£
5
£
$
Stress
As we are the only parties in Australia importing
iese goods direct from Dr. Scott, and are prepared
3 guarantee the genuineness of every article
earing this label, we advise purchasers to see
ersonally that this trade mark invariably appears
n any and every Electric Corset, Belt, Insole,
"neritor, Hair. Flesh, or Tooth Brush ttey may
esire to purchase. This home in mind,.much
exation and dlsappointmt it will be saved .and
re respectfully request th t any person who has
een induced to buy any of Uose imitations under
ae impression that they weie Dr. Scott s Electric,
rill at once communicate with u9.
Wolfe’s Schnapps. Be sure you obtain
Wolfe,s Schnapps as it is the only genuine
Schnapps.
If you want good puddings use Kingsford’s
Oswego Cornflour.
The Renner Manufacturing Co., of Pitte-
burgh, Pennsylvania, U.S.A., make an extraordin-
ary offer to agents, and those wanting employ-
ment, to sell their Renner Combined Alarm and
Door Bell, in the different colonies and counties in
Australia. It is endorsed by over 3000 Polishers
In the United States and Canada, and by the llXl.liuu
who are now using them on their doors, it nas
never been sold by the trade, but by agents alone.
It will pay 100 per cent, profit, and sells from 54.UU
to $6.00 each. Agents in the United States have
taken as high as 33 orders In a single day. It sell?
readily on its merits. General agents who can
handle a number of counties, or one of the colc-
nies, can secure those they want by being the Urst
to comply with our terms. Large illustrated
circulars, containing terms and 1 be
sent free. Address: Renner Manufacturing
Co , Pittsburgh, Pennsylvannia, U.b.A. *
Every grocer keeps Kingsford’s Oswego Con -
flour don© up in and llb.-pack©t8,
Among tonics with an alcoholic basis
Wolfe’s Schnapps holds the foremost place, and
js besides a good medicine.
The Autophone!
' f\HTS triumph of musical Invention is acknow-
I ledged on all bands to be the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It Is a wonderful little Instrument, which, while
it weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL-SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and executes Its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 33 reeds, plays In three keys, and all the
parts of most difficult music.
To Mr. H. B. Horton, the inventor, the world
was first indebted for the Organotte; but that was
too expensive to come within the reach of all.
After years of persistent effort and intelligent
study, he has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of cost and crudeness.
It requires no skill to extract from it any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas, Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, &o , &c., &c. A child can
play any of these selections with perfect accuracy.
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that are sent with each
Instrument, and are so plain that “ ho who runs
may read.” It Is bust adapted to the kind of musio
which suits an organ best, in which chords pre-
dominate ; but it has also wonderful power in
executing very lively pieces. It is pitched for tho
voice, and has a little card-holder for convenience
in singing. It will be found Invaluable for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and
for Dancing. Every shanty in the bush should be
supplied with one ; and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autophone. It will afford greater and better
entertainment than four times the price can pro-
cure If expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Sole Agents for this marvel-
ous little instrument in the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
or
474 GE0R6E STREET, SYDNEY
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the colonies. Orders have
come to us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonely
shepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of th® cities—from
everywhere, in fact. And one of the best argu-
ments we can offer as to the genuineness of the
instrument, is the fact that, in all our corre-
spondence, we have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they will recommend it
to their friends.
It is conceded by all educators and moralists
that music is the great refining influence, and
especially with children its effect for good is
boundless. The love for musio which music in
the family engenders, is more potent in forming
dispositions and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, i nd parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm which renders an other
wise hard task an easy one.
The price of the Autophone Is 30s.,
and where good music can bo procured for such a
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
be without it. With each Autopho-o for 30s. we
send three tuneis of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatevsr tunes may suit his fancy.
All orders for music arc sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it our
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogues of tunes at any time.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Sole Agents for Australia:
Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-street, Sydney, 474
Ppposito pptrttow tQ Fruit Markets.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
'’HiiTBi hotal—“The Shaugbraun P* 8
Gaiety Theatre—“ Red Stoohings «
Opera House-" La Perichole •>
Alhambra— Variety Company ••
Academy of Music— Minstrels «
As the .“cintral faygur ” in “ The Shaugh-
raun,” at Sydney Theatre Royal, Dion Boucioault,
wiee in the generation which he nearly is, has
given himself many opportunities, of all of which
he avails himself to the utmost. He gets a great
laugh, for instance, when, on his entrance, he tells
the yarn about being stolen by the Squire's horse,
and a greater roar still when he relates to the
priest how he kept his vow only to take “ a thim-
bleful of whisky dally,” but admits that he us?d
a tailor’s thimble for the purposes of measure-
ment. Where he makes his great hit. however,
is in the parsonage scene at the end of the first
act. This is an “ interior” of the kind known as
»* scrupulously clean,” and contains a stained
glass window, bearing the presentments of four
saints, each with his head very much on one side,
having apparently suffered the extreme penalty
of the law. Robert Ffolllot (we think his name is
Robert, but hope it isn’t I) is, so It happens, ” kin-
sayled” in the hoos, and, in due course, in troop
Captain Molineaux and his rank and file of ridicu-
lous British soldiery, who are really “ very sorry,’*
but rather wantthebody of R.F., whom they know
to be hidden somewhere about the premises, dis-
guised as a gun-room steward. The officer, how-
ever, who is strangely “ struck ” upon the outlaw’s
sister, expresses himself as willing to take the
priest's word as a priest that Ffolllot is nowhere
about his house and clearing. Here, mark you, the
good “ praste,” who ali his life has been living on
little else than poached game, stolen hens, and
locally-distilled whisky, has an “ agony ” by the
chimney-piece, and evidently can't make up his
mind to tell a story. While Father Nolan
(we think his name is Nolan), thus writhes,
there is a complete silence observed, which is, at
length, broken by Conn, who mournfully ob-
serves, just as his riverenoe is delivered of another
conscientious spasm: “Well, all I oan say is—I
wish they’d take my word ’’—and brings down the
bouse.
* • *
All this is very well, and we gave, and are
glad to give again, the Benedict-elect all the credit
in the world for the consummate art he exhibits
in the drama; but we are hardly disposed, we
must confess, to view the versatile Dion in so
favourable a light when he poses as an orator.
We meant to have told you in our first notice
(but were probably crowded out by some giddy
suburban thing in the social way) that, after the
first act, when we saw it, Dion came out and made
a littlejspatch. This was a kind of pronunciamento,
aimed straight at the Irish of this city, wherein
Mr. Boucioault proclaimed himself, amidst a storm
of cheers, to be a true and unadulterated son of
Brin. Nearly the last of the gifted old gentleman’s
many perorations was as follows: “I have
always,” cried the orator, “in whatever land I
have been, found the lowest Irishman to bo an
agreeable gentleman, and the lowest Irishwoman
to be a lady 1 ” Very well, Dion, then we strongly
recommend you to lose no time in taking a turn
at the furnished room (with the use of kitchen),
which we have just hurriedly evacuated. The
name of the landlady, dear boy, is Mrs. O'Hooligan,
and if you enquire for her at any nub. within a
radius of two miles of the Crown street water-
works, you will come down upon her like a ham-
mer on a nail. Or, in view of the interesting
event so shortly, now, to take place, the suggestion
we make is equally at the disposal of Mr. “Dot.”
Boucioault, who, we are glad to see, does not, as
yet, contemplate emulating the example of “ His
Awful Dad.” And this reminds us that, at this
festive season, perhaps a few sportive lines will
not be out of place. But, ‘ No offence. Hal.; no
offence, boy; oh, no.” Here goes, then, in an easy
jingle:— m
“The Daughter of Madame Angot ”
brought a moderate attendance to the New Opera
House. Sydney, on Saturday night They were
mostly good-iookicg people, however. It is a
much greater pleasure to sit in a house where the
neonle are few but good-looking than to sit in
the Sneaker s galiery, for instance, at the opening
of Parliament. The night s attendance was pro-
bably affected by M. Leon Caron’s benefit, which
pame off in the same hoffee in }be afternoon.
Everybody has read or heard of Leoooq’s
“ Fill© de Madame Angot.” On this occasion Miss
Plaisted was Clairette and Mies Saville Mdlle.
Lange. The performances were characterised by
nerve, spirit, and piquancy. The song Introduced
by Miss Saville evoked hearty acknowledgments.
Miss Plaisted was obliged to sing some verses three
times over, and even then the audience was
notsatisfled. The quarrel scene towards the end
raised a riot of fun. Some would say the house
became too demonstrative. But, if so, the mistake
was on the right side. Clairette and her rival
were possessed with the genius of the part.
• • ♦
None of the men did anything to need
comment. Mr. Edwin Kelly played Larivaudiere,
and Mr. Roseveare Pomponnet. The utterance of
neither was distinct, nor did there appear to be a
surpassing lot of music in thtlr souls Mr. Hard-
ing had not much room as Ange Pitou, and bis
voice was in weak form. He was reported to be
suffering from cold.
The scenery was very pretty. The dunce
in the Gardens of Cilypso was a pleasant bit of
romance. Under Mr. Searelle’s baton the light
sparkling airs which have made the opera such a
favourite, were well rendered.
• • » «
The Clark and Ryman crowd made a
good start on Saturday night at the Gaiety. There
was standing room- outside. Inside, there was an
aroma of green fields, dog-leg fences, and butter-
milk, caused, no doubt, by the number of rustics
who attended the Agricultural Show and gravi-
tated to the Gaiety. The corner-men only—Clark
and, we forget the other chap’s name—had
blackened faces, but they were of an intensity of
blackness which could never have been obtained
from burnt-oork alone. Then there were red-
hosed ladies swinging, see-sawlng, sitting and sing-
ing to the delight of thelyokelsanl the gods. We
must defer till next week a proper description of
this novel entertainment.
* * * *
The Lynch Family continue their tintin-
abulant perambulation of the Sydney suburbs.
Thursday, Hunter’s Hill Friday, Redfern, and
Saturday, afternoon and evening, at the Old
Masonic, York-streef, is the programme this week,
then they go to Melbourne. Mr. H. Lynch was
asked, we hear, to join the Salvation Army, as
Alleluj ah ’Arry, but he refused either to do this or
loan his bell.
• i « y
On August 21 the Sydney Echo wrote of
Luscombe Searelle's “Isidora” that; “As we
have not the most remote intention of either hear-
ing or noticing it again, we may take advantage of
the visit to say at occs that we do not like it.” On
September 2 the Echo had discovered that “ ‘ Isi-
dora’ is highly spectacular and sensational, and
has many bright bits of melody scattered through
it, and altogether is worth seeing and hearing,’’
Thus is the man enabled to carry his ass safely
across the bridge of theatrical criticism 1
» * • «
For two or three months past, the mem-
bers of the “ Parramatta Amateur Dram atlo
Club” have been burning the “midnight oil”
in the colossal task of trying to stow away the
various parts of “Richelieu” under their scalps;
and patrons of these aspirants to histrionic fame
have been in a feverish state of excitement, closely
bordering on the delirious, waiting for the pro-
duction of the piece. It was no wonder then
that, on Thursday evening last, a large crowd of en-
thusiasts fairly rushed the local Th splan “drum,”
and appropriated every seat. All the hi<h-toned
gentlemen visitors wore smiling faces and white
kids, and the way they banged the last named to-
gether, must have been entirely satisfactory to the
performers, and a source of intense gratification
to themselves. Mr. J. Toohey, the well-known
brewer, played the Cardinal, in a handsome dress,
and a nasal twang. He never changed the
former, and stuck religiously to the latter all
through the piece. His reading of the lines
proved that he had devoted a lot of care
andt attention to their study; and while never
being actually equal to the part, it could not pos-
sibly be said thai he was very far below it. In the
fourth act he fairly moved his audience. To
banish any suspicion of ambiguity that may hang
round this sentence, we inform our readers that
the audience did not leave till the end of the last
act. Mr. G. Brodie, as De Maupiat, looked more
like a clerk in disguise than a chevalier, but his
performance was a successful one. Mr. J. Little,
the low comedian of the Club, played Baradas in a
wig, and with a voice that we will never forget
if we live to be as old as Pat Hayes, or the people’s
Ughey. If Baradas had a head of hair as repre-
sented by Mr. Little, there is no wonder that he
was a scoundrel. Any man with his “kadoova”
so heavily handicapped would be capable of
any crime, from “heading them” at Chowder
to chopping down a policeman at Canterbury. Mr.
Goodin, a youthful member of the Club, revelled
in the part of Joseph, and was by far the most suc-
cessful performer of the crowd, from an artistic
point of view. Mr. L. Rowling made a mild Louis,
with two much curled hair and too little kingly
dignity. Of the other male characters there is
little to be said Miss Marsh made an interesting
Julie, and her sister, Miss Annie, looked pretty as
Marion. The Club’s treasury was swelled to the
amount of £60 at one pop, and this Is to be divided
amongst deserving charitable institutions.
* * * *
Miss Genevieve Ward is a clever woman,
but she can’t afford to play the fool. One of her
latest dramatic efforts in Melbourne did incline in
that direction. For Vernon’s benefit the stately
“ Forget-Me-Not” attired herself in a pantomimic
costume that wasn’t funny, with an artificial
stomach of dropsical dimensions, and masqueraded
as Mrs. Colonel Carver, in the played-out comedy
of “ Woodcock’s Little Game.” Even as Wood-
cock was burled with Charles Matthews, to was
Carver laid to rest in company with Mrs.
Prank Matthews. For playgoers not still in
their teens Mrs. Colonel Carver and her original
exponent can only be resurrected together.
While Miss Ward was rolling along under her un-
wieldy make-up, sniggering one minute and
dropping into mock tragedy the next, the
shade of Mrs. Prank glided on from the wings,
showing us what Carver really was | and we,
being of the more thoughtful, grieved for Gene-
vieve’s litt.e mistake. She kept at it for three
nights, too, but the public had enough. Mel-
bourne people have a mighty reverence for a
reputation, but it is our painful duty to record
that Genevieve Carver was told to “ go along home”
by a free and independent cifzanin one of the gal-
leries, who had pale his “ bob ” without prejudice.
Vernon played Woodcock with his usual cynical
humour, but appeared not to know how to deal
with some of the leading lady’s sallies. We felt
for him. And Miss Watts-Phillips was Mrs. Larkics.
She looked nice, but smiled too much. As this
young lady's smiles are pretty substantial affairs,
it doesn't do to dispense too many of them in one
evening. An audience is apt to get nauseated
“ Woodcock’s Little Game ” isn’t likely to trouble
the play-bills again, so we’ll leave the rest of the
cast severely alone.
# ♦ * w
Conversation overheard in"Garton’s Hotel,
Melbourne, between Mr. Ignatius Fotheringham
Keogn (oy vulgar actors sometimes called “ Cuff ”)
and Mr. Blank Blank, the gay and festive drama-
tist: —
Keogh: “Yes; we’ve been doirg pretty good
biz. up country with our show.”
Mr. Blank Blank: "Awl glad to hear it. What
pieces did you play ?’*
Keogh (carelessly): “Oh, 4 The Shaughraun,
‘ Crate,’ and a lot of other popular pieces.”
Mr. Blank Blank (with dignity); “ But I say,
you know this can’t go on. You have paid no
royalties on those plays. We're going to put this
kind of thing down, you know.”
Keogh (with a humorous glance round the
bar): *' Who’s weT’ ,
Mr. Blank Blank (with Increased dignity): “ Why,
Williamson, Garuer, Musgrove, Rigaold, Allison,
and myselt.”
Keogh: 41 Oh, yourself, eh? Well, it seems to
me you needn't treuble. Nobody has ever stolen
any of your pieces Nobody ever will.”
Gloom,
Sam Poole is up North, and it is observed
in one of the papers that ** he is playing well up to
Sally.”
• • • *
We hear that Miss Etnelie Melville has
established herself as first favourite at Singapore.
That is glory. And Verdi, and Walshe, and Deve-
reux are with her. When we beard where Emelxe
was, we were able to guess where Melbourne
Walshe was. And the local paper undertakes to
give the great tenor a piece of advice. It says Mr.
Wa she should “study his dialogue” better than
he does. But Mr. Walshe hasn't time. If the
editor of that paper had half the opportunities of
looking at Emellc Mr. Walshe has, he wouldn t
“study his dialogue” either. Miss Melville has
got a new recruit in the person of Mr. G. C. Wray.
He made a first appearance recently, and is de-
cribed as “ a faultless singer.”
TO DION-ET PUIS.
Oh, lend us some Apollo’s ring I
For, Dionysius, theo we sing.
’Tls thee we sing, and to a harp
Attuned to soft and gentle chords;
No note shall sound or short or sharp,
And wreathed in love shall be the words 1
We’ve sympathy with thee, sweet elf,
We’ve been so oft that way ourself I
Thou hast “ the luck,” thou Lover gay I
Who squintest at a “ round four-score;”
And he who does our word gainsay
Would doubly, trebly, be foreswore I
A figure classical and tall,
Soft, melting eyes—he’s got ’em all!
The blue frock-coat—ten pounds for that I—
The pants of fawn or else lavernder,
The hard, recriminative hat;
The holy smile when thou’st discerned her!
Bereft of nerve, her gaze does freeze—
And something “ takes you in the knees I ”
The breakfast; then the brave discourse—
That same has not, sirs, been neglected—
The broken “ my dear friends,” of course,
The bride most “ palpably affected.”
They mostly are “ affected ” here —
We know our little nine all were.
Our bands and hearts I That lune de miel!
Oh, sweetest of connubial capers 1
But when the “ quarter’s out,” oh, tell,
Won’t you just long for those “ low papers!”
We did, and for the “ flowing cup
That bust our lune de miel right up.
To thee, fair , with a heart
All quiv’ring with the tender glow yet,
We whisper—” Make the old man ‘ part’ I
There’s heaps of things you’ll have to know yet.
When by a shop—he’s lots of ‘ tin ’ I—
Don’t hesitate, but just walk in! ”


BRIEF MENTION.
The Victorian Government advertise for
sleepers. They should circularise the clergy.
Some time ago a gentleman informed the
N S.W. Minister of Public Works that “all the in-
habitants of Nortn Shore were respectable because
they were teetotallers.” The North Shore Times
had not been long started then.
Eighty-three thousand persons died re-
cently in Spain from cholera. The death-rate will
shortly trouble us to the same extent if the Pro-
tectionist and Freetrade advocates now “ lec-
turin’” are not promptly executed.
A Melbourne R C. priest tho other day
dismissed from her office the iady teacher of a
suburban denominational school because she had
committed the horrible crime of attending a lec-
ture by the local Anglican Bishop.
Magistrate (to Barney, who is in his usual
Monday moin'ng position): “Did you call the
constable a stupid ass?” Barney (calmly and
sweetly): “ Your worship, the longer I look at the
man the m"-r it seems likely I did I:’ •'orty or
seven- 11
Fish have been selling in Melbourne at Id. '
- dozen This is a mixed good, for the arrogance
of some of the local journalists, when they have
12 pilchards undergoing the process of digestion
’neath their hides, is simply intolerable.
There were 19 clerks absent from the Bank
nf Victoria. Melbourne, and 46 from the firm of
Sands and M'Dougall in one day a week or two
awo All had severe colds. The weather has been
shocking over there lately. They were all foot-
ballers. ,
The S.M. Herald says that “too many
on-iks spoil the broth.” Considering the position
held in the office by Mr. Sam Cook, we can only
r«iftrd the leader-writer s statement as a malig-
nant endeavour to show that the staff can have
too much of a good thing.
A Melbourne weekly paper asks the givers
of entertainments to send tickets for the same to
tha editor. “ and not to any individual member of
JP® >’ We presume that this request has
onfdal reference to banquets and tea-meetings.
An editor must live somehow.
The Svdney Echo should be “ had up ” for
criminal libel on the members of the Salisbury
Government. Their portraits, as given by our
nleasant little contemporary, remind one of no-
thimr save plaster-casts of heads taken out of the
SJwfust basket at the guillotine.
L. L. Smith, the well-advertised Melbourne
apothecary, has long urged the introduction of a
penny postal system. It is suggested that when
the change comes about L. L.’s likeness should be
engraved on each stamp, with “Onepenny,” and
“ Don’t You Feel Well, Young Man ” below.
The Daily Howl men are living out of
their due time. They are anachronisms. An
exchange says that “In the time of Henry III., it
was enacted by statute that beer might be sold in
cities at the rate of two gallons for a penny, and in
the country three or four gallons for the same
price.”
Every time we paddle round Goat Island
in Sydney Harbour la our little boat we feel sorry
that Plain Bill refused that title. The island seems
to have been dropped there by Providence as a
suggestion to him for an estated name. Baron
Goatislandl What a fine rank sound it has I And
what a wealth of meaning!
An old man was run into a Victorian
Lunatic Asylum the other day because he had got
into the habit of wandering about under the hal-
lucination that somebody owed him money. We
wish the police over here could be made to see
things In that light. We have a list of persons
whom we should like to give in charge for similar
lunacy.
General Gordon said, among other things,
that he “ would sooner live like a Dervish with
the Mahdi than go out to dinner every night in
London.” These be fine words, but if General
Gordon had teen an Australian country editor
who bad traduced the character of an estimable
politician, he would have held views a trifle vastly
different.
At Goulburn, recently, a Salvation soldier
borrowed a shilling to give a fallen brother, in
order that he might procure a bed. The latter,
however, refused to take it, and the soldier, rot
wishing to return the “Robert,” went down on his
knees in the street and asked God to move him in
what direction to spend it. He was “ moved" for
the nearest pub.
Two Melbourne weeklies have come to
words concerning rival rainfall maps published
by each of them. If they had kept their secret
nobody would have known but that both pub-
lished a rainfall map every week. They are both
damp enough. Heaven knows, to warrant the be-
lief that they have secured separate rights to pub-
lish regularly a map of the Deluge.
It has been left to the Sydney Presbyte ■
rian to give George Augustus Sala the squarest
hit. It says that it invented the title, “ The Land
of the Golden Fleece.” Being a pious organ it
knows its statement must be supported., It sup-
ports it with an extract from a poem published m
its columns years ago. The phrase really occurs
there. Well, the title was the most taking part In
the journalist’s effusion.
The Melbourne Press handled “ Dr.
Tucker” pretty roughly for his outspoken 1
opinions about the Victorian Asylums. We arel
not surprised at this. At his examination before 1
the Commission, “Dr. Tucker” was indiscreet
enough to say “ he believed the asylums should be
thrown more open, especially to the Press.”
Human nature could hardly be expected to stand
that, you know. Hence the trouble.
The question that now exercises our mon-
strous intellect is, Whether it is better to be a
Lighthouse of Intelligence to the public or a blind
Chinaman. We incline to think that it is better to
be the latter. We see by our exchanges that a
blind Chinese mendicant has been going round the
country towns of Victoria making as much per
diem as a stonemason. And we—but let us not lift
the curtain from the family skeletons.
The members of the Irish Presbyterian
Assembly have, we read, fought for 16 consecu-
tive years over the question of permitting or not
permitting the use cf instrumental music In their
churches, and have not come to a settlement yet
vet instrumental music is—according to popu-
lar belief—permitted and even encouraged in i
heaven. But we have no doubt these dour-faced
saints will soon settle all that when they can make
up a sufficient majority up there. The Almighty
must be taught taste.
At a recent Rockhampton amateur enter-
tainment, an Individual, well-known locally, an-
nounced that he was just about to give a recitation
from “The Swan ot Avon.” He duly arrived at
“ Give me that handkerchief,” whereupon a wit In
the back seats thought he saw an excellent chance
of letting the spouter’s audience know what trade
he followed. So, to the demand “ Give me that
handkerchief,” the malicious one replied, “No;
not till you tell me how much you’re going to give
me on it.” Which was a perfect crusher.
At the recent Royal wedding, we read in
the London Daily Telegraph, which, though a
“popular” paper, is essentially a snobs’ organ;
“Prince Henry of Battenberg, though visibly
affected, answered unfalteringly, and in clear, em- i
phatio tones, the questions impressively put to
him by the Archbishop of Canterbury.” Now, If
ice, who, like this Royal pauper, haven’t much a
year of our own, were impressively asked by the
Archbishop of Canterbury (or anybody else):
“ Will you, dear boy, take this woman, with £6000
a year, and £30 000 cash down ? ” we’d unfalter-
ingly, and In clear, emphatic tones* answer: “Just
you bet, old man.”
For good all-round humour, commend us
to Patrick Dwyer, the man who, as the Age
caustically puts it, “out of mere bravado, or
■wanton sport,” snatched up a kitten in a Spencer-
street (Melb.) hotel, killed It, and ate it raw, right
away. We marvel at Patrick killing the juvenile
feline. When a man goes in for notoriety he
should not stop at trifles. He ought to have eaten
it alive. We have been eating cats ever since we
started boarding, but we don’t boast about it—ours
are hashed. The cat contains nine lives, besides as
much nutriment as seven sheep and the shepherd.
At a meeting of the Evangelisation Society
of Victoria, held lately, one of the reverend
speakers said that it would harrow the souls of hli
hearers if they knew how the youth of the colony
cursed God, laughed at religion, and ridiculed the
Bible. In so many words he said that Joseph
Symes was the cause of all this. Humph I If
Joseph Symes can do it all by himself, It seems to
us that God and religion and the Bible have very
poor defenders. But if Symes is so powerful for
evil, why not buy him over for good? We don’t
suppose he would object. This course would save
a lot of trouble and much cursing.
If the march of invention continues to
keep on at its present speed, the world will soon
become a tolerable place to live In. A machine
has lately been constructed for measuring the
weariness of an audience by marking at short
intervals—by Instantaneous photography-their
changes of position. The inventor states his
belief that he has conferred a great boon on pub-
lic speakers of all kinds. We are prepared to
receive subscriptions at this office for the purchase
of one of these machines, with the view of pre-
senting it to Well, we always thought Dan
ought to get a testimonial of some kind, and we
think if it takes this shape the result will “give
pleasure to all.”
Mr. Purves of Melbourne made a remark-
ably rash statement to a jury the other day. He
said:—“ You are now enjoying the blessings of the
Judicature Act, one of those things which will
enable us to leave this life with less regret than
otherwise. We shall hove no Judicature Act
hereafter.” Humph I Perhaps Mr. Purves will
tell us next that there will be no Day of
Judgment. And we have a kind of dim
suspicion that the Judicature Act of the Here-
after will not be quite as profitable to the pro-
fession which Mr. Purves adorns as the present
Act is. We said a " suspicion.” But we mighteveu
have gone so far as to say a hope.
“ Ouida,” in a letter to the Times, states
that in Naples stray dogs, cats, and rats, old horses,
kids and lambs “ are all skinned alive, because the
sklu when removed from the living creature
The Pacific Mall Steamers from Sydney to San Francisco are to be taken off , —Cablegram
(See page 4.)


considered more supple, and sells for a somewhat
higher price.” Here is a hint for our genial
judges. For some time back they have been sen-
tencing prisoners to be flogged without any ap-
parent idea of economy. Human skin ought to
bring a fancy price in the hide-market. Why not
then improve upon the Neapolitan practice and
flay prisoners properly, Instead of spoiling the
value of their skins by cutting strips out of them ?
We hope Judge will take this matter up.
Such a source of profit to the revenue should not
be allowed to go to waste.
There is a South American custom which
might be acclimatised in Australia with some
degree of moral profit to persons about to die. In
South America, when a prominent citizen dies, It
is usual to put a testimonial In his coffin. Whether
this is done with a view to let the resurrecting
angel know what his fellow citizens thought of
him, and so prejudice the Apostolic jury at the
general judgment in his favour, or otherwise, we
know not. But what would we not give to be
able to send down to eternity our opinions of a
few prominent citizens who stalk about among us.
appareled in purple and fine linen, and give us
poor devils the wall ? To begin with a few, there
is — [Libels enough to get us ten years in irons
eliminated for obvious reasons.—Eu. B.]
The 8.M. Herald approves of the Pall
Mall articles; the Echo, issued from the same
office, condemns them, and says:—“Life must
have reached a strange epqeh when the paradox is
applicable to it that we must do evil to cure evil.”
Which reminds us of this, from the London
Echo:— “ About the worst paid of the underpaid
workwomen in London are those employed in the
manufacture of cheap Bibles. They are ground
down to starvation point so that the Gospel may
be extended, in the first placs for the profit of
publishers, and in the second place for the re-
generatlon of mankind. Sometimes, when their
usy fingers flag for a moment, they may read
that * the labourer is worthy of his hire,’ and it
must seem like a mockery to them.”
Is any illusion ever going to be left to us ?
We believe not. For long we supposed, with all
the rest of the reading world, that the heart of
the poet Shelley was preserved in a silver case in
the mansion of his ancestors. Now, some ghoul
has written to a London literary paper suggesting
the cruel suspicion that the mortal part of the
starry genius so sacredly guarded, is not his heart
but his liver. This is too shocking. But it con-
tains one consolation. If any of the present gener-
ation of colonial poets reach such eminence as to
justify either heart or liver being preserved by a
proud country, there will be no difficulty in dis-
tinguishing in after years which has been
treasured. The heart may or may not be broken,
but it is a moral certainty that the liver will be
hobnailed.
Shakespeare is not in much request in West
Australia. The Victorian Express weeps bit-
terly over the contumelious treatment accorded
to the divine Williams on a late occasion. Mr.
George James announced a lecture on the bard,
He oame on to the platform of St. George’s Hall,
Geraldton, and told them he would start by deli-
neating Shakespeare’s birthplace. When they beard
it wasn’t Geraldton, they asked Mr. James to “close
up.” He, after a booties] struggle, obeyed, and
then told them he would start into the sublime
dramas. At this intimation, the audience appears
to have risen up, and shoving chairs out of the
way, squatted with a thud on the floor. It is not
said that Mr. James asked them all outside to fight
him. Nor is it recorded that he even swore. He
simply cleared.
Mr. George Smith, barrister, sued his father
in a Scotch Court, recently, for means of subsist-
ence. George’s case was that his father had in-
duced him to study for the Bar, on the under-
standing that after being “called,” he would be
supported till business turned in. George got
“called ” years ago, but fourpence worth of busi-
ness never turned in. The old man at last kicked,
and George pulled him to Court. Lord Fraser,
who presided, decreed that the father was bound
to supply George with necessaries of subsistence,
but not with luxuries. The account of the case in
the English paper from which we quote here ends.
But, we ask, cannot George claim costs for his
legal services in the case? And cannot the old
man claim exemption from levy, seeing that
George has now got business ?
The trustees of a Wesleyan church in Bal-
larat are pleading with the Town Council. They
want that august body to prevent the “Major
Mining Co.” from erecting a quartz-crushing plant
In the neighbourhood of their little corner of the
Lord’s vineyard. They say the racket is likely to
militate sgai rst the holy quiet of a peaceful and
effective “ wash-up.” The peacefulness of a Wes-
leyan congregation is good, but purely imaginary.
The prayer should be granted, though, or the
Council will have the boss of that mine round
shortly wanting them to shift the revival meeting,
"Cos th’ feeders can’t hear when the flamin’ heads
are heatin' on the bottom, for the condemned
shindy those K.G. fanatics are rlsln’.” It may be
necessary to explain that K G. is an abbreviation
common among miners for “ Cousin Jack,” K. for
Cousin, and G. for Jack.
The Chinese Church at Botany will
shortly bo opened by Dr. Barry, Sin Wong Eung
is to be the first deacon. The choir at this place
of worship is likely to attract attention and pro-
fanity from the neighbours. A tom-tom has been
purchased for the opening ceremony, and it is
rumoured that chopsticks will follow. Should
many more Confuclana enter the fold, it is pos-
sible that negotiations may be opened for a big
drum or, at.least. cymbals. A negro in the vicinity
has a damaged trombone, with which he volun-
teered to play the converts out of church every
second Sunday. It is doubtful whether this offer
will be accepted, as it is darkly whispered that
this coloured person is of an irascible tempera-
ment, and uses the instrument as a club to induce
the congregation to go home when they show e
disposition to loiter. Any further Ihfopmat*-',
wo happen to receive op (his interesting su’j -
tye shall gladly publish.
The Vice-Regal Progress.
“ I or rest and convenience it is arranged that Lord Augustus Lof tus shall halt for CO minutes at certain railway stations on the road, and inspired items to that
effect appear m the Sydney dailies, together with a plainly worded hint to the people at the intermediate halting-places to prepare addresses for presentation. That
mntieL j *u We .f ky a broader one to the same effect, in the shape of a telegraphic message from the Governor’s temporary custodian and carrier, the Minister for
Works, to the Mayors of those places.” - “
MR. WRIGHT (loq): “NOW, DEAR CHILDREN, THE GOOD, KIND GOVERNOR IS COMING YOUR WAY, AND I WANT YOU TO TELL HIM HOW MUCH YOU LOVE HIM.”
YOUNG BATHURST (a vulgar lad): “HE AIN'T MY STYLE, AN’ I WON’T PUT MYSELF OUT FOR ’IM.” (And he Didn't.)


The celebrated Wolfe’s Schnapps is a
shield and safeguard against autden changes of
temperature.
Ladies, if you want your Pastry light, use Klugs-
ford’s Oswego Cornflour.
Wolfe’s Schnapps. There are doubtless
other preparations typified as Schnapps hut they
are as a counterfeit coin is to current metal.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the purest and safest
medical stimulant that can he taken by enfeebled
invalids.
There is an almanac in the British Museum
3000 years old. That Is where the B. News jokes
oome from. Alfred is in London now.
Extract from Lyttelton Times of 18th
August. 1885 “ Knight — Aug ist 14, at Mrs.
Butterfield’s, Caledonlan-road, the wife of John
Knight, rail amen, New Brighton, of a son (her
24th child), all doing well. All born in Canterbury.
Talk about emigration, of the West Coast Rail-
way!”
Eighty-thfee thousand people in Spain
have died of cholera.—
Says Spain, “ The Aslan bhd’era
Has slain these sons of mine)
And now the Teuton collarer
Would steal toy Catollne.”
“A subsidy for music is ” (We qubte our
tersely-written contemporary, the Sydney Echo)
“ the subject of an admirable letter,” of course in
the 8. M. HEbaLU. And then the article proceeds
gtavely to applaud the proposal. We are entirely
at one with the gifted genius who gave this in-
spired suggestion to the world. Bands are tor the
public instruction; so are, in a humbler way,
hurdy-gurdies. These latter then, should be sub-
sidised, and even the butcher boy, who startles the
vesper air with “ Ehren on the Rhine,” should
have his little share of the State bounty. All
pub'lo educators should be paid by the State;
whether th&Ecao would haveany claim to a share
of that bounty is a question which vve do not feel
called upon to answer.
At the Moss Yale District Court, Mr. John
Marshall sued the proprietors of the Burrawaog
Herald for accusing him through a correspon-
dent of wrongly using public money, of dummy
log, snd of having been drunk on a public road.
The defendants did not attempt to prove that the
statements were true, but contended these things
did not constitute a libel. The jury gave a ver-
dict for £10. and the Judge allowed six guineas
only as professional costs. This shows the dif-
ference between having a libel heard in the
country and in Sydney. All the libels at Moss
Vale were only valued at £10, and yet milder
assertions in the Cootamundra case were assessed
by he Supreme Court, Sydnev. for the benefit of
a metropolitan attorney, at £500. There is as much
difference in this as there is between buying boots
in Woolloomooloo, and buying similar goods in
George or Collins streets Vou have to pay for
the more imposing style In which business is con-
ducted in either case.
A feeling of dissatisfaction is making itself
felt among the unknown suicides and stray
corpse* of Melbourne, owing to the paltry show
of hospitality made at the local morgue. A late
“found drowned” complains most bitterly of the
lack of accommodation and privacy so essential
to the comfort and yyell-belng of a respectable
body, and the Age prints his wall. The deadhouse
is a sombre, bare shanty, and goes no higher on
the social ladder than a disused stable. It is
without that ostentation which should mark a
Government institution, has neither billiard room
nor light literature, and the draught is simply in-
tolerable. One helpless victim sustained a cold
in the nose, which he seriously apprehended would
impair his rendering ot “ Round the Throne.’ If
this matter is not looked into, we may expect a
damp, gloomy, shrouded deputation waiting upon
the Victorian Parliament one of those stormy
nights, with a petition for weathertlght apart-
ments, three-star brandy, coals, and a euchre
pack.
For subtle reasoning, knowledge of
human nature, and logical sequence of thought,
the Caucasian of Geraldton in West Australia is
not a patch on the almond-eyed Mongolian. A
Mr. Broadhurst over there engaged a gang of
Chinese for a term of three years. The aggregate
John struck after a month or two. The Govern-
ment Resident promptly sent the multitude to
gaol for three months. Ooe after another they
filed out of the dock, saying “Ally same; back
again bynby.” Three months expired; still they
refused to work. The Government Resident
asked them to show their hand. “ We llkeo plison,’
they softly replied; “not so much workee.far better
glubee.” “ Go back for three months,’’ cried the
G.R. “ Ally same,” they murmured, filing out of
the dock; “back again bynby.” The G.R avers
that when they return he win only give them one
month, and on the occasion mapped out to follow
he will kick them out of the court. The aggrava-
tion is that the Mongolian voice will still be heard
saying “ Ally same.”
He was a newly-fledged Dunedin barrister
and just married to a rich squatter's only daugh-
ter After the honeymoon, the young couple
visited the bride's natal station far in the wilds of
Manlototo. In honour of their visit, the toughest
turkey there extant was immolated and duly
placed before the legal luminary to dissect. It
was a dreadfully tough contract and soon caused
the perspiration to appear on the learned gentle-
man's massive brow. The table of the bride s
ancestral hall, besides, was sma I and inconveni-
entlv crowded with other eatables, and he hada t
room to gesticulate freely with his weapons. But
he arose from his chair determined to grapple
with the case. There was a large pudding on the
table and this he lifted off to make more room and
carefully deposited on the chair from which he
had iust risen. Then he went to work with a will,
and soon cross-examined the defunct turkey with
a knife and fork to his heart’s content. There,
Sow I” he said triumphantly when he had flnished-
and then a fifteen-stone man sat down plump upon
a very hot pudding.
An old gentleman got three months in the
Melbourne City Court, the other day, for stealing
a book entitled “ Great Triumphs of Great Men.”
And we daresay the poor old fellow only wanted
to read It to see how in thunder he bad missed
being a great man. But ever since the time of
Eugene Aram, and long before, the enquiring
mind has always been discouraged in this fashion
Yet this ancient blbliokleptlc seems to have been
worthy of a better fate; for he had, in a striking
degree, one duality of great meri—the facility of
never losing an opportunity. He was arrested
over night, and the police sergeant stated that the
first thing he did in the cells was to steal the coat of
another prisoner, who was asleep, and put it on
his owa back! It is a very curious thing to us
that he was not a rich man and the owner of much
Pish Creek property years ago. Perhaps he was
too honest. We are sorrjr for the man who would
read, but who is so poor that he Is irresistibly
tempted to steal a book. We may be permitted to
sympathise with crime to at least that extent.
A party out Silverton way had an inter-
view with an emu the other day, which has risen
his respect for the Australian national bird very
near to reverence. He saw her meandering round,
delineating to a rising family the art of foraging
for provender, and as he thought emu-chicaena
were good things ro have, he set out to annex the
brood. He was bringing it away when the old hen
Intercepted him, and seemed to express, by her
actions, a desire to arrogate to herself the rearing
of her offspring. She kicked his shins and
crowded him so that he felt constrained to drop
the clutch and grapple with her, whereupon she
brushed his hair with her bony wings, and pecked
him In several places. The gentle reader who
has been pecked by an emu, will acknowledge
that it is scarcely as trilling as the mouthful of
the homely ilea. Our enterprising poultry-lifter
was then put in for a wrestling tournament, in
mix-id styles, which seemed likely to spoil his per-
sonal appearance. His apparel was torn to use-
less fragments, and he was receiving severe body
punishment, when a friend, who had been enjoy-
log the show, interfered. The two managed to
secure the long-legged emu, but after the contest,
either was wilting to trade of his share of the
plunder for a new suit of togs and a whole skin.
Says the Sydney D.T., of the conspiracy
case wherein Siddon and Reynolds were convicted
of having defrauded Lassetter and Co,, of Sydney,
by false invo’ces:—“ It was pitiable to see two
voung men—evidently held in high esteem socially
and commerciaby by all with whom they had asso-
ciated—in the le-on's decs, co nvicied of nfraud
which, but for their own greed, might have assumed
gigantic proportions. Tne one was baffled and
beaten; the other pleaded his innocence and
heaped contumely on the head of his associate,
who, without doubt, was the moving spirit in the
swindle so well conceived, but so miserably carried
out,” *‘ Young man ”• practically says the D.T. in
the foregoing extract, “ when you go in for a
swindle, don’t, we counsel you, be too greedy.
And, above all things, don’t neutralise the advant-
ages derivable from the beautiful spirit of enter-
prise with which you have been oilted by a bene-
ficent Almighty, by a reprehensible carelessness, a
criminal neglect of proper precautions, a too
openly-manifested contempt for the perceptive
faculties of that plump pigeon, your opulent and
unsuspecting master. Take our advice, young
man, and you’ll completely distance your boss,
and breast the tape yards ahead of the clumsy
policeman.” We don’t for a moment think that
that’s what the D.T. homily-man meant to say.
Only when a fellow writes for some thousands of
dense people who put a purely matter-of-fact
interpretation on everything they read, he can’t
be too careful.
The Registrar of the Melbourne Univer-
sity is a man of much humour, besides being a
keen student of professional character He told
the assembled dons lately that he had been made
their scapegoat long enough; so long, in fact, that
he was‘'Jack” (Johannes) of it. His name had
been sent out into the wilderness beyond the Uni-
versity fence saddled with all their sins and bur-
dened with all their blunders. To quote the
Leader— which puts the matter very neatly—
“ The Registrar now tells the Council he Is tired of
being regarded as an ass, especially by people like
the members of the Council, and offers to resign
if allowed five years’ salary and six months’leave
of absence. This proposal betrays so much intel-
ligence as of itself to refute much of the sup-
posed charge.” We should say it does. And yet
there are numbers of educated people who pic-
ture these men who spend tneir lives in scholarly
pursuits as blinking, owl-eyed, absent-minded
persons who can dance jigs through the integral
calculus, but whenever they want to get silver for
a sovereign have to hire a man to count the
change for them. The Registrar of the Melbourne
University, even if he did resign, need not fear
much for his means of living while politics con-
tinue to be a profession. But he is not going to
resign. The Council refuses to hear of it-on these
terms. They now consider him a precious jewel
of an officer—a very phoenix of a Registrar—the
pride and glory of the University. Several pro-
fessors said so, and he replied grimly—being master
of the sltuatlon-that they had good reasons for
thinking other wise. Come now; this is a cheering
example. It nerves us to ask the editor of this
paper, through the medium of the present para-
graph, what he will offer us to resign our position
on his staff. Lit all depends upon whether you
prefer the fleeting enjoyment of an hour to the
solid satisfaction of a week—a bottle of rum to a
bag of potatoes.— Ed. B.]
Woman Items
Did he understand ?—Masher to a charm-
ing young actress, taking her hand: “ What a
beautiful little hand!” She: “No. 5}^”
The opening chapter of a recent novel
commences thus : " Madame la Comtesse only the
previous day gave birth to a young and pretty
Infant,” &c.
“John Burns, if alive, is requested to
return to his wife.” This is from the Melbourne
Age, and shows that Mrs. Barns has no desire to
forestall the general resurrection.
English aristocratic girls now play in
public crlcket-matohes — wearing fanciful cos-
tumes. Their little game, m doubt, is to retrieve
the laureU their professional and gentlemen
cricketers lose -with the fancy costumes, you
know I
The Princess Beatrice is a well-grown
young woman, and carries a glorious sole. Her
boots are fives and-a-half. Her gloves are
sevens. Her Royal Highness, with an expansive
palm like that, would have made a good school
mistress.
A daughter of Eve, advertising in New-
castle, N.S.W., for a situation as housekeeper,
naively adds: “Have got baby." This In'cresting
announcement, biending diffidence and pride,
sbou'd surely induce some susceptible bachelor to
start biby-farming on a new scale.
In the current number of an English
magrzine, a young lady has been discussing the
“ aviansten.um ” before the Z >ologlcal Society.
She comes to the cono'usion “ thit the keel is an
apophysis of the two halves of the sternum, and
is not produced by the clavicles.”
Miss Jane R. Wishart has scored a “best
on record.” She beads the honour list at the last
matriculation examination of the University of
London, without being disqualified by age from
receiving the exhibition. A female dealer
Wrangler will no doubt appear in due course.
From the Court Journal: — “ Prince
Henry of Battcnberg and his wife will only be
allowed to enjoy the sweets of each other’s sole
society for forty-sight hours, a period of time that
the Prince Consort in bis dogmatic way asserted
was long enough for any young couple to he left
alone. So, after forty-right hours have elapsed,
the Queen will break in upon Prince Henry and
his bride and take luncheon with them.’’ Just
Imagine it I Your honeymoon interrupted by your
mother-in-law.
They are harder on fortune-tellers in Eng-
land than they are out here. One Selina Gray got
three months' lately for “ruling the planet” of
Miss Brivgs-a frivolc us creature of 00 years old.
Miss Briggs wanted to marry a young and wealthy
husband, and Selina engaged to get her one. From
first to last, the gay gipsy got £100 from the lan-
guishing Miss Briggs It appeared afterwards that
for this amount Selina procured 200 offers of mar-
riage for her client. And yet women in England
are complaining bitterly that men won’t marry 1
Why, this antique sphinx could have started a
Soudan Contingent of suitors I We think the men
have much greater reason for complaining when
an offer of marriage is only worth “half a
Jimmy.”
Trouble’has come upon that ancient insti-
tution, the Melbourne Benevolent Asylum. That
Home of the Six Hundred has been fluttered by a
determined female of the well-known name of
Hubbard. This energetic individual made an
attempt, years back, to get up on the committee of
the Asylum, but the Salic iaw was declared to
exist, and she was exoluled. Her revenge on the
committee has now come. “Sweet is revenge-
especially to women,” sang Byron, and Mrs. Hub-
bard, who is, by the way, a mother, may now revel
in putting her foot—both feet, in fact, on the necks
of her enemies. She has got the Governor and
the Executive to give her a Committee of Eoquiry
into the conduct of the Asylum. A commission of
three—Mr. Langton, Mr. Brunton. and Dr. M’Crae-
are to sit as inquisitors, and will have plenty cf
assistance from Mrs. Hubbard. For the past six
months she has bten forbidden entrance to the
Asylum, but now enters it in triumph, leading the
besiegers with her. - Woe to the conquered, and a
warm time of it to the Asylum Committee from
one whom they lately stigmatized as a “ mischief-
making woman.”
An item for Potts Point and Toorak: —
“H.R.H. the Princess of Wales seems to have
taken a fancy to wear white of an evening, as she
has worn it very often of late. She appeared in
white brochd velvet and tulle, both at Lady Salis-
bury’s and at Grosvenor House, the dress being
trimmed with a profusion oi shaded roses The
young Princess Louise is not usually well-dressed,
and very little trouble appears to be taken about
her frocks, which at more than one ball have been
a fertile theme of derisive comment, in conse-
quence of their curiously dowdy appearance; and
this attracts the more criticism from the extraor-
dinary care which the Princes* of Wales always
takes about her own toilettes. The young- Princess
is still very shy—much more so than her pretty
cousin, the Duchess of Teck’s daughter. Prince
Albert Victoria not only equally timid, but he is
also very awkward indeed, and ‘cubbish’ as a
great lady recently expressed it. The Prince of
Wales* offspring have not, so far, made a brilliant
impression on society j and if they have not suc-
ceeded in London, they would, I fear, have a bad
time of It at Paris, Berlin, or Vienna.” Thus
TstfTtt.
At Sandhurst, Professor Fraser is lectur-
ing on “Love, Courtship, and Marriage.” He
marries people “ phrenologically,” too. We have
been married In many ways, but never phteno*
logioaUy. Indeed, it is not quite certain that an
espousal of that kind would be entirely satisfac-
tory- To have your head from the ears up wedded
to the corresponding portion of a buxom girl,
while both your bodies were single, is of very
doubtful advantage. If we had a choice we’d
prefer the old fashion of being married altogether
—In one lot as it were—and not In pieces. The
Professor told hla audience that the Red Indians
steal their wives- This merely shows how impos-
sible it is ever to civilise the red man. Now, in
Bendigo they steal other peoples’ wives. Whether
the Indian will ever climb to this plane of civili-
sation is very problematical. And we are assured
the Laplanders run races for their wives. Why
should the Professor’s go all the way to Sandhurst
to tell the people commonplace things like this?
Why even at Kangaroo Flat and Baglehawk peo-
ple run races for other men’s widows. And then
his statement that Love is the ruling passion
animating humanity.” Come closer. Professor.
Now listen to.us. Before you venture another
opinion on “Love” bring your dinner with you
acd sit in the Sydney Divorce Court for a day. If
that doesn’t alter your views, nothing short of a
blow of a maul on your bump of philo-progeni-
tlveness ever will.
Human nature — savage or civilized— is
very human in its ways. Especially is it so with
womankind. A poet h s said that—
“ Whether they sell apples or rule the roast
In a palace that we could name,
I fancy, betwixt you and me and the post,
. That in love they are much the same.”
A planter down in the South Seas has bad that ex-
perience, and very much of it. His sisters were
his housekeepers, and they bad adopted a native
girl as a lady-help in the household. Their brother
took much not oe of this native production, and
probably petted her j uet a little. In time be intro.
duoed a white woman as bla wife, to whom this
Tvpeo was to be lady’s maid. It was soon observ-
able that Typee's temper was on the move, and so
unpleasantly that she was removed to another
Elantation, separated by a width of water from
er former master and his wife. Someone has
written that Sheol hss no fury like a woman who
has been spurned. This applies to brown-skinned
ones as our planter soon found to his sorrow In
his absence one day, on a visit to the chief island
of the group, Typee swam across the Intervening
water with a plantation knife as a hair-pin. With
this article she sliced up the new wife into strips,
in which state the planter found her on his return
that evening. Tynee had gone back to her island,
and it Is noticed that the planter has done nothing
as yet in the way of prosecuting her.
There are a good many men in Sydney and
Melbourne who will call the subject of the sub-
joined narrative a fool. The man who buries any-
thing he can pawn or buy whisky with receives
their scorn and contempt. Well, they don’t know
how much scorn and contempt they get in return.
Here is the story“ A Kanaka and his Mary were
recruited with others for a plantation on the
Burnett in Queensland, and while there she learnt
the art of cookery and also to make her own and
husband’s clothes, and was much thought of by
their employer. Some few weeks ago she became
ill and died. After death, the husband declared
that a common coffin was not sufficient. He must
have a large one to contain not only the body, but
all of her belongings. The large coffin was pro-
cured from town, and the body prepared for
interment by depositing in it all she possessed,
consisting of some 200 yards of calico, about 30
yards of scarlet fabric, about 20 varied colored
pocketlhandkerchiefs, and all her wearing apparel.
After all had been put around the body, and
placed in the coffin, the husband, notwithstand-
ing he is left with two children, went to where he
kept his money, brought it forth, counted out the
half, and put it into the coffin with the body.
When asked by the employer what he did it for,
he calmly told him that she bad worked for it, and
neither himself nor any other fellow should spend
it.” That Kanaka was evidently fonder of bis dead
gin than of the whisky bottle. This is not the sole
difference between a Kanaka and many a white
man in Sydney and Melbourne. But as far as it
goes It tells.
Tho Influenza and the Negro Minstrel.
IN FOUR SPASMS.


R
OYAL
FURNISHING
ARCADE.
AN EXTRACT FROM OUR NEW HOUSE-
FURNISHING GUIDE.
For the sum of £36 prompt net cash you can
FURNISH a HOUSE as follows:-
PaRLOUR.
Oval claw table, on castors .. .. ..£1 7
Chetfonier, to match .. a 13
Austrian suite, consisting of couch, two
arm chairs, and six small chairs ..43
Pier glass ... .. ... ... . (i 10
Pair gilt-frame pictures 0 10
Cornice pole, complete 0 7
Pair of curtains, pins, and brackets .. .. 0 8
Pair of curtain bands ... 0 3
Clock, 13*. 61.; lamp, 7s. 61 10
Pair lustres 0 5
Fender and irons 0 13
Tapestry hearthrug 0 0
Matting for room (13 x 13) 0 13
Door slip 0 3
BEDROOM, No. 1,
Four-post bedstead, with head and foot-
. rails 13
Pair palliasses Oil
Mattress, 15j., Bolster 4s 0 19
Two kapoo pillows 0 0
Chest of drawers 3 0
Towel-rail, washstand, and complete toilet
set ..
Water oaraffe.
Rooking chair
Toilet table
Toilet glass
C S. Chair
Table Toilets
Matting, 5s.; door slip, 1«. 9 J, ..
BEDROOM, No, 3.
Single bedstead, 3ft.
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster and pillow
Washstand and set
C 8. Chair
Toilet table ...
Toilet glass
Maiting
KITCHEN.
Pine safe
Pine table, with drawer
Two chairs
Six meat plates
Six soup plates
Six pudding plates ..
Six cnet so plates
Meat dishes, 6d , lOd, Is 6d., 3s. 64.
Pair vegetable dishes
Gravy boat
Set of 3 jugs
Britannia metal teapot
Cruet
Six china cups and saucers
Six china plates
China sugar basin ...
China butter dish ..
China milk jug
China slop basin ..
Six china egg cups...
Pair salt cellars
Six cut tumblers ...
Six cut wines...
Six dinner knives and forks
Six dessert knives
Two table spoons
Six dessert spoons
Six tea spoons
Kettle, 4s. 9d.; boiler, 9)..
Saucepans, Is , Is. 4*4 1., 3j. 3s
Fryingpan
Gridiron, Is,; colander, Is. 6d...
Teapot, Is. 94.; teaoaddy, lOd,..
Coffee pot
Wash basin
Tubs, 3s. 9 J., 4s . 5s. 94
Bucket, large size
Dipper, galvanised iron
Two tin candlesticks
Knlfebox
Baking Dishes, 8d., 104.
Square block-tin baking dish
Rolling pin ..
Pepper castor..
Flour dredge ..
Set skewers (steel)
Nutmeg grater
Bread grater ...
Kitchen spoon
Meat stand ...
Hair broom ..
Washboard
Pair flatirons
Scrub brush
Knlfeboard and polish
Bread crock ..
Pair bellows ..
Clothes line and pegs
Set shoe brushes .
Hand brush ..
Dustpan, Is.; aloppail, 3s,
LESS 10 PER CENT. DISCOUNT .. 3 10
£31 IQ
By the above list the public can see that ours
really a BONA-FIDE REDUCTION of 3s. in tt
pound.
Write or send for one of our PRICE LISTS i
HOUSE FURNISHING GUIDES, which wi
plainly show how you can Furnish a House fro
£15 to £300.
Our business is not confined to these lists. M
can furnish for any amount, and keep in stock t
classes of Furniture.
Campbell Brothers,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
,430, George-street, Sydney,
next to the Hoyal Hotel.
SSfeKfisi®
M
AKE your Homes Bright and Attractive
Give your Children a Pure and Elevating
Amusement.
—GO TC—
©■- T. Wells
IN ALL STYLES AND PRICES.
tS' - ALL INSTRUMENTS CASH, OR ON EASY
TERMS OF PAYMENT.
G.J. WELLS,
1 Hunter-street, Sydney.
“BEACH’S ”
CONSULTATION!
ON THE
Hawkesbury Handicap, Metropolitan and
Melbourne Cup,
NOW OPEN.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10s BACH.
First Horse, £260.
Address—
“ BBACH.”
Care of J. G. Deebie,
Hotel. King and Pitt Street, Sydney
Please apply early.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 35th August, 1885.
TBNDBRS for PUBLIC WORKS and 8UP-
PLIB8.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
Is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will bo announced. If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 31st August, 1885.
FRESH TENDER* FOB ADDITIONAL
BUILDING.
FRESH TENDERS are invited for the Erection
of an Additional Building at the Glebe
Public School.
Plans and Specifications may bo seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Department
of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Fresh Tender for Additional
Building, Glebe Public School,” must be lodged
with the Under Secretary, Department of Public
Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m. on Monday,
the 14 th September, 1883.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
W. J. TRICKBTT.
Feasts and entertainments to the
INMATES OF DESTITUTE ASYLUMS.
Persons bolding collecting cards will much
Oblige by returning same, together with amounts
received, to the undersigned as soon as possible,
to enable committee to settle liabilities.
QUONG TART,
Sydney Arcade.
Gosford 5-Acre Model Farms
FOR
40s. per Month.,
All interested in Farming, Agriculture, Poultry, Pig, or Cattle raising, should send for
“ the farmers’ and settlers’ gdide,”
containing 50 pages descriptive and useful information, profusely illustrated
with photographs. Sent post free to any address, by
ZED ZESIIiTO-,
96 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
W* snau be gum to nave tM$ %name p&sua *p th.
secretaries of racing clubs and managers #r
sporting events in general .1
• RACING.
Beenleigh (Q.) September 36
Hawkesbury (Spring) September 10 13
A J.C. (Spring) September 19, 33, 34, 26
Cooktown T.C September 22, 23
Dubbo JO September30, October 1
Ballarat Hunt and T.C October 1, 2
Melbourne H.C Octobers
flosohlll R.C... October 8
Mudgee Tattersall’s R.C. (Spring) October 8, 9
Sydney Turf Ciub October 10
Victoria A.T.C. (Spring) October 10.17
Bsrrima District R.C October 13,14
Eureka T C October 14
Canterbury Park R.C . .October 17
Wollongong T.C October 21, 33
Moonee Valley October 24
V.R.C. Spring October 31, November 3, 5. 7
Queensland T.C November 7. 9
Liverpool J.C November 9
WiiliamstownR.C, V.) November9
Canterbcry (N.Z.) J.C. Spring...November 10.12,13
NeranderaJ.C November 12 13
Murrumbidgee T.C. (Spring)....November 18,19, 30
Yerong Creek November 23
Rockampton (J.C November 25, 36
Gunnedah (Annual) November 35. 36
Narrabri J.C Decembers. 3
Brisbane Tattoraail’s December 10
Canterbury Park R.C December 19
A.J.C. (Summer) December 36
Victoria A.T.C. (Summer) December 36
Ro«eMll R.C Deoember 38
V.R.C. (Summer). January 1
Tattersall’s (Annual) January 1
AQUATICS.
North Shore R C. Regatta September 19
Backhouse v. Nelson September 19
Newcastle R.C. Regatta September
Lake George Regatta October
Davis v. Maclean, at Woodburn October
New South Wales R A. Regatta October 3
M.R.C. Branch Regatta October 17
Double Bay Regatta... October 31
ATHLETICS.
E.S.A.A C. Sports. September26
Newcastle Cricket and Football Club’s
_. sports........... September 26
Eight Hours Art Union and Sports, Agri-
cultural Society’s Grounds.... October 7
’CYCLING.
Oriental B.C. and Sydney T.C. Joint Race
Meeting, Association Cricket Ground..Sent. 13
BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
'The Victorian Football Association made
a terribly false move by overruling the umpire’s
decision in the match Bssendon v. South Mel-
bourne. Let the merits of the disputed case be
as they may, the question ought not to have
been re-opened, and a troublesome precedent set
up. In all matches played under Association
rules, that body should recognise the umpire as
its own representative, whose authority and infal-
libility is to be upheld at any reasonable cost. In-
stead of this, the sapient tribunal, without im-
pugning Mr. Handley’s honesty, decided that he
was “in error,” and reversed his decision by
awarding tne match to Essendon. Herein are the
seeds of a rich crop of protests and appeals for
some time to come, and the umpire’s life won’t be
a happy one. As well might horse owners appeal
to the V.R.C. against the {judge’s flat which loses
them a race, or cueists dispute the referee’s de-
cision of ‘ foul stroke.” The football authorities
may argue that they don’t appoint the umpires.
Then let them do so, and close the mouths of the
grumblers.
• • •
When a horse is unlucky, change his name.
Australian Court was an unlucky brute enough
under the ownership and astute steering of Tom
Corrigan, but with the new appellation of “ Stag ”
he succeeded in winning a steeplechase at the last
Elsternwick Bark (Vic.) meeting, and at a good
price. It’s the same with human beings. We’ve
known men so unfortunate that they had to leave
their creditors in downright disgust, get a new
name and make a pile. None of the money was
refunded to the poor backers who “stood ” them
under the old title, either.
♦ ♦ ♦
The wrestle between Whistler and Dinnie
made it pretty apparent that our “ Amurrlkan ”
visitor will want all the beating Miller can give
him. In point of condition the old ’un certainly
had the advantage, but, for all that, Whistler
appeared to hold him cheap and performed in an
easy, happy-go-lucky style rather in contrast with
the deadly earnestness displayed by Donald. But
then there isn’t much of the “happy-go-lucky”
about the canny Soot either in public or private—
especially in private.
♦ ♦ *
Sandal’s victory in the Duke’s Handicap
at Adelaide, seems to show that the mare Is in
something like her form of a twelve-month back,
as she beat the favourite, Lantern, very easily. If
the money put on the latter for the Caulfield Cup
isn’t thrown away, Sandal’s win was more than
creditable. The mare Is a good ’un to look at, and,
in her Caulfield Guineas form, a good ’un to go.
♦ * *
A good attendance filled the chairs at
Foley’s Athletic Hall on Saturday night, the at-
traction being a joint benefit to George Powell
and Jack HalJ, the two lads who recently met in
the light lor the light-weight championship.
Several good set to’s were gone through, and the
“wind-up” was between Hall and Powell, when
Hall showed that he was as clever at the “ show ”
business «s in the genuine "knock-out.” Laurence
Foley offers to back Hall against anything up to
10jt. in Australia, and he also says he Is prepared
to back tils list, “unknown” against Jackson or
any of the big ’uns for any sum up to £500 a side.
■ • *
As usual with the go-ahead Suburban
Club, good manaaement associated itself with the
Glebe Rowing Ciub Trial Pairs, which eventuated
on Saturday last, over a course from Youngs
Wharf, at Annandale, to the Club premises, for
handsome trophies presented by that enthusiastic
member of the Club, Mr. Joseph Leeds The first
heat fell to Maitland and Amess, the seoor d to
Darrell and Butchard, and the third to Williams
and Cockburn, close finishes being the order of the
day In each event. After a spell, the three wie-
ners started forth for the final event, which re-
sulted ia a hard-won victory for Darrell and But-
chard from Williams and Cockburn, Maitland and
Amess, a few feet away, third,
• * *
Dusfc everywhere on Saturday last, and
Canterbury proved no exception to the rule.
Boori was first to jump away for the Flying Handi-
cap, and was never caught, Ravensworth, the
favourite, finishing a good half-length away,
second; Arista, third. Sir Garnet made an easy
win of the Selling Race from San Jose; Rosinante,
third. Desmond made a victory of the September
Handicap after a great race with Ravensworth;
Folly, who started at 5 to 4 on, running unkindly.
Then S.mdiai put Cestua through by halt a length
for the Prince of Wales’ Stakes: and Boori flaisned
up the day’s sport by winning the La lies’ Bracelet
from Oakieigh; Whitefoot, third.
♦ ♦ •
“ All the races will start at the advertised
time, so as to enable the visitors to got back to
town by half-past 5 o’clock.” So advertised t*?e
Sydney Rowing Club in connection with their re-
gatta held off the Parramatta River Branch on
Saturday last, and.no doubt, when inserting the
ad., the senior club bad no intention of enticing
some hundreds of visitors up the river on false
pretences, but meteorological Influences, and even
worse management, did the trick, and the unfor-
tunate victims of misplaced confidence were re-
turned to Circular Quay, savage and hungry, some
90 minutes after the hour at which the Club had
promised, in the morning’s papers, to land their
visitors. The Waterview was advertised to start at
a quarter to two sharp, but It was well after
two before she oast off, and as a westerly gale had
to be faced on the road up. the steamer did not
arrive at the Branch till well after the time fixed
for the first race. Arrived at the wharf, a diffi-
culty arose as to whether the eight could be
safely launched, and <t was not till another hour
or so bad been out to waste that it was decided
to bring off the regatta. There was a skiff race
on the card, but it never struck the executive to
start this race first, and give the wind a chance to
go down, before the eight came out Messrs.
Simpson, Middleton, and Thomson were entered
for the senior wager-boat race, and it seemed to
ba left to the competitors whether the race should
come off, Middleton and Thomson being for a
start, and Simpson against it. Middleton took his
boat up to Ryde, where he cooled, or rather
roasted, his heels for a couple of hours, until he
saw there was no chance of the race being rowed
That it could have come off with safety to boat
and sculler, was shown by the fact that dur-
ing the afternoon young Matterson and a
couple of scullers rowed over the course.
Just as everyone seemed to imagine the regatta
was postponed, it was decided to at least start the
maiden eights, and, after a lengthy delay, the fol-
lowing crews put in an appearance to row over a
course from the Club shed to Blaxlands : -E. de
Gyulay, W. Cordeaux, W. G. Millard, G. Souer-
vifie, W. H. Stuart, J. Rowley, E, G. Dawes, J. W.
Warren (stroke); and 8. H. Solomon, W. Reid, J.
Gallagher, J. M. Vance, J. Hay, A. Godfrey, E.
Griffiths, and W. A. York (stroke). York’s crew
got the best of the start, but were unable to bold
their advantage, as Warren’s lot. pulling by far
the best form, soon went away from their oppo-
nents and won eventually with the greatest ease.
After another big delay, crews were “run in ” for
the trial eights, but altogether different from the
men named in the programme. The two crews
consisted of Donovan. Hart, Daintrey, Sharp,
Dobson, E. Kennedy, E. P. Simpson, C. Thomson
(stroke); and Forster, Rich, Cope, J. G. Kennedy.
Brodie, Dougherty. W. Bros, C. Bros (stroke).
Bros’ crew, “ on paper,” looked best, but a couple
of “stiff ’uns” decided the event, and young Thom-
son's crew were returned the winners, after a
good race for the best part of the course.
By far the best contest of the day jvas the maiden
double sculls in skiffs, over a course from the Gas
Company s Works to the Branch, for which Row-
ley and Stuart, J. Thomson and Young, and
M’Laohlan and Millard put in an appearance.
Thomson and Young took the lead at the start,
and, althoujgh, approaching Cabarita, It looked as
if Rowley and mate would pass them, the big ’uns
fell away again, and the plucky little pair won
with a deal in hand, Rowley giving up before
reaching the winning point, M'Lachlan falling out
of the hunt early in the race. At the start it looked
half-a-orown to a C.M.G.-ship on Rowley and
Stuart, who weighed 33st. 41b. to Young and
Thomson 18st. 111b. Another vexatious delay
before the Waterview started for Sydney, but
even then we were not bound for borne direct, as
a call was made to land a few passengers at
Hunter’s Hill, after which Milson’s Point was
visited for a similar purpose. A facetious young
gentleman then asked to be landed at Manly
Beach, as they seemed to be taking the rounds of
the harbour, but, after serious consideration, the
request was refused, and tbe unlucky Sydneyites
were at last unloaded at Circular Quay—after 7
o’clock—thoroughly worn out and disgusted.
• • •
By cable we learn that the first of the
pedestrian matches for one mile, four miles, and
ten miles respectively, for £100 aside, between
W. G. George, the ex-ebampiun amateur, and W.
Camming, the champion professional pedestrian,
took place on August 31 at tbe Lillie Bridge
Ground, Brompton, and resulted in a victory for
George. The second event (four miles) is fixed for
September 12, and the final (ten miles) for Septem-
ber 28 or 28. With regard to the challenge thrown
out by T. M. Malone, tbe Australian champion, to
run anyone, Hutchens preferred, 100 or 130 yards,
£100 has been put up in England on Hutchor.’s
behalf to run Malone at either distance for £500
aside; so that as soon as Malone stakes tbe £100 he
offered as expenses, tbe match may be looked upon
as fixed up. Should Hutchens visit Australia, he
may get on more than one match. There are men
in Australia foolish enough to believe that Archie
Farrell is a match for Malone.
THE WICKED WORLD.
Nathaniel Levi, who, many years ago sat
in the Victorian Parliament, means now to con-
test West Melbourne, and, to Improve his chances,
intends starting a new evening paper—Further
reduction in telegraphic charges between Vic-
toria and New Zealand are under consideration.
During the last three years business has fallen off;
from Victoria, to the extent of 1054 messages:
from New Zealand, to the extent of 1123 Be-
tween 200 and 300 oases come before the Melbourne
City Court every week. In the opinion of the
presiding magistrates, nearly all these cases arise
from drink—It is under consideration in Vic-
toria to grant all hospitals in the colony a uni-
form rate of £30 per bed. The alternative project
is to fix this rate where the beds are over
30, but between that and 20. to grant £35;
and when less than 20, to grant £40
Hotel keeping in Victoria ought to be a “good
game.” For every publican who becomes insol-
vent there are 40 butchers or bakers, or store-
keepers or drapers ...The total quantity of land
alienated in Victoria since I860 is 25,266,464 acres.
Over 18,000,000 went by selection, and 6,000,000 by
auction... The Victorian Public Service Act is
becoming as abstruse as the Binomial Theorem,
it is objected to now on the ground that by the
incidence of its provisions “78 per cent per 30
years of male teachers will be able to get beyond
fourth class, while only 3 per cent, per 30 years of
females can get there.” This looks hard. It seems
easier to get married According to the Goul-
burn Argus, “ the census of the population of
Australia at the close of 1884 has just been pub-
lished. The total was 22,864.106 (111) of whom
11,170,468 were males, and 11,693,638 females. The
number of men serving In the army and navy was
163,433.” A N Z Salvation Harmy advt.
‘ Wanted* a real good hallelujah scribe; good at
shorthand and office work. Must be properly
saved and willing to work, and also wear uniform
at all times. Apply, by letter only, stating full parti-
culars of agv, refer noes, &o , to Major Pollard,
head-quarters, Manobester-street, Christchurch.”.
On 31st December there were 244 patients in the
Lunatic Asylums of Victoria Sixty-eight of these
had a total balance of £2034 in the Savings Banks.
It looks, from this, that a larger percentage of
lunatics than of sane patronise .the Victorian
Savings Banks, while the average sum to the
credit of each crank is much beyond the average
standing to the credit of the sane depositors. This
is worth chewing over.
• • ♦
Fred. Archer, the English jockey received,
£1200 for winning the Paris Grand Prix on Para-
dox. His bargain was £300 for expenses and £1000
more if he won—“Every married man has a
better half; but—” added Brown, who is a bachelor
and keeps up a charming bijou residence—“ I
fancy I have better quarters than most of them.”
....“ And how do you like my new evening suit?"
asked a dicolletie belle of a candid young man,
“ Evening suit do you call it ? Well, it is just the
suit for Eve I should say! ” A Cork paper pub-
lishes the following erratum; —“ The words printed
pigs and cows in Mr. Parker’s letter on the land
question, which appeared in yesterday’s issue,
snould have been pros, and cons,”.... Dublin Cor-
poration took no part in the State entry of the
new Viceroy. The Express, an organ after Zack,
Barry’s own heart, says that this places the Cor-
poration in a new and more repulsive aspeot
before the country. The Irish Times remarks
that for the first time in history the respectful
recognition of the Queen’s representative by the
Corporation of Dublin will be wanting.


HERE AT HOME.
Notwithstanding H. H. Warner and Co., pro*
prletora of Warner's 8 a Fe Remedies, otter a
standing reward of £10i.0 for proof that they have
ever used a fictitious test monial ; there have been
doubters who have said “ That may be so, but why
°°t give us Australian testimonials instead of
English, Canadian, and American ones ?” That is
just what we now propose doing. Testimonials
from a grateful public are dally coming to band
regarding the efficacy of Warner s Safe Reme-
dies and their power over all forms of Kidney,
Diver, and Urinary Diseases. From the mass of
testimonials we select the following from well-
known gentlemen whose standing la unquestioned
and whose veracity is unimpeachable:—
THE SUPERINTENDENT'S OPINION.
J. B. CASBBOLT, Superintendent of the Cable
Road, Melbourne, fays:—“ 1 know of no medicine
equal to Warner's Safe Curb to brace a man up
that Is overworked and feeling out of sorts. For
Kidney and Liver Diseases, it is a specific. I have
seen its good effect in many cases, and never knew
it to fail when taken according to directions, and
in sufficient quantities.”
FEELS YOUNG AGAIN.
, w ILLIS, No. 6 Eastern Arcade, writes as fol-
lows:— Melbourne, August 14,1885.—For the past
ten years I have been troubled with serious
Kidney and Liver difficulty. For the last year I
have constantly been growing worse ; I could not
stoop to pick up anything, could not turn over in
bed without g reat effort, and could not sleep
nights, being compelled to rise six or eight times
each night. My appetite was capricious, and my
fluids frightful, so Ailed were they with sediment.
I could not walk any distance without stopping to
rest, my heart would pain me so. I had tried all
the doctors of repute, but did not get any perma-
nent help. When Warner’s Safe Cure first
came under my notice I had but little faith in it,
believing it, like too many proprietary medicines,
of on account. I bought a botfle, however, and
began its use, and was surprised the help I got
from it. I continued it until I had taken five
bottles, and I am free to say it has cured me. I
feel like a young man again ; all pain has gone, I
can sleep nights, the deposits in my fluids have
disappeared, my appetite is good, and every after-
noon when it is pleasant, I walk without fatigue, or
any trouble from my heart, from my place of
business to my residence, 17 Drummond street,
Carlton, a distance of about three-quarters of a
mile. I give this testimonial freely and unre-
servedly, that others troubled as I was may know
that Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe
Pills are all that they are represented to be.”
CURED, WHEN DOCTORS FAILED
WILLI AH BURGESS, Builder, 403 Lygon street
Carlton, writes H. H. Warner & Co. as follows;—
“July 27, 1885—I desire to publicly testify as to
the great good I have received from Warner s
Safe Cure and Warner's Safe Pilli. For over
a year I have not been able to do a day’s work, and
for the past nine months, have been constantly
growing worse. I suffered excruciating pains in
the back ; if I sat down could not rise or bend for-
ward unaided. Could not sleep nights ; my ap-
petite one day was voracious, the next none at all;
ray fluids were very bad. 1 consulted both allo-
path and homoeopath physicians, and took their
medicine, but received no benefit. One eminent
Melbourne physician (so called) said my trouble
was caused by * periodical pains in the muscles of
the black, and they would come and go.’ It was
not until I read of Warner's Safe Cure and
Warner's Safe Pills and the descriptions given
in H. H. Warner's pamphlet, of Kidney Disease,
etc, that 1 knew what my trouble was. I at once
purchased the medicine and began its use. It
helped me from the outset, and now after I have
taken seven bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure and
two vials of Warner s Safe Pills, I feel that I
am a well man. My pains have disappeared ; I can
sleep nights ; the stiffness in my back has gone ;
my appetite is good, and my fluids are normal. 1
give this testimonial without solicitation from
anybody, and conscientiously recommend War-
ners Safe Remedies to any suffering as I was,
believing that what they have done ftr me they
will do for others.”
SAFE, RELIABLE, HO VEST.
BILLY EMERSON, the Prince of Comedians,
under date of Melbourne, July 8,1885, siys:—“ i
have seen and know personally of the good effects
of Warner’s Safe Cube, both in America and
in Australia. It is used extensively among the
profession, and always with the most gratifying
results. For Pains in the Back caused by Die-
ordcred Kidneys, and for Liver Difficulties and
Indigestion, I believe Warner s Safe Cure stands
without a rival, and I. from personal use and
benefit, unqualifiedly endorse it as a safe, reliable,
and honest medicine.”
Testimonials from reliable sources, and from
persons having no interest save the good of hu-
manity at heart, should convince any fair minded
man or woman that what is claimed by the pro-
prietors of Warner s Safe Remedies is not
empty boasting, but resistless facts substantiated
by the grateful people of three Continents.
There was a great gathering, under the
auspices of the Salvation Harmy, at the Melbourne
Town Hall last week, to see a collection of rt-
formed drunkards. The Argus says that the Hall
was filled to bursting long before the show began,
and that more than a thousand people were turned
from the doors. We were a little surprised when
we read this statement We understand the at-
traction of such a spectacle for a wonder-loving
public up to a certain extent, but not quite to the
extent indicated. We read down through the
report with a view of finding out the real piice de
resistance of the entertainment. There was a
young man who bad spent two large fortunes on
rum In three weeks—or was it three months ? It
is not of great consequence, anyhow. He spent
them, and it is rumoured that out of the proceeds
of his tremendous dissipation several well-known
hotel-keepers have bought new spittoons and
match-holders. Was this the centre-piece of the
entertainment? No; another Brand plucked from
the Burning “ raised” him to the extent of £250.000,
also squandered on rum and cognate liquors.
The testimony of this gentleman was received
with derisive hurrahs. Questions were fired at
him from out the body of the balllsuoh as: —
“ Did you get all that money in coppers, sonny ? •
*' When are you going to pay me that five * bob
you'owe me ?” " Are you sure it wasn’t half a
million and a brass button 7” “ Where is that
brass button ?'* and so forth. The cue given by
the last voice was taken up all over the nail, and
demands for the production of that brass button
became so furious that the gentleman who had
spent half-a-million on rum retreated rapidly
from the platform under a running fire of re-
marks to the effect that “ the poor has never
been right in his bead since he lost his week’s
wages at the match-box trick.” He bad afforded
a good deal of innocent amusement, but clearly be
was not the man all that crowd had gathered to
see. Hush I Six thousand necks crane out, 12,000
ears flap forward, 6000 mouths open, and 12,000
eyes glare with oppressed excitement. A figure
steps out on the platform. There Isa momentary
silence as of awe, and then a yell of applause
from .6000 throats that shakes the shingles. It
needs no explanation to discover that this is
the star perlormer of the show. The chairman
coughs, tosses off a tumbler of sparkling
Yan Yean, and sajs—“Gentlemen, ‘The Par-
doned Reporter ’ will now address you.” The P.E.
began his story, which was to the effect that he
had once been a member of the Press—respected,
and even revered—but had taken to drink, and
that crushed him. We forget whether he said
that frequenting circuses or Ministerial shows was
the cause of his ruin. Probably both. The end
of a dramatic critic is almost always madness or
the morgue—at which no one will marvel who will
try to imagine what it must be to sit out, and then
sit up and criticise the performances usually given
in colonial theatres. While George Rignold and
George Darrell, and others of less notoriety, but
almost equal, stride Australian boaros, neither
Yarra Bend nor Giadesville will wear a lonesome
look. The Pardoned Reporter was not heard out.
The' audience did not want to listen to him. They
only wanted to look at him. He had been a re-
porter, and he was reformed. This was enough of
the miraculous for them to trade in at one time.
“Were you really a reporter?” asked a bald-
headed old gentleman with an inflection indicative
of extremest astonishment in his soft old voice,
“l were,” replied the figure on the platform with
solemn, not to say lugubrious emphasis. “ And you
are really reformed ? ” continued the soft old
voice, with an astonishment now almost amount-
iog to awe in its tones. “I are,” answered the
figure on the platform, proudly. “ Is,” whispered
the chairman, “ fust pusson singlar.” The P.R.
turned round and muttered fiercely, “You let
literature alone.” ” Take me out,” said the old
geatleman feebly, “if he Isa Reformed Reporter
/must be either drunk or mad.” "Never you
mind him, old gent.,” remarked a voice in the
audience, "he isn’t a real reporter—he’s only a
stuffed one.” Alter this the interest of the per-
formance was over. Kven “a few words acknow-
ledging the benefit of sobriety ” from the son of a
British General failed to revive it. The audience
melted away like a mist in the morning. And
that night there was more drunkenness in the city
than had ever been experienced in the memory of
fhe oldest policeman,
BEALE & COMPANY.
BEALE & COMPANY
Baala & Company.
SYDNEY and BRISBANE.
BOLE IMPORTERS OP THE
Sweet Hapsburg Piano,
SWEET “ HAPSBURG ” PIANO.
Which, by Judicious Selection and Addition of
all Valuable Improvements, they have raised to
the Premier Position among Instruments in Aus-
tralia.
The Principal of the Firm is at present Visiting
the Continent of Europe, and the
SHIPMENTS NOW ARRIVING
contain all the
VERY LATEST IMPROVEMENTS.
MORE ARE SOLD THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY than of
ANY OTHER MAKE.
Ever Growing and Widening Popularity Attested
by High Testimony Dally Volunteered.
BEALE (^COMPANY
Will Deliver a
Swoet “Hapsburg” Plano
(CARRIAGE PAID)
To any Wharf or Railway Station in New South
Wales upon the most
LIBERAL TERMS OF TIME-PAYMENT.
Catalogues Free on Application.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
Sydney Show Booms,
386 and 612 GEORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS,
151 OXFORD STREET.
BRANCEES and TRAVELLERS THROUGHOUT
THE COLONY.
PEPPER AND SALT.
A man has been writing to the Pali.
Mall Gazette about savages. Not the white
ones who have children served up for their delec-
tation by Mother Jeffrey, but the genuine articles
—our “ kulleid breddren.” The P.M G.’s cor-
respondent has discovered that “ the adoption of
garments by barbarous people is followed sooner
or later by their extinction.” Now, we’ve
always suspected this since a certain sad occasion
when we gave a friendly but untailored Zulu a pair
of boots and a bottle of Natal whisky for services
rendered. He enjoyed the whisky, but became
extinct after putting on one boot. So, mindful
of that unfortunate Incident, we heartily agree
with the scientific gentleman as to the Inadvis-
ability of shortening the days of the untutored
savage, by supplying him with shirts and
things. The missionaries are the people to blame,
They ought to understand that preaching the
Gospel to every people does not, ofi necessity*
imply the togging of them out in Sunday clothes.
Pass [down the sackbert, harp, dulcimer, and the
other kinds of music, that we may warble a word
or two:—
The French Legislative Chamber, as an
inducement for thrifty couples to supply more
soldiers for the State, has passed a vote of £80,000
to provide for the free board and education of
every seventh child in French families. Bealiy,
the lively Gaul is to be envied. Tne more pledges
of affection that his wife gives him, the nearer he
gets to the Government prize. If a man is very
happy in his married life, he may have as many as
two or three children reared by an admiring
country.—
What a eupermulish idiot a man can
make of himself when he sets up as a critic of
feminine apparel, was lately shown by Mr. Oscar
Wilde in a lecture on “ Dress,” in which—we are
■orry this sentence is so long, but you can take
it out at your ease-in which he stated that a
Lancashire mill-girl, with a shawl over her
shoulders, and wearing clogs, knew more about
dress than a fashionable London lady, because, in
the former case, there was comfort, while in the
latter there was discomfort. But what does the
Lancashire mill-girl think ? Let her become the
wife of a mill-owner and you will see. There is a
very foolish but very popular idea among persons
pf tho male persuasion that women drees to please
them. The sequence of this is, of course, that they
have a right to dictate what does please them, and
to denounce what does not. The failings of thou-
sands of years have not taught them that women do
not care a crooked hairpin what men think about
how they (women) dress. Any husband says to any
wife before going to a ball or a party: “ My dear,
if I were you, I would wear that nice blue, or
brown, or yellow silk, or satin, or velvet (as the
case may be) dress you wore at the Smiths’ a couple
of months ago.” It depends upon her disposition
whether she withers him with speechless scorn or
tells him that he is a dear old idiot, and that,
though he may be very proud of his knowledge of
philosophy and things, he knows no more about
bow a woman should dress than a paddymelon*
That crushes bim for the time, but on the
very next occasion when It is necessary for
bis wife to array herself somewhat exten-
sively, he comes up smiling, with another sug-
gestion seven times more fatuous than the
first. For our own part, we have long learnt to
give up advising the partner—or rather the pro.
prietor-of our soul and purse on this matter. We
would not move a muscle if she chose to go forth
attired in a pelisse (whatever that may be) made
of porcupine-skins, with all the fretful quills on,
and wore a stuffed hedgehog in her hat. What
would be the use ? She would only smile compas-
sionately on us, and tell us, if she chose to be com-
municative, that that was the very latest fashion;
if she did not choose, that we had better go and
write some more articles, because she was going
to buy a mother-of-pearl mantle for summer
wear, and wanted the money quick. The man
who takes these trifles to heart usually ends by
taking to drink.
♦ • ♦
Coming so soon after his ode on the mar-
riage of the Princess Beatrice, the following poem,
found in Baron Tennyson’s overcoat, is not devoid
of interest:—
The gentleman, who, according to the
testimony of Mr. Robert Burns, of Mossglel,
“ Danced a Hieland reel
Beneath the gallows tree,”
was about as cool a hand as the who
was out boating with a party of ladies on the
Thames and fell overboard, and—not being a
swimmer—went down, and, coming up for the
third time, took oif his hat, waved a polite adieu
to the ladles, and disappeared finally. But the
records of both of these have been rivalled—and
by a nigger. The name of him was Sanford Cllnto
Sisco, an American nigger, of course. And, by
the way, it has been an occasional source of
amusement to us to notice that since the “ wah ’
all these free niggers have paraded the
planet masquerading under names that even,
the first tobacco-families of Virginia might
be prbud of. The raison d's're of this is
no more difficult to discover than the reason why
English singers Italianise their names. Both par-
ties are conscious of a want—not so much in them-
selves, perhaps, as in others. But to resume.
Sisco killed a man, and, curious to state, consider-
ing that the unpleasant incident occurred in the
States, was condemned to death and actually
hanged for the same. But Sisco was equal to the
occasion. The night before his execution, he
genially insisted on playing dominoes with hi®
keepers. We should like to make a study of tha 1
cheerful group if we had time. Of course they
played for something. No American worth a cent
plays for nothing. Say that Sisco wins two or
three games running. Tho keepers, entering into
his Jovial humour, remark; “Three dollars we
owe you, Sisco—you can drop in and collect
them to-morrow night.” Sisco laughs. They
all laugh. Then Sisco smiles a grisly smile,
and stretching his black head over the table, ob.
serves in a blood-curdling voice: “Which of
you is game to lay another three I don’t come
round and collect them ? ” We think there would
be a gruesome kind of tableau just there. In the
morning, Mr. Sisco dressed as carefully and as
festively as if he had been going to a wedding.
There were two roses in his coat, and as he stepped
Jauntily up to the foot of the gallows, he turned
round to the keepers and said: “ The circus com-
mences at nine, and there will be no postponement
on account of the weather.” What a corner-man
was lost when he was swung into the atmosphere 1
But this gay indifference was, after all, hereditary.
His father—who was a man who liked to make hay
while the sun shone—was working round in the
crowd on the morning of the execution, offering to
bet $20 that his son would “ die like a man.” Affec-
tionate old nigger I He was proud of bis son
even then. It is a motley world. And now the
facile fingers which have pirouetted with the pen
through this paragraph will, in three minutes
from this, be found twining themselves around a
tankard. And at precisely the same moment a
cloud of gloom will settle down darkly on the
brows of the landlady at the corner. She always
seems to be in doubt—that eccentric female—as to
the particular day on which ws shall be hanged.
TO THE MISSIONARIES.
This letter we commend to you
AS men and missionaries;
If what it states is really true,
You are but visionaries
Who vainly dream of doing good
To happy savage races,
By filling them with BiDle food.
While killing them with braces.
The black chap on the desert sand
May list to you, enraptured
(Because be doesn't understand!!,
Until bis soul is captured;
But, recollect, the parson brave,
Who scatters tracts and preaches,
Sends Samba to an .early grave
By putting him in breeches.
So with the girls—they warble hymns,
Got Christian-like and frisky,
And then condemn uncovered limbs
As forward, bold, and risqud;
Forgetting that the Lord knew best,
And clothed them as He pleases,
They pine away in flannel vests
And sicken in chemises.
The heathen up to heaven flit—
Nay, ere their time are hurried—
In overcoats that seldom ifit,
Or boots in which they’re buried.
For your unhappy zeal we grieve,
And venture this assertion—
’Twere better savage folks to leave
Alive—and hang conversion.
Still, If the maids and matrons press
You too much for salvation,
Clothe all their souls in righteousness,
But-bar the “combination;”
Or, if the thirst of dusky youths
For Gospel must bo slaked—
Well, let them taste the blessed truths
And keep their bodies naked.
THE SEVENTH CHILD.
Little Louis was a Frenchman, and the object of
his life
Was to save a little money and to take a little
wife;
When his fortunes and a auctions had attained a
proper growth.
Having fixed upon a maiden, Louis plighted her
bis troth.
They wedded; and a stranger came — another
mouth to feed—
But Louis (not like some of us) was very glad in.
deed;
And ere that little stranger to a lofty stature
grew,
The doctor called and mentioned that his family
was two.
Then Louis was delighted, but still greater was his
glee
When, In due and proper season, be was blessed
with number three;
He was not the least disheartened when he found
himself with four,
But he smiled upon the doctor, saying, “Let me
have some more.”
« Five” and “ six ” arrived together—healthy, rosy
little twins—
And Louis’ face was brightened by a multitude of
grins;
But he jumped upon his hat and breathed a happy
prayer to Heaven
When his eldest little daughter murmured,
“ Father, we are seven 1 ”
Then wasn’t he excited I Oh I In such a nervous
state—
For he knew the last arrival would be welcomed
by the State;
And heeding not their bowlings, and their
struggles, and their kicks,
He took a little hatchet, and des patched the other
SiX. _
THE VERY LAST.
Thank God, ’tis o’er! my Anal ode is spun—
’Twas thought, one time, the job would hare
miscarried;
But now—oh, bliss I—the happy goal is won,
The Queen’s last lamb is taken in and done
For—Bat. and Beatrice at last are married.
For me no more the sleepless nights and wild,
As looking out I “ twigged ” the doctor’s car-
riage.
And guessed the errand he was on, and smiled
Sarcastic, as I thought, “ Another child,
Resulting from our Sov’relgn’s fruitful mar-
riage.”
For well I knew no chance for me to roam—
So soon as “Majesty ” was “out of danger ”—
But toast my legs before the fire at home,
And grind away, until I ground a “ pome ”
A-welooming the lucky “ little stranger.”
And as their natal days were close at hand,
From Windsor came, in haste, a groom-or,
rather,
John Brown, a letter fixed in his hat-band—
I well knew its contents, the Queen’s command:
“ Please, write how like they’re growing to their
father.”
The vulgar sought my billet to disparage
(Me, Tennyson, the first of English sages I),
As, stepping from m y house into the carriage,
The news-boys howled, “Another Royal mar-
riage,”
And, “Alf., wy don’t yer strike for ’igher
wages I ”
But now—thank God I—my final task is o’er;
I’ve compassed ail I want of rank or station;
I’ll tell of Royal progeny no more—
No, not if they have babies by the score;
My mind’s made up, a fearful oath I swore—
“D — if I sing another generation! ”
• ♦ •
Mr. Vincent Pyke, the member for Dun-
stan (N.Z,). is the chosen champion of the New
Zealand barmaids. Those of Wellington have
formed a league to keep him supplied with button-
hole bouquets till he dies, and even then they wll 1
probably hang immortelles over his headstone and
make pilgrimage to the cemetery toweep and to eat
sponge cakes over bis grave. But this is prema.
ture yet. In the meantime, we offer him this little
ode as our small tribute to his chivalry:—
O Vincent Pyke,
We have no flowers—we wish we had—to send you
(The party round the corner will not trust),
Yet would we like,
If our poor praise could any pleasure lend you,
To say how much we envy you, sir—just!
Wo see you from afar
A-standing in a bar
All garlanded with floral gifts of various device—
Much like a village May-pole or a bull for sacri-
fice—
A smile upon your lip,
One hand upon your hip,
One eye upon the pretty serving lass
And one a-gazlng darkly through a glass.
Yes, you gay buck,
You have the luck I
Credit unlimited-no bill, no slate, no score;
Roses and ram and smiles for evermore 1
Epicurean.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Why should we dare and dare,
And still be up and doing ?
Life, as Life is, is fair:
Why fill it full of care
Faces of dreams pursuing ?
Why should we scheme and scheme
For fame, and rang, and riches ?
Lol when, by toil extreme.
We gain them, dust they seem—
Like fairy-gifts of witches I
Why should we fretjand fret
Because but low our name is ?
He who great praise did get
Had sweet sleep never yet:
Better is ease thap fame is.
Why seek for fairer one
While one true heart we’re dear to ?
Boses that highest rpn
May see more of the sun,
But sooner they grow sere, too.
Then kiss me, fair Felise I
While others wealth are winning,
We lie beneath the trees
And laugh, and take our ease,
And let the world go spinning.
VICTOR J. DALEY.


GOMPAGNONI CATERING CO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ' 9
THE oldest and leading Catering Establishment In N.S.W. Caterers to Hla Worship the Mayor.
Municipal Council of Sydney, the A.J.C., City Club, &o., Ac-
The Dining Saloons for Ladies and Gentlemen are the Finest, Coollbbt, and loftiest In the colony.
FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY. Private Bar—Good Wine List.
W GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. (after the
Theatres. Select your own steak, Ac., and see It grilled In the room. This is one of the acquisitions
or the city, and a long-felt want. Inspection invited Club rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Clue
and City Club, upstairs. * St D<* TOLLEHACHE, General Manager.
Bray «Sc Liclitner,
32 O CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied, best,
and Cheapest in the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments, wlth tun for Non***,:
c. c
M
_ o 9
► > £
d sj 'S
co ~z C
wu€trct
&
cjr
<3
‘S fs\
kr
b\
frt
©
SsP
■
Vv
1931X801 m pxdBJ PHU aiqSH9<t JBOHI
»Tf» JOJ ejog
IMPORTERSj l OF SUPPLIES
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied, best,
and Cheapest in the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments, wlth mu matmetioM tm Non***,:
ALL
W O M 1 N .
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS A WHITTT’S
Borax Soap
jar TRY it |or FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, In either HOT or
GOLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERT
IN SOAP I
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everythin*
washed with it;
HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
Storekeeper
per Bar.
Sold by everj Storekeeper and Qrooer at
Sole Manufacturers:
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Visiting Cards
. WHILE YOU WAIT
GENT.’S ... .. ... 60. Is, 6d.; 100, 8s. fld.
LADIES’ 60, SB. Od.; 100. 8s, Od.
Address, Sd. extra.
■oat Buslnoss Cards.
100, 8s. 6d.; S60, 6s. 6d.; 600, 10S.: 1000. 16s.
NO CHARGE FOB ENGRAVING PLATE.
Orders executed and forwarded by return
post,
toe, ora hit no,
289 Pitt-street, Sydney.
i4
AYER’S
Hair Vigor
restores, with the gloss and freshness of
youth, faded or gray hair to a natural, rich
brown color, or deep black, as may he desired.
By its use light or red hair maybe darkened,
thin hair thickened, and baldness often,
though not alw-ays, cured.
It checks falling of the hair, and stimu-
lates a weak and sickly growth to vigor. It
prevents and cures scurf and dandruff, and
heals nearly every disease peculiar to the
scalp. As a Ladies’ Hair Dressing, the
Vigor is unequalled; it contains neither oil
nor dye, renders the hair soft, glossy, and
silken in appearance, and imparts a delicate,
agreeable, and lasting perfume.
Mb. C. P. Bbicheb writes from Kirby, O..
July 3, 1882: “Last fall my hair commenced
falling out, and In a short time I became
nearly bald. I used part of a bottle of
Ayeb’s Haib Vigor, which stopped the fall-
ing of the hair, and started a new growth. I
have now a full head of hair growing vigor-
ously, and am convinced that but for the
use of your preparation 1 should have been
eutirely'bald.”
J. W. Bowen, proprietor of the McArthur
(Ohio) Enquirer, says : “ Aveb’s Haib Vigob
is a most excellent preparation for the hair.
I speak of it from my own experience. Its
use promotes the growth of new hair, and
makes it glossy and soft. The Vigob is also
a sure cure for dandruff. Not within my
knowledge has the preparation ever failed
to give entire satisfaction.”
Mb. Angus Faibbaibn, leader of the
•celebrated “Fairbairn Family” of Scottish
Vocalists, writes from Boston, Mass., Feb. 6,
1880: “Ever since my hair began to give sil-
very evidence of the change which fleeting
time procureth, I have used Ayeb’s Haib
Vigob, and so have been able to maintain
an appearance of yonthfulness — a matter of
considerable consequence to ministers, ora-
tors, actors, and in fact every one who lives
in the eyes of the public.”
Mbs. O. A. Pbescott, writing frcrh 18 Elm
St., Charlestown, Mass., April 14, 1882, says :
“ Two years ago about two-thirds of my hair
came off. It thinned very rapidly, and ! was
last growing bald. On using'Ayer's Haib
Vigob the falling stopped and a new growtli
■commenced, and in about a month my head
was completely covered with short hair. It
has continued to grow, and is now as good as
before it fell. I regularly used but one bottle
of the Vigob, but now use it occasionally as
a dressing.”
We have hundreds of similar testimonials
to the efficacy of Aveb’s Haib Vigob. It
needs hut a trial to convince the most skepti-
cal of its value.
, PREPARED BY D
l Dr.J C.Ayer&Co.,Lowell,Mass.
Sold by all Druggists.
T5i£l»IOTT BROS, and 8. HOFFNUNG A CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
sms ocforb MOUSTACHE ami WHISKIES. BEFOnS
Boyd’ $ Beard Flixirdid thin, and
will do it on either bald hettd or
bare face, ffwcet heavy Moun -
tar he in/romS to 4 weeks and never .
fails, 20,000 young vten already
wear full beards, having lined 1 to
3 jMUe. fio injury, easily applied, pertain in effect,
each,HU for 3*. (k I., poet paid, tent under cover, free from obeervation.
iress/Vvsak Dougin, Sole Agent, Box 730, O.P.O. , Sydney,N.8. }V»
•Qopyrwhted.
Copyrighted
Packet$ U. 6 d
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage In the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALB, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTELL A 00.,
Sole Agents.
v , VENET1A WALTZ:
n* dir to* wU markmt, Oajudut* LorraxA
pp'&ean tabOL
V '
Fed
Fed.
Fed
\\f ILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stool
W of MUSIC In the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, Ac.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Fart Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, Ac.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues can be had gratis on applies
tion.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Not<
Papers, Ac., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, BUlheads, Circulars, Cards
• printed, Ball Programmes, Mem
engraved or
Cards.
All orders executed In best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
FanfejM
cheap:
splendid stoi
eh
« ml . , . WWWJUUB VQiUO, DpiDUUlUOlUUJ
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading magi
zlnes.
Call and see the two most Important Oopylni
The Trypograpl
Instruments ever Invented.
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, theT coat o
which Is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splei
rmuu in a mere trine, taxes on 70 splendid copies
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
842 GEORGE STREET.
ART IFICIALTE ETH
M ARSHALL BROi
. DENTISTS
133 ELIZABETH ST
TO THE TRADE
Now landing ex Late Arrivals.
HALF-TESTER NICKEL BEDSTEADS.
HALF-TESTER BRASS BEDSTEADS.
HALF-TESTER IRON BEDSTEADS.
STUMP BEDSTEADS.
FRENCH BEDSTEADS.
BLACK and GOLD BEDSTEADS,
BLACK and BRASS BEDSTEADS.
50 Cases of No. 14 AUSTRIAN CHAIRS.
450 Cases of AMERICAN CHAIRS.
760 Bales of BEST JAVA KAPOK.
10 Bales of COTTON FLOCK.
20 Bales of CURLED HAIR.
10 Cases of TOILET GLASSES (Assorted).
20 Cases Of ROWCL1FFE SPRING MATTRESSES
15 Bales of BLACK CURLED FIBRE.
12 Bales of WHITE WOOL FLOCK,
J. LAWLER
608 Goorge-sft., Sydney,
IMPORTER of FURNITURE. UPHOLSTERER,
and BEDDING MANUFACTURER,
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOBRAPHY.
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, th<
most reliable and rapid in the market.
Bavarian imp
itters. nUr
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
Made of the beat Bavarian Hops. Superior to any
other.
They take the first place wherever tried, and are
well authenticated by eminent medical men and
well-known analysts.
Read the reports and testimony which aooom
pany each bottle, and do not forget to a
trial of BAVARIAN HOP Bitters.
P. KIRBY,
Prom the late Mr. Jung Cubtxs,
•4 HUNTER ft PHILLIP STREETS.
PUNB&ALS NRATLY EXECUTES.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the ei"«i''» n«
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen
Manager for over ten (10) years.
years;
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found
last with the Argosy Braces at G owing Bros.
0
%
W
GOWING BROS.
Have Just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces I
Jrsesy Braces, Ss. 6d., Ss., Ss. 6d.,ft ds. 6
GOWIMG~ BROS.,
MIN'S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS,ft
BBS and 40B Caorsa-straat,
mm
“Mr. William Ball.-Dear Sir,—Allow me to say
that I find your‘Bloom of Peaches’ superior to
anything of the kind that I ever used before.
Yours truly, Emelib Melville.”
“ Dear Sir,—1 have never used anything equal to
your ‘ Bloom of Peaches.’ —Maggie Mookb.’
“ Dear sir,—I have the greatest pleasure In re-
commending Mr. Ball’s ‘ Bloom of Peaches "nd
‘Fett-Puder’ as being invaluable—Yours truly,
Alice Bees.”
To be obtained of all chemists,
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
“ PETT-PUDEB,” a delicate and Invisible
powder for the face. Beautifully perfumed.
White, Pink, or Cream, to suit all complexions.
Price, 1/6 per box.
Manufactured only by
WILLIAM BA L L ,
The “ Professional ” and Pharmaceutical Chemist,
61 BOURKE STREh/T, MELBOUIiNB.
Wholesale Agents for Sydney ;
Messrs. E, PROSSER & CO., Wholesale Chemists
G. F. PRIDDY ft CO.,
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS,
3eg to announce that, on and after APRIL 7th
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Days
at 6.30 p.m.: Saturdays as usual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
UMBRELLAS
RI&OVEEIj).
otudt economy
HaveyourU mbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly azs-
MM


p
URNITUR1 SHOW ROOM
BRAD LBV VWTON, and LAMB,
O'Connell and Spr -j streets, Sydney
H
ALL FURNITURE, HATBTAND8. and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
T IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
JJ TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE*, fashionably uphol-
stered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o.
VERT ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
OVELTIE8 In BOUDOIR and BOW WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Givat variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
[jlIGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.-The
llJ Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward
E _......
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-stieet.
BDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft.. with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble ton
and tfle back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 8 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
HEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 80s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s-
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s,; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
s
3
OQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
oWUtl strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, In handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves fox
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Blaek and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also elegantly finished in
Embroidery, Plush, &c.
/"1HIFPONNIBR WHATNOTS, effective designs,
VJ Just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
trOonnell-Btrect.
TjlNAMBLLED and JEWELLED MIRRORS, for
ID Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell-street.
"■"hRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL OHAIRS.-
■J A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
Toilet pairs, nameiv. dressing-table
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80a the pair.
Full suite* for dining-room-side-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-Btrcet.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 6 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR-
Patented.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order In any
material.
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
8
B
AGATBLLB BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework: for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, whlcn can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Framework for dining-room furni-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, In Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery,
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-atreeta.
BDSTBADS, nickel-plated and black and brass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
B
B
BDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB. O’Con-
aeil and Spring streets.
WASHSTANDS, with marble, from 25s. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
B AWN and PARK SEATS 6 feet long. Rustic
I j Cast-Iron Standards, 15s. each. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb.
BMNTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment: beetmak*. lew «it prioei.
Unpleasant dreams and general unrest
do not trouble persons who are wise enough to
use Wolfe’s Schnapps.
No kitchen is complet) without Klngsford a
Oswego Cornflour.
The morning-glory's blooming
Beside the window sill.
The bumble bee is booming
Along the sunny hill;
Full soon the bunyip's music
The jackass’ laugh - ill drown,
But Summerfleid is selling still
The cheapest goods in town.*
Bali Boom Specialities.— Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated wltk
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
luliy arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. SOi Hunter-street. Sydney.*
Hurrying along King-street towards the
tram, he was suddenly brougnt up by colliding
with a gentleman hastening into a cab. Kesult:
the overturning 01 a large portion or crooaery
meant as a surprise tor nis dear little woman.
Gentleman apologised, and Insisted on the unfor-
tunate person riding with him to Bray Bros.’ China
stores, George-street, to replace damages.*
Smokers whose indulgence in the weed
is continuous should use such a.oordlal as wolfb s
Schnapps.
Klngsford’s Oswego Cornflour takes the full
flavour of every kind of Seasoning,
SOCIAL
The wedding-dress of the Princess Beatrice
was made of white satin of exquisite texture.
The front was draped with honiton lace, lent to
her by her Royal mother, and which was worn by
the latter at her own wedding. The bodice was
made'with short sleeves and cut low, displaying
the bride’s beautiful shoulders and arms. By the
way, it is hinted by ill-natured people that the
reason the Queen has such a weakness for low
bodices and short sleeves is because she and her
daughters all possess good arms and shoulders. Her
own are rather substantial-looking now for beauty,
but they tell a tale of bygone excellence, lor
travelling, the Princess of Battenberg wore a
dress, mantle, bonnet, and sunshade all pure
white. The dress of crepe de chine had over it a
design of tiny flowers, something like heather
bells. This was draped gracefully over a skirt of
satin, and trimmed with magnificent Irish lace.
The mantle, which was long in front and short at
the back, was also of crepe de chine, bordered
with a deep edging of lace. Bonnet of white
heather, which is emblematical of happiness, 'i he
rim of the bonnet was of white velvet stitched
with silver wire, and falling in front were three
small ostrich feathers—strings of white velvet
fastened with a diamond brooch; sunshade of
white satin, with Irish lace stretched over it and
falling prettily from the edge.
• * *
The first of the Red fern Socials came off
on the evening of the 3lst., in the local Town Hall
Twenty-five couples were present, and danced to
the strains of nice music till midnight Two
cousins from Redfern looked very pretty, the one
in blue veiling, and the other in old gold, trimmed
with black lace—both splendid dancers. Two
Melbourne sisters were noat in pure white veiling
and satin, and from Ultimo came a pair in black
velvet robes, trimmed with cream velvet lace.
Regent-street sent a much-admired one in crushed
strawberry broche, relieved by cream lace; a trio
of sisters from Summer-hill were attired alike in
pink shot silk and coffee lace; a neat dancer was
from Forest Lodge, and dressed in “ all pink.”
• • ♦
A fair audience cheerfully submitted to
the process of being half roasted in Sydney Opera
House on Saturday afternoon, In order to listen to
some of Mons. Leon Caron’s very clever mu do.
Ventilation there was none, but of heat, abun-
dance, and if anything should turn us from our
evil doings and induce us to amend our ways so as
to avoid a similar experience of heat in an exag-
gerated form in the next world, surely the three
hours in the Onera House on Saturday would
effect it. There is one thing certain. Matinees
will never be popular in Sydney, until some
plan is adopted to have the theatre well
lighted and, at the same time, kept cool; at
present we must either sit in semi-darkness or
have our bodies and tempers brought up to sim-
mering pitch, which doesn’t mean enjoyment.
Mons. Leon Caron got a kind reception when he
made his bow to the audience, and it is much to be
regretted that, through the want of sufficient re-
hearsals of the orchestra, scarcely one item of the
composer’s music was heard to advantage. In the
violin concerto with orchestral accompaniment the
soloist was severely handicapped by being con-
stantly compelled, to turn round and remonstrate
in too audible terms with ’cello, oboe, or clarionet,
which interjections not only detracted from the
merit ot the concerto but were exceedingly irri-
tating to the listeners. Madame Kellermann, who
sat at the piano, was faithful as ever in her part of
the work, and later on, in Schumann’s concerto in
A minor with orchestral accompaniment, the lady
showed again what a really true musician she is,
and played entirely from memory. This was much
applauded, and Madame was presented with a
beautiful basket of artificial flowers and fruit, by
a tiny girl dressed.in white Miss Grade Plalsted
gave a piquant rendition of “Dame Durden,” but
occasionally seemed to forget that she was not
singing in opera, which, however, was pardonable.
Mr. Percy Shannon, who has a nice round voice,
which was slightly roughened by a cold, sang
“ The Hour of Prayer ” (Caron) fairly well, and
Mr. Harding who was to sing “O, Summer Land,”
didn’t. Mr. Hallewell gave “Now on the grassy
plains,” which is a song taken from Mons Caron s
famous Victoria Cantata, and did the item full
j usiice. Mrs. Atkinson, who chose the recit and aria
from “ Dlnorah,” sang a trifle sharp all through,
but was otherwise very successful. Signora
Fabris, who gave, by request,“Pace Miodlo ’with
orchestral accompaniment, was in magnificent
voice and obtained much applause. The most
effective of all the orchestral performances, was
Caron’s “Souvenirs Patrlotlques,” in which is in-
troduced the “ Marseillaise. 5 ’ There was much
vigour in the performance, and the effect was
grand. Mons. Caron’s compositions are so abund-
ant in charming passages and orchestral effect
that to re-hear them upon some future occasion
will be a pleasure to look forward to.
» •
The Bunvood people are about to make
a fieah start in the musical line. They have de-
cided, now that they have recovered from their
unavailing efforts to keep the “ Western Suburbs
Musical Society” alive, to attempt a “Choral
Society.” There is some good material (musical)
in and around Bunvood, and if a conductor is
o ioseu who will be prepared to devote twice as
much time and trouble to the male voices as ho
d jes to those of the opposite sex, and thus give
toe former a lair ooauce, ail should be well. The
members of tn committee are Messrs. M. E
A Beckett, W. H. Lacy. H. H. Boss, and G. A.
Thompson. Mr. J. B, Pewtreas is hon. sec. pro
tern. It is proposed that the annual subscription
lor all members snail be onu guinea, entitling
them to two tickets for each of three concerts
during the year.
• • •
The N.8.W. Agricultural Society’s Show
surpassed all its predecessors in the remarkable
excellencaof the exhibits. Last Wednesday, the
opening day, the grounds were fairly filled hy a
goodly throng of men, women, and children of all
classes, who seemed to find both amusement and
instruction In what they saw. About 30 ladies and
gentlemen were invited to witness the open-
ing ceremony in the pavilion and partake
of a champagne luncheon in a large marquee
erectedjfor the purpose. After Sir Alfred Stephen
had declared the show open, the ladies
tripped down from the dais, and gathered
round Captain Broomfield s orchids like a swarm
of Dees, Tuese plants took the first prize, aud
were passing beautiful. With one or two excep-
tions, the ladies’ dresses were decidedly unfresh
looking. Lady Loftus wore a quiet black satin
and broche with jet trimmings, and a ruby
bonnet with feathers. The Misses Stephen,
black dresses and small ruby bonnets; Miss
Flacner, cream lace dress and white straw
sailor hat; Mrs. Purves, cream embroidery cos-
tume; a tall, fair lady, in a brown, embossed
velvet dress, wore a bright crimson bonnet, which
contrasted prettily with the straw-coloured pair
which was worn in a mass of basket plaits at the
back of the head. A bonnet, which was
surely made more for ornament than use
was oomuosed entirely of artificial maiden-
hair fern It was certainly a most breezy-
looklng head-gear quite a make-believe sun-
protecior. How muen pleasanter It would be lor
all bauds, If some means could be found for laying
the dust that Is nearly ankle-deep all over the
grouuds I Even the jellies and other dainties la the
luncheon tent became covered with a gritty layer
of mother earth, belore the time cams to attack
them We are ail entitled to «at a peck of dirt
during our lifetime, but we quite object to
accomplish the feat at one sitting. But dust or
no dust, the show was well worth a visit-there
was plenty to see. and the hours were all too
quickly speat in examining the many beautiful
exhibits.
Last Thursday evening the directors of
the Jewish School Board regaled the children with
buns and other good things and a magic lantern
In the new Masonic Hall. Little Miss Manser sang
a song very prettily, and a farce, entitled “Nan,
the Good-for-Nothing,’ In which Mis. J. R. Cohen,
Messrs. W. L. Dunn and A. Isaacs took part,
finished the evening’s entertainment.
• • •
Not many know of the place revelling in
the high-sounding name of Gum Flat, but to the
select few who attended tho ball given there the
other night, it Is known to be In the vicinity of
Inverell. The affair was a success in its way, and
the ball-room, for a rural thing, looked very
artistic. Conspicuous amongst the animate and
moveable ornaments was a lady In black and
cardinal, who (whisper) was the belle. The lovely
night and the moon enticed many to try dancing
on the greensward, d la Vicar of Wakefield’s
crowd. There is a flavour of romance in dancing
by the light of a pale moon, surrounded by
drooping arbors of ferns and the air heavy with
the perfume of a myriad tropical plants. The
folk of Gum Flat evidently fell a prey to the spell,
for we have the best authority for asserting that
no less than seven proposals were made on the
spot. But moonlight is at times decaptive, and
when one loving swain was protesting his undy-
ing attachment to a fair lady he was brought
back to everyday life by receiving a stunning slap
on the ear. In truth his honeyed words had been
poured into tho ears of an already wedded one
whom he had mistaken for his own lady love.
Dances by moonlight have no longer any charms
for him—they are so fraught with uncomfortable
recollection.
* * . T
Mrs. Henniker Heaton has been giving
quite a novel entertainment at her residence, 39
De Vere Gardens, Kensington Palace, London.
The residence was decorated with a number of
young Australian gum trees, which, of course,
looked more beautiful to the colonial visitors than
ail the choice plants England could supply put to-
gether. Pretty programmes were distributed
amongst the guests, upon the title page of which
was a kangaroo armed with a gun, bopping to the
Soudan, a device which could only have eman-
ated from the brain of J H. H. The pro-
gramme included “Australian Readings” from
the works of Brunton Stephens, Henry Kendall,
and A. L. Gordon; also two Australian coo-ee
songs. In fact, it was an Australian entertain-
ment given to Australians and those interested in
the sunny land.
♦ * +
A large number of people accepted invita-
tions for the ball given by Mrs. Kllmlnster, of the
Clarendon, Manly Beach, last Friday evening. The
handsome ,'newly-erected salon, which la 60ft. in
length, was utilised as a ball-room for the occar
sion, and considerable taste was displayed in the
elaborate decorations. The words “ dance, and be
merry,” were traced with green leaves on a white
ground, and met the eye upon entering the room,
and the guests were obedience itself, tor they did
dance and were merry. Numerous coloured llgbts
gave quite a charming effeot to the whole scene.
* * »
The friends and pupils of Mr. R. Collins
held a plain and fancy-dress ball in his Assembly
Rooms, Regent-street, Redfern, on Friday even-
ing last. Music, dancing, and singing made the
hours pass very enjoyably.
mmrn
Miss Amy Webb, daughter of Mr. W. H.
Webb, Ashgrove, Aahfleld, is to be married in tit.
John's Church, Ashfleld, on the 30th instant, to
Mr. Cleqaent Meadmore. Numerous Invitations
have been already issued for the dejeuner and ball.
• * ♦
The last meet of the bicycle boya takes
place at Moore Park on Saturday. Ladies §re ex
peoted to turn out en masse for the occasion.
m * *
The oalioo-ball lately held at Wilcannia
was a great success. Nearly all appeared In fancy
costumes composed entirely of cotton fabric, and
very pretty most of them looked. An unusual
feature of the bail was the absence of the married
of both sexes, but nobody seemed to miss these
firosy beings. The fancy costumes were as fol-
ows:—Miss J. Ford, Fishwife; Miss Price, Gret-
chen: Miss Jarvis, Barber's Pole; Miss Hooper,
Upper Housemaid; Miss K. Ford, Nancy Lee; Miss
Jones, Queen of Hearts; Mias Gaiter, Forget-Me-
Not; Miss Lyne, Sailor Boy; F. H. Priestly, Hunts-
man; J. Orr, Sailor: G. A. Harper. Able tieamen;
D. Laugeton, Middy; C. Duggan. Red-Whlte-and-
Blue; T. H. Stanbury, Ben Bolt; T. Hoar, Rip Van
Winkle; R. Patterson,Stars and Stripes; E. Brown,
Clown. This Is the first public ball given by the
members of the Assembly Club, and the Wilcannia
folk hope It won’t be the last.
• * ♦
The last but one of the most pleasant
Petersham Socials was held in the local Town Hall
on Friday evening, tho 4th Inst. Dancing com-
menced soon after 8 o’clock, and was kept up till
past 13. A pair of graceful sisters from Manly
Beach appeared in black, trimmed with rich, deep
lace; Miss Dean, from; the Shore, wore pale pink-
spotted tulle, and satin bodice; one of two sisters
from Ashfleld wore an elegant pink nun’s veiling,
combined with Indian muslin; her slater, Madras
muslin and ruby velvet bodice; Miss Bone looked
□eat in black cashmere: and Miss L. Cracker, in
white lace and cream broche, was escorted by a
gentleman who acquits himself better as a ’cyclist
than as a dancer; Miss Hugher wore cream and
cardinal; Miss young, black satin and spotted
tulle; Miss White, pale blue satin and coffee lace;
Misses Smith, pale green tulle and satin bodices;
and Miss P igarty black, with low-cut bodices.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Manly Wild Flower Show September 10-
First Bali of the Rosehill Private
Quadrille Glut), Maaonlo Hall,
Parramatta September 11.
Last Bicycle Race Meeting of the sea-
son, Moore Park . .September 13.
Second Annual Sports Meeting of the
Junior Teachers’ Amateur Ath-
letic Club, Clontarf September 13.
Mayor of Petersham’s Ball, Peter-
Third Annual Picnic Sydney Foot-
ball Club, Chowder Bay September 13.
sham Town Hall .September 34.
Eureka Annual Ball, Professor West's
Academy .September 39.
Railway Officers’Picnic. Botany September 30.
Plain and Fancy Dress Ball tendered
to Mrs. Martin by her pupils and
friends at the Dancing Academy..September 30.
Wednesday, September 9.
Dear Peg.—I have lately been showing you so
much of the frivolous, pleasure seeking part of
my existence, that, for fear of falling for ever in
your estimation, I will, in this effusion, try to
prove that I do attend to something more than the
vanities of life, by describing a few delightful
little books which I have recently read.
“ Booth’s Baby ” (by I. 8. Winter) claims prece-
dence, because It has the largest type and smallest
story. It is a fragrant fragment ot garrison H f e,
with noble touches of manly courage, and cannot
very well bo dissected, because it is just “ Booth’s
Baby,” and nothing more. There is one anomaly;
little Miss Mignon is an advanced Infant prodigy,
even for th's progressive age! Then come two
fresh American productions, “ Marjorie Daw ” (by
Thomas Bally Aldrich) and “In Partnership:
Studies in Storytelling” (by Brander Matthews
and H. C. Banner). To me, American literature
of the Emerson, Holmes, Hawthorn, Howells, and
Stockton type, has a charm peculiar to itself.
Intellectually, these men occupy widely different
planes, but there is an undeflnable family likeness
which proclaims their brotherhood. There is a
fresh originality in the vivid descriptions, a laconic
piquancy in the expressive language, an invigor-
ating suggestiveness of modern sentiment, a
subtle insight into character in the luminous
touches that brighten every page, without ever
descending into the commonplace of broad fun.
“Marjorie Daw ’’ and “In Partnership” are both
collections of short stories, in which you are in-
geniously led up to a point of interest that draws
largely on the climax and then, lets you down
with a flop, so to speak, but leaves you laugh-
ing at your own discomfiture. I think it must
be of these pocket editions the Saturday Review
speaks when it says that “ nowhere else is the art
and mystery of writing short stories better under-
stood than in the United States;” and that it lain
the domain of the fantastic that the American
writer of short stories has been most successful-
certain of them being “ unsurpassed ’.anid unsur-
passable. ”
It is beside the mark to say Dion Bouoioault is
drawing crowded houses; but, perhaps, you may
like to know what sort of gowns obtained when
“Shaughraun” grew from a humorous ’ooiioep-
tion into a three-act comic drama. They are simple
in the ex reme, as befits a slightly primitive exist-
ence; but, perhaps, more taking for that reason.
Miss Bouclcault is charming as Moya in a short
Vrown wincey skirt, brown stockings, and broad
buckled shoes; a spotted muslin body drawn in at
the waist, and finished with a telling frill, short
sleeves, showing very pretty arms and a V-shaped-
neck; the hair, dla mode, but waving so prettily
from the small fringe to the neat plaits &t the back
of the head. Mias Bouoioault is a pretty little
thing, with a fair pearly complexion, and dark
eyes and eyebrows. So you can Imagine the sort
of naive Incongruity of her tout ensemble. Mits
Thorndyke (to whom Dion Bouclcault is about to
be married) as Arte O’Neill, does not appear at
great advantage. She wears deep straw-coloured
garments which “ go” into a sirt of wispy trail,
and do not even setoff her beautiful go’dbn hair.
Claire Ffolliot (Miss Thomas) looks excessively
neat in a short knife-plaited skirt, short waist, and
band with white linen collar and cuffs. Mr. Dion
Boucioault is staying, with most of his company,
at the Royal, while Mr. Dion Bouclcault; jun., is
at the Exchange Hotel with Miss Bouoioault.
Among the shows at the Agricultural on Friday
last was Mr. 8. A. Stephen s prize drag, which
passed to and fro so frequently that One had
plenty of opportunities of recognising the occu-
pants. Among the newest familiar ones were Miss
Bouclcault and her brother. Her costume, of
dark brown or green (I forget which), with a
small, closely-fitting hat, was just in that elegant
and unobtrusive good taste which proclaims a
lady, pure and simple.
The marriage of Mr. Scroggie, of Macleay-street,
Potts’ Point, with Miss Walker, daughter of Mr.
P. B. Walker, of Blleralie, Darllnghurat, is fixed
for Monday, September 14, at St. John’s Church >
Darltnghurst,
An engagement is announced between Mr.
Fisher, of England, and Miss Bloxsome, youngest
daughter of Mr. Oswald Bloxsome, The Ranges,
North Shore.
The members of the Australian Club have fixed
their ball for Friday, 18th September, in the Exhi-
bition Building. It is rumoured that this second
entertainment given by Sydney's oldest club will
be unusually large, and will do its best to eclipse
the Union Club ball to be given about a week later
Mrs. R. L. Tooth, of Swifts, Darling Point, has
issued invitations for an “ At Home,” on Tuesday,
September 33nd,
Papers, posters, and placards have been indus-
triously impressing upon us for weeks past
that Manly (yclept the " Village,”) will be en ffte
on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, over its annual
Wild Flower Show. The committee seem to have ,
spared neither trouble nor expense this Sprlngito
make It eclipse its interesting predecessors. It
promises so well that you must bear with me if. In
(Conttnued“on next page.)


NOTICE Is hereby given that a Special Meeting
of the Metropolitan Licensing Court will be
holden at the Central Police Office, George and
Druitt streets, Sydney, at noon on Tuesday, the
22nd September Instant.
C. DELOHERY,
CP.S.
Cenh-al Police Office, Sydney,
5th September, 1885.
Infants and Children
f 'What gives our Children rosy cheeks,
I What cures their fevers, makes t’tem sleep;
k Castoria.
T When Babies fret, and cry hy turns,
' What cures their colic, kills their worms.
I Castoria. 1
■ What quickly cures Constipation,
i Sour Stomach, Colds, Indigestion ;
’ Castoria. ■>
’ Farewell then to Morphine Syrups,
r Castor Oil and Paregoric, and
j- Hail Castoria.
“Castoria is GO well adapted to Children
that I recommend it as superior to any medi‘
cine known to mo.”—H. A. Abcheb, M. X>,
111 Oxford St., How York.
Elliott Beds., Sidney, Agents.
DR. THOMAS
may be consulted on
Nervous Debility, Skin and Contagious Affections.
Medical Establishment, 203, Blizabetb-street,
near Bathurst-street.
Hours : 9 till 10 daily.
Dr. Thomas is the omy medical man advertising
In Australia who has passed the degrees of an Eng-
lish Physician and Surgeon. Examinations passed
—Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians.
London, 18«4; Member of the Royal College of
A
B
K
o-
*
IS#.
m
m
1
Ji
Av
m
KS
AS
B
c
Q
I
/?
O
H
Sydney&Royal Arcades
r*
o
r*
O'
/a-Sr.
£04
V
STAR & GARTER FAMILY HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
HI8 Hotel Is centrallv situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway, fto
Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and Spirits
he most Comfortable ana Commodious Private Bar in the city.
“works like a ohaem.” ‘‘AVOID COMPLICATED BRACES.”
ti
THE
GRE1ENTA.
GREATEST EASE.
S TRONGES T WE A R. PE RE EC T COM FOR T.
SIMPLEST & BEST.
WHOLESALE ONLY,
WELCH, MAEGETSON & Co., 16 & 17 CHEAPSIDE, LONDON, E C.
ANT) OF
W. RENNY FINDLAY & BRO., MELBOURNE & SYDNEY.
I
'P
fira
ss
4*
$r
a
%
30
tAr*
a
%
<0
n
V
o
<£
4'.
Gy
<D
e.
4
l5 *l
3
MAN
3URY.BUXT0N&C?
ENGLISH ALES
BuNon-on-Trenf.
CO
URN
MCNZER
v rtHj«NissEuR3 oeS M
Border
><
e fl
" h
&
& S
M S v
&
L -
to
E>
7
m
m
l fv/w
absoiAJ;
NS*
OHNE ZDS*’ 1 *
rs. ALLT I CO.’S fin and Sprit Stas aid %i«,
CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
London Agents: Messrs,, Akts uk & Co., Wormwood Chambers, Wormwood-street, E.C,
EXTRA WASHINGTON WOOD SEAT, 2/9.
Chairs of all kinds have our particular care, and we
sell them at
Specially Low Pricks.
my next, my pea runs riot over flowery themes.
It is so refreshing: to have a congenial topic to
talk of sometimes 1
By the natural law of Antlthtsls, I immediately
“ try back/’ to disagreeables, and find myself
thinning of the miserable cold-flend that has, or 1",
prostrating everyone this spring. Everyone hss
his own special theory anent it, and doctors cer-
tainly disagree; they do not seem quite certain
whether it is cold, or more properly fever; but It
has all the symptoms cf virulent Influenza. It
steals upon you unawares, like a thief in the night
and in the twinklng of an eye you are hors de com-
bat, suffering from every pain and acbe fl esh is heir
to. Its epitaph might well be “ Not one, but all Pa-
tholog’s epitome I ’ for it seems to take a fiendish
joy In seizing you at your weakest points. Some
sink to the depths of deepest woe from depression
before the tormentor lays them by the heels, so
to speak. Others go to bed apparently well, and
wake next morning with running eyes and aching
head. Others again have paroxysms of coughing
by way of preparation. All suffer miserably, and
are not the happier in knowin there is no escape
for a week at least—then they rise to life with Its
burden again, like gaunt spectres to meet the
qualified condolence of friends. “ Glad to see you
about again; it was only influenza?” Those four
words express so much suffering, and so little
sympathy I
Mrs. Cape, of Karoola, Edgeoliff-road, gave a
most enjoyable dance on Friday evening, Septem-
ber 4 It was glvi n as a farewell to the Misses
Scarvell, who left for Europe on Tuesday* by the
Messageries steamer. The ballroom was profusely
decorated with exquisite flowers—the mantles and
fireplaces bolhg completely hidden by banks
above, and bowers beneath-whtle niches at In-
tervals round the walla made recesses for other
floral lovelinesses that •* seemed to snatch a grace
beyond the reach of art ” in their light unstudied
arrangement. The guests were numerous, and
Included, among others, the Hon. E. Knox, Mrr«
and the Mieses Knox, Mrs. and the Misses Soarvell,
Mrs. Barley, the Misses Dailey, Miss Campbell.
Miss Shuffrqy, the Misses Wall, Mrs. W. Watt, Mrs.
Weston, Mrs. and Miss Salomons, Mr. and Mrs.
Dibbs, the Misses Dlbbs, Mr. and Mrs. Austin, Miss
Austin, MissBsatrioe Stephen, Mrs. G. B. Simp-
son, Miss Hogg, Miss Farquhar, Colonel Bingham,
Captain Milward, Mr. I. Alison, Mr. G. Campbell,
Mr. M. Campbell, Mr. Marsden, Mr. Cockshote,
Mr. Buttorworth, Mr. M'Naughton, Mr. Hutton,
Mr. Bird, Mr. Simpson, Mr. Caldwell, Mr. V. Soott,
Mr. D. Scott, &3.
As it is always darkest before dawn, so have we
the custom here of keeping back our newest and
freshest for the club balls. During the few weeks
before these events crumpled frocks are rdghauffdd
“just once more, 1 ’ that we may shine forth the
more resplendently In fresh war-paint and polish
by force of contrast. Thus it happened that
pretty, fresh-looking dresses enj >yed a select
monopoly on Friday night, and it would be In-
vidious to particularise the few to the cost of the
many.
CORE A. LYNN.
Witnesses have a protector in Judge Casey,
of Melbourne. Hia Honor decided last week that
a man need not answer the question of Mr. Purves
whether or no he had a wife? Counsel wanted
reasons for the Judge holding with the witness in
the answer that he “didn’t know.” Counsel
couldn't see it, but we can. A witness need not
criminate himself, and his answer might be used
against him on another occasion. It is as well to
be cautious, and Judge Casey knows the ways of
the world. There’s many a man in Australia
might, on his oath, speak about his wife as dubi-
ously as did this witness. He might have made a
marriage in the Scotch fashion, or in the Chatham
fashion of jumping a broomstick, and be desirous
to dispute its validity some day or other; or he
might have been married by the Reverend Kins-
man, and have been reading the papers lately.
From Afghanistan, Germany, Spain, and
the Caroline Islands comes disquieting news. But
from the vicinity of the Sow-and-Plgs, In Sydney
harbour. Information ha-J arrived whose gravity
cannot be exaggerated. A certain harbour tor-
pedo has gone astray. As is well known, the
torpedo family is of a peculiarly flighty and iras-
cible nature. Even without being touched at all
one of them often explodes. Why this particular
one left l.s comfortable home, it would be hard to
say. Possibly a touch of the old vagrant instinct
or a desire to set up business on its own account,
possessed it. Anyway, its legal guardian, Captain
Walker, is searching for it in ad the low haunts
about the port, and threatening in language of
unnecessary potency to blow it up when he does
And it. But we may be sure this vagabond is hav-
ing a high old time of it-laughing, probably, to
itself at the certainty, even if apprehended, of
being quickly discharged. Oaoe before one of
Walker s torpedoes got in a tantrum and reluscd
to go off till a diver went down with a crow-bar
and started it. But this one appears to be of a
different breed. It stays out all night on some low
debauch, and does not even come home in the
morning. Let’s see—where were we? Ob, yes.
The Young Men's Christian Association give a
picnic down the harbour shortly, and the Free-
thinkers go down to Manly every Sunday with a
hand. Now, if this torpedo .


The public should be no longer duped by
cheap fiery compounds imitations of Wolfe 9
Schnapps.
The purity and excellence of Eingsford’a Oswego
Cornflour Is unequalled.
Art Union of Moss Yale, in aid of Widow
and Orpan Fund of Berrima Masonic Lodge.
Tickets, 80s. Will shortly be drawn. Apply at
once for tickets. J. 8. Hyams, Sec., Moss Vale.*
When a genuine article such as Wolfe'*
Schnapps has earned a good name for itself
mitations spring up.
Ladles, wheh you are next cooking just give
Klngsford’fl Oswego Cornflour a trial.
Political Points
Professor Vambery holds to the idea of
war, for his forthcoming work is to b ear the title
The Coming Struggle for India.”
Lumley Hill, who intends contesting the
Cook (N.Q.) electorate has taken with him about
£100 worth of gloves, ribbons, and lollies for the
local girls. This is, as usual, Lumley’s trump
political card.
The Victorian Cabinet has decided to
abandon the proposal for the abolition of bar-
maids. Which result is, of course, solely due to
the letters written on the subject by David
Buchanan and that lesser literary star, George
Augustus Sala.
Professor Morris gave a lecture in the
Melbourne Town Hall the other night, In which
he said that the three great empires of the future
would be Germany, Russia, and the United States.
Professor Morns does not know the stuff that
Plain Bill Dailey is made of. Bismarck and he
have got to talk all that over yet.
The Victorian Premier was apprised a few
days ago of the fact that the French Government
are about to send 10,000 to Guiana.
The Melbourne Aqe calls Guiana “a pestilential
gaol-ground,” and the intelligence “ gratifying.”
We are glad the criminals are not coming our way,
but we don’t see why it should be “ gratifying ” to
the Ada to learn that the unfortunates are being
sent to ” a pestilential gaol-ground.”
Portugal has decided that hereditary legis-
lators are a fraud, and has given her nobility inti-
mation that their services in the Upper House
will not be required in future, unless they can
show something more than the certificate of bap-
tism to prove their statesmanship. England has
long ago found out that Heaven does not always
come up to the scratch in supplying peers with
brains, and has also discovered that hereditary
law-makers are a delusion, but has not yet acted
up to her convictions.
Graham Berry and Duncan Gillies are sup-
posed to be the two Ministers that conceived the
new Victorian Licensing Bill which provides for a
forfeiture of a publican’s license after three convic-
tions for Sunday trading. And yet Berry formerly
advocated the opening of public-houses on the
Sabbath, and Gillies even now admits that it would
be a good thing to legalise limited Sunday trading.
But when Berry formerly declared himself thus
there were no strong bodies of Salvationists and
Reohabites that required to be placated.
Mr. Deakin is having another try with his
Factories' Bill in the Victorian Assembly. Last
year he was forced to “ retire” it, and some
assumed It was done for. The provisions that
strike us as specially valuable are that no child
under 15 years shall be employed in a factory un-
less he or she bold a certificate of educational
competence. Another provision is that no female
under 10 years shall bo employed in a factory be-
tween the hours of 6 in the evening and 6 in the
morning. Whatever happens other parts of the
Bill, it is to be hoped Mr. Deakin will carry these
provisions intact.
Grateful Gunnedah I The local Adver-
tiser impudently says Mr. Abbott, the N.S.W.
Minister for Mines, has been a failure as a repre-
sentative, that the electors mustn’t allow them-
selves to be soft-soaped Into again returning
him; and that “we should be better off to-day
had Hanley Bennett been our representative, and
old Tom Dangar been attending to our require-
ments, as in the olden time. It was thought a
grand epoch had arrived for Gunnedah when we
returned Mr. Abbott, but we have lived to see our
mistake, and if we foolishly perpetuate it, we
deserve to be treated even worse than we have
been hitherto.”
Mirams, M.L. A., the most diminutive and
egotistical, and at the same time one of the ablest
and most consistent members of the Victorian
Legislature, has been writing a series of trenchant
letters to the Age, denouncing Mr. Graham Berry
for adopting the Tasmanian Treaty, which is a
blow at the Protective policy of Victoria. The
little man is very severe on the Chief Secretary,
who, he says, is insidiously endeavouring to
overthrow the fiscal policy of the country, and is
playing false to the protectionist principles he
once professed. How the whirligig of time does
bring its revenges! At one time, little Mirams
was Berry's faithful henchman, and no man ever
worked harder to keep Jerry Braham in power.
Another groan from the crushed and
down-tredden Victorian land-owner! This time
it is the Honorable Philip Russell, M.L.C. His
annual subscription to the Ballarat Agricultural
and Pastoral Society was wont to be £50. He has
been “ reluctantly ” compelled, owing to the sore
pressure of the “ iniquitous land tax,” to cut down
the donation to £35. When the operation of a tax
has to be inserted In a weeping schedule of this
description as the chief cause of the pecuniary
woes of a wool-king, times must be getting shaky.
We have sent out for half-a-ton of sponges, and a
few dozen towels, In order to be properly prepared
when we start weeping. We don't want to com-
mit suicide by drowning, just yet, but the dis-
tressful, not to say miserable, appeal of Philip
merits a few tears if we can only arrange for
carrying them off. If Graham Berry hadn’t de-
serted the Victorian Radical party in order to se-
cure the emolument of office as a member of the
Coalition Ministry, the Hon. Philip and others of
his kidney would have had something real to weep
for.
Dr. Creed appears to have been called to the
N.S.W. Legislative Council because he was suspect-
ed of an intention to oppose the Minister of Public
Instruction at next general election. Mr. Dodds,
possibly, was made a “peer” because he has a
son who is in partnership with Mr. it. P. Abbott, a
relative of the Minister for Rabbits. A round-
about explanation of the ennoblement of the now
illustrious Dodds, it may be remarked. But if
that’s not the reason, what can it be ? “ Captain ”
Charles, another new M.L.C., is, so far as we know,
notan ex-army officer; nor are we aware that he
appends to bis name the magic letters “R.N.”
The public, now that their Interest has been
aroused in a gentleman who has for so many years
lived unknown in their midst, thirst to know
whence the i patrician old boy derives his “ cap-
taincy;” but, pending a solution of the problem,
they are, it is needless to say, more than fully
satisfied that the gallant captain’s title comes
neither from the lllawarra Lanoe-ahs nor from an
Illawarra potato-ketch. Mr. Charles’ chief legis-
lative qualification seemed to be that he is so for-
tunate as to be related by marriage to that good-
natured gentleman, Mr. S. W, Gray, M.L.A.
Hon. T. B. Patterson, a prominent mem-
ber of the Victorian Assembly, 1s a very wise
young man Indeed. When in London, the other
day, he told a small knot of Australians that he
had come to England as a Radical, but that after
staying awhile In the country, he had concluded
thero was but oce cause worth following, and that
ciuse was Conservatism; further, that Conser-
vatism had one great and adorable prophet whose
name—here he took off his hat and grovelled—
was Salisbury, And yet, w hen he returned to Vic-
toria a montn or two afterwards he started lec-
turing in praise of the Grand Old Man Gladstone
and all his works; and having conclusively shown
that he knew absolutely nothing about his sub-
ject, he was beautifully slated by t&e incisive
Pearson in the Age. Mr. Patterson, who is a
clever man and a good speaker, belongs to the
oily-gammon school of politicians, and, like all
political weathercocks, is ever ready to set his
sails to catch the breeze of popular favour. In
commencing his public career, be made a bid for
the support of the R.C. section, but, finding that
the Oracle didn’t work, he identified himself with
Orangeism, and gave indirect support to Salva-
tion-Armylsm, Rechabitlsm, an<T“ ranting.” The
Pope’s people have learned to detest him as a
political demon in human shape, and in this
connection a good story is told of one William
O’Callaghan, a foine ould Irish gintleman, who
represented the Wlmmera. Walking down Bourke-
street one night, Mr. O’Callaghan was accosted by
an irate Tipperary man, a constituent of his. who
wanted to know why he was supporting the Berry
Government, “of which that Orange blank and
bigot, Patterson, was a mimber.” After explain-
ing that as a Liberal he was bound to follow the
Berry Ministry in preference to helping the Con-
servatives, Mr. O’Callaghan went on to say that
Patterson was neither an Orangeman nor a bigot,
but simply denounced Papists for his own political
ends. “ How d’ ye make out he’s not a bigot whin
he’s always barking at the howley Roman Glrlsh ?”
asked the man from Tipperary. “ Me dear bhoy,”
replied the O’Callaghan, “ bigotry is the outcome
of a shthrong and ardent belief in, and ztle for,
some cause, or is produced by a great and inor-
dinate faith in some principle. Now, Patterson
has no belafe in any ciuie and no faith in any
principle; therefore, he can't be a bigot. He's
simply a darned political humbug.”
Mr. John Murray, from Warrnambool, a
young man of Johnsonian mien, over whos* head
nave passed some 30 potato seasons, is the humorist
of the Victorian Assembly. John Is as indolent by
nature as “Toby” Barton, the N.S.W. Speaker;
but, like that level-headed official, he is "a perfect
tiger to wait.” Thus did Mr. Murray Adolpbus-
geetaylorically address the House the other night,<
on the Berry Licensing BUI:—“So long as it was
undergoing its second readiug, the Government
took a paternal interest in it, but once the second
reading over add It was safe in committee, they,
would be quite willing to lend a helping hand in
slaughtering the innocent. (Laughter.) Speakers
on both sides had alluded to the American pro-
hibition system. The hon. member for South
Melbourne was perhaps the only one who took the
right text. He spoke as to what occurred before
the Flood, and of a noble race of men—our ante-
diluvian forefathers—men who never drank. But
what was it that killed these men? It was
not whisky ; it was cold water. (Laughter.)
Noah and a numerous family were saved, but he
flnlshed up by getting ingloriously drunk almost
before the world had time to dry. (Renewed
laughter.) Noah grew grapes, made wine, drank
it, and became so muddled that he could not at-
tend to the requirements of his toilet. His unduti-
ful and unflllal son laughed at him. They were
not encumbered with the machinery of civilisa-
tion in those days, or the police might have
secured Noah, and then Ham would-not have had
the opportunity of laughing at him. (’Ob, obi’
and laughter.) In the interests of humanity it
afterwards appeared necessary to slaughter part
of the population of the world. It was not done
by the ala of cold water, but with that objection-
able element which some of them, according to
the teetotallers, if they did not mend their ways,
would some day become acquainted with-he
referred to fire and brimstone. (Laughter.)
This was the destruction of Sodom and Go-
morrah. Lot was saved, and he showed the
fitness of his selection by upon two occasions
getting drunk — (laughter) — although he was
himself afraid that the venerable old patriarch
was not as drunk as some people imagined. It
would be seen from these Scriptural Incidents
that the Deity—who was quite as well able to
judge ®f the goodness of a man as were the teeto-
tallers of the present day—was not “ down upon ”
those who loved the generous glass, a falling
which distinguished so many good men in this and
other communities. He (Mr. Murray) looked upon
this failing as a sin which might be forgiven.
They ought not to go so far as Noah and Lot did;
but they should insist upon their right to take a
little wine, so long as their taking It did not inter-
fere with the comfor t of others. It was not his inten-
tion to go into statistics upon the matter. (Hear,
hear.) Ho was not speaking for his own pleasure,
nor for the instruction of the House. He was
simply doing what other hon. members had done
—talking for the sake of bis constituency.
(Laughter.) He was looking after their interests
with an impartial and intelligent eye. (Renewed
laughter)
From the Londpn Referee “ Such as
study the interests of their country are quite as
distressed at what is done by the foreigner nere in
our midst as by anything that can be aone by him
on the outskirts of Afghanistan. What the Russian
can do to us abroad cannot be much more damag-
British nobility. If the entire British nobility like
this sort of thing’, by all means let them have it;
we are concerned for the British nation, which is
only good enough to provide the means for these
favoured Germans and does not appear worthy
of one moment’s consideration among: them.
Prince Henry is to be raised to the rank of a Royal
Higoness and be made a Knight of tho Garter—so
it 1s said. The fountain of honour may do
many things; we did not know, however,
that Its power extended to the creation of
Royal Highnesses, except among those who
already possess full and complete claims upon
royal parentage—the Queen's grandsons and such
like. The juggle was arranged for that most for-
tunate of mortals, Albert the Good, by making
him Prince Consort of England; otherwise he
would never have stepped forth from his high and
mighty position In this island to the very poor and
little one be possessed on the Continent of Europe.
We do not grudge tho Princess Beatrice hex dowry
or her income; but why is it so absolutely neces-
sary that for her still another of these needy Ger-
mans should have to be imported ? These heavy
grants out of the public purse to young, healthy
German lads are not pleasant reading at a time
when thousands of Englishmen are starving for
bread; at a time when industrious Englishmen
are committing suicide rather than come upon the
parish; at a time when trade is so bad that a
Royal Commission has to inquire into the causes
of it.”
Tng than what is done to us by tho German here at
home. That we are ruled by a German race
which, so far as blood goes, is just as German now
as it was when the Elector of Hanover and his two
ancient mistresses, the Maypole and the Elephant
soon to become peeresses in their own right, wept
* unter den Linden ’ at Herrenhausen because they
had to come to England, is well known to every-
body who cares to trace the genealogy of the
House of Brunswick. But there is no reason
why this race should be so intensely German in
their tastes and sympathies; there is no reason
-why they should look down with such very prac-
tical contempt upon the boorish Briton. It was
the Briton who should have wept, and not George
I. and his harridans. The episode of the young
man who is called Prince Henry of Battenberg,
though he is rightly not a prince at all, is about
the worst of the episodes of German cattle-grazing
with which we have during the present reign been
made so unpleasantly familiar. Courtesy titles go
a long waV in Germany: if a count or a baron has
99 sons they are ail counts cr barons; so are their
sons and their sons’ sons. The same with other
ranks of the ‘ well-born ’ classes. No wonder,
then, that Germany swarms with fiirstlings and
princelings, and all other small deer of the nobility.
But if what is said by Germans themselves be
true, the handsome youth who is selected to be
the spouse of Her Majesty’s youngest daughter is
not entitled to the equivocal rank already speci-
fied. He is the offspring of a morganatic marriage
and was, until mentioned as the probable husband
of Princess Beatrice, a person of the very smallest
consideration. His pay in the army was less than
£80 a. year, and his father, whose own income
would be considerably less than that of an English
bank-clerk or business manager of standing, man-
aged to squeeze him out another ten shillings orso
weekly. Fancy the position of a young man of this
sort, who is not so well off as a journeyman in
a Whitechapel sugar-bakery, when he finds him-
self one of the Royal family of England, and with
the entire English populace ready and anxious to
abase themselves before him. It is not the money
so much as the honour which will so noticeably
fall to, the share of Prince Henry of Battenberg.
What rank he possesses, or is supposed to possess,
would not have been recognised here before; now.
by a juggle, he will take precedence of the entire
Tho Flight into Queensland.
RESIDENT NEAR THE BORDERS: “ WHERE YER OFF TO, GUV’NOR ? ”
OLD WAYFARING PATERFAMILIAS: “ QUEENSLAND, MATE. MB AND THE MISSUS CAN’T SUFFER NEW SOUTH WALES NO LONGER. WE’VE BEEN DUG OUT, TRAPPED
OUT, AND POISONED OUT DOWN BELOW SO OFTEN. CAN’T STAND IT NO MORE.”


Giticura
Disfiguring humors, Humiliating Emp
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, PricWy Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
Tor Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 60 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Australian Consignees,
B. Towns & Co., New South. Wales.
Prepared bt the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
==
III
a
3
M
LIMITED
mos
Musi &
£asyTime>
overBOC
B/EsrMAK£t
mviEWji
HOOof™,
$0°
FlfPrkD* i
m
ZS
00*
r.
sw
sfJHL
HjJJl
107 Fitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
fT LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR LADIES AND OINTLEMBN.
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSEHOLD a Canister of
Williams’ Australian Yeast Powder!
WILLIAMS'S
r~
t-
m
—I
AUSTRALIAN
AST POWDER.
&f crtJR ERS and patentees-
lt °N,CRIMWADE&CO. „
MjiSSS
Williams’ Yeast Powder
MAKES LIGHT BREAD, TEA CAKES,
and PASTRY,
HALF-POUND TINS, SIXPENCE.
Beware of Imitations.
TAKE ONLY WILLIAMS’.
i 8 FEAST POWDER, the first manufactured
in the Australian colonies, has from the outset
maintained its position as the Premier Yeast
Powder ; and. In spite of severe competition, its
radius of consumption has steadily increased.
AUSTRALIAN Y E A & T
POWDER is the most economical of Baking
Powders, and sold at Sixpence the half-pound
canister.
Wholesale Depot:
VtRGOE, SON, and CHAPMAN,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY,
-1 - V r ueuififmt
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE A MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Buckbnard Waggons.
W BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
W XT iT JAM FLEMINQ-, Morchanft A Importer.
82 & 24 Clarence-street. Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
f
. and CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS )
GENERAL IRONMONGERS
i, d MACB1
Importers of
and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COi
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, &o.
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSH WARE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACKS
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H. GIRDERS
r.i
Sprr
iLM
Ik
/1
VERTICAL and H(
ZONTAL BOILEK
j=l~ TEAM and o
PUMPS
sr p^h
f™.” MA f, di,r N v EILL
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINE*
FOUNDR
PATENT ROLJ
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, to
Iar Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application,
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.
Head Warehouse -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Office
- 54 YORK STREET,
- HAT AND ENGINE STREETS.
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR.
SYDNEY:
• - • K GRAOBOBUROH BTRBHV


VALUABLE TRUTHS.
•»* If you are suffering from poor health
‘or languishing on a bed of sickness,
‘take cheer, for American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will cure yon.
“ If you are simply ailing, if you feel
'weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘ knowing why, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will Revive yon.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘ and work, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will Restore yon.
“If you are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
‘ your every-day duties, or a man of let-
* lers, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghten yon.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ordrinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
‘ pation, or are young and growing too
' fast, as is often the case. Am. Co.’s
Hop Bitters will relieve yon.
“ If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
* that your system needs cleansing, ton-
‘ ing, or stimulating, without intoxicat-
* ing, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters is wliat yon need.
“ If you are old, and your blood thin
‘ and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
‘unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Am. Hop Bitters will give yon new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS, as made by the Axne-
‘ rican Co., is an elegant, healthy, and
‘ refreshing flavouring for sick-room
' drinks, impure water, etc., rendering
‘them harmless, and sweetening the
' mouth, and cleansing the stomach.”
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc
tors’ bills to pay.
None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in
bottle. Shun all others as vile poisonous stuff.
THE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital ... £100,000.
Head Office : Melbourne.
New South Wales Branch : 171 Castlereagh-street.
Victorian Directors:
John L. Dow, Esq., M.P.,
Chairman
Hon. J. P. Levlen, M.P.
Thomas Learmonth, Esq.
N. 8. Wales Directors:
Andrew Town, J.P., Esq.
Frank Cowley, Esq.
George 8. Teo, Esq.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs Insured
against death from Accident, Disease, or Natural
Causes on land, rail, or at sea.
Marine Bisks on Stock covering mortality or on
Merchandise accepted.
The only Live Stock Insurance Society in the
olonles.
Full particulars can be obtained from the under-
signed.
Active Agents wanted where unrepresented.
A. J. WILKINSON, Branch Manager.
Office, Boyle’s Chambers, Bond-street.
E A 0
D B GOLOGN
4711 4711.
Established 1792.
B,
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1872; Prize M Vienna, 1873
ThisEau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 35 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for its superior sweetness, strength,
and invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
petitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the 411 te of
Europe.
The large and constantly increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Bau de Cologne, not only in
Europe, but also in North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number—4711 changed into 7411,1147,4117, &c., &o.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pltt-
street, Sydney.
To be had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
and Storekeepers, in town and country.
W. WALKER and SONS,
Catalogues
POST 7BBB.
W. WALKER
and SONS
LONDON and SYDNEY.
Catalogues
POST PRBB.
ALL STOCK
In their
SYDNEY
are one of the
Largest
IttUM
Stockholder*
Supplied
axd
OIBBOT
uanvfaeturen
from their
ii
m
Hi|h<clai«
FURNITURE
ENGLAND.
London
Manufactory
and Latest
London Styles
Guarantied.
SYDNEY BRANCH
81 CLARENGE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
SOLE IMPORTER OP
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
cJOLlE agent for the
SMITE ORGAN.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 FITT STREET
;■ luimii
mynr
- v-k-M Iti
CASH VERSUS CREDIT.
RO88ALIB. LLOYD & CO.
ARE TRADING ON THE LONDON SYSTEM OF READY MONEY.
R. t L. & CO. are now prepared to ASONS nt at FCJLLY °NB-THIRD LESS
R., L. & CO. buy for cash in all the Home and Continental Markets.
We are now showing our drat consignment of Paris and London Millinery.
Parasols and Lace Goods of every possible design.
Canvas Ribbons (plain and fancy). New Frillicgs, Linen Collars. Cuffs, and Sets, at very low
Ail new shapes and designs. , "
Silk Handkerchiefs from Is. each. Fancy Cambric Handkerchiefs.
Extra Long Silk Gloves, in every colour. Torchon Laces,Remarkably cheap.
LATHES’ UNDERCLOTHING DEPARTMENT.
Every article hand made, at London prices.
N.B. In this department we make a special effort to sell as cheap as possible and
giving perfect satisfacton to all our customers. Ladies in the country should write
parcel to
we are sure of
for approbation
BOSSiiLIE, LLOTD dz, CO.
OPPOSITE WYNYARD STREET,
SYDNEY.
Speedy, Gentle, Safe.
As a blood purifier, sprinsr medicine, aperient
diuretic, or tonic, Cutxcura Resolvent surpasses
all other compounds. According to the d ose taken.
It acts gently or freely upon the bowels without
the least pain or griping sensation. Taken before
breakfast it will act in about four hours, and
hence is invaluable for those troubled with sick
headache, furred tongue, biliousness, dyspepsia,
torpidity of the liver, constipation, plies, high-
colored urine, inflamed kidney, and other con-
gested conditions requiring a speedy, gentle, and
safe cathartic.
Recent exposures by the Customs Author-
ities show how the reputation of Wolfe’s
Schnapps has been trifled with.
For Blancmanges, Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour
cannot be surpassed.
Wolfa’s Schnapps is now Australia’s most
popular health beverage. Ask for Wolfe’s and
accept no other.
The sale per day now exceeds 60,000 lbs. of Kings-
ford’B Oswego Cornflour.
Sour stomach, bad breath, indigestion,
and headache easily cur«d by UopBittrs. l ake
none but American.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
CELESBiiTED
BMIIS AND BABES, TREACLE ABB BOBBED STROP,
Self-raising /Erated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
S r & A. Lave obtained First Awards all oyer the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney I.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4.
Sydney Agents; W. H, ARIELL A CO., 343 and 345 Kent-strgs«.
An Immensely stout German judge, having
tried many anti-fat remedies, finally went to some
hot springs, and much to his joy lost considerable
adipose tissue. He thought and talked of nothing
else except his loss of flesh. He went to market
one morning recently, and said to the butcher;
“ Cut me off 301b. of pork.” The request was
complied with. The judge looked at the meat for
some! time, and then walked off. “ Shall I send
the meat to your house, Herr Richter ?” asked the
butcher. “OhI no,” was the reply, “I don’t
want it. I have fallen off just 201b., and I only
wanted to see how it looked.”
Peter Petericio, a native of Athens, died
in the Cooktown Hospital (Q), on the 15th ult,
from the effect of wounds supposed to have been
Inflicted by the spears of the blacks. The Cook-
town Independent exclaims:—‘‘Yet not a rifle
flashed, or a cutlass was brandished in retribution
for the murder of a man who, although Greek by
birth, was British in everything else ” There is a
ring in this that calls up the barbaric yaup of the
old black trooper days. Punishment should cer-
tainly be dealt out if the blacks who did the deed
can be found. But the clamour for flashing of
rifles and blandishing of cutlasses is too much of a
kind with the old spirit of indiscriminate slaughter
to admit the utterer to the right of flashing one or
brandishing the other. If we saw him go out wr h
weapons, we would send a policeman after him.
That's to say. If we thought the policeman wasn’t
like thn other fellow, a mere murderer with op-
portunities.
Lectures by ecclesiastics we never pass
over—always read them. And we always rise
from them with the feeling of wonder rising
superior to all others. There was that lecture
given by Father Colllngrldge in 8t. Peter’s School-
room, Surry Hills, ISydney, the other night. He
told us some things that have kept us awake ever
since. Among others, he said, “ As God of old
gave the land of Palestine to Abraham, so Rome,
the holy city, was given to the Popes—given to
them Immediately St. Peter placed his foot within
its walls, and given that the Pope might be frt e
from the payments of tribute.” It is well to
know this. Still it must be said that neither Abra-
ham nor St. Peter ever came in for their property.
One died hundreds of years before the Jews got a
footing in Palestine, and the other centuries be-
fore the Popes got a footing in Rome. Besides, if
God gave those places away, He would surely, one
would think, have protected both Abraham’s
seed and Peter's successors in their possessions.
He has done neither. The Saracens rule
in one and the Secularists in the other.
Again, the Jews before they got possession at
all, had to massacre whole nations who were &s
much God’s children as they were. And even
when they got hold of the land they couldn’t keep
It, but were being continually butchered them-
selves or being carried away bag and baggage into
captivity. It was a Pope who gave Ireland to Henry
II. and his Norman cut-throats. Seven hundred
years spoliation and massacre have resulted from
thisglft. Thus we see it isnotalways safe to accept
a present of things that belong to other persons.
The Pones had possession of Rome for something
like 1400 years, and made such good use of their
plenary power as to find it marble and leave it mud.
“ The creed of Voltaire,” Father Colllngrldge went
on, “ was the creed of the revolution of 1807, as it
was the spirit of revolution in its essentials at all
times—to wring the neck of the last King with the
guts of the last priest; to do away with priest and
with altar, and with the traditions of the whole
Cnristian world, and to supply a kind of republic
without marriage, without property and with
laws favouring all kinds of debauchery,
free thought, and free love.” No priest ever
forgave Voltaire—not that F. Marie cared
much whether they did or not. They will
never forget his terrible mockery. It is true he
preached the creed of revolution, but who that
knows anything of France and of Europe before
the taking of the Bastille will blame him ? For the
few thousand nobles who existed in Europe at the
time life was, no doubt, pleasant. But how about
the unnumbered millions of slaves who were
whipped and starved and butchered under them ?
Voltaire and his contemporaries became the
mouth-pieces for those dumb millions, and there-
fore their names are held in detestation by what
is grandiloquently called the “Altar and the
Throne,” but which would have been more truth-
fully entitled the “ Halter and the Fagot.” The
fact is, ecclesiastical pictures of Voltaire, Hume,
Gibbon, Paine, and hundreds of others who de-
voted their talents, and sometimes their lives, to
raise men from dumb, driven cattle to thinking
beings, are mere daubs whose clumsy execution is
but a measure of the bitter malignity of the
artists.


A BOON TO THOUSANDS!
Manhood and Vigour of Youth
Restored in Four Weeks.*)
DR. RICORDS
I*
ESSENCE OF LIFE
Restores manhood to the most shattered debilitated con
ititution from whatever cause arising, in FOUR WELKb,
Failure is impossible if taken according to the printed di-
rections, which are very simple, and require no restraint 01
hindrance from business. .... ,
This invaluable remedy affords relief, and permanently
cures all who suffer wasting and withering of the nerves and
muscular tissues, Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, Disturbed
Sleep, Trembling Sensations, Dizziness, Spermatorrhoea, all
Urinary Deposits, which cause incapacity and degeneracy,
total and partial prostration, and every other exhaustive de-
rangement of the system ; regenerating all the important
elements of the human frame, and enabling man to fulfil his
most sacred obligations. ... , , .. ,
In cases at 12s., or four quantities in one for 36s, ; U by
:oach, as. 6d. extra.
NATURE'S GREAT REMEDY!
DR. RICORDS
SANATIVE PILLS
For strengthening the system, purifying the blood, regulating
the bowels, and removing all vitiated humours, bilious and
Liver Complaints, Rheumatism, Gout, _ Scorbutic Affections,
Costiveness, Skin Eruptions, and all diseases of the nervous
system. This never-failing remedy affords at once a new
lease of life to the sickly and aged of both sexes, imparting
a beautiful and clear complexion, a sure sign of health,
strength, and vigour. "
Price, as. ; by post, ad. extra.
AGENTS FOR SYDNEY!
Messrs. W.BARCLAY & CO.,
43 GO VLB URN STREET,
One Book from George Street South,
And may be had of most Chemists,
Parcels packed securely and free from observation, tent to
Queensland, New Zealand, or any part of the R
* Office Ordei
Colonies, on receipt of Post
.... Australian
ce Order or Stamps.
NERVOUS DEBILITY,
Lost Vitality, Ac.-A simple and positive
means of Self-Cure, by an eminent
French Hospital Physician. Sent Free
Medico, P O. Box 766, Sydney.
rht
cm
or
ure
KNOW THYSELF
A ftrtat UfiDtOAL W0S2 on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses maybe
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur.
chase and read the now work issued by the World’s Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
or Self Preservation. A book for every man, young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
All Acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
fdll gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will be refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
The Science of Life should be read by the young for
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all. —London Lancet.
Address the World’s Dispensary Medical As- M I" A I
sooiation, of Dr. W. E.Parker, No. 69 Hunter jit AL
Street, Sydney, N.S.W. The author may flJVOP| f
be consulted Oil all diseases requiring I f) I ucl f
■kill, secrecy, and experience.
MOULTON’S
FRUIT
t-IVEH COMPLAINT positively cured by MUULTON’S
FRUIT PILLS. We moan cured, not merely relieved, ami
We can prove what we say. There ate no failures and no
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
itimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it Is possible fot a Pill to be.
bold Svcrywbefti, iPrice In. .‘Id.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor
PIUS
Marshalls
TONIb NERVINE
BJOIBT1RBD.
A8AFB, CERTAIN, & SHERD? CURB for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve foroe, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, Loss of Vital Power, Ac. By Its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
for Alcohol. By Its richness In phosphorous and
Other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NBRVINB nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Jft^e,_4a._8d u^rr a
and*
108 Market-street, near Hyde Park, "Sydney, and
6 Pltt-street, Olroular-Qpjr. fAIv* NO liu U8TI-
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1860.
INCORPORATED bt ACT Of PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital 4300.000
Keaervo Fund 4150,000
Directors:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.G.M.G., Chaim
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George 8. Caird, Eaq.
Hon. Philip Gldiey King, M.L.O.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggle, Esq. I Hon. H. E. Cohen, Br<’
General Manager: I Shorbtart:
F. A. A. Wilson. I Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gosford, Nyngan
Bourke, Manly, Byerock, and Parramatta.
Branch in Queensland ;
Brisbane.
London Branch : 168 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
Sir Saul 8amuel,K.C.M.G I Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan
oial Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Bills discounted dally.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo.
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
NEUSTADT and CO.,
COMPLETE
HOUSE
FURNISHERS,
39,154, 156, i 158 OXFORDST
SYDNEY.
tr HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERT REQUISITE,
“Either eor Cash or Time Payment.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers.
TO weak men
suffering from the
effects of youthful
, . . lt . errors, early decay,
lost vitality, premalmo decline, nervous weak,
ness, etc., I will send you particulars of a
certain, simple, and sure menus of self cure,
Free of Charge. Address, iu confidence.
Prof. M. 33. TAYLOR,
68 Elizabeth St.,
SYDNEY N.S W.
JAS. LAWSON & SONS,
ART-FURNITURE MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN.
Corner of William-street, Hyde Park.
High-class Furniture
At Very Lowest Prices, compatible with the finest
workmanship and finish, for entrance halls,
dining-rooms, drawing.rooms, bedrooms,
and libraries.
CARPETS IN NEWEST DESIGNS AN
FINEST QUALITY.
WILTON CARPETS, BRUSSELS CARPETS.
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS,
With Hearthrugs to match.
COBLICINE AND LINOLEUM.
BEDSTEADS IN BLACK AND NICKEL AND
BLACK AND BRASS,
In all sizes and various designs.
MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1872.
Capital—£100,000 with power to increase to £1,000,000
BONUSES—20 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
C. B. HODIMI,
DURING hia recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
G. B. M. further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms:—JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
don; THOS. BLAND & SON., London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London ; CHA8. OSBORNE &
CO., London.
G. B. M. is also AGENT for the eminent firm of
BU8SY & CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, &o., and all
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 GeoriiB.st., Sydney f
Where Inspection la Invited,
Champagne
Heldslock & Co'*.
DRY MONOPOLE.
or ALL WINB MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., Loudon*
*ole Atrents for Heldaleoh & Co„ Helms.
E V 8HODtS) > D SB [ PEMELUS
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
18 GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICT.OBIA FLOUR MILL,
8S1 fieorue-street, Sydney.
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TUBE
HOTEL, which is now kept by
Ned Warnioll.
Alex. Berth wick. m ass
WALLPAPER, PAINT, &c.
2S1 G-eorgre-st., S37-d.22.e37-.
JACK TKCO^^SOiT,
A.J.O. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SALOON.
91 Zing-atreet.
WT N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
Depot for the World’s Patented Articles
GEORGE ST., Opp. Wynyard St.
7 AMERICAN
NOVELTY CO.
FANCY GOODS
NOVELTIES
Lm
Bring your Wife and Children with you.
Nobody pressed to buy
WANTED a number of Gentlemen who will have their
heads shaved as above, and gua.-antfe „o attend all
meetings and side-walk gatherings. "ALARY LIBERAL.
USE PEARL CEMEHT
but Iron. Is. Bottle.
-TOOTHACHE TINCTURE SW
afraid tc use it f-ce’y. Nc trouble to the TcCth, - Is. Bottle.
DDsixlln-gr HarToo-ar Hotel,
HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Railway Gates).
STEPHEN HOPKINS (Late of Wagga Wagga), Proprietor.
ESPECIAL ACCOMMODATION FOR COUNTRY VISITORS.
*
Nl
m.
m
i
m
i
&
DH. O COOELL,
52 Castlereagh Street,
SYDITEY, UST.S.W.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all pr 1 vate cases, c h ro n i c,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable canes guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. EspStial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or I mini go nrc,
producing some of tbe following effects: —Ner-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Eace, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., are
treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
manent, safe, and private. Symptom list free, and medicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, itching, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of every kind, from whatever cause, promptly cured.
It is self-evident that a physician paying particular attention to a class of cases attains great skill,
and physicians in regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
this oldest office in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the great number of cases applying, the
charges are kept low—often lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and get a
speedy and perfect life cure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or
address - DOCTOR J. O CONNELL, »
52 Castlereajflx Street (ground floor), Sydney.
m
CO
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wilson’s Ame-
rican “Extra Toast ”BI-CUIT8. p 0 r
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert
r nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incompatible
t/i with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
T4 Sussex Street,
* sis Head Offices. ®at3)
First Fire Society established lu tne coiony on
the Mutual principle, plying policy-holders back
part of Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Poliey-hc' ders are perfectly free by law from
all liability ,
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates*
WALTER C flURCH, Manager.
Head Officos-PITT and KING STREETS.
DR. BRIGHT'S PHOSPHODYNE
The only Reliable Bemedy for Mental ana Physical
Depression, Nervous. Debility. Incapacity for
Study, Loss of Energy Sick Headache, Indigestion,
Female Complaints, Premature Decline, and Is a
marvellous medicine for renovating Impaired and
broken-down constitutions. It operates on the
system without exciting care or thought unon the
individual a-* to the process. It moves the lungs,
liver, heart, kidney, stomach, and intestines, with
a harmony, vigour, yet mildness unparalleled in
medicine, and is the most powerful blopd purifier
of the present day, Sold by all chemists.
' Agents - Eliott Bn.og,


DR.SCOTT'S
set
i
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by; he
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continental
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million iadies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial ?
If you have any pain, ache, or ill-feeling
from any cause; if you seem “pretty well,**
yet lack energy and do not “feel up to the
mark;” if you suffer from disease, we beg
you to at once try these remarkable cura-
tives. They cannot and do not injure like
medicine. Always doing good, never barm.
There is no shock or sensation felt in wear-
ing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results; electro-magnetism acts quickly,
generally the first week, more frequently
the first day, and often even during the
first hour they are worn their wonderful
curative powers are felt.
The mind becomes active, the nerves and
sluggish circulation are stimulated, and all
the old-time health and good-feeling come
back. They are constructed on scientific
principles, imparting an exhilarating,
health-giving current to the whole system.
Professienal men assert that there is hardly
a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily
practise the same, as your own physician
will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearance
from those usually worn, as we substitute
our flat steel magnetods in place of the
ordinary corset-steels. They are all equally
charged, differing only in quality and design.
They are elegant in shape and finish, made
after the best French patterns, and war-
ranted satisfactory in every respect. Those
who have tried them say they will wear no
others. Most of the above applies equally
to the Electric Belt for gents.
m
Dr. Scott’s Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &o., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all other remedies (so-
called) have failed.
The prices are as follows
No. 1
No. 2
No. 3
No. 5
Electric Belts..
s. d.
6 6
8 6
10 6
16 0
15 0
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electric-Magnetic
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece ©f common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque,
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
urn mu,
B4 Margaret-streatp
SYDNEY.
P.0. Box 231.
i ts cmswA krnr
Wolfe’s Schnapps is far aod away
superior to all other spirits. Hence its widespread
popularity.
The most delicious of all preparations for Pud-
dings, Custards, &c., Is Kingsford's Oswego Corn-
flour.
When the brain is wearied, the nerves un-
strung, the muscles weak, use Hop Bitters as
made by American Co. Read.
Notice!—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hookings, 143 Pitt-street.
Wherever Wolfe’s Schnapps have been
Introduced It has by force of merit obtained public
confidence.
Klngsfords Oswego Cornflour made of American
Indian Com, pure and unadulterated,
A QUEER ACQUAINTANCESHIP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
All good things have their drawbacks. Mahomet
foolishly prohibited wine because he had seen that
some men took too much of It. We are wiser than
the Asiatic prophet, and know that everything use"
ful has its abuse:—
This is as true as is the Kor-
An. 2T1 maintain it against a host.
The Sage of Meoo°, with all his loro,
Ran here his head against a post.
It is a good thing to have a long memory and a
recollection of a face once seen. Not always, how-
ever, as I have more than once found to my dl»-
oomflture. Every emigrant haj reasons for emi-
grating, and quite good enough for the most of
them—good enough for the emigrant, at all events,
and that is the principal part of the matter. The
rest can be answered, if not satisfied, with Ned
Gosling’s remark In the ‘ Flying Scud,” when
bothered with impertinent questions: He * knowed
a man at Ductile, in Northamptonshire, who made
a large fortune.” “How?” “Why, by minding
hiS own business! ”
It is certainly a difficult thing to always do—this
minding your own business. Wo may bo taken
often unawares, and so tread upon toes unwitt-
ingly. .When I meet a well-known face-known
years ago in a far-away land—I shall, now and for
the future, be more cautious than I have been In
claiming acquaintanceship. The reason why, I
hope to at once illustrate, and that though it tells
against my self and may deter others from doing
good actions.
When engaged nightly upon a London news-
paper I had a long walk home in the email hours
of the morning. The newspaper office was in the
Strand, and ray home was in the neighbourhood
of Regent’s Park. Nearly opposite to my quiet
lodgings was an equally quiet-looking private
house, which usually had its green window-blinds
drawn down. People In London seldom
kno-v or carQ who lives next door to them—
to live in London it is, with most people, necessary
to mind your own business if you would live at
all. The scramble emong four or five millions
necessitates that much-the loaves and fishes are
not for loafers. It thus happened that I knew
nothing ot the people of the house with the green
blinds nor of what was going on behind them.
Until one night in a cold, foggy November.
Buttoned up in an overcoat and wai inly gloved, 1
was then getting home at the usual 3 o clock in
the morning. Turning the corner of my residen-
tial street, I was just upon the bouse of the green
blinds when the door was suddenly opened. I
heard an angry exclamation from some one, and
then a female form, in a night-dress only, was
thrust into the street and the door suddenly
slammed upon one so strangely turned out. If I
nad mind»d my own business, I should have
passed on, crossed over to ray lodgings, applied
the latch-key, and gone upstairs to bed. I see it
all now that such would have been following the
path of duty wherein, the proverb tells us, lies
m SSi was young then, and more warm-hearted
than cool-headed. It is often that way with many
of us in youth, who have, therefore, to learn much
by experience. Looking at the figure so thrust
out, unclothed, into the cold night, I perceived it
to be that of a comely-looking young woman,
shivering there, bare-headed and bare-footed,
upon the cold stones. I proceeded, without a
thought, to give her my overcoat for covering,
my gloves for slippers, and to tie my handkerchief
about her head. It was no time for talking, and
aot a word was said by either of us during these
operations—as quickly done as now told of.
Seizing the knocker, I now ripped smartly at
the door—Ailed with a sense of humanity and'
ind'gnation equal to knocking down anybody who
iniffbt open it On & louder repetition of the
knock, which followed very quickly, the door was
opened—on the chaln-bya woman who kept herself
well Inside of it. Placing my foot so that it could
not again be closed as hastily as before, I opened
out at onoe in words: ..... .
“ Let this woman in again Instantly or you11 be
liable for her death from cold and exposure!
“ Wilt you pay for her lodging, then ? She has
paid nothing for two weeks, and I'll keep her here
n ° Never mind that now I You must not turn her
out like this. lama lawyer, and live handy to
vbu, and tell you what your liability is in the mat-
ter—Jet her in at once or I’ll prosecute you in the
morning!” - .. ,, ,
These words of authority came suddenly upon
the woman, who had not thought of sued a cuam-
plon for a female la distress turning up so unex-
nected.y. The chain was taken down and we were
admitted. When I had sent the rescued one up-
stairs to put on her dress and to return me mine,
I talked with her landlady. My eyes were now
opened as to the house of green blinds. I learnt
that the one I had so championed had been brought
there a month before by someone woo had paid a
fortnight's board and lodging for her. On some
deceitful story or other me poor girl had been
brought from the country, and then leltmpawn
at this house. She had refused to conform to its
curious ways, to do as she was wanted to, and, as
the landlady told her, “ other girls did.” To bring
her to a full sense of her helplessness, she had that
night been served as I had seen. Queer, indeed,
are the way s ot great cities, and some of the things
done therein, of which tnis was a specimen. 1 bad
Jived tor a year or more nearly opposite to this
houk°, but neither I nor my landlady knew
anything of its character. “ It was always such a
quiet place that no one would suspect it was
what my people said when I afterwards told them
the story of that night’s adventure.
Meantime my coat, gloves, and handkerchief
were brought downstairs, and the brloger of them
had dressed herself in walking attire. Addressing
me she laid: .... „ ,,,, ,
•• Will you take me from this house ? 111 stop
with this woman qo longer—she is a wretch I”
This was a challenge made by beauty in distress,
not to oe resisted by a young man, though it was
a sadly late hour to bo doiug the Don Quixote,
which. In this case, meant looking for lodgings
We don’t think sufficiently of results when so
romantically situated. 1 took the further
tremble mime at once, and as dutifully as one of
the Salvation Army could have done- bidding the
distressed one come with me then and there. To
the landlady’s appeal to me for money, 1 asserted
her forfeiture of all rights by her late behaviour
to her lodger. We were now in the cold, foggy,
deserted streets, at four in the morning, and I ban
time in plenty to mink of what to ao with my
novel charge, and her load of trouble. I remem-
bered a house In the Strand where 1 usually had
•upper—a coffee house near Waterloo bridge-
that was open all night for the accommodation of
pressmen. It was a long trudge there, and then a
longer trudge back again, but good kulghts-suoh
M l had suddenly become-ought to think nothing
Sf such things. The loss of a night's rest is noth-
ing when one is but 33. The landlord of the coff ee-
house knew me well, and believed, therefore, the
strange story 1 had to tell him. To comfort him, I
assured him that 1 would pay for the necessary
rfoard and lodging, If requisite, until the distressed
onehadUm eiio turn round and get help from her
friends in the country. That much was effeotu-
Iiiv done bv her in less than a week, when Miss
Clayton, forsuch I will call her, left her refuge to
return home-profusely thanking and blessing one
who then thought to see her no more.
No nor till 1 met her la Australia, years
■rterwards oid I see her again. Those who be-
giaticude from the feminine heart, will
now read how my help, so given fn time of direst
n Walldn 8 g r one r da 6 y,‘i n Collins-street, I came, full
itnnn Miss 0. There was no mistake about
Jer feentity, and without » thought WPOR the
matter, I accosted her with the fortifying know-
ledge that I had aforetime had introduction
enough for so doing. As oooilyfcnd composedly as
possible, she said:
” You are mistaken, sir! My name is not Clay-
ton, and I don’t know you I ”
“ Not know the one who helped you out (M your
trouble at Mrs. ’s, In Stanhope-street, Hamp-
stead-road—who lent his coat and gloves on that
foggy November night ? ”
“I know nothing of what you are saving: you
are quite mistaken in the person you are address-
ing!” was all the answer I got, and given with
a coolness that was quite irritating to one who
felt as injured as 1 did at such treatment. 1 said—
“Miss Clayton, for such is, or was your name,
whatever you may say; if you have changed your
name and position in life, and don't want the nast
to be known, your secret is safe with me. You
know well enough I treated you with the greatest
delicacy, and as a gentleman, when you most
wanted it. Don’t give me a bad opinion of
women by returning It in this way. Say you don’t
want me to know anything further of you. and I
will say good-bye, and with all good wishes to
you.”
A reasonable being would think such an appeal
enough, and so it would have been, probably.
If addressed to a man. Women are not, however,
aucb reasonable beings, and have a faculty for
falsehood that we do not always sufficiently credit
them with. She now bustled away from me, as-
suming indignation, and saying only—
“ f tell you that you are mistaken I”
It was a day or two before I quite recovered
from such a snubbing, and one so undeserved as
was this one. “Catch me doing anything for die-
tressed females again I ' was the bitter thought
most uppermost with me—with me who had done
so much and so romantically for an entire stranger
whom I had kept from catching her death of cold
on the hard stones of a London street, to say no-
thing more of what I had done for her in providing
lodgings on that eventful occasion. Could it be
possible that I was mistaken ? Could two people
so exactly alike as Miss Clayton and this Collins-
street “ double,” be existing ? The greatest cer-
tainties have been proved not to be so-as every
betting man knows to bis cost. Could one, like
me, who never forgot a fact or a face, be deceived
in this manner regarding one whom be had known
la dark and in daylight for a full week, and whose
face, height, figure, and voice could be recalled
as but of yesterday’s knowledge? Impossible!
Thinking thus often enough, I was quite pre-
pared for again meeting her somewhere or other,
at some time or other. It came about time
months afterwards at the Theatre Royal, where i
bad a seat in the stalls. Between the acts of “ A
Now Way to Pay Old Debts,” my eyes wandered
to the dress-circie, where I again saw my lady’s
well-remembered face. She was, on this occasion,
seated next to a gentleman whom I well kceiy to
be holding a good official position, and to whom, I
noticed, sne now and again spoke. Seated behind
me in the stalls was an acquaintance who knew
also the official gentleman alluded to. Here was a
chance of clearing up the mystery I Addressing
him I sail:
“ You were a shipmate of Mr. 8„ 1 believe ? ”
"Yes!” he replied.
‘‘Who is that lady with him in the dress-circle-
do you know ? ”
“ Yee-that’s his wife!” was the reply.
“ Do you know her maiden name—her previous
name?” 1 added, and to make the question per-
fect only.
“ Certainly I’ be answered. ‘‘She was a Miss
Clayton 11 ”
“A nice-looking woman I” was all that I then said,
but not all I thought. Never to him nor to any-
body else did I say a word further ot what I knew.
Names are, of course, not correctly given in this
story, which I only now tell that Mrs. S.,Tf she
ever sees it, may know that I know what I know,
and know also that I know that she knows that I
know It. It is a mild revenge only for her treat-
ment of me, but I am satisfied with it. I hope
tnat she is happy—I know that 1 am.
AUSTRAL.
The Brisbane Observer, desiring to llagei-
lato Mr. Miles, the Queensland Minister for Works,
for some small lapse of courtesy, heads the article
“ Ecce Homo.” Tnis is sad. These words raise a
large figure in almost every memory they touch.
Butting them over Mr. Miles inclines one to laugh
and weep. It reminds us of the auctioneer who had
been disposing of portraits all the morning. The
assistant banded up to him towards noon an oil-
painting, with the words “ Ecce Homo” as a title.
The auctioneer was startled. He had sold Georges
and Cromwells and Bacons, but the crown of
thorns and gown over the shoulders and general
aspect in this case puzzled him. However, be
turned to the spectators with: ‘‘Gentlemen, this
is Hecky Omo. He is a foreign gentleman. I
understand he is an Italian count of the last gene-
ration. This is the chaplet which shows be was
the crowned poet of his day. The gown is not
comme Ufaut, but poets have their whimsies. How
much, gentlemen, for Count Hecky Omo ?”
They are showing signs of life up in Bun-
daberg (Q.) The Rev. Mr. Morris, Church of Eng-
land rector of that busy little seaport, wants to
reach what Mr. Dailey calls the great heart of the
people. He first employed lady whippers-ln. Wo
remember when Mr. Morris was a State school-
master, and the success that attended bis efforts to
round up truant youngsters. Either his cunning
has departed, or his materials are different. At
all events, the ladies despatched for prey came
back unburthened. The prey wouldn't pray.
Consequently the Rev. Morris wont out to a
vacant allotment on Saturday night and attacked
the great heart of the people in apostolic style.
Concurrently, the Rev. Eva from Maryborough,
also a pastor of the Anglican Church, came to Bun-
daberg and got on another vacant allotment. Con-
currently, exoUemwt ffpreafl, Respectable AngU-
cans felt their Church was playing low down. Sal
vation Army people felt their methods were being
usurped. Hands were changed into fists. Bits of
features flew about. A German tinsmith flashed a
knife. He also lleshed It two or three times.
Concurrently there were a swoop by police, a dis-
persion of fists, a seizure of weapons, a dis-
bandment of apostles, and breaking of valuable
zeal. It is admitted the tinsmith went nearest
reaching the great heart of the people. The moral
Is that in Bundaberg the apostolic fashion of
getting at It is ffo use. Five minutes with a knife
is better than a week of the other method.
They think now they are going to get
gold in barrowfuls at Reid’s Creek. Men have
crowded on to the ground, aud two or three
companies are at present in course of formation.
It is a romantic little spot. Tt lies about four
miles off Mount Perry, once the centre of copper-
mining enthusiasm in Queensland. Half a-dozen
years ago we went across to have a look at the
creek. Four men were fossicking about, i hey
were getting very little. But they belonged to
the old worn-out type of digger, and were physi-
cally unable to seek far-distant fields. They were
content If they could put as much dust into the
matchbox as provided them with “tucker” and a
gentle spree once a month. Wo went down several
old holes, most of them abandoned for good. The
soil was light and sandy, and easily worked.
Ooo old digger showed us about. He had
held a commission in a crack regiment
of Her Msjasty's once upon a time, but had sold
out and lived to be a fossicker among that
sandy drift. In all probability ho is there yet.
He had a humpy up on the rise, and in the bumpy
was a bookcase filled with books, startlingly
strange for such a place. Works on poetry and
philosophy abounded. He talked with the enthu-
siasm ot a youth about Byron and Shelley. We
were informed the old man had an interesting per-
sonal history, aud had no reason to doubt It. He
had been fossicking about that creek for
eleven years. It had been always as dull as then.
men possessed faith in it, however. A reef
had never been discovered, and they contended
that where there was so much alluvial gold scat-
tered about there should be a reef in some place
near. So they toiled on. Now several reefs have
been struck. The latest and most sensational is
situated on a continuation of the Mount Perry
Company's claim. They dream of a second Cha*-
ters Towers and of a rival for golden Gympie. We
hope the dream will turn out true. We hope the
old ex-aoldier fossicker will share in the luck. We
hope he will yet be a rich man at the Guards’ Club.
San Francisco must be the paradise of
Journalists. This is the breezy style in which a
mining article In the Newsletter opens:—“The
manner in which a number of Irresponsible and
thieving schemers are working the European
market for mining property is disgraceful. Their
sole object seems to be to pick up all the worth-
less worked-out mines that are lying around, and
dispose of them to foreigners, on the strength of
the reputation they bad in the past as bullion pro-
ducers, In the majority of these properties there
is little left save their names, ad the ore having
been extracted years ago.” And just here we
stop to think of a New South Wales mine, which,
years ago, gave immense returns to its lucky
holder. Offers to buy were frequent, but of no
avail. Then an unusually rich bunch of ore was
obtained, and the owner, after realislngjthereupon,
professed himself unwilling to further enrich
himself. He had obtained wealth enough to
satisfy him; let others, he said, obtain the untold
millions still remaining. They paid him a nominal
sum—somethimr under a-quarter of a million for
the privilege of doing so. Then with much cele-
rity he set out for the Antipodes, and when the
purchasers of the property came to the vessel to
thank him again for his generosity in accepting
less than a million, be made to them a brief fare-
well speech, *' Goot pye,” he said; ” goot pye, my
frens. I hope you vill do veil mlt de old mine. I
do pelieve she’s not quite vorked out. 1 dink you’ll
get yoosta leetle stuff from her yet.” He was quite
right; she was not worked out. Tne new owners
got about 5 per cenk of their money back. Which
reminds us that umesa people carefully ponder
over the “ mlne-mlner-mlnus ” experiences of
1873, there will be another colossal smash—this
time in silver. The rankest duffers of claims are
now being industriously “exploited.” The other
day a well-known mining expert and investor of
Sydney, whose lead is a good deal followed, heard
that a man who was floating a claim in Melbourne
had impudently put him (the Sydneyite) down as
holding a few thousands in the venture, despite
the fact that he had never been in any way con-
sulted about tne affair. Every second man you
meet in Sydney will shortly have a silver mine to
float—that's to say, if he isn’t on his way to court
to file his schedule on acsount of “ that tin spec.,”
or ‘‘that copper lode,” or has made his fortune,
and is about “ clearing ” for England, “ to wait
till it blows over.”
A SUBVERSIVE SUGGESTION
MISTRESS OF THE HOUSE: “ REALLY, I DON’T KNOW WHAT TO ORDER FOR DINNER,
ELSA. IT'S THE SAME OLD THING, WEEK IN AND WEEK OUT-ROAST-BEEF
YESTERDAY, HASH TO-DAY, MUTTON TO-MORROW, HASH NEXT DAY.”
KINDLY GERMAN AID (recent importation): “ VY DON’ YOU HEF A LEEDLB 8HANGB,
MA’EM—HBF DBR HE8H DER FIRST DAY, AIN'T IT ? "-FUegende Blatter.
