

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 102.—New Series.
SATURDAY, APRIL 25, 1885.
Prlofr-S*.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, APRIL 23, 1885.
Vain Regrets and Practical Proposals.
The Rev. Mr. Jefpbkis has, at the eleventh
hour, taken up his parable and denounced
the proceeding* of the Government in con
nection with the despatch of the Soudan
Contingent. It will naturally occur to our
readers to enquire why, if Mr. Jfffebis
condemns this business, and regards it as
his duty to instruct his congregation with
respect to his convictions on the subject, he
has waited till now to do so. Other clergy-
men were not so deliberate. The Anglican
Bishop did not lose time before giving the
policy of the Government his ecclesiastical
benediction, and throughout the colony the
pulpits resounded with Jingoistic clamour.
We will allow Mr. Jefferis to speak for
himself with regard to this phase of his
position. He said; —
“ And now let us speak for ourselves, for we can
do so more quietly now than perhaps we could
have done a month ago. The war fever has faded.
We can think calmly of the conduct of our states-
men and of the temper of our people, and we
can arraign both at the bar of judgmort.”
This is a lamentable explanation, and if it
may be accepted as indicative of a principle
governing the practice of the preacher, it
condemns him out of his own mouth as a
time-server. He refrained from protesting,
forsooth, because people were disinclined
to listen! While the heathen furiously
raged the prophet skulked, and only
emerged with bis messages from on high,
when they had hopeless'y committed them-
selves to sin, and had begun to realise their
folly! What can plain men understand
from Mr. Jeffbbis’ explanation, save
that he had not the courage of his
opinions, and tha f , with rat-like instinct,
scenting a change in the public opinion, he
comes forward to take credit for leading it.
If it be useful that he condemns the blood-
thirsty militant erase now, how much more
useful would it have been had he joined us,
before the crime he denounces had been
consummated, in pleading, with whatever
passion and devotion belongs to his nature,
against such consummation. His influence
over his congrega'ion may be small. It
may be a formidable thing for him
as pastor to set himslef in opposi-
tion to the Fairfaxes with their annual
donations of £i000 a year to the Congrega-
tional funds, and to other pew-renters
of like money weight, but surely his voice
would have availed something. When he
heard false prophets prophesying from the
altars of God’s Temples on every hand, and
the worship of Jingc-Moloch inculcated by
the pseudo messengers of peace, was not
that the time for the faithful minister to
lift up his voice and bear testimony, and
cry aloud that God yet leigns in heaven,
and has said; “ Sith thou hast not hated
blood, blood shall pursue thee?”
• ♦ *
But we may leave the preacher to his own
reflections One thing only we have to say
to him. He should not have added dis-
honesty to time-serving. He said that the
Soudan expedition had been “ applauded
by the Press.” This he knows is not true
of all the Press. He knows well that The
Bulletin has denounced and combatted
the expedition from first to last, and that
there is not one argument in his tardy deli-
verance which has not already been worn
threadbare by this journal. During the
first fury of the Jingo mania we would have
welcomed assistance from any quarter to
combat the blood-thirsty incitements of the
Herald— to whose proprietors Mr. Jefferis
is generally regarded as standing in the rela-
tion of Chaplain in Ordinary—and of the
other daily journals. And help from the
pulpit would have been peculiarly welcome,
seeing that the Jingo journals exultingly
claimed that the enterprise could not be
inconsistent with Christian principles be-
cause the bishops and the parsons—all that
had spoken—declared for the bloody scheme.
But now, when the re-action has fully set
in, when the Evening News is trimming
openly, when the Daily Telegraph is
feebly wobbling about groping for a means
of escape from its Jingo quandary, and
when even the blood-thirsty Herald has, in
a momentary access of remorse, faltered,
editorially, that
“By this time, probably, the passing blood-
thirst and discreditable desire for revenge, which
made temporary seizure of England as Australia,
has died out.”
Mr. Jefferis’ sadden revival to a sense of
his responsibilities is merely grotesque. The
crowing of cocks should henceforth have
for him a bitter significance. His Master
did not defer His preaching till things had
taken a turn and He could “ talk calmly.”
Where is the magic in this “ calm talking?”
Does Mr. Jefferis conceive that his Saviour
talked “calmly” to the money-changers in
the Temple, or to the “ scribes and phari-
sees and hypocrites?”
• • •
If the preacher to the Pitt-street Congre-
gationalists be in earnest; if, now that for
him the cock has crowed, he is of that apos-
tolic temper that he would fain weep bit-
terly at the thought of how, in the critical
hour, he, by his silence, denied his Master,
let him leave the past alone and deal with
the present and future. We make the ap-
peal wiih little expectation of success, for
this apostolic man seems very little disposed
to Wtep. His whole tone is cocky and self-
complaisant. He evidently regards himself
as a very line fellow to inculcate the prin-
ciples of the Gospel at all, even when the
danger of offending a majority of his in-
fluential pew-holders seems to have passed
away. But if his convictions be sincere and
meant for active service, we will show him a
much more serviceable direction for his
polemics. Let him join in demanding the
recall of the N.S. Wales Contingent. If it
were wrong and unchristian to send it; if
Mr. Jeeferis really meant his words when
he said
“ Do we not laugh at the idea of England being
In extremities in Egypt ? "Why, in the presence of
a foe tenfold stronger than the Mahdl she stands
erect to-day In regal majesty. Nor, if we had de-
cided upon a warlike policy, was this war one to
which we should have willingly sent our brave
sons. They have gone to fight for a generation of
miserable cowards (the Egyptians) against a nation
of the bravest men. They are fighting for a race
which has always been ready to enslave, againstia
people always striving to be free. It is a war in
which no honour is to be gained, save the honour
of slaughtering brave foes against whom there is
no just cause of war.”
then it is wrong and unchristian to con
tinue this condition of affairs. Let us then
unite in one practical issue ; let Us not bear
the burden and shame of this iniquity one
hour longer than is unavoidable; let us,
Mr. Jefferis, you, and the people you in-
fluence, hand in band with The Bulletin
and the people whom it influences, demand
and insist that the N.8. Wales Contingent
shall forthwith be withdrawn from thi*
shameful mission upon which it has been
sent to the eternal disgrace of our colony.
• • *
Mr. Jeffebis has repeated in substance
much that we have said at different times,
regarding the injury done to the political
and industrial circumstances of the colony
by Mr. D alley's wild and rash coup d'etat.
Let him now, at least, compensate for his
miserable silence at the past crisis, by exert-
ing all his iniluence and all his energy to
undo the mischief he deplores. He calls It
irrevocable, and he describes our misfor-
tune thus
“It was a dream of some of us—not wanting, ad
we think, In courage—that here In the southern
seas, far away from the ferment of European
politics, we might build up a new and great nation«
whose motto should be ‘ Peace,’ and whose glory
should be the higher civilisation which comes only
in the train of peace. Whether such dream could
ever have been realised might well be questioned.
At all events, it has been swiftly and for ever dis-
pelled. We have decided to take a full share of
the burdens and responsibilities of the Empire*
Wherever England be we are obliged to follow,
without knowing the grounds of quarrel, without
participation in the councils of war, and without
any voice in the momentous decision. We must
be ripe for battle, whether in the burning deserts
of Africa, or amongst the snows of Afghanistan,
or, as may God forfend, upon the fields of France,
or of Germany, our sons must now be ready to
fight. Now, as It was not three months ago, we
are immediately and directly Involved in every
British war. Then, that is three months ago,
though an integral part of the British Empire, we
were a nation to ourselves, with a distinct policy
of our own. Any great European nation would
have hesitated to attack us, even though it were
at war with England. The unwritten international
law would have been against it. We have thrown
down the gage against all-ooniers; against every
foe of England we must stand prepared. What,
ever policy of peace might have been possible be-
fore is impossible now. We have entered upon
England’s heritage of hatred, engendered by a
thousand years of war and of conquest, and we
must be prepared to stand the c msequences.”
This, as our readers will perceive, is simply
Bulletin matter recast. But, irrevocable ?
No! It is the duty of every man who holds
the opinions which Mr. Jefferis has ex-
pressed, to do his utmost to repair’the
damage wrought to the prospects and Con-
stitution of this colony. With a determined
voice, the lovers of peace and prosperity, of
true principle and the distin-
guished from the duellist’s—code of honour,
must demand that the N. 8. Wales troops
shall now be ordered home, and that the re-
presentatives of the people shall place upon
the statute books of the colony such a mea-
sure as shall render it criminal for ahy
Minister or Ministry henceforth to violate
the Constitution, and responsible in his own
person and property for all expenditure In-
curred without Parliamentary sanction,
And such a law should be so made bind-
ing that a mere majority in Parlia-
ment should have no power to sus-
pend its operations. It should be within
the power of any six members of Parlia-
ment, or,"perhaps, of a defined number of
private colonists, to put it in operation;
And no Parliament should have power to
relieve the accused from its operation, or
relieve them from its penalties, unless a dis-
solution had intervened between the com-
mission of the crime and its consideration
by the elected representatives of the people.
Let Mr. Jefferis call upon his followers to
demand that the Contingent be recalled, or
the Legislative Assembly dissolved and the
determination of the people of thisjoolony
taken with respect to the military policy of
the Government which has so altered our
peaceful lot to one of tinsel and turmoil.
Colonial Consistency.
iMthe “ grand old mother country,” whose usages
so many Hp-loyallBts aspire to follow, personal
honour jg scarcely more sacred than political con*
THE HON. MAJOR SMITH, M.L.A , OF VICTORIA.


J. TURNER ROBINSON 4 CO.'S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MAEKEi 1 CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established 1864,
HAS THB LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THB COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THB MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
Annual income exceeds One Million;
Lightning and Gas EzpIoslonEDamages Paid.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9s.
Small Bottle, ( 4s. 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,-
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
A JSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDQEE PORT,
2s. per Bottle.
i
I
i
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT POfeT'
3s. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts’
At lowest possible Prie s.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
Is, 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke s Prize Medal Brand,
In stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST SIZE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
i
I
I
I
i
C. W. ROBERTS
George, and Market Streets,
SYDNEY.
sistency. In Australian politics we have an oft-
recurring manifestation of “ * Jim
that in the Home Parliament would accredit its
authors with the hall-mark of charlatanism and
political imposture. Here we are so far in the
antipodes, and so literally carry our under-
standings” higher than our heads, that even in
our public principle wo are true to our climatic
contrariety. In England, public opinion resents
the attitude of a Parliamentary “ Vicar of Bray,
who is one thing one day and the converse the day
after: here, public opinion inclines to regard the
reversibility of a man’s intellectual stcc'i-ln-trade
as an adriot manoeuvre to be categorically classified
among clever flank movements. The priceles
Jewel, consistency, seems to migrate from the
colonies periodically, like tho birds; and, like
them, the motive seems to be the acquisition ct
greater personal comfort. As the wind blows, so
some of our public men think; and the insurrec.
tlonist of the sunshine becomes the loyalist of tho
stormy era. True, wo have a few who arc con-
sistent rogues and others who are either consistent
humbugs or consistent fools, but beyond this
stage Parliamentary consistency does not assert
itself. .
* • *
For a remarkable case in point we have only to
contrast the speeches on the Soudan outlay with
those made by the self-tame members during the
Parliament upon the unauthorised purchases of
iand made by the late Government. In the latte r
instance there was, at least, a pretext of defence
in the averment that the cost would have been
largely increased by delay. In the Soudan outlay,
tho solitary plea of exigent emergency most lugu-
briously broke down. Let us, before arraigning
a batch of members on this most serious charge,
preface our accusation with tho Jremlnder tha
Mr. Tbickett (the present Minister for Public In-
struction), and Messrs. Slattery, Heydon, w. J.
Fergusson, Merriman, Butcher, and Stephen.
voted in approval of Mr. Halley’s action, most of
them emphasizing their vote by accompanying
laudation of the unjustifiable expenditure. As
against these witnesses let us call—themselves!
Exactly a year ago, these gentlemen lifted their
voices against the unauthorised expenditure of
the late Government, which they were then called
upon to condone, and for which the offending
Administration had paid the penalty of depriva-
tion of ofllce.
• • •
Mr. Tbickett was not then a member of the
present Ministry, and the pages of Hansard show
that he gave vent to his opinions as follows :-
The question involved In the item was whether
the late Government acted constitutionally in ex-
pending public money for this purpose without
first obtaining the sanction of Parliament. He
did not think any honourable member could say
they had, and those who wished to preserve our
constitutional rights, should vote against this
item. ... It was illegal, as it established a new
defence force without the consent of ParljUment,
and against a resolution of the House.”
• ■ *,
Mr. Slattery was emphatically more pronounced
In his deliverance, which ho reiterated in the
course of several speeches.. He ridfculed Mr. Gar_
rett for “endeavouring to prove that tho
Government of New South Wales had greater
power than the Imperial Government—that they
could set aside both the Bill of Bights and,the
Mutiny Act, both of which were in full operation
in this colony, and that they were at liberty to
ignore an Act of our own Parliament, which pro
vided that no force, military or naval, thould be
raised without the sanction of Parliament.” After
ridiculing these contentions (which he seems now
to affirm) Mr. Slattery contended that it was not
at any time too late to enter a protest against an
unconstitutional action on the part of a Govern-
ment, and after accusing the late Government of
usurping the power of Parliament, be regretted
that wo had not in this colpny tho power of im-
peachment. Later on he accused the late Govern-
ment of assuming » power which they did not pos-
sess in law, or under tbe Constitution, and stated
that he had a strong objection to any Government
assuming to themselves, or exercising, the powers
of Parliament, and incurring Illegal and unconsti-
tutional expenditure. “If that,” he added, “was
Sir Henry Pahkes’ constitutional law, he would
never find him a follower of it.” These were Mr.
Slattery's words a year ago; read side by side
with the circumstances characterising Mr. Hal-
ley's action, they excite a deathlces fund of
risibility. * * *
Mr. Heydon's strong point in his able, though
delusive, speech on the Soudan debate, was his
reference to the constitutional objection as un-
worthily shallow. A year ago, however, Mr. Hey-
don said: “ The Parliament of England kept in its
own hands the power of providing these forces*
and the Crown could not augment tho strength of
the army or the navy by one additional soldier or
sailor. If that was necessary in England, we were
only following in the well-trodden path of the
mother country in keeping up these old forms and
landmarks of the Constitution. It was wise to
maintain a firm grasp of those principles for which
our forefathers died, and not to allow them to fall
into abeyance. We ought never, by passing over
occurrences of this kind, to allow them to be
quoted against us hereafter, as showing that we
bad frittered away our llbertlfs.” We ask the ad-
mirers of Mr. Heydon to consider how appro-
priately he might have repeated these remarks on
the Soudan debate.
* * »
Passing on to Mr. W. J. Fergusson, we find that
ordinarily silent member entering the following
protest a year ago:—“The question was whether
he would sanction the conduct of any Government
in trampling the Constitution under foot, and then
coming to the House to have the Illegal act recti,
fled. He would record his vote as a protest
against an act of that description, so that it might
be a warning to them.” And then Mr. Fergusson
proceeded to utter the following prophesy, which
one short year verified:-“ The day might come
when the head of the present Government would
become a Hictator, and be supported by ft servile
following; and we ought, therefore, to ka7e it on
record that such acts as that of the late Govern-
ment would never be tolerated.” And yet,Strange
to say. Mr. Fergusson voted (he other da/with
the great mpjorlty I
* * *
Th * other members alluded to spoke br.efly, but
to the same effect, in their criticism of the vote a
that time under review. Mr. Butcher said that
he and others were not cavilling at the amount of
the vote, but at the violation of constitutional
principles which the expenditure under the cir-
cumstances had Involved. He protested “against
the Government incurring an expenditure with-
out the sanction of Parliament.” . . • Mr. Meb-
kxman opposed the vote because he believed it to
be part of an unconstitutional expenditure. The
public money had been spent in an unconstitu-
tional manner, and it was the duty of every mem-
ber of the House to protest against such proceed-
ings. . . . Mr, Stephen was inclined to think it
would have been better for the Committee to
have negatived the item in order to mark their
disapproval of the unconstitutional action of the
late Government, leaving it to the Colonial Secre-
tary to propose the expenditure in a constitutional
manner.
• • *
Comment on the change of front visible on a
comparison of these utterances in 1884 with those
made by the same members in 1885 is superfluous.
But there is one other Inference to be drawn from
these debates. A great deal of conjecture has
been made as to what Mr. Stuart, the actual Pre-
mier, thinks of the Soudan affair. Judging from
parallel utterances, he should have favoured the
vote of censure, for in the debate on the illegal
expenditure incurred by the late Government Mi*
Stuart referred to the outlay as arising from “a
bargain unconstitutionally made and unconstitu-
tionally loft unratified by the House.” And then
Mr. Stuart added these significant remarks: “As
far as our voting the money is concerned, we
ought to treat the matter as if the money had not
been paid, but was still owing. It is a debt of
honour, as it were, which we are bound to see
satisfied, and therefore it is that, while condemning
in the strongest manner the unconstitutional way
in which the transfer of the Wolverine was carried
out, I am able to urge the committee to pass the
Item.” The course suggested on that occasion by
Mr. Stuart— to pass the money and strongly con-
demn the unconstitutionality of the proceedings—
is precisely the course Mr. Henry Clarke's
amendment on the Soudan motion proposed.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
An Endorsement.
The S.M. Herald quotes from the Pall Mall
Gazette extracts from a letter of a young Aup.
trallan settled in Sydney, and whose views, the
Herald says, differ in some important respects
from those commonly expressed in England by re-
presentative Australians. Before dealing with the
extracts quoted and with the Herald's remarks
thereon, we diverge for a moment to tike ex-
ception to this phrase about the views of
representative Australians in England. As a
matter of fact, wo contend that the readers
of English papers never learn anything of
the views of representative Australians settled
in that country. The columns of the l*ondon papers
are inaccessible to really representative Austre.
lians, and open only to preposterous creatures of
the money-bags order, who posture as representa-
tives of Australian thought, although they never
were In any real sense recognised, when in Aus-
tralia, as representing the people, or as being in
sympathy with their thoughts and aspirations.
Moreover, these busy-bodies, who mostly distend
themselves at the Colonial Institute, and are
heard of in Australia in many cases for
the first time as public men by the echo of
their rhodomontades in that refuge of gilded
dulness, more and more positively and dog-
matically assort their representative character
as they more and more lose touch of colonial sen-
timent by the duration of their separation from
the colonies. The young Englishman who writes
from Sydney to the Pall Mall is,
far more representative of colonial thought than
the old duffers the Herald refers to with so
much deference, and his views are really much
more in harmony with those current among the
rank and file of Australians than either the views
represented by the Herald’s “representative”
men in Australia, or by the Herald herself.
With regard to this young Englishman's views,
the Herald now remarks that:—“ Without en-
dorsing all the opinions expressed by the writer,
we fully admit the cogency of some of them, and
place them before the public with the obj et of
promoting the fuller consideration of a question
of first-rate importance.” And when we have
stated what these opinions are, readers will imme-
diately perceive that the S.M. H erald might have
spared its preamble, and need not have troubled
to promote “a fuller consideration” of opinions
long since expressed by The Bulletin, and con-
sequently considered and discussed by a very
much larger circle of readers than the
S.M. Herald can pretend to address. After
some references to the question of Imperial
Federation, which are very much in accordance
with our own, the young Englishman continues—
we give the gist of his remarks:—“Pacific annex-
ation Is a much graver question. Read no further
than this, for I am about to express my great
satisfaction at the recent action of Germany. May
it be repeated often, and may it bo imitated by
France. With three quarters of Australasia still
to be annexed, I count it no small advantage that
two other civilised Powers should take the burden
off our shoulders in the Pacific Ocean; while it is
of even greater advantage that we should have
neighbours whose ideas are different from our
own. We suffer at present from our isolation’
and I cannot believe it to be part of the Radical
creed to hold that the Pacific should be
preserved as a breeding-ground for British Philis-
tines. We expose to any enemy numerous vulner-
able points, instead of allowing him to offer vul-
nerable points to us. Had we annexed the islands
they would have been exploited by Australian
capital, to the detriment of Australian develop-
ment; as it is, we shall have an influx of foreign
capital, foreign enterprise, and foreign ideas.”
These opinions will be recognised as almost para-
phrases of the views expressed at different times
of late in our own columns.
Lies.
Wk are familiar with the distortions of facts
which reach Australian readers through the
medium of cable messages from Europe, but it
appears that English newspaper readers are even
worse humbugged when Australian news la cabled
to them. The matter of the Soudan Contingent
illustrates this brilliantly. Some heroic lying
has been done by cable from Sydney to London*
Thus we find one message to have stated that the
number of volunteers was six times the required
strength of the force, and that the Patriotic Fund
now amounts to £15,000. This, of course, Is
a doubled-barrelled Action. Everybody knows
hat it took all the time that elapsed
between the publication of Dalley’s offer
and the sailing of the Iberia to get to-
gether the 500 men who were sent, and that to get
them at all it wss found requisite to accept any
man that came forward and could pass the medi-
cal test, without respect to the question whether
he had ever handled a gun or practised the goose-
step. The second barrel is a regular cracker. The
date is early in March last, and the Patriotic Fund,
to facilitate the slaughter of patriots, was
then alleged to have reached £45,000. This is
as big and downright a He as the one
which the Chief Justice was got to tell at the
meeting in the Exhibition Building, when he
announced that the railway employes had sub-
scribed £5000, whereas, even at this time they have
not subscribed £500, and never will, so little does
the Jingo outrage command the sympathy of the
working classer, and so disgusted are the railway
hands at the attempt to intimidate them into con-
tributing. Instead of the so-called Patriotic Fund
having reached £45,000 in March, on Wednesday,
tho 15th April, when the committee met, only
£30,000 and some odd pounds had been scraped
together. Not a word of the numerous meetings
to denounce the expedition has been cabled.
Silence in that respect constituted another lie.
A Trimmer.
“ IVhatever may be thought of the merits of the dis-
pute which has culminated in the strike against
the Pacilic Mail Steamship Company,” writes the
Sydney Daily Telegraph, and proceeds to slime
the working men all over for not belrg ruffianly.
This is characteristic of the policy of the news-
paper in question. It is all of a piece with the device
1 of vehemently supporting in their daily issue Mr.
Dalley'b despatch of a contingent to destroy the
Constitution, and of just as vehemently condemn-
ing the same thing in their weekly, the Tribune.
To pat the members of the Seamen’s Union on the
back because they have not behaved like ruffians
is, of course, meant as a compliment. We cannot
congratulate our contemporary on its adroitness.
The sham and imincere attempt at flattery will
be recognised instantly as a gross insult. The
working men are not such fools as the Daily
Telegraph Imagines them to be. They will
scarcely thank the Telegraph for the extacy of
simulated surprise and delight with which it
announces that the men have really not behaved
as brates-as might naturally have been ex-
pected 1 They will readily figure to them-
selves what the effect would have been on
the minds of the ship’s agents and captain
had the Daily Telegraph opened i'j article
with an enraptured congratulation to Messrs.
Gilchrist, Watt, and Co , and to Captain Web-
ber, because these parties bad not conducted
themselves with Indecent rowdiness. “ Whatever
may be thought of the merits of the dispute ? ’’
Well, what is thought of the merits of the dispute
by this commentor ? Everybody concerned will
peruse the article in vain, if they look for
a definite expression of opinion. “God is
good, and the devil is not so. bed after
all,” is a sentence which fairly represents
the drift of the Daily Telegraph in this
latest exemplification of its humiliating anxiety
to figure as the working man’s friend with-
out ceasing to preserve the confidence of bis
adversaries. It is the expression of a bewildered
struggle to secure circulation without sacrificing
advertisements. “Whatever may be thought.”
Lots of different things may be thought. It
may be thought that Chinese firemen are more
reliable, more tractable, and cleaner than Euro-
pean firemen. The officers of these steamers
always so allege. It may be thought that the
owner of a steamer should have liberty to employ
whom he chooses. It may be thought that were
the power of the Seamen’s Union established to in-
terfere with the crews of foreign trading vessels
the trade of the port would be hampered, and
shipowners would demand a higher rate of
freights to Sydney than to any other port
at equal distance from the port of departure. But
on the other hand, it may be thought that, even if
these points be admitted, the displacement of
European firemen by cheap Oriental substitutes,
is the very worst method to improve the condition
and, consequently, the morale of the former class.
It may be thought that it is an absurd thing that
firemen belonging to this colony, in which the
working classes contribute more than their lair
proportion of the revenue, shou’d be ousted from
steamers belonging to people la London and sub-
sidized by the colony, to make room for cheap
Chinamen. And that’s what we thiak. We trust >
this is Plain English—not Telegraph Trimming*
Peace or War?
We offered, last week, gome readers,,why* we
believed that Russia has no present serious Inten-
tions of entering upon a war for i he conquest of
Hindostan. The subsequent course of events, as
d'sclosed by the intelligence cabled.from England*
tends to confirm our first impre:sions. There are
two very significant facts. One is that Russia Has
ordered her fleet in the Mediterranean to
oeed to the Baltic, and the other is that
Persia has offered England to put 50,000 men
in the field against Russia in the event of war
breaking out. The first of the items might,, on a
superficial consideration, be regarded as indicative
ot the determination of Russia to proceed with
hostilities. It might bo thought that the remova 1
of her fleet from the Mediterranean to the Baltic
where it could find, if necessary, security under
the guns of Cronstadt, is but a preliminary to hos-
tilities. But by going a little deeper, it must be
apparent that even If that view were correct, the
fact that the fleet was in the Mediterranean,
where it had no port to retire to and no depot for
re-coaling, proves that the collision of forces on
the Afghanistan frontier has been fortuitous, and
not the first development of a preconcerted and
comprehensive design. This view is strengthened
by the fact of Persia offering to range her forces
on the side of Great Britain. Had Russia been act-
ing upon a deliberate and preconcerted design of
entering upon a war with England, her squadron
would not, at the critical moment, have been
cruising In the Mediterranean, a situation which
exposed It to the almost certainty of being there
cooped up—the Dardanelles, the Straits of Gibral-
tar, and the Suez Canal being equally unavailable
as avenues for escape—and hunted down by the
enormously superior fleets which Great Britain
would certainly have despatched to destroy it*
The Russian squadron would unquestionably, had
war been predetermined, have been safe in the
Baltic when the first steps were taken on the
Afghan frontier. And, moreover, Persia would
not have been free to throw her military strength
with the British. It has to be borne in mind that
the perilously long line of the Russian communi-
cation from the Caspian Sea to the Afghan
frontier is, throughout its entire stretch,
flanked by Persian territory, and absolutely
useless, in a strategical sense, if menaced
from that direction. It would be not only
difficult to wage a war against England in Afghan-
istan under such conditions—it would be Impossi-
ble. It would not merely be a rash attempt—it
would be an act of madness. Thus it may
be safely inferred that the day of the supreme
—and we believe Inevitable—struggle for the
possession of India has not yet arrived.
It is reasonable to believe that that conflict will
not be entered upon without years of patient and
complete preparation. Whereas, at the present
juncture, it is plain that had Great Britain recog-
nised that Russia meant serious business, our
nation could, by a prompt declaration of war,
have opened the conflict by destroying the Russian
fleet in the Mediterranean. In short, it appears
that Russia was not ready for war. Her fleets
were not in safety, and her necessary alliances
were not arranged.
Far continuation of “ Plain English,” see next patre


Th* Eat*!S or Subscription to Thi Bulletin
arc—For one year, 24a ; half-year, 13s. 6d.;
quarter, 8a. 6d.—In advance.
Thb Advertising Rates are 5s. per inch!
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.; For 36 consecutive insertlonsf
16 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 36 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sanf, if more convenient.
Apostles of Peace or Advocates of Assas-
sination?
(“ Plain English,” continued from page 4.)
The thoughtful student of English history can-
not fall to notice the unvarying constancy with
■which the clergy, from the commencement of that
period by Haldam denominated the Middle Ages,
have preached, provoked, and encouraged national
wars. From the time when these apostles of the
Gospel of peace and brotherly love, forsaking the
humble estate of their Master and His disciples,
gathered to themselves the riches of this world’
invested in purple and tine linen and fared sump-
tuously, they forsook also those principles of for
bearance, equity, and meekness which are at the
very root of their creed. Thenceforward we find
them always in the van in inciting war, heedless
of any considerations of national right and justice.
The Popes, In the days of Papal power, intrigued
incessantly, endeavouring always to set nation
against nation, and state against state, with a view
of enriching the Church with the spoils of the con-
flict. No cause was too hideous, no monarch too
dissolute, land no army too rapacious to receive
the Pope’s blessing; nor was any design so
cruel or unjust that the Papal assurance of
Divine support land favour could not (for a con-
sideration) bo obtained. Now, the Pontifical
benediction is a drug in the market, and his
Holiness can seldom trade it—buyers are scarce
and suspicious; but in England, the Archbishop of
Canterbury has taken to himself the cilice cf
pledging the assistance of the God of Peace t
Mercy, and Justice, whenever a British array goes
forth to slaughter niggers, crush patriots, or
acquire new territory by wresting it from its
rightful owners. In England, too, the clergy a; e
joined with the Conservatives, and as Peter
the Hermit roused Europe by his preaching, and
called upon the knights of those days to recover
the Sepulchre, so now the clerics, by howling the
“honour of England,” encourage rulers and
people alike to undertake wars, such as that in
which we Australians are now, to our shame,
claiming a share. It was not to be expected that
the clergy of this colony would do other than
Imitate their English brethren. Bishop Barry
blesses our banner, and the lesser lights
of the Church of England, with, we be-
lieve, only two exceptions, preach ven-
geance and slaughter against the Arabs, hiding
for a time such awkward texts as, “ Vengeance
is Mine,” saith the Lord, and others of a like
nature. We are told that Whitgiet fell on his
knees and told James I., the most learned fool in
Christendom, that he “doubted not but that his
Majesty spoke by Divine inspiration.” Now the
Nineteenth Century Whitgifts tell us that
Dallet is a Divine instrument for the extension
of Christ s kingdom and the establishment of
that period when “ the sword snail be beaten into
the ploughshare.” One lowly apostle of the Gospel
of forgiveness has told the flock to the members
of which he is teaching the doctrine of brotherly
love, that he hopes “ that our arms may revenge
ten thousand fold the death of Gordon and his
followers, and thus show forth God’s glory and
England’s honour;” another humble servant of
the Prince of Peace says that “ he glories in the
fact that Australia can now claim her share In the
wars of the world;’’ and yet another messenger of
the King of Mercy hopes (after praying with his
usual fervour for “peace in our time”) “that
British bullet and bayonet will teach these men that
England’s power must be respected.” We might
fill colums with similar utterances, but to what pur-
pose? Worshippers at the various churches have,
noticed, we hope with sorrow, that Hatred has been
promoted vice Love, deposed; Vengeance preached
in place of Mercy and Forgiveness; and that
Slaughter is now the guiding principle of Church
policy. Balaam’s mission was to curse the
Israelites, but he blessed them altogether; our
clergy have taken upon themselves the task of
preparing men for the time of universal peace,
but, lo, they arc now the loudest in yelling for the
blood of men, women, and children, whose only
fault it is that they are fighting for their country,
their lives, and their religion. Our spiritual
leaders, like Aaron at Sinai, have set up a golden
calf called “national honour,” which they order
their hearers to fall down and worship, “ By their
fruits ye shall known them,” was said of old.
Judged by this standard, what must we think of
our clergy ? Are they Apostles of Peace, or
Advocates of Assination?
Land Day at Coonabarabran.
Judging by recent pensive proceedings at Coona-
barabran, it would seem as If the new Land Act
was already, as far as that district is concerned, in
the turgid throes of death. The local Land Board
held its maiden meeting some time ago, and after
disposing of the cases awaiting its merciful adju-
dication, was about to seek the solace of the
nearest hostelry, when up rose a big bewigged
barrister-one Mr. BnoWN-who, under guise of
welcoming the Board on attaining its official
majority, delivered a lecture in open court for
over an hour on the superior merits of the new
Act, and the superior delinquencies of the old.
The Court listened to Mr. Brown’s preliminary
observations with well-simulated delight; but
when he proceeded, amid a lachrymose labyrinth
of minute explanations, to enumerate the many
novel and Interesting forms of procedure created
by the Act, the Board felt an ill-repressed desire
to counsel him to expatiate on the joys and sor-
rows of oviparous operations—with his grand-
mother for an exclusive audience. When the first
quarter of an hour had expired, Mr. Brown was
Placidly unfolding, in tones the most dulcet, a
minute mental mirage of the industrial iconoclas-
ticism and other idiocyncrasies of the Act which
had passed away. The Board, with an inspired
idea of intervention, coughed in chorus, and
timourously remarked, “’Hem, ’hem; certainly,
Mr. Brown. Thank you much. Wo will now re-
ply to your kindly congratulations.” But Mr.
Brown, whose oratorical ocean had burst its
flood-gates, was not to be so easily disposed of, for
on he meandered in ecstatic exposition of the main
features of the new piece of statutory mechanism.
When the clock registered half an hour, the Board,
conscious that there hovered round its jaws the
definite elements of an arid thirst worth a guinea
to the holder of a banquet ticket, gently intimated
to Mr. Brown that they had listened to his remarks
with undiluted pleasure, and that they would now
formally enunciate their expressions of thankful-
ness. Mr. B., with an obduracy equal to that of
the phlegmatic mammoth torpedo that was to
rupture the Russian fleet (and didn’t even pretend
to), remarked that his subsequent discourse would
give point and character to his early observations,
and, begging the Board to reserve judgment, he at
once proceeded to reiterate the haggard argu-
ments in favour of decentralized jurisdiction in
land matters. By this time the unofficial audience
of one (a 40-acre perisher from the intestinal
segment of the district) had been formally arrested
on suspicion of lunacy by the solitary guardian of
the peace, who was easily persuaded by his cap-
tive to take him to the nearest shanty in lieu of
the nearest lockup prescribed by the law. A sore-
eyed retriever dog, the only other unofficial occu-
pant within earshot, after howling discordantly
for 20 minutes in palpable antagonism to the com-
placent lecturer, recognised the inequality of the
contest, and gloomily adjourned to the deepest
well the district gloried in, and then and there
stoically committed dog slaughter, to the po-
sterior grief of all resident water-drinkers
and the ulterior glee of the coroner, who
duly sat on his partially recovered corpse,
and phlebotomised the State out of five guineas
for judicially asseverating that “John Brown,
found dead and decomposed, died of hydrophobia
accelerated by the dispensation of Providence.”
The Board's clerk, developing all the sour symp-
toms of incipient paralysis, was graciously granted
an abstention from further attendance on the
Board, which now was itself savagely, even if un-
predeterminately, sober. One hour had now
passed, and as Mr. D. showed no signs of abate-
ment, the Chairman found himself deserted by
even his colleagues on the Bench, one of whom
had left a dying wife to whom he had to hasten,
and the other had been warned of an unborn babe
deliberately developing. Like a Spartan, the rem-
nant of authority endured the anguish for another
ten minutes, and then with a hasty “ Thanks, Mr.
Brown,” he beat an undignified retreat. Fora
few minutes longer Mr. B. failed to observe the
emptiness of the court, and then, arming himself
with the Act and Regulations, and the
residue of his copious notes, he went out
and mounted his ratified steed to pursue
the Board, severally and jointly. In continuation
of his unfulfilled labour of love, the chief items of
which he hysterically hallooed to the whistling
wind. The Board had timely apprisal of the pro-
pinquinty of its tormentor, and persuaded the
landlord to double-bolt and extra-bar his doors.
There at last the Chairman, and he of the dying
wife and he of the babe unborn drank to Mr.
Brown's damnation; while the policeman and
the hopeless lunatlc-not to say the drowned dog
—gluttonously and glucosely gloried in the mani-
fest mutuality of their ideas and intellects. De-
jected but not daunted, Mr. B. neatly transcribed
the whole of the address, and presented it as an
advertisement to the Blind Watchman, whose
editor made room for the ell of eloquence by ex-
cising a leader on Quambone Quandongs and
a sonnet on Coonabarabran caterpillars. The
Board has since obtained a transfer to civilised
parts, and the vacant posts still go;a-begging, so
that the Act is practically a dead-letter in Coona-
barabran. Should Mr. B.’s effusive acquaintance
with land law legislation drag him into Parliament,
it is manifest that, in order to circumscribe his
oratory within reasonable legislative endurance, a
code of hydraulic gagging rules will have to be
promptly framed and freely administered for his
especial use and behoof.
A Salvation tvarrior threw off rather a
neat thing in prayers the other day. They were
holding a Holy Ghost free-and-easy down at Col-
llngwood, Melbourne, and some naughty little
urchins on the back benches started comic
choruses, instead of dropping into the fountain.
Then our soldier lifted his eyes and voice heaven-
wards and said—“O, Lord I these unruly boys
think they’re dreadfully smart, but we beseech
Thee, look down upon them in Thy mercy, and
make their hearts as soft as their heads.” Not bad
that, and not half so blood-thirsty as a prayer we
remember hearing under rather similar cir-
cumstances. A “ converted clown ” [There are
plenty of them about.—ED. B.] was telling the
blessed story of his own redemption to a North of
England audience, in a little lecture hall. ’Twas a
touching narrative, only the pathos of it was
marred somewhat by the action of the inevitable
and irrepressible “ boy.” who kept tilting up a
long form and letting it fall with a bang every
time the speaker referred to his soul—which was
pretty often. The impassioned clown stood it as
long as he could, until at last he came to the front
of the platform and cursed his tormentor in these
words:—“ Would I were a thunderbolt from
heaven that I might hurl myself at that boy I’’
Everyone of the audience, except the boy, was
downright startled.
The irascibility of an Irishman has as
national a definiteness as the bulls of Boyle Roache,
but perhaps, for an extreme example, the follow-
ing incident may claim the championship. One
Jemmy Doolan was adventuring along a cliff when
he foolishly fell over, and, as the height of the
cliff was 300ft., his hopes of corporeal integrity
would have been slight had he not successfully
clutched a tuft of grass after whirling through
the first 50ft. of space. Here his “ hullabllloos ”
attracted a number of his fellow-countrymen to
the top of the cliff, where they deliberated how
best to effect his rescue. It was decided at length
to lower someone down with a rope, and one Jim
Maguire, profanely anathematizing every danger-
ous exigent, announced, amid applause, his inten-
tion to accomplish the descent. A rope at once was
made to span his waist, and when he was hoisted
down 15 feet, he clamoured to be “lowered up”
again. His request unheeded, they lowered him
further still, when he again demanded to be pulled
back I “Arrah, now, Tim,” cried a full-blown
Kerry native, “ would you be laving the poor sow!
of a Jimmy Doolan hanging on by a bit of grass
wld the blling ocean under him, and his poor wife
and ohilder waiting for him up above?” Tim’s
answer was a poser. “Well, lower me up a bit
first; yez don’t know me temper, yez don’t; and,
be gorrah, if yez don’t lower me up at onst, I’ll out
wi’ me knife and cut the rope on yez, I will.”
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
Montreal” writes :—“ Please answer this
question in your next issue ; I’ve been brought
up in the orthodox principles, the same having
thoroughly grafted In me when young
ifiil iP gh ’ according to physiognomy, a natural
disbeliever), and,|by trying to think differently
from those principles, It causes me gteat mental
anxiety, almost monomania. What plan can you
devise which would relieve me of the difficulty ?”
Well, Montreal,” you are all wrong. You must
give up trying” to think adversely to the prin-
ciples impressed on you In your childhood. Why
should you seek after change ? Most advanced
thinkers can t help thinking their thoughts, and
£ e ? e .r all Y. gives them pain to drift away from
the faith of their fathers, and more especially of
their mothers. But the conviction of right and
reason compensates them. Stop “ trying” in the
direction that pains you, Montreal. “ Try” to
Uy e .up to the simple teachings of the Founder of
Christianity, leave theological puzzles alone, and
you 11 recover your serenity, and be all right....
J. : lour joke about the ladles in Young is as
obscene as it is antique ...“R. S.” (Beloria): You
say you are deputed by a number of our sub-
scflbers to request that we will “ slate ” a Mr. Rus-
sell. What do you take us for ? Because you and
some of your pot-jostling comrades have a pique
against him, do you think you can utilize our
journal to vent your personal spleen? Out upon
you, you Paul Pry pigmy I Our columns are re-
served for attacking humbug, tyranny, and fraud
wherjverits existence is a public reproach; but
our columns are not open for every gully-raker to
sling mud at every one who wins money from him
at Yankee grab or refuses to abdicate his claims
upon the butcher’s wench in favour of his
spiteful critic.... Not witty, but very spite-
ful. It served, however, to conduct heat to the
parlour coke better than Mark Twain’s best joke
would have—“Nemo”: We are sick of heroic
odes to Beech. He deserves all his honours, which
ho modestly wears; but if ho were beaten to-
morrow, his idolatrous friends would kick him
harder than they would a dead dog “F.”
(Namol): Your poem was so good we embalmed a
sausage in it...."J.P.”: Your criticism of the
article was just. The influence of the Federal.
Auotralian is as definitely meagre as a dumb
man’s eloquence. As the professional organ of a
rank Conservative, old-time-squatter party, it
naturally ocoffs at Henry George’s theories. These
theories will triumph, but the Federal Aus-
tralian will scarcely survive the day they do
“J.P.” (Brunswick): We have both your notes.
We always prefer to await a little leisure to deal
with your points, which are ordinarily full of
matter for reflection “ F D.”: “ A Monody on
Mutton” will keep awhile, even if mutton won’t.
— “H. F.” (Murchison,[victoria): Write to Mr.
H. F. Hyndman, care of Reeves, Fleet-street, Lon-
don. Will try to find time to answer your ques-
tions by post....“J. M’Laughlan” : That hap-
pened before our time. We believe such a
promise was made, but have no information
whether Robertson fulfilled it “Argyle Elec-
tor”: The interest has evaporated. Let Osborne
slide back to his natural insignificance. But that
the whole influence of the Government was con-
centrated in his favour, he wouldn’t have got
many dozen votes... “A.H.”: Try it again
“Martin Robertson”: Good again “ M.R.”
(Glen Innes); Rather diffuse this time. Will try
and do something with it, however “Billy
Evana”: Received. Will read “Inquisitive”:
Don’t see the point....“H.T.W.” (Nundle): Will
take 20 days to read the poem you dashed off in 20
minutes. Dash your dashed poetry “ N.W.G.”:
Too long for early use. Will read at leisure
“ Workman ” (Canning Terrace, Launceston, Tas-
mania) writes to us as follows, and we don’t mind
who knows it:—“ I beg leave, on behalf of my fel-
low-workmen, some of whom take your valuable
paper, to convey their and also my own sincere
thanks for the persistent manner in which, in spite
of all opposition, you continue to advocate the
rights of the working man. The night your paper
is due here is looked forward to with feelings of
pleasure, and the perusal of which is to us an in-
tellectual treat after reading the Jingo journals of
our town. Unfortunately, the priest and mono-
polist exist here in all their original splendour, and
I am sorry to have to admit that the working-man
here, as yet, enjoys none of those benefits, in the
shape of Liberal and Bight-hour Associations,
which his compeers in the other colonies partici-
pate in. But I hope, in the not distant future, if
you continue to advocate Henry George’s na-
tionalisation, to be able to join issue with the
other colonies in advocating for those reforms
which he so ably lays down. Hoping you will
succeed in the good cause you are so ably defend-
ing.— I am yours, &o., Workman.” Thanks,
“ Workman.” Sympathy strengthens courage
"J.S.”: Fairly good, but not good enough.. ..
“Girondln”: Thanks for the correction. The
error is patent, but had escaped us in revision.
— " G. Byron”: We don’t set much store on our
opinion of Wolseley as a general, but, such as it
is, you are welcome to it. Wolseley has success-
fully carried out every enterprise entrusted to
him, from the suppression of the Rod River insur-
rection (now revived) until fortune failed him the
other day, and Khartoum was captured under his
nose. All his exploits might have been ac-
complished by a fourth-rate general; while on
the other hand, a first-rate,'general might have
been baulked by the circumstances which led to
the fall of Khartoum. To sum up, the extent of
Wolseley’s talents as a General has never been
submitted to any crucial test. He may have the
genius of a Napoleon, or only the abilities of a
capable quarter-master general. All he has done
could have been effected by the latter; whereas
no opportunity has occurred to enable him to
prove his possession of the former. He has never,
in his whole career,[been opposed to a Euro-
pean .'general commanding European troops, and
until that happens, it is impossible to know
what are the limits of his ability. The name
is pronounced as if spelt Wooleey “A Lover
of Justice”; We have received your sketch,
and are sorry—sorry to find an artist of
your many excellent parts burying yourself in the
back-blocks of Downing. Send some of your
sketches to the fellows of the Royal Society. It is
by no means certain that they will hang your pic-
tures, but it is more than probable that they’ll
hang you. With your idea of the hair’s inequality
we coincide, but how can justice be typified as a
paralytic emu ? Justice may bury its beak in the
sand, but then it never whistles "Catgut”:
Your poem on the Soudan is simply execrable
rubbish, and your puns are unbearable. Test the
matter yourself by reading them before Judge
Windeyer, and weMl give you a guinea for every
day you get under fifteen years. Time was when
the commission of such an atrocious poem
would bea capital otfence....“Paladious”: Come
down and read us your manuscript; it is illegible.
Also bring an interpreter to translate it into Eng-
lish, and a wheelbarrow to cart it a way..W.W.”
(Mt. M’Donald): Of insufficient interest.
Mashers.— The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 653 Qeorge-street, Brickfield Hill.*
That the situation, politically speaking, is
a grave one there is no doubt. Red-faced war is
almost visible through the gloomy atmosphere,
and at times the tones of the battle trumpet seem
ringing in our ears. Peaceful mail boats are being
turned into warlike cruisers, and torpedoes, war-
ranted to go off under two years, rest in deceitful
quietude all round our coasts. Timid people don't
like it, but bold and wary speculators rejoice in
the trepidation of their neighbours, arid do their
best to turn an honest, or rather a dishonest penny
to the tune of bogus telegrams and falllngfmar-
kets. Meanwhile, and in spite of wars and
rumours of wars, our old friends, Anthony Hor-
dern and Sons, pursue “the even tenor of their
way,” continuing in their course of universal use-
fulness and attracting, by the marvellous advan-
tages they give, dally thousands to their wonder-
ful establishment—the Palace Emporium, in the
Haymarket.*
SHE HAD BEEN TREATING HIM QUITE DISTANTLY. HE DIDN’T LIKE 7 IT, AND
DURING A PAUSE IN HER SINGING HE SAID, “YOU ARE SUCH A STRANGE GIRI,
EDITH. I REALLY DON’T KNOW WHAT TO MAKE OP YOU.” THEN SHE SMILED AND
GAVE HIM, OH, SUCH A LOOK, AS SHE DEMURELY ANSWERED, “IF YOU DON’T
KNOW WHAT TO MAKE OF ME YOU OUGHT, CHARLIE. MAKE A WIFE OF ME.” SUD-
DEN TRANSPORT OF CHARLIE, AND HINT ACTED ON AT THE EARLIEST OPPOR-
TUNITY.


Personal Items
The thirst for blood is a terrible thing. At
a late meeting of the Melbourne Town Council
the Mayormade some remarks about the impend-
ing war. Immediately a well-known councillor in
the hotel-broking business sprung up and said
that; In case' war were proclaimed, he, for one.
would be “ready to shoulder a musket at a
inothent’s notice.” This will show you what
Strange vagaries a man may fall Into when under
the iniluepce of excitement. Shoulder a musket 1
IFTi?/, he could live in the barrel of a mufket 1
Labouchere tells this yarn:—Lord Gar-
moyle, who is now In Canada, recently thrilled the
ladles at Government House with the following
account of his experiences in Jndla:-He was
asleep in bis bed when he was awoke feeling
something very clammy sticking to his great toe.
It was a cobra. Putting his hand beneath the pil-
low, he drew out his revolver, took aim, fired, and
shot off the toe with the snake attached to it. The
toe was subsequently examined by an experienced
surgeon, who discovered that it was impregnated
with poison. Had it not, therefore, been for his
lordship’s presence of mind, our country would
have lost in Its future councils the matured wis-
dom of one of our hereditary legislators.
Mr. J, B. Watson is now the boss million-
aire in that section of the Cabbage Garden called
Sandhurst, now that George Lansell Is at Graves-
end, or—somewhere. And a very generous man is
this same J. B. W. Mr. Lansell has made some
donations to public and charitable institutions,
but we can’t accuse our memory of Mr. Watson’s
having committed so grievous a fault—according
to the code millionaire—except in one instance.
And thereby hangs a tale, and a very funny one.
Mr. Watson owned an hotel in Denlliquin, which,
In its time, had undegone many vicissitudes, and
has, for a lengthened period, been without a
tenant. Well, Mr. Watson became very generous,
and presented the hotel to the local hospital, which
institution does not appear at all charmed with
the bequest. The latest we heard of the matter
was that the committee were endeavouring to get
a tenant. We hope they will, and that the tenant
will have a more happy career than those who
went before him.
From the Freeman's Journal “ The
Catholic Bishop of Salford chimes in with his
brethren of the other pulpit, who have been
ordering prayers for the success of British slaugh-
terers in the Soudan. The Protestant Archbishop
of Canterbury and other divines of his sect invoke
the blessing of the Almighty upon the red-coat
marauders, and pray for their preservation while
they are murdering the unfortunate Arabs. Dr.
Vaughan, Catholic Bishop of Salford, is as piously
anxious for the safety of the Arab-killers as his
Grace of Canterbury. ‘ Is it not evident,’ said Dr.
Vaughan, ‘that, with what dangers and trials at
home, and wars and loss of brave generals and
soldiers abroad, we need the special assistance of
God ?’ Brave butchers, rather, who provoked the
wrath of the Most High by imbruing their hands
in the blood of Innocent, unoffending people.”
That’s all right, Mickey; but now let’s hear what
you have to say about Bishop Moran of Sydney
f lvlng £100 *o encourage our own expedition sent
o heip on with the butchering busimss.
Mr. George Anderson, many years M.P.
for Glasgow, has at length received the wages of
his thick and thin support of the Grand Ola Man,
In the form of an appointment as deputy-master
of the Melbourne Mint. The stipend attaching to
this onerous position—humph I-is £1400 per
annum. Geordie’s advent will be hailed with joy
by the God-fearing portion of Melbourne society,
lor he is unco guld, and may be counted upon to
raise his Utile voice loudly against sports and
pastimes generally. Pigeon shooting, horse-
racing, and betting are abominations In the sight
of Mr. A , and as he was their recognised (not to
say ridiculed) opponent in the “ House,” at home,
be is bound to get on the old war-pat h again in
Victoria, sooner or later. When the Melbourne
Cup comes round, and Geordle finds that about
thirty-three per cent’of the Victorians patronise
Flemlngton, there’ll be no holding him. As for
pigeon potting, its days 'are numbered in Victoria,
but that won’t matter so much, provlded that our
cousins get good sport with the Russians.
In one of the provincial districts of this
colony a clergyman, of the Wesleyan Methodist
persuasion, Invested in agricultural pursuits a
large slice of the money he held by the favour of
the Lord and the people. Having employed a man
to sink a tank, ho demurred to the man’s measure-
ment as excessive, and refused to pay. The latter
employed a professional gentleman to check his
measurements, and the latter made the area exca-
vated a t' Ifle more. The clergyman was made
aware of this fact, but stdl refused to pay, where-
upon be was cited to appear at the District Court.
Full of the belief that he waa being cheated, he
tymself made the measurement, and found it to
be in excess of either that made by the plaintiff or
his professional employd. Of course, the reader
divines the rest. What, paid the poor, labouring
man according to the maximum measurement!
Not at all, credulous reader. The ambassador of
God compounded the deb}, by paying the first de-
mand, less a donation of a guinea for which a
promise had been ingeniously wormed out of the
plaintiff in the early nlstory of the contract.
In that part of, College-street which is in-
fested by medicos, a solitary policeman may bo
observed, both diurnally and nooturnally, keeping
an extra vigilant eye oyer that portion of the
Aesculaplan Elysium in which resides the gayest
physician of the, group. Honour has it that he
has been hired to do so by the doctor himself, and
thereby hangs a 5ale. A hardy Lancastrian, who
had immigrated to Sydney six, years ago, found
his improved circumstances justified him to send
for his wife, who arrived about a month ago.
Their joy at meeting after six. years’ separation
was dimmed a little by the wife’s illness, and the
doctor adverted to above was sent for. On re-
tiring from the woman’s bedroom, the anxious
husband sought .to know the depth of the danger
as far as medical skill cpuld divine. His astonish-
ment may be measured when the doctor Informed
him that there was no danger, or at least none
more than is the common lot of ladies who love
their lord. The enraged and indignant husband
hastened to the sick room* and reproached his
wife, who laughed to 6corn the doctor’s diagnosis.
In an angony of doubt a second physician was sent
for, and he remedied the domestic rupture by
positively pronouncing the complaint to bo ordi-
nary indigestion. Thp insulted husband now
haunts College-street with a big club to pay the
first doctor his with no sparing hand; and
hence the compact between the solitary policeman
and the errant eniplric.
The Melbourne aristocracy received a
severe shock by the publication of the evidence
in fie Malpas divorce case some time since, and
the dailies howled at the Herald for publishing
the details. Well, there will be differences ot
opinion, but we think that publication has one
beneficent effpot; it terrifies persons who wou'd
do evil but that they know they will be .published
in the Press. The reports of the “leading”
papers are so meagre that the culprits need
hardly be ashamed of their misdeeds. There is
a squeamishness which is worse than license. Sup-
pose all the underground working of our politi-
cians, the corruption of our public officers, could
gee the light of day like the Malpas doings: would
there not be a sudden and salutory purification ?
What must Melbourne society have thought of the
revelation that a leading “squatter,” a person who
no doubt bad the entry into the most “exclusive ”
circles, one time kept a black woman as a
mistress? be been ostracised? Well, ff
bo, we know, of many a great swell here and
in Melbourne who should go to Coventry
with him. How these men, who know in
their hearts they have been guilty, must tremble
lest someone who know them In their hot youth
will blab. One of those individuals kept seven or
eight black ladies, and because a stockman chose
to run away with two of them—he imitated his
master—he mustered all hands, went in hot pur-
suit, and re-captured his sooty houris I Yet some
of these men be the persons who now sit on high
and legislate for a benighted country, who de-
nounce wickedness of all kinds, and The Bul-
letin especially, and who tine an unfortunate
toper 5s. or 24 hours, and deliver him a severe lec-
ture. Oh, what a hypocritical world this of ours
is, to be sure.
The Bishop of Riverina, who, by-the-way
is by no means the beau ideal of a bishop, and
would anywhere be mistaken for a farmer ora
drummer, just according to idlosyncracles, has
made a remarkable mistakejat the outset of his
career. The Bishop decided to settle in the pretty
town of Hay, and just as his tour was at Its close,
an advertisement appeared in a local paper. It
was for a servant for the Bishop’s lady. That
was right enough, but there was an addition that
marred all—the servant must belong to the
Church of England I Now the people of Hay and
other Riverina towns are, in a religious sense, a
happy family. The communities are too small to
afford to split up Into sections. When one lot
goes in to build a church all the others help ; and
so turn and turn about. This system has been
found to work admirably, and tends to the har-
mony of thetcommunlty. But with true Anglican
exclusiveness the Bishop of Riverina flings a bomb-
shell Into the happy family. He will have no such
harmony; the goats must be separated from the
sheep and forthwith sent to pound. (How the
local pound-keeper, Mr, George Butterwortb,
would like to have them out, trespass £1, with
fees, etc) Thenarrowness of the Anglican system
is fully demonstrated by this action. Even Bishop
Moorhouse, able man though he is, cannot shake
off the ecclesiastical trammels and allow of an
exchange of pulpits. But what objection can the
Bishop’s lady have to a servant’s religion ? Would
a bed made by a Catholic Biddy inoculate with
dangerous Scarlet Lady ideas, or would a chair
brushed by a Wesleyan girl contaminate? Would
a pudding cooked by a Chinaman lead to conver-
sion to Buddhism ? Let the Bishop take comfort.
We know a worthy ecclesiastic of his Church who
has had a Chinese cook for years, and yet he is as
intolerant as the Bishop himself—that is, intolerant
as to doctrine, but not as to good cookery. Verily
these Bishops and the like come to our land not to
bring peace but a sword.
The pride of the parson or priest never
gets a rougher Jar than when a part of his lawful
c 2 I X re ®' a^on * 8 found patronising another church
of the same denomination as his own for the sake
of listening to a more popular preacher, or of
being able to boast that ihey have the honour of
worshiping God in the same pew as a member of
I the aristocracy of the land. And this reminds us
1 that the maddest man In the land to-day is a cer-
Father Pat., who runs a poor little church in
a Melbourne suburb, and who, fln-ilng a beggarly
array of empty benches facing him a few Sundays
ago, let out at the faithful tew in attendance
ithusiy:—“01 see a grate many people absint t.’
day that might be prisint. This humble little
church, It appares,Isn’t half good enough fur th’
loikes av. thim, but they must bo trapesln’ an’
gaily van tin Into town to attind Mass at the big
Cathaderril. An’ all fur what ? Do ye get wan
Inchnarert’ God be sayin’ yer prayers in a big
.Cathaderril wid painted windeys, an’ a goold pool-
pit, an’ play-acthur people hymns set to
|8quodrille music ? Div—, 01 mane, sorra a sthep
uarer do ye get at all, at all, but more betoken
yere all dancin’ along th’ broad way that'll wolnd
, y® up in aternil damnashin. There’s th’ fat owld
lady (who shall be nameliss now) that uster sit
I ,f. front sate here until she made her forebin
sellm’ milk, an’ thin olf she trapes down t’ the big
( Cathaderril. This poor little choorch isn’t half big
enough fur ber|now since she droives a carridge,but
01 molnd th’ toime whin she uster droive a cart ,
Shure th’ wan-half av ye wimmln doant go t’
choorch to say yer prayers at all. No, but y« go
to show oil yer faldiradals, and yer stlck-me-out-
behoxnds, an’ yer lace, an’ Jooilry, an’ yer giga-
marics an’ the loike, an’ more av ye go to coort
an’ ogglo th’ min—ah, shure, it’s the loiks av me
knows th’ loikes av you to perfeckshln. An’ a#
for you min, bad lu— ahim—whoy it’s seldim or
nivir y’ go t’ yer choorch at all. Tell me, now,
whin was wan av y’at yer Jooty last? Y’can’t
remimber. Av ooorse y can t, but y'can remim-
bir whin y’ wint t’ the publieheuso last, an’ y’ can
aisly guess whin ye'll be goin’ there again, fur
there’s some av ye that hasn’t seen a dhrop of
pure wathur since ye wore baptoized. Now, Ol
tell j* ail, these things ain’t plaizin’ at all in th’
soight of Gad, and yer garjin angel ’ll lave ye, an’
the dlvil himseif will enther In t’ ye all, loike he
did into th’ pigs in th’ Gospel, an’ y’ll go to hell
headlong, an’ now Oi give ye my blessin’, an’ don’t
1 let It occur agaen, nor nivir let me hear any more
about yer phllandurln off to the big cathadrerril.”
And then the worthy father banged the door of
the pulpit to, clouted a watery-nosed altar boy
who had gone to sleep, and finished the rest of
his devotions with the air of a man who had
glutted his vengeance, and had still three or four
gluts on his hands to spare.
James Jollin of Kangaroo Flat is a crank.
And this reminds us that ours would be a alow old
world. Indeed, were it not for the jerks and jolts It
has from time to time received from this same
persecuted crowd which men in their folly have
christened cranks. Captain Cook was a crank on
the subject of South Sea discoveries. If ho were
not, we wouldn’t be such an almighty smart set of
people as we are to-day, and the old buccaneer
himself might have gone to his grave “followed
by a large concourse of friends,” Instead of being
dished up as a sort of Irish stew to grace a Tahitian
E ionic. Stephenson was a railroad crank, and to
im we are indirectly indebted for our present
unapproachable tram-car system. Morse was a
telegraph crank, and, consequently, the first man
who opened up a fair field in which the Ananias-
like abilities of our war correspondents could find
full scope for action. Edison was an electric
crank, and, thanks to him, we are now enabled to
defend our hearths and homes with torpedoes
warranted to go off not later than a week after they
have been fired. Dailey is a warlike crank, and
hence we find “ the eyes of the world are now upon
us ” James Jollin, however, is a totally different
kind of crank entirely. He is evidently what
Bully Bottom would call a more condoling sort of
fad, for in a recent Melbourne dally we find he
advertises in the following fashion: “ Wanted, a
single lady of moms, to join advertiser in an
orchard.—James Jollin, Kangaroo Fiat.” James is
undoubtedly a cautious crank, and doesn’t care to
expose his hand too soon, but we can see through
his little game with half an eye. He is a man
troubled with theological doubts. For years past
he has been a staunch believer in Britain’s “ Bul-
wark,” and has swallowed all its thrilling tales »s
easily as the whale swallowed Jonah, but, having
recently waded through Judge Williams’ little
work, his faith has been badly thrown, and be is
now determined to test the matter for himself.
Starting at the beginning, therefore, Mr, Jollin
has resolved to ascertain if that sensational snake
yarn in which our reputed first parents were so
discreditably mixed up is really true, or not; and,
consequently he has determined to start a little
Paradise of his own on the sacred soil of
Kangaroo Flat. This is the reason he now
advertises for a single lady to “join him in
an orchard.” The snake has no doubt been
captured some time, and being properly trained,
is well up in the business of fooling a soft-headed
woman with unripe fruit and ministerial promises.
For ourselves, we wish Mr. Jollin’s experiment
all success, but at the same time we warn him
that a too close adherence to Biblical details may
not only frustrate his ends, but also get himself
and his partnerlnto” quod” as well. A fig-leaf cos-
tume, for instance, might have been the O.K.
thing in the year 1, but since men milliners and
master tailors have been allowed to hold olMce as
church elders, and have a voice In church coun-
cils, this particular Scriptural Idea has been con-
siderably modified to suit the exigencies of busi-
ness. However, Mr. Jollin has no doubt weighed
all things carefully by this, and we venture to
think considerable public Interest will be taken in
his future movements in search of truth—
especially when he has pursued his enquiries as
far as the starting of a second deluge. [N.B.—
Since going to press, we have learnt that Lady
Munroe has volunteered to play the part of Eve,
but this, like our Continental cablegrams, “re-
quires confirmation.” Anyway it will take a smart
snake to fool her.—Ed. B.]
Putting together all we have read about
Miss Lucilla Dudley, who didn’t shoot very
straight at Mr. Jerry O’Donovan Rossa, the
drunken blatherer, who promises to blow
England up, it would appear that she com-
menced her romantic career as a fairy In a panto-
mime at Manchester, where, at the peril of her
life, she saved the clown from burning himself
with his own red-hot poker. She next turned her
attention to a mysterious gentleman in Cheshire,
who seems not to have been quite the Cheshire
cheese. He la said to have been a Cheshire clergy-
man, and the result of the union of Church and
Stage was a little grave in the churchyard, on
which Lucille, though absolutely penniless, ex-
pended £50 in flowers and hymns In lead letters
and a marble cross. The young lady then com-
mitted suicide on the Great Eastern Railway in
order to frighten the officials, and not having suc-
ceeded as well as she expected, went to be a nurse
at Charing Cross Hospital. After this she was
I confined in a lunatic asylum, and her landlady ob-
tained £6 10s. from the Cheshire clergyman’s
j Cheshire solicitors for back rent. Lucille was
next heard of as an artist’s model, sitting for her
beautiful figure, and in this capacity she once
I again committed suicide, dressed in widow’s
weeds. While on a visit to Paris she attempted
her life at Brighton, and also tried to starve her-
self to death at Barnet. But the process being an
expensive one, she left for New York, where,
with only a pair of spectacles, her beauty, and a
revolver, she achieved deathless fame by attempt-
ing someone else’s life Instead of her own. Lucille
is stated in several newspapers to be “ the illegiti-
mate daughter of persons of .rank,” but the bio-
grapher is unable to explain what the newspape s
mean by persons. She has a guardian, and sneaks
several 'languages, and is ignorant of many others.
She has a cast in one of her eyes—as strong a
cast as yox see in connection with the very best
of plays. She Is a member of the Church of Eng-
land, and studied elocution and stage deportment
Wider Miss Ellen Terry’s father. Under whom
she studied shooting is not at present known, but
It was not Dr. Carver. Further particulars will be
given in a later edition of the biography of this
truly remarkably young woman. It is rumoured
that she was really attempting to commit suicide
but owing to the cast In her eye hit liossa instead’
When he was on the ground she begged his par-
don and asked him for the bullet if he had quite
done with it. She is perfectly sane, dresses ele-
gantly, and has already ornamented her cell
with some exquisite watercolour drawings.
It has been ascertained that the expenses
of Miss Dudley’s journey to America were
defrayed by the British Government. With
its customary generosity it took a steerage
passage for her, and the revolver has been iden-
tilled as formerly in Mr. Gladstone’s possession, a
letter from the Home Secretary has been found at
Miss Dudley’s lodgings. It is as follows:—" Dear
Lucy,—I hope as how you've got to New York all
right. I have asked the Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer how much we can afford for Rossa, and
he says we can’t go beyond £3 10s. If you can do
it for this, all right. Mr. Gladstone says when
you’ve done with his revolver send it back car-
riage paid, as it’s the only one he’s got, and things
being very bad over here, he wants to buy a new
hat and can’t afford another pistol. Please don't
say as I have wrote you. Them Fenians will get
putting dynermite in my boots.—Yours truly, (Sir
William Vernon Harcourt.”
Old man Mann, of Rakaia, N.Z., should
really be more careful in future how he mixes
and dispenses his whisky. His last deal out from
the keg he keeps under his bed laid seven noble
rabbit-shooters low with spasms and fearful in-
ward agony, and one of them, named Fahey
straightened out stiff after his drink, and received”
the honour of a public inquest and funeral in due
course. This is how it was. A party of local
sportsmen had stayed over night at Mann’s farm-
house, and found his whisay and hospitality both
first chop—especially the whisky. So highly did
they rate the latter, that the ancient patriarch
pleased with their approval of it, next morning’
gave them a bottle to enable them to see double
when the rabbits came round to look at them and
enquire the time o’ day. His own son Alick ac-
companied the shootists, but he said to the bottle-
bearer, “Dinna gie Sandy o’ the sperrlts; he’s
ower young to marry or drink whnsky
yet.” This caution, and anxiety for Sandy’s
safety very nearly cost the old man a
heavy amount in bail subsequently. It looked as
if he intended the subsequent proceedings to
happen, and was anxious his youthful offspring
should not be included in the general tragedy.
When the party reached the next farm-house,*
their remembrance of the whisky was so vivid
that they made a requisition on the honest farmer
for pannikins and proceeded to divide the liquid,
Fahey drank his nobbier and insisted on a second
supply; the others, fortunately for themselves
were more than satisfied with one dose. Then
they all went down on their stomachs and squirmed
except poor Sandy, the abstainer, who stood look-
ing on admiringly, and wondering at the strength
of the old man’s grog. He had never seen it take
such sudden effect before. Then several of them
got up and threatened to murder him. His father
nad poisoned them, they said, and that was why he
did not wish the son to taste the whisky. The
farmer’s wife started to spoon-feed them with
a plateful of mustard and water, and they
all recovered except poor Fahey, whose dou-
ble dose of the poison had secured him
an express pass to the celestial regions.
When old Mann heard of the trouble, he was
visibly affected. His knees shook, his gums clut-
tered, and it required several ricks of hay to wipe
the perspiration from his brow. He sent word to
the survivors to come and stay at bis house till
they recovered; but they replied somewhat feel-
ingly that they did not want to see him again till
they went to witness the hanging. They thought
they had had enough of old Mann for the present.
At the inquest, the old gentleman, acting under
legal advice, declined to give evidence; but it
was mentioned, as a probable explanation of
the trouble, that he had admitted bottling the
whisky with a jug in which he had previously
mixed a gentle and soothing syrup, whose
principal ingredient was strychnine, for the
benefit of the family rats. He had forgotten to
wash out the Jug afterwards, and he couldn’t
§lead any water famine as an excuse, for it has
een raining uninterruptedly down at Rakaia, to
our.porsonal knowledge, for the past ten years. If
it were not for the whisky we should not now be
alive to tell the tale, and—yes, thank you. Just one
more before we finish. Anyhow, although it was
a clear case of Manslaughter, the old party got
away with a caution. But he must really be more
careful in future; that’s all, the jury and we are
unanimous on that point—quite unanim-mum-um
Hang these elongated adverbs, we're full of
them. Let’s have another, and then turn in.
In a long letter describing the battle of
Abu Klea, the Daily Telegraph correspondent
depicts the scene when the enemy first charged
the British forces, and gives the following parti-
culars of the death of Colonel BurnabyI saw
our men.” he says, after the first charge of the
enemy, “beginning to shuffle a little backward.
Some say Colonel Burnaby issued an order for the
men to ‘fall back;’ but—lean speak confidently
on this point—though near him, I never heard it.
That, however, is a small matter, and it may have
) een issued all the same. At any rate, the left
face moved somewhat backwards, and slightly
t awards the zeretsa. Colonel Burnaby himself
whose every action at the time I saw from a dis-
tance of about thirty yards, rode out in front of
the rear of the left face, apparently to assist two
or three of our skirmishers, who were running in
hard pressed. I think ail but one man of them
succeeded in reaching our lines. Burnaby went
forward to the men’s assistance, sword in hand
He told me he had given to his servant to carry
that double-barrelled shot-gun which he had used
so well against the Hadendowas at HI Teh hi
deference to the noise made in England by so-
called humanitarians against its use. Had it been
in his hands, Burnaby would easily have saved
other lives as well as his own, but they would
have been English lives at the expense of Arabs •
As the dauntless Colonel rode forward on a bor-
rowed nag—for his own had been shot that morn-
ing—he put himself in the way of a sheikh charg-
ing down on horseback. Ere the Arab closed
with him a bullet from someone in our ranks, and
not Burnaby’s sword-thrust, brought the sheiks,
headlong to the ground. The enemy’s spearmen
were close behind, and one of them suddenly
dashed at Colonel Burnaby, pointing the long
blade of his spear at his throat. Checking hi*
horse and slowly pulling it backward, Burnaby
leant forward in his saddle and parried the
Moslem’s rapid and ferocious thrusts; but tn®
length of the man’s weapon, eight feet, put .it
out of his power to return with interest tne
Arab’s murderous intent. Once or twice t
think the Colonel just touched his man, omf
to make him more wary and eager. TO*
affray was the work of three or four seoono*
only, for the savage horde of swarthy negroei
from Kordofan, and the straight-haired, tawny-
complexioned Arabs of the Bayunda steppe, * er *
fast closing in upon our square. Burnaby fence*
smartly, just as if he were playing in an assault «
arms, and there was a smile on his features as n*
drove off the man’s awkward points. The seen*
was taken in at a glance—with that lightning in-
stinct which I have seen the desert warriors beior«
now display in battle whilst coming to o™
aid—by an Arab who, pursuing a soldier,
had passed five paces to Burnaby’s right and rear.
Turning with a sudden spring, this second Ar»“
ran his spear-point into the Colonel’s rigo
shoulder. It was but a slight wound- enough-
though, to cause Burnaby to twist around in n«
saddle to defend himself from this unexpected sw
tack. Before the savage could repeat his un
looked-for blow—so near the ranks of tbe equm
was the scene now being enactcd-a soldier
out and drove his sword-bayonet through
second assailant. As the Eng'lshman
the steel the ferocious Arab wriggled round a"
sought to reach him. The effort was too out •
however, even for his delirium of hatred again
the Christian, and the rebel reeled and *
Brief as was Burnaby’s glance backward at
fatal episode, it waa long enough to enable v
first Arab to deliver his spear point fuU
brave officer’s throat. The blow drove Burn*
out of t£e saddle, but it required a second o
A case of apparent ingratitude on the part of an animal has been brought to our
notice. A farmer in Dubbo had a prize ram, of which he was pardonably proud. The
best understanding—indeed, a mutual respect—appeared to exist between himself and
the beast. But one day last week the man stooped in the paddock to tie his boot. His
hat fell off, and he remembers little more. The treacherous creature seized the oppor-
tunity, and launched itself at its master’s head with the momentum of a catapult. A.
wound six inches long was the result, and there is now a noticeable coolness between
the parties. No real explanation has been given, but it is surmised that it was mere
playfulness on the ram’s part. It did not think it had such velocity on, and intended
only a little surprise—probably imagining the owner was turned the other way. The
man was bald.


ALCOCK& CO.’S
CELEBRATED #
BILLIARD
TABLES,|
SOLE AGENTS : j
CHARLES DOBSOi aid CO.,
375 George-st., Sydney.
TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED,
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
i Enfllita Papers and Magazines received by
every Mall.
, liOYAL ARCADE. OEOKQB 8T.. *98 SYDNEY.
; P. K I BBT,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
i TJaa.d.ertsilrer,
84 HUNTER St PHILLIP STREETS.
• FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
1 N.B. —Mr. Kirby was In the employ of the late
. Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (18) years; also,
0 Manager for over ten GO) years.
Infante and Children
"What gives our Children rosy cheeks,
•What cures their levers, makes them sleep: ,
. Castorla.
When Babies fret, and cry by turns,
What cures their cplio, kills their worms.
Cawtoria.
What quickly pures Cpnstipation,
Sour Stomach, Colds, Indigestion;
Castorla.
Farewell then to Morphine Syrups, .
Castor Oil and Paregoric, and a
, Hall Castorla.
“ Castoria is so well adapted to Children
that I recommend it ns superior to any medi-
cine known to me.”—H. A. Archer, M. X>.,
Ill Oxford St, Now York.
Elliott Bros., Sidney, Agents.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
Marshall's Artificial Teeth.
Marshall brothers, Dentist?, owing to
the great increase of their dentistry prac-
tice. have also taken extensive premises at 183
ELIZABETH STREET, Hyde Park. They still
continue to insert teeth at the same enormously
reduced price as before, namely, pet* *et,
upper and lower, which are precisely the same
prize medal teeth advertised by other Aims.
Marshall Brothers gurantee these to be equal in
every way, both for quality, fit, and appearance,
to those inserted by hundreds of dentists (with a
limited practice), who charge double and treble
this amount. The public may doubt this, but
Marshall Brothers < tier £500 to any person who
can prove this statement untrue. Consultation
free. Painless extraction by the aid of nitrous
oxide gas. MARSHALL BROTHERS, American
Dentists. 133 Blizabeth-street, Hyde Park, and
Market street. N. B.—All trams stop at the door.
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TUBE
HOTEL, which is now kept by
Ned Warmoll.
The LOUIS’*
VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and roueh wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in tact
O, for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
L mav be used we specially recommend
if the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of “ Louis."
I May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
Saturday’s Auction Sale
OP
LAKES of KILLARNEY
POULTRY FARMS.
W ACRE BLOCKS.
UPSET PRICE, £7 10s. PER ACRE.
Special train leaves Rcdfern at 12.20 Free tickets. Plans.
BOYD and KING, 96 Pitt-street.
ROYAL HOTEL
boxtrkb.
Is tie largest and best-appointed family Hotel In the
cannot be surpassed, even In the Metropolis. Private buites lor lammea.
The Table and Liquo
First-class S tabling
THOMAS HUGGINS, t-ropnaio-
OBTAINABLE PROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
BATED
BISCUITS AND CAKES, TREACLE AND GOLDEN SYRUP,
Self-raisino /Erated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
at,*!. w lW Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney I.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
a ' 0 an( i s e ven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881 ; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.B. 1883-1,
h«fore he let go his grip of the reins and tumbled
,,nnn the ground. Half-a-dozen Arabs were now
•hoat him. With the blood gushing in streams
from his gashed throat, the dauntless Guardsman
ilnf to his feet, sword in hand, and slashed at the
ferocious group. They were the wild strokes of a
Irnnd brave man, dying hard, and he was quickly
overborne, and le& helpless and dying. The heroic
Soldier who sprang to his rescue, was, I fear, also
Slain in the m tUe, for—though I watched for him
“t never saw him get back to' his place in the
links ” In a subsequent issue of the Chronicle,
this last doubt is cleared up. The father. Chas.
groll Laporte, of the gallant private who was a lad
20 years of age, sends an extract from a letter
received from his son:-“Iwas firing in the rear
fSce of the square, If I may so term it. Colonel |
Burnaby rushed out madly between the line of
are and started cutting amongst them with hia
Sword Soon after I was by his side, and his life’s
?.iood was flowing from three wounds, some of
which I have on my sleeve, and will, if spared,
bring home, for better blood never flowed from a
braver man.”
“ Dailey’ 8 noble offer has thrilled the
world." So we have heard, and do in part believe
It- but we doubt if all the kudos little Tiptop has
rp’neived for his warlike deeds can ever recom-
Unafi him for his loss of prestige as the first orator
$ the colony. The saddest part of the story is
♦hat like the eagle who yielded the feather that
voided the fatal arrow to its own breast, so also
fas Dictator Dailey by his martial move furnished
a subject for a rival to step into the arena of bun-
kum, and wrest from him the proud title of the
champion of hifalutin gab. That this has been
done is fully proved by a recent Albury Banner,
in which the classical correspondent from Boree
Creek describes the grand jubilee held at Bank
Vale to celebrate the arrival of what the Bank
Valiants condescendingly called their “brothers-
in-arms ” at the Soudan. The fact that not a single
brother-in-arms ever heard of such an important
nlaoe as either Boree Creek or Bank Vale, was ad-
mitted, but the fact is [sub rosa, this], the travel-
ling hawker, w ho usually visits those influential
nlaoes about this festive season, and expects to be
treated as a son of the great Autolycus deserves,
failed to show up, and as the fatted calf had already I
been knocked on the head, it was prudently de-
elded to honour someone, and so our brothers-
m-arms ” filled up the gap in the most convenient
manner possible. Rather unfortunately for pos-
terity, tne Boree scribe arrived just as the last
chunk of the corned beef and cabbage had been
surrounded by the village schoolmaster, and the
account of how the battle raged is therefore con-
fined to the short but pithy statement that “the
lurtous viands melted quicker than the change of
half a sovereign,” after which the room was
cleared for a jig, and, to use the Boree Sala s own
words, “ Mr. A. Pertzel, of Galore Mount, rendered
the music on the accordeon—and he is the boy
that can handle that instrument to perfection.
En vassant , let us remark that next to the hag-
mw* the accordeon is the noblest musical weapon
vetlnvented. We practice on it ourselves, when-
ever there doesn’t happen to be a wake in the
house to the right of us, and the man to the left
of us is too drunk to fire off his gun. During an
Interval in the dancing a couple of recitations (in-
cluding an original poem by the local pound-
keeper, commencing, “ The boy stood on the burn-
ing Meek”) were fired off, and then (modestly
alluding to himself, of course,) the Boree quill-
wolloper says “ a member of the company rose
and out-Dalleyed Dailey by observing with appro-
priate gesture “ Fellow soldats, and men of
Bank-Vale, Boree Creek, and the adjacent
districts — Circumstances over which we had
no control-[Hear, hear], prevented us from
swelling the number of the vast multitude
who met in Sydney on 3rd ultimo to do honour
and to wish God-speed to the gallant band of New
South Welsh soldiers then embarking for the seat
of war. Nevertheless, in our own humble way we
did swell— [Ltmd cheers, and a voice: “Oris well
as endswell.”]—but* as the Fates decreed, we had
to swell at home. No one outside of our number
may ever know that we are met to celebrate the
safe arrival of our troops at their destination.
[Groans, and a still, small voice in a corner said;
“ Dammer troops. Shem uppergen.”] Nobody
else may become aware that a score of obscure
country people like us breathe the same anxious
prayer with others—that our brave fellows may
display the same intrepid courage, undaunted
bravery, strong endurance, and heroic valour
which distinguished their sires at Corunna, Water-
loo, and at Inkerman. [A Voice: “Let them
know it. Print it.”] Happy thought. We will
request our worthy grocer, Mr. Sandenshooger, to
have it printed on his paper bags and send them
along with groceries to the seat of war. It shall
be printed, for sure. I am sure that were a
foreign foe—be he Russian bear or French eagle—
to dare to plant his unhallowed foot on these
shores, there is not one true Australian, from
Cape York to Wilson's Promontory, and from
Point Byron to West Cape, but would dare him
ever to take his foot off again. [Tremendous
cheering; and a shearer very generously
offered to fight any six men in the hall.]
The great Abercromby who, in the same land
fell leading on his troops dgainst the Invincible
Legion’ of France, and when the 38th and 43nd
Regiments withstood the repeated attacks of
cavalry, infantry, and artillery, till 650 of the
‘ Legion ’ fell and only 250 remained to surrender
their swords to the Highlanders, said— [“Whatcher
givln’ us?”]—The great Abercromby said—or rawer
He mentioned—that is to say, he observed that
—‘ Britannia ruled the waves—[“ Three cheers for
Abercromby ”]—and the man who would raise his
hand to a woman except in self-defenee was un-
worthy of a British sailor-[Loud applause.]-And
now, fellow-soldats — which is French—let us
pray that the shades of those heroes, the shade of
the martyr-hero Gordon, the shades of Stewart
and Earle and Burnaby, all those gallant men who
fell fighting their way up the Nile, hover over,
animate, and inspire our little band of patriots!
May they return crowned with honour ; not
exulting in the idea of having put to the rout
semi-savages, but In the blessings of peace, order,
and good government where before reigned
anarchy and oppression and bloodshed. Romans,
Countrymen, and Lovers,—This is a great day for
Boree Creek and the whole world in general. Forty
sentrys are looking out of their boxes upon us all,
and this is a day to make us proud enough surely
to warm up the cockles of even Sir Henry Parkes
old heart, and to make Mr. Dailey dance on his
head.” Hearing something about a dance going
on, the Galore accordeon belter struck a first set,
and the rest of the soul-stirring oration was, we
regret to say, drowned In the yells of Here,
Missis Mulgoogerty, ye’ll hev t dance wld me—
half roightan’ left, Misthur O Toole-ladies to th
cintir, jazzez crasse an’ bather wld yer left—
Whoopi th’ O’Ragin bhoys fur iver,” &c, but,
anyway, we have heard enough to know that as an
orator Dailey’s sun has set, for the Boree Creek
genius is evidently a man who excels M Blhone for
gravity, Buchanan for terseness, Abigail for wit,
Lusoombe for subtlety, and Dan O Connor for
richness and luminassity of expression. Give him
a place to stand, and he’ll move the world—or,
better still, entice him to the edge of the Boree
Creek and shove him in.
“ 0, tell me where is fancy bred,”
She said; and, growing bolder,
She laid her little shapely head
Upon my willing shoulder.
I said, “ Xo fancy bread I know;
But best of all the Houses
Is that of Summerfleld and Co.
For fancy vests and trousers.”*


CHIARINI’S ROYAL ITALIAN CIRCUS
and MENAGERIE of TRAINED ANIMALS.
THE BIG SHOW, OPEN EVERY NIGHT, at 7.
Performance commencing at 8, at
BELMORB PARK.
CONSTANT CHANGES OF PROGRAMME.
THE BIGGEST AND THE BEST SHOW IN
THE CITY,
Thousands of Dellfrhted Spectators present at
every Entertainment.
GRAND FREE OUT-DOOR CONCERTS given
by Chlarini’s Celebrated Band for one hour before
each performance commences.
Afternoon Performances every WEDNESDAY
and SATURDAY, at 3.30. Doors open at 1.30.
Glorious Fun for the Children. Free Rides on
the Learned Ceylon Elephants at Every Afternoon
Show.
L. MAYA, Secretary.
FRANK G. WILSON. Advance Agent.
gT.
Lessees
GEORGE’S HALL,
Melbourne.
Clark and Ryman.
OPEN ALL THE YEAR ROUND.
First-class Artists, Novelties, Combinations—
either Musiokl, Dramatic, Minstrel, or Operatic—
treated with.
Silence a respectful negative.
This popular place of amusement is now in Its
full tide of success—houses packed to the doors
nightly. Pjronounced by the Press, public, and
profession to be the best entertainment ever seen
In Melbourne.
Notice, —The title of ‘‘Red Stockings” has
been duly registered, and anyone infringing this
title will be prosecuted according to law.
JOHN FANNING,
Business Manager.
[A. CARD,] ' “
THE Committee of the ORIENTAL CRICKET
CLUB beg to Inform their many friends and
supporters that they Intend holding their
Third Annual Picnic
to TENNYSON. Parramatta River,
On SATURDAY AFTERNOON, May 3 next.
Tickets, is. 6d. each, to be had from any of the
members. R. A, WARREN, Hon. Sec.
v - VENETIA V/ALTT. „
Th* Air to bt woU marital, Oaroufr Lowthiaji.
P/3^ 7 raiLtabtJl. i
r •
M
_^r
■ i
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC In the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues will be ready in a few days and
sent gratis on application.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &o., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
Ail orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Pans, &0.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most Important Copying
Instruments ever Invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off TO splendid copies.
S nd and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM ~BULLARD,
342 GEORGE STREET.
MASON BROTHERS
LIMITED,
14 and 16 Spring Street
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
GLASS, CHINA.
AJTD
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. G A YEN’S
Sobnapf s md Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
EdinburgnPale Ale.
Bavarian linn
ittebs. flUr
Bavarian Hop Bitters
Made of the best Bavarian Hops. Superior to any
other.
They take the first place wherever tried, and are
well authenticated by eminent medical men and
well-known analysts.
Read the reports and testimony which accom-
pany each bottle, and do not forget to make a
trial of BAVARIAN HOP Bitters.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, 31st April, 1885.
Tenders for public works and sup-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
Is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
I Hotoa fA Tirkt/lk
DR.SCOTT'S
j^Sfe C ° r8e t
■2
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist wit!
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by thi
vitalising properties of electricity the func
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn
the principal Royal Families of Europe, b]
the elite, of American and Continenta
society, they are daily endorsed by over om
million ladies, and as they do not exceed ii
cost the ordinary goods of other makers
without the electricity or therapeutic valui
of any kind, who will refuse to give them t
trial ?
If you have any pain, ache, or ill-feelins
from any cause; if you seem “pretty well,’
yet lack energy and do not “feel up to thi
mark;” if you suffer from disease, we bej
you to at once try these remarkable cura
tives. They cannot and do not injure lik«
medicine. Always doing good, never barm
There is no shock or sensation felt in wear
ing them. There is no waiting a long tirai
for results; electro-magnetism acts quickly
generally the first week, more frequently
the first day, and often even during th«
first hour they are worn their wonderfu
curative powers are felt.
The mind becomes active, the nerves and
sluggish circulation are stimulated, and al
the old-time health and good-feeling conn
back. They are constructed on scientifh
principles, imparting an exhilarating
health-giving current to the whole system.
Professional men assert that there is hardlj
a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily
practise the same, as your own physician
will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearance
from those usually worn, as we substitute
our flat steel magnetods in place of the
ordinary corset-steels. They are all equally
charged, differing only in quality and design
They are elegant in shape and finish, made
after the best French patterns, and war-
ranted satisfactory in every respect. Those
who have tried them say they will wear no
others. Most of the above applies equally
to the Electric Belt for gents.
m
t
J3
m
Dr . Scoffs Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &o., and hav«
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all other remedies (so
called) have failed.
The prices are as follows
s. d.
6 6
8 6
10 6
15 0
15 0
No. 1
No. 3
No, 3
No. 5
Electric Belts..
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand;
some box, accompanied by a silver-platec
compass, by which the Eleetrio-Magneth
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kmc
to any port or railway station in New Soutl
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of prict
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mai
direct to any address upon receipt of stampi
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size pi
lorset usually worn'; or, where the size u
ot known, take a measurement of tb<
mist over the linen. This can bo done wiM
piece of common string, which send wilt
our order.
Remittances can oe made by cheque
P.O.O , stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
li
54 Margaret-street,
SYDNEY.
P.O, Box 231.
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
Tuesday,
28th April,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
5th May,
at 11 o’clock
Tuesday,
13th May,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
19th May,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
7th July,
at 11 o’clock.
Nature of Works and Suppllea
Twelve (12) Express Passenger
Locomotive Engines, and Six
(6) Tank Locomotive Engines.
Additions, &c., Courthouse,
Qosford
Alterations, Gaol. Coonamble
Erection of Shed for Seamen,
Shipping Office, Newcastle
Erection of Police Buildings,
Kempsey
Supply of Horse Boat for Bate-
man’s Bay
Construction of Wharf, Drum-
moyne - street, Lane Cove
River
Supply of Cast-iron Pipes for
country towns
Bridge over Cato Creek, road
Brewarrlna to Goodooga
Erection of Courthouse, Mul-
wala
Additions, &c , Wollongong Gaol
Erection of Fencing, Reforma-
tory for Boys, Rookwood
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Broughton Creek.
Construction of Bridge over
Sydney Water Supply Canal,
Campbelltown to Camden
Tramway.
Erection of Gallery, Court-
house, Wilcannia
Erection of two Dwelling-
houses, Albury Water Supply
Erection of two Dwelling-
houses,Bathurst Water Supply
Erection of two Dwelling-
houses, Goulburn Water
Supply
Repairs, &c„ old buildings, Cal-
lan Park Asylum
Erection of Public Wharves,
Tweed River
Erection of Engine Sheds and
Pits at Wellington
Erection of Lock-up, Balranald
Repairs, &o., Police Barracks,
Walgett
Erection of Courthouse, Dubbo
Bridge over Bungle Gully, road
Walgett to Coonamble
Construction of about miles
of Wrought Iron Water Pipes,
Sydney Water Supply
F. A. WRIGHT.
FOR OLD
and
YOUNG.
kiwi 1
VI
AUSTRALIAN
MAGICAL
DEPOT.
I
Magic, Mirth, and Mystery.
A BOOK CONTAINING OYER250 TRICKS AND
DELUSIONS WITH CARDS. DICE, AND
CONJURING APPARATUS,
all Illustrated with wood blocks and diagrams,
forming the most complete collection of its kind
ever offered to the Australian public. Mailed free
to any address in New South Wales for 7d, stamps;
intercolonial 8d.
THE VANISHING EGO BOX-To make an egg
disappear at pleasure, 3s 6d, post free 3?.
THE MAGIC CASK AND FAIRY BELL—A
beautiful trick,Ss.bypost4s.
THE GOLDEN EGG— An ordinary egg Is first
gilded, then disappears, and is finally restored to
its original purity, 3s 6d, post free 4s (id.
THE DISAPPEARING CARD BOX-A very
clever little trick, so simple that a child five years
old can manipulate it, price Is, post free Is 0d.
THE GREAT HAT AND DIE TRICK—A solid
die 3 inches square passes completely through a
gentleman’s hat and is found intide. A very clever
trick. Price Is 6d, post free 2s.
THE MAGIC DISSOLVING PACK OF CARDS
—A pack of playing cards are shown to the audience
and then placed In a case just large enough to
hold them. One of the audience, instantly after
this is done, opens the case, and finds it full of
sweets and the cards vanished. Price Is 6d, post
free 3».
THE GREAT NOSE AND TWINE TRICK—
The performer first bores a hole through a gentle-
man’s nose with a bradawl and then passes a piece
of twine through in a frame. Very laughable.
Price 3e, post free 3s 6d.
THE WIZARD
OF THE NORTH’S
CHANGEABLE
PACK OF CARDS.
The Cards change from
Red to Black, from Eights
to Deuces, and back again
at the pleasure of the per-
former. These tricks eJiclt
exclamations of surprise
and wonder from all who
witness them. Post free, with FULL INSTRUC-
TIONS, Is 2d.
The “Multiplex” Puzzle contains no less than
50 distinct entertaining and instructive problems.
In handsome case with diagram; Is 6d, post free.
Pharaoh’s Serpent’s Eggs, the size of a pea, from
which a fiery serpent 3 feet long uncoils, Is per
doz , by post Is 2d.
I’m a Daddy; I’m in Love; The Mother-ln law;
I’m a Farder; and Before and After Marriage.
The funniest pictures ever Issued, 5 in each set.
Price, 6d per sot, or 5 sets for 3s, by post 3s 2d.
American Comic Pictures, 14 x 18 inches. Sport-
ing Scenes, &c., &c , very funny, highly coloured,
Is each, by post Is 3d; or 8s per doz.; post free,
8s (id.
Oleographs, 24 x 36, beautifully coloured. The
Lord’s Supper, Book of Ages, Faith, Hope, and
Charity, Beatrice de Cenoi, The Little Pete, Uncle
Tom’s Cabin, Sherman’s March to the Sea, and
many others, all reduced to 5s, post free. Original
cost, 10s6d.
FINE STEEL ENGRAVINGS.
Life's Morning and Evening, The Orphan’s Res-
cue, Lead Me to the Rock, Woodland Hours,
Homeward (A. Stein—copied), These are My
Jewels, The Faithful Wife, An Armful, The First
Love, Spring Time of Lite; 3s 6d each, post free
3s 8d. These Engravings are really first-class and
worth twice tae money asked.
Also, agreat number of Tricks, Novelties, Ac., a
full description of which will be found in the
book
MAGIC, MIRTH, and MYSTERY.
N.S.W. stamps taken at par.: from other colo-
nies. add Id to each shilling. Pest office orders pre-
ferable. Address a 1 orders plainly, AUSTRALIAN
MAGICAL DEPOT, 401 George street, Box 641,
G.P.O., Sydney.
Nervous debility, lost vitality,
Weakness, and Premature Decay.—A favour-
ite Prescription of an eminent French Hospital
Physician for simple self-cure. Sent free to any
sufferer. Send your address, on a stamped enve-
lope, C. C. W., Box 766, G.P.O., Sydney,
Professional Directory.
ISC0CK8’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
mja. clalty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
lea, apply F. E. Hiaoookg..
HORACE BENT, with Hlscocks’ Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
W.
Sydney
TO AMATEUR THEATRICALS.—Scenery Sup-
plied or Lent. G. Pkrriman, Scene Painter,
No. 7, back of Academy of Music, Castlereagh-st,
Theatre royal.
Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musqrovb.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman,
Doors open at 7.16, commence 7.45. Carriages, 10.45
,, Eleventh Week, and established Success of the
Royal Dramatic Company,
who have contributed another triumph to the list
of th?ir achievements.
THIS EVENING, at a quarter to 8 precisely,
THE PROFESSOR
THE PROFESSOR,
with a
POWERFUL CAST and NEW SCENERY bv
GORDON and HENNINGS.
Furniture and appointments from Hamilton aud
Co. Globe Furniture Warehouse, Park and Castle-
reagh-streets.
Prices of Admission: Diess Circle, 5s.: StaiTs,
3s.; Family Circle. 3a.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box office open dally from 11 till 4.
NEW OPERA HOUSE.
Lessees, Messrs. E. Majeronland W, J. Wilson,
under the Management of Rlgnold and Allison.
Stage Manager .. .. Mr. J. F. Cathcart.
The Greatest Hit of the Season has been made bv
RIGNOLD and ALLISON’S COMED Y COMPANY
In the greatest of all comedies,
PINK DOMINOES PINK DOMINOES,
which is received nightly by crowded houses with
deafening applause and screams of laughter
Plan at Huenrbeein’s. Treasurer. Q. A Coleman.
_0 F M U 8 I o’,
Mr. F. E. Hiscooks.
C A D B M Y
Lessee and Manager
46th Week, and Continued Success of
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and SPECIALITY UNION
Every Evening in their Reflned and Amusing
Entertainment.
' Saturday next, H.M.S. PIN-A-4 in Black.
Admission, 4s., 3s., 3s., and Is. Box Plan at
Paling’s. Carriages at 10.15.
VANITY FAIR.
Bavaria has just passed a law forbidding
the marriage of people who have received public
charity within three years, who have not paid their
taxes, or who, by reason of laziness or poverty,
are likely to make home wretched. Would the
approaching marriage of Prince Battenberg to the
Princess Beatrice be barred under this law?. ..The
most astounding elopement ever known is one
which took place at Cardiff the other day, when a
woman of 33 ran off with her father-in-law, who
recently celebrated his eightieth birthday, and
took with her nearly £800 of her husband’s money.
....From New York we learn that onion socials
are all the rage; and this is how they are worked.
Six ladies take an onion with them into a room
and one of them takes a bite of it. Then a young
gentleman is admitted to the game, and if, after
kissing them all, he falls to tell which of them bit
the onion, why, then all the girls kiss him —
The gallant General Sir Herbert Stewart was
brother to the lovely Mrs. Berens, well-known in
London society With what regret the laun-
dresses must look back to the good old times of
crinoline and long trailing dresses, to the golden
days of the Empire, when the Empress Eugenie
set the fashion tor unlimited petticoats by wear-
ing (as the Count d’Herison, in his just-published
“ Memoirs,” stoops to tell us) eighteen of these
garments as a substitute for steel springs I If she
had them fresh each day, new and stiff, her
subjects could not be so extravagant, and per-
force had recourse to starch and Ironing —
“ Charley,” said the young wife, “ I know what
I’m going to get on my next birthday.” “ Do you,
love—what is it ?” “ A lovely sealskin.” “ You
don’t say so? Well, I am glad to hear it, for it
will save me a good deal of money.” And then
she went out into ,tho kitchen and stepped on the
cat, kicked the dog. and gave the cook a month’s
notice....Said thejdootor to Brabbit (who had
consulted him on the necessity for relieving a dis-
tressing cough): “ You must give up brandy, sir.
Either the cough or brandy.” Replied Brabbit:
“ I think, then, I’d rather stick to both.”. ... He was
a tame curate in the Black Country, and he was
waiting in church to marry a couple of the abori-
gines. Enter one of them, the male, In a hurry
and his working clothes, with his bands and face
covered with antique dirt. “ Aw’ve kum to be
wed.” “ You ?” responded the curate, aghast, “ in
that garb. It is most improper. Why, youjare down-
rlghtdlrty.” “Me mucky? Wait till you see her.’’..,
*’ Who is your family physician, George ? ” “ Dr.
Bmoothman.” “ How did you employ that poor,
wretched creature7” "Oh, my wife once asked
him If he could tell why she always had cold feet,
and he told her they were so small they could not
hold blood enough to keep them warm. She won’t
have any other doctor, now.” Prince Edward is
to become a “ barrister.” We hope he’ll never be
assigned to us as counsel when we arc charged
with killing our mother-in-law—“George Eliot”
on the woman’s rights movement:—“ ‘ Enfran-
chisement of Women ’ only makes creeping pro-
gress, and that is best, for woman does not yet
deserve a much better lot than man gives her.”
Japanese women tie their dress-improvers on the
outside —Miss Beatrice Pease has married Lord
Lymlngton. It is the first times as far as is known,
that a lady born a Quakeress has been married to
the heir to an earldom “What a wonderful
thing is man!” said the lecturer the other even-
ing. “ His form, how majestic I his faculties, how
grand.” “ Yes,” responded a man in the front
seat; “ and how admirably his legs are adapted for
wearing trousers I ’.... Aunt, emphatically: “ Now,
Angelina, I won’t have you walking about the
Domain by yourself at night.” " No, aunt, I
never do; I always have some fellow with mo.
A Fact.—He was stopped by his master’s
voice when about delivering a desperate blow
with a spade at what he took to be two goats sit-
ting one morning on the lawn of which he was
the keeper. They wre two deer, got from Bray’s
China Shop, 403 and 404 Qeorge-street, and were
lifelike. 41
It is generally admitted that there cannot
be anything more exqusltely delicate for perfum-
ing the handkerchief than MURRAY and LAN-
MAN’S FLORIDA WATER, but its great and dis-
tinctive property is its adaptability to the uses of
the bath. It is the only perfume that we know of
ESPECIALLY AND PARTICULARLY suited to
use in this way; the power it has of imparting to
the waters of the bath great soothing, refreshing,
and invigorating effects, is peculiar to Itself.
A DANIEL COME TO JUDGEMENT.
Two doctors equally renowned
In ailments of the brain
Were called to see a certain man
Supposed to be insane.
Of course they differed; one pronounced
The man a helpless case;
The other said he could not see
Of lunacy a trace.
A third man came; he said at once:
The man’s all right, I know
He is, HE BUYS HIS CLOTHES
From 8UMMERFIELD and CO.*


Waltham Watch taw.
REVOLUTION IN THE POSTAL SYSTEM.
PRODIGIOUS efforts are being made by the
New South Wales Government to bring the
Postal Department up to the requirements of the
time. Once pledged ito the introduction of the
Sarcels-post system, which has proved a national
oon in the United Kingdom and the United
States, the Sydney Minister is expediting the work
of making his Department a safe, cheap, and
speedy medium of transit for all descriptions of
portable merchandise. This means that goods
may now be despatched through the Post Office
and delivered as quickly as a letter to any addrese
in either colony. The significance of the thing is
that it virtually brings the most distant resident
down to the doorstep of the best and cheapest
establishment in the great free-trade metropolis.
The man who has led the way in encouraging this
now and beneficial system of trade, is undoubtedly
Mr. T. M. ALCOCK, Jeweller and Watchmaker, of
the Haymarket, Sydney, Australian Agent for the
World-renowned Waltham Watches. For the past
15 years Mr. T. M. Aloock has been doing business
with people who have never been in Sydney, and
who have never seen or entered his shop.
Thorough, straightgoing, honest treatment of
patrons hundreds of miles away has won him a
permanent hold on the entire inland community
of each colony, and he now does a larger parcels-
post business in jewellery and watches than any
other three houses of either city. The Waltham
Watch has given Mr. Alcock a further hold on the
Inland public. By personal negotiation with the
Waltham proprietors at their works, Massachu-
setts, Mr. Aieock secured concessions as the Wal-
tham agent which placed these famous watches be-
fore the Australian public at manufacturer’s
prices. The parcels-post system completely links
the whole Australian public, as it were, on to the
great Waltham factory. Mr. Alcock forwards
these watches to any address in all Australia, pay-
ing the postage, and taking all the risk of safe de-
livery, Dy these means Walthams have gone
broadcast throughout these colonies. Mr. Aloock
bandies every watch before despatching it, and he
alone executes the order. Of upwards of 10,000
purchasers there is not a single customer who has
complained or expressed dissappointment at Mr.
Aloock's treatment of their favours.
THOUSANDS in ALL GRADES to select from at
MANUFACTURERS’ PRICES.
Mr. ALCOCK gives a Three Years’ Guarantee
with every Waltham Watch, and, in addition to
this, Issues with each watch sold the Company’s
Certificate, as follows:—“Watch. No. , and en-
graved with our Trade Mark, was manufactured
at our works, and is guaranteed by us to be made
of the best materials on the most approved prin-
ciples, and to possess every requisite lor a reliable
Timekeeper.”
For any defect in material, workmanship, or
performance under fair usage, we at all times hold
ourselves responsible.
General Agents, for the American Watch Co.,
ROBBINS and APPLETON.
R. ROBBINS, Treasurer.
T. M. ALCOCK, Agent,
673, George-street, Haymarket, Sydney.
GBNT.’S SILVER WALTHAM WATCHES,
In Hunting or Open Face, with Crystal
Glass Sterling Hall-marked Cases.
KEY WINDERS.
No. 1,—Seven jewels, steel balance. A
sound reliable timekeeper .. .. £3 10 0
No. 2.— Seven Jewels, steel balance. Extra
heavy full size cases, specially
built for bush use 3 10 0
No. 3.—Seven jewels, good balance. Very
superior finish. Perfect time-
keeper 3 5 0
No. 4.—Full jewelled, compensation ba-
lance. Very highly finished; suit-
able for extreme climates 3 15 0
No. 6.-Compensation balance, extra
jewelled. In separate settings ;
very superior movements 4 4 0
No. 6.-—Three-quarter plate hands, to set
at back, good balance, seven Jewels 8 5 0
No. 7.—Three-quarter plate, compensa-
tion balance, full jewelled. Spe-
cially rated 4 0 0
PATENT KEYLESS.
No.8—CELEBRATED RIVERSIDE, adjusted
keyless lino movements, three pair extra fine jewels
in setting, exposed pallets, compensation balance,
in silver case, 7 guineas; in massive gold cases 15
guineas. Note.—Read Swiss Commissioner’s speech
re this watch, and if you are in want of a perfect
time-keeper, buy one at manufacturer’s price of
the agent, T. M. ALCOCK.
No. 9.—CELEBRATED HILLSIDE, seven jewels,
compensation balance. Very highly finished, and
perfect timo-keeper, £4 15s. and £5 6s.
No. 10.—Full-sized extra stout cases, compensa-
tion balance, full Jewelled. This movement is
specially built for hard usage, and is a perfectly
reliab'e time-keeper. In two prioes, £5 5a. and £5
10a.
No. 11.—Full sized, three pairs of extra fine
Jewels, In settings. Adjusted. This is a very
superior movement. £7 7s.
No. 13,—Named “ P. 8. BARTLETT,” Waltham,
Mass., four pairs extra fine jewels. In settings,
compensation balance. This watch is the acme of
perfection. £7 7s. „ .
No. 13.—Ladies’ very superior, full Jewelled, com-
pensation balance. Engraved cases. £4 10s. and
£5 3s.
LADIES’ AND GENT’S GOLD WALTHAMS,
In Hunting or Open Face, with Crystal Glass,
tandard Hall-marked Gold Cases, of various
rade £8' 8 0 £11 11 0 £17 10 0
990 14 00 2000
10 10 0 15 15 0 up to 75 0 0
A magnificent stock of every grade of Watch
lade hi the Waltham Company, including a rich
ollcctlon of Presentation Watches, in plain and
ancy engraved cases, . .
Duplicate parts of every Watch made by the
iompany kept in stock. Waltham Watches re-
tired with the Company's Materials on the
hottest notice. .
’HE ENGLISH PATENT LEVER WATCHES
ALSO COMPETE IN ALL AUSTRALIA.
Recognising the value of the better class of
English Patent Lever Watches, T. M. Alcock,
fhlle In England, visited the great watch factories
if London, and entering into large contracts,
rranged for the manufacture of a splendid and
unerinr class of English Patent Lever Watch,
he BEST and cheapest ever imported to Aus-
ralla.
Jo. 1.—Crystal Glass or Hunting Case’l .. £3 10 0
Jo. 2.—Ditto, extra jewelled and superior
finish 4 4 0
Jo. 3.- Ditto, highest grade, full-jewelled 5 5 0
Jo. 4.—Ditto ditto, superior adjusted ..660
Jo. 5.— Rotherham s celebrated Levers .. 4 10 0
Jo. 6.—Rotherham's Compensated balance 6 6 0
Jo. 7.—Rotherham’s Chronometer Balance,
highest quality 6 6 0
Jo. 8.—Rotherham’s Adjusted, compensated
balance, very superior 7 7 0
An unequalled stock of the above In 18-carat
-old oases, from £13 to £30; In keyless. £30 to £50.
SUPERIOR CHRONOGRAPHS.
T, M. ALCOCK is now in a position to offer to
the public generally the Cheapest and Best
CHRONOGRAPH for racing add timing purposes
ever made.
Illustrated Catalogues Forwarded Free.
All communications to be addressed,
T. M. ALCOCK,
Waltham Watch Agant,
673 «eor«c-st, Haymarket, Sydney,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Thiatre Rotal— “The Professor ” p. 8
Opera House— “ Pink Dominoes ” ,.... „
Gaiety Theatre— Emerson’s Minstrels „
Academy op Music.— Hisoocks’ F. Minstrels „
Chiarini’s Circus -Belmore Park
Outside Emerson’s show is a large board
with a determined-looking poster pasted on it
warning the public that, if they expect to find the
least snupqon of vulgarity in that entertainment,
they’d better keep their money and go elsewhere.
That’s one thing “ Biliy ” oan’t stand—never could.
Even as a boy, teaching in a Sunday-school,
directly he came to a naughty or vulgar word in
the lessons for the day tears would well from his
eyes, and nothing but a three hours’ steady sitting
in the bar-parlour of the nearest “pub.” would
tone down his blushes and induce him to overlook
Patriarchal giddiness. And so “ Minstrelsy with-
out vulgarity ”—an entertainment that wouldn’t
heighten the colour on a man’s cheeks—is the end
at which this “Napoleon” of burnt-cork per-
sistently aims.
Eighteen we counted on the stage when
the yells of a packed and demonstrative gallery
warned the proprietors that it might be as well to
haul up the curtain before more active measures
were resorted to. Some local talent has been
secured, for we recognised Gordon’s well-remem-
bered face among the “ crush.” Burnt-cork is no
disgiiise to him. Nothing but a plane, or at least
r ctiisel applied by an experienced ship’s carpen-
ter, will ever make him. incog. Among the audi-
ence who couldn’t find seats we .noticed many
public men of position. JJarney Thompson was
there smiling as we never saw him smile since
Don Juan's number was run up at Flemington
and Barney sent his new bat spinning into the
welkin. Holland started with “ Blue-eyed Bess.”
He has a baritone voice—pleasing and sympathetic.
But Amery (in Hiscock’s crowd) has spoilt us for
baritones. We've known staid old citizens who
weren’t infatuated with Minstrelsy—vulgar or not
—to hang about the Academy’s porch till Amery’s
“ Dublin Bay” or “ My old friend John” came on.
They’d then ante up full price, shuffle into the
stalls, and back out 10 minutes afterwards with a
broken umbrella and a watery eye. Walsh and
Ring’s dance was clever and clean, and Cogill’s
“ Hungry Man” absurdly funny. Harry P.
Coglll—a brother of the preceding; singer’s—has a
pleasing but not very powerful voice. Besides
his song. “ A boy’s best friend is his mother,” is of
the washy, sentimental sort that appeals to very
young and emotional people or to very old and
hardened ones (we’ve known bald-headed old
scamps who cheated diggers with false weights
and “ burked ” Justice with fa'se evidence to
whine for an hour over “ Ben Bolt”), but makes
persons in their prime look round for somebody
to assault. The fact is, the “ Mother" business is
Overdone. If some artists would only warble
occasionally a few words of encouragement for
the “ old man” they would tap a fountain of pent-
up feeling, and irrigate a field which has long been
cruelly neglected. Whenever you notice a man of
mature age get silent and pensive at the mention
of his “mother,” avoid him—don’t drink with him,
don’t “ shout” for him—don’t deal with him if he
runs a grocery store—go at once and [bribe an
Irish hodman to drop, not merely one brick, but
the whole hod on his head from the dizziest height
at which he can be sure of his identity. That’s our
experience.
* * •
Clark has a lovely voice—a tenor of de-
lightful purity. The song he sang was not staking
one. We shall take every seat in the stalls, and
pile them with “ dead-heads” the night he pro-
mises us “ My sister, dear,” “ Let me like a soldier
fall,” or “ There is [a flower that bloometh,” pro-
vided he can tackle that too B flat in the latter
without calling on the falsetto for a hand. Of
“ Billy ” we need say little. Let’s see—what better
corner-man have we seen in Australia? Cowan.
Kelly, Hussey, Bent, Keenan, &c, &o. Whoop I
What stands to WJUlam is that he has voice as well
as action. This is a rare partnership in those who
clink the bones or wallop the tambourine. Farther
on, Walsh and King gave us some more dancing.
It was first-rate of its kind, but the day for this
description of entertainment is partly, or wholly,
gone by. Some People beside us who Were bois-
terous in their appreciation of the preceding
“ bi4,” took up their bats and sought the air before
the dancing was half through. It is the old story
Of Dr. Johnson and the fiddler: “Enormously
difficult, that,” said someone near. “DifficultI I
Wish it were impossible!” responded the unmusical
lexicographer. + +
Emerson’s “ Dandy Dude ” was of the
best music-hall style—which is, perhaps, not say-
ing much. He did it so well that the gallery was
thirsting for his blood before he was half through.
To a person who chews rank tobacco, there’s no-
thing so exasperating as a young man in good
boots, well-fitting pants, and high shirt-collar. It
stirs up all the worst passions of bis nature. And
we don’t wonder. Why the genus “dude” was
created is strange. Why he got through “knuckle-
down ” and “rounders” at school without being
flattened out by his comrades, is odder still; but
why he was ever suffered to come to maturity and
insult our common nature, shows that either In-
gersoll, Bradlaugb, and Tom Walker are right, or
that the vigour of the Anglo-Saxon race—in not
having made cat’s-meat of him years ago-is a
thing of the past.
* * * *
It was only an average crowd that rolled
up to see “ Pink Dominoes ” at the Opera House
on Saturday night. Hero and there through the
“circle” seats were down with little “taken”
cards lying negligently along them, as if the offi-
cials hands were full in anticipation of a roaring
trade. But the scourers never turned up-pro-
bably wandered away to take something else, as
the night was chilly. The purveyor who sells iced
lemon-squashes near the Arcade in King-street,
was blowing his fingers, railing at Parliament for
not putting the Local Option Bill through before he
was starved out, and threatening to shift his busi-
ness to equatorial Africa, as we went by: while the
Hebrew who, at the auction mart higher up the
street, courts beggary by selling real brown Wind-
sor soap at a penny a slab, and curry-combs at
twopence a piece—after vainly expostulating
with some men-o’-war’s men for not buying him
out—was running up the shutters with an oath
that would have stiffened Aaron's back hair. It
was a bad night for a new piece in any line.
* * *
In “Pink Dominoes” there is plenty of
“goj’ neat dialogue. If not particularly subtle,
and just a seasoning of naughtiness that makes you
wish for a little more. There are two wives, Lady
Wagatafle (Miss Novaro), who knows the world,
and Mrs. Qreythorne (Miss Bronton), who doesn’t.
The latter thinks her husband (Phil. Day) devoted
to her—and so he is. But, for all that, when they
visit London he would like to see a little life at
night, alone—at least, not with her. ’TIs a harm-
less wish. Why, princes of the blood royal—mon-
archs in future - gorgeous beings. Tor whom Cap-
tain Neitcnstein and Mr. Lewis Scott are prepared
any day to sacrifice their lives—have been known
to have the same desire (and Indulge it) in Paris.
So Lady W. persuades Mrs. G. to allow letters to
be written to their husbands appointing meetings
that night at Cremorne. Of course the ladies
themselves keep the appointments with masks and
dominoes, and upon this “ Pink Dominoes ” turns.
• * *
The scope that is here allowed for an
acquaintance with the night side of London life
will he seen at once. The appointments are kept,
and Sophy Greythorne is pretty soon disillusiont
—gets in a few hours more insight into Charlie s
character than an age of humdrum married 11 ie
would have given her. Mr. Cathcart is Sir Peter
Wagstaffe—Lady W.’s husband. With the’excep-
tion of old Tubbs (Mr. Whyte)—to be dealt with
further on—Wagstaffe and Charlie Greythorne
make most of tee running. And their different
styles afford a very fair example of the impassable
gulf separating the made from the born actor.
Cathcart—while effective—is heavy, stagey, con-
ventional. Day, on the other hand, is all spon-
taneousness-apparently, of course, for such seem-
ing spontaneity means, as we know, years of hard
work. But of him we can say that he has reached
the point for which all artists should strive, and
which so few attain—the art of concealing art.
Whatever he does-whether fooling with unreal
business affairs, endeavouring to kiss his masked
companion, falling limp and broken-up into the
lap of the severely-vlrtuous Mrs. Tubbs, or hypo-
critically upbraiding his indignant wife, is done so
naturally, and appears so obviously the correct
thing to do under the circumstances, that the
audience were kept in a nice little simmer of ap-
probation all throilgh. He never “ loses touch ”
of them. Yes, there’s something in this “born ”
poet-actor muscian business after all.
• •
mentioned Tubbs—“Old Tubbs”
we think he was called. He was 59 and, judging
by appearances, his wife (Misq Crawford) might
have been 15 or 20 years his senior. But for him it
was e'ear that her attractions were too mature.
He wanted something younger, fresher, more
given to abandon. He sought it. He got it. On
the night of the bal masque he went to nurse a sick
friend. He was a kindly man, who could not wit-
ness suffering without desiring to alleviate it.
And as his way lay through Cremorne, he thought
he might call in and see how wicked the world
was. He called, and remained. It was wicked
enough, but didn’t appear to be nearly so bad as
he expected and wished. Still he secured one
“ domino,” and, judging by appearances and the
order she gave for supper, she was probably a
“ double nine.” To her credit bo it said, she left
him early in the evening—her mother had warned
her to be home by one— having first cleaned the
restaurant of oystets and fermented liquors. Then
it was time for Tubbs to show [off—and he did.
When first he redched thd gardens he was sober
enough to read the evening papers and send a
message to bis wife to say that his friend had bad
a relapse. When the garden was being closed, he
was deplorable, unintelligible amorphous. The
evening papers, too, had suffered. Everything
with which he came in contact appeared to suf-
fer more or less. It was bad enough when
he tried to stand. Ho zig-zagged to the
foot-jlghts, and looked so uncompromisingly
at Allpress, who was fiddling away through
a brigade of dottbd that the little artist,
when he had punished bis last dot, wriggled off
his perch, and sat alongside the cymbals. But it
was when he tried to sit down—and succeeded—
that the house rose to him. He did it so easily—
without any apparent effort—that the audience
skid ’twould be as well to humour him. Then he
lay down. Many wrinkled, knotted-slnewed old
bushmen in the audience said afterwards that
they’d wasted half their lives on the Darling try-
ing to discover the proper way of lying down com-
fortably after a spree, but Tubbs seemed to hit it
the first go. [This is about enough of Tubbs.—
Ed. B ]
* * •
Give us a chance to say a few words of
Joyce. [Look alive then.— Ed. B,] He was
Brisket, the head-waiter. A 11 middle-aged men—
men who remember the “ Tom and Jerry” and
“ coal-hole” periods should go the Opera House if
only to see him—to see him “chivvy” the other
flunkeys and bite the half-sov. Tubbs gives him.
Why Joyce didn’t stick to London and the wait-
ing business, and never get nearer to Australia
than Chelsea, will always remain to us a problem
as incapable of solution as Davy Buchanan’s
theological views.
* * *
Wnat did old Thiers say ? Why, you see,
the little chap said a lot of things; some of them
true and some—not. But wasn’t it he who said:
“ The world knows nothing of its best men ?” Of
course it was. That’s the reason we like Thiers.
The world knows nothing of us—ain’t likely to—
doesn’t want to. (See how we sling about our
“ prepositions ?” Uneducated people couldn’t
afford that) This might appear ungenerous, con-
sidering the pains we've taken to know something
of the world. But what we would whisper in your
ear is this. Loredan—or “ Lorry,” as he is often
known by those who know him—is one of whom
we’ve had to speak about before now. He has a
voice you can always hear with pleasure. It is not
Mario’s—it is not Sims Beeves’—it is not (hem I)
ours. But, whatever it it, the audience always
clap when he's done and ask for more. And this
reminds Us, there are two other things connected
with him of which we would like a wbtd or two—
his acting and his cltcurfistanfces. His acting we
will back against anything this side of Capricorn,
and his circumstances—xell, you don’t want us to
tell you—we’ll back them against anything the
other side. We are not personally acquainted
with him, but have heard his cheery, “Bon jour,
m’sieu, ilfait beautemps avjourd hui,” to a com-
patriot in the streets- What is it to us or to you
what caused him to separate from his company 7
Have you never seen able men who, In pursuance
of a principle, or in defiance of an uncongenial
companion, would look anything—even starvation
—in the face sooner than go on ? And now we
hope Loredan’s benefit will be given soon. We’ll
guarantee it will be crowded.
* # * *
The Federal Minstrels continue to fill the
Academy of Music nightly. The old time smile
still lingers on the handsome features of Colonel
Hiscocks, while his able captain, Willie Smythe, is
more assiduous than ever in his attentions to the
comfort of their patrons. As usual, the ladies
form a large portion of the audience. The Feder-
al have been here 46 weeks, and are meeting with
such genuine appreciation that they bid fair to
crowd the hall till the arrival of that great
comlque, Harry Rickards, who, with a large
variety company, sailed from London in the
Austral last week, under engagement to the
“only” Hisoocks. With Sam Keenan and
Willie Warner at the tamboes, and Bent and
Moynham shaking the bones the wit sparkles
and coruscatee with unwonted brilliancy, but poor
Ball suffers when he has to manipulate such beau-
ties as “patois” and “double-entendre.” Nick
La Feulllade is all there with the bow and rosin,
discoursing such music as one seldom hears- The
quartette—Porter, Amery, Braham, and Beau-
mont Read—seem to have voices of perennial
freshness. Keenan and Moynham introduce into
a sketch called “ Disgusted Lovers ” some of the
most grotesque dancing ever seen hero, and
create the wildest hilarity imaginable. Harry
Carroll, with his two-voiced throat, carries on a
conversation with himself, all the while retaining
the melody that the orchestra furnishes him with.
The latest Impersonation of Warner, in character,
shifts the roof and [causes the'foundation to trem-
ble. Willie sings a patriotic song, and dresses the
part as the “ little boy of Manly.” The topical
burlesque “Ides” of March concludes a real y
good evening of fun, and Hiscock’s “push” de-
serve every credit for their last programme, in
which everything Is new, even to the conundrums.
« # * •
It was on Monday night Hanlan’s berxSt
came off, or on, at the Opera House. The Bulle-
tin is in the habit of telling so many tiuths—
pleasant and otherwise —about public caterers,
that its representatives are often treated with
thinly-concealed contumely. A new hand is put
on the door, for instance, and his first and only
order appears to be —“ When The Bulletin man
come?, chuck him out if he’s small, and send him
to the manager if he’s big and * ugly.’ ” We’re big.
We are also “ugly;” and so Coleman had to be
Interviewed Rebounded up-stairs a landing at a
time, “sacked ” the man at the door, and ordered
him out for immediate execution. Then we fol-
lowed leisurely and went In.
• * •
Went in! We simply bribed an Evening
News boy to lie down on the step and let us stand
on him We had to do this, or miss the perform-
ance. It was cruel, but it was forced upon us.
How so many people got into the house puzzled
us for a bit. How they got out of it is a still
darker mystery. Probably some of them are
there yet. Not since we attended the last “draw-
ing-room ” at the soup-kitchen have we been in
such a crush “Pink Dominoes” led off. We’ve
already spoken about this piece, and have nothing
fresh to add, except that many elderly couples in
the audience, when they saw the transparently-
obvious devices used by “Old Tubs ” (Mr. Whyte)
to conceal his adventures of the night before,
looked into each other's eyes and saw themselves.
It was when the cut tain was again raised
and Beach, Hanlan, Coleman, "Captain” O’Mara
and Dan. O'Connor appeared that enthusiasm
reached its wildest. There were others there
besides, but their little penny dip lights were lost
in the Coleman and O'Connor effulgence. Dan.
was at his best—he always is. He presented the
Canadian with rich gems for himself and his
“missus.” and told, in felicitous language, how the
eyes of an admiring world were that night
“focussed” on the Sydney Opera House. It was
nice to see this white-headed, white-bearded, pro-
fusely-worded Jegis ator step down from his
pedestal of fame and speak in language which ail
could understand. He told the recipient that,
although Australians priced a great athlete, their
real affection was always reserved for an “hon-
ourable man." Dan. loved the person who could
make a 301b shell dance over the waters gaily, but
he reverenced "honour.” That was his mistress,
his pole-stsr. For it he would sacrifice everything
—quit Parliament to-morrow—reduce sausages a
penny a pound.
m » •
Then Edward Hanlan spoke up. He, as
all know, has a pleasant address and ready delivery.
In this he is the very oppoiite of his opponent -
the sturdy Beach. He told how he had “ scooped ”
two continents, and came here prepared to “ put a
bead” on us, but dropped across a better man.
Then the divine “Wiliam” was brought forward
to say something. He was not in evening dress,
like his neighbours, and appeared as if he’d sooner
go through another courso of training than spout
about his success. But when the public demands
a thing it has to be supplied. He came forward,
said he hoped Hanlan would find his family well
when he got back to America, and then retired to
think. All eyes were now rlvetted on Colemaa
who, with characteristic modesty and shirt-front,
was mooning about the stage waiting for his time
to come. It came. He had to read out the win-
ning conundrum. But a freeh “pan” Is necessary.
One of Hanlan’s boats was to be given
away to the architect of the best conundrum. It
was only on Friday morning we beard this, and
so there were but three clear days to work the
thing up. We bought a keg of colonial beer, sent
invitations (all ot which were accepted) to the
“ Hrevlty” man of the Evening News, the funny
fellow of the Morning Herald, the D.T. bandit,
and the facetious people of the Mail, Journal,
Triuune, and Express. Of the latter
two, the.whole staff came, under the flimsy pre-
tence that they wore all equally funny. We tried
to get some of thellate (shortly to be resuscitated
we believe) Sydney Punch's folks, but they held
coldly aloof—pretending that humour, except of
the wholesomest description, was not In their line.
• • *
Then we scintillated. Through our win-
dows the neighbours kept craning their necks
to know what was up. They heard some
of the conundrums and then tumbled over one
another to get to the kerb-stone, sit five deep,
and laugh. Then they dug up asphalt with sticks
and umbrellas, and sent it into the house. Belays
of pedestrians arrived at the windows, heard a
conundrum or two, and retired to yell. When the
HbralD man asked “ Why did Beach win ? ’Caui e
ho came in first,” we thought the roof was
caving in. But it was when the Express
fellow chucked in “ What would you call
anyone who said Hanlan was the best man? A
liar,” that we had to send for the police. And
then to hear Coleman read, “ Why does Hanlan
accept his loss of the championship so honourably
and manfully ? Because he knows he was beaten
by a man of * iron,’ had a determined ‘ Will,’ and a
dangerous ‘Beach"ahead of him” as the prize,
was more than disappointing—it was cruel. It
should have been stated beforehand that the
boat was to go to the worst. What’s the
use of keeping decent people out of their
beds to compote with this ? A man near
us bawled, “Bead out some more, Coleman,”
but he was incontinently flung out. “Grace
Darling” took the vessel. Next to seeing the
boat, wo now long to see “ Grace.” Then we
would like to interview the committee and con-
gratulate them on their keen sense of humour.
• • •
Warner, 1 of the Hiscocks’ crowd, and
Cogill frerts of Emerson’s mob, brought the
“ben.” to an end. There’s nothing more to say,
except to wish bon voyage to one who, during his
Australian sojoufn, has deservedly earned the
good wishes ot all—Edward Hanlan.
* * * *
“ The Professor ?” Yes, it’s still running,
or limping, at the Royal. People go there to see
Titheradge-soe him, and come away smiling. Not
even “ Hamlet" would lose so much by having the
Prince’s part cut out than “The Professor” by
having Arthur Hensdale eliminated. And Annie
Mayor, too (Daisy Brown). She is a daisy, whose
petals you’d like to pluck. The more we see
of Moses Brown (Mr. Laako) the more we re-
gret that the exigencies of tdo piece demand
that he should be knocked down once and
once only. Why Tltheradgo, once having got him
down, doesn’t keep him there, sit on him, gag,
destroy him. is the chief drawback we see in the
piece. The theatre tills well, but not uncomfort-
ably. Indeed, there are so many really “good”
things going in Sydney at present that, unless a
thing is exceptionally racy, it has to content itself
with a little.
. • * * •
People still keep trundling up to Chia-
rlnl’s. The matinees are but poorly attended. Mon
with children, whom they would wish to take
about to give crackers to elephants, and dough-
nuts to monkeys, aro too busy in this bustling
town of ours to be able to afford the time for
these mid-day dissipations. Among the crowd of
performers, who stands out most prominently?
We think the acrobats, but our “kids ” think dif-
ferently. And in some things there’s no judgment
like that of a brat of six. It is the “ dummy " that
keeps our “ darlings ” in a perpetual simmer. Ho
is described on the bills as an “ idiot,” but the
description doesn’t cover the case. We are foolish
ourselves—have for many years made a living by
silliness—but our best efforts are, as the penny
papers say, " dwarfed into insignificance ” beside
this man’s. # #
Richmond Thatcher has resumed the pen,
and has written a libretto for a panorama, which
is to be shown shortly in the New Masonic Hall.
It is all about the Soudan war, and the Contingent
will Include James South and J. H. Balnforth.
* * • *
George Darrell is back from the old
country, and sufficiently recovered from the
effects of the accidental wounds which he received
during the performance in London of his own
drama, “ The Sunny South,” to be ready to com-
mence operations again. George has a new pro-
duction in his valise, another work of his own,
which he promises to shortly produce. It is to be
a fresh departure; not a gun-shot or a stabbing
episode in it George has had enough knifing to
last his life-time. Plot and dialogue are his strong
suits this time, and playgoers who remember how
the repartee sparkled in the first aot of The
Sunny South” will expect something good.
• • « •
Grattan Riggs is, we hear, likely to be
back in Sydney before long, be jabersl
A new discovery. —Hoffman’s Eucalyptol
(leglstered) “ Mixture and Injection.” They will
positively cure all kidney diseases and disorders,
all urinary complaints and discharges, irritation,
scalding, Inflammation, gravel, pains in the back,
&c. A case incurable In nine months was actually
eur'Jd in eight dajswith Hoffmann’s Eucalyptol
Injection (" purely vegetable ”)• Hoffman’s Eu-
calvptol Mixture or Injection contain no mineral,
no sandalwood.no balsam, or anything Injurious
to the most delicate constitution of either sex.
Ask for Hoffman’s, and take no substitute.
Wholesale: E. Prosser and Co.; Elliott Bros. Re-
tail : All principal chemists and storekeepers
Price, 3s, 6a. and 3s. 6d.*


PEPPER AND SALT.
The Chief Rabbi of the Melbourne Syna-
gogue has dashed off what he calls a “prayer for
her Majesty’s forces in the Soudan.” It is quite in
the old smlte-them-hip-and-thigh spirit. Here are
a few of the requests which the Rabbi requires the
Lord God of Hosts to grant;—“Preserve them
from all evil; keep them from sickness; may the
sun not smite them by day, nor the cold by night;
cover their heads in the day of battle; gird them
with victory.” And so forth. The Chief Rabbi
does not seem to remember that the poor Arabs
are more nearly united to the Jews by the ties of
race than any other nation in the world is. But
perhaps it doesn’t much matter, anyhow. The
Lord God of Hosts has probably filed a petition
from the Mahdi to a similar effect before now.
Taking one consideration with another, the life of
he Almighty is not much to be envied—more
particularly as we are led to believe there ara
Jews In Heaven.
• • •
WHERE 18 IT?
A merry young gentleman of Melbourne
got two sentences of three months and six months
respectively from the unfeeling despot of the
City Court, the other day. And what had this
young gentleman been doing to be so deprived of
sweetness and light and the songs of birds and the
Innocent delights of expectorating on street cor-
ners and gaily “ borraklng ” the passers-by ? He
had simply, in the gallantry of his nature, been
wheeling four young ladles up and down Market
Lane in a truck, with the generous view of pro-
viding them light recreation after the fatigue of
the factory. While in the midst of this praise-
worthy occupation, out comes the owner of the
truck and says unto him unpleasant things to
hear. What does he do then ? What would any
gentleman of spirit do under the circumstances ?
Why just what this young man did in the joy of his
heart—challenge the owner of that truck and all
his workmen to come out and fight. But, with the
baseness which might be expected from a man
who would rather see his truck rusting idly In a
shed than behold lovely wo nan riding in it, the
owner would not fight. And filled with the con-
tempt which such paltry conduct would naturally
inspire in the breast of fiery-spirited youth, the
gallant young gentleman promptly knocked him
down. So far for the first charge. The second
was even more iniquitous. It appears that the
hero of this paragraph, with the manly instincts
proper to every genuine homme galante, alter-
nated his attentions to the ladies with diversiong
in the bracing atmosphere of sport. He
kept a whole-souled assistant in the shape
of a bulldog, with which, to quote the words
of a genial Chinese witness, he had “killed
all the cats in Bragon's lane." While on his last ,
foray against these' Macbeths of the animal world,
he had been interfered with by a woman just as
ho was sooling his dog on to a remarkably fine
tortoise-shell tabby. Naturally incensed—as who
would not be ?— at the Interruption, he picked up
a brick which ho caused to pass out of his hand in
a horizontal direction, skilfully calculating that
the woman (in the manner of her sex) would in”
terrupt it also in its flight. His calculation
proved correct. She did interrupt it, and
Immediately fell down and refused to speak for
a considerable period. Thereupon a person
with a helmet came up and made certain re-
marks to the young sportsman, which induced
the latter to Immediately rend the garments of
that perosn in a helmet—as who would not under
similar circumstances ? The power of numbers,
however, overcame individual valour, and Henry
Thompson (that was the young hero’s name) fell
in the gutter fighting gloriously to the last, and
had to submit to the manacles of shame being
bound upon his free-born wrists. The rest of this
tale of tyranny we have told. And In the face of
it we ask in fiery verse
The Postmaster-General, with a wisdom
beyond his years, has recently issued a proclama-
tion to the Post-office officials which might, with
profit to the country, be copied by many other
Departments-the one next door in particular.
From information received, we learn that certain
officials, having arrived at the conclusion that
Providence never intended a Post-office clerk
should grow phenomenally rich by depending
solely on his salary, undertook to amass a few
tons of filthy lucre by making books on sporting
events, and laying the odds amongst their fellow
clerks with a liberality calculated to make Joe
Thompson throw up his biz. in disgust and start
a Trappist monastery. So cunningly did one of
these metallicians tot up his little book on the
recent Sydney Cup that he stood to lose £33 no
matter which horse won, and it is generally be-
lieved that another race meeting like the last
would so hamper this enterprising party’s worldly
affairs that he’d have to tie a tin beak on his face
and go nosing about for worms with the fowls to
make a living. When the settling day arrived, the
stumped spieler made some scriptural allu-
sion to the fact that it was Impossible to
get blood out of a stone, upou which
the disgusted backers of the winners remarked
that although Bible quotations were good enough
for the little heathen, they weren’t worth a con-
demned cent to them, and there was much talk
about the advisability of tarring the defaulter
with hot sealing-wax, and feathering him with
red tape and postal cards, when the boss appeared,
and demanded an explanation. The upshot of
the whole affair was that both layer and backers
were duly “ carpeted,” and after the Biot Act had
been read over to them, a notice was issued to all
whom it might concern that the wagering of even
a ha’penny tart on any future sporting transaction
would ensure the offender’s instant dismissal, and
land him out on the cold, cold world in the form
of a double-barrelled pauper. Should the heads
of all other Departments follow the Postmaster-
General’s worthy example, it is hard to imagine
h ow some of th«?ir well-connected myrmidons wilj
be able to pass their time from !i till 4, unless they
take to playing fly-loo or “fun,” or—good idea
this-reduce our overtime expenditure by doing
their proper official work during their proper
office hours.
• * •
The usual dull monotony of the Pleasant-
street Wesleyan Church, Ballarat, was pleasantly-
enlivened last Sunday week by a lady in one of
the front pews who, on the preacher remarking
that the earth is the Lord’s, politely, but firmly,
showed her disbelief in the statement by calling
out, “ That’s a lie, and you’re a liar.” Not satis-
fied with this, she climbed into the pulpit, shot the
| legally-ordained Bible-thumper out on his head
! and then informed the crowd that she was God,
and hoped they wouldn’t forget that fact for the
S future. After this, she took the congregation
into her confidence again, and told them she was
i also St. Peter, but that was by her first husband,
The Girls’ Friendly Society.
Where is the glamour of golden youth ?
Where are the joys of jeunesse dorM
When a flat-foot man, of a build uncouth,
With a thick-set brogue and a bearded tooth,
Can run you in—GadzooksI Forsooth! -
In a cloud of gore and glory.
For a little burglarious bagatelle,
Or a trifling murder or two - oh well!
Is it strange, we ask, in the voice of truth,
Where is the glamour of golden youth ?
Where are the joys of jeunesse dorie ?
Where [Oh, go home and get sober.—Ed. B ]
ONE OF THE FUNCTIONS OF THE O F.S.
WANTED—A MISSUS’ FRIENDLY SOCIETY
IMMIGRANT DOMESTIC (with scorn); “I DON’T HIRE TO NONE O' YOU COMMON
MISSUSES. I’VE A LITTER ’ERE FROM THE G.F.S., WHICH IT WARNS ME AGIN YOU.
THEY’LL FIND ME A PLACE WITH A LADY.”
IT IS BUT RI3HT, OF COURSE. THAT MRS. LE GRAND GREENIDES, WHO IS A
PATRONESS OF THE G.F.S., SHOULD HAVE THE FIRST PICK AND CHOICE OF THE
IMMIGRANTS WHOSE PASSAGE TO THE COLONY IS PAID By THE COMMON EVERY-DAY
PE PLB,


and if they didn’t follow her flag, they’d be
damned as sure as ever Pontius Pilate was.
Just as she was warming up to the work,
however, a number of the elders rushed the
pulpit, and after a desperate struggle, locked
the new apostle up in the nearest lunatic asylum.
Now, all this seems most unjust and tyrannical.
Sunday after Sunday our Gospel-sharps stand up
and tell us they are the duly licensed representa-
tives of St. Peter, yet no one ever dreams of lock-
ing them up; but immediately a new-comer
arrives and declares she is the real party himself,
they shut down on her as a hopeless lunatic. This
is a serious matter, indeed, for if every spouter
who makes a ridiculous statement in a pulpit, or
who claims kindred with the saints, is to be fas-
tened up in a padded cell, one-half the world will
require to be turned into a monster mad-house.
We are deluged with returns showing the number
of unfortunates who are sent off their kadoova by
filling themselves with spirits out of quart bottles,
but what we yearn for now is a list of those who
are worked equally mad by the spirit ladled out
from the pulpit. Give us a straight return of both
and it will be found that the parson is as much in
fault as the persecuted publican.
* ♦ *
This is an item which our Minister for
Justice would do well to read aloud at the next
Cabinet luncheon table in order to impress the
urgency of the matter on the minds and stomachs
of himself and his worthy colleagues. The temple
of Justice at Silverton is evidently in a bad wa>!
and it is somewhat doubtful if his anyone but
Serene Highness the Czar of Russia leads a more
precarious life than the magisterial high priest
who rules in the said temple. During the hearing
of a recent case, the usual monotony of the Silver-
ton Court was playfully relieved by a facetious
cuss outside wno sent a chunk of what geologists
term the “ general formation” whizzing through
the window, just as the bailiff was Intently watch-
ing a go-as-you-please between the two taran.
talas on the opposite wall. Fortunately for the
official furniture the bailiff’s head happened to be in
the line of projection, and he received the “gibber ’
on his bump of amativeness, from which it
rioohetted on to the jowl of the magistrate, and
the player outside scored two for the “ cannon.”
Shortly after this a part of the celling let go its
hold of the beams above, and came rattling down
on the table and chairs with such a deafening
clatter that one of the legal gentlemen declared
he never heard such a row before In all his
although be had been married for 18 yearti-
w • •
Slowly, but surely, British civilization is
doing its usual philanthropic work up North, and
the time is evidently closest hand when ‘‘that
furred tongue, bad-tasting mouth, and miserable
feeling ” will be as common amongst our black
brudders as they now are amongst our dlstln.
guished senators, land-sale buttoners, and race re-
porters. At the same time, however, it is consol-
ing to note that our unbleached sister is doing her
level best, by kindly care, wholesome advice, and
the occasional planting of bottles up hollow logs,
to stem the fatal effects of the Rowing bowl. The
battle, of course, is hard, and our heart fairly
bleeds at the Palmer River missionary’s sad story
of finding a miserable apology for a noble savage
maddened with drink and doing the 'can-can, in
the costume of the fork-radish period, on the
bank of a creek, while, crouched behind a few
sheets of bark, a poor, emaciated lubra held
her aching brow [with one hand, and grip,
ping a thick waddy with the other, exclaimed,
'* By h—1, wait till that pfeller Charley go sleep; I
split’lm dam cobbora like it pumkin.” Another
touching instance of womanly affection comes
from the Beaudesert racecourse, where a blacking-
bottle lord of the soil, after having a good time
with a quart-bottle behind one of the booths, his
loving spouse, after satisfying herself that the
elixir was clean gone, tried to get her better and
fuller away back to camp. Long and bravely did
the heroic wife tug at her limp and helpless load
but at last, utterly tired out, she had to let it
drop, and then, as the thoughts of similar scene
amongst her more civilised neighbours came
crowding into her troubled soul, she gazed sor-
rowfully down at him who had won her maiden
heart, and sighed, " By Cripes, Jimmy, you gettin’
cobborn fool; by’m-by you get 'im Just as bad as
a b —y white man.”
• • •
When a Sydney rent-collector sallies forth
with a beaming countenance, a black bag, a little
account-book in his hand, and a stump of pencil
over his ear, he is a cheerful spectacle to the un-
biased spectator—supposing that spectator is a
reporter and only seven weeks In arrear. He leans
against the railing, smoking his pipe, and watches
with what dispatch the emissary taps at the doors
along the terrace, how his eye brightens and his
bag swells as he skips from door to door. And
then he skips into the next door. “ Rent, ma’am,
please? Thank you. Here is your receipt.” But
behold a change. All that is human passes out of
his countenance—the sparkling eye turns to a
dead fishy stare, the jaw sinks, the elasticity
vanishes from his legs, and still standing outside
the railing, ho cries, with harrowing despair,
“ Well, what in thunder is it to-day ? Have you
been robbed of a gold v, atch valued at £60 and
your pockets rifled of £80 in notes and 18». Od. in
silver ? Or is the child dead, or has the wife taken
all the money into town, or are you expecting a re-
mittance from your father, or shall I call again in
twenty minutes to the dot, or take an order on the
office, or But, good Lordl what’s the use of
wasting my time? Here—take this week’s notice
and clear out.” And the next moment be brightens
up as the coins rattles in his bag next door, at the
same time the reporter strolls in and says, “ Thank
God, he’s paid. This rent is what ruins a man.”
♦ * *
Our own Harrison Ainsworth writes: —
“ On a sultry evening in April, 1885, just as the last
shades of the opal sunset had tinged the creamy
fringe of the waters which lave the coast of the far
South Land, and lighted up the glistening sides of
full many a dead dog whose corpse rose and fell to
the movement of the swell, might have been seen
two figures working their way Into the — Hotel
on Circular Quay, when there is good accommoda-
tion for man, even though the horse has to hang up
outside. They entered. An hour or two later the
two figures emerged and made for the Watson’s Bay
boat. The fresher of the two carried a bottle of
gin under his arm, and advised the unfresh one to
be careful about stepping over the plank, and
naturally, having seen his companion aboard, re.
turned ashore, grabbed his gin and his parcel,
stepped out, and fell into the sea. He was dragged
out, wrung out, and put to bed somewhere. When
morning dawned, recollection dawned with it, and
he crawled down to the Quay to watch the tide,
and see whether there was any trace of the unfor-
tunate bottle. Farther up the pier sat alubra,
with a square bottle in her hand, and alongside of
her one of those splay-footed aborigines who
patrol our streets with a view to tobacco and the
early realisation of Henry George’s dream. He
looked from the gin-bottle to the Jin, and from
the jin to the gin-bottle. He couldn’t ask the
lubra for his property while the waddy-wielder
was about. Fo he gave it up with a sigh. He
said, ‘ How happy could I be with either, were
'tother dear charmer away.’ ”
• * *
Somebody has sent us a marked letter sent
to the Wilcannia Times headed, "A Baker’s
Trick,', and straightway our ears pricked up. We
can stand stupid editorials, we can read Hansard
when properly stupifled, and we can listen to Dan
O’Connor's orations without quailing, but about
our loaf we confess to be sensitive. When a man
has twelve children to feed, and he simply gets
tired of counting loaves, but contracts with the
baker to tip up a cartload at the door and hurry
off, it’s very rough to have the poor children in
the evening crying, " Daddy, he’s a barrow short
this time.” But, thanks to the eagle-eye of The
Bulletin, the Sydney 41b. loaf has, after a desper-
ate struggle, been brought up to31b. 8oz , and few
bakers now dare to go back to the old rate of
21b. 13cz. Well, ia Wilcannia, it seems, “the
two old bakers” have been keeping up the 21b.
loaf to 6d., just the same as they did in the drought
times; and another man started to sell it at 4d., and
was doing well. So these two dough-ty old alumni
opened fa shop over the way and proceeded to
sell at 4d. The bread was of the Johnny-cake-cum-
damper species, with a dash of bad yeast thrown
in; so that, although the yeast used failed to fer-
ment, Wllcannla did, furiously. The old strate-
gists astutely put up no sign at their shop, and
many Wllcanulans purchased their stuff in mistake
there, thinking it was the cheap shop. The men
swore, scowled, and wrote to the papers. But
what means this? “ Some 26 mothers of families
draw themselves up nightly near the back pre-
mises of the two old bakers, armed with their sur-
reptitious loaves. Those two bakers have crawled
into empty sacks and do not appear. Why, time
will unfold.”
This settles the Soudan trouble straight
off the reel. Charles William Hale, ono of the
most Influential persons within a hundred and
fifty yards of his own residence, has just written
to the Riverine Starver to say that he is "im-
pressed with the belief that the recent action of
the noble Dailey has done immeasurable good,
and theRact that a few men, moved by envy, should
attempt to upset the Ministry on a purely netty
technical point of Parliamentary law is to me
most disgusting.” Mr. Halo, it appears, did us the
honour of visiting the Victoria Barracks shortly
before our noble army sailed, and catching sight
of the determined lock on the terrible face of
Lieut.-Colonel Wells as he stropped bis sword on
the leg of an old Wellington boot, Mr. Hale at
once declared that the " Immense display of loyalty
to our Gracious Queen, and attachment to the
Fatherland in the hour of extreme need, will most
assuredly make the strongest foe dread the
thought of Interference with any spot, how.
ever small, where England’s banner waves.”
These be “ prave worts,” and we are now more
than ever convinced that the great man-eating
chief of the Si-li-ba-boo Islands will think twice
before be calls for any more curried English cap.
tains or Exeter Hall missionaries on the half shell.
Catching on to another of our troubles, the far-
seeing Charles William observes:—" It is not long
since that a few flighty-minded people spoke of se-
paration, that Australia was able to protect her own
interests. This is the extremest folly.” Mr, Hale's
letter is one which, if we cannot afford to have it
printed in letters of gold, should at least be writ-
ten with laudanum on sheets of lead and nailed to
the walls of every lunatic asylum in the land.
Nothing like it has ever been penned since Joh
Davies, by the united efforts of his right hand f
lower jaw, and two-thirds of his tongue wrote
out his first address to the electors of Cook's
Ward, and we doubt if even old man Milton, in bis
palmiest days, ever was distended with so much
divine afflatus as the Riverine enthusiast when he
wooed his aboriginal Muse, and sang:—
March on, brave fellowsl may God your guardian
be,
From spear or bullet keep your bodies free;
When you return we’ll rend the air with cheers
And parents’joys have buried all their tears.
With laurels bright you sustain Australia's fame,
Uphold her honour and independence gain.”
Rending the air with “ cheers and parent’s joys ”
is good—very excellent good—and it would seem
to us that Persia? bad similar lines in his mind’s
eye when he declared they were—
“ Rhymes, which should fear no deperate grocer’s
band,
Nor fly with fish and onions through the land,”
In point of fact, we feel that we ourselves have an-
nexed a chunk of the Riverine poet’s mem divinor
now, and so, hastily replacing the cork in the
bisquit flask, we strike the patriotic lyre and
sing:—
The Jingoistic Bugbear off the Hour.)
THE GREAT SEA-SKRPBNT, A LA RUSSE, AS SEEN IN OUR HARBOUR BY JINGO.
THE SOLDIER'S WIFE.
Seated by her lonely lire
(Feet upon the hob),'
See the soldier’s wife, Maria,
Thinking of her Bob;
Egyptwards her thoughts meander—
To that stirring scene,
Where Bob’s on the desert sand a-
Fightlng for his Dailey, and a-
Fighting for bis Queen.
Hour after hour she’ll ponder
(Low the embers burn),
What Bob’s doing over yonder—
If he will return ?
Oft in fancy she’ll depict him
Numbered with the slain;
And exclaims: “ I’m glad they picked him,
For if Robert falls a victim
I’ll get spliced again.”
“ If all the trees la all the bush were men,”
And each and every blade of grass a pen;
If every leaf on every shrub and tree
Turned to a sheet of foolscap, every sea
Were changed to Ink, and ail Australia’s tribes
Had nothing else to do but act as scribes,
And for ten thousand ages, day and night,
The human race should write, and write, and
write,
Till all the pens and paper were used up,
And each great inkstand was an empty cup.
Still would sham patriots crowd round Its brink
Yell for more pens, more paper, and more ink.
Evoe! Bring forth, the next patriotic swan for—
“ The axe it is sharp, and as heavy as lead,
And when it touches the neck -schwitzl goes the
head.”


The ghastly story, to hand by the last
mail, about the man who couldn’t get hanged
when he wanted to, opens up a vast field for spiri-
tual speculation. The point arises now as to
whether John Lee, the gentleman in question, can
possibly forfeit a snug berth near the Throne of
Grace in consequence of the drop not working
properly. Salvation was assured him when he
mounted the scaffold—his subsequent letter to his
sister mentions that much. Said he—“ I did not
fear to walk into death with a firm foot, because I
knew the Lord was with me, and if I had passed
through the shadow of death, I knew I should
have went to the home which the blessed Lord has
promised all who believe in him.” Well, that was
all right enough, of course, but how about his
future resting place now that he is reprieved? If
he lingers long enough in this vale of tears to
become worldly again, he may eventually go to bis
other home—the “old home.” which Lucifer has
prepared. Oh, good gracious!
This is a drear*. At least it must have
been, as wo hardly fancy we shall ever reach
Heaven under any other circumstances. If we
did, none would believe it. But, at any rate, we
found ourselves in Heaven. And we observed a
distinguished-looking man sitting on the edge of
a damp cloud. But he was not singing “ Hallelu-
jah I” Not he I Nor was he blowing hia little
trumpet to make the neighbours offer him six-
pence to move off on to the next damp cloud a
little further on. He was weeping. Fancy,
weeping—and lu Heaven, too! He I was pore-
ing over a heap of cabinets, oartes-de-visite,
full length and half length photographs, oil-
paintings, water-colour sketches, newspaper and
advertisement illustrations, and, as we ap-
proached, we heard him mutter, “ Well, even if it
was In China, why should they stick my portrait
outside their packets of tea ? I wasn’t so soft that
they should now call butter after me—and that
when I’m dead, too, and can’t retaliate.” Then he
slghod, and moaned forth a remark about the
penalty of human greatness. “ But you don’t
know what it is till after you’re dead,” he con-
tinued. “Ah, what a fool I wasl how rash I was
ever to have my portrait taken 1 ” It was General
Gordon!
There is grim irony in this: —“ Mr. Parnell
and his colleagues ask the Irish people not to be
openly uncivil to their Roya 1 Highness.” This, of
course, is in reference to the visit of the Prince
and Princess of Wales to Ireland. “ Not to be
openly uncivil,” is masterly. It affords such
scope for varied explanation. To store dynamite
in a drainpipe, over which the Royal Party might
be expected to pass, could hardly be termed open
incivility. And to fire it could scarcely come under
that head either, if the Guy Fawkes of the oc-
casion did not mike himself loo conspicuous. Nor
could it properly be called being openly
uncivil to stuff the cushions of the Royal
carriage with gun - cotton, and then set a
slow fuse In to keep its spirits up. Neither would
it seem to us much of a breach of the Parnellite
injunction to unobtrusively mingle prussic acid
with the princely soup. These are only a few of
the plans still open to ths more moderate patriots
who do not wish to risk the reputation of their
aountry for hospitality, nor at the same time lose
a chance which may seldom occur again. The
knowledge of these reassuring facts should be a
great comfort to Albert Edward on his Irish tour.
And, furthermore, he is sure to be told that if any
little accident should occur, he will have the most
elegant wake that heart could wish. There is no
meanness about the Irish nature in this respect.
But —think 1 The heir to an Empire on which the
sun has never yet presumed to set—the future
sovereign of 200,000,000 of people—the head of the
richest nation the world has known—dares not to
set his foot on an Island conquered 700 years, and
denationalised more than 80, without first obtain-
ing a Machiavellian assurance of safety from a
demagogue. The Prince of Wales may have the
honour and glory, but Parnell has the power. To
what does alt this point ? Qui vivra verra! We
can wait. But wo fancy, if we had the choice, we
would rather be a patriot In good business than a
Prince in these troublesome times.
BRIEF MENTION.
Truth is mighty—scarce.
The Rum is importing machinery to print
14000 copies an hour. Half-an-hour's hard work in
prospect for somebody.
The “ Vag.” visited the Hamilton “ Ladies’
College.” “Every daughter of Eve forms her own
opinions of any male creature in one glance,” he
writes. If one could only get some of these girls
to speak! 1
OUR LAZY MAN’S APOLOGY.
’Tis said that the wicked in this weary world
Can never obtain any rest,
And as I am resting one-half of my time,
- ’Tis I am good as the beit.
Bishop Jackson, who renounced the mitre
for the celestial crown, the other day, married his
nine daughters to nine ministers of his own dio-
cese. And yet there are people who speak cal-
lously of the sufferings of the inferior clergy I
Julian Thomas is doing “Picturesque Vic-
toria ” for the Argus. Of a country seminary he
remarks, “ If there is one thing we are taught to
respect in my country, it is a girls’ school.” This
squelches all the idle rumours of Julian's being an
Irishman.
“ The Ballarat College is just the sort of
place I would like to commence my education at,”
writes the travelling reporter of the Federal
Australian. We don’t care when you commence
it, old man, so you begin at once, but—but don’t
let it go too long.
The Rum calls Dailey’s speech at Grafton,
in condemnation of Parke’s Boudan views, “the
awful severity of [Incontrovertible truth.” These
are the precise words Joe smith used when—
while undermining a detached building—he dis-
covered the “ Book of Mormon.”
Dean Church once said that there were
only three original thinkers in the last generation
of Englishmen. There is only one in this genera-
tion. And his name is Alfred Bennett. He thiqks
the Evenooze the most powerful journal in the
world. Herein lies his splendid originality.
Speaking of Hamilton (Vie.), the “ Vaga-
bond ” says that nine is a mystic number there.
*' It possesses nine churches, nine hotels, and nine
policemen.” It was odd to have ten loafers in such
a small place, but, no doubt, the “ mystic nine ”
was restored when —[Not this time.— Ed. B ]
It is said that Mr. John Lucas has expressed
his desire to contribute to the “Australian Ser-
mon Fund.” The discourses are published weekly
in the Australasian and are mostly by Spurgeon.
The last one we saw (April 11th) was probably the
one that decided Mr, Lucas. It was called “ The
Lord’s Little Ones.”
“Thereis a well-organised rifle club at
Cooper’s Creek,” scrawls a vagrant scribe, “and
should tbelRusslans land and march inland to ‘loot’
the banks and burn the colleges, these Franc •
tireurs would be heard from .” May be. But
not from their present address. The letters would
have the Western-Australian post-mark.
A visitor to an up-country boarding-
school pens j—“ I feel awkward, when all
these sweet girl-graduates rise as we enter the
different class-rooms, and I run the gauntlet of
many pairs of curious ©yes.” Yes. But how
foolish to visit in broad day the establishment
where the hen-roost had been robbed over night!
“ It is pleasant to hear a Bedfordshire ac-
cent once more,” writes an Argus correspondent.
“ Ah, me! what sad memories of vain resolutions
the turn of a tongue may bring.” True. But we
know this scribe, and, from bitter experience, can
safely say that the tongue would have to be a lot
“ turned ” before he was choked off and the rest
of the boarders got a slice.
She was a ’Lulyah lass, and he a good
Catholic. An animated discussion had been going
on between them as to the relative merits of their
faiths, wherein he dwelt upon the shows of the
Harmy with infinite scorn, and she hit back with
jars about burning tapers and Holy Mary. “ There
Is one thing,” she said cuttingly—“ We ain’t
bothered with virgins in the Army.” “True,
true,” he murmured, and gave up the debate.
“Let other places boast of their gaols and
lunatic asylums, we are satisfied with these.” said
the Mayor of (Vic.) “These” were schools.
At one of them his Worship bad tied the dog-
inspector at pot-books-and-bangers the week be-
fore. But he shouldn’t despise gaols and asylums.
Even Mayors have “scoffed” skilly and worked
straw into their hair before now.
Was it for wisdom in debate
Shown in Councils of the State,
His fitness and his claim was shown
To sit on a vice-regal throne.
Nope such in Carrington need be
To: govern a great colony,
The test of fitness that prevails
Is—“ Did he ‘ paint the town ’ with Wales ? ”
Is this a sporting item ? They say that
Laycock remarked lately that the mere jaw work
which Hanlan had to do in responding to the
questions of friends and morning paper reporfers
was enough to throw him out of form. Well this
does truly surprise us. We thought David
Buchanan was the only man in New South Wales
who could properly row with his jaw. You will
have to think over this. [This is not a sporting
item.—Ed.B]
Smith and Brown were in deep confab
over some comical incident when Jones, the ex-
quisite. hove in sight, fumbling in his waiscoat
pocket. Brown turned pale, clutched his friend,
and hurried him round the corner. “ What’s up,”
said Smith. “Didn’t you see Jones feeling for his
Sing a song of horrors,
A ditty full of gloom,
Fellow on the trap-door
Ready for blfl doom;
For Wheel or Woe.
(A STORY WITHOUT WORDS,)
When the bolt was loosened
Lever wouldn’t act—
This is not a fable.
But a simple fact.
The parson had his prayer book,
The prisoner had the cap,
The hangman had the rope round
This unhappy chap;
Thrice they pulledt.he bolt back,
The trap, though, never fell—
So, instead of going to hea-ven,
P’raps ll go to—well ?


pipe ? He’s been smoking 10 years and never yet
carried a match. He’d make you search your
pockets, your hat, and your socks, to get him a
light.” “Why doesn’t ho carry a box himself,
then ? ” “ Says he would spoil the set of his coat.
Here is an epitaph put upon the tomb-
stone of a man who was drowned off the coast
lately, by his loving widow: -
“ Yea, mv darling is In heavtn,
Where I’ll find him and my children.
Darlings, we shall meet and rest
With the holy and the blest.”
She has since got married to a baker. Put not
your trust in widows.
The Queen of the South (s.e.) on her pas-
sage from Sydney to Kempsey. carried Mr. Rudder
in the steerage. This was very appropriate, for—
*■ To all who have travelled by steamer or ship,
At once it will surely appear,
That the Rudder was placed In the steerage, be-
cause
They thought he'd be able to steer.”
But perhaps we are wrong. The report [says
“ Mr. Rudder and six in the steerage.”
In Hamilton, in the Western district of
Victoria, the “Vagabond” was piloted round the
public schools by some of the “leading” citizens.
He feelingly remarks, “ With my bald head and
venerable appearance I am in hopes that they will
characteristic idea of plunging him into a pan full
of whisky—on the principle that whisky must be a
cure for anything.) He has been drunk ever since.
Fact. We cannot say where he is now. But we
can guess. He always liked bis liquor hot.
The advantages of a High School educa-
tion ate pompously paraded in more than one ad-
vertisement in the B.M. Herald. And this Is hew
they are paraded:—"Modern High School, late
Classical and Math. Master Sydney Gram, School.”
Now, who ever hoard of a “ High School ” being a
classical muter. We would whip the most ignor-
ant gamin of the gutter if he made such an
egregious error; and we certainly should hesitate
to send our children to receive "superior educa-
tion ” at an establishment whose authorities thus
publicly display their ignorance or their careless-
ness. And here is a still worseexample:—“ Hurst-
ville College, Goulburn— Head-Master, J. Dandslv,
M.A , L.L.D, The College Grounds comprises (sic)
nearly 30 acres.” We wonder if grammar is one
of the subjects taught at Hurstville ?
The Narrabri Bibney very properly slates
members ot Parliament for their Ignorance of the
rules of our language, and graphically describes
their speeches as “ grammatical violations of the
laws of syntax.” But. alas I this critic’s next sen-
tence limps along thuswise: “It is, we think,
K' nt to any one who has reed the columns of
. which was delivered by Dibbs, Dailey, and
Co and, not content with this error, the Llndley
take me for a new professor." Make your mind
easy, Julian, old boy. When Victorian females—
except while teething—take you for a professor, it
will be time to —stay ; they might. They might
take you for a professor of “ cheek. 1 hose gum-
sucking maidens are thoughtful.
We always thought that Mr. Sala was to
much of a gentleman to insult even the “gentle-
men of the Press,” and yet, when lecturing last
week in Maryborough (Vic.), he said, with refer-
ence to the chance of war between England and
Russia, that, having been so long away from Eng-
land. where he met the journalists and politicians
who knew most about these questions, he could
not give any reliable opinions. Now. this was too
bad, just as if we have not journalists in Australia
who could put the whole matter in a nutshell.
Spirit of Alfred Bennett! Why, we would back
the Noozk against Mr. Sala any day. But, then,
there you are. The Nooze knows everything;
Mr. Sala does not—and doesn’t pretend to.
Can we lay over this ? A gentleman in
Brunswick (Vic.) has lately scored his 114th charge
of drunkenness. We can lay it over. We once
bad a bard on our stall on whose Druidical beard
the beer-drops glistened perpetually like-to us a
his own felicltious simile—the scintillant spheres
of dew upon a fell of moss at morn. He was
exactly—according to his own statement, and he
ought to know-ten minutes old when he went on
his first drunk. (He was an Irishman, and being
weak at birth his parents conceived the happy and
The following statement may, perhaps,
have an Illusory resemblance to a joke. But you
will at once see that it is not, when we tell you
that it concerns the Chief Commissioner of Vic-
torian Police. It appears that a few weeks ago
this august creature received a letter from a
country lawyer, containing a complaint against a
constable for not arresting certain dogs which
were in the habit of occupying one end of the
court, and barking derisively at the eloquence of
the complainant. This was the reply of the Chief
Commissioner:—" I have read this correspondence,
and see no sufficient ground why I should repri-
mand the constable. I am not disposed to allege
that the presence of any dog in a village court-
house is an impropriety. Much depends on the
kind of dog, and upon its education.” We should
eay so. But it is hard upon the lawyer—or the
dogs. The former has brought the matter before
the Chief Secretary. The dogs have done nothing
up to date.
The Newcastle Fletcher, hearing that
Captain Jacobsen, of the Quickstep, had reported
having seen a Russian man-of-war off Cape Howe,
sent a reporter to Interview that naval officer, and
gave the dialogue verbatim in its its next day’s
issue. Some of the questions put to Captain
Jacobsen were as follows:—How old are you?
Where were you born ? What are you doing now?
Are you naturalised ? Are you perfectly certain
that you are telling the truth ? When are you
Murray of the North concludes the article by
asserting “ that the time of the House is wasted
in useless debates which is injurious to the public
interest.” We will dedicate a verse to him, in the
hope that he may paste it in his hard-hitter for
future guidance:—
Great critic, we wish that you would but resolve
To leave others’ errors alone’
Until you have read uv some grammar yourself,
And corrected those bulls of your own.
At the last Agricultural Show at Moruya,
the competition among “ gentleman riders ”
proved of more than ordinary Interest. The first
to enter the ring was the local editor, who had
pawned his mammoth paste-pot, and realised on
bis colossal sheers in order to revel In the un-
wonted luxury of a pair of broadcloth breeches
and lavender kid gloves. No, 2 was a squatocratlo
magistrate, whose embossed shirt-front was
adorned by gold-rimmed studs, and whose billy-
cock hat, bv its inordinate gloss, struck envy into
the heart of the country editor. No. J was a rural
masher, whose clothes fitted him to a wriggle, like
an eel’s hide. No. 4 was Mr. Abrahams, of Ulla-
dulla, a pure-bred aboriginal, whose Christianity
had neither lessened his love of nudity, nor de-
creased his ascendancy in the saddle. Nos. 1, 2, and
3 looked the picture of disgust, as they found the
naked hlackfellow gain more Seldt than his Beau-
Brummellan rivals, and the editor has since entered
a protest on the pretext that “ gentlemen riders ”
does not necessarily include “ gentlemen of
colour.”
going away? Whereto? What with? The dia-
logue conclude! with the observation that “the
reporter left, finding there was little more to be
got out of the obliging skipper." Little more, in-
deed ! Why, the interrogatory inquisition was not
pushed to the hilt at all. Why were not the fol-
lowing- queries asked of the Cantain ?—Are you
civilised? What is your religious belief ? Who is
your mother-in-law, and why? Are you bald*
headed, and did you ever have indigestion ?
Where do you expect to die. and where do you
expect to go to when you do ? How often do you
use soap ? What do you think of Dailey, and why
did Parkes beat Osborne ? Of a truth the New-
castle reporters as Interviewing genlusts are miles
behind the age. Why. even Alfred’s reporters
would have got something more out of Captain
Jacobsen. They would have got a drink, or have
frozen to the door-step till either the Captain
yielded or the police interfered.
The alleged experiments to resuscitate
animals after apparent death, by means of trans-
fusion of blood, as narrated (from another source)
in the Scientific American, and the well-attested
story of the woman who was brought to life after
being dead (to all appearances) for some time,
must have startled those who believe in a future
life and all that kind of thing. After being dead
(so to say) for a long time, the woman was brought
to life by artificial means, but she had no recollec-
tion of anything after becoming unconscious.
Her soul must, therefore, have hidden itself and
been in no hUrry to leave so comfortable an abode
and seek other quarters. But the experiments on
the dogs transcend belief; yet the Scientific
American Is a paper that exercises the greatest
cire and allows no Yankee yarn to get into its
columns. One dog was completely drained of
blood and left dead for four hours; another was
similarly treated and left twelve hours. At the
lapse of the time allotted, the corpses were placed
in a warm bath and rubbed and treated until the
limbs became perfectly supple as in life. Then
artificial respiration was begun and the transfu-
sion of blood commenced. Both dogs were re-
stored to life! But the experiment was not
always successful. Altogether, the story, if
true, is such as to first make us loso
faith in all present ideas about vitality
and death, and secondly to prepare a new terror
for poor mankind. Suppose these experiments
are true, then what follows? Why, when our
mother-in-law is stretched cold and silent (at last)
in our drawing-room her fond daughter, our wife,
will call in the scientists, get the necessary blood,
and resuscitate the terrible female, giving her a
fresh lease of life. This is awful to contemplate.
Then think of a rich uncle dying and leavihg one
all his property. The disappointed relatives will
at once call in the professors, and, before 13 hours,
that uncle will bo sitting in your great arm-chair
consuming your best port and looking as if he
would outlive you. But, perhaps, after ail, the
Scientific American has been imposed upon
Let us hope that is the case.
A man entered a photographer’s and said:
“ I want a cabinet picture ot myself.” The artist
placed him in position and screwed up his machine
to the proper focus. “ Now look bright and cheer-
ful,” be said, and keep your eye fastened on that
hole in the wall." Instead of looking bright and
cheerful the man concaved himself forward,
dropped his jaw, and assumed a look of infinite
weariness. “What is the matter with you,”
exclaimed the photographer. “ Brace up, 1 say,
and look pleasant.” “If this posit/ n cost anything
extra. 1 ' was the answer," I am willing to pay for it.
My wife is up in the country visiting friends, and
this picture trof s to her. I know what I am about.
Pull the blankets off, Mr. Artist, and begin
counting.
Clara—“1 notice that a tax is to be imposed
upon all unmarried gentlemen in France who have
reached a certain age. Whst is that for, Georg?,
dear?” George (who keeps himself informed on
current events)—” This tax, my love, has be< n
found necessary, owing to the growing decrease
in population.” Clara (thoughtfully)-" Well, I fail
to see how a tax will remedy the matter.” George
(a little .uneasily)—“Why-er-you see that-er—
rather than pay the tax they will— er— marry, you
know.” Clara (blushing and changing the subject)
—“1 expect we will have a delightful time at the
party to-morrow evening, George, dear.”
The Bone off Contention.


“ BEACH’S ”
CONSULTATION
ON
ADELAIDE CUP.
soo aova.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10s. EACH.
Address—
** BEACH,”
Care of J. G. Deeble,
Hotel, King and Pitt Street, Sydney
The Referee.
SPORTINGS FIXTURES.
Wt than, be glad to bane tbU index petted W bi
Heretariee of raeing clubt and manageri of
iporting eventi in general^
racing.
Wlloannia R.C..... £p r11 ™
Murrumbidgee T.C. April 23. 2t
Mudgee Tattersall’s R.C. April 23. 24
Western Downs J.C. (Tambo, Q.) AnnuaL.Mav 13, D
Canterbury Park R.C May 16
RosehiURO....... ... May23
Wollongong T.C. (Autumn) . May 25
Walkcrston (nr. Mackay ,Q.) R.C. Annual...May 25
Blackall R.C June 4, 5
Rosehlll R.C
Walgett R.C July 8,9
Rosehlll R.C £.. ..July 18
Canterbury Park R.C August 1
Rosehlll R C August 8
Canterbury Park R.C September 6
Hawkesbury (Spring) September 10 12
A.J.C. (Spring) September 19, 22,.24, 26
Rosehlll R.C .October 3
Canterbury Park R.C October 17
Canterbury Park R.C December 19
Rosehlll R.C December 28
AQUATICS.
Intercolonial 8-Oar Race April 25
Matterson v, Messenger May 30
’CYCLING.
Sydney Bicycle Club (Annual R M.) August 22
Suburban Bicycle Club (Annual R.M.) May 9
THE RING.
S.A.B. Club Competition June 1
Foley y• Farnan.... > - June 30
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
London Belt’s Life started as a daily on
23rd March.
The slaughter has been started at Mel-
bourne. Scratch football matches on Saturday
last.
f., Matterson and Messenger are matched to
row over the champion course for £200 a side on
May 30.
Farnan and Lees matched to box, Queens-
berry rules, to a finish for £100, In four weeks’
time. The contest is to come off in Melbourne,
In private.
a»At the opening of the Rosehill course,
Harris had the mount on the winner of the first
race; and Gough had first fall off Discard—rather
an ominous name, by the way.
We are sorry to say the muoh-talked-of
boxing match between our champion amateur and
an ex-champion amateur of England, has come to
an untimely end. We never fancied for an instant
that it would eventuate.
The footballers are beginning to wake up>
and amongst other clubs Waratah and University
last week held their annual meetings, at which the
officers for the coming season were duly elected,
On Thursday evening the Hedferns held a big
“smoke” to celebrate the opening of the season.
An Adelaide paper says Davison asserts
that ho was hocufsed before running his last heat
for the Sir Joseph Banks Handicap, as, after
covering 135yds., he collapsed, and felt very bad.
He also says he will accept Malone s challenge, and
will endeavour to have the event runoff In Ade-
laide.
■ j. s., the sporting tailor of the Hay market,
has gone In for a new line of goods, having re-
nontlv Durchased the racers Memento* Manrioo,
KlngArthur, and Cunnarnulla. Battye gave 70gs.
for Ci nnamulla, under the hammer, and received
a good advance on his outlay from the present
owner.
The one steamer racket has proved a god-
send for tho Rowing Association. The charge for
the steamer Is to be £1, and, we understand, there
has been a regular rush of nominations for mem-
bersbip. The outsiders, no doubt, think they mav
as well have the full benefit of the season for their
pound, as pay It for a single race.
The Glebe Rowing Club held its [’annual
meeting last Thursday evening, when the follow-
ing officers were elec.ed:-Captain, A. Ickerson;
hnn sec H. B. Cox; hon. tr?a a urer, F. C. Wil-
liams- and committee, Shute, Fairweatber, Wat-
ford.* Coker, Leeds. Durrell, Mayes, Daly, and
Robertson. The Club has decided to hold Its an-
nual ball In June next.
Our Boys’ Football Club.—A club bearing
this name has ben formed at Cootamundra. The
rules to be plajed under will be those of the
Rugby Association. The office bearers for the
ensuing season are:—President, H. A. O Don-
nell- vice-president, 8. W. Hudson; secretary. J
v Rarnes- treasurer, P. L. Solomon: committee
Si E Ba?ncs, J. Harrold. and J. Quigley. The
colours are navy-blue jersey, knickerbockers, and
oap.
The Bathurst Picnic Races eventuated in
fine style on Saturday last, at Mount Tamar, which
was placed at the disposal of tho Committee by
Mr John M’Phlllamy. Hogmanay won the Malden
Plate; Doctor the Mount Tamar Cup; Drummer
Boy the Voluntary Cup Handicap; Buccanner, the
Picnic Race Club Handicap: Harlequin the Picnic
Plate- and Drummer Boy finished the day s sport
hv annexing the Ladles’ Bracelet for Miss Ethel
Kite.
Foley receives any number of challenges
through the columns of the newspapers, but when
it comes to putting up the “ sugar bis ohal-
lengersScramble out of It In anything but a grace-
ful g manner. We should like to see a first-class
man from England or America come out and give
him a flutter, as there does not appear any show
of a colonial tackling him. There are thousands
at the back of Foley, and a visitor could make a
good thing out of It. We were nearly forgetting
to add—were he able to whip our champion.
Canterbury (N.Z.) had its little glove light
nn March 31, when J. Pettengell met T. Teague in
a mill to a finish, throwing allowed, at the Queen s
Theatre, he affair came off in the presence of
J om e 800 people, Including a number of the fema.e
sax Teague is 37 years of age, weighing under
93t., and could make no headway against his oppo-
nent. who defeated him in 12 scrambling rounds,
lasting 26 minutes. Pettengell is described as a
well built young fellow. 22 years of age, and turn-
ing the scale at list. 41b. He was defeated on
March 14 by Mathews, an account of which fight
wo trave in a recent issue. Pettengell was matched
to box loott at Dunedin on April 13.
The following officers have been elected
in connection with the newly-formed Sydney
University Boat Club:-President: the Chancellor
of the University. Sir William Manning; vice-
presidents? the Vice-Chancellor Judge Wind«yer,
?[on. E. Barton, Professor Scott, Messrs. If. E.
RorfT A J Cane, and R. Teece; captain: Mr. G. A.
Fltzhardinge: vice-captain: Mr. G. Milbiid; secre-
tary- Mr. G. B. Rich; treasurer: Mr. W. G. Arm-
ing -elective members of committee: Messrs.
a mfd J P. Clark, L. F. Neale, H. A. M Merry-
weather and J Wood. We understand the com-
»re on the look out for a site at Glebe
Point and we do not think they could do better,
asabsence of steamers’ wash and sheltered waters
make it the next best rowing ground to the
"River.” , ,
Given a fine day on Saturday next, an im-
mense crowd will, no doubt, put in an appearance
!?n the waters and banks of the champion course
to witness the unprecedented sight of four eights
MS: “r the intercolonial race. That Queens-
land and Tasmania can hope to hold then
their maiden efforts in eights must be beyond the
expectetions of their most ardent admirers, and
we fancy the result will rest between the old
stagers, Victoria and New South Wales. The two
crews puli in totally different styles, and to a
Sydney man the local men appear most taking :
but we have too often waged war unsuccessfully
against the Victorians not to know that their style
is—to our cost—a winning one. We have said all
along, and say now, that we have not the best
available talent in our boat, and, taking all thicgs
into consideration, we think the Melbournians
will win- if the Welshmen don’t finish in front of
them. This is the sort of tip we decided to indulge
in after the Hanlan-Beach race,
Donnelly and Sullivan have moved round
to their new shed at Woolloomooloo Bay, and
their vacated premises at Glebe Point have been
taken by Reid and Stevens, who have gone into
partnership in the boat-building line. The young
fellow* have been brought up in a good school,
and intend to go in for craft of all description,
from a yacht’s dlmiy upwards. Reid is tbb
builder, amongst other fine boats, of “ Podge ”
Newton’s crack working boat Admiral, and Mr.
Longfleld’s 22-footer the J5olis, which defeated the
St. Crispin in her maiden effort. Stevens has b( e i
working for many months past at Press’s boat
sheds, Woolloomooloo, where he has turned out
several clinkers and light skiffs of first-class model
and finish—boats that commend him to the various
rowing clubs in want of new craft—and his last
addition to Press’s sailing fleet, a roomy half-
decker, is a fine boat of her class. The pair mean
biz., and we wish them the success such able and
conscientious builders deserve.
The opening meet of the Rosehlll Race
Club on Saturday last was a big boom, the attend-
ance being remarkably good, taking into consid-
eration the dreary character of the day. The
racecourse proper is well laid out, with some
quarter of a mile of straight, and the Saddling
Paddock and appointments are first-class, but we
are afraid the committee have rather overlooked
the comfort of .the outside public on the bill,
which is devoid of shelter, and when a shower
swept over the ground on Saturday, the booths
were fairly rushed. It would bo a great improve-
ment, also, if a portion of the hill was asphalted,
an Idea which the Kandwlck people might take up
with advantage In connection with their dusty and
badly-arranared Ledger Stand. For the Opening
Handicap, Kspiegle defeated Rocket by a head;
The Two-Year-Old Handicap fell to Astrrea,
Matchlock a couple of lengths away second; The
Parramatta Stakes fell to Leumeah; Florinda won
the Selling Plate; Rainbow made an easy win of
the Granville Plate from Balmoral; and Moon-
sbee made a win of the Kosehill Handicap by half
a length from Phyllis.
Two big mistakes, made by the Woolloo-
mooloo Bay Regatta Committee, were the start-
ing of the ladies’race on such a boisterous day;
and allowing the names of Beach and Hanlan to
appear on the card as entries for the light skiff
handicap. As regards the first-named race, many
of the fair ones must have thought the run to
Pinchgut was rather a perilous matter, one boat
In particular rolling gunwale under, and It looked
more like good luck than management she did not
roll over on top of her crew. At the finish the
fair ones, in most cases thoroughly drenched,
looked anything but happy, and we do not think
we were singular In our opinion that the sight of
three ladies “ banging out’’ in an open boat In a
southerly squall Is as unbecoming as it is dan-
gerous. As for the light-skiff race, for years past
it has commanded a big field, but such names as
Beach and Hanlan no doubt frightened the
smaller fry away, and Messenger and Pearce were
the only entries in addition to the big guns. If we
mistake not it was in a Woollomooloo handicap
that Beach made his dehut, and we trust that in
future the Woolloomooloo Committee will not
cater for a big attendance at the expense of the
best pulling race on their programme
Wretched weather, with southerly wind
and rain squalls, threw a damper on the Woolloo-
mooloo Bay Regatta on Saturday last, but, not-
withstanding such disadvantages, the flagship was
fairly patronised. As usual with the Woolloo-
mooloo people, the races were sent away to the
minute, and the committee deserve every praise
for the manner in which the afternoon’s sport was
carried out. The principal pulling race was
looked for in the handicap light skiff race, for
which H. Pearce (15 lbs) and C. Messenger (feather)
responded to the starter’s flag. Pearce, rowing a
couple of strokes a minute less than his opponent,
led till well on to the island, when the Dreamland
Jibed almost on top of him, compelling him to
keep wide. Messenger made the moat of the
opportunity, and getting inside position led round
the Island by a clear length. In the sheltered
water at Garden Island Pearce spurted, but to no
Jiurpose, as Messenger continued to increase his
ead and eventually won by any number of
lengths. Macgregor and| Brierly, of the Q.R.C.
made an easy win of the maiden double sculls, and
Middleton defeated Thompson for the Senior Sculls
in outriggers, by a length. The Alleen and Dream-
land were the only starters for the 34-footers, and
the race resulted in a win for Mr. Creagh’s beauti-
fully finished Alleen, George Ellis’ la&t creation in
the 34-foot line. The Rosetta, St. Crlsnln, iEolus
and V<tlox, were on the card for the 23-footers,
but only the two first named put in an appearance.
Much of the Interest in the race was lost by reason
of the non-starting of the ASolus— the last
clipper put together by Reid of Glebe Point-
caused, we understand, by “ Podge ” Newton
being unable to come up from Long Bay to take
command—and the contest resulted in an easy
victory for the Rosetta, with Tom Colebrook at
the piokhandle. The Asteroid carried off the
prize for half deckers over 30 feet; Maritana won
the race for half deckers 3) feet and under; Cur-
lew won the open boats 30 feet and upwards; Mia
won the “mixed” race; Nelson proved the best
man-o’-war boat; Nereid carried off the 16-foot
race; Young Victor the 14-footers; Maggie the
canvaser race; and the Vernon race brought the
sport to a close.
Duke Charles of Brunswick, who died in
1874, has been called “ the most despicable figure
In the most scandalous chronicles of our times.”
A visit to the Diamond Duke's famous hotel in
the Champs Elysdes must have been, to say the
least of it, exciting. A spring was touched, an
armchair presented Itself, and the caller was
whirled round and up Into the ducal ante-chamber.
This and the bed-chamber were in solid Iron; the
very bed was iron. A minute violet-shaped aper-
ture in the wall was the key-hole of the recess
where the Duke’s stronghold, containing precious
deeds and documents, hung over a well many
yards deeper than the first foundations of the
hotel. The cellars were strongholds like those of
the Bank of France. There were iron cases crammed
with guineas, coffers untouched since Waterloo,
containing gold pieces of eight generations of
Dukes, and there were thousands of ten-tha.er
pieces which had never been put into circulation,
lie kept no kitchen, for a cook was necessarily a
poisoner in his eyes. He mixed his morning choco-
late himself; his milk was brought from suburban
farms in a sealed can.
Of course, when every parson was drub-
bing the war-drum and every prolate preaching
slaughter, it was not to be supposed that the Dis-
cord would be silent. Nor was it. This political
discovery is from one of its war leaders: “Our
sending a contingent to the Soudan has not de-
terred'Russia, as her advance has only been made
since.” Who, in his senses, expected that it would ?
Is the world to stand still because our brave fel-
lows <600 strong) have gone forth to uphold the
honour of their colony, and succour England in
her hour of need ? But this to the Discord
BRADLAUGH AND THE JOOK AND
THE BOLD TOMMY ATKINS.
There is a caricature in the Christmas
□umber of the London World which represents
the end of that fierce Radical, Bradlaugh, as a sour-
eyed and bitter-mouthed peer, with a coronet on
the back of his head and the ermine cape around
his shoulders. But this will never come to pass if
he continues writing to high and mighty irreflponi
sibilitles as he has lately done to the Duke of
Cambridge—Field Marshal Commanding-in-Chief,
and all the rest—on the subject of the British
Army Here are a few sentences from his letter;
he is speaking of affairs in the Soudan, and refers
to the muddles of the Egyptian campaign;—“ What
improvements have you made In desert transports
in the two years since? Your much-vaunted
Canadian boatmen, we learn, are now being sent
home, although skilled boatmen are certainly
needed on the dangerovls Nile. Why is this ? Afe
they like the auxiliaries employed as drivers in
1883, who, failing to get the clothing promised to
them by your officers when they enlisted, were
obliged, as we are told by Assistant Commissary-
General Reeves, to be mutinous and strike alto-
gether before they could even get boots, although
they complained * that the sand of the desert was
so hot that it burnt their feet;’ when the gro-
ceries were ungetable, the tea and coffee packed
away under heavy ordnance, the rum hidden
under a siege train, and the cheese and sau-
sages stowed inaccessibly under railway trucks ? ”
These, indeed, are bitter pills for the Duke to
digest. The other negligencics might, perhaps, be
considered pardonable in the excitement of war-
fare, but the rum hidden under a siege train, and
the cheese and sausages stowed under railway
trucks, are facts which Tommy Atkins is neither
likely to forget or forgive. What will our own
sons of thunder do if the like laches are made in
connection with their commissariat ? We shudder
to think of it. They will p> obably eat their officers!
And if the worst comes to the worst, and the rum
runs out, we would not give much for the chance
of the war correspondents they may come across.
As sure as the fresh eggs of commerce are fret
quently the residences or chickens, they will breW
beer and distil mixed drinks out of the bodies of
every mortal Journalist they lay their hands on.
We sincerely hope that in case such a crisis should
occur, our Mr. Melvin will escape them. Imagine
a scene of this sort under the still stars of the
equatorial sky, and amid the mournful silence of
the desert. Corporal M’Guffln, passing from one
camp-fire to another, accosts Full-private Fagan,
who is in the act of ladling out a dun-
coloured liquid from a cauldron hanging between
three sticks—“ Well, Fagan, me boy, and what
kyind of sbtuff have ve got there ?” Fagan, paus-
ing with the ladle in his hand, replies with solemn
emphasis, “Corporal M‘Guffln, yiv axed me a
quiahtion which is bey ant me philassifhy to an-
swer; but I bleeve it’s a sort o’ mlxther of Farrell
and Billson and thraycle, wid, maybe, a shmall
sheopshong of karrasene and pethrowleum.” Cor-
poral M'Guffin tries a ladleful, and pronounces it
pretty good—for the “ Shoodan ”; and volunteers
to Full-private Fagan the information that at his
(Corporal M'Guffln’s) camp they had captured a
war correspondent the night before, and bad been
distilling him all the night. “And fwhat was the
reshult?’ enquires Full-private Fagan. “ The re-
shult,” repeats Corporal M’Guffln, in a tone of
gloomy scorn, “the reshult was wather—dhirty
wather.” They had been trying to make grog out
of the only Blue Ribbon war correspondent in the
Soudan. But-as a Flrbolg friend of ours would
say—we must be “the divel for ramblin’.” We
had almost forgotten that all this was mere mad
fancy. To return to Bradlaugh and facts. He
states (no doubt to the great delight of the royal
Duke) upon the authority of several generals and
eminent officers in the last Egyptian war that (I)
nearly all the Hour supplied to the troops was bad.
(3) That it was difficult to tell the bread from
bricks. (3.) That on one occasion the men lost all
their rations through the regimental transport
breaking in consequence of cumbrous carts and
rotten harness (4.) That out of 93001b. of tinned
rations, not a single pound was fit for consump-
tion when it reached the troops. (5.) That the
hay sent from England to Egypt, was so bad that
the horses would not eat it or the men sleep upon
it. (6.) That on the testimony of Sir John Han-
bury, chief medical officer of the Egyptian Expe-
dition, after a certain fight, the field hospital was
lying useless far away from the wounded, because
no transports could be got to convey it to the field
of battle. And then this terrible Bradlaugh winds
up his indictments by the questions—” What guar-
antee has your Royal Highness taken that the
poor privates and non-commissioned officers have
better food to-day in the Soudan than was
supplied two years ago ? What precautions
have you taken that the men shall not now
be disheartened and dlsspirited by bad fiour,
not only supplied by dishonest and rascally con-
tractors, but which must in 1882 have actually
been passed by incapable or criminal officers ?
Whose, then, was the fault, or rather the crime,
of neglect In 1883 ? Which high officer was tried
and punished since its discovery ? Or was it all
hushed up, the criminal officers getting promotion
instead of punishment? And have the men to-
day possibly like or even greater evils to contend
with ?” It will take the Duke some time to answer
all these, we should say, but what of this crusher ?
“Is It true that at Abu Kela and at Gubat
wounded men were, a few days ago, writhing in
agony for want of medicine ? ’ This is a pretty
picture of affairs, and, though Bradlaugh is a
Radical and perhaps inclined to be prompt in
seizing an opportunity of putting privileged per-
sons in awkward positions, the picture is not over-
coloured. It is a matter of fact that the British
soldier is the worst treated of all soldiers. Tragic
proofs of this were given in the Crimean war, and
have been given in almost every little war since.
And yet the British soldier—the dauntless Tommy
Atkins—is expected to beat any three men of any
other nationality when upon his mettle. He is ex-
pected to play brimstone and prod promiscuously
with bayonets every fat-fed foe he meets, while the
skin of his own stomach is as full of wrinkles as
the sides of a concertina. The game is Just a little
too thin—and so is Tommy Atkins. But then you
know England always expects eveerree man to do
his duty. So when Tommy Atkins returns to the
home of his fathers with a pound or two of lead
distributed impartially about his body and an
empty sleeve or a trouser-leg finishing abruptly at
the knee, he will have the consolation of knowing,
while he hawks ballads about the streets or sella
shoe-laces, that he has done bis duty and helped to
save his country. Whether it will ever cross his
mind—when he is selling the bullets extracted
from his body to the village boys for sinkers—
that his country has saved very little for him is a
question which contains the seeds of revolution.
It is, therefore, a question to shelve. Shelve,
shelve, shelve, lords and gentlemen and mighti-
nesses—but after you the red deluge.
He was a Collingwood policeman. Perhaps, dear reader, the levity with which we
?peak of a real live policeman may astonish you, but we have shown all along that we
are no respecters of persons, and we will speak of this “ trap” as if he were only a com-
mon man. He was as big and unwieldly as that gentle bird they call the elephant, and
could run in the festive drunk, or the unwashed dead-beat, in a manner which was a
credit to the fooroe; but when there was a free fight, or a garrotting case on hand.
Constable Wbiteliver was always down the next street, or in the back yard of No. 9, so
that he managed to worry along without being knocked about to any great extent.
But soon there came a rumour which bursled up all his serenity of mind—the Russians
were off Cape Otway, and the Victorian police were wanted t ) defend their country
against the “Grizzly.” When Whiteliver heard this, he planked down and wrote out
his resignation, stating that*’ being of a religious turn, he thought it wicked to shed
even Russian blood, and as his sister in the country was down with the dronsy, he’d
have to go and see after affairs. Then he packed a few traps in his ears, and lit out for
the interior. A few days later, a man discovered a deplorable-looking creature hid in
a wombat’s hole amid (he Baw-Baw mountains; he was eating grass, and asked very
anxiously if the Russians had sacked Melbourne yet, or were anywhere near. Upon
receiving an answer in the negative, he crawled out of the hole, and made in the
direction of the metropolis. On the 3rd instant, Constable Whiteliver turned up in
Melbourne once more, and asked to have his letter of resignation withdrawn. This
should certainly be conceded to, and tenders given out for a whole section of men like
Whiteliver to serve as a Victorian contingent fox the Soudan.
Dear Discord, thou oan’st well recite
The details of each muffin fight;
Tell what new converts have been gained,
Or what new priests have been ordained,
And with full-rounded periods tell
The baseness of each infidel ?
On holy subjects, such as these.
Thy little chat is sure to please;
But wandering from such themes aside
Thou makest sober men deride
Thy miserable efforts, for
Thou art not fit to write of war.
Dwell on the themes that are thine own,
But leave the world of war alone.
Pacific subjects best thy trade will suit.
And will not make thy pen a prostitute.


GOMPAGNONI CATERING GG., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. * *
THE oldest and leading Catering Establishment in N.8.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mayor,
Municipal Council of Sydney, the A.J.C., City Club, S c , &o.
Tne Dining Saloons for Ladies and Gentlemen are the Finest, Cooleest, and loftiest in the colony.
FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY. Private Bar-Good Wine List-
GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m. to 11 p m. (after the
Theatres. Select your own steak, Ac., and see it grilled in the room. ThU is one of the acquisitions
or the dry, and a long-felt waut. Inspection invited Cjub rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Cluo
and City Club, upstairs. Ei D. TOLLEMACHE, General Hannarer.
Bray <$& Liclitner,
32 O CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
IMPORTERS OF SUPPLIED
THE'LRTEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
(2)
O
■T
■V
m
m
&
£
O
N CO c-i
;■ ? si
o 'o a
7Xtr>ndn
a * «
-»)
K4A/
=3
css 5 t*
O •< «<j
13 P
Co
‘taoiAON joj gnonoTU}iaj Iinj DHjdojBo^Ol/ J d/d/dLUOQ
‘SdlUO/OD 31/1 Ul /SddDdl/J puo
/sag ‘pauDA /soiu ai/i so pasiuBooaj ajo suoz/ojodaud oii/dojSo/oi/j jhq
USTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY-
Established 1873.
Capltal--£100,000 with power to increase to £1,000,000
BONUSES—30 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
aid's g
50°
Ka
2 2
o ® «
a
3 u
o s
it jJttfSW,
istiga
a-a
is o
fl«-5
■ -
as
■
O.S
Sag
s t*
2
3 >
£ 3
5-3
s*a
® e 3
p-. o
a £
i*
C u
®33
osi ? 2 ~ a53 o
ot" "« ® S3— a
>>3
w p. j-
®--S * o
S £
3 2-S
S'Sflt. S4Q.S
® ® a as 33
3 S S
o.a
8453 Head Offices.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Offices—PITT and KINO STREETS.
INTENDING VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
Should Carefully Preserve this Notice.
“THE WONDER” COACH
CARRIED 1920 PASSENGERS LAST SEASON.
Mr. P. J. Rumney, of “ RIDGE’S FOOD ” fame
is again running his celebrated four-horse Stage
Coach, “THE WONDER,” between London and
St. Albans, leaving Hatchett’s Hotel, in Piccadilly,
London, every morning at 10.45 returning to Pic-
cadilly at 6.15 p m.
Ample time is allowed at St. Albans for lunch
and for passengers to inspect the CATHEDRAL,
which is one of the FINEST and OLDEST IN THE
WORLD.
The trip is one of the most delightful that can be
taken, and the price charged for the return fare is
fifteen shillings.
For Time Cards and other particulars apply to
“WONDER” Coach Office, Hatchett’s Hotel,
Piccadilly, London, England.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
mm i im
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL-PLATED
BEDSTEADS,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRA88E8
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR,
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
&o., &c.
BLAKE’S IMPROVED
STEAM PUMPS.
H. P. GREGORY & GO.,
17 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE -ABOV B,
and have In Stock and to arrive—
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULATING PUMP
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING PUMPS
SEND FOR PRICES AND ALL PARTICULARS
CATALOGUES FORWARDED FREE.
ttjusrSSdWBisasB.
Boyd-. Beard Ll
■iB tmU do it oneiliter bald heod or f rA 1
ry bare /are. force* heavy iloae • AkMU)
7 tac\uinfromZto\mtUaad«cr<rm*^Sr*Sr*-
’*>■ /axle, »oun« ip>e»Copyrighted.
■d. m artuUbeard,.bardu9 0Md\to u , ed.
a]ary, r 0 burvation.
n o
ALL WOMEN
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY'S
Borax Soap
0T TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, in either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERT
IN SOAP 1
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with It;
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
0T Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
fld. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers :
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
le only imaiiiole remedy for
//er/oi/sJjebiIijyT
THIS Invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustlve derangement of the system; regenerating
all the Important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 12s., or four quantities is one for
46s.; If by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,'
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from Qeorga-street South.
Watch and Clockmaker to the Victorian
Government.
T. GAUNT
Watchmaker,
GOLDSMITH,
mm aid on,
297 and 299
George Street,
tOLL/f
BLEND
{trade}
J*
COLLIE BLEND WHISKT.-Thls is a BT END
t ) of the PUREST MATURBD Whlskies, i u,m-
bihing fuleesM
of taste and
Agents.
Ting fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
■ flavour. CAttBLL & CO., Bole
W
Office
A8TS PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, KuiiUer*
[ NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
GOCU m CUTLER,
TAILORS,
Late of 418 Qeorge-street,
CO
No. 3 Hunter-steeet,
SECOND DOOR FROM GEORGE-8TREET.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found it at
last with the Argosy Braces at G owing Bros.
%
mm
&
GOWING BROS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Conslgn-
• ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. (id.. 3s , 3s. Od.,& 4s 6d
GOWING BROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, A
383 and 408 George-street.
Travers Vegetable Compound
COPYRIGHTED.
COPYRIGHTED .
“THOUSANDS OF LADIES
Can gladly testify that Mrs. Travers' Compound
does all that it claims to do.”
CTr'Ila purpose is Sold v t >r theloallimate healing of disease
end the relief of pain. It Is prompt in ncilon.
LOUISA R. TRAVERS
VEGETABLE COMPOUND
IS A POSITIVE REMEDY
Por all those Complaints and Weaknesses so common to
oar best Female population.
Fries, 10a 6d. per Package.
(Tr" Ladies, it will under all circumstances, act in harmony
with the laws that govet u year system.
C3-Thnt feeling of hearing down, causing pain, weight, and
backache, is always permanently cured by Its use.
IT IS A GREAT MEDICAL DISCOVERY
a Blessing to overworked women, audit* sales are
unprecedented 1 1 removes faintness, flutulmcy, all craving
for stimulant*, and relieves weakness of the st mach. I cno s
passed without pain.^0
Physicians Use it and Prescribe it.
flSff’It revives the drooping spirits, invigorates and hnr-
moiiir.es the organic functions, gives elasticity and firmness lo
the step, restores the natural lustre to the eye, and plants on
the pale check o f woman the fresh ros.s of life’s spring and
early summer time.
ITS MERITS KEEP UP THE SALE.
(f5*For the euro of Kidney Complainta of either BOX this
Compound! a unsurpassed. •£$
Mrs Travers” ‘Guidcto Health” will be mailed free to any
lady sending stamp. Letters efinquiry confidentially answered.
Packets Mailed free from observation on receipt of price.
Address, P.O. Box, 907, Sydney.
MBS TBATEK3’ UVEH PILLS care Constipation, Bil-
iousness, and Torpidity of the Liver. Price *s. Cd.
~^
ELLIOTT BROS, and 8. HOFFNtJNQ * CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST,
Graduate In Medicine and Surgery, Registered
Physician of New South. Wales.
3ffloe Hours : 10 a.m. to i p.m., 7 to 9 on Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday Evenings,
uadies’ Waiting Room, No. 10 : Gentlemen s. No.
11,52 Castlereagh-street (upstairs.)
Send for Free Treatise on Vitality and Nervous
Debility, Diseases of Women.
Illustrated Works on Deformities, Electricity
usd its Application. Hernia (ruptures). Varicocele,
in parson.
Deformities, Specific, Female, and Nervous
Diseases, a Specialty.


F
UBNITDK1 SHOW BOOM
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HAT8TAND8,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
Library furniture, centre and bide
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion : well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, fco.
YBRY ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking' rooms, Ac.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feei
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Gnat variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
E
ji IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES—The
"j Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’ConneU-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 3 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 20s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s-
Gedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s.; Clothes Horses, from!0s.6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
5
jOQB* PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, In handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves fox
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
o
CCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &o.
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
\J Just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
rvrv - ■
OxJonnoll-streot.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for Are grates. Very
elegant, BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell; street.
T\RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
JLf A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES,
races, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and Inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
T
10ILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
XIULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM-SIDE-
X! BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Ccnneli-strcet.
D
JNING TABLES, with patent extending
1 screw, from 6 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK OIAIfi-
Patented.
C3
■EE
r
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice vena, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in Its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of he body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet Invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort Is desired.
The frames arc of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when ft ided. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing In canvas. If required,
2s. 6d. extra.
B
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and L AMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very oxten-
slve assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, whica can be upholstered In
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Framework for dining-room furni-
ture, Handsome and Massive, In Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
B
BD8TBADS, nickel-plated and black and brass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
B
EDSTEADS, ail kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
B
DDING. —All descriptions at lowest rates,
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB, O Gon-
Bell and Spring streets.
W
A8HSTANDS, with marble, from 26s. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
a:
ARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
t ENTWOOD FURNITURE,—A very complete
9 Assortment; beet make, lowest price*.
SOCIAL
la the Lion Arcade at Newtown they have
been bolding a Shakespearean Fancy Fair for the
last week, and we heard that it was such a violent
success that we ordered our brougham and drove
down one night. We were Immediately “ col-
lared ” to put into a raflie—literally colla/red, for
the dear creatures didn’t waste time in coaxing us
to “part,” but grasped hold of us by the back of
the collar and informed us we had got to do so. So
there was no help for it but to give way, unless,
Indeed, we preferred to be throttled. There were
ladies with canvass message bags and plaid shawls
Earadlng the Arcade with gentlemen whose chins
adn’t felt a razor for a week or so, and who wore
large comforters round their throats; but, bless
you, their enjoyment of the gay scence was just as
keen as that of a Pott’s Point darling at her first
b Ul. What did It matter to them if the Queen of
Denmark got mad when a little urchin trod on her
train, and If some of the costumes were draggle-
tailed, it only seemed more real like—as if they
were used to them, you know. We read our
Shakespeare carefully through when we got home
from the Fair, but we couldn’t find a “Nancy
Lee” anywhere, but all the same, there was a
young lady there representing the character, and
she didn’t look amiss, either. Queen of Denmark
wore a black velvet robe sot round with ermine,
and a crown, of course. Mrs. Wood was a Greek
girl, in white with blue braiding. Lady Macbeth,
b ack velvet and pearls, and two ladies in waiting
1 n blue and cardinal velvet with caps to match. A
young girl looked really pretty in her gra-
duates' gown and cap. Somebody pointed a
“Portia” out to us in black broche and point
lace. This was something new, as we never
remember seeing Portia in that garb before.
We didn’t even know that black broche was
made in Portias’ days, but it just shows
what a mighty lot we nave yet to learn about
such things. Desdemona wore a pale blue satin,
which very likely looked nice and clean and fresh
at the beginning of the Fair; and there was a
Shepherdess in a blue and pink sateen, with large
hat and a crook. Puck wore black velvet (what a
heap of Shakespearian characters wear black
velvet), with a cap covered with spangles. Mrs.
Ryan wore a very handsome blue velvet adorned
with pearls. To make things a little lively, Mrs.
Ryan provided music for each night, and, judging
from the stampede up to the music end of the
Arcade, as soon as the concert commenc’d, we
were led to believe that the Newtonians’ appre-
ciation was as thorough as their behaviour was
boisterous. This Fair was the be?t bit of fun we
aave had since the last night we spent at the Fede-
ral Minstrels. We firmly believe that if the im-
mortal Bill had the power to see his favourite
characters represented by such a bevy of beauty,
ho would have laid still in his grave with satis-
faction.
• ♦ •
Now that every suburb is forming little
dancing coteries of its own for the season, it
seems this is a good time to wedge in the infor-
mation that Balmain fortunately possesses a num-
ber of enterprising young gentlemen who know
their duty to the girls, and do it. In that rook-
bound suburb, the first festive assembly formed
for this year is the “ St. Kllda Socials,” and last
Friday they held their second dance, which was
well conducted, and which filled with a feeling of
serene delight that select portion of the popula-
tion who were present. The first gathering fell
on a night of unmitigated heat, and just when the
members were patting themselves because the
second night promised to be so deliciously cool, it
came on to rain. This, as the Herat.d says, when
the larrikins kill a policeman, proved very annoy-
ing. A member who stood on the stone steps of
the School of Arts, looking up and down Darling-
street, which was desolate, used even stronger
language, and said the rain ought to be dammed
—up in the clouds, he meant. So It was
rather late when they started. There was plenty
of room in the large square hall, and more seats
than pretty people to fill them, and a trio of musi-
cians played the music. These gentlemen out the
dances rather short sometimes, but better short
than too long, and it was desired to have the social
over by 13 o’clock, which is a really sensible hour.
For the convenience of town and other visitors, a
special boat had been engaged to return to Sydney
afterwards. This has always been the great diffi-
culty at Balmain dances, and the committee,
Messrs. B. Butcher, C. Montague, A. Pllley, A.
Woodhlll, and F. Booth deserve credit for thinking
of it. The socials are to be held every month,
the object being to afford a pleasant local gather-
ing for the Balmain youth and beauty, though
membership is not strictly confined to them. Non-
members may be introduced with the sanction ot
the committee. The programme, engraved speci-
ally with a neat monogram, is pretty, containing
14 dances, with an interval duly marked for re-
freshments, which were civilly and swiftly served
by Mr. and Mrs. Oldham, who do these things well.
♦ * *
The Art Society closed their Exhibition at
the Town Hall on Saturday where a big crowd
collected to take a last look at the pictures and to
hear the pleasant little concert provided by Mr,
rharles Huenorbeln. Miss Glendinning and Miss
Fabien sang, and for his violin solo Mons. de
Willimoff got great applauso. Pity the hall isn’t
larger for these exhibitions, so that room could be
found fora sufficient number of seats to accom-
modate, at any rate, more than a dozen people.
At present, as far as seats are concerned, it’s a
case of “Hrtt corns, first chance,” and the fortu-
nate doze ■ < ling to their rests like grim death, to
the envy of all the weary promooaders who came
thirteen too late. That’s one of the drawbacks of
these Art Exhibitions, there is always a strong
sensation of foot-soreness after each visit, which
doesn’t make one long to go again. But we shan’t
have a chance of going again yet awhile, and
when we do we will carry our camp-stool with us.
Wonder it didn’t occur to us before.
• • •
Tbe Petersham Private Socials were reor-
ganised last Thursday at Petersham. W. I .
Davis, Esq., Mayor of Petersham, was elected
president; W. Colbran, hon. treasurer; H. O.
Curnow, hon. secretary; and committee—A. Chap-
man, G. Hughes, and O. Partridge.
• * •
The Jewish Synagogue presented a gay
appearance last Thursday, upon the occasion of
the wedding ot the Melbourne Rabbi with Miss
Davis of this city.-The guests were very numerous,
the ceremony imposing, and the di-play of silk
bell-topper something stupendous. The costumes
were as beautiful as only the daughters of Jeru-
salem know how to make them, and it was one of
the tip-toppest weddings we have seen for many a
day. Uoon entering the Synagogue, we inetli o-
tlvely “ uncovered,” but were immediately re-
minded of our whereabouts by being requested by
the verger, in a ghostly whisper, to “cover,” so,
in order to save any commotion, wfe “hatted.”
We had been trying to pass off as a Jew, but this
piece of ignorance of their customs gave us away
entirely, so we tore our false nose off in disgust,
and gave ourselves up to watching the ceremony.
When all was over the “Wedding March” was
played, then all the guests repaired to Leigh
House, where the reception was held. Professor
West had had his rooms nicely decorated for the
occasion, and until 6 30 p.m. dancing, eatinfc, and
drinking were the order of the hour.
♦ ♦ ♦
On Wednesday, the 15th instant, St.
Joseph’s Church, Orange, was most artistically
decorated with choice flowers, mingled with ivy
leaves and white satin ribbons, the occasion being
the marriage of Miss M. A. Burke, eldest
daughter of Alderman Burke, late of Dairy Farm
Estate, Bummer Hill, to Dr. P. J. Collins, of
woollahra. As the wedding party entered the
church, the beautiful tones of the “Wedding
March ” pealed from the organ at the command
of Miss Palvey. The happy ceremony was per-
formed by the Rev. Father Kelly, assisted by the
Rev. Father O’Dowd, after which the Nuptial
Mass was celebrated, at which the solemn rites of
the Church were administered to the favoured
couple. The bride looked more handsome than
ever in a cream satin Princess robe, trimmed
with white Maltese lace and orange blossoms.
The wreath was a choice combination of
chaste flowers. Miss Mary Burke, the sister of the
bride, acted as principal bridesmaid, in a milk-
white nun’s veiling trimmed with cardinal. Miss
Newton, of Woollahra, in pink satin and white
lace, and Miss Lillie Wall, of Rand wick, in azure
silk, relieved with white, were the assistant brides-
maids. The mother of the bride wore a handsome
coffee silk, shot with gold. Mrs. Valentine Heaton,
of Randwick, in an elegant peacock-blue costume,
and Mrs. Newton, of Sydney, in a rich brown satin,
with Mrs. Wall, also of Sydney, were among the
visiting guests. Dr. Clune, of Sydney, looked
happy as beat man. On leaving the church, the
party proceeded to Burkeville, the mansion
of the , bride’s parents, where a sumptuous
wedding breakfast bad been laid out, at which
the following were amongst the guests The
Reverends Kelly, O’Dowd, and Holland, Mr.
and Mrs. Morrow, Mr. and Mrs. Lord, Mr. and
Mrs. Kearney, Mr. and Mrs. Naylor, Mr. and Mrs.
Wall, Mr. and Mrs. Heaton, Mr. H. Cassidy, and
Mr, J. Hyland, uncle of the bride, with other rela-
tives. The health of Dr. and Mrs. Collins was pro-
posed by Dr. Clune, and enthusiastically received,
and acknowledged by the bridegroom. The Rev.
J. Kelly proposed the health of Mr. and Mrs.
Burke, to which Mr. D. Burke responded, thank-
ing those present for the mannner in which they
had received the toast and regretting that the
Inclemency of the weather prevented the attend-
ance of many of his wife’s relatives. After other
toasts had been proposed and duly acknowledged,
the company proceeded to the railway station,
where, amidst the heartiest congratulations and
showers of rice and good-byes, the doctor and his
handsome wife took their departure for Bathurst
en mute to the Blue Mountains, where they Intend
spending the honeymoon. Although showers fell
frequently during the day. It was remirked that
jast la the middle of the service the sun hurst out
and penetrated through the church windows on
to the happy pair. Surely this was a good omen.
• • •
Professor West intends to give a grand
masquerade ball to celebrate his birthday this year.
Newtown determines to be merry this
teasm, and has formed a Club, and called it the
Newtown Private Social Club. The first social
is to be hold on May 1, and as the rules are pretty
stringent, the affair shoull be decorous and en-
joyable. The following names are on the com-
mittee:—W. Douglass, S. Vial, E. J. Young. F.
O. Freeman Hon. Treasurer, and J. Wildraan Hon.
Sac.
■ • •
There’s to be a grand treat next Friday-
night at the Shakespearan Fancy Fair, which is
being held at the Newtown Arcade. A prize,
valued at five pounds is to be awarded for the !
best recitation from Shakespeare. As we hear
a few hundred names have been enrolled on the |
list of competitors, we conclude that the hunger
fora prizo valued at five pounds is greater than
the modesty of the Newtown ladies—but we
wouldn’t act as judge for a kingdom.
* * * *
On the occasion of the marriage of Miss
R. M’Elhone with Mr. J. B. Clift, about 25 sat
down to the breakfast whloh was catered by Bau-
mann On the 13th Inst., Mrs. Aarons, of O’Con-
nell-street, entertained about 50 guests to a ball.
Mrs. G. Knox and a few other ladies gave a
most recherche ball to the gentlemen of the Union
Club, at Need's rooms, onthe 17th Instant. About
180 guests were present, and dancing was kept up
until small, though unfashionable hours. They
chose Baumann to cater for them Mr. Solo-
mons, of Avoca-street, Randwick. gave a ball to
about 50 last Thursday night.. .The breakfast on
the occasion of the wedding of the Melbourne
Rabbi to Miss Davis, was held in Professor West’s
rooms, and in Baumann’s best style.
ANSWERS TO SOCIAL CORRESPONDENTS.
[Note.— Social Items, In order to ensure Inser-
tion for the current week, should be to hand no
later than Tuesday.]
“H.G.C.”: Too late last issue—see this week’s....
“ G.W.”: Thanks; but you will see that we had
already received report ...“Maud”: Accept
our thanks.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Eastern Suburbs Amateur Athletic Club
Sports May 2.
Llodertalel Smoke Night, Exhibition
Building, Wednesday next April „
Oriental O.C. Picnic, Tennyson .May 3.
First Social Evening of the Newtown Priv-
ate Social Cluo Mayl.
Sydney Owl Club Ball, Town Hall ...June 18.
Either the Easter festivities, or the war
fever, or something else equally exciting when
uncorked has mixed the staff of the Dubbo
Dispatch to such an extent that it has recently
gono to the extent of committing what appears to
be a mild form of high treason. In a par. headed
the “Queen’s Joke,” for example, we read:—
“ Royalty can made puns as well as other beings—
our own Royal family being no exception. The
Queen, when Princess Victoria, was one day
reading the Roman history to her noble pre-
ceptress, the Duchess of Northumberland. It
happened to he the passage where a Roman
lady, having visited Cornelia, the ‘ mother of
the Gracchi,’ after the costume of the time
displayed her casket of jewels, in return, when
Cornelia brought forward her children, exolaim-
Ing with maternal pride. A number of Irish
detectives have recently been sent from Dublin
to Karls and London to watch supposed Fenian
organisations In those cities.” This is certainly a
new and novel version of a very baldheaded, and
probably untruthful yarn, and we fancy the
Homan lady, after thanking her hostess for the
information touching the Irish D. s, hastily
skipped off and informed the rest of her friends
that old mother Gracchi had “ got ’em again,” and
fancied she was chased by a new style of snake
called the Fenian.
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 601 Hunter-street, Sydney.*
How strong the business air of Sydney
smells of powder, and soldiers and soldiering are
the continual topics of conversation. Bray Bros.,
402 and 404 Georgc-street. have just opened some
plummy Dinner, Tea, and Toilet Sets.*
Grand Panorama of the N.S. Wales troops
in the Soudan.—A capital Panorama of the War in
the Soudan, covering many thousands of feet of
canvas, has just been painted for exhibition by
Mr. T. Peerless. It gives views of Khartoum and
other noteworthy places, the principal engage-
ments prior to the participation of the New South
Wales Contingent in the struggle, the preparation
i for and embarkation of the troops at Sydney, the
transports at sea in storm and calm, the review of
“our boys ” by General Graham, &c. The explana-
tory lecture is from the pen of Mr. Richmond
Thatcher, who has done his level best to make it
comprehensive and interesting. Mr. James South
will deliver it, and a capable company, Including
the popular basso, Mr. T. H. Ratnford, will give
appropriate songs. Professor Hughes bosses the
musical portion of the show, which opens at the
New Masonic Hall, Castlereagh-street, on Monday
next, the 37th instant.*
ONE OF OUR PLEASANT SOCIAL CUSTOMS.
TO BEG FOR A LITTLE MUSIC
AND THEN TURN OUR BACKS ON THE PLAYER, AND PLUNGE INTO ANIMATED
CONVERSATION AMONG OURSELVES.


isaivAv iixnos avttm
3Noa A133IN gi
■
pfi
---
m
srv
i®i«
ii':'
i
i
tm
Dii
3
I
m
$1'
i iX
'NI3H1U3M IfUaSQNOM ***"
SYDNEY—612 Cleorge-st., 151 Oxford-st.
,, —12 Central Markets
„ —Head Office: 371, 373, 375, 377a riit-st.
IJunvood —Bunrood-rd.
NEWCASTLE—llunter-st., near Bank of Australasia
MAITLAND—High-st.
pAURAMATTA—Clnircli-st.
BATHURST—Honick-st>, OBDOdte School Of
OOULBURN—Auburn-«t.
ORANGE—Suinnier-st. ■
BUBBO—Talbragar-st.
GRAFTON—Prlnce-st.
ARMIDALE—Next J. Moore A Co.
ALBERT—Bean-st.
BEALE
TAMWOUTH BEGA MCDOEE CQOTAMUNDRA o:— —
& COMPANY, SOLE AGEfffs.-
Sydney, Wednesday.
My Dear Belle,— Ugh! this horrible showery
April weather is enough to disgust one with
everything. Not but the rain is badly needed, for
our vegetable bills have been something tremen-
dous lately owing to the scarcity of rain, but for
my part I’d rather go without cabbages for ever
than have weather like this. Why can’t it come
down in a lump and have done with it, I wonder ?
Here we have the sun out for a minute or two,
and make up our minds we will go out and do
some shopping, and as soon as we are ready,
down comes the rain again. It is enough to make
anybody cross, and I am cross, so you’d better be-
lieve it, dear. Everything has gone wrong this
week nearly. To begin with, that inconsiderate
Fanny must needs fix her dance for the very
night of Hanlan’s benefit, which I think was
quite too mean. Of course she didn’t know, when
she sent out the invitations, that the benefit was
to be on the same night, but it wasn’t any the loss
provoking for all that. Mr. Aloock, however,
was kind enough to send the pretty things for me
to look at, which were presented to the Canadian
last Monday night. For Mrs. Hanlan, there !was a
beautiful ring set with rubies and diamonds. |The
oval petting was so large that it would cover the
whole first joint of the linger, which is now the
fashionable size for ladies rings. A brooch, which
was banjo-shaped, had at the head a large sap-
Shire, surrounded by brilliant diamonds—at the
ill was a single ruby, also encircled by diamonds.
If Mrs. Hanlan isn’t consoled for her spouse’s loss
of the championship by these elegant presents, the
wound must indeed be difficult to heal, don't you
think so ? But I was nearly forgetting to tell you
that a silver salver, handsomely wrtiught, was
presented to the ex champion, and I can quite
understand his professed love for Sydney and its
people, for he has been made little short of an
idol during his stay with us. All the presents
came from the establishment of Mr. T. M. Aloock,
Haymarket, so you may be sure they were as
tasteful and elegant as could be procured any-
where.
Grievance No. 3: I had a visit from Edith one
morning last week, whp told me that her Mamma
had given her permission to Invite all her young
friends to a dance any night she choose. “Just
think,” she said, “I needn’t invite any old mar-
ried fogies if I don’t choose to, so we can have it
all our own way, and I want you, Mab, to come
and help me make out the programme, and decor-
ate the ball-room.” Of course 1 went, nothing loth,
for I knew only too well from past experience
that my dear Edith, if left to her own devices,
would either forget to order the supper, or neglect
something else equally embarrassing. But excit-
able and forgetful as my dear coz is, I never
dreamed her thoughtlessness would cause us such
a cruel disappointment as it did this night- We
made the ballroom look so pretty with brilliant
coloured paper flowers intermixed with beautiful
ferns, and after setting the mechanical robntain at
play, just to give things a cool fresh look, you
know, we, after a last admiring glance at our
handiwork, retired to dress. We had invited for
8 o’clock, as we meant to be fashionable and end
our dance at midnight, and if you had searched
Sydney through, you couldn’t have found two
merrier girls than were we, as we helped each
other to dress and wondered what all the others
would wear, and whether our jellies would be
clear. At last 8 o’clock came, and wo were ready
to receive; but when the time slipped by and the
clock pointed to the half-hour, we began to grow
uneasy. Not a soul came, and as 9 o’clock struck
we were really cross, when suddenly Edith gave a
little scream and rushed up to her room followed
by her wondering and apprehensive cousin. •“!
thought so.” I heard her exclaim as I entered her
boudoir. “ What did you think,” I asked. “ Why
the thought just struck me that I never posted the
invitations ? Here they are as large as life. Oh,
dear I It’s too funny, isn’t it, Mab?” But I didn’t
see anything funny about it, and told her so.
There was all our hard day’s work gone for
nothing—no one to admire our decorations, no one
to drink our claret-cup, and, worst of all, no one
to dance with. I was very wioth, until I remem-
bered that the dear, absent-minded girl was feel-
ing the disappointment quite as deeply as myself,
only she was more courageous in taking it so
cheerfully. Even the non-receipt of answers to
the unsent Invites didn’t cause it to occur to the
easy-going, happy girl that something was wrong.
Edith is one of those who meet life and its cares
with a smile and a jest, and is light-hearted and
happy accordingly. Would we were all the same I
What a much pleasanter world it would be,
wouldn’t it ? Well, we had no company that night,
but I took care to obtain a solemn promise from
my dear cousin that the next time she thought of
giving a dance she would entrust the invitations
to me to send off. She cheerfully promised.
Now, I am going to give you a piece of sage ad-
vice, ma Belle. It ever you come to Sydney, and
have occasion to hire a nansom cab, never, never
give the driver more than his due, or he is sure to
conclude that you know nothing, and demand still
mops. One day lately I called a cab somewhere
pear tip Town Hall, and told the man to drive me
to the railway .station, and, as he landed me in
time to ca/toh a certain train I feared I should miss,
i, in my .deep gratitude, tendered him an extra
sixpence. But cabby, instead of being thankful,
demanded another sixpence, and I, not caring to
Argue, was about to accede to his] demands, when
A friend came up and asked me if anything
was the matter. 1 quickly made him acquainted
with the facts, and 1 noticed that as soon as a man
Appeared upon the scene, Mr. Cabby gave signs of
fear, and essayed to drive off. But my friend,
who hates to see anyone imposed upon, said to
him: " You want two shillings, do you ?” “ Toat s
my fare, young man.” “ Well, hand me what the
young lady gave you, and I’ll settle it.” Cabby,
iyho evidently thought he had got hold of a
•’■green un,” handed back the eighteen peme I
(had" given him, and waited expectantly for his
two ahlliings. But his hopes wore dashed to the
jground when my friend tossed him one shilling,
with the remark: “ There, take that you scoundrel,
Ahd thank your stars that I don't prosecute for
demanding mo than your fare.” Ineedn ttell
you how small poor Cabby looked, but I didn’t get
off scathlpss, for my friend gave me a long lecture
upon this mistaken, generosity, aslhe termed It, to
who, he assured me, only regarded such
JipM'ality as weakness or Ignorance, and played
jupbhit accordingly. So the next time I enter a
fi *b I must make up my mind to either give the
just fair or double. I fancy I shall do the former;
Ao you see* that’s how poor foolish cabbies are
plways.cutting their own throats.
The Eastern Suburbs Amateur Athletic Club
propose to break the monotony of their next
meeting, and at the same time give it a keener in-
terest to the ladies by having the members of a
race nominated by the fair sex, and the
two o.-izes consisting of gold bracelets, to be
oreaenuaiJ on the ground to the nominators of the
wiMers l'his wfll be a nice variety, won t It,
Tear? And j f the winners don't receive the
rjriaes themselves. I haven t the sligntest doubt
but that tnev win be just as pleased to witness
the of .be same to the ladies who
singled them out as their ipecial choice. Toe
-next sports eventuate on May 2 Mr. E. E. Eupton,
the secretary, writes me a pretty little note, ana
hopes I will accept the enclosed tickela. l, will
.accept them with pleasure, but he is about as
.absent-minded as Edith was about her Invitations,
ox Jxc bos f oxKOtten to send theme
The other evening I was out enjoying som
music at a friend’s home, when a young lady
played for us a very brilliant mazurka, which
everybody was pleased with. I asked the player
the name of the composer, and was quite as-
tonished when she modestly said it was her own
composition. She informed me she had published
it four years since, but owing to the selfishness
or bad management of music-sellers, it had beer
allowed to escape notice, and thus was a heavy
loss to the young composer. She also told me
that she had several waltzes and fantalsies written
out, but feared to risk any more publications,
and thus it is, dear, that talent is killed in this city
of ours.
I have yet another grievance to pour into your
ear. It is this. I did not see the Jewish wedding
I told you was coming off in my last, for Just as
we were about to set out, down came the rain, and
much as I should have liked to have been there. I
did not think it was worth while to risk the spoil-
ing of a new hat over it. But a friend turned up
at the right moment, and promised to look In at
the synagogue for me. In a few hours, time he
returned and told me it was all over, and that there
was a good crowd and all that, but when I
enquired about the dresses he stared at me aghast,
and said, in a frightened voice: “You surely
didn’t mean me to tell you about them,
did you ? ” “ Why, of course I did, ” I
replied, “ whatever else do you suppose I cared
about ? Come, now, what was the bride dressed
in ?" But it was no use, I could only glean that
she looked just the same as other pretty brides,
and that some little dots (bridesmaids, I suppose)
wore some “red plush backed with cream colour’’
(that’s how he put it), and they all carried bou-
quets. Admirable description, isn’t it, dear ? And
so exquisitely man-llke I I told my friend I feared
his attention had been given to the wine which it
is the custom for the Jews to sip during the cere-
mony, but he treated the remark with the con-
tempt which, perhaps, it merited, and declared he
would do my errands no more. So that’s all I
know about the high-class Jewish wedding.
You will be glad, I know, dear, to hear that our
old friend, George Darrell, the actor, has returned
to the “Sunny South,” and has nearly recovered
from the accident he met with in London. He in-
tends to bring another of his new plays, called
“ The Squatter's Bride,” to Sydney shortly. Grat-
tan Biggs has also his face turned Sydney wards, so
we may hope soon to see him back again, too.
Welcoming back old friends Is, I think, one of the
pleasures of this life, but even that is not unal-
loyed with sadness, for does It not make us think
of those who have left our shores to seek the
“ bourne from whence no traveller returns ” ? But
here it is midnight; so, adieu, dear.
Your loving
MAB.
Woman Items
It was a subscription ball, up North, and
he was greatly struck with the elegance and grace
of his partner. Her accents were silvery, her
language nicely chosen, her manners charming,
and her education evidently superior. At last he
had found the girl that for many years he had
been sighing for. He became “ mashed,” and re-
mained so until the ethereal being brought him
up with a short run by saving, “ Steady yourself a
bit; the bloke’s coming along that brought me
here.” And once again the wide, wide world was
before him, and the harbour bar keeps on moan-
ing. So does the bar of the pub.
Few are probably aware of the stringency
of the old Prussian Code in respect of soldiers’
marriages. Till 1870 they were legally null and
void, and the offspring of them illegitimate, in the
case of officers marrying without the King’s con-
sent or of non-commissioned officers without the
consent of their colonel. “ But after the Franco-
Qerman war, so great was the social disorder
found to be consequent upon these restriotl ms,
that a special law bad to be made to remove the
bar of Illegitimacy from the marriages in ques-
tion.” Now, the question arises what is to be done
to legitimise the little arrangements of those
among the N. 8. Wales Contingent who skipped to
avoid maintenance summonses ?
A few American ladies have tried tattoo-
ing. In one case the wrists were encircled with a
fattern of the key ward type about an loch broad,
n another, the design was worked over the breast
and round the upper part of the arms, so that
when a low bodice was worn the pattern showe d
over the edge at the bosom and sleeves like deli-
cate lace. The effect was not unpleasant, and
forced you to notice the fair skin. This lady said
that it was difficult to find an expert who could
execute a design with neatness and precision. The
instrument used in the operation was a grooved
needle working through a hollow coue filled with
Indian ink. She did not consider the punctures
caused much pain, a pleasant feeling of excite-
ment accompanying their infliction.
Quite the latest news in regard to the lores
of the divine Sarah is furnished by the Paris cor-
respondent of the N.Y. Herald, who appears to
have waylaid la grande tragidienne as she was
leaving the Port 8t. Martin Theatre the other
night, and questioned her as to the truth of the
rumour that she was about to apply lor a divorce
from M.Damala. Under pressure, Sarah answered
—“The matter is very delicate. I bad resolved to
s »y nothing about it. As you iosist.'.however, I can
tell you that I have had an offer of marriage
from an Englishman under circumstances so
strange and romantic as to bo almost incredible.
No, I really cannot tell you his name. I have cot
made up my mind what answer I shall give him.
As so ju as I have I will let you know.”
Oscar Wilde on the dress of women No
fashion was too ugly, too monstrous, too bizarre
for them Look at the tall hat. VVby this glossy
cylinder? This tall silk hat was considered to be a
sign of immense respectability on week days and of
orthodoxy on Sundays. He protested againstany-
thingso ugly being held to express what was moral.
The coat, again, was a garment that had a back to
It'and no front, and the waistcoat a garment that
had a front and no back. For the sake of economy,
if for no other reason, we should amalgamate
them into one—the doublet. The well-dressed
people were those whom we were in the habit of
calling the lower orders. wore the
smock frock, which was the doublet worn in the
fourteenth century by the king and his nobles.
The French workman’s blouse was the short tunic
of the same century worn by kings and princes.
All the ugly dress hid come irom people who had
nothing to do. Among peasants and fisher folk
we never found ugly dress. They thought of
What was suitable and useful and what corres-
ponded to their needs, and so they obtained what
was really beautiful. He did not propose we
should imitate any other class of people.
Marriages of Duke's daughters (remarks
an English paper) are goodior trade. The Duke
of Bedford is spending £10 000 on his daughter's
(Lady Brmyntrudu cackvillo Russell) trousseau,
but he can veil afford it, his Income being over
£6li0,000 a year. Indeed, he is the richest landed
proprietor in England, and (putting aside financiers
and like the Bothschilffs) about the
wealthiest man in England. As Hastings Bussell
be.was poof, and when he came into the very
richest property in the world, in the very best
condition-for the late Duke spent all his money
on improving (he estates- he was utterly unable
to spend it. Some two years ago, he let all his
tenants off half a year's rent, which came to some
£76,000, and never felt it. In spite of all this, he is
in most things mean and shabby to a degree, but
nothing like his son, Lord Tavistock, who. though
D.L. and M.P. for Bedfordshire, is noted for his
parsimony, which is simply a malady with him.
However, to “return to our muttons,” the
French say. Lady E. Russell has spent £3000 on
pocket handkerchiefs, and has six dozen silk
stockings at £60 the dozen, and everything at the
same extravagant rate. She is to be married to
Sir Edward Baldwin Malet, K.C.B., our Ambassador
at Berlin, and so once again a Russell will repre-
sent Her Majesty at the German capital.
Referring to the announcement that Lord
Carington h->s been appointed Governor of N.S.
Wales, Vanity Fair says:—“Lord Carington is
an amiable man of twoand-forty, a friend of tho
Prince of Wales, and a thlck-and-thin supporter
of the Liberal Party ; but what qualifications he
may possess for governing a vigorous young
colony like New South Wales, have hitherto been
entirely hidden from public view. It has always
hitherto been held that appointments to colonial
Governorships were to be given to men who wore
I»oor and needy, and who had merited reward by
ong and arduous service to the State. Lord Car-
ington, however, is ;believed to be rich and pros-
perous, and his service to the State has been
limited to his service in the Blues, which was
rather ornamental than arduous. Ho is, however,
shrewd and cautious, and may very possibly make
a very decent Governor. The first Lord Carington
was one Robert Smith, a banker, who was made a
Peer by the younger Pitt, an act which was, as
wi aie told by Wraxall’s memoirs, very severely
c unmented upon at the time, as being the first in-
stance of a man * engaged in trade ’ being brought
into the British Peerage. There have, however,
been many such Instances slnco. The son of the
original Smith assumed the name of Carington
Instead of the good old patronymic to which he
had neen born, and his son, tho present Peer, thus
entirely escaped ever being Smith at all.”
A person who says that, owing to his
known sympathy with what he calls the wrongs
of Ireland,he was allowed to be present at a meeting
of dynamitards, held in one of the suburbs of
Paris, has published the following copy of a letter,
which he asserts was signed by eight out of the
nine persons present, and which they ordered
their secretary to send to the Prince of Wales:—
“To his Royal Highness the Prince of Wales,
Grand Master of the English Freemasons. Sir,—
The goodwill shown by your Royal Highness in
your promised visit to Ireland makes it necessary
for us, whose hatred of English misrule is so pro-
nounced, to draw a distinction between any un-
reasonable and fanatic attack upon yourself and
the terrible warfare of fire and steel which we
shall infallibly continue when our organising
powers are more complete and ready. Once for
all, tho members of the Irish Revolutionary
Directory desire to assure you of your perfect
safety and that of tho Princess while you are on
the sacred soil of Ireland. Go and see for your-
self what Irish people have suffered, and we shall
thank you, although you are the residuary legatee
of centuries of usurpation and attempted exter-
mination. There Is another and graver reason
why this step should be taken. The day has
passed when Irish patriots thought they would
save Ireland by some scheme of an Anglo-
Hibernian Republic. She now stands alone, and
the life of your Royal Highness, apart from the
good feeling likely to arise from your proposed
journey, has no definite connection with Ireland’s
aspirations and Ireland’s wrongs.”
Balmy sleep, good digestion, rich blood,
elastic step and cheerfulness in American Co.’s
Hop Bitters. Read and believe.
IT DIDN’T WORK.
David John Glen is a Melbourne dude.
The dude is a mighty poor thing, anyhow, but
David John goes away below the average. He
wears tooth-pick shoes, skin-tight pants and stays,
and his face is petrified into a look of the most
vacant imbecility. David had read those glaring
Improbabilities about “ The dude and the cow-
boy,” "The dude on the ’bus,” “and “The
masher who licked the pug,” and his little soul
was fired to emulate his brainless brothers of the
cut-throat collar and the lisp. He yearned to have
some brawny ruffian, with wool on his breast,
come and want to yank him out of the chair, when
ho was having his hair trimmed and greased, or
knock his cigar out of his mouth, or crowd him
off his seat on the ’bus. He fancied himself sit-
ting with a nonchalant smile, while the brawny
one raved, and threatened to spread him about
the district, and then suddenly springing
up, he would land the bully a right and left,
neatly blacking his eyes, and slitting his upper
lip. This was very pretty, so far as it went, but
David’s experience when the long-looked-for
opportunity came, was fuller of stirring incident
and thrilling interest. It was this way. David
and his ‘ mash ’ had started out for a little trip to St.
Kilda, and be was doing his best among the push
at a ticket window of the Fltnders-street station.
Success was about to crown his efforts, when some-
body behind caught him by the collar, and hauled
him back, breaking his neck stud, and half chok-
ing him in the struggle. “ Cum out uv that, yu rat.
It’s like yer blazin’ cheek to be crowdin’ In afore a
man. Cum out,” growled bis assailant. David
came. One side of his collar was up by his ear.
and his new hat was under the iron-bound boots of
mi agricultural gentleman from out Colac
way. This was the time to call upon the non-
chalant smile, it was called up accordingly,
and our hero started in once more. He en-
deavoured to shoulder past the party who had
so grievously Insulted him, but that worthy
planted a number 9 foot on his bunions, and pro-
ceeded to grind them in a highly humorous man-
ner. The nonchalant smile wouldn't work now—it
had to give way to a look of agony; and when the
ruffian dug his elbow into his throat, and worked
him back once more, David John got ready to put
in the right and left. The other fellow was not
very brawny, ’tis true; he was a sparsely-built,
fiery-looklng person, with a nose that bloomed
like the red, red rose But he was a bully, and
David felt it his duty to give him a lesson. So he
propped him, one, two, nose and jaw. The blows ,
were not hard enough to break anything, but the
look of astonishment they called to the fiery one’s
face was unutterable. “ Did it hit me, or do I
dream ?” he murmured, gazing appealingly at the
bystanders. “ Did that pigeon-breasted, hen-toed,
emu-legged crow-bait, with his neck in a bandage,
plug me, Angus Gad, of Back Creek, or are there
bats about ? ” And whilst he spoke he crept to-
wards David, and took him by the ears, and
dumped him down on the pavement, then he got
astride his chest in a sociable, friendly sort of way,
and bumped his head on the stones. David did
not object, so Mr. Gad proceeded to despoil his
raiment, and taking him by one leg he dragged
him about, playfully hauling him down a few
stone-steps out on to the footnath, and from
thence into the gutter, up which he dragged him
till the mud got in bis hair, and his back clothes
were wet. Then the gentleman from Back Creek
gambolled all over him, and finally left him in the
dust of the road, a torn, mud-bespattered wreck,
and, purchasing a ticket, calmly went on with
his journey. They took David John to the hos-
pital in a hand-cart, and his “ mash ” went for a
walk with the young man who supplies her family
with meat. David now thinks that he alnt built
for fighting.
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hookings and
Co., 143, Fltt-street.* ,


Political Points
Prior to hi? arrest, Zebehr Pasha wrote to
Miss Gordon stating that ho was unable to comply
with her request that he would obtain Irom the
Mahdi the recovery of her deceased brother’s
papers and private effects.
Cardinal Mazarin,’ the French Minister,
employed his leisure In playing with an ape; and
Cardinal Richelieu amused himself with his colleo-
tion of oats. And it is said that Mr. Dailey ;s never
so happy as when surrounded by the interview-
ing reporters from the Herald and Twaddle-
SatPH. Hence, there is a peculiarity common to
azarin, Richelieu,and Dailey; and another pecu-
liarity in common to cats, apes, and reporters for
the dalleys—the exquisite relish at being made the
playthings of great men.
The Federation Enabling Bill has been
introduced in the House of Lords by Earl Derby
and read a tlrst time. It is this Bill, be it remem-
bered, which N.8.W. protests against, although
members of its Government sat in session in the un-
authorised Convention which besought the Im-
perial Parliament to introduce it. It remains to be
seen whether the gratitude of the Gladstone
Government will prevent the Insertion in the Bill
of any provision prejudicial to the interests of the
colony which invoked Earl Rosebery’s “Well
donel”
According to a London paper, the troops
are said to be very much disgusted at the prospect
of remaining in the Soudan. And the Daily
Chronicle, after supporting the Government
with the regulation party-loyalty ia its decision to
smash the Mahdi at Khartoum, has already dis-
covered that there may be no necessity to go to
Khartoum after all, whatever Lord Wolseley may
sav at Eortl. We have not had long to wait to see
what is the worth of some Englishmen’s word.
The innings of the “after alls’’ is already be-
ginning.
Sir H. B. Lock, the Governor of Victoria,
hai consented to take part in the Eight Hour
Demonstration at Melbourne, the decayed diplo-
matist who rules the loait in New South Wales
could never spare time enough from the hen-
house to pay a similar compliment to the Sydney
gathering. By his absence he saves the sin of one
more hypocrisy, for, so far from Identifying him-
self with the working classes, neither the Gover-
nor nor Lieutenant-Governor would give a brats
button to save every working man in the colony
from the gallows.
Mr. W. P. Crick, an irrepressible native
youth, who Is rapidly jogging onward to
graduated lawyerdom, la enlightening the
electors of Wellington upon the evils of the pre-
sent Land Bill. Mr. Crick, who is a fluent speaker
and a fair reasoner, has evident designs on Dave
Ferguson’s seat. The latter typical squatter-M.P.
has voted with the Government as straight as an
arrow all through the Parliament, but never spoke
except once, when A. G. Jones, his rival in the
science of silence, said “yes.” On that occasion,
Dave ventured to say “ no,” and he has ever since
regretted his loquacity.
At the last meeting of the Patriotic Fund
Committee, Mr. R. B. Smith, M.P. (the Cupid, who
is a pretty paradox In that he is not alone a god of
love, but a god of war) moved that the Committee
be strengthened by the addition of the name of
Mr W. R. Campbell, M.L.A. As Mr. Campbell will
thus strengthen the list, he might strengthen his
sagacity and give up the political Potts’ Point
plutocracy with which he savoured his political
acts of last Parliament. Mr. Campbell, who. like
Tom O’Mara, speaks with tears in his voice. Is such
a characteristic Jingo that it was almost an insult
to omit him from the Committee as originally
created.
A telegram from Alexandria to the Lon-
don papers on March 5 asserts that “ the native
population of Lower Egypt are showing signs of
disaffection, and threats to kill General Stevenson
are publicly uttered by them in the streets of
C-iiro. The military authorities have had to Hog a
number of persons for repeated assaults upon
English soldiers.” So, we tlog in Egypt for civil
offences I Yes, and the bastinado goes on in that
miserable country Just as briskly as before Arab!
made the attempt to expel the Turkish tyrant,
whose minions tortured and plundered the people
of the country. O “Good and Stable Govern-
ment:” what crimes have been committed in thy
camel
Sir Henry Layard, in a letter to the
London Times, makes tho following pertinent
observations Why are we going to Khartoum ?
No one, it seems, can answer the question. And
vet tho soil of the Soudan is reeking with the
blood of our soldiers, and with that of the
wretched Arabs, whom we are pleased to call
•rebels.’ Why ‘rebels?’ They are not our sub-
jects, and have done us no wrong. Gordon,
betrayed by his own Government, has fallen in a
war brought on by ourselves while holding a fortl-
lied place to which we had no right. Hitherto,
England has not been wont to avenge the death of
her heroes by the wholesale massacre of brave
men.”
At the St. Kilda Police Court (Vie.), a lad
was sent to tho Industrial School for live years, bis
father having deserted him and enlisted In the
Soudan Contingent. Since then the Patriotic
Fund Committee has held two or three meetings,
but has not oven alluded to the case. What, then,
is this Fund for ? Nominally, it is for the aid of
the widows and orphans created by this Soudan
business. Hero is a soldier’s son, whose father’s
so-called patriotism has made him practically an
orphan. Instead of assistance from this spurious
Patriotic Fund, he is carted.off to an institution
established by the State for unfortunate juvenile
criminals. Little wonder that sensible men refuse
to aid so bastardized and miscalled a ‘ Patriotic
Fund.
Referring to the difficulties of the Soudan
campaign, the special correspondent of the London
Daily Chronicle with Bullet's force writes:—“I
am sorry to bo obliged to believe that the reten-
tion of our troops in this fearful desert during the
hot season will cost hundreds of lives. I am not
alone in this belief. Those who know what the
scorching heat of this desert is like when the
tropical sun pours down in all its intensity predict
that our soldiers will drop off like Hies.” And
again— ‘The task is a stupendous one, the diilioul-
ties in the way are enormous, the loss of life from
climate alone will be terrible—far and away be-
yond all previous calculation. Is the game worth
the candle ? I am not alone in asking that ques-
tion." Just so. Is the game worth the candle,
Dailey ?
The London correspondent of the South
Australian Register says that “ Lord Carrington s
appointment as Governor of New South Wales is
approved by the colonials generally, and that
Lord and Lady Carrington are preesded by a social
reputation which win ensure them a hearty wel-
come, and will convince our colonial kinsmen that
we have sent them of our best.” Approved by the
colonials generally means, of course, the approval
of such tlop-eared, hen-brained nonentities as Sir
Salmon Wilson and ’Bnniker ’Baton. With regard
to the social reputation of the new Governor, the
fact that he belongs to the night-owls who initiate
and supervise the nocturnal adventures of the
Prince of Wales is a proof that his Excellency has
a reputation of some sort—as, indeed, so had the
Marquis of Waterford.
Tho peasantry of Ireland are the victims
of another national Injustice in having to accord
to tho Prince and Princess of Wales a welcome
their hearts do not dictate. Several dissentients
hissed their want of welcome, and others riotously
resisted the decoration of the Cork city in honour
of the Royal arrival. The result was the “ old, old
story”—an Indiscriminate charge upon the as-
sembled mob with revolvers and bayonets, maim-
ing and mutilating Innocent persons. ’Tis thus
that the old game of dragooning Ireland into sub-
missive loyalty is still implicitly followed. They
are asked to give a cead mille failthe to the repre-
sentatives of Royalty, who keep up a fictitious
monarchist dignity on the money wrung out of
the evicted labourers and starving peasantry? As
well expect a falsely-convicted prisoner to give a
hearty “ God bless you” to his gaolers and fetters
and foresworn jury?
Mr. ’Enniker ’Eaton, who still hankers
after a Conservative seat by purchase, has in-
flicted on the readers of the London Times a long
and dreary letter In commendation of the military
spirit displayed in this colony. And that reminds
us that the only opportunity ’Eonlker ever had
of displaying a military spirit was when he made
a well-executed Hank movement behind a bar-
maid's skirts to evade the encroachments of Wal-
ter Cooper's cane. Now, ’Ennlker is a Jingo and
a military doctrinaire, and a social tadpole, and
diverts the London costermongers’ and the
nobility’s stable-boys [by introducing to them
“ Alfred,” the great Australian journalist. The
stable-boys converse with Alfred, elicit his
opinions on things in general, and then draw the
natural, though false inference, that all the
readers of colonial newspapers are either
aboriginals, lunatics, or pauper corpses. This is
how our “ national impulse ” is made abortive.
Poor Harry Badgsry has succumbed to
the Jingo craze to such a depth that his best
friends deplore his temporary folly. Good-
hearteiL genial, generous, chivalrous, and person-
ally nWve, it is sad to see so worthy a scion of
Young Australia lending his countenance to the
Soudan iniquity. He is in it, however, heart and
soul. The Government entrusted him with a
i resolution at the monster meeting where opposi-
tlon was beaten down with brute force. Next he
Is paraded to move the Address in reply to the
Governor's speech, and, at Government House,
his Excellency butters him a bit about his fine,
manly speech, which probably the Earl of Brah-
mapootra and Count of Cochin had scarcely
bothered himself to read. Now, wherever the
Government perambulate the country on nre-
feeding excursions, Mr. B. accompanies them
Astute Mr. Dailey! ’Tis thus he contrives to
placate an ex-Oppositlonist and to solidify the
eolidarlty of the Government.
Mr. Mortimer Fi’anklyn’s opposition to
the Gladstone Cabinet does not warp his judg-
ment, and so he manfully condemns Sir Thomas
M'Uwraith's denunciation of the British policy in
Egypt. With the English Premier Mr. Franklyn
himself is on cool terms, but this circumstance-
unpleasant as it must be to Mr. Gladstone—does
not blind the Federal Australian to the fact
that Sir Thomas “ is just going a little too far in
his unmeasured raillery. Still the Federal tem-
pers its repudiation of tho Queenslander’s views
by honestly admitting that “Lord Derby, in a
word, and the Government of which he is a mem-
her, deserve no mercy and no consideration at the
hands of Sir Thomas M’llwraith.” In all friendli-
ness we would suggest to Mr. Franklyn that, even
if “ Lord Derby and the Government deserve no
mercy at the hands of Sir Thomas M‘Ilwraith, or
of the Queensland colonists,” the present time,
when foes are blustering on every boundary of
the Empire, is not the most judiciously chosen for
bruiting the bad news abroad.
At the convention of maize mashers held
at Ballina last week during the ** Ministerial Pro-
gress,” to banquet the elephantine if not eloquent
Dibbs and to appeal through his ventre (to put it
pleasantly) for further plums out of the public
pudding at present in possession of the Treasurer,
that gentleman was more than usually hifalutin.
One of bis statements rather amused us. Mr.
Dibbs, after attempting, in his heavy way, to paint
the glories of the wonderful districts through
which Ministers had passed, said a few things that
certainly should supply his enemies with feathers
for their arrows. “ When he remembered.” said
Mr. Dibbs, “ how they had been sitting lln Parlia-
ment night after night, he could not help thinking
what fools they had been to do that instead of
taking up land on the Richmond Elver,” But be
there no such creations as land agents, aitn nit-
«imo? While a member is “gassing” or
ing in the House, is there not a man
will look after his interests, havina-
course, received the nod that is better than
wink ? Leave hon. members alone for th<>* a
Mr. Dibbs, and don’t weep over their bavins * ’
burn the midnight gas, and imbibe the srwS?
whisky of the Parliamentary refreshment rnS
Further on Mr. Dibbs said:—“He thought
[meaning the Parliament] would have to get un i.
sort of a Parliamentary joint stock company ans
see if they could not share in the advantasr'esT,*
the district.” Rest easy, Mr. Dibts; that must have
been done already—on the quiet, of course—eUa
two millions would not have been voted for a rail
way, which seems a midsummer madness when to
be made in a district blessed with splendid rivers
Oh, yes, Mr. Dibbs, that joint stock company nmo*
have been formed long ago, otherwise the North
ern people could not now be shouting themselves
hoarse at the sight of the political, but not Intel
lectual Anak. iei *
Touching the case of Charles Watson, who
was recently “turned off” for the Cowl Cowl
murder, we notice that a faint cry for the abo
lltion of capital punishment is again being made
but we fancy, with little probability of its receiv*
ing much attention. One worthy agitator for the
wiping out of Mr. Ketch’s office signs himself
“ Philanthropist,” and takes exception to Watson’s
hurried “send-off ” on the grounds that the evi-
denoe was not conclusive enough, and that the
sentence is against the teachings of the Bible, and
therefore should not be carried out by a Christian
nation. With respect to the first objection, it is
simply a matter of opinion. Anyway, it makes
but little difference now to the party who was
principally interested. He is not likely to trouble
us with any appeals for the present, so let that
item pass; but touching the second point raised
Mr. “Philanthropist” is barking up the wrong
tree altogether. The Bible does sanction hanging
In point of fact, there are few ways of taking
human life that it does not sanction, and Judas
Iscariot is as highly commended for stringing
himself up with a halter as Moses is for
thumping the Egyptian to death, after the
manner of Mr. Slogger Sullivan. In the
good old days of the Georges I„ II., and
III., the punishment of a traitor was drawing
[on a hurdle to the place of execution], hanging
disembowelly, and quartering, after which the’
offender’s head was stuck on top ot a pole, and his
heart was taken out by the executioner, who hold
It before the people and explained, “ This is the
heart of a traitor,” Diabolical, and all, as this
punishment was, Lord-Chief Justice Coke in his
institutes found conclusive authorities for each
act in the Bible. The drawing, he declares, is
justified by 1 Kings ii, 38 ; the hanging, by
Esther li, 33. The disembowelling is sanctioned
by the circumstances attending the fate of Judas,
Acts 1,18. For the extraction of the criminal’s
heart, he finds authority in 3 Sam. xviii., 14,15;
the beheading he holds justified by 2 Sam. xx. 22;
and be cites 2 Sam. iv. 11,12, as authorising the
practice of hanging up a disjointed body after
execution. Impaling, hauling a prisoner along by
a ring passed through his nose, gouging out hfg
?ye* with a red-hot iron, and divers other savage
brutalities can be justified in the same way on re-
ferring to Britain’s “Bulwark,” and taking it on the
whole, it will be a mighty bad day Indeed for our
criminal classes when their sentences are ladled
out according to the tender mercies of the Bible.
A Canadian settler writes to the Pall
Mall Gazette In terms, every word of which
would have equal appositeness were it uttered by
an Australian. He says : “ As the enthusiastic
offer on the part of some of my countrymen to
volunteer for the British service in Egypt seems
to have received delighted recognition from the
British public, and to nave given great encourage-
ment to the Imperial Federationists, perhaps you
will allow me, a Canadian (for ‘Canadian’ read
‘Australian’ throughout— Ed, B.), anti-Federa-
tlonlst, to offer for the consideration of your
readers a pertinent question and my answers
thereto. Why should I, a Canadian, be loyal to
Great Britain ? The British Government has re-
warded my loyalty, and that of my fathers, by
treating our country with small attention and
scant courtesy, and in every negotiation between
Great Britain and the United States (read fo
‘United States,’ the German Government ’—Ed
B ), in which the interests of Canada have been in-
volved has, either through ignorant stupidity or in
difference, consistently sacrificed the interests of
the loyal to those of the revolted colony (read, for
‘ the revolted colony,’ the ‘ Foreign Power ’-Ed. B.)
But If my country has been injured and my affec-
tion has been rebuffed by the neglect and indif-
ference of the British Government and people, it
may probably be urged that my Interests at least
are closely bound up with these islands. Mr. Forster,
In last month’s ‘Nineteenth Century,’ gives me
to understand that, as a Canadian, I am a member
of the British Commonwealth ? Do I live within
the British boundaries ? No. Do I live under the
British Government ? No. Do I live under Bri-
tish laws ? No. Do I live under British social and
economic conditions ? No. Do I live under the
British incidence of taxation and fiscal system ?
No. Ara my political and commercial interests
identical with British political and commercial in-
terests ? Again, No. To-day it seems probable
that Great Britain is about to smash or be more or
less smashed by the Mahdi-at, in either case, a
cost of many men and several millions. 1
am safe at home and my purse strings
are undrawn. [So might every Australian
be, but for Dailey’s frenzy.—Ed. B.] —To-
morrow Great Britain may be turned out
of Egypt, with great loss to her bondholders and
great risk to her shares in and trade through the
uez Canal. I have no Egyptian bonds, or shares
in the Suez Canal. The day after to-morrow,
Great Britain may be sent flying, bag and baggage,
out of India, at a frightful loss of life, invest-
ments, and trade, I should be working on my
Canadian farm, ‘ cutting down ’ Canadian forests;
my investments and my commerce are not with
India. But it will be said a serious collapse of
British trade would affect my trade. Certainly, in
common with, but no more than that of my
cousin Jonathan. Even here I would find muon
commercial consolation. If British trade col-
lapsed, you could not support your present popu-
lation. Canada would get a large proportion of
your starved-out work-people. They would then
develop my country, not yours; they would buy
their shirts in my cottan mills, not yours:
their tweeds in my woollen mills, not yours;
they would travel on my railways, not yours, and
would rent my houses, not yours. In short, your
fall would be no unmitigated loss to me. But, sir,
I am cruel enough to go further, and assert that
Great Britain might be sunk in the Atlantic Ocean,
and, if the universe itself could survive so severe
a blow, I should not be ruined, not even dan-
gerously crippled. It is true such an appalling
catastrophe would sadly lacerate my feelings; but
my dinner would be safe. I should lose my best
customer and my best shop—even worse, the
birthplace of thousands of future Canadians: but
I should be free from my biggest creditor. I am
hardly, then, a member of the Hritish Common-
wealth, for British ways are not my ways, British
interests are not my interests, and Britain’s exist-
tence even is not necessary to my ultimate wel-
fare. Again, then, I ask why should I be loyal to
Great Britain? My reason gives me no answer.
Why. then, am I loyal to Great Britain ? Because,
in spite of his neglect, of his scornful indifference,
I still have a shred of family affection for my elder
brother, the heir and present possessor of our
well-beloved family home. But this is a pure,
even an elevated, sentiment, divorced from and
uncorrupted by sordid interests. Appreciate this
sentiment if you will, reciprocate this affection if
you can, but do not try and translate the one or
the other into a business contract. So long as 1
am free to manage my political and commercial
affairs as seems good to me, my love for you may
continue, may even grow. Try, in your delight at
my rediscovered affection, to tempt me into a
political and commercial partnership, and you win
find at the earliest stages of the preliminary negro*
tiations that your political egotism will clash with
my political egotism, your commercial egotism
will clash with my commercial egotism"; and we
shall have a very lively family quarrel, which win
at one and the same moment put an end to the
negotiations and extinguish the last spark of m”
loyalty to Groat Britain,
The Dying Stockman
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, Billy, comrade, let me rest,
I can no further go;
The blood that from my spear-made wounda
Will never cease to llow.
Ohl Billy, stop, you do not know
My burning, dreadful pain;
Oh, lay me down upon these sands—
I'll never walk again.
The blacks have done me, Billy, now—
The moments seem to lly—
You’ll have to go alone, Billy,
Oh, God! ’tis hat d to die;
To die upon these arid sands.
So far from friends and home —
Oh, Billy, never mind these tears—
Oh. Godl why did I roam.
Oh, look upon my changing face,
The eyes that look so wild.
The sunburnt cheeks, and, Billy, think
That I was once a child;
A child that roamed the meadows green,
A child that used to play
By English brooks and English fields,
As happy as the day.
But poverty, ah I poverty
Came to my English home,
And fate, it drove me far away
Across the ocean’s foam;
But I left my home in sorrow,
And with an exile’s pain;
But, oh, 1 promised, Billy, dear,
Soon to come back again.
I’ve left behind a mother dear,
And Billy, she is old;
Oh, God I the thought I cannot bear,
But yet, she must be told.
Oh. will you do it, Billy, dear ?
Oh, will you cross the seas V
Oh, will you face the mountain wave,
The storm, and gentle breeze.
First, should you reach the hut. Billy,
Behind the slab-built door,
There you will find the stockman’s plant
Beneath the sunken floor;
The sum, I know, is small, Billy,
But mother is so old.
And it may cheer her broken heart—
Her son’s last hard-earned gold.
There is no tomb, not e’en a stone
Out on that sandy wave,
Not rough-cut cross, on carved tree
To show a bushman’s grave;
But bleaching in that glaring sun,
Beneath those tropic zones,
Where dingoes howl, and black men prowl,
There rests the scattered bones.
And tell her, Billy, where I rest,
Beyond the ocean’s wave;
Oh. tell her softly, gently, how
The life you could not save;
I do not want a grave, Billy,
This sand shall be my bed;
But you will never leave this spot
Till you are sure I’m dead.
I’m sorry, now, for all those deeds,
Those lives with mine I wrecked—
How oft I helped the shepherd hands
To booze the hard-earned cheque;
To you, Billy, my tears seem strange,
I know ’tis weak to cry;
But, Billy, I’m scarce thirty yet—
Oh, God I so young to die.
Farewell, my brain is throbbing;
The blacks alone will tread,
Their gins will gaze upon the spot
Where rests the white man’s head;
Perhaps, in many years to come,
This desert will be won,
And sleek-fed steeds will speed across
The new discover'd run.
The men will never pause to think,
"As o’er the plain they ride,
That somewhere near this lonely spot
The first white rider died;
That where their short-horn cattle roam,
In years of long a*o.
The blacks, in vengeance, threw their spears
And laid a white man low,
So. Billy, hold this death-marked hand,
And when you’re on the wave
You'll cast your thoughts to him who sleeps
Without a tomb or grave;
And tell a heart who waits so long,
Whose lips some day’ll be dumb,
Who watches nightly through the dark
For him who’ll never come.
But now a clamour’s on my brain,
Billy, I gasp for breath;
The plain wheels round; my eyes grow dim—
Oh, Godl can this be death?
Quick, Billy, ere the last blood drops
Upon this ground of hell,
Hold soft the hand, for now I breathe
The stockman’s last farewell.
E. Mc.


JACK THOMPSON,
AJ.C. CIGAR DIYAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SALOON.
91 Sing-street.
N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
Gilicura
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GENT.’S 50, Is. 6d.; 100, 2s, 6d.
LADIES’ ... ... .. BO, 2s. Od.; 100, 3s. Od.
Address, 6d. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 3s. 6d.; 250, 6s. 6d.; 500, 10s.; 1000, 15s.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
tar* Orders executed and forwarded By return
post.
TIE BRISUPPLY CO.,
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
H. A. BROWN & CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS.
260 QEOKQE STREET
(Corner of Bond-etreet.)
| From the Strand, London.
READ THIS I
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£3 lOs. each,
Warranted for three years,
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 Pitt-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
c. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER
Black Swan Hotel,
GREEN WELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magniflcient s.s. Illawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o'clock.
4 S\r\S\ DOMESTIC PAPER FASHIONS
iUUU shown In our Illustrated Catalogue
Prick, Threepence ; by Post, Fourpence.
CEAFPEL & CO.,
Late Johnston & Co.,
Paper Pattern and General Sewing-machine
746 GEORGE ST., HAYMARKBT, SYDNEY.
Machines repaired, and all fittings, Sec., kept in
stock.
TTISFIGURTNG HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
Jj tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Bcalv. Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
lipss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new IU°od Purihcr,
liUTK'ulvA ivLaUHT art .,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiflcrs, externally-
Itching: and Burning Skin Diseases
Bakers’,' Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations pecuhai
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm ball
with Cuticura Soap and a single application o
Cuticura, the groat Skin Cure. r ihis repeatec
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent
Will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin am
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re
Also, one hundred testimonials, sol
emnly c-worn to before the British Consul, wind
repeat this story: I have been a terrible duff ere
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood
have been obliged to shun public places by reaso:
of ray disfiguring humors; have had the best phj
siciane; have spent hundreds of dollars, and go
no refief until 1 used the Cuticura Remedies
which havo cured me, and left my skin and bloo
ns pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four nag
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.
AUSTRALIAN CONSIGNEES,
R. Towns & Co., New South TV ales .
nUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Bloodruri-
\j tier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticnra, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Fie*,
heals Ulcers, Bores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticnra Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby llu-
raors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticnra Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, load, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
X'or Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, lasmania, and isew
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ino Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co-, Boston, U.S.A.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
fcei ?ASS ls
Everybody should know that the above Is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia.
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment. - .. , * ,,
Everybody is informed that this Studio is carried on for the benefit of the late Mr,
Boyd’s children, by his executrix.
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manager.
M.I1W, 111 CO,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
M, HIE, nl Mil! UMTS,
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MAC
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS.
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBDILDERS
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, &c.
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,,
and HOOP IRON r
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC; TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, andf
BRUSHWARB
FENCING WIRE
VOOLPACKS
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-Si
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
'■*K
LRis
UJji"' ii {'litl’D
PORTABLE, FIXED
and SEMI-FIXED EN-
GINES
VERTICAL and HORI-
ZONTAL BOILERS
and other
LATHES. PLANING,
SHAPING, SCREW-
ING - and DRILLING
on.ouus MACHINEa
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
FOUNDRY
„„ PATENT ROLLED
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, &o.
price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
Head Warehouse- -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Office -
- 54 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR.
SYDNEY.
- 86 GBACECBUBCH STREET,
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
LUNCHEON and refreshment rooms for ladies and gentlemen.
W. H. PALING
AND CO. (Limited),
DIRECT ATTENTION TO THEIR UNRIVALLED STOCK
OF
Pianos , Organs , Music, etc.
Comnrising over 800 Instrument., by the BEST MAKERS, English, French, American,
and German, in New and Elegant Designs, and with all the Latest Implements.
Buyers have the opportunity of securing an
EXCELLENT and LASTING INSTRUMENT
AT A
VERY MODERATE PRICE,
Either for Cash or on the
EASY TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM!
, EVERT INSTRUMENT GUARANTEED.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES POST FREE.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.


READ IT ALL.
It may Save your Ufa.
AMERICAN CO.’S
Hop Bitten
ARB
The Purest and Best
Medicine erer made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buctau, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
“ The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
'and Valuable Medicines In the World,
'and In addition contain all the best
‘ and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
'and life and health restoring agent on
* earth.”
| They Give New Life and Vigour to the Aged
and Inflrm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
* Men, Labourers, Ladles, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘Irregularities of the Blood, Stomach,
‘ Bowels, or Sidneys, or who require an
‘ Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
'these Bitters are invaluable, being
4 hiffhlv nnwiH vft 'fnnln a nH afimulnf inrr
4 highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
‘ without intoxicating.”
‘No matter what your feelings or
' symptoms are, or what the disease or
'ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
' wait until you are sick, but If you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
‘ dreds have been saved by so doing, at
' a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
Do not suffer yourself or .lot your
'friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘use the American Co.’s Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, these Hop Bitters are
‘ no vile, drugged, drunken nostrum,
‘but the purest and best Medicine
ever made, and no person or family
* should be without It.”
See that the name Dr. Soule Is blown
In every bottle, none other genuine.
WeakNervousMen
Whoso debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay and
failure to perform life’s duties
properly ore caused by ex*
cesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
v restoration to robust licaltil
vV and vigorous manhood in
Marston Bolus.
Meitner stomach drugging nor
. ,, “ Instruments. This treatment
of nervous Debility and Physical Decay is
uniformly successful ■.because based on perfect
diagnosis, new and direct methods and absolute
thoroughness. Full information and illustrated
trealico sent free (scaled);
Address— Doctor J. O Connell,
P.0. Bex 466. 52 Oastloreagh St., Sydasy.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Allen’s Black Wlngen Oils.
THEY WORK LIKE A CHARM,
TO those who have been suffering from Rheu-
matism or Sciatica, we come with glaa tidings
of the wonderful cures that have been effected by
CHA8. ALLEN’S BLACK WIMOEN OILS. Num-
bers have been cured, and can attest to the great
»nd miraculous powers of these already famous
There Is now no reason why anybody should be
he racked wLh pain, when lor the small sum of
2*- Gd,, a bottle of CHA8. ALLEN’S BLACK
WIN GEN OILS may be obtained irom any che-
mist or storekeeper. On how many occasions,
when you have been laid up with a severe attack
of lumbago, would jou have given anything to
get relief ; also, when you have been rendered
sleepless through neuralgia or toothache, have
you sought in vain lor a cure. Suff r no more :
keep the balm by you-a bottle of Ohas. Allen's
Black Wlngen Oils, It is needless to further reoom-
mend, as a simple trial will prove to the most
sceptical the merit of Allen’s Black Wlngen 01 s
“TRF THEM.”
W ,
COSTELLO *& GREY,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
ALLEN’S BLACK WINGBN OILS, stand un-
equalled for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
•addle girth, and wind Galls, Strains, Stakes,
TTIU 'i vjRiiD. ouiiiuh, O La It vo.
Sprains, Bruises, Sweat Bolls, Fistula, Wounds of
all descriptions No ’bus proprietor, carrier, nr
, , >ns No ’bus proprietor, carrier, or
stockowner should be without them, They will
heal any sore, no matter if . freshly done or of
years etandirg. No spelt required to effect a cure.
“TRY THEM,”
May be obtained.from Chemists and Storekeepers.
COSTELLO & UREY,
C8 KINO STREET, SYDNEY,
Solo Agents.
E
AD D E
4711
' Established 1703.
C O L O G N B, =
4711. 1
Gold Medal. Moscow, 187*; Prize Medal, Vienna, 1873
This Ban de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 85 years, ob-
tained at the last Phlladeiph’a Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney international
Exhibition, for its superior sweetness, s rtngth,
and invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
petitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the dlite of
Europe.
The large and constantly increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Bau de Cologne, not only In
Europe, but also in North and South America,
India, and Australia, Is further undeniable evi-
dence of Its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious Imitations with the genuine
number-4711 changed Into 7411. 1147,4U7, &o &o.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pltt-
street, Sydney.
To be had at the priori p* I Perfumers. Druggists,
nd Storekeepers, In.iowu iXnd *
country.
In
w. WALKER and SONS
LONDON and, SYDNEY. '
Catalogues
POST FREE.
W. WALKER
and SONS
are one of the
Largest
Stockholders
and
Manufacturers
m
w A
w*
High-class
FURNITURE
ENGLAND.
Catalogue
POST FREE,
ALL STOCi
In their
[SYDNEY
HOUSH
Supplied
direct
*Tom their
Londop
Manufactory,
and Latest
London Styles
Guarantebd
-V -y SYDNEY BRANCH i
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARO SQUARE.
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
lerchant Tailors, Habit, and Robe Makers.
Trousers from 21s. to 40s.
cr-N.B. Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Parmer and Co
W. toAMBT & Co., Albert House. Temple Court, Elizabeth^.
tm*
BOJLlB importer of
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
BRUCE,
107 STBEET.
SOLE AGENT FOE THE
SMITH OBGA1T.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
WWW
.'V- s
BEWARE OF SPURIOUS
WATCHES I
WHY be foolish, and buy a bad watch, W-
1s dear at any price, and /rives no ctf
trouble. If you buv onp of
ROTHERHAM'S COMPENSATION BALANCE
AND JEWaLLED WATCHES
from C. GRANT, you will nevrr want another,- As
they are, without doubt, the Best Watches 10 the
market. /
Guaranteed for 5 years. Price, only £0 Idly
Sent post free to any part of the country. Special
attention given to country orders.
C. GRANT, Watchmaki
K84 George Street. Sydney.:
EaTAnoisnpD 1880.
>
R.BUkCIS
TAILOR. .
flTRY BURG IS’ £3 3s. to measure. Trousers
from 16s. 6d. Ml garments hand-made, and
thoroughly* shrunk. This is the cheapest house f
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-8TREI
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for
forwarded to any part of the colony
B.
MOOIHI,
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS.
manufactured by the bloat celebrated English
makers. •’ °
G. B M further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been unpointed AGENT for
the following Firms :-JoHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
don; THOS. BLAND & SON., London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON. London: w! POWELL & SON,
Birmingham: CH48. OSBORNE & CO.. London!
i?alsp AGENT for the eminent firm of
BU8SY & CO., London.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 Geor0e.sf., Sydney,
Where Inspection is invited.
W
SEtS* 22 2-fT KB BSMW2
BARGAINS ! BARGAINS !! BARGAINS!!
Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale.
XjIjOTST’ZD OO
ROSS A LIE, LLOYD & CO, ROSSALIR, LLOYD & CO
tST Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. ■ •
Ladles should secure the .
CHEAP LAC S AND UNDERCLOTHING IT fOSSALIF, LLOYD 4 CO.'S SALE
4s. In the pound taken off your Bill. » *
Thousands of Remnants of Laces. Remnants of Lac» i. Remnants T -
Remnants of Ribbons. Remnants of Ribbons. Summer Millinery. Summerlin
A,MAGNIFICENT STi.CK ALL INCLUI- -D TN THE 9ALE. “ ,II,nei T-
Umbrellas. Umbrellas. Parasols LL ° Y ° & CO *
CO.,
ROS8ALIE, LLOYD &
NEAR THE GENERAL POST OFFICE.
“VICTORIA” OTHER BITTER-WATER,
The Best and Strongest Natural Aperient.
A Natural Fluid Magnesia, as a safe, ordinary, and eenllc anerionf in t «
and Congestion, in Rheumatic and Uouty Disorders acainst f.ndnof m , I,]fl ammaMon
against Hmmoirhoids, in Bilious Attacks and Disorders’ oAVe Liven tw,deu C7 to Fat,
Natobb’s Aphuekt Remedy durirg Pregnancy and in mnrv p.m.i *
Habitual Constipation in Organic Diseases refultinjfrom fatty deLnemHoJ f^ 808 *’ for
the oousequences resulting from excess in diet, &c. y cogeneration, to remove
One wineglassful will usually relieve the most distressing headache.
ONE BOTTLE OF “VICTORIA” IS EQUAL IN ITS EFFECT* rn two ™
WATERS. HENCE ITIS MUCH CHEAPER^ 0 ° F 0THEB BITTER-
In cases of Indigestion, Stomach and Liver Affections, Constipation and other
System, as a Family Medicine this has no equal? De rangements of
the
Sold in Bottles at Is. 6d. and 2s.,
And mry be obtained of an; Chemist or Palrul Medicine Vendor in tin Unit, d Ivin^dom
Bravisslmn ! Also Fortissimo and like-
wise Civtta Vtcohia. The King of Italy has made
a start to bring the Millennium down upon the
world hand over hand. • A little girl was ridden
over by a shopkeeper In the streets of Home some
little time ago. The royal Humbert was a witness
of the occurrence, and, casting the Court etiquette
of a hundred centuries t<J the winds, went to the
Police Court, and gave bis evidence for all the
world like a common being of flesh and blood.
The evidence was in favour of the shopkeeper.
His name was Mararzoni. Happy Maranzoni I To
thee we dedicate these modest lines, reminding
thee of the fact that we are far away from thine
own Ausonian land of song, and chiefly dependent
on the “polony” of thy countrymen for poetic
fire. With this apology—whoop!
This last verse Is somewhat crude. There was not
enough garlic In the polony. Mem : Must see to
this In future. No man can write good verse
whoso respiration la not fatal at 12 paces.
Here is the very latest musio-hall ditty
O, happy Maranzonh
It was a gorgeous chlnsr
When ridirg on your pony
To be looked at by a king,
Who was not too proud or toney
His evidenceto bring.
O. happy Maratzonll
O Humbert-minded King!
O happy Maranzonil
Take our advice and stay
In your land of macaroni.
If out here you r6de that way.
And a King-of Tallow—saw you
And could save you with a breath,
O, believe us. Maranzonl,
You would bang as sure as death.
“The DOTLET ON THE I.”
“ In olden days, a learned man
A learned Jotter penned,
But when the people eame to scan,
Not one could comprehend.
They tried to read— they tried in vain,
And yet the "writing's plain;
At last they saw why not,
And this the reason why;
The man forgot the dot—
The dotlet on the i.
“ I drew twP’aces apd two 4 treys,’
I raised before the draw;
But everybody stood the raise—
I 'gan to feel a flaw.
I drew a card-Oh I kindly grace—
1 drew another ace I
That acelet yapJced the potlet.
And, oh I the stakes were high;
That spotlSt was the dotlet—
The dotlet on the 1.
“ John and Jemima are a pair
Of lovers most demure,
John burns.liIs passion to declare,
But does not feel secure;
Till one day,tln a burst of bliss,
He steals a burning kiss.
He cut the Gordtan knotlet,
And his misgivings fly;
That kisslet was I he dotlet—
The dotlet oh the 1.”


COOLALTA WINES.
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX, *
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 Greorge-street
(Beneath Paling’s.)
NO MORE CORNS I
CORN8AND WAK1S removed without pain
■vZ V 18 Palmer's Painless, Harmless,
mvH.. Bffect,lal . CORN AND WART REMOVER.
pa w ti( l n 18 * most wonderful ever used
rt8 V? r Bud1ods - If appl'ed accord-
tothe direction?, it will effectually remove
them in from six to eLht days.
PALMER’S
CURA {a®
Mark.) — ______ , M
For Neuralgia, either Chronic or Local.
has 8ur PaPsed
in speedily removing this excruciating
holE° 8 ‘ dlstrP88i "? corn Plaint. It matters nol
hnftiL°h5 a 0r 8eve J® the suffering has been, a single
a 8 i? 6 ver failed in producing the desired re-
8U s^^ a be [P confidently recomme ded,
oold retail by all chemists and drutrtrists and
8t( £ e8 i wh olesale by Messrs Elliott Bros.,
Sydney ; E. Prosser and Co., Sydney : Felton
Dun n edim M Melbourne : Kompthorne and
NEUSTADT and CO.,
COMPLETE
39,154, 156, A 158 OXFORD-ST\
SYDNEY.
HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
Bithbb for Cash or Time Payment.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND AT.T
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers.
Manhood restored i
, A Clergyman having tried every knowi
remedy for the Cure ol Nervous Exhaustion
Premature Decay, &c., has at last discovered"
simple Self-Cure, which for the sake of suffering
humanity be will send FREE the Prescription
which CURED him. Address, with
stamped envelope—
Dr. E A CLARKE, P O. Box 398, Sydney.
HOWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strenghtcns, and beautifies the hair; it con-
tain? no lead or mineral ingredients, and can now
be .? ls . 0 - had a Folden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes. *
ROWLANDS’ KALTDOR is a most cool-
ing, healing, and refreshing wash for the face,
hands, and arms, and Is perfectly free from any
•mineral or metallic admixtures; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &o.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE CP TYRE pro-
duces immediately a perfect change in rod or grey
hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a g’. ssy and per-
manent brown or black, whic'* colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowland?’
articles, of 30, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless Imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents: Elliott Bros. E
Prosser and Co„ Sydney.
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING.
WEST END HOUSE,
168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Two Doors from Compagnonl's)
THE undersigned, recognising the want of a
FIRST CLASS TAILORING ESTABLISH-
MENT, have OPENED the premises lately occu-
pied by the Bank of Australasia, at 168 PITT-
STRRET (THE WB'T PM) HOI SF) where they
Intend to carry on a High-class and Fashionable
Trade.
The public may feel assured that we shall bo
able to maintain a high standard, when we state
that our Mr. Ward has bad some yea*s’ experience
In the best house s in Lo drn, Paris, as well as in
first-class Sydney F.slabJishtnet tg, namely, Farmer
and Co’s and David Jones and Co.'s.
Our Mr. Wilson has had fully 30 years’' expo-
fierce in the Australian trade, and has just re-
turned from England. wh«re he visited all the
principal Woollen Mills, Inc'uding that of Hud-
dersfield, as well as \; e» t of England and Scotch
Mills. This will be a suflicier t guarantee that the
tastes and requirements of the public will receive
the attention they deserve.
In conclusion, wo desire to say that we hope to
obtain a fair Phare of patronage, In return for
which we guarantee first-class work, all hand-
made, well shrunk, perfect fit, and all in tfce latest
London and Paris styles.
Soliciting a trial, we remain,
Very truly yours,
FREDERICK WILSON,
HUGH WARD,
Fashionable Tailors, Robe and Habit Makers.
(Vest End House,
168 Pltt-streof, Sydney.
A
Sulpholine
Lotion,
the cure for shin diseases
In a few days Eruptions, Pimples,'Blotches entlrel
fade away. Beautifully fragrant. Perfectly harm
less. Cures old-standing Skin Diseases. Astonish
ing results follow- It removes every kind o
Eruption, Spot, or Blemish, and renders the ski:
clear, smooth, supple, ar d healthy. Sulpholln
Lotion is sold by most Chemists. Bottles, 2s 9c
each. Made only by J. PEPPER and Co., Londor
PEPPER'S
QUININE & IRON
TONIC
HEALTH.
STRENGTH.
ENERGY.
GREAT BODILY STRENGTH I
GREAT NERVE STRENGTH I
GREAT MENTAL STRKNGTli 1
GREAT DIGESTIVE STRENGTH follows the U9(
Of PEPPER’S QUININE and IRON TONIC. Ii
promotes appetite, dispels languor, depression
&c.. Is a remedy for Neuralgia, Chest affections
and wasting diseases. Bottles, 32 doses. Sold hi
Chemists everywhere. Insist on having Pepper's
Made solely by J. PEPPER and " ~ ‘
Special'y suitable for the colonies.
Co., London
X-ioclr^er’s
SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
THE BEST. THE SAFEST. THE CHEAPEST.
Restores the Colour In a few applications.
Large Bottles, Is. 6d. Made in London.
mca
or
UFF
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Prc
mature Decline m Man Errors of Youth, and the untol
m series resulting from indiscretion or excessesmav b
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt thfadioidK
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Lif
0I , mi Preservation. A book for every man, young
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may &
regained and retain**!. Itcontains 135 prescriptions fo
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in
valuable. So found by the author, whoso experience foi
20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot ol
anvnhvsician. 300mo-n= i t, , , . y
" . . , v — i-'.wuwmj uuvot uuxuxu leu LO TilO Inf A
anyphysician. SOOpages, bound in beautiful French cloth
anteed to be a finer work in every sense thai
full gilt, guarantee
man, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Golc
medal awarded the author by the National Modica
Association, to the officers of which ho refers.
The Science of Life should bo read by the young fo
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benofi
all.—London Lancet. oenen
Address the W Mid’s Dispensary Medical As- II r 11
Street,Sydney, N.S.W. The author may TIH/OFl'f
00 consul f.flfl nn oil ~ I M V li I B|
iw consulted on all diseases requiring
•kill, secrecy, and experience.
ASJiE 8S0/I/S
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
S YD N E.VC
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
NOULTOirS
FRUIT
Famx hlls L il?'*;'.!. 01 J cu f ed b T mI/Ulton’;
We can prove'whaTwe' (a - 1 °™ ed ’ not mer Gy. relieved, and
W0UL,i ' 0N ’ S FRUIT PILLS also'cmv
LTOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
say. There are no failures and no
it a ’ l 1 ana nia-
“«artr7 n f;n 0mot6 DlQESiION, relievo distress from too
DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
THE Brnnn re^ulatc th o BOWELS, and PURIFY
known ’ , T Th ® chea Pe s t and Best Family Medicine
Theyare 1 ?/^ 7 Vegetable (nade of the Extract of Fruit)
I are as nearly perfect as it fa possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price Is. 3*1.
C. E, MOULTON, Sole Proprietor
PILLS
Marshalls
ON ft. NERVINE
A Ppetltft inauresuon, JL/OB
Complkitv* ® mal e Disorders, Liver and K1
and soothi^o. 1^? ,Y ital Dower, &c. By its tonlt
for Aioohni* e v» ec J? 1 Y? t onc ® removes a jj craving
other richness in phosphorous and
and onnanif ino- r>mra<sfa in*
-A.'brala.axn.'
Fills
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy 1 -
P andelIon . and free from the
particle of mercury or mineral substance.
po P ular medicine of the nineteenth ofn-
fhnL’„ 8^,? imple ’ yet mo8t effective; thev oaif-be
a carefully Ire-
?a^e re p Th^ n ’n and th ® WSSSSiS
I ha^yet‘to hea e hF?^S Ch ’ ? cada ° d
tamedlate reUef. l t thej have not aff0rded
434 GEORGE STREET.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
808 GEORGS STREET.
°^3tolAW^
WHOLESALE
HOORR
GRC
and
WINS and
6PIRIT MER-
CHANT.
BOLE AGENT
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
STSStft UL
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
Of
MACHINERY.
APPLICATION.
“ AK " i 8^® 8 0 3ai!» 0,L,BRAT “
THE
I
lie.
The SIMPLEST. CHEAPEST, Sc BEST MACHINE
ever introduced Into Australia.
EASY TO WORK, EAST TO LEARN,
EASY TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Spring’s. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Machine in the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modern
Science, and of the Best Possible Materials.
Hold on TIME PAYMENTS In Town and Country.
EW Samples and Tataloguos POSTED FREE tc
any part of the colony.
B. O. Hu Hermann & Co.,
SoiiB Agents,
674 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
C. F. PRIDD1T ft GO.,
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS,
Be# to announce that, on and after APRIL 7th
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Days '
at 6.30 p.m,: Saturdays as usual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
A. A C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
»!• GEORGE STREET,
Next Peapes and Shaw.
< y. fi-
Tha tor Pianos and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
& C- Huenerbein,
818 GEORGE STREET.
w. H. CHARD AND GO.
WOOL BROKERS,
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
TTSKRAL ADVANCES made on WOOL e'
Air«n^ th \r PR0DUCB “hipped to their Londoi
Agents, Messrs. Redfern, Alexander and Co., i
Great Winchester-street, E.O.
The Careful Personal Supervision of this well
known Arm Is given to, all consignments.
DENTIST.
i
(Of America)
I* . '
Q UARANTEES
In i si ii
mo.
IMT PRICES MODERATE.
JSr
Corner George and Market Streete
m
OYER HUNTER'S BOOT PALACE.
i OnTEjf'ro
I l. r^r — —
PRESENTATION PLATE
g
8
□
o
&
o
co
a;
CfJ
-J
fti
Q
<
3
W3
g
o
CL
5ft
O
•a
o
t/>
a
<h
flri
Q
r>
O
2
2
s
<
H
a
2
CO
2
W
W
D
a
**~*SEr3&S3$a^
Original Designs for Trophies
© lESolistToi© IB\5Lgpgr3L©s!
PROCURABLE ONLT AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE ft MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES
California and Eastern Backboard Wannons.
HF* BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK
WILLIAM FLEMING!-, Merchant A Importer
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty's Hotel.)


Itching and Burning.
Eczetna or salt rheum, whir its agoniziog itching
and burning, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap, and a single application of
CutiCuua, the great skin cure. This repeated
daily, with two or three doses of CUTictTRA He-
solvent, the blood purifier, to keep the blood
cool, the perspiration pure and unlrritating, the
bowels open, the liver and kidneys active, will
speedily cure eczema, tetter, ringworm, psoriasis,
scall head, dandruff, and every species ot itching,
scaly, and pimply humors of the scalp and skin,
when the best physicians and all known remoJies
fail.
Use American Co.’s Hop Bitters once and
you will use no other medicine. Test it. Take no
other. Be sure and read.
The Ruling Spirit of Genius.—Intellectual
power is a great influence, it ruled the destiny
of England in Disraeli and Gladstone, sways the
operations of national affairs in Germany through
Bismarck, and directs the government of France
by the authority of Gambetta. Wolfe's Schnapps
absorbs all the other decoctions of gin used
throughout the world, and may, therefore, bo
considered its master spirit. Always ask for
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Mr. DeCoctrcy Browns (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ HPndy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 53 Castle-
reagh-strect, Sydney, sar Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, t&T Land Titles, Mr. Browse’s
skill, a matter or record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
Printed and Published by Ths Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), 31 Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Finding of the El Dorado.
Gustavus Jones and Mary Ann loved ardently and'
true,
The looks they duns' each other were the sweetest
that the eye could view;
The blush that flushed her virgin cheek when
meeting him he eyed her,
Was like the crimson parrot that ekes its gay exis-
tence In the valley of the Gwydir.
Full twenty minutes were giv’n up (upon an
av’rage) to the squeeze,
And then they went their ways again with hearts
brimful of ecstacies, .
And he longed greatly for the time they d stay
together all the while.
And she yearned madly for the day they d cross
the matrimonial stile.
But true love never did run smooth, and someone
told him she was “ gone”
Upon another fellow’s charms; and this sad news
so preyed upon
His amatory, sensitive, and quivering disposition
that
He hid beyond a fence one night, concealed be-
neath a soft low hat;
And watched to see if she, astoid, would pass upon
Bill Swivvel’s arm. ,
She did! ’Twas she—his Mary Ann! Ho bit his
thumbs, made no alarm,
But. rising, placed his trembling hands upon his
heart to still its throbs,
And crept a half-a-mile away to let out what he
thought in sobs.
When he had sobbed and sighed enough, he took a
bit of stone and wrote
Upon the boulders where he sat the touching mes-
sage which we quote:
“ Oh, Mary Ann, you’ve gone away and broken up
my dreams of bliss!
I’ll do it, Mary Ann, I will, for now there’s nothing
left but this —”
The thing ho intimated into practice ho began to
put,
And with a double-bladed knife his jugular in two
he cut;
And (while the blood along a seam of quartz
flowed) in anguish sat,
And said: “ I’ve done it, Mary Ann; for there was
nothing left but that!”
When guilty Mary Ann became aware of what had
happened she
Wont straight into hysterics, and behaved most
unbecomingly. , . . , .
She went and looked upon the rock where ho had
sat, and on the quartz
Where blood was recognisable on pebbles, ’bout
the size of warts.
She picked the pebbles from the seam and kissed
them, and with scalding tears
She said: “Oh, Gus, I’ll spill my blood when
your’s is spilled; for now I see
How warmly you felt towards me, and how soon
you would have married me!”
And done it, too, she would have, but-another
young man grabbed her; .
And, crying, “ Gracious heavens, Mary Ann, .keep
still; don’t dare to stir! ~ ■
Why, we are on a reef as sure as Gus is stiff; those
pebbles—see! -
Are nuggets-half-an-ounce each—and wo now
can wed immediately I”
This prospect soothed her spirit, and she put
away the shears, aod said:
“ We’d better wed without delay!— so suddenlu a
man falls dead!’’
And so the El Dorado, which ran thirteen ounces
to the ton,
Was started on the very day Hhat Bill and Mary
Ann graw one!
Virtuous Old Age.
Of all the things that make us soft and kind.
The best is that which shows that age acquires
A zealous, serious, holy turn of mind
To save the young who raven with desires.
Long years ago, to illustrate my song,
In warm Benares, where the tropic sun
Looks down without a wink the whole day long,
The usual stock of folks their course did run.
Young men were wild in waking as in dreams,
Their veins were full of blood that quick did
roll.
Or up or down in swift continuous streams;
And when love touched them, then from crown
to solo.
In boiling, bubbling, tierce tumultuous sursfe,
It beat against the tender tlesh and skin,
And made the sweat from every pore emerge,
And set the feet to tread the path to sin.
It is believed that if the gate of sin
Were kept well shut and nothing left around
To designate to youth the passage in.
Youth would not haunt so constantly the ground.
But at this gate’s an advertising space,
Whose inches sell at wondrous heavy rates;
For all creation turns that way its face
To learn the prices of its ibves and hates.
The many ways the elders work to keep
Hot fevered youth from going in are known—
The vain attempts to lull the eyes to sleep,
BThe vain attempts to make the hearty stoqe.
And some are wolt to speak of tire in.’store
To burn the soul whose body has done wrong*
And some to polnt beyond where planets roll,
And promise to the sinless realms of song.
And some are wont to threaten gyve and whip
Against the youth whoso footsteps go astray; *•
But, notwithstanding, callow youth does slip,
And rings ItsTueful changes day by day. •
But in Benares there was earnest zeal
Among the men grown baid with ege; th.qy .fcald
The way to save was not to let youths feel
The glow that spreads to llamo once in the head.
They further hold the way to keep £h m cold.
Was to hide from them ov’ry tempting sight;
And, virtue warming as they grew more old,
They vowed to die to shield their sons from
blight.
It was not long until a troupe of belies
Came to Benares with the latest plays,
The comic operas and magic spells.
And those strange parts they call.the fairy
maze.
But one thing was their forte—in no past night
Was dancing such as theirs, with charge and
rout; .»•
As bright as sunbeams and as feathers light
The beauteous creatures threw th ir legs abqiit.
The old man met, and tremblingly declared "
That something should bo done, they mopped
their brows, ' ' -
And rubbed the bald parts of their heads and
8tftrG(i
At one another, and recalled their vows....
They went and looked and kept their sons at
home; -i
They went and looked egain, and stroked Their
The lantTwas free, the nymphs beneath the dome.
Of the great hall were quite within the laws.
They went and looked again, and then they found
They could not keep their sons Shut longer .in;
And so, as heroes, they gave oath around
That they would keep between'their *§OhB and
8lD - . .
And till to-day In fair BenareS Tjpift * ‘ .
Will sac, on nights when living Usuhft «are§r, \ } j
All lustrous white, and
No gentle youth with watery eye-teeth near.
The above shows a charming Tennis costume. The full blue zaphyr skirt is picked
out with crimson in a ring pattern, and is surmounted with a striped blue and crimson
jersey. The helmet hat is as becoming as it is useful and comfortable, and is trimmed
with a puggaree of crimson gauze.
* These two simple yet elegant walking costumes are peculiarly suitable to the pre-
sent season. The one has a striped velvet skirt and jacket trim mod with broad bands
of ribbon velvet. The drapings of ottoman cloth of a corresponding colour. The
a skirt cojuposod of deep bounces with little back puffings, and a full body.
Onetergjfi and ends of ribbon velvet, fastened almost in front of the skirt, being
the sole trimming.
“G.F.S.”
(GREEDY FEW SOCIETY).
To get servants I’m sorely perplexed,
And some facts that from Granny I’ve learned,
Really make me most terribly vexed,'
‘‘.G.F.S.” seems the cause that’s concerned.
From the letters I’ve recently read,
This conclusion I only can draw
The “ G.F.S ” makes them instead—
Many fewer and not many more.
Of “ kind supervision” we’ve heard,
And “ assistance” employment to get,
But on one point I don’t hear a word,
And that is to whom they are let.
But, ohl while I paused on this fact,
A flash of light entered my brain,
’Tis for self that the “ G.F.S” act—
Other folks may seek servants in vain.
That the “ public” in general piy
Is what “ G.F.S.” cannot deny,
And the immigrants fairly may say:
11 We’re all equal—what’s she more than I ?
‘‘That she's friends in this far-away land,
While friendless 1 land on the shore.
Should make ladies stretch me the band,
For surely I need it far more.”
Then equal, let Immigrants stand.
And those that their services seek
Shut out all the “ G.F.S.” band
With “ benevolent" promises weak.
A man named Jones up in Northern
Queensland was fined £5 or two months for a
furious assault on one of his employes. Walking
in the middle of the night he heard a gurgling
sound coming from the m va’s hut, and, breaking
open the door, he found the poor fellow evidently
chohing. With great presence of mind he wrenched
open the mouth, and with the handle of a spoon
contrived to draw forth a small bone, which he put
in , his pocket to keep as a curiosity. He was
about to leave when he noticed the fragments of a
roast fowl on the table, and a fowl hanging up un-
pluoked in the corner, which he recognised as one
of ia pair of game fowl he had missed for two or
three days. So ho MGuigan out of his
bunk by the legs, and, swinging him round, caused
considerable damage to the legs of tables and the
walls generally with that gentlemen’s whizzing
head. “ I would do the same again, your Wor
ship,” he said.
Had Jones been a philosphor
He’d no such wrath have shown,
For, though he missed his poultry,
He secured at least the bone.
The man who grows the sirloin, sir,
And dreams it is bis own,
,0a other’s plates oft secs it smoke,
• While he dines of shin bone.
How oft we long for cultured sense,
And get a M‘Elhone,
Who holds fat, flesh, and tallow, while
He pitches us a bone.
We want to hear a preacher who
Will teach instead of groan—
We get no “ feast of fat things,” sir,
But only devilled bone.
80, Mr. Jones, pray be advised,
i Your case is not alone—
Keep cool, you might as well, for five
Pound’s too much for a bone.
CHORUS.
(To bo sung by the brave gentlemen who write
the soul-stirring articles on “ the honour at-
taching to membership in our Contingent.”)
Out on the sand of a desert land
Our boys are marching proudly;
A stalwart band, they’ll make a stand.
And we'll applaud them loudly.
And when the Are of Mahdi’s ii 0
Goes nigh to decimate them,
A little wire to—Dailey, Esq.,
Will quickly duplicate them.
When rumours rife of deadly strife
Our ears are dally reaching;
. You bet your life we’ll tell each wife
“ We’ll have no blasted screeching.”
For wtods of fear we’ll hear
Our bravery’s “ most undoubted!”
, lihe woman’s fear and orphan's tear
r~ jMust wait till Osman’s routed.
Hut we who write will never fight,
We’ll others urge to glory!;
Of honour bright and soldier’s might
We’ll sing the bdrolc story.
You ask of us, why is it thus ?
The fact’s extremely plain, sir.
Like “ old Lord Gus.” we’re fond of fuss,
But couldn’t stand being slain, sirl
