

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 3.—No. 111.—New Series.
SATURDAY. JUN 27, 1885.
Prloi—01
The Bulle
SATURDAY, JUNE 37, 1886.
The Return.
A good deal of credence has been extended
to the statement that, but for the late offer
of Mr. James Service, the Victorian Pre-
mier, to test the fighting qualities of his
newly-constructed gunboats in ’‘putting
down" anything worth shooting at in the Ri cl
Sea, no colonial troops would have appeared
in the Soudan. Whether this is wholly or
partially true, or whether it is entirely fahe,
there is but one person in New South Wales
who can give a satisfactory answer. It is
certain that between the mother colony and
Victoria, her most vigorous child, a spirit
has been fostered which may work mischief
by and bye. It is not a spirit of emulation,
but of jealousy. It may be that it would be
impossible for two progressive peoples
mutually independent, and bred from the
same stock, to grow up s'de by side without
jealousies arising. In America, we know
that these bickerings culminated in the
bloodiest of modern wars. But Mr. Dal-
Lar’s eagerness to be first in the field with
the offer of troops, is said to be due quite as
much to the desire to get—in the language
of the stable—the 4; inside running ” on Vic-
toria, as to help England in what the news-
papers oddly enough called 44 the hour of her
need."
* * ♦
Round this wild expedition there has been
thrown a glamour of glory and sentiment
to which it is by no means entitled. Various
English and colonial journals have affected
to see in it the birth of a new power in
politics, the desire of the daughter to bear a
share in the mother’s burdens. The alacrity
with which the appeal was met is dwelt
upon, and much credit taken for the war-
like spirit displayed. But it is no reflection
on the men of the Contingent that, for the
same pay, any large city would supply an
expedition prepared to fight in any cause.
Indeed, a much lower wage-rate induced
hundreds of thousands to press on to Rich-
mond dropping whole brigades by the way.
A lower still filled the ranks with sturdy
recruits to fight under De Lacy Evans in
Spain. To them it mattered little who held
the Potomac, or whether Don Carlos won
or lost. There was the prcspect of adven-
ture and fight, and that was enough. But
in war, as in politics, a good 41 cry" goes a
long way. Those who advocated and carried
out the despatch of the Contingent knew
this, and so the pill was coated with “in-
tegrity of the Empire;” 44 Assisting the old
mother in the time of need;” 44 Avenging
o murder of the chivalrous Gordon,” and
g walioTve(j greedily. None of these would
8 and a moment’s examination. The integ-
m tke ® m P lle was in no danger, the
other was still a singularly tough old lady
no need whatever, so far as the Soudanese
‘ggers were concerned, and in the ciroum-
mnees surrounding the death of the vision-
y Gordon there was nothing calling for
ratif 68 ?!?*’ T ° the treachery of his friends
. er taan t° the prowess of his enemies he
jr Cu 1 ? lb ® d - a moment of excitement,
count LEr pled ® ed the honour of the
his nff aQd mad ® retreat impossible. That
he WOuld bave beea so readily accepted
first nf d 8caroel y have behoved. It was the
cam« tn kind ttlat ever was - Aud then
fortnight realdiffloul ty—how to supply in a
uota ma a , re ° itneil t of trained infantry,
and a k u ° f Which wa * as y«t under arms
men wh*n ° C field artiller y f rom among
guns. m h nad 80ar oely any training to field-
offer whot 8hould be a warning never to
a scale nf y ° U don °t possess. By means of
1 Pay just five times that of the
British soldier—a rats completely eclipsing
anything that hid been heard of in the
world—the requisite number of men were
obtained. They were moatly from the
British Islands, and many of them had teen
service in English regiments. A fine body
of men certainly, but among them was a
good sprinkling of those who knew nothing
of soldiering, and whose inexperience and
awkwardness in the hour of danger might
result in a terrible disaster. Of such was
the New South Wales Contingent—the ma-
terial of the best, but the training elemen-
tary and the officers almost unacquainted
with military discipline and tactics.
• * •
In the entire history of this movement
there is nothing stranger than how the
notion hist arose that England was in any
danger from the rising in the Soudan. With
the whole coastline open to her ships and
abundant means for blocking the advance
of the Soudanese into Egypt, she was mis-
tress of the situation so long as she did not
plunge her troops too far into inhospitable
wilds exposed to ,‘a deadly climate. There
was in reality no “ wolf ” at all, although
the cry was so loudly bandied. The
worst of it is now that should a real
emergency arise, such as war with Russia,
or participation in any European complica-
tions, it is difficult to see bow,[we in New
South Wales can avoid taking a hand in it.
For it would never do to have it said by
England: “You assisted us against the
Mahdi when you were not] particularly re-
quired, and when we ourselves were ashamed
of the war, but now, when real danger is on
the horizon, you hold back.” This will ne-
cessitate the keeping under arms of a regi-
ment or two, as it would be lolly to send to
Europe raw troops to meet the trained
levies of the Continent. The prospect is far
from cheering, and shows the necessity for
taking thought even when you are anxious
to “dish” Victoria. It is certain that by
Mr. Dallev’s precipitate action we are in a
measure pledged to supply England with
soldiers when she really requires them, and
this means the organization of a small
standing army.
“The integrity of the Empire” and “the
desire to draw closer the bonds binding
England and Australia to show to the
world that the British Empire is one and in-
divisible—were also amongst the causes as-
signed for sending our men away. Impor
taut journals screamed defiance in large
type, and subjected us to considerable ridi-
cule by assuring us that upon the autocrats
of Europe the “moral” effect of sending a
few badly-drilled men to Africa was of the
most sobering description. This “integrity”
and “ tightening the bonds ” are subjects
which are causing much discussion at
present both iu England and Australia.
Leagues are being formed both here and
at home for the purpose of federat-
ing this scattered Empire so that dis-
tant provinces might not drift away and
set up for themselves. Prominent politicians
and ecclesiastics address them, and give out-
lines of schemes which they think would
stop the centrifugal tendencies of the colo-
nies. Dr. Moobhodse, the eloquent Bishop
of Melbourne, g ive his views upon the
matter a week or two ago. But there is one
thing, none of the sptakers, however able,
ever attempt to show—the benefit a populous
and federated Australia would derive from
a political connection with a European
power. They do not show this because
they are not able. Nor do they try to prove
what benefit Englishmen would derive from
the connection. They never endeavour to
explain how much happier the United
States would be if governed from London ;
nor how Englishmen would like having
three-fifths of the Commons composed of
Americans. It is not in their bond. They
do not show that English trade or English
immigrants would fall off if the colonies
were independent. There is nothing to pre-
vent an Englishman’s going to the United
States and settling amongst people of his
own breed and tongue. He is even wel-
comed. These aspects of the question are
left severely alone. Yet they are the most
important of all—the precise ones on whieh
we want plain English. When, therefore
the Bishop of Melbourne, or Mr. Dalley, or
anyone entertaining similar views, defends
the sending of the New South Wales Con-
tingent to the Soudan on the ground of its
tendency towards “Imperial federation,”
he should be first prepared to show what
benefits to England and to Australia he ex-
pected from the rapprochement.
• • •
Considering the losses among the British
troops from hard fighting and a deadly
climate, the New South Wales men may
think themselves exceptionally fortunate in
getting away so well. To the approaching
summer, the menacing attitude of the Radi-
cals in England, and of the Russians in
Afghanistan, they owe their escape. Radi-
cal England protested against the savage
and meaningless slaughter of the Arabs.
Englishmen were getting asham ed o£ read-
ing how the artillery and the Guards kept
ploughing lanes through mobs of naked
men armed with spears and sticks. On this
point, the capitalist newpapers of the colony
prejerved a significant silence. Acoording
to them, it was with glory the British
were covering themselves in the Soudan.
But the English themselves thought it ex-
tremely like shame. And so, when the
angry growl was heard reverberating
through the Afghan passe?, the English
turned north and the Australians south.
Offers, we believe, were made the latter to
volunteer for service in India, and go on the
Imperial establishment, but the drop from
Australian plenty to the modest shilling a
day, which a grateful country allows
Tommy Atkins for allowing himself in turn
to stop hostile bullets and bayonets, was too
abrupt. No patriotism is sufficiently robust
£0 stand such a fall. No opportunity was
afforded them of distinguishing themselves.
Had it been given they would, no doubt,*
have fought as bravely, if not as effll
oiently, as the famous corps with which
they were brigaded. The telegram is
significant which appeared in Monday’s
papers to the effect that, in the event
of au autumn campaign in the Soudan
the other colonies will be released from
their offers of assistance. The whole thing
has ended in au utterly undignified fizzle
England discovers that most of the colonial
enthusiasm was spurious, and that Aus-
tralians can find plenty to do besides be-
coming food for powder in broils with
which they have no concern. And should
our people also discover that, like the
THE MARQUIS OF SALISBURY,
The New British Premier.


Americans, they can find plenty to do at
home without mixing in quarrels which do
not concern them, and in the making or
settling of which they have no voice, some
good may, after all, flow from Mr. Dallby’b
startling action. At all events we shrewdly
suspect that before another Contingent is
sent from our shores it will have been
shown that the moon is made of green
cheese.
Laud Nationalisation.
Like all great theories, not in political
economy alone, but in all departments of
human knowledge or speculation, that of
land nationalisation will have to pass through
a fierce fire of controversy before being
accepted as incontrovertible. It cannot
expect treatment more tender than was
! served out to the theory of evolution, or of
the circulation of the blood. We know with
what ridicule the hypotheses of Darwin and
of Harvey were received—how scientific
and sacerdotal Europe shot out the tongue
while the unscientific world looked on with
indifference or contempt. A theory, like an
individual, is all the better for having been
tried and not found wanting, for having
successfully opposed reason to angry denun-
ciation. What makes the opponents of land
nationalisation so peevish and unscrupulous
is plain. So far as man’s life or happiness is
concerned, it matters very little whether
the blood flows or stands still in his veins—
whether his progenitors were men or mon-
keys. But to those who are born into the
world for no apparent reason but to eat,
drink, sleep, wear fine olothes, and perpetu-
ate their kind, it is of paramount import-
ance to learn that their hungry neighbours
have discovered one of the chief causes why
the idle are frequently well fed and clad,
while the industrious are often ragged and
starved.
• • •
On the subject of land nationalisation,
there was a meeting at the Sydney Masonic
Hall a short time ago. Briefly, it may be
stated that two resolutions were adopted-
one to stop the further alienation of Crown
lands in New South Wales, the other to
gradually re-purchase those already alien-
ated. The Sydney Press treated the pro-
posals not only as Utopian, but as perni-
cious. One journal stated that the advo-
cates of the measure were “ mostly very
young men who have not made their for-
tunes, or impecunious people of mature
years who never could make a fortune.” It
went on : “ The Briton especially is a free-
hold lover. Throughout our literature the
love for the vine-covered cot, the shady
garden, the noble park, and the wide do.
main is dwelt upon with ten thousand 8
poetic touches.” With the cry of millions of
starving Englishmen reaching us from over
the sea, we are told by the Evening News
that the causes of this misery must be
allowed to take root in Australia also be-
cause the Briton “ is a freehold lover,” and
British literature is full of allusions to
“ vine-covered cots” and “ wide domains.”
Better for multitudes of Englishmen to go
hungry to the heap of rags that serves them
for a bed than that British literature, wide
domains and vine-covered cots should he
trifled with. In another journal we are told
that the opinion that God gave the earth to
the entire family of man and not to a chosen
few is a mere “ assumption,” and that the
desire to make land the property of the
State “ has its origin in human selfishness.”
Further, that “those who labour to promote
land nationalisation labour not to the ad-
vantage of the State, but to their own
profit.”
* m ■ ♦
It is hard to meet statements like these
with argument. II is hard to meet them
with patience. The men who make them
are, so far as we know, still at large. If it
can be shown that the “ freehold ” and the
“ wide domain” for the few mean rags and
garbage-strewn alleys for the many, it is
time that freehold and domain were jetti-
soned. Evidences from many quarters have
been gradually accumulating, all pointing
to one fact, standing head and shoulders
above others, that the chief cause of pau-
perism and low wages is the allowing men
to hold as private property the land, which
was not made by them, just as they hold the
things which wore.
• • •
Some years ago, a young American, who
was not satisfied with the queer answers
obtained from books, sat down to consider
the problem of why there was so much
hunger and misery on a planet capable of
supporting in comfort ten times its present
inhabitants—why so many who were
anxious to work could find no employment.
The ordinary books on political economy
either gave no answers at all or supplied
misleading ones. He traced the initiatory
causes of the constantly-recurring industrial
depressions to the speculative advance in
the value of land. And this advance was
solely due to the suicidal State policy of
allowing private property in land by part-
ing with the freehold. By thus disposing of
the freehold and allowing private indivi-
duals to enjoy a profit for which they never
toiled, not only is production checked, hut
the legitimate earnings of labour and capital
are lowered. For it eliould never bo for-
gotten that land is the source of all wealth,
and that in a progressive community the
value of land must increase. The contention
of Henry George is that the increase in
value, which is due to the industry and pro-
gress of the community, should belong to
the State—not to the person who happens
to be in possession of the land. This
end is entirely defeated by the system
of alienating land for ever. The result
of thus giving over to the individual
the increment, which of right belongs to
the whole people, was well shown in America
some years ago, where, “Wherever a rail-
road was built, or projected, lands sprang
up in value under the influence of specula-
tion, and thousands of millions of dollars
were added to the nominal values which
capital and labour were asked to pay out-
right, or to pay in instalments as the price
of being allowed to go to work and produce
wealth. The inevitable result was to check
production, and this check to production
propagated itself in a cessation of demand,
which checked production to the furthest
verge of tho wide circle of exchanges, oper-
ating with accumulated force in the centres
of the great industrial commonwealth into
which commerce links the civilised world.”
These words we quote from “Progress and
Poverty.”
e o ■
But it is not necessary to go to America
lor examples of the evils resulting from
allowing private property in land. In-
stances are around us on all sides. In New
South Wales a person buys land either in
the vicinity of a rising town or of a possible
railway line. The town progresses, or the
railway is made, and so is the purchaser’s
fortune. There is no need for him to take
thought of the morrow. Part of the capital
and labour of the community at large is
diverted to him and his to keep them idle
for all time. And this is the system which
our statesmen and writers consider the cul-
mination of human wisdom. Before them
for their guidance is the spectacle of the
wide-spread want existing in old lands. This
want is shown to be the logical result of
allowing to a few the uncontrolled posses-
sion of that which was intended for all, and
from which all must either directly or in-
directly draw subsistence. Yet so strong is
the power of prejudice and of tradition that
the pregnant lesson remains unlearned, and
alienation goes merrily on, as if land, instead
of being circumscribed, were unlimited. One
of the reasons for this criminal apathy on
the part of politicians and public is that,
owing to sparseness of population, no real
pressure, similar to that in England and in
the more populous states of America, has
yet been brought home to Australians. But
it is on the road, is already making itself
felt, and will show itself more unmistak-
ably as the years go by, and the people’s
heritage falls gradually into private hands.
* * •
“In every direction, the direct tendency
of advancing civilisation is to increase the
power of human labour to satisfy human
desires—to extirpate poverty, and to banish
want and the fear of want But
labour cannot reap the benefits which ad-
vancing civilisation thus brings because
they are intercepted. Land being necessary
to labour, and being re meed to private
ownership, every increase in the productive
power of labour but increases rent—the
price that labour must pay for the oppor-
tunity to utilise its powers ; and thus all the
advantages gained by the march of progress
go to the owners of land, and wages do
not increase. Wages cannot increase;
for the greater the earnings of labour,
the greater the price that labour must
pay out of its earnings for the oppor-
tunity to make any earnings at all. . . .
Look over the world to-day. In countries
the most widely differing—under conditions
the most diverse as to Government, as to
industries, as to tariff, as to currency—you
will find distress among the working classes;
but everywhere that you thus find distress
and destitution in the midst of wealth, you
will find that the land is monopolised ; that
instead of being treated as the common
property of the whole people, it is treated
as the private property of individuals; that
for its use by labour large revenues are ex-
torted from the earnings of labour. . . Is
it not a notorious fact, known to the most
ignorant, that new countries, where the ag-
gregate wealth is small but where land Is
cheap, are always better countries for the
labouring classes than the rich countries
where land is dear? Wherever you find
land relatively low will you not find wages
relatively high? And wherever land is high
will you not find wages low? As land in-
creases in value poverty deepens and pau-
perism appears.”—* 1 Progress and Poverty.”
These are weighty words and tru . To them
the answer that the Briton loves his “ free-
hold,” his “ vine-oovered cot,” and his
“ wide domain ” is no answer at all.
♦ ♦ •
Poverty is due to many causes. But the
chief cause—that which al ways dwarfs all the
others put together—is the sanction of private
property in land, of the possession by the few
of what was intended for the many. Not
only does universal experience point to this
as the principal cause of penury and want,
but the least reflection shows that it is as
iniquitous in principle as in practice. For if
we are all here by the equal permission of the
Creator, it requires no argument to show that
we should all share equally in His bounty.
When pushed to its logical ending there is
no escape from the conclusion that a man
can have no exclusive right to anything
which he did not produce himself, or which
was not produced by other men. The time
is fast approaching when this elementary
truth—so long obscured—.will become
obvious to all, Then, and not till then, will
the theory formulated by George pass
from fancy into fact—emerge from the little
streamlet of prejudice and debouch into the
broad river of “ the greatest good for the
greatest number.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The “Presbyterian.”
“An open confessionany child can finish the
sentence. Still, we never expected it from the
Sydney Presbyterian, which flouts confession-
open or secret. And so, when we alighted on the
following, we paused to think:—” Sydney Benevo-
lent Asylum reflects somewhat our moral condi-
tion (Italics ours.) Dr. Warren reported that 33
women bad been confined in May, 20 of them
unmarsied.” Of course, we know all along that
the “ kirk’s ” crowd were bad, but we never
dreamt they were as bad as that. Only three rings
out of 23—whew I And to think that the 20 confid-
ing people knew all about Knox and the “shorter
catechism 1 ” This was what was agitating us after
that shocking sentence. But we read bravely on
to the end. We were rewarded. The Pres-
byterian cared Uttle whether 33 or 23 000
women felt the bitterness of Eva’s penalty.
What it was anxious to show was that, ef
tho 33 mothers, 10 were Roman Catholics, and
nine Church of England. What the remain-
ing four were it does not state — probably
Presbyterians. It gave the figures for the pur-
pose—let it speak for itself—of “ showing how pro-
lific Romanism is in crime and pauperism.” We
are not Romanists and we look with suspicion
both on Prelacy and Presbyterianism. Even the
Salvation Army, which nightly warbles under our
window, has been, so far, unable to extract from
us any sincere profession of faith. Mais revenons m
It is with the Presbyterian and the 23 women
we are dealing. There were 37 children re-
sulting from these unwise unions, 11 of whom
were Church of England and 16 Romans. This
shows, at any rate, that what the “Papists” lose
in virtue they make up in fecundity. The paper
does not dwell on the fact that most of the R.C.
mothers came from districts where the majority
of the adult males are Presbyterians. This,
however, by the way. What that journal
does dwell upon is that there is more bastardy
among Catholics than among Presbyterians,
Scotch and Irish statistics tell an entirely different
story, hut the Presbyterian knows better. We
have lived amongst and fought beside Scotchmen
—were attached to a Scotch regiment once, and
tried on the kilts with the most lamentable re-
sults for both. We know what jovial fellows
they are in the barrack-room, and what ugly cus-
tomers to fall foul of la a free fight. They were
all Presbyterians, and we marched to the kirk be-
hind the pipers just as if we were suckled on por-
ridge and fattened on haggis. In the immortal
words of Corporal Sandy M’Tavish, “If we were
young and wicked again, and had a furlough to
spend among the lasses, we’d tak’ Scotland”
before either England or Ireland. And that’s why
we say to our Presbyterian friends, " Tackle the
Romans on any other subject you like, but—and
this is from the bottom of our hearts—let illegiti-
macy alone.”
Mr. Sala and Coolies.
Before leaving Queensland, Mr. George Augus.
tus Sala was induced to express his opinion
upon the employment of coolies on the sugar
plantations of that colony. It is not without
risk a visitor, however able he is, gets on his feet
among local debaters and proceeds to settle their
questions. It sometimes happens that he misses
the point of a question altogether. It oftener
happens that an ordinary local man knows very
much more about both sides of a “ trouble ” than
the able and brilliant visitor. Mr. Sala informed
the editor of Brisbane Punch that, being the son
of an old West Indian planter, he bad his own
knowledge of the subject. As far as he could
understand the question in Queensland, he be-
lieved white men would not be amenable to the
conditions of the industry. “ White men,” sai g
Mr. Sala, “ must have all they can get, and they
must give as little as they can give. . . . White
men with him (the planter) might suddenly give
up, demand their wages, and decamp. If an
employer were fool enough to refuse to comply
with such a demand, a man—one single hand—
might cost such damage to machinery as would
wreck the fortunes of any sugar-mill.” Mr. Sala
has evidently more reasons than enough—on the
supposition that these are reasons—to make him
favour the introduction of coolies. But half these
reasons will carry him outside the sphere of
white men altogether. How will he conduct a
factory in Sydney or in Melbourne ? How will a
manufactory be conducted anywhere? White
men strike for higher wages everywhere. If not
engaged for a definite term, they quit an employ-
ment when they choose. They are as likely to
damage machinery in one place as in another.
What then ? Are they to be removed and coolies
put in their places ? Mr. Sala has made the mis-
take of proving too much. He has, therefore,
proved nothing.
How They Live.
Wb meet them everywhere—in the Domain, the
block, the Art Gallery, the church. They are
always well-dressed, well-gloved, and apparently
well-fed. The butcher takes their orders without
demur—the baker never hints at a settlement.
“ How do they live ?” did you say ? Through
cheek. This is our opinion—it would be yours If
you read a little book called “Vigour, Health, and
Life,” issued by the Austral Pharmacy Co. The
writer professes to be in the same line as L. L.
Smith (late residence of the Governor) and dozens
of others who make a living by the treatment of
certain obscure diseases. He gives prescriptions
with engaging frankness, but takes the oppor-
tunity of hinting to you that he is the only one
living who can prepare them. This he is prepared
to do for the ridiculously small sum of 33s., and as
the ingredients must cost at least a penny, it is
hard to see how he can make a profit. There is
another thing about the prescriptions: the various
drugs are quite unknown to science. You might
spell out every letter in every pharmacy
in the world without finding them. Each □ « 1
tist has a specific unknown to the rest of C IeQ '
world. It is either the “ essence of life ” 0r ttle
“rejuvenating essence” whose action on 80ai#
human organism changes the most miserable
desponding into clowns and comic writers “wi? 4
do we know about drugs ? ” We smile. The 1
not a medicine that was ever compounded f 611
the days of Galen that we have not tried on 111
selves. Opium? For years we ate it raw °w'
could give De Quincky a start of half a 9
laudanum, and beat him. Morphia? We g u
It through a quill. At last we worked doty 4
prussio acid and dlgitallnum, but had to giveth l °
up as they were too fattening. And now we
asked for our opinion on these little
concerning the way to restore vital energy
happiness. Our opinion is soon given, and caa^ 4
depended on, since we were in the line oursei. 9
It is that no recompense short of a bucket of?*'
and a ton of feathers can adequately reward th
profound scientists who write them and wh<>
resolutely devote themselves to compounding th°
prescriptions by the vacuo process for 23s. a hotti
We can confidently recommend those dru ffa f
leaving you a wreck after a week’s trial. 0f
A Clerical Crusade.
The Melbourne Daily Telegraph Is publish),,
a series of articles under the heading of “ Th
Biole in State Schools,” of which the Rev. j On 0
Thomson is the author. In the fourth article ]
the series appearing on the 6th Inst., a drasuo
method of “nobbling” Parliament is proposed* 3
The reverend writer exhorts the public to tell
candidates for Parliament, in candidates’ ow Q
slang, that “ no lesson will mean no sugar.”
is, that if they will not promise to support the cause
of religion, the professors of religion will vot
against them at the ballot-box. He says ■-!
“ Wherever a candidate appears for Parliamen'
tary honours, he ought to be confronted with
an organised body of men who will make his
success depend on his pledging himself to sun!
port and defend the religion of the country
in respect of education, of Sunday railways,
of outrageous blasphemy, and in all respects”
The simple point the church-going people of Vie.
toria should bear in mind when urged to adopt this
course, is that it will lead them into worse pns<
tions than their present ones. Men who do not
give a fig for any faith will play the role of ardent
believers to gain votes. When they have gained
them they will laugh at the voters. That is human
history. It is human nature. A candidate either
believes, or does not believe, in the ecclesiastical
claims set forth. In the former case, a menacing
organisation will, if his sense of dignity be keen,
make him less swift, instead of more swift, to
work. In the latter, if his sense of dignity be not
keen, he will He for the time, and shuffle and lie
afterwards. It has been so in New South Wales
and in every other country where such a plan has
been tried. More than one Australian politician
has played it with a vengeance.
A Strong Conservative Ministry
“The Australians are all Conservatives” says How-
A bd Vincent. So of course we are all delighted
to hear that the shuffling old hypocrite Glad-
stone has gone out, and been replaced by the
head of the Cecils, with a strong Conservative
Ministry. In fact, the whole strength of the com-
pany have been put on, and a very pretty lot they
are. Omitting the law officers, out of 14 members
of the Cabinet seven are peers, or near relations
of peers—not any of your mushroom folk, who
have been lowered into that order from any
merits or services of their own—but the real
genuine article, whose creations date back to
Charles II. or thereabouts, at least. Some of the
parfe) seem to have been cast on peculiar prin-
ciples. W. H. Smith, who is both popular and
capable, is supplanted at the Admiralty by Lord
George Hamilton, who has the popularity with,
out the capacity; while the amiable, accomplished,
and inoffensive Lord John Manners (singularly
appropriate surname) and poor dear old Sir
Richard Cross, who made such a magnificent
muddle of the Water Companies’ business when in
office before, will have fresh opportunities for dis-
tinction in their old places. With Lord Randolph
Churchill’s post no one can quarrel, for hat
he not (a six weeks’) experience of Indian
affairs unequalled by any living statesman?
Has he not actually hcen there? But when
we come nearer home, to the colonies, there really
must be some mistake. For Colonel Stanley ought
we not to read Lord Derby ? Surely hewhoen.
joys the proud distinction of being the only Eng.
lish statesman who ever yet held office in two suc-
cessive Cabinets of opposite polities will not
be debarred from the chance of turning him-
self inside-out once more and becoming a member
of a third ? Besides, he is so popular in Austra'
lia. And—well, now, who is Mr. Balfour ?
But how the list might have been improved, espe-
cially if the wishes of a Conservative Australia
had, as was meet, been first coasulteil Have we
not some representative Australians now in Eng-
land whose names would have graced any Ministry,
and whom we might, at whatever cost to our feel-
ings, spare to aid the old country in her difficul-
ties and dangers? True, there are none of
them in Parliament yet, but they hope to be.
They are all Conservative candidates for some-
where or other, and one, at least, is said to be
willing, if pressed, to depart from the Republican
simplicity of our own institutions, and acoept-a
marquisate. Does not his name rise to all our lip*
as the ideal Premier, the eloquent, the accom-
plished, the urbane Sir Samuel Wilson, heaven-
sent inheritor at once of the genius and the country
house of the great departed ? Who more fitted for
the post of Foreign Secretary, than the talented
and diplomatic J. Henniker Heaton, “who took
such a prominent part in the despatch of the New
South Wales Contingent ?” Have we not had a
taste of his quality in the affair of those Madagas-
car despatches ? And then what brilliant imagina-
tion he would throw into his notes to foreign
Governments I For Colonial Secretary, of c0^ s ®’
there is but one man qualified alike by steadies
adherence to his party, and by long and extensive
experience and knowledge of Australian feeling
and sentiments—Mr. B, C. Howard Vincen-'
And, finally, were he not perhaps a little too you
(though the youth of our country are very P
cocious), the post of a Junior Lord of theTressur).
without a seat in the Cabinet, might be found
he “ Little Boy at Manly.”


Sat of Weights, 41b. down to >4oz-, 3 3. the set.
B °* Irons, 301n.. 3/9d.; 33!n. 3/- ,• 381n., f
Revolving Rolling Fins 9d. each
Standard Egg Beaters, each
«■ nu 0t exa( $F “as light as air,” but with
us as Cheap as dirt 4
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium,
Haymarket (only).
QUOD FACIMUS VALDE FACIMUS.
(What we do we do well.)
TOUR PHOTO.—If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful photograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
counsel, and pay first a visit to
the Vestibule leading to the Rur-
llngton Galleries In the Sydney
Arcade. There you can Inspect an
array of portraiture,not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, coupled with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine j our choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost anlversal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co held quite a
unique position as photographers.
Prices —C.-D.-V., 15i.; Cabinets. 30s. per dozen.
CREELMAN & CO ,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADE
J. TURNER ROBINSON A CO/5
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKED CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OP
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
mr Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
Annual Income uocMi On* Ellllant
Lightning and Gas Explosion-Damages Paid.
C. W. ROBERTS
Singlo Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9s.
Small Bottle, . 4s. 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
If. Od. per Bottle.
MURRUMBID G EE PORT,
Be. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT,
2b. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN-IN FLASKS,
Is, 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke s Prize Medal Brand,
In stone bottles and square bottles,
LABOESI SIZE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
SYDNEY.
Thi Baths of Subscription to Thh Bullhtin
are—For one year, 24a.; half-year, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, 6a. 0d.—In advance.
Thi Advertising Baths are 6s. per Inch!
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertionsf
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 26 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under HI, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
Lord Augustus Loftus is generally re-
garded as averse to signing death-warrants. This
poesibly accounts for the strained political rela-
tionship between the Governor and a personage
who, unfortunately for the colony, holds a high
official position.
The N.8.W. Parliament will not he con-
vened for business before the middle of next Sep-
tember. The Local Government Bill will not be
proceeded with, but reserved as a chef-cVaiuvre for
the general election. It is not intended to do any
serious work, but merely to kill time till the dis-
solution and the “ tug of war.”
The S. A. Ministry was ousted from office
for merely offering to send troops to the Soudan.
In Sydney, the verdict was the other way—another
Proof that robbery is as much a virtue as at-
tempted robbery is a vice, in the opinions of the
goats and donkeys” who, in the Council and
Assembly, bleated and hee-hawed their endorse-
ment of the action of the dapper little ‘‘plain Bill
Bailey.”
Mr. H. Czerwonka, the civil engineer who
ifl thought by competent judges to be the solver of
city water-problem, was formerly a Civil ser-
vant, but was dismissed for over-competency. In
other words, he questioned the competency of his
superior officers—a damning offence which, as
things go in governmental departments, earned
instant dismissal. Judging by results, the
public seem to have lost a good servant by his re-
moval, but it was with the Minister, a case of
czerwonka’s dismissal or eternal discord in the
oepartment whose competency he had Quixotically
ventured to doubt.
During Mr. Farnell’s illness, his locum
tenens, Mr. Wright, has been “clearing” from the
ranks of the Lands Office the incapahles whom
neither threats nor entreaty could ever prevail
upon to work. When reported to Mr. Parnell, the
latter always forbore to send the offenders adrift,
but Mr. Wright, who has no such delicacy of senti-
ment, has relegated them to the infirmary of
private life.
Andrew Hardie M‘Culloch (the mute
member for Central Cumberland, who has obtained
a local reputation for statemanship by his bien-
nial donations of toys and buns to the school kids
in his electorate), explained to his constituents re-
cently that the new Land Act is unworkable, but
excuses his vote on the score that it is better than
the old. But if unworkable, how can it have any
merits unless unworkability be a mammoth merit
in Mac's eyes? We fear that once again the
astute Andrew Hardie is “ toying” with his consti-
tuents.
“Economy is the mother of wealth,” so
states the old well-known adage, and those of our
readers who wish to grow rich by practising eco-
nomy could do no better that visit Mr. A. B. Fyke’s
Furniture Warehouse in Pitt-street. Mr. Fyke is
a firm believer in the above maxim, and conse-
quently calls his establishment “ Economical,” and
a visit to bis warehouse with an inspection of his
goods and prices, twill convinee those about to fur-
nish that Mr. Fyke’s “ Economical ” system can-
not he surpassed in Australia.*
A Month’s Pay,
Oub opinions concerning the sending of a force to
take part in the Soudan battue are well known. At
least if they are not the fault is not ours. They
have been expressed frankly enough. Prom the
beginning we oonslderdMr. D alley’s Interference
not only uncalled for, but unconstitutional. And
now the Government has distinguished itself once
more. Four months ago we objected to Its prodiga-
lity—to-day we protest against its meanness. The
Contingent is to be disbanded with a month's pay
for each officer and man. Had six months’ been
given none would have thought it too much. Let
us examine the case. Six or seven hui <3 red men
volunteered for military service in a cou y fatal
to Europeans. By doing so they re.i isd the
Ministry from the humiliating position ci having
made an offer of armed assistance without being
prepared to carry it out. These men faced the
pestilential climate, and their having seen no hard
fighting is no fault of theirs. It was theirs to obey,
and they obeyed. Owing to circumstances too
twell known to require comment, the plans of the
British Government are radically changed—the
■“ False Prophet” is’to go “ unsmashed”—the Aus-
tralians to return home. They had contracted
with their Government to serve for a period
,of 13 months or for two years If required.
•They return at the end of three months,
Ibaving lost a few men by sickness and
having brought back many others who—Judg-
ing by appearances—will be lucky if they ever
regain their former health. And their reward is a
anonth’s pay—enough, perhaps, to bring some of
ithent to their distant homes, but not enough to
iprovide them with decent clothes for the Journey,
jit is mean in any case. It is especially so when
we remember how many of them left comfortable
homes and good situations at the call of what they
considered duty. There is scarcely an officer or a
soldier in the returned force who has not lost
in either health or purse by the expedition. And
a month’s pay is the salve I The little Echo gives
an “ In Memoriam ” of those who died. But sup-
pose the expedition had been on a large scale—that
it had been Australasian Instead of local—that the
English Radicals bad not so strongly spoken out
on the immorality of the whole proceedings in
the Soudan, and that (this particularly) Russian
troops were not being massed on the Afghan bor-
ders, it would require a special issue of the Echo
to contain the “In Memoriam,” and a special loan
of millions to cover the expenditure. Even when
in quarters with no fear of Arab raids, the
army of occupation in Egypt and the Sou-
dan requires constant reinforcements to keep
up ita strength. In one sense, then, the Govern-
ment of New South Wales, and the men it sent on
a wild-goose errand are lucky in getting so well
out of a pit into which they should never have
ventured. But this, Instead of being a reason for
treating the men shabbily, is Just the reason why
the treatment should be exceptionally generous
This is the time for the patriotic people whoto
nobly came forward to help, with their money, in
a cause of which Englishmen are ashamed, to step
forward and do something if the Government will
not. We would propose that, in the event of the
Government’s adhering to its decision, the rela-
tives of those soldiers who died should be properly
provided for out of the patriotic fund, and the
balance applied, in the first place, to relieving
genuine cases of distress among the men who re-
turned. If the contributors to the fund—who
have no chance of getting their money back, and
who would not accept it even if they could (1)—
would but get up a petition to the trustees, we
believe the thing could be managed. At any rate,
we believe the money could be put to no more
useful purpose.
“The Roll-Call."
Orders for several thousands of copies of last
week’s Bulletin, with which “The Roll-Call’>
was issued as a supplement, have had to remain
unfulfilled, despite the fact that an enormous in-
crease took plaoe in the circulation of the paper.
We are compelled this week, in order that out-
standing demands may be met, to reprint this
most successful sketch, in a slightly reduced form*
la the body of The Bulletin. Our artist gives in
the current issue a series of bright sketches
apropos of the return and disbandment of the
Contingent.
TO CORRESPONDENTS .
Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
r>*11 * The Bulletin supplement, “The
Roll Call,” can be had from Mr. John Sands
Ueprge-street, printed on fine paper, for a
shilling ; or you can get it similarly from
Messrs. Turner and Henderson. “ P.a ” •
Though the S.M. Herald calls the man
Doctor, he is an impostor, an unqualified
quack. The “ M D.” after his name merely means
.Money Down.”....“B-B.” (Townsville): The
Dying Child reminds us too much of that
powerful set of verses “ Little Jim.” But we are
glad to hear from you. Why don’t you send us
characteristically Tar Northern paragraphs ?
J.BH. : Many thanks. You may possibly, by ad-
vertising, get a complete file of The Bulletin
.. H. Indus ”: Very malicious and of no interest....
H H. (Charlevllle): Many thanks. Always glad
tohearfromabushman....“Boko”; Thanks. As
you observe, apt opos of the 8. M. Herald war
correspondent having accidently shot himself with
his pistol In the Soudan, police-court reporting, if
it lacks the charm of adventure, is less risky than
setting out for home in the teeth of septuagenarian
Arabs and their faithful goats. Anyhow, a Faber’s
H.B. is not so lethal a weapon as one’s own
revolver when it’s loaded....“T.8.,” (Cowra): C.
Reynolds, 30min. 8sec “F.M.D.”: It is quite
true, as you say, that England is looked upon as a
tyrant by the people she subjects, and needs an
army of occupation to retain her power; but you
will find that Russia, or any other conquering
nation, is hated by a vanquished race. If England
has to keep an army in Ireland, Russia occupies
Poland by the same means. Russia is, probably,
almost as much hated by her tributaries in Asia as
England is hated in India. Russia has, however,
done much to civilise her Asiatic provinces
Wonderful Masher”: Under the circumstances,
we don’t think a breach of promise suit could lie,
although it is clear that you can. If, however,
you go off, the old man’s pistol will probably do
the same. You have, then, to choose the lesser of
two evils. We don’t know which is the lesser, but
if you send the girl around wo will tell you. Don’t
trouble sending the old man with her “ J.C.”:
Were we revengful, we’d print your “ poem.”
“W.W.”: Mr. Fargus (“Hugh Conway”) was
simply a clever melodramatlst, nothing more, and
would soon have been classed amengst the great
army of sensational writers. His great fault was
want of variety.... “ J. Wilson”: Bosh. The Ger-
man loves his Fatherland, but his affection is in-
tensified a thousandfold when he settles down
comfortably, and it becomes his Farther-off-Land.
.....“P.W. ”: A C.M.G.-ship is an “honour”
which is hardly cipherable even on a travel-
ling beg, and leaves its owner to be lost
amid the undistinguishable company of mis-
ters and esquires that adorn the kitchens and
parlours of his social circle “Biz,” (Roma): We
have no ill-will towards you or our readers. That
is why we don’t print your pars. Twig ? “ Jum-
buck, Overlander, and Co.”: To hand. Many
thanks....“Narandera”: Glad to hear from you.
— “ Bella Seppa”: (1) It all depends on whether
the water frontage has been sold or not. If it has,
you can’t even land. (3) We have several, but none
of them indulge in such luxuries, “A.C.G.”:
Don’t you nearly every week see, in the illustrated
Sapers, pictures which have appeared in the
RAPHio and Illustrated News ? If you ran a
newspaper for a year, you’d find there was little
new under the sun. ..“V.J.R.”: Old as the hills,
and rather too giddy —“ J.R.” (B); Many thanks.
...“L. Davidson” (Balmain): Please call on editor.
...“Anon”; We don’t agree with your estimate
of Zola, who pourtrays certain classes of men and
women as they are. You don’t appear to like his
pictures. The world has but one Zola, and you
don’t seem to know it “H.P.E.”: Many thanks
for information. But having already treated the
matter, we must regard it as past and gone...
“ C.W.”: We don’t believe that the price of the
Times is about to be reduced to a penny
“ P.W.” (Mackay): No agreement or anything else
can reduce the Kanaka labourer to the condition
of a slave or a chattel in which the sugar-planter
can acquire a right. Griffith knows what he’s
doing, so far as law goes “C.J.8.”: We don’t
eat such meat in this country. However, two
things occur to us—one, that many horses die in
Sydney, but we don’t know where they go to; the
other that the steaks have been terribly tough
sometimes lately. This needs further considera-
tion—“ W.L.J.”: We are not aware what founda-
tion in fact there is for the statement that the
Prince of Wales will visit Australia during Lord
Carlngton’s tenure of office. If you want
really definite information on such a point
you should always inquire personally of Bur-
dett Smith or send a wire to Roberts, C.M.G
“J, B. Webster”: The Radicals, we suppose, put
Gladstone out because they knew it would be
muon easier to get a purely Radical majority
against the Tories than against the Liberals and
Tories. Evidently the die Is oast, and the Laodi-
oeans, the Liberals—many of them weak-kneed
creatures, of the broadcloth, black bell-topper,
and aristocracy-aping order, like Sir William
M’Anhur—will bo runout of public life in Eng-
niani .JK®?
soon be either Radicals or Conservatives 8 “ihe
latter s cause oven now is hopeless. Great RHtnin
is striding on to Republicanism Salisbury and
Co. have as little chance of permanently TutoJ
England as Burdett Smith has of being made i
duke of until next year....** J. W Moss™ fWil
cannia): Of course you approve of the Soudan
business. And, of course, the N.8.W Minister of
Mines was ill. At Wlloannia you asked him
for an alteration in the Rabbit Act. a water-suppl?
for the town, kerblng and guttering for some
reserves, repairs to the Courthouse, round tele-
graph poies instead of square ones, road metal,
park, School Board, division of the electorate, spe-
cial grant for the Athenmum (at Wllcannia I), ceme-
tcry, h°spital tees, and District Court. That was all
Dying 1 by Inches”; When the piano next door
becomes unbearable buy your boy a drum We
lodged once in a quiet room in a suburban street.
Some theatrical people presently arrived next
door it was in a terrace —and began to give mid-
night musical suppers. After they had given four
musical suppers on consecutive nights and we
had lam awake all the time, we Jumped up at 1
a m., and began thrashing our window-shutters
with a 11 re-shovel, and soon raised the street- They
asked us why, and we said “ for amusement,** Our
neighbours went ahead with the music, and then
we opened our window wide, and commenced to
wallop a kerosene-tin with the heel of a shooting-
boot. Then the police came along, and our
rivals next door, thinking to get a start of us,
asked the officers to have a drink. We put
our , head out of the window, and threat-
ened to report any constable who drank on
duty. T "®? 6 y® re °p more musical suppers....
Thomas Woodband : You prove that our west
is the next party s east, and think that will make
n® doesn t. If it goes to that, we have
the other party s west. We are supple enough to
go round. We are glad you have sent the same
views to Sir Henry Parkes. You want the world
to make swift progress—to do in a few years what
it takes a century to do. Had the world acted that
,1 h° m ® 8 > wou . 1(1 have killed you when teeth-
ing.. Ozo : Your plan of determining clerical pre-
cedence is to have an annual hurdle race, to be run
by clerics in full canonicals, with pious millinery
forewomen as handioappers and apostles of Free-
thought as starters. The idea is not half a bad one.
As near as we can measure, it is Just three-eighth?.
The other suggestions in your letter come to about
five-eighths. See? Subject dealtwith last week
C. Sarsman ” (St. Kllda): Thanks for extract
whicn we have already dealt with. The Rev
Byngs theory re Judas Iscariot is nothing new’
Read W. W. Story’s poem, •• The Roman Lawyer in
defence of Judas.” The modern Judas Iscariot
isn’t a hangdog person. Ho is a “ swell,” and fares
sumptuously every day. The hangdog idea was
started and is kept up in the interests of fashion-
able fraudulent insolvency. The most dangerous
scoundrel isn’t the fellow who looks like a gaol-
bird, but the fellow who looks like a saint. The
gaolbird’s appearance often unnecessarily warns
you against him, The saint’s appearance often
induces you to give him credit or Introduce him to
your wife. Then you have to look up Judge Win-
deyer “An American”: If you read the
article again you will find we made no such asser-
tion. American civilisation is purely French. The
genius of America is French. The women dress,
and talk, and think as Frenchwomen think. You,
yourself, write of an “ elevator.” Why don’t you
say “ lift ? ” Because lift is Saxon, whereas eleva-
tor, the longer synonym, is Gallic. To quote one
of your own writers, “ You have only to read the
American newspapers to see that the United States
man is as hasty, light-headed, enthusiastic, dra-
matic, and efflorescent as any son of Gaul who ever
struck an attitude before the statue of Liberty, or
harangued an army on the field in the postures of
adancingmaster’
THE MAN AND THE OPPORTUNITY.
“OH, MR. SPOONER,” SHE CRIED, “DO GET UP OFF YOUR KNEES AT ONCE, AND
PULL WITH YOUR OAR, YONDER IS THE MANLY STEAMER BEARING
DOWN UPON US. DO MAKE HASTE, OR I SHALL NEVER LIVE TO TELL YOU
HOW WARMLY I RECIPROCATE, OR TO REFER YOU TO PAPA I ”


Personal Items
A South Australian ex-Minister of the
Crown will become a co-respondent in a divorce
case, unless “big money” passes. He has money
enough, so that It will surely pass.
Among those who went with our N.S.W.
Contingent to the Soudan as full privates was a
nephew of Daniel O’Connell “ the Liberator.” The
Soudan expedition, by the way, was exactly the
kind of enterprise in which tho Immortal Daniel
would have revelled.
Miss Ellen Terry appeared at the London
Royal Academy this year in Chinese mourning;
no weeds, although she has but very recently be-
come a widow. Chinese mourning is the fashion
now. The next fashion will probably compel be-
reaved widows to cry in Chinese.
No one looking at Mr. George Augustus
Bala, and noting the rapidity with which his
eyes move when his mind is engaged in the delinea-
tion of a topic, would think that tho able lecturer
had passed years of his life in total darkness. It is
BO f however. During childhood he was thro©
years totally blind.
It is gratifying to read in the Age that at
Melbourne the other day, “Mr. Vivian Melville,
M P., of N.8.W., delivered an address eulogistic of
the work of the Salvation Army.” Notwithstand-
ing the disguise of the initial letter of the little
man’s Christian name we know him. And we
called the news gratifying because we felt he was
not in N.S.W. at the time.
Just before tho late Bishop Selwyn left
New Zealand he made a tour through the country
districts In the North Island. One night ho stayed
with a wealthy squatter. During supper, a little
slx-ycar-old fe'low, who had been allowed to stay
up to see the Bishop, hearing his father constantly
saying “My Lord,” suddenly looking at the
Bishop's plate, said —“ Papa, won’t God take some
more potatoes ? ”
Mr. Symes. the Free-thought publicist in
Melbourne, effectively strikes back at the Vic-
torian Attorney-General, who is prosecuting him
for not complying with the newspaper law requir-
ing recognisances, by naming 2o newspapers pub-
lished in Victoria, no one of which has provided
recognisances. That is a point out of which a
good deal can and ought (and no doubt will) be
made. It la easy to see that Symes is being pro-
Boouted, not for the sake of justice, but for the
sake of making political capital.
London Life (a London 7 weekly) says
that Mrs. Langtry’s charms are dwindling. Of
course they are I She Is acting seven tunes a week
now to make money. When she’s made enough
of that any number of men wont think her
charms have dwindled. She can get most things
she wants now, but she will he able to get every-
thing then. No one, by the way, seems to bother
much about Mr. Langtry. There is a rumour,
however, that he has been pretty curtly told by
the acting-manager “ n ot to come bothering about
the theatre for orders.”
Mr. Henry Halioran, C.M.G., has just pub-
lished what he terms three Spenserian stanzas,
which he “dashed off” in 10 minutes. Mr. Hal-
loran’a Spenserian stanzas are evidently little
things of his own,” as he seems to ignore the tact
that the knight who pricked him o’er the plain
always concluded his verses with an Alexandrine.
Mr. Halioran is hut a giddy young versifier at
present. When, however, he gets a little more
sedate, and reads other poems besides his own, he
will come to know what an Alexandrine is. There s
no particular hurry that we can see. We mean so
far as we are concerned.
“ London, June 10.—Mr. Alfred Bennett,
of Sydney, was present at the Royal levee held in
London yesterday.”—News. This is just what we
like to see—real talent duly distinguished. It
takes us who have sported with him in our youth
to know what’s in Alfred. We are familiar with
all his poetic sentiments-all his noble attributes!
In a word, we understand him. Still, how ever he
managed to carry his courtly skewer without
fracturing it with his hootheel and going head
over heels over his ruffles is a mystery to us. As
Mrs. Finching remarked of the late Mr. F.: ‘ Very
good man, indeed; but not at all in tbat way.
From Society “ It is an open secret that
our beloved Monarch has been bitterly averse to
war from the first, and that her feelings have been
earnestly shared both by the Princess of Wales and
the Duchess of Edinburgh. Even the dear little
German wife of the Duke of Connaught—with all
her pardonable pride in her soldier-husband’s
career—has lately wired home many telegrams ex-
pressing the hope that war might be honourably
avoided.” Exactly so. “ Pardonable pride in her
soldier-husband’s career” is quite more than too
superlatively stupendous. As a joke it is im-
mense, as gush it is like the Veteran Swamp, some-
what too odourous.
The Grand Prix de Paris has been won by-
Paradox, victor in the English Two Thousand
Guineas, and runner-up to Melton in the late
Derby. Johnnie Crapaud is not sufficient of a
sportsman to go into ecstasies over the triumph of
an English horse for the blue riband of la belle
Franco, and Paradox, no doubt, was received with
the same gloomy silence that generally awaits the
wolghlng-in of a victorious Britisher. When
Glaaiateur won the Epsom Derby, the French
papers raved about “Waterloo being avenged.”
They never say anything about Waterloo being
ennflrmed when an equine fellow-countryman 0*'
Wellington pulls off their rich Grand Prlx,
The Dublin correspondent of the London
Weekly Register writes:—“ I must tell you one
little anecdote of the lovely woman who will one
day I truer, reign as Queen over these islands. At
dinner at Dublin Castle one evening it chanced
that her highly-honoured neighbour, a gentleman
who must be nameless, made some depreciatory
remark to the Princess about tho people of his
own land, which he doubtless thought was cal-
culated to please the ear of a lady who could not
be expected to approve of the rascal Pat. Well,
answered Her Royal Highness thoughtfully, “I
think that the people of Ireland have been very
badly treated.” Is not tho motto of the Danish
flag “ My strength is the love of my people ? ”
What could not Alexandra do for Ireland if she
would but choose ?
Lord Dudley, who has just died in Eng-
land, was, In his latter years,very eccentric.”
That’s how they put it when a pefcr exhibits all the
symptoms of raging lunacy, or drivelling imbe-
cility. He was “off his dot,” principally with regard
to money matters. At one time he would indulge
his taste by buying £10,000 worth of bric-a-brac,
and at another he would be deaf to the entreaties
of the milkman, and compel the shoemaker to
summons him for the amount of his little bill.
Being one of the hereditary legislators of England,
he was, during his lifetime, able to vote in the
House of Lords. Just here it strikes us that in
these colonies, there was once a legislator who had
a fancy for purchasing oostly works of art, and
had also a permanent disinclination to pay his
tradesmen’s bills. His name was —[Eliminated,
by order.]
Another injustice to Sydney. Last week
Pauline Fattorini—how we do remember Fattorini
v. Fattorini years ago I—petitioned Judge Hol-
royd’s court in Melbourne for a dissolution of her
marriage with Eugene Fattorini, now a Ballarat
shareholder. The pair were married in Sydney in
1873. She testified that she was badly treated in
Sydney In ’71, ’75, and right away along until 1879.
She then, still in Sydney, obtained a judicial
eeparatiQu from hioj. Jt is thus tmagijt that SyU-
ney was entitled to all the Instruction— per Even
Nooze— derivable from the petition for divorce.
Eugene was fair enough to look at the matter in
that light, and wanted Judge Holroyd to dismiss it
on the ground that the domicile was not in Vic-
toria. Eugene has been divorced at last. From all
the row he made about the matter in Sydney a
few years since, he surely shouldn’t be sorry.
Dr. J. W. Eisner, P.R.C.8.I, who is known
to fame by many excellent translations of German
scientific works, has been appointed medical
officer to General Soratchley, H. M. special com-
missioner to New Guinea. We hope that the
General, when he finds out who is the boss
nigger in the British portion of the Island, will not
delay presenting his respects d la Sir Arthur Gordon,
who. when High Commissioner of the Pacific, paid
a visit with his suite to King George of Tonga.
First the party lunched at the British Consul s.
Afterwards, Sir Arthur turned out in a robe of
black velvet lined with red, white, and blue, up-
held by two pages in blue satin. Next came the
aide-de-camp, in scarlet and brass buttons; numer-
ous native attendants in postmen’s, police, artil-
lery, and infantry uniforms; the Consul, needless
to say in danger of convulsions, brought up the
rear.
The savoir faire of Sir William Robinson,
Governor of S A. is known throughout the habit-
able globe. He is a musician, and patronises
everything in the shape of art. He is devoted to
the drama, and the illustrious Jim Allison declares
there is nothing better anywhere in cookery than
the little Sunday evening suppers at Government
House, Adelaide. Then, too. Sir William has
almost the social tact of a John Colton, and
actually worries himself and his household into
positive inconvenience in order to show his ap-
preciation of prominent dramatic artists. For in-
stance, when Genevieve Ward presented a letter
of Introduction from a Victorian friend of hers
known in upper colonial circles as Lady Loch, do
you think Sir William precipitated himself upon
the famous actress’s neck? Perish the thought 1
He quietly let the introduction “He over,”
and, wishing to spare Miss Ward’s nerves,
sent Lady Robinson on a visit to Hobart.
When my lady had reached Hobart, Sir
William invited Miss Ward to luncheon with
JitUe iWbiusgn, so that th§ ehoc& should oot
be too much for the (legal) “ rogue and vaga-
bond.” Curiously enough, Miss Ward ignored Sir
William’s delicate attentions. Ah, we may all of
us wear the same kind of clothes, or smoke the
same brand of cigarettes, but, after all, we can
never compete in social etiquette, and real high-
breeding, with these high-toned vice-Royalties 1
Colonel Sir George Whitmore, lately ap-
pointed to the command of the volunteer and
militia forces of New Zealand, held a similar ap-
pointment during the latter years of tho Maori
war. As a general, he was not a great success,
for both Ta Kooti and old Titokowaru walked
round him on several occasions and taught him a
wrinkle or two In the art of war. Sir George,
however, was very popular with his own men and
with the Maori allies, who greatly respected his
pluck and personal daring, if they had
no great opinion of his skill as a leader.
We remember on one occasion when he made
both friends and foes cheer him heartily by
a very simple action. He had his men lying
down for shelter on the banks of a river while he
rode along in front up and down the river bank
watching Te Kooti’s troops among the scrub on
the opposite side. Suddenly a volley was fired at
him from behind some bushes, and the Colonel
quickly wheeled round to see where the shots
came from. Then letting his bridle loose on the
horse's neck, he deliberately placed the thumb of
one hand to his noas, and extended the fingers of
both hands towards the enemy In the usual way
to signify derision. The action was at once ap-
preoiated on both sides of the river by Pakeha
aud Maori alike, and a shout of laughter and a big
cheer went up from among the bushes, in which
the Maoris heartily joined. Shortly afterwards he
led his men across the stream, and the enemy re-
tired without making any further resistance.
John Sheehan, ex N.Z. Minister for Native
Affairs, has just died in the prime of life. The
fact of his being tho first white man born in the
colony who was elected to the House of Repre-
sentatives, and later on first Minister of the Crown,
will always keep his memory green. He was a
son of the well-known Davy Sheehan, of the
Governor Browne Hotel, Auckland. John
Sheehan, after leaving school, was articled to a
firm of solicitors, and soon after passing, was
a member of the Froviuglal
Council. During the last years of p rovln .
Government he acted as solicitor for his provi
and made his mark as a ready debater nee >
trenchant speaker. He secured a seat in tho « n(1
Parliament held in Wellington. At the tlme fl L 8t
George Grey rallied his forces around him ton,
his memorable attack on Sir Julius Voaei
"Genius of the Stock Exchange,” Sheehan a-
henchman’s duty, and as reward, when a .
opponents were driven out. Sir George Qrev n..i r
him Native Minister. Looking back, who kn^ 9
ing his real worth, is not saddened bvT'
appointment of a clever, rising man to the n
position in the Ministry, during the working,
which any weakness he had was sure to be drL»
through the mire ? At all times a great admir
of the native race, long connected with them f r
business, John Sheehan was the last man to hod 11
the reins of Native Affairs. Easy going, incanahi 9
of showing the Maoris that to be their best frieni 8
he must be firm, they soon made him an hw
Whatever a tribe asked for—land, money P ,, 91 *
sugar, blankets—they got. Every town swannSl
with native officials of his creating, and where i
a few cases, difficulty was experienced, the cun
ning Maori brought other influence to bear fn
the Native Minister, like many descended frorJi
the “ ould sod,” could not resist the blandishment
of the fair, and many a sweeping edict glvin *
land, money, and goods was obtained by du«k»
Venuees for their tribes. The vast amount scene
as secret service money was an important item in
that well-known indictment, through which an
indignant country hurled tho Grey paity f r on!
office. Bitter as were the accusations against John
Sheehan’s political life, his worst enemy could not
point to a single act of self-enrichment. H e w:
office poorer than he entered. His life near to tho
close was that of an ordinary private member the
Maoris keeping him well employed, legally.
Sheehan, very clever, very hard-working— a
from whom, politically, great things were er
pected—he would not now, perhaps, be in so eanV
a tomb, hut for his antipathy to Bine Ribbon orin
oiples, and that most fatal weakness in n,.
Inability to say—No.
The N.S.W. branch of the Royal Geoera
phical Society has sent its expedition to
Guinea under the charge of the experienced Can
tain Everili, whose portrait accompanies th£
paragraph. The dailies tell us that “ the follow
Ing telegram was sent on Saturday by Sir
Strickland to Captain Everili, at Cooktown-—
president, and on behalf of the administrative
council, I send to you, and through you toallvoin-
companions, this farewell greeting. May safetv
and succefs attend you; be united, make dut»
paramount, and difficulties will then grow let!
your honour will be secure, and Australia will h«
proud :of you.’ ” This is another little bit nf
bombast. Who pays for a'i these bombastic tele,
grams at twopence a word ? When Lord Auaustna
Loftus first spoke in Sydney—it was after
dinner, at the Town Hall — he selected a
charming theme, the sewerage question. We
didn’t think much of His Excellency’s oratory
then. And when, on the occasion of the Conbn-
gent’s departure, we found him yelling “Soldiers!”
and telling the gallant 750 that the eyes of the uni-
verse were upon them, wo were quite sure that,
though the voice might be the voice of Jacob, the
hand that traced on foolscap the eloquent sen.
fences was the hand of the festive and plucky
Esau of Manly Beach. “Soldiers! forty centuries
look down upon youl” is all very well. But
“ look down upon you ” may be read in more than
one way. We are becoming very Napoleonic in
N.8.W. But let us only be Napoleonic when it
doesn’t cost twopence a word.
Subjoined is a portrait of Arthur Preller,
the young Englishman, who, while on his way to
Australia, was murdered at a St. Louis hotel in so
cold-blooded a manner by (it is said) his travelling-
companion, Maxwell, arrested the other day in New
Zealand by agents of the U.S. police. The mutl-
lated body of the unfortunate Preller (who
was no doubt chloroformed and killed for his
money) was, it will be remembered crushed into a
trunk. Maxwell is described to be a dude imitat-
ing the ways of a dudine. His hair was cut short
behind and permitted to grow sufficiently long in
front to be banged like that of a girl. He not only
rejoiced in bangs, but affected the mincing gait of
a girl. There are two classes of males who can
scarcely be said to be men. One Iclass part their hair
in the middle with the fastidious taste of a belle in
the days of our grandmothers, and betake them-
selves to mirrors quite as much as young women;
the other class is that typified by Maxwell. The
first class is effeminate; the second, feminine.
Both are abnormal growths, the latter class most
so, and each capable of inverting the moral law.
A dude-dudlne is such an unnatural fungus on tho
great body of manhood that no man can fail to
despise the creature. Such a being is capable of
crime because his spiritual, mental, and physical
organisation is incomplete. There are in America
and elsewhere many of such small monstrosities
who parade tho streets, and go in parties to sa-
loons where they sit and drink together,
and call each other feminine names, with en-
dearing words and actions. Sometimes they
don female toggery and bear a close resem-
blance to the sex which they ape. Now all such
people have capacities for crime which are ab-
sent In men who have genuine manhood, and when
they do act they are not likely to stop short or
diabolism. If any one will glance at the criminal
calendar of the historian, it will be found that the
majority of malicious assassinations have been
WWraitted by small and effeminate or femuffiN
A SURPRISE PARTY.
MISS MARIBEL GREENWOOD, THE CHILD TRAGEDIENNE.-(See next page.)
A VERMONT MAN WHISTLED TO A BLACK BEAR THE OTHER NIGHT, THINKING
THAT IT WAS HIS DOG. THIS CORROBORATES WHAT WE HAVE ALREADY RE-
MARKED ABOUT WHISTLING BEING A BAD HABIT,
CAPTAIN EVERILL.
MR. ARTHUR PRELLER.


jgx 8.S. BALLARAT. EX, S.S. BALLARAT.
jpBAPES and SHAW PEAPES and SHAW,
H
AVB OPENED a large SHIPMENT of
GLOVES.
"NCLUDING Gents’ Chevrettes, Ladles’ Chev-
rettes.
g Four-botton Tan Florentine GLOVES
JJUBY, Bronze, and Black ditto ditto.
POUR-BUTTON or Clasp Tan KID GLOVES.
■\7|riTH Ingrain Twist Points, Black and Self
v T Colour.
Eight-button Length Tan Mosquetairo.
fglHE LARGEST, most RELIABLE, and Cheap-
est
STOCK of LADIES’ and GENTLEMEN’S
GLOVES
JN THE AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
RADIES’ and CHILDREN’S GLOVES
JN EVERY LENGTH, SIZE, and COLOUR.
pEAPES and SHAW, PEAPES and SHAW,
GEORGE-STREBT.
\yVT WEATHER REQUISITES
PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORG E-STRBET.
TAILOR-MADE ULSTERS.
ADIES’ MACINTOSH OVERALLS.
ADIES’ UMBRELLAS. GENTLEM’bN’S'
I UMBRELLAS.
s
PLENDID VARIETY and EXTRAORDIN-
ARY CHEAP.
a
ENTLEMEN’S WINTER OVERCOATS, from
25s. each
NTIPLUVLAN MACINTOSHES sewn seams,
23s. 6d.
D
OUBLB TEXTURE MACINTOSHES, 30s. each.
»VERY VARIETY of Warm WINTER
HOSIERY.
ADIES’ and GENTLEM5V
k GLOVES.
WINTER
pEAPES and SHAW, PEAPES and SHAW.
BT, GBORGE-STrEeT.
G. F, PRIDDY & GO.
hat manufacturers
and IMPORTERS,
Beg to announce that, on and after APRIL 7th,
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Day*
at 6.30 p.m.: Saturdays as usual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE [STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
B
AGLEHAWK MECHANICS’ INSTITUTE.
GRAND ART UNION,
In strict accordance with the Act.
FIRST
PRIZE,
VALUE
PRIZE £500.
SECOND PRIZE, £300.
, , THIRD PRIZE, £100,
f prizes, value £50 each. lOOprlzes, value £5 each.
4 «. „ £35 each. 550 ,, „ £1 each.
40 „ £10 each. 300 „ „ lOs.leach.
1000 PRIZES I 1000 PRIZES 1
10,000 TICKETS at 10s. each, obtainable at most
business places in the colony.
N.B.—In proof of the value of the above, the
Committee undertake to find purOhasers for the
various prizes at the prices named, and to hand the
winner full amount in cash, less 10 per cent, for
commission.
The drawing to take place In June, under the
supervision of the Mayor and Councillors of Eagle-
hawk and a Committee of Shareholders.
T. H. TAYLOR,
Managing Secretary.
Bull-street, Sandhurst, and
Mechanics’ Institute, Baglehawk.
SCOTCH W
THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old Matured
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHI8KIM
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
308 Georgs Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiske f
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S E UBLIN WHISKEY
IP UNSURPASSED,
It is bottled In b ond for Expert at the DlstliltTsy
Dublin, and cons umers may, therefore, rely thadlti
has not been In the hands of “Whiskey Doctoiw.
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look fonitu
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and oapauih*.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agenti) for N.S.W. and Queensland..
OXYGEN 18 IiIFl?
Dr. Bright's Phosphodyne*
rflHE only Reliable Remedy for Indigestion'’
JL Nervousness, Nervous Debility, Liver Com-
plaints, Female Complaints, Lassitude, Loss of
Power, Mental and Physical Depression, Decline,
and all Functional Derangements. Thoroughly
recruits and re-establishes Health. Highly recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty. 0T CAUTION.—
The indubitable proof of the great value of Dr
Bright’* (the only genuine) Phosphodyne is the
various worthless imitations which are being made
up. Therefore ask fo r Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne
and refuse useless and r tosslbly Dangerous Substi-
tutes. Wholesale Agon to: ELLIOTT BROTHERS
DR.SCOTT'S
H
m
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate lit, and aiding by the
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continental
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial ?
If you have any pain, ache, or ill-feeling
from any cause; if you seem “pretty well,”
yet lack energy and do not “feel up to the
mark;” if you suffer from disease, we beg
you to at once try these remarkable cura-
tives. They cannot and do not injure like
medicine. Always doing good, never barm.
There is no shock or sensation felt in wear-
ing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results; electro-magnetism acts quickly,
generally the first week, more frequently
the first day, and often even during the
first hour they are worn their wonderful
curative powers are felt.
The mind becomes active, the nerves and
sluggish circulation are stimulated, and all
the old-time health and good-feeling come
back. They are constructed on scientific
principles, imparting an exhilarating,
health-giving current to the whole system.
Professional men assert that there is hardly
a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they dally
practise the same, as your own physician
will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearance
from those usually worn, as we substitute
our flat steel magnetods in place of the
ordinary corset-steels. They are all equally
charged, differing only in quality and design.
They are elegant in shape and finish, made
after the best French patterns, and war-
ranted satisfactory in every respect. Those
who have tried them say they will wear no
others. Most of the above applies equally
to the Electric Belt for gents.
Dr. Scott's Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tunanun;,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbagq,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voio «t,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &o., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all other remedies (so-
celled) have failed.
The prices are as follows
,No.l
JkTo.3
3
SSF*. 5
(Electric Bolts..
6 8
8 6
10 6
15 0
16 0
We-now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electric-Magnetic
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece ©f common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be mad© by cheque,
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
mm am
54 Margarot-straet,
SYDNEY.
P.D. BOX 231.
Pilliga is the Parnassus of New South
Wales. More than once we have proudly pointed
fo specimens of prose produced there, and asked
f PJlJlga were not the birthplace of Lewis Scott,
and now we desire to quote a few lines from a
letter from that town written by “Nemo” to the
Irish and World. It seems that
in a former production “ Nemo ” had been per-
sonal, and some “hypocritical gentleman” had
taken offence thereat. This is how the modern
Philip prands explains matters“ I would inform
these hydrasengitive gentlemen that those letters
which probably did the greatest amount of good
of any letters that were ever written owed their
Success to their personal style. 1 allude to those
on expositions whose authorship, like mme, is still
closed Jn mystery, and which appeared under the
iMtnde plume of ‘Junius.’ I would also tell these
gentlemen to ask themselves what a Pilliga
letter would be if it was not personal?” Note
the condescending manner in which “ Nemo ”
brackets himself with the author of “Junius’
Letters. Observe, also, the careless'originality of
ftyle, and the novel elegance of the expression,
tell these gentlemen to ask themselves.” And,
finally, observe and admire the conclusive logic
of the enquiry, what would Pilliga letters be if
they were not personal ?” We can quite believe,
from the samplo given, that they would not be
much. We would like to quote more of this letter,
especially where it states that the “ gastronymic
Powers of Mr. T. , I believe, called forth uni-
versal admiration and astonishment,” but forbear
to do so because we know that the possessor of
this insatiable hunger and thirst is the Pilliga
Junius.”
** J°u are ordered Schnapps your medical
tCHNAPpg natural,y SU PP° 8 ® 8 you Bet Wolfe’s
THE PATENT BABY WASHER.
You simply Insert the Infant in an orifice, which
can be made any required size, by turning a wheel
with elastic attachments. The child then glides
gently down a highly polished inclined plane. His
Ups are met by an indiarubber tube, from which
the infant can draw lacteal nourishment of the
purest and most invigorating kind. While in this
compartment, which is lined with mirrors, the
perturbed spirits of the Infant are soothed by his
frantic efforts to demolish his own image, reflected
in the glass. Fatigued by his own efforts, the in-
fant falls asleep, while the organ attachments
plays softly “ Hush a by baby,” etc. Then it slips
into the next compartment. Here the body is
washed, his nails pared, and his hair combed, ready
for the neat litfle suits for 10s. 6d. supplied by
Summerfleld and Company, the Great Juvenile
Outfitters, 235 and 237 Pitt-street, Sydney. Ladies
write for our “World of Fashion,” post free.- ®o
application.*
Why do you drink Wolfe’s Schnapps? Beeause
I know from experience it does mo good.
Scrofula and all forms of scrofula diseases
are rapidly purged out by the use of Ayers’
Sarsaparilla.
£500 will be paid for any case that Ameri-
Co.’s Hop Bitters will not cure or help. Doubt not.
See
Kuow ye all men that Wolfe's Schnapps has
no rival as a stimulant.
of the Lefroy order. Big men have
oeen assassins, nor have big women. They
o slow for such bloody work. A small per-
nas quick perception, is light and quick of
and these carry with them speediness of
Option and the art of concealment. If the murder
harired to the account of Maxwell be proven it
give the student of human nature something
tn reflect upon when he sees abroad a man who
barely escaped being a woman.
The Nooze people hare been thus poeti-
pallv congratulating the speaker of the N.8.W.
Assembly “ on the near prospect of knight-
jiood”:—
< Boon Nature dowered thee with her richest
dower—
Fine brain and finer heart. I know full meetly
Tbou’lt wear thy latest honours like a flower
Worn on a lady’s breast—simply and sweetly.
Thou’lt keep thy shield unspotted, white, and
bright,
fn blameless service as beseems a knight.
“R. R.”
And now we take a turn at the barrel-organ:—
Alas, alas 1 for all these pretty lines
With velvet feet all highly orthodox 1
Despite these tripping verses he repines
Bis star was not found in the “ order-box,”
To some, of course, this would have been a
one-er,
Though, p’haps, Sir Toby thinks it Is an honour!
Qui *ait, any way ?
» • •
The “ Vagabond” is on his way to the
fiarcoo to write about all he sees and hears. He
fiever, wo believe, got farther west In Queensland
ban the terminus at Bogantungan. There he met
with an awful calamity. He is going right out to
the Thompson this time. There is a very deen
Waterhole called the Pelican up there. In the
creeks about and in the river itself there are bot-
tomless holes. Vag. can’t swim.
♦ * ♦
Louis Riel, leader of the Manitoba half-
breed rebellion, is a highly moral man, 45 years of
oire, brave as a lion, and much like his father
before him in other respects. When he graduated
he stood second In his class. He is one-quarter
Indian, as his grandfather married a full-blood
squaw. He is lifced by all who know him, and his
very appearance is enough to inspire one who
meets him with confidence. Ho is nearly 6ft. in
height, and, when he left college, weighed 1901bs.
and presented a splendid physical appearance
In reply to a letter from the poet Whittier about
Gordon, Tennyson has written“ Dear Mr. Whit-
tief,—Your request has been forwarded to me, and
I herein send you an epitaph for Gordon in our
Westminster Abbey— i.c., for his cenotaph:—
Warrior of Gcd, man’s friend, not here below,
But somewhere dead far in the waste Soudan;
Thou liveat in all hearts, for all men know
This earth hath borne no simpler, nobler.man.'
“TENNYSON.”
..,. M. Dumont, the well-known editor of the Pari-
sian Journal Gn, Bias, has died suddenly. In the
morning, according to habit, he rang for his valet
to bring the papers of the day to read in bed.
Five minutes later the servant found him quite
dead, the morning's number of the Gin Bias
clutched In his hand. There is this obvious ad van-
tage about editing a paper in bed—the editor can
die in harness and die in bed, too. M. Dumont
left 15,030,000 francs — Dr. Nachitigal, the cele-
brated German political agent in Africa, is a
well-built, wiry little man, with black hair and
moustache, a wrinkled face the colour of an an-
cient parchment, out of which twinkles two little
heady jet-black eyes. He speaks English fluently,
in a comical fashion of his own, and has an inex-
haustible supply of good stories, which he fires off
at random. He gives in particular a most humour-
ous description of a delicate affair in which he once
found himself entangled, somewhere in Central
Africa, when a grateful chieftain persisted in
pressing his favourite wife upon him as a token
of esteem; and a curious story of a massacre
and of his seeing a deserted village, “strewn with
four-and-twenty dear little babes—all cadavers I ”
M. de Neuville, the famous French battle painter
(the author of “Rorke’s Driit” in the Sydney
Gallery), who has long been seriously ill, was
married in his sick room 3rd May to Mdlle. Mare-
schal... General Gordon’s will has been proved
under £3300. It might have been nearer twenty
times the amount If he had ever thought of him-
self. .. Queen Victoria is said to have had atone
time five and a half millions In Coutts’ bank ...
Henry Irving made £45,000 out of his recent U.S.
tour. Mr. Irving, and not his brilliant colleague.
Miss Ellen Terry, is the great “ draw ” in America.
One night when Mr. Irving was absentthe receipts
fell to £96; whereas, with the same play, Mr.
Irving drew £760 and £780 on the preceding and
the subsequent nights respectively —General
Kolset, the oldest general in the French Army, has
Just died at the age of 93.
Kiss Maribel Greenwood, the Child Tra-
gedienne.
Through the courtesy of Mr. Qrlffln, American
Consul to Sydney, we present to our readers this
week the picture of the gifted Auckland girl,
Maribel Greenwood. When but 13 years of age,
about a year ago, she played Juliet at the Theatre
Royal, Auckland, and at once took every heart
captive by her beauty and acting. She was at
once the central figure in the play, and was called
before the curtain after each act. Says Mr. Grif-
fin!—“She has, indeed, the faculty of becoming,
for the time being, the character she is personat-
ing, and Fortune has, in her case, been as lavish of
physical graces as of mental adornments. The child
studies 14 hours a day, and besides reading Homer
in the original, can write from memory page after
page of Goethe, Racine, and other German and
French authors.” When Edouard Remenyl, the
violinist, visited Auckland lately, little Maribel
accompanied him on the piano to one of Mozart’s
sonatas, at one of his concerts, and he was so
struck with the genius and beauty of the child
that he gave expression to his feelings in one of
the local papers, and predicted for her a most bril-
liant future. We believe it Is the Intention of Miss
Greenwood’s parents to take her to Europe, where
She may have the advantage of receiving the best
training for her self-chosen profession—that of the
Stagehand it is not Improbable that before leaving
Australasia she will pay a flying visit to Sydney.
To the Australian Public.
Six years ago we began the manufacture and
sale in the United States of Warner's Safe Cure,
Safe Diabetes Cure, Safe Pills, and other Safe
Remedies. The senior member of this firm, at
that time, had acquired a very large capital in
the sale of fire and burgler-proof safes. In 1870
he went to Rochester, N.Y.. and in ten years, by
severe application to business, he found himself a
millionaire; but tho Intense application, so charac-
teristic in American business, seriously under-
mined his health, and. in 1879 his physician stated
he could not live six months. He was prostrated
with very severe, and by many physicians said to
be incurable, kidney disorder ; he himself did not
expect to recover. Providentially, however, he
happened upon the medicine now known as
Warner’s Safe Cure, and, sceptical of any benefit,
he began its use, In three months he was fully
restored to health.
Out of gratitude for his unexpected recovery,
and knowing that serious Kidney and Liver dis-
orders were not treated readily by the remedies
of physicians, he determined to devote a portion
of his accumulated capital to the spreading of
the merits of this wonderful Remedy before the
world. The formula and preparations constitut-
ing Warner’s Safe Remedies were carefully
analysed, and not until found to be purely vege-
table and free from mercury, poisonous and
deleterious substances, did Mr. Warner consent to
their manufacture. His conviction, that acquaint-
ance with tho merits of Warner’s Safe Cure would
necessarily create an extraordinary demand for it,
was prophetic—the sales in the United States,
Great Britain, and Canada aggregate six hundred
thousand pounds per year—and there are thousands
of people to-day living in the best of health who
would long since have been dead had not Mr.
Warner selected this humane method of rendering
return for the benefit he himself had received. In
obedience to this purpose we have opened a labor-
atory and warehouse at 147 Little Lonsdal e-street
west, Melbourne, Australia, and are prepared to
supply a proportionate demand for the people in
this section of the globe of our extraordinary
valuable preparations.
During the past five years we have published
testimonials of thousands of cures from the first
people In the United States, Canada and England,
including physicians, clergymen and barristers,
and for three years have put out a standing re-
ward of one thousand pounds to any person who
could successfully dispute the genuineness of
these testimonials, and this reward no one has yet
attempted to claim. We guarantee:
First.—That Warner’s Safe Remedies are pure,
harmless and effective.
Second.—That the testimonials that we use, as
far as we know, are bona-fide, with a forfeiture
of one thousand pounds proof to the contrary.
Third.—That Warner’s Safe Cure, Safe Diabetes
Cure and Safe Pills are not merely temporary but
permanent in their curative effects, and will Bur-
tain every claim made for them if used sufficiently
and as directed.
For the present we shall manufacture for the
Australian trade Warner’s Safe Cure, Warner’s
Safe Diabetes Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills. The
price of these remedies is as follows:—
Warner’s Safe Cure, 5s. per bottle.
Warners’s Safe Diabetes Cure, 53. per bottle.
Warner’s Safe Piles, Is. per vial.
Warner’s Safe Cure is the only known Cure for
the dread Bright’s Disease of the Kidneys.
Warner’s Safe Diabetes Cure is the only known
cure for Insipid and Sweet Diabetes.
Warner’s Safe Cure and Safe Diabetes Cure are
put up in 18oz. bottles, the largest bottle in the
market.
These remedies can be obtained off any drug-
gist or chemist In Australia, and in the surround-
ing islands, at the prices named. If your chemist
does not keep them and will not order them, we
will send them to you by express in such quantities
as you may desire.
Our trade mark is an iron safe, a representation
of which is printed on the outside box or caddy
and on the label. It is also blown on the back of
our amber glass bottles. For your own safety ac-
cept no substitutes for these goods.
Many of the best physicians in England, Canada,
and the United States, knowing that there is no
other trustworthy specific for such disorders as
we treat, prescribe our remedies constantly in
their practice, thus adding another significant
testimonial to the wonderful power and reputation
we have secured through their intrinsic merits.
By Bending your address to our Melbourne office,
a pamphlet will be sent you containing a vast
amount of useful information, together with a
lithograph In four colours of Niagara Falls.
Sincerely,
H. H. Warner & Co., 147 Little Lonsdale-street
West, Melbourne, Australia.
H. H. Warner & Co , 81 Southampton Row, W.C.,
London, England.
H. H. Warner & Co., 18 Front-street East, Toron-
to, Ontario.
H. H. Warner & Co., 62, 64, 66 , 08, 70, 72, and 74
North St. Paul-street, Rochester, N.Y.,
U.S.A.


ODDFELLOWS’ HALL,
GOULBURN.
THIS Theatre, one of the best in the colony. Is
open for Engagement, Particulars from
M. K. PULLEN, Hall Secretary.
HtlY WILL V/EAR NfcW
Riley Brothers’
Celebrated
*5
DRAPERY BALES.
Notice—It having come to our knowledge a
short time since, that certain persons were circu-
lating a report that we had given up supplying
our celebrated £5 Drapery Bales, carriage free,
we then deemed it expedient to offer a large re-
ward for information. &c. Wo beg now to state,
for the satisfaction of our friends in New South
Wales and Queensland, that so far from giving up
this excellent part of our business, wo have
quietly been making arrangements to greatly en-
large our facilities for carrying It on by building
a New Warehouse and making large purchases of
goods especially suitable for the Country Districts,
as well as perfecting more and more our carriage
arrangements, so that no delay will arise in the
delivery of our parcels—all charges paid—to the
most distant place.
We have now completed our large £5-Bale
Warehouse in Oxford-street, and whilst thanking
the Thousands of our Customers in all parts of the
Colonies for their continued support during 13
years our £5-Bale system has been in existence,
beg to assure them that for this Winter Season we
are in a better position than ever to supply their
requirements.
For the information of persons who have not
hitherto favoured us with their orders, we may
mention that we originated this system 13 years
ago. and have sent away upwards of Forty Thou-
sand Bales during that time, and have hundreds
of testimonials. We may add also that we are the
contractors to the New South Wales Government
for the Supply of all kind of Drapery. This should,
in itself, show that our goods are of a good ser-
viceable character.
It must be keot in mind every Bale is packed
securely, waterproof in canvas, insured against
damage or loss, and delivered anywhere in New
South Wales or Queensland by the very quickest
means, all carriage and charges paid.
Our Catalogue of Prices contains over Two
Thousand Articles. A £5 Bale may be made up of
any list of goods. Catalogues and estimates given,
also full set of patterns it applied for.
RILEY BROTHERS,
Importers of General Drapery, and
Contractors to the Government of N.8. Wales.
163-165 Oxford-street, Sydney,
June 1,1885.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, June, 34th 1885.
Tenders for public works and sup-
PLIBS.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration ur-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compile d
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
F. A. WRIGHT.
1885 Universal Club, a thoroughly reliable and easy-running
machine. Ball bearings to both wheels, and improvements.
• an d
first
DEPOT.
first
389 GEORGE-STREET SYDNEY r
(Opposite Royal Hotel.) ?
BICYCLE8,_TRICYCLE8.
OUR
1885 Pattern Bicycles
and Tricycles
Have EveryJmprovkment.
OUR SPECIALITY
New Cheap Roadster.
the universal CLUn
BICYCLE, UB
fitted with Improved Ball Bea*
mgs to front and back wheel.
Hollow Forks. Patent Head ann i
Detachable Bent Handle Bar
Easy Slide Spring, Hubs Platen *
Black Enamelled Spokes, teQ '*
Price, *13 l«s. At the price!
we defy competition. e
JAMES MARTIN & COMPANY, 388 Georgo-st., Sydney,
“AVOID COMPLICATED FOREIGN BRACES.”
TUB
“ CREDENT A,”
SIMPLEST AND BEST FOR MEN AND BOYS,
WHOLESALE OXLY AT
16 AC 17 CHEAPSIDE, LONDON, E.C.
And of W, PENNY FINDLAY & PRO., Melbourne k Sydney.
THE WELL-KNOWN
WYNDELLA ESTATE,
Fronting the MAIN NORTHERN ROAD, and Extending to the HUNTER RIVER.
CHANCE for SMALL CAPITALISTS to Secure an AGRICULTURAL or
GRAZING FARM, or an EXCELLENT PLOT of LAND, adapted for a Vineyard, in one of
the most DESIRABLE POSITIONS in the Hunter River District, upon Liberal Terms.
Wyndella Estate
Contains as a whole about 1700 ACRES.
It has been judiciously sub-divided into well-arranged Farms, varying in extent from 13 to 120 ACRES
and the frontage to the Main Road in Allotments containing from 3 to 7 acres.
FOR SALE BY PUBLIC AUCTION,
AT NETTLINGHAM’S HOTEL, WEST MAITLAND,
On Saturday, July 11, 1885, at Two o’clock p.m.
title: perfect.
BRUNKER and WOLFE have received instructions from J. A. Wilkinsor, Eeq., to sell by auction
at West Maitland, on
Saturday, July 11, 1885, at 2 o’clock p.m.
I
k
h
I
for Infants and Children.
Castorla cures Colic, Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Diarrhoea, Eructation,
Gives healthy sleep and promotes digestion,
Without injurious medication.
“Castor! a is so well adapted to children that
1 recommend it as superior to any prescription
known to mo.” H. A. Archer, M. D., .
Ill Oxford Street, Now York. J
Elliott Bros., Sydney, Agents.
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST manufactured articles only kept in stock.
WILLIAM FLEMINGr, Merchant & Importer
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
Professional Directory.
G
EORGE PB'< HIMAN, Scene Painter, Theatre
Royal, BrUnane.
HJ. SAMUELL, Advance Agent (late of
• “Fun on the Bristol Co"). Open for En-
gagement. G.P.O, Sydney.
T A L
ffl H B A T B B BO
I Under the management of
Messrs. W illiamson, Garner and Musgrovb.
Leasee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
Doors open at 7.30, commence at 8. Carriages, 10.40.
TWENTIETH WEEK
of the
ROYAL DRAMATIC COMPANY.
THIS EVENING at 8 precisely.
The most perfect and successful Drama of the age,
the
SILVER KING
SILVER KING
SILVER KING.
By Henry A. Jones and Henry Herman.
Furniture and appointments from Hamilton and
Co., Globe Furniture Warehouse, Park and Caatle-
reagh-streets. _ „
Prices of Admission; Diess Circle, 5s.; Stalls,
8s.; Family Circle, 2s. ,
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway a
Hotel. Box office open dally from 11 till 4.
G
A I B T y
T H B A T RBI
Lessee
Proprietor and Manager
.. B. N. Jones,
. J. F. Sheridan.
Oh, what Fun I Did you ever see such Crowd! ?
Well, it is no wonder. Look at the Programme.
JOHN F. The Master of all The Funny
SHERIDAN Ventriloquists, WIDOW O’BRIEN
SHERIDAN E. D. DAVIES WIDOW O’BRIEN
For 25 minutes he kept the audience in roars of
laughter and rapturous delight by his funny and
novel songs.
Don’t fail to see E. D. D IVIES
Don’t fail to see Joe and Tom
Don’t fall to see Little Mary Jones—"George, she's
more than seven.”
THE WIDOW AND HER MERRY FAMILY.
The little Black Topsy, everybody’s favourite,
May Livingstone*
Alice Wooldridge. Fanny Sarony, Jas. A. Meade,
Willie Freear, Harry Sullivan, Charles Wood,
William Hughes, E. Simmons, and
JOHN F. SHERIDAN,
appearing nightly in the Greatest success of the
present century,
FUN FUN FUN FUN
on the on the
BRISTOL, BRISTOL,
Popular Prices: Orchestra Chairs, 4«.; Stalls, 3s.;
Family Circle, Is.
Representative for John F. Sheridan, Wm. Hughes
If you waut to secure “ My Darling, when we are
tuade one” go to Nicholson’s, in George-street.
N B
W OPERA HOUSE.
Under the Lesseeship and Management of E. Ma-
jeronl and W. J. Wilson.
Stage Manager, Mr, A. Rodney.
Doors open at 7.15; curtain rises at 8 o’clock;
carriages 10.50.
THIS EVENING
Grand Military. Historical, Sensational, Exciting,
and Revolutionary Drama,
MARIE ANTOINETTE.
During the Last Week of the Season there will be
produced, by particular desire,
Jealousy and camillE:
add on FRIDAY, JULY 3rd. a Complimentary
Benefit will be tendered to Signora MAJERONI,
who will appear, for the first time in Sydney, in
Schiller’s great tragedy,
MARIE STUART.
Saturday, July 4, Miss GENEVIEVE WARD and
Mr. W. H. VERNON in FORGET-ME-NOT.
Box plan at Huenerbein’s. Prices as usual.
JOB BROWN, Business Manager.
M
ASONIC HALL, YORK STREET,
Harry Lynch.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING.
The wor’d-renowned
LYNCH FAMILY BELLRINGERS,
Instrumentalists and Vocalists
(Organized 1867),
in their
ORIGINAL CONCERTS,
as given by them throughout the
CIVILIZED WORLD.
Admission—4s., 3s., 2s., and Is.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
Doors open at 7,30 ; Overture at 8: Carriages
at 10.20.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. F. B. HlBOOOKB.
55th Week, and Second Year
of the
LEVIATHAN SHOW.
HI8COCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTREL
and SPECIALITY UNION
Every Evening in their Refined and Amusing
Entertainment.
The whole terminating with W, H. Bent’s original
and laughable Sketch, HARD TO KILL.
Admission, 4s., 3s., 2s., and Is. Box Plan at
Paling’s. Carriages at 10.15.
THE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George street, Haymarket.
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith
Stage Manager Mr. Edwin Shipp
Musical Director Mr. Chas. Austin
Houses crowded nightly. Houses crowded nightly.
Hundreds turned away last nig ht.
Johnny Gilmore, the celebrated Negro Delineator
Miss Millie Herbert, the Charming Soprano,
Dave Gardner, Song and Dance Performer.
Miss Marie Mackay, Characteristic Artist.
Mr. Frank Phillips, the Marvellous Soprano.
Artistic Triple Statue Clog Dance, with limelight
effects, by the PERMaN FAMILY.
Popular Prices : Orchestra chairs, 2s ; stalls, Is.;
balcony, 6d. CHAS. AUSTIN, Business Manager.
M
ERC ANTILB ROWING CLUB
Tenth Annual Ball.
TOWN HALL,
THURSDAY, 23rd JULY.
Evening Dress.
Music by Messrs. Need’s String Band.
Compagnonl Catering Company, Caterers.
Tickets (limited) obtainable from Members of
the Committee only.
J. M. FOGARTY, Hon. Treasurer.
W. A. BLACKSTONB, Hon. Sec.
Telegraph Department,


Important Anntnt!
THIS
ORIENTAL GOLD DO.
BEG to inform the public that, In consequence
of the
EXPIRATION OF LEASE
of their present premises, they have commenced
their
GRAND
CHAUS SUE,
Which will
LAST FOR A FEW WEEKS ONLYl
The Goods are all marked at ah
m !
as will he seen hy list below.
PRICE LIST.
Ladles’ Handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 10s, 19a
17s 6d, and 20s each
Handsome Jewelled Barrings, 4s and 5j per pair
Ladha’ Choice Necklets, 5s each
Ladies’ Choice Necklets, best American Plate, 2Ca
each
Ladies’ Elegant Bangles, 4s, 6s, and 10s per pair
Choice Lockets, 5s each
Handsome Gem Rings, 4s and 8s 6d each
Wedding and Keeper Rings, in Solid Gold, ts 6<1
each
Ladies' Handsome Lockets, 10s each
Ladles’ Elegant Crosses, 4s, 5s, and 6s each
Ladles’ Brooch and Earring Sets* from 5s to 16s
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, 3s 6d each
Gents’ O. G. Watches, Hunting, Open-Faced
Crystal Glass, and patent Keyless, 30s each*
warranted 3 years
Ladies’ (same as above.)
These watches are made specially to out
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; th®
movements are of the highest finish, and Jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully Jewelled, In hunting or open
faced crystal glasses £4 0 0
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
Jewelled, and compensation balance .. £5 0 0
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levers £4 10 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance .. £6 0 d
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses.. .. £3 15 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance.. .. £4 15 0
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph, £5 0
Ditto, extra Jewelled, of the highest
grade £6 0 0
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full Jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £8 10 0
Wo Import our watches direct from the manu*
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of Am, the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle*
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £»
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £10.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 4s
each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Rings, half round buckle
flat broad buckle, engraved, good luck rings
2s 6d each,
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 3s, 4s, 5s, and 6s 6d per set.
Same as above, only haif sets, Is 6d, 8s, and 3s per
set.
Best American Patent Spring Solitaire Suites*
5s per set.
Gent's elegant Seals, 4s each.
Gent’s Elegant Compasses, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberts, 6? each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold handsome Scarf Pins, Is.
6d, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s, 3s 6d, 4s, 4s 6d, 5s, and 5s 6d eati
Very best American Pencil Cases, 2a 6d each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Match Boxes, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Sovereign Purses, 4s each.
Richly engraved Bracelets, 6s each.
Handsome Bracelets, beautifully Jewelled, 8s, id*
12s, and 14s each.
Broooches, Brooches, Brooches, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 6 3, 3B*
3s 6d, 4s, 4s 6d, 5s, 5s 6d, 6s, 6s 6d, 7s, 78 6d, 8s, 8g
6d, 9a, 9a 6d, and 10a each.
PLEASE NOTE.
All goods will be sent post free, with the excep-
tion of the watches, orders for which must bo ac-
companied with an extra amount of two and six-
pence to defray postage expenses. Send in yout
orders early, as the goods must be sold, and no one
should miss this chance of procuring the beautlf u I
gems at less than cost price.
Note thb Address :
The Oriental Gold Co.,
474 George Street,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS,
HAPPY AUSTRALIANS.
Auckland, New Zealand. — Mr. ALLISTER
BROWN says: I had rheumatism so severe loould
scarcely lift my arm. I tried several liniments
without relief. At last I tried St. Jacobs Oil.
After using less than half a bottle I was entirely
free from pain, and have had no return of it.
Melbourne, Victoria.— Mr. BERNARD MUR-
PHf, Champion Youth Walker of Australian,
writes to the Melbourne Sportsman: On Monday,
previous to the match with Ormes. while walking
1 was attacked with the “ stitch.” I could not walk
100 yards, and gave up. I was advised to try St.
Jacobs Oil. Rubbing a little on my side, I have
not been troubled since, and won my match.
Christchurch, New Zealand — Mr. EDWARD
LAW, 43 Colllns-street, states that he had suffered
for twenty years with Rheumatism. Ho derived
immense benefit from St. Jacobs Oil, and is confi-
dent of a complete cure.
Sydney, New South Wales. —The Sydney Herald
says: Spontaneous ebullitions of praise from the
champion ’cyclist of England and Australia, the
champion youth walker of Australia, the sculler
who held the championship of the world, the
champion sprinter, a cricketer of universal repu-
tation, and a host of less-distinguished athletes
attribute their success, in a great measure, to St.
Jacobs Oil.
Dunedin, New Zealand.— Mr. D. BENJAMIN,
Jeweler, Dowling-street, writes: I suffered acutely
from a severe contraction of the nerves. I used
St. Jacobs Oil, rubbing It well in, and I awoke next
morning with hardly a trace of the pain. A second
application cured me completely. A bad chilblain
on the ear was removed by one rubbing.
Brisbane, Queensland.—Mr. R. E. JARMAN writes
that he sprained his wrist severely, and it was
swollen and painful. He applied St. Jacobs Oil.
On the following day the pain had subsided.
Sydney, New South Wales.—J. D. FLOWER. Bal-
main, writes that he suffered excruciating pwn
from rheumatic gout for some time. He tried St.
Jacobs Oil, and found it a valuable curative pre-
paration. His wife used it for pains in the back
with immediate relief.
Wellington, New Zealand.— Madame MARIE
CARANDINI, the popular musical artist, writes:
I have used St. Jacobs Oil, and find much relief in
case of rheumatism, and indeed, all neuralgic
pains.
Launceston. Tasmania— Prof. J. L. WEST,
Master of the Gymnasium, recommends to athletes
generally the use of St. Jacobs Oil for aches, pains,
sprains, bruises, etc., from his experience with the
same among his pupils.
Invercargill, New Zealand.—Mr. W. H. MATHIE-
SON, Dee-street, states: One of my apprentices
named Wotten took very ill with neuralgia. He
was confined to bed, and became delirious through
pain. Several remedies were used without effect.
St. Jacobs Oil was tried, and after one application
he got immediate relief.
Brisbane, Queensland.—Mr. J. BAIN, Clarence-
Street, states; I contracted a severe cold. My
back suffered severely, and an intense puln in my
side developed a hard lump which rapidly in-
creased, I could neither walk nor sit, and tried all
sorts of lotions without relief. I got St. Jacobs
Oil and tried it. The second bottle effected a com-
plete cure.
Time after all is the one grand test. Wolfe's
Schnapps has been 35 years before the public.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Thiatri Royal-" Silver King ” p. 8
Opera House—“ Marie A ntoinette ” >•
Academy ov Music.— Hlscooks’ F. Minstrels.. „
Masonic Hall— Lynch Family of Bellringers „
Gaiety Theatre.—“ Fun on the Bristol” <•
Alhambra Music Hall.— Minstrelsy
A six-nights' performance of “ Mane
Antoinette” was commenced at the Opera House
on Saturday. The drama drew together, as it
usually does, a large audience, as Queen ox
France, Signora Majeroni occupies, from an ar-
tistic point of view, different ground to that as-
sumed by her in most of her impersonations. Her
work is hard, Inasmuch as she has to keep a his-
torical reality in sight. In comparison with her
work in Camille, Fedora, or Clair de Beaulieu, it
is, however, light. In the one case she tries to
Idealise a reality, in the other cases she has to
realise Ideals. Occasions were not wanting on
Saturday night to make admirers wish she would
keep on doing the latter.
• • ♦
Mr. H. N. Douglas played Louis XIV. In
his hands Carlyle’s ** solecism” looked pretty well.
It is possible that neither in the play nor in any
historical portraiture so far offered to the world
is the King’s character adequately measured. He
is made too foolish by some, too flabby by others,
and too inconsistent by all. Mr. Douglas works
out some situations with fine effect. The separa-
tion of the King from his family is especially
pathetic. On no stage, however, does the parting
excite deeper emotion than is stirred |ln the mind
of the reader by a few brief words in Carlyle’s
history. These words make Carlyle’s Louis live
while Lamartine’s is forgotten. The Louis of the
play is not as good as either,
» • «
The second act is perhaps the best in the
lot. The noise of the invading multitude is well
expressed. But although there is a foundation of
fact under Lafayette, the sans culottes, the ter-
ror of the Boyal Household, and the presentation
of the Queen with the revolutionary colours about
her, the climax on the balcony appears exagger-
ated. Here and there there is exaggeration
throughout. There are also several instances of
anti-climax. At a most melting moment near the
close, when people’s minds are on quite different
subjects, the unfortunate King says to Clery, his
valet, “ I leave you all my clotuing, Clery.” This
piece of information, delivered in a superlatively
lachrymose tone, and accepted by Clery with a
superlatively lachrymose expression of counten-
ance, would do verv well in opera bouffe. The
only thing that repressed hilarious derision at its
Introduction here, was that Mr. Seagrave was
doing Clery, That personage has of late been
reduced to the frequent necessity of appearing in
“ smalls,” and suffering spectators hoped that out
of “all the clothing” he would be able to manage
a pair of full-length trousers.
m m *
Mr. Boothman as Lafayette was bald and
chivalrous. Lafayette, however, would hardly
have been so obstreperously loud in telling the
Queen what it was best she should do. Mr. B.
Palmer was a courtly and impressive M. de Male-
sherbes, a character held well together throughout
the piece, and going away without any loss of
dignity. Mr. DOrsay Ogden as Santerre, the
brewer, and Mr. Rodney as Simon, the cobbler, got
a good deal to do. The former was not the man of
history. His make-up was wild enough, extrava-
gant, absurd enough. He had widened his face
out, and succeeded in giving himself a ponderous
appearance. But no such stolid countenance, no
such leaden eyes, ever carried along a mad mob.
D Orsay Ogden’s Santerre would have set tne
gamins jeering. It was no pantomime the people
were playing in those days. There were panto-
mimic aspects, it is true, but the heart and soul of
the time were in terrible earnest. It has been well
described as a time in which truth was clad in hell-
flre. A Santerre like that of the Opera House is a
gigantic absurdity.
* ♦ *
But Mr. Rodney’s Simon is worse. The
conception of the play was to have him a demon.
The cobbler in Mr. Rodney’s hands is merely a
fool of an imp. The thing can’t be wicked, though
it is wanted to be. Wicked language is put into
his lips, but his way of delivering it makes it
drivel. He sneers at the Queen, at the King, at
everything, in a way he wants regarded as the per-
fection ot devilry, It is not devilry at all. It more
closely resembles imbecility. That does not re-
present French sans-culottism.
* • »
Master George Majeroni is a nice little
Dauphin, and although Mies Docy Malnwaring is
rather too placid, she is welcome when she ap-
pears. Miss Blanche Lewis is still more welcome.
But Miss Marshall and Miss Martin, as the two
washerwomen who assail the Queen in the Palace,
are pleasant in no way. It is not their fault that
they play a disagreeable part, but a disagreeable
part played flatly goads one to search for a victim.
m m * •
This drama professes to have an educa-
tional value. Tne French Revolution decidedly
had such a value. It told in Are that oppressors
should tremble. It wrote in blood that tyrants
should fear. In laughter that rang to heaven, in
demoniac hysteria! it announced the bursting
of the bladders of hypocritical respectability.
Tne educational value of this drama has no
such aims. Parenthetically the king says a
few words about the sins ot his ancestors being
visited upon him, but throughout he is made the
direct object of pity. The Queen, the courtiers,
the loyal statesmen, the Dauphin, the Princess,
the body-guards, even Clery the valet, are objects
of unalloyed commiseration. On the other band,
the abominable sans-culottes, all ugly, smeared
with paste-powder, spirit gum, and burnt cork,
bleared, dirty, stupid, drabbled, and draggled, are
things spectators are Induced to stare at in angry
disgust. In other words, on the side of Royalty
attributes capable of evoking sympathy are ex-
hibited, while on the side of the people only those
attributes are shown which create horror and dis-
gust. This is an insult to the genius of impartial
history. As a lesson, if this drama succeeds in
Impressing it on anyone, it is a political and social
falsehood. It is a Royalist’s exposition of Repub-
licanism. It is one of the old, old ways whereby
Royalty seeks to keep hold of the sympathies of
the world. It is a thoughtless world that is gulled
by it.
# * * »
We were drawn into the Academy on
Saturday by the promise of an entire change of
programme, and we sat down with a flutter ot ex-
citement to enjoy the novelty of hearing a real
new joke. We have not ventured within the
reach of Sam’s smile since he petrified us with
the old, old yarn of the man who got his fingers
trodden upon by ;too strictly obeying the order of
“ all hands on deck,” and further hastened our
hurried exit by hurling at us the pre-Adamite
legend of the “ Merman,” whose desire to attend
chapel was frustrated by an anchor being dropped
at his door. But when on Saturday he commenced
the Sunday-school story of how, in a dream, he
kept a lamp supplied with oil, we murmured " this
is new, indeed,” and waited breathlessly for the
finish; whilst an old gentleman next us clutched
his “ missus” and led her out, but his alarm was
premature, for Sam’s denouement was fortunately
original. m m m
Warner appeared with a new song, “ The
breach of promise case,” and received the usual
encore. He has taken off “ The good young man
who died.” He is afraid to sing it since Granny
crushed the young amateur who ventured to in-
troduce it at the Protestant Hall concert. We hope
«he will next fall foul of “ Maloney’s Fenian Cat,
if it will Induce Billy to bury it.
• * *
Dunbar scored well with “The Gallant
Vaquero,” and “ headed ’em off ” in the approved
style, but we should be sorry to lend him a horse
for that work, for though not pretty, he is de-
cidedly massive, and several old cattle-drovers in
front smiled sardonically at his get-up. Bent and
Keenan Introduced a litte sketch entitled, “ The
Telephone.” which, besides being very funny, has
the decided merit of novelty.
♦ » •
The double quartette, “ Come where my
love lies dreaming.” is a charming blending of the
best voices in the company, and never fails to get
an encore, but we think it almost time the lady
was left to dream alone; she has been so fre-
quently disturbed since she started her‘‘snooze’
at the ’Cademy. “ Welcome Home,” by Beaumont
Read, was deservedly applauded; it has a very
tuneful refrain, which is taken up by the full
strength of the company with a charming effect.
* ♦ ♦
The patriotic song, “Our Boys’ Welcome
Home,” sung by Amery, was splendid “ cela va
sans dire," but the hip hip hurrah I chorus, and the
tornado of enthusiastic applause it evoked, must
have reached the ears of “ Our home-returning
braves.” The last item on the programme, “ Hard
to Kill,” which, we are Informed, is an original
sketch by “Grace,” kept the house in one con-
tinuous “guffaw ” until the curtain fell to one of
the largest crowds we have seen packed in so
small a space.
* * * *
The Lynch Family of Bellringers attracted
a large audience to the Masonic Hall on Saturday
night, who, Judging by the quantity of dust they
raised, were well satisfied with the programme.
The performance with the bells is undeniably
clever, and forms the chief attraction of the show.
“The Marseillaise” was played very effectively,
the bells clashing out the melody one moment as
loud as the Town Hall chimes, then dying away as
softly as the tintinnabulations of the muifin man;
but when, warmingjto their work, they broke into
a quick Irish jig, is was easy to see they could give
points to a muffin hawker, or even to the “muddle-
puddle porter,” in the matter of noise. The pre-
viously mild-looking Professor waved his weapons
about with such reckless ferocity that his neigh-
bour had frequently to “ dodge” in order to avoid
being brained with the big bass bell. Happily, no
blood was shed, and the Professor finished two
laps ahead to his evident satisfaction.
♦ * ♦
Mr. T. Gilfln sang “Man the Life-boat,”
and “ The Old Brigade,” for which he was
deservedly encored. He has a fine voice,
and knows how to use it. The singing and
make-up of “ The Quaker’s Band ” by the
Messrs. Lynch seemed to “fetch the crowd,”
but the full strength of the feet and bludgeons
was reserved for the appearanco of the “Irish
Impersonator,” who insinuated his acquaintance
with the “ ould sod” by means of a green tie and
hat-band, backed up with an impossible fringe of
red whisker around a very red face: but had he
been divested of this very necessary evidence of
his nationality, our intimate knowledge of “The
Seven Dials ” would have enabled us to pierce his
identity, for his brogue was not to be mistaken,
and the manner In which he tossed up his coat-
tails and sang “ St. Patrick’s Day Parade,” stamped
him as an artist, in our opinion. But an irritable
old gentleman next to us expressed a desire to
“ athamp ’im wid a brick,” and—we almost wish
he had.
• • •
One of the best items in the programme
is the music Mr. Harry Lynch extracts from his
glasses, ranging in size from a nobbier to a fish-
globe; and we had just enough of “ II Trovatore ”
to make us wish for more.
• • ■
The trouble closed with the original farce
of “ Five Shillings a Week,” in which Mr. Farron
appeared as an Irish coachman.
* * • *
On Saturday night we entered the Wax-
works with the determination of solving the mys-
tery surrounding Thauma’s “better half,” and
found the usual crowd gszing open-mouthed at
the startling apparition of a lady, with no visible
means of support, barring the little trapeze
arrangement upon which it (beg pardon, she)
swings backward and forward; but even this is
removed by the attendant la his desire to show
“ there is no deception,” and further to convince
you, he arms himself with a formidable-looking
sabre, and cuts underneath and on either side of
the suspended damsel, who supports herself for
a brief period by clutching the ropes; we noticed,
however, that the sabre was not used behind the
lady, possibly because it might disarrange her im-
prover. We began to get annoyed, as we looked
in vain for any tell-tale mirrors; we had thought
to bust up the whole mystery at a glance, but the
longer we gazed at the unfinished beauty, the
more inexplicable she appeared to us, and we fell
back upon the popular opinion that Thauma is
some strange Indian goddess transplanted from
her niche in the temple to her present surround-
ings; but, aiasl this idea was quickly dispelled.
“ Are you in good health ? ” enquired the genial
attendant. "Hexcellent ’elth, thank you,” re-
plied the buxom mystery, and we retired sadly, for
the Surry Hills accent solved the mystery of her
birth, though her continuations still remain
“ an unknown quantity ”—at least, to us.
« • « •
Onslow Knight, of the Juno Dramatic
Company, was the hero of Rockhampton last
week. Runaway horse—child fallen—Onslow to
the rescue. The girls all vied with each other as
to who should do him most honour. A wheel-
barrow was required to convey the slippers, smok-
ing-caps, smoking tackle, and flowers away from
the theatre afterwards. Some girl, jealous, of
course, because he didn’t propose after all the
trouble she had taken, gave it out that he sold the
lot cheap. Such is fame.
* * * *
A writer in the Adelaide L.Y.G. says: “ Is
it true that a certain very distinguished personage
never pays when he goes to a place of amusement?
.... Very often there is too much of that
sort of thing, and it is bad enough, but penurious-
ness in certain people is still worse.” We should
very much like to., know in what reception-house
this stuff was written. If he knew anything about
theatres, he would be aware of the fact that the
patronage and presence of the Governor always
succeeds in getting a good “let” “upstairs,”
while hundreds of galoots will always push into
the pit to have a look at him. The marked patron-
age of a Governor has before rescued a manager
from absolute ruin. It is reckoned that a “ com-
mand night” will always draw salaries, and so the
viceroy is popular with the “ pros.” And doesn’t
Ophelia just die hard at him I
* * * *
Clara Stephenson’s company have been
thrilling the people of Gundagal. The local Times
says Clara is an actress “ far superior to any that
has ever appeared here; ” while the piece, entitled
“The Youth who never saw a Woman,” it de-
clares to be “ the most laughable comedy ever
written.” It Is thus the sweet science of things is
dropped into the guileless Gundageese.
« • • •
The Mascotte Opera Company has taken
Singapore by storm, converted the local Times
into a jam factory, and as a necessary corollary,
is raking in unmeasured wealth. “ Mascotte ” was
first put on, and “ Marltana,” the “ Pirates ” (a
special favourite at the Straits), “ Glrofla,”
and various other well-known operas have since
been given. Eva Davenport, Edward Farley, and
Vernon Reid take the leading parts. Representa-
tions owe but little to the chorus or orchestra, the
latter consisting only of a piano and harmonium.
If these be the only musical instruments the place
can boast, Singapore must be a bad place for a
pore-Slnga.
* * * *
An American paper said that Ristori,
when managed by De Vivo, in America, cleared
£60,000. We don’t know what she cleared in Mel-
bourne when we saw her —but she certainly
cleared.
* * * »
“Thauma” is good, but Maskelyne and
Cooke have now Introduced to the public a skele-
ton skull on which the flesh gradually grows.
When the mouth is properly developed the skull
recites, answers questions, and gives intelligent
answers. If it could only be taught to blow its
nose the mystery would be complete..,.The Willis
Company were at Maryborough when last heard
of, pounding away at Jo,” “ The.Octoroon,” and
“ The Tlcket-of-Leave-Man.” The local criticisms
are in the usual scraggy style that has driven many
a thoughtful man to drink: “ Great feeling and
fiathos,” “ Evidence of great ability,” and “ Excel-
ent impersonation”—bah 1 It only wanted “rendi-
tion” and “ light and shade” to make the slip-
slop complete Vernon and "Genevieve”
have knocked ’em” in Brisbane. They are
coming this way, taking Newcastle en route.
Did you hear of Genevieve and the Governor
of fcouth Australia or somewhere ? Well,
well—you’ll find it somewhere in the paper. They
go afterwards to Melbourne, and then steer their
barque Golden-gate wards The Gundagai people
are warned by the local journal that if they don’t
roll up to see the “ well known star actress, Clara
Stephenson,” it is a proof that Gundagai is losing
the nlco histrionic appreciation for wnlch it was
formerly famous ... 8t. Leon’s tiger carriage cap-
sized in flerberton (N.Q ). The tigers stood In the
middle of the street, looked at some of the people,
and then returned to their cages. Even tigers
couldn’t live on skeletons “Theodora” is
booked for London this season Chiarini
is in Brisbane, and some of the newspapers
are brutal enough to say that there are one or
two of the clown’s witticisms that are not
original. But. some papers would say anything.
Dr. Carr has been at Gundagai. He is still in
the bump-feeling line. “Elworthy” says of him
that for “ mesmeric seances, surgical skill, and
eloquent lectures,” his name is “a household
word,” while, as an “ advanced thinker,” he would
give Tom Walker 50 in 100. Wonder where the
Dr. gets his Gundagai posters printed ? The
Cockneys are howling at Irving for allowing seats
to be booked in the pit The Goulburn Evening
Post tells how an advance agent for a min-
strel Stroupe was treated by lone Main. Main
(according to the agent) pulled him down stairs,
bobbing his head on every step—twice on some—
and fired him into the street to get other lodgings.
It is well we met this casfe. It has changed our in-
tention of going to Goulburn as advance agent
for the cow with five legs, at present drawing
crowded houses at Paddy’s Market... Rignold and
Allison’s mob were last heard of at Tenterfleid,
playing “Confusion” to the local editor, who
thinks highly of it. At least, he would If they
played, but as some other “push ” took the house
Instead, the paper walls, “ The ‘Confusion ’ Com-
pany appear rightly named so, as they seem to
have a very confused idea of keeping their en-
gagements.” Buckley’s “Hibernicon ” is at
Townsville (N.Q ), exhibiting what a local editor
calls the “ beautiful scenery with which the
Emerald Isle abounds.” Yah! Ashton’s cir-
cus is “ bushed ” away towards Cootamun-
dra. The Bligh Watchman considers the
riding of James and Miss Ashton “splendid.”
When they get back from Walgett they promise a
benefit for the Coonabarabran Hospital. Some-
thing should be done to keep these “travellers”
from ruining! themselves by these constantly-ten-
dered charitable performances. Society deserves
no such sacrifice—At Bourke, “Henry and
Neville’s Company ” wrestle with “Pinafore” for
the first three days of the week, and Miss Crawford
flattens out “Hamlet” during the other three.
The whole town attends the “ Pinafore ’’struggles.
A policeman and a goat keep’.thelr eyes on Hamlet.
The Central Australian regrets that the Dar-
ling people should prefer opera bouffe to Shaks-
peare. To us also ’tis a matter for sorrow, but
not for wonder. Welived in Bourke.... The Rad-
cliff-Rita people were working across from Wan-
ganui to Napier (N Z ) when last heard of. They’d
just done the West Coast (Hokitikl way) knocking
every audience over the ropes the first round.
Davey—the pilot—la now in Christchurch, laying
round for fresh novelties. Should he drop on a
“ moa ” or a “ dodo ” we shall be glad to hear
from him—H. J. Samuel! is here and open for
engagement. As an advance agent, few can tie
him. Ask Sheridan of the “ Pun on the Bristol ”
crowd Oh, yes, and Mr. H. N. Douglas addresses
us from the Opera House. We said he “ kept his
coat and hat on in the Princess’s (Fedora’s) draw-
ing-room.” He says he “removed his cap when in
the presence of the Princess.” If we’ve done him
an injustice we regret it, but we have to hold his
letter over for the attention of the Baronet who
wrote our notice of the piece.


PEPPER AND SALT.
The Adelaide lawyers are engaging female
clerks. There is a lot of fun in this, and the
bachelor attorney is " right in it.” For you see,
during the hours of trial he can be cheered by
the sight of lovely woman, and when he gets
home there's the lady housekeeper with excellent
references ready to hand him his slippers and dish
up his little bit of fish and steak. This country is
really getting more worth living in every day I
• • *
People don’t seem to have such a gay time
when they dine with the Queen, after all. You have
only to come down from your bedroom when the
gong sounds, and almost directly after dinner the
Queen retires to her private apartments, and
turns you loose amongst the people of the house-
hold. You mustn’t talk about anything but “art,
literature, and scenery,” so how Alfred will come
out of it when he dines there.it is hard to pro-
phesy. There is a lot of difference, though, be-
tween being presented at Court and dining there;
for while Henniker Heaton has twice penetrated
to the White Drawing-room at a levee, when a
dinner’s been on we question whetner he has ever
climbed so far as the pantry.
A parson at Heywood (Vic.) recently
reeled out the following yarn to his congregation
One time he and a mate were on the “ wallaby,”
and, being amongst strangers, they came to find
themselves tuckerlees near a township. "This is
an occasion,” said the parson to his chum, “ when
the Lord will provide. You boil the billy, and.
with the blessing of heaven, I will tap the
township.” The mate murmured something about
going on together, and chopping wood for a
tightener, but the parson wouldn’t hear of it*
Arrived at the village, the rev. gentleman entered
a baker’s shop and asked for a large loaf. The
baker handed him the loaf, and, taking a shilling
off the counter, slapped it into the till, saying,
“ Thank you, sir.” The Lord, the rev. gentlman
is of opinion, sent that shilling. However It got
there, it was evidently somebody elae’s shilling-
probably the baker’s I The story ends hero, so
we’re not justified in saying that the baker
pursued the rev. gentleman with a brick; but we
believe he did.
» s e
“ Princa Albert Yictordanees not so much
like an angel as like a marionette.” We take this
terpsichorean item from a London paper, and, in
spite of our devotion te the Royal family, feel dls-
posed to credit it. The young man'.
“Wales,” is a long way from being a
dancer, nor do any of his brothers and siat« ° ent
play any peculiar ability in the “ light t d1 *'
toe ” department. Certainly, H.R.H. i 8 ’ a fc nta8t, °
mlrer of certain among his future subjects wif a<3 '
dance prettily. Only the other day, we
ing a spicy moreeau about Miss But th beaN
has Just rung for prayers. The story will * be11
whereas there’s no time like the present for
prayer.
* * *
The Queen has been staying at Aix-les-
Baias, where, with royal regularity, she attended
church on the first day of the week. " Nothing of
particular moment about that,” you observe <
Stay awhile, and hear what Modern Society has
to Impart on the subject of these religious observ*
A Distinction with a Difference.
“ Mr. Gladstone has refused an Earldom.”—Cable to daily papers.
PLAIN BILL (to the Grand Old Man): “ WHY DID YOU REFUSE AN EARLDOM?”
G.O.M.: “BECAUSE IT WAS TOO SMALL A THING. BUT, TELL ME, WHY DID YOU DECLINE A KNIGHTHOOD?”
P.B.D.: “BECAUSE IT WAS TOO LITTLE.”


anoes—" Her Majesty attended the English Church
last Sunday, and expressed herself much satisfied
w lth the service.” Think what a world of mean-
ing lurks in that sentence. Evidently this ohronl-
cler of small beer intends to suggest that our
Sovereign’s expression of satisfaction confers on
the presiding “rook”—the Rev. J. Last—a direct
passport to Heaven. Perhaps it does, but If it does
we trust the disapproval which we have too often
expressed upon similar occasions, has not con-
demned our reverend torturers to eternal damna-
tion. However, let us congratulate this lucky
man:—
The hardships to which Victorian legisla-
tors have hitherto been condemned are at length
engaging the attention of a paternal Government.
It is superfluous to point out that the lot of a
,* Cabbage Garden ” senator has, up to date, been
a peculiarly unhappy one. For six months—or
nearly six months—in each year, he has been re-
quired to lay the first fruits of his luxuriant In-
tellect upon the altar of his country, and, in so
doing, to run the risk of “late sitting.” Now,
these late sittings—we have it on the authority of
the Melbourne D.T.—“ play havoc with the health
of public men,” and this statement we can cordi-
ally endorse. Have we not seen a Brougham fade
away at 00, and a Beaconsfleld succumb at the
prematurely early age of 73? Who shall say to
what longevity these statesmen might have at-
tained had it not been for the distressful influence
of late sittings ? So, then, we are rejoiced to learn
that “ Jimmy” Service and his colleagues propose
to curtail nocturnal labours by suggesting tha*
the House shall meet one hour earlier than of yore
and take no new business after 9 o’clock. To the
soft accompaniment of that dreamiest of all In-
struments—the comb-let us sing a little lay:—
The Rev. Charles Strong—that pride of
the Melbourne dallies, and pet of the Melbourne
ladies—has been giving his opinion about the
silent system in prisons. Being in the habit of
wagging his own reverend red rag just as often
as he pleases from a pulpit, it is hardly surprising
to learn that friend Charles regards the silent
system as “a very barbarous system of punish-
ment.” He considers that the effect of a ” week’s
solitary ” upon the lively larrikin is “ to kill what
social feeling he has.” And the reverend critic
suggests a remedy. He thinks that such indis-
cretions as assaults on the perleece “ would be
better punished by a good whipping with the
lash.” Well, we mustn’t smile too hard at dear
Mr. Strong, because he hasn’t tasted the lash so
far, but the notion of developing a man’s social
feelings by the agency of a cat-o’-nlne-talls is
about the drollest we ever heard—even from a
parson.
Perkins, Queensland ex-Mlnister of Lands,
has been wrecked four times in three years. Very
shortly the passengers will refuse to travel with
him, and steamship companies will decline to carry
hi na-
“A murderous assault was committed by
a Chinaman named Young Sin, at Muttaburra-
The Chinaman was brutally assaulting his wife,
when a man named John Childs interfered. The
Chinaman attacked him with a knife and stabbed
hlm In 11 places.”-
Daily paper.
Mr. Robert Jacob writes to the Howl
I “ I really wonder that the Protestants do not rise
I In a body to check Popery, for England has more
I to fear from Popery than from any foreign war.”
** About 50 members of the Surrey Banner
Lodge of Buffaloes yesterday waited on Mr. Henry
Levien at his residence, Beaconsfield Lodge, New-
town, and requested him to allow himself to be
elected as Grand Primo of their lodge. Mr. Levien
promised to give a written reply to the request to-
day.”-
D.T.
Mr. R. Burdett Smith, M.P., was recently
entertained somewhere in an “ embowered ehed,’>
and appropriate songs were sung to him by the
school children, while he fisted the local turkey.
Hero la, or ought to be, part of one of them
If Cupid would like the MS. of this little song to
jjplaoe among his archives in the tea-caddy, be Is
welcome to it.
We are glad to be enabled to submit to
ear contented if not demonstrative readers one
verse of a poem which Mr. Joseph Symes
(“ Loyola ”) is now contributing to the Liberator
The poem is about Jacob and Esau, but the
appended stanza delicately explains itself;—
“ Brown sheep and speckled goats, we read,
Were Jacob’s own to be—
With speckled rods he made them breed
These colours constantly.
At length he said to Rachel— * Spouse,
Not much at ease I feel;
I think we’ll hook-lt from this house-
la there anything to steal ?’ ”
It’s so long ago. really, since the incident of Jacob s
departure from thehouse’of Laban occurred, that
we are unable to decide finally as to whether
Jacob propounded any such query or not: but we
should hardly think so. Having had the run of the
premises so long, and American clocks (always a
valuable kind of property) not being then in*
vented, there really seems no reason for the quee-
tion. Whether there be any reason for “ Loyola’s ”
poetry is another consideration altogether. This
little innocent confiding stanza to him, anyway:—
BRIEF MENTION.
Cries the high priest of 8t. Mathias In the
Holy Howl; “Show the Protestant Standard
to your friends. ’ That’s all very well; but who la
going to provide the galvanized iron undercloth-
ing?
The French papers announce the discovery
* ? P‘ a "‘ 8t ® who plays equally well with hands or
feet, what a that? We knoiv a Darllnghurst crirl
who can play just as well with her feet as with her
bands. ,
Kiaudra has the boss parson of N.S. VV .
Twenty-two inobos of rain there since the 1st
January. Sydney did not get one-half that
amount. Piety must be at a low ebb in the
metropolis.
An Albury gaol warder was recently
“P* charged with attempting to poison
himself. He explained that he had formerly been
a policeman, and It was the novelty of taking
something" that tempted him. Discharged.
From the Newcastle Fletcher :—“ Signor
Besomo will give one of his non-popular phreno-
logical seances in the Temperance Hall, i/tccktor,
this evening.” Now. what Is a non-popular leo-
ture ? (Happy thought I Ask E. Lewis Scott)
Now that Dowie’s out, we suppose he will
step out. It would be of no use perpetually im-
prisoning a man when he can t help It. And from
what we have seen of the ttev. John Alexander,
we are disposed to believe that he can’t help it -
badly.
On the Duke of Edinburgh’s flag-ship,
while the English fleet are bombarding Gronstadt.
The Duke, exc.tedly, from the bridge: Hi, you
menl Fire more south. Don’t go pelting the
Taganrog Palace; my father la-law’s left me
that.
From a recent Herald:—“Office boy
required. Apply, stating salary expected at com-
mencement. ’ An Australian oflice-boy doesn’t
get a salary he accepts an annual honorarium.
And no proper-minded Australian boy would put
himself up to Dutch auction.
The Nepean Times, in concluding a thril-
ling account of an accident to the local Chinese
cabbage purveyor, says “ the Celestial was shook if)
a good deal. We are glad to hear It, for the editor
ca .?. n ,° longer bo suspected as the party who shook
a Llndley Murray ” from the Mechanics’ Instl-
tut©.
Three doctors in Newcastle, N.S. W., ar
laid up with various kinds of fractures. We under >
stand that a fourth doctor passes all his spare time
telephoning his brother medicos that he will
come Immediately.” This Is the first time the
other doctors have been enabled to thoroughly ap-
preciate the humour of this fantastic little Jokel
Mr. Umcomb, at a meeting of Sydney
dairymen, said (he had found among the milk
merchants of the Clty-of-the-Beautiful-Harbour
Intelligent men, possessing positions In society
and considerate wealth.” Where Is the news In
that? why, they ought to own nearly all the
money In the banks. Chalk has been ch ap all
along, even If water has been a little scarce lately.
Says the Bourke Watchman;—“A slight
error has crept into our notice of the late Senior-
constable Daunt, which we desire to correct, as It
might convey an idea of undue haste in his inter-
ment. We stated he died on Saturday, and the
funeral Is mentioned as having taken place on
Saturday. It should read ‘Sunday.’ ” This is
evidently a correction peremptorily ordered bv
the corpse. *
her e ; —“ Lost, in the vicinity of the
Mllltary.road. a plated Ring of a cart wheel.
Finder rewarded upon bringing the same to,” etc.
If this man can afford to plate the rings of his cart
wheels, what a notion he would have of togglmr
up the missus for the Show I And just Imagine
7 l°uct-tlcking, yellow gold watch
be d Havel Why, a man so fond of embellishment
as this would put liquorice in his rum.
We cull this choice flower from the Cooma
Express:— “Advance Cooma.—It has been com-
puted by the best authorities on the subject that
Cooma Is possessed of no less than four distinct
grades of society, besides the ‘ homey-handed ’
namely, gentle folks, Nos. 1 and 2, and Cjmmonem
No. 8 and 4. It would be interesting to know at
this stage which grade of society gase the ball
there at which the obliging hostess was
b ,. in th , e ®7 e - We, ourselves, rather sus-
pect the “gentlefolks.”
There was a lot said about Judge Murray
having bis "(ticker” stolen onboard the Newcastle
boat, and what is it we hear r ow ? Simply that
his Honor, some days after the robbery, recelvedfa
Parcel, accompanying wulon was the following
“ dere gudge eres your sooper 1 thought it
was old dowlin what made a pun onct when he!
give me a sixer yourn alnt much of a thimbeb
lor a gudgo only offered arf a bul and a pare of
pants down at the market.— Joe Smith.”
We will take a denial ofithis report from his-
Honor, but it must be legibly written, and on one
side of the paper only.
You remember Fuzzledone, a “native
who used to drive the elephant at the Zoo ? We
he got committed to the Quarter “ Seth ” som
time ago, for selling, as they said, another native*
goods in his Intervals of looking alter Jumbo
The case came on, the other day, and, in reply to
the question, “ guilty, or not guilty ?” Fuzzledere
cried impressively: “Ne oobiaparatouche camelo-
gloosh 081.’’ “ What’s that, Mr. Levien?” asked
the Judge of that luminary, who appeared for tho
prisoner. “Heml” said Harry, •• l think helm-
plies that he never rang In the tall grey on the
man who bad the kip.*’ “Under those ciroum-
stances, said the Judge, “ 1 think we had better
adjourn tte sessions for the attendance of the
Interpreters. ‘’Interpreters!” said Mr. Harry,
with emphasis. “Yes,” retorted the Judge, smii-
mg; one for the language of the prisoner, rnd
one for the dialect of the—humph J-bar!”
Oh! parson Last, to you we kneel
And offer salutations fervent;
As subjects leal wo can but feel
You are a good and faithful servant.
And well, indeed, can you afford
To wear a blush of holy pride,
For with the way you praised the Lord
Our gracious Queen was “satisfied.”
What shouts of greeting will resound
Throughout the fair celestial region,
Where saints abound (all nicely gowned)
When you shall join that happy legion;
St. Peter then will shake your hand,
The cry will echo far and wide,
He read the prayers one Sunday, and
His gracious Queen was satisfied."
(BRIT HARTE LOCALISED.)
Which we wish to suggest
When you’re walking the street.
You will find it Is best
To beat hasty retreat
Prom a Chinaman whacking his missus—
And this warning we beg to repeat.
Young’Sln was his name,
And we do not deny.
With regard to the same.
What that name might Imply—
More especially, seeing what happened
(But a verse about this by and bje).
’Twas a week of two back
(And at night, we surmise)
When John C. beard a smack
And a woman’s loud cries;
So he went and discovered Sin blacking
His poor little better-half’s eyes.
Being valiant and “ game,”
Johnny C. took a hand.
For he thought It a shame
That a fellow should stand
And behave In this way to a woman
(For this is a chivalrous land).
So without more ado,
Johnny Joined In the strife,
To put Sin fairly “ through,”
And protect his poor wife;
But, sad to relate, he got worsted,
All along of the other chap’s knife.
Don’t you hesitate, sir.
Grip It while you can;
Billet like Grand Prlmo
'Tlsn’t ev’ry man
Has the chance of getting.
Don’t refuse, we pray!
Billets of Grand Prlmo
Don’t come ey’ry day.
Bloated, p’raps, with “ rhino,”
Mr. H. Levien—
Billet of Grand Prlmo
You would hardly deem
Worthy your acceptance;
Still we think the best
Billet of Grand Prime—[Oh!
Give the thing a rest.— Ed. B.]
(SOLILOQUY BY THE HOW.W. B.D-Y.)
What I forego I What I forego!
Ah, tell me, shall the world e’er know;
What, I forego f
’Tls hard to see, ’tls hard to see—
Whilst Stuart dons the blissful “ G ”
I still remain
The simple, plain,
And honest Billy D. 1
I Billy D.t I Billy D.I
’Twas wrong to dub me such, for he
Who dubbed me was of low degree—
A lower scarce can be.
TO LOYOLA.
Spare us and Jacobi—learn to write!
We really wish you would;
We’re sick of this dull dogg’rel, quite-
A change would do us good.
Of this sad bosh now make an end.
For this we tell you Hat-
Fair Rachel on a flg-leaf penned
Far better verse than that.
In the past, legislators (we weep as we write)
Have seldom considered their health.
But have kept at their labours till far in the night
And entered their dwellings by stealth
At one in the morning, or later than that,
Afraid their good wives to disturb I
And faint with— fatigue, they have frequently sat
In a state of collapse on the kerb.
While hast’ning along to our own humble Cot,
We have often devoutly desired
That the love of their Queen and their country did
not
Make these martyrs so awfully-tired;
The sight of their forms brought the tear to our
eye,
It harrowed our buzzum with pain—
And many’s the time we’ve observed, with a sigh
“There’s another late sitting again.”
But this will be altered, they say, very soon
(Permit us to murmur “ Amenl”)
And they all will get home-what a merciful
boonl—
To a whisky and soda at ten;
And if, peradventure, it happens as how
A senator, red and serene.
Rolls home about twelve, we’ll look out for a row,
For the missus will know where he's been.
THE PARSON'S PRESERVATIVE.
(With Chorus.)
if you chance to find a man
With a mind to sin inclined,
We will tell you of a plan
For to make him good and kind;
Him with gentleness you treat,
Doing nothing rough and rash—
Merely tie his hands and feet
And apply to him the lash.
Tol-de-rol, de-rol, de-rol,
Every other way 1? trash,
Tol-de-rol, de-liddle-lol, de-li-do.
If you shut him in a cell—
“ Rorty ” Dick, or Tom, or Bill—
It must soon, ono can foretell.
All his social feelings kill;
So then liven up his nerve
With a healthy dose of “ cat,”
And his feelings, you’ll observe,
Will be much Improved by that.
Tol-do-rol, de-rol, de-rol,
That’s the way to make ’em fat,
Tol-de-rol, de-liddle-lol, de-li-do.
Here’s a wrinkle for you, Perkins,
Sell your brew’ry and your firkins,
And your hogsheads and your barrels.
And your quarter-casks and butts—
Everything of which you’re owner.
Pose then as the “ modern Jonah,”
Wealth of Rothschild, fame of Homer—
Both are yours as safe as nuts.
For the Chinaman slashed
(He’d the knife up his sleeve).
And the Christian got gashed
In a way that we grieve—
And the hospital surgeons regard him
As a dangerous case, we believe.
This Is why we suggest
That in walking the street
You will flad It Is best
To make haste and retreat
From a Chinaman, stern and pugnacious.
And leave him his “ missus ” to beat.
O Robert Jacob, atand and pause.
And don't be quite so “ropery;”
Your hair on seep—you should, because
One day there’ll be no Popery I
And if signs of the times are trusted.
Up will your Protestants be busted.
Let big wars thunder, and you’ll find
It just as we have said, man—
They’ll leave the parsons all behind,
Or make each drive a bread-van.
Bah I could they pray who’ve known such gold
years
An ounce of beef Into the soldiers ?
We’re sorry this must all occur;
We’d like some post to fish up—
We’d love* we don’t conceal It, sir,
To be a little Bishop I
When this Is wrought It may be seen ;
You are a little Roman dean.
But, could I take the gilded plum 7
I would cry no I e’en I were dumb,
For I a patriot am 1
For had I ta’en It all had said,
“ It was for this he lost his head,
This awful patriot sham!’*
But now behold I Score a point, -
Put Stuart’s small nose out of joint,
And plain Bill D. remain
Until fair Eagland’s Queen sees me
And notes I’m far above a “ G;”
In fact, ’twould be a stain.
“No! no!” she’ll cry, “ we’ll make of Mm
Lord Manly 1 Viscount Suaklml"
SUNG BY LITTLE HEMMY.
Aria.
It does us little children good, Mr. Smith,
To see you peck your tucker, Mr. Smith;
The feast it is fair,
The birds of the air,
Have been potted for your fare, Mr. Smith I
CHORUS.
Huzza, huzza, huzza I
We hope you do love us,
Though we ftnoio you are above us,
Mr. Smith, Mr. Smith I
You are very much above us, Mr. Smith!
A TRAM-STORY WITHOUT WORDS.


Mr. George Cass, M.P., is to be banqueted
at Coonamble. No wonder that Partes’ star Is on
the wane I
Sir Henry Parkes has been lecturing on
“ Eminent Celebrities ” he has known. Strange
to say, he made no references in his able speech
to either O'Farrell, Proctor, or the late Edmund
Butler.
Opposition members of Parliament argue
that it would be mercy to reject the present
Ministry at the general election. The present
Parliament has already wrecked the health of all
of them, and another Parliament would kill them.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—Buy original un-
opened bottles of the only genuine Schnapps.
A suggestion. Referring to the reception
of our Soudan Contingent, as the procession has
to pass up George-street, it is suggested that a
halt be made opposite the Joint Stock Bank to
enable our brave boys to fall out of line and pay
a hurried visit to Bray’s china and glass show-
rooms.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps— Purchase the genuine
and repudiate all shams.
—of F the^future* *** rn i®8f question
The wearied and arrafona* bniittBM man
should use Wolfe's Sciwaityfti. DU 88 ™ an
“ A murderous assault was committed by
a Chinaman named Young 1 Sin, at Muttaburra,
Queensland.” The Celestial’s name is Incorrectly
stated. It should be Young Sinner.
The Bathurst Post complains of the man-
ner In which the Government rote the railway
rates. Shakespeare says the “ rose ” by any other
name would smell as sweet. This B.P. rose would
smell sweeter If It were named “ raised.”
Thus the Nundle cow-respondent of the
Nooze “ Constable Blank has been removed
to Murrurundi. He and his wife were always to
the front In any movement for the public weal.”
Does the Nundle scribe mean to playfully suggest
that the constable’s wife used to help wheel the
barrow whenever policeman Blank thought It
expedient, in the public Interest, to trundle the
correspondent to the oonstabularian zareba ?
The Mudgee Independent has been sued
for £1000 damages by Sub-Inspector Burns, for
rashly asserting that the conduct of the police, In
the affray between Thurston and Angel, was not
what it should have been. The case Is going to
trial, much to the glee of the unwashed, who
would like nothing so much as proof that the
police fired first and challenged the outlaws after-
wards, according to the plan acted upon by offen-
sive policemen for many a generation.
The Rev. Dowie groweth desperate since
his four weeks’ Imprisonment for breaking bye-
laws. Speaking of the Mayor of Fitzroy (Mel-
bourne), who was chiefly Instrumental In “Jug-
ging” the hair-brained divine, Dowie observed
that it would have been “ better for that man had
his right hand been out off before he signed the
warrant.” Perhaps it would; at any rate, the
offending Mayor would then hare had an oppor-
tunity of proving his faith by getting Dowie to
stick nis hand on again with a prayer.
This is some of the “ tersely-written ” stuff
that appears in the Echo. It is descriptive of the
conduct of the Spaniard when cholera Is around:—
“ He will rush into the country and into the cathe-
drals, will be beating his breast before images
when he ought to be busy with a bucket or a
broom, will seek by all means to escape from an
assailant who will cling to him as a shadow.” Is
the Spaniard any worse than the pious colonial ?
Is not prayer for rain more popular here than are
contrivances for guarding against all drought ?
Monaro (N.S.W.) boys are that sort that
they won’t stand any humbug. A schoolmaster
there was explaining the principle of multiplica-
tion to bis class, and proceeded to give an example
of its use. “Now, he said, “supposing I buy 800
sheep at 5s. each,’’—and just then a nine-year-old
interrupted him with, “Oh, but look here; Isay
that aln t right. My father sold COO sheep yester-
day, and be got 9 j. for them, and he said that they
was only a tot of old ‘gummies,’ and as fluky as
blazes.” No, the Monaro youth will stand no non-
sense.
The other day, at “a private party or
ball” in Cooma, a drunken man, of giddy propen-
sities, offended the hostess. On this, 17 other
drunken men, whose propensities were equally
giddy, set on him, and. as says the C. Express in
its very own curious vernacular, “he now crawls
about more crippled in limb than whole.” This is
Cooma all over. It is rumoured that when a ner-
vous resident there gets an Invitation to “ a
private party or ball ” he regrets that a prior en-
gagement, etc., and runs away and hides in the
lock-up.
There is an engine in the employ of the
Victorian railways which has a long record of
misdemeanours to answer for. This deadly loco-
motive played a leading part in two accidents—at
Jollmont and Hawthorn. Furthermore, It has, at
one time or another, run over and destroyed a
labourer, four sheep, a porter, sixteen turkeys,
and two foUcemen. This last Item distresses us
terribly. There is only one chance left for that
engine to save itself from the unutterable tortures
of tbe damned. It might possibly wash away its
past crimes in the rich blood of an alderman.
There were 70 applications for the post of
Council Clerk to the Redfern Corporation. Only
701 There must be some fascination in spelling
out the ratepayers’ letters to the “cheer,” evi-
dently; while. It must be remembered, there is
always the off-chance of the Inspector of Nuisances
dying, or marrying a rich widow. Wo know a
man who has been 25 years trying to obtain this
aromatic billet. He Is now grey and withered, but
his heart is still bulbous with hope. We can vouch
for bis having, at least, one qualification for the
appointment. We allude to his melodious hiccup.
From the tone of the latest jeremiad of
Thadeus O’Kane, one would imagine that a
Chinese paper was about to be started at Charters
Towers. “The Liberal (humphI) Association,”
says Thadeus, “should be revived, and the imme-
diate work is to pledge its members not to deal
with Chinamen outside of ‘cabbagee,’ and not to
deal with any man who lets shops or leases ground
to Chinamen. That is the first thing to be done.
After that, fresh legislation should be asked for,
excluding the Chinese altogether from our gold-
fields.” But why, O Thadeus, should you buy even
John’s cabbagee ?
It has been discovered that a man at
Napier, who was “ boots” at an hotel, and got a
month for stealing grog, has £13,000 on the way out
to him. It is reported that on this becoming
known the Town Council sent their beadle up to
the “jug” with their compliments, and asked the pri-
soner if, on his release, he would like a compli-
mentary banquet or the freedom of the city. He
had only to speak. The Council’s sympathy with
him under the sad mistake was unbounded. And
in the small hours of every morning a weird figure
is seen walking quickly up and down before the
prison, and tearing his hair. This is the landlord 1
Supposing young Johns is reprieved, we
wonder what will then be his social position. He
la at present confined In a single cell, ironed day
and night, and be doubtless experiences muoh dif-
ficulty In procuring tobacco and other luxuries.
They can t, legally, do more to him than this—
except to deprive him of the presence of a lady
visitor. It has never, this reminds us, transpired
who this captivating young Scripture-reader is.
We know a number of these good souls, but they
would never move us to such a demonstration as
that performed by Johns. In the street, though,
many would move us to cross over. Such bores I
During a flood in the Paroo a station-
manager and a new chum were engaged in cross-
ing a mob of cattle. One bullock wnlch remained
to the last refused for some time to face the
water; and when he was induced to plunge in, the
new chum’s horse stumbled on the bank, took a
header Into the water, and turned the beast to the
bank he had just left. This was too much for the
manager, who jumped from bis horse, and kneel-
ing down with his eyes fixed heavenwards, fer-
vently ejaculated: “Oh, Lord! it’s not often I
trouble you, but on this occasion drown him I
drown the — adjective blank, substantive blank
blank.”
Is it true, or is it not true, that the enquiry
into the allegations made by tbe condemned
prisoner Johns concerning his relations with a
female Blble-reader, who appears to have been
allowed tbe run of the gaol, has been made by a
board consisting of three officials—to wit, Messrs.
B. Fosbery (Inspector-General of Police), J. Cecil
Read (Governor of Darlinghurst Gaol),and Harold
Maolean (Comptroller of Prisons) ? And if It Is so,
how cornea it that the Executive Council are
guilty of the monstrous farce of appointing three
men to inquire Into an affair either directly or
indirectly concerning the official position of one
or more of their own number 7 Shades of Cordlnl,
done to death in the name of Law I This is veritably
the justice of the old regime.
We read in Society that “ some ingenious
mathematician calculated that In about 15 years, If
no welcome plague decimates the growing num-
bers of the Australian rabbits, every square foot
of the island-continent will contain ten of the
terrible rodents.” We wonder whether Society's
“eminent mathematician” has got ready the
square foot of land that will carry ten rabbits.
Another veracious home paper unsmillngly
asserts that cats In Sydney are readily purchased
by the squatters for Is. to Is. 3d. each if of the
Thomas persuasion, and that unscrupulous youths,
to supply the market, deprive many a lady of her
feline pet. How is it that these outlandish yarns
S>t into the English papers. Can it bo that J.
ennlker Heaton is in the habit of circulating
copies of the Noozb ?
This excerpt from the Cumberland Times
is a sample of what Plain Bill Dailey would call
“viHage criticism,” and the Herald dub sedition:
— Of all the lickspittle sycophants that ever de-
graded the honourable profession of Journalists
commend us to the creeping parasite who vented
his nauseating and slavish adulation in a leading
article in the Evening News of Tuesday last,
congratulating the country on its recognition by
Royalty, in that the decoration of K.C.M.G. has
been conferred on the Premier of New South
Wales by her Her Gracious Majesty Victoria, by
the Grace of God, Queen of Great Britain and
Ireland, Defender of the Faith; and Empress of
India, by the graceless audaeity of a Christianised
Jew and apotheosized Jingo.” It is well to see
John Ferguson, Esq., on his hind-legs.
From Mr. Bradbury’s “pome” written
for the Riverine Evening Star :—
“We will build a mighty monument, out from our
native stone.
And place thereon the names of those who, true
to honour’s call.
Amidst the tawny sons of Egypt, where pestil-
ence prevails,
Went to fight for England’s glory or to die for
New South Wales. “ (Chorus.)”
We beg to enter our protests—
A “toogood * ° f Pt0ne ’ you 8ay i D0 > • that were much
Wh ne° dfSl woo’! 1 ’’ tben fby ml « ht yleld tfM
",V t ** '» to ° weU ttat
T ° the fl braln°) baV ° Plbin Bllly m ld Contingent on
Hang Johns!
They are still haggling over the fate of Frank
Johns. Johns is a young man of 23 yean*
When 16, ha took to the bush with “ Captain Moon-
light.” He was light-headed and light-fingered.
It is unlikely the youth had anything which could
be called a conscience. Yet he could read and
write and make speeches. He loved the romance
of robbery, perhaps even with murder thrown in.
At Wantabadgery, he helped to kill a policeman.
This incident shattered his glorious dream of
plunder and outrage. He ’was caught, tried, and
sent up for execution. The sentence was com-
muted into imprisonment for life. From that
time till last February be kept out of the public
thought. Then he tried to murder a fellow-
prisoner in Parramatta Gaol. The crime appeared
to be premeditated, the occasion well-planned,
and the efforts to escape detection crafty. The
judge who tried him for this attempt at killing
was the same that had sentenced him to death six
years ago for participation in murder. Johns
started the plea of insanity. The theory was
supported by some of his fellow-prisoners, but
the scientific evidence went against him. The
judge said he utterly disbelieved the theory
The prisoner, finding he would not be taken
as Insane, proceeded to prove that he was one
of the best-informed and most promising men
of the day. “I have read Shakespeare, Burns,
Byron, and Shelley,” he declared to the Jury,
“and I feel that within myself there is something
synonymous with those men. I am now standing
on the threshold of greatness. Are you going to
kurl me Into an early and disgraceful grave ?”
Every word Johns said is not intelligible, but one
sees the direction his thought takes. He is close
upon the heels of a memorable man. Andrd
Chenier who, Bulwer tells us, was “ the original
of whatever is truest to Nature and genuine pas-
sion in the modern poetry of France,” when
ascending the scaffold cried, “To die so young!”
and, striking his forehead, he added: "There was
something Here!” Bulwer Lytton versified the
thought more than 40 years ago ;—
" And must I die so soon!” sighed forth the young
man, unresigned,
“ And leave this pleasant world before a name Is
left behind ?
I feel the glorious somethina stir within my
burning brain!”
But while Johns recommended himself in this
strain he destroyed the recommendation by
another revelation. “ Gentlemen,” he said, “when
I love, my passionate nature compels me to do so
to such a degree that, if it is not reciprocated,
earth and its enjoyments no longer present attrac-
tions to my spirit. The only desire of my heart is
to sink to rest in death’s oblivion!” The jury found
him guilty, but recommended him strongly to
mercy. The Judge then straightened himself and
went for the hare-brained criminal. He reminded
the prisoner that he had ordered him to be hanged
six years ago. He implied that if the hanging Had
taken place then, the prisoner would not be in his
E resent unenviable state. His Honor showed that
e was all the time the true Codiin, and that the
Executive Council were a short-sighted, miserable
corporate Short. This time, however, he ordered
the hanging to take place, and he felt sure the
business would come duly off. Fantastic as the
mind ®f Johns is, it necessarily occured to him
that there was still a chance that the whirligig of
time would bring it about that he would yet pass
sentence on his Honor. Johns would likely do it
with bis sense of grim satisfaction as little con-
cealed. The next important thing now is to fix
the day and get the things ready. We should
work ourselves into the spirit of the thing.
Hanging the man is legally, morally, religiously
our duty. Let us rise to the occasion. A
man is not hanged till his body kicks his soul into
eternity. Sometimes the soul does not want to
quit, and sets up a perversive wriggle. The pro-
prietor, anxious to obey the law, as if penitent
he will be, puts his heart into the kicks. When
fhls takes place, it is erroneously called a painful
scene. It is not a painful scene. It is the natural
outcome of a legal, moral, and religious law. There
will be a clergyman there. If Johns says
he believes what the clergyman tells him
he will be in heaven before the hangman can
get to the public-house opposite the gaol. There
will be several officials there, some of them chew-
ing tobacco and spitting at their shadows, and
others with hands in pockets betting on the num-
ber of kicks Johns will give. The Press will be
there with, on the whole, kindly feelings towards
Johns, but, at the same time, hoping that there
will be a few wild plunges, sensational struggles,
and shameful blunders, just to give a fellow a
chance to show how he can write. And the amiable
Nosey Bob will be there, eyeing everybody and
feeling the rope. Wriggle or no wriggle, however,
Johns’ soul will have to clear out. It will sail
away to some other planet, and the body, having
exhausted its battery of kicks, will be cut down
ana burled within the precincts of the prison. The
company that saw him off will go about their
business, after settling up their bets and chewing
more tobacco. The hangman will draw his wages
and possibly go off on the spree, and Prank Johns,
aged 83, will be forgotten. A man of 23 is too
young to make a judge of and far too young for a
bishop. At that age his reason is immature. Ho
lacks equipoise of judgment and emotion. But he
is plenty old enough and wise enough to hang.
To be hanged Is a right conferred upon him by a
beneficent Government. A man must be an out-
and-out idiot before he will be deprived of that
right. Johns is not an out-and-out idiot. There-
fore let us roll up with spirit and hang Johns.
The Marquis of Salisbury.
It Is a national misfortune that the proud and
able man whose “counterfeit presentment” ap-
pears upon the first page of our issue of to-day
should, by having been born in the aristocratic
order, be fettered with the traditions of a caste,
the tocsin of whose doom has been sounded by the
great British Democracy. For he might have
been a brilliant and successful leader of the peo-
ple, properly so-called—the attitude of whose
representatives renders it doubtful, at the time
we write, whether, after all, the Marquis of Salis-
bury will succeed in attaining office. But, even
should he do so, his tenure of Government will be
brief, and uncertain while it lasts, for neither he
nor any of his proposed colleagues ean be said to
possess a real grip upon what he, the bead of the
house of Cecil (which dates its glories from Queen
Elizabeth’s great Minister), is no doubt pleased to
call the British proletariat. Lord Salisbury suc-
ceeded to nls peerage and his wealth through the
death of his blind brother, the late Marquis. Long
ago, when plain Lord Robert Cecil, the nobleman
now nominated as Gladstone’s successor for many
and many a year tramped Fleet-street, London, as
a hard-working journalist.
The Contingent's March-Past.
Those who went to see the return of the Contin-
gent will not readily forget it. We went, and took
sufficient lumbago into our system to put us
easily over the winter. The Initial mistake was
made by Dr. Barry in praying for rain when he
knew the men were at sea, on their way home.
He surely might have waited till they arrived.
No such determined downpour has been witnessed
in Sydney for years. But the men landed all the
same, and (in a uniform which, however adapted
for a burning desert day, was terrible in a wet
Australian one), bravely trudged through slush
and blinding rain. The procession was funereal in
the extreme. It could not be otherwise. No
enthusiasm can stand a water-spout. Still, some
demonstrations of pleasure were shown, but
they were all reserved for the Contingent.
Mounted police, permanent artillery, volun-
teers, cadets, torpedo men, engineers, and
even Jack-tars passed without evoking a
cheer. We never expect a crowd, even on the
finest day, to cheer policemen, but we thought
the blue-jackets would get a salute. Policemen
do not look for cheers—except derisive ones. But
they make up for the loss by building terraces of
bouses after a few years’ service. It was not till
the Ssudan men came along that any demonstra-
tiveness was shown. Some of the men looked
hale and hearty, as if service in Africa was the
one thing of ail others that agreed with them.
But many looked worn and haggard, and will re-
quire both time and care to bring back the vigour
of a few months ago. We saw the beginning of
the movement—we watched its ending, and trust
we shall never witness either the inception or ter-
mination of a similar one. We have spoken to a
large number of the men. They have many real
causes of complaint—being put off with a month’s
pay among others. But their chief grievance is
the quality of the officers appointed to them.
These apparently supplied to the British of all
grades food for constant and harmless amusement
—thus relieving the dull sameness of camp life.
But they didn’t amuse the N.S.W. Contingent.
JUVENILE RUSTICS: “ HI 1 SIT DOWN IN FRONT.”
SHE; "QUICK I BEAR, ME TO THE BUEF.”
HE: “IN ONE TRIP? *'
SHE: "CERTAINLY."
BE: “AH, MADAME- -I’M THE BOLE SUPPORT OP A YOUNG FAMILY.”


Home, Sweet Home!


It is plain that the Cooktown people wil
Set declare war against the Germans In New
ulnea. Says the local Independent:— “if the
atttltude of the other colonies had been sustained
by the poltroon and jealous Scotchman, Sandy
Stuart, of New South Wales, no German flag
would have flown in New Guinea, and no French
syndicate would have dared to buy up, for brass
buttons, the heritage of New Hebridean chiefs
Mr. James Service, the Premier of Victoria, is a
representative legislator, loyal to the core for the
Crown, but more so for the colonies, and hi*
memory will be treasured in the history of con.
federated Australia as our Washington.”
Mr. Thomas Walker, Freethought lecturer,
has announced his intention of giving Ninian Mel-
ville a run for Northumberland at the next elec-
tion. “Ghosts” versus “Coffins” would shortly
describe the contest. We think the Returning
Officer will have to make a limit to the time
allowed for speaking. They should not be allowed
more than two days apiece. Rumour states, too
that the Minister for Lands will go for Wollombi’
that O. O. Hangar will oppose the much-banqueted
K. B. Smith, and that Mr. J. H. Want will try Gun-
dagai. Wo have heard of about 300 names for Bast
rjlUB SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANO,
The most Popular Instrument In the Colonies.
More are Imported and sold throughout Australia
than of any other make.
See advertisements for opinions of the greatest
musicians.
THE HAP3BURG PIANO,
A perfect model; a delicate touch ; strongest iron
frame ; all the latest Improvements.
THE
HAYDN ORGAN,
The best and cheapest Cabinet Organ; of loud and
sweet tone; durably constructed throughout;
an elegant article of furniture.
Prices range from 30 to 50 guineas.
BEALE AND COMPANY.
Sole Importers of the
SWEET HAPSBURG PIANOS, HAYDN ORGANS
and HARMONIUMS, the WONDERFUL
WERTHEIM SEWING MACHINES.
386 and 613 GEORGE STREET;
12 CENTRAL MARKETS ; and
151 OXFORD STREET.
Branches and Travellers throughout the Colony.
LIBERAL TERMS OF TIME-PAYMENT.
“ BEACH’S ”
CONSULTATION
ON THE
Hawkesbury Handicap, Metropolitan and
Melbourne Cup,
NOW OPEN.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10s. BACH.
First Horse, £350.
Address—
“BEACH,”
Care of J. G. Doeble,
Hotel, King and Pitt Street, Sydney
Please apply early.
Magic
Mirth
Mystery,
A NEW BOOK.
Containing over 350 Tricks
AND DELUSIONS WITH CARDS, DICE,
AND CONJURING APPARATUS.
Illustrated with blocks and diagrams, fully ef
plained, simplified, and adapted for home amus(
ment and social entertainments, forming the moi
complete collection of its kind ever offered to th
Australian public. Mailed free to any addref
ONE SHILLING.
THE WIZARD'S CHANGEABLE CARDS.
These cards change from Red to Black, fron
eights to deuces and back again at the pleasure oi
the performer, and elicit exclamations of wondei
and surprise from all who witness them. Pos
free, with full instructions, Is, 2d.
THE YANKEE RUBBER BABY.
Goes in the waistcoat pocket, yet can be instantlj
blown out to life size; screams awfully If smacked
Even experienced fathers are deceived by these
laughter-producing infants, and no home can be i
really happy one without their cheering presence
Price, post free, Is.
Cut this advertisement out and post it to us, en-
closing 3*. in postage stamps, naming this paper,
and we will send you by return post,
THE BOOKS, CARDS, AND BABY.
Address all communications:
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT
401 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
W. E. DEAPE & cc
MINING BROKERS AND AGENTS,
Mining Exchange,
FITZROY STREET, ROCKHAMPTC
Commissions entrusted to our care exeou ted •
Judgment and despatch. Latest Mining Int
Bence from the surrounding fields* “
Wolfe’s Schnapps la a remedy for most physi-
cal ailments, You cannot err by using it.
The Referee .
SPORTING FIXTURES.
I ft theta he glad to have thi* index petted up by
ueretariee of racing club* and managert of
tporting event* in general]
RAGING.
Blrdsvllle J.C. (8. A.) June 23,25
Lower Clarence J.C June 34
Victoria A.T.C Juno 27
Bairnsaale R.C. (V.) Jujy 1
Etsternwlok (V.) July 4
Brewarrlna J.C • • July 5
Walgett R.C Ju y 8, 9
Clarence River J.0 July 8.9
Moonee Valley (V.) Ju y 11
Rosehlll R.C July 18
Charters Towers J.C July 33,24
Canterbury Park R.C August 1
Tam worth R.C August 5.6
RosehIU R C • • • • August.8
Townsville (Annual) August 13,13
Canterbury Park R.C September 5
Hawkesbury (Spring) September 10 L
A.J.C. (Spring) September 19,23, 34,36
Rosehlll R.C .October s
Canterbury Park R.0 October 17
Canterbury Park R.C „ December 19
A.J.C. (Summer) December 26
Rosehlll R.0 December 28
AQUATICS.
Glebe Rowing Club Maiden Pairs -July 4
Clifford v. Kemp ... July 11
Newcastle R.C. Regatta September
M.R.C. Outrigger Race September
M. Branch Regatta October 10
ATHLETICS.
Kelly’s International Handicap... J une 27, J uly 1,4,6
Qulrlndl Handicap August 5, 6
Sir Joseph Banks Fourth Handicap.... August 33,
22, 38, 39
Mudgee Sheffield Handicap September 1
’CYCLING.
Balmain and Burwood B.C.’s Joint Race
Meeting. Association Ground July 18
N. ’Cyclist's Union Race Meeting July 35
Sydney Bicycle Club (Annual R.M.), Asso-
ciation Ground August 33
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Jack Hall is open to box any man his
weight for £30 aside.
A young light-weight boxer has been
showing the country bumpkins up Dralla way
what a little science is.
Alfred Shaw, the cricketer, it is said, re-
oelres £300 every year from Lord Sheffield for
coaching the Sussex Club for three months.
The London Echo says Beach made £3090
out of his last match with Hanlan. No doubt
Beach wishes the Echo always spoke the truth.
An effort, it is reported, is being made to
secure a team of orlouetlng amateurs ;for Aus-
tralia next winter. The Australians, It Is said (so
remarks an English paper), like English amateurs
better than professionals.
Mr. F. H. Shackelford, the Victorian crack
bicyclist, has just received from England a new
racer, B9-lnch “Challenge,” built to his special
order by Singer and Co., Coventry. The machine
is stated to be a “ regular beauty.”
William Cummings, the ten-mile English
champion, challenges the world to race any dis-
tance from one to ten miles, for from £100 to £1000.
It is a pity that the amateur status of W. G.
George will prevent him meeting the professional
cracks.
Tbe following oarsmen have been chosen
to represent the N.8.W. Telegraph Department in
the four-oared race with the Victorian Telegraph
Department, to come off next month on the
Parramatta River:—Messrs. Delaney, P. Knight,
R. C. Wills, and R. Musgrave.
What might have proved a very exciting
wager-boat race came off at Hexham last week
between J. Nailon and J. Torpee. However, the
prospects of Nailon were marred somewhat by his
rolling out of his boat shortly after the start; and
Torpee rowed over the course alone.
Lovely weather at Liverpool on Saturday
last for the local Jockey Club races. Freedom
won tbe June Handicap, after a great struggle
with Polestar; Miss Livingstone won the Public
Auction Stakes; Polestar made an easy win of the
Winter Handicap; the Selling Race fell to Princess
of Lome; and Junius appropriated the Ladies’
Bracelet.
5 Great was the consumption of “tangle”
In Balmain the other evening when It was known
that one of its bicyclists had covered the distance
from Windsor to Parramatta in Ihr. 40mln., and
claimed a “ record.” Greater still was the disgust
expressed when it was shown that the gentle
Richard, rather an outsider so far as powers of
riding are concerned, had romped over the same
ground in several minutes less. And now he
wishes he hadn’t rushed into print.
Says an English paper:—“Mr. Combe in-
forms 4 Pavo ’ that he has had innumerable offers
from foreigners for Peter, including one from
Australia, whose commissioner would have given
£10 000 for the horse; but as no price will tempt
him to sell, Peter will vacate his present quarters
at the Pound Stud at the end of the season for
Leybourne Paddocks, whose owner has leased him
lor three years at an annual rental of £1000.”
Another injustice to—Australia.
Tbe first spring meeting of the South Lon-
don Harriers (Eng.), Included a Thirty Miles Race.
Only two men competed, but the result was a
triumph for J. A. Squires, who lowered alt the ex-
isting amateur records (his own) from 26 to 30
miles. His opponent, O. A. Chalon, went off with
the lead, which be retained until the eighteenth
mile. After that he was beaten, and Squires ran
on gamely by himself. He covered 3tf miles in
2hrs. 47mln. Hseo., and the full distance in Bars.
17min. This is much faster time than any
previously done by an amateur.
Lees says there is no truth in the rumour
that he is anxious to have a shy at 44 Professor ”
Miller, and that 44 he would as soon think of chal-
lenging his father as his old teacher.” In reply to
a desire of Farnan's to meet Lees again for £50,
the latter says ho will not meet Farnan for Jess
than £200 a side, as he expects to get on a match
with Jackson for that amount. Farnan then re-
marks, according to a Melbourne paper, 44 If Lees
will not answer Hicken’s offer to back me, I will
give him £10 to box me in the presence of twelve
friends on either side, so that he can show them
what he can do with me.” We always gave Far-
nan credit for being a perfect glutton, but we
never thought his gluttony went to the extent of
wishing for a repetition of his bout with Lees, and
parting £10 for it at that.
A glove fight came off on June 1st, at
Auckland, N.Z . between Richard Matthews, the
young Ameri an who was recently In Sydney,
and Eugene Donovan, who was loosed upon as tne
local champion, Matthews wagering £30 that he
knocked his opponent out, with large gloves, in
four rounds, Queensberry rules. The first round
was pretty equal, but in the second, Matthews
followed his man all round the ring, swinging in
his right viciously, but only once got home with it.
Matthews fairly smothered his opponent in the
third round, and banging him right and left all
over tho ring', knocked nim silly with a right-
hander on the jaw. Donovan’s second ran and
picked him up, which, in any case, would have
lost the fight, but Donovan was 44 dead to the
world,” and fairly 44 knocked out.”
At the recently finished six-days’ pedes-
trian contest, 12 hours a day, at the Aquarium,
London (Eng.), Charles Rowell, of Chesterton.
took the first prize of £100, having travelled In 72
hours 430 miles—nearly 15 miles in excess of re-
cord, The other distances were:—Cartwright, 383
miles 9 laps; Mason, 370 miles 3 laps; Corkey, 343
miles 3 laps; Connor, 336 miles Claps; Sinclair, 310
miles 7 laps; J. Wade, 303 miles3 laps;and M’Carty
301 miles 8 laps. Perhaps the best performance of
the lot was that of Corkey, who is 57 years of age.
It must have been grand “sport” to see a poor
devil nearly three-score trudging footsore and
weary round a track for six days. And, by the
way, Corkey made but £7 by his plucky walk of
nearly 350 miles. Yet they talk about the brutality
°f boxing matches. We dare say the old man
Corkey suffered more anguish during his six days’
walk than any six men operated upon by even the
smasher, John L. Sullivan.
Lawn'-tennis players are warned that
special penalties In the way of disease are incurred
by two frequent indulgence in the game. The
first of these is “ the lawn-tennis arm,” caused by
a rupture of the muscle known as the pronatar
radii teres; and in aggravated cases, where players
have been too persistent In making back-handed
strokes, the muscular spiral nerve passing round
the elbow is strained and impaired. And the
second is known as the “ lawn-tennis leg,” when-
ever the plantaris longus, or other muscle of the
calf, is ruptured by violent field practice or rapid
serving. But, after all, every sport has its penalty.
Cricket entails the “ housemaid’s knee,” and foot-
ball has the “ umpire’s eye.” the first symptom of
which is a decision allowing “a trip," and the
“scrlmmager’s teeth,” which disease consists in the
too early disappearance of those useful articles.
Both of the latter disasters are preceded, and In-
duced, by Insanity.
The Indian Government has been buying
horses at. Rangoon for use in the event of war.
Unless the Rangoon Times is basely mendacious.
John Bull must be a poor horse-dealer, for it
says:—“At least 50 per cent, of them are worth-
less, and will never be able to do anything. The
average cost of each has been Rs. 100. The fact
that these animals are leaving Rangoon will ne
appreciated by the people. We have had enough
of miserable and half-emaciated looking animals
working in town. Their clearance will save trouble
all round. Of course, the expense is nothing: the
order has gone forth to spend and spare not. This
is good from a business point of view.” But what
matter about a few Rangoon horses. Has not
the British army acquired from our Contingent
“steeds such as the Imperial guards never be-
strode,” but which, perchance, many a blasphem-
ous ’bus-driver has anathematised ? These are
the animals that will work destruction—with the
compressed horse forage.
Ten competitors put in an appearance for
the light-weight Queensberry competition at
Foley’s Athletic Hall, on Friday and Saturday
nights. The room was fairly packed on both even-
ings, and the contests passed off, without an ex-
oeption, in the most orderly manner, both as re-
gards spectators and principals. First round:
Lawson beat Marquads. Thomas beat Harris,
Peaks beat Paterson, W.jFullen beatTamat, J. Fal-
len beat Ryan. Second round : J. Fullen beat
Thomas ■ Lawson beat W. Fullen, Peaks a bye.
Third round: Lawson a bye. J. Fullen beat Peaks.
Final heat: Lawson beat J. Fullen. Lawson, a
darkey, who first saw the light in New York,
strips splendidly, and in the first and second
rounds knocked his men out of time; Marquads,
who, by the way, did not seem to understand the
business upon which he had entered, giving it up
before the completion of a round; and W.
Fullen, who is a regular pocket Hercules, crying a
go at the termination of the second round. In the
final between the younger Fullen and Lawson.
Pullen managed, by generalship, to stay out the
four rounds, but had he stood up to the darkey, it
would have been all over in a much shorter
period. The best set-to of the two nights was
between Lawson and George Powell, who boxed a
bye. Powell is a pretty and effective boxer, and
had all the best of the bout, notwithstanding it
was a bye. Both boxers at times appeared to
warm to their work, but a “ steady boys,” from
Jack Thompson invariably brought an ease-down,
and a good-natured smile to their faces.
Lovely weather and surroundings went a
long way towards making the St. Ignatius College
Rowing Club Regatta a success on Saturday last;
but we are sorry to say nature was not backed up
by the Executive, who exhibited an execrable
want of punctuality in sending the races away,
and visitors who went to the Quay were not landed
till after 6 o’clock, a shade too late on a winter’s
evening. The race of the day was looked forward
to in the senior double sculls, for which G. Brett
and G. Seale, M.R.C.; and J. B. H. Kennedy and J.
G. Kennedy, and P. Hart and J. Thomson, both
S.R.C. crews, put in an appearance. Brett went
away from the start, and as it was soon seen he had
the race well in hand, all Interest centred in the
race between the two S.R.C. crews for second
place. The Kennedys got a clear length or more
away from their stable companions, but when
half the course had been covered, the plucky
little ’uns began to pick up lost ground, and, just
as an exciting struggle was Imminent, Thomson’s
coxswain fouled a post and spoilt the chance of
second place. Seale and Brett were never ex-
tended, and won by any number of lengths, the
brothers Kennedy second; and Thomson and
Hart, who were cruelly handled by their coxswain,
a couple of lengths away, third. Sydney Gram-
mar School (A. Thomson, R, WIndeyer, T. Hun-
gerford, and P. Stokesi made an easy win of the
All Schools’ race from St. Ignatius College. The
Rowing Club Malden Fours proved a great race
between Thorpe, Stobo, Charles, and Norwell
(M.R.C.); and Cockburn, Maitland, Cowley, and
M’Gregor (Glebe R.C ). The Mercantlles went
away from the start, and before half the course
had been covered had a couple of lengths lead,
but the Glebes commenced to pick up ground
after this, and, rowing In the most plucky manner,
wore their opponents down, and won eventually
with three lengths to the good. A couple of pair-
oar races wore also rowed during the afternoon,
and a flutter between Senior College Fours
brought the day’s sport to a finish.
A few of the bona fide amateurs are mak-
ing a stir in wheel circles with regard to the com-
ing Excelsior and Humber bicycle races, but, as a
rule, the Sydney cyclists appear quite contented
to allow the professional element to rule them in
the council and on the track. It was at first sup-
posed the race meeting In question was promoted
with a charitable object Inlvlew, but Bennett and
Wood last week boldly stated in print that the
day’s sport was purely an advertising venture, and
that if there were any profits after paying ex-
Eenses, they had no objection to the surplus
elng paid over to the charities. However, leav-
ing ths question of surplus out of the matter,
Bennett and Wood will, In all probability, win the
principal prizes themselves, in which event their
statement that the meeting “ has been promoted
In the interests of cycling generally ” should be
completed by the addition of “and the promoters
in particular.” Mr. Shackleford, the Victorian
amateur champion, withstood all sorts of Induce-
ments to come over and compete at this meeting,
and In return for his throwing away the chance of
winning between £300 and £300 worth of prizes in
his endeavour to keep amateur bicycling pure,
he was last week threatened by the D.T.
that as he refused to come over and meet Bennett.
It was not likely the latter would oppose him at
the Sydney Bicycle Club meeting In August.
However, there is no knowing what stir the Ex-
celsior and Hunter meeting will cause in ’cycling
circles, and the bona fide amateur railers against
it may change their tune should it be the means of
altering the colonial amateur definition. Even
Messrs. Prinoeps and party will then agree with
Bennett and Wood, “ that the meeting was pro-
moted in the in the Interests of ’cycling gener-
ally.”
We give below a portrait of Mr. George
Seale, the well-known Sydney “all-round”
amateur athlete, who is equally at home with the
Sieves, on the water, or In the cricket or football
elds. As an oarsman, Mr. Seale has, in a remark-
ably short period, won 13 races. He rowed with
the N.S.W. intercolonial eight-oar crews In the
years [1884 and 1885; and his latest performance on
the water was on Saturday last, when, In connec-
tion with Mr. W. G. Brett, he won the senior
double sculls at St. Ignatius’ College regatta. In
'79- 80 season Mr. Seale as a cricketer secured
three trophies for batting and bowling—highest
Individual score—85; most number of wickets
in a match—8 wickets for 9 runs; and bowl-
ing average. In ’83-'83 he again won the
bowling average, beating, amongst others, P.
Marr, of intercolonial fame, but since then he has
not played much. As a footballer under N.S.W,
Association rules, he played in 1882 against the
Geelong team, and in 1883 against the South Mel-
bourne team a id the Adelaide team; and with the
East Sydney Club be played against Adelaide,
since which match he has deserted football for
good. But good as Mr. Seale has proved himself
at the sports mentioned, it is with “ the gloves ”
that he particularly shines. He stands right foot
foremost, and is a natural two-handed fighter of
admirable science. Mr. Seale's only match so far
has been with Mr. Tighe, a gentleman of the
rough-and-tumble order of box«rs, for a 50 guinea
trophy, upon which occasion Seale's science and
hitting power completely smothered his opponent,
who was never “ in it.” As we have no amateur
in Sydney who cares to tackle him, an endeavour
was made to match him with Mr. Brinsmead. the
English amateur, but as we stated in a previous
lame, we are sorry to say there is very little
chance of the pair meeting. As an amateur, he
has, we believe, no equal in Sydney, and it is the
opinion of “ those who ought to know, you know,”
that the professionals at his weight are few and
far between who could best him in a Queensberry
encounter, Mr. Seale is 23 years of age; stands
5ft. 8J4in. in his socks: measures 38in. round chest;
llMin. forearm; biceps; 15in. calf; and
weighs in condition about 10st. lOlbs.
“JAPANESE DOGS,” SAYS THE “QUEEN,” “ABE NOW FASHIONABLE.”
MR. G. SEALE.


COMPMNONI CATERING GO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, STDNRV " ■ kill
THE oldest and leading Catering Establishment in m a m
Municipal Council of Sydney, the A.J.C., City Club' 8 \n' .Caterers to His Worship the Mayor,
The Dining Saloons for Ladies and Gentlemen are the Vv™~
__ TTT FIRST-CLASS MENU D AILYr Private Rnr’ a ° d Jo f West In the colony.
&T GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be hadofan^fr~ G 2 od Wine Liat -
Theatres, delect your own steak, *c., and see It griUed ln tho V™m fr °™i 8 f to £ P m - (after the
° r the city, and a long-felt waut. Inspection invited I? P ne the acquisitions
and City Club, upstairs. *7 i« iPSL the Prince Alfred Yacht Clue
— — ‘ “■ TOLLKMACBE. General Manager.
® r ay <Sc Liiclitner,
39 O CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
importers :of supplies
ra
V
S5
co ,<u
ft
<5>
e-s
•+-.
5k
• S,
<Q£
O-
u<
t*
c
=k
‘k
K
5b
c
9,
<5
5*
<k
s;
«k
55,
&
ki
S
'W'-'-Z
:€%
7a
m
%(•- %
Catalogues post free
TO ANY PART OF
AUSTRALIA.
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied, *£best,
and Cheapest in the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments.
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass' Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage In the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTBLL & 00
Sole Agents. **
JAS. LAWSON & SONS,
ART-FURNITURE MAKERS.
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN.
Corner of William-street, Hyde Park.
High-class Furnlfuro
At Very Lowest Prices, compatible with the finest
workmanship and finish, for entrance hniij
dining-rooms, drawing-rooms, bedrooms,
and libraries.
CARPETS IN NEWEST DESIGNS AND
FINEST QUALITY.
WILTON CARPETS, BRUSSELS CARPETS.
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS/
With Hearthrugs to match.
mr CORLICINE AND LINOLEUM.
BEDSTEADS IN BLACK AND NICKEL AND
BLACK AND BRASS.
In all sizes and various designs.
A. & C. HUEMERBEIM’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
SIS GEORGE STREET,
Next Peapes and Shaw.
B r~ The most liberal house for Pianos and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cobdiallt Intitmd.
A- & C. ZZuenerbein,
818 GEORGE STREET.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
j. Linen,
608 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
Hi gf IK
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL-PLATED
BEDSTEADS,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRA88ES
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR,
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
&G., &0. , i
T
0 A L L W 0 M
HAVE YOU USED i
LEWIS & WHITTY'S
B N
I Borax Soap
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERT
IN SOAP I
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with It;
HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and OUTS,
»nd make the skin soft and wiilte.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE,
I*" by ev &tT Storekeeper and Qrooer at
Sole Manufacturers :
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY
jpgsi^EoFurel
e only infallible remedy for
/ER/oifsJJEBllljY
■ * H *!L Invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
‘iffH? 8 ’ *P«rmatorrhcea, and all urinary
wi*? causes Incapacity and degeneracy
andpartia! prostration, and every otherei
der »OF«ment of the system; regenerating
■JU*® Important elements of the human frame,
S£n man to fulfil his most sacred obllga-
cases 13s., or four quantities is one for
#6«. f If by coach, 2s. §d. extra. Agents for Sydney.!
BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulbum-
strest. One Door from George-street South.
Rev. Father Wilds’
EXPERIENCE.
The Rev. Z. P. Wilds, well-known city
missionary In New York, and brother
of the late eminent Judge Wilds, of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, writes
as follows:
“78 E. 54th St., New York, May 1C, 1882.
Messrs. J. C. Ayee & Co., Gentlemen : •
Last winter I was troubled with a most
Uncomfortable Itching humor affecting
more especially my limbs, which itched so
intolerably at night, and burned so Intense-
ly, that I could scarcely bear any clothing
over them, I was also a sufferer from a
severe catarrh and catarrhal cough; my
appetite was poor, and my system a good
deal run down. Knowing the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, by observation of
many other cases, and from personal use
in former years, I began taking it for the
above-named disorders. My appetite im-
proved almost from the first dose. After
a short time the fever and itching were
allayed, and all signs of irritation of tho
skin disappeared. My catarrh and cough
were also cured by the same means, and
iny general health greatly improved, until
it is now excellent. I feel a hundred per
cent stronger, and I attribute these results
to the use of tho Sarsaparilla, which
I recommend with all confidence as the
best blood medicine ever devised. I took
it in small doses three times a day, and
used, in all, less than two bottles. I place
these facts at your service, hoping their
publication may do good.
■, Yours respectfully, Z. P. Wilds.”
The above Instance is but one of the many
constantly coming to our notice, which prove
the perfect adaptability of Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla to the cure of all diseases arising
from Impure or impoverished blood, and a
weakened vitality.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cleanses, enriches, and strengthens the blood,
stimulates the action of the stomach and
bowels, and thereby enables the system to
resist and overcome the attacks of all Scrofu-
lous Diseases, Eruptions of the Skin, liheu-
matism, Catarrh, General Debility, and all
disorders resulting from poor or corrupted
blood and a low state of the system.
PREPARED BY
Dr.J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists; price $1, six bottles
for $5.
Best
AYER’S
CATHARTIC
PILLS. 3)
Purgative Medicine
cure Constipation, Indigestion, Headache, and
all Bilious Disorders,
• Sold everywhere. Always reliable. 1
ELLIOTT BROS, and S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
.EfORg UOUSTAOES aadTTHISEEES. EEFOna after
Boyd’a Beard Flixirdid this,and
toxll do it on either bald head or
bare fate. Forces heavy JIous-
tar he in from 3 to 4 weeks and never .
Jails, 20.000 young men already \ / ~ \ ~ /
- , - - - wear full beards, having used I to Copyrighted .
,° Xnj *P> eajsil V applied, certain in effect. Packets-Is. Gd.
COCA,3/»r 3s. bd.,post paid sent under cover, free from observation .
Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent, Box 7iJ0 t G.P.O., Sydney,N.S. W*
Copyrighted.
TH£ LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOORAPHY.
_
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
AVARIAN
B
ITTERS.
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
Made of the beet Bavarian Hops. Superior to any
other.
They take the first place wherever tried, and are
well authenticated by eminent medical men and
well-known analysts.
Read the reports and testimony which aooom
pany each bottle, and do not forget to make a
trial of BAVARIAN HOP Bitters.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
"CT 2n.d.erta,ltcer,
84 HUNTER ft PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also.
Manager for over ten (10) years.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found It at
last with the Argosy Braces at Cowing Bros.
2
1
■Jhii
V
GOWING BROS.
Have Just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces I
Argosy Braces, 2s. 6d.. 3s., 3s. Od.,4c 4s. 6
GOWIMG~ BROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, A
S82 and 498 fieoriMtrNt.
&
km
fl“ 'KffSpA
km
*
m
-“Mr. 'William Ball.—Dear Sir,— Allow me to sa;
that I find your ‘ Bloom of Peaches ’ superior t
anything: of the kind that I ever used before.-
Yours truly, Emelib Melville.”
“ Dear Sir,—1 have never used anything equal tc
your‘Bloom of Peaches.’— Maggie Moore.”
“ Dear Sir,—I have the greatest pleasure in re
commending Mr. Ball’s ‘ Bloom of Peaches ’ anc
‘Fett-Puder’ as being invaluable.—Yours truly
Alice Bees.”
To be obtained of all chemists.
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
“ FETT-PUDER,” a delicate and Invisible
powder for the face. Beautifully perfumed
White, Pink, or Cream, to suit all complexions
Price, 1/6 per box.
Manufactured only by
WILLIAM HALL,
Tho “ Professional ” and Pharmaceutical Chemist
61 BOUKKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale Agents for Sydney ;
Messrs. E. PROSSER & CO., Wholesale Chemists
GIBBS & CO.p
HOUSE, LAND AND GENERAL AGENTS
Bond-street Chambers, Bond-st., Sydney,
WOULD respectfully call the attention of the
public to the following
Owners are reminded that by sending in partlcu
Jars of the properties they have for sale, their
Insertion is guaranteed in our list, and thus a cheap
mode of advertising secured.
No sale no commission, is our motto. We do not
expect, because a property is placed in our hands
(but sold by the owner himself), payment, except
for money actually expended out of pocket in
advertisements.
Intending purchasers should send for our
Monthly List, which contains full particulars of
every class of property from the cottage to the
mansion.
Houses Let, Kents Collected, and Estates
Managed. Prompt Account Sales Rendered.
A Trial is Respectfully Solicited.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
EniUik Papers and Magazines received by
•very Mall.
ROYAL ARC ADI, OBORfil ST. iM 8YDN1T


pIPBNITPlIB SHOW HOOm.
BRADLEY,NEWTON. and LAMB.
0 Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
H A CHAI^LARgI\88QR^^t^^ 1^
rRNITFRB, CKNTRE~and~arrvT
0 B D%% C^ F f lH .? ECKBT^*
IBRARY FURNITURE
TABLES. BOOKC
DING and LOUNGE
Drawing-room suiter fashioi^wf^^rr
* a11 prioeB - Bradiey ’ wewMriSa
CABINETS for Choice China~^~'
La E mb BGANT * 3U8trecelv^Bradfe.
N 0 slSI. 8 tS“^ R wr.?S d %S 55v
BDROOM SUITES complete In variourwonrtT
and very handsome designs, with 7 t2h
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for sinti
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTrfk?
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets. Sydney '
Ii] ight-pofnd BEDROOM SFITEslUrh
Economic Bedroom Suita, comprising war*
robe, chest drawers, washatand, dressing tabled
glass, and two chairs. Th® lot for £8. BRA tit
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-rtreet. ***
BDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early En»iilir
Designs).-WARDROBE, 4ft., with
door; WASHSTAND, with marble £2
and tue back and Towel rail; TOILET TART if
with swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL ffmT
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT (3HAIR8,16 guinea
. BRADLEY. NEWTON. andLAMR*
CHEAP PFRN1TFRB.—Pine Tables.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 20s.;
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands from Lfc .
8t °XJ?,? lw 1 ers ’ f 5 om Wardrobes, from 8to!
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboard
from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLev*
NEWTON, & LAMB. Spring and O’Connell
£
L.
i?QK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed souna
strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves foi
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
/"VVBRMANTBL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashlon-
V/ able designs In Black and Gold, with Side
ln 0ak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB. *
CCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also elegantly finished In
Embroidery, Plush, &c.
jpiHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective deslgnl
VJ Just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O Connell-stroet.
NAMELLED and JEWELLED MIRRORS, for
Wan and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
rormlng Summer Screens for fire grates. Verv
«eU.sr t DLEY - NEWT0N * and LAM^
T^RA WING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
JLf A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
H r AIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR.
LOFNGB, or BED. Very handy and Inez-
penalve. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’ConneU-gt.
OILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
FULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM-SIDE-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE.
OVERMANTEL, COFCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARVl
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’CoHnell-street.
jINING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 6 feet long and up to 20 feet.
D
8
HLF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR-
Patented.
V
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in any
material.
SS A ‘ IR and COUCH for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
B
AGATELLB BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
assortment In Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
, for dining-room ffrni.
TURE, Handsome and Massive, In Oak,
and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
P *0 BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
B
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
BEDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BIDDING.— Ail descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Coa.
neii and Spring streets.
mar ble, from 25s. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
AWN and PARK SEATS 6 feet long. Rustic
Cast-iron Standards, 15s. each. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb.
BENTWOOD FURNITURR.-A very eomplM
AJKrtmrat; bait auk*. Umest prices.
Wherever you go always ask and obtain the
celebrated Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Ball Boom Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated wit*
flap and floral decorations. Artistic effects skll-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 60i Hunter-street. Sydney.*
Wolte’s Schnapps should he ia eyery Camp
vA68t|
SOCIAL
Mias Ada Marks, one of the prettiest of
our Sydney daughters of Israel, was, last Thurs-
day, married in the great synagogue, to Mr. Na-
hum Barnet, architect—son of Mr. Isaac Barnet,
of Melbourne. The bride was attended by four
maids, the Misses Lena, Maude, and Ruby Marks,
sisters of the bride, and Miss Minnie Marks, of
Marita. Darllnghurst. The ceremony was wit-
nessed by a large crowd, nearly all friends of the
bride or bridegroom. Rabbi Davis performed the
ceremony, and after the customary destruction of
a wine glass, the “Wedding March” was per-
formed by the organist. The party proceeded to
Cambrian Villa, Potts Point, the residence of Mr.
Ben. Marks, the uncle of the bride, where a re-
ception was held from 3 to 0 o’clock. The happy
pair then left for Sandringham, where they honey-
moon. Wedding presents unusually costly and
numerous.
• • *
The concert given on Thursday in the
New Masonic Hall, in aid of the prize fund of the
Fort-street Model School, was, spite of the weather,
well attended, greatly to the satisfaction and even
surprise of Mr. Alpen. The most noticeable
feature in the performance was Miss Ida Alpen’s
rendering of “Sing, sweet bird.” The child has a
clear and fine soprano voice, and certainly gives
great promise as a vocalist, taking as she does, E
and F in alt, with apparently the greatest ease.
Of course the concert could not pass off without
a song about the Contingent, and of course there
was some of the inevitable fun to be poked
at them. We are getting tired of this constant
holding up of the Contingent to ridicule. Our
hearts (and sides) are still sore from the perusal of
the narrative of “ Darius Kltt,” one of the sur-
vivors (price 6d. at any booksellers), and now our
friend, Herr Hugo, has joined the ranks of those
who consider our noble fellews flt subjects for
mirth. While the song was being sung, six small
boys, evidently Intended as a burlesque upon the
Contingent, disclosed a tableau vivant, represent-
ing Britannia receiving the troops from N.S.W.,
which we regarded as a sarcastic reference to the
fact that they were not ordered to England. We
presume all this was not done in order to distract
our attention from the words and music, but it
certainly had that effect. But taking it altogether,
’twas a pleasantly spent evening, and Mr. Alpen is
to be congratulated upou the performance which
went far to prove that, as a musical instructor for
youngsters, it would be hard to find his equal.
* * v
We were fairly satiated with patriotic
songs, marches, etc,, composed by local talent,
when the Contingent departed, and now that they
are back again we have to face the agony once
more. “Our Boys' Welcome Home,” words and
music by N. La Feuillade, of Hlscocks' Federal
Minstrels, has the biggest chance of becoming
popular; firstly, because it is sung and played in
grand style at the Academy, and, in the second
place, it is about tbe best output of the whole lot.
It has a jolly swing about it which sounds some-
thing like a welcome. “ Welcome Home March,”
by Alfred Hermes, is written in F minor. This
composition sounds altogether too sad for a wel-
come, but perhaps the composer felt that way
when he was writing it; no doubt it affected him
to think our “brave boys” were coming back
without more glory. Call it anything but a “ Wel-
come Home March,” and it isn’t a bad composi-
tion. “ All ready and all one,” words by Gerald
Massey, and music by Austin Turner, is altogether
too full of memories oi other music we have beard
to be unacceptable. Brinley Richards is lately
dead, so it may be that a part of his musical
soul has been transplanted into Mr. Turner's
being, for there are not a few reminiscences of the
Welsh composer’s songs la this “All ready and all
one.” Nothing that reminds us of Brinley
Richards can be displeasing, and that is the best
thing we can say for the music of “All ready and
all one.” It is enough to say of the words that
they are by Gerald Massey. “ Delusion Valse,” by
Josef Meissler, is an attractive morceau, and is
bound to become popular in our ball-rooms and
drawing-rooms, It has a graceful frontispiece,
and can be purchased from Paling and Co.,
George-street. Lardelll Is putting out some more
good music, to wit—“ Nocturne in G flat,” which
is quite a study m fiats and double flats; and “ Be-
side the sea,” a sweet song, but so melancholy that
only a fit of indigestion can rival it in its effects
upon a sensitive nature. Some people, however,
like to be melancholy, and to those we can safely
recommend “ Beside the sea,” which they can get
from Paling’s.
♦ * *
About 250 people met to enjoy the fourth
annual ball of the Sydney Owl Club last Thursday
night at the Town Hall. These Owls always go
for some kind of a novelty at their balls; this time
it consisted in cages of real live birds being snugly
placed in every recess; cockatoos, parrots, and
various other species. They seemed a bit scared
at the proceedings at first, but soon settled down
and took everything calmly and as a matter of
course. Very few fancy dresses were worn, and
those neither startlingly original, nor specially
attractive. Perhaps the best was the Morning
Star (Mrs. Nunn), which was a pale blue satin,
studded with small silver stars, and fastened on the
crown of the head; embedded In pale blue tulle,
was one large sllverstar, simulating the planet we
never see unless we have been to an Owl
Club ball or some other giddy affair. Lawn
Tennis was a white serge skirt, trimmed with
scarlet bands, and a loose Garibaldi jacket, with
cuffs and collar of scarlet; white Tam O'Shanter
hat touched with scarlet. The dress was
simple enough, but was made attractive by
reason of the wearer’s bright and pretty face. A
black and white striped jockey costume was fairly
good, and a French riding costume rather jaunty.
America was personated by a very small maidan,
and Harvt st might have been anything else. Miss
Menser, a young debUante, wore an appropriate
dress of white satin and cashmere, tastefully orna-
mented with nearls and lace. Mrs. Menser, black
lace and brocaded velvet with festoons of coral-
coloured flowers across the skirt, and a wreath of
same on the head. Mrs. C. Huenerbein looked
queenly in a pink satin dress, and Miss Huenerbein
wore a white lace skirt studded with the palest
blush roses, white satin corsage, adorned with
white ostrich feathers. Mrs. Patrick looked ex-
ceedingly handsome in a white skirt, with pale
maize satin bodice and loops of same colour ribbon
on the skirt. Mrs. T. Clark wore a pretty white
satin much trimmed with lace and pearls.
A beautiful dress worn by Mrs. Foster was
white mervellleux satin, out low with short
sleeves. Festoons of ivy leaves were car-
ried down and round the skirt, amongst which
nestled here and there small birds. Miss
Patrick in her fresh beauty set off a black
net skirt and old gold satin bodice. Mrs. M'Garvey
wore her beautiful bridal dress of rich white silk
and boniton lace. The handsome train of another
bride’s dress swept the floor-that of Mrs. de
Groen—being a rich shimmering white satin and
lace. Mrs. Lloyd looked well in a deepish blue
satin well covered with cream Spanish lace, and
profusely adorned with pearls. Two sisters wore
very deep pink cashmeres trimmed with pink
plumes. A very handsome fawn-satin skirt, draped
with beautiful lace, had a bodice of fawn velvet
trimmed with pink feathers—a very beautiful
costume. A striped pink and white silk was neat
and lady-like. Conspicuous was an orange
satin trabi and bodice made quite plain and relieved
In front By a wide panel of plum-coloured velvet,
an orange tuft in the hair. An elaborate costume
was of cream veiling, handsomely relieved by
ruby plush—the whole of the front width being
entirely of the plush embroidered with pearls in
diamond pattern. A simple, plain black lace dress,
cut low, and showing fair shoulders, was a wel-
come relief to all the more brllllant-hued costumes.
A gorgeous coral pink satin and ruby velvet
loolwd riviJi twUMi SmieU taw with is Urn-
merlngs of crimson satin showing under the well-
out bodice, was tasteful. Kopff’s band did some
good work, and Mr. Menser, who donned his red
coat and helmet during the evening, helped to
make things lively. The “Surprise” quadrille was
an improvement upon that of last year, and Com-
pagnoni s catering excellent as usual.
* * *
The sports of the Royston College boys
tended by a numerous and brilliant crowd
last Wednesday afternoon. The trams were
crowded, but nobody minded the squeezing, as
the weather was cold and the girls all very nice,
Twosisters wore costumes of maroon and pink,
plush hats with pink leathers. Signora Majeronl
was sweet and smiling in a pink bonnet shaded
with black lace and fur tippet. Mrs. Williamson
a fashionable-looking green costume, and the
Misses Coleman, the one claret, and the other a
becoming green attire. From Glebe Point came a
young lady, whose name we cannot spell. In a
moss-green dress, green velvet high hat and white
feathers. A tall, fair girl from Macquarle-street
wore a grey Alpine hat, with scarlet wing, and a
f green costume touched with crimson. The elegant-
and well-chosen prizes were worth competing for,
and have been exhibited in a Qeorge-street win-
dow for a week past.
♦ * ♦
The Mayor of Prahran, Mr. G. W. Taylor,
a wealthy auctioneer, is determined to enhance
his popularity at whatever cost. So on the 35th
Inst., he gives a ball in the local Town Hall, which
bids fair to be the event of the season. Over 1300
invitations have already been accepted, and no ex-
pense is being spared by the hospitable man to
mske the affair a big boom.
* ♦ ♦
Orange was again lively last Friday night,
when No. 2 of the series of winter parties was held
in Whippel’s Hall. Two Bathurst sisters looked
very neat in white. A visitor from the metropolis
In black, with blue trimming, attracted consider-
able attention. A very neat dancer was in all
Pi“* Md a sister in black had many admirers. A
tall lady from the outskirts of the town shone at
her best when she was waltzing, her grace in that
dance of dances being above the average. Kain
and mud considered, the party was very successful.
• « •
At Muswellbrook, last Friday night, the
urst social of the season was held In the local
school of Arts. All the dresses were pretty, pale
blue being tho predominating colour, but several
w 0l S were a nice contrast, and served to
set off the lighter tints. The beUeshlp lay between
a visitor from Maitland in cream, and a local lady
i J?^ ue » trimmed with coffee laoe. Two young
ladies from Singleton wore effective dresses of
cream and cardinal. A pink veiling, embroidered
and trimmed with jetted laoe, was noticeable. A
young lady from Parkes wore grey and cardinal,
and another from Qulrlndl pale blue and sliver. A
navy satin, trimmed with laoe, came from Goul-
bourn. lor a wonder, the gentlemen were as
numerous as the ladies, so of wallflowers there
were none.
• • »
A few of the friends of the purser of the
Duplelx|entertained him at a picnic, previously to
bis departure from our shores. The merry party
starting from Circular Quay, dodged about the
harbour till, hunger pressing sore upon them, they
landed at Cremorne, whore lunaheon awaited
them. The good things being duly disposed of, the
toast of " Our Guest ” was proposed by Mr. Jewell,
aodsuitably responded to by Mr. Bwosch. The
light fantastic was not forgotten, and ’twas here
the talents of one young gentleman asserted them-
selves. Loving couples sauntered out to enjoy
the moonlight. Having spent an enjoyable day,
the entertainers, after drinking the health of Cap-
tain da Tanoon, landed at 10 o’oiook.
• • 9
May Day is still observed in some parts of
England. The festival at Whlteland's College,
Chelsea, instituted and maintained by Mr. Ruskin
this year, surpassed any of the previous celebra-
tions. The May Queen was chosen by means of
secret voting, and was then led away to be robed
and crowned. Departing from tradition, the girls
chose a beautiful brunette, not for her beauty nor
learning, but, like the of Nauterre, simply
because, In the “ fierce white light ” of her school-
fellows she had done her duty and made herself
beloved. Returning to her throne in the full
glory of robe, crown, and gold cross, the queen
proceeded to present such of her subjects as she
deemed worthy of the honour, with volumes of
Mr. Ruskln’s works, bound In sumptuous purple
calf, and given for that purpose by the author.
The Paul Mall Gazette says:—“ It was particu-
larly pretty to notice the smue of recognition that
the queen—pale and nervous else—would give as
some particular friend came up to kiss hands on
receiving a prize; but, Indeed, In every way the
scene was as pretty as could be, as delicately
worked out, and as full of suggestion as a sentence
In one of Mr. Ruskln’s books themselves.”
• • »
It has been reserved for the Mittagong
people to Introduce a new ball-room diversion.
The other night, at a ball given in the Canterbury
Hall, In ald'of the Mittagong brass band, a young
fellow of military proclivities was told off to place
a wreath upon the head of the belle. Was it In-
decision or fear that made him pause ere he
gently placed it on the brow of the fair daughter
of a retired hotel proprietor clad ;in bronze-green
satin ? We wouldn’t have been in that young
man’s shoes for a cool kingdom. Imagine how the
other girls must have loved him I And again, after
supper, there was a prize offered for the best lady
and gentleman dancers. Oaly four couples, how-
ever, had the courage to compete, and the prize, a
silver bracelet, again fell to the lot of the lady in
the bronze-green satin, and a gold pin was
awaided to her partner, but whether It was for his
skill In dancing or because he had shown such good
taste in his choice of a partner, the legend doesn’t
say. We are greedily looking forward to the next
account of a ball from the classic regions of Mit-
tagong, and are expecting to hear of a prize being
offered to tbe girl with the biggest foot, or to one
who weighs the most—indeed nothing from that
quarter would surprise us now.
♦ * * *
The Mutual Imps give their ball next Mon-
day, the 39th. It Is to be an exclusive affair, only
the members of the order being able to obtain
tickets, and the names of the ladles they escort to
be submitted on approval Another Petersham
social next Friday night. If small thefts at semi-
public or private parties continue, Sydney people
will shortly have to follow the New York
custom of inviting a detective to their dances
Mr. Francois IRobert Peel gives a grand compli-
mentary concert In the Glebe Town Hall to-night.
— No American ball this yearl Only a garden
party at Botany. This comes of the 4th of July
falling on a Saturday Mayor of Cooma about to
give a ball—some 150 Invitations already Issued.
—The late ball at Junee Junction, In aid of
Wagga Wagga Hospital and Junee Mechanics’
Institute, realised over £66 ...Fancy Fair in Bris-
bane, great success—Mrs. Wallace, as usual, eclipsed
most of the Brisbane girls in her beauty and attire.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Social to be given by the bachelors of
Mitchei, Weinart’s Victoria Hall June 35.
Mr. Francois Robert Peel’s Complimentary
Concert, Glebe Town Hall June 35.
Champion Amateur Bicycle Meeting, Asso-
ciation Cricket Ground June 37.
Imps’ Ball, Needs’ Boom June 39.
Masonic Social (Fidelity) .Exhibition' June 30.
Masonic Lodge of St. Andrew’s Social, ves-
tibule of the Town Hall, Thursday July 3.
American Garden Party, Botany July t
Sydney, Wednesday.
Mv Dear Belle,—I told you some time back,
did I not, about the French ladies’ custom of
making: merry In honour of having: obtained a
divorce from their husbands ? I also gave you
my opinion that we English could never, never be
so extremely indelicate as that, but, oh I m bdle,
we live and learn, for here in our own Sydney, a
lady who served a notice of a divorce suit upon
her husband the other day, was so overjoyed even
at the prospect of her freedom from the marital
yoke, that she actually gave a ball the very same
evening I She moves in fashionable society, and
has grown-up sons and daughters. I don’t believe
I ever shall understand how a woman can live half
her life with her husband, before she discovers she
has got hold of the wrong man. I don’t think it’s
either fair to him or to her children to And it out
so late in the day, do you ?
I used to feel quite sorry for our Sydney street
arabs, and fancy they were a neglected, ill-used
lot of little fellows, but, dear, I am gradually
being convinced that some of them are very, very
naughty young scamps, who are proof against
any kindness. Only the other day, one dirty-faced
little monkey came into a tram-car selling penny
time-tables, and found so few customers that I
purchased three Just out of pity for the hungry-
looking larrikin. Not having any smaller coin, I
handed the lad half-a-orown. asking, at the same
time, if he bad any change. Oh yes, he bad change,
but I inwardly wondered what the mischievous
look signifled. I soon found out. for the object
of my misplaced pity nimbly skipped off the oar
and ran away with my half-crown—but he need not
have put hlsjthumb to his nose and looked so in-
tensely delighted when the tram started, and
left him possessed of his ill-gotten money—that
was quite too bad of him. If he had looked just
the least bit sorry and repentant, I think I could
have forgiven him, but as it was, I soothed myself
with a solemn vow that I would never again con-
cern myself about these saucy little specimens of
humanity. My chance of carrying out this reso-
lution came a few hours later, when a vendor of
the “ Life of General Gordon” pamphlets was very
urgent that I should buy one, but visions of my
lost half-crown helped to harden my heart, and I
was adamant—yet the moment after I had reason
to be sorry that I had swerved from my usual
course, for the dreadful language which was
levelled at me, was something awful, and actually
made me tremble—and all because I declined to
buy what I really didn’t want. I think some-
thing should be done to persuade these little
pests to be more gentle in their demeanour
to ladles; if only the police authorities knew how
easily they can, and do, frighten us silly creatures,
I am sure they would feel sorry for us, and have
their behaviour more closely watched. And yet
these same little rascals are very funny at times;
for example, in George-street, this morning, one
called out, “Jump up behind, room for two,’’
at the same time pointing to a lady pass-
ing who wore an enormous improver. If a
look had power to kill, that boy must surely have
dropped down dead there and then. They say that
every living creature in this world has its use,
however objectionable it may be, so it appears to
me that one vocation of the Sydney larrikin is to
ridicule our silly fashions. If they would only
devote themselves a little more to that and less to
stealing half-crowns and swearing at ladles who
decline to buy their wares, they might yet become
quite useful members of society.
As a rule, the Queensland men are fond of a
really good fight, and it seldom happens that there
is a ball at Government House, Brisbane, with-
out at least one couple finding an excuse for
gratifying their love of the ennobling amusement.
At the last Government House ball, which came
off Just the other day, the Hon. George Thorne-
big, handsome George—had some words with Mr.
It. B. Sheridan over some trifle er other. It ended
in good-natured George giving Mr, S. a bit of his
mind, and an Invitation to go outside and hate his
nose pulled. Well, now, I always knew ho (the
Hon. George) was kind and generous, but I
wouldn’t have believed he would ever have gone
so far as to give away a bit of his mind—a com-
modity he can so ill spare—and to his enemy, too.
Here’s what an American says Is ‘‘playing euchre
with a woman.” After the cards sre dealt roundl
she begins: “Whose play is it? Who took that
trick ? What’s trumps ? What was the lead ?
Whose ace is that ? Did I take that ? What’s
trumps ? Is it my play ? Thafs the left bower,
isn’t it ? Is that mine ? Haven’t you got a club ?
What’s trumps ? Did they euchre us ? How many
did we make? Whose deal is it? We’re four
tricks—not three. What’s trumps ?” And really,
dear, I don’t think the cute Yankee has exagger-
ated matters much, for I have heard men say that
a woman couldn’t play a proper silent game of
cards to save her llfe-and I actually know a dear
little girl—to whom, by the way, I write a long
letter every week—who behaves exactly as the
American has described. Now, don’t get angry,
dear, for many others are Just as bad as you.
There’s an old custom, running back many years,
which rules that the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland
kisses all ladies on their first presentation to him.
The same privilege is also accorded to royalty, so
the Prince had what the boys call a “ good time,”
the other day, in Ireland. Lord Carington is to
arrive here soon, so all the girls are hoping he is
officially armed with full powers in this direction.
He is so nice-looking, you know, dear; but, if he
is not allowed to make any distinctions in this kiss-
ing business, I must say I pity him: for, although
the ceremony—if the claimant be a young, pretty
girl—may not be distasteful to him, still, it is
hardly likely that the oldest, ugliest, and most un-
kissable women in Sydney will fail to present
1 themselves for their rights upon this occasion, is
it? It would be a good plan to have a
proxy in readiness to do all the nasty part
of the work for him. Talking about kissing,
I was very much amused at something a friend or
mine told me to-day. It appears he (my friend)
wrote some articles to one of the papers about a
certain foreign gentleman—an artist. Well, this
same foreigner was so delighted with the said
articles that, upon being introduced to the author,
he, in true foreign fashion, wanted to embrace
him. But my friend firmly, though kindly, in- ,
tlmated to him that he wasn’t the right kind of I
sex to make that sort of thing reilshable to him,
and suggested, instead, a hearty shake of the hand.
The repulse was very nearly smashing up the ad-
miration the foreigner entertained for my friend,
(CooUaued onueat page,)


AT
P
ROYAL
FURNISHING
ARCADE.
2T
-*e*
SX
M '0
2*5*^
POST FREE
snin
Ret re
Genuine
gNl
e
e
n
PURCHASE
FURNITURE
Brothers"
ROYAL
FURNISHING ARCADE,
420 Gcor$e*street,
SYDNEY
(Next to the Roval Hotel),
WRITE or SEND
for
ONE of OUR
DESCRIPTIVE
PRICE LISTS.
ij t-conomica)
Cocoa
Ma kers to the Q
BOTJBHE,
“ aufBttawwstt bwi&s: rarws&. %s&nuis»
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor.
ON THE
Brickfield. Sill.
OH STAY MD MI DEPARTMEHT.
It is said that the present Crown Law
Office authorities so love the lash that not
long since they reprimanded the visiting jus-
tice of a country gaol for not ordering a flogging
to ten rebellious prisoners whom the magistrate
more mercifully let down with solitary confine-
ment. Such administration is scarcely Christian-
like.
Mr. Ninian Melville (the distinguished
statesman who occasionally diversifies the diurnal
Interment of “stlff-uns,” by nocturnal political
pairing of “dead-uns”) has been enjoying his
leisure by lecturing at Melbourne on behalf of the
Salvation Army, whose cause he designs to aid by
special legislation. A malicious rumour has it
that, if the hardy Northumbrians reject Ninny, he
Intends to aspire to the honour of a Victorian
M.P.-ship, to which is attached £300 per annum,
the exact salary paid in this colony to the “ whip ”
of the party in power. And this reminds us of
another Ninny—Eugene Sue’s creation—Ninny
Moulin, who, strange to say, wore a “ voluminous
plume of black feathers on one side of his head-
gear,” Jan example; that the modern Ninny .might
professionally imitate.
Alfred Lines of Burra (S.A.) did what
many another has done—he married a wife. But
Alf. was of a wild, roving disposition, and his
fancy wandered away after “the wife’s sister.”
Only a further proof that he was as many another
man—but no matter. In the fullness of time Mrs.
L. permitted her fancy to stray in the direction of
Maurice O’Connor, and she, woman-liko, “followed
her fancy.” When Alfred set out in pursuit of
the amorous pair, he took with him his tooth-
brush, a clean pair of socks, and a revolver. After
settling his account with O’Connor, and making
himself a widower, Alfred (whose lines can
scarcely be said to have been cast in pleasant
I daces) ran right into the arms of his late wife’s
andlady. “1 have killed ’em both,” remarked
Alfred, “ and now I’m going to shoot myself.” It
was at this juncture that the good woman shewed
the stuff of which landladies are made. She
looked him steadily in the face for one brief
moment, and then, turning hastily on her heel,
murmured : “ Don’t do it before me.” Here
endeth the first lesson. He didn't do it before
her. But he did it.
Wolfe’s Schnapps stands alone without a
rival elixir In the catalogue of magnificent tonics.
On the day of the arrival home of the
troops it is expected that the crowd will be so
great near the Joint Stock Bank that many persons
intending to view the display of the beautiful
articles from Britain and the Continent that are
on duty at the showrooms of Bray Bros., will
suffer disappointment.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps—A medicine for body
and mind—A time honoured preparation.
OSMOND’S
SWISS CIGARS
Have been recognised as the BEST for half a
century.
|',HB SYDNEY BICYCLE CLUB.
FOURTH ANNUAL INTERCOLONIAL AMA-
TEUR CHAMPION BICYCLE AND TRICYCLE
RACE MEETING.
Under the patronage and rules of the New South
Wales ’Cyclists Union.
To be held at the
N.8.W. CRICKET ASSOCIATION GROUND,
Moore Park, Sydney, N.8.W.,
SATURDAY, 32nd AUGUST, 1885.
PROGRAMME ;
1. One-mile Bicycle Championship of N.S.W.—
Special Club Trophy
2. Ten-miles Bicycle Championship of N.S.W.—
Gardiner Cup
3. One-mile Bicycle Handicap
1. Three-miles Bicycle Handicap—The Ladies*
Bracelets
Competitors in this race must be nominated by
ladles.
5. One-mile Bicycle Handicap, for Maiden Riders
only
This race to be ridden on Roadster Bicycles.
Minimum weight, 351bs.
6. Two-miles Tricycle Handicap
7. 150 Yards Handicap Foot Race
8. MO Yards Handicap Foot Race
9. Parade—Prize, Silver Bugle, for the Club ex-
celling in appearance and manoeuvres.
All events open to all amateurs.
E. H. McRAE,
Honorary Secretary.
All communications and enquiries to be ad-
dressed to, and entry forms obtained from, the
Club Clerk, J. Copland, at the Club Rooms and
Headquarters, 85 Market-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
(e
CD
k mm
O
uO
uv
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Free of Charge.
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS).
2s. lid., 36. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4s. lid., 5s. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., 8s. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12a 6
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS. 666 and 668 Brickfield Hill.
—Order, from the Country will receive Immediate and cnrclul attent loo.
(Continued from page 16.)
but, being a long-headed fellow, he thought better
of it, knowing it wouldn’t be the best kind of
policy, so contented himself by saying, 41 Oh I you
English 1 you are very goot sort of men, but so
cold—oh, so cold I”
The Bishop of Algoma has actually given notice
that he will not confirm any girls who wear white
dresses or veils. Well, now, I think this is going
too far. He might as well say he would not marry
any man who came to church in lavender inex-
pressibles or bury any man who arrived at the
grave in a cedar—I hate the word coffin—casket.
We had better stop people going to church in
black clothes, which custom is an odious one, and
born of the bouraeois. When I was in Paris, I
found the French workman detested the broad-
cloth of the shopkeeper. I dislike very much the
dismal-looking cloth of the clerical profession. The
jolliest clergyman I ever knew—it was in Queens-
land, the haven of jolly fellows—used to dress in
grey tweed. There is a strong argument in favour
of putting a postman in a policeman’s uniform;
but, to my mind, absolutely none for clerics re-
taining their present ludicrous, not to say de-
pressing garb. In America the very judges don t
wear wigs, yet they dispense just as good law,
and often very much better justice than our
j udges. I am afraid the' uniforms will increase in-
stead of decrease in Sydney, as a consequence of
our military ardour. We women love uniform.
As we wore out walking the other day we saw a
big red-coated volunteer with an over-dressed
little woman. 44 Oh,” said I to Charles, 41 she’s in
love with his uniform probably.” 44 Very likely,”
said the horrid cynical man, shaking his head at
her bright blue skirt and elaborately plumed hat;
44 and if he only knew it, poor fellow, he’s in love
with her uniform.” And perhaps ha was right, for
1 noticed as she passed that she bad a horrid snub
nose.
Often, dear, when I have been describing to you
a ball or party with which I have been more than
usually pleased, I have endeavoured. In order to
sufficiently impress you with the magnificence of
the affair, to use the very best and imposing
Johnsonian language at my command. But in de-
scribing a Narandera bush ball, probably held in a
shearing shed, where the unfriendly slabs allow
the evening zephyr to come and go at its sweet
will, the local editor goes in as follows, and
puts my poor efforts completely to the blush:
—“ The subscription ball and supper even-
tuated, the intensely cold evening prevent-
ing the presence of a few living at a dis-
tance. Fifty-eight supper-tabled within the
many-hued, luminant, bannered and decorated
hall, and enjoyably refreshed by the home-made
plentiful varieties of luxurious substantialities
and delicacies. The large, lofty, triple wedding-
like, so-suggestlve cakes, and the delicate gleams
of the quivering jellies, glinting on the snow-like
crested custards evoked commendations on the
caterer’s artistic cookabilities. The guests thus
recuperated and souchongically exhilarated, again
ballroomized in its gas-like luminosity, the stylish
couples variegatedly costumed, yielded an elegant
acquiescence to the M.C., by gracefully swirling
as a sweet music impelled, an interblending, living,
scintillating panorama of fashion; the leolian-
voiced, resplendent-eyed belles, by their terrestrial
angelizing enchantments, fascinating the gay,
sturdy, chivalrio (? joke) spirits [into felicity, until
the ecstatic partners arm-in-armed to the vivify-
ing viands, their convivial intelleotualisms fusing
the social gathering into pleasurable accord of
variety in unity, needing only summer season's
genialness for increment of variety of serene en-
joyableness.” But isn’t it enough to shake one’s
belief in the existence of truth to get a letter
stating that, after all, there were only five ladles
pi’esent, and that the 44 gas-like luminosity” was
evolved from four candles and a 44 slush lamp 1 ”
From the Narandera district too, I heard a tale the
other day, which will perhaps amuse you, as it did
me. A bush fellow called on his chum, and found
he wasn’t at home, but his sister, who kept house
for him, received the visitor, and invited him to
dine. He, nothing loth, though, perhaps, a trifle
taken aback at the idea of dining alone with a
polished lady—accepted. He was shown into the
brother’s room, and informed that in a quarter of
an hour’s time dinner would be served. But the
time passed, and the splashing and brushing went
on in the young fellow’s room without cessation.
But at last he made his appearance, with his hair
all but dripping with hair oil, and his sunburnt face
shining like mahogany. The young lady, smother-
ing a smile, requested him to carve the plump
duck which was placed before him. 44 On, cer-
tainly he would, and would she allow him to help
her to some ?” 44 Yes, she would." Upon which
my noble hero plunged the carver straight through
the body of the bird, and after severing it in
twain, offered the young lady one half , and placed
the remaining half on his own plate. Pudding-
time came, when he again did the honours of the
table, and to the great embarrassment of the girl,
again helped her to Just half of what there was in
the dish, keeping the other half for himself, which
he ate out of the dish, as very likely he thought it
would save soiling another plate. All this is very
funny, isn’t it, dear; but, after all, perhaps, this
Narandera youth wag at heart a better and more
honourable fellow than many of our societies 4
pets in Sydney. That he endeavoured to make
himself pleasant is proved by the quantity of soap
he used on his face, and oil on his head, and we
know his dealings were fair and square, for did he
not give his hostess half the contents of the dishes,
keeping no more and no less for himself ? Believe
me, dear, sometimes underneath this uncouthness
we find the most sterling men. I once knew a big-
hearted, uncultured fellow, who, although he was
mueh courted for his wealth, was jeered at behind
his back just because his finger-nails were
always in half-mourning, and because he at-
tached no importance to the letter H, ate
his fish with a steel knife, and was once seen
to drink out of his finger - bowl at a public
dinner; but when this same man (who was ever
ready with a helping hand to those in need) joined
the silent majority, he left more aching and sor-
rowing hearts behind him than falls to the lot of
one man out of a thousand. We are all too apt to
judge a man by the surface polish, taking too
little heed of the more sterling qualities which lie
beneath.
A new mode of revenge was carried out by a
New York beauty the other day, who, at a large
ball given in the city, wore a dress of red tulle, and
shadowed her rival in pale pink the whole even-
ing, thus causing her garb of paler tint to sink
into insignificance; as cunning as it was cruel of
her, wasn’t it ? I see that the manager for an
American actress has thrown a novel inducement
out to the public by advertising that the lady shall
appear in one of her performances with bare feet.
Well, for my part, I don’t see why bare feet should
be so unusual if the part requires them. I
am certain nothing could be uglier than the
dirty white hose Georgie Smithson used to
wear when playing the part of 44 Jo ” here,
besides it was so difficult to imagine poor 44 Jo ’*
sporting stockings at all, whether dirty or clear.
But if the facts were known, I expect we should
find that the reason actresses have forborne to
exhibit their feet in their natural state is because
the majority of them possess no beauty in that
quarter. A perfect foot is a thing of beauty, but
a large, flat, jolnty article bad best be covered,
and actresses have sense enough to feel this.
Oh, I mustn’t forget to tell you, dear, that a
young baronet, who has been irradiating the
colonies with his presence, has just returned to
England, with his newly-made bride. Her lady-
ship is an attractive young creature, who, accord-
ing to a generally-believed legend, formerly be-
stowed much attention on the sewing of boot-
uppers, and afterwards became a Hebe, in which
capacity she fascinated her titled spouse. Bar-
maids seem to exercise an especially potent influ-
ence over noblemen and other people who 44 go
the pace.” We women, not having the Inestimable
privilege of peering into the temples of Bacchus,
and observing the habits of the goddesses therein,
have made up our minds to cordially dislike the
barmaid. If we could gratify our curiosity con-
oemlng her, perhaps we might form a more
favourable Judgment regarding her olass.
In notiolng a wedding at Ryde, the Evening
News remarks; “Only the family of the Benaara,
the groom, his brother, father, and mother were
invited.’’ How good and thoughtful to invite the
groom to his own wedding, wasn’t it ?
Just a few more lines, dear, and then I must sub-
side till next week. We were at “ Fedora ” the
other night, Edith and I, when, at the close of one
of the acts, Ned left us for a moment. By and
bye, a strange gentleman came and seated him-
self in the vacant seat between us, and, before we
had time to show our astonishment, he remarked:
“ Yes, as I was saying before I went out. If you
women will persist In coming to the theatres only
half dressed, and in wearing cotton Instead of
woollen stocklmrs In winter. It serves you right It
your health is impaired, and your noses red.”
Sir I we both exclaimed, and If ever a man
looked as if he had been shot this one did. He had
dropped Into the wrong seat, dear, and I don’t
know whether he or we suffered most embarass-
ment. At all events, he vacated his seat quicker
than you would think it possible for a big, heavy
man as he was. How we laughed about it when
we got home 1
And now here comes Charlie with a roll of new
music from Paling’s, You see he knows how to
make himself welcome — cunning fellow, that he
isl I like gossiping with you, but I prefer trying
over new music. So adieu, dear.
Ever yours.
MAB.
Dora.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A gentle face and sunny hair.
That curls about her to rehead fair;
A heart that everything for Love would dare.
A dignity serene and modest ways;
Lips slow to blame and swift to praise;
A quiet grace in all she does and says.
Innocent eyes of liquid blue—
Byes that the light of Love smiles through—
Sweet Ups and cheeks that have the rose s hue.
Fast-hidden in each dewy eye
The majesty of Truth doth lie,
That shines as clear as sun in summer sky.
And Joyous as a day in Spring,
Yet half afraid her joy to sing,
Such happiness to her the bright months bring.
Keen Winter comes, but leaves no trace
Upon the sunny hair and face
That meet its advent with so sweet a grace.
L. D.


That Wolfe’s Schnapps is a medicine contain*
[ infir great virtues is undeniable.
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
Suallty, may be purchased from Hookings and
o„ 143, Pitt-street.*
MacLaugblin’s Bodega, 30G Qeorge-street,
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &c.*
Bristol’s Sarsaparilla.—This combination
of vegetable extracts acts upon the liver and the
blood much more favourably than calomel or blue
mass, and is free from all their drawbacks. The
necessity for using mineral medicines, has been
entirely removed by this pure and genial specific
for all diseases of an ulcerous, scabious, or bilious
type.
Wolfe's Schnapps—Keep it always in the house
and then you will have a friend in time of need.
“Why not eat insects?” This is not a
conundrum, but the title of a book lately pub-
lished by Vincent Holt. He asserts that meal-
worms are exceedingly nice, caterpillars delicious,
an i slugs (boiled) quite more than too exquisite
for this vale of sin, sweat, and sorrow.
A disappointed gas-bag is Rowland Rees,
M.P. (8.A.). Though the Opposition of the day
always makes use of Rees to help them eject the
then Ministry, yet, somehow, they invariably leave
him most carefully out in ifee cold when the
question of forming a Cabinet crops up. After his
last frothy oration, when the last Ministry was
“shunted,” Rees went round Adelaide declaiming
to everybody: “My time has now cornel” Then,
too, he nompously informed a prominent Govern-
ment official: “If you take care of yourself, mind
your own business, study political economy, and
write with a broader-nibbed pen, you will do very
well for my secretary when I am Minister of
Education.” Alas, they have served Rowland the
same old trick 1 lie is very badly left!
Whether the captains of British war Tea-
sels in the China seas have been instructed to
make a breach of the peace with Russia, or not, is
uncertain, but from their conduct this would ap-
pear to be the case. The Shanghai Courier re
ports that when the Russian gunboat Gornostay
got up steam to leave Tientsin, the English Merlin
anchored near the bar, to follow her as soon as she
came out, and the North China Daily News re-
ports also that when the Minin left Nagasaki, the
Audacious followed her at short distance, and
when at length the Russian vessel anchored, the
British vessel anchored too, and insultingly sig-
nalled an invitation to dinner to the captain of the
Minin. There are many similar stories, and the
little Echo gives the British commanders a pat
on the back for their proceedings, and then. In a
truly religious manner, flies into a small tantrum
about Komaroff and the "aggressive ” conduct of
Admiral Croun.
Michael Davitt, writing to the Pall Mall
Gazette from Cairo re the suppression of the
Bosphore Egyptien, asserts that the proprietors
of the journal in question had the sympathy, not
only of the French, but also the English residents
of Cairo, and quotes the Times of Egypt, an Eng-
lish paper, which asks: “ If what has been done by
the English Government had been done by the
French Government in the case of an aggrieved
British subject, would a spirited patriotic English
Administration have calmly sat still and allowed
the matter to take - care of Itself ? Looking at the
action of the British Government and at that of
the French, is it possible to restrain a blush at the
folly and duplicity and trickery of the former?”
Michael further states that this suppression is
quite in accord with the “unscrupulous grabbing
policy” which England has followed in Egyptian
affairs ever since the Suez shares were purchased
by Beaconsfield.
The boss, having occasion to alter one of
the roads on the station, sent Mick—a son of the
sod—out to mark the trees, and instructed him as
follows. “Mick.” “Yes, sor.” “Do you know
Lamb Gully ?” “ Yes, sor.” “ Well. I am going to
make a road from there to the wire fence, and I
want you to go out and blaze all the treas In a
straight line from the gully to the fence.” “Al-
right, sor,” said Mick. Three days after the above
conversation, the boss, not seeing Mick about,
enquired where he was; and, on being informed
that he was out blazing trees, said: “Why, bless
me, it is three days since I sent him to mark the
trees, and that should not have taken him two
hours. I must see what he is doing.” The boss
accordingly rode out to find Mick, and meeting
that worthy wending his way towards the station,
accosted him as follows; “ Hallo I Mick; what the
devil are youdoing out here ?” “Sure,‘I’mgoin’dn
fur matches, sor.” “MatchesI” exclaimed the
boss. “ Yes, sor,” said Mick; “sure. I blazed haff
the threes, and the rain lasht night—bad cess to ud
—put out all me fires 1”
The gloom of the Sydney Banco Court
was momentarily disp filed by the angelic
smile of Chief Justice Martin several times during
the hearing of the protracted ejectment case
brought last week by the Milesian Macnamara
against the municipality of Five Dock, Pour
witnesses in succession mounted the box, whose
united ages would carry us back to the year go. d
Queen Bess ascended the throne. Five Dock is
rich in old men. Their faces are of parchment or
boiled-pork complexion, and they have hair of
snowy whiteness, which falls over their shoulders
in abundance. Mr. Want essayed a legal pleasantry
at the expense of one venerable witness, who
rejoiced in the name of Starkie, and manifested a
strong disinclination to give direct answers to the
questions of the cross-examining counsel. At last,
fairly exhausted in hi* fruitless task, the budding
tribune of the people, leaning back in dignified
repose against the bar-bench and gathering the
ample folds of his forensic robes—after the man-
ner of the elder Gracchus—about his athletic
figure, thus addressed the witness (who was of the
orthodox bucolio class, with a pugnacious
figure-head) : “ Now, Mr. Starkie, as you In
your younger years wrote that brilliant text-
book on the Law of Evidence which has made
your lame impefiMle> you oauaot pretend to be
ignorant of the correct method of answering
questions.” The astonished Starkie gradually
opened his wrinkled mouth, as the force of the
fearful imputation seized his brain, and. In a deep
sepulchral tone, yelled out, “ Don’t know him I” In
■o excited a manner as to show that he felt that
the respectability of his family was challenged by
the invention of counsel. Another aged Rip
Van Winkle succeeded Mr. Starkie. and spoke
of facts 50 and 60 years old as If they were me-
mories of but a month ago, and, to supnort the
ease of the defendant, narrated several thrilling In-
cidents which proved that the plaintiff’s predeces-
sors did not enjoy undisturbed possession. This
witness related that 60 years ago he chased the
gay marsupial through the disputed territory,
courted gins in palaces of wini-ninls, and kicked
up the turf of this Garden of Eden to the music of
a corrobboree. Then, looking with the withering
glance of the White Czar upon an adverse witness,
some 20 years his junior, he said.‘‘That man was
a mere lad when I was a man.” The silvery voice
of Mr. Pilcher then inquired if the witness would
designate his learned friend of the apopletlo fame
on the other side also a lad. The aged Kip replied,
« Yes. but I would call you a mere hinfant. The
chief chuckled, and the audience roared. From
ail this the eminent Mr. “Jack ’ Want has no
doubt learned much.
You can get a lot of fun out of the
Herald, if you only strain yourself sufficiently.
There is a par., for instance re the Model Lodging
House, in a recent issue, which is not without its
shimmer of humour. As we are engaged, three
deep, for several Sunday-school picnics, wo have
only time Just to copy this extract;-" The suc-
cess that has attended the establishment of the
Sydney Model Lodging House, Kent-street, must
be most satisfactory to those who interest them-
selves in bettering the condition of their fellow-
men.” We do not wish to question the almost
Oriental comfort of the Model Lodging House
We have slept there, and are thus in a position to
fully appreciate the splendid inducements it offers
to the worthy artizan to dally take out his nine-
pennyworth of sleep there. We are, unfortunately,
at present, hampered by a majestic home, otherwise
we should be to the fore, at once- We don’t mind
admitting that we found the attractions of the
Model Lodging House to be of a brilliant nature;
and there is a whole lot of humour about the es-
tablishment, which would be, perhaps, difficult to
discover elsewhere. You might be “fixed up”
at Petty’s, for instance, or even located with the
fowl-isn old gentlemen who has resided in the
people’s park for years, and you would never
achieve the delight of seeing a man fasten his
boots to the foot of his bed with a dog-chain.
Wbatis here said about the Model Lodging,House,
to-day, was said years ago about the Coffee
Palaces. Only It was said more so. When the
first one was established the company gave the
Mail a £20 ad., and this procured a couple of
blocks, and a three-column article describing the
menu, the fittings, and the outlery, and ejaculat-
ing—" This, indeed, is stout- hearted philanthropy.”
This phrase should never die! There was a great
to-do at the start, and it was a curious sight to see
old Roseby (alas I) clattering up to the palace, at
all hours, on a low comedy steed, with his socks
overlapping bis boot-heels. But he was not the
only director who patronized the place (there was
but one there continually, and could be seen fre-
quently emerging from the unhappy restaurant
gorged like boa-oonstrlotors—very tight within and
very greasy without. But even the assaults by the
directorate on the tucker were not quite sufficient
to bring about a collapse upon an enterprise which
owed its being to “ stout-hearted philanthropy.”
What chiefly ‘ oruelled’ the concern was that every-
body connected with the undertaking wanted (im-
peratively) to sell it something. The directors
used to meet and pass everything; an example
which was eventually sternly copied by the public.
The Herald effusively states that the directors of
the Model Lodging House are “benefiting the
condition of their feilowman.” Likely enough,
they are; but it is rather hard on these gen-
tlemen that they should not be credited with that
“ stout-hearted philanthropy.”
The Central Cumberland constituency
will be overrun with aspiring political geniuses
at the next election, when the county will be en-
titled to three members. Already canvassing is
going on actively, and so far nearly every vote
i pledged. Somwhero near a dozen candidates
are mentioned. It Is stated that Lackey will not
again contest, but M’Cullooh will of course sing
those “ sweet nothings ” which so far have won
the Cumberlanders. He will have to sing to a
more lively air at the forthcoming election, as it
is said the fruitgrowers (who represent one-third
of the electors) are against him to a man, and the
most important towns will plump for “a local
man.” Cyrus Edgar Puller, of the Cumberland
Mercury, and who contested Parramatta at the
last election, Is mentioned as “ a likely one, and
as he is well known and respected to some extent
throughout the electorate, he will probably be in
the triumvirate. Varney Parkes, son of SirHenry,
is amongst the list, but unless he sails in on
the G.O.MVs wings, his legitimate prospects are not
blooming. As an alderman at Liverpool he hasn»
shown above mediocrity, and even his own town
might not “ go” for him, as Nat. Bull, from the
same place, who hasn’t much superfluous Intel
tuallty to dispose of, will again Show? nSSSSSST
Is popular, though, and it often happens that
popularity outpaces ability. John Nobbs. the
Mayor of Granville, another probable, will non
weil amongst his own tribe and the fruitgrowers
!f Richard Terry, of Ryde, comes out he might
see the top of the poll. He is well known everv
where in the electorate, and not altogether nn
favourably. A. H. Aces, a large landowner »nii
influential fruitgrower on the Windsor Road w?n
receive a solid vote from the growers and a vena
ral one everywhere. W. H. Wesley, a retired tin
mine speculator, who has pitched his tent at
Bauikham Hills, where he has built a palatial
mansion, will not find political success an
easy as tin shares, nor will Ted. Wehlow
the retired bonlface find the bar of the House an
get-at-able as that of the Parramatta Woolsack
* here Is mention of a young man named Statham’
coming out but the idea is quite enough. So far
M’Culloch, Fullei, and Terry have the rosiest look-’
and Bull and Nobbs will also be about A stir ia
already being made, politically, in Parramatta Tr
is rumoured that Charles Joseph Byrnes will con
test the next election against his all-time rival
“ Yooey ” Taylor, and. if so, a fierce contest will h«
the result, There is likely to be a split amongst
the Montagues and Capulets, however, who are
getting tired of the petty and personal warfare of
their chiefs. Some attempt is to be made to in
duce Sir Henry Parkes to contest, but it is not
likely he will oppose his old factotum, “ Yooev >
William M’Millan (of the firm of M‘Arthur and
Co., Sydney), who resides near Parramatta, is re-
garded as a likely contestant, and J. M. Toohey
the brewer, and a young man named Ferris, a local
storekeeper, are also mentioned as “ probables ”
If either or both of these latter contest, the result
will be a division of the Catholic vote, which has
always been the popular butcher’s stronghold in
the historic borough. The contest, however, only
lies between the representatives of the pre-historio
factions, and outsiders might just as well try for a
seat In the uppermost of “ upper ” Houses.
The Melbourne Liberator is still scorn-
fully critical of the Almighty's conduct. It ad-
monishes Him to give up His old courses, attend
Mr. Symes’ lectures, and read the Liberator, tp
the God of the Bible will do so, the Liberator in
turn, whispers Him this little bit of encourage-
ment: “ In 40 years’ time you may be fit to call at
the back door of civilised persons’ houses, hawk-
ing vegetables with a bamboo and two baskets
like a Chinaman. And in 100 years from now you
will possibly be fit to become a member of the
Melbourne Secular Association.” It would appear
by this that it takes 40 years going down the
Symes’ ladder before the level of the Chinaman
hawker ia reached, but 100 years’ sinking will have
to be given to secure membership in the Mel-
bourne Secular Association.
Says the courteous Cairns (Q.) Chronicle:
—“ The editor of our local contemporary says he
usually ‘ keeps his eyes and ears open on the ques-
tion of Separation.’ This is only partly correct.
His eyes are doubtless frequently closed in a men-
tal slumber oblivious to all human affairs, but we
are prepared to admit that his ears are perpetually
open, and generally expanded to their full extent.
In that case they cast a shadow half-way across
the street, and could only be closed by drawing a
full-sized mainsail over them. On windy days
they emit a mournful music like the funnel of a
steamer in a cyclone, and at night they are fas-
tened together under the bed to keep their gifted
proprietor from tumbling off. It is folly to talk
of closing such auricular caverns, except at great
trouble and heavy expense.”
A man named “M. R.” wrote, it will be
remembered, a letter to a little school girl In
Bathurst not long ago, In which he said he wanted
her to join his “juvenile dramatic company,”
concluding in these terms:—“A handsome, and
uncommonly intellectual gentleman, who Is very
kind to those under him,—[II Ij-hasagreed to take
charge. (Aged 16.) u)If you desire, it we can con-
duct our arrangements with you unknown to your
parents: and all communications are strictly con-
fidential. . . . Kindly reply at once, and let me
know whether you accept or not.—I remain (with
love to you)- [III] -M. R.” The father of the girl,
instedd of “ laying for ” “ M. R.” by means of a
bogus letter (which he could easily have done),
■ends the document to the editor of the Bathurst
Times, and that worthy comments upon It
lengthily in a footnote. This proceeding, of
course, at once precludes all possibility of “ M.R.”
being traced; but we don’t mind telling you that
1l all probability “M. R.” is not the greasy, be-
jewelled, libidinous theatrical agent he la pictured.
We do not doubt that he is a precocious fellow-
scholar, who has just read enough of the Nbws to
commence to entertain “ulterior desires.”
We see that there has been quite a cause
cilebre in the Townsville (N.Q.) Police Court. A
barmaid recently sued a hotel-keeper named John
Cramp for damages for wrongful dismissal, wages,
; &o. Her evidence will probably be of interest to
Mr. E. Cyril Haviland and other philanthropists,
and, therefore, we briefly state that the young lady
in question stated that on the day before she was
dismissed from Cramp’s she had to serve all day
in a booth at the races, and only finished up at the
hotel at 12.30 a.m. Notwithstanding this, Cramp
(who seems to have been a remarkably early riser),
personally called the girl at a little after 6; but
she did not show in the bar until 9, she having
taken care to hoist in the first instalment of her
“ little 16.” In the end Cramp got badly beaten, the
young lady “ leaving the Court with her many
sympathising friends.” Surely this is a case that
should directly interest Mr. E. Cyril Haviland.
Cyril, it will be remembered, advocates (in his in-
tense earnestness) “ bar-keep,” of the fur-cap and
beetle-browed order. Cyril, you know, will be a
philanthropist. No one asks him to, but he insists
on it. He must, he very likely urges, be some-
thing.
Not long ago Mr. James D. Moore, of
Hartley, started on a lecturing tour in aid of the
Patriotic J*und, The orator first reached the
picturesque town of Hartley Yale, but on his
arrival not a single member of the committee
showed up; and, it was with considerable difficulty
that Mr. Moore got Into the hall. However, a boy
was shoved in at one of the windows, to open
the portals, while the gifted lecturer subsequently
assisted him to light the lamps. All being ready
for an eager and patriotic public to pour in, Mr.
Moore washed his hands at the tap outside, “shot
his cuffs,” and, going into an ante-room, sat down
to wait. He good-naturedly gave the people until
a quarter to 10, but not a single soul coming near
the hall, he pocketed his lecture and cleared. The
following night being billed for MountYictoria, full
of energy and pursed out with patriotism he hied
thither, and on arriving at the hall, h® found that
edifice in a state of darkness also, and was in-
formed outside by one of the committee that “the
hall was not available, and the Patriotic Fund was
‘ knocked on [the head.’ ” Disgusted at this treat-
ment, the lecturer girded un his discourse for
the second time, and “ moved.” It only dawned
on the eloquent gentleman as he pitched his
lecture Into a waterhole, that he had chosen to
crack up the Little Boy at Manly on the day The
Bulletin came out.
A TERRIBLE TELEGRAM:
OR,
The Misguided Message. (A Fiction
Founded on Fact.)
It was Wednesday morning, in Sydney,
and Florinda was inspecting the stock of severa.
King-street drapers. Suddenly she “ recollected.”
The only man in the shop was old, probably
married But still It was an awkward fix. She had
promised to meet froth “ mashers ” at the same time
and place! That was all. She must send Orlando
a telegram. But it was raining, and she hated to
walk through wet streets. Happy thought! Trans-
form the shop-boy Into Love’s messenger. But
there was no telegraph-form’ in the shop. So the
message was written on notepaper. The shop-boy
was called, and, In her sweetest yum-yum tones,
she asked, “ Will you please take this message to
the Telegraph Office, and give them this shilling ?”
• • ♦
Next morning George bought a D.T. He
had sold some oysters, and squandered the twin
halfpence recklessly. “ Nothing here worth read-
ing,” he s.iid, folding up the paper. But as he did
so, he saw something which he had previously
overlooked, and his quivering cheek and frowning
brow gave the He to his former dictum. What was
there in that page that all his frame in anger
shook ? It was the proof of Florinda’s treachery
—an Inch advertisement among the Personals.
Thus It ran:—
: Orlando Montague, :
; Hand wick.
: Sorry I cannot meet you to-morrow :
. night, will he at the same place, at the ;
; same hour on Friday. Love, :
. Florinda. :
The shop-boy, then, had taken it to the Telegraph
office. Yes, the Daily Telegraph office 1 And
they had printed it. Orlando saw not the paper.
George met him on the Friday night. Ber-ludl
And the double cord of love was severed.
♦ * •
Did George pine away and die? Not any.
He promptly married the barmaid at the pub.
next door. And Orlando ? He is now an advertis-
ing medium, and clears his board by going be-
tween two of them. Barns his lunoh by being a
“sandwich.” And Florinda? When the drum-
beat re-echoes from the rocks around Woolloo-
mooloo, and the Salvation Army rallies up recruits
for a “tip-top ’ollness meetln’,” Florinda “is
thar.” She is “Tambourine Theresa, the Con-
verted Bigamist.” And the shop-boy knows not
that his sinful thoughtlessness has wrought deso-
lation in the breasts of three once happy lovers. If
he did, b« would smile.
* ♦ ♦
Moral.—There is none.
ALWAYS IN THE WARS.
SERGEANT: “THERE YOU ARE AGAIN, Np* 11 HOW MANY MORE TIMES HAVE I TO
TELL YOU TO KEEP IN LINE? DRESS BY YOUR LEFT, SIJU FURTHER BACKI
FURTHER BACK 1 FURTHER YETI STEADY I”
jpjt.TVATE M'OWFFIN ( inaudibly): OH, GIVE IT A RISTI FUST ’E TELLS ME TO GO BACK,
AND THIN '« TELLS ME TO COME UP. THE BLaGARDI WHY DOESN’T ’B HAULD
HIS TONG AND 8HPAKB TO THEM OTHER COVES?"
THE APOTHEOSIS OF CRINOLINE..


V ifi
-Ecacraa on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CUBE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
iSS
m
vW
X
Scrofula on Neck.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticuba Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
nUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri.
'j T» r * 1)l . ure M c * al 'd Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Itching: and Burning: Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely full.
t Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external u*e>, instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re!
stores the Hair, and beautifies the**Skin.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remppies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and, blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four* page
book, ” How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees, \
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales,
an exquisite Skin Beantifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sim,
burn, and Ivough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercurv
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or v«re!
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the P .ate of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemip j and u holesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, nut New
*aa 0A ’ 60 ccuts P er box - lar go boxes,
$1.00, Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cutict ra Bhav-
per bottle’ 15 CCUtai ° UTI0URA Resoly jnt, $1.0Q
Prepared bt the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Bo Jtnn _ p S A
mb
SJj,
,Coll!,i
356 George St.,
Established
SYDKE
i85a
PIANOS/ organ:
Best Makers Only
EVERY INSTRUMENT
GUARANTEE]
//y
VERY
MODERATE
PRICES'*
The Most Liberal
TIME PAYMENT
SYSTEM.
OVER
Instruments
ON VIEW
To Selectifrom,
u inDhi'l
SYDNEY.
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
(W LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT BOOMS FOB LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.
“■uCE THOI^C^SOl'T,
AJ.C. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIB-DRES8ING SALOON,
91 King-street.
N.B.—I ALWAT8 BACK THE FI ELD.
RAW VASELINE.
B
5^
A
- .- -v ■
S°p2L ft^ d nH Pr n 8erve * Horses’ Hoofs. Ellis
Trf rarasires, and prevents their urnwih in.
ther , Pre s er va t ive.tendering it
SS™ b^aS*S 4 dd Au 8t a a n TQermaL he arm^
Sold by all Saddlers and Storekeepers.
80LB AGENTS :
BLACKBURN & GO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS’ IRONMONGERS
1ZS York-street, Sydney. r ' yxaao ’
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
60, Is. 6d.; 100, as. 8d.
LADIES .. 60, as. Od.; 100. 3s. Od.
Address, 8d. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 3s. 8d.; 350, 6s. 6d. ; 500, 10s.; 1000, U|,
NO CHARGE FOB ENGRAVING PLATE.
Orders executed and forwarded by return
post. ’
tie nuEtismi co„
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A POSITIVE CURE
rwK WITHOUT MEDICINE.
One box will cure the most obstinate case, acute
dr »AVf »viL° i n ,/i n jr., days or le8s -
«K. BAILEY’* SOLUBLE MEDI CATEn
BOUGIES ?EUCALYPTOL). TED
doses of cubebs, capaiba, or oil of
are cer taln to produce dyspepsia
la tbo 00at . ln(ra of the stomach P Prioe
Aadre “ P - 0 -'
EVERYBODY KNOWS
y f h ° uld .1 U0 ,T th “ t 1116 sb0Te 18 B »y«’ 8 only studiT
araDdM in
18 °“ rried “ f »r «» b-eflt of the .ate Mr.
Everybody should remember the address :
Bojrd s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Managua.
1
, anil CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. Q. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
I■ i MCI A m shim • «m. —■-
>, aid 11III!
' ~
Importers of
AND*WOOD-WORKING M ACHINERV
INING, CR US^JNG ii |°d BINDING COACHEDILDBrS’^ 18,
BAR, PLATE. SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BBUSHWABB
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACKS
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
H £
L-
A
MSersTZ
1
< a
PORTABLE, PIKED
ggJOMUlilD EN-
VERTICAL and HORI-
ZONTAL BOILERS
si: - pomps “ ,1 0Uu)r
aVBW , “ LUS8
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEER S’ BRASS
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLED
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER. &o.
fy,i '(a j
’j 1 ifei!
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.
Head Warehouse -
Iron an I Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Office -
- 64 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE r'TF^
- harbour sraEsr, Oa-iang harbour,
SYDNEY.
’ ” - 86 QRAOEOBUROH STREET,


THIS WICKED WORLD.
“ What is the German method of treat-
ing?” inquired an old physician of a fresh young
medical student. "I really don’t know, doctor,
but I suppose it’s beer every time.’’....Scientists
say cigarette smoking leads to idiocy. Anyhow,
idiocy leads to cigarette smoking... Patti has ob-
tained a divorce absolute from Da Caux at a coat,
as she estimates, of close on £100,0033, and pur-
poses, when she regains health, to go to Paris and
sing some of it back....A precocious child the
other day walked up to Lieut. Greely (of Arctic
exploration celebrity) at a reception, and, eying
him admiringly, said:-" 8ay, did you eat any of
that Dutchman up there?” Poor Greely fairly
gasped after the enquiry, his face flushed and
tears came to his eyes as he said: "Oh, no, my
little man.” The persistent child followed it
up with: “Well, did any one eat him,then?”
“What an awful navy poem Tennyson would
write.” walls an American writer, “ if he were our
poet laureate, and had our navy for his subject,”
.. .Howells, the American novelist, says that no
woman who studies Greek ever marries “ Now.”
said the photographer, taking hold of the cloth
over the instrument, “are you all ready?”
Fes, replied the customer. “ Well, just keep
your eye on that sign,” he said, pointing to a
mgend bn the wall, which read. “Positively no
Credit, and look pleasant.”... .“On what
grounds do you leave me without the customary
week’s notice?” Indignantly asked the lodging-
house keeper. “Coffee grounds, madam; coffee
grounds “So Miss Skimps and Mr. Limbs are
to be married. Well, I declare! That aged
couple. And she is old enough to be his mother.”
Indeed she is. And for him—why he’s old enough
p be her father,”—Prince Henry of Qattenbenr
is to be honorary colonel of the Isle of Wight
Volunteers. Major Forrest told the detachment
that Prince Henry of Battenberg had accepted the
Eoaitlon of honorary colonel of the regiment, and
e—listen!—hoped the battalion would turn out
smart and clean to act as guard of honour at the
forthcoming wedding Oscar Wilde’s latest
fal is to keep his hat always on his
head. This is to hide the cracks A
well-known N.Y. Society woman gave a large
dinner party to oeleorate the reception of her
divorce-papers ...300 English and Welsh converts
to Mormonlsm who left Liverpool recently duly
arrived at Salt Like. Elder Kimball met the con-
verts at Castle Garden, and himself married several
of the bestlooking girls upon the spot... El
Makki, the new Mahdi, has suooeed p d in whipping
the old one. El Makki is said to have been
a shoemaker of Cork, where he was known
by the Jess Oriental name of Larry Mackey.
If this be true, his success in waxing the
opposition prophet is not surprising....Royal
personages are what the insurance com-
panies would call extra hazardous lives. Prom
the investigation of a French statistician, it ap-
pears that up to the present time 2540 Emperors
and Kings have ruled over 04 nations. Of this
number of crowned heads, 300 have been driven
from their thrones, 64 have abdicated, 34 have
committed suicide, 13 have become Insane, 100
have been killed in battle, 133 made prisoners, 25
died as martyrs, 151 have been assassinated, and 108
legally condemned and executed. The remaining
1601 have, we suppose, gone to glory in the ortho-
dox manner. How many of the present monarchs
ought to be driven from their thrones or executed
we decline to state....They have a way of doing
things in America that it is hopeless for us to
emulate here. For Instance, a woman on trial for
killing her husband was fortunate enough to get
acquitted. Naturally she felt very grateful to the
jury who had saved her neck; so, to testify her
appreciation of their intelligence, she invited the
dozen good men and true to an oyster-supper.
What is more, eight of them accepted. If she had
been convicted, the finisher of the law would have
been the only one to have the holst-her supper—
The late Lord Mayor of London retained con-
sciousness to the last, and with it his affection for
civic dignities, for when the clergyman quoted
“ In my Father’s House are many mansions,” he
sorrowfully replied, “ Yes, but no Mansion House."
Thirty-five minutes after an execution by the
guillotine, at Paris, experiments were made on the
ead of the culprit by Dr. Llborde and his as-
sistants. It was ascertained that there was no con-
scious sensibility, and that sensibility could not be
restored by the united action of the transfusion of
blood and electricity....Earl Dudley did not mea-
sure his opportunities by his wealth. He lived,
and the world was none the better for it; he died,
and the world is none the worse for it. It is
curious that, on the very day when the Countess
of Dudley, the wife, became a widow, her rival in
celebrity and beauty, the Countess of Lonsdale*
the widow, became a wife—Professor: “Give us
an example of a highly compressible solid.”
Scholar: “The female form.”...Last year 20,000,000
bottles of champagne were forwarded from the
champagne district. Of these. 45.000,000 were drunk
in England, and about 5,000,000 in Australia
We are pleased to learn from Society that “Signor
Angeli, the painter of the latest portrait of the
Queen, was commissioned by Her Majesty to paint a
life-size portrait of the late John Brown, and that
he has executed his commission with rare skill.”
Such information as this suffuses us with Joy un-
feigned. John Brown evidently, In the Immortal
words of Alfred's obituary column, “though
dead(thak Heaven!) is not forgotten.”.... An Eng-
lish contemporary describing a fancy fair at the
house of the Duchesse d’Uzes, in the Champs
states that “one ‘great attraction’
was a grand cursing match, in which the
Ducbesse’s children and dogs took part.” What
are they giving us ? Is this a fresh instance of (he
depravity of the age, or was the “attraction”
a “coursing match?” Captain HalS 5®^
equerry to the Duke of Edinburgh,
the Bemersyde Estate in Scotland. bvr«t.~ d
the daughter of the last laird desiring tnfS?,? 01
eligible heir, and relatives falling, givino-v?/ 1 an
stranger, the inheritance. Similarly. on« a
partners in Coutts’ Bank has been anno t f J“ e
heir to a large estate although not in ted
way related to the present holder. Ana
people assert that there’s no such thing as
Two bankrupt Hebrews were dining at a ro« ”•
ant, and on the presentation of the bill niaJ„5 Ur '
the table a shilling in the £, the amount n? e fl° Q
composition with the creditors. The landlnJi h*
monstrated, and after a great deal of trouhi?
full amount was paid. On their arrival hnmi 6 the
brother remarked to the other: “ Moses Sf’ o 0Q9
will punish that man for his extortion ” " rf.? VeQ
replied the other Hebrew, “ Heaven has *i
punished him; I have six of his eilverspoons y
back pocket. . — This is how a widow adroitly in-
timates the desire of her heart:—“ Householder
(widow) wishes the care of a lady child. Comfort-
a hle home. References given.” Widowers blessed
with baby daughters will probably rush to secure
the advantages sure to surround a widow who will
only receive a “Lady Child.” "Householder"
should emigrate to the happy land where the
legs of the piano are carefully trousered....
One Mr. Goggs Banting, the other day, was
slated for £450 for -breach of promise. The
manly charms of the fickle Mr. Goggs Banting ap-
pear to be in excess of the horror of his not very
euphonious patronymic, for he married another
lady who brought riches enougb.for him to pay the
fine and still smile serenely A Mormon recently
convicted of polygamy was treated leniently, as he
promised to live with his lawful wife, and, at the
same time, to support his “left-handed” family,
in other words, we suppose, he undertook to live
in 8trict > conformity with the usage of “ good
8HS8I6 ty f
“Does Your Mother Know You’re Out?”
The Sydney D.T. proposes a statue to Mr. Dailey. Here is the accepted design.
PLAIN W. B. D. (log.): “WHAT A BIG CHICKEN TO COME OUT OF SUCH A LITTLE SHELL I”


W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON and SYDNEY.
Catalogues
POST FBBB.
W. WALKER
and SONS
are one of the
Largest
Stockholders
and
Manufacturer*
fm
Htffh-elass
FURNITURE
mz
ENGLAND.
Catalogues
POST FREE.
ALL STOCK
In their
'SYDNEY
■evn
Supplied
DIXBOT
from their
London
Manufactory,
and Latest
London Styles
Gomimo.
SYDNEY BRANCH t
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARO SQUARE.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ If you are suffering from poor health
'or languishing' on a bed of sickness,
' take cheer, for American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will core yon.
“ If you are simply ailing, if you feel
‘weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘ knowing why, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will Revive yon.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
' taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘and work, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will Restore yon.
“If you are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
‘ your every-day duties, or a man of let-
‘ ters, tolling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Streng'h.ten yon.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ordrinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
‘ patlon, or are young and growing too
‘ fast, as is often the case, Am. Co.’s
Hop Bitters will relieve yon.
“ If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
* that your system needs cleansing, ton-
‘ ing, or stimulating, without intoxlcat-
‘ ing, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters is what yon need.
“ If you are old, and your blood thin
* and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
‘unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Am. Hop Bitters will give yon new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS, as made by the Ame-
‘ rlcan Co., Is an elegant, healthy, and
* refreshing flavouring for sick-room
* drinks, impure water, etc., rendering
‘them harmless, and sweetening the
* mouth, and cleansing the stomach.”
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in
bottle. Shun all others as vile poisonous stuff.
WeakNervousMen
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay and
failure to perform life’s duties
properly are caused by ex-
cesses, errors of youth, etc.;
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
'The Marston Bqlus.
Neither stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment
of Nervous Debility and Physical Decay is
uniformly successful because baaed on perfect
diagnosis, new and direct methods and absolute
thoroughness. Full information and illustrated
treatise sent free (scaled),
j. O Connell.
F.O. Box 46C. 52 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
CONSUI.TATION KRlvK.
B
A U D B
4711
COLOGNE,
4711.
Established 1702.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1872; Prize Medal, Vienna, 1873
ThlsEau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 35 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for its superior sweetness, strength,
and invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
petitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public,
amd is extensively patronised by the dlite of
Europe.
The large and constantly increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Eau de Cologne, not only in
Europe, but also in North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned again*!
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number- 4711 changed into 7411.1147, 4117, &c , &c.
The r«v genuine article which carried off the
Prize Me .al st the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic bluo-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pltt-
street, Sydney.
To be had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
•? ad Storekeepers, in town and country.
SOLE IMPORTER OP
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 FITT STREET.
SOLE AGENT EOB THE
SMITE ORGAN.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
187 PITT STREET
nfy^nmjrrv
. .
AUTUMN SEASON, 1885.
LXdO'S'lD dz, CO.
HAVE RECEIVED THEIR NEW MILLINERY from Paris and London, and are now showing the
most charming little Bonnets at 21s.; and Hats at 18s. 6d., which are simply beautiful; and>
judging fro n the enormous variety and the magnificent quality of the materials, It is quite evident
that their home agent has spared no time or trouble in carrying out the instructions given him by
Mr. Lloj d.
We are showing onwards of 1000 imported HAT3 and BONNETS, suitable for all ages, at such
extremely low prices hitherto unequalled in Sydney.
IN <>UR LACE DEPARTMENT, wo are second to none In the colony, for the variety is astonishing
and prices are so inuen less than wo have ever had to ask at any other time. B
IN OUR RIBBON DEPARTMENT, we have every possible shade and width, at cutting prices fo*
best qualities only.
IN OUR GLOVE DEPARTMENT, we have a large stock of every kind.
The leading speciality is 370 dozen REAL ORBNNOBLE KID, usually sold at 4s. fldi
black and dark colours, with four patent clip fasteners, all sizes, 3s. 6d. per pair, post fr<
Also 390 dozen in light and daik tan, with heavy black stitching, four buttons, only 3s. 6d. i
free lor 2d. extra.
In the Ladles’ and Children’s Underclothing Department we have every requisite at London priced
BOSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.j
OPPOSITE WYNYARD-STREET, SYDNEY.
per palh iil
e 2d. extra;
er pair, post
Balm for a Sore Heart.
Having been troubled for many years with the
tetter, and spent many a hard-earned dollar, I was
Blven a trial of the Cuiicuha Remedies, and,
tiank God, my hands are well. I never had any-
thing do me good like that. Sometimes my head
wai sore, thinking 1 would have to give uo
with my sore ham s, and having a small
family to take care of; but oh 1 thank God, my
hands are well* so I af?aln return thanks. Eliza.-
bbth Buckley, Littleton, N.H.
No complaint is more general than that of
the liver for which Wolee’s Schnapps is the best
antidote.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL'S
CELEBRATED
nS AID CASES, TREACLE AID SOLOED SHOP,
Self-raising JErated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
B. & A. have obtained First Awards all over tbe world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney I.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4,
Sydney Agents s IV. H. ARIELL & CO., 343 and 345 Kent-street.
r mimt Paul Vasili, in his letters to a Pans
iniirnal does not spare Her Majesty the Queen,
of the Royal family, says she is an
“old-fashioned, middle-class person, of heavy
•nnearance and common-place talk, who flies from
world, isolates herself in perpetual mourning,
saddening herself by the bitterness of her regrets,
«nd appearing before her surroundings as the
Suture of a mind oppressed by a kind of preco-
cious moral decrepitude. Many English people,
oaneciafly those of the middle class, still love their
from old custom But Her Majesty Queen
Victoria no longer rules her people. She sees,
little by little, her authority and her prestige dls-
ioDearing. The real Queen has died with Prince
*?berf the Queen who remains is hardly a shadow
nf the former. Young people who approach the
Oaeen find her generally unsympathetic; old
wnmen. on the contrary, declare themselves
Earned by Her Majesty’s virtues, and profess
unbounded* respect and admiration for her.”
Of the Duke of Edinburgh he tells this anecdote:
“ The Empress of Russia, the mother of his wife,
was once staying with her daughter, the Duchess
of Edinburgh, with a large suite, carriages, horses.
The Duke gave her to understand that it was
too expensive to entertain her, and that he should
ha obliged if, on her departure, she would order
the chief of her suite to pay the expenses. At
the moment of her departure, alter a little
luncheon had been taken and the Empress was
already seated in her carriage, the Duke of Edm-
himrh drew a paper from his pocket and added the
luncheon to the expenses of the Russian Sove-
reign" Concerning the relation ot this story
« very indignant London journal remarks
“The pai simony of the Duke of Edin-
burgh has been common gossip for years,
and the old story ot the Empress of Ruisia s
luncheon bill was scarcely worth reviving.”
Of the Duke of Cambridge. Count Vasili wrltes:-
“ Liked by the soldiers, he is popular m society to
such an extent that the prettiest of his neighbours
at table dare not withdraw their white shoulders,
when giving way to sleepiness towards the end ot
me meaL he makes them his soft pillow.’’ And of
he Duke and Duchess ot Tcck: In spite of the
£5000 which this couple receives from the Civil
\utthe princely household U deeply in debt, and
at the end of its resources, thanks to the husband s
extravagance, tho furniture has had to be sold by
the bailiff like that of a middle-class household
which has not paid its bills.” We read further that
me best means ot obtaining a title from the Duke
of Saxe-Coburg-Gotba “ is at a csrtaln time to buy
horses from him; after having cheated., he will-
ingly reoumpenses. In other words. the*e exists
a tariff for titles and decorations in the Duchy ot
Saxe- Coburg-Qotha The Duke has agents in all
parts of the country, who are charged with the
selling ot the said titles and decorations. He has a
peculiar taste for low class mistresses. One of his
relatives told mo that he had one day,heard it raid
by the courtly Prince of Wales, When a carriage
passed them in the Bois de Boulogne : 1 here is
my uncle Ernest. I shall not look kt him because
he always has impossible ladles with him. Dulce
«st (keipere in any loco-even a locomotive -must
be the decoration-selling Duke s motto.
A Bush Idyll.
. homestead nestling by a creek—
Ajihe creek which flows thro Sandford s little
«rhere°dwelt a maiden lovely, pure, and meek
tier hair of gold, her eyes of hazel-brown;
. made figure fit for gods to press;
A iHrpe of a true Australian girl was she-
. i parth-born angel sent from heav n to bless
A fbe youth of Queensland’s true nobility.
u«ony her life spent ’midst the waving corn,
Sffljv the stockman whom she loved so well,
gweet were their dreams-as fair as summers
Of thatbright home where they in peace should
there’s a proverb, known, I think, to all—
® Retween the cup and Up is oft a slip.
with our lovers: it was at a ball,
8 Or penny-reading, that he lost his grip.
.Twas rough, ’twas very rough, in that old barn;
nur hero, too, had just come back from town,
And to surprise the dear one at the farm
"wad speculated in a knock-me-down
JS of dude’s clothing-pants almost skin-tight.
8 The boards were elipp’ry-they were newly-
A„d his feet slipped, one to left, one right,
A Asudden crash told off the coming storm.
a sadden veiling ot a score of eyes.
A a swelling titter and a laughing rout
nt all save one, who, when she could arise,
0 as oulckly joined the merry crowd without,
mit he, her hapless lover, could not stand
Tne smiles and titterings, so left the creek.
Another took his place, and gained her hand,
A If°nother heart; for they were wed last week.
E. D.
Townsville, Tth June,
i rts this original ? It is almost too good to come
from Townsville.—Ed. B J


Mashebs.— The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 652 George-stroet, Brickfield H1U.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—Beware of would-be rivals
of this great elixir—Al« ays get Wolfe fr
Schnapps.
A contributor to the Australasian sug-
gests that women should a;ptre to the pulpit. Tois
is not so wild an Idea as It seetrs. T he n*Sj ( r_y
«Lp rftpmv now.* miy bo df8crib?i bs old
women,’’"sofeely women wru'.d be suited, to the
ministry. And then how nice it would bo to hear
™)oveJy ady tmr?ou r addr'F3 her “dearly beloved
brethren.” Further. a« th« chief cor corn of many
parsocs now eacmsTo bH es to tbo
width, and cut of an “altar-cloth or cassock, the
sweet girl-parSOn would he ruro to display much
taste and -knowledge concerning tho style of
clerical millinery most appropriate to the gospel
of humility.
Mrs. Weldor, the notorious English liti-
gant, was, a Jew years ego, celebrated for her
beauty, though it was of a very firm order, and
bad in It a slightrdasb of tho masculine. 1 he other
day she deposed in court—When the married her
husband in 1800 ebo had no dowry or money, and
he had nothing but debts. (Loud laughter.) They
married for urve. (Renewed laughter ) A ac-
complished and successful vocal sn could make
£2 4,000 a year, and many, like Tuiens, >ught to
make that sum up to 70 >ewrsof age Scot tness,
and not age. wes what militated agains a remale
vocalist. When she became stout her chance of
success was hopeless. (A laugh.) Mr'. Weldon,
who is In gaol for libelling M. Riviere, of concert
celebrity, has Just got a verdict for £10,000 damage*
. C08^s against M. Gounod, the composer, tor
libel and other things.
Pity the sorrows of a poor New Zea'and
pushman on whom a tiee fell and whr. I a d to go
loWelUcgton, and get -me of his
legs off. After his recovery, and a jo.islderable
time after he had beeh fitted with a substitute, he
stumped his way back to the hospital. In-
tending to leave a small donation for the
f UDds of th6 lost ItutiOD* Looking in on tho sur—
gery to say good-day to the doctor, what was the
sawyer’s astonishment to see his lost leg, which
he had been assured bad been sent to the cemetery
and handsomely buried among the defunct
patients, standing up in a glass case or bottle, in
the surgery, preserved In alcohol. Righteously
Indignant at such an Illegal action on the part of
the hospital authorities, the owner of the limb de-
manded possession of his leg forthwith. The
demand was refused, and the sawyer thereupon
consulted a limb of the law, and the result was
that he brought a suit In replevin against the Hos-
pital Board, and the case, after being argued pro
and con, was ultimately decided In his favour, and
he got possession of his prop-erty, with costs.
The Dowager Queen Emma of Hawaii is
dead, and with her may be said to pass away the
golden age of the fated Archiepelago. Sho was the
niece of the great KamehamehaL, and her death
has snapped the tie between the great past or
Hawaii and its miserable present—that present
over which is the shadow of dissolutlon’svnd death
In ber dying hours did there flash through her
mind the grand and wonderful pageant of the
past—the transformation of a nation of Pagans
into Christians, with a Legislature, and churches,
ana all that, the mighty figure of her undo loom-
ing gigantic over all I that pa*t which has been so
graphically described by Twain in his “ Innocents
at Home ” ? Did she look forward, too, and see the
inevitable end of her race, the time when her
beautiful laud, the heaven upon earth that man
has turned into hell, inhabited by the unclean
Chinese, and the frivolous, impure French half-
breed ? If so, how bitter must have been the
thoughts of the poor dying Queen, who had seen
the glories of her race and their decay 1 A truly
good woman was Queen Emma, who strove with
all her might to stay the decay of her race, and
who spread benevolent institutions over the
land. But they were a great race of men
and women, the Kamehamehas; reminding one of
the Homeric heroes, with all their virtues and
their vices. A splendid thing Captain Cook did for
the Hawaiians and Tahitian* when ho discovered
their islands. He found a healthy, happy, well-
fed people, living in Paradise. True, they occa-
sionally got it into tholr heads, or rather their
priests persuaded them—for 1 he prior fs good, of
course—that their Atua wanted n few people
knocked on the head, and they were knocked
on the head accordingly. Well, that was bad, but
worse has happened. It is shrewdly surmised by
some writers that cannibalism and human sacrifices
were rude means of reducing the surplus population
—another kind of Malthusianism. There’s no need
of It now. Thanks to tho mm and the diseases
and the unnatural living introduced by the whites
the population decreases with the utmost rapidity.
Cannibalism would be impossible, for no one would
stomach the loathsome bo ly of a Hawaiian I f these
are the benefits Christianity and civilisation con-
ftr, then the chiefs of Now Guinea have reason to
cry out, “ Save us from the whites.”
Here (writes an esteemed correspondent) is
a little thing which happened some years ago,
when we were a bit of a middy on board u man-of-
war in the Red Sea. The dullan of Makuleb,
a petty, many-wlve.1 Arabian potentate, whose
dominions bordered the Gulf of Aden, one day
gave his harem a holiday and sent it out on a
crulre in the Royal yacht for the good of its
health. There were altogether about 40 ladies, in-
cluding the female attendants of the Sultan’s
favourites. Some of the latter were Georgians,
Circassians, and Greeks, young, beautiful, and
romantic, and when the captain, who had charge
of the vessel, lost his reckoning, an i could not And
his way back to Makuleh, thes were secretly de-
lighted, for the Sultan was old, ugly, cross, and
an inveterate wite-beater, and they didn’t care
much if they never saw his sultry dominions
again. Just then, as luck would have It, up
steamed Her Majesty’s ship L — and boarded the
yacht, and as the captain of the latter had no
papers to show for himself, she was at once sei^d
as a curious fact in natural history that, when we
visited that part lately after a prolonged ab-
sence, we were considerably astonished to see
teveral young persons of both sexes run-
ning loose in that place with nothing to wear
particularly save a few gold stripes on their arms
and ankles, resembling those we saw the harem
wear on board the man-of-war. Whether the
stripes were Nature’s handiwork, like those on
Jacob’s cattle, or whether they had been painted
on with a brush, we did not ascertain. The reader
can think as he likes on this subject, but we have
our own opinion. Evidently Jacob didn’t know
everything down in Judea after all, smart stock-
breeder though he was.
as a slaver. The ladies were soon taken on
the man-of-war to their great delight boar <l
very kindly treated, and when we visited^iL W u re
a few days afterwards at AdenV this i s 8hi P
saw—First, one surpassingly beautiful We
Georgian damsel with three gold strlnes
arm, another with two gold strlnes ami 2 n he r
with similar marks of distinction e corresnnn^ raI
with the rank of the officers and officials 6 who
taken such a kindly Interest in their had
fare. The ladies one and all were greatly
with their novel surroundings and other
The rules of the service, of course. neceiwM-
their being put ashore somewhere, whhA^ 1
accordingly done at Aden, where they were XS*
vlded for In various ways by their captors if £5°*
noticed that this particular man-of-war frequent®
put In at Aden to coal and refit, etc., for a
time afterwards, but what became of theVsi/
ultimately we do not know for certain mfe 8
happened several years ago, and we may mentlo
The “ Piping Times of Peace/’
“And their Scrub-outters shall be turned into Plough-shares.”— Scripture.
MARS, THE CONTINGENTt “LOOK HERE, VULCAN, OLD MAN-CAN YOU TURN THIS HERB BLOOMING AFFAIR INTO A PLOUGHSHARE, OR SOMETHING USEFDL? *
VULCAN: “I CAN, MY BOV, AND IF YOU PROVE AS HANDY WITH THE PLOUGH AS YOU HAVE BEEN WITH THAT IN THE SOUDAN, IT WILL BE A PRECIOUS GOOD
THING FOR THE COUNTRY ! ”


/fz.
Ifi/SBR
HAS
re-ugmebia
TUDT ECONOMY
and
tave yourU mbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
.Parasols re-Ilned and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
B41 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tume*. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted
T
IHB FRESH FOOD AND ICE COMPANY
(Limited).
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT - ’
Mo. 23 Royal Arcado,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &o„ with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
“KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
Fresh Food A Ice Co., Limited,
Head Office..
Stables
Factory
... 21 Harbour-street.
.. Llverpool-street.
... Mlttagong. ->>
— i_S*
r *c
me
or
life
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the niitold
miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses maybe
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur.'
chose and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
or Self 1 leservation. A book for every man, young
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be
regained and retained. Itcontains 125 prescriptions for
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
any physician. SOOpagea, bound in beautiful Frenchcloth
full gilt, guaranteed to he a finer work in every sense than ’
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will he refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps, i Gold
medal awarded the author by the National Medical •
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
The Science of Life should bo read by the voungfor
instruction and by thtf afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all. —London Lancet. i
Address the Worbits Dispensary Mod leal As- j-j p
sooiation, or Dr. W. R. Parker, No. 6>J Hunter
S'reot, Sydney, N.S.W. The author may TI J Wp F“ |" F“
lei consulted on all diseases requiring I hlnr It
skill, secrecy, and experience.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
?A® best known remedy for RHEUMATISM.
K-TJRALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACIE
RAINS, BRUISES, TURNS. SCALD3, & 0 - and
Mien internally cures DIARRHOEA, DYSENTERY.
CRAMPS, COLIC’, and all other Interns aches
tod pains. «——__i
Price, 2/- Sold Everywhere.
2. E. MOULTON, sole PROPrr.TOR,
Melbourne s .dney
PAINT
§
AO . M MOISMMD.
SAFE, CERTAIN. & SPEEDY CURB for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaint!
fr ° m lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, Loss of Vital Power, &o. By Its tonlo
tn? ejects It at once removes afl craving
for Alcohol. By Its richness in phosphorous and
2.tber powerful vitalising elemefltK'MARSHALL’a
?h° ft N $ NERVINE nourishes and t?
a ? whole system. Price, As. 6d„ «r 25s. a ease
W or8 ' MARSHALL BROTHERS. VP!!.*
iKS* ? nd consulting Chemists, loi and
i near ny
TUTi treet# Cljp0ul,u, “ (ju^
NO MORE CORNS I
C°BNSAND warts removed without palo
by the use of Palmer’s Painless, Harmless,
ana Effectual CORN AND WART REMOVER
This preparation Is the most wonderful ever used
for Corns, Warts, or Bunions. If applied aooord-
Imr to the directions, It will effectually remove
them-ln from six to eight days.
~ ....... . „ PALMER’S
SI FACI/E CURA )gu
For Neuralgia, either Chronic or Loe&L
.-This most wonderful Preparation has surpassed
All others In speedily removing this excruciating
and most distressing complaint. It matters not
now long or severe the suffering has been, a single
bottle has never failed In producing the desired re-
Bu i . land It pan be most confidently recommended.
■ Bold retail by all chemists and druggists and
Several stores; wholesale by Messrs. Elliott Bros.,
ydney ; B. Prosser and Co., Sydney ; Felton,
ttrtmwade, and Co., Melbourne; Kempthorne and
Prosser, Dunedin.
Sydney Pharmacy.
„ 76 HUNTER STREET,
Opposite Tramway, Elizabeth Street.
TOHTSICTANS’PRESCRIPTIONS carefully pro-
JE. ; pared with Drugs of the purest quality.
Frenchlndlarubber Goods, Ladies* Abdominal
Supports and Pessaries, Syringes and Enemas of
every description, always In stock.
Country Orders promptly executed.
H. F. liBIEL. M.P.S., Mgr.
NEUSTADT and CO.,
COMPLETE
FURNISHERS,
mm. 156, i 158 OXFORD-ST]
BTDNBT.
%r HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERT REQUISITE.
Eithah ios Gash ob Time Patmbmt.
- v 11
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND AT.T.
WQRK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Gash Purchasers.
REMEDY FREE.
ful Errors, Early Decay, Lc
WEAK MEN,
r __ . . ..... Suffering from Youth-
, s, Early Decay, Lost Manhood, etc., will
learn of a simple and Certain means of Self Cure,
Free of Charge, by addressing i
M. B. TAYLOR, Esq., Box 891, Sydney, N.S.W.
VENETIA WALTZ:
T\» Air to to nil markod, O.nour* lorrniE
W^’caMtabOi
Fed
-r
red
BULLARD has the Largest iatook
i v v of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs Pieces, Dances, Ac.
" , S‘ 1 !L r S? Music, Anth ms. Psalters, Services. <ko.
.Part Music, Glees, Caorusos, Cantatas, &c
Orchestral and Bras: Band Music, in variety.
_INew catalogues will be ready in a few days and
sent gratis on application.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &o., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or prlr tod, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All prders executed n best style and promptly.
Books for Presents an> School Prize*, in parcels,
I 401 upward. Li boro 1 discount allowed.
Albmmr. Purses, Cardf lates, Hand Bag*. Fans, Sco.
Music and-Books b jui d In any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
ziriea.
Call and see the two most Important Copying
Instruments ever Invented. The Trypograpn
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
Is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM - BULLARD,
t*2 GEORGE STREET.
DENTIST.
(Of America)
GUARANTEES
Wsct Fit d Mutiii.
PRICES MODERATE.
Corner George end Market Streets
OVER HUNTER’S BOOT PALACE.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE.
MADAMEELISE,
PARI8IENNB DRESSMAKER AND SPECIAL
B8TAYMAKER,
EGS to ball Ladles’ attention to her superior
FIT, TASTE, and exceptionally reasonable
charges. All orders receive her personal attention
and superintendence.
128 COLLINS STREET EAST.
Nervous debility, lost vitality,
Weakness, and Prematui a Decay.—A simple
and positive means for Permanent Self-cure, by a
very eminent French Hospitti Physician, sent
free to any sufferer. Bendyour address, on a
stamped envelope, to 0. C. W., Box 766, G.P.O.,
Sydney.
C. B. HO Dim,
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large^nd^ varied Stosk of
manufactured by the most celebrated English
lUaSciot
A,® I® 81 ™ 8 to apprise his customers
tt.%K. t i s v^- b j e o e &ra , G”^
LAJTO ' 8 °N;Vr Lond on : JOSEPH
CO London N ’ London 5 CHA8. 08B0KNB 8c
B g&lt M igo‘!‘£o A nS„^ T ' OT “*>>* »«"«'
J AU1 tUW UC1U *
- wiuJuily Guaranteed at
602 Gaorga.st., Sydney,
where Inspection la invited.
Champa gti e
Heldsleck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINS MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS A Co., London.
Pole Agee to for Haldstec* & Co„ Reins.
E V 8H(KJLI? USE [PEMELI/S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
. MA DB FB0M THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill re P|eto with the newest and most approve
Th. PRlSr. V%TS,V"? r '!,‘&AL, T y
la guaranteed very good
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL
8S1 Cicorjfe-street, Sydney. '
e yon going to Bourke ?
xT^ S ij T and . ? ai P g° in S to stay at the TUBE
MUiEL, which is now kept by
The “LOUIS’ 9
VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which' would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of “ Louis.''
* May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
send patterns
POST FREE’ on
application.
Carnriek’s Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk
(Composed of about equal proportions of Pure Cod Liver Oil and Condensed Milk digested).
I T «£o |^* ue mu ch pleasure to announceto the Medical Profession and the Public that we have sms
ln com k^ining these nutritive substances Into a permanent , palatable , and easily assimilabU
Peptonfaed Cod Liver Oil and Milk has the following advantages over the Plain Oil and
Bmutad™ now in use :-lst. Plain Cod Liver Oil Is unpalatable to inert but in comblnat on
as exhibUfd in tbi * Preparation, it will usuallybe taken by t?eyouog£t
child with a relish, 2nd. Oils arc prepared for assimilation principally in iheduodenum ; com coiientfv
1 n ’ wb , t ? n ta j i ® n Plain, often i tfends the stomach, 1 he Oil and N Ilk in Peptonized Cod Liver
apfjyj* wld therefore usually agree with the most delicate stomach 3rd
PeptoVuzed Cod Liwr Oil and Milk contains double the nutritive and flesh forming principles found In
rod Liver Oil 4th It knpwn that the Emulsions of
p i S °, f wa ter. Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk contains 53 per cent of
best Cod Liver OiL end in the place of water we use condensed milk, reduced in vacuo in our labora-
tory- 6th. i be milk is condensed to the consistency of the Cod Liver Oil, and when combined M in
can be'oo ud uced 5* * 14 form8 one of the m0:St Pleasant and nutritious compounds that
— . of the Cod Liver Oil Emulsions ever
retained on the weakest stomach.
This Preparation is acknowledged far superior to any i
introduced, it being already may be retai
rot^ 6 comblned with HYLOPHOSPHITFS OF LIMB ANI
dODA. lo be obtained of the Principal Chemists and Druggists iu the colonies.
The Malting Manufacturing- Co., Lim., 24 and 25 Hart-st., Bloomuhury, London, W.C.
Wholesaie Agents in the Colonies :-Elliott Bros., Sydney; E. Prosser & Co,. Sydney: Felton. Grim-
Wl 0 LHoSili E A C M e ’m 0 S 1 . pfl^t i <^. Co ' , *¥ e i ll iS ur H? ; Duerdin & Sainshury, ftfelbourne; F. H.
lirug Ca.°Brf S banc ! Bertle y- TA >’ lor - & <*>.. Brisbane; Elliott
Samples and Pull Particulars may be obtainedof
W. T. PALMER, 104 King-street, Sydney.
! ■ i
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Robs Makers.
Trousers from Sis. to 40s.
iar~ N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last flvs years, was HEAD CUTTER at Farmer and Co.
W. feHEAUsEY & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabetb-st,
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA AND INSECTICIDE.
-
T.
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA, tb« Universal Remedy for INDIGESTION TT ATnrvwnt.
.JSSta 8TOMAOH, BILIOUS HBADACHeT ftnd’a most gentle
Prr -ifedlcal Opinions Accompanying each Bottle.
Sold by alt C-cinlsts and Storekeepers throughout the Colonies.
KRUSE’S mSL'CriCIDE
Effectually destroys all noxious Insects, such as FLEAS, FLIES, BEETLES MOSQTTTTnma .
COCKROACHES. It Is quite harmless to Dogs, Birds, Fowls, and other animals It -bP^ 1
from the Depredations of the Moth. Bedroom Furniture, Ship Cabins, Fowl Houses amt rw * u ? 8
may be Cleansed of Insect Vermin by KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE. mouses, and Dog Kennels
EGd In Tins, Is., and upwards, by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
' ELLIOTT BROS. ) a .
K. PROSSER A CO. fBydaer,


After the original by Miss Thompson, recently purchased by the N.S.W. Government from Mr. John Sands.
The Roll-Call. —The Return off the N.S.W. Contingent.


N
OCTOGENARIAN’S
A PACT.
GRATITUDE,
George-street, Sydney, September 1,1884.
Messrs. Myers and Solomon.
Gentlemen,—It gives me considerable pleasure
to tender you my best thanks for your kind re-
commendation of St. Jacobs Oil. Acting upon
your advice, I tried it, and am happy to say the
very first application brought me instant relief;
and, by following it up for a couple of days, I felt
completely cured. Before using St. Jacobs Oil I
suffered severely—more especially from swollen
knees—and had tried many other remedies without
the least effect. However, I have to thank it for
making me myself again, and shall be careful to
recommend it.
I may mention that I shall be 80 years of age in
October, and believe that through its use I shall be
able to spend a pleasant birthday.
Yours faithfully,
JOSEPH HENRY.
Sold by all chemists and druggists In N.8.W.;
price, 2s. 6d. per bottle.
y * ox iJr medioal attendant what he
thinks of Wolfe’s Schnapps as a means of
promoting digestion. means or
Ms. DmOoubot Browne (late Denutv
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales). Author of the “ Mlnew’ HandT Bo o k”
“ Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “MaiZi n/
, Mln l ng ' Adviser, and Land and
mR y be consulted on every
s&ssuEm-
C«^r^ r r» r “ 0td *” th ” “•‘“‘"“■STSl
A NEW DISCOVERY.—Hoffman’s Eucalyntol
(registered) “Mixtureand Injection.” S win
positively cure all kidney diseases and aSmrders
ah urinary complaints and discharges, irritating’
scalding, Inflammation, gravel, pains In the bank’
&o. A case incurable In nine months was actnam?
cured in eight days with HoffmannVlucalvnto?
Injection (“purely vegetable”). Hoffman’s w,,
calyptol Mixture or Injection contain no mineral'
no sandalwood, no balsam, or anything lniur1n»J
to the most delicate constitution of either mt"
Ask for Hoffman’s, and take no towhSS*
Wholesale; K. Prosser and Co.; Bniott Bi oa R^
‘I was recommended to use Wolfe s
Schnapps by a medical man of large
who evidently knew its value ” g eKperl0noe »
MY FIRST .
I was very young. If I had not been, the inci-
dents which are about to be narrated would never
have happened. Seventeen years have flown or
dragged by since that time, but the memory of
my first romance is still strong within me.
I was barely 18, but, owing. to a. hereditary
peculiarity In mv father’s family, i was already
the possessor of a trim moustache and a full
beard. Strangers invariably took me for at least
35, and my photographs might have been tho.se of
a middle-aged man. As I was an only son and had
one sister several years older than myself, I'had
been very early taken Into society as an escort,
and was more at home in a ball-room than many
men who numbered twice my years. .
My sister and I had been invited to a quiet dance
at the house of a widpw who was very fond of re-
ceiving her friends. On entering the room, I was
•truck by the appearance of a stranger—a tall,
graceful brunette, who stood near the mantel-
piece, some 30 feet away from me. I an
introduction as soon as 1 could And my hostess at
leisure, and soon those magic words, “ Mr. Beau-
champ. Miss Sophie Blent,” were the open sesame
that admitted me to heaven.
The next dance was, of course,' asked for, $nd
yfU graciously granted. It proved to be a waits,
and a strange and new sensation passed through
me as I wound my arm round that beautiful waist.
Our talk revealed the fact that Miss Kent, whose
borne was at Brighton, was an old friend of our
hostess, and was going to spend a few days at her
house. The fair widow was about to give her
visitor a brief round of the London amusements.
Here was my opportunity: the widow had no per-
manent cavalier, and my services were often
sought by her. -• j.
At last oame the Joyful moment when I could
claim her to go down to supper—I had early in
the evening taken the precaution to secure this
privilege. What a struggle I had to find hejr a
good seat, and how I piled her plate with dainties!
She was considerate enough to notice that I did
not eat anything, and to beg me look out for my-
self. I assured her that I never ate suppers
Food just then had no charms for me, though I
usually boasted a splendid appetite. But,'despite
the fact that the supper was from Qunter’s and
did credit to that prince of caterers, I could not
swallow a morsel. Two or three glasses of cham-
pagne did not tend to cool the fever of my blood
Those confections that were wrapped in bright
coloured papers, enclosing mottoes, afforded ui
amusement for a little while. The tender&t ]
could find I gave to her, and when she handed me
one on which was printed; V
If to me thou wilt be true, J < '
You’ll find I’ll love as few can do.” . '
I was in ecstasies. I tried to tell her all I felt in
one passionate glance, but I am afraid it was a
failure, for my sister, who caught sight of me at
that moment, told me afterwards that I looked as
if I had indigestion. • .t ;
All the remaining dances I claimed, and during
some we sat in the conservatory and talked of
love—at least, I talked and she listened, but was
there ever before a girl who listened so gracefully
and attentively ? And then her questions about
myself and my family! What interest the darling
already took in me, and how anxious she was to
know everything that concerned me I Were ever
proofs of interest and regard more clearly
evinced ?
I lingered, much to the annoyance of my sister,
till the last guest was going. I thanked my hostesi
for the most delightful evening I had ever spent-
and, for once, the well-worn formula was a truth
It was impossible to get Sophie alone again then,
but I pressed her hand and whispered: s rf .
“Till to-morrow, darling.” .
Then we went home. My sister was sulky—sht
had not danced much, I believe. • . - •
Next day I felt that I must write to Sophie. J
poured out my heart, or, at least as much of It as 1
could get on three good-sized sheets of note-paper'
I went into the street, and soon encountered t
dirty youth, who, for the consideration of m six-
pence, promised to deliver the all-important doou
ment Immediately. The distance from my house
to Mrs. Vernon’s was not great, but I subsequently
learnt that from the appearance of the letter when
received, the gentle youth must have dropped 1|
in the mud several times.
While I was endeavouring to read the most ex
citing of recent love-stories, and mentally abusing
the stupidity of the author in not being able to
realise or describe the extent and completeness oi
true love, I was startled by-the words:
“A letter for you, MasUr Harry.”
The speaker was an old servant, jwho had been
my nurse, and who, despite my earnest remon-
strances, always addressed me by the above dimi-
nutive title. But though I had of late frequently
objected to it, never had it proved so disagreeable
as at the present moment. If it had not been foi
my anxiety to gain possession of the letter, which
I fondly hoped was a reply to mine, I should have
administered a scathing rebuke, but as
from painful experience that this-course would
open the floodgates of the old woman’s talk, I held
my peace. ' »,
Alas,the eagerly-seized letter was not from
Sophie, but It was a request from Mrs. Vqrnon
that if I was not engaged for that evening I would
be kind enough to accompany her to the opera.
Never before had an opera seemed to me.to be
so delightful. It was “ HBarblere,” and Mario
could then sing that musio as no one else has since
been able to do. The romantic love-story was ex-
actly adapted to the feelings of Sophie and myself,
and as I held her hand under the cover of her
opera-cloak, frequent pressures would tell me of
her sympathy with the story and of her affection
for me. l-l-
At last oame the sad moment when Sophie had
to return to Brighton. Almost at the last moment
Sophie told me that she did not like whiskers, and
that she was sure I should look much better with
a moustache only. It is needless to say that I de-
clared her wish should be nay law. Alas, I little
thought that, like a modern Delilah, she was steal-
ing away my strength with my hair!
I went home with a heavy heart and endea-
voured to find some consolation in writing Sophie
a long letter. In it I drew a most affecting picture
of my misery and loneliness; already I felt that
we had been parted forages. Then I endeavoured
to shave myself. I finally got the hair off, bat as
I was inexperienced with a razor, a considerable
amountiof skin was also missing.: I; whs rather
astonished at my appearance. Mr age had
vanished as if by a miracle. I looked like a boy'
who had stuck on a small moustache— my
moustache had always been much less luxuriant
than my whiskers. When I went down to dinner
r T**!i* 0 HTi. r0 T’ father was very angry;
••ttl.hjd spoilt what little beauty I ever had
and kindly added that I “looked like a lunatic
who bad escaped after a fight with his keepers ”
How slowly the days lingered along till that
eventful Sunday I When I arrived at Brighton I
found Sophie waiting for me in a carriage. She
was thoughtful enough to suggest that I might
enjoy a little drive before going to the house. I
Jumped at the chance of being alone with her,
mt the carriage was an open one, the streets were
frequented, the coachman’s very back seemed to
have powers of perception, and words alone were
left me as a means of expressing my affection. 1
“"‘“I best, but to me they were unsatisfactory.
At last I ventured to ask Sophie what she thought
of the change in my appearance. I had been ex-
pecting her to comment on it, but she had re-
mained strangely silent. She said she was afraid
she had ipade a mistake —that the whiskers were
oertainiy becoming to me. This was a decided
When we approached the house I must confess I
felt a nervous tremor at the idea of meetings!!
her family. They were all assembled In the draw-
ing-room father, mother, sister, and two brothers,
big, hulking fellows, years older than Sophie! I
kept my eyes on Mrs. Kent—a motherly-looking
old lady—and I fancied I saw something like a
shade of disappointment flit across her face. How-
ever, ever: b idy was very polite, and after a brie!
conversation one of the brothers took mo to his
loom to prepare for dinner.
The feast was a gorgeous one, and I have since
had reason to think was specially gotten up for
the occasion. The waiter’s evident unfamiliarlby
with the arrangements of the house also convinced
me, on subsequent mature reflection, that he was
a temporary adjunct. During the repast the talk
turned or was led to the subject of age, and Mr.
I£ent asked rpe hpw old I was.
“Eighteen,” I somewhat proudly replied, for la
the weeks that had passed since I met Sophie my
birthday bad oome.
There was rather a long pause in the conversa-
tion. I was at a loss to account for it, and in a
minute or two I rattled on about the new play.
After dinner I made an early escape from the
society of Mr. Kent, and was fortunate enough to
find Sophie alone In the drawing-room. Then
there were a few—too few—minutes of unalloyed
happiness. She owned that she loved me. Then
once more she sang to me “Ami not fondly thine
own ? „ J oan almost hear her now, and that song
never falls upon my ears without recalling her.
Too soon the rest of the family came In, and it
was time for me to go. Sophie was “ so sorry, ’*
but she was really too fatigued to go with me to
the station. Mr. Kent, however, kindly offered to
accompany me. I said it was quite unnecessary,
but he insisted. My farewell to Sophie had tc be
taken In the presence of all the family. Mrs. Kent
was kind enough to say she hoped soon to see me
again, and I was charged with all sorts of kind
messages to Mrs. Vernon.
I am afraid I was not a cheerful companion for
Mr. Kent on the way to the station. I could not
help feeling that In some respects the day had
been a failure. I had seen less of Sophie than I
had hoped for, and more of her family than I
wanted. The old gentleman was very talkative,
and I fancied almost inquisitive about myself ana
my belongings, but fortunately it did not take
l 2 D ?. t0 arrive at our destination. A hurried hand-
shaking, a last good-by, and I was soon speeding
toward London.
* • • • • • •
I wrote the next day, and the next, and the next,
but no reply came. What could have happened ?
Again I wrote, more devotedly and appi alingly
than ever. A letter came, but it was from Sophie’s
flster. Sophie, she wrote, was not at all well, and
had asked her to inform me of the fact. I was
very nearly rushing off to Brighton again, but
the reflection that if Sophie was too 111 to write
it was not likely I should be allowed to see
her, prevented my going. So I had to con-
sole myself as best I could by sending dally
letters telling of my racking anxiety and pas-
sionate adoration. Still no reply came. In despera-
tlon I went to Mrs. Vernon and got her to find out
?bout Sophie. In two dajs’ time she informed me
that Sophie bad gone to visit some people of the
name of Mordaunt, at Bxmouth, in Devonshire.
1 was almost frantic and certainly ill.
Nearly two months had passed .when one morn-
jBg on the breakfast table I saw an envelope bear-
ing the loved and well-known handwriting. My
heart gave a joyful bound. The envelope was
thick and large I Double postage had been paid I
T ' ere was a card inside—the dear girl bad not only
written, but sent me a new picture of herself 1
Trembling with almost delirious delight and anti-
cipation I opened It. There was a second envelope
on the inside 1 Ah, an invitation to a party, doubt-
less 1 I drew from that second envelope, not a
photograph, but two cards. The first bore the
words:
Mb. Akthur Mordaunt,
The Hall, Exmoutb.
On the second was:
Mrs. Arthur Mordaunt,
nie Sophie Kent,
The Hall, Exmoutb.
A small scandal about our old friend Levy,
the cornet man. The American libel suit, Giles v.
Emmanuel, is to oome off in July. The plaintiff
avers that, while staying with her daughter at a
Coney Island hotel, the defendant, a New York
lawyer, also staying there, sent for a newspaper
reporter and got him to publish-ohl such a heap
of nasty things about her and her daughter and a
Mr. Levy, a “eornetist,” Such shocking stories
the newspaper told 1 It said that Mr. Levy, the
eornetist, was behaving in a most intimate man-
ner with the mother and her daughter, and was
paying their hotel bills and lending them money,
too. Mr. Emmanuel says that the reporter in-
vented the scandal, and now wants to make him a
scapegoat, but the newspaper people assert that
they have Mr. Emmanuel’s letter for their au-
thority. What Mr. Levy, the eornetist, has to say
on the subject is not stated.
The Melbourne undertakers laugh. Some
fifth-year medical students addressed to the Uni-
versity Council, the other day, a protest against
the character of the questions they were called
upon to answer. They designated the questions as
vague, obscure, ambiguous, and unfair,” and
wanted it not to be done again. The three medical
men who bad acted as examiners thereupon set
out to show that the antecedents of these gentle-
men afford a clue to the motive of their complaint.
They chronicle that out of the nine complain-
ants five were plucked in some other subject be-
sides medicine; that four failed in medicine:
that seven had been plucked once before; that one
had been plucked five times, and one six times
previously, and all In fifth-year subjects. From
the students’ side of the question one would
think the examiners aimed at preventing anybody
being cured. From the examiners’ side it would
appear that their great and earnest effort is to
keep people from being killed. The Council sup-
ported, though with dissent, the examiners.
A LEGEND OF ST. M4RVS CATHEDRAL.
THE AjBCBTIO ARCHBISHOP, WHO WANTS TO KNOW EXACTLY ;HOW THINGS ARB
GOING, SENDS THE NIGHT-PORTER TO BED AT 12 30 A M ., AND HIMSELF COM-
l MBNCES TO AWAIT THE ARRIVAL OF THE HOLY FATHER, WHO’S ON A VISIT '
TO TOWN FROM BARGOWLAHMINE. AND WHO “WENT OUT FOR A WALK” AT
8 nit
I I: " WHAT S HB BEEN DOIN’”
Z 2: “CHEEKING ME.”
X 1: “WHAT YOU GOIN’ TO CHARGE HIM WITH?”
Z2: “ OB3CANB LANGUAGE, AND RESISTING THE P0LEE8E.”
X1 ; “J’LL HELP YE TO RUN HIM IN: THERE’S A MURDERIN’ ROW ROUND THE
CORNER, AND I’D BETTER BE OUT O’ THE WAY.”


* Counterfeits are lively but they have not yet
arrived . at-any imitation of Wolfe's
SCIf NAPP3. .
-No one can be siok if the stomach, blood,
liver and kidneys are well. American Co.’s Hop
Bitters keeps them well. Notice.
Wolfe’s Schnapps would not have stood a test
of actual trial' for half a century were it not an
excellent spirit.
rriHE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
_L INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital ... 1 £100,000.
•• •* Mii- : Head Office : Melbourne.
Sydney Branch : Royle’s Chambers, Bond-street.
Victorian Directors:
John L. Dow, Esq., M.P.,
Chairman
Hon. J. F. Levlen, M.P.
Thomas Learmonth, Esq.
N. S. Wales Directors:
Andrew Town, J.P., Esq.
Prank Cowley, Esq.
George 8. Yeo, Esq.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs Insured
against death from Accident, Disease, or Natural
Causes bn land, rail, or at sea.
Marine Bisks on Stock covering mortality or on
Merchandise accepted.
' The only Live Stock Insurance Society in the
olbnies.
i Full-particulars can be obtained from the under-
Active Agents wanted where unrepresented.
A. J. WILKINSON, Branch Manager,
s OtHod, Royle’s Chambers, Bond-street.
A U8TRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1872.
Capital—£100,€00 with power to increase to £1,000,000
BONUSES—20 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
«*®.Head . Office*. .«*»
First Fire Society established In me coiony on
the Mutual principle, giving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Policy-holders are perfectly free by law from
all liability.
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement lor fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
C aURCH, Manager.
1 KING STREET**-
'W’A
w. Head Offlcea-PITT
Printed and Published by Thb Bull«txs News-
paper Co. (Limited), tA Pitt-at.. Sydney, N.o.w.
Political Points
Writes a treasonable Radical print:—
“John Schuster, who, while he was an inmate or
the Kensington Workhouse, was called a German
pauper,’ and resented the offensive epithet by
attempting to burn down the building, has our
fullest sympathy. He had every reason to com-
plain ; we did not treat him with our accustomed
courtesy. A workhouse is no place for German
paupers, whom we usually supply with a place to
live in, a b*g income to spend, and a wife from our
Royal family. And that is how we should have
treated John Schuster. But now we oome to think
of it, wo could hardly have done so, as we have no
spare Princess on hand ,1ust now. We have a few
coming on, however, if John Schuster will consent
to wait.”
Some paper says It is proposed that
Parliament shall meet during the coming session
at half-past 3 o'clock, and adjourn at 9 o clock,
without intervals for refreshments.”
When this par. met the eye
Of our own ’,
He heaved a lengthened sigh
And said in mournful tones:
“ If they’re on this proceeding bent.
Why, what shall I then represent ? ’
The Manning Riv.br Times is responsible
for an original idea. Commentmg on the fact that
at the time of the Wagga banquet all the Ministers
but two were ill, it states the cause of sickness
thudy:— 1 “The fact is, our politicians are over-
worked, their duties are so numerous and so
arduous that it is not to bo wondered at that the
most iron constitutions cannot bear the prolonged
strain on their bodily and mental powers which,
under the present State of things, they have to
endure.” We never looked at it in that light, for
it teemed to us, that as the only two members of
the Ministry who were able to attend to any busi-
ness elected to go round the country banquet
ting, that this latter was their most important
work, and that for the position of Cabinet Minister
of N S.W.,anarmour-olated “blngle ” and a heavy
thirst were the chief tilings requisite.
In a letter to the London Ecno, “Anti-
Humbug” mendaciously writes:—“ Most of the
men forming the N.8.W. Contingent now in Egypt
are Englishmen, who, failing to get on in this
country, emigrated to Australia, where they also
failed to get a living. These are the heroes who
received, or are receiving, over flVe shillings a day,
and who have inspired ouf public men with an
amount of verbosity on the loyalty of our colonies
which is positively sickening, and also grossly
misleading. The vast majority of the people in
Australia are native-born; they are the rising
generation, ruled at present by Englishmen born
and bred, whose sympathies are naturally with
their own native country. Another ten years will
change all this. We shall then see if Australia will
permit itself to be drawn into European imbrog-
lios and conflagrations through a connection that
does them more harm than good. As an English-
man, I favour the maintenance of the connection
with the colonies, but it is puerile for statesmen to
hoodwink the British people, and endeavour to
persuade them that Imperial Federation is near at
hand,” i
Here is a horrible battle .picture from
Suakim. It is taken from a letter from an officer
of the Scots Guards in the Standard. The time
of the picture is the day or two following the light
at M’Neill’s zareba:—“ When going from Suakim,
the last three miles of the march were marked at
every step by graves, Arab and Indian, so shallow
that from all oozed dark and hideous stains, and
from many protruded mangled feet, half-stripped
grinning skulls, or ghastly bands, still clenched in
the death-agony, though reduced to little more
than bone and sinew. The ground was also thickly
sown with hands and feet dragged from their
graves by the hysenas, and the awful stench and
reek of carrion which loaded the air will never be
forgotten, as I think, by any of us. Day after day
we passed and repassed over the same sickening
scene with our convoys, in blinding dust and
under a scorching sun, obliged to move at a foot s
pace to keep up with the weary camels, and to
pick our steps carefully lor fear of suddenly set
ting foot on one of those dreadful heaps of cor-
ruption.” Fill in with innumerable kites and vul-
tures hopping lazily about gorged with human
flesh, and the picture is complete.
When Mr. Abbott, theN.S.W. Minister of
Mines, visited Wilcannia, there was enough water
In the Darling to wash a pair of socks in, but not
a shirt. We, too, have seen the Darling like that,
but we have seen it a few miles wide also. So
when Abbott observed the state of affairs he
laughed contemptuously and said, “Lemme see
the imbeciles who’ve been spouting about 1m-
?ation. And now he thinks he has settled the
rrlgatlon question once for all. But he has not
touched it. What he should do the next time
there is a flood, is to stand on the banks of the
Darling or any of its many tributaries—if the
banks too, are flooded, he might go up a tree-and
observe the numberless millions tons of water
sweeping down to the South Pacific. Let him
then consider that in a few weeks it will all have
na«sed away, and in a few months sheep and
cattle will be dying by thousands, and agricul-
tural holdings deserted by hundreds for want of
a little of that water now flowing so swiftly to-
wards the sea. If he still entertains the same
views on Irrigation, it will merely show how for-
tunate N.S.W. is in her administrators. And this
reminds us. Now that he has walked put of
Riverina, the papers there are walking in—to him.
At an ordinary banquet there he would prom.se
to do many things for them-but. If a brass band
Attended as wells he would deny them nothing.
And now the people all overthe West think he is
a good deal of a “pointer.’ We shall not dis-
abuse them—we cannot.
Said Labouchere, M.P., to a recent inter-
viewer*—“If our Empire were menaced, we ought
n?t to count the cost of defending It* But it is
not. A war with Russia would be a political war.
The Crimean war cost us a hundred millions. An-
other war with Kutsia would cost at least twice as
much. We cannot even approach Cropstadt to
attack it. Russia has no mercantile marine, so we
cannot capture it. If Turkey is not a belligerent,
we arc pledged not to enter the Black Sea, and I
tiresome that this pledge is as, binding as that
Silen to the Ameer. We should not march on
Herat A war would consequently be a stale
mate’with the pawn in dispute in the hands of
Russia The country would soon tire of carrying
on such a contest, and it would be go troublesome
tn the world at large" that some Power would
uronose arbitration. This arbitration would result
Fn returning to things as they now are Patriotism
is all very well, but it cannot get the better of
nature ; a fish and a horse may declare war,
but they cannot fight. My only regret is that all
countries are not geographically situated towards
each other as we are towards Russia. Then there
would be fewer wars. I regard a war as the silliest
occupation la which sane human beings can en-
tratre” The most foolish war in which we ever,
indulged was that with Spain for Jenkins’ ears. A
war with Russia to decide whether a certain num-
of acres of steppe and desert in Central Asia
ilfali belong to her or to the Afghans, who, by the
wav do not want them, or a war to decide whether
jot of Afghans or a lot oi Cossacks began a fray,
would perhaps exceed in absurdity the war for
Jenkins’ ears. If I remember rightly, after manjy
nglish and Spaniards had cut each other s
throats, • and atter much property had been
destroyed on both sides, it was discovered that
Jenkins’ ears were still on Jenkins’ head, and a
war with Russia for Penjdeh, gulflkar, or on
account of the squabble at Pul-i-khlsti, would end
in much the same way. Good-day.’
The following admirable letter, addressed
to a howling Conservative paper, London Lira,
expresses what we of The Bulletin have been
endeavouring to say all along:-” Sir,—I am only
a country bumpkin. I cannot pretend to know
anything about what goes on In London; I cannot
attempt to gauge public feeling In your vast city.
I see that your Press cries for war, but I am re-
minded that a war means wealth to the Press,
means unlimited sales, enormous prestige, and
bubble reputation; so I don’t count your Press at
all. I want to know whether your wealthy middle
class, your hard-put-to lower middle class, your
London workman at low wages and high prices
your floating population at no wages and nd food,
wish lor war ? I know your leader-writer does, 1
know your ‘ special ’ does, I know your proprietor
does; but these are but a few of the four millions
who call themselves Londoners. Will bread at
two shillings suit the sempstress who can hardi„
afford It at sixpence? Will the Regent-a tree?
shopkeeper, rented at an enormous rental
a Crown which spends Its money In Scotland on
the Continent, and Indeed, anywhere but In Lon
don—will he, with his enormous expenses, caro
about his taxes being doubled ? Who of us now
living know what a big war means ? The Crimean
squabble was as nothing to what the war you crv
out for will be. Do any 6f you remember the
Peninsular wars? No; but your fathers will tell
you how all Europe fan with blood; how half
England fell out of cultivation because no one
-could be got to plough or to reap; how we had
bread riots; how we had no family in the land but
mourfied'some one. Yet you and your fellow
scribblers would plunge England into horrors
as bad as these, and worse, aye, worse, for in those
days we were tough through long-suffering, case-
hardened to grief; now we are soft through long
years of ease. You go shouting and singing about
You cry out for war; you insult Russia; you
barrass the Government; you do, indeed, every,
thing that lies in your power to plunge England
into a great war. What do you care? Noth-
ing. Warlike articles are easy to write, and
they sound big. You play the tune, and the Devil
dancbs, and little you care so long as your conceit
is tickled. You declare that the country demands
war, but you lie. The country hates war, and it
longs for peace. I am a commercial traveller. I
go to Glasgow, and I find the yards all down the
Clyde still; 1 find the warehouses stocked with
goods, the work-people idle, the capitalists living
upon past savings. I go northward, and I see farm
after farm empty, and their tenants moving off to
other lands not English. I go to Newcastle
to Sunderland, to Darlington, and always
the same tale — no work. Factories on half
time; furnaces blown out and Ironworks empty.
I go to Manchester and to the great towns of Lan-
cashire—the mills are silent. In the Black Country
the distress is greater; workhouses are crowded,
pitman and mechanic alike are living upon
.charity, glad to break stones at 9d. a day
their wives beg in the streets. Town and
country lie under a curse, there are plenty
of 1 people ready and willing to work, but no
one to help them. Do they want war ? Do they
cape two straws whether that scoundrel Ameer
keeps one mountain torrent or another for his
frontier ? Do they care for Penjdeh ? Not a jot.
They want work, they want money. Yet they see
£5,000,000 Hung into the sands of an African desert,
hnd'£6,000,0000 likely to be wasted in an Asian
stoppe. We have' a Government which pridea
Itself upon leading .the people, and it is leading
them into one pf the bloodiest wars of the
centiify—a Cabinet which delights in keeping
touch with- the country, and is yet going in,
exact opposition to its wishes and interests.
The country hates war. It knows that war means
ruin,’ and it dislikes ruin. It wants everything to
be cheap: a war will make everything dear. It
ibas a curious affection for its children; a war will
take them and kill them. I warn you newspaper
pbdplb, weekly as well as daily, that you are doing
a foolish thing In pushing England into war. You
may, SOT© of you, make a ilne thing out of your
‘specials’; but the bulk of your regular ous-
totriers will soon grow tired of blood and slaughter.
They will*want all their money for buying food, so
the curse will come upon you and upon those who
afe led, by you into making a most iniquitous
attack ‘upon a country which is struggling for
freedom and for room to grow. I speak the truth,
though I can only sign myself—A Commercial
Traveller.”
The Afghan imbroglio is settled, says the
London Echo. Russia gets the pudding and wo
get the clout in which it was boiled.
' The simple-minded N.Z. aborigines are
much'disgusted at the prospects of peace between
England and Russia. They think If war ensued
and the Russians were victorious that they would
be able to sell their land over again to the (Mus-
covites.
r Writes a PorVMackay (Q.) correspondent:
—“ We are absolutely ruined by the Liberal Go-
vernment. No blacks allowed and no white men
wanted; plantations shut up, and empty houses,
storfef, and insolvents every week. Mackay will
>sooh be a thing of the past.
■ * *' *
Service and Berry are talking the Victorian
members oyer to agree to begin business at half-
past 3 o’clock, and to limit the time for taking
new business to 9 o’clock.
♦ * ♦
‘The actual number of Afghans killed in
the recent fight with the Russians was 337... .The
London Jingoes, to ease their minds when it was
kndwn that Gladstone had ceded Russian demands,
sent “ sandwich-men ’’ through the streets bearing
placards on which were the words “ Gladstone
Badge.” The men had goose-quills stuck in their
hats, and the notion intended to be conveyed was
that the Premier had shown the white feather.
“ Last week there was an exciting coffin manufacturing match between two Cairns
carpenters” (says the local tri-weekly paper). “ A Chinaman had died in Chinatown-
died of grief at losing his accumulated capital in a game of fan-tan—and before he had
fairly started for the Celestial Heaven, the gay Tommy Ah Young had ordered a pine
coffin to enclose what still remained in this hemisphere. In his anxiety to be certain of
a coffin at the right time, Tommy ordered a second coffin from another carpenter. The
first man had a start of an hour before the second man got his order, but the second;
knew exactly what time the first required to manufacture a coffin, and he believed he
could land a winner by at least half-an-hour. He put that coffin together in the fastest
time on record, took it down to Chinatown, and had the ‘lamented deceased ’ bundled
in and screwed down inside of two hours and a half. Then the coffin was carted off to
the cemetery, the grave dug, and the relatives and friends of the corpse seated round
drinking gin and burning odoriferous capers to the departed spirit, when a van, driven*
furiously by au excited driver, came tearing up at a pace of about sixteen miles an •
hour. That van contained an empty coffin, and was driven by the man who made that
coffin. At that particular moment he was about the maddest man in North Queens-
land. Standing beside the grave was the manufacturer of the buried coffin, smiling as
sweetly as a boy with t wo jam tarts. This smile made the other man madder still, and
the madness increased when the successful tenderer somewhat derisively naked him if
‘he came out there to bury an empty coffin?’ Very little more would have started
these two coffin-makers shedding each other’s blood over the Chinaman’s grave. But
the second man slowly recognised the fact that he was a day behind the fair, and so he
went home with the spare coffin to summons Tommy Ah Young for thepriceof it; and
when it was represented to Tommy that unless he at once settled for that coffin hp
would be killed and buried in it, he handed over the sum of £i, and vowed to all th,e,
Chinese gods that, if another friend of his dies unexpectedly, he will haye him buried ■
in a three-bushel bag.” t - t .
N.Q. UNDERTAKER MAN (loq.): “WHO’S GOIN’ TO PAST FOR THIS’ERE COFFIN?”
MR. DOOLIN: “AN’ HOW ABE YE, MBS. MALONEY, MA’AM?” '
MRS. MALONEY: “I’M A18Y, THANKBE, MB. DOOLIN,”
MB. D.: “AN’ HOW’S MR. MALONEY?”
MRS. M.: “FAIX HE’S WELL, BARKIN’ MICK SHEENEY BRUCK TWO OF HIS RIBS,
AND CAVED IN HIS HEAD WID A BRICK, LAST NIGHT.”
