

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 3.—No. X J3.—2Tew Series.
SAIUBDAY, JULY 11, 1885.
Frio*—6 V
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JULY 11, 1886.
The Woman and the Law—the Woman
and the Knife.
Since we last referred to the condemned
prisoner, Johns, his case has been carried
gome steps nearer the end. The New South
Wales Executive Council has declined to
intervene between him and the doom pre-
pared for him by law. Next Tuesday is the
day fixed for his execution. The daily news-
papers of Sydney are now satisfied. When
the chances of a reprieve looked hopeful,
these organs of opinion howled for blood.
The Daily Telegraph alone observed de-
cency to some extent. It did not altogether
ignore the saoredness of human life or forget
that hanging a man is, under any circum-
gtanoes, a sad business. The others rattled
away, and with lively satisfaction fell in
with the decision of the Executive. In its
turn, the Executive Council fell in with the
decisions arrived at by others. Johns’ alle
gations as to the causes of the disturbed
state of his mind at the time he attempted
to take away the valuable life of his fel
low-prisoner, the horse-mutilator Roberts
were the points that troubled an intelligent
and sensitive section of the public. To
investigate these allegations, the Executiv
appointed a Board of Enquiry. This Board
brought up a report affirming the allega
tions]toibe false. Hence the non-intervention
of the Executive, hence the lively satisfao
tion of the daily Press.
* ♦ ♦
We do not hope to save Johns. We do
hope that Johns’ death will be a step to
wards the abolition of the hangers of Johns
What were the condemned man’s allega
tions ? Who were the persons chosen by th
Executive to constitute the Board of En
quiry ? What is the attitude of the Stat
when Ihe life of a man, or men, is at stake
Invert the sequence of these questions, and
let the answers run. Young Sydney was
baptised in blood and bred under the shadow
of the gaol wall. Ihe lash and the gibbe
were the outward and visible signs of the
prerogatives of government. They were the
Genius of this new land. Crime was fero
oious, and J ustioe revengeful. Time brought ,
descendants of both these bad types. The
descendants of the ferocious avengers grew
up with a hard grip of the faith of their an
cestors. They are amongst us to-day. The
noose and the lash are their fetishes. They
alone would not, however, have dominated
the people and imposed on them the bar-
barous burden of the criminal laws that now
degrade our country. The whirligig of time
nas raised many of the descendants of those
who were triangled and gibbeted to posi-
ions of influence among us. These, the
ascendants of the flogged and the hanged,
n*ore tenaciously than the descendants of
e doggers and hangers, admire the efficacy
0 the lash and the noose. Neither party
g 6es any shame in the perpetuation of the
laws of the black old time. Neither
? arty understands the ghastly horror these
*Ws exoile in those who neither flogged
°r were flogged, directly or indirectly,
h general grounds, whether Johns was a
stui or was not a wild beast, the
io \- °* bistory of dominant parties
cu *. ew South Wales will feel that the Exe-
lm Ti 6 Uncil ’ as representing, to however
th V an extent or n °t at all, the evil genius
th & and governed at the birth of
0y e COlcm y- would not waste much grief
deat b of one who had even merely
tr ied to kill.
♦ * ♦
mem bers of the Board appointed by
Executive to enquire into the allega-
tions of the condemned man were, we
lieve, Messrs. E, Fosbbry (Inspector General
of Police), J. Cecil Reap (Governor of Dar-
linghurst Gaol), and Harold Macxjean
(Comptroller of Prisons). Jf the allegations
of the condamni turned out to be true, gaol
officials would come in for censure for lax
discipline. Under these circumstances, the
constitution of the Board is marvellously
striking. If the conduct of a member of a
business firm were under public suspicion
the appointment of a Board of Enquiry
made up of members of the firm would
be laughed at. If the editor of the S.M.
Herald were suspected of Journalistic
offences, would anyone set the editor of the
Sydney Mail to investigate and authorita-
tively report? Judge sticks to brother
judge, magsman to magsman, prieon official
to prison official. It is human nature. In
his own cause no man is a competent judge.
Enough is known 6t the inside of the prisons
of the'colony to have demanded from the
Executive some decency in constituting this
so-called Board of Enquiry, Not long ago,
Mrs. Wilkie, the beautiful Portia of classic
Dubbo, who deliberately assassinated Mr*
Norton, P. M. of that place, and got off with
four of five years, bore, while serving her
sentence within the walls, an illegitimate
child to the son of a prison-official in Dar-
linghurst Gaol. Johns’ allegations, if ad-
mitted to be true, would reveal a still more
scandalous laxity in prison discipline. This
Board, to whose credit the good repule of
the prisons redounds, found the allega-
tions false. We have nothing to say
against the rectitude or good intentions
of any member of that Board, but, were
there not a human life dangling in the
air, we would laugh outright, and invoke
Australia to take part in our uproarious
mirth, at the farce of Harold Maclean and
Cecil Read, the Higbpriests of Prisondom,
being appointed to tell us whether they and
their order had done their duty,
♦ * *
The allegations of the condemned man
were made specifically. Had he had good
legal assistance, it is likely the gallows
would not now be getting ready. Some of
his assertions were, likely enough, utterly
false. Some of them were, however, cer-
tainly true. He says he fell in love with an
elderly Bib.'e-reader who had the run of
the prison. It is a fact that there was an
elderly Bible-reader. It is a fact that she
had the run of the prison. It is a fact that
she often visited the hare-brained young
fellow, and had opportunities of thoroughly
private o inverse with him. He was put io
prison when 10 years of age, had no chance
of seeing other women, and there is nothing
humanly improbable in his falling in love
with this pious grey-haired veteran of nigh 70
years. He says he became jealous, and that
it was while in that state he attempted to
take the life of a fellow-prisoner. It is a
fact that for some weeks preceding his
crime he was morose and moping. His
mind was not an evenly-balanced one. It
was too young, and had spent too long in
gaol to be perfect in equipoise. One sees a
vein of consistency running through his
narrative. One does not see how this vein
of consistency escaped the Board. Every
student of mental science in Australia will,
we think, recognise it. Were the case given
to the professors of our University, Vere it
given to any carefully-educated body of
men in England, we stake our reputation
on it that Johns’ explanation of the state
of his mind at that period would be con*
sidered intelligible and feasible, while that
conveyed by the finding of the Board would
be treated as unscientific and policeman-
like. Either the man had no motive for his
crime, or he had some motive. If he had no
motive, the way lies clear to establish in.
sanity. If he had a motive, what more
reasonable in the circumstances than to sup-
pose it to spring from jealousy or some
such passion associated with the woman that
visited him? Where is she left? Where is
her placj in the legal investigation ? .As far
as ths public are allowed to know, the Ex-
ecutive hss veiled her existence in mystery.
Whatever was the part she played in the
transaction, official lips aiesilont as the grave
about it. The Herald intimates that the
Executive is in possession of fuller evidence
than has reached the public, and on that
ground asks acquiescence in its decision.
We do not thus implicitly trust the Exeeu-
tive in other matters. Its actions are dis-
cussed in Parliament, and, as in all other
human affairs, it is found sometimes right
and sometime s wrong. It is dealing now
with the life of a man. Where is the guar-
antee that ignorance, or passion, or incom-
petence, or laziness, or all the host of
sympathies an i antipathies that lead to
State blunders, and stain history as State
crimes, are in this case dead? We don’t
want Parliament to have to judge the Ex-
ecutive. Before Parliament meets, the man
will be dead. Wo don’t want to judge
the Executive at all. We want to judge
Johns while ho is alive. Whatever this
“fuller knowledge” be the Executive talks
of, that we want to weigh. We, also, have
“fuller knowledge” than the general
public.
* • «
We emphatically decline to participate in
the hanging of a man on evidence known
only to the Executive. It is in that way
people are executed in Russia. Even the
Home Office, in England, where no such
Board of Enquiry as ours could possibly
exist, is objected to on the score of its
secrosy. Baron Bbamwjbli, opposes it. Lord
jHouabt challenged Its capacity to institute
“a new trial without publicity.” Our
Executive Council probably claims to be
superior to the Home Office. Yet, its func-
tions should not be so much to re-sift
evidence, as to temper with beneficent intel-
ligence judgments pronounced according
to laws that, though still operative, were
originally intended for convicts and their
immediate brood. For his offence, tho un-
fortunate man would not be hanged in
England. British law forbids the taking
of life except where life has been taken.
New South Wales has been spectacular
lately in the expression of its yearning
for union with the mother country.
Yielding to the yearning, the Cabinet
gripped the hand of England, and accom-
panied her to the Soudan to slaughter Arabs
fighting for their freedom. The Cabinet
whistled over this tender grip until almost
all but its corporate self felt ashamed. The
refrain of the whistle made it known how
sweet the Government of New South Wales
felt the union to bo which gave them a
share in a national butchery. When,
on the other hand, England, by human-
ising her criminal code, leads the way to the
altar of mercy, the Government of New
South Wales seeks no union. For the crime
Johns committed a man could notbe hanged
in the neighboring colony of Victoria. In
America, in Franc?, in Germany, in Italy,
he could not be killed. Passanante, who
tried to take the life of King Humbert, is
imprisoned. Tnis is no light matter, involv-
ing a mere question of taste. Our popula-
tion is less than a million. We have only got
our noses above the epoch of scum. Scratch
us, and our national ancestry of vice and vil-
lainy stands revealed. Yet,in the face of three
“ TOM BOTD,” THE VETERAN O VERLANDER.


ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarktt (only).
Universal Providers.
The New Depose
Stove.
These handy little ar-
ticles will boll a kettle
or a saucepan in the
twinkling of an eye,
and will hold their own
at a frying match, if
we mistake not, the
prices we quote are
lo wer than in i he whole-
sale trade.
Size 6*6 inch, 2/9;
inch, 3/6; 8 inch iu
diameter, 4/y.
Rubber Tubing 1 , wired
for liking, 3*£d per
foot.
This Pattern Stove
has been greatly im-
proved, a larger cham-
ber for mixing air and
gas added, and the sup-
ports for kettle, &c„
removed from obstruct-
ing flame of burner.
O R M O IT D ’ S
SWISS CIGARS
Have been recognised as the BEST for half a
century.
QUOD FACIMUS VALDE FACIMUS.
(What we do we do well.)
TOUR PHOTO.-If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
couusel, and pay flrstavbitto
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspectan
arrayof portraiture, notof select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co , which
for artistic execution and elegant
flnich, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
- You will thereby be but endow-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregroiDg 1 excellencies C. and Co hold quite ft
unique position as potographers.
Prices-C-D-V.,; Cabinets' 30s. per dozen.
CREELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADj
i
l TURNER ROBINSON A CO.V
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKET 1 cloth hall.
478 Georgo-streot,
Established 1864,
has THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORT BD
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guaranteed.
Annual Income exceeds One MHMlnm
Lightning and Gas Exploslon'Damagee Paid.
C. W. EGBERTS
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only ,9s.
Small Bottle, • is. 6d,
PORT AND §HERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMHIDGEE PORT,
2s. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT,
Ss. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts
, At lowest possible Prices.
GIN-IN FLASKS,
ls,9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke a Prize Medal Brand'
in stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST SIZE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Street*'
SYDNEY.
BEALE & COMPANY,
BEALE & COMPANY
Beale & Company.
Hapshurg Pianos,
Haydn Organs, & Harmoniums,
Wertlieim Sewing Machines,
Can be obtained ONLY of
BEALE AND COMPANY,
386 and 613 GEORGE STREET,
13 CENTRAL MARKETS,
151 OXFORD STREET,
SYDNEY;
Or of their Agents in Town and Country.
LIBERAL TERMS OF TIME-PAYMENT.
As a tonic, diuretic, and an invigorating cordial
Wolfe’s Schnapps is highly recommended to the
public.
How to MAKE XT.— Put a large teaepoonful of
Fry’s Malted Cocoa into a breakfast cup, and mix
it into a smooth paste with sufficient cold milk:
than fill up with water not quite boiling, adding
milk and sugar to taste, lx preferred, milk, or
milk and water, may bo substituted lor the plain
water. This cocoa is pure, does not thicken in the
cup, and contains more of tin active porperties of
malt then a pint ot the best ale or porter.''
“ Health is wealth,” Therefore everybody who
drinks Wolfe’s Schnapps is wealthy, uecauso it
giV.s fiealtn.
hundred millions of people, enriched with
the wisdom of eonturies of civilisation and
preaching the necessity of humanising law,
we aiise and, with brazen pride, expose the
gory lineaments of our criminal code.
Either we, the people of New South Wale?,
are still the worst people on the civilised
globe or our rulers are the worst rulers.
Which ? Let Australia answer.
The small-souled Echo, which upholds
constituted authority, no matter how con-
stituted, quotes Mr. Justice Stephen, o
England, in favour of a more liberal
scale of hanging. Now, why did not
the Echo quote Mr. Justice Jeffrey*.
When lust for blood is the question, there is
no use in quoting for us any man with whiter
hands than he. But half truths are worse
than whole lies. When the Echo went home
for authorities for more hanging, it ought
not to have passed over the authorities
against any hanging at all. Twenty years
ago a Royal Commission sat on the question.
John Bright signed a memorial to abolish
the gallows. Sir Fxtzroy Kelly, Professor
Lboni Levi, Lord O’Hagan, Lord Hobart,
and others supported the memorial. Since
that time the tendency of public opinion has
been all towards the action of John Bright.
By quoting an advocate for hanging and
omitting to mention thtse facts, the E:no
shows that to its little soul the hanging of
men is sweet. Such papers arc fair illustra-
tions of the outcome of the bad early days.
Dull, unreasoning, illogical, and incapable
of generous impulse, they Hap along at the
heels of whatever influence is in the ascen-
dant, and talk only of administering the Jaw
as it is.
♦ ♦ ♦
Let no one misunderstand u?. We are not
now lighting for the abolition of capital
punishment. We hold by the merits of
Johns’ case alone. Lit us hurriedly draft
his life. At 16 years of age he was a pro-
mising, clever lad, a teacher in the Sunday-
school at Ballarat. He was a reader of tales
about pirates, smuggl r?, and wild adven-
turers. “Captain Moonlight,” the notori-
ous bushranger, and one of the wiliest
scoundrels that ever trod Australian soil,
played on the lad’s fancy, and took him
to the bush. The lad tried to escape
when he saw the reality of the villain s life.
He was caught and kept with the gang till
a policeman was shot. It was not shown
that Johns fired. Technically guilty only,
he was sent to prison. He has been there
this last six years. His character as a
prisoner has been good. At the end of this
period he attempted to kill a fellow-prisoner.
There is the record. Now, the argument of
those who ovant to hang him is that he is
an uncontrollable wild beast, and that
society must get rid of him. But aotua ly
Johns has killed nobody yet. When he
went to the bush with “ Moonlight ” he
was a mere boy, and until then was easily
controlled by his mother. Since that time he
has be°n in gaol, and has been easily con-
trolled by the warders. What infatua-
tion has seized the public mind, that i£
listens to this talk about an uncontrollable
wild beast? What lazy languor oppresses
the public conscience that it allows a man
to b« donate death to the tunc of such an
easily rifled falsehood ? It is true that he
attempted to take away the life of a fellow-
prisoner. Let the Executive hang him for
that, and say it is for tbit. We shall then
understand. But we shall hold that the
hanging should still be disallowed if the
enormity of the offence be the point to go
by. State schoolmaster Plummer, the cold-
blooded ravisher of half-a-dozm Utile
children committed to hjs charge, was re-
prieved. The seven men who committed
the Bega outrage were reprieved. Only the
other day the two she-devils, wife and -stop-
grandmother, that for lust and greed con-
spired to poison a young husband, and suc-
ceeded, and had nothing to a’lege in ex-
tenuation of the deed, were reprieved.
Place their crime alongside of Johns’s. See
them preparing the poison-cup. ObservS
thorn leering at the unsuspicious man.
Think of their unholy jubilation when his
eyes closed for the last time, and they re-
alised that their scheme had triumphed.
The Echo says they were reprieved because
they were women. A most excellent reason,
truly! A wife cannot well be a wife with-
out being a woman. But if chivalry to tbe
sex be so strong a trait with us that
it sends us forth to stand between those
odious Qorgons and the gallows, it should
surely prompt us to do something to shield
from disgrace and degradation Johns'
mother—a good, and pure, and heart-broken
woman, who has bean travelling our streets
since sentence was pronounced, appealing,
wherever the least ray of hope shone,
to be saved in the person of her son, in
her own person, and in the parsons of
her remaining children, from the blackest
infamy law can stamp upon aname. On what
intelligible principle can the Executive that
spared the Maitland Gorgms hang Johns?
Is it a rule of thumb ? Is it to bo eternally
the character of our Government that in
matters of life and death it will be firm at
the wrong time? Theio is still an uaap-
peased ghost at Deniliquin. Cordini, the
penniless foreigner, who could not speak
English, and who was not provided with
ggqasel uutU the morning of his trial was
I
hanged there. His innocence is now very
widely believed in. To-day, the counsel
who defended him calls Goi> to witness his
belief, not only that Cordini was an
innocent man, but that almost without a
doubt he can put his finger upon the mu'r-
derers of the hawker. Any Executive con-
duct suggestive of a rule of thumb in the
awful issues of life and death is a blotch
and a blur, and stain on the char •
acter of the country. ' Away with this rule
of thumb! Away with the purblind con-
ception of guilt which grants life to the
Gorgons of Maitland, who murdered for lust
and greed, and will perkily persist in hang-
ing Johns, who killed nobody!
♦ * *
Let us thrash to threads the falsehood
calling itself an argument that builds the
gallows for Johns out of his alleged uncon-
trollableness. The swaddlers of the press
and public who with swabs of reason-
ing like that bind their determination
to hang men, must not complain if the
things are torn in tatters from the back of
their malformed foundling. Before they
can prove that Johns is uncontrollable in or
out of prison, they must hold up clean hands
and show that they have confined him under
oondi tions analogous to those which obtain in
the prison-systems of the centres of modern
civilisation. A convict sentenced to im-
prisonment for life should be completely
isolated from the world. He should bo
doomei to a living death. If the passion
for destruction impelled him to wage re-
lentless war with his keeper, it would be
fair to argue that the convict was uncon-
trollable. But Johns was on excellent terms
with his keepers. The Governor of the gaol
speaks highly of his conduct in this respect.
Why, then, talk of hanging being the only
way of treating him ? Again, where are the
clean hands the gaolers of Johns can hold
up ? For one thing, they put a woman in
his road. Wo are prepared to assume that
(he female Bible-reader was good and pure,
and we hear that the is over GO years
of agr. But we maintain that no woman
should have access to a prison in which ma'e
convicts are confined. Read the dramatists
who shadow forth the horrors of convict
life. Charles Reade, Victor Hugo, Dumas j
our own Marcus Clarke, in “His Natural
each and all draw pictures of human
passion that the mental retina of the reader
retains. Think of a woman passing before
the men who know they are doomed to live
and die behind prison bars ! It is criminal
at this time, when a man is to be banged for
a deed associated with this circumstance )
to cover over with a mask what we know to
be the primary passion of human nature.
Young or old, golden-haired or hoary, what-
ever her intellectual faculties, whatever her
emotional powers, woman is still woman,
,and were there but one of her on earth,
whether the form were radiant as sunrise,
or swarthy as sunset, or dark as midnight
the kingdoms of men would quarrel and
war and slay till one man owned her. She
comes into a prison. Gyved men glare. The
primary impulse of human nature, like the
wings of a bi/d against the bars of its cage,
beats, beats against the grate of the pri-
son. Five hundred ferocious glittering eyes
pursue her motions. Foolish, foolish it
is, and whitening his sepulchre each man is
who assents to it, to say that a woman be-
cause she comes in the wh.te gam of piety
comes without the stimulus of sex. Her
age, we repeat, is no palliative, her
colour is no palliative, if only she be the
only woman accessible. To the dwellers
in cities come echoes from time to time of
the voices of the amorous bushmen and the
gins in their gunyahs. Few gold-fields in
newly-opened country but are spotted with
blood spilled for possession of a dark
woman. The old lady, in the exercise
of her mission, visited Johns in gaol.
Ho avows that he fell in love with
her. That may not have been her fault.
He avows that his fellow-prisoners jeered at
him. His passion and their jeering went on
until these precious officials, who assert
Johns to be uncontrollable, left a knife
where he was able to get at it. A woman, a
knife, love, jealousy, jeering, passion—all
of which were controllable under proper
prison discipline—resulted iu Johns attempt
to kill a fellow-prisoner, and gave birth to
tne sadly silly notion, gratelul to those
who look at but the surface of things, that
the hapless man was wholly uncontrollable.
Was he ? Take away the woman these prison
authorities left in his way; take away the
fellow-convicts who jeer< a at his passion for
her ; take away the knife left in his road by
the same officials, and ask vvas Johns uncon-
trollable. In the face of the Executive that
has ordered him to be hanged, in the face of
the Sydney Press that has howled for his
blood, in the face of the lazy, sluggish intel-
lects of New South wales that, as long as
their own poor bodies are not hanged, do
not care much who or what is hanged, but
in sympathy with all that thinks and throbs
and leaps to help the helpless, we pronounce
the charge of uncontrollableness against
Johns a subterfuge, a sham, and an ut-
terly insufficient excuse for execution. Hang
him now, it it must be according to Law,
but a time will come, and it is to be hoptd
that it is near, when, out of respect to Jus-
tice, out of honour to humanity, out of dis-
gust for this present method ot dealing with
the lives of men, even tiough they be
criminals, those ot the public who stand by
calmly and witness this horror without ex-
postulation will, if not banged in body
themselves, be handed down to history as
the penultimates ot the unhappy dawn of
our history. Hang away now. The his-
torian will arise.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“ Thanks. Our artists are not
too proud to take hints conveyed either in writing
or by rough sketches....” Any chemist
will supply you with Ingham’s “Euphorbia Pilu-
lifera,” which is the same drug. Mr. Ingham is in
business at Rockhampton (Q.Cobar : Why
don’t you put the facts before the Attorney-
General? We can hardly think any P.M. would
grant a dancing-permit to a public-house merely be-
cause he himself happened to live there...“C.C C. :
“Penal servitude for life” is, in England, equi-
valent to a sentence of 20 years’ imprisonment;
penal servitude for a prisoner's “natural life
places him beyond the pale or hope of a ticket-
of-leave ...” P.8.”: We don’t know whether
Mr. Lambie was shot accidentally by him-
self, or whether he was shot by the Arabs....
“8.C.P.”: There are some good claims at Silver-
ton, but still we advise you strongly to keep your
head cool.. ..“J.J.” (Junee): Not up to the mark.
“J. Westwood: ” Not original. Admiral Sel-
wyn recently pointed out that if liquid petroleum
instead of coal were used by men-of-war, they
would be able to remain twice as long on their
stations, by reason of the lesser bulk, greater
heating power and all-round economical superi-
ority of the new fuel... “C.S.”; From all
we have heard. Lord Wolseley isn’t a teetotaller....
“ O.R.G.G”: You will see we have dealt with the
case in a leader “C.L.,” “ W. Warton,” ‘Rode-
rick S.”: We handed your poem to one of the staff,
who requests us thus courteously to address ye: —
Oh 1 chuck it up, and give the Mu‘e a rest,
You howling dervishes of screedy song,—
Give up the dactyl and the anapaist I
* Betake ye to the place where ye belong.
Put up the shutters, and give up the trade.
You must have learnt by this it never pays.
The greatest mule of you that ever brayed—
Whatever angry passions he may raise—
Has never yet got coin enough together
By all that he has said or sung in verse
To thatch his boots against the rainy weather,
To cop a coffin, or to hire a hearse I
“C.8.”: Under the cirumstances they will pass
every blessed hour of their remaining existence in
a slavery that Is without intermission, mitigation,
or hope. Of their guilt there can be no kind of
doubt creditable to the understanding that enter-
tains it; for their fate no kind of sympathy credit-
able to the heart that feels it—“ W.8.W.”: Every-
thing has its use. We intend to keep your stuff to
bo melted down for rifle-bullets in case qf war
with Russia.. ."G. N. L. V. Association”: Your
circular to hand....”H S.M.”: Your argument is
incorrect. Lewis is a public man. So is the
Leichhardt dustman. Your definition of the term
is too restrictive... “H.E C.” (Adelaide): Always
glad to hear from you — ‘ Maitland”: Thanks.
....“Inquirer’ : It would take the boss statist of
the universe about half a life-time to make the
calculations you suggest. The revenue of the
colony for year ending 30th June last was £7,499 8io.
The cost of collecting the revenue from land is
said to be about 25s. in the £ — “ Boy P.” (Melb ):
Libellous, and not of sufficient all-round interest.
“ W.L.J.”: The pious promissory-note-forms
handed rounded at Salvation Army meetings aie
legally just as valid as P.N.’s for rum received.
The Harmy authorities have contrived to make a
marketable article of the spirit ...”Dimbocla’ :
We really can’t tell you. We know ho has one.
You had better write himself... “ J.C.” Held over
for consdderation “G.B.” (Adelaide): So far, we
don't seem to have received the story —“ M.G.’
(Gunnedah); Your letter to hand. Sorry that we
cannot print as you write. If we dfd so The Bul-
letin would be an annual- Wp Would be in gaol
the rest of the time—“H.WJ.”: Thanks—
“Nemo”: Will consider....” J. M‘C.” (Toowoom-
ba, Q.): Mr. Traill left a month ago for England.
His stay there will be only a short one — “Biz.
(Roma, Q ): Your pars, would only interest the
persons libelled. The performances of the cham-
pion liar of N.Q. do not startle us They seem
truthfulness itself, to readers of the Sydney even-
ing papers...." Hiram Abiff”: Thanks for infer-
mation re the barp. So you “like ladles’maids.
Hueomnes tendimus —"C.E.H.”: Thanks. Next
issue,probably....“M.G.”: Held over— D.A. :
Three out of four are well written in Bulletin
style. A little condensing would improve them.
Will write you “W.W.”: Hop. says there is no
recipe to be given for making comic pictures. To
become either a caricaturist or an undertaker, it is
desirable to acquaint one’s self withjthe anatomy of
the human figure. Your line will be to study
drawing under some competent master, both from
cast and the “life.” (The Art Sjciety of N.S.W.
furnish such facilities.) Then. If you are a born
caricaturist, your knowledge of drawing will
“bring it out of you.” On the other hand, it it
transpires that Nature intended you for an under-
taker, your anatomical knowledge will enable you
to knock together a coffin that will fit beautifully.
[We have received a large number of letters in
regard to the condemned man Johns, with whose
case we deal fully in along article to-day. With
respect to remarks made by many of those who
address us on the subject, we must point out that
no one can reasonably object to the law being
administered as it is by the Court which is ec-
trusted with the dispensation of justice. As mat-
ters now stand, law is for the Court, mercy for the
Executive. The only hope for those who would
see mercy extended to the miserable man is the
possible intervention of His Excellency, lor the
rest, we advise our correspondents to exert them-
selves in endeavouring to bring about a modifica-
tion of the law.—Eu. B.]


Business cares render a stimulant essentially
necessary— Wolfe’s Schnapps is the stimulant that
should he taken.
How to make it.— Put a large teaspoonful of
Fry’s Malted Cocoa into a breakfast oup, and mix
it into a smooth paste with sufficient cold milk:
then fill up with water not quite boiling, adding
milk and sugar to taste. It preferred, milk, or
milk and water, may be substituted for the plain
water. This cocoa is pure, does not thicken in the
cup, and contains more of the active properties of
malt than a pint of the beat ale or porter. 4
The “unknown” who faced Matthews in
New Zealand recently, is likely to remain so. Mat-
thews put him through the mill in a couple of
rounds.
On Monday last a match was made at
Foley’s hotel between John Cousins, of Newcastle,
and Geo. Diggins, of Victoria, to wrestle for £35
aside, in Foley's rooms, on Saturday next.
Hanlan qualified his admission that he had
met a better man than himself in Beach by adding
“at the time.” Hanlan in writing to an American
named St, John a few days before the event, said
“ though not rowing in my best form, I feel confl-
race regain the championship in the coming
the^ renc * lment ' * s evidently the order of
the g w *11 certain religious circles, lor an ad. in
hand ;'Herald runs:-" Wanted, good second-
next t P „? ted . Hakon tor Communion Service.” The
inteih„i nK that hue will be, “ Wanted a zealour,
conntS. nt ir e **yman to do the Master’s work in a
•pron.?.. dl Atrlct. N.B —Must find his own
deposit be this: “Time payment system. £1
•econd v, and . “alf a crown a week secures a neat set
for aud altar furniture. Clerical costumes
hire . Shadrack Solomons, Purveyor,
for old b 1QtmePt ’ to the e * Highest price given
A Sydney gentleman, whose name we are,
unfortunately, not acquainted with, holds forth
to the “ unsoaped,” In the open air, every Sunday.
The doctrine he propagates is intensely sublime;
the sense of it is conveyed in a few words. He
says:—“ Let a man once be converted, and he im-
mediately becomes a part of God, and can never
fall into evil ways again; ” with the result, of
course, that “ whatever his subsequent crimes
may be he is In no way responsible tor them,” so
can shift all the blame on to his Maker. This, as
will be seen at a glance, is just the kind of re-
ligion we all hunger for, and the genius who dis-
covered It should be encouraged. There is one
thing, though, that makes us doubt the genuine-
ness of the article.* This Itinerant sky-pilot doeen t
Send round the plate; but this omlsnon may only
arise from ignorance and not from want of
earnestness. He should rectify it. however, for
such a violation of the rules of modern theology
must not be encouraged.
Farnan recently arrived in Sydney with
the avowed intention of licking all croatipn and
returning to the Cabbage Garden laden witn the
spot's; but he reached home last week without
having accomplished his mission. When the ar-
rangement between Farnan and Foley fell through
by reason of Farn«n’s defeat by Lees, a deposit
was put up lor a fresh match, but Farnan very
sensibly, we fancy, upon afterthought, decided to
forfeit his deposit and give Foley best. We bear
Foley has serious thoughts of retiring from the
ring, as he is unable to get on a bona, fide match
with anyone in the colonies, and as te has hitherto
gone “ straight ” as the crow flies, we are pleased
to see he will not, towards the end of his athletic
career, cor sent to run gate-money byes. Foley
has a business in the White Horse Hotel, which, if
properly looked after, will not afford him time to
train properly, and as want of condition is synony-
mous with defeat in a match with anything like
his equal, Foley will show his good sense if be ad-
heres to his alleged r^olutlon,
The Southern Rugby Football Union
Sports came off on the Association Cricket Ground,
Sydney, on Saturday afternoon last, and judging
by the goodly number of spectators who put it an
appearance, the day’s sport must have placed a
good round sum ou the right side of the Union’s
bank-book. The half-mile steeplechase caused a
lot of amusement, but it was decidedly a mistake
to make the hurdle on the take-off for the water-
jump of such dimensions that it was next thing to
an Impossibility for the competitors to clear the
ditch, so they contented themselves by just clear-
ing the hurdle and landing souse in the yater. W.
C. Freeman, who won the event, with 35yds. baudi-
cap, moves In good style, and is a remarkably pretty
jumper. A. Roberts had a walk-over for the
quarter-mile ;schools; A. S. Perks (Arfoma), won
the drop-kick over a goal with 58 yds.; A. E. Cut-
ler (Arfoma), won the mile walking handicap
from scratch; J. Phizackerly (130 yds.) won the
mile bicycle handicap; Theo. Richards won the
100 yds. champion flat race; F. C. Cheeseman won
the place kick over a goal with 59 yds.; the three-
miles bicycle handicap (in which Fry and Phizac-
kerly came down croppers) fell to J. M. M'Donald,
380 yds.; R, E. Scarvell won the egg and spoon
race; H. B. FliggjtlO yds.) appropriated the 130 yds.
hurdle race; T. W. Henderson (15 yds.) annexed
the one-mile flat race; and S. A. Tiley scored the
most points in the grand handicap.
Fourth of July Soft Sawder.. —(seo page is.)


Personal Items
“That fatal thirty-seven” once more finds
illustration in the lamentable death at the age
named of "Hugh Conway,” author of “Called
Back.”
8am Morloy, the
Psalm singing dissenter,
who makes an immense
income out of hosiery
and piety, declines a peer-
age, The good gentle-
man, probably, thinks
that earthly honours
would interfere with his
promotion “on high.”
Just like our own Plain
Bill.
Our old friend Lord
’Arris, is the new Under
Secretary of State for
India. There is a certain
fitness about this appoint-
ment. Whenever the
Russian trouble breaks
out afresh, the noble
cricketer will be able to
give his colleagues a few
wrinkles about placing
the men in the field and
the sort of halls that are
likely to prove most
effective.
The chairman of a
meeting of Victorian
Engineers, held a week
ago, was called Shake-
speare. The principal
paper read at the meeting
was a thrilling Essay on
Corrosion and Incrusta-
tion in Steam Boilers.
No wonder the divine old
William of the same name
made Hamlet remark:—
" Imperial Cresar, dead
and turned to clay,
Might stop a hole to
keep the wind away,”
When even one of his
own descendants (they
are all his descendants in
some way now that he
is dead and respectable.
Poets are never really
respectable until they
have been dead awhile.)—
comes to presiding over
a meeting to discuss
the phenomena of rusty
boilers. And yet there
is some fitness in this,
too. For who—next to
a poet—should be able
to pass an opinion upon
the inside of a boiler as
well as the descendant
of a poet? Clearly, no-
body—except, perhaps, a
writer on international
finance. We have met
one such who could figure
you up on his Angers
and solve you the fiscal
problems of every civi-
lized nation on the earth,
and—if you were curious
and chose to hold out a
little inducement in the
form of gin—o o u 1 d
reckon you the oost of
the Pyramids, or the
Carthaginian war, or the
Tower of Babel as easily
as you could cast up your
milk-bill- He knew all
about Consols, and was
In the van of Information
with regard to the fluc-
tuations of the money
market. If you wanted
to make a fortune, he
could show you how with
a piece of chalk and the
top of his hat—what time
there was atop to it. And
he was always right-
strange as It may appear.
Yet this financial prodigy
frequently had to sleep
in the Domain, under the
cool stars, for lack of the
price of a bed I How is
this anomaly to be ac-
counted for? Not, cer-
tainly, because he did not
want to make money.
How then? Our theory
is that men with this
marvellously clear in-
sight into the How of
making money have
generally a hollow in
their heads where the
faculty of putting that
theoretical How into
actual practice should be.
Perhaps this is a wise
omission of nature. If it
were not for this, a com-
bination of them could
rule the world. But when
they have not this defect
—when the two faculties
of How and Thus are
found in one head (as is
in some instances the
case), then you have your
Jay Goulds, and Vander-
bilts, and Rothschilds as
illustrations of our state-
ment In the previous sen-
tence. Heighol We can
no more escape the spirit
of the age than anybody
else. We began on bards,
and we have ended on
bullion. Let us shake in
the hat and see who has
There is a tale of heroism in the Sydney
Evening News, of July 1st. which reveals how a
child fell off the Manly Beach steamer, r.nd on
rising to the surface again was a quarter of a mile
astern. Thereupon, two gallant gentlemen, Mr.
Beresford and Mr. M’llae plunged in, and between
them they bore up the child, and all three were
happily rescued. And, says Alfred, in concluding
the history of the event: “ The joy of the parents,
and indeed of all on hoard, at the recovery of the
child was unfounded (sic).’’ Unfounded Y That’s
no misprint. The whole thing is unfounded.
There’s not a word of truth in the whole para-
graph. No one fell overboard, no one jumped in,
no one was rescued. It’s all au unbiushicg tara-
diddle:—
There wasn’t any accident aboard the Manly boat,
not M’Rae or Beresford helped any girl to
But, ohi there was an Evening News, and lust
here we may mention
yhat we have that journal has a patent tor
Mr. Henry Chaplin, whose promised bride,
Lady Florence Paget, threw him over at the last
minute for the late Marquis of Hastings, has
accepted office under Salisbury, as Chancellor of
the Duchy of Lancaster. Henry Chaplin, a far
shrewder man than most sporting “swells,” had
his revenge on the Marquis when his despised
“ outsider,” Hermit, won the Derby of 1867. Out
of pure personal feeling, the plunging peer and his
friends (among them the present Duke of Hamil-
ton) turned bookmakers, and laid immense sums
against Chaplin’s horse, with disastrous results.
The new [Chancellor of the Duchy has pretty well
forsworn racing now, and since the Marchioness
jilted him has married (and buried) a duke’s
daughter. The Chaplins, by the way, come of a
Lincolnshire family, 'so old and so rich as to be
almost superior to titles. If “so dispoged,” the
present head of the house might have a peerage
at any moment, without even the asking. His
perversity—hut no matter. He and Bill Dailey are
evidently kindred spirits,
The baronetcies which, according to cable
messages in the Australian dailies, were offered to
two great English painters—John Everett Millais,
R.A., and George Frederick Watts, R.A.—are cer-
tain to furnish plenty of pars, for the London
papers anent the respective matrimonial experi-
ences of the two artists. Both have been inter-
ested In divorce-court procaodings. Lady Millais
would have remained Mrs. John Ruskin to this
day, save for certain reasons which necessitated
her suit against the great art critic (heard in
camera), while G. F. Watts, who refuses th;
“handle,” might have made a “ ladyship ” of the
foremost of English actresses if she hadn’t—well,
kicked over the traces. The death of Ellen
Terry’s second husband, Charles Kelly, has been
Immediately followed by the offer of ennoblement
to her first, Watts. The old gentleman, we believe,
is still unmarried, so it’s within the bounds of
probability that the bereayed widow may yet be
united to her first lord and master, and persuade
him to accept that baronetcy. There will be some
surprise, by the way, that Sir Frederick Leighton,
who was knighted when he became President of
the Royal Academy, should not have shared in
these hereditary honours. The President is colonel
of a Middlesex rille corps—the Artists—and per-
haps that circumstance accounts for Gladstone’s
neglect. The Grand Old Man doesn’t dote on the
military, even of an amateur degree.
, Who remembers old Count Strzeleeki
now ? Probably the natives of the Strzeleeki
Ranges in Gippsland couldn’t give the slightest
explanation as to why the mountains were so
called. They don’t make the least attempt to pro-
nounce the name in the Polish way, whatever that
may be, but enunciate it as Streleckl. The Count
was a strange man, who went about everywhere
exploring and botanising, There are m°ny old
Australians who affirm that he was the first nan
who discovered gold, but the Government of the
day urged him to say nothing about it, as they did
not want the disturbing element of a digger
population introduced. Strange as this state-
ment may appear, there are men of repute
now living who are ready to stick by it. After his
wanderings had closed. Count Btrzeleokl settled
down to a solitary life in a house in Saviile Row,
London. He appeared to have no relatives and
few friends. He, however, contracted a great
friendship for his banker, a gentleman named
Sawers, and when he died, left him his property,
worth about £20,000. His will was at once disputed
by a lady who claimed to be a relative, on the
ground that he was insane whei he made it. When
the case was tried, the principal witness for the
defence was William Ewart Gladstone, who had
seen the Count a lew days before his death, and
who deposed that deceased was then, in his
opinion, perfectly sane and capable of making a
will. The decision was in favour of Mr. Sawers.
Count Strzeleeki died in 1876 or 1877. Those facta 1
about the famous explorer appear, wo think, for
the first time,
Thadeus O’Kane is at it again. We read
in his paper that “ the toast of the Press at the
banquet to the Premier in Ravenswood, was in-
troduced in a most extraordinary and insulting
manner by the Chairman, Mr. Gilchrist. He first
remarked that they ‘had no Press in Ravenswood.
and that the Townsville Press was a debased and
lying Press, and called upon Mr. Richards, one of
the vice-chairmen, to propose the toast, as this
Great Mogul of Ravenswood choose to dictate.
Richards did the bidding of the chairman without
question, and the toast was proposed excluding
the Townsville and Ravenswood Press, but, as an
afterthought, the Chairman very kindly allowed
the Standard to have a share of the honour,
because, as h© said, Mr. Rochfort, the proprietor*
was a friend of theirs, and was in business In the
Mr. Quinn! We pity the Standard.”
adds Thadeus,, “if its only claim to be included In
the to’st of tha Press is that its proprietor sella
cheap beef at Ravenswood.”
Count Paul de Vujili
has been relating to th«
Parisians some further
details Concerning Eng-
lish Royalty and Nobility.
Describing the widows o i
mature age whom
Queen delights to gather
round her, he says
“ Governed only by pro-
priety, blindly respecting
current prejudices, they
lack, nevertheless, suffh
cient contempt for thosd
new things which they
would have gladly ac-
cepted were they half a
century younger. Hypo-
crisy and propriety are
their dogmas. That Irri-
tating English word pre*
prlety sanctions all that
)s commonplace, pre-
judiced, egotistic, intdier*
antj it is an argument
to which every one yields,
and which only eccentric
people dare to oppose.” 1
This of the Prince ol
Wales is interesting 1=
“ He allows his fair
friends any familiarity
which they may take,
and he often overlooks
really striking liberties.
But his good humour,
his benevolent nature,
and his incomparable tact
help him to get out
of the moat delicate po->
sltlons, and he knows
how to remain grand
seigneur amid all the
roguishnees of the pretty
women.” Innocent minds
— ours foi Instance—may
wonder why he gets Into
the “most delicate posi-
tions,” but It Is nice to
know that he cm always
wriggle out. The mental
oipafity of the retiring
Premier is cleverly sum-
marised thus : —“ His
opinions are moderate,
•his projects prudent, His
business-like habits make
him a useful and prac-
tical man as far as home-
affairs are concerned, bqt
he baa no enthusiasm, no
originality, no general
prevision} he follows the
march of events j he
looks at the formation
of a fact as a scientist
watches the development
of a germ; to classify it.
Briefly, there is nothing
of a career in him He
does not direct politics,
he submits to them, ae
do the majority of people,
and his characteristic
logic Induces him to con-
form to the general
opinion of the nation.
He is a true Opportunist.
It has been said of him
that he is a mixture of
a Cromwell and a Gam-
betta. And his domestic
affairs are thus alluded
to:—“I cannot tell you
whether the relations of
the ‘ Grand Old Man ’ with
Mrs Langtry have reully
stepped beyond the
pounds of a certain sen-
timentalism, but I can
tell you that he has not
ceased to pay his court to
women. He has a pas-
sion for billets-doux ; hifl
heart glows, and he likes
to spread the lire. Even
from his seat in Parlia-
ment, it happens that be
sends a note to one of
his beautiful assistants.
But not far from the
Ministerial bench, in a
box reserved for the wife
of the Prime Minister, so
say gossiping tongues,
sits Mrs. Gladstone :
guardian of the domestic
privy seal, armed with
powerful opera-glasses,
she follows every stroke
of her husband’s pen, and
when politics give place
to love the discreet mes-
sengers of my lord band
over to the equally dis-
creet messengers of ,my
lady the newly-hatched
chickens, which are
strangled by the wife m
order that they should
not provoke any reply-
sending billets-doux to
ladies in the House, re-
minds us of Nero’s violin
performance, and. if this
be true, the “People®
William” must be a very
naughty old man. it’ 8
stated by the Court or
Lord Hartington that
"his untidy clothes and
ungainly manners are
often out of place irrdraw-
ing-rooms. He is easily
recognised by the war
in which he wears bis ba_.
which is invariably do* “
pyer his eyes- His
connection with a cw
brated Duchess is well known. Sure to please W.
ho does not attempt to please any other w0 “*? a ' ?
She governs him entirely, and her influence >■
csrtaicly formed his mental powers; it would
cost her little to alter his habits, out it a PP* 8 h
that she likes him better as he is, in order that
may be less sought after. She is a woman or *
markable intelligence who inspires Lord Hanme
ton to all his words and all his actions. *
faithful connection is tolerated by aoclcty
Luchess is discreet enough to respect propr c j
and the world, thankful tor this concession.!%«
its eyes.’’ Some of the English papers are
with the Count, but others gladly quote bisjetr
rejoicing at being able to give, on his autho
spicy information which they dare not P uu
otherwise.
In what may be termed the political jc jd
dal down South-west it seems there were t t
Ministers involved, and the settlement cost w?. g
part of £5000 between them. Who would not
husband in these dajs Y
“THOU SHALT NOT KILL.”:—(See page 12)
The Convict’s Dream.—A Moral lesson for the Youth of Australia.


Wolfe's Schnapps may be used with impunity,
its ingredients having tested by medical men,
and found absolutely pure.
Why do American Hop Bitters cure sd
much ? Because they give good digestion, rich
blood and healthy action of all the organs.
Ask for Wolfe's Schnapps, the purest stimulant
in the world. It is far superior to brandy or
whisky.
We are sorry that Dr. Garran, the
veteran editor of the S.M. Herald, has, for some
weeks, been rather seriously unwell.
The late overseer of a Gunnedah station is,
it is said, now known to be alive and well in
England, though his clothes were found on Bondi
Beach, Sydney, some time ago.
It is the intention of several members of
the N.S.W. Assembly to oppose the passing of the
usual formal vote of thanks to Governor Loftus
at the expiration of his term of office.
A Melbourne capitalist who found some of
the money for a certain evening paper comes out
somewhere between £30,000 and £50.000 poorer.
He is Donald Cameron the Second, in fact.
According to Arsene Houssaye’s recently-
published diary, Lori Byron used to beat not only
the Countess Guiocioli, but also his other mistress,
the gondolier’s daughter-who, by the way, used
occasionally to give the shirt-collar bard a thrash-
ing.
“ The theatre in Sydney appears to be in a
very flourishing state,” said a gentleman to John
Kemble, speaking ot the Botany Bay theatricals.
• Yes,” replied the tragedian, “the performers
ought to be all good, for they have been selected
and sent to that situation by very excellent
Judges.”
A literary man, whose name is “as a
household-word ” from Cape Otway to Cape York,
will, it is announced, shortly enter into the holy
bonds of wedlock. After 47 tempestuous celibate
years, he has succumbed to the attractions of a
young lady, who, it is understood, at present
reads naught but Ruskin, but who, so rumour
states, is not unwilling to read the Melbourne
Argus as a compliment to the brilliant litterateur
on whom she has centred her wealth of affection.
Judging from tbe dastardly insinuations
constantly made by the Press of the Southern dis-
tricts ot N.S.W., it Is high time that the Attorney-
General gave Judge M Farland an opportunitj of
for ever silencing his calumniators by inviting
them to say their worst before an impartially-con-
stituted Board of Enquiry. And if the Attorney-
General fail, at once, to appoint such a Board he
will be inflicting a grievous wrong alike on the
Bench of the colony, the public, and on Judge
M’Farland.
At the English Worcester Assizes, Baron
Huddlestone complained that his sleep had been
much disturbed at night by the crowing of an ir-
reverent rooster. The police searched the neigh-
borhood, and the sleep-murderer was discovered
in the shape of a cock which the Judge’s own cook
had brought with him in a hamper, to be killed
when wanted for the table. Sentence of death
was at once pronounced by the learned Baron, and
carried into Immediate execution. Thus was the
Majesty of tbe Law avenged.
The intelligence that the Crown Prince
and Princess of Germany “disapproved” of the
party selected to love and cherish Princess Beat-
rice, is very saddening. At the same time, their
reasons for absenting themselves from the mar-
riage feast can be pretty shrewdly devlned. Prince
Henry of Battenberg belongs to a class of German
princelings of whom the future Kaiser and his
plump wife know a good deal. And it’s just on
the cards that they consider “ Trixey ” made a bad
deal In taking one of ’em for a partner.
Here is a bit of antiquarian lore which
may interest Sir Alick: -“ By an Act passed in the
38th year of Henry HI. all persons possessing a
yearly income of £10 were compelled to be
knighted or pay a fine.” Compelled to be knighted.
Sir Alick. It Is not stated how manypaid the fine,
but we presume the number was considerable, or
auch an Act would not have been found necessary.
Even in those days they preferred to remain Plain
Bills. It shows how much they valued knight-
hood, even in its palmiest period. If the same
men lived now they would probably prefer im-
prisonment for life to a colonial order.
Sir Saul Samuel has purchased for the
colony the compass that was used by Captain Cook.
(Telegram):—
A souvenir, this, of a gallant commander.
Whose life was plain sailing, whose courage was
grand
(Ah, no one invited an action for slander,
By stating his stories were written on land);
That needle, Indeed, we regard as a treasure—
Thereat an explorer (?) may wince as he looks,
And straightway endeavour, in some sort of
measure, • „ „ , .
To give his researches the compass of Cook s.
Writes our old friend, “ Wrecker ” “ May
W. A Duncan rest in peaoel In the early days of
the colony, as a whoie-soulGd Liberal journalist,
he fousht the battles of the people against Caste
and Privilege; and though much of what he won
by way of an instalment of popular rights has
since been lost by t he treachery and Idle lip-service
of politicians professing Liberalism, yet still the
deep homage of respect will ever be due to the
memory of the sincerest. if not the very ablest, of
Australia’s pioneers in the work of winning Re-
presentative Institutions—to the memory of Wil-
liam Augustine Duncan, the Father of Municipal
Government in this southern land.” Amen, say
we.
The Mayor of Melbourne is something of a
humorist in a quiet way. There was a discussion
in the City Council the other day regarding the
appointment of a new surveyor. One of the
aldermen suggested that as the streets wero in
»uch a shocking state, the Council would be Justi-
fied in getting a man with English experience. To
this tho Mayor replied briefly, but to the point.
“The only person,” said he, “ whoever saw streets
like ours was Banyan when he got into the Slough
of Despond.” It is rumoured that he has refused
the offer of untold gold to make similar jokes for
Melbourne Punch. “ isecause I am a Mayor,” he
is said to have remarked, “ you need not go out of
your way to take me for a mule.”
Peerages and baronetcies, we are delighted
to see, appear to be at a discount in ihe old
country. One day the G. O. M., and next
day Mr. G. F. Watts, R.A, decline the glit-
tering baubles of bogus nobility. In other
words, the big intellects desoise titular distinc-
tioas, which have now degenerated into dirty, dis-
i putable shams, almost of the C.M.G. order;
while tho snobs of the world crawl and sneak on
tiwards the attainment of the tawdry gewgaws of
their dreams—towards the fribbles with which
they would cover their worm-iike littleness as the
shandonmSe covers her wrinkled face with the
whiting and the rouge. The peerage is now but
the rouge-pot of the colonial crawlers.
Baron Nordenskjoll is'preparing for an
expedition to the Nortn Pole. He Intends to be
*way three years. The Pole Jean hardly hold out
much longer. It will probably soon be as common-
place as the Soudan. Then the fashionable thing
win bu for newly-married couples to go there on
their honeymoon trip?. The subsequent usual
coolness between them can than be ascribed to the
climate. It has always been a mystery to us why
®en should have such a wild desire to live among
icebergs. Now we think we can guess at the rt a-
>on. 'they see the wisdom of storing upas much
5 0l( l as possible in this life lor use hereafter.
Mchary Barry would not approve of this conduct
A °y diminution of the afterglow would pain him.
Thus a letter to London Echo “ Mr. T.
;• Glover, who lately returned from Australis,
that £3,500 was spent on drink at the bar of
me ship in which he went out. Card-playing and
unaking went on until most lamentable conse-
quences ensued. Can nothing be done to prevent
“Hi waste of money and loss of character ? I
“*Ppen to know something of the sacrifices made
, y Parents to give their sous a fair chance—some-
'mig a last chance—in anew country: and it seems
Mndaloua for great firms to kc-ep open bars and
for that is what It comes to, on
fk-)ir ships. Surolv a law of some kind Is
“ueaed here; and, ai wc are ent-rlng on a time of
I trust we shall have a chance of striking a
u *ra blow at the drink traffic.”
A journal, -which is no doubt perused with
nterest by that eminent and devoted fowl-
thBDr ’ Excellency the Governor of N.S W.. is
vntoH * DLTRY Keeper, an organ principally de-
mo to the poultiY and pigeon interests. In thi i
paper an announcement Is made to the effect that
arrangements had been male with a veterinary
surgeon of experience to undertake tho post mor-
tem examination of tho bodies of all poultry,
pigeons, cage-birds, and rabbits sent up to the
office for the purpose. And advantage is taken of
the said opportunity; for, reading on. we discover
quite a list of observations detailing that Mr. A.’s
hen must have died from “metro-peritonitis”;
that Mr. B.’s chicken was clearly cut off In its
youth by “congestion of the liver”; that Mias
C.’scanary’s death was due to “diarrhoea and ex-
haustion.” And so on. Pretty, isn’t it ?
Little Lelzh, of the Darling Downs
Gazette, has been writing some poetry—and
reciting it, too, at a volunteer concert in Roma.
There is about a yard of it altogether, but this
appears to us to be one of the most striking
couplets in the composition: -
“ And we prepared to fight for home and hearth,
Cry shame on him who gives a sneering laugh” (sic).
We never knew that Leigh was a bard before,
though we must confess to have frequently
detected a great deal of poetry in his political
leaders. Only one’, m the long ago, did we know
so bright a genin-. .Is lived at Roma. Late at
night we have seen him write an editorial with his
tongue round hij penholder, and his eye-ball
dragging along the paper.
The Rev. Samuel Phillip Day, father of the
Phil. Day who excites our cheers, tears, and
laughter In the “ silver King,” died a few weeks
back. Reading ot his deatn reminds us of the
sneaking affinity that exists between the Church
and the stage now-a-days. A son of the late Dr.
Begg—toughest af Presbyterian divines—is a suc-
cessful actor. Kyrle Bellew’s father, too, pre-
fixed " rev.” to his name in his earlier days; and a
Mr. Beaumont, an old member of Irving’s com-
pany, is an ex-priest. Charles Kelly, the lately
deceased hubby of Ellen Terry, was the son of a
country vicar, and—mention this very respect-
fully—Harry Rickards, “ the greatest comedian on
earth,” who is now for a second time gladdening
the Southern Hemisphere with his genius, is said
to be the offspring of a clergyman. The chronicl-
ing of these facts ought to give a “ leg up ” to the
Church and improve the price ot slttiugsall round.
An Anglo-Australian item. In tbe Nine-
teenth Century for May, Sir Henry Thompson,
one of the most, famous among English surgeons,
discourses instructively on diet. If we don't eat
too much, we, aU of us, eat the wrong thing, and
Imagine wh*n the creeping years have deflected
vitality from our epigastrium that there is no
necessity for greater care in feeding. Which re-
minds us that Lady Thompson, known throughout
social London for her musical abilities, was a pro-
fessional pianiste when Sir Henry married her.
And, to go further, we are further reminded of
the fact that her name was Kate Loder, and that
she and her brother George were sent out on the
tramp, playing together before company for
money, at a very tender age, and In consequence
became rather celebrated as infant phenomena.
Now, poor old Georse Loder’s remains lie uncared-
for In the Adelaide (8 A ) cemetery, and from the
time of his death to the present date nobody seems
to have sent one single, solitary dam’s-worth of
enquiry on his track.
Alphonse de Neuvilie, the recently-deceased
painter of “Rorke’s Drift,” now in tho N.S.W.
National Gallery, will be most bitterly regretted
by all his nation. His style of painting was that
most thoroughly dear to Frenchmen's hearts,
and certainly he has never had hl« equal ns a
painter of military scenes. He was only 49
and he married almost in extremis, only a
fortnight before hia death. He had lived for
25 years with a beautiful actress, Mdlie. Marshal,
to whom he wa? ardently attached, but he could
never obtain his mother's consent to legalising the
union. For, according to one of the laws of this most
filially submissive of nations, no Frenchman can
ever marry without his parents’, or failing his
parents, his grandparents’ consent, unless he
makes ties snmmations respectueuses. M. de Neu-
vllle and his beloved companion were therefore
reduced to* the positive necessity of leading an
irregular life. They were perfectly nappy living
in a very small aoartmeat for many years; for It
was the war of 1870 that definitely raised Alphonse
de Neuvilie to the first rank among painters. Its
ardent breath seemed to have given fresh life to
his imagination, and fresh colours to his palette; a
picture called “Laderniera Cartouche” made all
France ring with his name, and from that time a
sort of new school in French painting arose, of
which ho was the head, follow’d closely by his
dear friend Detaille. It was only last year that
the large hotel which Neuvilie had built, and in
which he died, was completed, and, as we have
said, it was but nine weeks ago that Madame de
Neuvilie gave her consent to her son’s marriage,
which took place in his bedroom; neither he nor
his faithful companion having strength to stand
up during the ceremony so reduced were they, he
by the heart-complaint that carried him off, and
she by constant nurs'ng and anxiety.
There is a gentleman hy the name of
Walker living in a Melbourne suburb who will
become either a leader of religious thought or of a
dray. He advertises a book, to be obtained at his
house, which bears the modest title of “ Christen-
dom Astray.” Lest this alone should not fascinate
the reading public, he adds (at sixpence a line)
these alluring words: “If you find popular reli-
gion powerless, puloit theology Incomprehensible,
and unbelief insufferable: If, though not seeing
your way in the confusions of the day, you don't
want to be without a hope or without the Bible,
this is the book for you I ' Now, we like this. It
is soothing and satisfying, and curiously calcu-
lated to appease those spiritual longings which
haunt the human soul in moments of despondency
when the salt of life has lost its savour
and the three-star thereof its pleasant bite.
We wish we could depend upon this Mr.
Walker instead ot upon the whlsky-Walker
for a certainty of spiritual consolation. But
we dare not. We have read some of his “Bible
Finger Posts,” or, as he otherwise calls tnem,
“Leaflets indicating the lost Bible way,” and they
remind us of the astronomer who, while tracing
out the courses of the stars as he walked along,
fell down a ehait and was seen no more of men.
Yet Mr. Walker writes with confidence. He gives
you the impression of one who has gone over the
ground himself, surveyed the whole track, cleared
all the thorns off ir, and cut the scrub away right
up to tha gates of Heaven. You would hardly
think that such a man lived in a little muddy Mel-
bourne suburb. But great as he is, he must not
get all the credit of the new theological dis-
coveries he advertises. It is understood he was
abiy assisted in his work by a contemplative cow
which he is said to meet by appointment every day
in his thoughtful walks. Aided by her calm in-
tellect, he has produced this work, which does
equal credit to both Its authors.
Dr. John Ellor Taylor, F.G.S., F.L.S., who
is to give a series ot his “ Science Gossips ” In the
old Masonic Hall, Sydney, next week, is a Lanca-
shire man, and with bis llorld complexion, fair hair,
and massive head, looks every Inch an Englishman.
Unlike R. 8. Smythe’s last scientific star, R. A.
Proctor, who busied himself with other worlds
than ours. Dr. Taylor is of the earth, earthy.
Proctor’s eye roved through the universe, cycle
beyond cyclo. Taylor, more modest, never raises
his beyond the everlasting bills, and finds infinite
interest in the Infinitesimal things which, with the
naked eye, we cannot even see. Proctor was hard—
a scientific Gradarind, all facts and figures. Taylor
is emotional, and moves his audiences. The new
lecturer’s auditors consequently include people
from all the Churches, although, probably, the
actual beliefs of the professor and his hearers are
as wide asunder as the poles. Proctor, however,who
used to speak as if he ran the solar system, natur-
ally had great contempt for mere earthly princi-
palities and powers. He refused to go to the Mel-
bourne Club; he declined an invitation to lunch
with Bishop Moorhouse; and when he oecupied
the Governor's chair In tho vice-regal box in the
Melbourne Opera House he was the only man who
remained sitting while the National Anthem was
sung, to the disgust and astonishment of W. 8.
Lyster, who had placed the box at his disposal. Dr.
Taylor, on the other hand, goes everywhere, from
Government House downwards; and It ip said that,
when lunching with Sir Henry and Lady Loch, he
astonished his hosts by telling them a lot they
didn’t know about the lele of Man, though they
had lived there so many years and thought they
had thoroughly “ done ” the Island. Although he
has been a hard student, he Is not a recluse, and
on foot has travelled all over Groat Britain, and
nearly all over Europe. Finally, Dr. Taylor is one
of the most popular lecturers In the old country,
and he attracted full and fashionable audiences in
Melbourne.
The Conservative organ—the Melbourne
Argus— In its leading article of July 3, apologizes
for Salisbury’s Cabinet,'and especially for Its law
officer. It is as candid about the Chancellor, but
not so explicit as we were last week. This Is the
mildest way In which they can drop Giffard —
without bursting him too much:—“He is, proba-
bly, from a Judicial point of view, the least able
occupant of the woolsack since Erskine, not ex-
cepting even Brougham.” This sort of thing is
very kind to the Jumped-up Chancellor, but very
hard on Erskine and Brougham. It is very hurt-
ful, also, to the feelings of those who know any-
thing of those most eminent mon and what were
the sterling constituents of their eminence. The
Argus man must be weak indeed In the know-
ledge of the history oC our own times and
imagine everyone else to be as Ignorant
when writing so absurdly. As the sunlight to
the moonlight, and as water unto wine were
the differences between Erskine and Brougham
and the unknown Petty Sessions pleader now
hoisted or foisted upon the woolsack. Brsklne
was the Pericles and Cicero of his day, and Broug-
ham the Demosthenes of his age. If the revised
Bible had not forbidden the use of the term
“ giants ” for the men of former days, we might
write of Brougham and Erskine as belonging to
that order. We are now, by the revisers’ devices,
to call them “ Nephllim,” which may mean supe-
riority in some way or other—to be understood
better on next revision. Shades of Erskine and
Brougham I we apologise to you that you should
have been so disgraced. Great as advocates—fore-
most as orators—as you both were; foremost In
politics and leader in all legal and political reforms,
as was one of you, It Is queer Indeed to name you
thus in the same breath with one unknown In
everything—law, learning, politics, and social life,
for such was Hardinge Giffard, or Jiflard as he pro-
nounces his hitherto obscure patronymic.
In the poetry line, of which we thought
we had the monopoly, we are meeting determined
opposition. The Kiama Reporter is the last to
enter the field against us. We have always treated
Kiama with studied politeness,—spoken of its
“ ghost” with real respect—and this is our reward I
If we did not know that human nature was prover-
bially ungrateful we would feel sore at this bare-
faced attempt to poach on our preserves. The
poem is described as “ original,” a point which no
unbiassed mind will dispute after one reading. It
is written in terrible earnestness from “ Fairy
Meadow,” signed by “ Hubert Young,” and en-
titled “ A Desert Grave.” It describes the last
resting place of “ a son of Illawarra,” who Joined
the Contingent and never returned—
" Where no radiant eucalypti cast a cool and
balmy shade
Is the shell of Robert Weir In the distant desert
laid.”
The word “ shell ” we think unusually appropriate
and graceful. It performs the double office of
satisfying all the requirements of metre and all
the wants of Robert. That It does the former
felicitously will be seen at once when you try to
substitute for it some word such as “ coffin,’
“ piner,” or “ cherry-case ” when the halting
rhythm warns you to let “ shell” alone. “ Hubert”
goes on—
“ Left Kiama’s hills behind him fringed with
bright ablescent sand,
Nobly sought for honour’s prizes In an Oriental
land;
But the austere Fates defeated hopes bright
dream in this young man;
Let us hope he’s quietly sleeping—sleeping In
the weird Soudan.”
We have done. “ Ablescent ” Is good ; “this
young man” great; but before the person who
calmly sings of the *• weird” Soudan there ;is
a career of usefulness opening, upon the ending of
which we tremble to speculate.
In England at present are many represen-
tative Australians, who In no way represent Aus-
tralia. There Is Sir Samuel Wilson, for instance,
and there is Mr. Hennlker Heaton. When the
latter in his Canterbury speech thanks England
“in the name of Australia,” we feel that the
meanings of the words “ Impudence ” and "cheek ’
are entirely too restricted and should be en-
larged. The worst of it Is that Englishmen
weave into their odd ideas of Australia the
notion that the men who shear number-
less sheep on the Darling, or strike It rich at
Bendigo, and, returning to tho old country, lavish
money in their efforts to obtain a footing In Lon-
don society, are typical Australians. The ihistake
is a very natural one, but it is none the less irrita-
ting. For a long time the Americans had to suffer
from a similar cause. Many who made Immense
fortunes by supplying weevily biscuits to those
fighting for the preservation of the Union or bjr
securing Pennsylvanian land with oll-reServolrs
below the surface, brought their red-faced wives
and hoydenlsh daughters to noisily air their views
in the churches and art galleries of “Yurrup.”
And, as one naturally Judges a people by the
examples he sees, tbe Americans were quickly set
down as a self-assertive nation with a sound know-
ledge of shoddy and “He,” but untrustworthy
conceptions of art. But to return to Sam Wilson.
His ambition has changed. The attention he once
devoted to sheep Is now devoted to society. His
success in merinos is to pale before his success in
Mayfair. The ambition that was once content
with discovering the peculiarities of "cross,
breeds” now soars to a seat In the Commons and a
baronetcy. Sam cannot see why the master of
Rupertswood secured an hereditary title, while he
has to put up with the forlorn little K.C.M.G. So
“ Lothair’s” house is rented, the boys go to Eton,
and gallantly defend their sovereign from the
leadless pistol of a ragged and demented Irish
lad, and Sam settles down into the ‘ Sir Gorgius
Midas” of Punch. Descendants of tbe Crusaders
attend his “at homes,” speak of the "Creator
Britain beyond the sea,” praise Australian loyalty
and return home to make their wives shriek with
laughter at the odd traits that a long residence In
Australia appears to develop. But—
" Cheer up, Sam,
Don’t let your spirits go down.
There’s many a swell would go to—well—
To “ wolfat your table In town.
Given below are the portraits of Burton
and Cunniogham, the two dynamiters whose par-
tially successful attempt to wreck the House of
Commons caused so tremendous a sensation in
London. The pair have been sent to gaol for life.
They would. It Is said by r home paper, have been
arraigned on the capital charge of treason but fo
the fact that, had they been convicted of tha
crime, they must necessarily have been execute
in public, because the Capital Punishments Ac
by which public executions were abolished, doe
not apply to executions for the crime of treason.
With a truly American spirit of irrever-
ence, Mr. James Russell Lowell, in delivering an
oration on the occasion of the erection In West-
minster Abbey of a bust of Samuel Taylor Coler-
idge, said things which made his audience laugh.
The great Coleridge was one of the laziest men
who ever breathed. It la related that after
log In bed at ni»rht-time he was always too Indolent
to raise himself to extinguish the candle, and so
would throw the book at the light, regardless of
damage to the volume, breaking the candle, or
grease on the floor and wall. What the slug-
gish poet did if he made a bad shot with the book
and failed in his purpose, we do not know. Under
the stress of such circumstances, he probably rose
and put it out, accompanying the action with such
oaths as poets use.
» • •
Mr. Brennan, the young ‘Australian tor-
pedo-man. got £40,000 from the Imperial Govern-
ment for his invention. ...Professor M'Coy, whoso
severely reprimanded the under-graduates of the
Melbourne University for their unseemly be-
haviour at the opening ceremony. Is himself
accused of want of manners by a country candi-
date for University honours. But want of manners
In a Professor, and want of manners In an under-
graduate are two very different things.
SAMUEL TAYLOR COLERIDGE.
BURTON.
THEY WILL HAVE TO COME TO IT.
THE MAN WHO “HAS A HEAD ON HIM.”
Oar Artist’s Scheme for an Automatic Extensible Hat for Gentlemen who look upon
the Old Stuff when it giveth its Colour in the Bar-glass,
CUNNING HAM.


Professional Directory*
G
EORGE PE l.hIMAN, Scene Painter, Theatre
Royal, Bri i . ine.
m H B A T R B ROYAL
Under the management of
Measn. Williamson, Garner and Musgrovi.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
Doors open at 7.30, commence at 8. Carriages at 10.
THIS EVENING JULY II.
IMMENSE KRUSE CONCERTS IMMENSE
KRUSE CONCERTS
SUCCESS KRUSE CONCERTS SUCCESS
KRUSE
KRUSE
CONCERT-MEISTER
KRUSE
KRUSE
Entire Change of Programme each Evening.
Prices of Admission: Drefs Circle 5s,; Stalls, 3l.;
Family Circle, 3j.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway s
Box plan*open at theatre from 11 till 4. No free
list. O. NOBILI, Business Manager.
N
BW OPERA HOUSE.
Lessees... .. .. Messrs. Majeronl and Wilson
Sub Lessee Miss Genevieve Ward.
WARD-VERNON SEASON.
Undoubted success of her re-appearance In Syd-
ney of the
GREATEST TRAGIC ACTRESS
of the English-speaking stage,
MISS GENEVIEVE WARD,
and of
Mr. W. H. VERNON,
the Celebrated English Actor.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING.
1 LAST NIGHT BUT ONE-FOROE T-ME-NOT.
L LAST NIGHT BUT ONB-FORGET-ME-NOT.
Miss GENEVIEVE WARD,
in her great creation. _
STEPHANIE MARQUISE DE MOHRIVART.
Mr. W. fl. VERNON,
the English Baronet, SIR HORACE WELBY.
1 Handsome Furnishing by David Jones and Co.
Prices as usual.
Liddy, Agent. Signor Agrati, Business Manager
G
A I B T Y
T H B A T RBI
Proprietor and Manager
Lessee ..
.. J. F. Sheridan
... B. N. Jones.
THE GREAT REIGNING ATTRACTION.
SHERIDAN
SHERIDAN
SHERIDAN
SHERIDAN
SHERIDAN
WIDOW O’BRIEN
WIDOW O’BRIEN
WIDOW O'BRIEN
WIDOW O’BRIEN
WIDOW O’BRIEN
and his Suberb Compitny,
in
FUN FtTN FUN FUN
on the on the
BRISTOL, BRISTOL.
Still Flaying to Crowded and Delighted Audlfencefi.
The Match, Song, and Chorus:
fff. PATRICKS DAY PARADE
ST. PATRICK’S DAY PARADE
ST. PATRICK’S DAY PARADE,
AN IMMENSE HIT
AN IMMENSE HIT
AN IMMENSE HIT.
Mr. SHERIDAN received an OVATION on Satur-
day evening in Singing the PARADE
Conceded by everyone who heard it THE BEST
THING IN HIS EXTENSIVE REPERTOIRE.
THE LITTLE SONG
from
RIP VAN WINKLE
(by kind permission of A. L. Dunning, Esq.)
Received with a Double Encore.
NELLIE’S BLUE EYESORE HOW IT SPARKLES
AMERICAN SAND JIG,
THE FULL MOON’S, &c.,
all received
with Unbounded Enthusiasm.
. REMEMBER,
POSITIVELY LAST WEEK BUT ONE
POSITIVELY LAST WEEK BUT ONE,
In consequence of previous engagements,
Mr. SHERIDAN’S STAY CANNOT BE
PROLONGED.
Secure your seats at Nicholson’s, 035 George-st.
Popular Prices: Orchestra Chairs, 48.; Stalls, 3s.;
Family Circle, Is.
Business Manager, WM. HUGHES.
GAIETY THEATRE,
“ Fun on the Bristol" drew another large au-
dience at the Gaiety Theatre on Saturday night,
and Mr. Sheridan has made the fun more pro-
nounced than ever by Introducing a comic song-
“The St. Patrick’s Day Parade,” which was re-
ceived with shouts of laughter. The March of the
Dandy Blues has been replaced by the Full Moon
March, and other changes in the programme have
been made
M
Lessee .
ASONIC HALL, YORK STREET
Harry Lynch.
LAST WllEK—Terminating Saturday, July 11
(In consequence of prior engagement of Hall),
of the world-famed
LYNCH FAMILY
33©llriELgrers,
INSTRUMENTALISTS and VOCALISTS,
(Organised 18<!7),
In their
ORIGINAL CONCERTS,
THI&D CHANGE OF PROGRAMME,
concluding with
THE JUDGE’S SUBSTITUTE.
Admission—4s., 3s., 3s., and Is. Box Plan at Paling s
Doors open at ,7.30 ; Overture at 8 : Carriages
ftt Saturday, at 8 p.m., GRAND MATINEE.
Aoadbmy of music.
Lessee and Manager.. Mr. F. B. Hiscocks.
57th Week, and Second Year
of the
LEVIATHAN SHOW.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTREL
and SPECIALITY UNION
Every Evening in their Refined and Amusing
Entertainment.
Terminating with the screaming farce,
OVER THE GARDEN WALL.
Admission, 4s., 3a., 3s., and Is. Box Plan at
Paling’s. Carriages at 10.15.
jyj" ERCANTILB ROWING CLUB.
Tanth Annual Ball.
TOWN HALL,
THURSDAY, 33bd JULY.
Evening Drejs.
Music by Messrs. Need’s String Band.
Compagnonl Catering Company, Caterers.
Tickets (limited) obtainable from Members of
the Committee only.
J. M. FOGARTY, Hon. Treasurer.
W. A. BLACKSTONB, Hon. Sec.
Telegraph Department*
ODDFELLOWS’ HALL,
Goulburn.
THIS Theatre, one of the best in the colony, la
open for Engagement. Particulars from
M. E. POLLEN, Hall Secretary.
WANTED, LADY DANCERS, and GYM-
NASTS (male and female), for Klaer
and Olman’s Circus, now travelling in India
Engagement for one year or longer.
Apply
J. OLMAN, i
Coffee Palace,
Bourke-street,
Melbourne.
THE SYDNEY BICYCLE CLUB,
FOURTH ANNUAL INTERCOLONIAL AMA-
TEUR CHAMPION BICYCLE AND TRICYCLE
RACE MEETING.
Under the patronage and rules of the New South
Wales ’Cyclists Union.
To be held at the
N.S.W. CRICKET ASSOCIATION GROUND,
Moore Park, Sydney, N.S.W.,
SATURDAY, 33nd AUGUST, 1885,
PROGRAMME :
1. One-mile Bicycle Championship of NS.W.—
Special Club Trophy „ „ _
3. Ten-miles Bicycle Championship of N.S.W.—
Gardiner Cup
3. One-mile Bicycle Handle »p . .
4. Three-miles Bicycle Handicap—The Ladles
Brftcolots
Competitors in this race must be nominated by
ladles.
5. Oae-mlle Bicycle Handicap, for Maiden Riders
only
This race to be ridden on Roadster Bicycles.
Minimum weight, 35lbs.
6. Two-miles Tricycle Handicap
7. 150 Yards Handicap Foot Race
8. 440 Yards Handicap Foot Race
9. Parade—Prize, Silver Bugle, for the Club ex-
celling in appearance and manoeuvres;
All events open to all amateutti
E. H. MdRAEf,
Honorary Secretary,
All communications and enquiries to be ad-
dressed to, and entry forms obtained from, the
Club Clerk, J. .Copland, at the Club Rooms and
Headquarters, 85 Market-street, Sydney, R S.W.
AGLEHAWK MECHANICS’ INSTITUTE.
GRAND ART UNION,
In rrict accordance with the Act.
Value
PRIZE £600.
second pb!2e, £200.
4 priiteS, value £50 each. 100 prizes, value £6 each.
4 „ „ £35 each. 550 „ ,. £1 each.
40 ., ,, £10 each. 300 „ ,. lOs.each.
1000 PRIZES I 1000 PRIZES I
10,000 TICKETS at 10s. each, obtainable at most
business places in the colony.
N.B.—In proof of the value of the above, the
Committee undertake to find purchasers for the
various prizes at the prices named, and to hand the
winner full amount in cash, less 10 per cent, for
commission. , . , .
The drawing to take place in June, under the
supervision of the Mayor and Councillors of Kag,e-
bawk and a Committee of Shareholders.
T. H. TAYLOR,
Managing Secretary.
Bull-street, Sandhurst, and
Mechanics’ Institute, Eaglehawk.
SULLIVAN & JACKSON, Agents.
Vaughan Chambers, 143 King street, Sydney.
B
FIRST |
PRIZE.
Hi
X 8.S. BALLARAT. BX. S.S. BALLARAT.
hEAFES and SHAW PEAPE9 and SHAW,
H
I
AVE OPENED a large SHIPMENT of
GLOVES.
NCLUDING Gents’ Chevrettes, Ladles’ Chev-
rettes.
ADIE3’ Four-botton Tan Florentine GLOVES
R
F
UBY, Bronze, and Black ditto ditto,
lOUR-BUTTON or Clasp Tan KID GLOVES,
WITH Ingrain Twist Points, Black and Self
Colour.
A LSO, Bight-button Length Tan Mosquetaire.
,. HE LARGEST, most RELIABLE, and Cbeap-
' I eat
S'
TOOK of LADIES’ and GENTLEMEN’S
GLOVES
"N THE AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
ADIB3’ and CHILDREN’S GLOVES
JN EVERY LENGTH SIZE, a n d COLOUR.
■pEAPES and SHAW, PBAPES and SHAW,
STREET, GEORGE-STRBBT.
WEATHER REQUISITES
PBAPES and SHAWbTQhORGE-STREBT.
TAILOR-MADE UL8TER8.
MACINTOSH OVERALLS.
LADIES’ ' UmTiRELLAsT GKN ELEMENTS
UMBRELLAS.
PLBNDID VARIBLY and EXlRAORDIN-
ARY
ENTLBMEN’S WINTER OVERCOATS, from
35s. each
( * _
ANT1PLU VIAN MACINTOSHES sewn seams
33s. 6d.
MACINTOSHES, 80s. each.
Hi
k ADIE3’ and GEN TLB MB ,
j M GLOVES.
rvVERY VARIETY of Warm WINTER
HOSIERY.
WINTER
■pEAPES and SHAW, PEAPES and SHAW.
BORQE-STREBT, GBORGE-bTREBT.
To love and be loved is the greatest happiness
on earth.
TO procure the above valuable secret (which
has never failed during Madame Sleeman’s
ten years’experience) send 81 Bd. Orders addressed
to Madame Sleeman, Box 955, G.P.O., Sydney.
THE SYDNEY SPORTS
DEPOT.
389 GEORGE-STRBET SYDNEY
(Opposite Royal Hotel.)
B!CYCLE?rTRICYCLE8;
OUR
1885 Pattern Bicycles
and Tricycles
Every Improvement.
buR SPECIALITY
New Cheap Roadster,
THE UNIVERSAL CLUB
BICYCLE,
fitted with Improved Ball Bear*
tag's to front and hack wheel?,.
Soilow Forks, Patent Head ana 1
etachable Bent Handle Bar,.
Easy Slide Spring, Hubs Plated,.
Black Enamelled Spot as.
1885 Universal Club, a thoroughly reliable and easy-running Price, *13 At the price*
machine. Ball bearings to both wheels, and Improvements. we dety competition.
JAMES MARTIN & COMPANY, 388 Goorgo-st., Sydney..
6i
AVOID COMPLICATED POKE ION BRACES.”
66
-A- -CVL-LU
CREDENT A,”
SIMPLEST AND BEST FOR MEN AND BOm
■tVHOhESAT.E ONht AT
IB At, IfST CHfiAlPSltlE, LONDON, E.C.
And of W, SENKY FINDLAY & LUO., Melbourne & Sydney.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
.Hydrant?, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &e.
kw- Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmith
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Eleotrio and Pneumatic Beli-flt* ‘
of every description. 8
BOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,” ““ VACUIIM ” WATr .R-WASTK
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Am Propellers, ?Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c
BON ACCORD WORKSy 8 & 3 M8C(|ii3iff& Place* Svdnov>
Full particulars and price on applicant) - J J
BOXJRKF
Is the largest and best-appointed Family Hotelta the
cannot be surpassed, even in the Metropolis. Private
Western District. The Table and llano
Suites for families. First-class Stabling
TH0MA9 HUGGINS, Proprietor.
%
8
A
A
50
Infants and Children.
Castoria cures O , n stipation,
Soar Stomach, Difvnrhav h Eructation,
Gives healthy sleep air d promate0 digestion, \
"Without,tajpKiaos mf dication. ( J
Elliott Bros.? Sydney, Agents
“Castoria is so well adapted to children that
X recommend It as superior to any prescription
known to mo.” XI. A. Archer, M. D.,
Ill Oxford Street, New York, j
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
MERI CAN CARRIAGE A MACHINERY REPOSITORT
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS,
;XP] JESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
C allfornla and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
|y . BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
711 .t.t atut FLEMING!, Merchant & Importer
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)


Importaat kmcMt!
THE
ORIENTAL GOLD GO.
BEG to inform the public that, In consequence
of the
EXPIRATION OF LEASE
of their present premises, they have commenced
their
ORAND
BE SUE,
Which will
LAST FOR A FEW WEEKS ONLY!
The Goods are all marked at an
■MODS SMIR!
as will be seen by list below.
PRICE LIST.
Ladles’ Handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 10s, 15s
I7s 6d, and 20a each
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 4s and 5s per pair
Ladles’ Choice Necklets, 5s each
Ladle.’ Choice Necklets, best American Plate, 00s
each
Ladles’ Elegant Bangles, 4s, 6s, and Ids per pair
Choice Lockets, 5a each
Handsome Gem Rings, 4s and 8s Od each
Wedding and Keeper Rings, in Solid Gold, ?s fld
each
Ladles’ Handsome Lockets, 10s each
Ladies’ Elegant Crosses, 4s, 5s, and 6a each
Ladies’ Brooch and Earring Sets, from 5j to 16s
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, 3s 0d each
Gents’ O. G. Watches, Hunting, Open-Faced
Crystal Glass, and patent Keyless, 30s each,
warranted 3 years
Ladies’ (same as above.)
W These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and Jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully Jewelled, Ip taunting or open
faced crystal glasses MOO
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
Jewelled, and compensation balance .. £5 0 0
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levers . £4 10 8
Ditto ditto, compensation balance £5 0 0
Tho celebrated Waltham Watch, In hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses.. .. £3 15 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance.. .. £4 16 0
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph, £6 0
Ditto, extra Jewelled, of the highest
grade £6 0 0
Ditto, in hunting oases, compensated and
full Jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £8 10 0
We Import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all, the saving thus effected -about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can bo sold for £6
In most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £10.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 4s
each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Rings, half round buckle
flat broad buckle, engraved, good luck rings
2s 6d each.
Gent's richly chased engraved and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 3s, 4s, 6s, and 6a 6d per set.
Same as above, only haif sets, Is 6d, 3s, and 3s per
set.
Best American Patent Spring Solitaire Suites,
5s per set.
Gent's elegant Seals, 4s each.
Gent’s Elegant Compasses, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberta, 63 each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold handsome Scarf Pins, Is,
6d, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s, 3s 6d, 4s, 4? 6d, 5$, and 5s 6d eao
Very best American Pencil Cases, 3i 6d each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Match Boxes, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Sovereign Purses, 4s each.
Richly engraved Bracelets, 6s each.
Handsome Bracelets, beautifully Jewelled, 8s, 10s,
12s, and 14s each.
Brooocbes, Brooches, Brooches, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 01, 3s,
3s 6d, 4s, 4s 6d, 5s, 5s 6d, 6s, 6s 6d, 7s, 7s 6d, 8s, 8s
6d, 9s, 9s 6d, and 10s each.
PLEASE NOTE.
All goods will be sent post free, with tho excep-
tion of the watches, orders for which must be ac-
companied with an extra amount of two and six-
pence to defray postage expenses. Send In your
orders early, as the goods must be sold, and no one
should miss this chance of procuring the beautiful
gems at less than cost price.
Note the Address ;
The Oriental Gold Co.,
474 George Street,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS,
An invitation is extended to the members
of the late Contingent to visit, together with any
lady friends, the China and Glass Showrooms of
Bray’s, 4C3and 404Oeorge-street, and see the mady
articles there provided to mike homes comfort-
able.*
A problem: why peonle drink any other spirit
when they can obtain Wolfe's Schnapps.
No Lady ever taints her Handkerchief
with a coarse perfume. Indeed, the refined of
both sexes are always critical in this particular.
Hence it is that MURRAY and LANMAN’S
FLORIDA WATER is so universally preferred by
persons of correct taste to all other toilet water
and extracts.
How to make it.— Put a large teaspoonful of
Fry’s Malted Cocoa into a breakfast cup, and mix
it into a smooth paste with sufficient cold milk;
then fill up with water not quite boiling, adding
milk and sugar to taste. If preferred, milk, or
milk and water, may be substituted for the plain
water. This cocoa is pure, does not thicken in the
cup, and contains more of the active properties
of malt then a pint of the best ale or porter.*
For the sake of your health accept only Wolfe's
Schnapps— It is the only genuine Schnapps,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Ihiatbi Royal—Kruse’s Concert ... .p. 8
Opera House— “ Forget me Not ” .'. „
ACADEMY of Music.—Hiscocks’ F. Minstrels.. „
Masonic Hall. -Lynch Family of Bellringers „
Gaiety Theatre.— “Fun on the Bristol” „
When last we saw young Kruse he was
merrily fiddling away at a concert in Melbourne,
ever so many years ago. He was then a lad of 16
or 17 He is now a tall, dark, self-poEsessed man
who from out of a fiddle draws tones that explain
at once why, the rocks, streams, and trees started
at a run atter old Orpheus, when they saw him
turning tho corner. Kruse gave such evidences
of musical talent when a boy that he was packed
off to Germany to give him a chance of developing
from a fiddler into a violinist. He developed—
grew so big in fact, that now his name is men-
tioned even in Joachim’s company. Assisted by
Mrs. Armstrong and Messrs. Boyle and de Yal-
menev, he gave the first of a series of concerts at
tue Royal on Saturday. There was a middling
attendance in the circle, sufficient room down
below to play quoits, and up above to wheel a
perambulator. Had it beenRemenyi, there would
have been a scramble for seats. But the idea of a
young colonial going all the way to the home of
music to learn from the great masters there, and
subsequently hold his own against tho best of
them, is hardly to bo entertained. The pieces too
—a cavatina by Raff, and a concerto by De
Berlot—in which the young man appeared,
wore scarcely those to draw a large antipodean
audience. Had ho given airs of various nations.
Introducing “Yankee Doodle” and an imitation
of tho Scotch bagpipes, or of a farmyard just when
the fowls are blowing their shrill clarions for more
wheat, there might be some sense in it. Especially
would we warn “ Concert-meister ” Kruse against
De Beriot. Why should the musical eccentricities
of that over-rated dreamer be chosen when such
sparkles as “ Tommy make room for your uncle,”
or “Ten little niggers” can bo had from any
respectable Sydney music-seller ?
» » *
Mr. Frank Boyle opened with Sullivan’s
version of the “ Sailor’s Grave.” We like the old
air best—think there was far more melody in it.
Mr. Boyle has a light tenor voiee of fair quality,
but no great volume. M. de Valmency played a
‘‘fantaisle” from “Lucia,” which was chiefly
remarkable for containing none of the melodies
for which old opera-goers strain their attention
when the unhappy bride of Lammermoor is before
them. It gave him a chance of showing the neat-
ness and precision with which he can play
“ chromatics,” but, whatever pleasure this afforded
was entirely confined to himself. Mrs. Armstrong
has a voice of pleasant quality, wide range, and
marked tremolo. Then came the “ Concert-
Melster’s” turn. He has a wonderfully pure tone,
especially in the lower register, where the notes roll
out like those ol a violoncello. And so neat and
clean, too, Is his execution in the most rapid pas-
sages that you marvel at the gymnastic per-
fection to which the human fingers can be
brought. Yes, the hand is a wonderful organ—
sometimes getting at the public purse by pirouet-
ting on four strings of stretched cat-gut—some-
times by the more direct but hazardous method of
insinuating Itself into strange pockets and grab-
bing what it finds.
* * *
What are Herr Kruse’s strong points ? No
two listeners will agree. When you hear his
“Auld‘Robin Grey’,’ you at once say “tone.”
When you hear his notes dancing and dodging in
a smart “allegro” or “presto,” you as quickly
reply “ execution.” Go hear him, and take your
choice. One thing Is certain—you’ll not be disap-
pointed.
* # * «
There was a good deal of business done in
the Opera House last week. The Majeronis closed
their season, and the Ward-Yernon season opened.
Wo went there three nights. On Thursday,
“Jealousy” was given. The Signora was. of
course, Diana, and while interpreting the intricate
existence of this imaginary character, she looked
to us a more perfect embodiment of a conception
than when she personated Marie Antoinette. This
is also true 8s regards her Marie Stuart. Camille,
Claire de Beaulieu, Diana, and such like, are dra-
matic creations instinct with that poetical, hysteri-
cal fervour and passion, caprice and constancy, for
the exhibition of which the gifted artiste has high
natural qualifications. In historical parts, how-
ever, where the mind holds the image of an actual
person, and where the surroundings are actual,
the tendency to give play to this ethereal hysteria
produces an impression of exaggeration and ex-
travagance. Tastes, of course, differ, but so do
intelligences. ,
■ ■ •
Signor Majeroni was Carlo. His was fine
playing. Surely some better way could be devised
for inflicting the crowning insult on Diana than
putting in her hand a letter and money. No woman
looks well when wanting an audience to see that
she has been offered, either truly or In irony, a
sheaf of bank-notes for her virtue. The situation
does not admit of high-class acting. It is repul-
sive. Mr. Rodney did his asseveration “By a
thousand gunsl” in great style, and Mr. Rodney
played Ernest. Carlo kills Ernest early in the
piece, and If he did nothing else till he dies we feel
grateful,
• • •
“Marie Stuart” occupied tbe boards on
Friday night, the Signora taking a well-deserved
benefit In that piece. Tho house was full, and dis-
tinguished people were in all parts. The tragedy
Is Schiller s, but it is greatly cut up for the stage.
Good things are left out, and bad things are
let in. Several speeches are too long. Her father-
honfessor comes on the stage. She explains that
he was once a servant ot hers, but that in bis
priestly character she kneels to him. She then
goes through her confession aloud. He tells her
she is concealing sins. She denies. He says tbe
servants told him. This is silly and wrong. In
other respects the father-confessor was good and
nis attitude at the parting between Marie and
Leicester was as good as the best thing in the play.
■ • •
Miss Blanche Lewis was Elizabeth, Queen
of England. Miss Lewis should not play this part.
It demands different abilities to those she possesses.
Miss Docy Mainwaring was a very placid Anne.
* • •
Why do so many of tho ladies persist in
saying “ me ” for •* my,” and “ me oym ” for “ my
own ?” The best English appears to be spoken by
the two foreigners.
* * *
On Saturday night, Miss Genevieve Ward
revived “Forget-me-not.” As Stephanie, her
reputation is fixed. It is not a lovely character,
hut it is a human one. There Is nothing mecha-
nical about it. It is intensely natural, and in-
tensely dramatic. Toe heart is had, but it would
1)0 good. It determines to be good even by bad
®eans. Her collapse at sight of Barrato, the Cor-
sican, lg strong, vivid acting. Mr. W. H. Vernon’s
°ir Horace Welby has also taken a recognised
Position in public estimation,
* • *
.Mr. Lawrence makes an excellent Prince
Malleotti. We remember seeing Mr. Leitch in this
P&rt ia the Princess’ in Melbourne, and were
th< ar i med with k is Italian accent. He seemed to
Bn* an Italian was made up of bits of everybody,
“Qd accordingly gave word about in every accent
ever used. Miss Roland-Watts-Phillips took
ine part of Alice Verney, and notwithstanding an
fyParent want of sympathy in many details, made
n*® character enlist a little interest, Mrs. George
cordon did well as Mrs Foley. She was, as Prince
Mrgpttl w °, uld 8a F> “a respect-able, vener-able
« « « •
We are not constitutionally envious, but
-Jory time we visit Hiscocks’ our mouth waters.
80 there full of the kindliest thoughts
triT &rds our fellow-man, and come away full of
Kioom and despondency. If we could only aee the •
audiences dwindle down to a deadhead or two in
the stalls and a few Impecunious loafers in the
gallery there would be some satisfaction in it.
But to see the crowd that nightly roll up and
jostle each other for standing room makes us
morose and homicidal. For over 12 months now
the “Colonel” has been scooping in the dollars,
and, so far as appearances go, there’s no reason
why he should not continue for another 12 And
to think how we, with our deep knowledge of
men and things, have to slave for a living 1 ’Tis
depressing.
♦ * # *
The vagaries of the'Widow O’Brien and
her fascinating daughters still keep the Gaiety in
hysterics.
% • • •
The Lynches and their bells continue to
crowd the Masonic Hall. The manipulation of the
musical glasses is always received with noFy
approval. Mr. Harry Lynch is tbe artist, and
what with his playing and Gilfla s singing, the
audiences appeared quite satisfied with the
trouble.
« # #
£180 Mrs. Marcus Clarke gets from the late
benefit. Pity it’s not £1800 for the plucky little
lady’s sake—Up at Herbertou (Q), St. Loon’s
people were last heard of playing tor the b neflt
of the local hospital A pin securing the shaft of
a Grafton buggy came out the other day. Then
Leon Caron, who was in the trap at (he time, came
out—on his head. No groat harm done — Under
the announcement that Henry and Crawford's
dramatic company would play two nights in
Dubbo appears the notice that ‘ The proprietors
of the Dubbo Advertiser have decided to discon-
tinue the publication of the paper.” There is, of
course, no connexion between the two statements.
...Were we a boy again, we’d like to live in Herber-
ton (Q.) especially when there was a circus running.
Two bachelors there got St. Leon’s mob to admit
200 kids for £10 Then they “beat up” the main
street, collected the money, and then beat up for
the children. Whatever difficulty there was la
getting the “sugar,” there was none at all in col-
lecting the youth,... It is as Conn In tho “ Shaugh-
raun ” that the only “ Dion ” appears at the Mel-
bourne Royal on the I3th The divine Sarah was
billed for performances at Metz and Strasburg
last month, but the Germans chipped in and the
performances were quashed Cootamundra
is en fete owing to the performances of Clara
Stephenson’s crowd in tho “ Flowers of the
Forest.” The local paper Is enthusiastic. ‘‘As
the Wolf, Mr. Norman was a complete suc-
cess, looking and acting his part to perfection.”
If we were Norman, a new editor would shortly be
wanted for Cootamundra ...This is what an Ade-
laide journal says of Remeoyi: “He passes with-
out any break from wild, weird oassages to music
which gives one the Impression that a full orches-
tra is playing.” Humph I... Phil Day was last heard
of from Adeia'de pouadlug away at “Na Coppa-
leen" and “14 Diys.” —The San Francisco par-
sons are making a set against “ private theatri-
cals.” They say they give young women a taste
for the stage and imperil modesty. So do b»zaars
end fancy fairs.... Bouolcauit’s farewell to ’Frisco
is said to be a farewell for ever Buckley’s
Hibernicou playing Townsville (Q.) to good biz.
— The “ Mascotte ” people were to have opened
in Hongkong in Juno. They are described as hav-
ing been “eminently successful” in Singapore
The kanakas of Bundaberg keep rolling up to see
Mathews’circus—Chang has married £40,000 and
6ft. 31n. of female American. •
“Old Tom Boyd.”
Old Tom Boyd.” of whom a portrait appears on
the first page of this issue of The Bulletin, died
the other day at Tumut, wretchedly poor.
He waa the first white man who crossed tho
Murray, with Hume and HovelTk expedition,
m 1834, of which he was the last survivor.
He was a native of Dublin, and was once a
prosperous grazier, but through unavoidable mis-
fortunes, lost everything. Some time ago, he
received a gratuity of £50 from the N.8.W. Go-
vernment, but he never got the amount promised
by the Victorian Minister at the Albury railway
opening celebration, in June, 1883. His last hours
were passed in a miserable bark hut, under the
care of his married daughter; his funeral expenses
were paid by a kind-hearted Tumut friend. The
poor fellow was an honourable man, and a good
specimen of the old Australian pioneer. He had
resided at Gilmore for the last 57 years, and at the
time of his death was la his 88th year. His ap-
pearance at the Albury railway festival was
thus described at the time In these columns:—
“At this juncture of the palaver old Thomas
Boyd, the only survivor of the Hume and Hovell
party who crossed the Murray Id 1824. appeared on
the scene. Now, for about 30 years, Old Tom, in a
brown hat and sore eyes, had been roaming the
country in poverty; but, at tbe banquet, Sir John
Hay referred to him as * my old friend Tom Boyd.’
This teas honour for the old man. But what he
had been kept alive for all this time was now to
come. His reward was being unpacked—with cire,
this side up. Tom was introduced to Lord
Augustus Loltus, Governor of New South Wale»,
and the Governor actually gave him his hand I I
Tom’s surprise, when he found nothing in it, can
be better imagined than described. This was the
overwhelming honour reserved for Tom Boyd.
They didn’t even ask Tom to take a drink. By the
way, here are two little unauthenticated narra-
tives about Tom and the banqueters that haven’t
yet got into print. Old Tom, when he first went
into the banquet hall, was put away In section
two, among some upstart chronic guzzlers- The
waiters guyed him, and kept asking him: ‘ What
did he do with the old woman ? ’ * Would ho sell
his coat?’ ‘What did he want there with his
gravy eyes.’ ‘ S’pose yer came through the
boards, eh, Noah ? or through the skylights.’ Tom
couldn’t understand them ‘Latin dishes;’ and, as
no one could explain, he cleared; and when the
universal voice went up for‘Tom Boyd,’ the said
Thomas was found half a mile away, discussing a
c’rous-poster, on a street hoarding. The other
anecdote consists of two fyttes. 'Tls said that, on
Tom going up to the Governor, a subscription wss
started for him, and £3 15s. 9d. scooped in in the
space of half an hour. Handing the money to
him, the while looking suspiciously around, Lord
Augustus whispered * Here’s two-flfteen-niae. If
you’ll take my advice, you’ll quietly slip out; if
you don’t, they’ll probably borrow it back.’ The
other statement, which 4s probably the correct
one, is that Tom offered a subscription himself,
putting a crown in his old hat to start the affair,
and then when the hat came back it was empty.”
MAKING THE BEST OE IT.
SMITH; “I SAT, CHAPPIE, OLD FELLOW, THAT’S DEUCED NICE SCARF-PIN YOU’RE
WEARING, YBR KNOW ? ”
BROWN: “YAAS, RATHER NICE ; BELONGS TO MY WIPE. SOME OLD FLAME OF HERS *
SENT TO HER; YBR KNOW. NEVER ALLOW HER TO RECEIVE ANYTHING I
CAN'T WE AH—FELLAH SENT HER A TORTOISE SHELL COMB OTHER DAY AND I
MADE HER RETURN IMMEDIATELY."
“ Mrs. MacGlnty, wud yez lind me the loan Iv yer
brother’s false teeth fur the ould ’ooman ? We
are goin’ to have mate fur dinner this day.”


PEPPER AND SALT.
We used to think that when it came to
fine picturesque writing—colourful and poetic—
the Echo man had no superior. But this was a
mistake. We have just dropped across the St.
Ellda Advertiser— a little Journal published in
that aristocratic Melbourne suburb—which has on
Its staff a man who can turn out scintillsnt sen-
tences and prismatic paragraphs that would even
astonish an ornamental glass-blower, in the copy of
his paper which we have in hand ho gives 9 report
of the ball given lately by the Mayor of Prahran.
Mark the majestic manner in which he begins:—
“The encomiums of heralds clad in imperial
purple and gold standing on the marble steps
of the Forum may have flattered Roman
gladiators, but it was only the aoclama-
tions of the ci tlaens which awarded the
coveted laurel—thie simple green emblem prov-
ing that the gla< llatof had done bis duty as a
man, even as our Mayof 1s doing his right nobly
as the first citizen, of Prahran.” There is a grand
historical sweep f jor you—from the gladiators of
Rome to the May pr of Prahran I But .that is only
the first movement in this magnificent march of
phalanxed phrases. Observe how he rises to the
subject—“ Out of the ashes of bygone triumphs in
Prahran he (the Mayor) has raised a Phoenix before
which the fleeting memories of past successes in-
significantly fade.” If after this the St. Kilda
Advertiser does not get all the kerblng and gut-
tering, and drain-cleaning advertisements, then is
there no gratitude in man. On he goes shimmering:
_“No ordinary ball, this. The company, it was
seen at a glance, were the ermine de la creme of the
land. Among the fashionable throng were seen
the leaders of intellect, full of sayings and gal-
lantry.” Think of that, now I The leaders of the
intellect—of Prahran I Full of their witty sayings
and their gallantry, too! Mad wags! We wonder
where they hide when they are not at muni-
cipal balls. The rest of the report is equally
kaleidoscopic. Virgil and Cupid, the Pro-
methean spark and great Pan with his tlpes
Mahomet and Ultima Thule. The Epicurean
philosophy and Lord Ullin’s daughter ehansez and
cross hands up and down the glittering page. This
is what we call real picturesque writing—of the
patchwork-quilt pattern. The writer takes care
to add that the “hoi pollol’’ (I) were carefully
Topics of the Time.


excluded from a sight of this patrician rlgadoon.
And to think that all this glory and loveliness of
diction is evolved in a hay-loft 1
♦ * ♦
Pressure of business and the high price of
“fizz ” conjoin, at times, to make us forget to say
much about the Salvation Harmy. We don’t any-
way, at the present period, pick up the Sydney
War Cry with so much eagerness as we did for-
merly. The different writers have, long ago, ex-
hausted their whole stock (never very extensive)
of metaphors and similes, and, In repeating them-
selves week after week, cast a gloom of monotony
over a paper which would.be otherwise distinctly
hilarious. We are not Interested In learning, for
Instance, from Captain Sara Pratt and Cadet
Jennie Lamb (Penrith) that: “ Inside we had a nice
meeting, and at night the ball was packed. Five
officers from different corps stayed with us, and
we had a glorious time. Hallelujah 1” Neither
are we thrilled or surprised by hearing from
Cap. Bob Roberts that" none would decide for the
Lord” at Wallsend. AY hat allures us rather,
though, are the proceedings of Madelle. le Mar4-
ohale Booth In Paris. She decld -s to visit the
Parisian cafds, and devotes an article to
them, which is one of the most gorgeous
Pieces of writing that has come under our
notice for some time. This lady. In company
with two Halleluiah lasses disguised as Paris fac-
tory girls, commences by vlsitlrg a oafd in the Hue
Lafayette. They enter, and strange to say, “It
Was filled with men drinking and smoking. We
Ckve them a Bon Jour, Messciurs {sic), and off arid
0Ur papers ” She later asks a gentleman
Frencbnan-to try a War Cry, when he not
unnaturally retorts—“Wait a bit until I have
nished drinking.” One gentleman, however, is
Pretty outspoken. Getting riled at the
niportunlty-just as we have often got riled with
Garden Honey—he lets out as follows:-‘“Mad •-
oxolselle, I’m an honest man, but I tell you it is
four religionists—your thundering hypocrites—
that have made France what It Is. I hate It; I will
have none of it; I have vowed never again to put
my foot inside a church, and I never wlll-never,
never I’” Mademoiselle then explains lhat
Church Is not “tha real article,” upon which
a “drinker” (probably of Cassis) tuddenly
ejaculatesBy the Virgin, I'tl go home
and read the Bible to-night,” And here, in
one blast, is the par. that ends this section;—
“ We stayed in this caf6 a long time. Before we
left we sang a hymn together. They promised to
read the En Avants we had brought, and when we
said ‘Good-night/ they raised their hats to us and
answered. ‘ Bonsoir , Madamoisdles' " (sic). From
this we rather suspect that Miss Booth's converted
Frenchmen would, on analyst.>, turn out to be
sceptical Dutchmen I By another issue of the
War Cry we learn that “ Marshal ” Booth, the
young prig who was sent here by the "General,” has
not, as we thought, yet “ petered out.” He Issues
a manifesto about the War Cry, of which the
’ following is a passages—“Push the War Cry.
Brigades, and its sale ddwn every thoroughfare
and avenue and doorstep” (sic). This the Major
commanding the district gamely promises to do;
so even as we write we suppose the noble army of
bellowers Is busily engaged in pushing the circula
tion of the paper down every dooratopl In the
same Issue, a coffee-house keeper reproves a
customer for being rude to a Hallelujah las*
who wants to sell him a War Cry: . Don't
say a word against the War Cry. That paper
changed my life. I used to keep a public-house;
but one day a Cry fell Into my hands, and from it j
I learned that I was doing wrong. 80 I sold out
and took these temperanoo rooms.’” We know
that holy coffee-house keeper well. When he had
a pub, his clieniHe consisted exclusively of bur-
glars, and after selling beer for three months and
paying nothing for It, ho got “ biffed out on the
head ’ by the brewer. It must be a matter of
congratulation to the Army, though, that they are
making an impression in Parramatta. Writes
“ Buss Without Wheels ” [1], who is associated at
Fergusonvllle with the Hallelujah Barber and the
Salvation Tailor (as if there was or will ever be
salvation for a tailor I): —“Leaving here, we ran
away home to have a cup of tea and 15 minutes
on our knees with the King of Kings.” Now, this
smacks of real religion—15 minutes with the King
of Kings, and only 45 with the muffins. There Is
lots, on the whole, that Is diverting In the War
Cry, notwithstanding the monotony of its diction,
and It is certainly Instructive to learn that you
can buy a “ timbrel ” (even if you don't want one)
for 6i. Oi.
• a *
“ Mr. Justice Mein, of Brisbane, relates
how, when the carriage In which he and Colonel
Haultaln were, was brought to a temporary halt
In Tuesday's procession, a little anxious boy came
up to the window and asked: ‘Is Mr. Holland
dead, sir?’ The poor little fellow had watched
Un-Contingent pass, and had looked in vain for
‘ rather,’ who probably escaped his observation In
the great throng. So he feared that bis father was
dead.*'—Exchange.
Elegy on a Surry Hills Soldier who escaped
the perils of the Soudan to die Inglorlously of a
cold caught at the Victoria Barracks on the day of
disembarkation :—
IN A GRAVEYARD.
“ Why is the cavern tombstone here,
Whoss storied grandeur mocks,
Why is it like the dust below,
And why a paradox ?
Swift to the cynic's captious tongue,
The twofold answer files,
Be cause/tls lyivg rot, and then
Because it stands and lies.
Beneath this stone there lies the loam
Of a true patriot. And for why ?
He could not live in peace at home,
But he came home In peace to die.
Bill Dailey sent him to be slain.
But Fate did Plain Bill Dailey baulk
For he came back alive again— RUIJr ’
And Dailey slew him with his talk
“’Tit An III Wind That Blows Nobody Good.”
Poor white-faced, little frightened lad I
Poor terrified wee chappie I
But, after all, he found bis dad.
And all things turned out happy.
The crowd around was very dense,
And he was very small, and
As quite a natural consequence,
He saw not Mister Holland.
How oft, like him, have we in vain
Sought what we sorely needed,
How oft cried out with cries Insane
To find our cries unheeded.
Yes, all our prayers were only scoffed,
Our quest denied on all hands,
But what we panted for so oft
Not Holland was but—Hollands,
“ Sir Nathan Meyer de. JBothsehild; Bhrv. w
member for Aylesbury, bM been raised to the*
peerage.”—Cablegram.
Poor Isaac, of York, and* his dark-eyed relation,
Rebecca (you, doubtless, remember the maid),
Were not, la t heir day, held In much estimation,.
According to wbat their historian said.
Nor e’en was Ring John (he who gave us- tho
Charter)
Alone in maltreatment of Jews, we confees-
°li Shy lock, some think, was a bit of a martyr.
And he lived as late as the reign of C£uee;i Bess.
Dot how things are altered 1 men's notions were
cruder "did
In England's dark ages than what they are now,
fathers once kicked the rich children of
o udaht
To whom, at this moment, we orlnglngly bow;
“hi this t bought occurs to us, screamingly funny,
How different our language, behaviour, and
views
From those of our ancestors, hard up for money,
Who did, like ourselves, little bill* with the
Jews!’


Hell has been pretty thoroughly abolished
in both the New and Old Testament. It is now
Hades, pit, grove or shoal. Yet hell by aoy other
name may burn as hot.
Lord Augustus Loftus dwells on the eh.
thusiastlc loyalty of the Contingent to the Queeo?
Let Lord Augustus try how much gush he wi
get up if he offers the boys a shilling a day to go
again. Loyalty at five bob a day is a negotiant
quantity. . ,
How to make it —Put a large teaspoonful °
Fry s Malted Cocoa into a breakfast cup, and m
it into a smooth paste with sufficient cold runi •
then fill up with water not quite boiling, aooma
milk and sugar to taste. It preferred, milk,
milk .and water, may be substituted for the
water. This cocoa is pure, does not thicken m y
cup and contains more of the active propen
of malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.
Another public want supplied by those
caterers, whose continued study lg to march with
the times. This time, sets for dinner and tea use, in
new shapes and patterns, only 80s., at Bray’s China
Shops, 403 and 404 Ueorge-atreet.*
Ke-establish and restore the body by the per-
sistent use of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
How to make it.— Put a large teaspoonful of
Fry's Malted Cocoa into a breakfast cop,and mix
it into a smooth paste with sufficient cold milk;
then All up with water not quite boiling, adding
milk and sugar to taste. If preferred, milk, or
milk and water, may be substituted for plain
water. This cocoa is pure, does not thicken in the
cup, and contains more of the active properties of
malt then a pint of the best ale or porter.*
A generous use of Wolfe’s Schnapps will impart
strength and invigorate the body.
BRIEF MENTION.
“Are hot drinks injurious ?” enquires ihe
Irish and Australian World (Narrabrl). We
thought every oouuiry editor knew.
The Geelong Advertiser says that up till
1858 no public vehicle plied for hire in Geelong.
Even now, most of them ply only from the town to
the cemetery.
They are building at D ilby (Q.) a “ hospital
for aboriginals." To make the thing complete,
they should keep on hand a good assortment of
ready-made coffins and ready-dug graves.
His Excellency (to Dean Oowper) : “Do
you think I ought to let my hens lay eggs on Sun-
day?" The Dean: “ Well—umph—ah-yes; that is,
if you give the Sunday eggs to the missions."
An up-country “drunk,” accused of dis-
orderly conduct, said he might have been drink-
ing, bat had "no disorder about him.” The
policeman had a complaint about him though.
There is considerable discussion going on
in'Melbourne at present with regard to the advisa-
blenes?Iof closing the city cemetery. Would It not
be as well to make it a matter of Local Option ?
We notice an advertisement appearing
frequently in the morning papers, which runs:—
"Canvassers wanted to travel with a novelty.”
We wonder if this means something that they can
sell.
There has been an earthquake in Mel-
bourne. Dr. Taylor’s first lecture is on •• Earth-
quakes and Volcanoes.” R. 8. Smythe arranged
for the Victorian earthquake. Great advertiser,
R. 8. I
At a banquet held on the opening of a
new N.S.W. colliery, not long ago, one of the
speakers proposed " God speed to it.” He need
not have feared. The Almighty is not yet short of
coals.
A church parade by the members of the
Contingent, in uniform, was asked for last Sun-
day by the Primate. But why in uniform ? To us
this seems an insinuation that the men wanted
free drinks.
The “Chatterer” in the Bathurst Free
Press, says of Sala: “nothing would please me
better than to be shut un with him for a week or
ten days in solitary confinement.” Sala’s view of
the plan Is not stated.
Here is a queer advertisement we clip
from the Melbourne Ase:— “The friends of
are invited to a Goose Lunch at his hotel to-day.
No-extra charge.” It is not often you see a man
sacrifice himself for hla friends in this fashion.
The Secretary of a Water Conservation
Commission recently wrote to an up-oouotrv
local magnate, and asked: “ How far does the BII-
labong River run up ? ” The answer he received
was: “The Billabong don’t run up; it runs down.”
“Why not to-night, love?” “ Wine not
to-night, love: wine not to-night,” she sang, oh,
so sweetly! And he joined in the chorus with
great pathos. Sixty minutes later he was lying
under a form in a certain low pub. “ drunk as a
boiled owl.”
From the Melbourne Age :—“ Richmond.
—Furnished front Room and Bed, or share with
widow. Rotherwood-street, Richmond.” This
looks as if the Cabbage-gardeners were about to
open up on what Victoria Woodhull calls “ experi-
mental matrimony.”
“ What are you going to do when you
grow up, if you don't know how to cypher?"
asked the school teacher, angrily. “ I am going to
be a Colonial Treasurer and float loans,” said the
slow boy. And the teacher saw that that youth
koew more than most boys at his age.
This is what the Even Ooze heads as “ A
Fact woith knowing”:—“At the Water Police
Court lunatics are disposed of at 10 o clock, sdd a
Rcdfern sergeant to his Worship, this morning.”
Now we know how it is that the “Brevity”
column is always filled up before noon.
We retd in the 8.M. Herald that o.ir
bogus “ Patriotic Fund ” now totals £81,000. Some
months ago we read a cable in the London • imks
that the Fund had reached £45,000, and that money
was pouring in daily by tens of thousands Who
has annexed the balance of the “ sugar ? ’
It is reported that whenever the editor
of a certain N.Q paper hears of the death of an
eminent statesman, be goes at once into mourning
by drinking a glass of porter. If it is a rumour only,
the editor goes into slight mourning. This he
accomplishes by means of drinking a glass of gin.
New-ohum, walking with citizen, meets
in street—Bourke-street (Melbourne)—ferocious-
looking legal luminary. “ Who’s that,” enquires
stranger. “ Make a guess,” ejaculates his friend.
“ Looks like retired butcher,” remarks new chum.
“ No, dear boy,” says the other, “ he’s a butcher,
but he hasn't yet retired.”
The Victorian Minister of Customs wns
greatly touched a few days ago by receiving a
remittance of £7, conscience money, from some
person who had evaded the Customs duties to that
extent years ago. The honorable gentleman did
not reflect that the sender probably left the money
in his will. There are no pockets in a shroud.
The body of the suicide who is so irreve-
rent as to kill himself within the precincts of that
portion of Pekin in which the Imperial Court is
situated, Is solemnly brought to some public place,
such as a bridge, and there flogged. There ii an
idea here forcertaln members of the N.8.W. Legls
latlve Council. They love to flog the living. Why
not also flog the dead ?
“ Will you give something to the Fallen
Sisters' Fund, sir,” said a buxom Halle'ujah lass,
balling up an elderly gentleman in Hunter-street.
“ Are you a * fallen sister,’ my dear ?” enquired the
gentleman feeling for a shilling. “ I was once,
sir,” Slid the lassie. “ Dear, dear! that’s very sad.
And how did you come to fall ?” Hallelujah lass,
quickly (taken off her guard): “ Which time ?”
Thus an exchange:—“ It is said that the
missionaries have converted a small tribe of
natives in New Zealand who refuse to read any
part of the Bible except that part of the Old Testa-
ment which deals with war and slaughter. They
say that is good enough Christianity for them."
Good enough Christianity for a lot of our local
muffin-crunching, slaughter-preaching pars ms in
Sydney,too.
“Probably never,” remarks our old friend
Of the Nar abri Spelling-Book Superseded,
“ since the Elizabethan era has so much, and such
universal attention been paid to the theory and
practice of education as at the present time.” And
then, lower down, alluding to some own corres-
pondents’ letters published by bis contemporaries,
he sapiently observes, “ both of which letters are
fao similes of each other.”
A Canadian soldier, engaged in putting
down the half-breed rising, writes thug:—" When
we came up after the battle we found several
Indians alive, and we finished them cfl by knock-
their brains oyt with the stuck of the gun.” The
Australians in the Soudan had no such chance as
this. But several of them boast in public of hav-
ing driven transport-vehicles over the murdered
bodies of Arab women “ fora lark ”
Writes a Contingent man in the Evening
News;— “Many of my comrades had no homes,
and, beyond the few paltry shillings they bad ’on
account,’ were pennllecs. In fact, many had not a
shirt to their backs; and oould people wonder at
tiem taking to liquor?" It is our melancholy
opinion that, under these distressing circum-
stances, no one would expect these noble comrades
to take to shirts when liquor wpa about.
Says an English paper “ The mode of
greeting a friend varies in different countries. A
German enquires “How goes it?" A Dutchman,
“How do you sail?” An Englishman, “How do
you do ? ’ A Spaniard, “ How do you stand ?” A
Frenchman, “ How do you carry yourself ?” A
Bohemian, “ Hqw do you lift yourself ?” A China-
man, “Htve you eaten your rice?” And so on.
An Australian Indulges in no such foolishness. If
he meets an old friend, his greeting is either
Give it a name I” or “ Db you hold it ?” according
to circumstances. There is no preliminary beating
about the bush with blm. He goes straight to the
point in the first sentence.
As if being a Chinaman were not bad
enough of Itself, the authorities out Newtown
(Sydney) way are determined to put down Confu-
oian cauliflower-watering on the Sabbath. Tne
other day two Buddhists had to pay 91.101. each
for having turned the leaky end of a watering-
pot on to a head of cabbage. The Redeemer would
not hesitate to dig a sheep out of a pit on the Sab-
bath, but He, unfortunately, left no instructions
concerning the proper thing to do with drooping
vegetables on a dry Sunday. What these almond-
eyed husbandmen should now do Is to sell to the
magistrates who fined them only the sickliest of
turnips and most suspicious of cabbages.
Bays theP.M. Gazette:— “It must have
been a dllHoulb matter, nevertheless a well-known
American publishing house announce an edition
of M. Zola’s 'Germinal’ under the title of
’ Nana’s Brother ; ’ and of It they say. ' the text
has been so revised and expurgated that it is quite
a Sunday-school book.’ ” We don’t see why any
expurgation was necessary. The Bible is a Sun-
day-school book, and no one has yet thought of
expurgating that.
From the S. M. Herald “ To Confec-
tioners.—I, young man, 18 years of age, wish to
learn more than I do, as I know all small goods.”
There Is an earnestness about this that earns our
loftiest admiration. This young man of 18, is
evidently a Caesar among confectioners, an Alex-
ander in the realm of Jam tarts. He has already
overcome the mysteries of the manufacture of
Scotch pies, and longs for other worlds of pastry
cooking to conquer. Let us suggest, as a life-work,
that be should set himself to ascertain the com-
ponent parts of the average pork sausage.
Thus shrieks the Nooze :—“A mean thief
last week stole four dressed stones from a grave in
the R.C. cemetery at Goulburn.” How do they
know it was a “mean thief? 1 ’ In all probability
the tombstone-lifter is a highly respectable, church
plate-hawking, philanthropic government con-
tractor, who will pound the graveyard ornaments
up fine and then sell the powder to hospital, gaol,
and lunatic asylums as the best superfine flour at
£14 a ton. When the headstones run out, the
enterprising ghoul will probably call round for the
corpses, and put them through the milt as well.
He was lecturing to a very orthodox audi-
ence down South. The subject was “ Evolution.”
In the course of his lecture he chanced to remark
that it was his firm belief that the human race was
descended from monkeys. Then the audience
arose against him as one man, and hissed and
hooted and created a disturbance. With a wave
of his hand be commanded silence. “ Excuse me,
friends,” he said; “ I thought you had descended
from apes, but I have made a mistake. I beg your
pardons, you haven’t started yet!” Then the audi-
ence reached for him with the chairs and things.
And he left their town with great gusto.
While the great Patriotic Fund meeting
was being held down here, a similar gathering was
assembled in one of our Northern towns, and
during the course of his blatant bunkum, the
chairman, pointing due south, exclaimed: “Yes,
gen-tel-men; that grand Exhibition Hall in Sydney
is full to-night.” Just here the cheering drowned
his voice. When the enthusiasm subsided, how-
ever, he began again, “The Exhibition is full to-
night,” and then, pausing for rhetorical effect, be
gave an opportunity for a patriot at the back to
yell: “ Yis. an’ be jabers (hie) so is Moichil Dook-
herty.” Tnat let the chairman’s oratory loose
entirely, and for the rest of the evening he looked
like a man who had partly glutted his vengeance
on some one, and bad still four or five gluts on
hand to spare.
We have ever a good wbrd to say when we
note the progress of a ypung community destined
one day to rule the world, and especially do we
love to chronicle Instances of the vigorous action
of municipal potentates. We like to hear of roads
being metalled, timber cleared, housefJbePg built,
and stumps grubbed out of the street. Finally, we
hall with gratification the advent of an outspoken
and inevitably independent paper, devoted to the
interests of the district. We have been led into
these reflections by having received a copy of
the Armldale Chronicle -a journal which stands
alone in eloquently advocating theremoval of two
horse-posts and the erection of new ones opposite
the telegraph office.
The president of a “Try Excelsior”
class down south is a young man by the name of
Barrett. At the Excelsior Demonstration held in
the Town Hall, Mr. Barrett recited a composition
of his own called “ Excelsior.” He had been a
good young man up till then, but from that night
he was a moral ruin. Now ne is in gaol for assault-
ing a detective so badly that he (the detective) had
to spend two months in the Police Hospital. This
should act as a warning to ingenious youths who
dedicate themselves to the service of the Muse
immediately the glorious fact bursts upon them
that “love” rhymes with “ dove,” and “eyes”
with “skies.” Let them keep the discovery dark,
or perchance their end may be even as that of Mr.
Barrett.
A new Idea for the Salvation Army. Out
In America, the other day, a family of religious
lunatics lately walked the streets in a nude condi-
tion. Their Idea was to go back to primeval sim-
plicity, and personate Adam. They were lassoed,
and looked up. They had forgotten there were no
policemen in Adam's days. By the way, this
American notion might be of use to the Reverend
Dowle (who was run into gaol a second time the
other day for proceshlng.) It would in Australia
be a new sensation. Poor old Dowle I By the time
they have done with him there will not be enough
of him left to personate the ghost of Samuel.
They sav that while he is in gaol, Peter Campbell
has to be kept shut up in a cage. A terrible fel-
low, Peter.
The Palmer Chronicle declines to be
held responsible for the opinions expressed by its
correspondents. This is well, for the Juniuses of
Northern Queensland affect an unfettered use of
strong language, which is apt to be the prelude to
blood. There has been an election row up there,
and this is how one gentleman refers to his
opponent in the P.0.:—“We knew of old as
the reputed Blanktown liar: and it would seem
that he has returned to his old haunts to assert bis
right to so enviable a title: and renewed bis old
assassin-like game after a detour of smiling and
button-hole scratching for a billet. If it is afact that
there is an affinity between the creole and kanaka
blood, I would advise the straying to return
to to his kith and kin, where his erratic
talents may ba appreciated by his admiring rela-
tions. Now, sir, when curs like thii,” and so on.
Running a paper in N.Q. must be anxious work,
for if an election produces such invective as this,
what strife of tongues could not a woman en-
gender! And yet we always thought that bananas
had a soothing effect.
Fourth of July Noft Sawder.
The “ gush ” indulged in by Messrs. Dailey and
QrifRn at the 4th of July celebration is happily hit
off by our artist. Ever since the North, by the
expenditure of hundreds of thousands of lives and
hundreds of millions of money, proved to the
world her determination to destroy slave y and
preserve the Union, visionaries have speculated
on a great federation of English-speaking
people. While the Americans were lighting for
dear life they were “ Yankee peddlers.” When they
won and proved to the world their resolve not to
allow rival and hostile nations r.o grow up side by
side, and pass through the bloody experiences of
Europe, they were “ our kindred beyond the tea.
There are many strange statements made by the
men and journals that toy with federation.
Strangest ot all is that in which they speak of the
sixty millions of Americans as of the “Anglo-
Saxon ” race. Directly the Americans wrested
their Independence from mad George III. and
his purblind Ministers, they welcomed the poor and
oppressed of all nations to their shores The Celt,
the Teuton, the Scandinavian, the Gaul, and the
Sclav crowded to the W§st to find there the liberty
and the food denied them at home. And now Mr.
Dailey and Mr. Griffin meet and complacently talk
of these heterogeneous multitudes as of Eogiish
descent. They might as justly say that it was
one of us who supplied Heaven with a scheme of
creation. It is true that the Americans talk
English. But, as we heard a pure-brod Yankee
say the other day, “ fine words butter no parsnips.”
“Thou Shalt not Kill"
Otra artist, on page 6 of to-day's Issue of The
Bulletin, has drawn a vivid picture of the grim
vision presented to the distempered mind of a
blood-guilty convict who has been overtaken by
the retributive vengeance of society, and is await-
ing in his cell the awful moment when he shall be
called upon to expiate his crimes. The lesson con-
veyed by the powerful pencil of the imaginative
Mr. Hopkins is one such as the youth of Australia
may well take to heart. Too often the deeds of
felons are invested with a picturesqueness
which excites the interest of the young ard
lures them to doom. Here the artist has
endeavoured to depict the abject terror felt
by a guilty man when confronted with the me-
mory of his past deeds and the certainty of the
punishment awaiting them at the hands of the
sternly and inflexibly-administered law. Even those
who, like ourselves, constantly keep in view the
advent of a more refined age, when murders shall
have been minimised and capital punishment
shall be a thing of the past, must recognise in our
artist’s theme a potent and suggestive sermon.
The portraits of Alfred Lines, the North
Adelaide (8.A) murderer and suicide, and his two
victims are given below. The tragedy was enacted
on June 13. in a cottage which had Just been
rented by the man O’Connor and Lizzie Lines.
From the evidtnce at the inquest it seems
that the woman was first shot by her hus-
band, who pursued her paramour into the
kitchen of the adjoining house, and, having
killed him, deliberately put an end to his
own existence. A Mrs. Schutesaw him Just before
he killed himself, and on his telling her of his de-
termination, she asked that he would not do it in
her sight, so he obligingly went round the corner
before firing. Mrs. Line* was married in ’81, and
her marriage lines seem to have been to her “ hard
lines,” and her husband at last constituted
himself a Divorce Court, and gave her a de*
cree as follows:—” March 17, 1885—1 hereby give
my handwriting, stating that I am no longer
the husband of Elizabeth Lines; she can go
anywhere she likes, and can marry whenever
she likes.— Alf, Lines. This day, March 17.” She
then renewed her Intercourse with an old lover,
Maurice O’Connor, and this proceeding apparently
made her husband a little jealous and argry. "
letter found on the murderer showed that he naa
planned the little surprise to his wife and her
lover, and the Jury did not allege Insanity as tne
cause of his acts, in giving their verdict.
THE INGENUITY OF Mb. MICHAEL FINERTY
Mr. Terence Leonidas Murphy, who was follow-
ing him up the ladder, remarked, casually: ** Be-
dad, that’s the hlvviost load of brick that Oi Ivor
car’d, bedad, so it is I ”
AN APOTHEOSIS OP SHIRT-COLLAR.
“ Mr. Gladstone says he considers it his duty to his party to again contest Midlothian.”— Cable
to daily Press.
THE GOOD SHIP "G.O.M,” OF LONDON AND ELSEWHERE, RUNNING THROUGH
A HEAVY OPPOSITION SEA WITH THE COLLARS NAILED TO THE MAST.
MRS. LINES.
ALFRED LINES.
MAURICE O'CONNOR.


B
CARD OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
SYDNEY TECHNICAL COLLEGE.
Glasses at Sydney Mechanics’ School of Arts, in
Pitt*str66t
Technical Institute, In Sus’sex-street,
The Public School, in Castlereagh-street, and
No. 64 and 65 Royal Arcade, Pitt-street.
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE.
Agriculture—Messrs Angus Mackay, J. N. Oxley,
and W. M. Hamlet, “.U.S., Monday, 7.30 p.m
Botany—Dr. R. von Lendenfeld, Monday, 7.30 p.m.
Veterinary—Mr. Edward Stanley, F.R.C.V.S.,
Tuesday, 7.30 p.m.
Wool-sorting—Mr. J. W. Addy, Tuesday and
Thursday, 7.30 p.m.
DEPARTMENT OF APPLIED MECHANICS.
Professor Warren, A.M.I.C.B., Instructor.
Applied Mechanics (including Mechanical Drawing)
—Professor Warren, Monday, Tuesday, Wed-
nesday, Thursday, and Friday, 7.30 p.m.
Plumbing—Mr. D. Nelson, Monday and Wednes-
day, 7.30 p.m.
Naval Architecture—Mr. John Hyland, Monday
and Wednesday, 7.30 p.m.
Metal Plate Working-Mr. W. Walker, Friday, 7.30
Turning—Mr. John Fagan, Friday, 7.30
p.m.
DEPARTMENT OF ARCHITECTURE.
Mr. J. F. Hennessy, Instructor.
Architecture—Mr. Hennessy, Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday, 7.30 p.m. „
Carpentry and Joinery—Mr. John Gardiner, Theo-
retical, Monday and Wednesday, 7 30 p.m.;
Practical, Friday, 7.30 p.m. _ .
Bricklaying—Mr. J. Bustard, Monday and Wednes-
day, 7 30 p.m. . mi
Masonry—Mr. J. Howie, Tuesday and Thursday,
7.30 p.m. ,
Cabinet Making—Mr. C. M. Smithson, Monday and
Wednesday, 7.30 p.m.
Carriage Building—Mr. J. J. North, Monday and
'Thursday, 7.30 p.m.
DEPARTMENT OF ART.
Mr. Lucien Henry, Instructor.
Geometry—Mr. J. R. Wright, Monday, 7 30 p.m.
Perspective—Mr. A. Tlsohbaner, Tuesday, i 30 p.m.
Freehand Drawing—Wednesday, Thursday, and
Friday, 7 30 p.m,
A special class for teachers, Wednesday, at 7.30
p.m., and Saturday, at 10.30am.
Modelling—Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday, < .30
p.m.
House Painting and Decoration—Mr. P. W. John-
son, Tuesday and Friday, 7 30 p.m.; advanced,
Thursday, 7.30 p.m. „
Wood Carving—Mr. 0. Pickering, Tuesday and
Thursday, 7 30 p.m.
DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY.
Mr. W. Dixon, F.C.S., F.I.C., Instructor.
Practical Chemistry—Mr. Dixon, Monday and Fri-
day, 7 30 p.m. Fee to cover chemicals, &c., if
Theoretical Chemistry—Mr. Dixon, Thursday,
7.30 p.m.
Photography—Mr. W. H. Vesper, Wednesday, 7.80
p.m.
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCIAL ECONOM V.
Mr. A. Adams, Instructor.
Commercial Class—Mr. Adams, Tuesday, Wednes-
day, and Thursday, 7.30 p.m.
Caligraphy and Correspondence —Mr. James Bruce,
Tuesday and Thursday, 7.30 p.m.
Bookkeeping—Mr. R, S. Cannon, Tuesday and
Thursday, 7.30 p.m.
Phonography—Mr. H. Graham, Friday, i p.m.
Actuarial Science—Mr. D. Garment, Wednesday,
7.30 p.m, J
German—Mr. A. Erythropel, Monday and Wednes-
day, 8 p.m.
French—Mr. R. Curtis, Monday and Thursday, 6
p.m. to 8 p.m. , „
Latin—Mr. G. K. Rich, B.A., Tuesday and Thurs-
day, 7 pm.
DEPARTMENT OF DOMESTIC ECONOMY.
Mrs. A. Fawcett Story, Instructress.
Domestic Economy—Monday, 3 30 p m.
Cookery—Tuesday, 10 a.ru. and 3 p.m.; Wednes-
day, 7 p.m.; Thursday, 10 a.m. and 3 p.m.; Tri-
day, 10 a.m and 3 p.m.
DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY, MINERALOGY,
AND MINING.
Mr. S. Herbert Cox, F.G.S., F.C S„ Instructor.
Geology—Mr. Cox, Friday, 7 p.m.
Mineralogy—Mr. Cox, Friday, 8 pm.
Mining—Mr. Cox, Thursday, 8 p.m.
DEPARTMENT OF MATHEMATICS.
Mr. J. Kimoch, M.A., Instructor.
Mathematics—Mr. Klnloch, Geometry and Alge-
bra, Monday and Wednesday; Trigonometry,
Conic Sections, and Mechanics, Thursday, *
Navigation—Lieut. Connor, R.N., Monday, Wed-
nesday, and Friday, 7 p.m.
DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC.
Mr. J. Ashcroft Edwards, Instructor.
Music—Mr. Edwards, Tuesday and Thursday
Class Singing—Mr. Edwards, Monday and Friday,
7 30 p.m.
DEPARTMENT OF ELOCUTION.
Mr. John Connery, Instructor.
Elocution—Mr. Connery, Tuesday and triday,
7 p.m.
DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY.
Mr. F. Wright, M.P.S, Instructor.
Materia Medica and Pharmacy-Mr. Wright, Mon-
day, Tuesday and Thursday, 7.30 p.m.
Anatomy and Physiology—Dr. Anderson Stuart
(Lecturer), Tuesday, 5 p.m.
DBPARTMENT~OF PHYSICS.
Mr. T. E. Hewett, instructor. .
Physics-Mr. Hewett, Monday, Tuesday, and Fri-
ElectrTcity (practical)—Mr. Hewett, Wednesday,
8 pm. „ .
Telegraphy—Mr. Hewett, Thursday, 6 p.m.
Fees at the rate of 0d. per lesson for Seniors and
3d. per lesson for Juniors. The fo lowing reduc-
tions are made to student attending several classes,
and more than one night weekly: —
FEES for One Class per Quarter^
Students (evenings) per
week
luniors (ditto)
5
s. d.
23 0
8 0
Students (evenings per week
luniors (ditto)
s. d. s. d. s. d l s. d.
13 015 f 20 0 35 0
6 6; 6 11 8 OiiO 0
The following Private Classes are held in the
ollego Rooms by permission of the Board:—
•rawing and Painting (Ladies).— Mrs. Phillips and
Miss Higginbotham, Monday and Thursday,
8 30 p.m , £1 Is.; Tuesday and Friday, 9.30 a.m ,
£3 3s. per quarter M
•rawing and Painting.—Mr. A. Tischhtner, Mon-
day, 9 30 a.m.; Saturday, 10 a.m. ; £3 3s. per
•rawing and Painting.—Mr. A. D. Rlley. Wednes-
day, 10 a.m., £3 3s.; Saturday, 3 p m., i- -a > the
two classes, £4 4s. per quarter
•rawing and Painting.— «r L Henry, Tuesday
and Friday, 2.30 p.m- £4 4s. per quarter
Ihetnistry.—Mr. W. A. Dixon, F.C.f?., F-I.C., daily,
as per arrangement __
theory of Music (Ladies). —Miss Biddell, Wednes-
day, 15s. per quarter , .. 4 ...
Slooutlon and Voice Building (Ladles).— Miss
Means, Friday, 4 p m., 6s 6d per quarter
Lrithmetlc and Bookkeeping (Lad it s)—Mr. Barnes,
Tuesday and Thursday, 3 pm, 13s. bd. per
nuarter •
leometry (plane)—Mr. W. J. Thomas, Wednesday.
Jnlvereity Matriculation (Ladies)—Miss L. Bills,
DR.SCOTT'S
Co rs e( .
m
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate lit, and aiding by. x i
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continental
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial ?
If you have any. pain, ache, or Hl-feellng
from any cause; if you seem “pretty well,
yet lack energy and do not “feel up to the
mark;” if you suffer from disease, we beg
you to at once try these remarkable cura-
tives. They cannot and do not injur© like
medicine. Always doing good, never harm.
There is no shock or sensation felt in wear-
ing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results; electro-magnetism acts quickly,
generally the first week, more frequently
the first day, and often even during the
first hour they are worn their wonderful
curative powers are felt.
The mind becomes active, the nerves and
sluggish circulation are stimulated, and all
the old-time health and good-feeling come
back. They are constructed on scientific
Erinc pies, imparting an exhilarating,
ealth-giving current to the whole system.
Professional men assert that there is hardly
a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily
practise the same, as your own physician
will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearance
from those usually worn, as we substitute
our flat steel raagnetods in place of the
ordinary corset-steels. They are all equally
charged, differing only in quality and design.
They are elegant in shape and finish, made
after the best French patterns, and war-
ranted satisfactory in every respect. Those
who have tried them say they will wear no
others. Most of the above applies equally
to the Electric Belt for gents.
MS
m
LO-
ME
Dr. Scott’s Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &o., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all other remedies (so-
called) have failed.
The prices are as follows
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent oqt in a hand-
some bo*, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electrio-Magnetio
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size ia
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece «f common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque.
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the.
PALL MALL
hoi,
54 Hargaret-strast,
SYDNEY.
t p.o. Box an.
Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, 4 30 p. m
15s. per quarter.
„ FREE POPULAR LECTURES on TECHNICAL
SClKNCE and ART SUBJECTS are delivered in
the Large Hall of the Sydney Mechanics’ School of
Arts on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Fri-
day, at 8 p m.
The Third Quarter In 1885 begins on 6th July.
The Board will endeavour to form classes In
other subjects on the application of 13 intending
Students, and on payment of the fees. Certificates
ef Kfflclency will be granted at the Annual Ex-
amination in December to those who have com-
pleted courses prescribed in curriculum. Further
information may be obtained from the Secretary
or Registrar of the Sydney Technical College,
at the School of Arts, Pitt-street.
EDWARD DOWLING,
Secretary to Board of Technical Education.
Board of Technical Education Offices,
129, Phillip-street.
Magic
Mirth
Mystery.
A NEW BOOK.
Containing over 350 Tricks
AND DELUSIONS WITH CARDS, DICK,
AND CONJURING APPARATUS.
Illustrated with blocks and diagrams, fully ex-
plain d, simplified, and adapted for home amuse-
ment and social entertainments, forming the most
complete collection of its kind ever offered to the
Australian public. Mailed free to any address
ONE SHILLING.
THE WIZARD’S CHANGEABLE CARDS.
These cards change from Red to Black, from
eights to deuces and back again at the pleasure of
the performer, and elicit exclamations of wonder
and surprise from all who witness them. Post
free, with full instructions, Is. 3d.
THE YANKEE RUBBER BABY.
Goes in the waistcoat pocket, yet can be instantly
blown out to lifesize; screams awfully if smacked.
Even experienced fathers are deceived by these
laughter-producing Infants, and no home can be a
really happy one without their cheering presence
Price, post free. Is.
Cut this advertisement out and post it to us, en-
closing 3s. in postage stamps, naming this paper,
and we will send you by return post,
THE BOOKS, CARDS, AND BABY.
Address all communications:
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DIPOt,
401 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY - .
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£5 DRAPERY BALES!
PACKED in CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS,
Carriage paid by mail all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
JB5 WINTER BALE.
1 pair Large Blanket*
1 Large Marcella Quilt
10 yards good SheetU'g
20 yards Strong Calico
13 Strong ( otton Tick
20 Wincey Dress Tweed
10good Welsh Flannel
0 yds Strapping Tweed
All tbesbove are good
wearing articles.
FREE SELECTORS’
BALS.
1 pair Laige Blankets
1 White or Colored Quilt
5 yards Strong Sheeting
10 Whtte or Unbleached
Calico
0 White or Red Flannel
13 yards Dress Material
12 yds. Cotton Shirtings
4 pair Good Stockings
1 pair Strong Stay s
1 dark Petticoat
6 Strong Oambroon
6 Brown Holland
4 Large White Towels
3 yards Good Trousers
Tweed, Buttons,
Threads, &c.
J65 MEN’S CLOTHING
BALE.
1 Suit Tweed — Coat,
Trousers, and Vest
3 Crimean Shirts, large
size
3 B'6t Cotton Shirts,
large size
1 Bsst Felt Hat, any size
6 pairs Strong Cotton
Srcks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or Pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &o.
*5 LADY’S BALE.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pa'rs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladits’ Petticoats
3 Children's Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
For accouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant's Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Kobe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage iree every-
where, on receipt of £5.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials - Silks, Velvets, &c.—with
prices, and full Instruction for self-measurement,
if applieg to.
The £5 Bale system has bven In operation for 13
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free,
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney,
NOTICE is hereby given that a Pp:cial Meeting
of the Metropolitan Licensing Court will be
bolden at the Central Police Office, Sydney, at
noon on Tqesday, ttje instant, for the
consideration of any business that may be legally
brought before the said Court.
C. DELOHERY,
C.P.S.
Central Police Office, Sydney,
July 3,1885. *
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 29th June, 1885*
TENDERS FOR TAR-PAVING AND REPAIRS
TENDERS are Invited for Tar-paving, and for
Repairs, In connection with the Public School,
at Coogee.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Fornw
of Tender obtained at the office of the Departi-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Tar-paving and
Repairs, Coogee Public School,” must be lodged
with the Under-Secretary, Department of Pub-
lic Instruction, at or before 10 o clock a m,, On
Monday, the 13th July, 1885.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender. „„
W.J. TRICK ETT. .
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, 7 th July, 1886.
Tenders for public works and sup-
PLIES—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
Tho Government does not bind itself to aoospt
the lowest or any tender.
Retaining Wall, Lightkeeper's
Quarters, Newcastle I
Erection of Passenger Station,
&c., Petersham
Erection of Morgue, Newcastle I
■Erection of a Room,Courthouse, '
Jerilderie
Bridge over Brundah Creek,
road Blayney via Cowra, to
Grenfell
Bridge over King Creek, at
Wauchope, road Port Mac-
quarie to Walcha
Erection of Station-buildings at
Muttama to Coolac and Coota-
mundra to G unda'gai Railway
Retaining-wall, Lightkeeper's
Quarters, Newcastle
Bridge over Burrangong Creek,
Young
Tuesday,
Slst July,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Lockup at Lochin-
var
Erection of Gallery, Court-
house, Wiloannia
'Construction of 3rd Section
Goulburn and Cooma Railway,
Micheiago to Cooma
Tuesday,
18th August,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Timber Jetty at
Byron Bay
Tuesday,
25th August,
at 11 o’clock.
F. A. WRIGHT.
(COMPLETE SET),
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
DENTIST,
MARKET STREET,
One door from George-strcot.
RAW VASELINE.
B
me
A
ifo'ETENl and Preserves Horses’ Hoofs, Kills
5 ParaShet, and prevents their growth, In-
kluable as a Leather Preservative, rendering It
6ft. pHabfc, and waterproof, and Prevents it
racking. From its antl-corroslve qualities un-
iqnailed for keeping free from ru et and in
icrtect order alt metal goods, firearms, machines,
cc. It is the sole material used for the above
mrposes in the Austrian and German armies,
toldhby all Saddlers and Storekeepers.
SOLE AGENTS :
'BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS’ IRONMONGERS,
125 Tfork-strect, Sydney.
HEY SN ILL LOOK B ETTER THAN ME
HAVE YOUR OLD
REPLATED BY.R.HELYER
hey WILL WEAR.BET/T


“ BEACH’S ”
CONSULTATION
OW THE
Sir Joseph Bank’s 4th Grand Handicap.
to be run at Botany, August 33ad, 36th, and 39th,
1885 i also on
Hawiesbury Handicap, Metropolitan and
Melbourne' Cup,
XfOW OPEN.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10s. EACH.
First Horse, £350.
Address—
“BEACH,”
Caro of J. G. Dceble,
Hotel, King and Pitt Street, Sydney j
Please apply early. _
Ity the use of that admirable stimulant, Wolfe’s
£c /iapp», your lives will be lengthened.
How to make it.— Put a large teaspoonful of
Pry a Malted Cocoa into a breakfast cup, and mil
it int" a smooth paste with sufficient cold milk:,
then All up with water not quite boiling, adding
milk and sugar to taste. It preferred, milk, 9 r
milk and water, may be substituted for the pl»i°
water, fhis oocoa,is pure, does not thicken In the
cup and contains more of the active properties ox
malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.*
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES
If« thaU be glad to have tMe tnae» pveua tip t'.
secretaries of racing olube end manager* ot
tporting event* in general .1
RACING.
Moonee Valley (V.) u l y 131
Rosehill R.C Ia
Charters Towers J C July 33. 34
Canterbury Park R.C ... August 1
Tamworth R C * August 5,6
Rosehill R ••••August*
TownsVllle (Annual) August 1«. 1>
Canterbury Park R.C • September 6
H awkesbury (Spring) September 10 13
A J.C. (Spring) September 19, 23, 34, 36
Rosehlll K.C .Octobers
Canterbury Park R.C ..October 17
Canterbury Park R.C December 19
A.J.C. (Summer) December 26
Rosehfll R.O. December 38
AQUATICS.
Clifford v. Kemp.. .7*
Newcastle K.C. Regatta September
M.K.C. Outrigger Race September
M. Branch Regatta October 10
ATHLETICS. .
Qulrlndl Handicap ... 6
Sir Joseph Banks Fourth Handicap.... Augustus,
Mudgee Sheffield Handicap September 1
’CYCLING.
Balmain and Burwood B.C.’s Joint Race
Meeting, Association Ground July 1*
N. ’Cyclist s Union Race Meeting July 35
Sydney Bicycle Club (Annual R.M.), Asso-
elation Ground August 28
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Do. aid Dinnle and Professor Miller have
arranged two wrestling-matches, one of three
styles, and one of five, for a st-ke of £310.
A 16 year old Canadian ice-skater named
Frank Dowd, recently accomplished the unprece-
dented feat of covering five miles in 17min. 45330.
on a 13 lap track.
In Persia the shortest races are four miles
in length, and the ordinary events are run over a
ten-mile course. Sportsmen generally take a
luncheon while the Darby is going on.
By cable we learn that the annual cricket
match between the Universities of Oxford and
Cambridge, played at Lord’s Ground, was con-
cluded on July 1, in favour of Cambridge, by seven
wickets.
George Fordham, who was the “demon ’’
of English jockeys before Archer saw the light,
has now set up in business as a trainer, at New-
market, and has a good string of horses under his
charge. Another demon—liquor—shook Fordham s
nerves and shortened his career in the pigskin.
Batty, the crack cross-country jock., made
a magnificent finish for the Open Steeplechase at
the last Caulfield meeting. Tne short half-head by
which he landed Llzafe In front of Old Soul was
the result of riding which, in the language of the
dailies, is “ seldom equalled, and never surpassed. >
The Brisbane Bicycling Club have raised
prize money to the extent of £109 for their cham-
pionship meeting on July 35, the largest amount
ever given in Queensland lor an amateur sports
meeting. This dwindles into insignificance, how-
ever, alongside our *‘ planners” and chronographs
Finney, the one-mile champion swimmer
of England, experienced an unexpected reverse in
arace with J. J. Collier, at Hollingworth lake,
Rochdale. Finney led his opponent 30 yards on
entering the last lap. when he suddenly stopped,
and was taken out of the water In a dazed, dead-
beaten condition.
Rowell, the champion pedestrian, says he
took to walking to make money by honest exer
Oise and hard labour. When walking, Rowell eutf
boiled chickens, beef tea. jellies, and such lib.
things that are easy of digestion, and he drink t
three or four pints of beer a day. Since 1879 h(
has won over £10,000 in stakes alone I
“Pendragon” roust have “got the
per die” when he wrote in a recent issue of
RFVKREK-”The many friends of the Referee b
Australia who have literally inundated us will
details of the match between Beaoh and Hanlar
bv this mall will please hereby accept the cordla
thanks, for Self and Co., of Pendragon.”
Svdnev athletic circles are likely to re-
ceive a valuable addition In the person of H.R
noil the English amateur champion, who bar
SS» h's quarter mile in 491 5 sec. Mr Ball. It 1.
said will visit Melbourne first, and then come or
?n svdnev. and should he find the latter place to
his liking, he will settle here permanently.
At the final meeting of the Beaoh Testimo-
nial Fund the subscription lists showed a total of
£1939 2* 9J.paid"in. and the Hon. R. Hill (chair-
SS, Messrs Edward Lee. James Hunt, T. P
Thompson, and J. G. Deeble were appointed
♦rnatfiM for the permanent investment of all
moneys* for the benefit of Beaoh and his family.
w J M. Barry, at Queen’s College sports,
Pork* Ireland, on Anrll 14. slung the 561b, weight
Wween the legs, without follow, a distance of 36fi.
thereby beating the best previous record
/n<a own) bv half-an-iooh, while with a follow he
mat the weight the extraordinary distance of 38ft.
41n., being 1ft. 7ln. ahead of any preceding per-
formance.
Said London Echo of Mr. W. A. Long’s
flllv "The slashing Dame Agnes is as long as a
man-of-war, and requires almost as much room to
Sanmuvrl in. Charles Archer is giving her a
oniondld preparation, and, whatever may bo her
«in the Derby, he thinks she will win the Oaks,
watts wlU ride Dame Agnes in the Derby.” Mr.
Lon?sTuck on the Australian turt did not follow
him to England.
Archer said that when he was riding for
a position in Bead Or’s Derby his left leg was sa
near the rails that he was obliged to throw it on to
the horse’s neck, and he may be said to have rid-
den round Tattenham Corner with one leg. Any
other jockey would have "pulled out ” and gone
round, or be -n content with a place in the rear
until an opening presented itself. That, of course,
would have meant losing the race.
The old idea that a man in the sporting
wnrld over 30 years of age had seen his day, has ot
late years received many knocks, both ia the new
and old ocunt.-ies Here we have Beach, a man
who came into the rowing world at an age when
moat men think of retiring from it, and amongst
Jr.hpr examples in England, amateur Dixon, wap
?,* 85 vearVot age. on April 11, ran 50 miles in 6h.
13 min. 35 1 5 ee , and beat numerous r-rcards.
Some time since, our amateur champion
non Her W. G. Brett, gave forth his willingness to
enter into a match of au International character,
and a reply has now come from Joseph Lamg, ot
Montreal; tor two years past amateur champion
Monitor of America, who says he wUi row the
" loi'g ’un” for a £100 trophy, provided the con-
test takes place on Canadian waters. We are
afraid the pair are too far apart to come to terms.
Maud S., the Queen of the American Turf,
is a long-bpdied mare, standing 15-3 hands at the
withers, and 1C H hands at the hips When m con-
dition she weigns about 9601 bs., and her stride,
when going at her best on a straight track,
measures 18ft "Shin boots” and "scalpers are
the only appliances needed on her when trotting.
Sue carries 15oz. shoes, with a 4iz.ehoe behind,
she Is a maro ot strong will, and it is necesssry to
ihar dle her with great care and gentleness.
Hannibal, the winner of the Ladies’ Braoe-
iinr «r C„u Held, Is almost as great a phenomenos,
a the old Roman from whom he
Skes Li?naipe. The sturdy little " black ” is now
between 14 and 15 years of age, and Is certainly
the most ancient racehorse In training In the colo-
nies. Judging from the veteran’s appearance, on
entering the enclosure after the Bracelet was run
off, he is likely to add more wins to his already
lengthy list, ere seeking the retirement of the
harem.
The arrival of Clarence Whistler, the well-
known Yankee wrestler, will no doubt give a big
rise to that class of snort in the colonies. Whistler
landed from the Zealandla on Friday last, and
with him came a youngster named M’Caffrey, who,
it is stated, can be matched against anything up
to 10it. In the colonies, catch-as-oatch-can.
Whistler, who Is a native of Pennsylvania, has a
great name as a wrestler, in the States, Is a power-
ful block of a man, standing 5ft. 7>£(n, and
though he at present turns the scale at something
under 14R , he wrestles in condition about 13st.
Thunderbolt, the N.Z. colt just purchased
by the Hon. W. Robinson, Is a real clinker, and
has an unbroken record. On his debut at the
Auckland Summer meeting, he won the Mid-
summer Stakes of 300 sovs, six furlongs, and
followed it up by winning the New Year's Gift,
over the same distance. At the Auckland Autumn
meeting he won the Mares’ Produce Stakes, the
Flying Stakes and the Ellerslie Plate. In the latter
event be carried a 101b. penalty, but notwithstand-
ing 1 his, and the fact that ho got the worst of the
start, he won hands down. Thunderbolt ought to
strike it hot at Flemington and Randwick.
Mr. L. E. Meyers, the crack American
amateur ped., has gone to England to take part
in the leading events In that country. The Turf,
Fixed, and Farm states that Meyers will pro-
bably return to America as a professional, as he
coa’emp’atos arranging a series of matches with
Hutchens, the professional champion. Of course
It Is only a rumour, but one that has the appear-
acoe of bel g true. Hutchens haSnO professional
competitor on even terms. Amongst amateurs
there is no one to meet Meyers at short distances.
Hence a series ot matches between these men
would attract more attention than any other ath-
letic event that can be named.
The Yankee amateurs are going in big
licks for record reducing amongst themselves At
the class games at Harvard University, May 13
W. H. Bern's, '87, walked three miles In Simla. 14
3 5sf o, a minute better than the best previous
colUge tim’. Next day, at the University of
Pennsylvania meeting, that phenomenal high-
jumper. W. B. Page, cast all former American
figures far into'the shade by clearing 6ft. J4'n in a
running high jump. At the Spring meeting of the
Harvard Athletic Asarciatlon on Saturday Wen-
dell Biker cat down the former college record for
quarter-mile running from 50 3 5seo. to 50)4ieo •
thus leading his great rival, Brooks of Yale; while,
at the same meeting, F. L. Dean reduced the col-
lege figures for bicycling two miles to 6min. 28aeo.
“ Anglo-Australian ” offers to back William
Beach to row the world: and is also prepared to
make a match tor £1000 between Australian and
British eight-oar crews So says a cable. There
area good many of “ Anglo-Australian’s” sort
knocklrg about just now, but as the plucky
backers at Beach a back found some thousand
pounds worth of stakes when Beach was a com-
parative novice, we dare sav they can raise a few
pounds no w he is champion of the world. And,
by-the way, “ Anglo-Australian ” does not say if
he will pay the expenses of a colonial eight-oar
crew to England or via versa. However—thanks
—awfully—for the offer to back Beach.
The Berrima Coursing Club meeting at
Bridge Park, Bowral, was brought to a conclusion
on Thursday last in the presence of a very limited
attpndar.ee. The Berrima District Cup fell to Mr.
8. Bladon's f b Blessing, by Sentry Go-Crocus,
which be at Mr. P. Hcernans bk w d Qlenroy, by
Casoa-Needle, in the final round; Mr. A. L.
Park's Parade beat Mr. Moroe's Mignonette in the
final for the Berrima District Purse; Mr. L. Gorm-
ley ns bk w b Girl of the Period, bv Master Joe—
Bronzewing, teat Messrs. Thorn and de Lauret’s f
w b Thearose, by Triumvir—La Rose, and won the
Bridge Park St. Leger; and the Berrima District
Plate resulted in a division between Mr. M’Quade’s
Birthright and Mr. Lee’s Twilight,
Charley Mitchell, the English pugilist, and
Mike Cleary, of New York, met in a glove-contest
at San Francisco on May 33. Mitchell weighed
list. 31b., and Cleary five pounds lees. There was
nothing much to choose In the first two rounds,
hut the third brought forth some lively work.
Mitchell forced the fighting, and landed some
terrific blows on the mark, receiving heavily on
the face and neck In return. Heavy fighting was
continued to the end of the round, Cleary having,
if anything, the best of it. As soon as round four
o immencsd. Mitchell went to work and forced
Oleary to the ropes, making play until Cleary
struck him a terrific cross-counter on the jaw.
Sharp exchanges followed, and Cleary knocked
Mitche’l down twice. Heavy in-fighting over the
ropes, and the round ended with Cleary rather
groggy and blood streaming from his nose. The
last part of the round was of the most brutal
description, and the police then put a stop to the
tight, which was declared a draw.
At Pemberton, near Penrith, the Hon.
G. H. Cox recent'y donated the handsome sum of
one guinea to be shot for in a handicap match by
a'1 comers. Strange as it may seem, the first prize
was won by a brilliant marksman who never hit
the target at all, and the second by another rustic
Colonel Ike Austin, who having prudently omitted
to take any aim, managed to score a “oner,” As
the other contestants scored three and five points
respectively, this seems a trifle strange at first, but
the explanation lies in the handicapping. The
winner had six points allotted to him, and the
second man had four. Neither of them knew any
more about shooting straight than If they were
officers of the Nannygoat Contingent, and so the
eagle-eyed rifleman who fired at the sky got the
prize. as the scratch men failed to beat the points
they had accaded to the others When this intelli-
gence travels home, it will cause the Russian bear
to sit flown and howl his head off, and, no doubt.
Her Majesty will cable back and compliment the
warriors of Penrith.
R. K. Fox, of New York, who has ar-
ranged a single sculling race for a purse of £1000,
to be rowed la August, on Silver Lake, at Plymp-
ton, Mass., expecting it would draw Beaoh, states
the Australian’s absence will be a sore disappoint-
ment, but the race will go on nevertheless. The
following oarsmen have entered for the event:
Hanlan, Teemer, Ross, Plalsted, Gaudaur, Hamm,
Conley, Lee, and Stevenson, all of America; and
D. Godwin, of London, England. Should the race
be a success, Mr, Fox will offer another purse, open
to all oarsmen, with the winner of the first race
barred. Hanlan, who, by the way, was nearly
drowned by the uosetfiog ot his outrigger at To-
ronto, on June 30th, has, it is said, challenged
Teemer to row nine races for a stake of £100 a side
on each, the contest to be rowed on different
water?, proportionately in Canada and the United
States-tho distance to be, first race, 1 mile; second
race 1)4 mile; third,3 miles; fourth Similes; fifth
3 miles; sixth, 3)4 miles; seventh, 4 miles; eighth,
4)4 miles; ninth, 5 mile*-
la answer to “J. P. Rockhampton,” we
may state that articles were duly signed for a
Queensberry contest between Messrs. Seale and
Brinsmead. but, as there was no “ sugar ” put up
at the time, it is scarcely necessary to inform
"JP.” that the "articles” were merely a waste
of writing material. As we stated in a previous
issue, Mr. Seale is desirous of going on with'tbe
match, but Mr. Brinsihead wants to make an open
competition of it—a course Seale Is not likely to
aocede to In the face of the fact that at the
recent competition of the Sydney Amateur Box-
ing Club a decision was given against his brother
which was so palpably a mistake that it was loudly
hissed by the onlookers. Three round competi-
tions. both In the colonies and England, have
shown that it does not follow the man who wins the
honours will wear them, and in England It is
notorious that many of the best amateur boxers
will not compete at those sports for that reason.
Mr. Seale Is making every effort to meet the Eng-
lishman, and by last week’s dailies we see he has
offered to give £300 to the Sydney charities if Mr.
Brinsmead defeats him.
On© down, who’ll make another? The
fiasco at “ Corrigan’s Gap ” In our recent Grand
National Hatter has led up to another proof of the
tendency of human nature to follow hard on a
bad example. At the late Wyndham (V.) meeting,
Batty on Deceiver, M’LBod oh Midnight, and Kil-
dufl on Sir Samuel all struck Into tbb wrong
course in the Steeplechase, and finished In the
order named. This led to the stewards command-
ing the race to be ran again, when the order of
things was reversed. Sir Samuel beating Midnight
by two lengths. The distance was stated to be
about two miles, and it is a shade more than pass-
ing strange that three such capital judges of pice
could not tell the difference between travelling
one mile and two. King David, having been
hoisted over a three-rail fence by his charger, said,
in his wrath, that a horse was “ a vain thing for
safety,” but it he had been spared till now, he
would have let up on the horse and slated the
riders in what is very appropriately known as the
“ illegitimate game.” Some of these days our
jocks will lose their beads so far as to either saddle
themselves and carry their horses, or else ride
their races from end to end without a single
blunder. The latter danger, however, is not im-
minent.
Robert E. Odium, an American swimming
instructor with an abnormal thirst for notoriety,
capped tne climax of foolhardiness by Jumping
from the Brooklyn Bridge into the East River, a
distance of 140ft. For the first 100ft. Odium still
held to his original attitude, and shot straight
away like an arrow; then he was turned partly on
his right side by an irresistable force which he
struggled vainly to oppose. He whirled his right
arm tnrough tne air seeking a support of some
kind, but he could do nothing. “Oh,” he said, in
alow tone, just as be was about striking the water.
Then he struck with a terrific crash, partly on his
right side. His plaintive cry was drowned in the
loud surge of the waters and the tremendous noise
which arose from the multitudes on the bridge
overhead. He only sank some 5ft. benealh the
surface, and when he reappeared he still con-
tinued to throw his right hand around as though
imploring aid. A life-preserver was flung from a
tug-boat, followed by Captain Boyton—under
whose auspices the attempt was made—who
pitched himself headlong Into the river, clothes
and all, and swam vigorously for the unfortunate
Professor, who was aoout 50 yards away. He took
im under his left arm and made for one of the
small boats, ia which he safely secured his charge.
On the tug-boat he was rolled in blankets, and it
was then notice! that the great force of the fall
had burst the tight-fitting iruakt la several places
and nearly torn the little red jacket to shreds. He
was conscious for awhile, but Captain Boyton
noticed the fatal symptoms of blood and spittle
oozing between his llpp. and the poor wretch ex-
pired shortly afterwards. A post mortem showed
the spleen, liver, and kidneys to be badly ruptured
from the shock in striking the water, and the
marks on the body were similar to these found on
the bodies of men who have been crushed by the
caving In of earth.
A FEW CANDID FACT?.
Every careful observer who has sought to keep
pace with the march of events, has noted the
alarming increase of certain peculiar physical
troubles within the past few years. These troubles
have cyme at unexpected moments and in a most
treacherous way. They have manifested their,
selves in innumerable forms, but they have always
had the same cause. They have not afflicted the
minor parts of the body, but have gone direct to
the strongholds of the system, and their work has
usually been as prompt as it is fatal. Their
treacherous and deceptive nature has often pre.
vented a careful analysis of what causes them, and,
as a result, intense suffering and final disaster have
usually ensued. The real cause, however, has
been a derangement of the kidneys, and all of
these troubles are, In fact, the first symptoms of
the terrible Bright’s disease, which has cast its dark
shadow over so many homes in the land, and is
Increasing wonderfully and continually. It is
now conceded by the ablest physicians In every
land and by eminent scientists the world over,
that this disease is the result of blood poisoning,
This poisoning is brought about by wasted and
unhealthy kidneys that permit the prison to re-
main in the blood, instead of throwing it from the
system. To purify a stream we must go to fig
source, and to cure a disease we must remove the
cause. Itbalng true that nine-tenths of all human
ailments are caused by diseased kidieys or liver,
the only certain way to cure these troubles Is by
treating the organs which cause them. How Inti-
mately the kidneys are associated with the entire
system may be understood from the fact that over
1000 ounces of blood pass through them every
hour, being more that 300 gallons, or nearly one
ton in the course of twenty-four hours. This vast
mass of living fluid is sent to every part of the
body, and if the kidneys are diseased the impuri-
ties that are in the blood are not removed, and
hence pass through the veins, carrying disease in
some one of its many terrible forms. The horrors
which accompany most of the diseases caused by
disordered kidneys and liver cannot be described
in print, while the dangers surrounding them are
even greater than the agony. And yet a person
may be troubled for months without knowing the
cause of the diseases that have attacked him.
Some of the symptoms of the first stages, any one
of which Indicates disordered kidneys or liver are
these: Pains in the back and around the loins,
severe headaches, dizziness, inflamed eyes, a coated
tongue and a dry mouth, loss of appetite, chilly
sensations, Indigestion (the stomach never i s in
order when the kidneys or liver are deranged)
a dryness of the skin, nervousness, night sweats’
muscular debility, despondency, a tired feeling’
especially at night, puffing or bloating under the’
eyes, etc.
The above are a few of the hundreds of symp-
toms which indicate the beginning of aggravated
cases of kidney or liver difficulties, and they
require instant attention. If these symptoms are
not checked at once, they are almost certain to
result.in some one of the many terrible disease 8
of the kidneys. But unpleasant as all the symp-
toms and even these diseases may be, they are as
rothing compared to the last stages of the com-
plaints.
There is but one known remedy that has ever
been able to cure serious kidney troubles or con-
trol these great organs when onco deranged, and
that remedy Is Warner’s Safe Cure. The test of
merit is in what has been accomplished; and know-
ing of cures almost numberless la England,
Canada, and the United States, many of them
chronic and given up as Incurable, makes us bold
to say in all sincerity that for all diseases of the
kidneys, llver» and urinary organs, Warner’s Safe
Cure stands alone i not only In point of excellence,
but in the wonderful results It has achieved.
Warner’8 Safe Cure Is put up In dark amber glass
bottles, with a Safe (the trade mark) blown In the
back. A private promissory note bearing the
firm’s signature Is affixed to the neck, and covers
the top of the cork, and Is of a light brown color.
If this stamp Is not found on every bottle of the
Safe Cure, or if there is any evidence that it ha fl
been tampered with, and if a safe Is not blown on
the back of the bottle, reject the bottle at once (
and insist on having a genuine one.
The price of the Safe Remedies Is as follows
Warner’s Safe Cure, 5s. per bottle; Warner’g
Safe Diabetes Cure, 5j, per bottle ; Warner’s
Safe Pills, Is. 1JJ. per vial. If your Chem-
ist does not keep these Safe Remedies, and
will not order them, by addressing H. H.
Warner & Co., 147 Little Lonsdale Street West,
Melbourne, Australia, the same will be rent you
by express.
AT MAREIOKVILLE, SIDNEY.


COMPAGNONI CATERING GO., LIMITED.
PITT STREET. SYDN'RV • •
STREET, SYDNEY.
4?“'°" to B “ Wor8Up “«■
T " 8 Dio ‘ ,, ‘ ! “x™-
GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at 1 inytime from 8 amto 11 n m fafter the
Theatres, delect your own steak, Ac., and see it grilled in the room This f«™ne acouisitlona
or the cicy v anda a lon £ .feltwa--t. Inspection Invited. Alfred Y^ohf Clue
and City Club, upstairs.
El Di TOLLBMACHE, General Manager.
Bray <to Lichtner,
39 O CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
IMPORTERS OF SUPPLIES
Sole Agercts for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
/a
&>
a ■
c*
i
CJP
9
sf
*
N.V
/
O
s
H ◄
S 115 3
< 3
s PH 2
Q* . S
=3 b ®
Csj p
O *< -<
0 '0
35)
5J P
<o
‘siuauidmbj o,i { doj6o mid ep/duiOQ
’Sd/uo/oo aiji in fsadodi/j pun
‘isaq SpdUDA jsolu diff so pas/ufiooaj hjd suoifDjodajd oii/doj6oj.oifj jhq
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,' J>est,
and Cheapest in the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments, wlth tuU f0[ Kert0M . ;
(rt frrm.
o C. C
1
r
3T
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULLDOG
ALE. which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTBLL A CO
Sole Agents.
VENETIA WALTER
Ths Air to 64 wO markad. 0 about* Lovteiaa
P/3 eoiitabCU.
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, Ac.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, Ac.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues will be ready in a few days and
sent gratis on application.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, Ac., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums. Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, Ac.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most Important Copying
Instruments ever Invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM~llULLARDp
342 GEORGE STREET.
A. ft C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
SIS 6EOI6I ITREIT,
Next Peapes and Shaw.
' The moat liberal house for Pianos and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Invitid.
A. & C. IZuenerbein,
818 GEORGE STREET.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
J. LAWLER.
608 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
m
iron, BRASS, and NICKEL-PLATED
BEDSTEADS,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
woven wire spring mattrasses
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR,
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
SO., &0.
T
O ALL W O M
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
■ H
Borax Soap
TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
cold^a'tbiT 00^01115, 111 * ither H0T 01
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERT
IN'SOAP 1
Purifies, Cleanse ;, and Whitens all and everything
washed with It;
HEAL -CRATCHES, CH *-P8, and CUTS,
and make the akin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
6«l. per Bar.
Bole Manufacturers :
Lewis &
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
best°5 ed
TOEieORD’S
iESSEKCE’n’UFE
e only infallible remedy for
//ERybi/s JjebiIijyT
IH1S invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and
1 every other ex
haustlve derangement df the system: regenerating
au^'“*? e Important elements, of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obllga-
tions. In oases at 12s., or four quantities Is one for
»V ; by coach, 3a. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,!
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
itreot. One Door from Georgft-atreet South.
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PH0T06RAPHY.
Sole Agercts for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
Travc'rs Vegetable Compound 8
B
AYARIAN
ITTERS.
HOP
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
Made of the b:st Bavarian Hops. Superior to any
other.
They take the first place wherever tried, and are
well authenticated by eminent medical men and
well-known analysts.
Read the reports and testimony which aooom
pany each bottle, and do not forget to make a
trial of BAVARIAN HOP Bitters.
P. KIRBY,
Prom the late Mr. Jamas Curtis,
TT rxciertalrer,
•4 HUNTER ft PHILLIP STREETS.
TUN URALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was In the employ of the
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years;
Manager for over ten (10) years.
Been bunting for ease ail my life, p.nd found
last with the Argosy Braces at Cowing Bros.
//.
9\
Y
05
I
GOWING BROS.
Have Just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. 6d., 3s., 8s 6d.,4k 4s. 6
GOWINGIBROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, A
882 and 488 SNriMtrNt.
tegp
sag
r
“Mr. William Ball.—Dear Sir,—Allow mo to say
that I find your ‘ Bloom of Peaches’ superior to
anything of the kind that I ever used before.—
Yours truly, Emelie Melville.”
" Dear Sir,—1 have never used anything equal to
your'Bloomof Peaches.’— Maggie Moobb.”
‘‘Dear Sir,—I have the greatest pleasure in re-
commending Mr. Ball’s ‘Bloom of Peaches’ and
‘Fett-Puder’ as being invaluable—Yours truly,
Alice Refs.”
To be obtained of all chemists.
Price, 1/0, 3/6. and 7/6 per bottle.
“ FETT-PUDER,” a delicate and invisible
powder for the face. Beautifully perfumed.
White, Pink, or Cream, to suit all complexions.
Price, 1/6 per box.
Manufactured only by
WILLIAM BALL,
Tho “Professional” and Pharmaceutical Chemist,
61 BOUKKE STREET, MELBOUltNB.
Whohsale Agents for Sydney ;
Messrs. B. PROSSER <k CO., Wholesale Chemistf,
G. F, PRIDDY & CO.,
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS,
Beg to announce that, on and after APRIL 7th,
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Days
at 6 30 p.m.: Saturdays as usual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
■nyitafc Paper■ and Magazines received by
•very Stall.
ROYAL A ROADS, G10KG1 ST* W BTDN1I
COPYRIGHTED.
COPYRIGHTED.
“THOUSANDS 0? LADIES
Can gladly testify that Mrs. Travers' Compound
does all that it claims to do.”
fcvlts purpose is Solely f »r the loaitimato healing of disease
and the relief of pain. It is prompt in action.
LOUISA R. TRAVERS
VEGETABLE COMPOUND
IS A POSITIVE REMIDY
For all those Complaints and Weaknesses so common to
our best Female papulation.
Price, 10a. 6d. per Package.
(C5*Ladies, It will under nil circumstances, net in harmony
with the laws that g*»vc n y ur system.
(£5*That foel'ng of beat Ing Oown, causing pain, wiight, ami
backache, is always permanently curbd by its uso. *
IT IS A GREAT MEDICAL DISCOVERY
a Blessing to overworked women, and Its sales are
nnprocodento I. J t removes faintness, fl itulmcy, nil craving
for stimulants, and relieves wcukiussof the st m idi. Periods
passed witliout pain.«£3
I Physicians Use it and Prescribe it.
STS' it revives the drooping s- irits, invigorates and har-
monizes the organic functions gives elasticity and firmness to
the step, restores the natural lustre to thoojpe. and plants on
the pale cheek of woman tho fresh ros.s of life’s spring and'
early summer time.
ITS MERITS KELP UP THE SALE.
CdhFor tho cure of Kidney Complaints cf either sex this
Compoundi a unsurpaseel
Mrs. TravorS' 4 ‘Culdc to Hi alth” will be mailed free to any
ludysendiiiT stamp. L- ttrre ©finquiry confidentially answered.
Packets Mailed f co from observation on Receipt of price.
Address, P. >• Box,907, Sydney.
MRS. TRAVERS' LIVER FILLS euro Constipation, I3|l~
| lousness, and To pidity of the Liver. P.ico ?s. 6d.
Z—i is— .m jiu . —
ELLIOTT BROS, and 8. HOP FNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
A POSITIVE CURE
WITHOUT MEDICINE.
One box will cure the most obstinate case, acute
or chronic, in four days or less.
DR. BAYLEY’I SOLUBLE MEDICATED
BOUGIES (fcUUALYPTOL).
No nauseous doses of cubebs, capaiba, or oil of
sandlewood, that are certain to produce dyspepsia
by destroying the coatings of the stomach Price
»1 !*•; mailed on receipt of price. Address P.O.*
Box 833, Sydney. (Registered).
K0USTA3HJaLdWHISISE3. »EFom after
Boyd's Beard FHxirdid this, and
will do it on cither bald fiend or
bare far-e. Jfoi cea heavy Mous-
tache in froni2 to 4 weeks and never
' fails, 2*>,U00 young men already
wear full beards, having used I to
3 pkts. Ao injury, easily applied,-tertain in effect, _
each, 3 for 3a. 3d., post paid, sent under cover, free from observation •
" JJ —Frank Douglas, Sole Agent , Box 730, G.F.O., Sydney,N,8. W-
Copyrighted .
7-a
JM
Copyrighted.
Backets la. 3d.


UBNITUEI SHOW BOOM.
BRADLBY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
Hall furniture, hatstands.
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
ans
IBMST FURNITURE, CENTRE and SID1
L4 TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
EADING and LOUNGE CHAiRS. '
Drawing-room suited, fashionably uphou
stered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o.
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
(teuton, and Lamb.
Novelties inBouooiRand bow window
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-fe«i
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLBY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
I 71IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.-The
2i Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
gtasa, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-sti eet.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble ton
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP.
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
Kj 6d.; Dining Tables, from 20s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.s
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLBY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
SEi
3
jOQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
owOtl strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves foi
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also elegantly finished In
Embroidery, Plush, &o.
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
Just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
OConnell-street.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens lor fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell-street.
ThRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL OHAIR8.-
±J A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
narblo top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining-room-side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, couch, easy chairs, CABV-
INQ CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Booms, O’Connell-fltreet.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR-
Patented.
D
S
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in any
material. _
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
s
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB._
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early Engusn*
and other designs, which can be upholstered m
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
T71HAMBWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
X? TUBE, Handsome and Massive, in Oav
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REA"
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery-
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
B
B
EDSTEAD8, nickel-plated and black and bra*
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and u
EDSTEAD8, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING- Ail descriptions at lowest rat®®*
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell and Spring streets.
WASHSTANDS, with marble, from 26s. each
BRADLBY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
■ AWN and PARK SEATS 6 feet long. Ruftlo
JLi Cast-Iron Standards, las. each. Bradley, New
ton, and Lamb.
B
BNT WOOD FURNITURE.—A very compl***
Assortment; best make, lowest prices.
Exercise and a judicious use of Wo fe's Schnapps
will keep you in the best of health.
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated wltk
flair and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 60* Hunter-street, Sydney.*
MacLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 George-street,
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &c.*
Mb. DiCottbot Bbowni (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,”
"Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 62 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney. Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, BT Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
How to make it.— Put a large teaspoonful of
Fry’s Malted Cocoa into a breakfast cup, and mix
it into a smooth paste with sufficient cold milk;
then All up with water not quite boiling, adding
milk and sugar to taste. If preferred, milk, or
milk and water, may be substituted for the plain
water. This cocoa is pure, does not thicken in the
cup, and contains more of the active properties of
malt then a pint of the best ale or porter.*
The Renner Manufacturing Co., of Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylven a, U.8.A., make an extraordin-
ary offer to agents, and those wanting employ-
ment, to sell their Renner Combined Alarm and
Door Bell, in the different colonies and counties in
Australia. It Is endorsed by over 2000 publishers
in the United States and Canada, and by the lOO.OOO
who are now using them on their doors. It has
never been sold by the trade, but by agents alone
It will pay 100 per cent, profit, and sells from $1.00
to $6.00 each. Agents in the United States have
taken as high as 22 orders in a single day. It sells
readily on its merits. General agents who can
handle a number of counties, or one of the colo-
nies, can secure those they want by being the first
to comply with our terms. Large Illustrated
circulars, containing terms and price-list, will be
sent free. Address: Kenneh Manufacturing
Co., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, U.8.A.. *
Out of the mouths of babes cometh wis-
dom, tin tacks, wax matches, brass buttons, and
divers other items too numerous to mention. And
amongst the best things yet let out is the reminder
of the little tow-headed six-year-old who, chanc-
ing to be awake while the Santa Claus stocking-
stuffing operation was being performed [one
Christmas Eve, called out: “Ma, remember the
Lord loveth a cheerful giver.” Better still was
the reply of the boy who, on being asked why
Stephen, the martyr’s persecutors took him out
beyond the limits of the city to stone him, thought-
fully observed, he “wasn’t quite sure, but perhaps
it was so that they could get a fairer fling at him.”
But better than all was the sensible answer of the
Balmain boy, who, on his maternal parent enquir-
ing what she could do in order to induce him to
discontinue his clandestine fishing excursions and
attend school, replied, “ Take me over to Summer-
field and Company's, and fit me into one of their
best Strong School Suits.” This his mamma did,
and now this lad is at the head of his class, and the
fish are enjoying a well-earned rest. Mothers of
families would do well to paste this item in their
best bonnets, or across the family mirror, or in
any other spot where it is likely to come under
their frequent observation.*
Make It a rule to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps. It ore-
ates|ao false appetite, but has an invigorating effect.
How to make it.— Put a large teaspoonful of
Fry's Malted Cocoa into a breakfast cup, and mix
it into a smooth paste with sufficient cold milk;
then till up with water not quite boiling, adding
jnllk and sugar to taste. If preferred, milk, or
milk and water, may be substituted for the plain
water. This cocoa is pure, does not thicken in the
cup, and contains more of the active properties of
paalt than a pint of the best ale qr porter.*
SOCIAL
Until our American citizens are of one mind
as regards the reading of the 44 Declaration of In-
dependence ” at their 4th of July celebrations,
these file days will lack the brilliancy which
characterised them here in times gone by. For in-
stance, on Saturday last, although the Garden
Party was attended by a big crowd, the absence
of many well known and leading Americans, whose
delicacy of feeling deterred them from being
present, undoubtedly threw a wet blanket over
the whole affair. It is to be hoped, however, that
before next year they will show more unity of
opinion as to the reading of the 44 Declaration,”
and bury the hatchet of dissension for ever.
About 20D people were driven to Botany
shortly alter midday, and after regaling them-
selves with oysters and bread and butter,
did their best to seek amusement either
la the grounds or by dancing in the pavilion.
Mrs. 41 Captain,” Webber looked very handsome
In a long mantle of black velvet velours and
a becoming bonnet. Mrs. Lane wore an extremely
beautiful visite of steel-gray plush. Mrs. Coates,
a black silk and lace drees, short black mantle and
high green velvet hat adorned with magnificent
pale-green plumes. A Brisbane young lady from
Oarthorne, whose hair was of the colour which
poets designate as 41 golden,” but which prosy
people call 4l red,” was attired in a gray jupe and
blue velvet jacket bordered with gray fox fur,
blue felt hat and gray wing. Miss Cummings, in a
dark greeu dross with high dark hat trimmed with
green plumes Ahad«?d to old gold, was much ad-
mired Miss Genevieve Ward put in an appear-
ance just in time to read the Declaration of Inde-
pendence before the banquet. She was attired in
a light dress and bonnet, and her powerful voice
was heard even to the farthest end of the large
pavilion. After the banquet, the Consul (Mr.
Griffin), who had the Vice-Consul (Mr. Stewart)
on his right, and the Hons. W. B. Dilley and
G. R. Dibbs on his left, made a most ap-
propriate and telling speech, and was much
applauded. Mr. Dailey, it is needless to say.
also distinguished himself, and later on, Mr.
Dan. O’Connor. A youth with a pretty face
and any amount of confidence, responded to the
toast of 44 The Ladies,” and after the 44 Press ” had
been remembered, dancing was attacked with
much spirit. Mr, Griffin headed the Grand March,
and figured in the first quadrille, and then van-
ished like a flash of lightning, and no one could
blame him if he did find the Opera House and Miss
Genevieve Ward’s floe actlngmore attractive than
a dismal pavilion and a handful of fireworks. With
the exception of a youth or two who had given
too much attention to the champagne, and per-
sisted in eating bananas and dancing at the same
time, the finish up of the day’s amusement was
decorous enough; but, at the same time, these
garden parties without a ball are a mistake. They
fulfil the wants of a few well enough, but there
is a large proportion of people, and ladies more
especially, who are never satisfied with the day’s
amusement unless it winds up with a grand ball,
when they can don their pretty dresses, and not
hurry away before midnight. A special tram left
Botany at 11 o’clock, but some of the merry-
makers didn’t know that 11 p.m. came so early in
the night, and others didn't care, so how and when
they found their way back to Sydney is still a dark
mystery.
♦ » ♦
The fancy dress ball given by Mrs. Gary,
of Elystane, Edgecliff Road, last week, ovas a bril-
liant success. The dress of the evening was the
44 Suez Canal,” which was worn by a stately lady
from St. Leonards. The bodice and train of cloth
of gold were bordered with waves of Eau dc Nile
satin fringed with pearls, underskirt of crimson
satin on which were embroidered, in black velvet,
sphlnxis, Cleopatra’s needles, and pyramids;
round the waist was a girdle of English roses and
lilies of the Nile, to which was attached a very
large golden key; head-dresi, tiara of tur-
quoises, diamonds, and pearls. A Darling Point
lady wore a most striking ureas of a coming
period — 44 Footwoman of the Future.” Black
satin short skirt fringed with gold, "direotolre”
jacket of cardinal satin with bright green and gold
facings, lace ruffs, golden staff, pretty wig, and
footman’s hat with cockade. A petite young lady
from Brisbane was most bewitching as a witch.
Short quilted skirt of bright green satin, on which
were embroidered snakes and other reptiles,
in different hues, also owls’ heads in black velvet.
Black velvet pointed bodice with red stomacher.
Red satin mantle lined with yellow, black velvet
hat with snake band, and a black cat perched upon
the shoulder. “Snow” was another charming cos-
tume—soft white satin covered with crystal,
pearl, and silver drops, the under-skirt edged with
swansdown and crystal drops. A robin-redbreast
nestled in the pretty muff of satin and swansdown.
A white satin cap, upon which another robin was
perched, completed this ex juieite costume. Ame-
rica was doubly represented, and in each case the
dresses were well carried out.
« * •
Last Tuesday week the Balmain Private
Assembly gave a pleasant dance in their School of
Arts. During the evening Mr. Percy Jones sang
a song which was much appreciated, and two little
boys (the Masters Hyam) wont through some very
clever step-dancing. Most of the ladies were sen-
sible, and wore their dresses made high to the
neck and half-long sleeves-a plan which cannot
be too highly commended when those dances are
held in a room Impregnated with draughts. Mrs.
Percy Jones wore a very handsome pale
pink veiling and brocho with gathered Fedora
of pink satin; Miss Ettie Hyam, white satin and
cashmere, with garniture of flowers. Her sister
wore a tasteful costume of black velvet and pale-
blue veiling. The velvet bodice and back drapery
opened over a blue-gathered vest, and was caught
at the waist by a large pearl-fastener: skirt of
blue A pretty girl in croam and ruby was a nice
dancer, and a tall lady in all black was very grace-
ful. Refreshments were partaken of at 10 30, and
the 13 dances terminated at midnight.
The comfortable Town Hall at Petersham
was again tilled with fair girls and swallow-tails
last Friday night, upon the occasion of the third
social of the season. A few strangers were con-
spicuous among the throng—two from Ashtteld
especially, in their dainty white dresses trimmed
with white plumes and ribbons. Miss Graham
wore a handsome cream veiling most tastefully
made— the only defect being shown in the super-
fluity of crinoline. A rich pink satin would also
have been very nice, had it not been for
the fact that the whole machinery of the improver
was so plainly defined that the concoction of this
aggressive artie'e is no longer a secret to us. A
handsome and talkative girl wore a neat black lace
dress cut low, with short sleeves and a spray of
flowers adorning the corsage. Very tasteful was a
black velvet, quite plain; the bodice was out V-
shape and edged with gold beads, and rows of the
same ornaments were worn round the neck. A
fairy-like dancer had on a deepish-blue cashmere
with a peculiar bertha composed of two pink and
blue kerchiefs skilfully folded and arranged. A
nice black grenadine skirt spotted with gold had
the well-out corsage trimmed with gold braid; a
cream satin skirt and peacock-blue velvet basque
was worn by a Petersham young lady. These
Petersham socials are very popular and the next is
to be held in a fortnight's time.
• • •
Another Social was held at Newtown last
Friday night. One of the best dancers (Mrs.
Eden) obligingly played some extra dances after
refreshmeuts, and was attired in grey silk with
panels of brown. She chaperoned two pretty
nieces, in cream-tucked Indian muslin skirts, and
ruby velvet bodices. Miss Haslingden and Miss
Goslett both wore black, and Miss L. Haslingden,
cream, with loops of ribbons of divers colours. A
b aautiful dress was of pink silk, draped with ex-
quisite white Ikce, A dress, perhaps too hand-
some for the occasion, was a black tulle, covered
with white pompons, and the front width orna-
mented with pure white birds and butterflies. A
crushed strawberry and slate-grey satin was much
admired Wall-flowers were abundant, as most of
the guests forgot to show up, which was quite too
bad.
* m *■ *
At the invitation of Mr. and Mrs. H.
Payten about 50 couples met at Thornleigh to help
to celebrate the majority of the eldest son of the
house, Mr. Phil. Payten. Some of the dresses were
unusually rich and tasteful. The newly-married
daughter of the hostess looked charming in her
bridal attire, and her sister wore cream and cardi-
nal. Three sisters from Campbelltown, daughters
of a C.M.G., were much sought after on account
of their neat dancing. A small brunette looked
very nice in cardinal and coffee lace. A popular
auctioneer gallantly escorted four elegant sisters;
the eldest in old gold plush bodice over silver tin-
selled skirt trimmed with silver flowers and varie-
gated lotus leaves; another, who was considered
belle, in a ruby plush body and maize tarlatan
skirt, adorned with ruby and pink carnations; a
third looked well in pink satin and cream lace, and
the youngest of the bevy, pink veiling and pearls.
Miss Lemons, Dale-blue and cream lace, and the
Misses Horne were nicely attired—one in pink and
the other blue and silver. A return ball Is on the
tapis.
* • •
On Friday, the eve of the “ Glorious
Fourth,” Mr. J. Freshman entertained a number
of guests at his residence, Brooklyn, Rand wick,
with that hospitality which is so characteristic of
him and his fellow countrymen. The assemblage
was brilliant and numerous, and at 7 p.m. some
thoroughly representative and cosmopolitan per-
sonages breasted the mahogany and partook Of a
very recherchi and well-served dinner. The after-
dinner speeches were brief, as dainty ladies showed
some Impatience to trip it on the 44 light Jfan-
tastio.” Rarely has such a galaxy of beauty been
seen at a private ball in Sydney. The bal-
conies were all ablaze with lights, which
44 shone o’er fair women and brave men,”
The charming hostess, who wore a triumph of the
costumier's art, in the shape of a black velvet
robe, trimmed with pale blue satin, was ublqultu-
ous in her attention to her guests. Two sisters
from Woollahra, resplendent In pale blue and pale
pink respectively, with cream meohlin lace trim-
mings, played sad havoc with the hearts of their
partners. A lady from Glenmore-road, exquisitely
robed in cream and cardinal, sang divinely. A
fair pianist in a copper coloured costume shaded
with lace material to match, received much atten-
tion. A widow from North Shore had donned a
sedate costume of black, relieved by silver spots,
which shone like stars in a summer sky. The night
was long past before the guests bid their adleux
to the hospitable host and hostess, who had ex-
erted themselves to make the evening pleasant
to all.
The Masonic Lodge of St. Andrew’s held
their annual social in the Town Hall last Thurs-
day night. A bride in her wedding dress looked
and danced well, and a tall young lad? in pale-
blue garnished with pink roses was very nice; a
stout lady in cream and ruby demanded some at-
tention, and a sprightly dancer and nattily-dis-
played garb were found in Miss Turner; two ladies,
who were conspicuous at the Owls’ Ball, were
upon this occasion rather subdued and retired
early. The wearer of a black satin and crimson,
with high Elizabethan collar, danced very pret-
tily. A P.M. and secretary monopolised a tall lady
In cream satin, with croam lace and poppies.
Compagnoni catered, and De Groen’s band ren-
dered excellent music. The secretary may well
be congratulated upon the splendid success at-
tending the whole affair.
• * •
The Commercial Rowing Club ball, held in
the Academy of Music, Brisbane, on the 3rd inst,
was a big success. The ball was opened by Sir
Anthony Musgrave, who, be it known, arrived
punctual to the advertised time ef opening—a rare
virtue in Governors. Dresses were both plain and
fancy, especially plain. Miss Sharp would have
been quite nice as Mary Queen of Soots, had she
desisted from wrinkling her pretty brows so
much, but probably she was trying to be true to
the character of the much-troubled queen. The
best figure in the room was that of Miss Nellie
O’Brien—beg pardon Obrion— who wore a low-
necked white satin bodice with skirt of same mate-
rial Intermixed with white muslin. The neck of the
bodice was bordered with swansdown and pearls;
tan-coloured gloves with lace armlets. Mrs. Bau-
mann—our own Pattie Brown—was charming in a
beautifully made costume of Estrella. A Jockey
and h's Consort wore noticeable, and Miss Gardiner
as Gretchen was fetching. The most dress
was worn by Miss Brookes, who represented an
{esthetic maiden in black satin adorned with the
love-sick flowers. Miss Penfold as Folly; in pink,
was pretty, Graee Darling had a prettier face than
dress. There was also a Bettina, Manola. and a
lady representing Ireland, bearing 4 Erin go
Bragh” in gold letters on the skirt of a black
dress. A gentleman as a Hussar made himself
aggressive by blowing a whistle in the room.
Bicyclists and Footballers were represented—the
masher bicyclist being in great form, and also
Lieutenant Pritchard of Soudan fame. Catering
by Baumann first-class, but music indifferent.
* * *
The Windsor Social, in the local School of
Arts, on the 3fd instant, was very enjoyable to a
select coterie of b«fby dancers. The floor was in
good condition, and the music provided by Mr.
uallagher first-class. Among the ladles present
were many graceful and capable dancers. Miss
Kilpatrick was much admired, whilst the Misses J.
Keyes, Haynes, Price (from Richmond),. Drew,
Fitch, and Mrs. Q. Pendergast were eagerly sought
after by an admiring circle of gemtlemen. The
Windsor socials are proverbially good, and this
last one certainly proved no exception to the rule.
* « ♦
The Rugby Football sports were numer-
ously attended on Saturday afternoon, and with
the exception of one nasty accident, passed off
with great eclat.
9 9*
Mr. Peel has promised to repeat his con-
cert next Friday evening for our benefit, as we
were crowded out upon the last occasion. We
heard of this gentleman playing the violin at
Mrs. Alphen’s concert the other day, but before
we venture an opinion on the merit of his per-
formances, we must hear with our own ears.
• • •
The tenth annual ball of the Mercantile
Rowing Club eventuates at the Town Hall, Julv
23, and as the number of tickets is limited to 300,
half of which have been already sold, it is advis-
able for those who Intend to patronise the affair,
to lose no time in procuring: the tickets from
either Mr. N. A. Blackstone, oi-ary member of the
committee. The ball promises (to be a great success
this year —no crowding and no objectionable
people.
• • *
A very quiet wedding took place at
Christ’s Church, Redfern, lr*st Thursday, which
will be rather a surprise to a great many. Mr.
Arthur Smyth, who was at one time connected
with the Press here, and was also organist at All
Saints’, Woollahra, was the bridegroom, and the
bride no other than Miss Florence Lewis, who
always is so charming before the footlights. The
young lady finished her engagement with the
Majeronis on Friday last, and goes with her hus-
band on a Queensland tour.
• • •
Mrs. Alphen’s which was
given in the Ashfield School of Arts last Monday
week created quite a sensation in that sleepy little
suburb. Mr. Hammond presided, and the concert
was opened by the children (pupils) singing the
44 See-saw Waltz ” very prettily. Mias Edward
Deane sang 44 Waiting,” which was embellished
by a flute obligato played by Mr. Lombe. A wee
dot, Miss Alice (laager, aged 6 years, played the
44 May Queen Waltzes *’ quite nicely. There were
several more items deserving of notice, but space
is limited.
♦ ** ■*
To-night, 9th July, the Lynwood Club will
give their first social at Ferry-road, Glebe Point;
proceedings to open at 8 with a comedy titled
44 Uncle,” by lady and gentlemen members. Danc-
ing will follow All the cyclists’ sisters and prin-
cipal girls are palpitating over the forthcoming
cyclists’ ball, which is now approaching. Indeed,
there will be two, as the Suburban Club, as well as
the Sydney, contemplate giving one shortly. If
all clubs combined the Exhibition would scarcely
be large enough.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Dramatic Performance of the Lynwood
Amateur Dramatic Club July 9.
Mr. Peel’s Complimentary Concert July 10.
Complimentary Banquet to the Naval
Artillerymen who accompanied the
Contingent to the Soudan, to be held
at Drill Shed, Fort Macquarie July 11.
Glebe Point Private Assembly, Glebe Town
Hall July 17.
Mercantile Rowing Club Ball, Town Hall. .July 23.
SUSPENSE.
O Juliana!
Long have you had me on the string—
List to the humble plaint I sing —
Relieve my throbbing, anxious heart,
Whether your words bring balm or smart—
O Juliana!
O Juliana!
Longer, my love, I cannot wait,
List to the suppliant at thy gate—
Say yes, or no-for I must whirl
Around right smart to get another summer girl—
0 Juliana 1


Bow T p mark iT.-rut a large teespoonful of
Fry s Malted Cocoa Into a breakfast cup, and mix
it into a. smooth paste with sufficient cold milk;
then,flu up with water not quite boiling, adding
milk and sugar to taste. If preferred, milk, or
milk and water, may be substituted for the plain
water. Ibis cocoa is pure, dots not thicken In the
cup, and contains more of! the active pioptrtUs
of malt then a plot of the bcscale or porter.*
LICENSES UNDER THE REAL PROPERTY
ACT.
IN reference to the notice In the Government
Gazette, dated 18th February last, re Can-
cellation of Licenses, under the 100th Section of
the Real Property Act, on or before 30th June,
1885, It is hereby notified that the date of cancella-
tion of such licenses has been extended from 80th
June, 1885, to 3lst August. 1885, Inclusively.
(Signed) P. P. ADAMS,
„ „ „ Surveyor-General.
Surveyor-General s Office,
Sydney, 30th June, 1885.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
QBNT.’S 60, IB. 6d.; 100, 3s. 6d.
LADIES’ 50, 38. Od. ; 100, 8s. Od.
Address, 6d. extra.
Meat Business Cards.
100, 8s. 6d.; 360. 0s. Od.; 600, 10s.; 1000, 16s.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
%r Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
THE milSMI ft,
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
IELiCcla.-3Dli.-u, Slxamo-xocls:
street, Sydney : and at Melbourne, Adelaide, and Brisbane, Agonts-Kirker, Greer, & C(MLd.) PUt '
1
ON THB
Briclrfield. Hill.
DDE STAY UD CORSET DEPARTMEHT.
/(?
CD
vJV
o
M
«'0
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Free oe Charge.
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON DUSKS),
2s. lid., 3s. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4s. lid., 5s. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., 8s. Cd., 9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., las 6
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS, 666 and 668 Brickfield Hill.
N.B.—Orders from the Country will receive immediate and careful attention.
THIS WICKED WORLD .
A now - deceased newspaper-proprietor
asked a friend what figure he should put up over
his new offices. “ A bear with a ragged steff,” was
tho thoughtful reply The Mount Morgan (Q.)
mine yielded during a recent fortnight 1400oz of
gold, worth ft 4s. 6d. per ounce. The company
have on hand 10,000 tons tailings, valued at f300,000.
....The Camden paper has got a new machine, and
Invites visitors to see it. It also notified that W*
Webb will lecture on the “ Inconsistencies of Sir
Henry Parkes.” The first was probably a
necessity. The second superfluous. The gal-
vanisation of corpses isn’t, entertaining
Castlemaine having secured a bullock with a shll-
' ling, dated 1830, in his stomach, West Maitland has
retrieved the honour of the mother-colony by pro-
ducing a hen in whose craw were found 13 hooks"
and-eyes, some pins, and a choice assortment of
fancy buttons. A jury of neighbours returned a
verdict that the unfortunate deceased had proba-
bly swallowed a dressmaker's apprentice
In N.Q. the imported coolies like nothing better
than] the dolce far niente afforded by residence In
H.M. Gaols. Tnerefore, these Institutions become
too crowded for comfort, and other prisoners get
wroth and swear that they will clear out If
things are not managed better. One clergy-
man up there is said to have made numerous
coolie converts by telling them that there are
no gaols in hell—only sugar plantations—
Dudley and Stephens, who killed and ate Richard
Parker after "Jack” Want’s yacht, the Mig-
nonette. foundered, were lately released fiom
gaol. They looked well, and had evidently thriven
as well on hominy as they did at sea on “poor
little Billee ” A list of the books stolen from
Melbourne Public Library was published lately.
From this we gather that some of them were
works of a rare and costly kind. There are Bugene
Arams even in these days. Yet it is a melancholy
reflection that men with the intellect to appreciate
a noble book or the taste to be taken by a fine
edition should have neither honour nor honesty.
But human nature is a tortuous study. Perhaps
some of these book-burglars are even now writing
immortal essays on moral philosophy—using these
same stolen articles as text-books. But perhaps
they have sold the tickets of them by this time.-; .
Junior partner of a Sydney importing firm: “ That
fellow Sample, who Is travelling the Westerij.llne,
ought to be sacked. He told a customer,ata£)ri»nge
that I was a big-headed fool.” Senio* partner:
‘ Did he? Then we must sack him. Can't have
office-secrets divulged.”....Mr. Hunt has, it Is
said, been very successful with the Cope’s Creek
Diamond Company in Melbourne. Three loads of
wash from the Company’s ground returned 80
small diamonds. The locality is 13 miles from
Tnverell, N.8.W—A Richmond (Vic.) publican
recently defeated a police prosecution for Sunday
trading by making the chief witness drunk Mr.
J. C. Hart, of Allora (Q) was proceeding to St.
George by the Cahors for the purpose of starting a
paper. The necessary plant was in the same vessel,
and is, therefore. ** cast upon the waters.” He
would take a moderate sum for his chance of find-
ing It again, “ after many days.” The residents of
8t. George recognise the hand of a divine Provi-
dence in the affair,
* * *
This is the sort of suicide for the Blue
Ribbon Army to make harrowing capital out df :—
"A young man Of the city of Mexico lately at-
tempted suicide by piercing his heart with a oorkt
screw.” What a magnificently appropriate manner
of exit this would be for the president of a Licensed
Victuallers’ Association I— In one of his diaries.
General Gordon compares himself with Uriah. All
We hanker after now is to know whom the General
considered was the wicked King, and who was the
thoughtless married woman, about whom we read
in Kings Neat this; On his last visit to the
Grand Opera House, Paris, Victor Hugo’s atten-
tion was called to a portrait of the phenomenally
thin Sara Bernhardt as L’Etrangere, wuh< her
favourite Russian greyhound lying at hftr feet.
“ Ah, yes, I see,” said the old mao, thought-
fully stroking his chin; “a dog keeping guard
over a bone. Very good, indeed.” VRug-
gieri, the champion flreworklst of the wfald,
nas Just died. He was said to have burnt more
powder in his day than Napoleon. Now, however,
he has gone where only his own fireworks can Be
excelled Mr. Gladstone said In the Commons
that the Battenberg-Beatrice wedding was s'
* marriage of attachment.” Just as if there would-
be any difficulty in a German Prince ”attach-
ing ” himself to a woman with £6000 a year,
when his pay in the German army, as lieu-
tenant, was about £70 per annum Don’t
lick stamps. The Lancet says that an en-
velope received from a person who habitually
took large quantities of morphia hypodermically
was reolosed by the person who opened It by lick-
ing the adhesive surface, with the result of
making him violently sick. The mere toffch of
the tongue of the taker of morphia had rendered
the gum Intensely nauseous—The termination
“off,” in Russian surnames, Is as common
as it is appropriate. Whenever a Russian
makes a promise or a bargain which be subse-
quently finds it will not pay him to keep or settle,
he at once ends the matter by being “ off.” Or,
again, should he discover, after having provoked
a fight, that he has the worst of the business, in
numbers or position, he is off again at a moment s
notice. Anyone, be he Bogush, French, German,
Turk, Dane, or anything else, who thinks he is not
quite such an awful scoundrel as Nature in-
tended he should be, simply tacks “off” to the
end of his name, joins the Russian army, and bis
education in villainy is immediately completed —
Never strike a man when he’a up Hebrew,
according to the “ Devil’s Dictionary,” is a male
Jew. as distinguished from a Shebrew. Among
the Jews the word is not In use, but in speaking to
them. Christians usually employ it by way of
avoiding what they consider the more offensive
term of “Jew”—a delicate and civil moderation
which is Imperfectly appreciated. We gather
from the same authority that a hireling Is a mer-
cenary wretch, who serves another person for
wages, as distinguished from the respectable
functionary who receives a salary Heaven is,
we understand, defined in the Revised Version as a
place where the wicked cease from troub.lng you
with talk of their personal affairs, and the good
listen with attention while you expound your own.
— What does this mean ? It Is i rom a high-toned
London journal:—“Simla, May 18.—The Duke of
Connaught will leave India for Eugland on a two
months’ leave on the 36th inst. The Viceroy and
the Commander-In-Chief in India approve of his
Royal Highness’ return to England.” Approve 7
Of course they did. H.R.M. must have heard some
alarming news touching the probability of war...,
It is easy to tell Classical Music. When you hear
everybody applaud and look relieved when the
Piece Is finished, then you can know it is strictly
classical — A reporter who called on Emma Ab-
bott lately got tne following note, brought down
hy a “buttons ”-boy :—“ I am all undressed. Just
getting into the bath-tub. Haven’t got a stitch
on me. But if you’ll wait till 1" have my
bath I’ll see you. Emma Ajiuott.” A clergy-
man stopped his prayer to lead an unruly boy
out by the ear, and then went on. “As I was
going to say, O Lord” “Will you pass the
butter, Mr. Fogg ? ” asked Brown. “ Every
time,” replied Fogg. The landlady said It was the
way Fogg said it that made her mad Hospital
Dispenser: “ You are to take a teaspoontul before
eatiog each meal—three times a day.” Nobody’s
Darling: “ Ya-a-s; but, boss, where am I to get
the meals?”....The P.M.: “Murphy, you are
JJrunk again.” M.: “ Yesh, your warshup.” P.M.:
Didn't you solemnly promise me, when I let you
on last time, that you would never get drunk
again?” M.: “Yesh, your-ronor; but I wush
“Djnk at the time, your-ronor. I wushn’t ’spon-
sioio for what 1 shaid.” Mackay, the American
uonanza King, is said to be the richest man in the
world. His fortune is estimated at £50,000 000;
"ext to him come Rothschild with £40,000 000;
' anderbilt £35 O’O.OOO: and the Duke of West-
minister, £16.000,000. jay Gould has only the In*
come from £10,000,000 to enable him to keep on
(rood terms with the stony-hearted butcher and
malignant baker of his native town. None of
these men made their money by writing poetry....
American fashion demands that walking-sticks
shall be of enormous size. Therefore, the limp
dude holds it not himself but has it carried by a
servant in gorgeous livery Captain Boy ton has
given up swimming and opened a bar-room. This
is another case of turning water into wine
Emerson says “ All mankind loves a lover ” That
may be true; but wide observation has taught us
that the love of all mankind doesn’t make the
lover any more contented so long as one little
snip of a seventeen-year-old girl says to him that
she can be to him only as a sister ... “ Is my hus-
band prepared to enter Heaven ? ” she asked
anxiously as the minister came from the sick
man’s chamber. “ I have laboured with him very
bard, my dear madam,” replied the good man,
gravely. “ but I would not like to assume the sole
responsibility of saying that he is. I shall speak
to some of my brother ministers at once and in-
vite them to a consultation; but I am afraid that
you will have to prepare yourself for the worst.”..
At Cork an onion was thrown at the Prince of
Wales. When the mail left, the detectives were
still on the scent .. .An American boarding-house
keeper advertises accommodation for “genteel
persons-excepting clergy.” The latest thing in
arbitration is that both the old and the new
Mahdis have sent deputations to the famous Sheikh
Senoussi in Tripoli, begging him to proceed to
Kordofan, and decide which is the real and which
the false Prophet. The sheikh does not decline
the honour, but will defer his award till such time
as a decisive victory has been won by one
or the other party. That Sheikh is a wise man. ..
A Husband got wind of the proposed elopement of
his wife, and frustrated it by keeping guard over
her silk dress. She wouldn’t run away in a calico
gown, and he knew it. ..A scientist has dis-
covered that drinking too much coffee will cause
bald heads. If this be so, what passes for coffee in
the average boarding-house is a blessing in dis-
guise as a hair-preserver “A harmonious
colour gives a feeling of repose in the home,” says
an art journal. Therefore if you have a red-
headed wife, furnish your house in the same
tint—Satan was early described as one who went
up and down the earth. Seeking whom, or what,
he might devour. He was the original dead-beat
and land-sale free-luncb-dend.
No need for you to linger there
Amid the waiting legions,
Who]mayst while golden trumpets blare,
Pass to the Happy Regions,
Where none play any naughty pranks,
Or, through the juioe of malt, err,
But all the time peg in at thanks
According to the Psalter !
And many a soul will grind its fangs;
And mutter as your’e let through;
“ Why—wot’s he done ? I’m sure it bangs
Old Nick, how some coves get through!
I wish I had the luck to pass
To where just now this Guest is—
Or, when 1 lived had gone to Mass—
Or now could wear—asbestos !”
Oh. happy, happy Private Guest!
How envied will your lot be
By those outside, who know you’re Blest,
And fear that they will not be!
How envied, too, by many saints,
Who snug in Heaven have been years
And years, nor till now made complaints—
Tough old angelic seniors !
For ’tis quite likely that there are
In Heaven saints by dozens
Removed from you in m«r,t far
As forty second cousins
In noint of blood, and some of these
Who’ve passed whole ages through.lhere
Will not too kindly bend their knees
Before a parvenu there.
But still they must—if suffering wins
And strong extreme denial—
If nothing cleanses human sins,
Like bitter pain and trial;
Then yours will be a guerdon rich,
For which we’d freely barter
The crowns and trumps and haloes which
Belong to any martyr.
Or any picked eleven from
The martyrs that we do know—
And heaps have been turned out at Rome
Before and after Bruno
(We don’t mean Giordano—who
Must with the hosts of sin burn,
Tet has been sung, and nobly, too,
By that bad person Swinburne).
For Heaven’s sake, in days gone by,
Men scourged their backs with briars,
And, like foul swine in some foul stye,
Slow sweltered filthy friars.
For Heaven, men have kept a vow
To root in dust, like wombats ;
For sweet Faith’s sake men have ere now
Been hewn to death in combats.
Of old, men gave away their goods,
Their lands, and beeves, and money,
And took to wearing monkish hoods
And shirts of bag called “ gunny;”
But yours has been a heavier cross
Than that of all these high lights
1 Of Faith —we reckon you the boss
Of even Simeon Stylites.
A thousand bitter ways of life
Were theirs, but, ah! the wages!
All joy for pain—all peace for strife,
These be their heritages.
And yours ? What was your deed ? O ur hat
Before your memory doffed is—
You stood wet through to hear the Ghat
Of Lord Augustus Loftus!!
And died. O mightiest martyr yet,
Throned high above tbe others—
Up there the earlier saints, we’d bet,
Seem but your little brothers I
We’d wager that your mansion will
A cut above the rest be;
While Bishops may in Hades grill.
You will Heaven’s Private Guest be!
PRIVATE GUEST.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The funeral of Private Martin Guest took
Place on Monday. He was one of the * boys’ who
furnished the * show ’ on Tuesday, one of the
many paraded in the Paddington Barrack Square
to listen to the soul-inspiring eloquence or the
Governor, and then dismissed. In the homely,
truthful words of his wife, he came home ‘ chat-
tering, blue with cold, his poor fingers unable to
grasp the bands of his own child.”— Exchange.
Poor Private Guest! But why say “ poor ?”
From seventy scpre and seven
We oould not spot a soul as sure
As yours of striking Heaven.
If through the Cross we clutch the Crown,
If sorrow wins Nirvana,
Thy couch is now plucked-angels’ down,
Thy food the Boss’s manna!
If suffering is the golden key
That opes the gate where entries
Are all too few, no need for thee
To have to “square” the sentries ;
No need for thee to scramble in
While Peter to damnation
Is packing off some child of sin
(Saved on the Old Translation),
Though crowded thick about that gate
“ As leaves in Yallambrossa,”
The countrymen of Gladstone wait
With countrymen of Rossa—
Though blood-washed sinners long grown
wise,
Long cleansed of early error,
Wait here and watch the smoke arise
From the great Pit of Terror;
Though many a Yank, here waiting, may,
In manner of his class, cuss
And chafe at so much dernedTlelay ;
Though Syrians from Damascus
Here wait, and waiting gnaw their nails,
Though Scotchmen here stand strong with
Strong whuskey’s smell—though sons of
Wales
Saved she—Bulgarians throng with ;
Though here in myriads wait the souls
Of children of .Rebecca;
Though Roman saints loaf round in shoals
With pilgrims hot from Mecca;
Though Quakers prowling round are seen
With decent mugs and serious,
With olive-growers Nazarene,
LOr from round Lake Tiberias;
Though scrunched Victorians bide their
time
With Muscovite and Lascar
And natives of the balmy clime
Of spicy Madagascar ;
Though Puseyites. as strong in grace
As e'er was Julius Cmsar
In war, here keep a patient place
With souls from Elbe or Weser;
Though waiting at that gate should be,
Among that host unnumbered,
Salvation souls just off the Spree
And blood-bought lambs from Lombard,
And souls with most infernal cheek,
And chances not a d worth
From Goulburn, also Milburn Creek,
And Queanbeyan, and Tamworth !
Though waits there many an eager soul,
Pan-Sclavio and Armenian,
And quietly and cheek by jowl
Sits Orangeman and Fenian ;
With many souls from all the world,
From Braid wood to theTrosachs,
Souls Esquimaux in sealskin curled,
And angry-souled Don Cossacks;
Though thronging close about that gate
Is many a fatted prelate
(Who wouldn’t have so long to wait
If he rang t'other bell at);
Though many a soul, upon whose head
Sits high the cloven mitre,
Begins to wish he still was dead,
And smell afar the nitre;
(Down here, of course, one may believe
And teach what the true Creed is,
If he has eyes and can perceive
In which the heaviest greed is;
But whether son of Rome you be,
Or whether son of Knox you’re,
When Peter don’t produce the key
You can’t feel so blessed cocksure”);
Though here a host of vast array—
The followers of Wesley—
Await with visages which say,
“ Heaven is for us expressly
While some say, “ Well, if I’m not blest!”
And some say different straightway,
Before them all, you, Private Guest,
Will pass the shining gateway,


Woman Items
“ The prettiest slipper for a lady’s foot is
made of undressed kid ■” In our tender drean a of
early childhood, the slipper and the undressed kid
play oonjoinlly an lmpo< tant part.
A reverend gentleman says “ Women
like to go to the society plays to see how the
actresses drees, and the men go to the variety
plays to see how they don't dress.”
New Hampshire (U.S.) men are easily satis-
fied. A resident of that. Biate recently died and
left a will bequeathing £3000 to his “ dear wife ” in
case she remained single for eight weeks after bis
death. He evidently knew what sort of a hairpin
she Was.
The wives of parsons are aspiring to the
title of “ Mrs. Reverend.” This is very nice. But
why stop here ? Such titles as Mrs. Poundkeeper
Johnson and Mrs. Inspeotor-of-Nuisanoes-at-Croa-
jlngolong Brown would dignity the attendance-
roll of many a rural ball-room.
A buxom, line-looking German maiden
was married in Philadelphia to an armless men
who placed the ring on her finger with his toes
The morbid taste which could Induce a woman to
bestow herself upon such a specimen of deformed
humanity is incomprehensible. Why did she
marry him ? And the only cause can bo, woman s
insatiable curiosity.
A “British Matron” in the Times pro-
tests against the exhibition of the fleshly pictures
In this year's Academy, and remarks that many of
theiti Would, ensure prosecution it placed on a
barrow in the street. Another purist wishes to
have all the Indecent pictures collected together,
and placed tn one room by themselves. This f X-
purgatory Idea (which recalls a well-known pas-
sage from Don Juan) would work well if any plan
could be devised for preventing loss of life from
the crush
The Royal Mail gives this anecdote
among other instances of telegraphic blundering:
—" A St. Louis merchant, while in New York,
received a telegram notifying that his wife
WAS 111. He sent a message to his family
doctor, aSking the nature of the sickness,
and if there wa§ any danger, and promptly
received the arswer: ‘NO danger) your wife has
had a child; if we can keep her from having
another to-night, she will do well.’ ” *‘ Child” had
been written For “chid.”
A good story about some prenuptial photos
of the Duke and Duchess of Albany, it appears
that the engaged pair were posed in an appro-
priately affectionate attitude by the photographer,
and so taken; but when a proof was printed from
Sie negative, the effect was too ludicrous, for the
uke appeared at first sight to be actually sitting
on the kn6e Of his brlde»eleot. As soon as the
Queen saw it, she laughed aloud at the camera s
little joke, and then ordered the negative to be
destroyed, being anxious that the optical Illusion
should not be enjoyed outside the family circle.
Mr. E. J. Baldwin, the Californian mil-
lionaire, should be as rich In matrimonial felicity
as in current coin. Miss Perkins, who is now sueing
him for breach of promise, was, as.she alleges,
induced to live with him in consideration of mar-
riage within a reasonable time, which time,
according to his estimate, has not yet arrived.
And as the millionaire has a wife now, his fourth,
and is 00 years old. It does not seem likely that the
time will arrive. Miss Perkins, having totted up
her losses, estimates them at the modest total of
£100,000* The defendant was 68 years old when
Miss P. consented to take up her abode with him.
The Victorian Women’s Suffrage Society
has Just held its first annual meeting, under iho
preslceioy of Dr. Bromby. The good old oclo*
genarlan doctor, as the ro:entlj-made bridegroom
of a very young bride, ought to know something
about the abilities of the ladies, but tome of the
questions hurled at him certainly did worry him a
bit. One fair questioner asked him " when, since
the world began, has not woman had a hand in the
governing of nations and the making of laws ?'
The doctor smiled blandly and gave It up. Without
going further Into the lemlnlne conuodrum, we
will readily admit that ever since the world began,
afld barring Adam, women have had a lot to do
with the making of the men.
She has dismissed her young man because
he A few days after she bad told him she
■would never e leak to him again, a very little hoy
brought a uote from the wretched young man.
The note road: “Faithless, yet still beloved, Fanny.
My sufferings are more than lean bear. I cannot
live without jour love. I have, therefore, just
taken poison, the effect of which 1 am already
beginning to foel. When you read these lines I
will already have joined the great silent majority.
I will be a corpse. See that I am decently burled,
and shed a silent tear over my tomb In remem-
brance of the happy days gone by. Your dead
George.” When the gal had finished reading the
note, she asked the boy who brought it what he
wus waiting for. "The gentleman,” he replied,
"told me to wait for an answer.”
The hearts of many snobs will be thrilled
by the announcement that Prince Henry of Bat-
tenburg is not only to be made a husband and pen-
sioner, but a “ royal highness” as well. This title
Is to be conferred onhlm by the Queen, together
with the Order of the Garter. A nobleman ot the
last generation was heard to declare that the
Garter was the only distinction worth having, as
it was never given for “any of your blanked
merit.” In these circumstances, there may be no
objection to Prince Henry having the Garter In-
deed, he might have two Garters, if he would con-
sider the double honour as worth half the pension
given to him by a country which does not contain
a native good enough to be the husband of a
Guelphlc-Coburg princess. It msy be asked: If
Henry is to wear the Garter, Is Beatrice to wear
the—ahem I-divided garment ?
Madame Jouriewski, the morganatic wife
of the late Emperor of Russia (uncultured people
would describe his domestic relationship to one
vigorous Anglo-Saxon word), h?a opened a literary
,s olon at Paris, which is well attended. Recently
she gave a dinner, at which Alexandre Dumas with
others, was present. After (to draw from the
vocabulary of Alfkbd’s picnic reporter) “ the
wants of the inner man had been attended to, ’
the party were sitting in the drawing-room and
at the feet of the hostess lay a magnillcent wolf-
hound, on which, she told her gues s she sat the
greatest store, as it was the gilt of theEmpoior.
Madame Jouriewssl was suddenly called out of
the room, aad everybody quickly getting up to
let her pass, the hound was rather in the way
“Mol,” said Alexanlro Dumas, pompously, ‘ je ne
tleas pas beaucoup aux femmes, j aimeasstz les
hommes, mals je deteste les chiens. ’ * Vralment,
Monsieur,” said bis hostess. “ En Russia nous ne
sommes pas si difflolies; il n’y a que les gens mal
(Slaves que nous n’almons pas.
Much has been written rc tbe physiology of
blushing. The “ British Medical Journal” lately
rece ved an inquiry •« to the measures to be taken
f,>r ,v>„ mir "f > chronic tendency to blush, and
one Of its oorreap indents take up the matter in a
VOf. ptttCu.C sckj Among other causes of blush-
ing ne gives prominence to the wearing ot too
thick underclothing, and especially of too thick
socks. He adds tbat the long-sleeved woollen
socks or jerseys are often a cause of blushing, and,
in fact, warm clothing in general, He does not
fail to remark that the blusher must choose in
this matter between the risk of rheumatism and
the annoyance of blushing. As collateral evidence
in support of his views he says—“An aunt of mine
had habitually a red nose from this cause only,
which disappeared when she took to thinner
stockings.” Regarding the matter from a social
standpoint, the writer says:—" The best plan for an
habitual blusher is to laugh and to be very gush-
ing, as for instance, on meeting an acquaintance
in i he street, when he colours up he will then feel
more at his ease than if be looked sheepish and
reserved.”
“Is there a lady in Sydney ? ” is the hys-
terical query promulgated in the Sydney D.T., and
then the question is followed up by the satisfac-
tory intelligence that if there is, she may find a
good cook in the person of the fair advertissr,
who has been five years with her last mistress, and
with whom she still corresponds. There is a mis-
tress for you. Often enough the master of the
house corresponds with the cook after her too
early departure, and ’not unfrequently the cook
oo-responds with the too-loving husband of her
mistress, but this is altogether a novelty. The
advertiser details her woes:—“Been in Sydney
four years. Had 12 situations. Mistresses drive
their slaves 15 hours a day at lowest wages, on
begrudged common food, and then grumble. I
could a tale unfold. I am a woman, not a horse;
know my work, and can doit; Any lady requiring
a competent and reliable servant, and willing to
treat her with common humanity, may address,”
&c , &c. What experience has she had of Sydney
situations, if 13 in four years is her total ? Many a
gay maiden from the Emerald Isle can score 13
in four weeks. Noticing her extravagance of
language, when every line costs money, wo tremble
to.think-of the yerbal prof usenees - which
might be expected when the relation of her woes
was unfettered by the sordid trammels of mone-
tary considerations.
Commenting on the Queen’s last “draw-
ing-room,” an English paper says:—“The air bit
shrewdly and the wind out like a knife. The fea-
tures of many of the presentees soon looked
pinched and wretched even under a liberal allow-
ance of face-powder and rouge, and the eoeos of
the poor little dibutantes were nipped into redness
by the pervading chilliness, provoking many an
idle jest from the sightseers who passed from car-
riage to carriage, peering in to feast their eyes on
flowers, furbelows, Snd flesh. As usual, there was
plenty of each to be seen, for most of the women,
vain of their finery and glorying in their semi-
nudity, deliberately invited inspection by using
no wraps whatever. If a burlesque, actress were
asked to exhibit her bare neck, shoulders, bust,
and arms from a carriage to a crowd of clawing
women and sniggering men, she would indignantly
refuse; but our English aristocracy are not so
Srudish. They lengthen their skirts, certainly,
ut only with what they rob from their bodices,
and they appear clothed down to their waist in
little else but the virtue which they inherit with
their blue-blood, their blushes being only of the
kind that the rouge-pot supplies or the winterly
air locates on their noses. One irreverent specta-
tor remarked, ‘I say. Bill, how much will these
gals have to take off when they go to bed to-
night?’ ‘Takeoffl’ was the reply; ‘they’ll have
to put something on.’ ”
There is a woman in Wellington (N.'Z.) who
can reckon up a man easier than any two of her
sex south of the line. And yet she is under 30 years
of age. But look at her experience. First she mar ■
t ried one Jjuehand, Then, hading that bo had
another wife living, she quitted him and married
a second time. The second husband did not come
up to her ideal, and so she shifted from him also
and married again. This was bigamy—but, her
troubles! The second bust and got a divorce, ana
of course the third marriage was invalid. With a
light heart, and confident in her own resources*
she “slung” the third husband in bis turn*
and married a fourth tithe. This is wh»te
we call enterprise. By the time she is 40)
years of age she will—if ske goes on like this—be ;
able to point to a procession or a mass-meeting of
citizens, and, with a comprehensive wave of her
hand, say, “dome of my former husbands.” And,,
by the Pope, she will need to have a thundering,-
good memory, or she will be marrying some or
them over again In mistake. Tnere are a lot ot'
queer reflections involved in this view of the,
question which we would dive into with delight-,
if we had not a certain amount of wood
to out up before the missus comes home. At,
the same time, we cannot conclude without won-
dering at the whim of Fortune which give th<" .
woman all the chances while thousands ot her s, x
in Tasmania are compelled to bo content all their
lives with the company of cats aud poodles. Hut,
if they knew as much about men as we do, they
would bear up against the deprivation. And now
we must really tackle that wood.
There was a time when plenty of fun war
to be had by attending the Sydney Police Courts,
it was when prosperous tradesmen became J.P. s,
and attended in funereal clothes to show their
fellow-citizens that a knowledge of law was not
incompatible with a mastery of the arts of ‘ blow-
ing ” veal or “ sanding ” sugar. They had mastered
the “law” and the “profits." But the advent of
the “Stipendiaries ” has changed all this, and now
it is to the Police Courts of South Australia we
must go for forensic humour. At the Yorke S
Peninsula (8.A.) Temple of Justice, the other day,
th° case of Brlston u. Smith was decided. Briston s
wife, Harriet Alice, made two nightgowns for
Smith’s “missus,” and charged 3s. 9d. each for work
and labour done. Smith paid 6s.. and wanted a re-
ceipt In full. Under a searching cross-examination
he admitted that he’d been married seven or
eight months, and during all that time never wore
a lady s night-dress. No such example having,
so far, been known in South Australia of a man’s
being married for such a time without posturing
before the glass in feminine wraps, the Bench
decided that ne either neglected his opportunities
or was not wedded sufllciently long to make him
an authority on ladies’ dress of any kind, particu-
larly the snowy robes of night. “At this stage of the
proceedings,” the report says, “several night-
dresses of a highly ornate description were on
view.” The information is tantalisingly meagre,
for it leaves us entirely in doubt as to whether the
ladies to whom they belonged were Inside them at
the lime. During all this time ihe court was
crowded by the leading citizens of Yorke’s Penin-
sula, who expressed their opinions freely on the
attractiveness of plain as opposed to fancy night-
gowns. The young and men were
content with the most primitive simplicity, but
those whose marital experience extended over
years, appeared to have a leaning towards lace,
bugks, frills, and tucks. Smith was of the former,
and as Harriet Alice’s things were of the most
unostentatious pattern compatible with decorum
and comfort, he won his case. Yes; ’tis to South
Australia we must now go for the Police Court
acumen denied us in Sydney and Melbourne by the
chilling stolidity of the stipendiary ” beaks.”
- • • •
It is the rule among Turkish women never
to be seen in the streets unless closely veiled. A
little ago, however, 2000 of them assembled in a
crowd outside the door of the Minister of Finance,
and, unveiled, harangued that official for neglect-
ing to hand over the back pay owing to their hus-
bands and brothers.... Last y ear 300 of the (esthetic,
ethereal, feminine creatures who attend Vasar Col-
lege, the American home of sublimated yearning
after the Unknowable, devoured 1563 gallons ot
oysters and 33,000 clams. Each girl ate 371lbs. of
fresh meat, and drank 300 quarts Of milk. Pickles,
apple-sauce, and various other commodities
reached similarly startling totals.
HAPPY AUSTRALIANS.
Auckland, New Zealand. — Mr. ALL1STBR
BROWN says: I had rheumatism so severe I could
scarcely lift my arm. I tried several liniments
without relief. At last I tried St. Jacobs Oil.
After using less than half a bottle I was entirely
free from pain, and have bad no return of it.
Melbourne, Victoria.— Mr. BERNARD MUR-
PHY, Champion Youth Walker of Australian,
writes to the Melbourne Sportsman: On Monday,
previous to the match with Ormes. while walking
1 was attacked with the “stitch.” I could not walk
100 yards, and gave up. I was advised to try at.
Jacobs Oil. Rubbing a little on my side, 1 have
not been troubled since, and won my match.
Christchurch, New Zealand.— Mr. EDWARD
LAW, 43 Collins-street, states that he had suffered
for twenty years with Rheumatism. He derived
immense benefit from St. Jacobs Oil, and is confi-
dent of a complete cure.
Sydney, New South Wales.— The Sydney Herald
says: Spontaneous ebullitions of praise from the
champion ’cyclist of England and Australia, the
champion youth walker of Australia, the sculler
who held the championship of the world, the
champion sprinter, a cricketer of universal repu-
tation, and a host of less-distinguished athletes
attribute their success, in a great measure, to St.
Jacobs Oil.
Dunedin, New Zealand.— Mr. D. BENJAMIN,
Jeweler, Do wllng-street, writes: I suffered acutely
from a severe contraction of the nerves. I used
St. Jacobs Oil, rubbing it well In, and I awoke next
morning with hardly a trace of the pain. A second
application cured me completely. A bad chilblain
on the ear was removed by one rubbing.
Brisbane, Queensland.— Mr. R, B. J ARMAN writes
that he sprained his wrist severely, and it was
swollen and painful. He applied St. Jacobs Oil.
On the following oay the pain had subsided.
Sydney, New South Wales.—J, D. FLOWER, Bal-
main, writes that he suffered excruciating pain
from rheumatic gout for some time. He tried St.
Jacobs Oil, and found It a valuable curative pre-
paration. His wife used it for pains In the back
with immediate relief.
Wellington, New Zealand— Madame MARIE
CARANDINI, the popular musical artist, writes:
I have used St. Jacobs Oil, and find much relief in
case of rheumatism, and indeed, all neuralgic
pains.
Launcestoii. Tasmania— Prof. J. L. WEST,
Master of the Gymnasium, recommends to athletes
generally the use of St. Jacobs Oil for aches, pains,
sprains, bruises, etc , from his experience with the
same among his pupils.
Invercargill, New Zealand.— Mr. W. H, MATHIE-
SON, Dee-street, states: One of my apprentices
named Wotten ook very ill with neuralgia, H®
was confined to bed, and became delirious through
pain. Several remedies were used without effect.
St. Jacobs Oil was tried, and after one application
he got immediate relief.
Brisbane, Queensland— Mr. J. BAIN, Clarence-
Street, states; I contracted a severe cold. My
back suffered severely, and an intense pain In my
side developed a hard lump which rapidly in-
creased. I could neither walk nor sit, and tried an
sorts of lotions without relief. I got St. Jacobs
Oil and tried it. The second bottle effected a com-
plete cure.
The system is strengthened and the nerves toned
by the use of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Art Union of Moss Yale, in aid of Widow
and Orpan Fund of Berrlma Masonic Lodge.
Tickets, 20s. Will shortly be drawn. Apply
once for tickets. J. 8. Hyams, Sec., Moss ale.
The wonderful cordial, Wolfe's, Schnapps, will
d$iye away ail physical ailments.
THE MAGPIE AND THE CAT.
A FABLE.
“I have observed,” remarked a cat to a disreputable magpie, who was safe in his
cage, “ that your profanity increases with age, and it is impossible for me to take my
usual stand on the top of yonder fence and warble fprth undisturbed, as of old, the
yea’nings which fill this breast for the love of the fairest tortoise-shell in the terrace.
1 should therefore esteem it a favour if you would limit your discourse within the
bounds of religion and decency.” “ Dom yon oat,” returned the magpie in the tones
he heard every night from Mr. Duncan M‘Qregor his owner., “ Before you come around
here with your ‘mag’ about profanity, know that the few feeble words with which I
adorn my observations are but imitations of sounds which reach my ear from every
back window along the terrace, when the weary night-cap of middle-aged slumber
appears to greet your serenade with the bluchers and bootjacks of wrath. Reform
your midnight amours, and I will consider about the choice of language. Dom yon
cat,” he concluded. “ I should like to come in and have the benefit of your conversa-
tion,” continued the oat, eyeing the fastenings. “It is with profound regret,” re-
turned the magpie, “ that I have to inform you that I am looked in ; but if you will
meet me to-morrow in the broad daylight, I have no doubt that we may come to some
understanding. You will observe that my wings are clipped, but I have discovered a
hen’s nest full of game chickens, which are wired off. If you will favour me by climb-
ing up yonder tree and shaking me down a few apples, it will afford me extreme grati-
fication to join you in a little reciprocity, and wrench off wire enough to enable you
to proceed to exploit that nest.” And so for four successive nights, peace reigned in
the terrace; the bootjacks and oaths of the tenants responded as usual to Tom's dulcet
serenade by night, and rang with the copied profanity of the magpie by day. The
game chicks were eaten two a day, and the magpie put back the wire ; the cat shook
down the contract apple and went home to sleep the sleep of a just oat that had too
much chick in his stomach to care for mouse. At last the chibks gave out; and the
cat came around to discuss the situation, and to arrange for a revised treaty. The
magpie received him with shocking oaths, and reviled him with having more than
Russian disregard for the code of honor. “ Pass me out that half-picked bone to stay
the ravages of hunger,” implored the cat. “I’ll see you dom’d first,” returned the
magpie, “Hunger is above all honor. I have but sufficient to stay my own appetite
till the morning,” and he picked the bone clean, swore an oath or two, and went to
sleep. The cat, meanwhile, reconnoitred the cage, and found the door ajar. He en-
tered, and seizing his friend by the throat, skipped over the fence with him, chewing
his neck all the way until he had reached the shambles, where he usually plucked his
fowl. Fixing his claws in the bird’s neck, so that he could only swear in a husky
fashion, and biting out a bit of breast, he said, “I take it that the flavour of apple
which permeates this craw is in no small degree owing to my exertions; you have the I
dying satisfaction of knowing that you afford me pleasure in your death. I would
gladly spare your life, but, in your own words, ‘hunger is above all honor.’ ” “ But
1 have two arguments,” gasped the magpie—and as the cat coiled up on thehearthrug
and licked his lips, and listened to the gentle purr inside, he said drowsily, “I believe
you were about to remark? ”—and fell asleep. Moral (by the oat); A bird in the
stomach is worth two arguments in the head.


THE "AUSTRALIAN POET," MR.
D. B. W SLADEN.
Mr. Sladen has once more assaulted the
world with a volume of verse. The frequent repe-
tition, of even a small aggravation wrecks the
patience of the most peaceful. Time after time Mr.
Bladen has backed up against his bank account, and,
loading his intellectual mitrailleuse, has fired off
things which he fondly imagined to be poetical
pellets. He aimed at the public tympanum. He
was satisfied if he hit the public anywhere. Now
and again we lifted a spent pellet and examined
it. It tasted like crude opium, It looked like worn
boot-heel—when thrown against the wall it
Bounded as an empty jam-tin. Yet we were aware
that several of the weekly newspapers of Aus-
tralia called the pellets truly poetical. The Mel-
bourne Leader talked of their sustained level of
excellence; the Federal Australian, of glad-
ness at finding them coming along ; the Queens-
lander, of their clear poetic ring. We know, in
the first place, that most of these papers lay them-
selves out for ladling to their readers poetry only
on the terms that they must get it gratis. We
know that they don’t get anything on such terms
worth publishing. We know, in the second place,
that these papers are better Judges of the intel-
The reader with any Imagination will be able,
from this excerpt, to dress the others. Before,
however, he can expect his description to be re-
ceived as poetry, he wilt require to pass it through
the Sladenesque editorial ordeal.
• m •
All these peope ait round the fireplace one
Christmas Eve. The fire was, of course, unlit, and
why they should have sat “ round it.” is not ex-
plained. But the subject of Boccaccio’s “ De-
cameron ” comes up. They think they will have a
Decameron of their own. With Boccaccio, there
were ten persons and ten days. At Waratah, there
were 14 persons and eight days. Still they deter-
mined to have a Decameron. There was a Pro-
fessor among them. What was the use of having
a professor if they could not have any kind of
literature they wanted ? The Professor agreed to
toll a tale every night, and on some nights two. In
the days they picnicked and hunted kangaroos
and rabbits. That makes up the “ Summer
Christmas.”
* * *
“ Saida, the Beloved of the Caliph,” is the
first tale. She is a handsome girl. She marries an
Arab. Her father takes her away. The Arab
appeals to the Caliph's magistrate. The magistrate
himself wants to keep her. He appeals to the
Caliph. The Caliph himself wants to keep her.
She prefers the Arab. To him she goes. That’s
What part of the aforesaid' girl is the strand ?
What watery conception of existence can a man
have who travels through the land with a wander-
ing bark in his swag ?
• • •
A Sunday intervened about here, and
there was no tale. This Is about the first time that
the rigidity of Sabbath observance has won our en-
thusiastic approval. We wished every day a Sun-
day. Then we fell on “ San Sebastian.” Someone
says:—
“Seel
Full half our men are lower,
Beneath that with’ring shower
Of canister and grape.
Will none of us escape ?
Oh, comrades, this is hell!
Did you see that bombshell
Blow half a company
Into e ;ernity ?”
We put our bands in our pockets to save our
knuckles. We put our feet on the table to save
further damage to our soles. Someone hears us
groaning. She enters and enquires. We say—
“ Oh dearie, dearie me,
Can you plug up D. B. ? ”
But knowing not our troubles, she retires.
* •
Then we find ourselves alone with “ Sap-
pho.” There are in this piece of verse, which has
school boy, obtained a Grammar School scholar-
ship, a college bursary. University distinctions,
and with honour was called to the Bar. But he was
a colonial. The Professor who had come from home
to his professorship “ was every inch a gentle-
man.” Smith wasn’t. Smith could plead well, but
as a gentleman be was a failure. In everything,
from dancing to courting, the Professor topped
him. This professor is wonderfully like what
Douglas Sladen would like himself to be thought.
• * »
By his execrably bad verse and other
things the Professor wins, if nothing else, a
woman. Still, bad verse is a bad thing. It is said
poetry consists in the thought. Sometimes it
does. When it does, the writer can be negligent of
verse. But poetry often nestles in mellifluous
utterance. In the skylark’s song there is poetry.
There is poetry In the ripple of the stream. Quote
the thought of these! There Is thought there, to
the mind that brings a thinking faculty, neverthe-
less. Out of this springs the necessity for
rhythm. The man who has anything to say should
strive to say it musically. Dull fellows are on all
sides of us now, swashing bad English and wry
syntax, and gettting their stuff to stand as leading
matter in mechanically-conducted newspapers. A
time will come when those people will have to
hawk oysters. Let us hope Mr. Sladen will have a
basket then. He will do more good than he does
by his verses now. But life is short. We have
Adventures of a Sydney Tram-car Passenger.
HE HAS MONET, BUT HASN’T A TICKET.
lectual powers displayed In dead-wall posters than
of the language of love and of strife that thrills—
and will thrill—till the end comes. With such
knowledge, and with Mr. Sladen’s confession
that nearly all his poems “have passed through
the ordeal of editorial criticism In one or other of
the Journals of Australia,” we do not, it may be
inferred, place overmuch value on the judgment
of these Australian papers. In reviewing one of
Mr. Sladen’s works, the Melbourne Argus, after
quoting th« confession given above, says, with
what appears to us to be fine irony, “ it is unne-
cessary for us to do more than refer to the vari-
ous points in the printer’s department.”
• ♦ ♦
Still, we felt uneasy with our relations
towards Mr. Sladen. We had twitted him about
the pellets that came our way. We had jocularly
asked him, off and on, to die. He went on, how-
ever. He steamed to England in the “ Ballaarat.”
We thought that the next best thing to dying. He
had been posturing as an Australian poet. We
believed he would then start posturing as an
English poet. England is rich enough in poetic
power to stand it. But he didn’t set up as an Eng-
fllsh poet. He “ froze on ” to us. He set to to
escribe Australian scenery, to describe Australian
men, to exhibit Australian manners, to be the
voice of our birds in the trees, of our life on the
plains, of our winds, of our rains. When we heard
of his latest assault in this way, we went and got
that much. The second poem the Professor re-
cites is called “ Odysseus in Scheria.” It is drawn
from the Greek, and is, as far as it is poetical,
Greek. The imagery Is from the garrulous old
Bard. We have “the sun’s tired horses sinking to
rest behind the hill of oeean,” We don’t like
“sinking” to rest, but the rest is Homer’s. We
have also talk about “the gods that hold their
solemn state on the broad hill of heaven.” But
take away Homer, and Odysseus in Scheria is
Sladen in Victoria. The “Song of the Love-sick
Nausloaa ” is also Grecian. A man who has read
through those old sorrows cannot but breathe in
the poetic atmosphere. But his claim to being a
poet must rest on his carrying something in, and
not on his simply exuding. And if, under desper-
ate stress, he make up his mind to exude, there
should be a penalty on exuding into a couplet like
this:—
“ As when a prince ventured in foraying
Too far, and fell to Paris’s bowstring/’
The “ Legend of Helen at Sparta ” is fairly well
told. There is something in it here and there
which would make one wish Sladen were a poor
man. If the demands of art were powerless,
pale Hunger might eubj agate his vagrancy.
The next poem is the “ Last of the Bri-
tons.” Readers, remember what Schlegel once
said about Waltar Scott’s verse. If Schlegel read
Sladen he would klU himself. The man who can
incidental merits, eccentric changes from dactylllo
to spondeio measure. The best part is the dream.
There figure a merman and mermaid. Matthew
Arnold has worked this well. Tennyson has also
done it well, although more than half a century
ago. Mr. Sladen has read Tennyson But he gives
us something that reminds us of Tennyson, but
nothing that will remind us of himself. Tennyson
makes nls mermaid say—
“ For I would not be kissed by all who wou) 1 list.’
Mr Sladen’s mermaid says:
‘ Their kieses I loathed, and I loathed their love.’»
But it is not resemblances to Tennyson we blame
Mr. Sladen for. We wish, indeed, he had given us
more resemblances. We object to his departures
from Tennyson, Down where the mermen are,
Tennyson has it:
“ There would be neither moon nor star;”
Sladen has it:
“But the sun shines through the breast of the
blue.”
According to Tennyson, immortality would die in
the hearts of the mermen for love of the mer-
maids. According to Sladen, those won cannot
die. Tennyson deals with delightful vagueness.
Sladen makes his mermaid say she has:
“ No villages where great men were reared
While yet their lot was low.”
THE DEPARTMENT INSIST ON TICKETS; THE BINCH
DECIDE THAT THE QUEEN’S MONEY ISN’T A LEGAL
TENDER TO A TRAM-GUARD,
HE EXPIATES HIS HORRIBLE CRIME.
lingered too long on him. We’re about done. The
Professor is married. Hark tothedrivelll gbard:
“ The weary reader will not care
To go to the upholsterer
With Lil, to see how the refined
A.nd graceful tenor of her mind
Declared Itself in ottomans,
Or took an airy flight in fan*.”
What, in solemn earnestness, we emphatically sav,
is that we would like to have gone with LU to the
upholsterer, and to the chemist and to the iroc-
monger. We would have honed to make our-
selves happy. We’d get Lil to put the b trd on the
upholsterer’s sofa, to pour into him the cheml-fs
laudanum, and, while the un uiisIohI Idiot slept, to
chop him up into little pieces with the iron-
monger's hatchet. That wou'd stay these assaults
on the public. That would save from shame Aus-
tralian poesy.
They talk of closing Adelaide University
and letting the building as a whisky-mill. There
will be many objectors to this sonsibie plan. Bur
these objectors forgot that cwo and a-half pro-
fessors per student is ralher a ridiculous position
even for an outside University like that of Ade-
laide. People who favour the scheme urge that
the professorial salaries would suffice to defray
the expense of sending every prominent boy from
the local aoedemieslto Oxford or Cambridge, and
The Kangaroos’ Ball.
his book. We decided to Judge no more by pellets.
We would examine the full charge of his mitrail-
leuse. We would ascertain whether it was we or
some others who were soft in the brain.
His great work is called “A Summer
Christmas.” Let us to it heartily, as becomes
the theme. If the thread on which the beads are
strung be not a poem, he announces that the beads
themselves are poems. That represents a good
percentage of poetry. We are therefore " in it.”
♦ ’ • •
The scene is laid at Waratah, a fictitious
station in a western district of Victoria. Waratah
la a rather peculiar place. Although off in the
back-blocks, where there are shanties and wooden
structures in the neighbourhood, the squatter has
erected a bluestone building for Divine worship.
His name is Forte. He has made most of his
money in the West of Queensland. He has his
wife with him, and a governess, and four children,
grown up, and, at this Christmas time, seven visi-
tors. Four of the lot are English-born, and ten
Australian. The poet describes a few of them In
spoiled prose, in which “ verse has been inserted.”
Phil., for instance—
“ Dressed much like an Englishman
Of well-bred fashion, spick and span
In gloves and hats, and with his coats
Well-cut, but not extreme, his boots
The best that could be bought.”
read this poem through without getting Into the
hands of the police should be made President of
the Peace Protection Society. We read part of it,
and friends came and tied our hands behind our
back. When loosed off we plunged into —
“ There is not much variety
In shooting rabbits where they He
As thick as negroes in the hold
Of a slave-schooner used of old.”
This tranqullised us. We were out of the realm of
madness and into the region of idiots again. We
passed through “ Ethel ” as we remember once,
years ago, passing through a luna* ic asylum. We
came on the place where Lil has accepted the love
of the Professor. This lady had, as Mr. Sladen
says-
“ Been wooed three times before.
And each time thrown the lover o’er
With much reluctance ”
Whatever satisfaction she found in the overtures
of these was, however, as the poet observes—
“ Not a patch upon
That which she just had undergone,
And was prepared to undergo
Till further notice,”
At the hands of the Professor. The Professor ap-
pears to believe that if one be among fools one
ought to be a fool also. He therefore says—
“ A stranger in a far-off land
Drifts till he finds a friendly strand
In some fair gentle girl like you
To moor his wandering bark unto.”
Mr. Sladen's conception of how mermaids and
mermen conduct themselves is noticeable, not as
regards fidelity to nature, or poetic fitness, or any-
thing of that sort, but because it shows that, with
good models before him, he, with crass careless-
ness, slides off on his own limp. His next salute is
the story of the “ Seven Fairies.” This is in bal-
lad metre. The man who uses this metre should
have something very interesting to tell. Mr.
Sladen may argue that It was the fashion to write
reams of this verse a couple of centuries ago. We
admit it. But the writers died a couple of cen-
turies ago. Why didn’t Sladen die then ?
...
Mr. Sladen pretends to describe Austra-
lian scenery. After dinner at Waratah some go
off to have “ a snooze or sprawl," but Will gives
his dogs a run “ in a plantation where the sun and
wind were broken by the trees.” Thirteen lines
after he says there was “ not a breeze from morn
to eve ” of that day. After tea, one night, he
makes the visitors stay inside the house, as “ they
were afraid to face the hothouse atmosphere of
the verandah I ” He makes “ Lil ” pick up snakes.
That is like Henry Kingsley’s “ Gertrude.” He
brings us to a racecourse. He shows nothing. He
brings us to a cat-fight, to a rabbit-dnve, to duck-
shooting and zabber-catching, but he shows us
nothing. Two figures alone stand out from his
work. One is Lachlan Smith, a barrister of the
Supreme Court ofiYiotorla. He had been a State-
support him there for five years. Id this case
the boy would obtain a degree worth having. At
present the degree he does obtain is comparatively
valueless. And the University really tulflls no
purpose earning a wise man’s consideration, only
serving as a stalking-horse for pompous official-
dom, and to give the Hon. Tun Elder the cbance
of sending In an occasional cheque, aocomoanied
by original remarks such as “ strike while the iron
is hot.”
Wolfe’s Schnapps taken occasionally is an admir-
able remedy agaiust coughs and colds. Accept
nothing but Wolfe s.
A NEW DISCOVERY.—Hoffman’s Eucalyptol
(legistered) “ Mixture and Injection.” They will
positively cure all kidney diseases and disorders,
all urinary complaints and discharges, irritation,
scalding, Inflammation, gravel, pains In the back,
&o. A case incurable In nine months was actually
cured in eight days with Hoffmann’s Eucalyptol
Injection (“ purely vegetable ”). Hoffman’s Bu-
oalyptol Mixture or Injection contain no mineral,
no sandalwood, no balsam, or anything injurious
to the most delicate constitution of either sex.
Ask for Hoffman’s, and take no substitute.
Wholesale; B. Prosser and Co.; Elliott Bros. Re-
tail : All principal chemists and storekeepers
Price, 2s. fid. and 3a. fid.*
The human system will be braced up against
changes of temperature by drinking the well
known tonic, Wolfe's Schnapps.


POISON IN THE
THE CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATION’S
CUP!
Gradually, but surely, since the
day when the Somersetshire far-
mer’s wife—having received a pre-
sent of the “ TEA” that was then
an unknown luxury, presented it
to her husband carefully cooked,
in the form of a plate of cabbage—
the said Tea has assumed the po-
sition of the most important, and
certainly the healthiest of beve-
rages, “the Cup that Cheers but
not Inebriates.” It is only of late
years, however, that tea drinkers
have been awakened to the fact
that there is danger even in That
Cup, and that the market may be
as readily filled with deleterious
compounds under the name of
Tea, as it may with spurious and
poisonous wines or spirits.
It is to remove the risk of these
impositions teat the
CALCUTTA TEA
ASSOCIATION
and its objects are now presented
to the public notice for the pur-
pose of supplying consumers with
PURE AND UNADULTE-
RATED INDIAN TEA,
beyond all suspicion of its being
in any way or in the slightest de-
gree tampered with. That there
exists a necessity for this project,
to prevent consumers from the
risk of drinking what is nothing
moro nor less than a Poison in its
most insidious and destructive
form, has been recently proved
beyond ad shadow of doubt.
~ The Victorian Press has. from
time to time, pointed out that
large quantities of teas imported
into this market from China were
adulterated to an extent that ren-
dered them nearly as injurious to
the consumers as the deadly
Opium.
Read the following report of the
Chief Analyst of the Technologi-
cal Museum, Melbourne, on 5435
half-chests, quarters and boxes of
CHINA IB a. sold by auction in
Melbourne on last January:-
“All the samples are of very
inferior description, and are, in
my opinion, unlit for human con-
sumption They all contain rot-
ten and exhausted leaves, leaves
that have none of the general
characters of tea-leaves, dust (not
tea dust), gum, starch and foreign
colour, seeds of various kinds,
stalks, bark, sand and earthy
maiter, hair and other matter ol
animal origin.
“J. 008MO NEWBBRY,
“ 3. 80., C.M.G.”
Mr. Dunn, the recognised Tea
Analyst, reports on 975 packages
of China Tea received into this
market:-“ It was difficult to find
a perfect and genuine tea leaf in
the samples, and that the stuff
consists for the most pait of de-
cayed, exhausted, or foreign
fother than tea) leaves, foreign
stems, tea sweepings, held to-
gether in little nodules by starch,
paste and pieces of brick busk and
nutshells. All this rubbish was
faced with plumbago, to give it a
black appearance, end was totally
until for dietary purposes,”
t,You can now obtain
PURE TEA FROM INDIA,
A BRITISH POSSESSION,
without being dependent upon
foreigners in the first instance,
and being poisoned by them in the
second.
THE CALCUTTA TEA ASSO-
CIATION has been formed for
the purpose of offeri* g to the
Merchants, Grocets, and Con-
sumers PURE INDIAN TEAS,
chosen for us hy the CALCUTTA
TEA SYNDICATE, and guar-
anteed Free from all Mixture of
Chinese, Japan, or other deleteri-
ous Tea, as shown hy the /■ How-
ivy Letter from Messrs. James
Henty and C<*., a firm if the
highest standing, a'd agents for
the Calcutta Tea Syndicate, Little
Collins street West :—
“TO THE SECRETARY OP TF1F
CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIA-
TION.
••26 King-street, Melbourne.
“ 'tyour request we have re-
peatedly inspected your large
stock of teas, and found same all
PURE INDIAN TEAS, selected
in India by the Calcutta Tea Sy n-
dicate.—Yours, &c.,
“JAMES HENTY and Co.
“ P.8.— We have also transferred
to you the stock and sole agency
of Sibthorp’s Indian Teas, as sup-
plied to visitors during the whole
of the International Exhibition.”
If stronger evidence be wanted
we can supply it. Read the fol-
lowing There can be no stronger
testimony adduced to the unrival-
led superiority of our Indian Teas
over all other competitors. Messrs
Newberyand Dunn, the Govern-
ment Analyfcal Chemists, report
as follows:—
“REPORT ON THREE SAMPLES
OP INDIAN TEA RECEIVED
FROM THE CALCUTTA TEA
ASSOCIATION.
“The above samples have been
carefully examined by us. They
are ABSOLUTELY PURE, and
we may add that even the lowest
•it
m y*t
j'lfe - -aMT
: ■,- c: • ■
quality of your Tea has a higher
extract than any Packet Teas we
have examined.
“ J. COSMO NEWBERY.
“ FREDERICK DUNN.”
It will he thus seen that the
highest and best authority pro-
curable pronounces even our
lowest priced teas at 2s. 6d. per
)b. to be superior in purity and
analysis to any of those above
mentioned teas at 3s. 6d. per lb.
Further comment is superfluous.
Tho teas of the Calcutta Tea As-
sociation are the produce of up-
wards of 50of the most celebrated
Indian tea estates, which, blended
together, make the most perfect
tea the world can produce. They
are blended by competent tea
tasters, assisted by analytical
chemists of the highest standing.
Every inducement is given to
the merchants and storekeepers
throughout the colonies to keep
our teas in stock, but should con-
sumers not be able to obtain them
from their regular grocer, they
can purchase at our wholesale
warehouses, as a sample, any
quantity tiom half a pound up-
wards.
Those living at a distance who
cannot be supplied locally can
have sent direct from the Mel-
nourne wholeiale warehouses any
quantity from 10lb. weight up-
wards,.lreight and carriage free,
to the nearest port or railway
station on receipt of bank dralt
or post ollice order made payable
to the Calcutta Tea Association or
order.
Our teas are packed in and
Jib. packets, 5, 10 and 351b. tin
canister ; halt-chests in lead of
401b and upwards.
The teas sent out by us, duty
paid in Victoria and New Soutn
Wales, are of three prices, and are
sold in any of the above size pack-
ages, at 3s. 6d,, 3s„ and 3*. 6d. per
lb. Slbthorp’s mixture at 3s. 6d.
per lb., in packages of not less
than lOib.
On account of the difference in
duty the prices in New Zealand,
and Queensland are 3s. 9s., 3s. 3d,
and 3s. 9d„ per lb., duty paid.
When purchasing ask for
THE CALCUTTA TEA AS-
SOCIATION'S PURE
INDIAN TEAS.
See that you are supplied with
them, Don’t be prevailed upon
to take any other tea. If you can-
not be supplied in one store try
another.
*;e ware of piracy and im itations.
All our leas are marked THE
CALCUTTA TEA A8SOC1 v-
TION S PURE INDIAN TEAS.
1 he price and weight, with in-
structions for brewii g,are marked
on the end of each package.
Hitherto the Australians have
had no option, but were forced to
purchase trash called tea which
was shipped here from China and
other ports; now they have an
opportunity of purchasing the
pure Indian teas supplied by the
Calcutta Tea Association, which
is the most perfect tea that can
be produced.
There is no instance on record
of Indian Tea being adulterated.
We will, at the request ot any of
our patrons, send, or allow them
to send, a sealed packet of our
teas to an analytical chemist, and
if found to be adulterated we will
forfeit £500 to the charities.
We are sorry to say that some
Of the storekeepers who sell our
Teas try to prevail upon custo-
mers to purchase other Teas, for
the simple reason that they make
a larger profit.
The Teas of the Association are
all labelled “ THE CALCUTTA
TEA ASSOCIATION’S PURE
INDIAN '1EA,” and the prices
are marked on every package.
The public will please ask for
them, and take no others. They
are guaranteed pure and of the
highest class, ai d such Teas can
only be supplied by an Association
having command, of the produce
of not le s than Fifty Tea Estates,
which are blended so as to pro-
duce the most perfect teas in the
world.
NOTICE ISHEREBYGIVEN
TO ALL PERSONS
Either
PACKING or SELLING TEAS
With an
IMITATION OF OUR
WRAPPERS
That they will be
PR OSECUXEU.
And that this notice now given
will be used to prove a guilty
knowledge against ail persons
either imitating our wrappers or
selling teas in any wrapper with a
colorable imitation of ours.
J B. TAYLOR, Secretary,
CA LCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATION
38 K1NG-ST., MELBOURNE.
PURE INDIAN TEA
m go much further than the ordinary Teas, and consequently less need he used. It Is w» II to bear this in mind
,T * PUre ,ndlan Tea 18 U8ed to ° much ,na y he put In the pot, audits very goodness may create a prejudice
INDIAN TEA PROPERLY BLENDED,
€hlt«man?but wlllir/uS™ drlEttto that never again by choice will you revert to the shady, insipid, doctored teaeof Joht
Calcutta Tea Association’s Pure. Unadulterated, Fragrant,
Full-Bodied Indian Teas.
Made In the Indian Gardens of old John Bull.
, SOLD BY ALL RESPECTABLE TEA DEALERS AND GROCERS IN ALL THE COLONIES,
TRY A 101b. TIN OF THIS TEA AND YOU WILL NEVER USE ANY OTHER SORT.
Supplied wholesale by R. BOWMAN and CO., Melbourne; WHTTB COCNSELL and CO., Adelaide; NEILL BROS., Dunedin, N.Z.; JOHNSTON and CO.. Wellington N7 t
and by Wholesale Merchants In all Hie ( o'onirs. * I
GEORGE GRIFFITHS and CO., Merchants. Bridge-street, Sydney, have been appointed
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Walesa


JACE THOHPGON,
A.J.O. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SALOON.
91 Zing-street.
N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA AND INSECTICIDE.
-
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA, the Universal Remedy for INDIGESTION, FLATULENCE,
ACIDITY oi the STOMACH, DILIODS HEADACHE, and a MOST GENTLE APERIENT for
Invalids and Children.
EF* See Medical Opinions Accompanying each Bottle,
Sold by oil Chemists and Storekeepers throughout the Colonies,
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
Effectually destroys all noxious Insects, such as FLEAS. FLIB3, BBSTLES, MOiOUITOBS, and
COCKROACHES. It is quite harmless to Dogs, Birds, Fowls, and other animal*. It Preserves Furs
from the Depredations of the Moth. Bedroom Furniture. Ship Cabins, Fowl Houses, and Dog Kennels
may be Cleansed of Insect Vermin by KRDSE’S INSECTICIDE.
Sold in Tins, Is., and upwards, by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
ELLIOTT BROS. Uvdnev
I . K. PROSSER & CO.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows* that Boyd’s New Palace of 4Art is
over Paling*«, 364 and S66 GEORGE STREET.
JP.
Everybody should I know that the above Is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody know * the V ery Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia.
Everybody is invi ted to inspect the Establishment.
Everybody is info; .mad that this Studio is carried on for the benefit of the late Mr.
Boyd’s child ren, by his ezor tutrix. {
Everybody should, remember tb e address ;
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, MANAeiK.
, and CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. Q. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
11,3MB, d mm BBMTS,
Importers 'Of
.STEAM ENGmSS, MIGlNEERS' TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
B R A NT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS,
MINING, CEU 3HINO, and WINDIwa PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBU ILDBRlp
materials, squatters’ supplies,
AK, PLATE. SHEET,,
and HOOP EBON
ALVANISBD CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
HE ET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
[G IRON and LEAD
ILS. PAINTS, and
BRUSHWABB
BNCING WIRE
WOOLPACKS
I EARING SUPPLIES
□ELDERS’ IBONMON-t
G ERY 1
ir.TiRD H GIRDERS '
■ e
PORTABLE, FIXED
and SEMI-FIXED EN-
GINES
VERTICAL and HOR1-
ZONTAL BOILERS
TEAM and other
PUMPS
LATHES, PLANIWi
SHAPING,
?rjr SHAPING, 8CBKV
21“ SjeSV"™ 1
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
i FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLED
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, *0.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
1 Warehouse - - - - 54 YORK STREET.
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS.
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HAR0(
SYDNEY.
• * ? 86 GRACEUB pRUR STREET,
Head Warehouse - -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
fcamJPB office
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the, new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous.
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Curb (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin. _ -
Cutksnra Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Coticcka, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hta
mors. Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticnra Jtemcdies are the only real Blood
! Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
i table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
• pare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sivle by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticuba, 50 cents per box, largo boxes,
$1.00j* Cuticuba Soap, 25 cents; Cuticuba Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticuba Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Prepared bt the
Potte*- Drup Jk Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
liOss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cutioura, the ' great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief Until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
B. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
= iniiimmfinnBiimriniTtimitmmnnBitniiiii
356 George St.
Established
SYDNE
PIANOS/ ORGANS
Best Makers Only
EVERY INSTRUMENT
GUARANTEE^
///'
VERY
MODERATE
prices!
The Most Liberar
TIME PAYMENT
SYSTEM.
r
OVER
800
Instruments
ON VIEW
To Selectifrom.
SYDNEY
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
LUNOHBON AND REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.


BEAD IT ALL
It may Save your Life.
AMERICAN CO.’S i
Hop Bitters
ms
The Purest and Best
Medicine erer made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
“ The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘ and Valuable Medicines in tho World,
’and In addition contain all the best *
* and most effective curative properties
* of all other bitters, being the greatest
* liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
* and life and health restoring agent on
* earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Agtd
and Infirm.
"To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
’whoso sedentary employments cause
‘ irregularities of the Blood, Stomach,
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
‘ Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘ these Bitters are invaluable, being i
‘ highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
* without intoxhsating. ’
“No matter what your feelings or i
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
‘ wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
•once. It may safe your life. Hun-
‘ dreds have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
‘ friends suffer, but use. and urge them to*
‘ use the American Ca.’s Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, these Hop Bitters are'
‘no vile, drugged, drunken nostrum,
‘but the purest and best Medicine 1
‘ever made, and no person or family )'
* should be without it.”
|P* See that the name Dr. Soule Is Mown
In every bottle, none other genuine.
THE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Capital £100,000. ,
Head Office : ] Melbourne.
Sydney Branch: Royle’s Chambers, Bond-street.
Victorian Directors : I N. S. Wales Directors: 1
John L. Dow, Esq., M.P., | .Andrew Town, J.P., Esq.
Chairman j Ji*rank Cowley, Esq.
Hon. J. F. Levlen. M.P. I Otorge 8. Yeo, Esq.
Thomas Learmonth, Esq. I
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pig’S, and Dogs insured
against death from Accident, Disease, or Natural
Causes on land, rail, or at se a.
Marine Risks on Stock covering mortality or on
Merchandise accepted.
The only Live Stock Insurance Society in the
olonles.
Full particulars can be obt alned from the under-
signed. r
Active Agents wanted where unrepresented. ,
A. J. WILKINSON, Branch Manager.
Office, Royle’s Chambeis, Bond-street,
E
U D E
4711
COLOGNE,
4711.
Established 1798.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1872; PrlSe M».dal, Vienna, 1873
ThisEau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during tho list 35 years, ob-
tained at the last Phlladaphla Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and Flrit Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for its superior sweetness, strength,
and invigorating qualities, excelling ail other com-
petitors. . 1 .. ...
It has become the great fat ourlte of tho public,
and. IS extensively patronli ed by the Slito of
Suropo.
The large and constantly Increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Liau de Cologne, not only in
Europe, but also in North and South America,
India,-’and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number —4711 changed Into 7411, 1147, 4117, &c , &e.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue-and-gold label (different
from all the'others), an d marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—El iLIOTT BROTHERS, Pltt-
stroeii, Sydney.
To be had at the> prln clpal Perfumers, Druggists,
end Storekeepers, in town and country.
W. WALKER and SOUS,
LONDON 1 rand SYDNEY
Catalogues
POST FREE.
W. WALKER
and SONS
are one of the
Largest
Stockholder*
and
Manufacturer r
m
Catalogues
POST FREE.
ALL STOCK
in their
SYDNEY
HOIIU
Supplied
direct
*rom their
FURNITURE
in
ENGLAND.
London
Manufactory,
and Latest
London Style*
Quarantmd
SYDNEY BRANCHi
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARO SQUARE.
SOLE IMPORTER OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
WILLIAM BRUCE,
107 PITT STREET.
SOX.B AGENT FOR THE
SMITH OBGrAN.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
in m mi mu
■aii.ll
i- i -'iiii
S5S
5th Half-Yearly Sale.
JULY, 1885,
% . 354 George-street, Sydney.
W* beg respectfully to inform our numerous Customers and the Public generally, that
our USUAL JULY SA.LE has commenced m the usual way. The Ladies of Sydney
■will no'doubt remember what bargains they hare purchased at our previous Sales:
therefore we venture to think that a great and speedy clearance will be effected, anti
■•we trust by our well earned reputation for really new goods, Ladies will determine to
attend the Sale.
LLOTD cfc CO.
354 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A Thankful Mother.
“ If the gratitude of a sensitive young girl,” writes
a thankful mother, " can afford yon pleasure, you
have that of my daugnter to Its fullest extent.
She was our hope and pride, crushed to earth wltfe
a disfiguring scrofulous skin humor, which has
been completely cured, after endless doctoring
and great suffering, poth In mind and body, by the
CtmeuBA 7 KESOLVENT, internally, and the
Cctxouba ana CtmcuRA Soap, the great skin
ouresand beautitiers, externally. Her skin la now
as soft, white, and beautiful as a baby’s.”
Wolfe's Schnapps is the most powerful, whole-
some, and succesful restorative of this age.
Obtain Wolfes.
Mabhbbs.— The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 653 Qeorgc-stroet, Brickfield H1U.*
Of all tonics, diuretics, and nervines, Wolfe’s
Schnapps is the satest and best. Be sure you
obtain Wolfe's.
“I have used Ateb’sCherkt PKCTOBAiiin
my family for several years, and do not hesitate to
pronounce it the most effectual remedy for coughs
and colds we have ever tried.
J # Grai^E,
Crystal, Minn, March 13,1883.”
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
AND ADIEU’S
CEIjEEEATED
BISCUITS AID CAEES, TREACLE AID SOLDER STRIP,
Self-raising A rated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
B.
& A. obtained Fifst Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney I.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-1,
Sydney Agents: W. H. ARIELL & CO., 343 and 345 Kent-street.
If a man wishes to break the law and then
laugh at It let him first learn It. The wisdom of
this advice was illustrated in quite a festive
fashion by a man who was sentenced by the Port
Melbourne Bench some time ago to 13 mouths’
Imprisonment and two floggings for Indecency.
He knew the laws, and appealed against the deci-
sion—entering into recognizances in the sum of
£20 to appear at the Court of General Sessions, and
prosecute his appeal. When the case was called,
was he there ? Was he mad ? He had disappeared
—vanished—gone to Guam. (This, by the way. Is a
pleasant mercantile potion of Melbourne shippers.
When it is not deemed desirable to state what port
a ship is bound for, they run up a flag
with Q.T.G. — gone to Guam — on her mast-
head. Guam is a little uninhabited island
outside the Heads.) The only satisfaction left to
the Judge was to estreat the £20,■ which he did
promptly. But, what a lovely law it is that allows
of such evasion I And what knowing magistrates
they were who administered it 1 They thought, no
doubt, that the man would tie a string to his finger
tch remind him when he had to go up to get bis
sentence confirmed; and that,in the meantime, he
walked about the town singing softly to himself,
“ Two floggings and a twelver—oh, that’s the game
for me.” What a lot of merry old moles they
must be, to be sure. .
P J. HOLDSWORTH.
Song Words.
MY QUEEN OF DREAMS.
In the warm flushed heart of the rose-red West,
When the great sun quivered and died to-day,
You pulsed, O star, by yon pine-clad crest—
And throbbed till the bright eve ashened grey—
Then I saw you swim
— By the shadowy rim
Where the grey gum dips to the western plain,
And you rayed delight i
As you winged your flight
To the mystic spheres where your kinsmen reign 1
O star, did you see her ? My queen of dreams I
Was it you that gllmmered the night we strayed
A month ago by these scented streams ? —r
Half-checked by the litter the musk-buds made?
Did you sleeper wake ?— ( i
, Ah, for love s sweet sake
(Though the world should fail, and the soft stars
wane 1),
I shall dream delight
Till our souls take flight
To the mystic spheres where your kinsmen reign 1
-P. J. HOLDSWORTH.
QUIS SEPARABIT.
. Heart clings to heart I Let the strange years sever
, The fates of two who have met to part—
Love’s strength survives, and the harsh world
never
Shall crush the passion of heart for heart! '
* Por I know my life, though it droop and dwindle,
Shall leave me love, till I fade and die :
And when hereafter, our souls rekindle,
Who shall be fonder, you or I ?
— P. J. HOLDSWORTH.


TUDT ECONOMY
_ and
[a ve y ourU mbrella Framea
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-llned and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
i 541 George Street,
f Brickfield Hill, between
D Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match oos-
turner. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted
*
UA&
•JM8R
The fresh food and ice company
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &o„ with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carta.
They have also taken over the Agency for
“ KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo-
hary complaints.
fresh Food A Ice Co., Limited,
Hb&d Office
(tables
Factory
21 Harbour-street.
Llverpool-street.
Mittagong.
rHr
met
or
a
LIFE
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre
mature Decline in Man, Errors of lout h, and the untoh
miseries resulting-from indiscretion or excesses may b«
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Lift
r r 1 reservation. A book for every man, young
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be
repmed and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
any physician. SOOpages, bound in beautiful French cloth
guaranteed to be a flner work in every sense than
any other sold m the country for 2 guinea*, or tlie money
mil be refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 bv
mad, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
. The Science of- Life should he read by the young for
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all. —London Lancet. oenenc
Addressthe World’s Dispensary Medical As- l|r 11
*ociation, or Dr. W. R. Parker, No. 69 Hunter H t A L
Street,Sydney,N.S.W. Theauthormay TUVOTI P*
, consulted on all diseases requiring I M lotLr
skill, secrecy, and experience. ■■■iwi.i.i
MANUFACTURING HAUERS
GEORGE STREET
S YD N EVT
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
JNEWEST SHAPES.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN,
known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
Rainq 1 *^ headache, TOOTHAC IE.
RAINS, BRUISES, TURNS, SCALD 3, &c and
cures DIARRHOEA.
**td pains COEJC, » * nd other mttrn-s aches
8/- Sold Everywhere,
G. E. MOULTON, sole PROPT.ii.roB,
JtEr.BoxjitisrE
‘ - DTST E Y t
PAINT
A RAW HSGIBTSKSD.
& SPEEDY CURE for Nor-
mal nnZr* 6 ? n eral Debility, and all complaints
Toothache fl w m iack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Appetite e ’g£ er i VOU T ?. ne8a J indigestion. Loss of
c^ 8 ? r . d S rs ’ and Kidney
andsoothwfw 8 J 14 ? 1 Pow er, &o. By Its tonic
for nl 0 /? 14 at . once removes all craving
other powfivfnPLi 4 ?) richness In phosphorous and
TONlC NHRviwi® elements, MARSHALL’S
the whole nourishes and gives vigour to
8 ’ HAKSHALL,’ BROTH BR8,;Vp!li
Circular-quay. 1
Park, Sydney, and
GUST!.
TAKE NO SI
NO MORE CORNS 1
C°hwj, ANI) amoved without pain
by the use of Palmer s Painless. Harmless
and Effectual CORN AND WART REMOVER*
This preparation is the most wonderful ever used
for Corns, Warts, or Bunions. If applied accord-
in* to the directions, it will effectually remove
them in from six to eight days.
~ PALMER’S
FACI/C CURA 1S5£
For Neuralgia, either Chronic or LocaL ’
This most wonderful Preparation has surpassed
au others in speedily removing this excruciating
and most distressing complaint. It matters not
or severe the suffering has been, a single
bottle has never failed in producing the desired re-
8 a i i“dltcan be most confidently recommended.
Sold retail by all chemists and druggists and
general stores; wholesale by Mpssrs. Elliott Bros.,
Sydney ; E. Prosser and Co., Sydney ; Felton.
Grim wade, and Co., Melbourne; Kempthorne and
Prosser, Dunedin.
Sydney Pharmacy.
„ 76 HUNTER STREET,
Opposite Tramway, Elizabeth Street.
PHYSICIANS’ PRESCRIPTIONS carefully pre-
pared with Drugs of the purest quality,
rrench Indiarubber Goods, Ladies’ Abdominal
Supports and Pessaries, Syringes and Enemas of
every description, always in stock.
Country Orders promptly executed.
H. P. SABlEIi. M.P.S., Mgr.
NEUSTADT and CO.,
COMPLETE
FURNISHERS,
39,154, 156, 1158 OXFMD-ST]
SYDNEY.
HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
Eithbr for Cash ok Timb Patmbnt.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT. AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers.
REMEDY FREE.
ful Errors, Early Decay, Lost Manhood, etc., will
learn ot a simple and certain means of Self Cure,
V*e or Charge, by addressir.tr
M. B. TAYLOE, Esq., Box 891, Sydney, N.S.W.
JAS. LAWSON & SONS,
ART-FURNITURE MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Corner of William-street, Hyde Park.
High-class Furniture
Pri 5 e ®’ compatible with the finest
workmanship and finish, for entrance halls,
dining-rooms, drawing rooms, bedrooms,
and libraries.
'ARPETS IN NEWEST DESIGNS AND
FINEST QUALITY.
WIL . T ON CARPETS, BRUSSELS CARPETS.
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS,
With Hearthrugs to match.
CORLICINE AND LINOLEUM.
BEDSTEADS IN BLACK AND NICKEL AND
BLACK AND BRASS,
In all sizes and various designs.
U8TRAUAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
„ .. , Established 1873.
with power to increase to £1,000,000
BON USES—80 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
_ - modihi,
makers. CtUred by the mo8t celebrated English
nft'h« i eB K eB *° a PP rl se his customers
m 8 has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms •—JOHN KIGBV Jk rn ' r nn
LAljG T &°Io^ LA t ND / SOttJ Landin'1°JOSEPH
CO.. Londo? ’ L ° nd0n ; CHAS * OSBOKNE &
BCSSY*&C0. 1 t S L<md?m Tfor th ® cmlnent Arm of
A1‘Good, will be FliW/ly^'u^i!^
602 £■•*■■■■»., Sydney.
where Inspection Is Invited.
Champagne
Haldslnck p
DRY rn ,OPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS ft Co., Loi
Bole Asrente for Heldaleck 4 'v>„ r©^
E V 8H(H?LD USE | PEM2T -Y
EXTRA SUPERFINE
i i£„ IS M-ADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL
8»1 Ci corse-street, Sydney. *
Are you going to Bourke ?
Trni^r and J , ai ? S oin g to sta J at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
The “LOUIS’*
VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of “ Louis.”
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
■' send patterns
POST FREE Oa
application.
3
m
STA-
MM
DE. O CONNELL,
52 Castlereagh Street,
S-STIDIDsTIE-Y-, ZCT.S.W,
A GRADUATE in all the branches
T-T- , of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases, chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
UfL O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
oihee, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effects •—Ner-
vousness Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory Pimples on the Face, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Rife, Want of
Ambition Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Bams in the Back,Stunted Development, &c., ore
manent. and private list and bypost. Ie,0d SUCCe8S> Cur6S per '
of evejw kin^.f Pimp,es > Blotches and Eruptions
this oldest office in Australia, whorocvLy kno™ recommend cases ta
remedies of all ages and countries are used OhSkS JS?£ !ed t. to ’ V* the Proved good
charges are kept low-often lower thln ?s by others applying? the ,
Sr 1>ei ’ feCt lifo cure « that is the important master. p^TseSt £*£ I
DOCTOR J. O CONNELL 4
52 Castlereagli street (ground floor), Sydney.'
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
merchant Tailors, Habit, and Robo Makars.
Trousers from Sis. to 40s.
**" N B -~ Mr - SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Parmer and Co.
W. Shearsby & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabeth-st.
Carnrick’s Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk
(Composed of about equal proportions of Pure Cod Liver Oil and Condensed Milk digested).
T T^ rd » u « mu< * Pleasure to announceto the Medical Profession and the Public that we have
/ofm? 6ded ln comb,Dln * these nutritive substances Into a permanent, palatable, and easily assknikS)%
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk has the following advantages over the Plain Oil
Emulsions now in use .—1st. Plain Cod Liver Oil is unpalatable to most persons but in
(digested) milk, as exhibited in this preparation, it will usually bo takenby
child with a relish. 2nd. Oils are prepared for assimilation principally in the duodenum f
£? d ■ Li 7SL9 ’ when taken plain, often offends the stomach, The Oil and Milk in Pcntonizfdrn}^
Od and Milk are digested, and it will therefore usually agree with the most dffl
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk contains double the nutritive and flesh- forming princfnles tViu’nu
the Emulsions of Cod Liver Oil. 4th. It is well known that the Emulsions of Cod Liver Oil
<5 P, e r cent-<> f water. Peptonized Cod Liver OU and Milk contains (W per C e nt %
best Cod Liver Oil. and in the place of water we use condensed milk, reduced in vacuo In nni-°u. 1 K-L5?
tory. 5th. The milk is condensed to the consistency of the Cod Liver Oil, and when comhinL bor f"
Peptonized Cod Liver OU and Milk, it forms one of the most pleasant and nutritious comammL 8
can be conceived or produced. UUB compounds that
This Preparation is acknowledged far superior to any of the Cod Liver 01) Emulate.
introduced, It being already digested, it may be retained on the weakest stomach* ever
a ™° manufacture the above preparation combined with HYPOPHOSPHTTEh nv r .
SODA. To be obtained of the Principal Chemists and Druggists in the colonies. 1BS ° F LIME AND
The Maltine Manufacturing Co., Dim., 24 and 25 Hart-st., Bloomaburv Loud™ w «
Wholesale Agents In the Colonies Elliott Bros., Sydney; E. Prosser & Co W,W *
wade, & Co., Melbourne; Rocke, Tompsltt, & Co., Melbourne; Duerdin & x?’i^ elton '
Paulding & Co., Adelaide; A. M. Bickford & Co.. Adelaide; Berkley? ' & b r« y,^f^ourD ®A.S*
Bros. & Co., Brisbane; New Zealand Drug Co., Brisbane. y y or> A 0, > -Brisbane; Elliott,
Samples and Pull Particulars may be obtained of
W- T. PALMER, 104 Klng-stroet, Sydnoy-
I ®* ! ® Head Offices. <R£S)
Society eS tabli8hed in me coiony on
i prlneiplB, giving policy-holders back
BSSe^5S?“ M “ a cash bonus out o£
alffibmty^ 618ai?e perfectly free by la * from
newKemiuml raCeallOWedforpayment of re '
fire insurance at lowest rates*
n . WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Hrad Offices—PITT and KING STREETS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE.
„ MADAME ELI3E,
PARISIENNK DRESSMAKER AND SPECIAL
B_,_ ' STAYMAKER,
Indies’ attention to her superior
FIT. TASTE, and exceptionally reasonable
cnarges. All orders receive her personal attention
and superintendence.
138 COLLINS STREET EAST.
Nekvous debility, lost vitality,
Weakness, and Premature Decay.—A simple
ana positive means for Permanent Self-curo, by a
Jfjy eminent French Hospital Physician, sent
sufferer. Send your address, on a
stamped envelope, to 0. C. W., Box 766, G.P.O„
Sydney.


Ask for Wolfe's Schnapps— the only alcoholic
invigorant that does not overspur the brain. Be
sure and obtain I Volfe’s.
Notice!—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Bookings, 143 Pitt-street.
Kidney complaint, one of the most com-
mon and yet most neglected diseases of this coun-
try, can be readily cured by the use of Hop Bitters.
Be sure and got American Co.’s make. Soe.
Wolfe's Schnapps stands at the head of all tonics
as a supreme remedy tor dyspepsia, rheumatism,
nervousness.
THE BURWOOD PANTHER.
There were flying reports about a danger-
ous wild beast going at large near Burwood (V io.),
for a week or two past. No one could swear that
he had actually got near enough to look it in the
eye and ask it its name, but all agreed as one man
to call it a panther. So, under the name of a pan-
ther it soared the five senses out of all the small
children of the neighbourhood. The terror of It
increased to such an extent that housewives never
made a bed without looking under it for the pan-
ther; and even bearded men had to be ]8«ed at
before they would go out into the yard at W dark
to fetch in a log of wood. Even then they earned
a Shot-gun. The thing at last became Intolerable,
and so they sent for the police. They had no
other choice. It was policeman or panther. And
as they had had enough of the panther, they de-
termined to give the police a turn. So Senior-
constable Williams came upon the scene “ in all
his armour drest.” Courageous and stout of
heart was the senior-constable, but—he arranged
all his worldly affairs before he started. Then he
went out on the track of the panther. From
private sources of information, which.we are not
at liberty to disclose, we are enabled to give copies
of the bulletins sent by the constable to the Chief
Commissioner of Police:—
Friday, June 19.
“ Sib,—Have started in search of the panther.
Have taken a resignation-form with me so that,
if fatally injured in affray with panther, and have
time, may be able to sign my name (in accordance
•tfith regulation) so that my family may receive
usual Government allowance. Hoping this action
will have your approval, I beg to remain, etc.”
“ Saturday, June 20.
“Sib,—Am still on the trail, but have not come
up with panther. Was met by man late on Saturday
night, who told me could show me where the
panther was. On further questioning him, he
informed mo his house was full of them, adding
that he had one at that moment in each of his
boots. This decided me in my suspicion that my
informant was intoxicated. As it was then too
late to prosecute my search for the panther any
longer, I conducted my informant to the lock-up
instead. Hoping this action will also have your
approval, I beg to remain,” etc.
“ Monday, June 23.
“ Sib,—Am pleased to inform you that 1 have
found a clue at last. Am following it up with all
possible expedition. Will report further to-mor-
row.—I beg to remain, etc.
“ Tuesday, Juno 23.
“ Sin,—Have come upon some extraordinary
tracks, which have puzzled me exceedingly. There
is no print of claws in them, such as should be in
the footmarks of a panther. Prom their uniform
flatness of pressure, I should be inclined to believe
they might be the tracks of a camel but that they
are much too large. Neither can they be those of
an elephant, for certainly no elephant could re-
main so long in the neighbourhood without being
detected. Judging by the tracks, the animal,
whatever it be, that made them must bo of gigan-
tic proportions. But, however huge he may be, I
am determined to follow him up for the sake ot
njy owo credit and the credit of the force to
which I have the honour to belong.—I beg to re-
main,” &o.
“ Wednesday, June 24.
“Sib, -Still hot on'the track. The footprints
appear fresher. Have every hope of soon running
the monster down.-I beg to remain,” &c.
“ Thursday, June 25.
“ Sib— I have not yet been able to come up with
him. The monster is cunning. He appears to
travel round in a circle. But he will And his mis-
take if he thinks to hoodwink a senior-constable in
this fashion. To-morrow will tell.—I beg to re-
main,” &o.
To-morrow did tell, but the senior-constable
said nothing. It is probable he will bs more noted
for his modesty than his e'oquence for some time
to come. We regret to say it of such an argus-
eyed (tBcer, but-the truth is the truth. All this
time ho had been walking in circles and following
up his own tracks. No wonder they puzzled him.
The “panther” was subsequently discovered. It
turned out to be a species ot lurcher in a condition
of starvation. The bars of Burwood now ring
with descriptions of the reckless deeds every man
around Burwood would have done if he had met it.
The fiction—so dear to the drunkard—that
liquor keeps out the cold, was grievously flattened
out by the experience of a young man of Warr-
nambool a few weeks ago. He had had a good
time—had got loaded up with whisky to the roots
of his hair—and started for home. That night he
was found almost frozen to death in the street.
He—or It, should we say ?—was Uttered off to the
lock-up, and four hours elapsed before the soft-
hearted police could restore him to consciousness.
They should have left him to freeze to death, alto-
gether. It might have taught him better sense
for the future. [This paragraph was written by
a man named Murphy.—Ed B ]
The barque Aladdin, lately purchased by
the Tasmanian Government for use as a coal hulk,
has, under various flags, had a lengthy and useful
life. Built by the French for a brig of war, she
was captured by the British in Santa Cruz Bay, in
1797. Mounting the English flag, and named La
Mutine, she was engaged at Aboukir Bay, and was
also with the squadron at Civita Yeochia. She
was further engaged with Lord Bxmouth’s squad-
ron, and assisted at the battle of Algiers. Sold by
the British Government, she was for some years
used as a whaler, then passed into the merchant
service, and now, after more than 90 years of buf-
feting with the waves, is to do the restful but
inglorious work of a coal-hulk. Sic transit gloria
mundi.
JUSTICE (loq.): “WHY THESE ABOMINATIONS?”
N.S.W.: “ ALAS ! THEY ARE THE SCHOOL IN WHICH MY RULERS LBA.RNT THEIR EARLY LESSONS. INHUMANITY DIES HARD.”
